in paying the ransom, though I should hate to let these rascals reap the
reward of their knavery.”
They were served with supper at six o’clock. Scarcely was this over when
the three bandits entered the room, accompanied by a man of thirty-five
or thereabouts, who looked like a clerk or bookkeeper. It was soon
evident that he was present as an interpreter.
“Gentlemen,” he said, in tolerable English, “my friends here, who are
not acquainted with your language, have asked me to act as interpreter.
They wish to confer with you about your release.”
“That’s the talk,” said Amos Sanderson, with alacrity. “A release is
what we are anxious about.”
“I may say that you won’t have to stay here any longer than you desire.”
“Then we’ll go now, and thank you for your consideration.”
“Upon conditions.”
Walter Cunningham smiled. He quite understood that there would be
conditions.
“I suppose you want us to keep your secret,” said the American. “We’ll
do it.”
“That is not quite all,” replied the interpreter. “My friends want to be
paid for their trouble.”
“They needn’t have taken any trouble. We didn’t ask them to.”
The interpreter frowned slightly. He began to-think Mr. Sanderson “too
fresh.”
“You talk too much,” he said curtly. “They have fixed your ransom at
five thousand scudi. That is certainly small for such wealthy and
illustrious signors.”
“Look here, my friend, five thousand scudi is a great deal of money.”
“Not for millionaires.”
“Who said we were millionaires?”
“All English and American signors are rich.”
“How are we to get the money to pay you? You, or your friends, rather,
have taken all we have.”
“You can get some from your bankers in Naples.”
“You seem to have got our affairs down fine. Well, let us go to
Naples--you can go with us if you like---and we’ll, see whether our
bankers will let us have the money.”
“The signor takes us for fools.”
Here Mr. Cunningham thought it time to interfere, as the American was
likely to anger their captors and upset all negotiations.
“Even if we have money,” he said, “it would probably be necessary for us
to see our bankers. They do not know us, and might not give the money to
a messenger.”
“Just what I said,” put in Mr. Sanderson.
The bandits conferred together, and then the interpreter spoke again.
“To whom does the boy belong?” he asked.
“To me,” answered Walter Cunningham.
“Is he known to your bankers?”
“No. He has never been in Naples.”
“Are you fond of him?”
“Very much so.”
“If he should go to Naples with a letter from you, could he get the
money?”
“I am not sure.”
“Then I am not sure about your release.”
“Mr. Sanderson, will you join me in paying the ransom this gentleman has
mentioned?”
“No, I’ll be jiggered if I will!”
“Then I am afraid you will have to remain here.”
“If you will pay three thousand scudi we will release you and the boy,”
 said the interpreter.
“What, and leave me here?” exclaimed the American.
“It is your own fault, signor.”
After considerable conversation a plan was agreed upon, in which Amos
Sanderson unwillingly acquiesced.
CHAPTER XXXI.  WALTER CUNNINGHAM’S MISSION.
|It was decided that Cunningham himself should go to Naples, carrying
with him not only his own letter of credit, but Amos Sanderson’s as
well. He was to draw three thousand scudi on his own account, and two
thousand on account of the American, and come back with this sum, on the
receipt of which the three would be released.
“If you don’t come back,” said the interpreter, “this gentleman and the
boy will have to take a long journey.”
“Where?” asked Amos Sanderson, with some curiosity.
“To the next world,” answered the interpreter grimly.
“Mr. Cunningham, you will not fail us?” said Sanderson nervously.
“You may rely on me. What do you take me for?”
“I thought perhaps when you found yourself at liberty you would choose
to remain so. You have no particular interest in me.”
“Even if that were so, do you think I would leave Bernard exposed to
danger?”
“Enough said. I am sure now that you will return. But,” continued the
American, who was inclined to be suspicious, “perhaps these gentlemen,
when they get the money, will keep us and demand another ransom.”
This was interpreted to the bandits, who looked angry.
“Tell the signor,” said the chief proudly, “that we are men of honor.
When we give our word we keep it.”
“I have heard that there is honor among thieves,” muttered Sanderson.
“What does he say?” asked the chief suspiciously.
“What did you say, signor?” inquired the interpreter.
“I said that you looked like men of honor.”
“That is well. You will not be disappointed.”
In half an hour Walter Cunningham was on his way to Naples. The door was
again bolted on the outside, and Bernard and Amos Sanderson were left to
their reflections.
“This ain’t exactly cheerful, Bernard,” said Amos. “Here we are, free
born American citizens, locked up as if we were criminals. It ain’t very
creditable to any country to have such things going on. I’d like to have
a short interview with the king of Italy.”
“What would you say to him?”
“What would I say? I’d give him a piece of my mind. I’d tell him that he
didn’t know how to govern.”
“Probably he can’t stop this brigandage.”
“Then he ought to resign, and let somebody fill his place that could
stop it. Do you think if old General Jackson were king that he would let
these rascals stop and plunder travelers? However, the time will come
when there will be a different government.”
“Do you think so, Mr. Sanderson?”
“Yes, I do.”.
“When will that be?”
“When Italy is under the Stars and Stripes.” Bernard looked surprised.
“Surely you don’t think that will ever happen?”
“I am sure of it,” said Amos Sanderson, in a positive tone. “It’s the
manifest destiny of the United States to annex the rest of the world.
Within fifty years England will form a part of the great American
republic.”
“I wonder what Mr. Cunningham would say to that?”
“He would deny it, it’s likely. These Britishers are mighty conceited.”
“Perhaps he would think it more likely that we should belong to Great
Britain.”
“Never! England tried to conquer us twice, and she got whipped each
time.”
“I am glad of one thing,” said Bernard, smiling.
“And what is that?”
“That we shan’t have to stay here till the Stars and Stripes float over
Italy.”
“I don’t know as I should care to wait, myself. I don’t say it will be
soon. You may be an old man before it happens. But it’s bound to come
some day.”
“I wonder how soon we may expect Mr. Cunningham back. Do you know how
long it will take to go to Naples?”
“No, but it isn’t very far. Perhaps we shall see him back in three
days.”
“I don’t expect him so soon. He will have to see the bankers.”
“Look here, Bernard,” said the American, after a pause, “I have been
thinking that we might find some way of escape.”
Bernard shook his head.
“What good would it do?” he rejoined. “Mr. Cunningham wouldn’t know of
it, and he would bring the money. When he does that we shall be released
at any rate.”
Amos Sanderson was impressed by this consideration, and no longer
