miracle of charm. " Nothing," she said of Jeanne, " ought 
ever to happen to her — she's so awfully right as she is. 
Another touch will spoil her — so she oughtn't to de I 
touched." ! 
" Ah, but things here in Paris," Strether observed, " do I 
happen to little girls." And then for the joke's and the 
occasion's sake, " Haven't you found that yourself?" 
"That things happen ? Oh, I'm not a little girl. 
I'm a big, battered, blowsy one. / don't care," Mamie 
laughed, " ivhat happens." 
Strether had a pause while he wondered if it mightn't 
happen that he should give her the pleasure of hearing 
from him that he found her nicer than he had really 
dreamed — a pause that ended when he had said to himself 
that, so far as it at all mattered for her, she had in fact 
perhaps already made this out. He risked accordingly 
a different question, though conscious, as soon as he had 
spoken, that he seemed to place it in relation to her last 
speech. " But that Mile, de Vionnet is to be married — I 
suppose you've heard of that  
For all, he then found, he need fear ! " Dear, yes ; the 
gentleman was there — M. de Montbron, whom Mme. de 
Vionnet presented to us." 
" And was he nice ? " 
Mamie bloomed and bridled with her best reception 
manner. " Any man's nice when he's in love." 
It made Strether laugh. " But is M. de Montbron in 
love — already — with you ?" 
" Oh, that's not necessary — it's so much better he should 
be so with her: which, thank goodness, I lost no time 
in discovering for myself. He's perfectly gone — and I 
couldn't have borne it for her if he hadn't been. She's just 
too sweet." 
Strether hesitated. " And through being in love too   " 
On which, with a smile that struck him as wonderful, 
Mamie had a wonderful answer. " She doesn't know if she 
is or not." 
It made him again laugh out. " Oh, but you do ? " 
She was willing to take it that way. " Oh yes, I know 
everything." And as she sat there rubbing her polished 
hands and making the best of it — only holding her elbows 
perhaps a little too much out — the momentary effect for 
Strether was that everyone else, in all their affair, seemed 
stupid. 
" Know that poor little Jeanne doesn't know what's the 
matter with her ? " 
It was as near as they came to saying that she was 
probably in love with Chad ; but it was quite near enough 
for what Strether wanted, which was to be confirmed in his 
certitude that, whether in love or not, she appealed to 
something large and easy in the girl before him. Mamie  
would be fat, too fat, at thirty ; but she would always be  
the person who, at the present sharp hour, had been dis- 
interestedly tender. " If I see a little more of her — as 
I hope I shall — I think she'll like me enough (for she li 
seemed to like me to-day), to want me to tell her." 
" And s/iall you ? " 
" Perfectly. I shall tell her the matter with her is that 
she wants only too much to do right. To do right, for her, I 
naturally," said Mamie, " is to please." n 
" Her mother, do you mean ? "  ! 
"Her mother first." 
Strether waited. "And then?" I 
" Well, ' then '—Mr. Newsome." ! 
There was something really grand for him in the serenity j  
of this reference. " And last only M. de Montbron ? " i, 
" Last only" — she good-humouredly kept it up.   
Strether considered. " So that everyone, after all then, 
will be suited?" 
She had one of her few hesitations, but it was a question 
only of a moment ; and it was her nearest approach to 
being explicit with him about what was between them. ; 
" I think I can speak for myself / shall be." : 
It said indeed so much, told such a story of her being 
ready to help him, so committed to him that truth, in : 
short, for such use as he might make of it toward those  
ends of his own with which, patiently and trustfully, she 
had nothing to do — it so fully achieved all this that he 
appeared to himself simply to meet it in its own spirit  
by the last frankness of admiration. Admiration was I 
of itself almost accusatory, but nothing less would serve 
to show her how nearly he understood. He put out his 
hand for good-bye with a " Splendid, splendid, splendid ! " 
And he left her, with her splendour, still waiting for little I 
Bilham. 
PART TENTH 
XXV 
HE occupied, next this appreciated youth, three even- 
ings after his interview with Mamie Pocock, the 
same deep divan they had enjoyed together on the first 
occasion of our friend's meeting Mme. de Vionnet and her 
daughter in the apartment of the Boulevard Malesherbes, 
where his position affirmed itself again as ministering to an 
easy exchange of impressions. The present evening had a 
different stamp ; if the company was much more numerous, 
so, inevitably, were the ideas set in motion. It was on the 
other hand, however, now strongly marked that the talkers 
moved, in respect to such matters, round an inner, a pro- 
tected circle. They knew, at any rate, what really con- 
cerned them to-night, and Strether had begun by keeping 
his companion close to it. Only a few of Chad's guests 
had dined — that is fifteen or twenty, a few compared with 
the large concourse offered to sight by eleven o'clock ; but 
number and mass, quantity and quality, light, fragrance, 
sound, the overflow of hospitality meeting the high tide of 
response, had all, from the first, pressed upon Strether's 
 consciousness, and he knew himself to be somehow part 
 and parcel of the most festive scene, as the term was, in 
 which he had ever in his life been engaged. He had 
perhaps seen, on Fourths of July and on dear old domestic 
Commencements, more people assembled, but he had 
never seen so many in proportion to the space, or had at 
all events never known so great a promiscuity to show so 
markedly as picked. Numerous as was the company, it 
had still been made so by selection, and what was above 
all rare for Strether was that, by no fault of his own, he 
was in the secret of the principle that had worked. He 
had not inquired, he had averted his head, but Chad had 
put him a pair of questions that themselves smoothed the 
ground. He had not answered the questions, he had 
replied that they were the young man's own affair ; and he 
had then seen perfectly that the latter's direction was 
already settled. 
Chad had applied for counsel only by way of intimating 
that he knew what to do ; and he had clearly never known 
it better than in now presenting to his sister the whole 
circle of his society. This was all in the sense and the 
spirit of the note struck by him on that lady's arrival ; he 
had taken at the station itself a line that led him without 
a break, and that enabled him to lead the Pococks — t 
though dazed a little, no doubt, breathless, no doubt, and 
bewildered — to the uttermost end of the passage accepted 
by them perforce as pleasant. He had made it, for them, ; 
violently pleasant and mercilessly full ; the upshot of C 
which was, to Strether's vision, that they had come all the 
way without discovering that it was really no passage at ( 
all. It was a brave blind alley, where to pass was im-  
possible and where, unless they stuck fast, they would   
have — which was always awkward — publicly to back out. ;- 
They were touching bottom, assuredly, to-night ; the whole  
