floor.  "Away with them, I say!"  Toward the table he lurched, avoiding
the Chevalier's arms.  From the table he dashed the candles.  "Away
with the lights!  The Marquis de Périgny shall die as he lived . . . in
the dark!"
He fell upon the bed, his face hidden in the pillows.  When the
Chevalier reached his side he was dead.
CHAPTER XXXV
BROTHER!
For two weeks Brother Jacques lay silent on his cot; lay with an apathy
which alarmed the good brothers of the Order.  He spoke to no one, and
no sound swerved his dull gaze from the whitewashed ceiling of his
little room in the college.  Only one man could solve the mystery of
this apathy, the secret of this insensibility, and his lips were sealed
as securely as the door of a donjon-keep: Jehan.  Not even the
Chevalier could gather a single ray of light from the grim old valet.
He was silence itself.
Two weeks, and then Brother Jacques rose, put on his gown and his
rosary and his shovel-shaped hat.  The settlers, soldiers, trappers and
seigneurs saw him walk alone, day after day, along the narrow winding
streets, his chin in his collar, his shoulders stooped, his hands
clasped behind his back.  It was only when some child asked him for a
blessing that he raised his eyes and smiled.  Sometimes the snow beat
down upon him with blinding force and the north winds cut like the lash
of the Flagellants.  He heeded not; winter set no chill upon his flesh.
One morning he resolved to go forth upon his expiation.  He made up his
pack quietly.  Drawn by an irresistible, occult force, he wandered into
the room of the château where the tragedy had occurred. . . .  The
letter!  He felt in the pocket of his gown.  He drew a stool to the
window which gave upon the balcony overlooking the lower town and the
river, and sat down.
"To Monsieur le Marquis de Périgny, to be delivered into his hands at
my death."
He eyed the address, undecided.  He was weighing the advisability of
letting the Chevalier read it first.  And yet he had an equal right to
the reading.  He sighed, drew forth the contents and read . . . read
with shaking hands, read with terror, amazement, exultation, belief and
unbelief.  He rose quickly; the room, it was close; he breathed with
difficulty.  And the marquis had requested that he read it!  Irony!  He
had taken it up in his hands twice, and had not known!  Irony, irony,
irony!  He opened the window and stepped out upon the balcony.  Above
the world, half hidden under the spotless fleece of winter, a white sun
shone in a pallid sky.
Brother Jacques's skin was transparent, his hair was patched with grey,
his eyes were hollow, but at this moment his mien was lordly.  His pack
lay on the floor beyond, forgotten.  With his head high, his nostrils
wide, his arms pressing his sides and his hands clenched, he looked
toward France.  The smoke, curling up from the chimneys below, he saw
not, nor the tree-dotted Isle of Orléans, nor the rolling mainshore
opposite.  His gaze in fancy had traversed more than three thousand
miles.  He saw a grand château, terraced, with gardens, smooth
driveways, fountains and classic marbles, crisp green hills behind all
these, and a stream of running water.
Périgny.
He looked again and saw a great hôtel, surrounded by a high wall, along
the top of which, ran a cheval-de-frise.  Inside all was gloomy and
splendid, rich and ancient.  Magnificent tapestries graced the walls,
famous paintings, rare cut-glass, chased silver and filigreed gold, and
painted porcelain.
Rochelle.
Again; and in his dream-vision he saw mighty palaces and many lights,
the coming and going of great personages, soldiers famed in war,
statesmen, beautiful women with satin and jewels and humid eyes; great
feasts, music, and the loveliest flowers.
Paris.
His!  All these things were his.  It was empire; it was power, content,
riches.  His!  Had he not starved, begged, suffered?  These were his,
all his, his by human law and divine.  That letter!  It had lain under
the marquis's eyes all this time, and he had not known.  That was well.
But that fate should so unceremoniously thrust it into his hands!  Ah,
that was all very strange, obscure.  The wind, coming with a gust,
stirred the beads of his rosary; and he remembered.  He cast a glance
at his pack.  Could he carry it again?  He caught up his rosary.
Should he put this aside?  He was young; there were long years before
him.  He had suffered half the span of a man's life; need he suffer
longer?
He opened the letter and read it once again.
"To Monsieur le Marquis de Périgny: A necromancer in the Rue Dauphin
tells me that I shall not outlive you, which is to be regretted.
Therefore, my honored Marquis, I leave you this peculiar legacy.  When
you married the Princess Charlotte it was not because you loved her,
but because you hated me who loved her.  You laughed when I swore to
you that some day I would have my revenge.  Shortly after you were
married a trusted servant of mine left my house to serve me in yours.
And he served me well indeed, as presently you shall learn.  Two days
before Madame le Marquise gave birth to your son and heir, a certain
handsome peasant named Margot Bourdaloue also entered into the world a
son of yours which was not your heir.  Think you that it is Madame la
Marquise's son who ruffles it here in Paris under the name of the
Chevalier du Cévennes?  I leave you to answer this question, to solve
this puzzle, or become mad over it.  Recollect, I do not say that the
Chevalier is not the son of Madame la Marquise; I say, think you he is?
Monsieur, believe me, you have my heartiest sympathy in your trouble.
LOUIS DE BRISSAC."
"De Brissac?"
Brother Jacques's brows met in the effort to recall the significance of
this name.  Ah! the Grande Madame whom the Chevalier, his brother,
loved: his brother.  His brother.  Brother Jacques had forgotten his
brother.  He raised his eyes toward heaven, as if to make an appeal;
but his gaze dropped quickly and roved.  Somehow, he could not look to
heaven; the sun was too bright.  He saw the figures of a man and woman
who were leaning against the parapet.  The man's arm was clasped around
the woman's waist, their heads were close together, and they seemed to
be looking toward the south, as indeed they were.  Lovers, mused
Brother Jacques.  Why not he, too?  Had not the marquis said that he
was too handsome for a priest?  Why should he not be a lover, likewise?
A lover, indeed, when the one woman he loved was at this very hour
praying in the Convent of the Ursulines!  Presently the man below
turned his head.  It was the Chevalier. . . .  This time, when Brother
Jacques raised his eyes toward God, his gaze did not falter.  He had
cursed the author of his being, which was very close to cursing his
God.  There was before him, expiation.  He smiled wanly.
His brother.  Slowly he tore the letter in two, the halves into
quarters, the quarters into infinitesimal squares.  He took a pinch of
them and extended his arm, dropping the particles of paper upon the
current of the wind.  They rose, fell, eddied, swam, and rose again,
finally to fall on the roofs below.  Again and again he repeated this
act, till not a single square remained in his hand.  His brother.  He
re-entered the room, shouldered his pack, and passed from the château.
The dream of empire was gone; the day of expiation was begun.  Later he
was seen making his way toward the parapet.
The Chevalier and madame continued to gaze toward the south, toward the
scene of the great catastrophe of their lives.  They had been talking
it over again: the journey through the forest, the conflict at the hut,
the day in the hills.
"Peace," said madame.
"Peace and love," said the Chevalier.
"And that poor father of yours!  But you forgave him?"
"Yes."
"And Jehan will not tell you who Sister Benie was?"
"No.  And he appears so terrified when I mention the matter that I
shall make no further inquiries."
"And Brother Jacques?"
"Faith, he puzzles me.  It was like enough the reaction.  You recall
how infrequently he spoke during that journey, how little he ate or
slept.  Ah well, there are no more puzzles, questions, problems or
hardships.  Peace has come.  We shall return to France in the spring."
"If thou faint in the day of adversity," she said, taking his hand and
pressing it lovingly against her cheek.  "I love you."
"Here comes Brother Jacques," he said.  "He is coming toward us.  Ah,
he carries a pack."
