said, "so I brought the lamp. You stopped working 
for such a long time," she explained, " I thought you 
must have hurt yourself, or fainted.'' 
"No," answered Malipieri. "There is nothing the 
matter with me. I was looking at the bricks." 
" You must need rest, for it is past ten o'clock. I 
looked at the watch." 
" I will rest when I get through the wall. There is 
no time to be lost. Are you very hungry ? " 
"No. I am a little thirsty." She looked at the 
black water, pouring down the overflow shaft. 
" That water is not good to drink," said Malipieri, 
thinking of what was at the bottom of the well. " We 
had better not drink it unless we are absolutely forced 
to. I hope to get you out in two hours." 
He stood leaning on his crowbar, his dark hair 
covered with dust, his white shirt damp and clinging 
to him, and all stained from rubbing against the broken 
masonry. 
" It would be better to rest for a few minutes," she 
said, not moving. 
He knew she was right, but he went with her reluc- 
tantly, and presently he was sitting beside her on the 
marble limbs of the Aphrodite. She turned her face 
to him a little shyly, and then looked away again. 
" Were ever two human beings in such a situation 
before!" 
"Everything has happened before,'' Malipieri an- 
swered. "There is nothing new." 
"Does it hurt very much to die of starvation?" 
Sabina asked after a little pause. 
" Not if one has plenty of water. It is thirst that 
drives people mad. Hunger makes one weak, that is 
all." 
"And cold, I am sure." 
"Very cold." 
They were both silent. She looked steadily at the 
gleaming bronze statue before her, and Malipieri looked 
down at his hands. 
"How long does it take to starve to death?" she 
asked at last. 
"Strong men may live two or three weeks if they 
have water." 
" I should not live many days," Sabina said thought- 
fully. "It would be awful for you to be living on 
here, with me lying dead." 
"Horrible. Do not think about it. "We shall get 
out before morning." 
"I am afraid not," she said quietly. "I am afraid 
we are going to die here." 
" Not if I can help it," answered Malipieri. 
"No. Of course not. I know you will do every- 
thing possible, and I am sure that if you could save me 
by losing your life, you would. Yes. But if you can- 
not break through the wall, there is nothing to be 
done." 
" The water may go down to-morrow. It is almost 
 
sure to go down before long. Then we can get out by 
the way we came in." 
" It will not go down. I am sure it will not." 
" It is too soon to lose courage," Malipieri said. 
" I am not frigbtened. It will not be bard to die, if 
it does not hurt. It will be much harder for you, be- 
cause you are so strong. You will live a long time." 
"Not xmless I can save you," he answered, rising. 
"I am going back to work. It will be time enough to 
talk about death when my strength is all gone." 
He spoke almost roughly, partly because for one mo- 
ment she had made him feel a sort of sudden dread that 
she might be right, partly to make her think that he 
thought the supposition sheer nonsense. 
"Are you angry? " she asked, like a child. 
" No ! " He made an effort and laughed almost 
cheerfully. "But you had better think about what 
you should like for supper in two or three hours ! It 
is hardly worth while to put out that lamp," he added. 
" It will burn nearly twelve hours, for it is big, and it 
was quite full. There is a great deal of heat in it, too." 
He went away again. But when he was gone, she 
drew the lamp over to her without leaving her seat, and 
put it out. She was very tired and a little faint, and 
by and by the distant sound of the crowbar brought 
back the drowsiness she had felt before, and leaning 
her head against the Aphrodite's curving waist, she 
lost consciousness. 
He worked a good hour or more without result, came 
down to her, and found her in a deep sleep. As he 
noiselessly left her, he wondered how many men could 
have slept peacefully in such a case as hers. 
Once more he took the heavy bar, and toiled on, but 
he felt that his strength was failing fast for want of 
food. He had eaten nothing since midday, and had not 
even drunk water, and in six hours he had done as 
much hard work as two ordinary workmen could have 
accomplished in a day. With a certain amount of rest, 
he could still go on, but a quarter of an hour would no 
longer be enough. He was very thirsty, too, but though 
he might have drunk his fill from the hollow of his 
hand, he could not yet bring himself to taste the water. 
He was afraid that he might be driven to it before long, 
but he would resist as long as he could. 
Every stroke was an effort now, as he struggled on 
blindly, not only against the material obstacle, but 
against the growing terror that was taking possession 
of him, the hideous probability of having worked in 
vain after all, and the still worse certainty of what the 
end must be if he really failed. 
Effort after effort, stroke after stroke, though each 
seemed impossible after the last. He could not fail, and 
let that poor girl die, unless he could die first, of sheer 
exhaustion. 
If he were to stop now, it might be hours before he 
could go on again, and then he would be already weak- 
ened by hunger. There was nothing to be done but to 
keep at it, to strike and strike, with such half-frantic 
energy as was left in him. Every bone and sinew 
ached, and his breath came short, while the sweat ran 
 
down into his short beard, and fell in rain on his dusty 
hands. 
But do what he would, the blows followed each other 
in slower succession. He could not strike twenty 
more, not ten, not five perhaps ; he would not count 
them ; he would cheat himself into doing what could 
not be done ; he would count backwards and for- 
wards, one, two, three, three, two, one, one, two — 
And then, all at once, the tired sinews were braced 
like steel, and his back straightened, and his breath 
came full and clear. The blow had rung hollow. 
He could have yelled as he sent the great bar flying 
against the bricks again and again, far in the shadow, 
and the echo rang back, louder and louder, every time. 
The bar ran through and the end he held shot from 
his hands, as the resistance failed at last, and half the 
iron went out on the other side. He drew it back 
quickly and looked to see if there were any light, but 
there was none. He did not care, for the rest would 
be child's play compared with what he had done, and 
easier than play now that he had the certainty of safety. 
