"Betcher life, b'gee!" cried Dewey, as the Parson gravely took his seat.
Then the former arose and continued the discussion. "Not much of a hand
for making a speech," he said, "as the deaf-mute remarked when he lost
three fingers; but I've got something to say, and, b'gee, I'm going to
say it. To-night is the critical night, and if we are meek and mild now,
we'll be it for the whole summer. And I say we don't, b'gee, and that's
all!"
With which brief, but pointed and characteristic summary of the
situation, Alan sat down and Texas clapped his heels together and gave
vent to a "Wow!" of approval.
"Anybody else got anything to say?" inquired Mark.
"Yes, bah Jove! I have, don't ye know."
This came from Mr. Chauncey Van Rensallear Mount-Bonsall. Chauncey wore
a high collar and a London accent; he was by this time playfully known
as "the man with a tutor and a hyphen," both of which luxuries it had
been found he possessed. But Chauncey was no fool for all his
mannerisms.
"Aw--yes," said he, "I have something to say, ye know. Those deuced
yearlings will haze us more than any other plebes in the place. Beastly
word, that, by the way. I hate to be called a plebe, ye know. There is
blue blood in our family, bah Jove, and I'll guarantee there isn't one
yearling in the place can show better. Why, my grandfather----"
"I call the gentleman to order," laughed Mark. "Hazing's the business on
hand. Hazing, and not hancestors."
"I know," expostulated Chauncey, "but I hate to be called a plebe, ye
know. As I was going to say, however, they'll haze us most. Mark
has--aw--fooled them a dozen times, bah Jove! Texas chastised four of
them. Parson, I'm told, chased half a dozen once. My friend Indian here
got so deuced mad the other day that he nearly killed one, don't ye
know. Dewey's worse, and as for me and my friend Sleepy here--aw--bah
Jove!----"
"You did better than all of us!" put in Mark.
Chauncey paused a moment to make a remark about "those deuced drills, ye
know, which kept a fellah from ever having a clean collah, bah Jove!"
And then he continued.
"I just wanted to say, ye know, that we were selected for the hazing
to-night, and that we might as well do something desperate at once, bah
Jove! that's what I think, and so does my friend Sleepy. Don't you,
Sleepy?"
"I ain't a-thinkin' abaout it 't all," came a voice from the bed where
Methusalem Zebediah Chilvers, the farmer, lay stretched out.
"Sleepy's too tired," laughed Mark. "It seems to be the unanimous
opinion of the crowd," he continued, after a moment's pause, "that we
might just as well be bold. In other words, that we have no hazing."
"B'gee!" cried Dewey, springing to his feet, excitedly. "B'gee, I didn't
say that! No, sir!"
"What did you say, then?" inquired Mark.
"I said that we shouldn't let them haze us, b'gee, and I meant it, too.
I never said no hazing! Bet cher life, b'gee! I was just this moment
going to make the motion that we carry the war into the enemy's country,
that we upset West Point traditions for once and forever, and with a
bang, too. In other words"--here the excitable youngster paused, so that
his momentous idea might have due weight--"in other words, b'gee, that
we haze the yearlings!"
There was an awed silence for a few moments to give that terrifically
original proposition a chance to settle in the minds of the amazed
"devils."
Texas was the first to act and he leaped across the room at a bound and
seized "B'gee" by the hand.
"Wow!" he roared. "Whoop! Bully, b'gee!"
And in half a minute more the seven, including the timid Indian, had
registered a solemn vow to do deeds of valor that would "make them ole
cadets look crosseyed," as Texas put it.
They were going to haze the yearlings!
CHAPTER XXX.
THE MOVE INTO CAMP.
The new cadets at West Point are housed in barracks for two weeks after
their admission. During this time "squad drill" is the daily rule, and
the strangers learn to march and stand and face--everything a new
soldier has to learn, with the exception of the manual of arms. After
that they are adjudged fit to associate with the older cadets, and are
marched up to "Camp McPherson." This usually takes place about the first
day of July.
Our friends, the seven, had been measured for uniforms along with the
rest of the plebe company during their first days in barracks. The
fatigue uniforms had been given out that morning, to the great
excitement of everybody, and now "cit" clothing, with all its fantastic
variety of hats and coats of all colors, was stowed away in trunks "for
good," and the plebes costumed uniformly in somber suits of gray, with
short jackets and only a black seam down the trousers for ornament. Full
dress uniforms, such as the old cadets up at camp were wearing, were
yet things of the future.
That morning also the plebes had been "sized" for companies.
Of "companies" there are four, into which the battalion of some three
hundred cadets is divided, "for purposes of instruction in infantry
tactics, and in military police and discipline." (For purposes of
"academic instruction," they are of course divided into the four
classes: First, second, third, or "yearlings," and fourth, the
"plebes".) The companies afore-mentioned are under the command of
tactical officers. These latter report to the "commandant of cadets,"
who is, next to the superintendent, the highest ranking officer on the
post.
The companies are designated A, B, C and D. A and D are flank companies,
and to them the tallest cadets are assigned. B and C are center
companies. Mark and Texas, and also the Parson and Sleepy, all of whom
were above the average height, found themselves in A. The remainder of
the Seven Devils managed to land in B; and the whole plebe class was
ordered to pack up and be ready to move immediately after dinner.
The cadets are allowed to take only certain articles to camp; the rest,
together with the cit's clothing, was stored in trunks and put away in
the trunk room.
Right here at the start there was trouble for the members of our
organization. Texas, it will be remembered, had a choice assortment of
guns of all caliber, sixteen in number. These he had stored up the
chimney of his room for safety. (The chimney is a favorite place of
concealment for contraband articles at West Point). But there was no
such place of concealment in camp; and no way of getting the guns there
anyhow. There are no pockets in the cadets' uniforms except a small one
for a watch. Money they are not allowed to carry, and their
handkerchiefs are tucked in the breasts of their coats.
It was a difficult situation, for Texas, with true Texan cautiousness,
vowed he'd never leave his guns behind.
"Why, look a yere, man," he cried. "I tell you, t'ain't safe now fo' a
feller to go up thar 'thout anything to defend himself. You kain't tell
what may happen!"
The Parson was in a similar quandary. His chimney contained a various
assortment of chemicals, together with sundry geological specimens,
including that now world-famous cyathophylloid coral which had been
discovered "in a sandstone of Tertiary origin." And the Parson vowed
that either that cyathophylloid went to camp or he stayed in
barracks--yea, by Zeus!
There was no use arguing with them; Mark tried it in vain. Texas was
obdurate and talked of holding up the crowd that dared to take those
guns away; and the Parson said that he had kept a return ticket to
Boston, his native town, a glorious city where science was encouraged
and not repressed.
That was the state of affairs through dinner, and up to the moment when
the cry, "New cadets turn out!" came from the area. By that time Texas
had tied his guns in one of his shirts, and the Parson had variously
distributed his fossils about his body until he was one bundle of lumps.
"If you people will congregate closely about me," he exclaimed, "I
apprehend that the state of affairs will not be observed."
It was a curious assembly that "turned out"--a mass of bundles, brooms
and buckets, with a few staggering plebes underneath. They marched up to
camp that way, too, and it was with audible sighs of relief that they
dropped their burdens at the end.
A word of description of "Camp McPherson" may be of interest to those
who have never visited West Point. It is important that the reader
should be familiar with its appearance, for many of Mark's adventures
were destined to happen there--some of them this very same night.
