whole peoples, the sources of multitudes of no- 
ble deeds and purposes. What do you think in 
money would be represented by the value of 
these books alone? Enough to support ten thou- 
sand poets for a lifetime, do you think? And 
how many hundreds of thousands of students are 
hearing about them this day? How many young 
men and maidens are going out into the world 
owing all that they have that is beautiful to them? 
And all these authors of the day, all these critics 
and teachers, novelists and poets — how much of 
what they have that is true do they not owe to 
these men? Go ask them, go ask them! 
— And you have it all because of the acci- 
dent that these men were independent! You 
have all from six of them for that, and from the 
seventh you have nothing — yes, almost nothing 
— because he was poor! Because he was a hos- 
tler's son, and not a gentleman's son; and you 
sent him back to his gallipots and to his grave. 
June 4th. 
I wait to hear from the publisher merely as a 
matter of duty. I have .never had the least idea 
that he will take the book. 
I have made up my mind to drown myself. 
There is no mess about it, and men do not have 
to know of it. 
I have often read of murder cases. They tie 
a rope around the body and a stone to the rope; 
but the stone slips out, or the rope wears, and 
then it is unpleasant. I used to say they were 
fools; why did they not get a dumb-bell or some- 
thing like that, and a small chain. Then there 
would have been no trouble. 
When I thought of that I smiled grimly. I 
am living on dry bread, and saving my money to 
buy a dumb-bell and a chain on Friday. 
I pray most of the time. I have no longer 
the old ecstasy — such things do not come often 
in cities. But it will come once again before I 
die, that I know. 
I have a strange attitude toward death. To 
me it is nothing. There is, of course, the pain of 
drowning — it probably hurts to be strangled, but 
I do not think it will hurt as much as ten lines of 
The Captive hurt. 
About the physical part of it, the " invisible 
corruption," I never think; it is enough that it 
will be invisible. And for the rest, death is noth- 
ing, it is the end. I have never shrunk from the 
thought of it, it does not come as a stranger to 
me now. I take it simply and naturally — it is 
the end. It is the end that comes to all things 
in this phantom-dance of being; to flowers and 
to music, to mountains and to planets, to his- 
tories, and to universes, and to men. 
I said : " It must come some day. It may 
come any day. Love not thy life too much — 
know what thou art." 
God can spare me. He got along without 
me once, and doubtless he can do it again. There 
are many things that I should like to see — I 
should like to see all the ages; but that was not 
my fate. 
When I was young they taught me to be 
orthodox. And I see them stare at me now in 
horror. " Suicide! " they gasp. " Suicide! " 
Yes! — Why not? Am I not the lord of mine 
own life, to end it as well as to live it? 
And the law! Prate not of laws, I know of 
no laws, either of man or God; my law is the 
right and my holy will. 
And the punishment! Well, and if your hell 
be a reality, why, it is my home — it is the home of 
all true men. The sublime duty of being damned 
is ever my reply to theological impertinences. 
— No, the sight of death does not thrill me 
in the least — when I stand upon the brink it will 
hot thrill me. It is not fearful; what the weakest 
of men have done, I can do. And it is not sub- 
lime. Life is sublime, life thrills me; death is 
nothing. 
June 5th. 
To-day I wished that it were winter. A 
wonderful idea came to me — I am almost tempted 
to live and wait for winter. I said: I would 
choose one place where the money-blind and the 
folly-mad assemble — where I have seen them 
and had my eyes burned by the sight. I would 
go to the opera-house on the opening night! I 
would go to the top gallery, and I would put 
my journal, my story, under my coat; and in 
the midst of the thing I would give one cry, to 
startle them; and I would dash down that long 
flight of steps, and shoot over the railing head- 
first. 
— Ha! That would make them think! They 
might read the book, then. 
What place could be more fatted? In an 
opera-house meet, as nowhere else in this world 
that I know of, the two extremes of life — God 
and the devil. I mean on a Wagner night! 
Here is the inspiration of a sainted poet, here 
is ecstasy unthinkable, flung wide and glorious 
as the dawn; and here is all the sodden and bru- 
tal vulgarity of wealth, deaf, blind, and strutting 
in its insolent pomposity. 
— I am very ill to-day — I have a splitting 
headache and I am weak. It is from trying to 
save too much money for the dumb-bell, I fear. 
But I laugh — what care I? My body is going 
to wreck — but what care I? Ah, it is a fine 
thing to be death-devoted, and freed from all 
the ills that flesh is heir to! I go my way — do 
what I please — hammer on and on, and let hap- 
pen what will. What, old head! — wilt ache? I 
guess I can stop thy aching before long! And 
all ye mechanical miscellaneities — stomachs and 
what not! Thou wilt trouble me too? Do thy 
pleasure, go thy way — I go mine! 
There is a kind of intoxication in it. I climb 
upon all these ills that used to frighten me — I 
mock at them, I am a god. I smite my head — 
I say, " I am done with thee, old head! I have 
thought with thee all the thoughts I have to 
think! " 
I have made me right drunk upon life, yes, 
that is the truth; and now the feast is over, and 
I will smash the crockery ! Come, boys, come ! — 
Away with it! Through the window here with 
the head — look out of the way below there for 
the stomach — ha, ha! 
— Is not that Shakespearian humor for you? 
Such a thing it is to be death-devoted! 
— But there is a deeper side to this wonder- 
ful thing — this prospect of peace — this end of 
pain. All these solemn realities that were so 
much to thee — this " world " and all its ways — 
its conventions and proprieties, its duties and its 
trials; how now, do they seem so much to thee 
