"'Dear me!' she cried; 'you don't understand. I do not--I would not
think for a moment of asking you to leave Pine Inlet. I merely
ventured to request you to walk on the dunes. I am so afraid that your
footprints may obliterate the impressions that my father is studying.'
"'Oh!' said I, looking about me as though I had been caught in the
middle of a flower-bed; 'really I did not notice any impressions.
Impressions of what?'
"'I don't know,' she said, smiling a little at my awkward pose. 'If
you step this way in a straight line you can do no damage.'
"I did as she bade me. I suppose my movements resembled the gait of a
wet peacock. Possibly they recalled the delicate manoeuvres of the
kangaroo. Anyway, she laughed.
"This seriously annoyed me. I had been at a disadvantage; I walk well
enough when let alone.
"'You can scarcely expect,' said I, 'that a man absorbed in his own
ideas could notice impressions on the sand. I trust I have obliterated
nothing.'
"As I said this I looked back at the long line of footprints
stretching away in prospective across the sand. They were my own. How
large they looked! Was that what she was laughing at?
"'I wish to explain,' she said, gravely, looking at the point of her
parasol. 'I am very sorry to be obliged to warn you--to ask you to
forego the pleasure of strolling on a beach that does not belong to
me. Perhaps,' she continued, in sudden alarm, 'perhaps this beach
belongs to you?'
"'The beach? Oh no,' I said.
"'But--but you were going to write poems about it?'
"'Only one--and that does not necessitate owning the beach. I have
observed,' said I, frankly, 'that the people who own nothing write
many poems about it.'
"She looked at me seriously.
"'I write many poems,' I added.
"She laughed doubtfully.
"'Would you rather I went away?' I asked, politely. 'My family is
respectable,' I added; and I told her my name.
"'Oh! Then you wrote Culled Cowslips and Faded Fig-Leaves and you
imitate Maeterlinck, and you--Oh, I know lots of people that you
know;' she cried, with every symptom of relief; 'and you know my
brother.'
"'I am the author,' said I, coldly, 'of Culled Cowslips, but Faded
Fig-Leaves was an earlier work, which I no longer recognize, and I
should be grateful to you if you would be kind enough to deny that I
ever imitated Maeterlinck. Possibly,' I added, 'he imitates me.'
"She was very quiet, and I saw she was sorry.
"'Never mind,' I said, magnanimously, 'you probably are not familiar
with modern literature. If I knew your name I should ask permission to
present myself.'
"'Why, I am Daisy Holroyd,' she said.
"'What! Jack Holroyd's little sister?'
"'Little?' she cried.
"'I didn't mean that,' said I. 'You know that your brother and I were
great friends in Paris--'
"'I know,' she said, significantly.
"'Ahem! Of course,' I said, 'Jack and I were inseparable--'
"'Except when shut in separate cells,' said Miss Holroyd, coldly.
"This unfeeling allusion to the unfortunate termination of a
Latin-Quarter celebration hurt me.
"'The police,' said I, 'were too officious.'
"'So Jack says,' replied Miss Holroyd, demurely.
"We had unconsciously moved on along the sand-hills, side by side, as
we spoke.
"'To think,' I repeated, 'that I should meet Jack's little--'
"'Please,' she said, 'you are only three years my senior.'
"She opened the sunshade and tipped it over one shoulder. It was
white, and had spots and posies on it.
"'Jack sends us every new book you write,' she observed. 'I do not
approve of some things you write.'
"'Modern school,' I mumbled.
"'That is no excuse,' she said, severely; 'Anthony Trollope didn't do
it.'
"The foam spume from the breakers was drifting across the dunes, and
the little tip-up snipe ran along the beach and teetered and whistled
and spread their white-barred wings for a low, straight flight across
the shingle, only to tip and run and sail on again. The salt sea-wind
whistled and curled through the crested waves, blowing in perfumed
puffs across thickets of sweet bay and cedar. As we passed through the
crackling juicy-stemmed marsh-weed myriads of fiddler crabs raised
their fore-claws in warning and backed away, rustling, through the
reeds, aggressive, protesting.
"'Like millions of pygmy Ajaxes defying the lightning,' I said.
"Miss Holroyd laughed.
"'Now I never imagined that authors were clever except in print,' she
said.
"She was a most extraordinary girl.
"'I suppose,' she observed, after a moment's silence--'I suppose I am
taking you to my father.'
"'Delighted!' I mumbled. 'H'm! I had the honor of meeting Professor
Holroyd in Paris.'
"'Yes; he bailed you and Jack out,' said Miss Holroyd, serenely.
"The silence was too painful to last.
"'Captain McPeek is an interesting man,' I said. I spoke more loudly
than I intended. I may have been nervous.
"'Yes,' said Daisy Holroyd, 'but he has a most singular hotel clerk.'
"'You mean Mr. Frisby?'
"'I do.'
"'Yes,' I admitted, 'Mr. Frisby is queer. He was once a bill-poster.'
"'I know it!' exclaimed Daisy Holroyd, with some heat. 'He ruins
landscapes whenever he has an opportunity. Do you know that he has a
passion for bill-posting? He has; he posts bills for the pure pleasure
of it, just as you play golf, or tennis, or squash.'
"'But he's a hotel clerk now,' I said; 'nobody employs him to post
bills.'
"'I know it! He does it all by himself for the pure pleasure of it.
Papa has engaged him to come down here for two weeks, and I dread it,'
said the girl.
"What Professor Holroyd might want of Frisby I had not the faintest
notion. I suppose Miss Holroyd noticed the bewilderment in my face,
for she laughed and nodded her head twice.
"'Not only Mr. Frisby, but Captain McPeek also,' she said.
"'You don't mean to say that Captain McPeek is going to close his
hotel!' I exclaimed.
"My trunk was there. It contained guarantees of my respectability.
"'Oh no; his wife will keep it open,' replied the girl. 'Look! you can
see papa now. He's digging.'
"'Where?' I blurted out.
"I remembered Professor Holroyd as a prim, spectacled gentleman, with
close-cut, snowy beard and a clerical allure. The man I saw digging
wore green goggles, a jersey, a battered sou'wester, and hip-boots of
rubber. He was delving in the muck of the salt meadow, his face
streaming with perspiration, his boots and jersey splashed with
unpleasant-looking mud. He glanced up as we approached, shading his
eyes with a sunburned hand.
"'Papa, dear,' said Miss Holroyd, 'here is Jack's friend, whom you
bailed out of Mazas.'
"The introduction was startling. I turned crimson with mortification.
The professor was very decent about it; he called me by name at once.
Then he looked at his spade. It was clear he considered me a nuisance
and wished to go on with his digging.
"'I suppose,' he said, 'you are still writing?'
"'A little,' I replied, trying not to speak sarcastically. My output
had rivalled that of 'The Duchess'--in quantity, I mean.
"'I seldom read--fiction,' he said, looking restlessly at the hole in
the ground.
"Miss Holroyd came to my rescue.
"'That was a charming story you wrote last,' she said. 'Papa should
read it--you should, papa; it's all about a fossil.'
"We both looked narrowly at Miss Holroyd. Her smile was guileless.
"'Fossils!' repeated the professor. 'Do you care for fossils?'
"'Very much,' said I.
"Now I am not perfectly sure what my object was in lying. I looked at
