"I came yesterday afternoon. This is my first visit 
home, though I've trotted up and down the Missis 
sippi until I know every turn and every town. I have 
a husband who hardly lets me out of his sight and he 
has never found it convenient to come to Chicago. 
Perhaps he is afraid he might see some other woman 
he would like for a wife, he had such astonishing luck 
before. And how Chicago has changed! All the old 
houses have been built on to, and the stores and ware 
houses! It can't hold a candle to New Orleans, and 
Kaskaskia is a gay old town, but you're coming on. 
Is this Chris?" 

"No," and I explained. 

"We're just out for a flyer. I took mother along 
so that people would be the more likely to recognize 
me. This afternoon we must go calling. I suppose I 
ought to stay at home and let the neighbors call on me, 
but I want to see them so. And poor Mrs. Hayne is a 
widow. Ben gone off to college, is it? Homer get 
ting rich and peopling the town, but the other one is 
abroad married to some French marquise, I suppose, 
and Chris going to be a minister. Lots of other 
changes. There! You may look to see me some 
day." 

Her talk had been a swift dazzle, and made you feel 
as if some one had whirled you around. 





"What a talker," said John. "And what a handsome 
woman. She looks fit to be a queen !" 

We hurried home. I was anxious to have the dinner 
all right, and I didn't exactly want Dan to see me com 
ing home with young John Gaynor. Why, I could not 
explain altogether to myself. 

Jolette was just dishing up when Dan entered. He 
should not accuse me of secrecy this time. 

"Oh, Dan," I cried, "did you see the new arrival, 
not exactly in a coach and four, but in Harman's 
barouche? Madame Maseurier and her mother view 
ing the town." 

"Polly Morrison!" he ejaculated. "How does she 
look?" He was all interest. 

"John thinks like a queen. She is wonderfully hand 
some, or else it is the fine clothes." 

"Come to show them off, I suppose. The old French 
man with her?" 

"No. But she said her husband hardly let her out 
of his sight." 

"I'd trust Polly for squeezing out some dark night 
if she wanted to." Then he gave his old, merry laugh, 
and a good-humored nod. 

The dinner passed pleasantly. John had a good deal 
to say about the town. 

Dan's strictures rankled in my mind. I really 
wanted young John to live with us. I liked him so 
much already, as one might regard a young brother, 
indeed as I did Chris, only John belonged to me, to 
father. But I did not want any trouble or jeal 
ousy. 



 

The lad went down to the office the next morning, 
taking some lunch. Dan did not ask about him. He 
came home very enthusiastic. He had struck just the 
right thing, he was confident. And, grasping father's 
hands, he said in his young, earnest voice, he could 
never be thankful enough for that cordial letter of 
his. 

It was the third day later when father was resting 
after having spent the morning in the fields, that I 
took my sewing and sat beside him. Presently I said 
tentatively : 

"I am glad John has taken such a liking to the 
printing office. What a cheerful, ambitious fellow he 
is." 

"A real Yankee!" Father laughed. "I like him 
very much. It seems a whiff of my native air of my 
boyhood's air. Only I hadn't the ambition. The 
world was not so ambitious. People had an idea in 
those days that God had put you just where He 
wanted you to be, and that it was a sin to try to get 
elsewhere. They didn't read the Bible right in the 
very beginning, 'Dominion over everything' is his 
birthright." 

After a pause I began in a kind of indifferent tone, 
"Do you not think it would be a good thing for him 
to board near the office, where he could run home to 
his dinner? He is a growing lad, and a cold lunch 
doesn't seem just the thing. Then in winter there 
will be storms and awful going." 

"We're not in winter now. What is to hinder him 
from staying until then?" 





He looked suddenly, sharply at me. I felt the hot 
blood rush to my face. 

There was a silence. The fresh wind off the lake 
sang its murmuring song, and the birds gave the 
chorus, but I could feel the other hush. 

"Yes, what's to hinder ?" rather impatiently. 

"I thought," then my voice faltered. 

"Did Dan say anything? He doesn't like the boy's 
coming, I can see that." 

"He felt hurt because he had not known about it. 
So many things happened just then " 

"Well, it was rather queer. He might have struck 
something at home, and not come at all. I should 
