for herself. She is absorbed. She is unpracti- 
cal. Those people down there are monopolizing 
all her youth. I wish you had never allowed 
her to invest a dollar in the slums." 

" Pardon me," the young attorney had 
explained, " you forget this was an inherited 
investment. My father was responsible for 
that, and I assure you," he added loyally, " it 
has proved an excellent one. She has nothing 
better ; and consider the usefulness of it. She 



 

makes a lot of people happy, and clean. Per- 
mit me, Mrs. Jeffries — these P. and Q. coupons 
are worth thirty dollars apiece. I wouldn't put 
them in the ink bottle, if I were you." 

" You have your father's manner, Philip," 
said Mrs. Jeffries sentimentally. "It is always 
a comfort to have you around. There
I 'll mind my P's and Q's to please you. Be 
sure and run down this summer as usual. We 
expect a good many pleasant people. Dr. 
Steele is coming out every Saturday. The 
S. P. D. & C. T. & E. is an important society, 
and we have to confer. I wish Miriam took 
more interest in it; but she doesn't care 
about the animal philanthropies. She says 
the human race is enough for her." 

It so happened that on the evening of the 
day when the episode at the art school oc- 
curred, a matter of business took Philip Sur- 
bridge to Miriam's house. She received him 
in the drawing-room. The windows were open ; 
the gas was low. The large room, which 
had gone into its linen shrouding for the 
summer, had a dismal, unfamiliar air. When 
Miriam paused before the gauze-covered mir- 
ror, it reflected her mistily, as if she had been 




a ghost. She seemed somehow unreal to 
Philip ; her body looked uninhabited like the 
house. When he explained his errand — it 
was some mechanic's contract — he saw that 
she was giving no attention to it. She as- 
sented indifferently to his suggestions, and 
sat with listless hands crossed over her black 
skirt. The evening was warm, and she wore 
a white silk waist, which Philip noticed be- 
cause it was so long since he had seen her in 
anything but mourning. She had an unusual 
pallor — perhaps a reflection from the ivory- 
tinted stuff into which her face seemed to 
melt, or out of which it seemed to grow. She 
was so unlike herself that Philip refrained 
from any unnecessary conversation, and with 
his natural delicacy quickly terminated the 
interview, and arose to go. 

" So soon ? " asked Miriam languidly. 

" You seem tired ; I think it 's better." 

" Wait a minute." Miriam uncrossed her 
hands slowly, and, rising, stood tall and still 
in the dim room beside him. He could feel 
how constrained she was. 

" Such a strange thing happened to-day," 
she began. She had not meant to tell him, 



 

nor to tell any one ; in fact, though she could 
hardly have explained why, she felt a poignant 
reluctance to repeating the experience of the 
morning. But she was used to telling things 
to Philip. She always had ; sometimes she 
suspected that most people did. He was that 
kind of a man. His presence in the lonely 
house (deserted now of the whole family ex- 
cepting the old seamstress and Maggie) inde- 
finably soothed her. Suddenly it seemed to 
her necessary to speak, and she told him the 
story. 

Surbridge listened in silence. As she 
talked, he crossed to the open window and 
stood with his hands in his pockets. 

" Go on," he said when she paused. 

" That is all," said Miriam with a sigh of 
relief. 

Philip turned away from the window and 
asked a few quiet questions, naturally enough ; 
but Miriam quickly detected the professional 
instinct beneath the personal sympathy. 

" You cross-examine ! " she cried. 

So Philip laughed and left her. Now, as 
he passed up the street, he came face to face 
with Dr. Steele. 



 

" By the way," said the lawyer carelessly, 
" may I walk a few steps with you ? I want 
to ask you about a certain matter." 

Philip retraced his way, and the two gen- 
tlemen walked back towards the house. Sur- 
bridge spoke in a low voice, and could not 
have been overheard by passers, but as the 
physiologist listened an expression of cold an- 
noyance stiffened his face. Before they came 
to Miss Lauriat's door he halted. 

" Why should I answer these questions ? " 
His lips sharpened. "I am not on the witness 
stand. You will excuse me, Surbridge." 

Surbridge laughed again — he had a sin- 
gularly quiet, pleasant laugh — and walked 
back. He had not gone a block when he ad- 
mitted to himself an unpardonable curiosity. 
