with you; but when there's no danger anywhere, and I have nothing to
sadden me, why, I'm not at all sure that I love you enough to pass the
balance of the day in your companionship--only that when you are away I
desire to know where you are and what you do, and with whom you walk
and talk and laugh. Deary me! deary me! I know not what I want, Carus.
Let us go to the Blue Fox and drink a dish of tea."
We walked back to the inn through the sweetest evening air that I had
breathed in many a day, Elsin stopping now and then to add a blossom to
the great armful of wild flowers that she had gathered, I lingering,
happy in my freedom as a lad loosed from school, now pausing to skip
flat stones across the Bronx, now creeping up to the bank to surprise
the trout and see them scatter like winged shadows over the golden
gravel, now whistling to imitate that rosy-throated bird who sits so
high in his black-and-white livery and sings into happiness all who
hear him.
The sun was low over the Jersey highlands; swarms of swallows rose,
soared, darted, and dipped in the evening sky. I heard the far
camp-bugles playing softly, the dulled roll of drums among the eastern
hills; then, as the red sun went out behind the wooded heights, bang!
the evening gun's soft thunder shook the silence. And our day was
ended.
CHAPTER VIII
DESTINY
On Sunday, having risen early--though not so early as the post relief,
whose day begins as soon as a sentry can see clearly for a thousand
yards--I dressed me by the rosy light of the rising sun, and, before I
breakfasted, wrote a long letter to my parents, who, as I have said,
were now residing near Paris, where my great-grandfather's estate lay.
When I had finished my letter, sanded and sealed it, I went out to
leave it with the packages of post matter collected from the French
regiments across the Hudson, and destined for France by an early
packet, which was to sail as soon as the long-expected French fleet
arrived from the West Indies.
I delivered my letter to the staff-officer detailed for that duty, and
then, hearing military music, went back to the Blue Fox in time to see
a funeral of an officer slowly passing eastward, gun-carriage, horses,
men, in strange silhouette against the level and dazzling white disk of
the rising sun. Truly, the slow cortège seemed moving straight into the
flaming gates of heaven, the while their solemn music throbbed and
throbbed with the double drum-beat at the finish of each line. The tune
was called "Funeral Thoughts." They changed to "Roslyn Castle" as they
crossed the bridge; yet an hour had scarce passed when I heard their
volley-firing not very far away, and back they came, the Fife-Major
leading, drums, fifes, and light-infantry horns gaily sounding "The
Pioneer," and the men swinging back briskly to fall in with the Church
details, now marching in from every direction to the admonitory timing
of a single drum-beat.
The music had awakened Elsin, and presently she came a-tapping at my
door, barefoot, her cardinal tightly wrapped around her, hair tumbled,
drowsily rubbing her heavy lids.
"Good morning, Carus," she said sleepily. "I should dearly like to hear
a good, strong sermon on damnation to-day--being sensible of my present
state of sin, and of yours. Do they preach hell-fire in Rebeldom?"
"The landlord says that Hazen's mixed brigade and other troops go to
service in the hay-field above the bridge," I answered, laughing.
"Shall we ride thither?"
She nodded, yawning, then pulling her foot-mantle closer about her
shoulders, pattered back into her chamber, and I went below and ordered
our horses saddled, and breakfast to be served us as soon as might be.
And so it happened that, ere the robins had done caroling their morning
songs, and the far, sweet anthems of the hermit-birds still rang in
dewy woodlands, Elsin and I dismounted in Granger's hay-field just as
the troops marched up in a long, dense column, the massed music of many
regiments ahead, but only a single drum timing the steady tread.
All was done in perfect decorum and order. A hay-wagon was the pulpit;
around it the drummers piled their drums, tier rising on tier; the
ensigns draped the national colors over the humble platform, setting
regimental and state standards at the corners; and I noted there some
curious flags, one borne by a Massachusetts battalion, white, with a
green tree on it; another, a yellow naval flag with a coiled
rattlesnake; another, carried by a company of riflemen, on which was
this design:
               1776.
    XI VIRGINIA REG'T,
and I knew that I was looking upon the famous regimental standard of
Morgan's Rifles.
Without confusion, with only a low-spoken command here and there,
battalion after battalion marched up, stacked arms, forming three sides
of a hollow square, the pulpit, with its flags and tiers of drums,
making the fourth side. The men stood at ease, hands loosely clasped
and hanging in front of them. The brigade chaplain quietly crossed the
square to his rude pulpit, mounted it, and, as he bowed his head in
prayer, every cocked hat came off, every head was lowered.
Country-folk, yokels, farmers, had gathered from all directions;
invalids from the camp hospitals were there, too, faces clay-color,
heads and limbs heavily bandaged. One of these, a sergeant of the New
York line, who wore a crimson heart sewed on his breast, was led to his
place between two comrades, he having both eyes shot out; and the
chaplain looked at him hard for a moment, then gave out the hymn,
leading the singing in a deep, full voice:
        "Through darkest night
    I know that Thou canst see.
        Night blinds my sight,
    Yet my small voice shall praise Thee constantly.
        Under Thy wing,
    Whose shadow blinds mine eyes,
        Fearless I sing
    Thy sweetness and Thy mercy to the skies!"
The swelling voices of the soldiers died away. Standing there between
our horses, Elsin's young voice still echoing in my ears, I looked up
at the placid face of the preacher, saw his quiet glance sweep the
congregation, saw something glimmer in his eyes, and his lips tighten
as he laid open his Bible, and, extending his right arm, turn to the
south, menacing the distant city with his awful text:
"The horseman lifteth up the bright sword and the glittering spear!
"Woe to the bloody city! The chariots shall rage in the streets, they
shall jostle one against another in the broad ways! They shall seem
like torches, they shall run like the lightnings. They shall make haste
to the wall; the defense shall be prepared.
"For that day is a day of wrath, a day of trouble and distress, a day
of darkness and gloom, a day of clouds and thick darkness.
"A day of the trumpet and alarm against fenced cities, and against
high towers.
"For the horseman lifteth up the bright sword.... Woe to the bloody
city!"
Out over the sunlit fields rang the words of Zephaniah and of Nahum. I
saw the motionless ranks suddenly straighten; a thousand sunburned
faces were upturned, a thousand pairs of eyes fastened themselves upon
the steady eyes of the preacher.
For an hour he spoke to them, beginning with his Excellency's
ever-to-be-remembered admonition: "To the character of a patriot it
should be our highest glory to add the more distinguished character of
a Christian"; then continued upon that theme nearest the hearts of all,
the assault upon New York, which everybody now deemed imminent,
thrilling the congregation with hope, inspiring them with high
endeavor. I remember that he deprecated revenge, although the score was
heavy enough! I remember he preached dignity and composure in
adversity, mercy in victory, and at the word his voice rang with
prophecy, and the long ranks stirred as dry leaves stir in a sudden
wind.
When at last he asked the blessing, and the ranks had knelt in the
stubble, Elsin and I on our knees breathed the Amen, lifted our
sun-dazzled eyes, and rose together to mount and ride back through the
dust to the Blue Fox, where we were to confer concerning the
long-delayed letter which decency required us to write to Sir Peter and
Lady Coleville, and also take counsel in other matters touching the
future, which seemed as obscure as ever.
Since that first visit from Colonel Hamilton I had received orders from
headquarters to be ready to leave for the north at an hour's notice,
and that suitable quarters would be ready at West Point for my wife.
