"Who? Me?" incredulously.
He looked her over carefully; looked at her dusty bare ankles, at her
walnut-smeared face and throat. She seemed so small, so
round-shouldered--so different from what he had expected. They had said
that the woman he must find was pretty.
"Was yuh-all fixin' to meet up with me?" she repeated with a bold
laugh.
"I--don't know," he said. "By the Eternal, I don't know, ma'am. But I'm
going to find out in right smart time. Did you ever hear anybody speak
Latin?"
"Suh?" blankly; and the audacity faded.
"Latin," he repeated, a trifle discomfited. "For instance, 'sic itur.'
Do you know what 'sic itur' means?"
"Sick--what, suh?"
"'Sic itur!' Oh, Lord, she is what she looks like!" he exclaimed in
frank despair. He walked to the door, wheeled suddenly, came back and
confronted her.
"Either, ma'am, you are the most consummate actress in this war drama,
or you don't know what I'm saying, and you think me crazy.... And now
I'll ask you once for all: Is this the road?"
The Special Messenger looked him full in the eyes; then, as by magic,
the loveliest of smiles transfigured the dull, blank features; her round
shoulders, pendulous arms, slouching pose, melted into superb symmetry,
quickening with grace and youth as she straightened up and faced him,
erect, supple, laughing, adorable.
"Sic itur--ad Astra," she said demurely, and offered him her hand.
"Continue," she added.
He neither stirred nor spoke; a deep flush mounted to the roots of his
short, curly hair. She smiled encouragement, thinking him young and
embarrassed, and a trifle chagrined.
"Continue the Latin formula," she nodded, laughing; "what follows, if
you please----"
"Good God!" he broke out hoarsely.
And suddenly she knew there was nothing to follow except death--his or
hers--realized she made an awful mistake--divined in one dreadful
instant the unsuspected counter-mine beneath her very feet--cried out as
she struck him full in the face with clenched fist, sprang back,
whipping the revolver from her ragged bodice, dark eyes ablaze.
"Now," she panted, "hands high--and turn your back! Quickly!"
He stood still, very pale, one sunburned hand covering the cheek which
she had struck. There was blood on it. He heard her breathless voice,
warning him to obey, but he only took his hand from his face, looked at
the blood on palm and finger, then turned his hopeless eyes on her.
"Too late," he said heavily. "But--I'd rather be you than I.... Look out
of that window, Messenger!"
"Put up your hands!"
"No."
"Will you hold up your hands!"
"No, Messenger.... And I--didn't--know it was you when I came here.
It's--it's a dirty business--for an officer." He sank down on the wooden
chair, resting his head between both hands. A single drop of blood fell
brightly from his cut cheek.
The Special Messenger stole a swift, sidelong glance toward the window,
hesitated, and, always watching him, slid along the wall toward the
door, menacing him at every step with leveled revolver. Then, at the
door, she cast one rapid glance at the open field behind her and around.
A thrill of horror stiffened her. The entire circle of the burned
clearing was ringed with the gray pickets of rebel cavalry.
The distant men sat motionless on their horses, carbine on thigh. Here
and there a distant horse tossed his beautiful head, or perhaps some
hat-brim fluttered. There was no other movement, not one sound.
Crouching to pass the windows beneath the sills she crept, heedless of
her prisoner, to the rear door. That avenue to the near clustering woods
was closed, too; she saw the glitter of carbines above the laurel.
"Special Messenger?" She turned toward him, pale as a ghost. "I reckon
we've got you."
"Yes," she said.
There was another chair by the table--the only other one. She seated
herself, shaking all over, laid her revolver on the table, stared at the
weapon, pushed it from her with a nervous shudder, and, ashy of lip and
cheek, looked at the man she had struck.
"Will they--hang me?"
"I reckon, ma'am. They hung the other one--the man you took me for."
"Will there be a--trial?"
"Drumhead.... They've been after you a long, long while."
"Then--what are you waiting for?"
He was silent.
She found it hard to control the nervous tremor of her limbs and lips.
The dryness in her throat made speech difficult.
"Then--if there is no chance----"
He bent forward swiftly and snatched her revolver from the table as her
small hand fell heavily upon the spot where the weapon had rested.
"Would you do that?" he said in a low voice.
The desperate young eyes answered him. And, after a throbbing silence:
"Won't you let me?" she asked. "It is indecent to h-hang
a--woman--before--men----"
He did not answer.
"Please--please--" she whispered, "give it back to me--if you are
a--soldier.... You can go to the door and call them.... Nobody will
know.... You can turn your back.... It will only take a second!"
A big blue-bottle fly came blundering into the room and filled the
silence with its noise. Years ago the big blue flies sometimes came into
the quiet schoolroom; and how everybody giggled when the taller Miss
Poucher, bristling from her prunella shoes to her stiff side-curls,
charged indignantly upon the buzzing intruder.
Dry--eyed, dry--lipped, the Messenger straightened up, quivering, and
drew a quick, sharp breath; then her head fell forward, and, resting
inert upon the table, she buried her face in her arms. The most
dangerous spy in the Union service--the secret agent who had worked more
evil to the Confederacy than any single Union army corps--the coolest,
most resourceful, most trusted messenger on either side as long as the
struggle lasted--caught at last.
The man, young, Southern, and a gentleman's son, sat staring at her. He
had driven his finger-nails deep into his palms, bitten his underlip
till it was raw.
"Messenger!"
She made no response.
"Are you afraid?"
Her head, prone in her arms, motioned dull negation. It was a lie and he
knew it. He looked at the slender column of the neck--stained to a
delicate amber--at the nape; and he thought of the rope and the knot
under the left ear.
"Messenger," he said once more. "I did not know it was you I was to
meet. Look at me, in God's name!"
She opened her eyes on him, then raised her head.
"Do you know me now?" he asked.
"No."
"Look!"
He touched the scar on his forehead; but there was no recognition in her
eyes.
"Look, I tell you!" he repeated, almost fiercely.
She said wearily: "I have seen so many men--so many men.... I can't
remember you."
"And I have seen many women, Messenger; but I have never forgotten
you--or what you did--or what you did----"
"I?"
"You.... And from that night I have lived only to find you again.
And--oh, God! To find you here! My Messenger! My little Messenger!"
"Who are you?" she whispered, leaning forward on the table, dark eyes
dilating with hope.
He sat heavily for a while, head bowed as though stunned to silence;
then slowly the white misery returned to his face and he looked up.
"So--after all--you have forgotten. And my romance is dead."
She did not answer, intent now on every word, every shade of his
expression. And, as she looked, through the numbness of her desperation,
hope stirred again, stealthily.
"Are you a friend?" Her voice scarcely sounded at all.
"Friends die for each other," he said. "Do you expect that of me?"
The silence between them became terrible; and at last he broke it with a
bitter laugh:
