She had more than her olden interest in Helen 
Grant and was desirous of hearing the incidents 
of the past year. She had met two or three 
friends of Mrs. Van Dorn's who did hold that 
lady in high esteem. Helen was very glad to 
hear that. 
"You seem to have a rather odd fate in one 
respect," she said with a thoughtful smile. "And 
to come so near going abroad again !" 
"But I did not want to, in that manner. Even 
if I had tried my best my father would have 
been disappointed in me. I like entertaining 
study, something of to-day, and not the dried up 
facts of ages and ages ago. They may do for 
learned professors, but that is not my ambition," 
and Helen gave her bright smile. "I want to be 
in touch with girls." 
"The most natural and the most healthy de- 
sire of seventeen," was the approving reply. "And 
I am glad circumstances will allow you to fol- 
low your aim so comfortably. Though I think 
you would have worked your way through. You 
are the kind of girl who finds friends, and who 
does not centre them exclusively about herself, 
nor demand that they shall not advance beyond 
her range. You are taking the broad view of 
life which is not so common in youth." 
"But I am afraid, sometimes," hesitatingly, 
"that I like people too easily. I do not want to 
be blown about by every wind of fancy." 
"Discrimination will come later on. I thought 
when you first came here, that you had an un- 
usual share of reticence for such an eager, en- 
thusiastic girl. And I am glad you have not 
lost interest in Miss Craven. She has improved 
wonderfully. I am much interested in her fu- 
ture. I was afraid her guardian would insist 
upon her trying the world before she was half 
fitted for it and some man would marry her for 
her fortune." 
"She is too much afraid of that herself,** 
laughed Helen. "And she is really very fond ol 
study. We shall both try to graduate next year." 
"I am glad of that," was the reply. 
Mrs. Aldred was much entertained studying 
her girls again and watching the improvement 
some of them had made. And she saw that Daisy 
Bell was quite indifferent to Helen. 
"Have you and Daisy outgrown your friend- 
ship ?" she asked with a soft smile that was sym- 
pathetic rather than curious. "Or is it simply 
a case of a young woman and a girl!" 
Helen flushed scarlet. "I think we have," she 
answered slowly. "You see I was away and the 
class went ahead of me. And I am only a girl 
as yet. I do not want to be a woman." 
There was something back of this, but Mrs. 
Aldred was not one to force a confidence. 
"Such endings frequently occur," she said 
gravely. "We outgrow many things in this life 
and get fitted for others. That is true develop- 
ment. Some few people remain stationary, but 
they are generally unimportant characters, or else 
living in circumscribed environments. Even they 
may not be altogether to blame." 
Helen thought of the narrowness and com- 
placency of many of the people of Hope. And 
she was glad it was given to her to outgrow 
their manner of thinking. How Aunt Jane prided 
herself on the old routine of living and doing, 
and nagged at Nat for bringing in new methods. 
There were others who never broadened out, 
never looked beyond the boundaries of their own 
little town. Was that true content? And was 
content so admirable? 
CHAPTER II 
AN ADVENTURE 
Oddly enough Helen was thinking of Daisy 
Bell as she went out into the hall. The light, 
graceful step came down the stairway with a sort 
of dazzle. There was always a flying curl, an 
end of ribbon or the gauzy rosette somewhere 
that seemed to make an ellipse. 
She nodded carelessly as she passed Helen. 
Probably the old anger was gone, and she did 
not care. Yet the outgrowing gave her a pang. 
If Daisy had not been so positive, so insistent 
in her protestations — but in a year one could 
change greatly. Daisy was charming a little cir- 
cle with the same fervor with which she had ap- 
pealed to her. Was it insincerity? 
The deepest pang would be giving up Mr. and 
Mrs. Bell and the ideal home life that had so 
penetrated the desires of her heart, and the wise, 
judicious friend she had hoped to keep. Mrs. 
Wilmarth adored her too much to be a serviceable 
mentor. Mrs. Dayton with all her tender gen- 
erosity would prefer that she had chosen the 
 
narrower life. With Juliet Craven she was the 
leading spirit. One could rely upon Mrs. Aldred, 
and yet, you could only be one of many. 
That was selfish, too. But a motherless girl 
might be forgiven for the longing. 
Examinations began. As usual several girls 
had prepared for college. Others were being 
pushed up. Juliet did finely. Helen was hardly 
up to the mark in all studies but she knew that 
she could make it up in vacation. 
The little Gartney children had come to be 
quite at home, and now were full of sorrow at 
parting with Miss Craven. They were to go to 
an aunt's in the country, as their father and new 
mother were to take a tour westward, and the 
aunt they scarcely knew. 
"If I had a house of my own I should beg for 
them. They will have lonely lives for the next 
few years. Still they have each other. And they 
are coming back, their father wrote." 
There was to be the usual commencement. Or, 
rather, it was to be a little unusual, quite the 
affair of the season. This compliment was due to 
the kindly neighbors who had so warmly wel- 
comed her back, Mrs. Aldred thought, and sev- 
eral of the parents from a distance had expressed 
a desire to be present. 
 
"My father and mother want to come," Daisy 
was explaining to a circle of her admirers. "I 
really did not imagine they were so proud of 
me. And my sister also. Then we are going to 
spend the night in New York, and the next day 
Columbia College Commencement takes place and 
my brother has one of the orations. Why, I think 
papa ought really to be proud of us !" 
"As if he wasn't," declared a chorus of en- 
thusiastic voices. "But we shall miss you so." 
"The light of Aldred House will be gone." 
Daisy turned and made a pretty, sweeping 
courtesy, the seductive gleam of pleasure in her 
