ceased.
"That is to pay for my supper," I explained.
Next I played Le Courier, and when I had finished that I turned
again, rising.
"That is to pay for my horse's supper," I said.
Gretchen's good humor returned.
"Whoever you are, sir," her tone no longer repellent, "you are amusing.
Pray, tell us whom we have the honor to entertain?"
"I haven't the vaguest idea who my hostess is,"--evasively.
"It is quite out of the question.  You are the intruder."
"Call me Mr. Intruder, then," said I.
It was, you will agree, a novel adventure.  I was beginning to enjoy it
hugely.
"Who do you suppose this fellow is?" Gretchen asked.
"He says he is an American, and I believe he is.  What Americans are in
Barscheit?"
"I know of none at all.  What shall we do to get rid of him?"
All this was carried on with unstudied rudeness.  They were women of
high and noble quality; and as I was an interloper, I could take no
exception to a conversation in a language I had stated I did not
understand.  If they were rude, I had acted in a manner unbecoming a
gentleman.  Still, I was somewhat on the defensive.  I took out my
watch.  My hour was up.
"I regret that I must be off," I said ruefully.  "It is much pleasanter
here than on the road."
"I can not ask you to remain here.  You will find the inn a very
comfortable place for the night," was Gretchen's suggestion.
"Before I go, may I ask in what manner I might serve as a witness?"
Ere the words had fully crossed my lips I recognized that my smartness
had caused me to commit an unpardonable blunder for a man who wished to
show up well in an adventure of this sort.  (But fate had a hand in it,
as presently you shall see.)
Gretchen laughed, but the sound was harsh and metallic.  She turned to
her companion, who was staring at me with startled eyes.
"What did I tell you?  You can not tell a gentleman in the
candle-light."  To me she said:
"I thought as much.  You have heard Faust in Paris, but you know
nothing of the French language.  You claimed to be a gentleman, yet you
have permitted us to converse in French."
"Was it polite of you to use it?" I asked.  "All this," with a wave of
the hand, "appears mysterious.  This is not a residence one would
expect to find inhabited--and by two charming women!"  I bowed.  "Your
presence here is even less satisfactorily explained than mine.  If I
denied the knowledge of French it was because I wasn't sure of my
surroundings.  It was done in self-defense rather than in the desire to
play a trick.  And in this language you speak of witnesses, of papers,
of the coming of a man you do not trust.  It looks very much like a
conspiracy."  I gathered up my gloves and riding-crop.  I believed that
I had extricated myself rather well.
"This is my castle," said Gretchen, gently shaking off the warning hand
of her companion.  "If I desire to occupy it for a night, who shall
gainsay me?  If I leave the latches down, that is due to the fact that
I have no one to fear.  Now, sir, you have eaten the bread of my table,
and I demand to know who you are.  If you do not tell me at once, I
shall be forced to confine you here till I am ready to leave."
"Confine me!"--nonplussed.  This was more than I had reckoned on.
"Yes."  She reached out to strike the gong.  (I can not be blamed for
surrendering so tamely.  I didn't know that the old servitor was the
only man around.)
"I am the American consul at Barscheit."
The two women drew together instinctively, as if one desired to protect
the other from some unknown calamity.  What the deuce was it all about?
All at once Gretchen thrust aside her friend and approached.  The table
was between us, and she rested her hands upon it.  Our glances met and
clashed.
"Did the duke send you here?" she demanded repellently.
"The duke?"  I was getting deeper than ever.  "The duke?"
"Yes.  I am the Princess Hildegarde."
III
The Princess Hildegarde of Barscheit!  My gloves and riding-crop
slipped from my nerveless fingers to the floor.  A numbing, wilting
sensation wrinkled my spine.  The Princess Hildegarde of Barscheit!
She stood opposite me, the woman--ought I not to say girl?--for whom I
had been seeking, after a fashion, all these months!  The beautiful
madcap who took the duchy by the ears, every now and then, and tweaked
them!  The princess herself, here in this lonely old castle into which
I had so carelessly stumbled!  Romance, enchantment!  Oddly enough, the
picture of her riding a bicycle flashed through my brain, and this was
followed by another, equally engaging, of the hussar who rode
cross-country, to the horror of the conservative element at court.
"The Princess Hildegarde!" I murmured stupidly.
"Yes.  I have asked you a question, sir.  Or shall I put the question
in French?"--ironically.  "Was it the duke who sent you here?"
There was a look in her superb eyes which told me that it would have
been to her infinite pleasure to run a sword through my black and
villainous heart.  Presently I recovered.  With forced calm I stooped
and collected my gloves and crop.
"Your Highness, what the deuce has the duke to do with my affairs, or I
with his?  As an American, you would scarcely expect me to meddle with
your private affairs.  You are the last person in the world I thought
to meet this night.  I represent the United States in this country, and
though I am inordinately young, I have acquired the habit of attending
to my own affairs."
From the angry face in front of me I turned to the dismayed face
beyond.  There must have been a question in my glance.  The young woman
drew herself up proudly.
"I am the Honorable Betty Moore."
(The princess' schoolmate in England!)
Her Highness stood biting the knuckle of a forefinger, undecided as to
what path of action to enter, to reach a satisfactory end.  My very
rudeness convinced her more than anything else that I spoke the truth.
"How, then, did you select this particular road?"--still entertaining
some doubt.
"It is a highway, free to all.  But I have already explained that," I
answered quietly.  I moved deliberately toward the door, but with a
cat-like movement she sprang in front of me.  "Well, your Highness?"
"Wait!" she commanded, extending an authoritative arm (lovely too!).
"Since you are here, and since you know who I am, you must remain."
"Must?" I repeated, taken aback.
"Must!  My presence here ought not to be known to any one.  When you
witness that which shall take place here to-night, you will
understand."  Her tone lost its evenness; it trembled and became a bit
wild.
"In what manner may I be of service to your Highness?" I asked
pleasantly, laying aside my gloves and crop again.  "I can easily give
you my word of honor as a gentleman not to report your presence here;
but if I am forced to remain, I certainly demand--"
"Desire," she corrected, the old fire in her eyes.
"Thank you.  I desire, then, to know the full reason; for I can not be
a party to anything which may reflect upon the consulate.  For myself,
I do not care."  What hare-brained escapade was now in the air?
The princess walked over to the mantel and rested her arms upon it,
staring wide-eyed into the fire.  Several minutes passed.  I waited
patiently; but, to tell the truth, I was on fire with curiosity.  At
length my patience was rewarded.
"You have heard that I am to marry the Prince of Doppelkinn?" she began.
I nodded.
"Doubtless you have also heard of my determination not to marry him?"
she went on.
Again I nodded.
"Well, I am not going to marry him."
I was seized with the desire to laugh, but dared not.  What had all
this to do with my detention in the castle?
"Betty," said the princess, turning imploringly to her companion (what
a change!), "you tell him."
"I?"  The Honorable Betty drew back.
(Had they kidnapped old Doppelkinn? I wondered.)
"I can not tell him," cried her Highness miserably, "I simply can not.
You must do it, Betty.  It is now absolutely necessary that he should
know everything; it is absolutely vital that he be present.  Perhaps
