At this the New York boy grinned broadly.
"Don't you fool yourself, Nat."
"But here are the advertisements."
"Yes, and a hundred young fellows after every one."
At this Nat's face fell.
"You are sure of this?"
"Go on, and find out for yourself. A good job isn't open more than an
hour in this city."
"Then, I'd better hurry along."
Nat had written down about a dozen addresses on a slip of paper, and the
newsboy showed him how he could get around from one place to the next
with the least walking. Nat started off at a swift gait. Dick watched
him out of sight with a thoughtful expression on his face.
"That boy means well," he murmured. "But he has got a whole lot to
learn!"
The distance to the first place on Nat's list was almost half a mile. It
was a shirt factory, where an assistant packer was desired, at eight
dollars per week. Arriving there, Nat found about twenty young men and
boys assembled, waiting to get into the office.
"Dick was right, a place here doesn't go begging long," thought the boy
from the country.
It was some time before Nat could get into the office. He faced a tall,
sharp-eyed man, who was in his shirt sleeves.
"Want the job, eh?" said the man. "Had any experience as a packer?"
"No, sir, but----"
"Can't use you. Next!"
Nat stared at the man in bewilderment.
"Won't you please try----"
"No." The man shook his head vigorously. "Next!" And our hero was
elbowed toward the door by some others who wanted the position. In a
moment more he found himself on the street again.
"Well, of all the mean men!" he began, and stopped short. "All right, he
can keep his job. I'll try the next place."
The next was in a hat store, and the place was filled. Then came a
clothing establishment, a hardware store, and a wholesale rubber
factory. At none of these places was he wanted. By this time it was
nearly noon, and he was getting just a little discouraged.
"It's going to be up-hill work, that's certain!" he told himself with a
sigh.
The next place he visited was a seed store. Here a very elderly man came
forward to greet him.
"So you want a place?" said he slowly. "Have you had any experience as
an errand boy?"
"No, sir, but I am willing to learn."
"So they all say, but many boys don't seem to learn very fast. You look
like a country lad." And the elderly man peered at Nat closely through
his spectacles.
"I am a country boy. But if you'll give me a chance, I'll do my best."
"We can't pay you very much at the start."
"How much?"
"Two dollars and a half a week."
"I can't live on that. I've got to pay my board."
The elderly man shrugged his shoulders.
"Guess you had better look elsewhere then."
"Couldn't you pay me a little more? I am willing to work hard."
"Well, we might give you three dollars a week after the first month, but
that is our limit for an errand boy."
"I can't take it," answered Nat. "I've got to earn more," and after a
little additional talking he left the seed store.
He had a lunch in a bit of newspaper, and as it was nearly one o'clock,
he sat down on a box on the sidewalk and ate it, washing it down with a
drink of water from a cooler in a railroad ticket office. Then he went
on his way once more, but at sundown had to give it up. He was so tired,
and his feet were so sore from the pavements, that he could scarcely
walk to his boarding house.
"I trust you found something," said Mrs. Talcott, as he entered.
"No," he answered, soberly. "I could have had one position, but it only
paid two dollars and a half a week, so I didn't take it."
"I am sorry."
"I shall go out to-morrow again. I am bound to strike something sooner
or later."
Being tremendously hungry Nat ate the supper provided with a relish.
There were two other boarders--girls who worked in a large department
store--and they were quite interested in him.
"You might get work at our place," said one of the girls. "They
advertised to-day for wrappers."
"Yes, but they want experienced wrappers," said the other girl.
"I'll try them, anyway," said Nat. "And I am much obliged to you for
telling me about it," he added.
On the following morning he was up as before and got the list from the
papers again. Fortune was now with him, and at noon he found a position
in a wholesale paper house. One of the clerks was going to visit some
relatives down south, and Nat was hired to fill his place, at seven
dollars per week.
"You've struck luck!" cried Dick Talcott, on hearing the news. "I hope
the job lasts."
"So do I," answered Nat. "But even if it doesn't, it is better than
nothing."
Nat went to work the next day. He found his duties rather simple and
wondered how the firm could afford to pay him seven dollars for the
little he was called on to do. Everybody treated him nicely, and he
considered himself lucky to have made the connection with the firm.
CHAPTER X
OUT OF WORK ONCE MORE
During the time that he worked in the wholesale paper establishment Nat
wrote a long letter to Sam Price, telling his friend of his adventures
since leaving home, and asking for news from the farm. A few days later
an answer came back, which ran as follows:
     "I got your letter and found it very interesting. I hope you make
     your fortune in the city. It's certainly a fine place to go to, and
     maybe I'll try it myself some day. Country life is awful slow, and
     work is mighty hard. I have been hoeing corn to-day till my back
     aches ready to fall apart.
     "Your uncle was awful mad to think you had run away, and madder
     still when he found you had sold the cow. He thought you were
     hiding in Cleveland, and he stayed in that city three days before
     he gave up the search. He claims that the cow belonged to him--that
     he took it for board and clothing for you, and he also sticks to it
     that you tried to burn down his barn. He says he is going to make
     it hot for you if he ever finds you. You can make sure I shan't
     tell him where you are."
Nat read the letter with keen interest, not once but several times, and
shook his head slowly over the communication.
"I suppose Uncle Abner will always think I set fire to the barn," he
thought. "Wish I could catch the person who really did do it. Must have
been some tramp who was sleeping there and using a pipe."
At the end of the third week's work Nat had seven dollars saved, of
which amount he was reasonably proud. But now came a setback for which
he was not prepared.
"We have sold this concern to another party," said one of the
proprietors to him. "After Saturday your services will be no longer
required."
"Won't the new bosses need me?"
"No, for they have all the help of their own that they can use. Only our
head bookkeeper will remain."
This was on Thursday, and during the balance of the week our hero looked
around in his spare hours for another position, but without success.
Monday morning found him doing nothing.
"As you said, it is not so easy to get a hold," said he to Dick. "Still,
I don't feel quite so green as when I first reached New York. I at least
know something about the streets and the stores."
Nat lost no time in looking for another place. But nothing turned up
Monday or Tuesday, and Wednesday it rained so hard that he did not go
out until after noon. Then he visited a fashionable wholesale jewelry
establishment. Here he was asked to wait, while one of the proprietors
interviewed a young man who had come in ahead of our hero.
The young man was dressed as a perfect dude, with a light checked suit,
and very light gloves. He spoke with a drawl, and Nat heard every word
that he said.
"What is your business, sir?" asked the jeweler.
