"The law will not force her to go."

"I think she will be convinced. You are no kin to her. Now that she is
grown, it is hardly the thing for her to go on living in this fashion.
You may mean to marry her. That would be monstrous!"

"Go your way, go your way, David Westbury," and he made an indignant
gesture as if he would sweep him out of the place. "I have other
matters on hand. I have no time to parley."

Then Chadsey turned and, being near the door, made a rush for the
street, plunging the next minute into the thick of business. Westbury
laughed a moment, lighted a cigar, and sauntered out at his leisure.
Up in a more respectable street he glanced about, finding a lawyer's
office, and though he guessed the opinion must be in his favor he
wanted an assurance.

"If there had been an assignment under belief that the father was
dead, he could recover, if it was proved he was the proper person to
have the care of the child, and amply able to support it."

Jason Chadsey worked furiously. He would not think. It was high noon
before he found a respite. Then he went in the office instead of going
to lunch. He could not eat.

The shadow that would hang over him now and then, that he had always
managed to drive away, had culminated at length in a storm that would
sweep from its moorings the dearest thing he held on earth, that he
had toiled for, that he had loved with the tenderness of a strong,
true heart, that had been all his life. Without her it would only be a
breathing shell of a body, inert, with no hope, no real feeling. Ah,
if they had been ready to go away a few months ago! If Laverne was of
age! If he had a legal adoption, they might make a fight on that. He
had nothing. But she would not go, she would not go.

Ah, how could he tell her? Perhaps her father and yes, that
soft-spoken, insinuating woman, was her stepmother, and Laverne had a
young girl's fancy for her--perhaps they would go and lay the case
before her, persuade, entreat--oh, no, they could not win, he felt
sure of that. How could he ever go home! What would the home be
without her! What would life be--the money--anything!

It was quite late when he climbed the ascent, growing worse and worse.
There had been two landslides. Why, presently they would be swept
away.

"Oh, how late you are!" cried the soft, girlish voice. "How did you
get up? Isn't it dreadful! Have you had a hard day? Was there a
steamer in? Do you suppose we shall ever have a letter from the
Hudsons?"

Nothing had happened. Perhaps David Westbury did not dare. He almost
crushed the slim figure in his arms.

"Oh, what a bear hug!" she cried, when she could get her breath. "And
you are so late. We had such a splendid big fish that Pablo caught and
cooked, and it was delicious. And I made a berry cake, but you like
that cold, and we will have the fish heated up. Was it an awful busy
day?"

"Yes, a vessel in, and another to be loaded up."

His voice shook a little.

"Oh, you dear old darling, you are tired to death. Here's a cup of
nice tea. And if you were a young lover, I would sing you the
daintiest little Spanish song. Isola and I made it up. You see, things
don't sound quite so bare and bald in Spanish, and you can make the
rhymes easier. The music is all hers. We are supposed to sing it to
some one gone on a journey that we want back with us."

"Well, I'm an old lover; sing it to me!" Then she would not notice
that he was not eating much supper.

The guitar had a blue ribbon, and she threw it over her shoulder and
shook her golden hair about. Tinkle, tinkle, went the soft
accompaniment. She had a sweet parlor voice, with some sad notes in
it, wistful, longing notes. He wondered if she was thinking of any one
miles and miles across the water.

"It is tender and beautiful," he said, "sing something else."

"You are not eating your cake."

"But I shall." He must choke down a little.

Afterward they strolled about the hill. There was no moon, but the
stars were like great golden and silver globes, and the air was sweet
with a hundred fragrances. Nothing had happened, and he wondered a
little at it. Suddenly she said:

"Oh, you must go to bed after such a hard day's work. And I am cruel
dragging you about."

He could not tell her. Oh, what if he should never need to tell her!
How could he give her up? Was life all sacrifice?

Something odd had happened to her. She sat by the window living it
over. She had gone around by Folsom House to see Mrs. Westbury,
thinking how she should miss her when they went back to England. She
ran up to her room. There was a thin lace drapery in the doorway to
bring a breeze through and yet shield the occupant from the passer-by.

"Oh, you sweet little darling! Did you dream that I was wishing for
you? I've been just crazy to see you all day."

She was in a dainty white silk négligée, with cascades of lace and
some pale pink bows. She wore such pretty gowns, Laverne thought.

"Do you know that in about a week we shall go away? And I shan't know
how to live without you. I love you so! Why do you suppose I should be
always longing for you, thinking about you? Last night----"

She gave her a rapturous embrace and kissed lips and brow and eyelids.
Sometimes Isola Savedra caressed her this way. But Isola was just a
girl, musical, vehement, Spanish.

"I couldn't sleep for thinking of you, longing for you. Shall I steal
you and take you away? Oh, if you loved me well enough to come, you
should have everything heart could desire. I am so lonesome at times."

"I shouldn't come for the things," she returned, coloring. "And if I
loved you ever so much----"

"No, don't say you wouldn't. Oh, to-morrow I shall have something
strange to tell you, but now I say over and over again I want you, I
want you!"

Laverne drew a long breath. She was half magnetized by the intensity,
by the strange expression in the face, the eager eyes.

"I shall be sorry to have you go." She hardly knew what to say. Sorrow
did not half express it.

"Don't mind me--yes, it is true, too. But I heard a story last night
that suggested such a splendid possibility. I couldn't sleep. And I
can't tell you just yet, but when you hear it--oh, you'll be tender
and not break my heart that is so set upon it. Something you can do
for me."

