for some reason or other which he could not guess, and the knowledge was
the first serious disillusionment of his life. The deception had been
small, and perhaps intended in some mysterious way to be "for his own
good"; but it had been a distinct deception and no better than a lie. He
was sure of that.
He went upstairs slowly and Regina met him at the door of their rooms,
and took his hat and stick without a word, for she saw that something
had happened, and she felt suddenly cold. He was quite unlike himself.
The careless look was gone from his face, his young lips were tightly
closed, and he looked straight before him, quite unconscious that his
manner was hurting her desperately.
"Has Settimia been out to-day?" he asked, looking at her quickly.
"I don't know," she answered, surprised. "I went for a long walk this
morning. She probably went out into the village. I cannot tell. Why do
you ask?"
"I wish to know whether she sent a note to Saint Moritz by a messenger.
Can you find out, without asking her a direct question? I am very
anxious to know."
"I will try, but it will not be easy," said Regina, watching him.
She had made up her mind that the blow was coming, and that Marcello was
only putting off the moment when she must be told that he meant to leave
her. She was very quiet, and waited for him to speak again, for she was
too proud to ask him questions. His inquiry about Settimia was in some
way connected with what was to come. He sat down by the table, and
drummed upon it absently with his fingers for a moment. Then he looked
up suddenly and met her eyes; his look of troubled preoccupation faded
all at once, and he smiled and held out one hand to draw her nearer.
"Forgive me," he said. "All sorts of things have happened to-day. I have
been annoyed."
She came and bent over him, turning his face up to hers with her hands,
very gently. His eyes lightened slowly, and his lips parted a little.
"You are not tired of Regina yet," she said.
"No!" he laughed. "But you were right," he added, almost immediately.
"I knew I was," she answered, but not as she had expected to say the
words when she had seen him come in.
She dared not hope to keep him always, but she had not lost him yet, and
that was enough for the moment. The weight had fallen from her heart,
and the pain was gone.
"Was it what I thought?" she asked softly. "Does your stepfather wish to
separate us?"
"For a little while," Marcello answered. "He says we ought to part for a
few weeks, so that I may find out whether I love you enough to marry
you!"
"And he almost persuaded you that he was right," said Regina. "Is that
what happened?"
"That--and something else."
"Will you tell me, heart of my heart?"
In the falling twilight he told her all that had passed through his
mind, from the moment when he had seen Settimia's handwriting on the
note. Then Regina's lips moved.
"He shall pay!" she was saying under her breath. "He shall pay!"
"What are you saying?" Marcello asked.
"An Ave Maria," she answered. "It is almost dark."
CHAPTER XIV
The little house in Trastevere was shut up, but the gardener had the
keys, and came twice a week to air the rooms and sweep the paths and
water the shrubs. He was to be informed by Settimia of Regina's return
in time to have everything ready, but he did not expect any news before
the end of September; and if he came regularly, on Tuesday and Saturday,
and did his work, it was because he was a conscientious person in his
way, elderly, neat, and systematic, a good sort of Roman of the old
breed. But if he came on other days, as he often did, not to air the
rooms, but to water and tend certain plants, and to do the many
incomprehensible things which gardeners do with flower-pots, earth, and
seeds, that was his own affair, and would bring a little money in the
autumn when the small florists opened their shops and stands again, and
the tide of foreigners set once more towards Rome. Also, if he had made
friends with the gardeners at the beautiful villa on the Janiculum, that
was not Corbario's business; and they gave him cuttings, and odds and
ends, such as can be spared from a great garden where money is spent
generously, but which mean a great deal to a poor man who is anxious to
turn an honest penny by hard work.
The immediate result of this little traffic was that the gardeners at
the villa knew all about the little house in Trastevere; and what the
gardeners knew was known also by the porter, and by the other servants,
and through them by the servants of other people, and the confidential
valet told his master, and the maid told her mistress; and so everybody
had learned where "Consalvi's Regina" lived, and it was likely that
everybody would know when she came back to Rome, and whether Marcello
came with her or not.
He had not taken Folco's advice, much to the latter's disappointment and
annoyance. On the contrary, he and Regina had left the Engadine very
suddenly, without so much as letting Corbario guess that they were going
away; and Regina had managed to keep Settimia so very busy and so
constantly under her eye that the maid had not been able to send Folco a
word, warning him of the anticipated move. Almost for the first time
Marcello had made up his mind for himself, and had acted upon his
decision; and it seemed as if the exercise of his will had made a change
in his character.
They wandered from place to place; they went to Venice in the hottest
season, when no one was there, and they came down to Florence and drove
up to Vallombrosa, where they stumbled upon society, and were stared at
accordingly. They went down to Siena, they stopped in Orvieto, and drove
across to Assisi and Perugia; but they were perpetually drawn towards
Rome, and knew that they longed to be there again.
Marcello had plenty of time to think, and there was little to disturb
his meditations on the past and future; for Regina was not talkative,
and was content to be silent for hours, provided that she could see his
face. He never knew whether she felt her ignorance about all they saw,
and his own knowledge was by no means great. He told her what he knew
and read about places they visited, and she remembered what he said, and
sometimes asked simple questions which he could answer easily enough.
For instance, she wished to know whether America were a city or an
island, and who the Jews were, and if the sun rose in the west on the
other side of the world, since Marcello assured her that the world was
round.
He was neither shocked nor amused; Ercole had asked him similar
questions when he had been a boy; so had the peasants in Calabria, and
there was no reason why Regina should know more than they did. Besides,
she possessed wonderful tact, and now spoke her own language so well
that she could pass for a person of average education, so long as she
avoided speaking of anything that is learned from books. She was very
quick to understand everything connected with the people she heard of,
and she never forgot anything that Marcello told her. She was grateful
to him for never laughing at her, but in reality he was indifferent. If
she had known everything within bounds of knowledge, she would not have
been a whit more beautiful, or more loving, or more womanly.
But he himself was beginning to think, now that his faith in Folco had
been shaken, and he began to realise that he had been strangely torpid
and morally listless during the past years. The shock his whole system
had received, the long interval during which his memory had been quite
gone, the physical languor that had lasted some time after his recovery
from the fever, had all combined to make the near past seem infinitely
remote, to cloud his judgment of reality, and to destroy the healthy
tension of his natural will. A good deal of what Corbario had called
"harmless dissipation" had made matters worse, and when Regina had
persuaded him to leave Paris he had really been in that dangerous moral,
intellectual, and physical condition in which it takes very little to
send a man to the bad altogether, and not much more to kill him
outright, if he be of a delicate constitution and still very young.
Corbario had almost succeeded in his work of destruction.
He would not succeed now, for the worst danger was past, and Marcello
had found his feet after being almost lost in the quicksand through
which he had been led.
He had not at first accused Folco of anything worse than that one little
deception about the arrival of the Contessa, and of having caused him to
be too closely watched by Settimia. Little by little, however, other
possibilities had shaped themselves and had grown into certainties at an
alarming rate. He understood all at once how Folco himself had been
spending his time, while society had supposed him to be a broken
