Annandale had been wavering. But now his mind was made up. Or he
thought it was.
"No. I am off tomorrow."
"Where to?"
"The North Woods, perhaps. I am not sure."
"If you are not sure, you cannot be in any very tearing haste. Why not
stop a day or two longer and take me about?"
Annandale looked at her. In the look was surprise; inquiry, too.
"Yes. Why not?"
Annandale's look deepened into a stare.
"Now, don't be stupid," said Fanny, to whom such stares were familiar.
"I am not trying to get up a flirtation with you. But I must have
someone to talk to."
"I like to hear you talk."
"Yes; men always like nonsense."
"Only from a pretty girl, though."
"Do you know," said Fanny, rising from beneath the big parasol, "the
waiter didn't bring the raspberries. No matter now, though. I must go
and find mother. This is no place for her to be out alone."
CHAPTER VIII
TWO IN A TURRET
From a back gallery of the Casino a narrow stair leads to a tower. Up
that stair Annandale one afternoon invited Fanny Price.
A fortnight had gone, two weeks of dressing and undressing, of
dinners, dances and dips; a succession of mellow mornings; long, green
afternoons, dusks stabbed by sudden stars and nights lit by a moon
that painted the ocean, penetrated the shadows, checkered the
underbrush with silver spots.
But now, though the mornings were as mellow and the afternoons as
green, though in the air the same madness subsisted and the nights
were as languid as before, verandas were emptying, there were wide
spaces where once were thick crowds. The end of the season had come.
In the procession of these things Annandale had put the North Woods
from him; he had put, too, the thought of journeying abroad. With
them he had put also any hope that Sylvia would signal him back.
For awhile the hope had persisted, as the light of a candle persists.
Then it had dwindled, flickered and sunk. That is the way with hope.
Though sometimes it is snuffed. You are in darkness. But through that
darkness occasionally another light will be upheld. It may not,
perhaps, be intended for you, but it may enable you to see.
Aided by another light, Annandale had begun to discern his way. He
should, of course, have remained in darkness. To darkness, were this
fiction, he would be condemned. But this is not fiction. The drama
with which these pages deal is documented from life. It was Fanny who
held the light.
During the month that had gone he had been almost constantly at her
side. The fact that one light may be replaced by another had not at
first occurred to him. Presently the ease with which such substitution
can be effected had mystified him very much. He was not prepared for
anything of the kind. He had arranged to be a gloomy, disappointed
man. He kept telling himself that if Sylvia had stuck to him he would
have been true to her his whole life through. But she had not stuck to
him, and the withdrawal of herself had left existence so empty that,
unknown even to him, Nature had been filling the vacuum which she
abhors.
In this, Nature had been greatly aided. Fanny Price was a remarkably
fetching young girl. To a man out of court and consequently out of
sorts the companionship of a pocket Venus is tonifying in the extreme.
It is not merely that, it is recuperative. It banishes the blues. It
establishes a new court, and with it a new code of its own.
The censorious allege that this is all wrong. It may be that they are
right. But Nature is not censorious. Nature is not even ethical. She
has no standards of right, no canons of wrong. What she does have is
her way. A saint may defy her. Annandale was not that by a long shot.
He was simply a human being, one that had been punished, and, as he
thought, unjustly punished, for that which might have been condoned.
Injustice humiliates. Saints may welcome humiliation, but human beings
resent it.
Over the emptiness which Sylvia had created there brooded therefore
two things. One was darkness, the other pique. In the light which
Fanny upheld it seemed to Annandale that they might be dispersed. This
idea, which he regarded as his very own, and consequently as highly
original, was not his in the least. It was Nature prompting him to
fill the vacuum which she so dislikes.
Instigated by her, Annandale invited Fanny up a stair and into a
tower, a place remote, aloof, furnished with seats for just two.
Fanny had not been there before. She had heard, though, of its
aloofness; it was regarded as a dangerous spot. But Fanny was a brave
girl. Besides, Annandale was at his worst, and even at his best was
not very alarming.
The ascent effected, Fanny peeped from a casement. "Why," she
exclaimed, "you can see everywhere!" She looked about. "But no one can
see you."
Assured of that, she produced a little gold box. On the back were her
initials in jewels. She opened it, took a cigarette and lit it. "Will
you have one?" she asked.
"This is a deuced nice case," said Annandale.
Fanny puffed and smiled.
"A present, I suppose."
"Yes. But you must not ask from whom."
Annandale looked out at the landscape, then in at the girl. "There is
something else I want to ask."
So grave was his tone that Fanny deployed for action.
"Will you marry me?"
Though Fanny had deployed, the shot bowled her over. Into one of the
chairs she dropped. Already Annandale had captured the other.
"Will you?"
But Fanny was recovering. With an air of vexation in which there was
amusement, she puffed at her cigarette and then at him.
"Now, honestly, have I ever given you the slightest encouragement to
ask me that?" She hesitated a moment, puffed again and added: "We have
been friends, I think; let us remain so."
Annandale, who was in loose white flannels, contemplated his tight
white shoes. Then his eyes sought hers. "Are you interested in
Loftus?"
"That is none of your business," Fanny proudly and promptly replied.
As she spoke she got from her seat, approached the casement, gazed out
and away.
"I do not believe you are," Annandale announced to her slender waist.
"But if I am wrong, it is hardly disloyalty to him to say that he is
not good enough for you."
Beneath the tower was a tennis court. Fanny made a face at it. But the
face must have been insufficient. Looking over her shoulder at
Annandale, she showed her teeth.
"Do you fancy a girl cares for a man because he is or is not good
enough? When a girl cares she cares because she cannot help herself."
"I know that is the way with a man, or at least with me. I cannot help
caring for you."
"Nor could you help caring for Sylvia."
"She is so different."
"Yes," said Fanny dreamily, "and so are you." Though to whom she
referred she did not say, nor did Annandale ask. She gave him no
chance. "Next month you will not be able to help caring for some other
girl."
"Not if you would take me."
"But, you see, I don't care for you."
"But couldn't you?" Annandale persisted. "Couldn't you if you tried?
Of course, in saying that Loftus is not good enough for you I don't
mean that I am. But if you could try I would."
At this program Fanny laughed. "We should be a pair of Christian
Endeavorers, shouldn't we?"
To the levity of that Annandale found no immediate reply. Yet
presently, with an irrelevance more obvious than real, he threw out:
"He has gone abroad, you know."
"Who? Loftus?"
"Yes, for a year, I believe."
Fanny turned to the tennis court again. It was, though, not that which
she saw, but a hope that was slipping away, sinking away, sinking down
into death dishonored. For a moment she was very still. A movement of
Annandale's aroused her.
