Presently, through the haze of smoke, I saw a patch of white paper on
the rug in front of the pier-glass.  I rose and picked it up.
  NAME:  Hawthorne
  COSTUME:  Blue Domino
  TIME:  5:30 P. M.
  RETURNED:
  ADDRESS:  West 87th Street
         FRIARD'S
I stared at the bit of pasteboard, fascinated.  How the deuce had this
got into my apartments?  A Blue Domino?  Ha!  I had it!  Old Friard had
accidentally done up the ticket with my mask.  A Blue Domino; evidently
I wasn't the only person who was going to a masquerade.  Without doubt
this fair demoiselle was about to join the festivities of some
shop-girls' masquerade, where money and pedigree are inconsequent
things, and where everybody is either a "loidy" or a "gent."  Persons
who went to my kind of masquerade did not rent their costumes; they
laid out extravagant sums to the fashionable modiste and tailor, and
had them made to order.  A Blue Domino: humph!
It was too late to take the ticket back to Friard's; so I determined to
mail it to him in the morning.
It was now high time for me to be off.  I got into my coat and took
down my opera hat.  Outside the storm was still active; but the snow
had a promising softness, and there were patches of stars to be seen
here and there in the sky.  By midnight there would be a full moon.  I
got to Jersey City without mishap; and when I took my seat in the
smoker, I found I had ten minutes to spare.  I bought a newspaper and
settled down to read the day's news.  It was fully half an hour between
Jersey City and Blankshire; in that time I could begin and finish the
paper.
There never was a newspaper those days that hadn't a war-map in some
one of its columns; and when I had digested the latest phases of the
war in the far East, I quite naturally turned to the sporting-page to
learn what was going on among the other professional fighters.  (Have I
mentioned to you the fact that I was all through the Spanish War, the
mix-up in China, and that I had resigned my commission to accept the
post of traveling salesman for a famous motor-car company?  If I have
not, pardon me.  You will now readily accept my recklessness of spirit
as a matter of course.)  I turned over another page; from this I
learned that the fair sex was going back to puff-sleeves again.  Many
an old sleeve was going to be turned upside down.
Fudge!  The train was rattling through the yards.  Another page
crackled.  Ha!  Here was that unknown gentleman-thief again, up to his
old tricks.  It is remarkable how difficult it is to catch a thief who
has good looks and shrewd brains.  I had already written him down as a
quasi-swell.  For months the police had been finding clues, but they
had never laid eyes on the rascal.  The famous Haggerty of the New York
detective force,--a man whom not a dozen New York policemen knew by
sight and no criminals save those behind bars, earthly and
eternal,--was now giving his whole attention to the affair.  Some
gaily-dressed lady at a ball would suddenly find she had lost some
valuable gems; and that would be the end of the affair, for none ever
recovered her gems.
The gentleman-thief was still at large, and had gathered to his account
a comfortable fortune; that is, if he were not already rich and simply
a kleptomaniac.  No doubt he owned one of my racing-cars, and was clear
of the delinquent lists at his clubs.  I dismissed all thought of him,
threw aside the paper, and mentally figured out my commissions on sales
during the past month.  It was a handsome figure, large enough for two.
This pastime, too, soon failed to interest me.  I gazed out of the
window and watched the dark shapes as they sped past.
I saw the girl's face from time to time.  What a fool I had been not to
ask her name!  She could easily have refused, and yet as easily have
granted the request.  At any rate, I had permitted the chance to slip
out of my reach, which was exceedingly careless on my part.  Perhaps
they--she and her uncle--frequently dined at Mouquin's; I determined to
haunt the place and learn.  It would be easy enough to address her the
next time we met.  Besides, she would be curious to know all about the
ten of hearts and the desperate adventure upon which I told her I was
about to embark.  Many a fine friendship has grown out of smaller
things.
Next, turning from the window, I fell to examining my fellow
passengers, in the hope of seeing some one I knew.  Conversation on
trains makes short journeys. . . .  I sat up stiffly in my seat.
Diagonally across the aisle sat the very chap I had met in the
curio-shop!  He was quietly reading a popular magazine, and
occasionally a smile lightened his sardonic mouth.  Funny that I should
run across him twice in the same evening!  Men who are contemplating
suicide never smile in that fashion.  He was smoking a small,
well-colored meerschaum pipe with evident relish.  Somehow, when a man
clenches his teeth upon the mouth-piece of a respectable pipe, it seems
impossible to associate that man with crime.  But the fact that I had
seen him selecting a pistol in a pawnshop rather neutralized the good
opinion I was willing to form.  I have already expressed my views upon
the subject.  The sight of him rather worried me, though I could not
reason why.  Whither was he bound?  Had he finally taken one of
Friard's pistols?  For a moment I was on the point of speaking to him,
if only to hear him tell more lies about the ten of hearts, but I
wisely put aside the temptation.  Besides, it might be possible that he
would not be glad to see me.  I always avoid the chance acquaintance,
unless, of course, the said chance acquaintance is met under favorable
circumstances--like the girl in Mouquin's, for instance!  After all, it
was only an incident; and, but for his picking up that card, I never
should have remembered him.
Behind him sat a fellow with a countenance as red and round and
complacent as an English butler's,--red hair and small twinkling eyes.
Once he leaned over and spoke to my chance acquaintance, who, without
turning his head, thrust a match over his shoulder.  The man with the
face of a butler lighted the most villainous pipe I ever beheld.  I
wondered if they knew each other.  But, closely as I watched, I saw no
sign from either.  I turned my collar up and snuggled down.  There was
no need of his seeing me.
Then my thoughts reverted to the ten of hearts again.  My ten of
hearts!  The wrinkle of a chill ran up and down my spine!  My ten of
hearts!
Hastily I took out the card and examined the back of it.  It was an
uncommonly handsome back, representing Diana, the moon, and the
midnight sky.  A horrible supposition came to me: supposing they looked
at the back as well as at the face of the card?  And again, supposing I
was miles away from the requisite color and design?  I was staggered.
Here was a pretty fix!  I had never even dreamed of such a contingency.
Hang it!  I now wished I had stuck to my original plan, and gone to the
theater.  Decidedly I was in for it; there was no backing down at this
late hour, unless I took the return train for Jersey City; and I
possessed too much stubbornness to surrender to any such weakness.
Either I should pass the door-committee, or I shouldn't; of one thing I
was certain--
"Blankshire!" bawled the trainman; then the train slowed down and
finally came to a stop.
No turning back for me now.  I picked up my suit-case and got out.  On
the platform I saw the curio-shop fellow again.  Tramping on ahead, the
smell from his villainous pipe assailing my nostrils, was the man who
had asked for a match.  The former stood undecided for a moment, and
during this space of time he caught sight of me.  He became erect, gave
me a sudden sardonic laugh, and swiftly disappeared into the dark.  All
this was uncommonly disquieting; in vain I stared into the blackness
that had swallowed him.  What could he be doing here at Blankshire?  I
didn't like his laugh at all; there was at once a menace and a
challenge in it.
"Any baggage, sir?" asked one of the station hands.
"No."  But I asked him to direct me to a hotel.  He did so.
I made my way down the street.  The wind had veered around and was
coming in from the sea, pure and cold.  The storm-clouds were broken
and scudding like dark ships, and at times there were flashes of
radiant moonshine.
The fashionable hotel was full.  So I plodded through the drifts to the
unfashionable hotel.  Here I found accommodation.  I dressed, sometimes
laughing, sometimes whistling, sometimes standing motionless in doubt.
Bah!  It was only a lark. . . .  I thought of the girl in Mouquin's;
how much better it would have been to spend the evening with her,
exchanging badinage, and looking into each other's eyes!  Pshaw!  I
