Randy had not had many opportunities to ride on the cars and he enjoyed
the trip to Tarrytown very much. Noon found him in the city named and
he crossed the river on the ferryboat. Then he hunted up a cheap but
neat restaurant, where he got dinner.
"No use of bothering Mr. Shalley just at noon hour," he thought, and so
did not go around to the steamboat man's office until one o'clock. A
clerk was present who said his employer would come in at two o'clock,
so our hero had another hour to wait.
"Is your name Randy Thompson?" questioned the clerk. When told that it
was, he continued: "Mr. Shalley is expecting you. I believe you are to
be one of the new deckhands."
"Yes."
"I hope you find the work agreeable."
"So do I."
"The other new hand didn't last long."
"How long?"
"Just one week."
"What was the matter?"
"I believe he said he couldn't get along with Polk, the purser."
"I hope I don't have any trouble with anybody," said Randy, anxiously.
"I am willing to work hard."
"You'll find Captain Hadley a fine man to deal with. I think he is one
of the nicest captains on the river."
"What do you do here?"
"Oh, I am general office clerk. My name is Bart Sandwood."
"I am glad to know you, Mr. Sandwood," answered our hero, and smiled.
"I hope business is good with the steamer."
"Travel has been very good and we are getting our share of freight. The
other lines bother us some, but not a great deal."
"Is the Helen Shalley one of the big boats of the river?"
"Not one of the largest, but she is by no means a small boat. Then you
haven't seen her?"
"Not yet, but I hope to soon."
"She will be on her way down the river this afternoon. She runs from
New York to Albany one day and back the next. She doesn't run on
Sundays."
"I am glad of that. I don't care to work on Sunday."
"Well, you'll have to do a little. When there are no passengers on
board, that is the time to put things in order."
"True enough. I am afraid I will be green."
"Were you never a deckhand before?"
"Never."
At this the clerk gave a low whistle.
"I don't know if Captain Hadley will like that or not. He is a very
strict man, even though kind."
"I shall do my best to please him."
"Early in the spring we had two green hands, but they couldn't learn at
all, and the captain said they were more bother than they were worth."
"I am sure I can learn--anyway, I mean to try."
"You certainly look bright enough to learn. The other fellows were
illiterate foreigners and always tumbling over their own feet. One
dropped a trunk on a passenger's foot and the other broke open a box
with some fine dishes. That capped the climax, and the captain got rid
of them just as soon as he could find some other hands to take their
places," concluded Bart Sandwood.
CHAPTER XV
RANDY AS A DECKHAND
When Mr. Andrew Shalley came in he was full of business. He nodded
pleasantly to Randy.
"I will see you in a little while," he said, and turned to his clerk.
Then Bart Sandwood was sent off on an errand and the steamboat owner
turned to look over some letters that had come in.
"Now I am at liberty," he said, pleasantly, shaking hands. "Are you
ready for work?"
"Yes, sir," answered Randy, promptly.
"Good! Have you ever been on a large river steamer?"
"No, Mr. Shalley, but I am willing to do all I possibly can to make
myself truly useful."
"Well, if I am any judge of character, you'll get along. All you've got
to do is to keep your eyes open and obey orders. We have one old
deckhand, Pat Malloy. He will teach you what to do."
"When can I go to work?"
"The boat will be along down the river soon. I'll take you on board, as
I want to see the captain. As soon as you are settled I'll have you
fitted out with a uniform."
"How much will that cost me?"
"In your case it won't cost anything."
"You are very kind."
"Remember, I take a personal interest in you, Randy, and I want to see
you get along. Do your duty and rest assured I shall not forget you."
"I don't think I'll disappoint you, Mr. Shalley."
Randy waited around the office until it was almost time for the
steamboat to make a landing. Then he went down to the dock with his
newly-found friend. Here were a number of passengers, and also a
quantity of baggage and freight.
Presently the Helen Shalley hove into sight, with flags flying
bravely in the breeze. As Randy had been told, she was not a
particularly large steamboat, but she was well proportioned and
graceful, and well liked by those who patronized her. We will get
better acquainted with the craft as our story proceeds.
As soon as a landing was made, Mr. Shalley went on board, taking Randy
with him. Captain Hadley was at hand.
"So this is the new deckhand, eh?" said the captain, in bluff tones.
"Pretty strong, are you?"
"I think so," answered Randy, respectfully.
"Well, you'll have to be, to stand this work. Know anything about
handling trunks and such stuff?"
"Not a great deal, but I think I can learn."
"We are shorthanded, so you can jump right in," went on the captain of
the steamboat.
"Yes, sir. Who will tell me what to do?"
"Pat Malloy. He is the head man of the gang. Here, Malloy," he called
out.
"Aye, aye, sur," answered a brawny and jolly-looking Irishman, coming
forward and touching his cap.
"Here's your new hand."
Pat Malloy looked at Randy in some astonishment. Our hero was neatly
dressed and did not look as if he was used to hard labor.
"Sure an' it's only a boy," murmured the head deckhand.
"He says he can work. Give him a chance," put in Andrew Shalley.
There was plenty to do, and Randy threw off his coat, took off his
collar and tie, and pitched in. The labor was by no means easy, and he
had not the trick of throwing up a trunk to the best advantage, yet he
did very well, and Pat Malloy nodded approvingly.
"Sure, an' ye do better nor some o' thim foreigners already," he
declared. "Kape it up an' we'll git along foine together."
Captain Hadley and Andrew Shalley watched the work for several minutes,
and then walked to the cabin of the steamboat. Here the owner of the
boat told something about Randy.
"I want you to give him a chance even if he is a bit green," said he.
"I want the lad to get along."
"He shall have all the chance possible," answered Captain Hadley. "I am
glad to get a hand who is intelligent."
Then the two conversed upon private matters until the boat was ready to
leave Nyack.
"Good-by, my boy!" cried Mr. Shalley, on leaving. "Take good care of
yourself, and let me know how you get along."
"Thank you, I will," answered our hero.
"It may be hard work at first, but you'll get used to it."
"I am not afraid of hard work."
"The captain will give you a uniform in a few days."
The gangplanks were hauled in, the lines cast off, and with a hoarse
whistle the Helen Shalley continued on her course down the Hudson.
There was a small Italian band on board, consisting of two violins, a
harp and a clarionet, and they struck up a popular air.
The work at the dock had somewhat exhausted Randy, who was not used to
handling such heavy stuff so quickly, but he took pains to conceal his
feelings.
"I am not going to back down, no matter how hard the work is," he told
himself. "Others can do it and so can I."
