and while I have told my mother nothing, I have 
expressed certain peevish hopes that a ship would 
not come all the way from Sitka without taking 
a hint more than one Boston skipper must have 
given, and brought us many of the things we need. 
She is quite excited over the prospect of a new 
 
shawl for herself, and of sending several as presents to the sonth ; besides many other things : cot- 
ton, shoes, kitchen utensils. Have you any of 
these things, Excellency? '' 
Eezanov stared at her face, barely tinted with 
color, dully wondering why it should be so different from the one, roguish, pathetically innocent, 
that had haunted him all day. He asked abruptly : 
" Which is the friend whose little ones you 
envy? You have made me wish to see them and 
her." 
" That is Elena — beside Gervasio." She indicated a young woman with soft patient brown 
eyes, the dignity of her race and the sweetness of 
young motherhood, who would have looked little 
older than herself had it not been for an already 
shapeless figure. " I can take you to-morrow 
to see them if you wish. ' ' 
She had cast down her eyes and her face was 
white. Still he groped on. 
" Pardon me if I say that I am surprised your 
parents should permit such a woman as this Rosa 
to attend you. "Why should your happy life be 
disturbed by the lamentations of an abandoned 
creature — who can do you no good, and possibly 
much harm? '' 
Still Conclia did not raise her eyes. " I do not 
think poor Rosa would do anyone harm. But perhaps it were as well she went elsewhere. We have 
had her long enough. I have taken a dislike to 
her. I reproach myself bitterly, but I cannot help 
it. I should like never to see her again.'' 
" What has she told you! '' Concha glanced 
up swiftly. His eyes were blazing. She felt quite 
certain that he rolled a Russian oath under his 
tongue, and she made a slight involuntary motion 
toward him, her lips trembling apart. 
" Nothing,'' she murmured. " I do not know — 
I do not know. But I no longer wish her near me. 
She — life is very strange and terrible, senor. 
You know it well — I, so little." 
Rezanov felt his breath short and his hands cold. 
For a moment he made no reply. Then he smiled 
charmingly and said in the conventional tone that 
was ever at his command : " Of course you know 
little of life in this Arcadia. One who hopes to be 
numbered among the best of your friends prays 
that you never may. Yes, senorita, life is strange 
— strangely commonplace and disillusionizing — 
but sometimes picturesque. Believe me when I 
eay that nothing stranger has ever befallen me 
than to find out here on the lonely brink of 
a continent nearly twenty thousand versts from 
Europe, a girl of sixteen with the grand manner, 
and the intellect without the detestable idiosyncrasies of the fashionable bas bleus I have hitherto 
had the misfortune to encounter." 
She was tapping the table slowly with her fork 
and he noted that her soft childish mouth was set. 
" No doubt you are quite right to put me off," 
she said finally, and in a voice as even as his own. 
" And my intellect would do me little good if it 
did not teach me to ignore mysteries I can never 
hope to fathom. There is no such thing as life 
in your sense in this forgotten corner of the 
world, nor ever will be in my time. If you come 
back and visit us twenty years hence you will 
find me fat and worn like Elena, and busy every 
minute like my mother — unless, indeed, I marry 
Don Weeliam Sturgis and become a great lady 
in Boston. It would not be so mean a fate." 
Rezanov darted a look of angry contempt at the 
pale young man who was eating little and miserably watching the handsome pair at the head of 
the table. " You will not marry him! " he said 
briefly. 
" I could do far worse." Concha's lashes 
framed an adorable glance that sent the blood to 
the hair of the sensitive youth. " You have no 
idea how clever and good he is. And — Madre de 
Dios ! — I am so tired of California. ' ' 
" But you are a part of it — the very symbol of 
its future, it seems to me, I wish I had a sculptor 
in my suite. I should make him model you, label 
the statue California, and erect it on the peak 
of that big island out there. '' 
" That is very poetical, but after all you are 
only saying that I am a pretty savage with an 
education that will be more common in the next 
generation. It is little consolation for an existence where the most exciting event in a life- 
time is the arrival of a foreign ship or the inauguration of a governor. '' And once more she 
smiled at Sturgis. He raised his glass impul- 
sively, and she hers in gay response. A moment 
later she gave the signal to leave the table. Hez- 
anov followed her back to the sala chewing the 
cud of many reflections. 
Concha had eaten no supper. As she entered 
the sala she clapped her hands, the gnests ranged 
themselves against the wall, the musicians, liveher than ever, flew to their instruments ; and, with 
the drifting swaying movement she could assume 
at will, she went slowly, absently, to the middle of 
the room. Then she let her head drop backward 
as if with the weight of her hair, and Rezanov, 
vaguely angry, expected one of those appeals to the 
senses for which Spanish women of another sort 
were notorious. But Concha, after tapping the 
floor alternately with the points and the wooden 
heels of her slippers, for a few moments, suddenly 
made an imperious gesture to Ignacio Sal. He 
sprang to her side, took her hand, and once more 
there was the same monotonous tapping of toes 
and heels. Then they whirled apart, bent their 
lithe backs until their brows almost touched the 
floor in a salute of mock admiration, and danced 
to and from each other, coquetry in the very tilt 
of her eyebrows, the bare semblance of masculine 
indulgence on his eager passionate face. Suddenly to the surprise of all, she snapped her fingers directly under his nose, waved her hand, turned her back and made a peremptory gesture 
to that other enamored young swain, Captain An- 
tonio Castro of Monterey. Don Ignacio, surprised and discomfited, retired amidst the jeers 
of his friends, and Concha, with her most vivacious 
and gracious manner, met Castro half-way, and 
taking his hand danced up and down the sala, 
slowly and with many improvisations. Then, as 
they returned to the centre of the room and 
stepped lightly apart before joining in a gay 
whirl, she snapped her fingers under his nose, 
made a gesture of dismissal over her shoulder 
and fluttered an uplifted hand in the direction of 
Sturgis. Again there was delighted laughter, 
again a discomfited knight and a triumphant 
partner. 
" Concha always gives us something we do not 
expect,'' said Santiago to Kezanov, whose eyes 
were twinkling. " The other girls dance El Son 
and La Jota very gracefully — yes. But Conchita 
dances with her head, and the musicians and the 
partner, when she takes one, have all they can do 
to follow. She will choose you next, senor." 
Eezanov turned cold, and measured the distance to the door. " I hope not! '' he said. " I 
