black Morocco bag, which had taken the place of the rather shabby
grey velvet one she had used so long. When she came to live in the
palace she meant to keep the key in her writing-desk.
‘The Count wishes me to be here when he comes,’ she said as they
passed through the great ball-room. ‘He writes that you will
engage servants and see to everything. Our old butler and coachman
have never left me. Do you think I may keep them still? I wish to
do nothing, however, which does not agree with your instructions.’
‘My master’s orders,’ said Schmidt, ‘are to meet your Excellency’s
wishes in every respect. He will not even bring his own man with
him, and I have orders to engage a valet for him. If you will tell
me what day will be convenient for you to move, I will see that
everything is ready.’
‘The Count writes that he will arrive on Sunday afternoon,’ Maria
answered. ‘I had better be here two days before that. I will come
on Friday morning.’
‘On Friday?’ repeated the steward with a little surprise.
‘Yes. Are you superstitious, Signor Orlando?’
She really could not call him ‘Signor Schmidt’; it was too absurd;
yet he was of Italian nationality.
‘No, your Excellency, I am not. But most people are. If the Signora
Contessa would be kind enough to call me simply Schmidt,’ he added
with a little hesitation, ‘it is an easy name to remember, and does
not occur in Ariosto’s poem.’
She looked at him rather curiously, but she smiled at his last
words.
‘Very well,’ she said. ‘As you like.’
‘It was my mother,’ he explained, blushing shyly. ‘She is very fond
of Ariosto, and she insisted on christening me Orlando. On Friday
next everything will be ready to receive your Excellency and the
young gentleman. Shall I provide for moving the Signora Contessa’s
things?’
‘I shall be much obliged,’ said Maria, who was glad that she was to
be spared all trouble.
She went home feeling as if she were in a painful dream, from which
she must awake before long. In the afternoon, when Agostino was
out with Leone and the little house was quiet, she went to the
telephone and asked for the number of the Palazzo Boccapaduli.
She got it, and was answered by a man-servant. She inquired when
Castiglione would be at home, but was told that he was not staying
in the house. It was the only address she knew, so she asked where
he lived. The servant did not know, but would go and find out, if
she would hold the communication.
A few moments later the voice that spoke to her was Oderisio’s,
and he asked with whom he was speaking, and on being told, at
once inquired if it was she who wanted Castiglione’s address.
Yes, it was she; did he know it? Yes, he did; and he gave it. Had
Castiglione a telephone? No, but he might be at the officers’ club;
did she wish the number of that? No, she did not care for it. Thank
you, and good-bye.
At first she was a little annoyed that young Boccapaduli should
know she wanted Castiglione’s address. But presently, as she went
back to the sitting-room, it struck her that it was just as well.
Oderisio would understand that she was not seeing Baldassare often,
since she did not know his address after he had been in Rome nearly
a month.
She wrote him a short note, which anybody might have read, begging
him to come and see her on the following Thursday after half-past
two. She addressed it and stamped it, she put on her hat without
calling her maid, and she went out to post it in the letter-box at
the corner of the railway station.
She was sure of herself, she thought, and she believed she had
earned the right to receive Castiglione once again, because she was
bravely resolved never to see him alone after she returned to her
husband’s house. That resolution had formed itself at the instant
when she had told Leone that Montalto was coming back, and she
had not wavered in it since, in spite of what she had felt when
he had brought her the fallen parasol in the Villa. The greatest
and most enduring resolutions in life are rarely made after mature
consideration, still less at those times of spiritual exaltation
which are too often self-suggested, and sought for the sake of a
half-sensuous, half-mysterious agitation of the nerves that is far
from healthy. People who are not morbid and are in great trouble
generally see the right course rather suddenly and unexpectedly;
if they are good they follow it, if they are bad they do not, but
if they attempt a careful and subtle examination of conscience
they often come to grief. It is hopeless to analyse processes in
which conscience and mind are involved together until we can find
a constant coefficient for humanity’s ever-varying strength and
weakness.
During more than a month Maria had acted and thought under the
domination of one idea; she had need of strength, but she had not
felt the want of advice or help. She knew better than the harsh old
Capuchin, better even than Monsignor Saracinesca, what she must do,
and as for help, no living man or woman could have given her any,
unless it were Castiglione himself. She had accepted what was laid
upon her, and when she went at early morning to kneel at the altar
rail in the small oratory, she prayed for strength and for nothing
else.
So far it had come to her and had borne her through more than
any one who knew her could have guessed; and when she sent for
Castiglione, to see him once more and for the last time, she was
far from thinking that she did so from any weakness. It seemed only
just, for no man could have acted more honourably and courageously
than he, and he had a right to know from her own lips what she
meant to do.
He came, knowing what was before him, and meaning to do what he
could to spare her all pain and useless emotion. More and more
often now he called her a saint in his thoughts, and his love for
her was sometimes very like veneration.
She had taken care that Leone should not be in the house that
afternoon, not because she had any thought of concealing
Castiglione’s visit from the child, but out of consideration for
the man himself. She knew only too well what he felt when he saw
the boy’s blue eyes and his short and thick brown hair.
He came in civilian’s dress, lest his brilliant uniform should
attract attention from a distance as he entered the house where she
lived. His hand met hers quietly and the two lovers looked into
each other’s earnest eyes. By a common impulse they sat down in the
places they had generally taken when they had met in the same room
before, on opposite sides of the empty fireplace.
‘I know why you have sent for me,’ began Baldassare, very gently.
‘May I try to tell you? It may be a little easier.’
Maria did not attempt to speak for a few moments, and he waited.
‘No,’ she said at last, quite steadily. ‘You could not tell me just
what I have to say to you. I asked you to come because you have
been so very brave, so very generous----’
She choked a little, but recovered herself quickly.
‘It is only just that I should tell you so before we say good-bye,’
she went on. ‘I knew I could trust you--but oh, I did not know how
much!’
‘I have only tried to do my duty,’ he answered.
‘You have done it like the brave man you are,’ said Maria.
‘Please----’ he spoke to interrupt her.
‘Yes,’ she went on, not heeding him. ‘We may not meet again, we
two, alone like this. One of us may die before that is possible.
So I shall say all that is in my thoughts, if I can. You most
know all, you must understand all, even if it hurts very much. My
husband is going to take me back altogether; he has forgiven me; he
asks me to be his wife again. Can I refuse?’
She had not meant to put the question to him, and he knew that she
expected no answer. Her tone showed that. But he would not let her
think that in his heart he rebelled against the knife.
‘No,’ he said very slowly. ‘I would not have you refuse what he
asks. It would be neither right nor just.’
In spite of the almost intolerable pain she was suffering, a glow
of wonder rose in her eyes; and there was no shadow of doubt to dim
it. At his worst, in the old days, he had always told the truth.
‘God bless you for that!’ she cried suddenly, and then her voice
dropped low. ‘You have travelled far on the good road since we last
