‘‘ *There ’s the rent,’ says Mammy, when I 
come home. *We must n’t touch a cent of it 
this week, so as to be sure.’ 

“It was cold and stormy on Sunday. I went 
down to the mission-school after dinner, and 
most of the talk was ’bout Christmas, and the 
Lord being born in a manger, and how poor 
and humble he was; and how that every one 
ought to do some good deed at Christmas, if 
never any other time ; and how the Lord took 
these things as sort of birthday gifts to him- 
self, and remembered every one, no matter 
how small it was. I ’d often thought I ’d like 




to be rich and send poor people tons of coal, 
and blankets, and a turkey perhaps, or some- 
thing good; but I knew I never should be. 

“I was telling them all about it in the even- 
ing, and then Kitty and me began to look over 
the pictures in Mammy’s big Bible, that was — 
I don’t know how old. We stopped at ‘Joseph 
being sold by his brethren,’ and Kitty read 
the story over again, and how Joseph forgave 
them when he came to be a great king, and 
brought his father to Egypt so ’s he might n’t 
starve to death. 

“The gov’ner was a layin’ on his bed, and he 
gave a great sigh. 

“ ‘They don’t do so nowadays,’ he said. 
‘They go off and forget. I ’ve three likely sons 
out in the new countries, with flocks, an’ 
herds, an’ wives, an’ children, but it ’s many a 
long year since any of ’em has asked if I was 
alive. An’ I s’pose bime-by Jack will be like 
’em.’ 

“ ‘But Ben won’t,’ said Kitty, softly. ‘He 

will be like this one; won’t you, Ben?’ 




“'You may bet your life on that/ says I. 
'Gov’ner, you cheer up a bit. I 've got a good 
name, and I won’t go back on it. Maybe I ’ll 
see an opening ’tween this and spring, and 
you ’ll come out like a lark some warm day. 
Somehow it seems to me as if this Christmas 
was going to do something for us.’ 

“ 'O,’ said Kitty, with a great glow in her 
eyes, 'if there only was a real Santa Claus ! Or 
if we could have three wishes!’ 

''And then we planned what we would wish 
for, and afterward Mammy asked us to sing. 
Kitty knew some carols, she was a master 
hand to remember, and the gov’ner said he 
did n’t believe it was much better out on the 
plains of Judee where the shepherds kept 
watch. But it was, you know, though it was 
just as well for him to think he had some of 
the very best. 

''On Tuesday, it was, I see one of them 
lucky chances for a little speculation, and I run 
home to Mammy for a few dollars. 




“ ‘O, Ben," she said, ‘I 've just paid it away. 
Mr. McCann came in this morning and asked 
if I had the rent handy. He wanted to use 
some money, and was hard up.’ 

‘It ’s a mean shame !’ and I was mad as a 
hen in a brush fence. ‘He could n’t collect it 
anyhow until the first, and here it ’s only the 
23d. And if I only had two dollars I know I 
could double it to-day and again to-morrow.’ 

“ ‘I ’m so sorry, Ben. But then you might 
a’ lost it, and we ’ve a roof over our heads for 
all January.’ 

“ ‘Well, it can’t be helped,’ and I started off 
again. There was another fellow standing by 
to take the chance. What could I do? The 
ground was frozen up as dry as a chip, and 
there was no boots to black except for the 
reg’lars. I put in a ton of coal, and that was 
every living thing I found to do that day. 

“I ’d had my eye on a paper route for ever so 
long, but it did just seem as if I never could 
get money enough together again for any- 

 


thing. And all the streets were looking gay 
and the stores and markets trimmed up with 
evergreens. How jolly every one seemed! 

“Next day luck was dead against me again. 
Seventy-five cents was all I made. Not a 
stiver for Christmas ! I ’d seen so many things 
I wanted to buy Kitty, and I wanted a chicken 



to make some broth for the gov’ner. I began 
to wonder if it was all true what the man said 
on Sunday. Was there a great Lord up in 
heaven who knew all about cold, and hunger, 
and had no place to lay his head, and was at 
last given up to the cruel Jews to be put to 
death? 

“ ‘That ’s a sight worse than you, Ben 
Hewes,’ I said. And then I ran round looking 
at the gay shop-windows, and listening to the 
fun and laughs, and now and then a church 
bell ringing. If Kitty had been strong enough 
to go with me it would have been quite a little 
Christmas feast. But it was a awful cold 
night. I had an armful of evergreens, for you 




