rose so utterly unnerved that Captain Voucher, noticing 
his drawn face, asked him if he were not ill. 
He was leaving on an earlier train than the others, 
having decided to pass through Boston and Deptford, at 
which latter place he meant to leave Sagamore for the 
wanter in care of the manager of his mother's farm. So 
he took a quiet leave of those to whom the civility might 
not prove an interruption — a word to Alderdene and 
Voucher as he passed out, a quick clasp for Ferrall and 
for Grace, a carefully and cordially formal parting 
from the Page boys, which pleased them ineffably. 
Eileen and Rena, who had never had half a chance 
at him, took it now, delighted to discipline their faithful 
Pages; and he submitted in his own engagingly agree- 
able way, and so skilfully that both Eileen and Rena felt 
sorry that they had not earlier understood how civilly 
anxious he had been to devote himself to them alone. 
And they looked at the Pages, exasperated. 
In the big hall he passed Marion, and stopped to 
take his leave. 
No, he would do no hunting this season either at 
Carysford or with the two trial packs at Eastwood. 
Possibly at Warrenton later, but probably not ; business 
threatened to detain him in town more or less. ... Of 
course he'd come to see her when she returned to town. 
. . . And it had been a jolly party, and it was a shame 
to sound " lights out " so soon ! Good-bye. , . . Good 
night. And that was all. 
And that was all, unless he disturbed Sylvia, seated 
at cards with Quarrier and Major Belwether and Leila 
Mortimer — and very intent on the dummy, very still, and 
a trifle pallid with the pallor of concentration. 
So — that was all, then. 
Ascending the stairs, a servant handed him a letter 
bearing the crest of the Lenox Club. He pocketed it 
unopened and continued his way. 
In the darkness of his own room he sat down, the 
devil's own clutch on his shrinking nerves, a deathly de- 
sire tearing at his very vitals, and every vein a tiny trail 
of fire run riot. He had been too long without it, too 
long to endure the craving aroused by that gay draught 
from Quarrier's loving-cup. 
 
The awakened fury of his desire appalled him, and 
for a while that occupied him, enabling him to endure. 
But fear and dismay soon passed in the purely physical 
distress ; he walked the floor, haggard, the sweat starting 
on his face; he lay with clenched hands, stiffened out 
across the bed, deafened by the riotous clamour of his 
pulses, conscious that he was holding out, unconscious 
how long he could hold out. 
Crisis after crisis swept him ; sometimes he found his 
feet and moved blindly about the room. 
Strange periods of calm intervened ; sensation seemed 
deadened ; and he stood as a man who listens, scarce- 
ly daring to breathe lest the enemy awake and seize 
him. 
He turned on the light, later, to look for his pipe, 
and he caught a glimpse of himself in the mirror. It 
was a sick man who stared back at him out of hollow eyes, 
and the physical revulsion shocked him into something 
resembling self-command. 
" Damn you ! " he said fiercely, setting his teeth and 
staring back at his reflected face, " I'll kill you yet be- 
fore I've finished with you ! " 
Then he filled his pipe, and opening his bedroom 
window, sat down, resting his arm on the sill. A 
splendid moon silvered the sea ; through the intense stillness he heard the surf, magnificently dissonant among the 
reefs, and he listened, fascinated, loathing the tides as he 
feared and loathed the inexorable tides that surged and 
ebbed with his accursed desire. 
Once he said to himself, weakly — for he was deadly 
tired — " What am I making the fight for, anyway ? " 
And " Who are you making the fight for? " echoed his 
heavy pulses. 
He had asked that question and received that answer 
before. After all, it had been for his mother's sake 
alone. And now — and now ? — his heart beat out another 
answer; and before his eyes two other eyes seemed to 
open, fearlessly, sweetly, divinely tender. But they were 
no longer his mother's grave, gray eyes. 
After the second pipe he remembered his letter. It 
gave him something to do, so he opened it and tried to 
read it, but for a long while, in his confused physical and 
mental condition, he could make no sense of it. 
Little by little he began to comprehend its purport", 
that his resignation was regretfully requested by the 
governors of the Lenox Club for reasons unassigned. 
The shock of the thing came to him after a while, 
like a distant, dull report long after the flash of the explosion. Well, the affair, bad enough at first, was turn- 
ing worse, that was all. How much of that sort of discredit could a man stand and keep his balance? . . . 
And what would his mother say  
Confused from his own physical suffering, the blow 
had fallen with a deadened force on nerves already 
numbed ; but his half-stupefied acquiescence had suddenly 
become a painful recoil when he remembered where the 
brunt of the disgrace would fall — where the centre of 
suffering must always be, and the keenest grief concentrated. Roused, appalled, almost totally unnerved, he 
stood staring at the letter, beginning to realise what it 
would mean to his mother. A passion of remorse and resentment swept him. She mut be spared that ! There 
must be some way — some punishment for his offence that 
could not strike her through him ! It was wicked, it 
was contemptible, insane, to strike her ! Wliat were the 
governors of the Lenox about — a lot of snivelling hypocrites, pandering to the horrified snobbery at the Patroons! Who were they, anyway, to discipline him! 
 
Scarce one in fifty among the members of the two clubs 
was qualified to sit in judgment on a Siward ! 
But that tempest of passion and mortification passed, 
too, leaving him standing there, dumb, desperate, staring 
at the letter crushed in his shaking hand. 
He must see somebody, some member of the Lenox, 
and do something — something! Ferrall! Was that 
Ferrall's step on the landing? 
He sprang to the door and opened it. Quarrier, 
passing the corridor, turned an expressionless visage 
toward him, and passed on with a nod almost imper- 
ceptible. 
" Quarrier ! " he called, swept by a sudden impulse. 
Quarrier halted and turned. 
" Could you give me a moment — here in my room.'' 
I won't detain you." 
The faint trace of surprise faded from Quarrier's 
face; he quietly retraced his steps, and, entering Si- 
ward's room, stood silently confronting its pallid tenant. 
" Will you sit down a moment? " 
Quarrier seated himself in the arm-chair by the win- 
dow, and Siward found a chair opposite. 
" Quarrier," said the younger man, turning a 
tensely miserable face on his visitor, " I want to ask you 
something. I'll not mince matters. You know that the 
Patroons have dropped me, and you know what for." 
" Yes, I know." 
" When I was called before the Board of Governors 
to explain the matter, if I could, you were sitting on that 
Board." 
" Yes." 
" I denied the charge, but refused to explain. . . . 
You remember? " 
Quarrier nodded coldly. 
" And I was dropped by the club ! " 
