The seconds and trainers were clambering into the ring. The referee
separated the boxers. They rushed at each other furiously. The seconds
stepped in between. A general mix-up followed, during which the pompous
man lost his silk hat.

The reporter for the Post pulled the rector's coat tails, and the
rector sank into his chair, pale and terrified. He had forgotten!
Carried away by his old love of clean fighting, by his love of physical
contests, he had forgotten, forgotten!

"Foul! It was a foul!"

"Ye-a! Ye-a! Foul blow!"

"Bully fer th' parson!"

"Sullivan, Sullivan!"

"McManus!"

"Foul, foul! T'row out th' referee!"

"Give th' deacon a show fer his money!"

These and a thousand other cries rose in the vicinity of the rector.
Those reporters whose city editors had not thought of the stroke of
sending a minister of the gospel to report the fight were delighted.
Here was a story worth forty fights, a story to delight thousands and
thousands who looked upon St. Paul's as a place where only the rich
might worship.

"I declare the fight a draw, an' all bets off!" howled the referee,
wiping the dust from his damaged hat, which he had at length recovered.

The rector rose to move down the aisle to the entrance. He felt morally
and physically crushed. All this would be in the newspapers the next
morning. He was disgraced; for everybody would ask, "How should he know
what a foul blow was?" It was terribly bitter, after having struggled so
long. Presently he became aware that men, reeking with cigar smoke and
liquors, were talking loudly to him, even cursing him. He caught some
words about "makin' us lose our bets, when we come all th' way from
N'York."

A hand came into contact with his cheek, and the sting of it ran like
fire through his veins. The wrath at his moral defeat broke down the
dikes of his self-control; the fury which is always quickly provoked by
physical pain in the animality of man, swept aside his prudence. The man
who struck him was seen to rise bodily and fall crumpled among the
seats. The man's friends--there were four in number--recovering from
their momentary surprise, attacked the rector swiftly, and not without a
certain conformity.

What followed has become history. Even Sullivan and his opponent forgot
their animosity for the time being, and leaned eagerly over the ropes.
Far back in the surging crowd several police helmets could be discerned,
but they made little progress. The rector in his tightly fitting frock
was at a disadvantage, but his wonderful vigor and activity stood him in
good stead. Quick as a cat he leaped from this side to that, dealing his
blows with the rapidity of a piston-rod and almost as terrible in
effect. Once he went down; but, like Antæus, the touch of earth revived
him and doubled his strength.

Men, in the mad effort to witness this battle, trod on one another's
toes, hats were crushed, coats were torn, even blows were struck. They
stood on chairs, on tables, yelling and cheering. This was a fight that
was a fight. Faking had no part in it; there was no partiality of
referees. When the police finally arrived it was all over. The rector
was brushing his hat, while Cathewe, who had dashed down-stairs at the
first sound of the rector's voice, was busy with the rector's coat.

"Want t' appear against 'em?" asked one of the officers.

"No, no! Let them go," cried the rector. "Cathewe, take me out, please;
take me home." His hands shook as he put on his hat. He was very white.
The knuckles of his left hand were raw and bleeding.

The police finally opened a pathway in the cheering crowd, and through
this Cathewe and the rector disappeared. Outside, Cathewe hailed a
carriage.

"Cathewe, I have absolutely and positively ruined my career."

The rector sank back among the cushions, overwhelmed. His voice was
uneven and choked.

"Nonsense!" cried Cathewe. "What else could you do?"

"I could have passed by the man who struck me."

"Oh, pshaw! A man can not help being human simply because he wears the
cloth. It was the bulliest fight I ever saw. It was magnificent! They
weren't in it at any time. And you walloped four of 'em, and one was an
ex-pugilist. It was great."

"Don't!"

"They'll call you the fighting parson."

"I shall resign to-morrow. I must begin life all over again. It will be
very hard."

"Resign nothing! By the way, I saw General Boderick in the crowd."

"Boderick? Oh, I must hurry. He must have my resignation before he has a
chance to demand it."

"Don't you worry about him. I saw him waving his cane like mad when you
got up from the floor and smashed that second-ward ruffian. He won't
dare to say anything. His daughter thinks that he went up to the club."

"I shall resign. I am determined upon that."

"We'll all have something to say regarding that."

"But the newspapers to-morrow! It will be frightful."

"My dear fellow, I am about to visit each in turn, and you can remain in
the carriage. I'll take upon myself to fix it up so that it will receive
scarcely any mention at all."

"My eternal gratitude is yours if you can accomplish that." There was a
note of hope in the rector's voice.

It was after eleven o'clock when Cathewe deposited the rector before the
parsonage. Cathewe was a great favorite with the newspaper men, and he
had had no trouble at all in suppressing the sensational part of the
affair.

As for the rector, he sank wearily into his study chair and buried his
face in his hands. He had won one fight, but he had lost another of far
more importance. Somehow, he had always just reached the promised land
to feel the earth slip from under his feet. He was a failure. The only
thing he had to be thankful for was that he stood alone in his disgrace.
His father and mother were dead. Where should he go from here? He hadn't
the slightest idea. He certainly would never don the cloth again, for
this disgrace would follow him wherever he went. He was unfitted for
mercantile life; he loved outdoors too well. If only he possessed the
talent of Cathewe, who could go anywhere and live anywhere, without
altering his condition! Well, he would go to the far West; he would put
his geological learning into action; and by the time the little money he
