His wife devoted herself to his emergency without 
a weakened nerve. She read to him for hours ; 
her strong throat never tired. She tramped on 
errands for him all over the village. Her well- 
developed feet made frolic of the six-mile walk 
to Balsam which she took to find the particular 
orchids that struck his scientific fancy. For what 
might be called more human flowers, Thomas 
Frost did not care. It occurred to him that he 
had married a healthy, sensible, and not a selfish 
girl, who could attach herself to a man in the 
proper feminine ways as successfully as she had 
wielded a brassie. He went so far as to wonder if 
the golf girl, after all, might not prove a champion 
wife. But upon mere matters of sentiment his 
mind did not dwell tenaciously. His enforced 
inactivity and acute suffering had converted him 
into a raging schemer. His gray eyes smouldered 
like cool embers. 
Against the dog he was powerless, perforce. A 
man cannot sacrifice his reputation, or even his 
domestic happiness, to private vengeance upon an 
 
animal. Unfortunately, Mrs. Frost was fond of 
dogs ; she had three in her father's home. 
Then, if the story should leak out, his colleagues 
would be ill pleased. The new professor would 
start under a sentimental cloud. A disabled hand 
might be overcome ; demonstrators could be found 
to perform the butchery while he supplied the 
oratory of his brilliant experiments. But when it 
came to a moral blur, what could be done ? No 
understudy could supply the ethical quality. 
But for this obstinate fact, Clyde would have 
been shot through the head without delay. The 
vivisector was not stupid, and he accepted his 
situation. Against the dog he could not avenge 
himself; but the woman remained. 
Thomas Frost had some years since passed the 
point of sensitiveness to the sight of suffering. It 
had become as easy for him to inflict as for an- 
other man to spare. He thought of Carolyn Dane 
with a cold conviction that if she could be made 
to suffer for the fault of her dog, it would not be 
more than she deserved, at least no more than 
he was willing to impose. He brooded upon the 
matter with an icy bitterness. 
While receiving the surgical attention of Charles 
Royal, he scrutinized the man. A chance ques- 
tion to the old Balsam doctor ; a clever hint to the 
consulting surgeon from the city; a few flying 
 
arrows shot into the mind of Sterling Hart when 
the preacher made his priestly call — these psy- 
chological experiments occupied the ruined honey- 
moon of the vivisector. The human heart had 
become his laboratory, and in this, though some- 
thing of a bungler at that finer art, he worked 
with a determination which was a substitute for 
skill. The experiment did not occupy much time. 
Within two weeks Dr. Frost returned with his wife 
to her father's house, where three fine dogs em- 
braced the bride, and sniffed at the bridegroom. 
Sterling Hart did not return to Dr. Royal's 
office within the week whose iron boundary he 
had set before the man. He lingered two weeks; 
he delayed for three. If he came to see his cousin, 
it was at hours when the tenant could not be found, 
and to speak of subjects in which the doctor had 
no concern. 
It could be seen that Mr. Hart obviously avoided 
the matter which had annoyed and troubled Caro- 
lyn upon his earlier visit; and she, full of a mingled 
emotion, half resentment and half fear, did not 
herself recall it. 
But one evening in the later May — a rainy 
evening, when patients would be few — the 
preacher presented himself in office hours, and 
asked distinctly for the doctor. 
 
The two men met courteously, but without 
cordiality. The preacher, with some hesitation, took 
the patient's chair. The physician retained his 
own. His manner was as grave as that of the 
other, and possessed, it might be said, an equal 
dignity. He was, in fact, the first to speak. 
" Well," he said, " my time is more than up. I 
am not sure whether I should thank you for the 
reprieve. But I am ready to hear whatever you 
have to say to me." 
" It will not take long," replied the preacher ; 
curtly for Sterling Hart. " It is chiefly in a word: 
You have given me to understand that you are 
an educated physician, properly graduated." 
" I have, because I am." 
" You possess, of course, the diploma of some 
accredited institution ? " 
" I don't frame it and hang it," returned Dr. 
Royal, with a smile whose bitterness was disguised 
by its gentleness. " It is in one of the drawers of 
my desk." 
"Are you willing — pray excuse me — that I 
should see it?" asked the preacher point-blank. 
" No," said the physician, with equal bluntness. 
" At least," he added, " not under the present 
circumstances. I can conceive of those in which I 
might be." 
" Pardon me," proceeded Sterling Hart,
without smiling, " but the time has come when I must 
tell you that it is said, — I have been told, — the 
authority is good, Dr. Royal, or you will believe 
that I should not act upon it. I learn that your 
name does not stand upon the list of registered 
physicians of this state." 
" Have you been meddling — looking that up ? " 
The lame doctor got to his feet, and took fire, 
like a less gentle man. 
"I never thought of it!" blazed back the 
preacher. " If I had, I should undoubtedly have 
done so. I have my cousin's interests to protect. 
Nothing else matters to me beside those. I could 
not have a charlatan — an adventurer — assuming 
and sustaining the position which you hold in this 
house." 
The doctor waved these words off with a ees- 
ture whose dignity impressed itself upon the 
preacher even in that agitated moment. 
" You would be quite right," he replied with 
unexpected self-possession. " I should not blame 
you. ... I suppose," he added, wheeling, " Frost 
told you this ? " 
Mr. Hart, too, got to his feet. He made no 
reply to this question, and the eyes of the two 
men met poignantly. Then the preacher said : — 
"Would it matter who discovered the fact — if 
it were a fact ? If it be a fact ? " 
 
" He is capable of it," mused the doctor,
looking into the fire more drearily than angrily. " I 
might have thought of it — I didn't, that 's all. 
