kindly and prosperous Dressels. Effie Dressel, the daughter of a cousin
of Mrs. Brent's, had obscurely but safely allied herself with the heavy
blond young man who was to succeed his father as President of the Union
Bank, and who was already regarded by the "solid business interests" of
Hanaford as possessing talents likely to carry him far in the
development of the paternal fortunes. Harry Dressel's honest countenance
gave no evidence of peculiar astuteness, and he was in fact rather the
product of special conditions than of an irresistible bent. He had the
sound Saxon love of games, and the most interesting game he had ever
been taught was "business." He was a simple domestic being, and
according to Hanaford standards the most obvious obligation of the
husband and father was to make his family richer. If Harry Dressel had
ever formulated his aims, he might have said that he wanted to be the
man whom Hanaford most respected, and that was only another way of
saying, the richest man in Hanaford. Effie embraced his creed with a
zeal facilitated by such evidence of its soundness as a growing income
and the early prospects of a carriage. Her mother-in-law, a kind old
lady with a simple unquestioning love of money, had told her on her
wedding day that Harry's one object would always be to make his family
proud of him; and the recent purchase of the victoria in which Justine
and the Dressels were now seated was regarded by the family as a
striking fulfillment of this prophecy.
In the course of her hospital work Justine had of necessity run across
far different types; but from the connections thus offered she was often
held back by the subtler shades of taste that civilize human
intercourse. Her world, in short, had been chiefly peopled by the dull
or the crude, and, hemmed in between the two, she had created for
herself an inner kingdom where the fastidiousness she had to set aside
in her outward relations recovered its full sway. There must be actual
beings worthy of admission to this secret precinct, but hitherto they
had not come her way; and the sense that they were somewhere just out of
reach still gave an edge of youthful curiosity to each encounter with a
new group of people.
Certainly, Mrs. Gaines's garden-party seemed an unlikely field for the
exercise of such curiosity: Justine's few glimpses of Hanaford society
had revealed it as rather a dull thick body, with a surface stimulated
only by ill-advised references to the life of larger capitals; and the
concentrated essence of social Hanaford was of course to be found at the
Gaines entertainments. It presented itself, however, in the rich June
afternoon, on the long shadows of the well-kept lawn, and among the
paths of the rose-garden, in its most amiable aspect; and to Justine,
wearied by habitual contact with ugliness and suffering, there was pure
delight in the verdant setting of the picture, and in the light
harmonious tints of the figures peopling it. If the company was dull, it
was at least decorative; and poverty, misery and dirt were shut out by
the placid unconsciousness of the guests as securely as by the leafy
barriers of the garden.
X
"AH, Mrs. Dressel, we were on the lookout for you--waiting for the
curtain to rise. Your friend Miss Brent? Juliana, Mrs. Dressel's friend
Miss Brent----"
Near the brilliantly-striped marquee that formed the axis of the Gaines
garden-parties, Mr. Halford Gaines, a few paces from his wife and
daughters, stood radiating a royal welcome on the stream of visitors
pouring across the lawn. It was only to eyes perverted by a different
social perspective that there could be any doubt as to the importance
of the Gaines entertainments. To Hanaford itself they were epoch-making;
and if any rebellious spirit had cherished a doubt of the fact, it would
have been quelled by the official majesty of Mr. Gaines's frock-coat and
the comprehensive cordiality of his manner.
There were moments when New York hung like a disquieting cloud on the
social horizon of Mrs. Gaines and her daughters; but to Halford Gaines
Hanaford was all in all. As an exponent of the popular and patriotic
"good-enough-for-me" theory he stood in high favour at the Hanaford
Club, where a too-keen consciousness of the metropolis was alternately
combated by easy allusion and studied omission, and where the unsettled
fancies of youth were chastened and steadied by the reflection that, if
Hanaford was good enough for Halford Gaines, it must offer opportunities
commensurate with the largest ideas of life.
Never did Mr. Gaines's manner bear richer witness to what could be
extracted from Hanaford than when he was in the act of applying to it
the powerful pressure of his hospitality. The resultant essence was so
bubbling with social exhilaration that, to its producer at any rate, its
somewhat mixed ingredients were lost in one highly flavoured draught.
Under ordinary circumstances no one discriminated more keenly than Mr.
Gaines between different shades of social importance; but any one who
was entertained by him was momentarily ennobled by the fact, and not all
the anxious telegraphy of his wife and daughters could, for instance,
recall to him that the striking young woman in Mrs. Dressel's wake was
only some obscure protégée, whom it was odd of Effie to have brought,
and whose presence was quite unnecessary to emphasize.
"Juliana, Miss Brent tells me she has never seen our roses. Oh, there
are other roses in Hanaford, Miss Brent; I don't mean to imply that no
one else attempts them; but unless you can afford to give carte
blanche to your man--and mine happens to be something of a
specialist...well, if you'll come with me, I'll let them speak for
themselves. I always say that if people want to know what we can do they
must come and see--they'll never find out from me!"
A more emphatic signal from his wife arrested Mr. Gaines as he was in
the act of leading Miss Brent away.
"Eh?--What? The Amhersts and Mrs. Ansell? You must excuse me then, I'm
afraid--but Westy shall take you. Westy, my boy, it's an ill-wind.... I
want you to show this young lady our roses." And Mr. Gaines, with
mingled reluctance and satisfaction, turned away to receive the most
important guests of the day.
It had not needed his father's summons to draw the expert Westy to Miss
Brent: he was already gravitating toward her, with the nonchalance bred
of cosmopolitan successes, but with a directness of aim due also to his
larger opportunities of comparison.
"The roses will do," he explained, as he guided her through the
increasing circle of guests about his mother; and in answer to Justine's
glance of enquiry: "To get you away, I mean. They're not much in
themselves, you know; but everything of the governor's always begins
with a capital letter."
"Oh, but these roses deserve to," Justine exclaimed, as they paused
under the evergreen archway at the farther end of the lawn.
"I don't know--not if you've been in England," Westy murmured, watching
furtively for the impression produced, on one who had presumably not, by
the great blush of colour massed against its dusky background of clipped
evergreens.
Justine smiled. "I have been--but I've been in the slums since; in
horrible places that the least of those flowers would have lighted up
like a lamp."
Westy's guarded glance imprudently softened. "It's the beastliest kind
of a shame, your ever having had to do such work----"
"Oh, had to?" she flashed back at him disconcertingly. "It was my
choice, you know: there was a time when I couldn't live without it.
Philanthropy is one of the subtlest forms of self-indulgence."
Westy met this with a vague laugh. If a chap who was as knowing as the
devil did, once in a way, indulge himself in the luxury of talking
recklessly to a girl with exceptional eyes, it was rather upsetting to
discover in those eyes no consciousness of the risk he had taken!
"But I am rather tired of it now," she continued, and his look grew
guarded again. After all, they were all the same--except in that
particular matter of the eyes. At the thought, he risked another look,
hung on the sharp edge of betrayal, and was snatched back, not by the
manly instinct of self-preservation, but by some imp of mockery lurking
in the depths that lured him.
He recovered his balance and took refuge in a tone of worldly ease. "I
saw a chap the other day who said he knew you when you were at Saint
Elizabeth's--wasn't that the name of your hospital?"
Justine assented. "One of the doctors, I suppose. Where did you meet
him?"
Ah, now she should see! He summoned his utmost carelessness of tone.
"Down on Long Island last week--I was spending Sunday with the
Amhersts." He held up the glittering fact to her, and watched for the
least little blink of awe; but her lids never trembled. It was a
confession of social blindness which painfully negatived Mrs. Dressel's
hint that she knew the Amhersts; if she had even known of them, she
could not so fatally have missed his point.
