"He knows too much already," she retorted, delicate nose in the
air. . . . "Hark! Ear to the ground! My atavistic and wilder instincts
warn me that somebody is coming!"

"Boots and Drina," said Selwyn; and he hailed them as they came into
view above. Then he sprang to his feet, calling out: "And Gerald, too!
Hello, old fellow! This is perfectly fine! When did you arrive?"

"Oh, Gerald!" cried Eileen, both hands outstretched--"it's splendid of
you to come! Dear fellow! have you seen Nina and Austin? And were they
not delighted? And you've come to stay, haven't you? There, I won't
begin to urge you. . . . Look, Gerald--look, Boots--and Drina, too--only
look at those beautiful big plump trout in Captain Selwyn's creel!"

"Oh, I say!" exclaimed Gerald, "you didn't take those in that little
brook--did you, Philip? Well, wouldn't that snare you! I'm coming down
here after luncheon; I sure am."

"You will, too, won't you?" asked Drina, jealous lest Boots, her idol,
miss his due share of piscatorial glory. "If you'll wait until I finish
my French I'll come with you."

"Of course I will," said Lansing reproachfully; "you don't suppose
there's any fun anywhere for me without you, do you?"

"No," said Drina simply, "I don't."

"Another Phyllis in embryo," murmured Eileen to Selwyn. "Alas! for
education!"

Selwyn laughed and turned to Gerald. "I hunted high and low for you
before I came to Silverside. You found my note?"

"Yes; I--I'll explain later," said the boy, colouring. "Come ahead,
Eily; Boots and I will take you on at tennis--and Philip, too. We've an
hour or so before luncheon. Is it a go?"

"Certainly," replied his sister, unaware of Selwyn's proficiency, but
loyal even in doubt. And the five, walking abreast, moved off across the
uplands toward the green lawns of Silverside, where, under a gay lawn
parasol, Nina sat, a "Nature book" in hand, the centre of an attentive
gathering composed of dogs, children, and the cat, Kit-Ki, blinking her
topaz-tinted eyes in the sunshine.

The young mother looked up happily as the quintet came strolling across
the lawn: "Please don't wander away again before luncheon," she said;
"Gerald, I suppose you are starved, but you've only an hour to wait--Oh,
Phil! what wonderful trout! Children, kindly arise and admire the
surpassing skill of your frivolous uncle!" And, as the children and dogs
came crowding around the opened fish-basket she said to her brother in a
low, contented voice: "Gerald has quite made it up with Austin, dear; I
think we have to thank you, haven't we?"

"Has he really squared matters with Austin? That's good--that's fine!
Oh, no, I had nothing to do with it--practically nothing. The boy is
sound at the core--that's what did it." And to Gerald, who was hailing
him from the veranda, "Yes, I've plenty of tennis-shoes. Help yourself,
old chap."

Eileen had gone to her room to don a shorter skirt and rubber-soled
shoes; Lansing followed her example; and Selwyn, entering his own room,
found Gerald trying on a pair of white foot-gear.

The boy looked up, smiled, and, crossing one knee, began to tie the
laces:

"I told Austin that I meant to slow down," he said. "We're on terms
again. He was fairly decent."

"Good business!" commented Selwyn vigorously.

"And I'm cutting out cards and cocktails," continued the boy, eager as a
little lad who tells how good he has been all day--"I made it plain to
the fellows that there was nothing in it for me. And, Philip, I'm boning
down like thunder at the office--I'm horribly in debt and I'm hustling
to pay up and make a clean start. You," he added, colouring, "will come
first--"

"At your convenience," said Selwyn, smiling.

"Not at all! Yours is the first account to be squared; then Neergard--"

"Do you owe him, Gerald?"

"Do I? Oh, Lord! But he's a patient soul--really, Philip, I wish you
didn't dislike him so thoroughly, because he's good company and besides
that he's a very able man. . . . Well, we won't talk about him, then.
Come on; I'll lick the very life out of you over the net!"

A few moments later the white balls were flying over the white net, and
active white-flannelled figures were moving swiftly over the velvet
turf.

Drina, aloft on the umpire's perch, calmly scored and decided each point
impartially, though her little heart was beating fast in desire for her
idol's supremacy; and it was all her official composure could endure to
see how Eileen at the net beat down his defence, driving him with her
volleys to the service line.

Selwyn's game proved to be steady, old-fashioned, but logical; Eileen,
sleeves at her elbows, red-gold hair in splendid disorder, carried the
game through Boots straight at her brother--and the contest was really a
brilliant duel between them, Lansing and Selwyn assisting when a rare
chance came their way. The pace was too fast for them, however; they
were in a different class and they knew it; and after two terrific sets
had gone against Gerald and Boots, the latter, signalling Selwyn,
dropped out and climbed up beside Drina to watch a furious single
between Eileen and Gerald.

"Oh, Boots, Boots!" said Drina, "why didn't you stay forward and kill
her drives and make her lob? I just know you could do it if you had only
thought to play forward! What on earth was the matter?"

"Age," said Mr. Lansing serenely--"decrepitude, Drina. I am a Was,
sweetheart, but Eileen still remains an Is."

"I won't let you say it! You are not a Was!" said the child fiercely.
"After luncheon you can take me on for practice. Then you can just give
it to her!"

"It would gratify me to hand a few swift ones to somebody," he said.
"Look at that demon girl, yonder! She's hammering Gerald to the service
line! Oh, my, oh, me! I'm only fit for hat-ball with Billy or
cat's-cradle with Kit-Ki. Drina, do you realise that I am nearly
thirty?"

"Pooh! I'm past thirteen. In five years I'll be eighteen. I expect to
marry you at eighteen. You promised."

"Sure thing," admitted Boots; "I've bought the house, you know."

"I know it," said the child gravely.

Boots looked down at her; she smiled and laid her head, with its
clustering curls, against his shoulder, watching the game below with the
quiet composure of possession.

Their relations, hers and Lansing's, afforded infinite amusement to the
Gerards. It had been a desperate case from the very first; and the child
took it so seriously, and considered her claim on Boots so absolute,
