'My dear child,' Mrs. Rushmore said, when the Primadonna expressed her
surprise, 'those English people are all alike, when they are once out
on a road by themselves. They must take a long walk. I am quite sure
that at this moment Countess Leven is miles from here--miles,
Margaret. Do you understand me? I tell you she is walking mile upon
mile. All English people do. You are only half English after all, my
dear, but I have known you to walk a long distance alone, for no good
reason that I could see.'
'It's good for the voice if you don't overdo it,' Margaret observed.
'Yes. But Countess Leven does not sing, my dear. You forget that. Why
should she walk mile upon mile like that? And I know Mr. Van Torp is
not with her, for Justine told me a quarter of an hour ago that she
heard him tell his man to bring him some hot water. So he is at home,
you see. Margaret, what do you suppose Mr. Van Torp wants hot water
for at this extraordinary hour?'
'I really don't know,' Margaret answered, sipping her tea rather
gloomily, for she was thinking of the telegram she had given Lady Maud
to send.
'You don't think Mr. Van Torp drinks, do you, my dear?' inquired Mrs.
Rushmore.
'Hot water? Some people do. It's good for the digestion.'
'No, you purposely misunderstand me. I mean that he makes use of it
for--for the purpose of mixing alcoholic beverages alone in his room.'
Margaret laughed.
'Never! If there's a perfectly sober man living, it is he!'
'I am glad to hear you say so, my dear. Because, if I thought he had
habits, nothing would induce me to go on board his yacht. Nothing,
Margaret! Not all his millions! Do you understand me? Margaret, dear,
if you do not mind very much, I think we had better not accept his
invitation after all, though I am sure it is well meant.'
'You're very much mistaken if you think he drinks,' Margaret said,
still inclined to laugh.
'Well, my dear,' returned Mrs. Rushmore, 'I don't know. Justine
certainly heard him tell his man to bring him some hot water a quarter
of an hour ago. Perhaps it may have been twenty minutes. It is a very
extraordinary hour to ask for such a thing, I am sure.'
Margaret suggested that Mr. Van Torp might possibly have a fancy to
wash his hands in hot water at that unusual time of day, and Mrs.
Rushmore seemed temporarily satisfied, for apparently she had not
thought of this explanation.
'Margaret,' she said solemnly, 'if you feel that you can put your hand
into the fire for Mr. Van Torp's habits, I will go with you on his
yacht. Not otherwise, my dear.'
The Primadonna laughed, and at last Mrs. Rushmore herself smiled, for
she was not without a sense of humour.
'I cannot help it, my dear,' she said. 'You must not laugh at me if I
am nervous about such things; nervous, you understand, not
unreasonable. But since you are prepared to take all the
responsibility I will go with you, my child. I cannot even say it is a
sacrifice on my part, for I am an excellent sailor, as you know, and
very fond of the sea. In my young days my dear husband used to have a
nice cat-boat at Newport, and he always took me with him. He used to
say that I steered quite nicely.'
The vision of Mrs. Rushmore steering a Newport cat-boat was quite new
to Margaret, and her lips parted in surprise.
'Oh, yes, my child, we were very fond of sailing in those days,'
continued the elderly lady, pleased with her recollections. 'I often
got quite wet, I assure you, but I remember catching cold only once. I
think it rained that day. My dear husband, I recollect, asked me to
name the boat when he bought it, and so I called it the Sea-Mew.'
'The Sea-Mew?' Margaret was mystified.
'Yes. It was a cat-boat, my dear. Cats often mew. You understand, of
course. It was not very funny, perhaps, but I remember that my dear
husband laughed, and liked the name.'
Margaret was laughing softly too.
'I think it's awfully good, you know,' she said. 'You needn't say it's
not funny, for it's a very creditable little joke. Do you think you
could steer a boat now? I'm sure I could never learn! Everything about
sailing and ships is an utter mystery to me.'
'I daresay I could steer a cat-boat,' said Mrs. Rushmore calmly. 'I am
sure I could keep a row-boat straight. Let me see--there's a thing you
move----'
'The rudder?' suggested Margaret.
'No, my dear. It's not the rudder, nor the boom, nor the
centre-board--how all the names come back to me! Yes, it is the
tiller. That is the name. When you know which way to move the tiller,
it is quite easy to steer.'
'I fancy so,' said Margaret gravely.
'Most people move it the wrong way when they begin,' continued the
good lady. 'You see "port" means "left" and "starboard" means
"right." But when you turn the tiller to the left the boat goes to the
right. Do you understand?'
'It seems all wrong,' observed Margaret, 'but I suppose you know.'
'Yes. In the same way, when you turn the tiller to the right the boat
goes to the left. The great thing is to remember that. It is the same
way with "weather" and "lee." I could show you if we were in a boat.
'I haven't a doubt of it,' Margaret said. 'You're perfectly amazing! I
believe you are a regular sailor.'
'Oh, no,' protested Mrs. Rushmore modestly; 'but indeed I often took
the cat-boat out alone, now that I think of it. I used to raise the
sail alone--I mean, I hoisted it. "Hoist"--that is the proper word, I
remember. I was quite strong in those days.'
'Really, you are most extraordinary!' Margaret was genuinely
surprised. 'You'll astonish Mr. Van Torp when he hears your nautical
language on the yacht! Fancy your knowing all about sailing! I knew
you could swim, for we've often been in together at Biarritz--but
sailing! Why did you never tell me?'
'Shall we keep some tea for Countess Leven?' asked Mrs. Rushmore,
changing the subject. 'I fear it will get quite cold. Those English
people never know when to stop walking. I cannot understand what they
can see in it. Perhaps you will kindly touch the bell, my dear, and I
will send the tea away. It can be brought fresh for her when she
comes. Thank you, Margaret. But she will not come in till it is just
time to dress for dinner. Mark my words, my child, the Countess will
be late for dinner. All English people are. Have you heard from
Monsieur Logotheti to-day?'
'Not to-day,' Margaret answered, repressing a little start, for she
was as near to being nervous as she ever was, and she was thinking of
him just then, and the question had come suddenly.
'I think it is time you heard from him,' said Mrs. Rushmore, her
natural severity asserting itself. 'I should think that after those
very strange stories in the papers he would write to you and explain,
or come himself. By the bye, perhaps you will kindly pass me the
Herald, my dear. What did you once tell me was the name of his
yacht?'
'The Erinna,' Margaret answered, handing Mrs. Rushmore the sheet.
'Exactly! I think that means the "Fury."'
'He told me it was the name of a Greek poetess,' Margaret observed.
'On account of her temper, I suppose,' answered the good lady
absently, for she was looking up and down the columns in search of
something she had already seen. 'Here it is!' she said. 'It is under
the yachting news. "Cape Finisterre. Passed at 4 P.M., going south,
steam yacht Erinna, with owner and party on board. All well." My
dear child, it is quite clear that if this is Monsieur Logotheti's
yacht, he is going to Gibraltar.'
'I don't know anything about geography,' Margaret said, and her wrath,
which had been smouldering sullenly for days, began to glow again.
'Margaret,' said Mrs. Rushmore, 'you surprise me! You were very well
taught----'
But the Primadonna did not hear the long tirade of mild reproof that
followed. She knew well enough where Gibraltar was, and that Logotheti
was going all the way round to the Mediterranean on his yacht with
some one for company, and that the voyage was a long one. After what
Lady Maud had said, there was not the least doubt in her mind as to
his companion, who could be no one but Baraka. He had been told that
he was not wanted at Bayreuth, and he was celebrating the sunset of
his bachelor life in his own way. That was clear. If he received the
telegram that had just been sent to him, he would get it at Gibraltar,
should he stop there, and as for answering it before Margaret left
Bayreuth, she was inclined to make such a thing impossible by going
