"We have enough for once," she began, but he would not hear of returning
to the boat even for the refreshment of tea, and they went on and on
until their feet were as weary as their shoulders under the burden that
was Isabel's part to string while her partner enjoyed himself.
"But we must really go," she announced, finally. "We have a long stretch
out in the open creek after we leave the slough, and it is not so easy
to keep the channel after dark. I have lost track of things and don't
remember what time the moon rises. You can come every day if you like;
and four in the morning is the best time if you are energetic enough--"
"I would get up at midnight--stay up all night. But I am quite willing
to return now--and not for tea. I should like several of these ducks for
supper, if your Jap is less haughty than mine."
Their way lay through the middle of the marsh-land. It was not until
they reached the slough that she uttered a loud sharp cry. The boat was
at least three feet below them and there was nothing at either end but
mud.
Isabel stamped both feet in succession and flung her burden to the
ground. "Why, why did I take Mac's word?" she exclaimed, furiously.
"He always makes mistakes about the tide--he hasn't an inch of memory
left. Why didn't I look at the calendar? Or think? This comes of going
off for three weeks instead of staying at home and attending to
business. I had a confused idea that this was the 'good week.' Great
heavens!"
Gwynne had watched her with considerable interest and curiosity. But he
answered, soothingly: "Well, what of it? The tide turns, doesn't it." It
happened that he had had no experience of marsh-lands.
"Yes--in six hours."
"Six hours! Well, what of it? It is all in the day's work. Look at it as
a jolly adventure." It was his first opportunity to console and he
hastened to take advantage of it. "We have tea and sandwiches, warm
enough clothing, and the weather is perfection. If we get stiff and
chilly we can walk--"
"Walk? In these rubber boots? I am nearly dead already." She had a wild
impulse to drop her head on his shoulder and weep; but her pride flew to
the front and she shrugged her shoulders and remarked, airily: "I don't
really mind anything much except being an idiot. However, I'll make it
up to you. I can cook ducks better than Chuma. You make the tea."
Gwynne made a fire out of decayed tule weed and driftwood, then climbed
down into the boat and brought up the provisions and utensils intended
for an earlier interlude. The tea warmed and stimulated both, and they
knelt by the fire and toasted the ducks at the end of the boat-hook,
scowling with a preternatural earnestness both were too hungry to
observe. Then they fell to, and it is doubtful if either had ever eaten
with a keener relish. They were obliged to use their fingers, and, as
they had no salt, to shred the ham and wrap it about the morsels of
duck, but to such minor matters they gave not a thought, and consumed
four teals and every scrap they had brought from home, as well as
another pot of tea. Isabel, recalling the injured air of her father,
uncle, and brother-in-law when their comfort was rudely disturbed,
warmed to Gwynne, who was good-humored and amused. Even the reflection
that he had roughed it in far worse straits than this, or that had he
the legal right to grumble he might possibly use it, did not alter the
pleasant impression he made as he tramped out the fire, washed his hands
in the marsh grass, and then stretched himself full length with his
pipe. She lit a cigarette, but had not smoked half its length when she
sprang to her feet.
"Look!" she said. "We must get into the boat. It is getting damper every
moment, and the fog will make us feel as if we were in our graves if we
don't sit on something dry."
She had pointed northward, and Gwynne saw a phantom mountain moving
along the level surface of the marsh with the quiet plodding motion of a
ship under full sail in a light breeze. The curious combination of
images fascinated him, and he watched the stealthy silent progress of
this night visitor from the tule lands of the north, that looked as if
it might have obliterated the world. As he jumped down into the boat he
saw before him, on three sides of him, the sparkling night. Then as
Isabel laid her hands on his shoulders and he lifted her down, the fog
swept over them, and there was nothing to do but sit and watch the glow
of pipe and cigarette; even their own outlines were barely visible.
"I fancy it will go home when the moon rises," said Isabel, with a
little shiver. "Are you cold?" she asked, solicitously.
"No," replied a tart voice. "Why didn't you let me ask that? You are not
my mother. We can make tea at intervals. How long do you suppose the
tide has been out?"
"About two hours."
"I am quite comfortable and have never resented any adventure. And this
is the appropriate time and place for a certain story. As I remarked
before I shall not know you until I have heard it. Pasts are dead
walls."
"It is not necessary that you should know me."
"I think otherwise. You are my one friend among eighty millions of
aliens, or ought to be. I shall continue to feel a superior sort of
acquaintance until you have taken me into your confidence."
There was a movement of the fog that he inferred was a shrug. "Very
well," she replied, without a break in her cool even voice. "I suppose I
shall enjoy talking about myself. It is not often I have had the
opportunity to indulge in a monologue in my family, and you certainly
are at my mercy. If you attempt to flee you will be mired like the boat,
and I could not pull you out."
He had never felt the least curiosity about the past history or the
inner life of a mortal before, and in normal circumstances Isabel's
would not have appealed to him. But her instrumentality in changing the
whole current of his life had alarmed his masculinity into a resolve to
demonstrate his superiority if it came to a contest of wills; given
birth to a subtle assumption of proprietorship, indifferent in material
things, but pressing towards the guarded chambers of the spirit. Isabel,
vaguely uneasy earlier in the day, began to appreciate the advance of an
outer and powerful force upon her precious freedom, and resented it. And
while she made up her mind that if it came to a silent contest of wills,
hers at least should not be conquered, she reflected that the deeper
intimacy, certain to ensue if she gave him her confidence, would insure
her a firmer and subtler hold upon his destinies.
X
"Of course I lived two lives before my father's death. My days were
sufficiently filled with him, to say nothing of making both ends meet;
for even after my uncle's death, I had only a small income until the day
of my complete liberty came. I slept soundly enough when I was not
following my father about the house with a candle, or about the hills
with a lantern. But such a life preyed upon my spirits. I imagined
myself both melancholy and bitter and grew unhealthily romantic. But
from the conditions of my life I had two escapes--in books and in
dreams. My father hated company more and more and I rarely left him for
a dance or one of those church festivities where all the young people of
my set were sure to meet. I knew that I was regarded as rather a tragic
figure, and this enhanced my morbid egoism. I wonder if I shall ever be
as really happy again!
"During the year following my father's death I lived out here alone, but
with my hands tied by the executors of my uncle's will. I felt myself
quite the enchanted princess and put in most of my time dreaming about
the prince. I suppose no girl ever had such wild and impossible notions
of love. That is to say most girls have, but I had peculiar
opportunities for indulgence and elaboration. At the same time I
despised or disliked every man I knew or ever had known--with the
possible exception of Judge Leslie. Not only had I found all the men of
my little personal world weak, or selfish, or tyrannical, but those I
knew almost as well were narrow, or commonplace, or uninterested in
anything but local politics or making money, or both combined. Not but
that Rosewater is the world in little. You never read of any old Italian
duchy where there was more jealousy and intrigue; more silent and tense,
or open and gnashing struggle for supremacy than is centered in these
three banks. They have prevented the town from increasing in size and
importance, in spite of its prosperity, through their machinations
against one another. If a stranger comes to the town intending to invest
his money in some one of the flourishing industries, or to introduce
another, the banker to whom he brings a letter, or whom he happens to
meet first, terrifies him with tales of the rapacity and dishonorable
methods of his rivals; and the other two, who fear that the first will
get the stranger's business, warn him that Mr. Colton, for instance,
never gave an hour's mercy. The three have made slow, sure, dogged
fortunes, but each has prevented the others from becoming millionaires,
