   no one to compare with you, Shiela, in your new incarnation of
   health and youth. I never before knew you; I don't think you ever
   before knew yourself.'
   "'Not entirely,' she said.
   "'Do you now?'
   "'I think so.... May I ask you something?'
   "I nodded, smiling.
   "'Then--there is only one thing I care for now--to'--she looked
   up toward the house--'to make them contented--to make up to them
   what I can for--for all that I failed in. Do you understand?'
   "'Yes,' I said, 'you sweet thing.' And gave her a little hug,
   adding: 'And that's why I'm going to write a letter to-night--at
   your mother's desire--and my own.'
   "She said nothing more; my chair rolled away; and here's the
   letter that I told her I meant to write.
     "'Now, dear, come if you think best. I don't know of any
     reason why you should not come; if you know of any you must
     act on your own responsibility.'
   "Last winter, believing that she cared for you, I did an
   extraordinary thing--in fact I intimated to her that it was
   agreeable for me to believe you cared for each other. And she
   told me very sweetly that I was in error.
   "So I'm not going to place Constance Palliser in such a position
   again. If there's any chance of her caring for you you ought to
   know it and act accordingly. Personally I think there is and that
   you should take that chance and take it now. But for goodness'
   sake don't act on my advice. I'm a perfect fool to meddle this
   way; besides I'm having troubles of my own which you know nothing
   about.
   "O Garry, dear, if you'll come down I may perhaps have something
   very, very foolish to tell you.
   "Truly there is no idiot like an old one, but--I'm close, I
   think, to being happier than I ever was in all my life. God help
   us both, my dear, dear boy.
                     "Your faithful
                               "CONSTANCE."
       *       *       *       *       *
CHAPTER XXIX
CALYPSO'S GIFT
Two days later as his pretty aunt stood in her chamber shaking out the
chestnut masses of her hair before her mirror, an impatient rapping at
the living-room door sent her maid flying.
"That's Garry," said Constance calmly, belting in her chamber-robe of
silk and twisting up her hair into one heavy lustrous knot.
A moment later they had exchanged salutes and, holding both his hands in
hers, she stood looking at him, golden brown eyes very tender, cheeks
becomingly pink.
"That miserable train is early; it happens once in a century. I meant to
meet you, dear."
"Wayward met me at the station," he said.
There was a silence; under his curious and significant gaze she flushed,
then laughed.
"Wayward said that you had something to tell me," he added....
"Constance, is it--"
"Yes."
"You darling!" he whispered, taking her into his arms. And she laid her
face on his shoulder, crying a little, laughing a little.
"After all these years, Garry--all these years! It is a long time to--to
care for a man--a long, long time.... But there never was any other--not
even through that dreadful period--"
"I know."
"Yes, you know.... I have cared for him since I was a little girl."
They stood a while talking tenderly, intimately of her new happiness and
of the new man, Wayward.
Both knew that he must bear his scars for ever, that youth had died in
him. But they were very confident and happy standing there together in
the sunlight which poured into the room, transfiguring her. And she
truly seemed as lovely, radiant, and youthful as her own young heart,
unsullied, innocent, now, as when it yielded its first love so long ago
amid the rosewood and brocades of the old-time parlour where the sun
fell across the faded roses of the carpet.
"I knew it was so from the way he shook hands," said Hamil, smiling.
"How well he looks, Constance! And as for you--you are a real beauty!"
"You don't think so! But say it, Garry.... And now I think I had
better retire and complete this unceremonious toilet.... And you may
stroll over to pay your respects to Mrs. Cardross in the meanwhile if
you choose."
He looked at her gravely. She nodded. "They all know you are due
to-day."
"Shiela?"
"Yes.... Be careful, Garry; she is very young after all.... I think--if
I were you--I would not even seem conscious that she had been ill--that
anything had happened to interrupt your friendship. She is very
sensitive, very deeply sensible of the dreadful mistake she made, and,
somehow, I think she is a little afraid of you, as though you might
possibly think less of her--Heaven knows what ideas the young conjure to
worry themselves and those they care for!"
She laughed, kissed him and bowed him out; and he went away to bathe and
change into cool clothing of white serge.
Later as he passed through the gardens, a white oleander blossom fell,
and he picked it up and drew it through his coat.
Shadows of palm and palmetto stretched westward across the white shell
road, striping his path; early sunlight crinkled the lagoon; the little
wild ducks steered fearlessly inshore, peering up at him with bright
golden-irised eyes; mullet jumped heavily, tumbling back into the water
with splashes that echoed through the morning stillness.
The stained bronze cannon still poked their ancient and flaring muzzles
out over the lake; farther along crimson hibiscus blossoms blazed from
every hedge; and above him the stately plumes of royal palms hung
motionless, tufting the trunks, which rose with the shaft-like dignity
of slender Egyptian pillars into a cloudless sky.
On he went, along endless hedges of azalea and oleander, past thickets
of Spanish-bayonet, under leaning cocoanut-palms; and at last the huge
banyan-tree rose sprawling across the sky-line, and he saw the white
facades and red-tiled roofs beyond.
All around him now, as the air grew sweet with the breath of orange
blossoms, a subtler scent, delicately persistent, came to him on the
sea-wind; and he remembered it!--the lilac perfume of China-berry in
bloom; Calypso's own immortal fragrance. And, in the brilliant sunshine,
there under green trees with the dome of blue above, unbidden, the
shadows of the past rose up; and once more lantern-lit faces crowded
through the aromatic dark; once more the fountains' haze drifted across
dim lawns; once more he caught the faint, uncertain rustle of her gown
close to him as she passed like a fresh breath through the dusk.
Overhead a little breeze became entangled in the palmetto fronds,
setting them softly clashing together as though a million unseen elfin
hands were welcoming his return; the big black-and-gold butterflies,
beating up against the sudden air current, flapped back to their honeyed
haven in the orange grove; bold, yellow-eyed grackle stared at him from
the grass; a bird like a winged streak of flame flashed through the
jungle and was gone.
And now every breath he drew was quickening his pulses with the sense of
home-coming; he saw the red-bellied woodpeckers sticking like shreds of
checked gingham to the trees, turning their pointed heads incuriously as
he passed; the welling notes of a wren bubbled upward through the
sun-shot azure; high in the vault above an eagle was passing seaward,
silver of tail and crest, winged with bronze; and everywhere on every
side glittered the gold-and-saffron dragon-flies of the South like the
play of sunbeams on a green lagoon.
Under the sapodilla-trees on the lawn two aged, white-clad negro
servants were gathering fruit forbidden them; and at sight of him two
wrinkled black hands furtively wiped two furrowed faces free from
incriminating evidence; two solemn pairs of eyes rolled piously in his
direction.
"Mohnin', suh, Mistuh Hamil."
"Good morning, Jonas; good morning, Archimedes. Mr. Cardross is in the
orange grove, I see."
And, smiling, passed the guilty ones with a humorously threatening shake
of his head.
A black boy, grinning, opened the gate; the quick-stepping figure in
