his fellow-dead. No wonder that against such terrors the Roman people
thought it wise to eat snails fried in oil, and to carry onions in
blossom in their hands, and especially to fortify their quailing
spirits with many draughts of strong wine from Genzano, and Frascati,
and Marino, till the grey dawn forelightened above the Samnite hills,
and a decent man might go home to sleep safely by daylight, and be waked
only by the bells that rang out for high mass at ten o'clock.
So in the late afternoon all those excellent preparations had been made
for resisting ghostly fear, and as soon as the sun went down the
firepots in the booths would be filled with charcoal, and presently a
marvellous smell of frying oil would pervade the air, while thousands
upon thousands of little lights would be lighted, all made of big
snail-shells filled with olive oil and tallow and each having a tiny
wick in it. But the sun was not low yet, and the great bells were
ringing to call the people into the Basilica for Vespers.
Fine coaches drove up to the transept entrance, one after the other,
bringing cardinals and princes and Roman ladies of high rank by the
score; and their gorgeously liveried footmen followed them into the
church carrying fald-stools and kneeling-cushions as if for a great
ceremony in Saint Peter's; and though it was a cloudless day in June two
huge closed umbrellas, of the colours of each family, were strapped upon
the top of every coach, but those of the cardinals were scarlet. Amongst
the many arrivals came the blue and yellow liveries of Christina of
Sweden, and with her was Don Alberto in a wonderful summer suit of pale
dove-coloured silk, and he wore the collar of the Order of Saint
Gregory; there were several other gentlemen in her train, and not a few
ladies, so that she was royally attended. She herself wore a
three-cornered blue French hunting-hat on the top of her immense black
wig, and a short riding-skirt of green cloth, and boots like a man.
The reason why there was such a concourse of society at the Lateran on
the eve of the feast was that Alessandro Stradella was going to sing an
air himself, and direct a part of the service which he had composed for
the occasion; and besides, a vast number of the common people were
collected about the Basilica, both from the city and from the Campagna,
to enjoy the customary feast of snails as a defence against witches and
fairies, and they thronged into the church through the great east door
to hear the music too, till there was no standing-room at all in the
transepts and little in the nave and aisles for thirty or forty yards
below the tabernacle, close beside which the old organ used to stand.
For there was no loft then, and the instrument stood out in the church
with its wide wooden balcony, draped all in red, which is the colour
appropriate to the Apostles, and to Martyrs also, of whom Saint John the
Baptist is counted one. The organ was a new one then, and, by the same
token, I saw it when I was young, and the keyboard was strangely made;
for there were two black keys together everywhere where we have one, the
first being for the sharp of the natural below it, and the second for
the flat of the natural above; and this meant that the ingenious builder
had thought he could get rid of the 'wolf' and produce an instrument
with the combined advantages of the even temper and the uneven; and any
one who does not know what that means may ask a tuner to explain it for
him or not, just as he pleases; but the old organ had double black keys,
for I saw and touched them myself, and that was the very instrument to
which Stradella sang on the afternoon of Saint John's Eve so long ago.
It has probably been destroyed altogether, but Rome is a great place for
treasuring rubbish and rombowline, and perhaps the old keyboard still
exists, with stacks of wooden and metal pipes and bundles of worm-eaten
trackers, all piled up together and forgotten in some corner of the
crypt, or in some high belfry room or long-closed attic above the
gorgeous ceiling of the Basilica.
It is a long distance from the Palazzo Altieri to the Lateran, and the
Canons sent one of their coaches to convey Stradella to the church. He
brought Ortensia with him, and found Cucurullo already waiting at the
transept door.
'It is impossible to get in by this way, sir,' said the hunchback,
coming to the window of the carriage. 'All Rome is here, from the Sacred
College and the Queen of Sweden to the poorest notary's clerk, and it
would take an hour to make your way through the crowd. Below the
tabernacle the church is nearly half full of country people.'
'You will have to go in by the main door,' Stradella said to Ortensia.
'Cucurullo will take you as far up the church as possible, and will not
leave your side till I come. As for me, I must go round by the sacristy.
Get up behind, Cucurullo, and tell the coachman to take us to the other
entrance.'
Cucurullo obeyed with some difficulty, for a crowd of young idlers of
the poorer sort had collected to see the cardinals and nobles go in, and
they pressed upon him to touch his hump for luck, which should be at
least double on such a day; and most of them blessed him, lest he should
look round angrily and cast the Evil Eye upon them. But as he was short
he found it hard to reach the footman's hanging strap, till a couple of
strong fellows lifted him bodily and set him on the footboard. He
submitted kindly to the touches he felt, and thanked his helpers with a
smile. Then the coach drove away.
Leaning back in its depths, Ortensia wound her arms round her husband's
neck, and kissed him tenderly.
'I shall sing for you only, love,' he said. 'Even if you cannot see me,
you will know that every note comes from my heart, and is meant only for
your ears!'
'One day more, and I shall have you all to myself,' she answered softly.
The coach stopped again, and Cucurullo dropped from the footboard behind
and came to the door. Stradella had now no time to lose, and he let
Ortensia get out alone and go in with his man, and before she had
disappeared he was driven away to the door of the sacristy. A few
moments later he was in the singers' robing-room, hastily getting into
the purple silk cassock and the spotless lace-trimmed cotta which he had
to wear when he appeared in the organ-loft of a basilica, or among the
singers of the Sistine Chapel. He brought these things, with his own
score of his music, in a purple cloth bag which Ortensia had worked for
him, and she had embroidered a lyre on it in silver thread, with the
word 'Harmonia' in cursive letters for a motto.
Half the singers were already in the organ loft, and the Canons were in
their places droning the psalms for the day antiphonally, and very much
through their portentous noses, even as they do to-day. As the noise
they made was neither musical nor edifying, Roman society was conversing
without the least restraint, except from the fact of being packed rather
close together in a comparatively small space. Here and there little
openings in the crowd marked the positions of the Cardinals and their
parasites, of Queen Christina with her court, and of two or three of the
greatest Roman ladies, such as the Princess Orsini and the Princess
Rospigliosi, whose husbands were Princes of the Empire as well as Roman
nobles. They all talked pleasantly and jested, and even laughed, as if
they were anywhere but in church, only pausing when the Gloria Patri was
sung from time to time at the end of a psalm.
Far overhead the level beams of the lowering sun poured through the
northwest windows. From the ancient mosaic of the tribune vault the
still faces of heavenly personages looked down at the doings of a
half-believing age with a sad and solemn surprise.
While they talked, the ex-Queen and many others glanced occasionally at
the balcony of the organ, and when Stradella at last appeared a little
murmur of satisfaction ran through the courtly throng, quite different
in tone from the hum of conversation that had preceded it; and as he
looked down the great singer saw many acquaintances who made signs of
greeting to him, and the ex-Queen waved her painted fan high in the air,
while a sprightly little Neapolitan duchess, who was in Rome for a visit
and had known him a long time, actually blew him a kiss from the tips of
her small gloved fingers. He smiled gravely, nodded once or twice, and
disappeared behind the other singers.
From the other side of the balcony, where it ran round the organ to the
rickety wooden steps, his gaze searched the distance, looking for
Ortensia; and at last he saw her on the outskirts of the crowd of common
people and peasants, leaning against the corner of the third pilaster
from the main entrance on his left as he looked down the church. His
eyes were good, and, besides, though she wore a large veil exactly like
that of many of the other ladies, he was sure it was she because
Cucurullo was beside her, unmistakable by his deformity, even at that
distance and in the shadow that darkened the nave below. Stradella had a
roll of music in his hand and, looking towards his wife, he held it
above his head for a signal; he immediately saw her raise her hand and
wave it a little, and Cucurullo held up his broad hat too. They had seen
him and he was satisfied; and at that moment the Canons reached the end
of the last psalm, and Stradella joined in the Gloria that followed it,
