opened upon a granite terrace and loggia facing the sea. The room was
finished in some rare black wood, the name of which he did not know;
soft radiance suffused it, and the table was lighted by electric
candles set in silver sconces, and veiled by silk shades. It gleamed
with its load of crystal and silver, set off by scattered groups of
orchids and ferns. The repast of the afternoon had been simply a lunch,
it seemed--and now they had an elaborate dinner, prepared by Robbie
Walling's famous ten-thousand-dollar chef. In contrast with the uproar
of the inn was the cloistral stillness of this dining-room, where the
impassive footmen seemed to move on padded slippers, and the courses
appeared and vanished as if by magic. Montague did his best to accustom
himself to the gowns of the women, which were cut lower than any he had
ever seen in his life; but he hesitated every time he turned to speak
to the young lady beside him, because he could look so deep down into
her bosom, and it was difficult for him to realize that she did not
mind it.
The conversation was the same as before, except that it was a little
more general, and louder in tone; for the guests had become more
intimate, and as Robbie Walling's wines of priceless vintage poured
forth, they became a little "high." The young lady who sat on
Montague's right was a Miss Vincent, a granddaughter of one of the
sugar-kings; she was dark-skinned and slender, and had appeared at a
recent lawn fete in the costume of an Indian maiden. The company amused
itself by selecting an Indian name for her; all sorts of absurd ones
were suggested, depending upon various intimate details of the young
lady's personality and habits. Robbie caused a laugh by suggesting
"Little Dewdrop"--it appeared that she had once been discovered writing
a poem about a dewdrop; some one else suggested "Little Raindrop," and
then Ollie brought down the house by exclaiming, "Little Raindrop in
the Mud-puddle!" A perfect gale of laughter swept over the company, and
it must have been a minute before they could recover their composure;
in order to appreciate the humour of the sally it was necessary to know
that Miss Vincent had "come a cropper" at the last meet of the Long
Island Hunt Club, and been extricated from a slough several feet deep.
This was explained to Montague by the young lady on his left--the one
whose half-dressed condition caused his embarrassment. She was only
about twenty, with a wealth of golden hair and the bright, innocent
face of a child; he had not yet learned her name, for every one called
her "Cherub." Not long after this she made a remark across the table to
Baby de Mille, a strange jumble of syllables, which sounded like
English, yet was not. Miss de Mille replied, and several joined in,
until there was quite a conversation going on. "Cherub" explained to
him that "Baby" had invented a secret language, made by transposing
letters; and that Ollie and Bertie were crazy to guess the key to it,
and could not.
The dinner lasted until late. The wine-glasses continued to be emptied,
and to be magically filled again. The laughter was louder, and now and
then there were snatches of singing; women lolled about in their
chairs-one beautiful boy sat gazing dreamily across the table at
Montague, now and then closing his eyes, and opening them more and more
reluctantly. The attendants moved about, impassive and silent as ever;
no one else seemed to be cognizant of their existence, but Montague
could not help noticing them, and wondering what they thought of it all.
When at last the party broke up, it was because the bridge-players
wished to get settled for the evening. The others gathered in front of
the fireplace, and smoked and chatted. At home, when one planned a
day's hunting, he went to bed early and rose before dawn; but here, it
seemed, there was game a-plenty, and the hunters had nothing to
consider save their own comfort.
The cards were played in the vaulted "gun-room." Montague strolled
through it, and his eye ran down the wall, lined with glass cases and
filled with every sort of firearm known to the hunter. He recalled,
with a twinge of self-abasement, that he had suggested bringing his
shotgun along!
He joined a group in one corner, and lounged in the shadows, and
studied "Billy" Price, whose conversation had so mystified him.
"Billy," whose father was a banker, proved to be a devotee of horses;
she was a veritable Amazon, the one passion of whose life was glory.
Seeing her sitting in this group, smoking cigarettes, and drinking
highballs, and listening impassively to risqué stories, one might
easily draw base conclusions about Billy Price. But as a matter of fact
she was made of marble; and the men, instead of falling in love with
her, made her their confidante, and told her their troubles, and sought
her sympathy and advice.
Some of this was explained to Montague by a young lady, who, as the
evening wore on, came in and placed herself beside him. "My name is
Betty Wyman," she said, "and you and I will have to be friends, because
Ollie's my side partner."
Montague had to meet her advances; so had not much time to speculate as
to what the term "side partner" might be supposed to convey. Betty was
a radiant little creature, dressed in a robe of deep crimson, made of
some soft and filmy and complicated material; there was a crimson rose
in her hair, and a living glow of crimson in her cheeks. She was bright
and quick, like a butterfly, full of strange whims and impulses;
mischievous lights gleamed in her eyes and mischievous smiles played
about her adorable little cherry lips. Some strange perfume haunted the
filmy dress, and completed the bewilderment of the intended victim.
"I have a letter of introduction to a Mr. Wyman in New York," said
Montague. "Perhaps he is a relative of yours."
"Is he a railroad president?" asked she; and when he answered in the
affirmative, "Is he a railroad king?" she whispered, in a mocking,
awe-stricken voice, "Is he rich--oh, rich as Solomon--and is he a
terrible man, who eats people alive all the time?"
"Yes," said Montague--"that must be the one."
"Well," said Betty, "he has done me the honour to be my granddaddy; but
don't you take any letter of introduction to him."
"Why not?" asked he, perplexed.
"Because he'll eat YOU," said the girl. "He hates Ollie."
"Dear me," said the other; and the girl asked, "Do you mean that the
boy hasn't said a word about me?"
"No," said Montague--"I suppose he left it for you to do."
"Well," said Betty, "it's like a fairy story. Do you ever read fairy
stories? In this story there was a princess--oh, the most beautiful
princess! Do you understand?"
"Yes," said Montague. "She wore a red rose in her hair."
"And then," said the girl, "there was a young courtier--very handsome
and gay; and they fell in love with each other. But the terrible old
king--he wanted his daughter to wait a while, until he got through
conquering his enemies, so that he might have time to pick out some
prince or other, or maybe some ogre who was wasting his lands--do you
follow me?"
"Perfectly," said he. "And then did the beautiful princess pine away?"
"Um--no," said Betty, pursing her lips. "But she had to dance terribly
hard to keep from thinking about herself." Then she laughed, and
exclaimed, "Dear me, we are getting poetical!" And next, looking sober
again, "Do you know, I was half afraid to talk to you. Ollie tells me
you're terribly serious. Are you?"
"I don't know," said Montague--but she broke in with a laugh, "We were
talking about you at dinner last night. They had some whipped cream
done up in funny little curliques, and Ollie said, 'Now, if my brother
Allan were here, he'd be thinking about the man who fixed this cream,
and how long it took him, and how he might have been reading "The
Simple Life."' Is that true?"
"It involves a question of literary criticism"--said Montague.
"I don't want to talk about literature," exclaimed the other. In truth,
she wanted nothing save to feel of his armour and find out if there
were any weak spots through which he could be teased. Montague was to
find in time that the adorable Miss Elizabeth was a very thorny species
of rose--she was more like a gay-coloured wasp, of predatory
temperament.
"Ollie says you want to go down town and work," she went on. "I think
you're awfully foolish. Isn't it much nicer to spend your time in an
imitation castle like this?"
"Perhaps," said he, "but I haven't any castle."
"You might get one," answered Betty. "Stay around awhile and let us
marry you to a nice girl. They will all throw themselves at your feet,
you know, for you have such a delicious melting voice, and you look
romantic and exciting." (Montague made a note to inquire whether it was
customary in New York to talk about you so frankly to your face.)
Miss Betty was surveying him quizzically meantime. "I don't know," she
