cusable, or at least mercifully explicable, in her wish 
to have him know that she appreciated his goodness. 
Verrian had been very good, he knew that; he had 
saved the day for the poor thing when it was in danger 
of the dreariest kind of slump. She was a poor thing, 
as any woman was who had to make her own way, and 
she had been sick and was charming. Besides, she 
had found out his name and had probably recognized 
a quality of celebrity in it, unknown to the other young 
people with whom he found himself so strangely as- 
sorted under Mrs. Westangle's roof. 
In the end, and upon the whole, Verrian would rather 
have liked, if the thing could have been made to happen, 
meeting Miss Shirley long enough to disclaim meriting 
her thanks, and to ascribe to the intrinsic value of her 
scheme the brilliant success it had achieved. This 
would not have been true, but it would have been en- 
couraging to her; and in the revery which followed 
upon his conditional desire he had a long imaginary 
conversation with her, and discussed all her other 
plans for the revels of the week. These had not the 
trouble of defining themselves very distinctly in the 
conversation in order to win his applause, and their 
consideration did not carry him with Miss Shirley be- 
yond the strictly professional ground on which they met. 
She had apparently invented nothing for that even- 
ing, and the house party was left to its own resources 
in dancing and sitting out dances, which apparently 
fully sufficed it. They were all tired, and broke up 
early. The women took their candles and went off to 
bed, and the men went to the billiard-room to smoke. 
On the way down from his room, where he had gone to 
put on his smoking-jacket, Verrian met Miss Macroyd 
coming up, candle in hand, and received from her a 
 
tacit intimation that he might stop her for a joking 
good-night. 
" I hope you'll sleep well on your laurels as umpire," 
he said. 
" Oh, thank you," she returned, " and I hope your 
laurels won't keep you awake. It must seem to you as 
if it was blowing a perfect gale in them." 
" What do you mean ? I did nothing." 
" Oh, I don't mean your promotion of the snow bat- 
tle. But haven't you heard ?" He stared. " You've 
been found out!" 
" Found out ?" Verrian's soul was filled with the joy 
of literary fame. 
" Yes. You can't conceal yourself now. You're 
Verrian the actor." 
" The actor ?" Verrian frowned blackly in his dis- 
gust, so blackly that Miss Macroyd laughed aloud. 
" Yes, the coming matinee idol. One of the girls 
recognized you as soon as you came into the house, and 
the name settled it, though, of course, you're supposed 
to be here incognito." 
The mention of that name which he enjoyed in com- 
mon with the actor made Verrian furious, for when the 
actor first appeared with it in New York Verrian had 
been at the pains to find out that it was not his real 
name, and that he had merely taken it because of the 
weak quality of romance in it, which Verrian himself 
had always disliked. But, of course, he could not vent 
his fury on Miss Macroyd. All he could do was to ask, 
" Then they have got my photograph on their dressing- 
tables, with candles burning before it ?" 
" No, I don't believe I can give you that comfort. 
The fact is, your acting is not much admired among the 
girls here, but they think you are unexpectedly nice 
as a private person." 
 
" That's something. And does Mrs. Westangle think 
I'm the actor, too ?" 
" How should Mrs. Westangle know what she thinks ? 
And if she doesn't, how should I ?" 
" That's true. And are you going to give me away ?" 
" I haven't done it yet. But isn't it best to be hon- 
est?" 
" It mightn't be a success." 
" The honesty ?" 
" My literary celebrity." 
" There's that," Miss Macroyd rejoiced. " Well, so 
far I've merely said I was sure you were not Verrian 
the actor. I'll think the other part over." She went 
on up-stairs, with the sound of her laugh following her, 
and Verrian went gloomily back to the billiard-room, 
where he found most of the smokers conspicuously yawn- 
ing. He lighted a fresh cigar, and while he smoked 
they dropped away one by one till only Bushwick was 
left. 
" Some of the fellows are going Thursday," he said. 
" Are you going to stick it out to the bitter end ?" 
Till then it had not occurred to Verrian that he was 
not going to stay through the week, but now he said, 
" I don't know but I may go Thursday. Shall you ?" 
" I might as well stay on. I don't find much doing 
in real estate at Christmas. Do you ?" 
This was fishing, but it was better than openly taking 
him for that actor, and Verrian answered, unresent- 
fully, " I don't know. I'm not in that line exactly." 
" Oh, I beg your pardon," Bushwick said. " I 
thought I had seen your name with that of a West 
Side concern." 
" No, I have a sort of outside connection with the 
publishing business." 
" Oh," Bushwick returned, politely, and it would 
  
have been reassuringly if Verrian had wished not to be 
known as an author. The secret in which he lived in 
that regard was apparently safe from that young, ami- 
able, good-looking real-estate broker. He inferred, from 
the absence of any allusion to the superstition of the 
women as to his profession, that it had not spread to 
Bushwick at least, and this inclined him. the more to 
like him. They sat up talking pleasantly together about 
impersonal affairs till Bushwick finished his cigar. 
Then he started for bed, saying, " Well, good-night. I 
hope Mrs. Westangle won't have anything so active on 
the tapis for to-morrow." 
" Try and sleep it off. Good-night." 
XV 
Veeeiam - remained to finish his cigar, but at the end 
he was not yet sleepy, and he thought he would get 
a book from the library, if that part of the house were 
still lighted, and he looked out to see. Apparently it 
was as brilliantly illuminated as when the company had 
separated there for the night, and he pushed across the 
foyer hall that separated the billiard-room from the 
drawing-room and library. He entered the drawing- 
room, and in the depths of the library, relieved against 
the rows of books in their glass cases, he startled Miss 
Shirley from a pose which she seemed to be taking there 
alone. 
At the instant of their mutual recognition she gave 
a little muted shriek, and then gasped out, " I beg your 
pardon," while he was saying, too, " I beg your pardon." 
After a tacit exchange of forgiveness, he said, " I am 
afraid I startled you. I was just coming for a book to 
read myself asleep with. I — " 
" Not at all," she returned. " I was just — " Then 
