chambertin will do nicely. Oh, I propose that you shall pay for this
dinner, Mr. Hillard; pay for the privilege of sharing it with me."

"Bring on the check. I should like to settle the bill at once, and have
it off my mind."

"You may take off your gloves," she countered. "I know that you must
feel uncomfortable with them on. To clasp one's own hands is a kind of
personal sympathy. Try it."

He drew them off, not ungracefully, and tucked them away. He spread his
thin brown muscular fingers a few times, then folded his arms.

"You look quite Napoleonic in that pose."

"If this were only Elba and not St. Helena! I should be coming back to
you some day."

"I shall credit that against the partridges."

This time her laughter was relaxed and joyful. And somehow he felt more
at ease. He was growing accustomed to the mask. He stretched his legs
and fingered his nether lip.

"Have you not somewhere an invisible cloak?"

"I had one that night, which nature lent me," she answered readily. "I
was so invisible to you that I heard the policeman call out your name. I
thank you for insisting that I was not a chorus-lady."

Here was a revelation which accounted for many things. "I haven't been
very fortunate so far in this adventure."

"That is rank ingratitude. I am of the opinion that fortune has highly
favored you."

"But the mask, the mask! If you heard the policeman call my name, you
must have heard him speak of one Leddy Lightfinger."

"I did indeed. And is it not possible that I am that very person?"

Hillard dropped his hand toward his watch. "Why do you hate Italy?"

She sat straight, and what little he could see of her mouth had
hardened.

"There will be no retrospection this evening, if you please," her voice
rather metallic.

The mystery lifted its head again. One does not hate a country without a
strong and vital reason. Was Giovanni partly right, after all? Was this
a kind of trap, a play to gain his interest? Was her singing under his
window purely accidental? She hated Italy. The State or the Church? More
likely the State. And what had the State done to her or she to the
State? A conspirator, in need of funds and men? If this was the case,
she was not going about her cause scientifically. Italy had no hold upon
anything of his save his love of beauty. Perhaps her reason for hating
Italy was individual and singular: as she would have hated any other
country, had her unhappiness originated there.

"Will you not sing?" he asked. This was an inspiration. Music might
assist in melting her new reserve.

"You recollect, then, that I possess a voice?"

"It is all I have to recollect. Tell me, whither is all this to lead?"

"To the door, and into the fog again."

"On my word, I'm half inclined to believe you to be an anarchist or a
Red, or something on that order."

"On account of my hair?" She laughed again. "Put yourself at ease. I am
neither Leddy Lightfinger nor a socialist. There are no dynamite bombs
in this house. I despise any organization which aims to destroy society.
Society is bad enough as it is; but think of trying to readjust it!"

"I give up the puzzle."

"That is better."

It is difficult to seek and hold a pair of eyes partly hidden behind a
mask. Several times he made the attempt, but his eyes were first to
lower.

Her severity, her irony and her apparent lack of warmth were mere
matters of calculation. Her plan was to inspire him with trepidation, to
keep him always at arm's length, for his own safety as well as hers. She
knew something of men. Even the best, if suddenly thrown into an affair
so strange as this, might commit an irreparable blunder; and this she
did not want Hillard to do. She was secretly pleased with his strong
face and shapely head. There was neither beard nor mustache to hide the
virtues or defects. The chin was square but not heavy, the mouth
humorous, kindly and firm, the nose bridged; and the brown eyes, sleepy
yet with latent fires, were really handsome. She knew all about him; she
was not afraid to be alone with him; nor was it really necessary to wear
a mask. But the romance in her heart, that she believed to be dead, was
not dead, only waiting to be rekindled. True, they were never to meet
again; it was all to begin to-night and end to-night. No man was likely
to forget a face met under such whimsical and extraordinary
circumstances; so he must not have hers to remember. She arose.

"I will sing!"

"That is more than I dared to hope." He made as though to rise.

"Sit down. I do not play by note; my memory is very good. While I am
singing I should much prefer you to remain where you are."

He obeyed without protest, and she went to the piano. Above the
instrument was a rare old Venetian mirror; in it he could see her face
fairly well. And where had he seen that mirror before?

"What shall it be?" she asked, and he forgot the mirror.

"The song you sang under my window."

"But that is for the male voice!"

"You sang it very well, nevertheless. I have a good memory, too." He
leaned forward, his arms crossed on his knees. Was there ever, in all
the world, such an Arabian night?

She sang, but without that buoyant note of the first night. One after
another he called out the popular airs of the old light operas. She had
them all on her tongue's end.

"Light opera appeals to you?" She had followed in the mirror his
slightest move. Was she disappointed?

Where had he seen that copy of Botticelli before? If only there was a
little more light.

"Pardon me," he said. "You asked--?"

She repeated her question, wondering what had drawn his attention.

"I like my grand opera after dinner. After dinner I shall want Verdi,
Berlioz, Gounod."

