"I hoped he came so often to us because we had restored his lost
self-respect, and he was grateful to be among his equals once more."

"Oh, that, doubtless. But the rose leaves crumple more with every
visit. I only hope the reaction will not awaken the echoes of Nevis."

"What a raven! Let us hope for the best and continue to do our duty.
If he really is in love with Anne Percy it may prove his redemption."

"Much more likely his damnation. It will be the last drop in a cup of
bitterness already too full."

"You grow sentimental."

"Always was. But that never prevented me from seeing things as they
are. The result is that I am generally called cynical. But don't worry
about Hunsdon. He needs a refusal, and this is his only opportunity."




CHAPTER X


Lady Mary Denbigh achieved a signal triumph; she persuaded the poet to
accompany her to church. Fig Tree Church, romantically poised on the
side of the mountain, was this year the favoured place of worship with
the guests of Bath House; and where this select extract of London led
all the world of Nevis followed. And not merely the wives and
daughters of the English creole planters, but the coloured population,
high and low, who could make themselves smart enough. It was long
since Warner had entered a church, and the brilliant scene contributed
to the humour of his mood. The church looked as gay as an afternoon
rout in London at the height of the season, and the aristocracy of
Nevis were quite as fine as the guests of Bath House. Their costumes
were of delicate fabrics radiant of hue, and they were beflounced and
beruffled, and fringed and ribboned. There were floating scarves and
sashes of lace and silk; bonnets were covered with plumes and
flowers, the little bunch of curls on either side of nearly every
face, half-concealed by a mass of blonde or tulle. Behind the elect
sat the respectable coloured creoles, often dignified and noble of
aspect, for the West Indian African had been torn from a superior
race; their dress differing little from that of their betters. But who
shall describe the mass of coloured folk massed at the back of the
church, a caricature of the gentry, in their Sunday abandon to the
mightiest of their passions. Their colours were primal, their
crinolines and bonnets enormous--the latter perched far back; their
plumes, if cheaper, were even longer; where flowers and ribbons took
the place of feathers heads looked like window boxes; their sleeves
were so tight that they could not hold their prayer books at the
correct angle, and more than one had stumbled over her train as she
dropped her skirts and tripped into the church. They were still
further bedecked with a profusion of false jewellery, cotton lace and
fringe, ribbons streaming from every curve and angle, and shoes as
gaudy as the flowers on their bonnets. Their men, in imitation of the
aristocrats, wore, of the best quality they could muster, smart
coats, flowered waistcoats, ruffled neck-cloths, tight white trousers,
and pointed boots a size too small. They were the tradespeople of the
village; in some cases the servants of the estates, although by far
the greater number of the young women of humbler Nevis had received a
smattering of education and were now too good to work. Their parents
might get a living as best they could, huckstering or on the
plantations, while the improved offspring, content to herd in one room
on the scantiest fare, dreamed of gala days and a scrap of new finery.
Nevertheless, many of them were handsomer than the white fragile
looking aristocrats, with their olive or cream coloured skins, liquid
black eyes, and superb undulating figures.

Warner had more than once written of the tragedy of these people, his
poet's imagination tracing the descent of the finer specimens from
ancient kings whose dust was mixed with the sands of the desert; and
his had been one of the most impassioned voices lifted in the cause of
emancipation. For these reasons he was much beloved by the coloured
folk of Nevis of all ranks, and some one of them had never failed
to come forward, when he lay ill and neglected, or the bailiffs
threatened to sell his house over his head. All obligations were
faithfully discharged, for he received handsome sums from his
publishers, but his patrimony was long since squandered; nothing
remained to him but his home and a bit of land high on the mountain,
which he had clung to because he loved its wild beauty and solitude.

Lady Mary Denbigh, with her languishing airs, her "Book of Beauty"
style, bored him more than anyone in Bath House, and he had begun to
suspect that her attentions were due not more to vanity than to a
desire to find favour with Lord Hunsdon. But she was seldom far from
Anne Percy, whose propinquity he could enjoy even if debarred
communion. And Lady Mary frequently made Anne the theme of her
remarks, in entertaining the poet; whose covert admiration she too
detected and encouraged, although not without resentment. Miss Percy
was undeniably handsome and high-born, but alas, quite lacking in
fashion, in style, in ton. Not that Lady Mary despaired of her. If
she could be persuaded to pass three seasons in London, divorced from
that stranded corner of England where she had spent twenty-two long
years, all her new friends felt quite hopeful that she would yet do
them credit and become a young lady of the highest fashion. Her figure
was really good, if somewhat Amazonian, and her face, if not quite
regular--with those black eyebrows as wide as one's finger, and that
square chin, when all the beauties had oval contours and delicate
arches above limpid eyes--was, as she had before maintained,
singularly striking and handsome, and if perhaps too warmly coloured,
this was not held to be a fault by some.

Warner recalled the bitter-sweet of her babble as he heard her sigh
gently beside him, her long golden ringlets shading her bent face. His
eyes wandered, after their habit, to Anne Percy, who sat across the
church, distinguished in that gay throng by bonnet and gloves and gown
of immaculate white. He worshipped every irregular line in that noble,
impulsive, passionate face and wondered that he had ever thought
another woman beautiful; condemned his imagination that it had lacked
the wit to conceive a like combination. Her eyes, commonly full of
laughter, he had seen darken with anger and melt with tenderness.
There were moments when she looked so strong as momentarily to isolate
herself from normal womanhood, and suggest unlimited if unsuspected
powers of good or evil; but those were fleeting impressions; as a rule
she looked the most completely human woman he had ever known.

He sighed and looked away. A wave of superlative bitterness shook him,
but he was too just to curse life, or anyone but himself. He did not
even curse the worthless woman who had struck the curb from his
inherited weakness and made him a slave instead of a rigid and
insolent master. She had been no worse, hardly more captivating, than
a thousand other women, but she had appealed powerfully to his
poetical imagination, and he had elevated her into the sovereignship
of his destiny, endowed her with all the graces of soul, the grandeur
of character and passion, that he had hitherto shaped from the rich
components in his brain. When he was faced with the naked truth his
mental disquiet was as great as his anguish. If this woman, one of the
most finished works of the most civilised country on the globe, had
revealed herself to be but common clay, where should he find another
worth loving? Surely the woman was not yet evolved who could fasten
herself permanently to his soul and his senses. This may have been a
rash conclusion for a man of his years, but a poet is as old in brain
at six-and-twenty as he is green in soul at sixty. With all the ardour
of his youth and temperament he had longed for his mate, dreamed of a
life of exalted companionship on the most poetic of isles; and one
woman, cleverer than many he had met, had read his dreams, simulated
his ideal, and amused herself until the game ceased to amuse her; and
the richest nabob of the moment returned from India with a brown skull
like a mummy had offered his rupees in exchange for the social state
that only the daughter of a great lord could give him. She had laughed
