had trained in vain. 

Mrs. Kandy, who had trained also, but 
only in social values, for which she had a 
naive and inexact appreciation, encouraged 
him to make up to the girl, when she saw that 
he had no intention of making up to the girl's 
mamma, which he certainly would have, had 
he known the terms of Sam Kandy's will. 

He did not know, however, nor, at the 
moment, was there any one that could acquaint him with them, except Mrs. Kandy, 
who, in telling the truth, which she sometimes did, sometimes found it advantageous 
not to tell all of it. 

"And so you wish to have my little girl 
for your wife," she shrilly resumed, when, in 
the elaborate suite which she occupied at the 
Elysee Hotel, the formal and unleisurely 
demand had been made. 





"Partly that," he replied in the passable 
English which he had acquired in preparation for the Prix. "Partly that, but partly 
also, that I may have you for mother-in- 
law." 

No duke had ever talked in such a fashion 
to Mrs. Kandy. Barring the Duke of Kincardine, who, the previous winter, had 
lounged about New York, no duke had ever 
talked to her at all, and, as for Kincardine, 
he had, on meeting her, only said; "Hello," 
after which he had lounged away. MalakofF's treatment was at least more gracious, 
and graciousness to herself was Mrs. Kandy's forte. 

"If you are good to her, I shall feel that 
I can die in peace," remarked the lady, who, 
whatever happened, had no intention of 
doing anything of the kind. 

Malakoff, with equal sincerity, replied: 
"The dear angel, I will refuse her nothing." 

"Sally has a million dollars," Mrs. Kandy 



 

threw in, omitting, however, to fill it up with 
the fact that the million was for life. 

"Devilish thin," thought Malakoff, who 
thought, too, of backing out. But a million 
dollars spells five million francs, and that 
amount he doubted his ability to duplicate. 

"At my death," Mrs. Kandy added, with 
a candour which she afterward tearfully regretted, "Sally will have six million more." 

But the contingency, remote to him, lugubrious to her, neither chose to consider 
further, and presently, after Sally had been 
summoned, and the non-existent duchy had 
been placed at her feet, Malakoff took himself off. 

Not far, however, around the corner mere 
ly to the rue Galilee, where dwelled a Mme. 
Oppensheim who was his mistress, and who 
had supported him for years. 

Giselle Oppensheim, born de Beaupre, 
had been married into the high finance by her 
people, who were very noble, prodigiously 





proud, and equally poor. Giselle de Beaupre accepted Oppensheim for money in the 
same measure that he sought her for place. 
That was ten years before. Since then, 
Oppensheim had paid for his aspirations, 
and, from an Anglo-Saxon standpoint, 
perhaps most notably in Malakoff, with 
whom, none the less, he was on the best terms 
in the world and to whom not infrequently 
he complained when the third party of this 
unholy trinity became, as she often did 
become, particularly waspish. For the lady, 
imperious to Oppensheim, was wax in the 
hands of Malakoff, whom she loved with a 
love that was at once violent, sensual and 
tender. 

On this evening, after leaving the 
Kandys , he told her of his venture. 

"It is not the Peru," she swiftly summa 
rised, when he had cited the dower. "Enfin !" 
she consoling continued, "you might have 
done worse. Besides, in marrying an American, there can be no question of mesalliance." 

That sentiment her race dictated. Oddly, 
it had never reproached her with the left- 
handed mesalliance that she had contracted 
with this man, whose grandfather had been a 
cheesemonger. But love has its own extenuations. Moreover, while, from the stand 
point of the old nobility, Malakoff was no 
body, he yet managed to appear as though 
the spirit of that nobility were incarnated in 
him. 

"Tell me," Mme. Oppensheim continued. 
"In appearance is she better than I?" 

Is the lily fairer than the rose? Sally had 
the ephemeral charm of the former. She was 
a book bound in muslin, with all the pages 
blank. What time and fate would scrawl 
there, fate and time would tell. As yet they 
were white. As yet the girl was a lily. 
Mme. Oppensheim was the rose, large, 
colourful, majestic. 





At the question, Malakoff looked at her. 
Her eyes, like his own, were dark. There 
the resemblance ended. For while he was almost typically Latin, the fainter umber of 
her skin, and the rich orange of her hair, 
suggested an alien race. It had been said 
that she was the souvenir of a caprice which 
her mother had entertained for an Austrian 
prince, and as, at the question, Malakoff 
looked at her, he recalled the story. 
