head hanging, picking nervously at his fingers, his prominent, watery
eyes fixed on vacancy.
The young man neither looked up nor stirred when the doctor entered and
reseated himself, picking up a pencil and pad. He thought a moment,
squinted through his glasses, and continued writing the prescription
which the receipt of the telegram from Roya-Neh had interrupted.
When he had finished he glanced over the slip of paper, removed his
gold-rimmed reading spectacles, folded them, balanced them thoughtfully
in the palm of his large and healthy hand, considering the young fellow
before him with grave, far-sighted eyes:
"Stuyvesant," he said, "this prescription is not going to cure you. No
medicine that I can give you is going to perform any such miracle unless
you help yourself. Nothing on earth that man has invented, or is likely
to invent, can cure your disease unless by God's grace the patient
pitches in and helps himself. Is that plain talk?"
Quest nodded and reached shakily for the prescription; but the doctor
withheld it.
"You asked for plain talk; are you listening to what I'm saying?"
"Oh, hell, yes," burst out Quest; "I'm going to pull myself together.
Didn't I tell you I would? But I've got to get a starter first, haven't
I? I've got to have something to key me up first. I've explained to you
that it's this crawling, squirming movement on the backs of my hands
that I can't stand for. I want it stopped; I'll take anything you dope
out; I'll do any turn you call for----"
"Very well. I've told you to go to Mulqueen's. Go now!"
"All right, doctor. Only they're too damn rough with a man. All right;
I'll go. I did go last winter, and look where I am now!" he snarled
suddenly. "Have I got to get up against all that business again?"
"You came out in perfectly good shape. It was up to you," said the
doctor, coldly using the vernacular.
"How was it up to me? You all say that! How was it? I understood that if
I cut it out and went up there and let that iron-fisted Irishman slam me
around, that I'd come out all right. And the first little baby-drink I
hit began the whole thing again!"
"Why did you take it? You didn't have to."
"I wanted it," retorted Quest angrily.
"Not badly enough to make self-control impossible. That's what you went
up there for, to get back self-control. You got it but didn't use it. Do
you think there is any sort of magic serum Mulqueen or I or anybody
under Heaven can pump into you that will render you immune from the
consequences of making an alcohol sewer of yourself?"
"I certainly supposed I could come out and drink like a gentleman," said
the young man sullenly.
"Drink like a--what? A gentleman? What's that? What's drinking like a
gentleman? I don't know what it is. You either drink alcohol or you
don't; you either swill it or you don't. Anybody can do either. I'm not
aware that either is peculiar to a gentleman. But I know that both are
peculiar to fools."
Quest muttered, picking his fingers, and cast an ugly side look at the
physician.
"I don't know what you just said," snapped Dr. Bailey, "but I'll tell
you this: alcohol is poison and it has not--and never had--in any guise
whatever, the slightest compensating value for internal use. It isn't a
food; it's a poison; it isn't a beneficial stimulant; it's a poison; it
isn't an aid to digestion; it's a poison; it isn't a life saver; it's a
life taker. It's a parasite, forger, thief, pander, liar, brutalizer,
murderer!
"Those are the plain facts. There isn't, and there never has been, one
word to say for it or any excuse, except morbid predisposition or
self-inculcated inclination, to offer for swallowing it. Now go to your
brewers, your wine merchants, your champagne touts, your fool
undergraduates, your clubmen, your guzzling viveurs--and they'll all
tell you the contrary. So will some physicians. And you can take your
choice. Any ass can. That is all, my boy."
The young man glowered sulkily at the prescription.
"Do I understand that this will stop the jumps?"
"If you really believe that, you have never heard me say so," snapped
Dr. Bailey.
"Well, what the devil will it do?"
"The directions are there. You have my memorandum of the régime you are
to follow. It will quiet you till you get to Mulqueen's. Those two bits
of paper, however, are useless unless you help yourself. If you want to
become convalescent you can--even yet. It won't be easy; it will hurt;
but you can do it, as I say, even yet. But it is you who must do it,
not I or that bit of paper or Mulqueen!
"Just now you happen to want to get well because the effect of alcohol
poison disturbs you. Things crawl, as you say, on the back of your hand.
Naturally, you don't care for such phenomena.
"Well, I've given you the key to mental and physical regeneration. Yours
is not an inherited appetite; yours is not one of those almost
foredoomed and pitiable cases. It's a stupid case; and a case of gross
self-indulgence in stupidity that began in idleness. And that, my son,
is the truth."
"Is that so?" sneered Quest, rising and pocketing the prescription.
"Yes, it is so. I've known your family for forty years, Stuyvesant. I
knew your parents; I exonerate them absolutely. Sheer laziness and
wilful depravity is what has brought you here to me on this errand. You
deliberately acquired a taste for intoxicants; you haven't one excuse,
one mitigating plea to offer for what you've done to yourself.
"You stood high in school and in college; you were Phi Beta Kappa, a
convincing debater, a plausible speaker, an excellent writer of good
English--by instinct a good newspaper man. Also you were a man adapted
by nature to live regularly and beyond the coarser temptations. But you
were lazy!"
Dr. Bailey struck his desk in emphasis.
"The germ of your self-indulgence lay in gross selfishness. You did what
pleased you; and it suited you to do nothing. I'm telling you how you've
betrayed yourself--how far you'll have to climb to win back. Some men
need a jab with a knife to start their pride; some require a friend's
strong helping arm around them. You need the jab. I'm trying to
administer it without anæsthetics, by telling you what some men think of
you--that it is your monstrous selfishness that has distorted your
normal common sense and landed you where you are.
"Selfishness alone has resulted in a most cruel and unnatural neglect of
your sister--your only living relative--in a deliberate relapse into
slothful and vicious habits; in neglect of a most promising career which
was already yours; in a contemptible willingness to live on your
sister's income after gambling away your own fortune.
"I know you; I carried you through teething and measles, my son: and
I've carried you through the horrors of alcoholic delirium. And I say to
you now that, with the mental degeneration already apparent, and your
naturally quick temper, if you break down a few more cells in that
martyred brain of yours, you'll end in an asylum--possibly one reserved
for the criminal insane."
A dull colour stained the pasty whiteness of Quest's face. For several
minutes he stood there, his fingers working and picking at each other,
his pale, prominent eyes glaring.
"That's a big indictment, doctor," he said at last.
"Thank God you think it so," returned the doctor. "If you will stand by
your better self for one week--for only one week--after leaving
Mulqueen's, I'll stand by you for life, my boy. Come! You were a good
sport once. And that little sister of yours is worth it. Come,
Stuyvesant; is it a bargain?"
He stepped forward and held out his large, firm, reassuring hand. The
young fellow took it limply.
"Done with you, doctor," he said without conviction; "it's hell for
mine, I suppose, if I don't make my face behave. You're right; I'm the
goat; and if I don't quit butting I'll sure end by slapping some sissy
citizen with an axe."
He gave the doctor's hand a perfunctory shake with his thin, damp
fingers; dropped it, turned to go, halted, retraced his steps.
"Will it give me the willies if I kiss a cocktail good-bye before I
start for that fresh guy, Mulqueen?"
"Start now, I tell you! Haven't I your word?"
"Yes--but on the way to buy transportation can't I offer myself one
last----"
"Can't you be a good sport, Stuyve?"
The youth hesitated, scowled.
"Oh, very well," he said carelessly, turned and went out.
As he walked along in the slush he said to himself: "I guess it's up
