out to know the cause of Kirsty Boyle's call and the ringing of his
bell. A very little girl. She was always glad she had heard it.
She turned the paper to and fro rather impatiently. Oh, what was here
with the black insignia of death: "Died, at Hurst Abbey, of a
malignant fever. Margaretta, wife of Jeffrey, Lord Andsdell, only
remaining son of the Earl of Wrenham."
She was not interested in the beauty of the bride, who had been a
great belle in her day and won no little fame on the stage, nor the
terrible accident that had deprived the Earl of two older sons and
two grandsons, paving the way for the succession of Lord Andsdell. She
shuddered and turned ghostly pale, and was terrified with a strange
presentiment. But she could not talk of it just yet and was glad Norry
and grandad came in to spend the evening with them.
The next morning she gave her father a little note with "important"
written on the corner of the folded paper.
"What now?" enquired her father laughingly, "Did you forget your
postscript?"
She assented with a nod.
Then she went about her daily duties, but a great terror surged at her
heart. She was to remember through everything that she was the only
woman Jeffrey Andsdell loved. Long ago she had cast it out. No doubt
he had been happy in his ancestral home, at least, he had chosen that,
well, wisely, too. But to ask that the woman he wronged should cling
to her burthen!
How slowly the days passed. Aldis Bartram might have been away when
the note came--he had been to Baltimore on some troublesome
business--but waiting seemed very hard. And when it drew near to the
time, she used to take different paths down by the square where the
stage came in, just far enough away to see, but not be seen, and stand
with a blushing face and a strange trembling at her heart. One day
she was rewarded. There was the manly figure, the erect head, the
firm, yet elastic step. A sudden pride leaped up in her heart.
She waylaid him in a bypath.
"Daffodil!" he cried in surprise. "What has happened?
"Nothing, nothing; I wanted to see you," but her voice trembled. "Come
this way."
"How mysterious you are!" If she meant to give him his congé she
could have done it better by letter. And the clasp of her hand on his
arm had a clinging force.
"There is something for you to see. Let us turn here."
After a space through intervening trees they came to the open, where
she paused and unfolded a paper she had held in her hand. "Read this,"
she said, and he stared a moment silently.
One moment, another moment. How still it was, every bird had hushed
its singing, even the crickets were not chirping.
"He will come back to America. He will come back for you now that he
is free," Bartram subjoined hoarsely. Should he hold her or let her
go? Was the old love----
She faced him and slipped both hands over his shoulders, clasped them
at the back of his neck. It seemed to him he had never seen such an
entrancing light in her eyes.
"Aldis," she began, with tremulous sweetness, "I would rather be your
wife than the greatest duchess of them all." And then she hid her
blushing face on his breast.
It would not be raised, but he kissed the brow, the eyelids, and said
in a shaken voice:
"Were you afraid----"
Then she raised the sweet face where he saw tears and the quick rifts
of color, but there were high lights of resolve in the beautiful eyes.
"Not afraid anything could rekindle the glamor of that mistake, nor
any repentance on his part mend the deception. I was a child then. I
did not understand the depths that go to the making of a true love.
All summer I have been learning----"
Then she paused and hid her face again.
"And there is a great deal more to learn, sweetheart. We shall go on
studying the delightful lesson all our lives, I trust, and never reach
the bottom of the cup of joy. Daffodil, you have already roused me to
a wider, higher life. A year ago I would not have been worthy of you.
Yes, I was blind and self-engrossed then. We will study the sweet
lesson together."
Then they paused at a fallen log, not the old place that she never
cared to see again. A little stream came trickling down the high hill
and there were tender bird voices as accompaniments to the delicious
confession. It had grown slowly, she was so afraid of another mistake,
but he would never need to doubt its truth, its duration, its
comprehensiveness.
It seemed minutes only and yet held the mysterious sweetness of hours.
Then she heard a voice calling.
"Why--see! It is almost night! And that is Felix's voice. Oh, what
have I been doing?" and she rose in a startled manner.
"We will explain our iniquity," he said laughingly.
They met Felix. "Oh!" he exclaimed in surprise. "We couldn't think!
And we had supper."
Then mother said, "Why, did you come in the stage? That was here hours
ago," to Mr. Bartram, in a wondering tone.
"Yes; but we had a good deal of business to settle. I hope you didn't
eat up all the supper?"
He studied them both curiously. Daffodil's face was scarlet.
"Mr. Bartram, are you going to marry her?" he asked with a boy's frank
eagerness.
"I hope to. Are you going to object?"
"No," rather reluctantly. "Only I wish you were going to live here."
Bernard Carrick had gone downtown. It showed the strides Pittsburg had
made when there was already a downtown. Barbe stood in the doorway
watching, for now the sky was growing gray with coming evening. But
before Mr. Bartram spoke, she knew. One of the delights of the other
engagement had been the certainty of keeping her daughter, now the
pang of separation pierced her to the quick.
"Mrs. Carrick," he said in an appealing tone, "will you take me for a
son?" but Daffodil kissed her.
They did not want much supper, but the others returned to the table
and talked. He had only come for a few days, but he begged that they
might have a wedding in the early fall, just as soon as possible
indeed, for the journey was so long they could not afford to waste
much time in courtship. They must be lovers afterward.
So, after much discussion to shorten the time, mid-September was
settled upon.
"Oh," Daffodil said in her most adorable tone, "I shall pray daily
that nothing will befall you, that God will send you back safely to
me."
"And I shall be praying for you. Love surely opens one's heart to
God."
There was not much to be made ready. The girl laid aside this and that
for the son's wife when he should take one, "for," said she, "there is
so much in my new house already. And Felix must marry young, so you
will have a new daughter in my place."
She would not be married in church nor wear the olden wedding gown.
"Let it skip a generation," she said, "and that may change the luck."
So the time came and the lover so full of impatience. She would have
the ceremony in the old room that had been so interwoven with her
life, and she fancied the spirit of great-grandfather was sitting
there in the old chair and she went for his blessing.
The little girl passed out of Old Pittsburg and left behind lonely
hearts. Grandad could not be reconciled, there were some fine young
fellows in the town that would make good husbands. But Norah gave her
a blessing and the best of wishes. So Daffodil Bartram went out to her
new life, wondering how one could be so glad and happy when they were
leaving behind so much love.
Old Pittsburg did not vanish with the little girl, however. But she
went on her way steadily, industriously. The new century came in with
great acclaim. Shipbuilding prospered. Iron foundries sprang up. The
glass works went from the eight pots and the capacity of three boxes
at a blowing to double that number, then doubled it again. The
primitive structure erected by George Anshuts before the century ended
was the progenitor of many others sending their smoke defiantly up in
the clear sky. And all along the Monogahela valley as well as in
other places the earth gave up its stores of coal as it had given up
its stores of iron.
And in 1816 Pittsburg was incorporated as a city and had a mayor and
aldermen and her own bank. It was a new Pittsburg then, a hive of
