“If her mother did not make so much of it! 
She wrote on the death of Mrs. Lake’s baby 
and there was one quite fine verse that Mrs. 
Winters thought worthy of Tennyson’s ‘ In 
Memoriam.’ Shades of poetry! Mrs. Win- 
ters believes she will reflect great credit on the 
school.” 

“ I wish she would pay a little more atten- 
tion to her language lessons, logic, and the 
study of literature. She knows nothing about 
the higher class poetry and very little about the 
poets of the last century. Allen Millard goes 




wild over Shakespeare, and is going back to 
Chaucer. I want a class in old English litera- 
ture and then to come down to the Vic- 
torian era.” 

How bright and eager her face was, and so 
full of resolute endeavor! He gave a little 
sigh. 

“ Two or three years hence you may be able 
to achieve that. But you will be doing a good 
work to get them ready for it. That Archie 
Varick is a smart lad, though he will not take 
to the poets.” 

“ But he has taken to physics and physi- 
ology and chemistry. He and Mark Hender- 
son will make a good team. I hope Harry 
White will join them.” 

“ You are enough to inspire one. I wish 
in my youth I could have had some one like 
you. But they were not teaching that way 
then.” 

“ Oh, thank you ! ” Helen flushed with pleas- 
ure. She had never been quite sure of his en- 
tire approbation, and she was glad now to feel 
that she was truly working with him. 

“ But about the poet? You haven’t advised 


 

me what steps to pursue,” and she gave a soft, 
irresolute laugh. 

“ Oh, you will have to let her go on. It will 
not do to offend her mother. Sometimes they 
learn by bitter experience and perhaps that is 
best.’ 

She had talked over the Greek with Mark 
and given him a few lessons after school. 
Then his father said : 

“ That isn't quite fair, Mark. You had bet- 
ter ask Miss Grant to give you private lessons 
and pay her for them. Mr. Underwood thinks 
Latin is all they can reasonably take up this 
year, but they may later on take Greek.’' 

“ I wish you would go with me some night 
and call on her.” 

“ My lad, I shall be very glad to. Mr. Un- 
derwood considers her an excellent teacher.” 

So it had come about. Miss Grant was 
really glad to see the father of such a flock of 
scholars, and Mark was proud of introducing 
him. 

They talked a little of the boy's future. He 
was to go to college if he kept of the same 
mind. 


 

“ He has a great taste for chemistry, and it is 
an excellent profession. We need a great deal 
of that knowledge in many lines of business 
nowadays; if he doesn’t turn out a learned 
professor he can earn his living, and I think 
that is what every person ought to know how 
to do. I’m glad to have you take so much in- 
terest in him.” 

“Isn’t that a true teacher’s endeavor?” 
and she glanced up in her bright fashion, 
with enthusiasm in her eyes. “ And when 
one meets a pupil easily interested and cap- 
able of holding on, it is a really satisfying 
work.” 

“ You were in college, Mark tells me.” 

“ Oh, yes. I wouldn’t give up the remem- 
brance of those four years for a great deal, 
even if I could have acquired as much knowl- 
edge elsewhere.” 

Then they branched off into the true uses 
of education. Helen found him very intelli- 
gent and well read, interested in some things 
beyond mere money-making. He wanted his 
children to be fitted for the true work of life, 
to be of some use in the world. She had not 


 

met with any one beside Mr. Hildreth that it 
was so delightful to talk to. 

“ Why, Mark! How we are staying!” he 
exclaimed at length. “ Miss Grant, I am very 
glad to meet you in this manner and we have 
had a most agreeable and interesting talk. I 
want you to come and take dinner some night 
and meet Mrs. Henderson, who will be glad 
to make your acquaintance. We have been 
so busy — the house needed so much repairing 
though it is a fine old place, and we have no 
real company parlor yet. Then the business 
had to be recast, new machinery put in and all 
that. But we think we shall like the town very 
much. Mrs. Henderson will send you a 
special invitation, — I’m not much of a society 
man, so I don’t know all the nice little points. 
But you will surely come?” 
