"I said to Snuyder: 'What the mischief is this?' He said: 'It's for you.
And there's an exceedingly pretty girl outside who expects you to receive
her for a few moments.' I said: 'But what has this card with a green
mouse on it got to do with that girl or with me?' Snuyder said he didn't
know and that I'd better ask her. So I looked at my watch and I thought
of you----"
"Yes, you did."
"I tell you I did. Then I looked at the card with the green mouse on
it.... And I want to ask you frankly, Smith, what would you have done?"
"Oh, what you did, I suppose," replied Smith, wearily. "Go on."
"I'm going. She entered----"
"She was tall and squeenly; you probably forgot that," observed Smith in
his most objectionable manner.
"Probably not; she was of medium height, as a detail of external
interest. But, although rather unusually attractive in a merely
superficial and physical sense, it was instantly evident from her speech
and bearing, that, in her, intellect dominated; her mind, Smithy, reigned
serene, unsullied, triumphant over matter."
Smith looked up in amazement, but Brown, a reminiscent smile lighting his
face, went on:
"She had a very winsome manner--a way of speaking--so prettily in
earnest, so grave. And she looked squarely at me all the time----"
"So you contributed to the Home for Unemployed Patagonians."
"Would you mind shutting up?" asked Brown.
"No."
"Then try to listen respectfully. She began by explaining the
significance of that pea-green mouse on the card. It seems, Smith, that
there is a scientific society called The Green Mouse, composed of a few
people who have determined to apply, practically, certain theories which
they believe have commercial value."
"Was she," inquired Smith with misleading politeness, "what is known as
an 'astrologist'?"
"She was not. She is the president, I believe, of The Green Mouse
Society. She explained to me that it has been indisputably proven that
the earth is not only enveloped by those invisible electric currents
which are now used instead of wires to carry telegraphic messages, but
that this world of ours is also belted by countless psychic currents
which go whirling round the earth----"
"What kind of currents?"
"Psychic."
"Which circle the earth?"
"Exactly. If you want to send a wireless message you hitch on to a
current, don't you?--or you tap it--or something. Now, they have
discovered that each one of these numberless millions of psychic currents
passes through two, living, human entities of opposite sex; that, for
example, all you have got to do to communicate with the person who is on
the same psychical current that you are, is to attune your subconscious
self to a given intensity and pitch, and it will be like communication by
telephone, no matter how far apart you are."
"Brown!"
"What?"
"Did she go to your office to tell you that sort of--of--information?"
"Partly. She was perfectly charming about it. She explained to me that
all nature is divided into predestined pairs, and that somewhere, at some
time, either here on earth or in some of the various future existences,
this predestined pair is certain to meet and complete the universal
scheme as it has been planned. Do you understand, Smithy?"
Smith sat silent and reflective for a while, then:
"You say that her theory is that everybody owns one of those psychic
currents?"
"Yes."
"I am on a private psychic current whirling around this globe?"
"Sure."
"And some--ah--young girl is at the other end?"
"Sure thing."
"Then if I could only get hold of my end of the wire I could--ah--call
her up?"
"I believe that's the idea."
"And--she's for muh?"
"So they say."
"Is--is there any way to get a look at her first?"
"You'd have to take her anyway, sometime."
"But suppose I didn't like her?"
The two young men sat laughing for a few moments, then Brown went on:
"You see, Smith, my interview with her was such a curious episode that
about all I did was to listen to what she was saying, so I don't know how
details are worked out. She explained to me that The Green Mouse Society
has just been formed, not only for the purpose of psychical research, but
for applying practically and using commercially the discovery of the
psychic currents. That's what The Green Mouse is trying to do: form
itself into a company and issue stocks and bonds----"
"What?"
"Certainly. It sounds like a madman's dream at first, but when you come
to look into it--for instance, think of the millions of clients such a
company would have. As example, a young man, ready for marriage, goes to
The Green Mouse and pays a fee. The Green Mouse sorts out, identifies,
and intercepts the young man's own particular current, hitches his
subconscious self to it, and zip!--he's at one end of an invisible
telephone and the only girl on earth is at the other.... What's the
matter with their making a quick date for an introduction?"
Smith said slowly: "Do you mean to tell me that any sane person came to
you in your office with a proposition to take stock in such an
enterprise?"
"She did not even suggest it."
"What did she want, then?"
"She wanted," said Brown, "a perfectly normal, unimaginative business man
who would volunteer to permit The Green Mouse Society to sort out his
psychic current, attach him to it, and see what would happen."
"She wants to experiment on you?"
"So I understand."
"And--you're not going to let her, are you?"
"Why not?"
"Because it's--it's idiotic!" said Smith, warmly. "I don't believe in
such things--you don't, either--nobody does--but, all the same, you can't
be perfectly sure in these days what devilish sort of game you might be
up against."
Brown smiled. "I told her, very politely, that I found it quite
impossible to believe in such things; and she was awfully nice about it,
and said it didn't matter what I believed. It seems that my name was
chosen by chance--they opened the Telephone Directory at random and she,
blindfolded, made a pencil mark on the margin opposite one of the names
on the page. It happened to be my name. That's all."
"Wouldn't let her do it!" said Smith, seriously.
"Why not, as long as there's absolutely nothing in it? Besides, if it
pleases her to have a try why shouldn't she? Besides, I haven't the
slightest intention or desire to woo or wed anybody, and I'd like to see
anybody make me."
"Do you mean to say that you told her to go ahead?"
"Certainly," said Brown serenely. "And she thanked me very prettily.
She's well bred--exceptionally."
"Oh! Then what did you do?"
"We talked a little while."
"About what?"
"Well, for instance, I mentioned that curiously-baffling sensation which
comes over everybody at times--the sudden conviction that everything that
you say and do has been said and done by you before--somewhere. Do you
understand?"
"Oh, yes."
"And she smiled and said that such sensations were merely echoes from the
invisible psychic wire, and that repetitions from some previous
incarnation were not unusual, particularly when the other person through
whom the psychic current passed, was near by."
"You mean to say that when a fellow has that queer feeling that it has
all happened before, the--the predestined girl is somewhere in your
neighborhood?"
"That is what my pretty informant told me."
"Who," asked Smith, "is this pretty informant?"
"She asked permission to withhold her name."
"Didn't she ask you to subscribe?"
"No; she merely asked for the use of my name as reference for future
