
"What's the matter, Rita?" she asked kindly, when Amarita stood for a
moment by the table between the front windows, frowning with the care
she was giving to sewing a button on a wristband. "Ain't you kinder
feverish?"

Amarita started--almost, it might have been, with some inner
consciousness not to be given away.

"Oh no," said she. "I ain't feverish, mother Meade. Maybe I'm kinder
flurried, Elihu's goin' out and all."

"Goin' to take the womenfolks along with ye, Elihu?" called the old
lady, a satirical note beating into her voice.

Elihu looked up absently from his paper.

"Why," said he, with a leniency slightly tinctured by the impatience
responsive to a foolish question, "it's jest a town meetin', same as any
other. We're goin' to take action on the Old Folks' Home."

"Take action?" repeated old Mis' Meade. "Oh, that's it, is it? Well,
Rita 'n' I'll stay to home an' take action on the 'Master Minds o'
History.' This is as good a night as any. Mebbe there's a few womenfolks
in there--enough for pepper 'n' salt--if they ain't bound for town
meetin'."

Elihu drew the long breath which is the due of happily completed toil.
He began to roll up his plans. Amarita ran to him and looked over his
shoulder.

"You got 'em done?" she asked.

The red in her cheeks had heightened. Her voice came huskily. Old Mis'
Meade glanced at her, a sharp and quick survey. Elihu indulgently
unrolled his paper and spread it on the desk.

"Yes," said he, "I got 'em done."

"O Elihu!" breathed his wife. She bent above the page, and in the fever
of her interest seemed to pounce on it and scurry over it. "You goin' to
show it to the town meetin'?"

"Course I be," said Elihu, with a modest pride. "That's what I made it
for."

Amarita straightened.

"Well," said she. Her voice was hard through what might have been an
accepted purpose. "You may as well shave you. We'll have supper early."

Supper was a silent meal that night. Elihu was pondering on his triumph
as a valuable citizen, and what Amarita thought no one could at that
moment have foretold. She did not eat, but she drank her tea in hasty
swallows, and burned her mouth with it. That, the old lady guessed, was
why the tears came once or twice into her eyes. Amarita, her
mother-in-law judged, had been staying indoors too much through the
snowy weather, while Elihu worked on his plans. There had been no
sleigh-rides, only the necessary driving to the street.

Old Mis' Meade had a little scheme in view, and now she brought it
forth; it was a species of compensation for stay-at-homes during the
absence of their lawful head for his two or three hours of civic duty.

"What if you should bring in a good big knot 'fore you go," she adjured
him, "an' Rita 'n' I'll have us a fire in the fireplace. I dunno why,
but seems if I didn't want to set in the kitchen to-night. Then by the
time you come home there'll be a good bed o' coals, an' you can toast
your feet 'fore you go to bed."

There was a whirling half-hour of preparation, while old Mis' Meade
washed the supper dishes and Amarita flew light-footedly about from
kitchen to bedroom to get her lord into his public clothes. Elihu forgot
the knot, and brought it in after he had assumed the garb of ceremony;
and then he had to be fussily brushed from possible sawdust, while
Amarita, an anxious frown on her brow, wondered why mother Meade always
would distract him at the most important points. The fire was laid, but
Elihu was one of those who believe in their own personal magic over a
blaze, and he had to adjust the knot and touch off the kindling and
watch the result a minute, to be sure the chimney had not caught. By the
time he had harnessed and had appeared again to wash his hands and don
his greatcoat, two other sleighs had gone by, bearing town fathers to
the trysting-place. Amarita was nervous. She knew Elihu liked to be
beforehand with his duties. But at last, his roll of plans in hand, he
was proceeding down the path, slipping a little, for the thaw had made
it treacherous, to the gate where the horse was hitched, and Amarita,
at the sitting-room window, watched him. Old Mis' Meade came up behind
her, and she too watched.

Elihu was uncovering the horse. Amarita turned from her mother-in-law
with a noiseless rush and flew out of the front door and down the
slippery path.

"Elihu!" she called, with all the voice excitement left her. "Elihu, you
come here. I've got to speak to you."

Elihu left the horse and came with long strides up the path, taking, as
he hurried, glances at the roof.

"Roarin', is it?" he asked. "You think the chimbley's ketched?"

The roll of plans stuck out from his coat pocket. That was all Amarita
could see. She laid hands upon him and drew him into the entry. There
she shut the door and then stood with her grasp upon the other door,
leading into the sitting-room, and held it tight. She was afraid mother
Meade might come out to see what was the matter. Amarita leaned against
the casing. In spite of the brightness of her eyes, she looked faint and
sick. It seemed to be her grasp upon the latch that kept her now from
falling.

"O Elihu!" she said. He was questioning her with puzzled eyes. "O Elihu!
I've been awful mean to you." Her hold on the latch relaxed, and she
sat down on the packing-case between them. "When I told you about the
box the man left, and you seemed to think I didn't know enough to come
in when it rained, I said next time you made any kind of a mistake I'd
let it go, no matter who's goin' to laugh at you. And when it come to
your plans"--she stopped here, and Elihu absently put his hand to the
roll in his pocket--"when it come to them, I said you might show 'em to
the minister and the doctor and everybody else. But, Elihu, there
ain't--O Elihu, you ain't put a single closet in that house!"

Elihu stood there in silence, and Amarita sat on the packing-case,
feeling her heart beat. It seemed a long time before she heard his
voice.

"There! there!" he was saying. "You open that door and I'll look in an'
see if the chimbley's ketched."

In a moment Amarita followed him. She heard mother Meade moving about
the kitchen, and Elihu was just dropping his roll of paper on the fire.
She gave a little cry, but he only said, in what seemed to her a very
kind voice, almost the voice of courting days,--

"You run out and fetch me in the hammer and screw-driver, whilst I
listen to this chimbley."

When she came droopingly back with the tools, Elihu was explicitly
cheerful.

"There!" he said. "That's safe enough. We'll burn it out, come wet
