fellow. Here, Phil--” He turned back to the hearth.
Frenham still sat in his low chair, making no response to his host’s
hospitable summons. But as Culwin advanced toward him, their eyes met in
a long look; after which, to my intense surprise, the young man, turning
suddenly in his seat, flung his arms across the table, and dropped his
face upon them.
Culwin, at the unexpected gesture, stopped short, a flush on his face.
“Phil--what the deuce? Why, have the eyes scared you? My dear boy--my
dear fellow--I never had such a tribute to my literary ability, never!”
He broke into a chuckle at the thought, and halted on the hearth-rug,
his hands still in his pockets, gazing down in honest perplexity at the
youth’s bowed head. Then, as Frenham still made no answer, he moved a
step or two nearer.
“Cheer up, my dear Phil! It’s years since I’ve seen them--apparently
I’ve done nothing lately bad enough to call them out of chaos. Unless my
present evocation of them has made you see them; which would be their
worst stroke yet!”
His bantering appeal quivered off into an uneasy laugh, and he moved
still nearer, bending over Frenham, and laying his gouty hands on the
lad’s shoulders.
“Phil, my dear boy, really--what’s the matter? Why don’t you answer?
Have you seen the eyes?”
Frenham’s face was still pressed against his arms, and from where I
stood behind Culwin I saw the latter, as if under the rebuff of this
unaccountable attitude, draw back slowly from his friend. As he did so,
the light of the lamp on the table fell full on his perplexed congested
face, and I caught its sudden reflection in the mirror behind Frenham’s
head.
Culwin saw the reflection also. He paused, his face level with the
mirror, as if scarcely recognizing the countenance in it as his own. But
as he looked his expression gradually changed, and for an appreciable
space of time he and the image in the glass confronted each other with
a glare of slowly gathering hate. Then Culwin let go of Frenham’s
shoulders, and drew back a step, covering his eyes with his hands ...
Frenham, his face still hidden, did not stir.
THE BLOND BEAST
I
IT had been almost too easy--that was young Millner’s first feeling,
as he stood again on the Spence door-step, the great moment of his
interview behind him, and Fifth Avenue rolling its grimy Pactolus at his
feet.
Halting there in the winter light, with the clang of the ponderous
vestibule doors in his ears, and his eyes carried down the perspective
of the packed interminable thoroughfare, he even dared to remember
Rastignac’s apostrophe to Paris, and to hazard recklessly under his
small fair moustache: “Who knows?”
He, Hugh Millner, at any rate, knew a good deal already: a good deal
more than he had imagined it possible to learn in half an hour’s talk
with a man like Orlando G. Spence; and the loud-rumouring city spread
out there before him seemed to grin like an accomplice who knew the
rest.
A gust of wind, whirling down from the dizzy height of the building on
the next corner, drove sharply through his overcoat and compelled him
to clutch at his hat. It was a bitter January day, a day of fierce light
and air, when the sunshine cut like icicles and the wind sucked one into
black gulfs at the street corners. But Millner’s complacency was like
a warm lining to his shabby coat, and heaving steadied his hat he
continued to stand on the Spence threshold, lost in the vision revealed
to him from the Pisgah of its marble steps. Yes, it was wonderful what
the vision showed him. ... In his absorption he might have frozen
fast to the door-step if the Rhadamanthine portals behind him had not
suddenly opened to let out a slim fur-coated figure, the figure, as he
perceived, of the youth whom he had caught in the act of withdrawal as
he entered Mr. Spence’s study, and whom the latter, with a wave of his
affable hand, had detained to introduce as “my son Draper.”
It was characteristic of the odd friendliness of the whole scene that
the great man should have thought it worth while to call back and name
his heir to a mere humble applicant like Millner; and that the heir
should shed on him, from a pale high-browed face, a smile of such
deprecating kindness. It was characteristic, equally, of Millner, that
he should at once mark the narrowness of the shoulders sustaining this
ingenuous head; a narrowness, as he now observed, imperfectly concealed
by the wide fur collar of young Spence’s expensive and badly cut coat.
But the face took on, as the youth smiled his surprise at their second
meeting, a look of almost plaintive good-will: the kind of look that
Millner scorned and yet could never quite resist.
“Mr. Millner? Are you--er--waiting?” the lad asked, with an intention
of serviceableness that was like a finer echo of his father’s resounding
cordiality.
“For my motor? No,” Millner jested in his frank free voice. “The fact
is, I was just standing here lost in the contemplation of my luck”--and
as his companion’s pale blue eyes seemed to shape a question, “my
extraordinary luck,” he explained, “in having been engaged as your
father’s secretary.”
“Oh,” the other rejoined, with a faint colour in his sallow cheek. “I’m
so glad,” he murmured: “but I was sure--” He stopped, and the two looked
kindly at each other.
Millner averted his gaze first, almost fearful of its betraying the
added sense of his own strength and dexterity which he drew from the
contrast of the other’s frailness.
“Sure? How could any one be sure? I don’t believe in it yet!” he laughed
out in the irony of his triumph.
The boy’s words did not sound like a mere civility--Millner felt in them
an homage to his power.
“Oh, yes: I was sure,” young Draper repeated. “Sure as soon as I saw
you, I mean.”
Millner tingled again with this tribute to his physical straightness and
bloom. Yes, he looked his part, hang it--he looked it!
But his companion still lingered, a shy sociability in his eye.
“If you’re walking, then, can I go along a little way?” And he nodded
southward down the shabby gaudy avenue.
That, again, was part of the high comedy of the hour--that Millner
should descend the Spence steps at young Spence’s side, and stroll down
Fifth Avenue with him at the proudest moment of the afternoon; O. G.
Spence’s secretary walking abroad with O. G. Spence’s heir! He had the
scientific detachment to pull out his watch and furtively note the hour.
Yes--it was exactly forty minutes since he had rung the Spence door-bell
and handed his card to a gelid footman, who, openly sceptical of his
claim to be received, had left him unceremoniously planted on the cold
tessellations of the vestibule.
“Some day,” Miller grinned to himself, “I think I’ll take that footman
as furnace-man--or to do the boots.” And he pictured his marble palace
rising from the earth to form the mausoleum of a footman’s pride.
Only forty minutes ago! And now he had his opportunity fast! And he
never meant to let it go! It was incredible, what had happened in the
interval. He had gone up the Spence steps an unknown young man, out of a
job, and with no substantial hope of getting into one: a needy young
man with a mother and two limp sisters to be helped, and a lengthening
figure of debt that stood by his bed through the anxious nights. And he
went down the steps with his present assured, and his future lit by the
hues of the rainbow above the pot of gold. Certainly a fellow who made
his way at that rate had it “in him,” and could afford to trust his
star.
Descending from this joyous flight he stooped his ear to the discourse
of young Spence.
“My father’ll work you rather hard, you know: but you look as if you
wouldn’t mind that.”
Millner pulled up his inches with the self-consciousness of the man who
had none to waste. “Oh, no, I shan’t mind that: I don’t mind any amount
of work if it leads to something.”
“Just so,” Draper Spence assented eagerly. “That’s what I feel. And
you’ll find that whatever my father undertakes leads to such awfully
fine things.”
Millner tightened his lips on a grin. He was thinking only of where the
work would lead him, not in the least of where it might land the eminent
Orlando G. Spence. But he looked at his companion sympathetically.
“You’re a philanthropist like your father, I see?”
“Oh, I don’t know.” They had paused at a crossing, and young Draper,
with a dubious air, stood striking his agate-headed stick against the
curb-stone. “I believe in a purpose, don’t you?” he asked, lifting his
