Picard calmly shook off the hand, and, adding a vigorous push which
sent the captain staggering among the little iron-tables, proceeded
nonchalantly.  Holleran leaped to his feet, but there was a glitter in
Picard's eye that did not promise well for any rough-and-tumble fight.
Picard's muscular shoulders moved off toward the vanishing point.
Holleran turned to the captain, and with the assistance of a waiter,
the two righted the old man.
"Do you speak English?" roared the old sailor.
"Yes, sir," respectfully.
"Who wus that?"
The waiter, in reverent tones, declared that the gentleman referred to
was well known in Ajaccio, that he had spent the previous winter there,
and that he was no less a person than the Duke of--But the waiter never
completed the sentence.  The title was enough for the irascible
Flanagan.
"Th'--hell--he--is!"  The captain subsided into the nearest chair,
bereft of future speech, which is a deal of emphasis to put on the
phrase.  Picard, a duke, and only that morning his hands had been
yellow with the stains of the donkey-engine oil!  And by and by the
question set alive his benumbed brain; what was a duke doing on the
yacht Laura?  "Holleran, we go t' the commodore.  The devil's t' pay.
What's a dook doin' on th' ship, and we expectin' to dig up gold in
yonder mountains?  Look alive, man; they's villany afoot!"
Holleran's jaw sagged.
CHAPTER XXII
THE ADMIRAL BEGINS TO DOUBT
"What's this you're telling me, Flanagan?" said the admiral perturbed.
"Ask Holleran here, sir; he wus with me when th' waiter said Picard wus
a dook.  I've suspicioned his han's this long while, sir."
"Yes, sir; Picard it was," averred Holleran.
"Bah!  Mistaken identity."
"I'm sure, sir," insisted Holleran.  "Picard has a whisker-mole on his
chin, sir, like these forriners grow, sir.  Picard, sir, an' no
mistake."
"But what would a duke . . ."
"Ay, sir; that's the question," interrupted Flanagan; and added in a
whisper: "Y' c'n buy a dozen dooks for a couple o' million francs, sir.
Th' first-officer, Holleran here, an' me; nobody else knows what we're
after, sir; unless you gentlemen abaft, sir, talked careless.  I say
'tis serious, Commodore.  He knows what we're lookin' fer."
Holleran nudged his chief.  "Tell th' commodore what we saw on th' way
here."
"Picard hobnobbin' with Mr. Breitmann, sir."
Breitmann?  The admiral's smile thinned and disappeared.  There might
be something in this.  Two million francs did not appeal to him, but he
realized that to others they stood for a great fortune, one worthy of
hazards.  He would talk this over with Cathewe and Fitzgerald and learn
what they thought about the matter.  If this fellow Picard was a duke
and had shipped as an ordinary hand foreward . . .  Peace went out of
the admiral's jaw and Flanagan's heart beat high as he saw the old
war-knots gather.  Oh, for a row like old times!  For twenty years he
had fought nothing bigger than a drunken stevedore.  Suppose this was
the beginning of a fine rumpus?  He grinned, and the admiral, noting
the same, frowned.  He wished he had left the women at Marseilles.
"Say nothing to any one," he warned.  "But if this man Picard comes
aboard again, keep him there."
"Yessir."
"That'll be all."
"What d' y' think?" asked Holleran, on the return to the Place des
Palmiers, for the two were still hungry.
"Think?  There's a fight, bucko!" jubilantly.
"These pleasure-boats sure become monotonous."  Holleran rubbed his
dark hands.  "When d' y' think it'll begin?"
"I wish ut wus t'day."
"I've seen y' do some fine work with th' peg."
They had really seen Picard and Breitmann talking together.  The
acquaintanceship might have dated from the sailing of the Laura, and
again it mightn't.  At least, M. Ferraud, who overheard the major part
of the conversation, later in the day, was convinced that Picard had
joined the crew of the Laura for no other purpose than to be in touch
with Breitmann.  There were some details, however, which would be
acceptable.  He followed them to the Rue Fesch, to a trattoria, but
entered from the rear.  M. Ferraud never assumed any disguises, but
depended solely upon his adroitness in occupying the smallest space
possible.  So, while the two conspirators sat at a table on the
sidewalk, M. Ferraud chose his inside, under the grilled window which
was directly above them.
"Everything is in readiness," said Picard.
"Thanks to you, duke."
"To-night you and your old boatman Pietro will leave for Aïtone.  The
admiral and his party will start early to-morrow morning.  No matter
what may happen, he will find no drivers till morning.  The drivers all
understand what they are to do on the way back from Evisa.  I almost
came to blows with that man Flanagan.  I wasn't expecting him ashore.
And I could not stand the grime and jeans a minute longer.  Perhaps he
will believe it a case of mistaken identity.  At any rate he will not
find out the truth till it's too late for him to make a disturbance.
We have had wonderful luck!"
A cart rumbled past, and the listener missed a few sentences.  What did
the drivers understand?  What was going to happen on the way back from
Evisa?  Surely, Breitmann did not intend that the admiral should do the
work and then be held up later.  The old American sailor wasn't afraid
of any one, and he would shoot to kill.  No, no; Breitmann meant to
secure the gold alone.  But the drivers worried M. Ferraud.  He might
be forced to change his plans on their account.  He wanted full
details, not puzzling components.  Quiet prevailed once more.
"Women in affairs of this sort are always in the way," said Picard.
M. Ferraud did not hear what Breitmann replied.
"Take my word for it," pursued Picard, "this one will trip you; and you
can not afford to trip at this stage.  We are all ready to strike, man.
All we want is the money.  Every ten francs of it will buy a man.  We
leave Marseilles in your care; the rest of us will carry the word on to
Lyons, Dijon and Paris.  With this unrest in the government, the army
scandals, the dissatisfied employees, and the idle, we shall raise a
whirlwind greater than '50 or '71.  We shall reach Paris with half a
million men."
Again Breitmann said something lowly.  M. Ferraud would have liked to
see his face.
"But what are you going to do with the other woman?"
Two women: M. Ferraud saw the ripple widen and draw near.  One woman he
could not understand, but two simplified everything.  The drivers and
two women.
"The other?" said Breitmann.  "She is of no importance."
M. Ferraud shook his head.
"Oh, well; this will be, your private affair.  Captain Grasset will
arrive from Nice to-morrow night.  Two nights later we all should be on
board and under way.  Do you know, we have been very clever.  Not a
suspicion anywhere of what we are about."
"Do you recollect M. Ferraud?" inquired Breitmann.
"That little fool of a butterfly-hunter?" the duke asked.
M. Ferraud smiled and gazed laughingly up at the grill.
"He is no fool," abruptly.  "He is a secret agent, and not one move
have we made that is unknown to him."
"Impossible!"
M. Ferraud could not tell whether the consternation in Picard's voice
was real or assumed.  He chose to believe the latter.
"And why hasn't he shown his hand?"
"He is waiting for us to show ours.  But don't worry," went on
Breitmann.  "I have arranged to suppress him neatly."
And the possible victim murmured: "I wonder how?"
"Then we must not meet again until you return; and then only at the
little house in the Rue St. Charles."
"Agreed.  Now I must be off."
"Good luck!"
M. Ferraud heard the stir of a single chair and knew that the
great-grandson was leaving.  The wall might have been transparent, so
sure was he of the smile upon Picard's face, a sinister speculating
smile.  But his imagination did not pursue Breitmann, whose lips also
wore a smile, one of irony and bitterness.  Neither did he hear Picard
murmur "Dupe!" nor Breitmann mutter "Fools!"
