pubhc. And they must give up that franchise! 
They must give up every dollar that they have 
made out of it! That is the whole story, as I see 
it — nothing else counts but that. You can make 
all the fuss you want about bribery and graft, 
but you haven't accomplished anything unless 
you get back the stolen money." 
There was a pause. " Don't you see what I 
mean, doctor? " asked Samuel. 
" Yes," was the reply, " I see." 
'"Well?"said Samuel. 
" It would be no use to try it," said the doctor, 
" They would never do it." 
" They wouldn't? " 
" No. Nothing in the world could make them 
do it." 
"Not even if we threatened to denounce 
them? " 
" No; not even then." 
** Not even if we put them in jail? " 
Dr. Vince made no reply. The other sat wait- 
ing. And then suddenly he said in a low voice, 
" Doctor, I mean to make them give it up. I see 
it quite clearly now — that is my duty. They 
must give it upl " 
Again there was silence. 
" Dr. Vince," cried the boy in a voice of pain, 
" you surely mean to help me! " 
And suddenly the doctor shut his lips together 
tightly. " No, Samuel," he said. " I do not! " 
The boy sat dumb. He felt a kind of f aintness 
come over him. " You will leave me all alone? " 
he said in a weak voice. 
The other made no reply. 
"Am I not right?" cried the boy wildly. 
" Have I not spoken the truth? " 
" I don't know," the doctor answered. " It is 
too hard a question for me to answer. I only 
know that I do not feel such things to be in my 
province; and I will not have anything to do with 
them." 
" But, doctor, you are the representative of the 
church ! " 
" Yes. And I must attend to the affairs of the 
church." 
" But is it no affair of the church that the peo- 
ple are being robbed? " 
There was no reply. 
"You give out charity!" protested Samuel. 
" You pretend to try to help the poor! And I 
bring you cases, and you confess that you can't 
help them — because there are too many. And 
you couldn't tell how it came to be. But here 
I show you — I prove to you what makes the peo- 
ple poor! They are being robbed — they are be- 
ing trampled upon! Their own government has 
been stolen from them, and is being used to cheat 
them! And you won't hft yom* voice to help! " 
"There is nothing that I can do, Samuel!" 
cried the clergyman wildly. 
" But there is ! There is ! You won't try ! You 
might at least withdraw your help from these 
criminals! " 
" My help! " 
"Yes, sir! You help them! You permit them 
to stay in the church, and that gives them your 
sanction! You shelter them, and save them from 
attack! If I were to go out to-morrow and try 
to open the eyes of the people, no one would listen 
to me, because these men are so respectable — be- 
cause they are members of the church, and 
friends and relatives of yours ! " 
" Samuel! " exclaimed the clergyman. 
"And worse than that, sir! You take their 
money — you let the church become dependent up- 
on them! You told me that yovu-self, sir! And 
you give their money to the poor people — the 
very people they have robbed! And that blinds 
the people — they are grateful, and tHey don't un- 
derstand! And so you help to keep them in their 
chains! Don't you see that. Dr. Vince? — why, 
it's just the same as if you were hired for that 
purpose! " 
Dr. Vince had risen in agitation. " Really, 
Samuel ! " he cried. " You have exceeded the hmit 
of endiu-ance. This cannot go on! I will not 
hear another word of it! " 
Samuel sat, heart broken. " Then you are go- 
ing to desert me ! " he exclaimed. " You are go- 
ing to make me do it alone." 
The other stared. " What are you going to 
do? " he demanded. 
" First," said Samuel, " I am going to see 
these men. I am going to give them a chance to 
see the error of their ways." 
" Boy! " cried the doctor. " You are mad! " 
" Perhaps I am," was the reply. " But how 
can I help that? " 
" At least," exclaimed the other, " if you take 
any such step, you will make it clear to them that 
I have not sent you, and that you have no sanc- 
tion from me." 
For a long time Samuel made no reply to this. 
Somehow it seemed the most unworthy thing that 
his friend had said yet. It meant that Dr. Vince 
was a coward! 
" No, sir," he said at last, " you may rest easy 
about that. I will take the whole burden on my 
own shoulders. There's no reason why I should 
trouble you any more, I think." 
And with that he rose, and went out from the 
house. 
CHAPTER XXIII 
AFTER Samuel had left Dr. Vince, a great 
L, wave of desolation swept over him. He was 
alone again, and all the world was against him I 
For a moment he had an impulse to turn back. 
After all, he was only a boy; and who was he, to 
set himself up against the wise and great? But 
then like a stab, came again the thought which 
drove him always — the thought of the people, 
suffering and starving! Truly it was better to 
die than to live in a world in which there was so 
much misery and oppression! That was the truth, 
he would rather die than let these things go on 
unopposed. And so there could be no turning 
back — there was nothing for him save to do what 
he could. 
Where should he begin? He thought of Mr. 
Hickman — a most unpromising person to work 
with. Samuel had been afraid of him from the 
first time he had seen him. 
Then he thought of Mr. Wygant; should he 
begin with him? This brought to his mind some- 
thing which had been driven away by the rush 
of events. Miss Gladys! How would she take 
these things? And what would she think when 
she learned about her father's wickedness? 
A new idea came to Samuel. Why should he 
not take Miss Gladys into his confidence? She 
