service.  But the 1st filled up without us and went off.  And a
week ago we were sent off from White Plains Camp as K Company
to"--he bit his lip and stared at her--"to--your friend Colonel
Arran's regiment of lancers.  We took the oath.  Our captain,
Hallam, selected me for his escort to-night.  That is the simple
solution of my being here.  I didn't sneak down here to annoy you.
I didn't know you were here."
After a moment she raised her pallid face.
"Have you seen Colonel Arran?"
"No," he said shortly.
"I--it would give me--pleasure--to recommend you to his--attention.
May I write----"
"Thank you, no."
There was another painful interval of silence.  Then:
"May I speak to Captain Hallam about you?"
"No, thank you!" he said contemptuously, "I am currying no favours."
Hurt, she shrank away, and the blood mounted to her temples.
"You see," he said, "I'm just a plain brute, and there's no use
being kind to me."  He added in a lower voice, but deliberately:
"You once found out that."
She quivered and straightened up.
"Yes," she said, "I found that out.  I have paid very dearly for
my--my--" But she could not continue.
Watching her, cap hanging in his gauntleted hand, he saw the colour
deepen and deepen in neck and cheek, saw her eyes falter, and turn
from him.
"Is there any forgiveness for me?" he said.  "I didn't ask it
before--because I've still some sense of the ludicrous left in
me--or did have.  It's probably gone now, since I've asked if it is
in you to pardon--"  He shrugged again, deeming it useless; and she
made no sign of comprehension.
For a while he stood, looking down at his cap, turning it over and
over, thoughtfully.
"Well, then, Ailsa, you are very kind to offer what you did offer.
But--I don't like Colonel Arran," he added with a sneer, "and I
haven't any overwhelming admiration for Captain Hallam.  And there
you are, with your kindness and gentleness and--everything--utterly
wasted on a dull, sordid brute who had already insulted you
once. . . .  Shall I leave your kitchen?"
"No," she said faintly.  "I am going."
He offered to open the door for her, but she opened it herself,
stood motionless, turned, considered him, head high and eyes steady;
"You have killed in me, this night--this Christmas night--something
that can never again l-live in me.  Remember that in the years to
come."
"I'm sorry," he said.  "That's the second murder I've attempted.
The other was your soul."
Her eyes flashed.
"Even murderers show some remorse--some regret----"
"I do regret," he said deliberately, "that I didn't kill it. . . .
You would have loved me then."
She turned white as death, then, walking slowly up in front of him:
"You lie!" she said in even tones.
Confronted, never stirring, their eyes met; and in the cold,
concentrated fury which possessed her she set her small teeth and
stared at him, rigid, menacing, terrible in her outraged pride.
After a while he stirred; a quiver twitched his set features.
"Nevertheless--" he said, partly to himself.  Then, drawing a long
breath, he turned, unhooked his sabre from a nail where it hung,
buckled his belt, picked up the lance which stood slanting across a
chair, shook out the scarlet, swallow-tailed pennon, and walked
slowly toward the door--and met Letty coming in.
"Mrs. Paige," she said, "we couldn't imagine what had become of
you--" and glancing inquiringly at Berkley, started, and uttered a
curious little cry:
"You!"
"Yes," he said, smiling through his own astonishment.
"Oh!" she cried with a happy catch in her voice, and held out both
hands to him; and he laid aside his lance and took them, laughing
down into the velvet eyes.  And he saw the gray garb of Sainte
Ursula that she wore, saw the scarlet heart on her breast, and
laughed again--a kindly, generous, warm-hearted laugh; but there
was a little harmless malice glimmering in his eyes.
"Wonderful--wonderful, Miss Lynden"--he had never before called her
Miss Lynden--"I am humbly overcome in the presence of Holy Sainte
Ursula embodied in you.  How on earth did old Benton ever permit
you to escape?  He wrote me most enthusiastically about you before
I--ahem--left town."
"Why didn't you let me know where you were going?" asked Letty with
a reproachful simplicity that concentrated Ailsa's amazed attention
on her, for she had been looking scornfully at Berkley.
"Why--you are very kind, Miss Lynden, but I, myself, didn't know
where I was going."
"I--I wanted to write you," began Letty; and suddenly remembered
Ailsa's presence and turned, shyly:
"Mrs. Paige," she said, "this private soldier is Mr. Berkley--a
gentleman.  May I be permitted to present him to you?"
And there, while the tragic and comic masks grinned side by side,
and the sky and earth seemed unsteadily grinning above and under
her feet, Ailsa Paige suffered the mockery of the presentation;
felt the terrible irony of it piercing her; felt body and senses
swaying there in the candle-light; heard Letty's happy voice and
Berkley's undisturbed replies; found courage to speak, to take her
leave; made her way back through a dreadful thickening darkness to
her room, to her bed, and lay there silent, because she could not
weep.
CHAPTER XII
In February the birds sang between flurries of snow; but the end of
the month was warm and lovely, and robins, bluebirds, and cardinals
burst into a torrent of song.  The maples' dainty fire illumined
every swamp; the green thorn turned greener; and the live-oaks
sprouted new leaves amid their olive-tinted winter foliage, ever
green.
Magnolia and laurel grew richer and glossier; azaleas were budding;
dog-wood twigs swelled; and somewhere, in some sheltered hollow, a
spray of jasmine must have been in bloom, because the faint and
exquisite scent haunted all the woodlands.
On the 17th the entire army was paraded by regiments to cheer for
the fall of Fort Donnelson.
About mid-February the Allotment Commission began its splendid work
in camp; and it seemed to Ailsa that the mental relief it brought
to her patients was better than any other medicine--that is, better
for the Union patients; for now there were, also, in the wards, a
number of Confederate wounded, taken at various times during the
skirmishing around Fairfax--quiet, silent, dignified Virginians,
and a few fiery Louisianians, who at first, not knowing what to
expect, scarcely responded to the brusque kindness of the hospital
attendants.
The first Confederate prisoner that Ailsa ever saw was brought in
on a stretcher, a quiet, elderly man in bloody gray uniform,
wearing the stripes of a sergeant.
Prisoners came more often after that.  Ailsa, in her letters to
Celia Craig, had mentioned the presence of Confederate wounded at
the Farm Hospital; and, to her delight and amazement, one day late
in February a Commission ambulance drove up, and out stepped Celia
Craig; and the next instant they were locked tightly in each
other's arms,
"Darling--darling!" sobbed Ailsa, clinging desperately to Celia,
"it is heavenly of you to come.  I was so lonely, so tired and
discouraged.  You won't go away soon, will you? I couldn't bear
it--I want you so--I need you----"
"Hush, Honey-bud!  I reckon I'll stay a while.  I've been a week
with Curt's regiment at Fortress Monroe.  I had my husband to
myse'f fo' days, befo' they sent him to Acquia Creek.  And I've had
my boy a whole week all to myse'f!  Then his regiment went away.
They wouldn't tell me where.'  But God is kinder. . . .  You are
certainly ve'y pale, Honey-bee!"
"I'm well, dearest--really I am, I'll stay well now.  Is Curt all
right?  And Stephen?  And Paige and Marye?--and Camilla?"
"Everybody is well, dear.  Curt is ve'y brown and thin--the dear
