really only borrowing money on the security of a voice. 
Perhaps, even with a young man, it was simple. At least 
nothing would be lost if he liked her, and nothing was more 
likely than that he should, for he was half hermit in his tastes, 
and here was Bess making the shed-chamber her retreat. 
" Mr. Lovell has just called," she said. 
" Has he ? " asked Bess, with no appearance of interest 
"He looked very handsome." 
But this Bess did not answer, and Celia, looking up at 
her, saw that she was frowningly, yet with delicacy, extract- 
ing a fly from a cobweb on the pane. Rescues seemed to go 
in pairs that day. 
" Do you think he 's handsome, Bess? " insisted Celia. 
" Handsome ? " echoed Bess. She had unwound the last 
filament from the fettered gauze and now set the prisoner 
free outside the window. " I guess so. It don't make so 
much difference about men-folks anyway. If they 're strong 
and well, that 's enough." 
Celia looked at her a moment and then burst out laugh- 
ing. This was a real laugh, not her tinkling accompaniment. 
" I should think you were Lyddy," she cried, " O you 
darling thing ! " 
 
XV 
IT was not many days after this that Bess, sweeping ofF 
the front steps to save Lyddy's old bones, saw a little 
figure full of haste, yet dignity, advancing up the path. 
It was Tonty, clad in blue checked gingham and anxiety, no 
hat on her smoothly braided brown hair, and a little willow 
switch in her hand. That Tonty always carried when she 
walked abroad, because she was afraid of Tom Peasley's 
turkey-gobbler. She stopped a couple of feet short of the 
flight of steps, and regarded Bess with some surprise and 
much pleasure, evidently having expected to encounter 
Lyddy. 
"Is Jackie at home ? " she asked. 
She had heard Winterbourne's name, but chiefly from 
her mother's lips and those of persons inclined to stiffiiess 
and willingness to be grown up, and she made no doubt 
that Jackie was his own best name. 
" Who, little dear ? " Bess answered, with a desire to get 
her arms about the womanly figure. 
" Is Jackie at home ? " 
Winterbourne himself now came round the corner, smok- 
ing his morning pipe and picking his way on the flagstones 
bordered by the newly springing grass. 
" Well, my buttons ! " said he. " If here isn't the lady 
of the manor and the Maid of the Mist! I do feel honored, 
mum." 
He took out his pipe and knuckled his forehead in good 
old English style. But Tonty found no awakening laughter. 
Her face broke up into relief and happiness and misery. 
 
and when he reached her on the walk, she set upon him 
and clung. 
" O Jackie," she choked, " Tony 's awful sick." 
" Tony sick ? " he asked her gravely. " Where 's mother ? " 
" Mother 's gone to Cleveland. Is it far ? " 
" Pretty far," Winterbourne replied grimly. " But Hades 
is n't," he added, with an afterthought of Mrs. Ramsay 
and her disordered house. " Never you mind, ladykin. 
I'll get my hat, and we'll see what 's the matter with old 
Tony." 
" Shan't I go with you ? " Bess was asking. 
She had set her broom inside the hall closet, and given 
her sleeves a downward smooth, to make them ready for the 
street. Her eyes were warmly questioning. Winterbourne 
knew through the certainty of his natural understanding of 
her that she was on fire to get into a house where there 
were dirt and children. 
" Come along," he said. And when he had got his hat 
and Bess had slipped a bottle into her pocket, he took 
Tonty's hand and they walked off down the street, Bess 
following. 
Tonty had looked doubtfully and somewhat jealously on 
the prospect of a third on their quest, but Bess having the 
insight to fall behind, her presence was not really chal- 
lenged. It came out now, in the course of judicious ques- 
tioning, that Tony had been coughing for several days, but 
to-day he lay on the sofa and said he couldn't get up, and 
bade them bring him plum-cake. And Mary, the cook, had 
been sick upstairs, and Tonty felt he ought to be denied 
plum-cake, but there was no one to ask. Besides there was 
no plum-cake to give him. Then they were at the slipshod 
old house, and Tonty, scrupulously standing aside to let 
the strange lady enter, and vaguely conscious of the confu- 
 
sion to salute her, wished, in her little anxious soul, she had 
taken care of Tony herself. 
" Here we are," said Winterbourne. "This is our room." 
He threw open the nursery door, and Bess went in. 
Tony was lying on the sofa, his small person flanked by 
offerings from the nursery store. Tin soldiers were there, a 
set of clothespins Winterbourne had painted for Tonty long 
ago, and helped her dress in petticoats, and the tops of the 
establishment, three mangled and one in health, were wait- 
ing for the master hand to spin them. Tiny and Teeny sat 
in little chairs in the exact middle of the room, having been 
put there by Tonty at her departure, lest they should either 
take fire at the coals or come too near Tony's delirious 
grasp. Tony himself was red in the face, really, Tonty 
knew, from roaring for each particular thing he wanted and 
exacted as the tribute of one nigh unto his end. He cocked 
one eye at Winterbourne, and then closed it. He was not 
altogether pleased at the advent of grown-ups. Tony had 
counted on a superior day. 
Bess went forward to him in a silent haste. She knelt on 
the floor, and looked at him, felt his hands and his skin, 
and held one of his solid wrists in hers. 
" What is it, boy ? " she asked. 
Tony opened both eyes a slit and seemed to investigate 
her motives. But he closed them tight again, and groaned 
distressingly. Winterbourne was frowning with anxiety. 
" What do you think, Bess?" he inquired. "Think I 'd 
better call Pelham?" 
" Mary 's been sick upstairs just the same way," Tonty 
volunteered. Her smooth forehead was tied into knots of 
care. " Mary got sick as much as a week ago, and first she 
talked all the time and her face was red just like Tony's, and 
we carried her up all our things to see if she 'd like 'em, and 
 
when father came home at night he got the doctor. And 
the doctor sent her away to Mary's sister's. But Tony 's 
sick just the same way." 
Bess had put her hands under Tony's arms, and now 
she lifted the firm little body and set it upright. She was 
all of a smile, and Winterbourne, watching her, thought 
her a witch of a girl who seemed to know nothing and yet 
was unfailingly on deck. 
"Tonty," said she, "can you find me some molasses?" 
Tonty stared at her. This was far from anything she had 
expected. 
" In the kitchen I could," she returned dutifully. 
"We'll go into the kitchen to make it. Tony's got to 
have molasses candy. If we sent for the doctor, that's what 
he'd say, first thing. I guess mother wouldn't mind, would 
she?" 
" Oh, no," Tonty replied, in a conviction devoid of bit- 
terness. " Mother wouldn't mind." She could have ex- 
plained that mothers were sleepy beings whose only care 
