Louis! Try to understand us and sympathise a little with us!"
His arms closed around her shoulders:
"Little sister, we both have the family temper--and beneath it, the
family instinct for cohesion. If we are also selfish it is not
individual but family selfishness. It is the family which has always
said to the world, 'Noli me tangere!' while we, individually, are
really inclined to be kinder, more sympathetic, more curious about the
neighbours outside our gate. Let it be so now. Once inside the family,
what can harm Valerie?"
"Dearest, dearest brother," she murmured, "you talk like a foolish man.
Women understand better. And if it is a part of your program that this
girl is to be accepted by an old-fashioned society, now almost obsolete,
but in which this family is merely a single superannuated unit, that
program can never be carried out."
"I think you are mistaken," he said.
"I know I am not. It is inevitable that if you marry this girl she will
be more or less ignored, isolated, humiliated, overlooked outside our
own little family circle. Even in that limited mob which the newspapers
call New York Society--in that modern, wealthy, hard-witted,
over-jewelled, self-sufficient league which is yet too eternally
uncertain of its own status to assume any authority or any
responsibility for a stranger without credentials,--it would not be
possible to make Valerie West acceptable in the slightest sense of the
word. Because she is too well known; her beauty is celebrated; she has
become famous. Her only chance there--or with us--would have been in her
absolute anonymity. Then lies might have done the rest. But lying is
now useless in regard to her."
"Perfectly," he said. "She would not permit it."
In his vacant gaze there was something changed--a fixedness born of a
slow and hopeless enlightenment.
"If that is the case, there is no chance," he said thoughtfully. "I had
not considered that aspect."
"I had."
He shook his head slightly, gazing through the window at the starry
lustre overhead.
"I wouldn't care," he said, "if she would only marry me. If she'd do
that I'd never bother anybody--nor embarrass the family--"
"Louis!"
"I mean make any social demands on you.... And, as for the world--" He
slowly shook his head again: "We could make our own friends and our own
way--if she would only consent to do it. But she never will."
"Do you mean to say she will not marry you if you ask her?" began Lily
incredulously.
"Absolutely."
"Why?"
"For your sakes--yours, and mother's, and father's--and for mine."
There was a long silence, then Lily said unsteadily:
"There--there seems to be a certain--nobility--about her.... It is a
pity--a tragedy--that she is what she is!"
"It is a tragedy that the world is what it is," he said. "Good night."
       *       *       *       *       *
His father sent for him in the morning; Louis found him reading the
Tribune in his room and sipping a bowl of hot milk and toast.
"What have you been saying to your mother?" he asked, looking up through
his gold-rimmed spectacles and munching toast.
"Has she not told you, father?"
"Yes, she has.... I think you had better make a trip around the world."
"That would not alter matters."
"I differ with you," observed his father, leisurely employing his
napkin.
"There is no use considering it," said his son patiently.
"Then what do you propose to do?"
"There is nothing to do."
"By that somewhat indefinite expression I suppose that you intend to
pursue a waiting policy?"
"A waiting policy?" His son laughed, mirthlessly. "What am I to wait
for? If you all were kind to Valerie West she might, perhaps, consent to
marry me. But it seems that even our own family circle has not
sufficient authority to protect her from our friends' neglect and
humiliation....
"She warned me that it would be so, long ago. I did not believe it; I
could not comprehend it. But, somehow, Lily has made me believe it. And
so have you. I guess it must be true. And if that's all I have to offer
my wife, it's not enough to compensate her for her loss of freedom and
happiness and self-respect among those who really care for her."
"Do you give me to understand that you renounce all intentions of
marrying this girl?" asked his father, breaking more toast into his bowl
of milk.
"Yes," said his son, listlessly.
"Thank God!" said his father; "come here, my son."
They shook hands; the son's lifeless arm fell to his side and he stood
looking at the floor in silence. The father took a spoonful of hot milk
with satisfaction, and, after the younger man had left the room, he
resumed his newspaper. He was particularly interested in the "Sunshine
Column," which dispensed sweetness and light under a poetic caption too
beautiful to be true in a coldly humorous world.
       *       *       *       *       *
That afternoon Gordon Collis said abruptly to Neville:
"You look like the devil, Louis."
"Do I?"
"You certainly do." And, in a lower voice: "I guess I've heard what's
the matter. Don't worry. It's a thing about which nobody ever ought to
give anybody any advice--so I'll give you some. Marry whoever you damn
please. It'll be all the same after that oak I planted this morning is
half grown."
"Gordon," he said, surprised, "I didn't suppose you were liberal."
"Liberal! Why, man alive! Do you think a fellow can live out of doors as
I have lived, and see germs sprout, and see mountain ranges decay, and
sit on a few glaciers, and swing a pick into a mother-lode--and not be
liberal? Do you suppose ten-cent laws bother me when I'm up against the
blind laws that made the law-makers?--laws that made life itself before
Christ lived to conform to them?... I married where I loved. It chanced
that my marriage with your sister didn't clash with the sanctified order
of things in Manhattan town. But if your sister had been the maid who
dresses her, and I had loved her, I'd have married her all the same and
have gone about the pleasures and duties of procreation and conservation
exactly as I go about 'em now.... I wonder how much the Almighty was
thinking about Tenth Street when the first pair of anthropoids mated?
Nobilitas sola est atque unica virtus. If you love each other--Noli
pugnare duobus. ... And I'm going into the woods to look for ginseng.
Want to come?"
Neville went. Cameron and Stephanie, equipped with buckskin gloves, a
fox terrier, and digging apparatus, joined them just where the slender
meadow brook entered the woods.
"There are mosquitoes here!" exclaimed Cameron wrathfully. "All day and
every day I'm being stung down town, and I'm not going to stand for it
here!"
Stephanie let him aid her to the top of a fallen log, glancing back once
or twice toward Neville, who was sauntering forward among the trees,
pretending to look for ginseng.
"Do you notice how Louis has changed?" she said, keeping her balance on
the log. "I cannot bear to see him so thin and colourless."
Cameron now entertained a lively suspicion how matters stood, and knew
that Stephanie also suspected; but he only said, carelessly: "It's
probably dissipation. You know what a terrible pace he's been going from
the cradle onward."
She smiled quietly. "Yes, I know, Sandy. And I know, too, that you are
the only man who has been able to keep up that devilish pace with him."
"I've led a horrible life," muttered Cameron darkly.
Stephanie laughed; he gave her his hand as she stood balanced on the big
log; she laid her fingers in his confidently, looked into his honest
face, still laughing, then sprang lightly to the ground.
"What a really good man you are!" she said tormentingly.
"Oh, heaven! If you call me that I'm really done for!"
"Done for?" she exclaimed in surprise. "How?"
"Done for as far as you are concerned."
"I? Why how, and with what am I concerned, Sandy? I don't understand
you."
But he only turned red and muttered to himself and strolled about with
his hands in his pockets, kicking the dead leaves as though he expected
