take something down to Corydon ! 
However, in spite of all -their blunders, this new idea 
was of genuine benefit to them ; at least it put them upon 
the right track it taught them the relationship be- 
tween diet and disease. They saw the two as cause and 
consequence they watched the food they ate affecting 
their bodies as one might watch a match affecting a 
thermometer. They were no longer victims of the idea 
that health must be a spontaneous and accidental thing 
they were set definitely to thinking about it, as some- 
thing that could be achieved by will and intelligence. 
But the right knowledge lay far in the future ; and 
meantime they were groping in ignorance, and disease 
was still a mysterious visitation that came upon them 
out of the night. "Thus saith the Lord, About mid- 
night will I go out into the midst of Egypt; and all 
 
the firstborn in the land of Egypt shall die. And there 
shall be a great cry throughout all the land of Egypt, 
such as there hath been none like it, nor shall be like 
it any more." 
Their own firstborn had iow been on the regime of 
the "child specialist" for a year and a half. He was 
big and fat and rosy, and according to all the standards 
they knew, a picture of health. He was the pride of 
his parents' hearts the one success they had achieved, 
and to which they could turn their eyes. He was a 
frightful burden to them the most noisy and irre- 
pressible of children. But they struggled and worried 
along with him, and were proud of him and even, in 
a stormy sort of way, were happy with him. But now 
a calamity fell upon him, bringing them the most ter- 
rible distress they had yet had to face in their lives. 
9. IT was all the worse because they laid the blame 
upon themselves. They were accustomed to attribute 
sickness to this or that trivial cause if Corydon caught 
a cold, it was because she had sat in a draught, and if 
Thyrsis was laid up with tonsilitis, it was because he 
had gone out for kindling-wood without his hat. 
had been their wont to bundle the child up and turn 
him out to play; and one very cold day he had stood 
a long time under the woodshed, and had got chilled. 
So that night his head was hot, and he was fretful ; and 
in the morning he would not eat, and apparently had 
a fever. They sent off in haste for the doctor ; and the 
doctor came and examined him, and shook his head and 
looked very grave. It was pneumonia, he said, and a 
serious case. 
So Corydon and Thyrsis had to put all things else 
aside, and gird themselves for a siege. There were 
 
medicines to be administered every hour, and minute 
precautions to be taken to keep the patient from the 
slightest chill ; he must be in a warm room, and yet 
with some ventilation. All these things they attended 
to, and then they would sit and gaze at the sufferer, 
dumb with grief and fear. Through the night Thyrsis 
sat by the bedside, while Cedric babbled and raved in 
delirium ; and no suffering that he had ever experienced 
was equal to this. 
How he loved this baby, how passionately, how 
cruelly ! How he clung to him, blindly and desperately 
the thought of losing him simply tore his heart to 
pieces ! He would hold the hot hands, he would touch 
the little body ; how he loved that body, that was so 
beautiful and soft and white ! How many times he 
had bathed it and dressed it and hugged it to him ! He 
would sit and listen to the fevered prattle, full of 
childish phrases which brought before him the childish 
soul the wonderful, lovable thing, so merry and eager, 
so full of mischief and curiosity ; with strange impulses 
of tenderness, and flashes of intelligence that thrilled 
one, and opened long vistas to the imagination. He was 
all they had, this baby he was all they had saved out 
of the ruin of their lives, out of the shipwreck of their 
love. What sacrifices they had made for him what 
agonies he represented! And now, the idea that they 
might never see him, nor touch him, nor hear his voice 
again ! 
Also would come agonies of remorse. Thyrsis would 
face the blunder they had made it might have been 
avoided so easily, and now it was irrevocable! His 
whole body would shake with silent sobbing. Ah, this 
curse of their lives, this hideous shame that they had 
not even been able to take proper care of their child ! 
 
This wrong, too, the world meant to inflict upon them 
this supreme vengeance, this cruel punishment! 
10. THE doctor came next morning, and found 
the patient worse. This was the crisis, he said; if the 
little one lived through the night And there he 
paused, seeing the agony in the eyes of the mother and 
father. They would do all they could, he said; they 
must hope for the best. 
So the siege went on. Thyrsis sat through the night 
again and Corydon, who could not rest either, would 
come into the room every little while, and listen and 
watch. They would hold each other's hand for hours, 
dumb with suffering ; ghostly presences seemed to haunt 
the sick-chamber and set them to trembling. Thyrsis 
found himself thinking of that most terrible of all bal- 
lads, "The Erl-King". How he had shuddered once, 
hearing it sung! 
"Dem Vater grauset's, er reitet geschwind !" 
All through the night he seemed to hear the hammer- 
strokes of the horse's hoofs echoing through his soul. 
The child lived through the night, but the crisis was 
not yet over. The fever held on; the issue of life and 
death seemed to hang upon the flutter of an eyelid. 
There was one more night to be sat through>; and 
Thyrsis, whose restless intellect must needs be dealing 
with all issues, had by then fought his way through 
this terror also. They must get control of themselves 
at all hazards, he said; they must face the facts. If 
so the child should die 
He tried to say something of the sort to Corydon, 
seeking to steady her. But Corydon became almost 
 
frantic at his words. "You must not say such a thing, 
you must not think such a thing!" she cried. 
Corydon had been reading about "new thought", and 
she insisted that would be "holding the idea" of death 
over the child. "The thing for us to do," she said, "is 
to make up our minds he must live, we must know 
that he will live !" It was no time to argue about 
metaphysics, but Thyrsis found this proposition a 
source of great perplexity. How could a man make 
himself know what he did not know? 
The crisis passed, and the child lived. But the ill- 
ness continued for a couple of weeks and how pitiful 
it was to see their baby, that had been so big and rosy, 
and was now pale and thin and weak! And when at 
last he got up and went outdoors again, he caught a 
cold, and there was a relapse, and another siege of the 
dread disease; the doctor had not warned them suffi- 
ciently, it seemed. So there was a week or two more 
of watching and worrying; and then they had to face 
the fact that little Cedric would be delicate for a long 
while would need to be guarded with care all through 
the spring. 
