Her serious face shone at him with a charmed gratitude. “It’s awfully
beautiful then your having come to us so. It’s awfully beautiful your
having brought us this way, in a flash--as dropping out of a chariot
of fire--more light and what you apparently feel with myself as more
honour.”
“Ah, the beauty’s in your having yourself done it!” he returned. He
gave way to the positive joy of it. “If I’ve brought the ‘light’ and the
rest--that’s to say the very useful information--who in the world was it
brought me?”
She had a gesture of protest “You’d have come in some other way.”
“I’m not so sure! I’m beastly shy--little as I may seem to show it: save
in great causes, when I’m horridly bold and hideously offensive. Now
at any rate I only know what has been.” She turned off for it, moving
away from him as with a sense of mingled things that made for unrest;
and he had the next moment grown graver under the impression. “But does
anything in it all,” he asked, “trouble you?”
She faced about across the wider space, and there was a different note
in what she brought out. “I don’t know what forces me so to tell you
things.”
“‘Tell’ me?” he stared. “Why, you’ve told me nothing more monstrous than
that I’ve been welcome!”
“Well, however that may be, what did you mean just now by the chance of
our not ‘going straight’? When you said you’d expose our bad--or is it
our false?--Rubens in the event of a certain danger.”
“Oh, in the event of your ever being bribed”--he laughed again as with
relief. And then as her face seemed to challenge the word: “Why, to let
anything--of your best!--ever leave Dedborough. By which I mean really
of course leave the country.” She turned again on this, and something
in her air made him wonder. “I hope you don’t feel there is such a
danger? I understood from you half an hour ago that it was unthinkable.”
“Well, it was, to me, half an hour ago,” she said as she came nearer.
“But if it has since come up?”
“‘If’ it has! But has it? In the form of that monster? What Mr. Bender
wants is the great Duchess,” he recalled.
“And my father won’t sell her? No, he won’t sell the great
Duchess--there I feel safe. But he greatly needs a certain sum of
money--or he thinks he does--and I’ve just had a talk with him.”
“In which he has told you that?”
“He has told me nothing,” Lady Grace said--“or else told me quite other
things. But the more I think of them the more it comes to me that he
feels urged or tempted--”
“To despoil and denude these walls?” Hugh broke in, looking about in his
sharper apprehension.
“Yes, to satisfy, to save my sister. Now do you think our state so
ideal?” she asked--but without elation for her hint of triumph.
He had no answer for this save “Ah, but you terribly interest me. May I
ask what’s the matter with your sister?”
Oh, she wanted to go on straight now! “The matter is--in the first
place--that she’s too dazzlingly, dreadfully beautiful.”
“More beautiful than you?” his sincerity easily risked.
“Millions of times.” Sad, almost sombre, she hadn’t a shade of coquetry.
“Kitty has debts--great heaped-up gaming debts.”
“But to such amounts?”
“Incredible amounts it appears. And mountains of others too. She throws
herself all on our father.”
“And he has to pay them? There’s no one else?” Hugh asked.
She waited as if he might answer himself, and then as he apparently
didn’t, “He’s only afraid there may be some else--that’s how she makes
him do it,” she said. And “Now do you think,” she pursued, “that I don’t
tell you things?”
He turned them over in his young perception and pity, the things she
told him. “Oh, oh, oh!” And then, in the great place, while as, just
spent by the effort of her disclosure, she moved from him again, he
took them all in. “That’s the situation that, as you say, may force his
hand.”
“It absolutely, I feel, does force it.” And the renewal of her appeal
brought her round. “Isn’t it too lovely?”
His frank disgust answered. “It’s too damnable!”
“And it’s you,” she quite terribly smiled, “who--by the ‘irony of
fate’!--have given him help.”
He smote his head in the light of it. “By the Mantovano?”
“By the possible Mantovano--as a substitute for the impossible Sir
Joshua. You’ve made him aware of a value.”
“Ah, but the value’s to be fixed!”
“Then Mr. Bender will fix it!”
“Oh, but--as he himself would say--I’ll fix Mr. Bender!” Hugh declared.
“And he won’t buy a pig in a poke.”
This cleared the air while they looked at each other; yet she had
already asked: “What in the world can you do, and how in the world can
you do it?”
Well, he was too excited for decision. “I don’t quite see now, but give
me time.” And he took out his watch as already to measure it. “Oughtn’t
I before I go to say a word to Lord Theign?”
“Is it your idea to become a lion in his path?”
“Well, say a cub--as that’s what I’m afraid he’ll call me! But I think I
should speak to him.”
She drew a conclusion momentarily dark. “He’ll have to learn in that
case that I’ve told you of my fear.”
“And is there any good reason why he shouldn’t?”
She kept her eyes on him and the darkness seemed to clear. “No!” she at
last replied, and, having gone to touch an electric bell, was with him
again. “But I think I’m rather sorry for you.”
“Does that represent a reason why I should be so for you?”
For a little she said nothing; but after that: “None whatever!”
“Then is the sister of whom you speak Lady Imber?”
Lady Grace, at this, raised her hand in caution: the butler had arrived,
with due gravity, in answer to her ring; to whom she made known her
desire. “Please say to his lordship--in the saloon or wherever--that
Mr. Crimble must go.” When Banks had departed, however, accepting the
responsibility of this mission, she answered her friend’s question. “The
sister of whom I speak is Lady Imber.”
“She loses then so heavily at bridge?”
“She loses more than she wins.”
Hugh gazed as with interest at these oddities of the great. “And yet she
still plays?”
“What else, in her set, should she do?”
This he was quite unable to say; but he could after a moment’s
exhibition of the extent to which he was out of it put a question
instead. “So you’re not in her set?”
“I’m not in her set.”
“Then decidedly,” he said, “I don’t want to save her. I only want--”
He was going on, but she broke in: “I know what you want!”
He kept his eyes on her till he had made sure--and this deep exchange
between them had a beauty. “So you’re now with me?”
“I’m now with you!”
“Then,” said Hugh, “shake hands on it”
He offered her his hand, she took it, and their grasp became, as you
would have seen in their fine young faces, a pledge in which they stood
a minute locked. Lord Theign came upon them from the saloon in the midst
of the process; on which they separated as with an air of its having
consisted but of Hugh’s leave-taking. With some such form of mere
civility, at any rate, he appeared, by the manner in which he addressed
himself to Hugh, to have supposed them occupied.
“I’m sorry my daughter can’t keep you; but I must at least thank you for
your interesting view of my picture.”
Hugh indulged in a brief and mute, though very grave, acknowledgment of
this expression; presently speaking, however, as on a resolve taken with
a sense of possibly awkward consequences: “May I--before you’re sure of
your indebtedness--put you rather a straight question, Lord Theign?” It
sounded doubtless, and of a sudden, a little portentous--as was in fact
testified to by his lordship’s quick stiff stare, full of wonder at
so free a note. But Hugh had the courage of his undertaking. “If I
contribute in ny modest degree to establishing the true authorship of
the work you speak of, may I have from you an assurance that my success
isn’t to serve as a basis for any peril--or possibility--of its leaving
the country?”
Lord Theign was visibly astonished, but had also, independently of this,
turned a shade pale. “You ask of me an ‘assurance’?”
Hugh had now, with his firmness and his strained smile, quite the look
of having counted the cost of his step. “I’m afraid I must, you see.”
