and see what you have missed."
They went over the renovated house thoroughly; she, secretly enchanted
at his admiration and praise of everything, pointed out any object that
seemed to have escaped his attention merely to hear him approve it.
Finally she relented.
"You are satisfactory," she said as they returned to the front veranda
and seated themselves. "And really, Rix, I'm so terribly glad to see you
that I forgive your neglect.... Are you well? You don't look very
well," she added earnestly. "Why are you so white?"
"I'm in fine shape, thank you."
"I didn't mean your figure," she laughed--"Oh, that was a common kind
of a joke, wasn't it? But I'm only a farmer, Rix. You must expect the
ruder and simpler forms of speech from a lady of the woodshed!... Why
are you so pale?"
"Do I seem particularly underdone?"
"That's horrid, too. Are you and I going to degenerate just because you
work for a living? You are unusually thin, anyway; and the New York
pallor is very noticeable. Will you stay and get sun-burnt?"
"I could stay a few days."
"How many?"
"How many do you want me? Two whole days, Strelsa?"
She laughed at him, then looked at him a trifle shyly, but laughed again
as she answered:
"I want you to stay always, of course. Don't pretend that you don't know
it, because you are perfectly aware that I never tire of you. But if you
can stay only two days don't let us waste any time----"
"We're not wasting it here together, are we?"
"Don't you want to walk? I haven't a horse yet, except for agricultural
purposes. I'll rinse my hands and take off this apron--" She stood
unpinning and untying it, her gray eyes never leaving him in their
unabashed delight in him.
Then she disappeared for a few minutes only to reappear wearing a pair
of stout little shoes and carrying a walking-stick which she said she
used in rough country.
And first they visited her garden where all the old-fashioned autumn
flowers were in riotous bloom--scarlet sage, rockets, thickets of
gladiolus, heavy borders of asters, marigolds, and coreopsis; and here
she gave a few verbal directions to the yokel who gaped toothlessly in
reply.
After that, side by side, they swung off together across the hill, she,
lithe and slender, setting the springy pace and twirling her
walking-stick, he, less accustomed to the open and more so to the smooth
hot streets of the city, slackening pace first.
She chided and derided him and bantered him scornfully, then with sudden
sweet concern halted, reproaching herself for setting too hot a pace for
a city-worn and work-worn man.
But the cool shadows of the woods were near, and she made him rest on
the little footbridge--the same bridge where he had encountered Ledwith
for the first time in years. He recognised the spot.
After they had seated themselves and Strelsa, resting on the back of the
bridge seat, was contentedly dabbling in the stream with her cane,
Quarren said, slowly:
"Shall I tell you why I did not disturb you last night, Strelsa?"
"You can't excuse it----"
"You shall be judge and jury. It's rather a long story, though----"
"I am listening."
"Then, it has to do with Ledwith. He's not very well but he's better
than he was. You see he wanted to take a course of treatment to regain
his health, and there seemed to be nobody else, so--I offered to see
him through."
"That's like you, Rix," she said, looking at him.
"Oh, it wasn't anything--I had nothing to do----"
"That's like you, too. Did you pull him through?"
"He pulled himself through.... It was strenuous for two or three
days--and hot as the devil in that sanitarium." ... He laughed. "We both
were wrecks when we came out two weeks later--oh, a bit groggy, that's
really all.... And he had no place to go--and seemed to be inclined to
keep hold of my sleeve--so I telephoned Molly. And she said to bring him
up. That was nice of her, wasn't it?"
"Everybody is wonderful except you," she said.
"Nonsense," he said, "it wasn't I who went through a modified hell. He's
got a lot of backbone, Ledwith.... And so we came up last night....
And--now here's the interesting part, Strelsa! We strolled over to call
on Mrs. Ledwith----"
"What!"
"Certainly. I myself didn't see her but--" he laughed--"she seemed to be
at home to her ex-husband."
"Rix!"
"It's a fact. He went back there for breakfast this morning after he'd
changed his clothes."
"After--what?"
"Yes. It seems that they started out in a canoe about midnight and he
didn't turn up at Witch-Hollow until just before breakfast--and then he
only stayed long enough to change to boating flannels.... You should see
him; he's twenty years younger.... I fancy they'll get along together in
future."
"Oh, Rix!" she said, "that was darling of you! You are wonderful even
if you don't seem to know it!... And to think--to think that Mary
Ledwith is going to be happy again!... Oh, you don't know how it has
been with her--the silly, unhappy little thing!
"Why, after Mrs. Sprowl left, the girl went all to pieces. Molly and I
did what we could--but Molly isn't strong and Mrs. Ledwith was at my
house almost all the time--Oh, it was quite dreadful, and I'm sure she
was really losing her senses--because--I think I'll tell you--I tell you
everything--" She hesitated, and then, lowering her voice:
"She had come to see me, and she was lying on the lounge in my
dressing-room, crying; and I was doing my hair. And first I knew she
sobbed out that she had killed her husband and wanted to die, and she
caught up that pistol that Sir Charles gave me at the Bazaar last
winter--it looked like a real one--and the next thing I knew she had
fired a charge of Japanese perfume at her temple, and it was all over
her face and hair!... Don't laugh, Rix; she thought she had killed
herself, and I had a horrid, messy time of it reviving her."
"You poor child," he exclaimed trying not to laugh--"she had no brains
to blow out anyway.... That's a low thing to say. Ledwith likes her....
I really believe she's been scared into life-long good behaviour."
"She wasn't--really--horrid," said Strelsa in a low voice. "She told me
so."
"I don't doubt it," he said. "But one way or the other you might as well
reproach a humming-bird for its morals. There are such people."
After a short silence she said:
"Tell me about people in town."
"There are few there. Besides," he added smilingly, "I don't see much of
your sort of people."
"My sort?" she repeated, lifting her gray eyes. "Am I not your sort,
Rix?"
"Are you? You should see me in my overalls and shirt-sleeves, stained
with solvents and varnish, sticky with glue and reeking turpentine,
ironing out a canvas with a warm flat-iron!... Am I your kind, Strelsa?"
"Yes.... Am I your kind?"
"You always were. You know that."
"Yes, I do know it, now." She sat very still, hands folded, considering
him with gray and speculative eyes.
"From the very beginning," she said, "you have never once disappointed
me."
"What!" he exclaimed incredulously.
"Never," she repeated.
"Why--why, I got in wrong the very first time!" he said.
"You mean that wager we made?"
"Yes."
"But you behaved like a good sportsman."
"Well, I wasn't exactly a bounder. But you were annoyed."
She smiled: "Was I?"
"You seemed to be."
"Yet I sat in a corner behind some palms with you until daylight."
They looked at each other and laughed over the reminiscence. Then he
said:
"I did disappoint you when you found out what sort of a man I was."
"No, you didn't."
"I proved it, too," he said under his breath.
