
"Yes," she said gravely. "But you know there is no meeting ground there
for us, don't you?"

"Couldn't you ask me to something?"

"Yes--I could. But you wouldn't care for the people. You know it. They
are not like the people to whom you are accustomed. They would only bore
you."

"So do many people I know."

"Not in the same way. Why do you ask me? You know it is better not." She
added smilingly: "There is neither wealth nor fashion nor intellectual
nor social distinction to be expected among my friends----"

She hesitated, and added quietly: "You understand that I am not
criticising them. I am merely explaining them to you. Otherwise, I'd ask
you to dinner with a few people--I can only have four at a time, my
dining room is so small----"

"Ask me, Jacqueline!" he insisted.

She shook her head; but he continued to coax and argue until she had
half promised. And now she stood, facing him irresolutely, conscious of
the steady drift that was forcing her into uncharted channels with this
persuasive pilot who seemed to know no more of what lay ahead of them
than did she.

But there was to be no common destination; she understood that. Sooner
or later she must turn back toward the harbour they had left so
irresponsibly together, her brief voyage over, her last adventure with
this man ended for all time.

And now, as the burden of decision still seemed to rest upon her, she
offered him her hand, saying good-night; and he took it once more and
held it between both of his. Instantly the impending constraint closed
in upon them; his face became grave, hers serious, almost apprehensive.

"You have--have made me very happy," he said. "Do you know it,
Jacqueline?"

"Yes."

A curious lassitude was invading her; she leaned sideways against the
door frame, as though tired, and stood so, one hand abandoned to him,
gazing into the lamp-lit street.

"Good-night, dear," he whispered.

"Good-night."

She still gazed into the lamp-lit darkness beyond him, her hand limp in
his; and he saw her blue eyes, heavy lidded and dreamy, and the strand
of hair curling gold against her cheek.

When he kissed her, she dropped her head, covering her face with her
forearm, not otherwise stirring--as though the magic pageant of her fate
which had been gathering for two weeks had begun to move at last,
passing vision-like through her mind with a muffled uproar--sweeping on,
on, brilliant, disarrayed, timed by the deafening beating of her heart.

Dully she realised that it was here at last--all that she had
dreaded--if dread be partly made of hope!

"Are you crying?" he said, unsteadily.

She lifted her face from her arm, like a dazed child awaking.

"You darling," he whispered.

Eyes remote, she stood watching unseen things in the darkness beyond
him.

"Must I go, Jacqueline?"

"Yes."

"You are very tired, aren't you?"

"Yes."

"You won't sit up and work, will you?"

"No."

"Will you go straight to bed?"

She nodded slowly, yielding to him as he drew her into his arms.

"To-morrow, then?" he asked under his breath.

"Yes."

"And the next day, and the next, and next, and--always, Jacqueline?" he
demanded, almost fiercely.

After a moment she slowly turned her head and looked at him. There was
no answer, and no question in her gaze, only the still, expressionless
clairvoyance of a soul that sees but does not heed.

There was no misunderstanding in her eyes, nothing wistful, nothing
afraid or hurt--nothing of doubt. What had happened to others in the
world was happening now to her. She understood it; that was all--as
though the millions of her sisters who had passed that way had left to
her the dread legacy of familiarity with the smooth, wide path they had
trodden since time began on earth. And here it was, at last! Her own
calmness surprised her.

He detained her for another moment in a swift embrace; inert,
unresponsive, she stood looking down at the crushed gardenia in his
buttonhole, dully conscious of being bruised. Then he let her go; her
hand fell from his arm; she turned and faced the familiar stairs and
mounted them.

Dinner waited for her; whether she ate or not, she could not afterward
remember. About eleven o'clock, she rose wearily from the bed where she
had been lying, and began to undress.

       *       *       *       *       *

As for Desboro, he had gone straight to his rooms very much excited and
unbalanced by the emotions of the moment.

He was a man not easily moved to genuine expression. Having acquired
certain sorts of worldly wisdom in a career more or less erratic,
experience had left him unconvinced and even cynical--or he thought it
had.

But now, for the moment, all that lay latent in him of that impetuous
and heedless vigour which may become strength, if properly directed, was
awakening. Every recurring memory of her had already begun to tamper
with his self-control; for the emotions of the moments just ended had
been confusingly real; and, whatever they were arousing in him, now
clamoured for some sort of expression.

The very thought of her, now, began to act on him like some freshening
perfume alternately stimulating and enervating. He made the effort again
and again, and could not put her from his mind, could not forget the
lowered head and the slender, yielding grace of her, and her fragrance,
