The chief engineer's assistant, whistling Bide Awee, sauntered
forward.
Craig could not resist grinning at Mallow's discomfiture.  "Wouldn't
break, eh?"
"Shut your mouth!  The sneaking dock-walloper, I'll take the starch out
of him when we land!  Always had that high and mighty air.  Wants folks
to think he's a gentleman."
"He was once," said Craig.  "No use giving you advice; but he's not a
healthy individual to bait.  I'm no kitten when it comes to scrapping;
but I haven't any desire to mix things with him."  The fury of the man
who had given him the ducking was still vivid.  He had been handled as
a terrier handles a rat.
"Bah!"
"Bah as much as you please.  I picked you out of the gutter one night
in Rangoon, after roughing it with half a dozen Chinamen, and saved
your wad.  I've not your reach or height, but I can lay about some.
He'll kill you.  And why not?  He wouldn't be any worse off than he is."
"I tell you he's yellow.  And with a hundred-thousand in his clothes,
he'll be yellower still."
A hundred thousand.  Craig frowned and gazed out to sea.  He had
forgotten all about the windfall.  "Let's go and have a peg," he
suggested surlily.
Immediately upon obtaining her rooms at Raffles Hotel in Singapore (and
leaving Martha there to await the arrival of the luggage, an imposing
collection of trunks and boxes and kit-bags), Elsa went down to the
American Consulate, which had its offices in the rear of the hotel.
She walked through the outer office and stood silently at the
consul-general's elbow, waiting for him to look up.  She was dressed in
white, and in the pugree of her helmet was the one touch of color,
Rajah's blue feather.  With a smile she watched the stubby pen crawl
over some papers, ending at length with a flourish, dignified and
characteristic.  The consul-general turned his head.  His kindly face
had the settled expression of indulgent inquiry.  The expression
changed swiftly into one of delight.
"Elsa Chetwood!" he cried, seizing her hands.  "Well, well!  I am glad
to see you.  Missed you when you passed through to Ceylon.  Good
gracious, what a beautiful woman you've turned out to be!  Sit down,
sit down!"  He pushed her into a chair.  "Well, well!  When I saw you
last you were nineteen."
"What a frightful memory you have!  And I was going to my first ball.
You used the same adjective."
"Is there a better one?  I'll use it if there is.  You've arrived just
in time.  I am giving a little dinner to the consuls and their wives
to-night, and you will add just the right touch; for we are all a
little gray at the temples and some of us are a trifle bald.  You see,
I've an old friend from India in town to-day, and I've asked him, too.
Your appearance evens up matters."
"Oh; then I'm just a filler-in!"
"Heavens, no!  You're the most important person of the lot, though
Colonel Knowlton . . ."
"Colonel Knowlton!" exclaimed Elsa.
"That's so, by George!  Stupid of me.  You came down on the same boat.
Fine!  You know each other."
Elsa straightened her lips with some difficulty.  She possessed the
enviable faculty of instantly forming in her mind pictures of coming
events.  The little swelling veins in the colonel's nose were as plain
to her mind's eye as if he really stood before her.  "Have him take me
in to dinner," she suggested.
"Just what I was thinking of," declared the unsuspecting man.  "If any
one can draw out the colonel, it will be you."
"I'll do my best." Elsa's mind was full of rollicking malice.
Contemplatively he said: "So you've been doing the Orient alone?  You
are like your father in that way.  He was never afraid of anything.
Your mental make-up, too, I'll wager is like his.  Finest man in the
world."
"Wasn't he?  How I wish he could have always been with me!  We were
such good comrades.  They do say I am like father.  But why is it,
every one seems appalled that I should travel over here without male
escort?"
"The answer lies in your mirror, Elsa.  Your old nurse Martha is no
real protection."
"Are men so bad, then?"
"They are less restrained.  The heat, the tremendous distances, the
lack of amusements, are perhaps responsible.  The most difficult thing
in the world to amuse is man.  By the way, here's a packet of letters
for you."
"Thanks."  Elsa played with the packet, somberly eying the
superscriptions.  The old disorder came back into her mind.  Three of
the letters were from Arthur.  She dreaded to open them.
"Now, I'll expect you to come to the apartments and have tea at five."
"Be glad to.  Only, don't have any one else.  I just want to visit and
talk as I used to."
"I promise not to invite anybody."
"I must be going, then.  I'm not sure of my tickets to Hongkong."
"Go straight to the German Lloyd office.  The next P. & O. boat is
booked full.  Don't bother to go to Cook's.  Everybody's on the way
home now.  Go right to the office.  I'll have my boy show you the way.
Chong!" he called.  A bright-eyed young Chinese came in quickly and
silently from the other room.  "Show lady German Lloyd office.  All
same quick."
"All light.  Lady come."
"Until tea."
In the outer office she paused for a moment or so to look at the
magazines and weeklies from home.  The Chinese boy, grinning
pleasantly, peered curiously at Elsa's beautiful hands.  She heard some
one enter, and quite naturally glanced up.  The newcomer was Mallow.
He stared at her, smiled familiarly and lifted his helmet.
Elsa, with cold unflickering eyes, offered his greeting no recognition
whatever.  The man felt that she was looking through him, inside of
him, searching out all the dark comers of his soul.  He dropped his
gaze, confused.  Then Elsa calmly turned to the boy.
"Come, Chong."
There was something in the manner of her exit that infinitely puzzled
him.  It was the insolence of the well-bred, but he did not know it.
To offset his chagrin and confusion, he put on his helmet and passed
into the private office.  She was out of his range of understanding.
Mallow was an American by birth but had grown up in the Orient,
hardily.  In his youth he had been beaten and trampled upon, and now
that he had become rich in copra (the dried kernels of cocoanuts from
which oil is made), he in his turn beat and trampled.  It was the only
law he knew.  He was without refinement, never having come into contact
with that state of being long enough to fall under its influence.  He
was a shrewd bargainer; and any who respected him did so for two
reasons, his strength and his wallet.  Such flattery sufficed his
needs.  He was unmarried; by inclination, perhaps, rather than by
failure to find an agreeable mate.  There were many women in Penang and
Singapore who would have snapped him up, had the opportunity offered,
despite the fact that they knew his history tolerably well.
Ordinarily, when in Penang and Singapore, he behaved himself, drank
circumspectly and shunned promiscuous companions.  But when he did
drink heartily, he was a man to beware of.
He hailed the consul-general cordially and offered him one of his
really choice cigars, which was accepted.
"I say, who was that young woman who just went out?"
The consul-general laid down the cigar.  The question itself was
harmless enough; it was Mallow's way of clothing it he resented.
"Why?" he asked.
"She's a stunner.  Just curious if you knew her, that's all.  We came
down on the same boat.  Hanged if I shouldn't like to meet her."
"You met her on board?"
"I can't say that.  Rather uppish on the steamer.  But, do you know
her?" eagerly.
"I do.  More than that, I have always known her.  She is the daughter
of the late General Chetwood, one of the greatest civil-engineers of
our time.  When he died he left her several millions.  She is a
remarkable young woman, a famous beauty, known favorably in European
courts, and I can't begin to tell you how many other accomplishments
she has."
"Well, stump me!" returned Mallow.  "Is that all straight?"
"Every word of it," with a chilliness that did not escape a man even so
