want you changed any way. I want a daugh- 
ter to be a companion as I grow older, to read 
to me, to confide in me, to come to me in any 
trouble, to make a real home, for a man alone 
cannot do that, and to love me very, very 
dearly.” 
have always loved you,” she said simply. 
Then after a moment — 'Would I live with 
you?” 
"Yes, when I have found a pretty home, 
and you will make friends and have them 
visit you, and we will take journeys and have 
pleasures like the Warrens.” 
"Oh! How good you are!” in a tone of 
tremulous joy. There was a little twinge of 
conscience in both hearts concerning Miss 
Armitage. He salved his, thinking if she had 
wanted to she might have made some proffer 
of adoption. Marilla hardly knew how to 
choose between them. If they could both go 
and live in Loraine place! 
see Lorimer this afternoon. You have 
to apply to the legislature, and you will have 
your name changed to Richards. Maybe the 
judge or some will one question you whether 
you are willing to take me for a father, since 
you are old enough to choose, and there are 
several formalities, but the thing is often done, 
and you will be mine, mine,’’ pressing her to 
his heart in rapture. 
am so glad.” Every pulse throbbed 
with joy. 
He yielded to the subtle satisfaction and 
kissed the sweet mouth. Oh, he must get 
her strong and well and give her a lovely, 
long life! Like a vision he could see her 
growing sweeter and dearer every year, mak- 
ing life blossom with her love. 
Then Mrs. Warren returned and the girls 
came home to lunch, having a merry time 
talking over the Hippodrome. 
"Nearly every Saturday papa takes us 
somewhere,' said May. "There are some 
beautiful plays for children and concerts and 
all summer the park is splendid, though you 
can always go inside and there is so much to 
see; and an automobile ride! Oh, I wish you 
were going to live here!'’ 
There were so many pleasures to give his 
little girl. It made his heart beat with joy to 
think he was going to have one. Life had 
seemed a bit lonely as he glanced down the 
years. It would never be lonely now. He 
would take such pleasure in making her happy. 
"Yes,’’ he went on. "I’ll get a pretty home 
and we will always be together.” 
CHAPTER XIV 
THE REAL FAIRYLAND 
That evening the two cousins on the Warren 
side came in, Isabel and Willis Firth. Isabel 
was just the age of Edith and Willis, older. 
The children gave up their hour cheerfully. 
There was so much to talk about, and the 
school was going to have an entertainment — 
"The Dance of All Nations.'’ 
suppose not quite said Isabel, 
'Though the boys are to give an Indian dance 
in costume, and the Dutch dance is in clogs, 
and oh, you can't imagine how funny and 
clumpy it sounds, but it is real pretty with the 
aprons and the caps, but the Spanish is beau- 
tiful with castanets. You must all come. 
Is your friend staying long?’’ 
'I think” — rather hesitatingly, ''we will go 
home next week.” 
"Oh, that will be too bad, and the dance 
is to be two weeks from tomorrow, in the af- 
ternoon, in a hall. It will be splendid!” 
"I suppose this is the little cousin who came 
after the fortune,” said Willis, isn't it nice to 
have a fortune left to you?” 
hardly know” — hesitatingly. 
"Oh my! I'd know quick enough,” laughed 
the boy. ''Isabel wouldn't it be fine enough 
to have ten or twelve thousand left to us? 
I'd be sure of going to college.” 
'The University ought to be good enough 
for city boys,” said Uncle Warren. 
They played authors for a while because 
they could talk” Willis said. Then Aunt 
Warren played for them to dance. At first 
Marilla hesitated. 
"Oh, it’s only three-step” exclaimed Edith. 
'I'll show you, and if you danced at the 
King’s ball” — 
She found she could dance easy enough. It 
was quite delightful. Her eyes were bright, 
her cheeks like roses. 
Then they tried several other pretty dances, 
and spiced them with much laughter. Oh, how 
gay they were. 
'Who was it said something about the 
King’s ball?” asked Willis. 'Was it a make 
believe?” 
"Oh it is the prettiest thing!” replied Edith. 
"You see, Cousin Manila sat alone in the 
kitchen one night when the maid had gone out 
and a fairy godmother came and asked her 
if she didn’t want to go to the ball. Finding 
her in the kitchen you see she took her for 
Cinderella, and she touched her with her 
wand — now Marilla, go on, I couldn’t tell it 
half as delightfully as you do; you make it so 
real.” 
Marilla’s face had been scarlet at first, for 
she was almost ashamed of being a little 
bound-out girl before these newcomers, but 
Edith had started it so beautifully that she 
smiled at her audience. 
"Let’s sit on the floor,” said Willis. "That’s 
the way they do in Persia, and Aunt Grace 
never finds fault with us.” 
They gathered around the little girl. Even 
Uncle Warren laid down his paper and joined 
the circle. And what an attentive audience! 
'Well that’s just fine!” ejaculated Willis. 
"I’ve never seen just such a Cinderella, and 
there wasn’t any glass slipper?” 
"Don’t interrupt,” said his sister. 
It was all so vivid and Marilla made such 
pretty gestures with her hands and swayed 
her head to and fro, that they could fairly see 
the palace, and the banquet was superb with 
its lights and flowers and beautiful adorn- 
ments. 
"And couldn't they dance but just one 
evening with the Prince? That was rather 
tough.’ 
''But there was so many knights and the 
Cinderellas seemed just as happy. No one 
