were slowing to a trot to rest their hard-blown horses; and gradually
our men did the same. But the Hussars continued to come on, and we
continued our retreat, matching our speed to theirs.
They let drive at us once with their heavy pistols, and we in the rear
returned their fire, emptying one saddle and knocking two horses into
the roadside bushes.
Then they ran us hard again, and strove to flank us, but the rocky
country was too stiff for their riders, and they could not make out to
cut us off or attain our flanks.
"What a disgrace! What a disgrace!" was all Boyd found to say; and I
knew he meant the shameful surprise, not the retreat of our eighty
light horsemen before the thundering charge of their heavy hundreds.
Our troopers did not seem really frightened; they now jogged along
doggedly, but coolly enough. We had with us on the New Canaan road some
twenty light dragoons, not including Boyd, myself, and Jack Mount--one
captain, one cornet and a trumpeter lad, the remainder being rank and
file, and several mounted militiamen.
The captain, riding in the rear with us, was ever twisting his hatless
head to scowl back at the Hussars; and he talked continually in a loud,
confident voice to reassure his men.
"They're dropping off by tens and twenties," he said. "If they keep to
that habit we'll give 'em a charge. Wait till the odds lessen. Steady
there, boys! This cattle chase is not ended. We'll fetch 'em a crack
yet. We'll get a chance at their mounted infantry yet. All in God's
time, boys. Never doubt it."
The bugle-horns of the Legion were now sounding their derisive,
fox-hunting calls, and behind us we could hear the far laughter and
shouting: "Yoicks! Forrard! Stole away--stole away!"
My cheeks began to burn; Boyd gnawed his lips continually, and I saw
our dragoons turning angrily in their saddles as they understood the
insult of the British trumpets.
Half a mile farther on there ran a sandy, narrow cross road into the
woods on either side of us.
The captain drew bridle, stood up in his stirrups, and looked back. For
some time, now, the taunting trumpets had not jeered us, and the
pursuit seemed to have slackened after nearly three hard miles of
running. But they still followed us, though it was some minutes before
their red jackets came bobbing up again over the sandy crest of the
hill behind us.
All our men who had been looking back were now wheeled; and we divided,
half backing into the sandy road to the right, half taking the
left-hand road under command of Lieutenant Boyd.
"They are not too many," said the dragoon captain coolly, beckoning to
his little bugle-horn.
Willows hid us until their advanced troopers were close to where we
sat--so close that one of our excited dragoons, spurring suddenly
forward into the main road, beat down a Hussar's guard, flung his arms
around him, and tore him from his saddle. Both fell from their horses
and began to fight fisticuffs in the sandy ditch.
We charged instantly, and the enemy ran for it, our troopers raising
the view halloo in their turn and whipping out their sabres. And all
the way back to the Stamford road we ran them, and so excited became
our dragoons that we could scarce hold them when we came in sight once
more of the British main body now reforming under the rolling smoke of
Poundridge village, which they had set on fire.
But further advance was madness, even when the remainder of our light
troop came cantering down the Stamford road to rejoin us and watch the
burning town, for we could now muster but two score and ten riders,
having lost nearly thirty dead or missing.
A dozen of Captain Fancher's militia came up, sober farmers of the
village that lay below us buried in smoke; and our dragoons listened to
the tales of these men, some of whom had been in the village when the
onset came, and had remained there, skulking about to pick off the
enemy until their main forces returned.
"Tarleton was in a great rage, I warrant you," said one big, raw-boned
militiaman. "He rode up to Major Lockwood's house with his dragoons,
and says he: 'Burn me this arch rebel's nest!' And the next minute the
Yagers were running in and out, setting fire to the curtains and
lighting bundles of hay in every room. And I saw the Major's lady stand
there on her doorstep and demand the reason for such barbarity--the
house already afire behind her. Mrs. Hunt and the servants came out
with the children in their arms. And, 'By God, madam,' says Tarleton,
'when shots are fired at my men from houses by the inhabitants of any
town in America, I'll burn the town and hang the men if I can get 'em.'
Some Hussars came up, driving before them the Major's fine herd of
imported cattle--and a troop of his brood mares--the same he has so
often had to hide in the Rock Hills. 'Stand clear, madam!' bawls
Tarleton. 'I'll suffer nothing to be removed from that house!' At this
the Major's lady gives one long look after her children, which Betsy
Hunt and the blacks are carrying through the orchard; then she calmly
enters the burning house and comes out again with a big silver platter
and a load of linen from the dining-room in her arms. And at that a
trooper draws his sabre and strikes her with the flat o' the
blade--God, what a blow!--so that the lady falls to her knees and the
heavy silver platter rolls out on the grass and the fine linen is in
the mud. I saw her blacks lift her and get her off through the orchard.
I sneaked out of the brook willows, took a long shot at the beast who
struck her, and then pulled foot."
There was a shacked silence among the officers who had gathered to
listen. Until this moment our white enemies had offered no violence to
ladies. So this brutality toward the Major's lady astounded us.
Somebody said in a low voice:
"They've fired the church, now."
Major Lockwood's house was also burning furiously, as also were his
barns and stables, his sheds, and the new, unfinished barracks. We
could see it all very plainly from the hilltop where we had gathered.
"Alsop Hunt was taken," said a militiaman. "They robbed him of his
watch and purse, damning him for a rebel broad-brim. He's off to the
Provost, I fear."
"They took Mr. Reed, too," said another. "They had a dozen neighbours
under guard when I left."
Sheldon, looking like death, sat his saddle a little apart. No one
spoke to him. For even a deeper disgrace had now befallen the dragoons
in the loss of their standard left behind in Lockwood's house.
"What a pitiful mess!" whispered Boyd. "Is there nothing to be done but
sit here and see the red beasts yonder sack the town?"
Before I could answer, I caught the sound of distant firing on the
Lewisboro road. Colonel Thomas reared stiffly in his saddle, and:
"Those are my own men!" he said loudly, "or I lie like a Tory!"
A hill half a mile north of us suddenly became dark with men; we saw
the glitter of their muskets, saw the long belt of white smoke encircle
them, saw red-jacketed men run out of a farmhouse, mount, and gallop
toward the burning town.
Along the road below us a column of Continental infantry appeared on
the run, cheering us with their hats.
A roar from our dragoons answered them; our bugle-horn spoke, and I saw
Major Tallmadge, with a trumpeter at his back, rein in while the
troopers were reforming and calling off amid a whirlwind of rearing
horses and excited men.
Below in the village, the British had heard and perfectly understood
the volley from Thomas's regiment, and the cavalry and mounted infantry
of the Legion were assembling in the smoke, and already beginning a
rapid retreat by the Bedford road.
As Boyd and I went clattering down the hill, we saw Major Lockwood with
Thomas's men, and we rode up to him. He passed his sword to the left
hand, and leaning across in his saddle, exchanged a grip with us. His
face was ghastly.
"I know--I know," he said hurriedly. "I have seen my wife and children.
My wife is not badly injured. All are in safety. Thank you, gentlemen."
We wheeled our horses and fell in beside our infantry, now pressing
forward on a heavy run, so that Colonel Thomas and Major Lockwood had
to canter their horses.
Firing instantly broke out as we entered the smoky zone where the
houses were burning. Into it, an our left, galloped Sheldon's light
dragoons, who, having but five muskets in the command, went at the
Yagers with naked sabres; and suddenly found themselves in touch with
the entire Legion cavalry, who set up a Loud bawling:
"Surrender, you damned rebels! Pull up, there! Halt!"
I saw a trooper, one Jared Hoyt, split the skull of a pursuing British
dragoon straight across the mouth with a back-handed stroke, as he
