Suppose to-morrow you go and keep her com- 
pany ? ” 
“ I’d like to go to that nice school.” 
“Anything else?” 
Mrs. Mann began to make herself ready for 
dinner. Laurel read very spiritedly. Dolly’s 
complexion was losing its fairness, and her white 
apron was undeniably dingy. Rhoda felt herself 
very ill-used, and sat down at about the middle 
of the stairs and tried to squeeze out a few tears, 
then said to herself : 
I wish my new father would come. He’s 
gooder than mother, and I’ll get him to buy me a 
doll bigger than Lai’s, because I am a bigger girl,” 
and she found great comfort in the reasoning. 
But there’s lots of troubles in this world, and I’m 
a weary traveler here,” from a hymn the children 
sang. But I don’t know any one in Heaven, 
though father’s there, and grandmother, but, then, 
they went ’fore I could remember. I’ve got the 
new father now, and I like him very much. And 
if you go to Heaven you can’t come back, it’s so 
far. O dear ! ” 
Mrs. Mann had brushed Lai’s pretty hair and 
put on a clean white apron, and now she called 
Rhoda. Mrs. Alden was lighting up the rooms, 
and at the bright greeting of a familiar voice in 
the hall Rhoda sprang to the new father, who 
carried her upstairs, and she gave herself resign- 
edly to the beautifying process. 
“Well, how did you succeed?” Mr. Mann 
inquired of his wife, with interest. 
“Oh, they came and were delighted. They are 
going to be very happy there, and it really comforts me. 
I couldn’t help recalling Tip’s crying 
over the little old house. But it must be cleaned 
up, and a coat of paint inside ” 
“ And outside as well, and that must be kept red. 
The little old red house! I don’t want the chil- 
dren ever to forget it. Why, it brought me the 
joy of my life.” 
“ I wonder if any one else would think 
so?” 
But, you see,” laughing as he kissed her, I 
don’t want any one else to think so. It’s just my 
own, and what I’ve been heart-sick for many a 
time. So if I am happy in my belief ” 
“ I don’t just know how to get about the work. 
It must be whitewashed.” 
Why, Dan does that capitally. He’s a good 
painter as well.” 
“ But, you see, I shall have to raise some money, 
as I used up my pension. Whether my credit will 
bear the strain ” — with a touch of merry humor in 
her voice. 
People can always raise money on unencum- 
bered real estate,” in a grave tone. 
“ But, you see, it is the children’s ; yet it has been 
a very good home for me.” 
“ Then I shall have to be your banker. Of 
course I shall expect interest. But I am glad you 
are likely to have such a nice tenant. Now you 
must take out what things you want.” 
“ And there was a rather funny happening. Oh, 
and I am five dollars richer, though it went against 
my conscience to take it when some one had been so 
good to me.” 
Then she repeated Mr. Yates’s call and his desire 
for a “ vandue,” at which he laughed a little, and 
then said : “ Well, goodness and kindliness haven’t 
all died out of the world and left us stranded.” 
Goldie and Prim came in fresh and merry, and 
they were summoned to dinner. Chan rehearsed 
Mr. Jones’s doings and sayings, and the girls’ day 
lost nothing by the repetition. Rilla was very 
much interested. 
“ And there are some old books I want to keep,” 
said Linn, “ that lot about flowers and — oh, why 
didn’t I think to look them over ! • And I am glad 
the Bachmans are real nice. They would have 
been glad to take the chickens.” 
“ And Tabby ? ” 
‘‘ Oh, he patted her and rubbed her head, and 
she purred. He’s fond of cats, so she’s sure of a 
good home. And it will be nice to go over and 
see how they get along. Mother, I think you’re in 
luck.” 
Mother smiled. 
ii
Oh, how cheerful it was to sit round the fire 
afterward and talk! There was the plan of the 
playroom, with its closets on the one side and the 
windows on the other. Laurel wanted her little 
chair from the old house, and they all thought up 
something dear to them. 
Why, you’ll have half the old stuff over here,” 
said their mother. 
“ I just hope it won’t snow to-morrow,” 
exclaimed Linn. I want to see Mr. Jones 
work.” 
It’s nice starlight now,” announced Chan. 
“ But you ought all to go to bed. I am really 
tired. No, Laurel, I can’t hold you to-night. And 
Goldie, you look half asleep,” said Mrs. Mann. 
“ I’m going straight to bed,” she replied. It’s 
funny, people generally pack up before they move 
— we move, and pack up afterward. Good-night, 
everybody,” throwing kisses. 
In a little while the house was dark and quiet, 
for even Chan was not allowed to sit up all hours 
of the night reading. But they were bright enough 
the next morning. 
Like the children, I quite long to stay and see 
how things go on,” said Mr. Mann, “ but duty calls 
and I must obey. I’ll try to get home early.” 
As he stepped into the train one of the neighbors 
nodded and said good-morning. It was Mr. Brad- 
ley, whose boys he had admired in the summer. 
He held out his hand cordially. “ I suppose one 
may still congratulate you, Mr. Mann ? Tve won- 
dered what you meant to do with that big house, 
and now I suppose you find it about right. After 
all, children are the life of a house, that is, if you 
really care for them. It is what makes the home.” 
“ Yes,” returned Mr. Mann heartily. “ I was 
married fifteen years, and all that time longed for 
them. And now I count myself a happy father. 
They are the kin of love and longing.” 
There was one little boy you sent to a hos- 
pital ? ” 
Yes. The Children’s Hospital. I’d sent a 
little newsboy there, who had to lose his leg, and 
knew how kind they were. This little fellow had 
a fall, and his hip was hurt. He might have been 
lamed for life, but he’s all right now, a sweet little 
chap, and gay as a lark. There are three boys and 
five girls ; the youngest, twins of six.” 
‘‘ Why, you might send out two for adoption. 
Four is my ideal family, half of them girls. We’ve 
hoped for some girls, but have only two boys.” 
