avoided him, I should have despised him!'' 
And suddenly George broke down again. 
''Oh!'' he cried, ''ii I were the onl}' one to 
suffer; but she — she is in love with me, 
I swear it to you! She is so good; and she 
will be so unhappy!'' 
The doctor answered, "She would be 
unhappier later on.'' 
''It will be a scandal!" George exclaimed. 
"You will avoid one far greater," the 
other replied. 
Suddenly George set his lips with resolu- 
tion. He rose from his seat. He took 
several twenty-franc pieces from his 
pocket and laid them quietly upon the 
doctor's desk — 'paying the fee in cash, so 
that he would not have to give his name 
and address. He took up his gloves, his 
cane and his hat, and rose. 
"I will think it over," he said. "I 
thank you, Doctor. I will come back next 
week as you have told me. That is — 
probably I will." 
He was about to leave. 
The doctor rose, and he spoke in a voice 
 
of furious anger. ''No.' he said, ''I shan't 
see you next week, and you won't even 
think it over. You came here knowing 
what you had; you came to ask advice of 
me, with the intention of paying no heed 
to it, unless it conformed to your wishes. 
A superficial honesty has driven you to 
take that chance in order to satisfy your 
conscience. You wanted to have some- 
body upon whom you could put off, bye 
and bye, the consequences of an act whose 
culpabihty you understand! No, don't 
protest! Many of those who come here 
think and act as you think, and as you 
wish to act; but the marriage made 
against my will has generally been the 
source of such calamities that now I am 
always afraid of not having been per- 
sup-'ive enough, and it even seems to me 
that I am a little to blame for these mis- 
fortunes. I should have been able to pre- 
vent them; they would not have happened 
if those who are the authors of them knew 
what I know and had seen what I have 
seen. Swear to me, sir, that you are 
going to break off that marriage!" 
 
George was greatly embarrassed, and 
unwilling to reply. ''I cannot swear to 
you at all, Doctor; I can only tell you 
again that I will think it over.' 
''Think it over?'' 
''What you have told me." 
"What I have told you is true! You 
cannot bring any new objections; and I 
have answered those which you have pre- 
sented to me; therefore, your mind ought 
to be made up." 
Groping for a reply, George hesitated. 
He could not deny that he had made 
inquiry about these matters before he had 
come to the doctor. But he said that he 
was not at all certain that he had this 
disease. The doctor declared it, and per- 
haps it was true, but the most learned 
physicians were sometimes deceived. 
He remembered something he had read 
in one of the medical books. ''Dr. Ricord 
maintains that after a certain period the 
disease is no longer contagious. He has 
proven his contentions by examples. 
Today you produce new examples to show 
that he is wrong! Now, I want to do 
 
what's right, but surely I have the right 
to think it over. And when I think it 
over, I reahze that all the evils with which 
you threaten me are only probable evils. 
In spite of your desire to terrify me, you 
have been forced to admit that possibly 
my marriage would not have any trouble- 
some consequence for my wife.' 
The doctor found difficulty in restraining 
himself. But he said, ''Go on. I will 
answer you afterwards." 
And George blundered ahead in his 
desperation. ''Your remedies are power- 
ful, you tell me; and for the calamities of 
which you speak to befall me, I would have 
to be among the rare exceptions — also my 
wife would have to be among the number 
of those rare exceptions. If a mathemati- 
cian were to apply the law of chance to 
these facts, the result of his operation 
would show but slight chance of a catas- 
trophe, as compared with the absolute 
certainty of a series of misfortunes, suffer- 
ings, troubles, tears, and perhaps tragic 
accidents which the breaking of my engage- 
ment would cause. So I say that the 
 
mathematician — 'who is, even more than 
you, a man of science, a man of a more 
infallible science — 'the mathematician would 
conclude that wisdom was not with you 
doctors, but with me.'' 
"You believe it, sir!" exclaimed the 
other. "But you deceive yourself." And 
he continued, driving home his point with 
a finger which seemed to George to pierce 
his very soul. "Twenty cases identical 
with your own have been patiently ob- 
served, from the beginning to the end. 
Nineteen times the woman was infected 
by her husband; you hear me, sir, nineteen 
times out of twenty! You believe that the 
disease is without danger, and you take to 
yourself the right to expose your wife to 
what you call the chance of your being 
one of those exceptions, for whom our 
remedies are without effect. Very well; 
it is necessary that you should know every- 
thing; it is necessary that you should 
know the disease which your wife, without 
being consulted, will run a chance of con- 
tracting. Take that book, sir; it is the 
work of my teacher. Read it yourself. 
Here, I have marked the passage." 
 
He held out the open book; but George 
could not lift a hand to take it. 
''You do not wish to read it?'' the other 
continued. '' Listen to me.'' And in a 
voice trembling with passion, he read: " 'I 
