Violet, patting a yawn, resumed: “One never really gets strawberries
except in Paris. They are so big! And so expensive, aren’t they? I know
that in a restaurant a man gave one to the waiter for a tip.”
She looked about her. “But, mercy! What can have become of Aurelia? She
was to have stopped for me.”
“Don’t you think it unwise to let her go on the stage?” Leilah, with an
air of talking for talk’s sake, inquired.
“Let her! But she’s got her head. I can’t prevent her. She’ll never
come to any harm though. She isn’t the kind to want to do anything she
thought was wrong. No indeed. She would never think anything wrong that
she wanted to do. But tell me. I could not very well ask before the
servants. What are you going to do?”
For a moment Leilah did not answer. Then, a bit resignedly, she folded
her hands.
“I do not see that I have the ability to do anything.”
The pause, the gesture, the reply, angered Violet. She bristled.
“Don’t be so modest, you make me nervous!”
For a moment she also paused. Then, ruminantly, as though in self
communion, the lady uttered these cryptic words:
“But perhaps----”
Leilah, who had turned away, turned to her. “Perhaps what?”
But Violet, compressing her lips, assumed the appearance which a very
worldly, exquisitely gowned and beautiful Sphinx might present.
“Perhaps what?” Leilah, puzzled by the attitude, repeated.
“Oh, nothing. That is, nothing in particular. I was merely thinking
from battle, murder and sudden death, Good Lord deliver us! And yet----”
“Well?”
Violet looked her over. “I know I ought not to tell and for that very
reason I will. Your two husbands are to fight to-day. They may be at it
now----”
Abruptly she made a face, dropped her voice and threw out:
“No such luck.”
In the doorway Barouffski stood.
Leilah had not seen. Inwardly she had shrivelled. To the sudden
knowledge that the two men were to fight, fear, as suddenly, superposed
the conviction that Verplank would be killed. It stirred in her a
wholly animal longing to get away from herself; to be rid, however
transiently, of that sense of horror and helplessness which only the
tortured know. In an effort to shut out the pain of it, she closed her
eyes.
When she opened them, Barouffski was before her. Affably he was
addressing her friend.
“Beautiful day, Lady Silverstairs. In London you do not often have such
weather. I hope Lord Silverstairs is planning to keep you here a very
long time.”
“What? What?” Violet in a crescendo of surprise, exclaimed.
Affably, smilingly, unperturbedly, Barouffski reiterated the expression
of his hope.
Icily Violet cut him short. “With us it is the woman who makes and
unmakes plans.”
Barouffski, unabashed and smiling, plucked at his beard. “A most
excellent custom. Yes. For when has reason governed the world? It is
only by the heartstrings that men can be led and women alone can lead
them.”
But now Violet with the air of an empress had risen. “Leilah, my motor
is at the door. Let me take you for a turn in the Bois.”
“Do,” Barouffski exclaimed, looking as he spoke at Leilah. “You are a
trifle pale, cara mia. A turn or two now in the Bois----”
With a gesture he signified, that is what you need.
Turning to Violet he added: “So thoughtful of you, Lady Silverstairs.”
In speaking he bowed for Violet now was vacating the garden and Leilah
who had risen was following her.
Barouffski bowed again. “Cara mia, a pleasant drive to you.”
But, when both women had entered the house, he sighed, sighed with
relief, looked about him, consulted his watch, looked again about
him, moved to the entrance, touched a bell which presently a footman
answered.
Barouffski indicated the table and chairs. “Get all that out of here.”
“Perfectly, monsieur le comte,” the man, with marked deference,
answered and started to do as bidden.
Barouffski checked him. “In five or ten minutes some gentlemen will
come by the main entrance. Show them in the reception room. About the
same time others will come by the gate. When they do, see that I am
notified at once.”
“Perfectly, monsieur le comte.”
“Afterward, when they are gone, come back here and tidy up.”
“Perfectly, monsieur le comte.”
But now Barouffski had turned, he was entering the house. The man stuck
his tongue out at him. “Canaille, va!” he muttered. Raising his arms,
he added: “Tidy up, eh? Tidy up what? The remains of your conversation,
no doubt. Bah! That won’t be much.” He laughed, took first the table,
then the chairs, vanished with them and reappeared.
A bell at the gate had sounded, he hurried there and bowing, admitted
Aurelia and that young person’s young man.
The girl made straight for the kennels. “Parsnips!” she delightedly
exclaimed. “Aren’t those two big brutes simply dear?”
Swiftly Emmanuel intervened. “Pardon, they are very savage.” Then,
as the girl hesitated he added: “Will mademoiselle give herself the
trouble to pass into the salon?”
Aurelia tossed her pretty head. “No, I like it here. Besides I hate
suggestions. Tell Madame Barouffska that I have come on a most
unimportant matter which will probably detain me a very long time.”
“Yes,” her companion rejoined as the footman retreated. “Yes, I often
think that it is only unimportant matters that are really momentous.”
In his hand was a stick which negligently he twirled. “What is this
one, if I may ask?”
“I have forgotten.”
“Perhaps then it was really important.”
Aurelia, who, with her delicious face and delicate garments, looked
like a wayward angel, lifted a finger.
“So it was! So it was! I remember now I wanted to ask her how she likes
matrimony.”
“Cæsar!” the youth exclaimed. “You are not collecting data on the
subject, are you?”
Meekly, with a treacherously innocent air, the girl surveyed him. “You
wouldn’t wish me to take leaps in the dark, would you?”
“Certainly I would. Certainly I do--since you are to take them with me.”
With the same wicked look, Aurelia moistened her lips. “What a
beautiful nature you have!”
Pleased at this, the little lord nodded.
“I’ll tell you what matrimony is, two souls with but a single
thought----”
“Yes,” Aurelia interrupted. “Two souls with half a thought apiece.”
Rapturously she sighed. “There is real bliss!”
Buttercups snarled. “Oh come, now! If you turn everything into
ridicule----”
Dreamily Aurelia continued. “I asked the duchess, and she said----”
“The old harridan!”
“You know her manner”--a manner which Aurelia instantly made her own.
“My dear, matrimony is three months of adoration, three months of
introspection, thirty years of toleration--with the children to begin
it all over.”
Buttercups frowned. “A rather voluminous definition.”
“Rather luminous, I should call it.”
Frowning still, Buttercups threw out.
“While you were at it, it’s a pity you did not ask her what love is.”
But the sarcasm, if sarcasm it were, convulsed Aurelia. “Parsnips!” she
delightedly exclaimed. “You’ll never believe it! She asked me!”
“Mistook you for an expert,” Buttercups, glowering at the beautiful,
laughing girl snapped back. “What did you say?”
Aurelia, her eyes sparkling, her little white teeth visible, her little
pink tongue also, looked about her, turned, went to the bench, got up
on it and there, solemnly now as though on a platform, coughed.
“I said, that while from studies and statistics I was inclined to
believe that, theoretically, love is a fermentation of the molecules of
the imagination, actually it is the affection of somebody else.”
Blankly Buttercups stared. “I don’t understand that.”
Aurelia coughed again. “I added that from the same studies and
statistics I was also inclined to believe that love is the tragedy of
those who lack it, the boredom of those who don’t.”
