Thus, she neither saw nor heard the pious pilgrims who were on their
way to Allaha to pray in that temple known to offer protection against
wild beasts.  Fortunately, they did not observe her.
The pilgrim is always a pilgrim in India; it becomes, one might say, a
fascinating kind of sport.  To most of them, short pilgrimages are as
tame as rabbits would be to the hunter of lions.  They will walk from
Bombay to Benares, from Madras to Llassa, begging and bragging all the
way.  Eventually they become semi-holy, distinguished citizens in a
clutter of mud huts.
They deposited some corn and fruit at the foot of the tree and
departed, leaving Kathlyn in peace.  But later, when the moon poured
its white, cold radiance over her face it awakened her, and it took her
some time to realize where she was.
Below, belly deep in the river, stood several water buffaloes, their
sweeping horns glistening like old ivory in the moonshine.  Presently a
leopard stole down to the brink and lapped the water greedily, from
time to time throwing a hasty, apprehensive glance over his sleek
shoulders.  The buffaloes never stirred; where they were it was safe.
Across the river a bulky shadow moved into the light, and a fat, brown
bear took his tithe of the water.  The leopard snarled and slunk off.
The bear washed his face, possibly sticky with purloined wild honey,
and betook himself back to his lair.
Kathlyn suddenly became aware of the fact that she was a spectator to a
scene such as few human beings are permitted to see: truce water, where
the wild beasts do not kill one another.  She grew so interested that
she forgot her own plight.  The tree stood only a few feet from the
water, so she saw everything distinctly.
Later, when his majesty the tiger made his appearance dramatically, the
buffaloes simply moved closer together, presenting a formidable
frontage of horns.
Never had Kathlyn seen such an enormous beast.  From his great padded
paws to his sloping shoulders he stood easily four feet in height, and
his stripes were almost as broad as her hand.  He drank, doubtless
eying the buffaloes speculatively; some other time.  Then he, too, sat
on his haunches and washed his face, but with infinite gracefulness.
It occurred to the watcher that, familiar as she was with the habits of
wild beasts, never had she witnessed a tiger or a lion enact this
domestic scene.  Either they were always pacing their cages, gazing far
over the heads of those who watched them, or they slept.  Even when
they finished a meal of raw meat they merely licked their chops; there
was no toilet.
Here, however, was an elaborate toilet.  The great cat licked his paws,
drew them across his face; then licked his beautiful sides, purring;
for the night was so still and the beast was so near that she could see
him quite plainly.  He stretched himself, took another drink, and
trotted off to the jungle.
Then came a herd of elephants, for each species seemed to have an
appointed time.  The buffaloes emerged and filed away into the dark.
The elephants plunged into the water, squealing, making sport,
squirting water over their backs, and rolling, head under; and they
buffeted one another amiably, and there was a baby who seemed to get in
everybody's way and the grown-ups treated him shabbily.  By and by
they, too, trooped off.  Then came wild pigs and furtive antelopes and
foolish, chattering apes.
At last the truce water became deserted and Kathlyn lay down again,
only to be surprised by a huge ape who stuck his head up over the edge
of the platform.  The surprise was mutual.  Kathlyn pushed the idol
toward him.  The splash of it in the water scared off the unwelcome
guest, and then Kathlyn lay down and slept.
A day or so later Bruce arrived at the temple.  Day after day he had
hung to the trail, picking it up here and losing it there.  He found
Rajah, the elephant, the howdah gone, and only the ornamental headpiece
discovered to Bruce that he had found his rogue.  Rajah was docile
enough; he had been domesticated so long that his freedom rather irked
him.
Bruce elicited from the mourning holy men the amazing adventure in all
its details.  Kathlyn had disappeared in the jungle and not even the
tried hunters could find her.  She was lost.  Bruce, though in his
heart of hearts he believed her dead, took up the trail again.  But
many weary weeks were to pass ere he learned that she lived.
He shook his fist toward Allaha.  "Oh, Durga Ram, one of these fine
days you and I shall square accounts!"
      *      *      *      *      *      *
Kathlyn had just completed herself a dress of grass.  Three years
before she had learned the trick from the natives in Hawaii.  The many
days of hardship had made her thinner, but never had she been so hardy,
so clear eyed, so quick and lithe in her actions.  She had lived
precariously, stealing her food at dusk from the tents of the ryots;
raw vegetables, plantains, mangoes.  Sometimes she recited verses in
order that she might break the oppressive silence which always
surrounded her.
She kept carefully out of the way of all human beings, so she had lost
all hope of succor from the brown people, who had become so hateful to
her as the scavengers of the jungle.  There was something to admire in
the tiger, the leopard, the wild elephant; but she placed all natives
(perhaps wrongly) in a class with the unclean jackals and hyenas.
Tanned deeply by wind and sun, Kathlyn was darker than many a native
woman.  Often she thought of Bruce, but hope of his finding her had
long since died within her.  Every night when she climbed to her
platform she vowed she would start south the next morning; south,
toward the land where there were white people; but each morning found
her hesitant.
Behind her tree there was a clearing, then a jumble of thickly growing
trees; beyond those was another clearing, upon which stood a deserted
elephant stockade.  The grass had grown rank in it for want of use.
She was in the act of putting on grass sandals when she saw, to her
dismay, the approach of men and elephants.  Two elephants were ridden
by mahouts.  Two other elephants were being jostled toward the
stockade, evidently new captives.  They proceeded passively, however,
for elephants submit to captivity with less real trouble than any other
wild beast.  Kathlyn crouched low in the grass and waited till the men
and elephants entered the stockade; then she ran quickly toward her
haven, the platform in the tree.  She never went very far from this,
save in search of food.  She had also recovered the idol and set it
back in its place.  It was not, fortunately, a much frequented spot.
It was for the benefit of the occasional pilgrim, the ryots having
shrines more conveniently situated.
She nestled down among her rushes and waited.  She could not see the
stockade from where she now was, but she could hear shouts from the
mahouts.
Recently she had discovered a leopard's lair near the stockade and was
very careful to avoid it, much as she wanted to seize the pretty cubs
and run away with them.  By this time she knew the habits, fears, and
hatreds of these people of the jungle, and she scrupulously attended
her affairs as they attended theirs.  Sometimes the great striped tiger
prowled about the base of the tree, sharpened his claws on the bark,
but he never attempted to ascend to the platform.  Perhaps he realized
the uselessness of investigation, since the platform made it impossible
for him to see what was up there.  But always now, to and from the
truce water, he paused, looked up, circled the tree, and went away
mystified.
Only the grass eating beasts came down to water that night, and Kathlyn
understood by this that the men and the elephants were still in the
stockade.
The following morning she went down to the stream to bathe; at the same
time the parent leopards came for drink.  They had not cared to seek
their lair during the night on account of the fires; and, worrying over
their cubs, they were not in the most agreeable mood.
Kathlyn saw their approach in time to reach her platform.  They snarled
about the tree, and the male climbed up as far as the platform.
Kathlyn reached over with a stout club and clouted the brute on his
tender nose.
A shot broke the silence and a bullet spat angrily against the tree
trunk.  Two cats fled.  Immediately there came a squealing and
trumpeting from the stockade.
This is what had happened: The chief mahout had discovered the cubs and
had taken them into the stockade just as another hunter had espied the
parent leopards.  The rifle shot had frightened one of the wild
elephants.  With a mighty plunge he had broken the chain which held him
prisoner to the decoy elephant and pushed through the rotten stockade,
