while we played tennis, they chased the balls. 
All afternoon, while I sipped tea and chatted 
and watched the games, I said to myself, 'Here 
is the most perfect simile of our civilization that 
has ever come to me! Some people wear white 
and play tennis all day, while other people chase 
 
the balls, of howl in dungeons in the background!' 
And that is the problem I wish to put before my 
American millionaire — the problem of what I will 
call our lunatic-asylum stage of civilization. Mind 
you, this condition is all very well, so long as we 
can say that the limatics are incurable — that there 
is nothing we can do but shut om* ears to their 
howling, and go ahead with our tennis. But 
suppose the idea were to dawn upon us that it 
is only because we play tennis all day that the 
limatic asylum is crowded — then might not the 
howls grow unendurable to us, and the game lose 
its charm?" 
Stealing glances about me, I saw that several 
people were watching the forty-or-fifty-times-over 
milhonaire; they had evidently recognized him, 
and were enjoying the joke. "Haven't you had 
enough of this?" he suddenly demanded, of his 
wife; and she answered, guilelessly, "No, let's 
wait. I'm interested." 
"Now, listen to me, Mr. American Milhonaire," 
the speaker was contiauing. "You are the one 
who plays tennis; and we, who chase the balls 
for you — we are the lunatics. And my purpose 
today is to prove to you that it is only because 
you play tennis all the day that we have to chase 
balls all the day; and to tell you that some time 
soon we are going to cease to be lunatics, and that 
then you will have to chase your own balls! 
And don't, in your amusement over this illustra- 
tion, lose sight of the serious nature of what I 
am talking about — the horrible economic lunacy 
 
which is known as poverty, and which is respon- 
sible for most of the evils we have in this world 
today — for crime and prostitution, suicide, insan- 
ity and war. My purpose is to show you — not 
by any guess of mine, or any appeals to your faith, 
but by cold business facts which can be understood 
in Wall Street, that this economic limacy is one 
which can be cured; that we have the remedy in 
our hands, and lack nothing but the intelligence 
to apply it." 
 
 
I DO not want to bore you with a Socialist 
speech. I only want to give you an idea of the 
trap into which Mr. Douglas van Tuiver had been 
drawn. He stood there, rigidly aloof while the 
speaker went on to explain the basic facts of 
wealth-production in modem society. She quoted 
from Kropotkin — "'Fields, Factories and Work- 
shops,' on sale at this meeting for a quarter!" 
— showing how by modern intensive farming — 
no matter of theory, but methods which were in 
commercial use in himdreds of places — it would 
be possible to feed the entire population of the 
globe from the soil of the British Isles alone. 
She showed by the bulletins of the United States 
government how the machine process had increased 
the productive power of the individual laborer 
ten, twenty, a himdred fold. So vast was man's 
power of producing wealth today — and yet the 
laborer Hved in dire want just as in the days of 
crude hand-industry! 
So she came back to her millionaire, upon whom 
this evil rested. He was the master of the machine, 
for whose profit the laborer had to produce. He 
could only employ the laborer to produce what 
could be sold at a profit; and so the stream of 
prosperity was choked at its source. "It is you, 
Mr. Millionaire, who are to blame for poverty; 
it is because so many millions of dollars must 
be paid to you in profits that so many millions 
of men must live in want. In other words, pre- 
cisely as I declared at the outset, it is your playing 
tennis which is responsible for the lunatics chas- 
ing the balls!" 
I wish that I might give some sense of the 
speaker's mastery of this situation, and the extent 
to which she had communicated her good-humor 
to the crowd. You heard ripple after ripple of 
laughter, you saw everywhere about you eager 
faces, following every turn of the aiinnent. No 
one could resist the contagion of interest — save 
only the American millionaire! He stood impas- 
sive, never once smiling, never once betraying 
a trace of feeling. Venturing to watch him more 
closely, however, I could see the stem lines deepen- 
ing about his mouth, and his long, lean face grow- 
ing more set. 
The speaker had outlined the remedy — a change 
from the system of production for profit to one of 
production for use. She went on to explain how 
the change was coming; the lunatic-classes were 
beginning to doubt the divine nature of the 
rules of the asylimi, and they were preparing to 
mutiny, and take possession of the place. And 
here I saw that Sylvia's hiisband had reached his 
limit. He turned to her. "Haven't you had 
enou of this?" 
"Why, no," she began. "If you don't 
mind " 
"I do mind very much," he said, abruptly. 
"I think you are committing a breach of taste 
 
to stay here, and I would be greatly obliged if you 
would leave." 
And without really waiting for Sylvia's reply 
he directed, "Back out of here, Ferris." 
The chauffeur cranked up, and sounded his 
horn — which naturally had the effect of disturbing 
the meeting. People supposed we were going 
to try to get through the crowd ahead — and there 
was no place where anyone could move. But 
van Tuiver went to the rear of the car, saying, in 
a voice of quiet authority: "A httle room here, 
please." And so, foot by foot, we backed away 
from the meeting, and when we had got clear of 
the throng, the master of the car stepped in, and 
we turned and made our way down Broad Street. 
And now I was to get a lesson in the aristocratic 
ideal. Of course van Tuiver was angry; I believe 
he even siispected his wife of having known of the 
meeting. I supposed he woidd ask some ques- 
tions; I supposed that at least he would express 
his opinion of the speech, his disgust that a woman 
of education should make such a spectacle of her- 
self. Such husbands as I had been familiar with 
had never hesitated to vent their feelings under 
such circmnstances. But from Douglas van 
Tuiver there came — not a word ! He sat, perfectly 
straight, staring before him, like a sphinx; and 
