He derided the notion; but she said, "You will see!" and in rather
more time than it takes to tell it they were settled in their cottage,
where, after some unavoidable changes of cook and laundress, they were
soon in perfect running order.
By this time Lobster Cove was in the full tide of lunching and being
lunched. The lunches were almost exclusively ladies' lunches, and the
ladies came to them with appetites sharpened by the incomparable air
of those real Lobster Cove days which were all cloudless skies and
west winds, and by the vigorous automobile exercise of getting to one
another's cottages. They seized every pretext for giving these feasts,
marked each by some vivid touch of invention within the limits of the
graceful convention which all felt bound not to transcend. It was some
surprising flavor in the salad, or some touch of color appealing to
the eye only; or it was some touch in the ice-cream, or some daring
substitution of a native dish for it, as strawberry or peach
shortcake; or some bold transposition in the order of the courses; or
some capricious arrangement of the decoration, or the use of wild
flowers, or even weeds (as meadow-rue or field-lilies), for the local
florist's flowers, which set the ladies screaming at the moment and
talking of it till the next lunch. This would follow perhaps the next
day, or the next but one, according as a new cottager's claims
insisted or a lady had a change of guests, or three days at the
latest, for no reason.
In their rapid succession people scarcely noticed that Lindora had not
given a lunch, and she had so far abandoned herself to the enjoyment
of the others' lunches that she had half forgotten her high purposes
of reform, when she was sharply recalled to them by a lunch which had
not at all agreed with her; she had, in fact, had to have the doctor,
and many people had asked one another whether they had heard how she
was. Then she took her good resolution in both hands and gave an
afternoon, asking people by note or 'phone simply whether they would
not come in at four sharp. People were a good deal mystified, but for
this very reason everybody came. Some of them came from somebody's
lunch, which had been so nice that they lingered over it till four,
and then walked, partly to fill in the time and partly to walk off the
lunch, as there would be sure to be something at Lindora's later on.
It would be invidious to say what the nature of Lindora's
entertainment was. It was certainly to the last degree original, and
those who said the worst of it could say no worse than that it was
queer. It quite filled the time till six o'clock, and may be perhaps
best described as a negative rather than a positive triumph, though
what Lindora had aimed at she had undoubtedly achieved. Whatever it
was, whether original or queer, it was certainly novel.
A good many men had come, one at least to every five ladies, but as
the time passed and a certain blankness began to gather over the
spirits of all, they fell into different attitudes of the despair
which the ladies did their best to pass off for rapture. At each
unscheduled noise they started in a vain expectation, and when the end
came, it came so without accent, so without anything but the clock to
mark it as the close, that they could hardly get themselves together
for going away. They did what was nice and right, of course, in
thanking Lindora for her fascinating afternoon, but when they were
well beyond hearing one said to another: "Well, I shall certainly
have an appetite for my dinner to-night! Why, if there had only been
a cup of the weakest kind of tea, or even of cold water!"
Then those who had come in autos gathered as many pedestrians into
them as they would hold in leaving the house, or caught them up
fainting by the way.
Lindora and Florindo watched them from their veranda.
"Well, my dear," he said, "it's been a wonderful afternoon; an immense
stride forward in the cause of anti-eating--or--"
"Don't speak to me!" she cried.
"But it leaves one rather hungry, doesn't it?"
"Hungry!" she hurled back at him. "I could eat a--I don't know
what!"
                                  XV
                     CITY AND COUNTRY IN THE FALL
                       A Long-distance Eclogue
                                 1902
  Morrison. Hello! Hello! Is that you, Wetherbee?
  Wetherbee. Yes. Who are you? What do you want with me?
  Morrison. Oh, nothing much. It's Morrison, you know;
  Morrison--down at Clamhurst Shortsands.
  Wetherbee.                             Oh!
  Why, Morrison, of course! Of course, I know!
  How are you, Morrison? And, by the way,
  Where are you? What! You never mean to say
  You are down there yet? Well, by the Holy Poker!
  What are you doing there, you ancient joker?
  Morrison. Sticking it out over Thanksgiving Day.
  I said I would. I tell you, it is gay
  Down here. You ought to see the Hunter's Moon,
  These silver nights, prinking in our lagoon.
  You ought to see our sunsets, glassy red,
  Shading to pink and violet overhead.
  You ought to see our mornings, still and clear,
  White silence, far as you can look and hear.
  You ought to see the leaves--our oaks and ashes
  Crimson and yellow, with those gorgeous splashes,
  Purple and orange, against the bluish green
  Of the pine woods; and scattered in between
  The scarlet of the maples; and the blaze
  Of blackberry-vines, along the dusty ways
  And on the old stone walls; the air just balm,
  And the crows cawing through the perfect calm
  Of afternoons all gold and turquoise. Say,
  You ought to have been with wife and me to-day,
  A drive we took--it would have made you sick:
  The pigeons and the partridges so thick;
  And on the hill just beyond Barkin's lane,
  Before you reach the barn of Widow Payne,
  Showing right up against the sky, as clear
  And motionless as sculpture, stood a deer!
  Say, does that jar you just a little? Say,
  How have you found things up there, anyway,
  Since you got back? Air like a cotton string
  To breathe? The same old dust on everything,
  And in your teeth, and in your eyes? The smoke
  From the soft coal, got long beyond a joke?
  The trolleys rather more upon your curves,
  And all the roar and clatter in your nerves?
  Don't you wish you had stayed here, too?
  Wetherbee.                          Well, yes,
  I do at certain times, I must confess.
  I swear it is enough at times to make you swear
  You would almost rather be anywhere
  Than here. The building up and pulling down,
  The getting to and fro about the town,
  The turmoil underfoot and overhead,
  Certainly make you wish that you were dead,
  At first; and all the mean vulgarity
  Of city life, the filth and misery
  You see around you, make you want to put
  Back to the country anywhere, hot-foot.
  Yet--there are compensations.
  Morrison.                    Such as?
  Wetherbee.                           Why,
  There is the club.
  Morrison.         The club I can't deny.
  Many o' the fellows back there?
  Wetherbee.                     Nearly all.
  Over the twilight cocktails there are tall
  Stories and talk. But you would hardly care;
  You have the natives to talk with down there,
  And always find them meaty.
  Morrison.                  Well, so-so.
  Their words outlast their ideas at times, you know,
  And they have staying powers. The theaters
  All open now?
  Wetherbee.    Yes, all. And it occurs
