magic reality of it, even when at last her 
man, "Djack," came back to prove the blessed 
miracle which held her in the magic of its 
thrall. 
"Who's the guy with the wheelbarrow?" in 
quired Sticky Smith, rolling a cigarette. 
"Karl, his name is," she answered; " a 
Belgian refugee." 
"He looks like a Hun to me," remarked 
Glenn, bluntly. 
"He has his papers," said the girl. 
Glenn shrugged. 
"With his little pink eyes of a pig and his 
whitish hair and eyebrows well, maybe they 
make em like that in Belgium." 
"Papers," added Smith, "can be swiped." 
The girl shook her head: 
"He's an invalid student from Ypres. He 
looks quite ill, I think." 
"He looks the lunger, all right. But Huns 
have it, too. What does he do wander about 
town at will?" 
"He works for us, monsieur. Your suspi 
cions are harsh. Karl is quite harmless, poor 
boy." 
"What does he do after hours ?" demanded 
Sticky Smith, watching the manoeuvres of the 
sickly blond youth and the wheelbarrow. 
"Monsieur Smith, if you knew how innocent 
is his pastime!" she exclaimed, laughing. "He 
collects and studies moths and butterflies. Is 
there, if you please, a mania more harmless in 
the world? . . . And now I must return to my 
work, messieurs." 
As the two muleteers strode clanking away 
toward the canal in the meadow, the blond 
youth turned his head and looked after them 
out of eyes which were naturally pale and 
small, and which, as he watched the two Amer 
icans, seemed to grow paler and smaller yet. 
That afternoon old Courtray, swathed in a 
shawl, sat on the mossy doorstep and fished 
among the water weeds of the river. The sun 
was low; work in the garden had ended. 
Maryette had gone up into her beflfry to 
play the sunset hymn on the noble old carillon. 
Through the sunset sky the lovely bell-notes 
 
floated far and wide, exquisitely chaste and 
aloof as the high-showering ecstasy of a sky 
lark. 
As always the little village looked upward 
and listened, pausing in its humble duties as 
long as their little bell-mistress remained iii 
her tower. 
After the hymn she played "Myn hart is vol 
yerlangen" and "Het Lied der Vlamingen," 
and ended with the delicate, bewitching little 
folk-song, "Myn Vryer," by Hasselt. 
Then in the red glow of the setting sun the 
girl laid aside her wooden gloves, rose from 
the ancient keyboard, wound up the drum, and, 
her duty done for the evening, came down out 
of the tower among the transparent evening 
shadows of the tree-lined village street. 
The sun hung over Nivelle hills, which had 
turned to amethyst. Sunbeams laced the little 
river in a red net through which old Cour- 
tray's quill stemmed the ripples. He still 
clutched his fishing pole, but his eyes were 
closed, his chin resting on his chest. 
Maryette came silently into the garden and 
looked at her father looked at the blond Karl 
sea-ted on the river wall beside the dozing 
angler. The blond youth had a box on his 
knees into which he was intently peering. 
The girl came to the river wall and seated 
herself at her father's feet. The Belgian refu 
gee student had already risen to attention, his 
heels together, but Maryette signed him to be 
seated again. 
"What have you found now, Karl?" she in 
quired in a cautiously modulated voice. 
"Ah, mademoiselle, fancy! I haff by chance 
with my cultivator among your potatoes already 
twenty pupae of the magnificent moth, Sphinx 
Atropos, upturned ! See ! Regard them, made 
moiselle! What lucky chance! What fortune 
for me, an entomologist, this wonderful sphinx 
moth to discover encased within its chrysalis I" 
The girl smiled at his enthusiasm: 
"But, Karl, those funny, smooth brown 
things which resemble little polished evergreen- 
cones are not rare in my garden. Often, when 
spading or hoeing among the potato vines, I 
uncover them." 
"Mademoiselle, the caterpillar which makes 
this chrysalis feeds by night on the leaves of 
 
the potato, and, when ready to transform, bur 
rows into the earth to become a chryalis or 
pupa, as we call it. That iss why mademoiselle 
has often disinterred the pupae of this largest 
and strangest of our native sphinx-moths." 
Maryette leaned over and looked into the 
wooden box, where lay the chrysalides. 
"What kind of moth do they make?" she 
asked. 
He blinked his small, pale eyes: 
"The Death's Head," he said, complacently. 
The girl recoiled involuntarily: 
"Oh!" she exclaimed under her breath, 
" that creature!" 
For everywhere in France the great moth, 
with its strange and ominous markings, is per 
fectly well known. To the superstitious it is 
a creature of evil omen in its fulvous, black 
and lead-coloured livery of death. For the 
broad, furry thorax bears a skull, and the big, 
mousy body the yellow ribs of a skeleton. 
Measuring often more than five inches across 
the expanded wings, its formidable size alone 
might be sufficient to inspire alarm, but in ad 
dition it possesses a horrid attribute unknown 
among other moths and butterflies; it can 
utter a cry a tiny shrill, shuddering com 
plaint. Small wonder, perhaps, that the peas 
ant holds it in horror this sleek, furry, pow 
erfully winged creature marked with skull and 
bones, which whirrs through the night and 
comes thudding against the window, and 
shrieks horridly when touched by a human 
hand. 
"So that is what turns into the Death's Head 
moth," said the girl in a low voice as though 
to herself. "I never knew it. I thought those 
things were legless cock-chafers when I dug 
them out of potato hills. Karl, why do you 
keep them?" 
"Ah, mademoiselle! To study them. To 
