and I was telling him all my trouble and what had been happening to
Marget and her uncle. While we were talking we turned a curve and saw
old Ursula resting in the shade of a tree, and she had a lean stray
kitten in her lap and was petting it. I asked her where she got it, and
she said it came out of the woods and followed her; and she said it
probably hadn’t any mother or any friends and she was going to take it
home and take care of it. Satan said:
“I understand you are very poor. Why do you want to add another mouth
to feed? Why don’t you give it to some rich person?”
Ursula bridled at this and said: “Perhaps you would like to have it.
You must be rich, with your fine clothes and quality airs.” Then she
sniffed and said: “Give it to the rich--the idea! The rich don’t care
for anybody but themselves; it’s only the poor that have feeling for
the poor, and help them. The poor and God. God will provide for this
kitten.”
“What makes you think so?”
Ursula’s eyes snapped with anger. “Because I know it!” she said. “Not a
sparrow falls to the ground without His seeing it.”
“But it falls, just the same. What good is seeing it fall?”
Old Ursula’s jaws worked, but she could not get any word out for the
moment, she was so horrified. When she got her tongue she stormed out,
“Go about your business, you puppy, or I will take a stick to you!”
I could not speak, I was so scared. I knew that with his notions about
the human race Satan would consider it a matter of no consequence to
strike her dead, there being “plenty more”; but my tongue stood still,
I could give her no warning. But nothing happened; Satan remained
tranquil--tranquil and indifferent. I suppose he could not be insulted
by Ursula any more than the king could be insulted by a tumble-bug.
The old woman jumped to her feet when she made her remark, and did it
as briskly as a young girl. It had been many years since she had done
the like of that. That was Satan’s influence; he was a fresh breeze to
the weak and the sick, wherever he came. His presence affected even
the lean kitten, and it skipped to the ground and began to chase a
leaf. This surprised Ursula, and she stood looking at the creature and
nodding her head wonderingly, her anger quite forgotten.
“What’s come over it?” she said. “Awhile ago it could hardly walk.”
“You have not seen a kitten of that breed before,” said Satan.
Ursula was not proposing to be friendly with the mocking stranger, and
she gave him an ungentle look and retorted: “Who asked you to come here
and pester me, I’d like to know? And what do you know about what I’ve
seen and what I haven’t seen?”
“You haven’t seen a kitten with the hair-spines on its tongue pointing
to the front, have you?”
“No--nor you, either.”
“Well, examine this one and see.”
Ursula was become pretty spry, but the kitten was spryer, and she could
not catch it, and had to give it up. Then Satan said:
“Give it a name, and maybe it will come.”
Ursula tried several names, but the kitten was not interested.
“Call it Agnes. Try that.”
The creature answered to the name and came. Ursula examined its tongue.
“Upon my word, it’s true!” she said. “I have not seen this kind of a
cat before. Is it yours?”
“No.”
“Then how did you know its name so pat?”
“Because all cats of that breed are named Agnes; they will not answer
to any other.”
Ursula was impressed. “It is the most wonderful thing!” Then a shadow
of trouble came into her face, for her superstitions were aroused, and
she reluctantly put the creature down, saying: “I suppose I must let
it go; I am not afraid--no, not exactly that, though the priest--well,
I’ve heard people--indeed, many people.... And, besides, it is quite
well now and can take care of itself.” She sighed, and turned to
go, murmuring: “It is such a pretty one, too, and would be such
company--and the house is so sad and lonesome these troubled days ...
Miss Marget so mournful and just a shadow, and the old master shut up
in jail.”
“It seems a pity not to keep it,” said Satan.
Ursula turned quickly--just as if she were hoping some one would
encourage her.
“Why?” she asked, wistfully.
“Because this breed brings luck.”
“Does it? Is it true? Young man, do you know it to be true? How does it
bring luck?”
“Well, it brings money, anyway.”
Ursula looked disappointed. “Money? A cat bring money? The idea! You
could never sell it here; people do not buy cats here; one can’t even
give them away.” She turned to go.
“I don’t mean sell it. I mean have an income from it. This kind is
called the Lucky Cat. Its owner finds four silver groschen in his
pocket every morning.”
I saw the indignation rising in the old woman’s face. She was insulted.
This boy was making fun of her. That was her thought. She thrust her
hands into her pockets and straightened up to give him a piece of her
mind. Her temper was all up, and hot. Her mouth came open and let out
three words of a bitter sentence, ... then it fell silent, and the
anger in her face turned to surprise or wonder or fear, or something,
and she slowly brought out her hands from her pockets and opened them
and held them so. In one was my piece of money, in the other lay four
silver groschen. She gazed a little while, perhaps to see if the
groschen would vanish away; then she said, fervently:
“It’s true--it’s true--and I’m ashamed and beg forgiveness, O dear
master and benefactor!” And she ran to Satan and kissed his hand, over
and over again, according to the Austrian custom.
In her heart she probably believed it was a witch-cat and an agent of
the Devil; but no matter, it was all the more certain to be able to
keep its contract and furnish a daily good living for the family, for
in matters of finance even the piousest of our peasants would have more
confidence in an arrangement with the Devil than with an archangel.
Ursula started homeward, with Agnes in her arms, and I said I wished I
had her privilege of seeing Marget.
Then I caught my breath, for we were there. There in the parlor, and
Marget standing looking at us, astonished. She was feeble and pale,
but I knew that those conditions would not last in Satan’s atmosphere,
and it turned out so. I introduced Satan--that is, Philip Traum--and
we sat down and talked. There was no constraint. We were simple folk,
in our village, and when a stranger was a pleasant person we were
soon friends. Marget wondered how we got in without her hearing us.
Traum said the door was open, and we walked in and waited until she
should turn around and greet us. This was not true; no door was open;
we entered through the walls or the roof or down the chimney, or
somehow; but no matter, what Satan wished a person to believe, the
person was sure to believe, and so Marget was quite satisfied with that
explanation. And then the main part of her mind was on Traum, anyway;
she couldn’t keep her eyes off him, he was so beautiful. That gratified
me, and made me proud. I hoped he would show off some, but he didn’t.
He seemed only interested in being friendly and telling lies. He said
he was an orphan. That made Marget pity him. The water came into her
eyes. He said he had never known his mamma; she passed away while he
was a young thing; and said his papa was in shattered health, and had
no property to speak of--in fact, none of any earthly value--but he had
an uncle in business down in the tropics, and he was very well off and
had a monopoly, and it was from this uncle that he drew his support.
The very mention of a kind uncle was enough to remind Marget of her
own, and her eyes filled again. She said she hoped their two uncles
would meet, some day. It made me shudder. Philip said he hoped so, too;
and that made me shudder again.
“Maybe they will,” said Marget. “Does your uncle travel much?”
“Oh yes, he goes all about; he has business everywhere.”
And so they went on chatting, and poor Marget forgot her sorrows for
one little while, anyway. It was probably the only really bright and
cheery hour she had known lately. I saw she liked Philip, and I knew
she would. And when he told her he was studying for the ministry I
could see that she liked him better than ever. And then, when he
promised to get her admitted to the jail so that she could see her
uncle, that was the capstone. He said he would give the guards a little
present, and she must always go in the evening after dark, and say
nothing, “but just show this paper and pass in, and show it again when
you come out”--and he scribbled some queer marks on the paper and gave
it to her, and she was ever so thankful, and right away was in a fever
