
CHAPTER XXXII


On the morrow the first witness called by the prosecution in rebuttal
was old Kraus, and now it was Mr. Rush's turn to shout "Immaterial,
Irrelevant and Incompetent," so that it was well-nigh impossible for the
jury to do more than guess what the choleric person with a strong German
accent was talking about. The district attorney fought valiantly to draw
forth the story of Frieda's nocturnal visit to the Kraus home in search
of advice after hearing Mrs. Balfame enter the kitchen from the yard,
but his efforts ended in a shouting contest between the prosecution and
the defence, both deserting their positions before the jury-box and
wrangling before the Judge like two angry school-boys. Alys Crumley
longed to laugh aloud, but not so the Judge. He asked them curtly how he
was to know what was their point of dispute if they both talked at once.
He then commanded Mr. Rush to state in as few words as possible what he
was objecting to; and when the counsel for the defence had stated his
purely legal reasons for blocking this purely hearsay testimony, the
Judge abruptly threw Mr. Kraus out of court. Rush, flushed and
triumphant, returned to his chair below the jury-box, and Mr. Gore
sulkily called the name of Miss Frieda Appel.

There was no question of poor Frieda's making a good personal impression
upon spectators or jury, no matter how worthy her motives. She had saved
almost every penny of her wages since coming to America; it had been
her lover's intention to emigrate to Brabant County as soon as his term
of service was over, and her housewifely intention to greet him with a
furnished cottage. Since the war began, she had sent all her savings to
East Prussia lest her people starve.

Dress in any circumstances would never tempt her. Economy was her
religion, and she cherished no illusions about her face and form. To-day
she wore a skirt of an old voluminous cut and a jacket with high
puckered sleeves. The colour had once been brown. Her coarse blonde hair
met her eyebrows in a thick bang, and its high knob was surmounted by a
sailor hat a size too small. Her thick-set body was uncorseted, and her
indeterminate features were lost in the width and flatness of her face.
Only the little eyes beneath the heavy thatch of hair alternately glowed
dully and spat fire.

The Judge sternly suppressed the titter that ran over the court-room as
this caricature mounted the witness-stand, and the district attorney, in
spite of frequent interruptions, elicited a remarkably clear and
coherent statement. The Judge sustained him, for here was a real
witness, and Miss Appel not only had been as thoroughly rehearsed as
Mrs. Figg, but she had a neat precise little mind set with rows of
pigeonholes that ejected their contents in routine when her coach
pressed the cognate button.

She had come home abruptly from the dance-hall as she had an
insupportable toothache--had run all the way, as she had some
toothache-drops in her room. She was in such agony she hardly had
noticed that her friend Conrad Kraus was behind her. When she reached
her room she had applied the drops, and to her horror they made the pain
worse. After walking the floor for perhaps ten minutes--she didn't know
or care whether it was ten or fifteen minutes--she was just starting to
go down-stairs and heat some water for her bag when she heard the
kitchen door open and shut. She held her breath and did not answer when
Mrs. Balfame called, as she feared she was wanted and was determined to
do nothing for anybody while her tooth ached like that.

Mrs. Balfame's voice had sounded quite breathless, as if she had been
running. In a moment Frieda heard her go into the dining-room then back
to the kitchen, and turn on the tap,--not the filter, which made no
noise,--and then she heard one glass clink against another on the pantry
shelf. After that, Mrs. Balfame went upstairs from the front hall and
the witness returned to her room and threw herself on the bed, where she
remained until Mr. Cummack came and asked her to go downstairs and make
coffee. By this time her tooth ached so she didn't care what she did.

Cross-questioned, she admitted that Mrs. Balfame was in the habit of
drinking a glass of filtered water the last thing at night. No, she had
not heard her go out, but only come in. But why, if Mrs. Balfame saw
nothing outside to frighten her, or if she hadn't been out, was she so
short of breath? As may be imagined, mere speculation on Miss Appel's
part was cut short by Mr. Rush, who interrupted her constantly. Yes, she
had heard what she now knew had been a shot but she had paid no
attention. Who would, with a red-hot iron forcing one's tooth down
through one's jaw?

Even the scornful questions of counsel which forced her to admit that
she had lied to the coroner neither perturbed her nor made any
impression on jury, press, or spectators. Every one present had suffered
from toothache, and two farmers in the box showed their tusks in an
appreciative grin when she replied tartly that she didn't know or care
anything that day but tooth, tooth, tooth. It was manifest that she was
far too conservative to have had it out at once, to say nothing of the
cost.

The only question she was not prepared for was the abrupt challenge of
Mr. Rush as to how she could prove that young Kraus had followed her if
she had neither seen nor spoken to him during that short run from Main
Street. But although she was visibly perturbed at being confronted with
a set of words to which no neat little pigeon-hole responded, it was so
evident she was firmly convinced her friend had accompanied her, that
for Rush to make too much of his solitary point would prejudice his
case, and he let her go.

Conrad Jr. followed, and his story was equally straightforward. He also
made a good impression. True, he had a very small closely cropped head,
with eyes too small and ears too large, but he held himself with
arrogance, and he was well dressed in a new grey suit and pink shirt.
Born in the United States, it was manifest that he was proud not only of
being an American citizen but of the country's choicest vintage. He had
been sent to the public school until he was sixteen, had studied
conscientiously, and his grammar was quite as good as that of the
District Attorney, who in emotional moments confused his negatives. But,
even Rush, whose advantages had been as superior as his natural
equipment, became a good nasal American when excited, opened into
vowels, and freely translated you into yer. It is these persistent
characteristics, so racy of the soil, which cheer us when apprehending
that our original Americanism may in time be obliterated by the foreign
influx.

No, said young Kraus, he had no sentimental interest in Frieda. (He
smiled.) And he was engaged to a young lady to whom he had been
attentive for three years. But he felt like a brother to Frieda; she had
come to his father's house direct from Germany, their families having
been friends for generations. It was not only his duty but his pleasure
to dance with her, she being "the best of the bunch down at the hall."

As he was dancing with her when her toothache became unendurable, it was
natural that he should see her home; in fact, he always saw her home
when it was convenient. Of course if he had to catch the last trolley
for Dobton in a hurry, that was another matter.

When she had entered the house, he had waited, thinking she might want
some other drops or possibly a dentist. Once when he had had a
toothache, he had been obliged to go to a dentist's house at night. His
papa had sent him, and naturally he thought of it as a possibility in
Frieda's case.

Then the kitchen door opened and a woman came out.

At this point the interest in the court-room became intense. Even the
blasé young reporters sat forward, their pencils poised. The Judge
wheeled his chair to the right and stared down fixedly at the back of
young Kraus' head. The district attorney balanced himself on his heels,
his thumbs hooked in the sleeves of his vest, and Rush stood with his
