interest. My love indeed was primarily for my work at the printer's
case, but that had its hours, as while I was distributing the type, when
my fancy roamed the universe in every dramatization of a proud and
triumphant future. In these reveries I was a man brilliantly accepted by
the great world, but in my waking from them I was a boy, with a boy's
fears and anxieties in conditions which might not have appalled a bolder
nature. There was, for instance, the Medical College in State Street,
where years later I was to dwell so joyously when it had become a
boarding-house in a suspense of its scientific function, but whence now,
after the early dark had fallen, ghosts swarmed from the
dissecting-room, and pursued me on my way home well round the corner
into Oak Street, where they delivered me over to another peril,
unfailingly in wait for me. There an abominable cur, which had
instinctively known of my approach several houses away, rushed from his
gate to meet me. It might have been my wisest course to run from the
ghosts, but flight would not avail me with this little beast, and when
he sprang out with sudden yelpings and barkings, and meteoric flashings
about my legs, I was driven to the folly of trying to beat him off with
sticks and stones. After he had once found his way to my terror, which
remained to me from having been bitten by a dog years before, and left
me without a formula of right behavior with a dog attacking me, nothing
could save me from him but my final escape from his fence, his street,
his city; and this, more than anything else, consoled me for any sense
of loss which I may have felt in leaving the state capital.
IV
My elder brother and I had several ideals in common quite apart from my
own literary ideals. One of these was life in a village, as differenced
from life in the country, or in any city, large or little; another was
the lasting renunciation of the printing-business in every form. The
last was an effect from the anxiety which we had shared with our father
and mother in the long adversity, ending in the failure of his
newspaper, from which we had escaped to the country. Once clear of that
disaster, we meant never to see a press or a case of types again; and
after our year of release from them in the country my brother had his
hopes of learning the river and becoming a steamboat pilot, but failed
in these, and so joined us in Columbus, where he had put off the evil
day of his return to the printing-business a little longer. Meanwhile I
had yielded to my fate and spent the whole winter in a printing-office;
and now we were both going to take up our trade, so abhorrent in its
memories, but going gladly because of the chances which it held out to
my father at a time when there seemed no other chance in the world for
him.
Yet we were about to fulfil our other ideal by going to live in a
village. The paper which we were to help make my father make his by our
work--for he had no money to buy it--was published in Ashtabula, now a
rather obstreperous little city, full of industrial noise and grime,
with a harbor emulous of the gigantic activities of the Cleveland
lake-front, but it must even then have had a thousand people. Our ideal,
therefore, was not perfectly realized till our office was transferred
some ten miles inland to the county-seat, for whatever business and
political reasons of the joint stock company which had now taken over
the paper, with my father as editor. With its four hundred inhabitants
less Jefferson was so much more than Ashtabula a village; and its young
gaieties welcomed us and our little force of printers to a social
liberty and equality which I long hoped some day to paint as a phase of
American civilization worthy the most literal fidelity of fiction. But I
shall now never do that, and I must be content to borrow from an
earlier page some passages which uninventively record the real events
and conditions of our enterprise.
In politics, the county was always overwhelmingly Freesoil, as the
forerunner of the Republican party was then called; the Whigs had hardly
gathered themselves together since the defeat of General Scott for the
Presidency; the Democrats, though dominant in state and nation, and
faithful to slavery at every election, did not greatly outnumber among
us the zealots called Comeouters, who would not vote at all under a
Constitution recognizing the right of men to own men. Our paper was
Freesoil, and its field was large among that vast majority of the people
who believed that slavery would finally perish if kept out of the
territories and confined to the old Slave States.
The people of the county were mostly farmers, and of these nearly all
were dairymen. The few manufactures were on a small scale, except
perhaps the making of oars, which were shipped all over the world from
the heart of the primeval forests densely wooding the vast levels of the
region. The portable steam-sawmills dropped down on the borders of the
woods have long since eaten their way through and through them, and
devoured every stick of timber in most places, and drunk up the
watercourses that the woods once kept full; but at that time half the
land was in the shadow of those mighty poplars and hickories, elms and
chestnuts, ashes and hemlocks; and the meadows that pastured the herds
of red cattle were dotted with stumps as thick as harvest stubble. Now
there are not even stumps; the woods are gone, and the watercourses are
torrents in spring and beds of dry clay in summer. The meadows
themselves have vanished, for it has been found that the strong yellow
soil will produce more in grain than in milk. There is more money in the
hands of the farmers there now, but half a century ago there was
[Illustration: One of the last log houses to survive in the vicinity of
Jefferson. When Mr. Howells lived in the town such dwellings were common
in the surrounding farm region]
so much less that fifty dollars seldom passed through a farmer's hands
in a year. Payment was made us in kind rather than in coin, and every
sort of farm produce was legal tender at the printing-office. Wood was
welcome in any quantity, for our huge box-stove consumed it with
inappeasable voracity, and even then did not heat the wide, low room
which was at once editorial-room, composing-room, and press-room.
Perhaps this was not so much the fault of the stove as of the building.
In that cold, lake-shore country the people dwelt in wooden structures
almost as thin and flimsy as tents; and often in the first winter of our
sojourn the type froze solid with the water which the compositor put on
it when he wished to distribute his case, placed near the window so as
to get all the light there was, but getting all the cold there was, too.
From time to time the compositor's fingers became so stiff that blowing
on them would not avail; he made many excursions between his stand and
the stove; in severe weather he practised the device of warming his
whole case of types by the fire, and, when they lost heat, warming it
again.
The first floor of our office-building was used by a sash-and-blind
factory; there was a machine-shop somewhere in it, and a mill for sawing
out shingles; and it was better fitted to the exercise of these robust
industries than to the requirements of our more delicate craft. Later,
we had a more comfortable place, in a new wooden "business block," and
for several years before I left it the office was domiciled in an old
dwelling-house, which we bought, and which we used without much change.
It could never have been a very comfortable dwelling, and my
associations with it are of a wintry cold, scarcely less polar than that
we were inured to elsewhere. In fact, the climate of that region is
rough and fierce; I know that there were lovely summers and lovelier
autumns in my time there, full of sunsets of a strange, wild,
melancholy splendor, I suppose from some atmospheric influence of the
lake; but I think chiefly of the winters, so awful to us after the mild
seasons of southern Ohio; the frosts of ten and twenty below; the
village streets and the country roads drowned in snow, the consumptives
in the thin houses, and the "slippin'," as the sleighing was called,
that lasted from December to April with hardly a break. At first our
family was housed on a farm a little way out, because there was no
tenement to be had in the village, and my father and I used to walk to
and from the office together in the morning and evening. I had taught
myself to read Spanish, in my passion for Don Quixote, and I was now,
at the age of fifteen, intending to write a life of Cervantes. The
scheme occupied me a good deal in those bleak walks, and perhaps it was
because my head was so hot with it that my feet were always very cold;
but my father assured me that they would get warm as soon as my boots
froze. If I have never yet written that life of Cervantes, on the other
hand I have never been quite able to make it clear to myself why my feet
should have got warm when my boots froze.
V
It may have been only a theory of his; it may have been a joke. He had a
great many theories and a great many jokes, and together they always
kept life interesting and sunshiny for him. With his serene temperament
and his happy doubt of disaster in any form, he was singularly fitted to
encounter the hardships of a country editor's lot. But for the moment,
