ceivable enough. Note that the statement he 
makes, when we first know him, to his dying 
uncle, the comipletemess of the picture of detach- 
ment then and there drawn for him, and which> 
precisely, by such an extraordinary and interest- 
ing turn, is what most "refreshes" and works 
upon Mr. Betterman— note, I say, that I ab- 
solutely require the utterness of his difference 
to be a sort of virtual determinant in this rela- 
tion. He puts it so to Rosanna, tells her how 
extraordinarily he feels that this is what it has 
been. Heaven forbid he should "paint" — but 
there glimmers before me the sense of the con- 
nection in which I can see him as more or less 
covertly and waitingly, fastidiously and often 
too sceptically, conscious of possibilities of "writ- 
ing". Quke frankly accept for him the complica- 
tion or whatever of his fastidiousness, yet of his 
recognition withal of what makes for steriEty; 
 
but again and again I have all this, I have it. 
His "culture", his initiations of intelligence and 
experience, his possibilities of imagination, if one 
will, to say nothing of other things, make for me 
a sort of figure of a floating island on which he 
drifts and bumps and coasts about, wanting to 
get alongside as much as possible, yet always 
with the gap of water, the little island fact, to be 
somehow bridged over. All of which makes him, 
I of course desperately recognise, another of the 
"intelligent", another exposed and assaulted, 
active and passive "mind" engaged in an ad- 
venture and interesting in itself by so being; but 
I rejoice in that aspect of my material as dra- 
matically and determinancy general. It isn't 
centrally a drama of fools or vulgarians; it's only 
circumferentially and surroundedly so — these 
being enormously implied and with the effect 
of their hovering and pressing upon the whole 
business from without, but seen and felt by us 
only with that rich indirectness. So far so good; 
but I come back for a moment to an issue left 
standing yesterday — and beyond which, for that 
matter, two or three other points raise their 
heads. Why did it appear to come up for me 
again — I having had it present to me before and 
then rather waved it away — that one might see 
Horton in the kind of crisis that I glanced at as 
throwing him upon Gray with what I called 
violence ? Is it because I feel "something more" 
 
is wanted for the process by which my Young 
Man works off the distaste, his distaste, for the 
ugliness of his inheritance — something more than 
his just generally playing into Horton's hands? 
I am in presence there of a beautiful difficulty, 
beautiful to solve, yet which one must be to the 
last point crystal-clear about; and this difficulty 
is certainly added to if Gray sees Horton as "dis- 
honest" in relation to others over and above his 
being "queer" in the condoned way I have so 
to picture for his relation to Gray. Here are 
complexities not quite easily unravelled, yet 
manageable by getting sufficiently close to them; 
complexities, I mean, of the question of whether 
? Horton is abysmal, yes — but with the 
mixture in it that Gray sees. Ergo I want the 
mixture, and if I adopt what I threw off specu- 
latively yesterday I strike myself as letting the 
mixture more or less go and having the non-mix- 
ture, that is the "bad" in him, preponderate. 
It has been my idea that this "bad" figures in 
a degree to Gray as after a fashion his own crea- 
tion, the creation, that is, of the enormous and 
fantastic opportunity and temptation he has held 
out — even though these wouldn't have operated 
in the least, or couldn't, without predispositions 
in Horton's very genius. If Gray saw him as a 
mere vulgar practiser of what he does practise, 
the interest would by that fact exceedingly drop; 
there would be no interest indeed, and the beauty 
 
of my "psychological" picture wouldn't come 
off, would have no foot to stand on. The beau- 
ty is in the complexity of the question — which, 
stated in the simplest terms possible, reduces 
itself to Horton's practically saying to Gray, or 
seeing himself as saying to Gray should it come 
to the absolute touch: "You mind, in your ex- 
traordinary way, how this money was accumulated 
and faanky-pankied, you suffer, and cultivate a 
suffering, from the perpetrated wrong of which 
you feel it the embodied evidence, and with which 
the possession of it is thereby poisoned for you. 
But I don't mind one little scrap — and there is 
a great deal more to be said than you seem so 
much as able to understand, or so much as able 
to want to, about the whole question of how 
money comes to those Who know how to make 
it. Here you are then, if it's so disagreeable to 
you — and what can one really say, with the chances 
you give me to say it, but that if you are so bur- 
dened and afflicted, there are ways of relieving 
you which, upon my honour, I should perfectly 
undertake to work — given the facilities that you 
so morbidly, so fantastically, so all but incredibly 
save for the testimony of my senses, permit me 
to enjoy." That, yes; but that is very different 
from the wider range of application of the apti- 
tudes concerned. The confession, and the delin- 
quency preceding it, that played a bit up for 
me yesterday — what do they do but make Hor- 
 
ton just as vulgar as I don't want him, and, as 
I immediately recognise, Gray wouldn't in the 
least be able to stomach seeing him under any 
continuance of relations. I have it, I have it, 
and it comes as an answer to why I worried ? Be- 
cause of felt want of a way of providing for some 
Big Haul, really big; which my situation ab- 
solutely requires. There must be at a given mo- 
ment a big haul in order to produce the big sacri- 
fice; the latter being of the absolute essence. I 
say I have it when I ask myself why the Big 
Haul shouldn't simply consist of the consequence 
of a confession made by Horton to Gray, yes; 
but made not about what he has lost, whether 
dishonestly or not, for somebody else, but what 
he has lost for Gray. Solutions here bristle, 
positively, for the case seems to clear up from 
the moment I make Horton put his matter as a 
mere disastrous loss, of unwisdom, of having 
been "done" by others and not as a thing in- 
volving his own obliquity. What I want is that 
he pleads the loss — whether loss to Gray, loss to 
another party, or loss to both, is a detail. I in- 
cline to think loss to Gray sufficient — loss that 
Gray accepts, which is different from his meet- 
ing the disaster inflicted on another by Horton. 
What I want a bit is all contained in Gray's 
