you from things. But that's all I can think of. Don't 
you quarrel with your brother, unless you want to get 
warped and twisted out of recognition, and don't you 
plague little girls. Hullo ! Ellen, that you ? 
Ellen had appeared at the open door with a parcel in 
her hands, a loaf of bread rolled up in a towel. She had 
been running through the woods because sometimes the 
path was black to her and she wanted to get home before 
dark; and she had reached the door too quickly to see in 
advance whether Larry was alone. If she had seen, she 
might have taken her loaf away into the wood recesses and 
waited with it until Hugh had gone. Hugh, at sight of 
her, felt the choking of the heart and the miserable sick- 
ness that comes when we have destroyed our own house 
of life which might as well have been left standing in the 
airs of peace. If only he had not done that strange thing 
he had not meant to do, Ellen would say " Hullo " to him 
and he would say " Hullo " to her. Neither of them 
would necessarily have anything to say after that, nor 
need they look at each other again; but the world would 
be left in its fairness and decency. Now Ellen stood there 
in the doorway, the red in her cheeks from running and 
her breath coming quickly, and she did not seem to see him 
at all. 
" Here's your bread, Mr. Greene," she said. " Shall I 
put it in the jar? " 
" Yes," said Larry, " yes, Ellen. You were a good girl 
to bring it. Put it in the jar." 
While she did it and then, with deft touches did a little 
picking up about the room, Larry was silent, smoking, his 
eyes half closed in luxurious content. 
"Wait a minute," he said, when she had finished her 
hurried tasks. " Here, I'll light the lantern." 
He took it down from its nail beside the chimney, and 
lighted it. Ellen waited, not guessing why. He had 
always known she could run through the woods in the dark. 
" You take the lantern," he said to Hugh. And then to 
Ellen, " Hugh's going home with you." 
 
Hugh was instantly on his feet, and snatched the lan- 
tern. He was all a glow of relief and eagerness. Larry 
had guessed right. The thing he could do to give the boy 
back his self-respect was to trust him to protect a girl, 
not to plague her. But Ellen seemed to have turned sud- 
denly to a little woman, a lady, indeed, all icy self- 
possession. 
" Fm not afraid, Mr. Greene," she said. " I don't want 
anybody to go home with me." 
" 'Course you're not afraid," said Larry. " But you 
might stub your toe over a root. Go along, both of you. 
I want to read my paper." 
So Ellen, with her head up, walked out into the night, 
and Hugh, his sudden relief gone, miserably followed her. 
Neither of them ever knew that Larry, too, was following 
at a distance. He had them on his mind. They were both 
intimately dear to him. He meant to understand Hugh 
thoroughly in this matter of plaguing a girl. Ellen walk- 
ing resolutely, rather slowly now, her head still up, went 
along the wood path, and Hugh, with the lantern, followed. 
When they came to the big boulder where there were tall 
pines on both sides and where he knew, if they stopped, 
they could find ivories even by feeling in the dark, the 
absurdity of it came over him and he called to her : 
" Say, you let me go ahead. The lantern don't do you 
any good back here." 
Ellen did not answer. Once she did stumble over a 
root, yet, Hugh angrily thought, she knew that root by 
heart. Instantly she recovered herself and he called: 
" Look here ! you let me go ahead." 
She did not answer, and he was the angrier because here 
the path was wide enough for him to pass her, and yet 
inexplicably he dared not. Something in her dauntless 
back seemed to have imposed a foolish distance between 
them. If he quickened his steps would she begin to run, 
and then would he have that horrible feeling that she 
thought he was pursuing her? When they were near the 
entrance to the lane he called to her miserably : 
" Ellen, you let me go by you, so you can see your way." 
Larry, listening, thought he was crying, and turned back 
at ease. Ellen, too, thought he was crying, and she was 
glad. A feeling of proper dignity rose in her, now that 
things were on the right basis. When she entered the lane, 
she did quicken her pace a little. If she had been alone, 
it was here she would have begun to run ; but like Hugh she 
was afraid, not of pursuit but a possible triumph in his 
mind. As she reached the head of the lane, she turned her 
head slightly, in acute listening. It seemed to her he was 
not following, and the slender lantern rays were less 
effectual. Where he put the lantern out and where he 
dropped off altogether she did not know. She mounted the 
wall with dignity and crossed her own yard to the kitchen 
where mother yawningly awaited her. 
"Wa'n't it dark comin' through the woods?" asked 
Ardelia. 
" Yes,'' said Ellen, " kinder dark." 
" I might ha' come an' met you," said Ardelia. 
But Ellen was glad she had not. 
Hugh slipped into the barn and set the lantern in a 
corner behind the highest mow where he and Ben kept a 
hidey-hole. Father was a little cautious of climbing. He 
had a rheumatic knee. But Hugh considered it undesir- 
able for father to see the lantern and ask whose it was and 
how he had happened to be at Larry Greene's and what he 
wanted of a lantern anyway. Then he went into the house, 
and stumbled into a talk between his father and Squire 
Greene. Neither man turned about or in any way recog- 
 
nized him as he came in, and he knew it was not the place 
for him and hurried through the room into the kitchen. 
But he carried the picture of them in his mind, sitting one 
at one end of the hearth and one at the other, as if it had 
been a winter night, though the bricks were cold and the 
world alive with airs of spring. But the two big chairs 
of the room were here by the fireplace, and these were men 
who chose the conventionally dignified place. As Hugh 
went out, he heard the conclusion of a sentence and after- 
ward snatches of talk that made him wonder why men were 
always trying to buy and sell. He was beginning to be 
disturbed by the implication that things could not always 
remain as he was born to them. It gave him a shock of 
surprise, indeed of oflFense, to think property he was used 
to considering " ours " could pass into other hands. 
" Anyways," Squire Greene was saying, " I could have 
gone to your sister first. Only I judged it best to come 
to you." 
He was a man of fifty, with the look of an older genera- 
tion. When he was young, those who had seen his fa- 
ther, old Squire Greene, walk with dignity about the 
neighborhood, said this son was his very image. That 
was why they had begun to call him squire when he in- 
herited the old house, though the title, in its first signifi- 
cance, died with an elder time. He was a thin man, erect, 
with cold blue eyes and a mouth shut tight in firmness 
or in pride. You would expect from that face a discreet 
wariness, neither compassion nor the warmer faults and 
virtues. He lacked mental distinction, yet he longed, with 
a meager craving known only, in its tenacity, to Larry, 
for the renown of public office. He saw himself, with an 
unappeasable longing, at the state capital, saw bundles 
of mail coming to him, reports, newspapers, because he 
