" Hello, kid," said the pit-boss. 
" Hello, Mr. Stone," was the reply. 
" I want to talk to you," said the boss. 
" All right, sir." And then, under his breath, " He's 
got me ! " 
" Come up to my house," said Stone ; and Hal followed, 
feeling as if hand-cuffs were already on his wrists. 
" Say," said the man, as they walked, " I thought you 
were going to tell me if you'd heard any talk." 
" I haven't heard any, sir." 
"Well," continued Stone, "you want to got busy; 
there's sure to be kickers in every coal-camp." And de«p 
within, Hal drew a sigh of relief. It was a false alarm ! 
They came to the boss's house, and he took a chair on 
the piazza and motioned Hal to take another. They sat 
in semi-darkness, and Stone dropped bis voice as be bc~ 
gan, " What I want to talk to you about now is some- 
thing else — this election." 
"Election, sir?" 
" Didn't you know there was one ? The Congressman 
in this district died, and there's a special election three 
weeks from next Tuesday." 
u I aee, sir." And Hal ebuckled inwardly, He would 
get the information which Tom Olson had rwjmswwfoA 
to him! 
The boss smiled appreciatively. "You've got more 
sense than most of 'em. If you'll stand by me, there'll 
be a chance for you to move up in the world." 
"Thank you, Mr. Stone," said Hal. "Give me a 
chance." 
" Well now, here's this election. Every year they send 
us a bunch of campaign money to handle. A bit of it 
might come your way." 
" I could use it, I reckon," said Hal, brightening vis- 
ibly. " What is it you want ? " 
There was a pause, while Stone puffed on his pipe. He 
went on, in a business-like manner. " What I want is 
somebody to feel things out a bit, and let me know the 
situation. I thought it better not to use the men that 
generally work for me, but somebody that wouldn't be 
suspected. Down in Sheridan and Pedro they say the 
Democrats are making a big stir, and the company's wor- 
ried. I suppose you know the i G. F. C is Republi- 
can." 
" I've heard so." 
" You might think a congressman don't have much to 
do with us, way off in Washington ; but it has a bad effect 
to have him ca&paigning, telling the men the company's 
abusing them.* So I'd like you just to kind o' circulate 
a bit, and start the men on politics, and see if any of them 
have been listening to this MacDougall talk. (Mac- 
Dougall's this here Democrat, you know.) And I want 
to find out whether they've been sending in literature to 
this camp, or have any agents here. You see, they claim 
th^lght to come in and make speeches, and all that sort 
of thing. North Valley's an incorporated town, so they've 
got the law on their side, in a way, and if we shut 'em out, 
they make a howl in the papers, and it looks bad. So we 
have to get ahead of them in quiet ways. Fortunately 
there ain't any hall in the camp for them to meet in, and 
we've made a local ordinance against meetings on the 
 
street. If they try to bring in circulars, something has 
to happen to them before they get distributed. See ? " 
" I see," said Hal ; he thought of Tom Olson's propa- 
ganda literature! 
" We'll pass the word out, — it's the Republican the 
company wants elected ; and you be on the lookout and see 
how they take it in the camp." 
" That sounds easy enough," said Hal. " But tell me, 
Mr. Stone, why do you bother? Do so many of these 
wops have votes ? " 
" It ain't the wops so much. We get them naturalised 
on purpose — they vote our way for a glass of beer. But 
the English-speaking men, or the foreigners that's been 
here too long, and got too big for their breeches — they're 
the ones we got to watch. If they get to talking politics, 
they don't stop there; the first thing you know, they're 
listening to union agitators, and wanting to run the camp." 
" Oh yes, I see ! " said Hal, and wondered if his voice 
sounded right. 
But the pit-boss was concerned with his own troubles. 
" As I told Si Adams the other day, what I'm looking for 
is fellows that talk some new lingo — one that nobody will 
ever understand ! But I suppose that would be too easy. 
There's no way to keep them from learning some Eng- 
lish ! " 
Hal decided to make use of this opportunity to perfect 
his education. " Surely, Mr. Stone," he remarked, " you 
don't have to count any votes if you don't want to ! " 
" Well, I'll tell you," replied Stone ; " it's a question 
of the easiest way to manage things. When I was super- 
intendent over to Happy Gulch, we didn't waste no time 
on politics. The company was Democratic at that time, 
and when election night come, we wrote down four hun- 
dred votes for the Democratic candidates. But the first 
thing we knew, a bunch of fellers was taken into town and 
got to swear they'd voted the Republican ticket in our 
 
camp. The Republican papers were full of it, and some 
fool judge ordered a recount, and we had to get busy over 
night and mark up a new lot of ballots. It gave us a lot 
of bother ! " 
The pit-boss laughed, and Hal joined him discreetly. 
" So you see, you have to learn to manage. If there's 
votes for the wrong candidate in your camp, the fact gets 
out, and if the returns is too one-sided, there's a lot of 
grumbling. There's plenty of bosses that don't care, but 
I learned my lesson that time, and I got my own method 
— that is not to let any opposition start. See ? " 
"Yes, Isee." 
"Maybe a mine-boss has got no right to meddle in 
politics — but there's one thing he's got the say about, 
and that is who works in his mine. It's the easiest thing 
to weed out — weed out — " Hal never forgot the motion 
of beefy hands with which Alec Stone illustrated these 
words. As he went on, the tones of his voice did not seem 
so good-natured as usual, " The fellows that don't want 
to vote my way can go somewhere else to do their voting. 
That's all I got to say on politics ! " 
There was a brief pause, while Stone puffed on his pipe. 
Then it may have occurred to him that it was not neces- 
sary to go into so much detail in breaking in a political 
recruit. When he resumed, it was in a good-natured 
tone of dismissal. " That's what you do, kid. To-mor- 
row you get a sprained wrist, so you can't work for a few 
days, and that'll give you a chance to bum round and hear 
what the men are saying. Meantime, I'll see you get your 
wages. 
" That sounds all right," said Hal ; but showing only 
a small part of his satisfaction ! 
The pit-boss rose from his chair and knocked the ashes 
from his pipe. "Mind you — I want the goods. I've 
got other fellows working, and I'm comparing 'em. For 
all you know, I may have somebody watching you." 
 
" Yes," said Hal, and grinned cheerfully. " I'll not 
fail to bear that in mind." 
 The first thing Hal did was to seek out Tom 
Olson and narrate this experience. The two of them had 
