Contrary to the prevailing estimate of the French — 
an estimate formed mainly from sensational novels 
and plays, or during brief visits to the shops and 
boulevards of Paris — the French are a stolid, stoical, 
practical race, abnormally acute, without illusions, and 
whose famous ebullience is all in the top stratum. 
There is even a certain melancholy at the root of their 
temperament, for, gay and pleasure loving as they are 
on the surface, they are a very ancient and a very wise 
people. Impatient and impulsive, they are capable of 
a patience and tenacity, a deep deliberation and cau- 
tion, which, combined with an unparalleled mental 
alertness, brilliancy without recklessness, bravery 
without bravado, spiritual exaltation without senti- 
mentality (which is merely perverted animalism), a 
curious sensitiveness of mind and body due to over- 
breeding, and a white flame of patriotism as steady 
and dazzling as an arc-light, has given them a glor- 
ious history, and makes them, by universal consent, 
preeminent among the warring nations to-day. 
They are intensely conservative and their mental 
suppleness is quite as remarkable. Economy is one 
of the motive powers of their existence, the solid 
pillars upon which their wealth and power are built; 
and yet Paris has been not only the home and the 
patron of the arts for centuries, but the arbiter of 
fashion for women, a byword for extravagance, and 
a forcing-house for a thousand varieties of pleasure. 
No race is so paradoxical, but then France is the 
genius among nations. Antiquity, and many invasions 
of her soil have given her an inviolable solidity, and 
the temperamental gaiety and keen intelligence which 
pervades all classes have kept her eternally young. 
She is as far from decadence as the crudest community in the United States of America. 
To the student of French history and character 
nothing the French have done in this war is surprising; nevertheless it seemed to me that I had a fresh 
revelation every day during my sojourn in France in 
the summer of 1916. Every woman of every class 
(with a few notable exceptions seen for the most 
part in the Ritz Hotel) was working at something or 
other: either in self-support, to relieve distress, or to 
supplement the efforts and expenditures of the Government (two billion francs a month) ; and it seemed 
that I never should see the last of those relief organizations of infinite variety known as "oeuvres." 
Some of this work is positively creative, much is 
original, and all is practical and indispensable. As 
the most interesting of it centers in and radiates from 
certain personalities whom I had the good fortune to 
meet and to know as well as their days and mine 
would permit, it has seemed to me that the surest way 
of vivifying any account of the work itself is to make 
its pivot the central figure of the story. So I will 
begin with Madame Balli. 
 
To be strictly accurate, Madame Balli was born in 
Smyrna, of Greek blood; but Paris can show no purer 
type of Parisian, and she has never willingly passed 
a day out of France. During her childhood her 
brother (who must have been many years older than 
herself) was sent to Paris as Minister from Greece, 
filling the post for thirty years; and his mother followed with her family. Madame Balli not only was 
brought up in France, but has spent only five hours 
of her life in Greece; after her marriage she expressed a wish to see the land of her ancestors, and 
her husband — who was an Anglo-Greek — amiably 
took her to a hotel while the steamer on which they 
were journeying to Constantinople was detained in 
the harbor of Athens. 
Up to the outbreak of the war she was a woman 
of the world, a woman of fashion to her finger-tips, 
a reigning beauty always dressed with a costly and 
exquisite simplicity. Some idea of the personal loveliness which, united to her intelligence and charm, 
made her one of the conspicuous figures of the capital, may be inferred from the fact that her British 
husband, an art connoisseur and notable collector, was 
currently reported deliberately to have picked out the 
most beautiful girl in Europe to adorn his various 
mansions. 
Madame Balli has black eyes and hair, a white skin, 
a classic profile, and a smile of singular sweetness and 
charm. Until the war came she was far too absorbed 
in the delights of the world — the Paris world, which 
has more votaries than all the capitals of all the world 
— the changing fashions and her social popularity, to 
have heard so much as a murmur of the serious tides 
of her nature. Although no one disputed her intelligence — a social^ asset in France, odd as that may ap- 
pear to Americans — she was generally put down as a 
mere femme du monde, self-indulgent, pleasure-lov- 
ing, dependent — what our more strident feminists call 
parasitic. It is doubtful if she belonged to charitable 
organizations, although, generous by nature, it is safe 
to say that she gave freely. 
In that terrible September week of 1914 when the 
Germans were driving like a hurricane on Paris and 
its inhabitants were fleeing in droves to the South, 
Madame Balli's husband was in England; her sister- 
in-law, an infirmiere major (nurse major) of the 
First Division of the Red Cross, had been ordered 
to the front the day war broke out; a brother-in-law 
had his hands full ; and Madame Balli was practically 
alone in Paris. Terrified of the struggling hordes 
about the railway stations even more than of the advancing Germans, deprived of her motor cars, which 
had been commandeered by the Government, she did 
not know which way to turn or even how to get into 
communication with her one possible protector. 
But her brother-in-law suddenly bethought himself 
of this too lovely creature who would be exposed to 
the final horrors of recrudescent barbarism if the Germans entered Paris; he determined to put public de- 
mands aside for the moment and take her to Dinard, 
"whence she could, if necessary, cross to England. 
He called her on the telephone and told her to be 
ready at a certain hour that afternoon, and with as 
little luggage as possible, as they must travel by automobile. "And mark you," he added, "no dogs!" 
Madame Balli had seven little Pekinese to which she 
was devoted (her only child was at school in England). She protested bitterly at leaving her pets behind, but her brother was inexorable, and when he 
called for her it was with the understanding that all 
seven were yelping in the rear, at the mercy of the 
concierge. 
There were seven passengers in the automobile, 
however, of which the anxious driver, feeling his way 
through the crowded streets and apprehensive that 
his car might be impressed at any moment, had not a 
suspicion. They were in hat boxes, hastily perforated 
portmanteaux, up the coat sleeves of Madame Balli 
and her maid, and they did not begin to yelp until so 
far on the road to the north that it was not worth 
while to throw them out. 
 
At Dinard, where wounded soldiers were brought 
in on every train, Madame Balli was turned over to 
friends, and in a day or two, being bored and lonely, 
she concluded to go with these friends to the hospitals 
 
and take cigarettes and smiles into the barren wards. 
From that day until I left Paris on the seventeenth 
of August, 1916, Madame Balli had labored unceasingly; she is known to the Government as one of its 
most valuable and resourceful aids; and she works 
until two in the morning, during the quieter hours, 
with her correspondence and books (the police descend at frequent and irregular intervals to examine 
the books of all ceuvres, and one mistake means being 
haled to court), and she had not up to that time taken 
a day's rest. I have seen her so tired she could hardly 
go on, and she said once quite pathetically, "I am not 
