to see, and he has the great merit of standing 
there ready to your hand. You talk about the 
   question,' but what is he but the best answer 
to it that any conditions at all conceivable 
can yield ? You say mine my conditions are 
  
wrong; so that what are his, logically, unless 
right ? If he isn't right with them it would seem 
therefore their fault. I wonder it doesn't strike 
you in fine that if he isn't good enough your idea 
itself perhaps isn't." Now that Ralph was 
launched he felt the tide high. "That's what it 
comes to, your idea, dress it up as you will. You 
want a fellow only who shall have had adventures 
and that, I hasten to grant, is any lady's right. 
There's no disputing about tastes, but that isn't 
true about principles. You want the adventure 
to have been, or necessarily to be, of the species 
most marked and determined by our climate, our 
geographical position, our political institutions, 
our social circumstances and our national charac 
ter. It seems to me you see lines drawn remark 
ably sharp, but, allowing you that, I repeat that 
you strike me as having but to take your choice. 
The cowboy," he suggested, "of middle-age, 
say " 
But she had now interrupted as if for com 
miseration. "I don't even yet know what a cow 
boy is!" 
It was at all events her seeing him gracelessly 
astray that she made him most feel. "There 
am  for you then. I don't know what anyone 
is who leads the life of action so little am I such 
a creature myself." And straight though he 
was sore for it he looked the whole thing in the 
face. It's my type itself that's impossible to you. 
  
I shouldn't even here," he averred, "be able to 
meet your views or do what you require. I'd be 
a brute for it if I could as indeed I often wish I 
were one; but I'll be hanged if I see my way. My 
adventures are all in a very small circle" and 
our young man tapped the seat of his brain. 
He thought it out at the moment almost as much 
for himself as for Aurora. "If it weren't that 
I'm trying to equip myself without disgrace in 
this one, I should doubt if in a fix of the kind that 
for you makes the hero I could be rightly counted 
on to know what to do. There you have me. 
Yes, it comes home to me: I only know what to 
do in thought or, as you might say, imagination 
and but the least little bit even there; also with 
out any firm confidence of doing it. So that if 
none but a ranchman need apply !" he could 
in fine, while they dropped, with this, into their 
longest break, but look about for his hat. "I 
suppose it's no use my saying," he went on when 
he had found this article, "that if it interests you 
at all I may just possibly before long come in for 
something in England." He waited a little for 
her to take him up on it, but to the simple in 
crease of his sense of her leaving him now to 
flounder as he would. He floundered accordingly 
an instant longer. "To me to my mind of 
course I mean such a windfall, in the shape of a 
bit of old property, an old house, a piece of sug 
gestive concrete antiquity, easily represents, as 
  
you can conceive, rather a 'treat.' But I don't 
dream it's a thing to dazzle you with." He felt 
as soon as he had spoken, or rather as soon as her 
own silence had again marked itself, as if he had 
seen a vulgar bribe fall flat; and he was equally 
aware that what he next said deepened this ap 
pearance. "Of course there's nothing of that sort 
that can mean much to you to-day. You've seen 
everything again and again." 
"Oh," she answered at last, "I've seen a great 
deal. But not what you will. You'll know so 
much better how. You've work cut out, but 
you're to be envied." 
He put out his hand to her. "Good-bye till 
next year." 
For a moment she kept it. "Why do you talk 
so foolishly ? " 
"I say nothing more foolish than that I shall 
by that time see you again." 
At this she slowly released him. "Of course 
it will be comparatively easy for you, but it won't 
really be worth your while to come back to spite 
me." 
"I shall come back," said Ralph, "because I 
shall want to." 
She had another of those weighted headshakes 
which, as if determined less from within than 
from without, suggested the perfect working of her 
beauty rather than that of her thought. "No V 
it's there that you're wrong and that I'm so right. 
 
I'm not such an idiot as not to know that there 
will always be a steamer and that you can always 
pay your passage. When I said that if you go 
you'll never come back I meant that you'll never 
wish to. Of course you can come back without 
wishing as much as you like. But that," she 
blandly remarked, "won't do for me." 
"How well you know what I wish," he exhaled, 
"and how much every way you know about 
everything ! " 
"Well," she patiently replied before he had 
time finally to leave her, "it's not wholly my 
fault if an expression you once used to me has 
much worked in me. I remembered it as soon 
as I saw you to-day, and it would have made a 
folly of my talking to you of my conditions if 
I had done that with any other practical view 
than to call your attention to our impossibilities. 
You used it on one occasion when I was last at 
home in a way that has made me never forget 
it." 
Ralph wondered. "I've used doubtless plenty 
of expressions and in plenty of absurd ways. But 
what in the world was this one ? " 
She brought it responsibly out. " 'The sense 
of the past '." 
He wondered still more. "Is that all?" 
"You said it was the thing in life you desired 
most to arrive at, and that wherever you had 
found it even where it was supposed to be most 
  
vivid and inspired it had struck you as deplor 
ably lacking intensity. At the intensity required, 
as you said, by any proper respect for itself, 
you proposed if possible yourself to arrive art,  
research, curiosity, passion, the historic passion, 
as you called it, helping you. From that mo 
ment," she went on, "I saw. The sense of the 
past is your sense." 
He attended with a cold eye. "I haven't an 
idea what trash I may have talked." 
