such things--not adroit, merely clumsy and brutal. The Hun cannot
camouflage his native ferocity. He reveals himself.
"And in that respect it is fortunate for civilisation that it is
dealing with barbarians. Their cunning is of the swinish sort. Their
stench ultimately discovers them. You are discovering it for
yourselves; you detected Dernberg; you already sniff Von Papen,
Boy-ed, Bernstorff. All over the world the nauseous effluvia from the
vast Teutonic hog-pen is being detected and recognised. And
civilisation is taking sanitary measures to abate the nuisance.... And
your country, too, will one day send out a sanitary brigade to help
clean up the world, just as you now supply our details with the
necessary chlorides and antiseptics."
Barres laughed:
"You are very picturesque," he said. "And I'll tell you one thing, if
we don't join the sanitary corps now operating, I shall go out with a
bottle of chloride myself."
They entered Dragon Court a few moments later. Nobody was at the desk,
it being late.
"To-morrow," said Barres, as they ascended the stairs, "my friends,
Miss Soane, Miss Dunois, and Mr. Westmore are to be our guests
at Foreland Farms. You didn't know that, did you?" he added
sarcastically.
"Oh, yes," replied Renoux, much amused. "Miss Dunois, as you call her,
sent her trunks away this evening."
Barres, surprised and annoyed, halted on the landing:
"Your people didn't interfere, I hope."
"No. There was nothing in them of interest to us," said Renoux
naïvely. "I sent a report when I sent on to Washington the papers
which you secured for us."
Barres paused before his studio door, key in hand. They could hear the
gramophone going inside. He said:
"I don't have to ask you to be fair, Renoux, because the man who is
unfair to others swindles himself, and you are too decent, too
intelligent to do that. I am going to present you to Thessalie Dunois,
which happens to be her real name, and I am going to tell her in your
presence who you are. Then I shall leave you alone with her."
He fitted his latchkey and opened the door.
Westmore was trying fancy dancing with Dulcie on one side, and
Thessalie on the other--the latter evidently directing operations.
"Garry!" exclaimed Thessalie.
"You're a fine one! Where have you been?" began Westmore. Then he
caught sight of Renoux and became silent.
Barres led his comrade forward and presented him:
"A fellow student of the Beaux Arts," he explained, "and we've had a
very jolly evening together. And, Thessa, there is something in
particular that I should like to have you explain to Monsieur Renoux,
if you don't mind...." He turned and looked at Dulcie: "If you will
pardon us a moment, Sweetness."
She nodded and smiled and took Westmore's arm again, and continued the
dance alone with him while Barres, drawing Thessalie's arm through
his, and passing his other arm through Renoux's, walked leisurely
through his studio, through the now open folding doors, past his
bedroom and Westmore's, and into the latter's studio beyond.
"Thessa, dear," he said very quietly, "I feel very certain that
the worst of your troubles are about to end----" He felt her
start slightly. "And," he continued, "I have brought my comrade,
Renoux, here to-night so that you and he can clear up a terrible
misunderstanding.
"And Monsieur Renoux, once a student of architecture at the Beaux
Arts, is now Captain Renoux of the Intelligence Department in the
French Army----"
Thessalie lost her colour and a tremor passed through the arm which
lay within his.
But he said calmly:
"It is the only way as well as the best way, Thessa. I know you are
absolutely innocent. I am confident that Captain Renoux is going to
believe it, too. If he does not, you are no worse off. Because it has
already become known to the French Government that you are here.
Renoux knew it."
They had halted; Barres led Thessalie to a seat. Renoux, straight,
deferential, correct, awaited her pleasure.
She looked up at him; his keen, intelligent eyes met hers.
"If you please, Captain Renoux, will you do me the honour to be
seated?" she said in a low voice.
Barres went to her, bent over her hand, touched it with his lips.
"Just tell him the truth, Thessa, dear," he said.
"Everything?" she smiled faintly, "including our first meeting?"
Barres flushed, then laughed:
"Yes, tell him about that, too. It was too charming for him not to
appreciate."
And with a half mischievous, half amused nod to Renoux he went back to
find the dancers, whom he could hear laughing far away in his own
studio.
       
It was nearly one o'clock when Dulcie, who had been sleeping with
Thessalie, whispered to Barres that she was ready to retire.
"Indeed, you had better," he said, releasing her as the dance music
ran down and ceased. "If you don't get some sleep you won't feel like
travelling to-morrow."
"Will you explain to Thessa?"
"Of course. Good-night, dear."
She gave him her hand in silence, turned and offered it to Westmore,
then went away toward her room.
Westmore, who had been fidgeting a lot since Thessalie had retired for
a tête-à-tête with a perfectly unknown and alarmingly good-looking
young man whom he never before had laid eyes on, finally turned short
in his restless pacing of the studio.
"What the deuce can be keeping Thessa?" he demanded. "And who the
devil is that black-eyed young sprig of France you brought home with
you?"
"Sit down and I'll tell you," said Barres crisply, instinctively
resenting his friend's uncalled for solicitude in Thessalie's behalf.
So Westmore seated himself and Barres told him all about the evening's
adventures. And he was still lingering unctuously over the details of
the battle at Grogan's, the recital of which, Westmore demanding, he
had begun again, when at the farther end of the studio Thessalie
appeared, coming toward them.
Renoux was beside her, very deferential and graceful in his
attendance, and with that niceness of attitude which confesses respect
in every movement.
Thessalie came forward; Barres advanced to meet her with the unspoken
question in his eyes, and she gave him both her hands with a tremulous
little smile of happiness.
"Is it all right?" he whispered.
"I think so."
Barres turned and grasped Renoux by one hand.
The latter said:
"There is not the slightest doubt in my mind, mon ami. You were
perfectly right. A frightful injustice has been done in this matter.
Of that I am absolutely convinced."
"You will do what you can to set things right?"
"Of course," said Renoux simply.
There was a moment's silence, then Renoux smiled:
"You know," he said lightly, "we French have a horror of any more
mistakes like the Dreyfus case. We are terribly sensitive. Be assured
that my Government will take up this affair instantly upon receiving
my report."
He turned to Barres:
"Would you, perhaps, offer me a day's hospitality at your home in the
country, if I should request it by telegram sometime this week or
next?"
"You bet," replied Barres cordially.
Then Renoux made his adieux, as only such a Frenchman can make them,
saying exactly the right thing to each, in exactly the right manner.
When he was gone, Barres took Thessalie's hands and pressed them:
"Pretty merle-blanc, your little friend Dulcie is already asleep. Tell
us to-morrow how you convinced him that you are what you are--the
dearest, sweetest girl in the world!"
She laughed demurely, then glanced apprehensively, sideways, at
Westmore.
