nucleus for a zenana.
He found, however, a pretty bird of his own vivacious and volatile
temperament in the exceedingly bored Countess Manntrapp.  And they were
often together and apparently having a jolly flirtation, being cleverly
aware of each other’s character and entertaining no delusions.
Except for these two at table and on the veranda, and except for the
companionship of Smith, and now and then an opportunity for a few
cautious words with Thusis, those days would have been insupportable for
me.  A hungry hun is bad enough; an ill-tempered one is worse; but a
bored boche!—imagine a penful of them with time heavy on their hoofs!
The old story—"What’s time to a hawg!"—has no significance among the
Sus scrofa or the "Bosch Vark."  Bored, the embers of that dull,
slumbering rage glow hotter; the sulky silence is broken by grumbling,
then by quarrels; the blind, senseless instinct to brutalize and rend
obsesses.  Small wonder the boche desires a place in the sun where his
herds can spread out from the constricted and common wallow!
Tino had again appeared at luncheon with the other eye done in
thunderous tints of purple, taupe, and an exquisite mauve.  Parallel
scratches adorned his nose; some of his mustache was missing.  But I
must admit he took it jauntily enough, and his bland
explanation—something about tripping over a rock in the woods—was
accepted by all and believed by none.
The queen, still somewhat pasty and pinched from the effects of this
ritual in camera, ate haughtily, disdainful of what anybody might
really think, and calm in her conviction that the Hohenzollern is
responsible to Gott alone for whatever a Hohenzollern may choose to do.
That she had done plenty to Tino was painfully visible: but he was in a
jocose and waggish humor, and his barrack-room quips and jests were
plainer than usual.  In fact, they became so coarse that even the
Admiral bristled his beard and eyebrows, sniffing lack of respect for
himself in the loud-mouthed levity of the King.
And I was getting madder and madder, Thusis and Clelia being present to
wait on table as usual, and I was on the point of making a sharp
observation to King Tino, when a sudden burst of applause from the other
end of the table checked me.  The Countess Manntrapp was speaking.  She
continued:
"This enforced imprisonment is becoming exceedingly dull for everybody.
Why not divert ourselves? Has anybody any suggestions to offer?"
"A mountain party," rumbled Admiral Lauterlaus. "I, in my time, a famous
hunter of ’gamps’ have been."
"We don’t wish to break our necks to divert ourselves," sneered the
queen.
"A fishing party!" exclaimed Von Dungheim.  "If there is a good big net
we can all help draw it and clean out every trout in the stream!"
"Droly," expostulated Tino, "you have such wholesale ideas!  Our host
might possibly object, you know."
At the very idea of anybody objecting to the destructive wishes of a
Prussian officer, General Count von Dungheim glared at me.
"Why not give a baby-party?" inquired Smith, blandly.
"A—a baby-party!" repeated Baron Bummelzug vacantly, in English; "what
perhaps iss it a baby-party?"
Thusis, serving me, bent over and whispered in my ear: "Not the sort of
baby-parties they gave in Belgium; there are no babies."  And she moved
serenely to serve the queen, her beautiful face placid and inscrutable.
The Princess Pudelstoff began to clap her pudgy hands excitedly:
"A baby-party!  A baby-party!  That’ll be fun! That’ll be great!  And
we’ll have a feed and a spiel——"
"Ach wass!" shouted the Admiral exasperated. "Tell us once what it iss a
baby-party, und stop your noises yet!"
But the excited Princess had become uncontrollable, and she began to
hammer on the table with her fat fists, shouting:
"A feed and a spiel!  For God’s sake somebody start something in this
hellofa hole!"
Amid her clamor and the ominous roaring of the infuriated Admiral, I
tinkled my goblet with my fork and presently secured comparative silence
for Smith.
In a few pleasant phrases he explained to them the simple intricacies of
the American baby-party.
"I’ll come!" cried the Countess Manntrapp, delighted.
"I also!" echoed Eddin Bey.
Tino was visibly enchanted at the prospect, and he clapped King
Ferdinand on his elephantine back exultingly:
"We’ll go as twins!" he cried.  "This is most agreeable to me!  Eh,
Sophy?  I’m half dead for a bit of a frolic!  Everybody must come.
Nobody is to be excused.  Desperate cases require desperate remedies.
Ennui is what is killing us; diversion is what we need!"
He was pounding the breath out of King Ferdinand who began to cough and
dodge and blink wildly at everybody out of his little wild-pig’s eyes,
when I stood up giving the signal.
"The party," announced Smith, "is for to-night! There will be games, a
dance, and a supper.  All are politely invited!"
"My God," said Secretary Gizzler to me, rubbing his bony hands together,
"to what foolishness does noble company resort in order that ennui may
be escaped."
The Princess Pudelstoff overheard him:
"Crape-hanger!" she said, giving him a vigorous dig in the ribs which
almost disarticulated his entire and bony frame.
The majority, however, trooping out to the veranda where they could
teutonically enjoy their coffee and cognac "im grünen," appeared
desirous of engaging in the proposed diversion.
Even the queen deigned to inquire of me whether there was, in the house,
material with which to construct a pair of ruffled panties for her
husband.
Only the Bolsheviki remained aloof, chattering and mouthing together and
waving their soiled fingers at each other and, presumably, at the
bourgeois world in general.
Later, Smith came into my room whither I had retired to resume my series
of poems to Thusis,—a rather melancholy occupation yet oddly comforting,
too.
"Why the devil," said I, "did you suggest such a party?"
"I don’t know.  It occurred to me.  I’m rather tired of their
wrangling."
"But a baby-party!"
He laughed: "You see how they take to the idea. Anything to dissipate
this sullen, ugly atmosphere. It gets on my nerves."
"Are you going?"
"Certainly."
"In costume?"
"Of course."
"Good heavens, Smith!  I didn’t think you had it in you to frivol."
"Why—I don’t know," he said, smilingly.  "I’m intensely happy."
I eyed him gloomily: "Yes," said I, "no doubt you are—winning the
affections of the girl you wish to marry.  By the way, has she been
civil enough to tell you who she really is?"
"No," he replied cheerfully.
"Do you mean to tell me you are engaged to marry a girl who refuses to
disclose her identity?"
"Exactly."
"How the devil is she going to marry you?  Under an assumed name?"
"That is for Clelia to decide."
"That," said I, "is a most remarkable view to take of the situation."
"Why?  I am in love.  I dare believe she cares for me.  It makes no
difference to me who Clelia may be.  That she is Clelia is enough—enough
that she will be my wife.  And when a man stands for the first time
inside the gates of happiness with the girl he loves—what an ass he’d be
to bother her about details!"
This was a totally new and unexpected Smith, to me.  I never dreamed it
was in him.
"Don’t you agree with me?" he inquired.
I nodded doubtfully.
"Wouldn’t you accept Thusis as she chose to offer herself?" he insisted.
A pang shot through me:
"Good Lord, yes!" I said.  "I’d marry her if she were a beggar or a
convict or the least creature of her sex.  I’d never ask a question; I’d
take thankfully and happily what she offered.  You are right,
Smith—wonderfully right.  If you love, love!  If you don’t, worry!"
"Quite right," he said; "it’s either love or worry; the genuine article
doesn’t admit of both.  If you really love you are satisfied; if you
worry it isn’t love—it’s merely something resembling it.  Love is
specific; there are sub-species and varieties, none the real thing.  The
