stopped again, and Jimmie heard him breathing hard. Evi- 
dently he made an effort to keep his self-control ; when he spoke 
again, his voice was quieter. "Listen, my good fellow," he said. 
"You have a chance to make a good deal of money to-night " 
"I don't want your money !" broke in Jimmie. "I wouldn't 
touch your filthy money, that you get by murdering men !" 
"My God!" said Lacey Granitch; and then, weakly: "What 
have you got against me ?" 
"What have I got? I was workin' in the Empire, an' I 
went on strike for my rights, an' you cursed me like I was a dog, 
an' you sent the police an' had me arrested, an' they smashed 
Wild Bill's nose, an' sent me up for ten days when I hadn't 
done nothin' " 
"Oh! So that's it, is it?" 
"Yes, that's it; but I wouldn't mind that so much if it 
wasn't for them shells you're makin' to kill men over in Europe. 
And you spendin' the money drinkin' champagne with chorus- 
girls, an' running off with other men's wives!" 
"You " and Lacey uttered a foul oath, and leaped at 
Jimmie; but Jimmie had expected that, he was looking out for 
himself. There was no railing to the little porch on which he 
stood, and he leaped off to the ground and away. Because he 
knew the lay of the land, he could run faster in the darkness 
than his pursuer. 
He sped down the path and out into the road and there 
was the headlight of an automobile, almost upon him. The 
vehicle came to an instant stop, and a startled voice cried, 
"Hey, there!" 
"Hey, there!" answered Jimmie, and stopped in the light; 
for he did not believe that his enemy would dare pursue him 
there. 
The voice from the car spoke again. "There's an automobile 
off the road a ways back here. Do you know anything about 
who the people are that were driving it?" 
"Sure I do !" answered Jimmie promptly. 
"Where are they?" 
"They're up in that house Lacey Granitch an' a lady 
named Helen " 
And instantly the door of the car was flung open. A man 
leaped out, and another man, and another; they kept coming 
Jimmie would not have believed that an automobile could have 
held so many people. Not one of them said a word, but all 
started on the run for Jimmie's house as if they were charging 
in a battle. 
IV 
Jimmie followed behind. He heard sounds of a scuffle on 
the lawn, and screams from inside. At first the little farm- 
hand could not make up his mind what to do, but finally he 
ran to the house ; and there in the front room he saw the beauti- 
ful lady, with her wet hair streaming down her back, and the 
tears streaming down her face, sunk on her knees before the 
man who had hailed Jimmie from the automobile. She had 
caught his coat with her two hands, and clung to it with such 
desperation that when he tried to draw away he dragged her 
 
along the floor. "Paul!" she was screaming. "What are you 
going to do?" 
"Be quiet! Be quiet!" commanded the man. He was 
young, tall and superhumanly handsome ; his face had the white 
light of a passionate resolve, his lips were set like those of a 
man who is marching to his death in battle. "Answer me!" 
cried the woman again and again; until finally he said: "I 
shan't kill him; but I mean to teach him his lesson." 
"Paul, Paul, have mercy!" sobbed the woman; she went on 
pleading hysterically, in the most dreadful distress that Jimmie 
had ever seen or heard. "It wasn't his fault, Paul, it was 
mine! I did it all! Oh, for Christ's sake! You are driving 
me mad!" She moaned, she implored, she sobbed till she 
choked herself; and when the man tried to tear her hands 
loose she fought with him, he could not get free of her. 
"You're not going to move me, Helen," he declared. "You 
might as well get that clear." 
"But I tell you it was my fault, Paul! I ran away with 
him!" 
"All right," answered the man, grimly. "I'll fix him so 
no other man's wife will ever run away with him." 
Her clamour continued more wildly than ever, until two 
other men came into the room. "Joe," said Paul, to one of 
them, "take her down to the car arid keep her there. Don't 
let her call for help if anybody comes along, keep her quiet, 
keep your hand tight over her mouth." 
"Paul, you're a fiend !" shrieked the woman. "I'll kill you 
for this !" 
"You're welcome to," answered the man. "I shouldn't 
care but I'm going to do this job before I die." And he tore 
the woman's hands away from him, and by his stern anger he 
gave the other two men the necessary resolution. They carried 
her, half fainting, out of the room. 
All this time Jimmie Higgins had been standing like one 
turned to stone; and Lizzie had shrunk into a far corner of the 
room, all but paralysed with terror. Now the man turned to 
them. "My good people," he said, "we want to borrow your 
room for a half hour or so. We'll pay you well for it enough 
to buy the whole house if you want to." 
"W-w-what are you goin' to do?" stammered Jimmie. 
"We're going to teach a little fundamental morality to a 
young man whose education has been neglected' replied the 
other. That somehow did not tell Jimmie very much, but he 
forbore to speak again, for never in all his life had he seen a 
man who conveyed to him the impression of such resistless 
force as this man. He was truly a superhuman creature, terri- 
fying, panoplied in lightnings of wrath. 
The door of the house opened again, and Lacey Granitch 
came in, with a man on each side holding him by the arms, 
and a pair of handcuffs on his wrist. Of all the dreadful 
spectacles that Jimmie had seen that dreadful night, the worst 
was the face of the young master of the Empire Machine Shops. 
It was green absolutely and literally green. His knees trembled 
so that he seemed about to sink to the floor, and his dark eyes 
were those of an animal in a trap. 
There came another man behind him carrying two black 
cases in his hands. He opened one, and took out some instru- 
ment with wires attached, and hung part of it to a hook on the 
wall; he pressed a switch, and a soft white radiance flooded the 
room. The man who was in command, the one whom the lady 
had called "Paul," now turned to Jimmie and his wife. "You 
may take your lamp' he said. "Go into the other room and 
stay there till we call you, please' 
"W-w-what are you goin' to do ?" Jimmie found courage to 
stammer again. But the other merely bade him to go into the 
other room and stay, and it would be all right, and he would be 
well paid for his time and trouble. There was no use trying 
to interfere; no use trying to get away, for the house would be 
watched. 
Jimmie Junior had been wakened by the uproar, and was 
whimpering; so Lizzie hurried to quiet him, and Jimmie set 
the little smoky lamp on the dresser, and went and sat on the 
bed beside her, holding her hand in his. Both their hands were 
shaking in a way that was amazing. 
Every sound from the other room was plainly audible. 
Lacey was pleading, and "Paul" commanded him to hold his 
tongue. There was a scuffle, and then terrified moans, which 
died away. There began to steal into the Higgins bed-room 
a most ghastly odour; they could not imagine what it was. 
 
And then they began to hear wild clamour from Lacey Granitch, 
as if he were suffering in hell. It was awful beyond words; 
the perspiration came out in beads on the faces of the listeners, 
and Jimmie was just about making up his mind that it was 
his duty to rush in and protest, or perhaps to climb out of the 
