
"It makes no difference. A ceremony, civil or religious, is entirely
out of the question."

"You mean," he said, incensed, "that you refuse to be married by any
law at all?"

"My own law is sufficient."

"Well--well, then," he stammered; "--what--what sort of procedure----"

"None."

"You're crazy," he said; "you wouldn't do that!"

"If I were in love with you I'd not be afraid."

Her calm candour infuriated him:

"Do you imagine that you and I could ever get away with a situation
like that!" he blazed out.

"Why do you become so irritable and excited, Jim? We're not going to
try----"

"Damnation! I should think not!" he retorted, so violently that her
mouth quivered. But she kept her head averted until the swift emotion
was under control.

Then she said in a low voice: "If you really think me immoral, Jim, I
can understand your manner toward me. Otherwise----"

"Palla, dear! Forgive me! I'm just worried sick----"

"You funny boy," she said with her quick, frank smile, "I didn't mean
to worry you. Listen! It's all quite simple. I care for you very much
indeed. I don't mind your--caressing--me--sometimes. But I'm not in
love. I just care a lot for you.... But not nearly enough to love
you."

"Palla, you're hopeless!"

"Why? Because I am so respectful toward love? Of course I am. A girl
who believes as I do can't afford to make a mistake."

"Exactly," he said eagerly, "but under the law, if a mistake is made
every woman has her remedy----"

"Her remedy! What do you mean? You can't pass one of those roses
through the flame of that fire and still have your rose, can you?"

He was silent.

"And that's what happens under your laws, as well as outside of
them. No! I don't love you. Under your law I'd be afraid to marry you.
Under mine I'm deathly afraid.... Because--I know--that where love is
there can be no fear."

"Is that your answer, Palla?"

"Yes, Jim."




CHAPTER IX


He had called her up the following morning from the office, and had
told her that he thought he had better not see her for a while.

And she had answered with soft concern that he must do what he thought
best without considering her.

What other answer he expected is uncertain; but her gentle acquiescence
in his decision irritated him and he ended the conversation in a tone
of boyish resentment.

To occupy his mind there was, that day, not only the usual office
routine, but some extra business most annoying to Sharrow. For Angelo
Puma had turned up again, as shiny and bland as ever, flashing his
superb smile over clerk and stenographer impartially.

So Sharrow shunted him to Mr. Brooke, that sort of property being his
specialty; and Brooke called in Shotwell.

"Go up town with that preposterous wop and settle this business one
way or another, once for all," he whispered. "A crook named Skidder
owns the property; but we can't do anything with him. The office is
heartily sick of both Skidder and Puma; and Sharrow desires to be rid
of them."

Then, very cordially, he introduced Puma to young Shotwell; and they
took Puma's handsome car and went up town to see what could be done
with the slippery owner of the property in question, who was now
permanently located in New York.

On the way, Puma, smelling oppressively aromatic and looking
conspicuously glossy as to hair, hat, and boots, also became
effusively voluble. For he had instantly recognised Shotwell as
the young man with whom that disturbingly pretty girl had been in
consultation in Sharrow's offices; and his mind was now occupied
with a new possibility as well as with the property which he so
persistently desired to acquire.

"With me," he said in his animated, exotic way, and all creased with
smiles, "my cinema business is not business alone! No! It is Art! It
is the art hunger that ever urges me onward, not the desire for
commercial gain. For me, beauty is ever first; the box-office last!
You understand, Mr. Shotwell? With me, art is supreme! Yes. And
afterward my crust of bread."

"Well, then," said Jim, "I can't see why you don't pay this man
Skidder what he asks for the property."

"I tell you why. I make it clear to you. For argument--Skidder he has
ever the air of one who does not care to sell. It is an attitude! I
know! But he has that air. Well! I say to him, 'Mr. Skidder, I offer
you--we say for argument, one dollar! Yes?' Well, he do not say yes or
no. He do not say, 'I take a dollar and also one quarter. Or a dollar
and a half. Or two dollars.' No. He squint and answer: 'I am not
anxious to sell!' My God! What can one say? What can one do?"

"Perhaps," suggested Jim, "he really doesn't want to sell."

"Ah! That is not so. No. He is sly, Mr. Skidder, like there never has
been in my experience a man more sly. What is it he desires? I ask. I
do not know. But all the time he inquire about my business if it pays,
and is there much money in it. Also, I hear, by channels, that he
makes everywhere inquiries if the film business shall pay."

"Maybe he wants to try it himself."

"Also, that has occurred to me. But to him I say nothing. No. He is
too sly. Me, I am all art and all heart. Me, I am frank like there
never was a man in my business! But Skidder, he squint at me. My God,
those eye! And I do not know what is in his thought."

"Well, Mr. Puma, what do you wish me to do? As I understand it, you
are our client, and if I buy for you this Skidder property I shall
