"Be careful! Yes, what is it?"
"I beg you not to stir in this affair until I can join you----"
"Hurry then. It's just across the street from Westover Court----" His
voice ceased; she heard another voice, faintly, and an exclamation from
her husband; then his hurried voice over the wire: "The doorman just
sent word to hurry. The car number is N. Y. 015 F 0379! I've got to
run! Good-b----"
       *       *       *       *       *
He left the booth at the end of Peacock Alley, ran down the marble steps
to the left and out to the snowy sidewalk, passing on his way a young
girl swathed to the eyes in chinchilla who was hurrying into the hotel.
As he came to where the limousine was standing, he saw that it was still
empty although the door stood open and the engine was running. Around
the chauffeur stood the gold laced doorman, the gorgeously uniformed
carriage porter and a mounted policeman.
"Hey!" said the latter when he saw Cleves,--"what's the matter here?
What are you holding up this car for?"
Cleves beckoned him, whispered, then turned to the doorman.
"Why did you send for me? Was the chauffeur trying to pull out?"
"Yes, sir. A lady come hurrying out an' she jumps in, and the shawfur he
starts her humming----"
"A lady! Where did she go?"
"It was that young lady in chinchilla fur. The one you just met when you
run out. Yessir! Why, as soon as I held up the car and called this here
cop, she opens the door and out she jumps and beats it into the hotel
again----"
"Hold that car, Officer!" interrupted Cleves. "Keep it standing here and
arrest anybody who gets into it! I'll be back again----"
He turned and hurried into the hotel, traversed Peacock Alley scanning
every woman he passed, searching for a slim shape swathed in chinchilla.
There were no chinchilla wraps in Peacock Alley; none in the dining-room
where people already were beginning to gather and the orchestra was now
playing; no young girl in chinchilla in the waiting room, or in the
north dining-room.
Then, suddenly, far across the crowded lobby, he saw a slender,
bare-headed girl in a chinchilla cloak turn hurriedly away from the
room-clerk's desk, holding a key in her white gloved hand.
Before he could take two steps in her direction she had disappeared in
the crowd.
He made his way through the packed lobby as best he could amid throngs
of people dressed for dinner, theatre, or other gaiety awaiting them
somewhere out there in the light-smeared winter fog; but when he arrived
at the room clerk's desk he looked for a chinchilla wrap in vain.
Then he leaned over the desk and said to the clerk in a low voice: "I am
a Federal agent from the Department of Justice. Here are my credentials.
Now, who was that young woman in chinchilla furs to whom you gave her
door key a moment ago?"
The clerk leaned over his counter and, dropping his voice, answered that
the lady in question had arrived only that morning from San Francisco;
had registered as Madame Aoula Baroulass; and had been given a suite on
the fourth floor numbered from 408 to 414.
"Do you mean to arrest her?" added the clerk in a weird whisper.
"I don't know. Possibly. Have you the master-key?"
The clerk handed it to him without a word; and Cleves hurried to the
elevator.
On the fourth floor the matron on duty halted him, but when he murmured
an explanation she nodded and laid a finger on her lips.
"Madame has gone to her apartment," she whispered.
"Has she a servant? Or friends with her?"
"No, sir.... I did see her speak to two foreign looking gentlemen in the
elevator when she arrived this morning."
Cleves nodded; the matron pointed out the direction in silence, and he
went rapidly down the carpeted corridor, until he came to a door
numbered 408.
For a second only he hesitated, then swiftly fitted the master-key and
opened the door.
The room--a bedroom--was brightly lighted; but there was nobody there.
The other rooms--dressing closet, bath-room and parlour, all were
brilliantly lighted by ceiling fixtures and wall brackets; but there was
not a person to be seen in any of the rooms--nor, save for the
illumination, was there any visible sign that anybody inhabited the
apartment.
Swiftly he searched the apartment from end to end. There was no baggage
to be seen, no garments, no toilet articles, no flowers in the vases, no
magazines or books, not one article of feminine apparel or of personal
bric-a-brac visible in the entire place.
Nor had the bed even been turned down--nor any preparation for the
night's comfort been attempted. And, except for the blazing lights, it
was as though the apartment had not been entered by anybody for a month.
All the windows were closed, all shades lowered and curtains drawn. The
air, though apparently pure enough, had that vague flatness which one
associates with an unused guest-chamber when opened for an airing.
Now, deliberately, Cleves began a more thorough search of the apartment,
looking behind curtains, under beds, into clothes presses, behind sofas.
Then he searched the bureau drawers, dressers, desks for any sign or
clew of the girl in the chinchillas. There was no dust anywhere,--the
hotel management evidently was particular--but there was not even a pin
to be found.
Presently he went out into the corridor and looked again at the number
on the door. He had made no mistake.
Then he turned and sped down the long corridor to where the matron was
standing beside her desk preparing to go off duty as soon as the other
matron arrived to relieve her.
To his impatient question she replied positively that she had seen the
girl in chinchillas unlock 408 and enter the apartment less than five
minutes before he had arrived in pursuit.
"And I saw her lights go on as soon as she went in," added the matron,
pointing to the distant illuminated transom.
"Then she went out through into the next apartment," insisted Cleves.
"The fire-tower is on one side of her; the scullery closet on the
other," said the matron. "She could not have left that apartment without
coming out into the corridor. And if she had come out I should have seen
her."
"I tell you she isn't in those rooms!" protested Cleves.
"She must be there, sir. I saw her go in a few seconds before you came
up."
At that moment the other matron arrived. There was no use arguing. He
left the explanation of the situation to the woman who was going off
duty, and, hastening his steps, he returned to apartment 408.
The door, which he had left open, had swung shut. Again he fitted the
master-key, entered, paused on the threshold, looked around nervously,
his nostrils suddenly filled with a puff of perfume.
And there on the table by the bed he saw a glass bowl filled with a mass
of Chinese orchids--great odorous clusters of orange and snow-white
bloom that saturated all the room with their freshening scent.
So astounded was he that he stood stock still, one hand still on the
door-knob; then in a trice he had closed and locked the door from
inside.
Somebody was in that apartment. There could be no doubt about it. He
dropped his right hand into his overcoat pocket and took hold of his
automatic pistol.
For ten minutes he stood so, listening, peering about the room from bed
to curtains, and out into the parlour. There was not a sound in the
place. Nothing stirred.
Now, grasping his pistol but not drawing it, he began another stealthy
tour of the apartment, exploring every nook and cranny. And, at the end,
had discovered nothing new.
When at length he realised that, as far as he could discover, there was
not a living thing in the place excepting himself, a very faint chill
grew along his neck and shoulders, and he caught his breath suddenly,
deeply.
He had come back to the bedroom, now. The perfume of the orchids
saturated the still air.
And, as he stood staring at them, all of a sudden he saw, where their
twisted stalks rested in the transparent bowl of water, something
moving--something brilliant as a live ember gliding out from among the
mass of submerged stems--a living fish glowing in scarlet hues and
winnowing the water with grotesquely trailing fins as delicate as
filaments of scarlet lace.
To and fro swam the fish among the maze of orchid stalks. Even its eyes
