afterward said that he had not wanted this war. Incredible as it may
seem he spoke the truth. He did not want a war in which he would be
tripped on the Marne, blocked on the Yser and foiled at Verdun. He
wanted a war in which France would be felled, Russia rolled back, a war
in which, over Serbia's ravaged corpse, his legions could pour down
across the Turkish carpet into the realm where Sardanapalus throned,
beyond to that of Haroun-al-Raschid, on from thence to Ormus and the
Ind, and, with the resulting thralls and treasure, overwhelm England,
gut the United States, destroy civilisation and, on the ruins, set
Deutschland über Alles!"
"Hear! Hear!" said Lennox from between bites.
Jones, after a momentary interlude with a fork, got back at it. "That is
what he wanted! But to get it, he lacked one thing, one thing only. He
had everything else, he had everything that forethought, ingenuity and
science could provide. The arsenals were stocked. The granaries were
packed, the war-chests replete. Grey-green uniforms were piled endlessly
in heaps. Kiel--previously stolen from Denmark, but then reconstructed
and raised to the war degree--at last was open. The navy was ready. The
army was ready. Against any possible combination of European forces, the
oiled machine was prepared. In addition, clairvoyance had supplied the
pretext and stupidity the chance. Petersburg was then in the throes of a
general strike--which the Wilhelmstrasse had engineered. In Paris, the
slipshod condition of the army had been publicly denounced. England and
Ireland were nearly at each other's throats. Yet, had they been in each
other's arms, the Kaiser was convinced that England would not interfere.
Moreover in France, mobilisation required weeks; in Russia, months; and
even then the Russian army, otherwise unequipped, the Tsarina had
supplied with two hundred Teuton generals. That woman used to exclaim at
her resemblance to Marie Antoinette. She flattered herself. It is
Bazaine whom she resembled. But where was I? Oh, yes. The opportunity
was so obvious and everything so neatly prepared that, for good measure,
the pretext was added. An archduke, sinister when living and still more
sinister dead, was, by the Kaiser's orders, bombed to bits and the
bombing fastened on Serbia. Allied stupidity provided the opportunity,
imperial forethought supplied the rest. Since highwayry began, never was
there such a chance. On the last gaiter was the last button. The Kaiser
lacked but one thing."
Lennox shoved at his plate. "So you have said."
Jones, abandoning his fork, repeated it. "One thing! In Potsdam, on that
cloudless July night, when the world, on which he proposed to batten,
slept, toiled, feasted, fasted, occupied with its futile loves and
hates, that thing must have occurred to him."
"Yes, but confound it, what was it?"
Jones lit a cigar. "Bernstorff said, or is said to have said--I do not
count him among my acquaintances--that on that night this supercanaille
showed symptoms of what I think I have seen described as vacillation.
That is quite on the cards. It bears out my theory. In any event the
fellow had his ambitions. He wanted to descend into the red halls of
history disguised. He might have succeeded. History is very careless and
to-day barely recalls that at five o'clock on the morning succeeding his
marriage to a dowdy fat girl, he treated his regiment to a drill. The
fact is uninteresting and would be equally unimportant were it not for
the note that it struck. Subsequently, when he leaped on the throne, he
shouted that those who opposed him he would smash. "There is no other
law than mine"; he later announced--a fine phrase and yet but a modern
variant of Domitian's: "Your god and master orders it." Incidentally, in
addition to the Garter, an honorific which the Duke of Cambridge
admirably summarised as "having, sir, none of the damned nonsense of
merit about it," he had other distinctions. He had--and has--uranomania,
that is to say, a flight of fancy in which the patient believes himself
associated with God. He had also defilirium tremens, which manifested
itself in those man[oe]uvres that are war's image and in which the
troops defile. Yet, when it came to the real thing, it may be that this
paradomaniac lacked the stomach. Apart from the Kruger incident, and one
or two other indecencies, his observance of international etiquette was
relatively correct. The lackeys of history might therefore have
deodorised him. With a sow's ear a lot may be done. Have a cigar?"
Lennox laughed. "I would prefer the point."
"Now, how greedy you are. Well then, here it is. On that fatidic night
in July, this fellow was fifty-five."
"What of it?"
"Everything. At his age Alexander had been dead twenty years."
As Jones spoke he raised his hands. "Spirit of the Great Sinner, forgive
me! This scrofulous dwarf has no kinship with thee!"
"No," Jones, dropping his hands, resumed. "None. His kin are Herod,
Caracalla, Attila, Genghis Khan, and Cloacus, Lord of Sewers. Those are
his kin. To the shade of the Lampsacene, whom the world had forgotten;
to that of Cloacus, whom civilisation had ignored, subsequently he
devoted the army. For the troops he invoked them. But that night the
ghosts of the others gave him pause. At his age, Caracalla, Attila,
Genghis, were dead. They had died hideous, monstrous--but young. Herod
alone may have seemed a promising saint to swear by, though, in the
obscurities of Syrian chronology, even of him he could not be sure. The
one kindred hyena who, at fifty-five, had defied the world was Tsi An,
the Chinese Empress, and he had helped to squelch her. Do you see it
now? To burglarise the world, this thug had every advantage. The police
were asleep. The coast was clear. The jimmies and the dynamite sticks
were ready. Even the dark lantern was packed. The kit was complete. He
had everything. He lacked nothing, except the one essential--Youth! The
eyes of youth are clear. His were too dimmed to foresee that the
allies----"
Lennox was rising.
Amiably Jones switched on and off again. "Hold on a minute. You have not
given me the "Who's Who" of that young woman."
In Lennox' brain, instantly cells latent, alert, and of which he was
entirely unconscious, functioned actively. Before him Cassy stood.
Beside her was another. This other, very lovely, was a saint. Yet,
prompted still by the cells and equally unaware of it, it occurred to
him that a lovely saint may resemble a vase that is exquisite, but
unresilient and perhaps even empty. Whereas a siren, like Cassy----
Abruptly he caught himself up. The unawaited disloyalty into which he
had floundered, surprised and annoyed him. He could not account for the
delicate infidelity and perplexedly he looked at Jones who still was at
it.
"The diva I mean. The diva in duodecimo who sang at the Bazaar."
Lennox shook himself and sat down again. Modestly then the thrice-told
tale was repeated--Angelo Cara, a violin in one hand, a sword-cane in
the other, trudging home. The attack, the rout, the rescue, the
acquaintance with Cassy that ensued.
Jones, absorbing the story, pigeonholed his memory with the details
which, sometime, for copy purposes, might be of use.
"They are Portuguese," Lennox, rising again, concluded.
Jones peered about. The great room was filled with members, eating,
drinking, laughing, talking--talking mainly of nothing whatever. He
motioned. "Isn't that Cantillon over there with--of all
people!--Dunwoodie?"
Lennox looked and nodded. "Cantillon is in Dunwoodie's office. He asked
me to give him my law business." Indifferently, with the air of one
considering the improbable, Lennox added: "Some day I may. Good-night."
But in the night into which he then went, already that day was breaking.
IX
That same evening, as Lennox was leaving the club, Mrs. Austen, rising
from the dinner-table, preceded Margaret into the drawing-room and
looked at the clock, a prostrate nymph, balancing a dial on the soles of
her feet. At the figures on the dial, the nymph pointed a finger.
From the clock Mrs. Austen turned and exclaimed at the windows which she
had already examined. "The jardinières have not yet been attended to! It
is inconceivable!"
Margaret, who had seated herself, said: "You might send for the
manager."
"He would only keep me waiting and then expect me to tell him what I
wanted. He ought to know. Besides, I might have forgotten. It is very
tiresome."
Margaret stood up. "I will tell him."
With a click, Mrs. Austen unfurled a fan and, with another click,
refurled it. "No. I will see him myself. I am quite in the humour."
Margaret looked after her mother, who was leaving the room. The sudden
tempest in a flowerpot surprised her. But the outer door closed.
Margaret reseated herself. Presently he would come and together they
would make those plans that lovers make--and then unmake, unless,
