couldn’t be sure, but she had a little pair of tweezers, and seemed
to pull something out of her chin. She went on with quite an
elaborate and complicated toilet, paying meantime not the slightest
attention to the people passing by.
Peter looked farther, and saw that just as when one person sneezes
or yawns everybody else in the room is irresistibly impelled to
sneeze or yawn, so all these Dianas and Junos and Hebes on the
“mezzanine floor” had suddenly remembered their little gold or
silver hand-mirrors, their powder-puffs and red or golden or black
pencils. One after another, the little vanity-bags came forth, and
Peter, gazing in wonder, thought that Mount Olympus had turned into
a beauty parlor.
Peter rose again and strolled and watched the goddesses, big and
little, old and young, fat and thin, pretty and ugly--and it seemed
to him the fatter and older and uglier they were, the more intently
they gazed into the little hand-mirrors. He watched them with hungry
eyes, for he knew that here he was in the midst of high life, the
real thing, the utmost glory to which man could ever hope to attain,
and he wanted to know all there was to know about it. He strolled
on, innocent and unsuspecting, and the two hundred and twenty-four
white boy angels in the ceiling smiled their bland and placid smiles
at him, and Peter knew no more than they what complications fate had
prepared for him on that mezzanine floor!
On one of the big lounges there sat a girl, a radiant creature from
the Emerald Isles, with hair like sunrise and cheeks like apples.
Peter took one glance at her, and his heart missed three successive
beats, and then, to make up for lost time, began leaping like a
runaway race-horse. He could hardly believe what his eyes told him;
but his eyes insisted, his eyes knew; yes, his eyes had gazed for
hours and hours on end upon that hair like sunrise and those cheeks
like apples. The girl was Nell, the chambermaid of the Temple of
Jimjambo!
She had not looked Peter’s way, so there was time for him to start
back and hide himself behind a pillar; there he stood, peering out
and watching her profile, still arguing with his eyes. It couldn’t
be Nell; and yet it was! Nell transfigured, Nell translated to
Olympus, turned into a goddess with a pale grey band about her
middle, and a pale grey ribbon over each shoulder to hold it in
place! Nell reclining at ease and chatting vivaciously to a young
man with the face of a bulldog and the dinner-jacket of a magazine
advertisement!
Peter gazed and waited, while his heart went on misbehaving. Peter
learned in those few fearful minutes what real love is, a most
devastating force. Little Jennie was forgotten, Mrs. James, the
grass widow was forgotten, and Peter knew that he had never really
admired but one woman in the world, and that was Nell, the Irish
chambermaid of the Temple of Jimjambo. The poets have seen fit to
represent young love as a mischievous little archer with a sharp and
penetrating arrow, and now Peter understood what they had meant;
that arrow had pierced him thru, and he had to hold on to the column
to keep himself from falling.
Section 38
Presently the couple rose and strolled away to the elevator, and
Peter followed. He did not dare get into the elevator with them, for
he had suddenly become accutely aware of the costume he was wearing
in his role of proletarian anti-militarist! But Peter was certain
that Nell and her escort were not going out of the building, for
they had no hats or wraps; so he went downstairs and hunted thru the
lobby and the dining-room, and then thru the basement, from which he
heard strains of music. Here was another vast room, got up in mystic
oriental fashion, with electric lights hidden in bunches of
imitation flowers on each table. This room was called the “grill,”
 and part of it was bare for dancing, and on a little platform sat a
band playing music.
The strangest music that ever assailed human ears! If Peter had
heard it before seeing Nell, he would not have understood it, but
now its weird rhythms fitted exactly to the moods which were
tormenting him. This music would groan, it would rattle and squeak;
it would make noises like swiftly torn canvas, or like a steam siren
in a hurry. It would climb up to the heavens and come banging down
to hell. And every thing with queer, tormenting motions, gliding and
writhing, wriggling, jerking, jumping. Peter would never have known
what to make of such music, if he had not had it here made visible
before his eyes, in the behavior of the half-naked goddesses and the
black-coated gods on this dancing floor. These celestial ones came
sliding across the floor like skaters, they came writhing like
serpents, they came strutting like turkeys, jumping like rabbits,
stalking solemnly like giraffes. They came clamped in one another’s
arms like bears trying to hug each other to death; they came
contorting themselves as if they were boa-constrictors trying to
swallow each other. And Peter, watching them and listening to their
music, made a curious discovery about himself. Deeply buried in
Peter’s soul were the ghosts of all sorts of animals; Peter had once
been a boa-constrictor, Peter had once been a bear, Peter had once
been a rabbit and a giraffe, a turkey and a fox; and now under the
spell of this weird music these dead creatures came to life in his
soul. So Peter discovered the meaning of “jazz,” in all its weirdly
named and incredible varieties.
Also Peter discovered that he had once been a caveman, and had hit
his rival over the head with a stone axe and carried off his girl by
the hair. All this he discovered while he stood in the doorway of
the Hotel de Soto grill, and watched Nell, the ex-chambermaid of the
Temple of Jimjambo, doing the turkey-trot and the fox-trot and the
grizzly-bear and the bunny-hug in the arms of a young man with the
face of a bulldog.
Peter stood for a long while in a daze. Nell and the young man sat
down at one of the tables to have a meal, but still Peter stood
watching and trying to figure out what to do. He knew that he must
not speak to her in his present costume; there would be no way to
make her understand that he was only playing a role--that he who
looked like a “dead one” was really a prosperous man of important
affairs, a 100% red-blooded patriot disguised as a proletarian
pacifist. No, he must wait, he must get into his best before he
spoke to her. But meantime, she might go away, and he might not be
able to find her again in this huge city!
After an hour or two he succeeded in figuring out a way, and hurried
upstairs to the writing-room and penned a note:
“Nell: This is your old friend Peter Gudge. I have struck it rich
and have important news for you. Be sure to send word to me. Peter.”
 To this he added his address, and sealed it in an envelope to “Miss
Nell Doolin.”
Then he went out into the lobby, and signalled to one of the
brass-button imps who went about the place calling names in shrill
sing-song; he got this youngster off in a corner and pressed a
dollar bill into his hand. There was a young lady in the grill who
was to have this note at once. It was very important. Would the
brass-button imp do it?
The imp said sure, and Peter stood in the doorway and watched him
walk back and forth thru the aisles of the grill, calling in his
shrill sing-song, “Miss Nell Doolin! Miss Nell Doolin!” He walked
right by the table where Nell sat eating; he sang right into her
face, it seemed to Peter; but she never gave a sign.
Peter did not know what to make of it, but he was bound to get that
note to Nell. So when the imp returned, he pointed her out, and the
imp went again and handed the note to her. Peter saw her take
it--then he darted away; and remembering suddenly that he was
supposed to be on duty, be rushed back to the office and inquired
for Mr. Lackman. To his horror he learned that Mr. Lackman had
returned, paid his bill, and departed with his suitcase to a
destination unknown!
Section 39
Peter had a midnight appointment with McGivney, and now had to go
and admit this humiliating failure. He had done his best, he
declared; he had inquired at the desk, and waited and waited, but
the hotel people had failed to notify him of Lackman’s arrival. All
this was strictly true; but it did not pacify McGivney, who was in a
black fury. “It might have been worth thousands of dollars to you!”
 he declared. “He’s the biggest fish we’ll ever get on our hook.”
“Won’t he come again?” asked grief-stricken Peter.
“No,” declared the other. “They’ll get him at his home city.”
