well, and with him was Colas, with a lantern, which shined dimly on both
their faces.

And, suddenly: "Why, sir!" I blurted out in astonishment, "are you not
Captain Hare?"

"No, sir," said he, "my name is Sims, and I am captain in the
Canajoharie militia." And he bowed civilly and walked on, Colas
following with the lantern, leaving me there perplexed and still
standing with lifted cap in hand.

I put it on, pondered for a space, striving to rack my memory, for that
man's features monstrously resembled Lieutenant Hare's, as I saw him at
supper that last night at Johnson Hall, when he came there with Hiokatoo
and Stevie Watts, and that Captain Moucher, whom I knew a little and
trusted less, for all his mealy flatteries.

Well, then, I had been mistaken. It was merely a slight resemblance, if
it were even that. I had not thought of Hare since that evening, and
when I saw this man by lantern light, as I had seen him by candles, why,
I thought he seemed like Hare.... That was all.... That certainly was
all there could be to it.

       

Near to the lilacs, where candle light fell from the south window of the
little lodge, I stumbled once again upon Penelope. And she was in
Spatter-dash's arms!

For a moment I stood frozen. Then a cold rage possessed me, and God
knows what a fool I had played, but suddenly a far whistle sounded from
the orchard; and young Spatter-dash kisses her and starts a-running
through the trees.

He had not noticed me, nor discovered my presence at all; but Penelope,
in his arms, had espied me over his shoulder; and I thought she seemed
not only flushed but frightened, whether by the fellow's rough ardour or
my sudden apparition I could not guess.

Still cold with a rage for which there was no sensible warrant, I walked
slowly to where she was standing and fumbling with her lace apron, which
the callow fool had torn.

"I came to say good-bye," said I in even tones.

She extended her hand; I laid grim and icy lips to it; released it.

There was a silence. Then: "I did not wish him to kiss me," said she in
an odd voice, yet steady enough.

"Your lips are your own."

"Yes.... They were yours, too, for an instant, Mr. Drogue."

"And they were Spatter-dash's, too," said I, almost stifled by my
jealous rage. "Whose else they may have been I know not, and do not ask
you. Good night."

She said nothing, and presently picked at her torn apron.

"Good night," I repeated.

"Good night, sir."

And so I left her, choked by I knew not what new and fierce
emotions--for I desired to seek out Spatter-dash, Jack-boots, and the
whole cursed crew of suitors, and presently break their assorted necks.
For now I was aware that I hated these popinjays who came philandering
here, as deeply as I hated to hear of the red-coat gallants at
Caughnawaga.

Still a-quiver with passion, I managed, nevertheless, to make my
compliments and adieux to Lady Johnson and to Claudia--felt their warm
and generous clasp, answered gaily I know not what, saluted all, took a
lantern that Flora fetched, and went away across the grass.

A shadow detached itself from darkness, and now my Saguenay was padding
at my heels once more.

As we two came to the mainland, young Spatter-dash suddenly crossed the
road in front of my lantern. Good God! Was I in my right mind! Was it
Stephen Watts on whose white, boyish face my lantern glimmered for an
instant? How could it be, when it meant death to catch him here?...
Besides, he was in Canada with Walter Butler. What possessed me, that in
young Spatter-dash I saw resemblance to Stevie Watts, and in another
respectable militia officer a countenance resembling Lieutenant Hare's?

Sure my mind was obsessed tonight by faces seen that last unhappy
evening at the Hall; and so I seemed to see a likeness to those men in
every face I met.... Something had sure upset me.... Something, too, had
suddenly awakened in me new and deep emotions, unsuspected, unfamiliar,
and unwelcome.

And for the first time in my life I knew that I hated men because a
woman favoured them.

We had passed through the Continental camp, my Indian and I, and were
now going down among the bushes to the Vlaie Water, where lay our canoe,
when, of a sudden, a man leaped from the reeds and started to run.

Instantly my Indian was on his shoulders like a tree-cat, and down went
both on the soft mud, my Saguenay atop.

I cocked my rifle and poked the muzzle into the prostrate stranger's
ribs, resting it so with one hand while I shined my lantern on his
upturned face.

He wore a captain's uniform in the Canajoharie Regiment; and, as he
stared up at me, his throat still clutched by the Saguenay, I found I
was gazing upon the blotched features of Captain Moucher!

"Take your hands from his neck-cloth, cut your thrums, and make a cord
to tie him," said I, in the Oneida dialect. "He will not move," I added.

It took the Indian a little while to accomplish this. I held my rifle
muzzle to Moucher's ribs. Until his arms were tied fast behind him, he
had not spoken to me nor I to him; but now, as he rose to his knees from
the mud and then staggered upright, I said to him:

"This is like to be a tragic business for you, Captain Moucher."

He winced but made no reply.

"I am sorry to see you here," I added.

"Do you mean to murder me?" he asked hoarsely.

"I mean to question you," said I. "Be good enough to step into that
canoe."

The Indian and I held the frail craft. Moucher stepped into it,
stumbling in the darkness and trembling all over.

"Sit down on the bottom, midway between bow and stern!"

He took the place as I directed.

"Take the bow paddle," said I to Yellow Leaf. "Also loosen your knife."

And when he was ready, I shoved off, straddled the stern, and, kneeling,
