about the great scheme, she had never seen him so upset. 
She stormed, argued, wept, but he was adamant. He 
would give her neither a cent nor his permission. "When 
she accused him of inconsistency (he had supported 
woman's suffrage) he replied that women forced to work 
needed the franchise and no fair-minded man would 
withhold it ; and if for no other reason he would forbid 
his daughter to go out and compete with women who 
must work whether they wanted to or not. 
But that was only one point. 
What did progress mean if women deliberately 
dropped from a higher plane to a lower? What had 
their ancestors worked for, possibly died for? It was 
their manifest duty to their class, to their family, to go 
up not down. 
Moreover, when women had men to support them and 
insisted upon forcing their way into the business world, 
they made men ridiculous and undermined society. It 
was dangerous, damned dangerous. If he had his way 
not a woman in any class, outside of nursing and domestic service, should work. He 'd tax every male in the 
land, according to his income or wage, to say nothing of 
the rich women, and keep every last one of the unportioned in idleness rather than risk the downfall of male 
supremacy in the world. 
He hated every form of publicity for the women of 
his class. If he had his way their names, much less 
photographs, should never appear in the public press. 
Society should be sacrosanct. Its traditions should be 
handed on, not lowered. . . . Charity boards and settlement work, perhaps, but no further exposure to the vulgar gaze ... he was glad she had never gone in for the 
last. 
Civilization would be meaningless without that small 
class at the top that proved what Earth could accomplish in the way of breeding, the refinements of life, 
the beauty of distinction, in making an art of leisure, of 
pleasure — quite as much an art as writing books or painting pictures. 
If the men in the younger nations had to work, at least 
they were able to prove to the older that the exquisite 
 
creatures they bred and protected were second to none 
on this planet, at least. 
If women had genius that was another question. Let 
them give it to the world, by all means. That was their 
personal gift to civilization. ... He was not bigoted 
like some men, even young men, who thought it a disgrace for a lady publicly to transfer herself to the artistic plane and compete with men for laurels. . . . But 
when it came to stripping off the delicate badges that 
only the higher civilization could confer, and struggling 
tooth and nail with the mob for no reason whatever — it 
was disloyal, ungrateful and monstrous. 
He was no snob. He thought himself better than no 
man. (Different, yes.) But in regard to women, the 
women of his class, the class of his father before him, 
and of his father's father, he had his ideals, his convictions. 
That was all. 
"In short, he's modern but not too modern. My 
twentieth-century arguments were brushed aside as mere 
fads. And yet there's probably not an important case 
tried in any court in either hemisphere that he doesn't 
read — learn something from if he can. He takes in the 
leading newspapers and reviews of America and Europe 
and even reads the best modern novels as carefully as he 
ever read Thackeray and Dickens — says they are the 
real social chronicles. He's a profound student of history, and the history of the present interests him just as 
much — he has those Balkans under a microscope; and 
collects all the data on every important strike here and 
elsewhere. And yet where women are concerned he is a 
fossil. An American fossil — worst sort. Some of the 
young ones are just as bad ... I'll have to give in. 
I can't break his heart. I suppose I'll marry Bobby." 
Alice Thorndyke also shook her head. "I'd like to, 
Alex, but frankly I haven't the courage. Your friends 
 
all stick to you like perfect dears when you step down 
and out and set up shop, and are so kind you feel like a 
street walker in a house of refuge. But secretly they 
hate it and they don't feel toward you in the same way 
at all. They may not know enough to express it, but 
what they really feel is that you have threatened the 
solidity of the order and lowered yourself as well as 
them. One day they may have more sense but not in our 
time, I am afraid." 
Nevertheless, Alexina persisted in her determination. 
One could succeed alone. She would not be the first. 
She was by no means sure, however, what she wanted to 
do, and made up her mind to take no step before the following winter. When the Abbotts returned to Rincona 
in May they took James with them. Alexina closed Ballinger House, although Mortimer slept there and a Filipino came in every morning to make his breakfast and bed; and took a cottage in Ross with Janet Maynard 
whose mother had gone south to visit old lady Bascom, 
and who craved the wild peace of Marin County after 
too much San Francisco and Burlingame. 
Marin, with its magnificent redwood forests on the 
coast, fed by the fogs of the Pacific, its ancient sunlit 
woods of oak and madrono and manzanita, its mountains 
and rocky hills and peaceful fertile valleys, is perhaps 
the most beautiful county in California, and its towns 
and villages are still almost primitive in spite of the 
many fashionable residents whose homes are close to or 
in them. The ocean pounds its western base. Mount 
Tamalpais is its proudest possession, it has a haunted 
looking lake ; and a part of it embraces one of the many 
ramifications of the Bay of San Francisco, and commands 
a superb view of city and island and mountain. But it 
has a heavy brooding peace that seems to relax the social 
conscience. Entertaining is intermittent, and its inhab- 
itants return to their winter in San Francisco deeply 
refreshed. It has its paradoxes like the rest of California. On a stark little peninsula, jutting out from bare 
hills into the Bay, is San Quentin, one of the State's 
Prisons, and along the edges of the marsh are Chinese 
hamlets and shrimp fisheries. 
 
IV 
Alexina and Janet purposed to spend the summer 
reading, idling in the sweet-scented garden, walking in 
the early morning, riding horseback in the late afternoon, taking tea at the club house at San Rafael, or Bel- 
vedere, perhaps, but "cutting out" all social dissipations. Janet was now twenty-six and beginning to feel 
the strain as well as seriously to consider what she 
should do with the rest of her life. She had great 
wealth, she was blasee as a result of doing everything 
she chose to do, in public or in private, and she was 
nearly two generations younger than Judge Lawton. 
Nevertheless, she perceived no allurement in the business world, and the only alternative seemed marriage. 
Not in California, however. No surprises there. She 
might take her fortune to London and become a peeress 
of the realm. When change became imperative better 
go up than down. 
Alexina had never felt the attractions of dissipation 
and was not afflicted with moral ennui; but she was 
tired from much thinking and brooding and intimate 
personal contacts. She wanted the deep refreshment of 
the summer before girding up for the winter — before 
making her plunge into the world of business and toil. 
But she was soon to discover that she had girded up 
her loins, or at all events brightened up her corpuscles 
and reposed her brain cells, for a far different purpose. 
CHAPTER XXI 
I 
IT is possible that only two people in California, barring German spies, leapt instantly to the conclusion 
that the Sarajevo bomb meant a European War. The 
Judge, because he had the historical background and 
knew his modern Europe as he knew his chessboard ; and 
Alexiua because she recalled conversations she had had 
 
in France the summer before with people close to the 
Government, to say nothing of mysterious allusions in 
