have shown that modern war is a product of the profit system, and if
civilized nations would put their industry upon a co-operative basis,
they could forget the very idea of war, and we should then receive
fourteen times as much benefit from our government as we receive at
present; we should have fourteen times as good roads, fourteen times as
many schools, fourteen times as prompt a postoffice and fourteen times
as efficient a Congress. What it would mean to industry to abolish war
is something wholly beyond the power of our imagination to conceive; for
along with ninety-three per cent of our government money there goes into
military preparation the vast bulk of our intellectual energy and
inventive genius, our moral and emotional equipment.
Next, strikes and the losses incidental to strikes, and the costs of
preparing against strikes. This includes, not merely the actual loss of
working time, it includes police and militia, private armies of gunmen,
and great secret service agencies, whose total income runs up into
hundreds of millions of dollars per year. Industrial warfare is simply
the method by which capitalists and workers determine the division of
the product of industry; as if two men should co-operate in raising
poultry, and then fall to quarrelling over the ownership of the eggs,
and settle the matter by throwing the eggs at each other's heads.
Next, bankruptcy. Statistics show that regularly some ten per cent of
our business enterprises fail every year. Take any block occupied by
little business men, grocers and haberdashers and "notions," and you
will see that they are always changing. Each change represents a human
tragedy, and the total is a frightful waste of human energy; it happens
because we can think of no better way to distribute goods than to go
through the work of setting up a business, and then discover that it
cannot succeed because the neighborhood is already overstocked with that
kind of goods.
Next, fires which are a result of bankruptcy. You may laugh, perhaps,
thinking that I am making a joke; but every little man who fails in
business knows that he has a choice of going down in the social scale,
or of setting fire to his stock some night, and having a big insurance
company set him on his feet again. The result is that a certain
percentage of bankrupts do regularly set fire to their stores. Some
fifteen years ago there was published in "Collier's Weekly" a study of
the costs to society of incendiary fires. The Fire Underwriters'
Association estimated the amount as a quarter of a billion dollars a
year; and all this cost, you understand, is paid out of the pockets of
those who insure their homes and their stores, and do not burn them
down.
From this follows the costs of insurance, and the whole insurance
industry, which is inevitable under the profit system, but is entire
waste so far as true production is concerned. Big enterprises like the
Steel Trust do not carry insurance, and neither does the United States
Postoffice. They are wealthy enough to stand their own losses. A
national co-operative enterprise would be in the same position, and the
whole business of collecting money for insurance and keeping records and
carrying on lawsuits would be forgotten.
Next, advertising. It would be no exaggeration to say that seventy per
cent of the material published in American newspapers and magazines
today is pure waste; and therefore seventy per cent of the labor of all
the people who cut down forests and manufacture and transport paper and
set up type and print and distribute publications is wasted. There is,
of course, a small percentage of advertising that is useful, but most of
it is boasting and falsehood, and even where it tells the truth it
simply represents the effort of a merchant to persuade you to buy in his
store instead of in a rival store--an achievement which is profitable to
the merchant, but utterly useless to society as a whole.
This same statement applies to all traveling salesmen, and to a great
percentage of middlemen. It applies also to a great part of delivery
service. If you live in a crowded part of any city, you see a dozen milk
wagons pass your door every morning, doing the work which could be done
exactly as well by one. That is only one case out of a thousand I might
name.
Next, crime. I have already discussed the crime of arson, and I might
discuss the crimes of pocket-picking, burglary, forgery, and a hundred
others in the same way. I am aware of the fact that there may be a few
born criminals; there may be a few congenital cheats, whom we should
have to put in hospitals. But we have only to consult the crime records,
during the war and after the war, in order to see that when jobs are
hunting men there are few criminals, and when men are hunting jobs there
are many criminals. I have no figures as to the cost of administering
justice in the United States--policemen, courts and jails--but it must
be hundreds of millions of dollars every year.
I have discussed at great length the suppression of the productive power
of society. I should not fail to mention the suppression of the
inventive power of society, a factor less obvious, but probably in the
long run even greater. Every one familiar with the inside of a big
industry knows that hundreds and even thousands of useful processes are
entirely suppressed, because it would not pay one particular concern to
stand the expense of the changes involved. You know how, during the war,
our government brought all the makers of engines together and perfected
in triumph a "Liberty motor." But now we have gone back to private
interest and competition, and each concern is jealously engaged in
guarding its own secrets, and depriving industry as a whole of the
benefit of everything that it learns. Each is spying upon the others,
stealing the secrets of the others, stealing likewise from those who
invent new ideas--and thus discouraging them from inventing any more.
I use this word "discourage," and I might write a chapter upon it. What
human imagination can conceive the amount of social energy that is lost
because of the factor of discouragement, directly caused by the
competitive method? Who can figure what it means to human society that a
great percentage of the people in it should be haunted by fear of one
sort or another--the poor in fear of unemployment, sickness and
starvation, the little business man in fear of bankruptcy and suicide,
the big business man in fear of hard times and treachery of his
competitors, the idle rich in fear of robbery and blackmail, and the
whole community in fear of foreign war and domestic tumult!
Anyone might go on and elaborate these factors that I have named, and
think of scores of others. Anyone familiar with business life or with
industrial processes would be able to put his finger on this or that
enormous saving which he would be able to make if he and all his rivals
could combine and come to an agreement. This has been proven over and
over again in large-scale industry; it is the fact which has made of
large-scale industry an overwhelming power, sucking all the profits to
itself, reaching out and taking in new fields of human activity, and
setting at naught all popular clamor and even legal terrors. How can
anyone, seeing these facts, bring himself to deny that if we did
systematize production and make it one enterprise, precisely adapted to
one end, we should enormously increase the results of human labor, and
the benefit to all who do the world's work?
A good deal of this waste we can stop when we get ready, and other parts
of it our bountiful mother nature will replace. When in a world war we
kill some ten or twenty millions of the flower of our young manhood, we
have only to wait several generations, and our race will be as good as
ever. But, on the other hand, there is some waste that can never be
repaired, and this is the thing truly frightful to contemplate. When we
dig the iron ore out of the bowels of the earth and rust it away in
wars, we are doing something our race can never undo. And the same is
true of many of our precious substances: phosphorus, sulphur, potash.
When we cut down the forests from our mountain slopes, and lay bare the
earth, we not merely cause floods and washouts, and silt up our harbors,
we take away from the surface of our land the precious life-giving soil,
and make a habitable land into a desert, which no irrigating and
reforesting can ever completely restore. The Chinese have done that for
many centuries, and we are following in their footsteps; more than six
hundred million wagon-loads of our best soil are washed down to the sea
every year! If you wish to know about these matters, I send you to a
book, "On Board the Good Ship Earth," by Herbert Quick. It is one of the
most heart-breaking books you ever read, yet it is merely a quiet
statement of the facts about our present commercial anarchy.
CHAPTER LXIII
SOCIALISM AND SYNDICALISM
     (Discusses the idea of the management of industry by the state, and
     the idea of its management by the trade unions.)
Let us now assume that we desire to abolish the wastes of the
competitive method, and to put our industry on a basis of co-operation.
How should we effect the change, and how should we run our industry
after it was done?
