he'll probably start this all over again when he gets 
on his feet. That's the way it goes. But between 
us, we'll have him writing books some day. That's 
one of the troubles with young folks: they take 
themselves so seriously. He probably imagines 
himself to be a thousand times worse off than he 
actually is. Youth finds it pleasant sometimes to 
be melancholy. Disappointed puppy-love, and all 
that." 

'' Puppy-love." 

"A young fellow who thinks he's in love, when he 
"has only been reading too much." 
Do girls have puppy-love?" 
Land sakes, yes! On the average they are worse 
than the boys. A boy can forget his amatory 
troubles playing baseball; but a girl can't find any 
particular distraction in doing fancy work. Do you 
know, I envy you. All the world before you, all the 
ologies. What an adventure! Of course, you'll 






 

bark your shins here and there and hit your 
funny bone; but the newness of everything will be 
something of a compensation. All right. Let's 
get one idea into oiu' heads. We are going to have 
this chap writing books one of these days." 

Ideas are never bom; they are suggested; they 
are planted seeds. Ruth did not reply, but stared 
past the doctor, her eyes misty. The doctor had 
sown a seed, carelessly. All that he had sown that 
afternoon with such infinite care was as nothing 
compared to this seed, cast without forethought. 
Ruth's mind was fertile soil; for a long time to come 
it would be something of a hothouse: green things 
would spring up and blossom overnight. Already 
the seed of a tender dream was stirring. The hour 
for which, presumably, she had been created was 
drawing nigh. For in life there is but one hour: 
an epic or an idyll: all other hours lead up to and 
down from it. 

"By the way," said the dcictor, as he sat down in 
the dining room of the Victoria and ordered tea, 
"I've been thinking it over." 

"What?" 

'' We'll put those stories back into the trunk and 
never speak of them to him." 

"But why not?" 

The doctor dallied with his teaspoon. Some- 
thing about the girl had suggested an idea. It 
would have been the right idea, had Ruth been other 





than what she was. First-off, he had decided not to 
tell her what he had found at the bottom of that 
manila envelope. Now it occurred to him that to 
show her the sealed letter would be a better way. 
Impressionable, lonely, a deal beyond his analytical 
reach, the girl might let her sympathies go beyond 
those of the nurse. She would be enduing this 
chap with attributes he did not possess, clothing 
him in fictional ruffles. To disillusion her, forth- 
with. 

"I'll tell you why," he said. "At the bottom of 
that big envelope I found this one." 

He passed it over; and Ruth read: 

To be opened in case of my death and the letter inside forwarded 
to the address thereon. All my personal effects to be left in chai  
of the nearest Ammcan Consulate. 



CHAPTER XIV 

RUTH lost the point entirely. The doctor 
expected her to seize upon the subtle inf er- 
  ence that there was something furtive, even 
criminal, in the manner the patient set this obliga- 
tion upon humanity at large, to look after him in the 
event of his death. The idea of anything criminal 
never entered her thoughts. Any man might have 
endeavoured to protect hiniself in this fashion, a man 
with no one to care, with an unnameable terror at 
the thought (as if it mattered!) of being buried in 
alien earth, far from the familiar places he loved. 

Close upon this came another thought. She had 
no place she loved. In all this world there was no 
sacred ground that said to her: Return! She was of 
all human beings the most lonely. Even now, dur-. 
ing the reciuring doubts of the future, the thought of 
the island was repellent. She hated it, she hated 
the mission-house; she hated the sleek lagoon, the 
palms, the binning sky. But some day she would 
find a place to love: there would be rosy apples 
on the boughs, and there would be flurries of snow 
blowing into her face. It was astonishing how often 
this picture returned: cold rosy apples and flurries 
of snow. 

 





 'The poor young man!" she said . 

The doctor sensed that his bolt had gone wrong, 
"but he could not tell how or why. He dared not 
go on. He was not sure that the boy had put himself 
beyond the pale; merely » the boy's actions pointed 
that way. If he laid his own suspicions boldly be- 
fore the girl, and in the end the boy came dean, he 
would always be haunted by the witless cruelty of 
the act. 

That night in his den he smoked many pipes. 
Twice he cleaned the old briar; still there was no 
improvement. He poured a pinch of tobacco into 
his palm and sniffed. The weed was all right. 
