" Ah? Interested? " He glanced about.
If this were an assignation either the man was 
late or had lost courage. But he assumed an 
 
expression of deep respect. " That I can well 
imagine, cloistered as you are. But, if you will 
permit me to say so, it is hardly prudent. 
Surely you know that this is a place of ill repute 
and that your motives, however innocent, 
might easily be misconstrued." 
" I am alone ! " said Madeleine gaily, "and 
my veil is up! Not a man has glanced at me, 
I look so tiresomely respectable in these stout 
walking clothes. Even you, dear Mr. Travers, 
whom we accuse of being quite a gossip, understand perfectly." 
" Oh, yes, indeed. I do understand. And 
Mrs. Talbot is like Caesar's wife, but never- 
theless — there is a hack. It is waiting, but I 
think I can bribe him to take us in. You really 
must not remain here another moment — and 
you surely do not intend to walk back — six 
miles? " 
" No, I'll be glad to drive — but if you will 
engage the hack — I shouldn't think of bothering you further." 
"I shall take you home," said Travers 
firmly. " Howard never would forgive me if 
I did not — that is — that is — " 
Madeleine laughed merrily. " If I intend 
 
to tell him! But of course I shall tell him. 
Why not? '' 
" Well, yes, it would be best. I'll speak to 
the man." 
The Jehu was reluctant, but a bill passed and 
he drove up to Madeleine. " Guess I can do 
it," he said, " but I'll have to drive pretty fast." 
Madeleine smiled at him and he touched his 
hat. She had employed him more than once. 
"The faster the better, Thomas," she said. 
" I walked out and am tired." 
" I saw you come striding down the road, 
ma'am," he said deferentially, " and I knew 
you got off your own beat by mistake. I think 
I'd have screwed up my courage and said something if Mr. Travers hadn't happened along." 
Madeleine nodded carelessly and entered 
the hack, followed by Travers, in spite of her 
protests. 
"I too walked out here and intended to ask 
some one to give me a lift home. I am the unfortunate possessor of a liver, my dear yoimg 
lady, and must walk six miles a day, although 
I loathe walking as I loathe drinking weak 
whiskey and water." 
Madeleine shrugged her shoulders and attempted to raise one of the curtains. The 
interior was as dark as a cave. But Travers 
exclaimed in alarm. 
" No! No! Not until we get out of this. 
When we have reached the city, but not here. 
In a hack on this road — " 
" Oh, very well. Then entertain me, please, 
as I cannot look out. You always have something interesting to tell." 
" I am flattered to think you find me entertaining. I've sometimes thought you didn't 
like me." 
" Now you know that is nonsense. I always 
think myself fortunate if I sit next you at dinner." Madeleine spoke in her gayest tones, 
but in truth she dreaded what the man might 
make of this innocent escapade and intended to 
make a friend of him if possible. 
She was growing accustomed to the gloom 
and saw him smile fatuously. " That sends me 
to the seventh heaven. How often since you 
came have I wished that my dancing days were 
not over." 
" I'd far rather hear you talk. Tell me 
some news." 
" News? News? San Francisco is as flat at 
 
present as spilled champagne. Let me see? 
Ah! Did you ever hear of Langdon Mas- 
ters? '' 
"No. Who is he?'' 
"He is Virginian like myself — a distant 
cousin. He fought through the war, badly 
wounded twice, came home to find little 
left of the old estate — practically nothing 
for him. He tried to start a newspaper 
in Richmond but couldn't raise the capital. 
He went to New York and wrote for the 
newspapers there; also writes a good deal 
for the more intellectual magazines. Thought 
perhaps you had come across something of his. 
There is just a whisper, you know, that you 
were rather a bas bleu before you came to us." 
" Because I was bom and educated in Boston? Poor Boston! I do recall reading something of Mr. Masters' in the Atlantic — I suppose it was — but I have forgotten what. 
Here, I have grown too frivolous — and happy 
— to care to read at all. But what have you to 
tell me particularly about Mr. Masters? " 
" I had a letter from him this morning asking me if there was an opening here. He resents the antagonism in the North that he meets 
 
at every turn, although they are glad enough 
of his exceptionally brilliant work. But he 
knows that San Francisco is the last stronghold 
of the South, and also that our people are 
generous and enterprising. I shall write him 
that I can see no opening for another paper at 
present, but will let him know if there happens 
to be one on an editorial staff. That is a long 
journey to take on an uncertainty." 
" I should think so. Heavens, how this 
carriage does bounce. The horses must be galloping.''
" Probably.'' He lifted a comer of the curtain. "We shall reach the city soon at this 
rate. Ah! " 
Madeleine, in spite of the bouncing vehicle, 
had managed heretofore to prop herself 
firmly in her comer, but a violent lurch suddenly threw her against Travers. He caught 
her firmly in one of his lean wiry arms. At 
the moment she thought nothing of it, although she disliked the contact, but when she 
endeavored to disengage herself,* he merely 
jerked her more closely to his side and she felt 
his hot breath upon her cheek. It was the fevered breath of a man who drinks much and 
late and almost nauseated her. 
 
" Come come,' whispered Travers. " I know 
you didn't go out there to meet any one it 
was just a natural impulse for a little adventure, 
wasn't it? And I deserve my reward for get- 
ting you home safely. Give me a kiss." 
Madeleine wrenched herself free, but he 
laughed and caught her again, this time in both 
arms. " Oh, you can't get away, and I'm going to have that kiss. Yes, a dozen, by Jove. 
You're the prettiest thing in San Francisco, 
and I'll get ahead of the other men there." 
His yellow distorted face — he looked like 
a satyr — was almost on hers. She freed herself once more with a dexterous twisting motion of her supple body, leaped to the front of 
the carriage and pounded on the window behind the driver. 
"For God's sake! You fool! What are 
you doing? Do you want a scandal? " 
The carriage stopped its erratic course so 
abruptly that he was thrown to the floor. 
Madeleine already had the door open. She had 
all the strength of youth and perfect health, 
