"Likely. He's got thin feet."
"I think I'd better go after them," said Smith, reflectively.
"They'll plug you, you poor jackass--two o' them like that, and one
a-settin' up to watch out. Hell! Be you tired o' bed an' board?"
Smith smiled: "Don't you worry, Mike."
"Why? You think you're that smart? Jest becuz you stuck up a tourist you
think you're cock o' the North Woods--with them two foxes lyin' out for
to snap you up? Hey? Why, you poor dumb thing, Jake runs Canadian hootch
for a livin' and Leverett's a trap thief! What could you do with a
pair o' foxes like that?"
"Catch 'em," said Smith, coolly. "You mind your business, Mike."
As he shouldered his rifle and started into the marsh, Clinch dropped a
heavy hand on his shoulder; but the young man shook it off.
"Shut up," he said sharply. "You've a private war on your hands. So have
I. I'll take care of my own."
"What's your grievance?" demanded Clinch, surprised.
"Jake Kloon played a dirty trick on me."
"When was that?"
"Not very long ago."
"I hadn't heard," said Clinch.
"Well, you hear it now, don't you? All right. All right; I'm going after
him."
As he started again across the marsh, Clinch called out in a guarded
voice: "Take good care of that packet if you catch them rats. It belongs
to Eve."
"I'll take such good care of it," replied Smith, "that its proper owner
need not worry."
II
The "proper owner" of the packet was, at that moment, on the Atlantic
Ocean, travelling toward the United States.
Four other pretended owners of the Grand Duchess Theodorica's jewels,
totally unconscious of anything impending which might impair their
several titles to the gems, were now gathered together in a wilderness
within a few miles of one another.
José Quintana lay somewhere in the forests with his gang, fiercely
planning the recovery of the treasure of which Clinch had once robbed
him. Clinch squatted on his runway, watching the mountain flank with
murderous eyes. It was no longer the Flaming Jewel which mattered. His
master passion ruled him now. Those who had offered violence to Eve must
be reckoned with first of all. The hand that struck Eve Strayer had
offered mortal insult to Mike Clinch.
As for the third pretender to the Flaming Jewel, Jake Kloon, he was now
travelling in a fox's circle toward Drowned Valley--that shaggy
wilderness of slime and tamarack and depthless bog which touches the
northwest base of Star Peak. He was not hurrying, having no thought of
pursuit. Behind him plodded Leverett, the trap thief, very, very busy
with his own ideas.
To Leverett's repeated requests that Kloon halt and open the packet to
see what it contained, Kloon gruffly refused.
"What do we care what's in it?" he said. "We get ten thousand apiece
over our rifles for it from them guys. Ain't it a good enough job for
you?"
"Maybe we make more if we take what's inside it for ourselves," argued
Leverett. "Let's take a peek, anyway."
"Naw. I don't want no peek nor nothin'. The ten thousand comes too easy.
More might scare us. Let that guy, Quintana, have what's his'n. All I
ask is my rake-off. You allus was a dirty, thieving mink, Earl. Let's
give him his and take ours and git. I'm going to Albany to live. You bet
I don't stay in no woods where Mike Clinch dens."
They plodded on, arguing, toward their rendezvous with Quintana's
outpost on the edge of Drowned Valley.
       
The fourth pretender to the pearls, rubies, and great gem called the
Flaming Jewel, stolen from the young Grand Duchess Theodorica of
Esthonia by José Quintana, was an unconscious pretender, entirely
innocent of the rôle assigned her by Clinch.
For Eve Strayer had never heard where the packet came from or what it
contained. All she knew was that her stepfather had told her that it
belonged to her. And the knowledge left her incurious.
III
Eve slept the sleep of mental and physical exhaustion. Reaction from
fear brings a fatigue more profound than that which follows physical
overstrain. But the healthy mind, like the healthy body, disposes very
thoroughly of toxics which arise from terror and exhaustion.
The girl slept profoundly, calmly. Her bruised young mind and body left
her undisturbed. There was neither restlessness nor fever. Sleep swept
her with its clean, sweet tide, cleansing the superb youth and health of
her with the most wonderful balm in the Divine pharmacy.
She awoke late in the afternoon, opened her flower-blue eyes, and saw
State Trooper Stormont sitting by the window, and gazing out.
Perhaps Eve's confused senses mistook the young man for a vision; for
she lay very still, nor stirred even her little finger.
After a while Stormont glanced around at her. A warm, delicate colour
stained her skin slowly, evenly, from throat to hair.
He got up and came over to the bed.
"How do you feel?" he asked, awkwardly.
"Where is dad?" she managed to inquire in a steady voice.
"He won't be back till late. He asked me to stick around--in case you
needed anything----"
The girl's clear eyes searched his.
"Trooper Stormont?"
"Yes, Eve."
"Dad's gone after Quintana."
"Is he the fellow who misused you?"
"I think so."
"Who is he?"
"I don't know."
"Is he your enemy or your stepfather's?"
But the girl shook her head: "I can't discuss dad's affairs
with--with----"
"With a State Trooper," smiled Stormont. "That's all right, Eve. You
don't have to."
There was a pause; Stormont stood beside the bed, looking down at her
with his diffident, boyish smile. And the girl gazed back straight into
his eyes--eyes she had so often looked into in her dreams.
"I'm to cook you an egg and bring you some pie," he remarked, still
smiling.
"Did dad say I am to stay in bed?"
"That was my inference. Do you feel very lame and sore?"
"My feet burn."
"You poor kid!... Would you let me look at them? I have a first-aid
packet with me."
After a moment she nodded and turned her face on the pillow. He drew
aside the cover a little, knelt down beside the bed.
Then he rose and went downstairs to the kitchen. There was hot water in
the kettle. He fetched it back, bathed her feet, drew out from cut and
scratch the flakes of granite-grit and brier-points that still remained
there.
From his first-aid packet he took a capsule, dissolved it, sterilized
the torn skin, then bandaged both feet with a deliciously cool salve,
and drew the sheets into place.
Eve had not stirred nor spoken. He washed and dried his hands and came
back, drawing his chair nearer to the bedside.
"Sleep, if you feel like it," he said pleasantly.
As she made no sound or movement he bent over to see if she had already
fallen asleep. And noticed that her flushed cheeks were wet with tears.
"Are you suffering?" he asked gently.
"No.... You are so wonderfully kind...."
"Why shouldn't I be kind?" he said, amused and touched by the girl's
emotion.
"I tried to shoot you once. That is why you ought to hate me."
He began to laugh: "Is that what you're thinking about?"
"I--never can--forget----"
"Nonsense. We're quits anyway. Do you remember what I did to you?"
He was thinking of the handcuffs. Then, in her vivid blush he read what
she was thinking. And he remembered his lips on her palms.
He, too, now was blushing brilliantly at memory of that swift, sudden
rush of romantic tenderness which this girl had witnessed that memorable
day on Owl Marsh.
In the hot, uncomfortable silence, neither spoke. He seated himself
