desired.  And I believe that I love you even more than I desire you.  You
are all that, but so much--so much--more."

She had fixed her startled eyes on him, but he did not turn his head.

"There has always been a lot of talk about the soul.  Sentimentalists
wallow in the word, and realists deride it.  What it really is I do not
pretend to know.  Probably as good a word as any--and certainly a very
mellifluous word--for some obscure chemical combination of finer essence
than the obvious material part of us, that craves a foretaste of
immortality while we are still mortal.  Perhaps we are descended from the
gods after all, and unless we listen when they whisper in this
unexplorable part of our being, we find only a miserable substitute for
happiness, and love turns to hate.  Whatever it is that golden essence
demands, I have found it in you, and if circumstances had been different
I should have known it long ago.  I know now what you meant that night
when you told me you had spent many distracted years looking for what no
man could give you, and although I doubted at that time I could even
guess what your own mysterious essence demanded, I know now--still
vaguely, for it is something as far beyond the defining power of words as
the faith of the Christian.  It can never be seen, nor heard, nor
expressed, but it is there.  And only once in a lifetime does any one
mortal have it to give to another.  A man may love many times, but he is
a god-man only once."

He held her more closely, for she was trembling, but he continued to walk
on, guiding her automatically through the trees, for his eyes were almost
vacant, as if their vision had been reversed.

"I have had some hours of utter despair, in spite of the double
excitement of these past weeks, for it has seemed to me that I was no
nearer to you than I had been in the beginning.  There was a sense of
unreality about the whole affair.  At first it seemed to me the most
romantic thing that could happen to any man, and it was incredible that I
had been chosen the hero of such an extraordinary romance--intensified,
if anything, by the fact that it was set in roaring New York, where you
have to talk at the top of your voice to hear yourself think. . . .  But
that passed--in a measure.  I was beset by the fear--at times, I mean: I
was not always in a state to look inward--that you were slipping away.
Not that I doubted for a moment you would marry me, but that your
innermost inscrutable self had withdrawn, and that you accepted what must
have appeared to be my own attitude--that we were merely two vital
beings, who saw in each other a prospect of a superior sort of sensual
delight----"

"That is not true," she interrupted him fiercely.  "But you seemed to me
to be in that phase when a man can think of nothing else.  If I hadn't
hoped--and believed--in you against all I knew of men, I'd never have
gone on with it."

"I'm sure that is true.  I must have disappointed you horribly.  You had
felt the bond from the beginning, and I can imagine what you must have
dreamed I alone could give you.  The trouble was that I didn't realize
that I alone was in fault, at the time.  That boiling pot in my brain was
making too much noise.  But I can assure you that I have returned to
normal, and if I thought I couldn't satisfy you I'd let you go without a
word.  But you know that I can, don't you?"

She nodded.

"What is it, I wonder?"  He sighed.  "I wish I knew.  But it is enough to
feel. . . .  You must understand that in spite of the erratic creature
you have known since you refused to marry me at once and left me with no
resource but to let that play boil out, I am man first and a writer
incidentally.  I also have a stronger ambition to be your husband than to
write plays.  If I don't strangle what talent I have it is because I must
have the money to be independent of newspaper work.  Otherwise I should
have neither peace of mind nor be able to live abroad with you.  I know
that you cannot be happy here, and I am not a victim of that ancient myth
that two people who love each other can be happy anywhere.  Environment
is half the battle--for the super-civilized, at all events.  But you
shall never have another dose of the writer.  I'll write my plays in New
York and rush production.  The greater part of the year I shall spend
with you in Europe, and I cannot think of anything I'd like more--why,
the very night I first saw you I was longing with all my soul to get out
of New York and over to the other side of the world----  Why, Mary!  You
are not crying?  You!  I never believed you could----"

"I--I--did not believe it either. . . .  But, are you sure?  Could you
reconcile yourself?  You seem so much a part of New York, of this strange
high-pitched civilization.  If you are not sure--if you are only tired of
New York for the moment. . . .  I--yes, I will!  I'll give it all up and
live here.  Of course I love New York itself--was it not my Mary Ogden
home?  And there are delightful people everywhere. . . .  No doubt my
dream of doing great things in Europe was mere vanity----"

"Do you believe that?"

"Perhaps not.  But, after all, what I tried to do might be so easily
frustrated in that cauldron--why should I risk personal happiness--the
most precious and the rarest thing in life, for what may be a
chimera--wasted years and a wasted life.  Why are we made as we are, if
to coax that hidden spark into a steady flame is not our highest destiny?
It certainly is our manifest right. . . .  Dreams of doing great things
in this world are nine-tenths personal vanity.  I believe that when we
leave this planet we go to a higher star, where our incompleteness here
will be made complete; and perhaps we are spared a term of probation if
we make ourselves as complete here as mortal conditions will permit.
And, possibly, once in a great while, two human beings are permitted to
effect that completeness together."

They were both in an exalted mood.  The wood was very still, its beauty
incomparable.  And they might already have been on another star.

Across that divine balsam-scented stillness came the deep imperative
notes of a bell.

Clavering twitched his shoulders impatiently.

"Let them go on their screaming picnic," he said.  "We stay here.  Did
you mean that, Mary?"

"Yes, I meant it.  We will not go to Europe at all--except to visit my
Dolomites some day.  When you are writing I'll come up here."

"I don't know that I shall ask that sacrifice of you.  A part of your
brain is asleep now, but it is a very active and insistent part when
awake.  In time you might revert--and resentment is a fatal canker; but
let's leave it open.  It is generally a mistake to settle things
off-hand.  Let them alone and they settle themselves."

"Very well.  At all events, while we are here, I shall not give it
another thought.  The present at least is perfect."

"Yes, it is perfect!"  He put both arms about her.  The past was a blank
to both.  Their pulsing lips met in the wonder and the ecstasy of the
first kiss of youth, of profound and perfect and imperishable love.  They
clung together exalted and exulting and for the moment at least they were
one.




LI

They ate their dinner under the amused eyes of Mrs. Larsing, who had
served dinners à deux before to couples that had "lost their way."
Afterward they sat by the fire and talked desultorily: a great deal
about themselves; sometimes wandering to the subjects that had
interested them most before they had met each other.  Clavering told
