they turned me off. There was other times as I 
struck for wages, I forget what for, and they 
turned me off. But I was a young man then, 
and so I sawed wood and waited my chances, and 
got to work ag'in, and bided my time, in the 
name of the State of Massachusetts. 
" Now I 've testified afore the Legislature, and 
I 've got my notice ; and away up in New Hamp- 
shyre they knew the yellow ochre on my close, 
and I couldn't get the toothache out o' my voice, 
and I wouldn't disown my honest name, — in 
the name of the State of Massachusetts, I would 
n't beg for honest work, unless I got it in my 
honest name, — and so I am sixty-six year old, 
and in the poor-us. 
" Tell Hayle and Kelso, — will you ? — that 
I 'm sixty-six year old, and an honest man, and 
dead beat out and in the poor-us ! Curse 'em ! 
" All the leaves o' the trees o' the State of Mas- 
sachusetts knows it. All the fields and the rivers 
and the little clouds and the winds o' dark nights 
and the grasses knows it. I told 'em, I told 'em ! 
And you' d never know how they listened — 
See here, marm. I 'm no fool, except for the fever 
on me. I knew when I set out what I 'd got 
to say. I 'm no fool, and I never asked no 
favors from the State of Massachusetts. See 
here ! A workingman, as is only a workingman, 
and as lives and dies a workingman, he 'll earn 
enough to get him vittels, and to get him close, 
and to get him a roof above his head, and he 
genrilly won't earn much more ; and I never 
asked it of the State of Massachusetts as he 
should. But now, look here ! When I was to 
Boston on my journey, I picked up a newspaper 
to the depot, and I read as how a man paid forty 
thousand dollars for the plate-glass winders in 
his house. Now, look here ! I say there 's something 
out o' kilter in that Commonwealth, and in 
that country, and in that lot of human creeturs, 
and in them ways of rulin', and in them ways of 
thinkin', and in God's world itself, when a man 
ken spend forty thousand dollars on the plate- 
glass winders of his house, and I ken work 
industrious and honest all my life and be be- 
holden to the State of Massachusetts for my 
poor-US vittels when I 'm sixty-six year old ! 
" Not but what I 've had money in the bank in 
my day, a many times. I had forty-six dollars 
laid by to once. I went into the dye-rooms that 
year, and my rubber boots was wore out. We 
stand about in dye, and it 's very sloppy work, 
you know. I 'd been off work and out o' cash, 
and so I tried to get along without ; so I wet my 
feet and wet my feet, standing round in the stuff. 
So there was lung fever and doctors' bills enough 
to eat that bank account out as close as famine. 
" Why wasn't I far-seein' enough to get my 
boots to the first place and save my fever .'' Now 
that 's jest sech a question as I 'd look to get 
from them as is them of property. That 's jest a 
specimen o' the kind of stoopidity as always 
seems to be a layin' atween property and poverty, 
atween capital and labor, atween you settin' thar 
with yer soft ways and yer soft dress ag'in you, 
and me, and the bed, and the chair, and the wall, 
and the end on 't. 
" How was I a goin' to get into that thar bank 
account forty mile away in East Boston ? Say ! 
You 'd never thought on 't, would you ? No, 
nor none the rest of you as has yer thousands, 
and the trust as thousands brings, and as would 
make no more of buyin' a pair o' rubber boots 
than ye would o' the breath ye draws. I was a 
stranger to town then, and it 's not for the likes 
of me to get a pair of rubber boots on trust. So 
I 'd had my lung fever and lost my bank account 
afore I could lay finger on it. 
" So with this and that and t'other, I 've come 
into my old age without a dollar, and I'm a 
troublesome character, and my boys are dead, 
and I 'm in the poor-us, and I 'm sixty-six years 
old. 
" I won't say but there 's those of us that lays up 
more than I did ; but I will say that there 's not 
a man of us that ever I knew to spend his life in 
the mills, and lay by that as would begin to keep 
him in his old age. If there 's any such man, I 'd 
like to see him. 
" I tell you, marm, there 's a many men and wo- 
men in Hayle and Kelso, and there 's a many men 
and women in a many factories of this here free 
country, as don't dare to testify afore a Legisla- 
ture. When their testimony tells ag'in the interest 
of their employers, they don't dare. There 's 
them as won't do it not for nobody. There's 
them as does it on the sly, a holdin' back their 
names onto the confidence o' the committee, out 
o' dread and fear. We 're poor folks. We can't 
help ourselves, ye see. We 're jest clutched up 
