the captain, not a little to the astonishment of Flint, who wondered
that he was not assigned to the Ocklockonee.
"I am quite satisfied, captain," replied Bockburn, bowing and smiling,
for wages were more than rank to him. "I will bring up my kit at once,
sir. You see, captain, when a man has a family he--"
"Precisely as you say, Mr. Bockburn," interrupted the captain. "You
will report to Mr. Sampson in the engine room of the Bronx for further
orders."
"Thank you, sir; I supposed I was out of a job from this out, and I was
feeling--"
"Feel your way to the engine room of the Bronx. Mr. Gawl," the captain
proceeded.
"On duty, sir," replied the first assistant engineer of the Bronx,
touching his cap as respectfully as though the commander had been forty
years old.
"You are appointed temporarily as chief engineer of the Ocklockonee, and
you will take your place in the engine room as soon as possible," said
the captain, as brusquely as though favors cost nothing.
Mr. Gawl was taken to the engine room and introduced to the first and
second assistants, Rowe and Leeds, and was kindly received by them,
for, like their late chief, the question of wages was the only one that
affected them. They promised to be faithful to the government they were
to serve, and to discharge their duties faithfully under the direction
of the new chief. The two officers on the quarter deck had watched all
these proceedings with interest. They were the only persons remaining on
board who had not been disposed of in some manner.
Christy approached them while Captain Flint, as he was now to be called
by courtesy, was making his final arrangements with the crew that had
been assigned to the prize. Both of the officers bowed civilly to the
commander as he presented himself on the quarter deck. They were older
men than Captain Dinsmore, though neither was over forty-five. Christy
suspected that they were not Confederate officers as soon as he had a
chance to look them over.
"May I ask, gentlemen, if you are officers of the Confederate Navy?"
asked Christy, as he looked from one to the other of the men.
"We are not, sir," replied the senior of them.
"Of course you are aware that you are serving in a Confederate
man-of-war?" added Christy.
"I should say that was hardly true up to date. The captain holds a
commission in the Confederate Navy, but the ship has never been into a
Confederate port, Captain Passford," replied the senior, who had learned
the commander's name.
"As you call me by name, perhaps you will enable me to do as much with
you," added Christy.
"My name is Farley Lippard; I shipped as first officer of the Scotian,"
replied the senior.
"And mine is Edward Sangston; and I shipped as second officer of the
steamer."
"We shipped only for the voyage, and were told that we could not retain
our situations after the ship's company was fully organized," added Mr.
Lippard.
"Then I hope you were paid in advance, as the engineers were," said
Christy with a smile.
"We were, sir, thank you," added the first officer. "Though we were told
that we could not obtain any rank in the navy because there were more
officers than ships, the agent said we should find plenty of employment
on board of blockade runners coming out with cotton."
"I suppose you are Englishmen?" said the captain.
"Scotchmen, sir, but British subjects."
"I cannot put you on shore and I may not have an opportunity to ship
you to your homes by another vessel. I shall leave you on board of the
Ocklockonee, and the acting commander will assign to you such quarters
in the cabin as may be at his command," continued Christy. "It is only
necessary that I should say I expect you to remain neutral, whatever
occurs on board of the steamer."
"That is understood," replied Mr. Lippard.
"You will be regarded as passengers; but of course if you commit any act
hostile to the government of the United States, you will be considered
as enemies, and treated as prisoners of war," Christy proceeded. "I hope
the situation is clearly understood."
"Certainly, sir; we have no interest in the quarrel in the States, and
we are not in the pay of the Confederacy, as they call it," replied Mr.
Lippard.
"Then there will be no trouble. Captain Flint," called the commander.
Flint, who had been very busy appointing petty officers and organizing
the new crew, came at the call and was introduced to the late officers
of the prize. The understanding which had just been reached in regard to
them was repeated for the benefit of the new captain. He was quite as
pliable as his superior had always been, and there was no indication
that any friction would result from their presence on board of the
prize, now temporarily put into the service of the navy.
"Have you made all your arrangements, Captain Flint?" asked Christy when
he was all ready to return to the Bronx.
"I have very nearly completed them, Captain Passford; and I can easily
finish them after we get under way," replied Flint. "All I need before
we part is my orders."
"From all that I can learn, the Arran must be to the eastward of the
Ocklockonee," said Christy, who had given this subject all the thought
his time would permit. "The officers of the prize hailed the Bronx
coming from that direction, and that indicates that she was expected
from that quarter. Our coming from that way seems to have made Captain
Dinsmore confident that the Bronx was the Arran. I shall lay the course
of my ship to the northeast, while you will proceed to the southwest.
After you have gone fifty miles in that direction, you will make a
course due east, as I shall also after I have made the same distance.
Having run due east twenty miles, you will run to the northeast, as I
shall to the southwest. If you discover the Arran fire your midship gun,
and I will do the same."
Christy shook hands with Flint, and went on board of the Bronx. The
order was given on board of both vessels to cast off the grapnels; the
