"I hope he is," thought Fred. "It will get Bowman out of the way."
About half-past two Bowman entered the public room where Fred was
reading.
"I'm going for a drive," he announced. "I'll see you at supper."
"Very well!"
Fred waited till Bowman drove out of the yard, and then, taking his
gun, went off himself. But he did not turn his steps in the direction
of Sinclair's cottage. He had ascertained that there was a way of going
by land to that part of the woods where he had met his young companion
of the morning. He had made up his mind to repair to the spot now on
the chance of finding the boy, and securing the bonds that very
afternoon. He felt that there was no time to be lost.
It would have been easier and shorter to take the boat, and the
landlord would have made no objection. But some one might see him out
on the lake, and this would excite Bowman's suspicions, especially when
he discovered that the bonds were missing. So Fred chose the land route
as the wiser one to take under the circumstances.
The distance was quite two miles, but Fred did not mind that. The prize
for which he was striving was too great for him to shrink from such a
trifle as that.
He reached the other side of the pond, but no one was in sight. He
walked about anxiously looking here and there.
"I hope I shall not have my walk for nothing," he said to himself.
But luck was in his favor. Walking at random he all at once heard a
boy's whistle. He quickened his steps, and almost directly, to his
great delight, he recognized, sauntering along, the very lad he had
taken out in the boat in the morning.
"Hallo, there!" he cried.
The boy turned quickly.
"Oh, it's you, is it?"
"Yes."
"I thought you were to meet me to-morrow morning."
"So I was, but I did not dare to wait. I think Bowman will get the
bonds to-morrow, and make a bolt of it."
"Then what do you propose to do?"
"I want you to get the package for me to-day."
"Do you think I will get into any trouble?" asked the boy cautiously.
"It won't be stealing, will it?"
"It would be if the bonds were Bowman's, but they are not. They belong
to a rich banker in New York, as I have already told you, and in
showing me where they are you are aiding justice."
"Will I get the hundred dollars, sure?"
"Yes, I will guarantee that. What is your name?"
"John Parton."
"I will take it down. As soon as I get back to New York I will see that
the money is sent you."
"I'll chance it," said the boy. "You look honest, and I believe you."
"Go on, then, and I will follow you."
John led the way into the thickest part of the wood. He paused in front
of a large tree, partly gone to decay. The trunk was hollow, containing
a large cavity.
"The package is there," he said.
"Get it for me," returned Fred, "and there your task will end. I will
undertake the rest."
In less than five minutes the package was placed in Fred's hands.
He opened his vest and placed it inside, carefully pinning it to the
waistcoat, so that it might not slip down.
"It will be awkward to carry," he said, "on account of its size. I wish
it were safe in Mr. Wainwright's possession."
Then a new idea came to him.
"Is there any express office near here?" he asked.
"The nearest is at Hyacinth, five or six miles away."
"I should like to go there. Do you know where I can hire a team?"
"We are not using ours to-day," said John.
"Then," said Fred promptly, "I will hire it, paying any price your
father considers satisfactory, and I will engage you to drive me over.
You know the way?"
"I've been there hundreds of times."
"Then it is all right. Do you think we can have the team? I'll pay two
dollars for that, and a dollar for your services as driver."
"It's a go! Come right along! Our house is less than half a mile away."
Then the two boys emerged from the woods, and made their way to a
comfortable farmhouse, situated in the midst of fertile fields. John
went into the house, and presently came out with his mother.
"Are you the young man that wants to go to Hyacinth?" she asked.
"Yes, ma'am."
"Well, I don't know of any objection. Don't stay too long."
"I'll be back in time for supper, mother."
"Did your mother ask you what I was going for?" asked Fred.
"No; I told her you wanted to take a ride."
"That will answer. I wish there was enough snow left for sleighing."
The horse was quickly harnessed to an open buggy, and the two boys got
in. John took the reins, and turned out of the yard. Soon they were
speeding over the road that led to Hyacinth. It was a pleasant drive,
but Fred was too much occupied by thoughts of what he carried to pay
much attention to the scenery.
At length they turned into the principal street of Hyacinth.
The express office was just across the way from the railway depot.
Fred entered and inquired, "How soon will a package start for New
York?"
"In about an hour."
"As it is valuable, I will get you to put it up securely, and seal it."
"Very well."
The agent wrapped it up in some thick brown paper, gave it to Fred to
direct, and then laid it carefully away.
"Do you wish to insure it?" he asked. "What is the value?"
"I will insure it for five hundred dollars."
Fred knew that this would secure extra care, and he did not care to
name the real worth lest it might tempt some employee to dishonesty.
"Now," he said, as they left the office, "I feel easy in my mind."
