got 'ca'se I couldn't come up to de work o' de stronges'. Dat overseer
wuz a Yank, too, outen New Englan', en anybody down South kin tell you
what dat mean. Dey knows how to work a nigger to death, en dey knows how
to whale 'em, too--whale 'em till dey backs is welted like a washboard.
'Long at fust my marster say de good word for me to de overseer, but dat
'uz bad for me; for de mistis she fine it out, en arter dat I jist
ketched it at every turn--dey warn't no mercy for me no mo'."
Tom's heart was fired--with fury against the planter's wife; and he said
to himself, "But for that meddlesome fool, everything would have gone
all right." He added a deep and bitter curse against her.
The expression of this sentiment was fiercely written in his face, and
stood thus revealed to Roxana by a white glare of lightning which turned
the somber dusk of the room into dazzling day at that moment. She was
pleased--pleased and grateful; for did not that expression show that her
child was capable of grieving for his mother's wrongs and of feeling
resentment toward her persecutors?--a thing which she had been doubting.
But her flash of happiness was only a flash, and went out again and left
her spirit dark; for she said to herself, "He sole me down de river--he
can't feel for a body long: dis'll pass en go." Then she took up her
tale again.
"'Bout ten days ago I 'uz sayin' to myself dat I couldn't las' many mo'
weeks I 'uz so wore out wid de awful work en de lashin's, en so
downhearted en misable. En I didn't care no mo', nuther--life warn't
wuth noth'n' to me, if I got to go on like dat. Well, when a body is in
a frame o' mine like dat, what do a body care what a body do? Dey was a
little sickly nigger wench 'bout ten year ole dat 'uz good to me, en
hadn't no mammy, po' thing, en I loved her en she loved me; en she come
out whah I 'uz workin 'en she had a roasted tater, en tried to slip it
to me,--robbin' herself, you see, 'ca'se she knowed de overseer didn't
gimme enough to eat,--en he ketched her at it, en give her a lick acrost
de back wid his stick, which 'uz as thick as a broom-handle, en she
drop' screamin' on de groun', en squirmin' en wallerin' aroun' in de
dust like a spider dat's got crippled. I couldn't stan' it. All de
hell-fire dat 'uz ever in my heart flame' up, en I snatch de stick outen
his han' en laid him flat. He laid dah moanin' en cussin', en all out of
his head, you know, en de niggers 'uz plumb sk'yred to death. Dey
gathered roun' him to he'p him, en I jumped on his hoss en took out for
de river as tight as I could go. I knowed what dey would do wid me. Soon
as he got well he would start in en work me to death if marster let him;
en if dey didn't do dat, they'd sell me furder down de river, en dat's
de same thing. So I 'lowed to drown myself en git out o' my troubles. It
'uz gitt'n' towards dark. I 'uz at de river in two minutes. Den I see a
canoe, en I says dey ain't no use to drown myself tell I got to; so I
ties de hoss in de edge o' de timber en shove out down de river, keepin'
in under de shelter o' de bluff bank en prayin' for de dark to shet down
quick. I had a pow'ful good start, 'ca'se de big house 'uz three mile
back f'om de river en on'y de work-mules to ride dah on, en on'y niggers
to ride 'em, en dey warn't gwine to hurry--dey'd gimme all de chance dey
could. Befo' a body could go to de house en back it would be long pas'
dark, en dey couldn't track de hoss en fine out which way I went tell
mawnin', en de niggers would tell 'em all de lies dey could 'bout it.
"Well, de dark come, en I went on a-spinnin' down de river. I paddled
mo'n two hours, den I warn't worried no mo', so I quit paddlin, en
floated down de current, considerin' what I 'uz gwine to do if I didn't
have to drown myself. I made up some plans, en floated along, turnin'
'em over in my mine. Well, when it 'uz a little pas' midnight, as I
reckoned, en I had come fifteen or twenty mile, I see de lights o' a
steamboat layin' at de bank, whah dey warn't no town en no woodyard, en
putty soon I ketched de shape o' de chimbly-tops ag'in' de stars, en den
good gracious me, I 'most jumped out o' my skin for joy! It 'uz de Gran'
Mogul--I 'uz chambermaid on her for eight seasons in de Cincinnati en
Orleans trade. I slid 'long pas'--don't see nobody stirrin' nowhah--hear
'em a-hammerin' away in de engine-room, den I knowed what de matter
was--some o' de machinery's broke. I got asho' below de boat and turn'
de canoe loose, den I goes 'long up, en dey 'uz jes one plank out, en I
step' 'board de boat. It 'uz pow'ful hot, deckhan's en roustabouts 'uz
sprawled aroun' asleep on de fo'cas'l', de second mate, Jim Bangs, he
sot dah on de bitts wid his head down, asleep--'ca'se dat's de way de
second mate stan' de cap'n's watch!--en de ole watchman, Billy Hatch, he
'uz a-noddin' on de companionway;--en I knowed 'em all; 'en, lan', but
dey did look good! I says to myself, I wished old marster'd come along
now en try to take me--bless yo' heart, I's 'mong frien's, I is. So I
tromped right along 'mongst 'em, en went up on de b'iler deck en 'way
back aft to de ladies' cabin guard, en sot down dah in de same cheer dat
I'd sot in 'mos' a hund'd million times, I reckon; en it 'uz jist home
ag'in, I tell you!
"In 'bout an hour I heard de ready-bell jingle, en den de racket begin.
Putty soon I hear de gong strike. 'Set her back on de outside,' I says
to myself--'I reckon I knows dat music!' I hear de gong ag'in. 'Come
ahead on de inside,' I says. Gong ag'in. 'Stop de outside.' Gong ag'in.
'Come ahead on de outside--now we's pinted for Sent Louis, en I's outer
de woods en ain't got to drown myself at all.' I knowed de Mogul 'uz in
de Sent Louis trade now, you see. It 'uz jes fair daylight when we
passed our plantation, en I seed a gang o' niggers en white folks
huntin' up en down de sho', en troublin' deyselves a good deal 'bout me;
but I warn't troublin' myself none 'bout dem.
"'Bout dat time Sally Jackson, dat used to be my second chambermaid en
'uz head chambermaid now, she come out on de guard, en 'uz pow'ful glad
to see me, en so 'uz all de officers; en I tole 'em I'd got kidnapped en
sole down de river, en dey made me up twenty dollahs en give it to me,
en Sally she rigged me out wid good clo'es, en when I got here I went
straight to whah you used to wuz, en den I come to dis house, en dey say
you's away but 'spected back every day; so I didn't dast to go down de
river to Dawson's, 'ca'se I might miss you.
"Well, las' Monday I 'uz pass'n' by one o' dem places in Fourth street
whah deh sticks up runaway-nigger bills, en he'ps to ketch 'em, en I
seed my marster! I 'mos' flopped down on de groun', I felt so gone. He
had his back to me, en 'uz talkin' to de man en givin' him some
bills--nigger-bills, I reckon, en I'se de nigger. He's offerin' a
reward--dat's it. Ain't I right, don't you reckon?"
