And so Samuel experienced the great thrill, 
which comes sooner or later to every social re- 
former. He sat in Mrs. Stedman's little parlor, 
and told his tale yet again. Mr. Pollard was 
young and just out of college, and his pencil 
fairly flew over his notebook. " Gosh! " he ex- 
claimed. "But this is hot stuff!" 
To Samuel it was an extraordinary revelation. 
He was surprised that the idea had not occurred 
to him before. What was the use of holding 
meetings and making speeches, when one could 
have things printed in the papers? In the papers 
everyone would read it; and they would get it 
straight — there would be no chance of error. 
Moreover, they would read it at their leisure, and 
have time to think it all over! 
And after Mr. Pollard had gone, he rushed 
off in great excitement to tell Everley about it. 
" You won't need to print those circulars," he 
said. " For I told him where the meeting was 
to be." 
But Everley only smiled at this. " We'll get 
out oxir stuff just the same," he said. " You'd 
better wait until you've seen what the Express 
prints." 
" What do you mean? " asked the boy. But 
Everley would not explain — he merely told Sam- 
uel to wait. He did not seem to be as much ex- 
cited as he should have been. 
Samuel went home again. And later on in 
the afternoon, while Mrs. Stedman had gone out 
to the grocer's, there came a knock on the door, 
and he opened it, and to his amazement found 
himself confronted by Billy Finnegan. 
" Hello, young fellow! " said Finnegan. 
"Hello!" said Samuel. 
"What's this I hear about your making a 
speech? " asked Finnegan. 
" I'm going to," was the reply. " But how 
did you know? " 
" I got it from Callahan. Slattery told 
him." 
" Slattery! Has he heard about it? " 
" Gee, young fellow! What do you think he's 
boss for? " 
And Finnegan gazed around the room, to 
make sure that they were alone. 
" Sammy," he said, " I've come to give you a 
friendly tip; I hope you'll have sense enough to 
take it." 
" What is it? " asked the other. 
" Don't try to make any speech." 
" Why not? " 
" Because you ain't a-going to be let to make 
it, Sammy." 
" But how can they stop me? " 
" I dunno, Sammy. But they am't a-going 
to let you." 
There was a pause. 
" It's a crazy thing you're tryin' to do," said 
the other. " And take my word for it — some- 
thin' will happen to you if you go on." 
"What will happen?" 
" I dunno, my boy — maybe you'll fall into the 
river." 
"Fall into the river!" 
" Yes ; or else run yom* head into a slungshot 
some night, in a dark alley. I can't tell you what 
— only you won't make the speech." 
Samuel was dumfounded. " You can't mean 
such things ! " he gasped. 
" Sure I mean them," was the reply. " Why 
not? " 
Samuel did not respond. " I don't know why 
you're tryin' to do this thing," went on the other, 
" nor who's backing you. But from what I can 
make out, you've got the goods, and you've got 
them on most everybody in the town. You've 
got Slattery, and you've got Pat McCullagh, 
and you've got the machine. You've got Wy- 
gant and Hickman — you've even got something 
on Bertie Lockman, haven't you? " 
" I suppose I have," said Samuel. " But I'm 
not going to tell that." 
" Well, they don't know what you're going to 
tell, and they won't take any chances. They 
won't let you tell anything." 
" But can such things be done? " panted the 
boy. 
" They're done all the time," said the other. 
" Why, see — it stands to reason. Wouldn't folks 
be findin' out things hke this, and wouldn't iiiey 
be tellin' them? " 
" To be sure," said Samuel. " That's what 
puzzled me." 
" Well," said the bartender, " they ain't let to. 
Don't you see? " 
r " I see," whispered the boy. 
" There's a crowd that runs this town, Sam- 
my; and they mean to go on runnin' it. And 
