old man turned and stalked out from the hall. But he did not 
go until he had turned once more and shaken his fist at the 
crowd, yelling in his cracked voice, "Traitors ! Traitors !" 
Poor Jimmie remained in his seat, overwhelmed. That he, 
the most devoted of workers for Socialism, should have been 
the cause of such a disgraceful scene bringing to this revolu- 
tionary meeting a man in the uniform of a killer of the work- 
ing-class ! He could not stay and face the comrades ; before the 
speaking had finished he gave Lizzie a nudge, and the two got 
up and stole out, dodging every one they knew. 
Outside they stood in perplexity. They thought, of course, 
that the old man would have driven away without them; they 
pictured the long walk from the trolley-line in the darkness and 
mud and with Lizzie dressed in her only Sunday-go-to-meeting ! 
But when they went to the place where Mr. Drew had left his 
buggy, to their surprise they found him patiently waiting for 
them. Seeing them hesitate, he said, "Come ! Get in !" They 
were much embarrassed, but obeyed, and the old mare started 
her amble towards home. 
They rode for a long time in silence. Finally Jimmie 
could not stand it, and began, "I'm so sorry, Mr. Drew. You 
don't understand " But the old man cut him off : "There's 
no use you and me tryin' to talk, young man." So they rode 
 
the rest of the way without a sound except that once Jimmie 
imagined he heard Lizzie sobbing to herself. 
Jimmie really felt terribly about it, for he had for this old 
soldier a deep respect, even an affection. Mr. Drew had made 
his impression not so much by his arguments, which Jimmie 
considered sixty years out of date, as by his personality. Here 
was one patriot who was straight ! What a pity that he could 
not understand the revolutionary point of view! What a pity 
that he had to be made angry ! It was one more of the horrors 
of war, which tore friends apart, and set them to disputing 
and hating one another. 
At least, that was the way it seemed to Jimmie that night, 
while he was still full of the speeches he had heard. But at 
other times doubts assailed him for of course a man cannot 
defy and combat a whole community without sometimes being 
led to wonder whether the community may not have some right 
on its side. Jimmie would hear of things the Germans had 
done in the war; they were such dirty fighters, they went out 
of their way to do such utterly revolting and useless, almost 
insane things! They made it so needlessly hard for any one 
who tried to defend them to think of them even as human 
beings. Jimmie would argue that he did not mean to help the 
Germans; he would resent bitterly the charges of the Leesville 
newspapers that he was a German agent and a traitor; but he 
could not get away from the uncomfortable fact that the things 
he was doing did have a tendency to further German interests, 
at least for a time. 
When that was pointed out to him by some patriot in a con- 
troversy, his answer would be that he was appealing to the 
German Socialists to revolt against their military leaders; but 
then the patriot would begin to find fault with the German 
Socialists, declaring that they were much better Germans than 
Socialists, and citing utterances and actions to prove it. One 
German Socialist had stood up in the Eeichstag and declared 
that the Germans had two ways of fighting their armies over- 
came their enemies in the field, while their Socialists under- 
mined the morale of the workers in enemy countries. When 
that passage was read to Jimmie, he answered that it was a 
lie ; no such speech had ever been made by a Socialist. He had 
no way of proving it was a lie, of course; he just knew it! 
But then, when he went away and thought it over, he began to 
wonder; suppose it were true! Suppose the German workers 
had been so drilled and schooled in childhood that even those 
who called themselves revolutionists were patriots at heart! 
Jimmie would begin to piece this and that together things 
he had heard or read. Certainly these German Socialists were 
not displaying any great boldness in fighting their government ! 
The answer was that they could not oppose their govern- 
ment, because they would be put in jail. But that was a pretty 
poor answer; it was their business to go to jail if not, what 
right had they to expect Jimmie Higgins to go here in America ? 
Jimmie presented this problem to Comrade Meissner, who an- 
swered that if Jimmie would go first, then doubtless the Ger- 
man comrades would follow. But Jimmie could not see why 
he should be first; and when they tried to clear up the reason, 
it developed that down in his heart Jimmie had begun to believe 
that Germany was more to blame for the war than America. 
And not merely would Comrade Meissner not admit that, but 
he became excited and vehement, trying to convince Jimmie that 
the other capitalist governments of the world were the cause of 
the war Germany was only defending herself against them! 
So there they were, involved in a controversy, just like any two 
non-revolutionary people ! Eepeating over the same arguments 
which had gone on in the local between Norwood, the lawyer, 
and Schneider, the brewer; only this time Jimmie was taking 
the side of Norwood ! Jimmie found himself face to face with 
the disconcerting fact that his devoted friend Meissner was a 
German and therefore in some subtle way different from 
him, unable to see things as he did! 
WAR or no war, the soil had to be ploughed and seed sown; 
so John Cutter came to his tenant and proposed that he 
should resume his job as farm-hand. Only he must agree to 
shut up about the war, for while Cutter himself was not a 
rabid patriot, he would take no chances of having his tenant- 
house burned down some night. So there was another discus- 
sion in the Higgins family. Lizzie remembered how during the 
