a dreamy study of him, as unconscious, apparently, 
as if he were a picture before her, the effect of 
which is to reduce him to a state of immovable 
 
awkwardness. At last he tears himself loose from 
the spot on which he has been petrifying, and takes 
refuge in the business which has brought him into 
the room. 
Bartlett : " I came to look for one of my brushes. 
It must have dropped out of my traps here, the 
other day." He goes up to the piano and looks 
about the floor, while Constance's gaze follows him 
in every attitude and movement. " Ah, here it is ! 
I knew it would escape the broom under the land- 
lady's relaxed regime. If you happen to drop 
anything in this room, Miss Wyatt, you needn't 
be troubled; you can always find it just where it 
fell." Miss Wyatt's fan again slips to the floor, 
and Bartlett again picks it up and restores it to 
her: "A case in point." 
Constance, blushing faintly : " Don't do it for 
me. It isn't worth while." 
Bartlett, gravely : " It doesn't take a great deal 
of time, and the exercise does me good." Con- 
stance faintly smiles, but does not relax her vigi- 
lance. "Isn't that light rather strong for you?" 
He goes to the glass doors opening on the balcony, 
and offers to draw down one of their shades. 
 
Constance : " It doesn't make any difference." 
Bartlett, bluffly : '* If it 's disagreeable it makes 
some difference. Is it disagreeable ? " 
Constance : " The light 's strong " Bartlett 
dashes the curtain down " but I could see the 
mountain." He pulls the curtain up. 
Bartlett : " I beg your pardon." He again falls 
into statue-like discomposure under Miss Wyatt's 
gaze, which does not seek the distant slopes of 
Ponkwasset, in spite of the lifted curtain. 
Constance : " What is the name ? Do you 
know ? " 
Bartlett: "Whose? Oh! Ponkwasset. It 'snot 
a pretty name, but it 's aboriginal. And it doesn't 
hurt the mountain." Kecovering a partial volition, 
he shows signs of a purpose to escape, when Miss 
Wyatt's next question arrests him. 
Constance: "Are you painting it, Mr. Bart- 
lett?" 
Bartlett, with a laugh : " Oh, no, I don't soar so 
high as mountains; I only lift my eyes to a tree 
here and there, and a bit of pasture and a few of 
the lowlier and friendlier sort of rocks." He now 
 
so far effects his purpose as to transfer his un- 
wieldly presence to a lateral position as regards 
Miss Wyatt. The girl mechanically turns her 
head upon the pillow and again fixes her sad eyes 
upon him. 
Constance : " Have you ever been up it ? " 
Harriett : " Yes, half a dozen times." 
Constance: " Is it hard to climb like the Swiss 
mountains?" 
Bartlett: " You must speak for the Swiss moun- 
tains after you 've tried Ponkwasset, Miss Wyatt. 
I 've never been abroad." 
Constance, her large eyes dilating with surprise: 
" Never been abroad ? " 
Harriett ; " I enjoy that distinction." 
Constance: "Oh! I thought you had been 
abroad." She speaks with a slow, absent, earnest, 
accent, regarding him, as always, with a look of 
wistful bewilderment. 
Harriett, struggling uneasily for his habitual 
lightness: "I'm sorry to disappoint you, Miss 
Wyatt. I will go abroad as soon as possible. 
I 'm going out in a boat this morning to work at a 
 
bit on the point of the island yonder, and I 'll take 
lessons in sea-faring." Bartlett, managing at last 
to get fairly behind Miss Wyatt's chair, indulges 
himself in a long, low sigh of relief, and taking 
out his handkerchief rubs his face with it. 
Constance, with sudden, meek compunction : 
" I 've been detaining you." 
Bartlett, politely coming forward again: "Oh, 
no, not at all ! I'm afraid I've tired you" 
Constance : " No, I 'in glad to have you stay." 
In the unconscious movement necessary to follow 
Bartlett in his changes of position, the young girl 
has loosened one of the pillows that prop her head. 
It slowly disengages itself and drops to the floor. 
Bartlett, who has been crushing his brush against 
the ball of his thumb, gives a start of terror, and 
looks from Constance to the pillow, and back again 
to Constance in despair. 
Constance : " Never mind." She tries to adjust 
her head to the remaining pillows, and then desists 
in evident discomfort. 
Bartlett, in great agony of spirit : " I I 'm 
afraid you miss it." 
