Hotel.
He registered his name, and intimated his desire for supper.
"Supper is on the table," said the clerk.
Bob entered the dining-room, a forlorn-looking room of small dimensions,
containing a long table, at which sat two persons, a drummer from St.
Louis, and an old man with a gray beard, who kept the principal
dry-goods store in Rocky Creek.
Bob was assigned a place between the two.
"Good-evening," said the drummer, sociably.
"Good-evening," responded Bob.
"Are you a regular boarder?"
"Oh, no; I never was in the place before."
"How did you come?"
"By river."
"Indeed!" said the drummer, puzzled. "Has any steamer touched here
to-day?"
"No; I came on my own boat."
"Bound down the river?"
"Yes."
"Business, I suppose?"
"Yes; I have a load of wheat which I propose to sell in the city."
"What house shall you deal with?"
"I don't know; I'm not acquainted in St. Louis. I shall inquire when I
get there."
"Then let me recommend you to go to Pearson & Edge. They will treat you
liberally."
"Thank you. I will call on them and see what I can do."
"Present my card, if you please, and say I sent you there."
The drummer produced his card and handed it to Bob. From this our hero
learned that his companion was Benjamin Baker, traveling for Dunham &
Co., wholesale grocers.
"Shall you stay at the hotel this evening?" asked Baker.
"No; I shall pass the night on my boat."
"How many have you on board?"
"Only myself and a colored boy from home--Clip."
"Isn't that rather a small crew?"
"Perhaps so; but we haven't much to do, except to let the boat drift,
keeping her straight meanwhile."
"By the way, speaking of Pearson, senior member of the firm I have
recommended, he is in great trouble just now."
"How is that?"
"He had a very pretty little girl of about six years old--little Maud.
Two or three days since, as I hear from a friend in the city, the little
girl mysteriously disappeared."
"Disappeared?"
"Just so. Her parents think she must have been kidnapped, as a
suspicious-looking person had been noticed by the nurse hovering near
when they were out walking together."
"They must be in great trouble and anxiety," said Bob, in a tone of
sympathy, "if they believe this."
"They would be glad to believe it, for in that case the little girl is
alive, while otherwise she may have strayed to the river and been
drowned. Mr. Pearson, who is wealthy, has offered a reward of one
thousand dollars to any one who will restore his little girl to him."
As they sat at table, Bob noticed through the window the man Minton, who
had called upon him on the arrival of the boat.
"Do you know that man, Mr. Baker?" he asked, suddenly.
The drummer shook his head.
"I am a stranger, too," he said. "But perhaps this gentleman, who is in
business at Rocky Creek, may be able to give you some information."
Thus appealed to, the old gentleman looked from the window.
"It isn't any one I know," he replied. "Why do you ask?"
"Because he called upon me on my arrival, representing himself as a
grain merchant, and proposed to buy my cargo."
The old man shrugged his shoulders.
"He looks more like a tramp than a grain merchant," he said.
"I agree with you," assented Bob, with a laugh.
"Did he mention his name?"
"He called himself James Smith; but as he answered my questions in a
hesitating manner, I concluded that it was an assumed name."
"Very likely."
"Then he doesn't live in the village?"
"No; but he has been here for a day or two."
"I wonder what could have been his object in representing himself to me
as a grain merchant?" said Bob, thoughtfully.
"Oh," answered the drummer, "he probably wanted to strike up an
acquaintance which would justify him in borrowing a few dollars of you.
I have met plenty of such characters They live by what they can borrow."
When supper was over Bob and the drummer rose together.
"Won't you have a cigar, Mr. Burton?" asked the latter.
"No, thank you; I don't smoke."
"Oh, well, you'll learn after a while. At any rate, sit down and keep me
company for a while."
"Thank you, but I shall have to go back to the boat and give Clip a
chance to get his supper."
Clip returned from supper at half-past seven, and Bob, feeling wide
awake, decided to go on shore again. He did not care to go to the hotel,
but took a leisurely walk through the village and beyond. It was an
unfortunate walk, for it made him an easy prey to the men who were
scheming against him. In a lonely place two men sprang upon him
suddenly, and before he could understand what was going on, he was
gagged and helpless. In this condition the two men, taking him between
them, hurried him to a lonely house at some distance from the road.
Bob Burton was brave, but this sudden and mysterious attack startled
and alarmed him not a little. He would have expostulated, but was
unable, from being gagged, to utter a word.
Reaching the house, a short, sharp knock at the door was answered by a
rough-looking man, dressed in a suit of faded and shabby cloth.
"So you've got him!" was his laconic greeting.
"Yes, Joe! Now where shall we put him?"
