passion for old cannon, and for sticking them about in 
all sorts of odd nooks and corners. We found one 
smaller piece over a gateway, which we were forbidden 
by a sign-board to enter on pain of prosecution for 
trespassing. There was nothing else to prevent our en- 
tering, and we went in, to find ourselves in an alley 
with nothing but a Gypsy van in it. Nothing but a 
Gypsy van ! As if that were not the potentiality of all 
manner of wild romance ! Whether the alley belonged 
to Gypsies, or the Gypsies had trespassed by leaving 
their van in it, I shall now probably never know, but 
I commend the inquiry to any reader of mine whom 
these pages shall inspire to repeat our pilgrimage. 
There was no great token of genteel life in Boston, 
so far as we saw it, but perhaps w r e did not look in the 
right places. There were good shops, but not fine or 
large ones, and I am able to report of the intellectual 
status that there are three weekly newspapers, but no 
dailies, which could not be the case in any American 
town of fourteen thousand people. Concerning society, 
I can only say that in our wanderings we came at one 
point on a vast, high-walled, iron-gated garden, which 
looked as if it might have society beyond it, but not 
 
being positively forbidden we did not penetrate it. We 
did indeed visit the ancient grammar - school, one of 
those foundations which in England were meant 
originally for the poor deserving of scholarship, but 
which have nearly all lapsed to the more deserving 
rich, careful of the contamination of the lower classes. 
Being out of term the school was closed to its pupils, 
but we found a contractor there removing the old stoves 
and putting in a system of hot-water heating, which he 
said was better fitted to resist the cold of the Boston 
winters. He was not a very conversable man, but so 
much we screwed out of him, with the added fact that 
the tuition of that school was no longer free. It came 
to some five guineas a year, no great sum, but perhaps 
sufficient to keep the school, with the other influences, 
select enough for the patronage to which it had fallen. 
It was a pleasant place, with a playground before it, 
which in the course of generations there must have been 
a good deal of schoolboy fun got out of. 
There remained for us now only the Guildhall to 
visit, and we had left that to the last because it was 
the thing that had mostly brought us to Boston. It 
was the scene of the trial and imprisonment of those 
poor people of the region roundabout who were trying 
to escape from their " dread lord' James the First, 
and were arrested for this crime, and brought to an- 
swer for it before the magistrates of the town. Their 
dread lord had then lately met some ministers of their 
faith at Hampton Court, and there browbeaten, if not 
beaten, them in argument, so that he was in no humor 
to let these people, who afterward became the Pilgrim 
Fathers, get away to Holland, where there was no dread 
lord, or at least none of King James' thinking. 
But no words can be so good to tell of all this as 
the words of Governor Bradford in his Historie of 
Plymouth Plantation, where he says that " ther was 
a large companie of them purposed to get passage at 
Boston in Lincoln-shire, and for that end had hired a 
shipe wholy to them selves, & made agreement with 
the maister to be ready at a certaine day, and take them 
and their goods in, at a conveniente place, wher they 
accordingly would all attende in readiness. So after 
long waiting, & large expences, though he kepte not 
day with them, yet he came at length & tooke them in, 
in the night. But when he had them & their goods 
abord, he betrayed them, haveing before hand corn- 
plotted with the serchers & other officers so to doe; 
who tooke them, and put them into open boats, & ther 
rifled and ransaked them, searching them to their shirts 
for money, yea even the women furder then became 
rnodestie; and then caried them back into the towne, 
made them a spectakle & wonder to the multitude, 
which came flocking on all sides to behould them. Be- 
ing thus first, by the catchpoule officer, rifled, & stripte 
of their money, books, and much other goods, they were 
presented to the magistrates, and messengers sente to 
informe the lords of the Counsell of them ; and so they 
were comited to ward. Indeed the magistrats used 
them courteously, and shewed them what favour they 
could ; but could not deliver them till order came from 
the Counsell - table. But the issue was that after a 
months imprisonmente, the greatest parte were dis- 
miste, & sent to the places from whence they came; 
but of the principall were still kept in prison, and 
bound over to the Assises." 
My excellent " R. N." of the Handbook of Bos- 
 
ton is anxious to have his reader, as I in turn am 
anxious to have mine, distinguish between these future 
Pilgrim Fathers and the gentlemen and scholars who 
later founded Boston in Massachusetts Bay, and called 
its name after that of the town they had dwelt in or 
often visited before they left the handsome keeping of 
the gentler life of Lincolnshire. Such were Richard 
Bellingham, Edmund Quincy, Thomas Leverett, John 
Cotton, Samuel Whiting, and others, known to our 
