with ice and snow as at the North; and, of course, we spend about half
our time in the open air.
The last sensation of our circle is our red-bird. We do not approve of
putting free birds in cages; but Aunt Katy brought to one of our party
such a beautiful fellow, so brilliant a red, with such a smart, black
crest on his head, and such a long, flashing red tail, that we couldn't
resist the desire to keep him a little while, just to look at him. Aunt
Katy insisted that he wouldn't take it to heart; that he would be tame
in a few days, and eat out of our hands: in short, she insisted that he
would consider himself a fortunate bird to belong to us.
Aunt Katy, you must know, is a nice old lady. We use that term with a
meaning; for, though "black as the tents of Kedar," she is a perfect
lady in her manners: she was born and brought up, and has always lived,
in this neighborhood, and knows every bird in the forest as familiarly
as if they were all her own chickens; and she has great skill in getting
them to come to her to be caught.
Well, our red-bird was named Phoebus, of a kind that Audubon calls a
cardinal-grossbeak; and a fine, large, roomy cage was got down for him,
which was of old tenanted by a very merry and rackety cat-bird; and then
the question arose, "What shall we do with him?" For you see, girls,
having a soft place in our heart for all pets, instead of drowning some
of our kittens in the fall, as reasonable people should, we were seduced
by their gambols and their prettiness to let them all grow up together;
and the result is, that we have now in our domestic retinue four adult
cats of most formidable proportions. "These be the generations" of our
cats: first, Liz, the mother; second, Peter, her oldest son; third, Anna
and Lucinda, her daughters. Peter is a particularly martial, combative,
obnoxious beast, very fluffy and fussy, with great, full-moon, yellow
eyes, and a most resounding, sonorous voice. There is an immense deal of
cat in Peter. He is concentrated cathood, a nugget of pure cat; and in
fact we are all a little in awe of him. He rules his mother and sisters
as if he had never heard of Susan Anthony and Mrs. Stanton. Liz, Anna,
and Lucinda are also wonderfully-well-developed cats, with capital
stomachs. Now comes the problem: the moment the red-bird was let into
his cage, there was an instant whisk of tails, and a glare of great
yellow eyes, and a sharpening of eye-teeth, that marked a situation. The
Scripture tells us a time is coming when the lion shall lie down with
the lamb; but that time hasn't come in Florida. Peter is a regular
heathen, and hasn't the remotest idea of the millennium. He has much of
the lion in him; but he never could lie down peaceably with the lamb,
unless indeed the lamb were inside of him, when he would sleep upon him
without a twinge of conscience. Unmistakably we could see in his eyes
that he considered Phoebus as caught for his breakfast; and he sat
licking his chops inquiringly, as who should ask, "When will the cloth
be laid, and things be ready?"
Now, the party to whom the red-bird was given is also the patron-saint,
the "guide, philosopher, and friend," of the cats. It is she who
examines the plates after each meal, and treasures fragments, which she
cuts up and prepares for their repast with commendable regularity. It is
she who presides and keeps order at cat-meals; and forasmuch as Peter,
on account of his masculine strength and rapacity, is apt to get the
better of his mother and sisters, she picks him up, and bears him
growling from the board, when he has demolished his own portion, and is
proceeding to eat up theirs.
Imagine, now, the cares of a woman with four cats and a bird on her
mind! Phoebus had to be carefully pinned up in a blanket the first
night; then the cage was swung by strong cords from the roof of the
veranda. The next morning, Peter was found perched on top of it, glaring
fiendishly. The cage was moved along; and Peter scaled a pillar, and
stationed himself at the side. To be sure, he couldn't get the bird, as
the slats were too close for his paw to go through; but poor Phoebus
seemed wild with terror. Was it for this he left his native wilds,--to
be exposed in a prison to glaring, wild-eyed hyenas and tigers?
The cats were admonished, chastised, "scat"-ed, through all the moods
and tenses; though their patroness still serves out their commons
regularly, determined that they shall not have the apology of empty
stomachs. Phoebus is evidently a philosopher,--a bird of strong sense.
Having found, after two or three days' trial, that the cats can't get
him; having clusters of the most delicious rice dangling from the roof
of his cage, and fine crisp lettuce verdantly inviting through the
bars,--he seems to have accepted the situation; and, when nobody is in
the veranda, he uplifts his voice in song. "What cheer! what cheer!" he
says, together with many little twitters and gurgles for which we have
no musical notes. Aunt Katy promises to bring him a little wife before
long; and, if that be given him, what shall hinder him from being happy?
As April comes in, they shall build their nest in the cage, and give us
a flock of little red-birds.
Well, girls, we are making a long letter; and this must do for this
week.
  [Illustration]
A WATER-COACH, AND A RIDE IN IT.
      MONDAY, Feb. 26, 1872.
Dear girls, wouldn't you like to get into that little white yacht that
lies dancing and courtesying on the blue waters of the St. John's this
pleasant Monday morning?
It is a day of days. Spring has come down with all her smiles and roses
in one hour. The great blue sheet of water shimmers and glitters like so
much liquid lapis lazuli; and now the word comes in from our
neighbor, the owner of the pleasure-yacht, "Wouldn't you like to go
sailing?"
Of course we should! That is exactly what we do want. And forthwith
there is a running and a mustering of the clans, and a flapping of broad
palmetto-hats; and parties from all the three houses file down, and
present themselves as candidates for pleasure. A great basket of oranges
is hoisted in, and the white sails spread; and with "Youth at the prow,
and Pleasure at the helm," away we go, the breezes blowing manfully at
our sails. The river is about five miles from shore to shore, and we
have known it of old for a most enticing and tricksy customer. It gently
wooes and seduces you; it starts you out with all manner of zephyrs,
until you get into the very middle, two miles from land on either side,
