" You do nothing but harm with your cold calculations and your bitter jests." Hedwig was silent. 
"Tell me," he continued presently, "if I speak 
soberly, by the card as it were, will you listen to 
me?" 
" Oh, I have said that I will listen to you I " cried 
Hedwig, losing patience. 
" Hedwig von Lira, I hereby offer you my fortune, 
my name, and myself. I ask you to marry me of 
your own good-will and pleasure." Hedwig once 
more raised her brows. 
" Baron Benoni, I will not marry you, for your 
fortune, your name, nor yourself, nor for any other 
consideration under heaven. And I will ask you not 
to address me by my Christian name." 
There was a long silence after this speech, and 
Benoni carefully lighted a second cigarette. Hedwig 
would have risen and entered the house, but she felt 
safer in the free air of the sunny court. As for Be 
noni, he had no intention of going. 
" I suppose you are aware, countess," he said at 
last, coldly eyeing her, " that your father has set his 
heart upon our union ? " 
" I am aware of it." 
 
" But you are not aware of the consequences of 
your refusal. I am your only chance of freedom. 
Take me, and you have the world at your feet. Re 
fuse me, and you will languish in this hideous place 
so long as your affectionate father pleases." 
" Do you know my father so little, sir," asked 
Hedwig very proudly, " as to suppose that his 
daughter will ever yield to force ? " 
" It is one thing to talk of not yielding, and it is 
quite another to bear prolonged suffering with constancy," returned Benoni coolly, as though he were 
discussing a general principle instead of expounding 
to a woman the fate she had to expect if she refused 
to .marry him. " I never knew any one who did not 
talk bravely of resisting torture until it was applied. 
Oh, you will be weak at the end, countess, believe 
me. You are weak now, and changed, though perhaps you would be better pleased if I did not notice 
it. Yes, I smile now, I laugh. I can afford to. 
You can be merry over me because I love you, but 
I can be merry at what you must suffer if you will 
not love me. Do not look so proud, countess. You 
know what follows pride, if the proverb lies not." 
During this insulting speech Hedwig had risen to 
her feet, and in the act to go she turned and looked 
at him in utter scorn. She could not comprehend 
the nature of a man who could so coldly threaten 
her. If ever any one of us can fathom Benoni's 
strange character, we may hope to understand that 
phase of it along with the rest. He seemed as 
indifferent to his own mistakes and follies as to the 
sufferings of others. 
 
"Sir," she said, "whatever may be the will of 
my father, I will not permit you to discuss it, still 
less to hold up his anger as a threat to scare me. 
You need not follow me." she added, as he rose. 
"I will follow you, whether you wish it or not, 
countess," he said fiercely; and as she fled across 
the court to the door he strode swiftly by her side, 
hissing his words into her ear. " I will follow you 
to tell you that I know more of you than you think, 
and I know how little right you have to be so proud. 
I know your lover. I know of your meetings, your 
comings and your goings " They reached the 
door, but Benoni barred the way with his long arm, 
and seemed about to lay a hand upon her wrist, so 
that she shrank back against the heavy doorpost, in 
an agony of horror and loathing and wounded pride. 
" I know Cardegna, and I knew the poor baroness, 
who killed herself because he basely abandoned her. 
Ah, you never heard the truth before ? I trust it is 
pleasant to you. As he left her, he has left you. 
He will never come back. I saw him in Paris three 
weeks ago. I could tell tales not fit for your ears. 
And for him you will die in this horrible place, 
unless you consent. For him you have thrown away 
everything, name, fame, and happiness, unless 
you will take all these from me. Oh, I know, you 
will cry out that it is untrue ; but my eyes are good, 
though you call me old ! For this treacherous boy, 
with his curly hair, you have lost the only thing that 
makes woman human, your reputation ! " 
Benoni laughed that horrid laugh of his, till the 
court rang again, as though there were devils in every 
corner and beneath every eave, and everywhere. 
 
People who are loud in their anger are sometimes 
dangerous, for it is genuine while it lasts. People 
whose anger is silent are generally either incapable 
of honest wrath or cowards. But there are some in 
the world whose passion shows itself in few words 
but strong ones, and proceeds instantly to action. 
Hedwig had stood back against the stone casing 
of the entrance, at first, overcome with the intensity 
of what she suffered. But as Benoni laughed she 
moved slowly forwards till she was close to him, 
and only his outstretched arm barred the doorway. 
