"I don't know," replied Miss Walker, dryly. 
" Women don't always understand each other." 
Sally's name suggested the housekeeper to Betty. 
" I don't want you to be offended with me, Harriet," 
she said hesitatingly, " if I ask you not to be familiar 
with Miss Trumbull. You have not had the experience 
with that type that I have had. You cannot give them 
an inch. If you treat them consistently as upper ser- 
vants when they are in your employ, and ignore them 
 
if they are not, they will keep their place and give you 
no annoyance ; but treat them with something more 
than common decency and they leap at once for 
equality." 
"Well you must remember that I was not always 
so fine as I am now, and Miss Trumbull does not seem 
so much of an inferior to me as she does to you. To 
tell you the truth, it does me good to come down off 
my high horse occasionally. I reckon I'll get over 
that; sometimes I want to so hard I could step on 
everybody that is common and second-class. I don't 
deny I 'm as ambitious as I reckon I 've got a right to 
be, but old habits are strong, and I 'm lazy, and it's 
lonesome up here. Your mother and Major Carter 
talk from morning till night about the South before the 
War. Mr. Emory and Sally are always together, and 
talk so much about things I don't understand that I 
feel in the way. Miss Trumbull knows the private 
affairs of most every one in her village, and amuses 
me with her gossip ; that is all." 
Betty pricked up her ears at one of Harriet's revela- 
tion, and let the painful fact of her hospitality for vulgar gossip pass unnoticed. 
" Do you mean," she asked, " do you think that 
Mr. Emory is beginning to care for Sally? " 
" One can never be sure. I am certain he likes and 
admires her." 
" Oh, yes, he always has done that. But I wish he 
would fall in love with her. I am nearly sure that she 
more than likes him." 
" I am quite sure," said Harriet, dryly. "She would 
marry him about as quickly as/he asked her. I knew 
that the first time I saw them together." 
 
"And she certainly would make him happy," said 
Betty, thinking aloud. " She is so bright and amusing 
and cheerful. She is the only person I know who can 
always make him laugh, and the more he laughs the 
better it is for him, poor old chap ! And I think he 
is too old now for the nonsense of ruining his happiness because a woman has more money Harriet ! " 
Harriet had one of those mouths that look small in 
repose, but widen surprisingly with laughter. Betty, 
who had only seen her smile slightly at rare intervals, 
happened to glance up. Harriet's mouth had stretched 
itself into a grin revealing nearly every tooth in her 
head. And it was the fatuous grin of the negro, and 
again Betty saw her black. She gasped and covered 
her face with her hands. 
"Oh, never do that again," she said sharply. 
" Never laugh again as long as you live. Oh, poor 
girl ! poor girl ! " 
" I won't ask you what you mean," said Harriet, hur- 
riedly. "I reckon I can guess. Thank you for one 
more kindness." 
And the horror of that grin remained so long with 
Betty that it was some time before she thought to won- 
der what had caused it. 
BETTY amused herself for the next day or two observ- 
ing Jack Emory and Sally Carter. They unquestionably 
enjoyed each other's society, and Sally at times looked 
almost pretty again. But at the end of the second 
day Miss Madison shook her head. 
 
" He is not in love," she thought. " It does not 
affect him in that way." And she felt more satisfaction 
in her discovery than she would have anticipated. A 
woman would have a man go through life with only a 
skull cap where his surrendered scalp had been. To 
grow another is an insult to her power and pains her 
vanity. 
It occurred to Betty that she was not the only observant person in the house. She seemed always stum- 
bling over Miss Trumbull, who did not appear to listen 
at doors but was usually as closely within ear-shot as 
she could get. It was idle to suppose that the woman 
had any malignant motive in that well-conducted house- 
hold, and she seemed to be good-natured and even 
kindly. Interest in other people's affairs was evidently, 
save vanity, her strongest passion. It was the natural 
result of an empty life and a common mind. But 
simple or not, it was objectionable. 
Her vanity, her mistress had cause to discover, was 
more so. On Wednesday morning Betty returned 
home from a long tramp, earlier than was her habit, 
and went to her room. Miss Trumbull was standing 
before the mirror trying on one of her hats. 
" That 's real becomin' to me," she drawled, as Miss 
Madison entered the room. "I always could wear 
a hat turned up on one side, and most of your colors 
would suit me." 
Betty controlled her temper, but the effort hurt her. 
She would have liked to pour her scorn all over the 
