Mrs. Van Dorn displayed excellent taste in selecting Helen's wardrobe.
It was simply pretty, fit for a girl in the ordinary walks of life. Her
measurements were left with madame, who, from time to time would send
her what was suitable and necessary.
She had been such a charming companion that Mrs. Van Dorn really hated
to give her up. If she were only two or three years older! Her
enthusiasms were so fresh and infectious, her health was so perfect, her
readiness, her pleasant temper, the pretty manner in which she took any
check or counsel, appealed curiously to the worn old heart still
hankering after something all its own, that should exhilarate and bring
her back to some of the freshness of youth. Two years. Well, there were
women who lived to ninety-six, or even a hundred. She would take good
care of herself and have this enjoyment in her later years.
Miss Gage took Helen to Westchester. It was a beautiful town with old
trees and old substantially-built houses. It was the county town also,
and twice a year presented quite a stirring aspect. The inhabitants were
refined and intelligent. Four different denominations had churches. A
lovely winding river ran on one side, full of suggestive nooks, dividing
it from a neighboring State. A smaller one ran nearly through the
center, crossed by several rustic bridges. Toward the east there was a
rather high bluff going up, a woody sort of crest, and on this stood
Aldred House, though it fronted on Elm Avenue. There were two terraces,
and two short flights of steps to reach it, and a great wide veranda
where a Virginia creeper and honeysuckle were burnishing their leaves in
the sun.
"Oh," sighed Helen with a long indrawn breath and luminous eyes, "tell
Mrs. Van Dorn that I shall be perfectly happy here, I know I shall."
And Mrs. Van Dorn wondered when the message was repeated. Youth was
easily caught by newness. What if Helen should be weaned away by other
friends? And there were girls born students who could not be satisfied
unless with some profession or business. What if she should be one of
these? The jealous old heart wanted all of her, all of the Babylon she
meant to build with its pleasant gardens and fascinating nooks of
variety. Well, Helen had cared for her old uncle, and she, Mrs. Van Dorn
would be a hundred times better to her.
The reception room was cozy, with one open bookcase, some pictures, a
great oriental jar full of trailing clematis and blazing sumac branches.
Mrs. Aldred came in, a rather tall, sweet-faced woman with a voice that
won at once, and a manner that had a welcome in it.
"I am very glad to have you come, and glad that I could oblige Mrs. Van
Dorn in any way. I hope you will soon feel at home," she exclaimed.
"Oh, it is so lovely everywhere! And the journey for the last mile or
two where you caught glimpses of the river, and in one place a great
pile of rocks big enough to shelter some of the old Norse gods was
enchanting. We have only one poor little river at home and there is but
one really beautiful place in it. And I am sure I shall like to live
here."
An enthusiastic girl, thought Mrs. Aldred. A fine, intelligent face
also, perhaps too romantic.
Miss Gage gave her few charges and said good-by, as she was to catch a
return train. It was early afternoon. Several of the scholars had
arrived and were settling their rooms. Then Helen's trunk came up. Mrs.
Aldred had been taking her through the long parlor on the opposite side
of the hall, and the dining room, where instead of one long table,
several small ones were cozily arranged. Back of this, toward the bluff,
was the schoolroom, and the study room, with several small ones for
recitations.
"I wonder if you would like best to be alone in a room or have a
companion?" questioned Mrs. Aldred. "I sometimes give girls a choice."
"I like folks," returned Helen, frankly. "That is----" pausing rather
confusedly.
"If they are agreeable?"
"Yes," said Helen, smiling.
"I will give you a room where you may have a companion if you like.
Some girls get homesick at first if they are alone."
"Oh, I shall not be homesick," she exclaimed with gay assurance.
Up the broad staircase they trooped, though there were two smaller ones
convenient to many of the rooms. There was a long corridor with small
rooms opening on the one side, and a cross hall leading to those in
front. In the double rooms were screens arranged to insure as much
privacy as one cared for. A white bed, a sort of closet with
book-shelves above, a bureau and dressing table, a wardrobe built in
the wall, a wicker arm chair and a rocking chair, with a large hassock
and a small one.
"Now," said Mrs. Aldred, "when your trunk comes you will empty it and
put your clothes away, and the servant will take it to the trunk room."
It came up in a few moments. Then Mrs. Aldred left her with some kindly
wishes.
Helen went to the window. It overlooked the southwest. There were tops
of trees, then a depression that was the river, and over beyond fields
golden in the sunshine,--that was the stubble of grain, others a dull
brown with here and there a bit of green weed pushing up sturdily since
the hay had been cut, young winter wheat over beyond, houses, farms,
rising ground again and woodlands. Far over to the westward were the
grand hills of another State. It was so much more beautiful than all the
Hopes with their levels.
This wonderful thing had happened to her. Hardly a year, indeed it was
at the beginning of the present year that Mr. Warfield had gone at her
rather fiercely, she thought, and told her there was no use of dawdling
and that she must pass for the High School.
"But I can't go to the High School," she had protested. That looked
impossible.
"No matter, you can pass," he had said so sternly that she wondered why
people must be cross when they were so much nicer in a pleasant mood.
Then Aunt Jane began to talk of next year when she should be through
school. She roused suddenly, she "took hold" as people say and found
that life meant something. Perhaps it was the growth out of childhood,
the development of mind; country children were not analytical. She began
to wonder about things, to ask questions that pleased Mr. Warfield and
tormented Aunt Jane, and all these events, more than had come in the
