Stradella had been delivered to his Venetian admirer bound hand and foot
and gagged, according to contract, so that Gambardella might apply his
mind to other matters.
But Trombin was not thinking only of the lady. The humour of the whole
affair struck him as delightful in the extreme, and he smiled to
himself, showing his sharp white teeth, when he thought of the tricks
that had been played on the Legate and the Ursuline nuns in less than
twenty-four hours. It was most especially amusing to think how that
cut-throat Gambardella, the weight of whose sins would have staggered
the Grand Penitentiary himself, had played Old Morality to the Mother
Superior, and had actually been the one to suggest a proper marriage as
the only virtuous solution of the difficulty.
There was not much time for such reflections, however, for the distance
to the inn was short, and when they reached it the young couple's
travelling-carriage was ready and the horses were saddled for the Bravi,
who were already dressed for riding. So there was nothing to hinder them
all from starting at once, since the score was already paid.
In less than half an hour after they had left the church, the whole
party was well outside the city gates and on the road to Rome.
CHAPTER XIII
A month had passed since Stradella and Ortensia had fled from Venice,
and after their adventure in Ferrara no hand had been raised against
them on their way to Rome. They had at first lodged in the ancient
hostelry at the Sign of the Bear, which still stands, and is not only
called the Orso inn as it was hundreds of years ago, but has given its
name to the street in which it is situated. It stands at the entrance to
that part of the city which was in old times dominated by the Orsini,
who undoubtedly got their name from some ancient stone or marble bear
that was built into the outer wall of their stronghold; but whether the
old inn was called after the image itself, or after the Orsini badge, no
one can tell.
Stradella and his wife lodged for a few days in that large upper room,
of which the beautiful loggia may still be seen from the new embankment;
but in those days, and much later, another row of tall houses stood on
the opposite side of the street, between the Orso and the river, making
an unbroken line as far as the Nona tower at the Bridge of Sant' Angelo,
and completely cutting off the view. It was the best of the Roman inns,
even when Rome had more hostelries than any city in Europe. Philippe de
Commines lodged there, and Montaigne, and many another famous man who
visited Rome before and after Stradella's time.
It was there, in that upper chamber, that the happy lovers first tasted
peace and rest after the trials and fatigues of their long journey; for
though they were man and wife it is but right to call them lovers, who
loved so truly till they died. It was there that they first learned to
know and understand each other, and to see why they had loved at first
sight and had fled together, wresting their happiness violently from an
adverse fate, when they had been alone scarcely one whole hour in all
during their brief acquaintance, and had kissed but twice.
For as they lived those first days together they found all they had
dreamed of, each in the other, and more too; and every fresh discovery
was a sweet new world, till many worlds made up the universe of their
new being that circled round love's sun in a firmament of joy. Love had
been great from the first, but now he grew to be all-powerful; there had
been hours when one or the other might have been persuaded to draw back
for some weighty reason, but no reason was strong enough to part them
now, not even the great last argument of death himself.
Surely, say you, the course of true love should have run smooth for
them, if ever. But know you not that the gods envy no small thing, nor
are angry at any humdrum happiness of common men? Know you not that the
god of war spares the coward and slays the brave? That in the race for
fortune Jove often trips the swiftest runners and lets the dull plodder
creep past the winning post alone? Know you not that whom the gods love
die young?
Ortensia and Stradella knew none of these things. He had grown famous
almost without an effort when scarcely more than a boy, and fame did not
desert him; and now that he had overcome obstacles and passed through
danger to be happy, he believed with child-like faith that such
happiness, once got, must be safe from outward harm, since it dwelt in
the heart, where no one could see it, to envy it as men envied worldly
glory. As for Ortensia, she neither thought of the future nor remembered
the near past, but lived only in each present dazzling day.
For a whole week they scarcely showed themselves, though Stradella's
return was known in Rome, and he received many invitations to rich men's
houses and requests for new compositions, and pressing offers of money
if he would but sing at mass or vespers in this basilica or that. If he
had needed gold, he could have had it for an hour's trouble, or for an
effort of a few minutes which was no effort at all. But for the moment
he had enough, and nothing should disturb the first days of his golden
honeymoon.
Trombin and Gambardella also lodged in the Orso, but in rooms far from
the happy pair, whom they chose to leave in peace for the present, never
asking to see them nor inviting them to their well-spread table. Indeed,
any such invitation might have come better from the other side now, for
never did a young runaway couple incur a heavier debt of gratitude than
Stradella and Ortensia owed to the two cut-throats who meant to murder
them, and were even then living under the same roof and on the best of
everything with money advanced to them for that very purpose.
But the time and the conditions were not now suited for the deed, which
might have been done easily enough a dozen times between Ferrara and
Rome. Moreover, the Bravi had not yet come to a definite agreement as to
the plan they should pursue, and Trombin's scheme, which seemed the
best, was far less easy to carry out than a common murder, and very much
more expensive; for it meant kidnapping both Stradella and his wife, and
taking them all the way back to Venice as close prisoners, without
exciting suspicion by the way, so that the inns at which they had all
stopped on their journey southwards would have to be scrupulously
avoided on their return.
There was no hurry, however, for they had not spent the two hundred
ducats advanced to them; or, to be accurate, they had played at the
French Ambassador's gambling-tables with a part of the money and had won
