 
that he experienced a shuddering sensation when 
he compared it with the scene in which he had so 
lately been a participant. 
''Thank God for such a mother!" he could not 
help ejaculating, as he read the last line of her let- 
ter. " Shall I ever cause her to shed a tear c JN'o 
—never !" 
" You went away too soon last night," said 
James Fielding to him the next morning. " We 
had some rare sport after you left, with one of the 
Professors. He guessed that all was not right, and 
came tapping at the door about eleven o''clock. 
AVe let him in, and then mystified him until he 
was glad to sneak off, half begging our pardons for 
having suspected us of any thing wrong. Ha! ha! 
It was capital fun." 
" I think I staid quite long enough," Clarence 
replied, gravely. 
" Why so ?" 
" I don't believe any of us were doing right." 
'- Indeed ! Why not ?" 
''We were doing what we knew would not be 
sanctioned by the Faculty." 
" I suppose we were. But what of that ? 
" A good deal, I should think. It is wrong to 
violate any of the rules and regulations of the in- 
stitution." 
 
" Humph ! If that is wrong, a good many sing 
are commiited with the passage of every twenty- 
four hours. You are more nice than wise, Cla- 
rence. A little fun is pleasant at all times. I go 
in for it myself." 
" Innocent fun is well enough. But where it is 
sought in vicious courses, it is imminently danger- 
ous. At the last, it biteth like a serpent and 
siingeth like an adder. When did you hear from 
home, James ?" 
" From home ? Oh, I'm sure I don't remember. 
I was going to say I don't hear from there at all ; 
but I have had two letters from mother, filling half 
a page each." 
''' Wlien did you write ?" 
" About a month ago, to say I wanted some 
pocket money." 
" I heard from home last night." 
" Ah ! Got a remittance, I suppose." 
" Of love from my mother, more precious than 
gold or silver," replied Clarence with some feeling. 
" Shq says that your mother complains that you do 
not write to her." 
'' Say to your mother, if you please, that I com- 
plain that my mother doesn't write to me. So tlie 
account will stand balanced. I never could write 
a letter, except to say I wanted something. And 
 
I suppose mother is like me. We will excuse one 
another." 
James spoke with a levity that pained Clarence. 
He wanted to admonish him, but felt that, in his 
present mood, it would be useless. 
During the first year that Clarence was at col- 
lege, the principles he had been taught by his 
mother became rules of action with him. He set 
his face resolutely against every thing that he con- 
sidered wrong. James Fielding, on the contrary, was 
among the most thoughtless young men in the in- 
stitution. His wishes and passions were his rulers. 
One day he came to Clarence and said —  
"There is to be some sport in about a week." 
" Is there ? What will it be like ?" 
 ' We don't intend going to morning prayers until 
seven o'clock." 
" But the regulations say six." 
'" I know. Six is too early, and we are going to 
have it at seven." 
"You did not come here to make laws, but to 
observe them," gravely replied Clarence. 
'' We came here to be instructed, not to be 
dragged out of bed to morning prayers before day 
— not to be bamboozled about by arbitrary Pro- 
fessors. It is a public institution, and the Faculty 
have no right to make oppressive laws." 
 
" Jf any one dislikes these laws, let hirn go 
home. It is the only honest course. But what 
else is intended .'"' 
" We intend " 
'''We? Have you really joined in this con- 
spiracy against law and order ." 
" Certainly I have. With the exception of about 
twenty, every student is pledged to go through 
with tiie matter when it is once started. My duty 
is to bring you over. We wish to rise as one 
man." 
" After you have refused to attend morning 
prayers, what do you propose doing ?"" 
" if tlie hour is changed to seven, all well and 
good. Nothing more will be done. But if not, 
our next course will be to attend regularly at six 
for a week, and scrape the chaplain down." 
"What!" 
" Completely drown his voice by scraping our 
feet." 
" You certainly are beside yourself, James. I 
cannot believe that you would join in doing so 
wrong a deed. In this you would not only insult 
the institution, but Heaven." 
" Oh no. Heaven doesn't have much to do with 
the six o'clock prayers of college students." 
" You speak with an unbecoming levity, James." 
 
'" Do I indeed ?" The lip of the boy slightly 
curled. 
"' What else is to be done ?" asked Clarence, not 
noticing the manner of his companion. 
" All sorts of things. Every regulation of the 
college is to be broken, unless our wishes are com- 
plied with. Wait a little, and you will see fun. 
But let me tell you — it is determined that every 
student who does not join us, shall be dipped in 
the horse-pond. You had better consent. I should 
hate to see any thing done to you." 
The eyes of Clarence instantly flashed, and his 
cheeks grew red as crimson. 
" I would not consent if my life were taken," said 
the high-spirited boy. " But never fear. There is 
no one here that dare lay his hands upon me." 
" Don't trust to that. There are those here who 
dare lay their hands upon any body, and who will 
do it too. Come, then, say you will join us." 
' No — never." 
" You will be sorry when it is too late." 
" I have no fears." 
On the next day, the matter was publicly broach- 
ed during the college recess, when the students 
were alone. 
" I move," said one, " that we begin on the 
morning after to-morrow." 
 
" Second the motion," came from three or four 
voices. 
"All who are in favor, hold up your hands." 
More than a hundred hands were thrown into 
the air. 
" All who are opposed will now hold up their 
hands." 
A deep silence followed. Then a single hand 
was raised — then Another, and another, until ten 
hands were seen above the heads of the crowd. — 
It was the hand of Clarence that first went up. 
A murmur of discontent ran through the body 
of students, which deepened into execrations and 
threats. Half a dozen who were nearest Clarence 
gathered round him, with earnest and half angry 
remonstrances. His only reply was — 
" It is wrong, and I cannot join you." 
" The regulation is oppressive," it was argued. 
" Then leave the institution ; but do not violate 
ws. 
" That is easily said. But others have a word 
in that as well as ourselves. All here are not ex- 
actly free to do as they please." 
" It is better to endure what seems oppressive, 
than to do wrong." 
" We don't mean to do wrong I" said several 
voices, 
" You threaten to dip any one in the horse-pond 
who does not join you." 
Several of the students looked confused, but one 
or two cried out — 
" Certainly we do ; and what is more, our threats 
shall be executed." 
"Right or wrong?" retorted Clarence, with a 
meaning look and voice, and turning on his heel, 
walked away with a firm step. 
His manner and words had their effect. He had 
said but little, but that little caused several who 
heard him to think more soberly. In nearly every 
little knot of students that was drawn together in 
the various rooms that night, was one or more who 
had become lukewarm. A re-consideration of the 
matter was moved on the next day, and the ques- 
tion again taken. Instead of a dozen hands raised 
in the negative, as on the day before, there were 
now over fifty. From that time little more was 
heard upon the subject. The revolt never took 
place. 
So much for the influence of a single well-order- 
ed, honest mind. Had the natural disposition of 
Clarence been unchecked, and had no counter- 
balancing principles been stored up in his mind, he 
would have been as eager for the proposed rebel- 
lion as the most thoughtless. What evil results 
might have followed cannot be told. There were 
those in the institution who did not love him much 
after this ; but none who did not feel for him an 
involuntary respect. 
CHAPTER XI. 
