" I will forewarn you," said he, — " that Mr. John has made 
up his mind he will do nothing more for you. So if you 
have anything to ask, it must lie still, — unless you will begin 
again." 
Ellen drew back. He looked grave, but she saw Alice 
smiling. 
" But what shall I do ?" said she, a little perplexed and half 
laughing. " What do you mean Mr. John ? What does he 
mean Alice?" 
" You could speak without a * Mr.' to me this morning 
when you were in trouble." 
" Oh !" said Ellen laughing, — " I forgot myself then." 
" Have the goodness to forget yourself permanently for the 
future." 
" Was that man hurt this morning, John ?" said his sister. 
" What man ?" 
" That man you delivered Ellen from." 
" Hurt ? no — nothing material ; I did not wish to hurt him. 
He richly deserved punishment, but it was not for me to 
give it." 
"He was in no hurry to get up," said Ellen. 
" I do not think he ventured upon that till we were well 
out of the way. He lifted his head and looked after us as 
we rode off." 
" But I wanted to ask something," said Ellen, — " ! what 
is the reason the moon looks so much larger when she first 
gets up than she does afterwards ?" 
" Whom are you asking ?" 
You." 
" And who is you ? Here are two people in the moonlight." 
" Mr. John Humpheys, — Alice's brother, and that Thomas 
calls * the young master,' " said Ellen laughing. 
" You are more shy of taking a leap than your little horse 
is," said John smiling, — " but i shall bring you up to it yet. 
What is the cause of the sudden enlargement of my thumb ?" 
He had drawn a small magnifying glass from his pocket 
and held it between his hand and Ellen, 
"Why it is not enlarged," said Ellen, — "it is only magnified." 
" What do you mean by that ?" 
" Why, the glass makes it look larger." 
" Do you know how, or why ?" 
" No." 
He put up the glass again. 
" But what do you mean by that ?" said Ellen ; — " there is 
no magnifying glass between us and the moon to make her 
look larger." 
" You are sure of that ?" 
" Why yes !" said Ellen ; — " I am perfectly sure ; there is 
nothing in the world. There she is, right up there, looking 
straight down upon us, and there is nothing between." 
" What is it that keeps up that pleasant fluttering of leaves 
in the wood ?" 
" Why, the wind." 
" And what is the wind ?" 
" It is air — air moving, I suppose." 
" Exactly. Then there is something between us and the 
moon." 
 " The air ! But, Mr. John, one can see quite clearly 
through the air; it doesn't make things look larger or 
smaller." 
" How far do you suppose the air reaches from us towards 
the moon ?" 
" Why, all the way, don't it ?" 
" No — only about forty miles. If it reached all the way 
there would indeed be no magnifying glass in the case." 
"But how is it?" said Ellen. " I don't understand." 
"I cannot tell you to-night, Ellie. There is a long lad- 
der of knowledge to go up before we can get to the moon, 
but we will begin to mount to-morrow, if nothing happens. 
Alice, you have that little book of Conversations on Natural Philosophy, which you and I used to delight ourselves 
with in old time ?" 
" Safe and sound in the book-case," said Alice. " I have 
thought of giving it to Ellen before, but she has been busy 
enough with what she had already." 
" i have done Rollin now, though," said Ellen ; — " that is 
lucky. I am ready for the moon," 
'i'his new study was begun the next day, and Ellen took 
great delight in it. She would have run on too fast in her 
eagerness but for the steady hand of her teacher ; he obliged 
her to be very thorough. This was only one of her items of 
business. The weeks of John's stay were as usual not merely 
weeks of constant and varied delight, but of constant and swift 
improvement too. 
A good deal of time was given to the riding-lessons. John 
busied himself one morning in preparing a bar for her on the 
lawn ; so placed that it might fall if the horse's heels touched 
it. Here Ellen learned to take first standing, and then run- 
ning, leaps. She was afraid at first, but habit wore that off ; 
and the bar was raised higher and higher, till Margery de- 
clared she " couldn't stand and look at her going over it." 
Then John made her ride without the stirrup, and with her 
hands behind her, while he, holding the horse by a long halter, made him go round in a circle, slowly at first, and afterwards trotting and cantering, till Ellen felt almost as secure 
on his back as in a chair. It took a good many lessons how- 
ever to bring her to this, and she trembled very much at the 
beginning. Her teacher was careful and gentle, but determined ; and whatever he said she did, tremble or no tremble ; 
and in general loved her riding lessons dearly. 
Drawing too went on finely. He began to let her draw 
things from nature ; and many a pleasant morning the three 
went out together with pencils and books and work, and spent 
hours in the open air. They would fir d a pretty point of 
view, or a nice shady place where the breeze came, and where 
there was some good old rock with a tree beside it, or a 
piece of fence, or the house or barn in the distance, for Ellen 
to sketch; and while she drew and Alice worked, John read 
aloud to them. Sometimes he took a pencil too, and Alice 
read ; and often, often, pencils, books and work were all laid 
down ; and talk, — lively, serious, earnest, always delightful, 
— took the place of them. When Ellen could not understand 
the words, at least she could read the faces ; and that was a 
study she was never weary of. At home there were other 
studies and much reading ; many tea drinkings on the lawn, 
and even breakfastings, which she thought uploasanter 
still. 
As soon as it was decided that Mr. Van Brunt's leg was 
doino- well, and in a fair way to be sound again, Ellen went to 
see him ; and after that rarely let two days pass without going 
again. John and Alice used to ride with her so far, and 
taking a turn beyond while she made her visit, call for her on 
their way back. She had a strong motive for going in the 
pleasure her presence always gave, both to Mr. Van Brunt 
and his mother. Sam Larkens had been to Thirlwall and 
seen Mrs. Forbes, and from him they had heard the story of 
her riding up and down the town in search of the doctor ; 
neither of them could forget it. Mrs. Van Brunt poured out 
her affection in all sorts of expressions whenever she had 
Ellen's ear ; her son was not a man of many words ; but Ellen 
knew his face and manner well enough without them, and read 
there whenever she went into his room what gave her great 
pleasure. 
"How do you do, Mr. Van Brunt?" she said on one of 
these occasions. 
" O I'm getting along, I s'pose," said he ; — "getting along 
as well as a man can that's lying on his back from morning 
to night ; — prostrated, as 'Squire Dennison said his corn was 
t'other day." 
" It is very tiresome, isn't it ?" said Ellen. 
" It's the tiresomest work that ever was, for a man that has 
two arras to be adoing nothing, day after day. And what 
bothers me is the wheat in that ten-acre lot, that ought to be 
prostrated too, and aint, nor aint like to be, as I know, imless 
the rain comes and does it. Sam and Johnny 'll make no 
head- way at all with it — I can tell as well as if I see 'em." 
" But Sam is good, isn't he ?" said Ellen. 
" Sam's as good a boy as ever was ; but then Johnny Low
is mischievous, you see, and he gets Sam out of his tracks 
once in a while. I never see a finer growth of wheat. I had 
a sight rather cut and harvest the hull of it t ban to lie here 
and think of it getting spoiled. I'm a'most out o' conceit o 
trap-doors, Ellen," 
Ellen could not help smiling. 
" What can I do for you, Mr. Van Brunt ?" 
" There aint nothing," said he ; — " I wish there was. How
are you coming along at home ?" 
" I don't know," said Ellen ; — " I am not there just now, 
you know ; I am staying up with Miss Alice again.' 
" ay ! while her brother's at home. He's a splendid man, 
that young Mr. Humphreys, aint he?" 
"I knew that a great while ago," said, Ellen, the bright 
color of pleasure overspreading her face. 
" Well, I didn't, you see, till the other day, when he came 
here, very kindly, to see how I was getting on. I wish some- 
thing would bring him again. I never heerd a man talk I 
liked to hear so much. 
Ellen secretly resolved something should bring him ; and 
went on with a purpose she had had for some time in her mind. 
" Wouldn't it be pleasant, while you are lying there and can 
do nothing, — wouldn't you like to have me read something to 
you, Mr. Van Brunt? I should like to, very much." 
"It's just like you," said he gratefully, — "to think of 
that ; but I wouldn't have you be bothered with it." 
" It wouldn't indeed. I should like it very much." 
" W^ell, if you've a mind," said he ; — " I can't say but it 
would be a kind o' comfort to keep that grain out o' my head 
a while. Seems to me I have cut and housed it all three 
times over already. Read just whatever you have a mind 
to. If you was to go over a last year's almanac, it would be 
as good as a fiddle to me." 
" I'll do better for you than that, Mr. Van Brunt," said 
Ellen, laughing in high glee at having gained her point. — 
She had secretly brought her Pilgrim's Progress with her, and 
now with marvelous satisfaction drew it forth. 
" I ha'n't been as much of a reader as I had ought to," 
said Mr. Van Brunt, as she opened the book and turned to 
the first page ; — " but however, I understand my business 
pretty well ; and a man can't be everything to once. Now 
'et's hear what you've got there." 
With a throbbing heart, Ellen began ; and read, notes and 
all, till the sound of tramping hoofs and Alice's voice made 
her break off. It encouraged and delighted her to see that 
Mr. Van Brunt's attention was perfectly fixed. He lay still, 
without moving his eyes from her face, till she stopped ; then 
thanking her he declared that was a "first-rate book," and he 
" should like mainly to hear the hull on it." 
From that time Ellen was diligent in her attendance on 
him. That she might have more time for reading than the 
old plan gave her, she set off by herself alone some time 
before the others, of course riding home with them. It cost 
her a little sometimes, to forego so much of their company ; 
but she never saw the look of grateful pleasure with which 
she was welcomed without ceasing to regret her self-denial. 
