presume they are. I will certainly call upon him and secure you the
place, if possible. Tell your mother that if in this or in any other
way I can serve either you or her, I will do it with sincere pleasure.
Please take to her my kind regards."

Lucy warmly expressed her thanks. On rising to depart, she said, "When
shall I call in, Mr. Burgess, to hear the result of your interview with
Mr. C----?"

"You needn't give yourself the trouble of calling at all, Miss
Ellison," replied Mr. Burgess. "The moment I have seen the person of
whom we were speaking, I will either call upon your mother or send her
a note."

"You are very kind," dropped almost involuntarily from Lucy's lips, as,
with a graceful inclination of her body, she drew her veil over her
face, and, turning from the merchant, walked quickly away.

When Paul went home at dinner-time, he said to his wife, "I am sure you
couldn't guess who I had for a visitor this morning."

"Then of course it would be useless for me to try," replied the wife,
smiling. "Who was it?"

"You know the Ellisons?"

"Yes."

"Mr. Ellison, you remember, died about a year ago."

"Yes."

"At the time of his death it was rumoured that his estate was involved,
but never having had any business transactions with him, I had no
occasion to investigate the matter, and did not really know what had
been the result of its settlement. This morning I was greatly surprised
to receive a visit from Lucy Ellison, who had grown up into a beautiful
young woman."

"Indeed!" ejaculated the wife. "And what did she want?"

"She came at her mother's request to solicit my influence with Mr.
C----, who is in want of a French teacher. She said that their
circumstances were very much changed since her father's death and that
it had become necessary for her to do something as a means of
supporting the family. The salary given by Mr. C---- to his French
teacher is five hundred dollars. I really pitied the young thing from
my heart. Think of our Mary, in two or three years from this, when, if
ever, a cloudless sky should bend over her, going to some old friend of
her father's, and almost tearfully soliciting him to beg for her, of
another, the privilege of toiling for bread. It made my heart ache."

"She must be very young," remarked Mrs. Burgess.

"Not over eighteen or nineteen."

"Poor thing! What a sad, sad change she must feel it to be! But did you
call upon Mr. C----?"

A slight shade passed over the countenance of Paul.

"Not yet," he replied.

"Oh, you ought to have gone at once."

"I know. I was going as soon as Lucy left, but I thought I would attend
to a little business down town first, and go to Mr. C----'s immediately
on my return. When I came back, I thought I would look over the
newspaper a little; I wanted to see what had been said in Congress on
the tariff question, which is now the all-absorbing topic. I became so
much interested in the remarks of one of the members, that I forgot all
about Lucy Ellison until I was called off by a customer, who occupied
me until dinner-time. But I will certainly attend to it this afternoon."

"Do, by all means. There should not be a moment's delay, for Mr. C----
may supply himself with a teacher."

"Very true. If that were to happen through my neglect, I should never
forgive myself."

"Hadn't you better call as you go to the store? It will be just in your
way."

"So it will. Yes, I will call and put the matter in train at once,"
replied the husband.

With this good intention in his mind, Paul left his dwelling after
dinner. He had only gone a couple of squares, however, before it
occurred to him that as Mr. C---- had only one session of his school,
which let out at two or half-past two, he didn't know which, he of
course did not dine before three o'clock, and as it was then just a
quarter past three, it would not do to call upon him then; so he kept
on to his store, fixing in his mind four o'clock as the hour at which
he would call. Four o'clock found Paul deeply buried in a long series
of calculations that were not completed for some time afterwards. On
leaving his desk, he sat leisurely down in an arm-chair for the purpose
of thinking about business. He had not thought long, before the image
of Lucy Ellison came up before his mind. He drew out his watch.

"Nearly half-past four, I declare! I'm afraid Mr. C---- is out now; but
as it is so late, I will defer calling until I go home; it is just in
my way. If I see him, I can drop in upon Mrs. Ellison after tea."

On his way home, Paul fell in with a friend whose conversation was very
agreeable. He did not forget Lucy, but he thought a visit to Mr. C----
would accomplish just as much after supper as before. So the call was
deferred without a twinge of conscience.

The first words of Mrs. Burgess, on her husband's entrance, were,
"Well, dear, what did Mr. C---- say?"

"I haven't been able to see him yet, but I am going round after
supper," Paul replied, quickly.

"Indeed! I am sorry. Did you call?"

"No; it occurred to me that C---- dined at three o'clock, so I put it
off until four."

"And didn't go then?"

"No; I was going to"--

"Yes, that is just like you, Paul!" spoke up his wife with some spirit,
for she felt really provoked with her husband; "you are always going
to do!"

"There, there," returned Paul, "don't say a word more. A few hours, one
way or the other, can make no great difference. I will go round after
tea and have the matter settled. I shall be much more likely to find
C---- in a state to talk about the matter than I would through the day."

As soon as tea was over, urged on by his wife, Paul put on his hat and
started for the residence of Mr. C----. Unfortunately, that gentleman
had gone out, and Paul turned away from his door much disappointed.

"I will call the first thing in the morning," he consoled himself by
saying. "I will be sure to find him in then."

I am sorry to say that Paul was just going to do what he had promised
Lucy he would do immediately, at least half-a-dozen times on the next
day, but still failed in accomplishing his intended visit to Mr. C----.
Mrs. Burgess scolded vigorously every time he came home, and he joined
her in condemning himself, but still the thing had not been done when
Paul laid his head that night rather uneasily upon his pillow.

When Lucy returned and related to her mother how kindly Mr. Burgess had
received her, promising to call upon Mr. C---- and secure the
situation, if possible, the widow's heart felt warm with a grateful
emotion. Light broke in upon her mind, that had been for a long time
under a cloud.

"He was always a kind-hearted man," she said, "and ever ready to do a
good deed. If he should be so fortunate as to obtain this place for
you, we shall do very well; if not, heaven only knows what is to become
of us."

"Do not give way to desponding thoughts, mother," returned Lucy; "all
will yet be well. The vacancy has just occurred, and mine, I feel sure,
will be the first application. Mr. Burgess's interest with Mr. C----,
if he can be satisfied of my qualifications, must secure me the place."

"We ought to hear from him to-day," said Mrs. Ellison.

"Yes, I should think so. Mr. Burgess, of course, understands the
necessity that always exists in a case of this kind for immediate
application."

"Oh, yes, he'll do it all right. I feel perfectly willing to trust the
matter in his hands."

As the reader has very naturally inferred, the circumstances of Mrs.
Ellison were of rather a pressing nature. Her family consisted of three
children, of whom Lucy was the eldest. Up to the time of her husband's
death, she had been surrounded with every comfort she could desire; but
Mr. Ellison's estate proving bankrupt, his family were left with but a
small, and that a very uncertain income. Upon this, by the practice of
great economy, they had managed to live. The final settlement of the
estate took away this resource, and the widow found herself with only a
small sum of money in hand, and all income cut off. This had occurred
about a month before the period of Lucy's introduction to the reader.
During this time, their gradually diminishing store, and the anxiety
they felt in regard to the future, destroyed all the remains of former
pride or regard for appearances, and made both Lucy and her mother
willing to do any thing that would yield them an income, provided it
were honourable. Nothing offered until nearly all their money was
exhausted, and the minds of the mother and eldest daughter were in a
state of great uncertainty and distress. Just at this darkest hour,
intelligence of the vacancy in Mr. C----'s school reached their ears.

Such being their circumstances, it may well be supposed that Lucy and
her mother felt deeply anxious to hear from Mr. Burgess, and counted
not only the hours as they passed, but the minutes that made up the
hours. Neither of them remarked on the fact that the day had nearly
come to its close without any communication having been received,
although both had expected to have heard much earlier from Mr. Burgess.
As the twilight began to fall, its gloom making their hearts feel
sadder, Mrs. Ellison said, "Don't you think we ought to have heard from
Mr. Burgess by this time, Lucy?"

