pride of consistency prevented his recalling it.
From that time old Mr. Lofton broke down rapidly. In six months he
seemed to have added ten years to his life. During that period no
news had come from Mark; who was not only angry with both his father
and grandfather, but felt that in doing what he had done, he had
offended them beyond the hope of forgiveness. He, therefore, having
taken a rash step, moved on in the way he had chosen, in a spirit of
recklessness and defiance. The ties of blood which had bound him to
his home were broken; the world was all before him, and he must make
his way in it alone. The life of a common sailor in a government
ship he found to be something different from what he had imagined,
when, acting under a momentary excitement, he was so mad as to
enlist in the service. Unused to work or ready obedience, he soon
discovered that his life was to be one not only of bodily toil,
pushed sometimes to the extreme of fatigue, but one of the most
perfect subordination to the will of others, under pain of corporeal
punishment. The first insolent word of authority passed to him by a
new fledged midshipman, his junior by at least three years, stung
him so deeply that it was only by a most violent effort that he
could master the impulse that prompted him to seize and throw him
overboard. He did not regret this successful effort at self-control,
when, a few hours afterwards, he was compelled to witness the
punishment of the cat inflicted on a sailor for the offence of
insolence to an officer. The sight of the poor man, writhing under
tile brutality of the lash, made an impression on him that nothing
could efface. It absorbed his mind and brought it into a healthier
state of reflection than it had yet been.
"I have placed myself in this position by a rash act," he said to
himself, as he turned, sick at heart, away from the painful and
disgusting sight. "And all rebellion against the authority around me
will but make plainer my own weakness. I have degraded myself; but
there is a lower degradation still, and that I must avoid. Drag me
to the gangway, and I am lost!"
Strict obedience and submission was from that time self-compelled on
the part of Mark Clifford. It was not without a strong effort,
however, that he kept down the fiery spirit within him. A word of
insolent command--and certain of the young midshipmen on board could
not speak to a senior even if he were old as their father, except in
a tone of insult--would send the blood boiling through his veins.
It was only by the narrowest chances that Mark escaped punishment
during the first six months of the cruise, which was in the Pacific.
If he succeeded in bridling his tongue, and restraining his hands
from violence he could not hide the indignant flash of his eyes, nor
school the muscles of his face into submission. They revealed the
wild spirit of rebellion that was in his heart. Intelligent
promptness in duty saved him.
This was seen by his superior officers, and it was so much in his
favor when complaints came from the petty tyrants of the ship who
sometimes shrunk from the fierce glance that in a moment of
struggling passion would be cast upon them. After a trying ordeal of
six months, he was favored by one of the officers who saw deeper
than the rest; and gathered from him a few hints as to his true
character. In pitying him, he made use of his influence to save him
from some of the worst consequences of his position.
Jenny Lawson was a changed girl after her brief meeting with Mark
Clifford. Before, she had been as light hearted and gay as a bird.
But, her voice was no longer heard pouring forth the sweet melodies
born of a happy heart. Much of her time she sought to be alone; and
when alone, she usually sat in a state of dreamy absent-mindedness.
As for her thoughts, they were most of the time on Clifford. His
hand had stirred the waters of affection in her gentle bosom; and
they knew no rest. Mr. Lofton frequently sent for her to come over
to the mansion house. He never spoke to her of Mark; nor did she
mention his name--though both thought of him whenever they were
together. The oftener Mr. Lofton saw Jenny, and the more he was with
her, the more did she remind him of his own lost child--his Jenny,
the mother of Mark--now in heaven. The incident of meeting with
young Clifford had helped to develop Jenny's character, and give it
a stronger type than otherwise would have been the case. Thus, she
became to Mr. Lofton companionable; and, ere a year had elapsed from
the time Mark went away, Mrs. Lee, having passed to her account, she
was taken into his house, and he had her constantly with him. As he
continued to fail, he leaned upon the affectionate girl more and
more heavily; and was never contented when she was away from him.
It would be difficult to represent clearly Jenny's state of feeling
during this period. A simple minded, innocent, true-hearted girl, in
whose bosom scarce beat a single selfish impulse, she found herself
suddenly approached by one in station far above her, in a way that
left her heart unguarded. He had stooped to her, and leaned upon
her, and she, obeying an impulse of her nature, had stood firmer to
support him as he leaned. Their tender, confiding, and delightful
intercourse, continued only for a brief season, and was then rudely
broken in upon; forced separation was followed by painful
consequences to the young man. When Jenny thought of how Mark had
been driven away on her account, she felt that in order to save him
from the evils that must be impending over him, she would devote
even her life in his service. But, what could she do? This desire to
serve him had also another origin. A deep feeling of love had been
awakened; and, though she felt it to be hopeless, she kept the flame
brightly burning.
Intense feelings produced more active thoughts, and the mind of
Jenny took a higher development. A constant association with Mr.
Lofton, who required her to read to him sometimes for hours each
day, filled her thoughts with higher ideas than any she had known,
and gradually widened the sphere of her intelligence. Thus she grew
more and more companionable to the old man, who, in turn, perceiving
that her mind was expanding, took pains to give it a right
direction, so far as external knowledge were concerned.
Soon after Mark went to sea, Jenny took pains to inform herself
accurately as to the position and duties of a common sailor on board
of a United States' vessel. She was more troubled about Mark after
this, for she understood how unfitted he was for the hard service he
entered upon so blindly.
One day, it was over a year from the time that Mark left Fairview,
Mr. Lofton sent for Jenny, and, on her coming into his room, handed
her a sealed letter, but without making any remark. On it was
superscribed her name; and it bore, besides, the word "Ship" in red
printed letters, "Valparaiso," also, was written upon it. Jenny
looked at the letter wonderingly, for a moment or two, and then,
with her heart throbbing wildly, left the room. On breaking the
seal, she found the letter to be from Mark. It was as follows:
"U. S. SHIP ----, Valparaiso, September 4, 18--,
"MY GENTLE FRIEND.--A year has passed since our brief meeting and
unhappy parting. I do not think you have forgotten me in that time;
you may be sure I have not forgotten you. The memory of one about
whom we conversed, alone would keep your image green in my thoughts.
Of the rash step I took you have no doubt heard. In anger at unjust
treatment both from my father and grandfather, I was weak enough to
enter the United States' service as a sailor. Having committed this
folly, and being unwilling to humble myself, and appeal to friends
who had wronged me for their interest to get me released, I have
looked the hardship and degradation before me in the face, and
sought to encounter it manfully. The ordeal has been thus far most
severe, and I have yet two years of trial before me. As I am where I
am by my own act, I will not complain, and yet, I have felt it hard
to be cut off from all the sympathy and kind interest of my
friends--to have no word from home--to feel that none cares for me.
I know that I have offended both my father and grandfather past
forgiveness, and my mind is made up to seek for no reconciliation
with them. I cannot stoop to that. I have too much of the blood of
the Loftons in my veins.
"But why write this to you, Jenny? You will hardly understand how
such feelings can govern any heart--your own is so gentle and
innocent in all of its impulses. I have other things to say to you!
Since our meeting I have never ceased to think of you! I need no
picture of your face, for I see it ever before me as distinctly as
if sketched by the painter's art. I sometimes ask myself
wonderingly, how it is that you, a simple country maiden, could, in
one or two brief meetings, have made so strong an impression upon
me? But, you bore my mother's name, and your face was like her dear
face. Moreover, the beauty of goodness was in your countenance, and
a sphere of innocence around you; and I had not strayed so far from
virtue's paths as to be insensible to these. Since we parted, Jenny,
you have seemed ever present with me, as an angel of peace and
protection. In the moment when passion was about overmastering me,
you stood by my side, and I seemed to hear your voice speaking to
the rising storm, and hushing all into calmness. When my feet have
been ready to step aside, you instantly approached and pointed to
the better way. Last night I had a dream, and it is because of that
dream that I now write to you. I have often felt like writing
before; now I write because I cannot help it. I am moved to do so by
something that I cannot resist.
"Yesterday I had a difficulty with an officer who has shewn a
disposition to domineer over me ever since the cruise commenced. He
complained to the commander, who has, in more than one instance
shown me kindness. The commander said that I must make certain
concessions to the officer, which I felt as humiliating; that good
discipline required this, and that unless I did so, he would be
reluctantly compelled to order me to the gangway. Thus far I had
avoided punishment by a strict obedience to duty. No lash had ever
touched me. That degradation I felt would be my ruin; and in fear of
the result I bore much, rather than give any petty officer the power
to have me punished. 'Let me sleep over it, Captain,' said I, so
earnestly, that my request was granted.
"Troubled dreams haunted me as I lay in my hammock that night. At
last I seemed to be afloat on the wide ocean, on a single plank,
tossing about with the hot sun shining fiercely upon me, and
monsters of the great deep gathering around, eager for their prey. I
was weak, faint, and despairing. In vain did my eyes sweep the
horizon, there was neither vessel nor land in sight. At length the
sun went down, and the darkness drew nearer and nearer. Then I could
see nothing but the stars shining above me. In this moment, when
hope seemed about leaving my heart forever, a light came suddenly
around me. On looking up I saw a boat approaching. In the bow stood
my mother, and you sat guiding the helm! She took my hand, and I
stepped into the boat with a thrill of joy at my deliverance. As I
did so, she kissed me, looked tenderly towards you, and faded from
my sight. Then I awoke.
"The effect of all this was to subdue my haughty spirit. As soon as
an opportunity offered, I made every desired concession for my
fault, and was forgiven. And now I am writing to you, I feel as if
there was something in that dream, Jenny. Ah! Shall I ever see your
face again? Heaven only knows!
"I send this letter to you in care of my grandfather. I know that he
will not retain it or seek to know its contents. Unless he should
ask after me, do not speak to him or any one of what I have written
to you. Farewell! Do not forget me in your prayers.
"MARK CLIFFORD."
The effect of this letter upon Jenny, was to interest her intensely.
The swell of emotion went deeper, and the activity of her mind took
a still higher character. It was plain to her, when she next came
into Mr. Lofton's presence, that his thoughts had been busy about
the letter she had received. But he asked her no questions, and,
faithful to the expressed wish of Mark, she made no reference to the
subject whatever.
One part of Jenny's service to the failing old man, had been to read
to him daily from the newspapers. This made her familiar with what
was passing in the world, gave her food for thought, and helped her
to develop and strengthen her mind. Often had she pored over the
papers for some news of Mark, but never having heard the name of the
