"I know but little, if any thing, about him," replied Claire; "but
this I do know, that unless Leonard Jasper be a different man from
what he was five years ago, fair dealing between man and man is a
virtue in a clerk that would in nowise recommend him to the position
of an associate in business. His partner must be shrewd, sharp,
and unscrupulous--a lover of money above every thing else--a man
determined to rise, no matter who is trampled down or destroyed in the
ascent."

"In business circles such men are by no means scarce."

"I am aware of it."

"And it is unhesitatingly affirmed by many whom I know, that, as the
world now is, no really honest man can trade successfully."

"That is more than I am ready to admit."

"The sharpest and shrewdest get on the best."

"Because it is easier to be sharp and shrewd than to be intelligent,
persevering, industrious, patient, and self-denying. The eagerness to
get rich fast is the bane of trade. I am quite ready to admit that no
man can get rich at railroad speed, and not violate the law of doing
as you would be done by."

"Doing as you would be done by! O dear!" said the friend; "you
certainly don't mean to bring that law down into the actual life of
the world?"

"It would be a happier world for all of us if this law were
universally obeyed."

"That may be. But, where all are selfish, how is it possible to act
from an unselfish principle?"

"Do you approve of stealing?" said Claire, with some abruptness.

"Of course not," was the half-indignant answer.

"I need not have asked the question, for I now remember to have seen
the fact noticed in one of our papers, that an unfaithful domestic in
your family had been handed over to the police."

"True. She was a thief. We found in her trunk a number of valuable
articles that she had stolen from us."

"And you did right. You owed this summary justice as well to the
purloiner as to the public. Now, there are many ways of stealing,
besides this direct mode. If I deprive you of your property with
design, I steal from you. Isn't that clear?"

"Certainly."

"And I am, to use plain words, a thief. Well, now take this easily
to be understood case. I have a lot of goods to sell, and you wish to
purchase them. In the trade I manage to get from you, through direct
misrepresentation, or in a tacit advantage of your ignorance, more
than the goods are really worth. Do I not cheat you?"

"Undoubtedly."

"And having purposely deprived you of a portion of your money, am I
not a thief?"

"In all that goes to make up the morality of the case, you are."

"The truth, unquestionably. Need I proceed further? By your own
admission, every businessman who takes undue advantage of another in
dealing, steals."

"Pretty close cutting, that, friend Claire. It wouldn't do to talk
that right out at all times and in all places."

"Why not?"

"I rather think it would make some people feel bad; and others regard
themselves as insulted."

"I can believe so. But we are only talking this between ourselves.
And now I come back to my rather abrupt question--Do you approve of
stealing? No, you say, as a matter of course. And yet, you but just
now were inclined to justify sharp dealing, on the ground that all
were sharpers--quoting the saying of some, that no honest man could
trade successfully in the present time. For the direct stealing of
a few articles of trifling value, you hand a poor, ignorant domestic
over to the police, yet feel no righteous indignation against the
better-taught man of business, who daily robs his customers in some
one form or another."

"You are too serious by far, Edward," returned his companion, forcing
a laugh. "Your mind has fallen into a morbid state. But you will get
over this one of these times. Good evening! Our ways part here. Good
evening!"

And the young man turned off abruptly.

"A morbid state," mused Claire to himself, as he continued on alone.
"So thousands would say. But is it so? Is honesty or dishonesty the
morbid state? How direct a question! How plain the answer! Honesty is
health--dishonesty the soul's sickness. To be honest, is to live in
obedience to social and divine laws; dishonesty is the violation of
these. Is it possible for a diseased body to give physical enjoyment?
No! Nor can a diseased mind give true mental enjoyment. To seek
happiness in the possession of wealth obtained through wrong to
the neighbour, is as fruitless as to seek bodily pleasure in those
practices which inevitably destroy the health. To me, this is
self-evident, and may God give me strength to live according to my
clear convictions!"

The very earnestness with which Claire mentally confirmed himself in
his honest convictions, and especially his upward looking for strength
in conscious weakness, showed that his mind was in temptation. He
had felt somewhat depressed during the day, in view of his external
relation to the world; and this feeling was increased by his
observation of the fact that Parker had been advanced to the position
of a partner to his old employer. It seemed like a reward for unfair
dealing, while honesty was suffered to remain poor. The young man's
enlightened reason--enlightened during five years' earnest search
after and practice of higher truths than govern in the world's
practice--strongly combated all the false arguments that were
presented to his mind, during this season of his overshadowing. The
combat was severe, and still continued on his arrival at home--causing
his mind to be in a measure depressed.




CHAPTER X.


The increase of Claire's family had caused him, some time before, to
remove from the two comfortable rooms in which were passed the first
pleasant years of his married life. He now occupied a small house in
a retired street, the rent of which, though moderate, drew pretty
heavily on his income. But he had managed, through the prudent
co-operation of his wife, not only to keep even with the world, but to
lay by a small sum of money.

Few homes, in the large city wherein dwelt this obscure family, were
so full of all the elements of happiness. If, sometimes, the spirit of
Claire was overshadowed by passing clouds--as would unavoidably happen
from his contact with the world, and his own variant states--the
evening's return to the bosom of his family, generally made all bright
again.

Little Fanny Elder, now ten years of age, had been steadily growing
into his affections from the first. It is questionable whether his
love for his own children was a purer passion. Older, by several
years, than Edith, she had been to him more companionable; and had
ever greeted his return at evening with warmer expressions of pleasure
than were manifested by Edith, or the two younger children who had
been added to the number of his household treasures.

On this evening, as Claire drew nearer and nearer to his home, and
his thoughts began to make pictures of the scene within, its light
and warmth penetrated his feelings, and when he opened, at length, the
door, he was himself again.

First to bound into his arms was Fanny Elder. What a beautiful,
fairy-like creature she was! How more than fulfilled the promise of
her early childhood! Next came Edith, now six years of age, side by
side with her brother Harry, a wild little rogue, and were only a few
seconds behind Fanny in throwing themselves upon their father; while
little baby Mary, as she sat on the carpet, fluttered her tiny arms,
and crowed out her joyous welcome.

What a merry romp they all had for the next two or three minutes.
When quiet came back again, baby was sitting on one knee, Harry on the
other, and Fanny leaning her face on the shoulder of her "father"--for
so she called him with the rest--while her glossy curls were resting
in sunny clusters upon his bosom. The memory of the child's former
home and parents seemed to have faded almost entirely. If the past
ever came back to her, like a dream, with its mingled web of sunshine
and tears, she never spoke of it. Fully had she been taken into the
hearts and home of her now parents; and she rested there as one having
a right to her position.

And the pure spirit who presided over this little Paradise, where was
she? Present--observing all, and sharing in the delight her husband's
return had occasioned. The expected kiss had not long been kept from
her loving lips.

Happy household! What have its inmates to envy in those around
them? Within the circle of many squares were none so rich in all the
elements of happiness.

Soon after the evening meal was over, the children, after another
merry romp with their father, went off to bed. When Mrs. Claire
returned from the chamber, whither she had accompanied them, she held
a letter in her hand.

"I had forgotten all about this letter, Edward," said she. "It was
left here for you, this afternoon."

Claire took the letter and broke the seal, running his eye down to the
signature as he unfolded it.

"Leonard Jasper! What is this?"

