thinking and saying so. I can have no greater pleasure than to
take pains for you."
Fleda heard these words precisely, and with the same
simplicity as a child would have heard them, and answered with
a very frank burst of tears  soon, as soon as possible,
according to her custom, driven back, though even in the act
of quieting herself, they broke forth again as uncontrollably
as at first. But Mr. Carleton had not long to wait. She raised
her head again after a short struggle, with the wonted look of
patience sitting upon her brow, and wiping away her tears,
paused merely for breath and voice. He was perfectly silent.
"Mr. Carleton, I will tell you," she began; "I hardly know
whether I ought or ought not"  and her hand went to her
forehead for a moment  "but I cannot think to-night  and I
have not a friend to apply to" 
She hesitated; and then went on, with a voice that trembled
and quavered sadly.
"Mr. Thorn has a secret  of my uncle's  in his power  which
he promised  without conditions  to keep faithfully; and now
insists that he will not  but upon conditions" 
"And cannot the conditions be met?"
"No  and, oh, I may as well tell you at once!" said Fleda in
bitter sorrow; "it is a crime that he committed" 
"Mr. Thorn?"
"No  O no!" said Fleda, weeping bitterly, "not he" 
Her agitation was excessive for a moment; then she threw it
off, and spoke more collectedly, though with exceeding
depression of manner.
"It was long ago  when he was in trouble  he put Mr. Thorn's
name to a note, and never was able to take it up; and nothing
was ever heard about it till lately; and last week he was
going to leave the country, and Mr. Thorn promised that the
proceedings should be entirely given up; and that was why I
came to town, to find uncle Rolf, and bring him home; and I
did, and he is gone; and now Mr. Thorn says, it is all going
on again, and that he will not escape this time; and I have
done it!" 
Fleda writhed again in distress.
"Thorn promised without conditions?"
"Certainly  he promised freely  and now he insists upon
them; and you see uncle Rolf would have been safe out of the
country now, if it hadn't been for me" 
"I think I can undo this snarl," said Mr. Carleton, calmly.
"But that is not all," said Fleda, a little quieted; "Charlton
came in this evening when we were talking, and he was
surprised to find me so, and Mr. Thorn was in a very ill
humour, and some words passed between them, and Charlton
threatened to see him again; and oh, if he does!" said poor
Fleda  "that will finish our difficulties!  for Charlton is
very hot, and I know how it will end  how it must end" 
"Where is your cousin to be found?"
"I don't know where he lodges when he is in town."
"You did not leave him at Mrs. Decatur's. Do you know where he
is this evening?"
"Yes!" said Fleda, wondering that she should have heard and
remembered; "he said he was going to meet a party of his
brother officers at Mme. Fouché's  a sister-in-law of his
Colonel, I believe."
"I know her. This note  was it the name of the young Mr.
Thorn, or of his father that was used?"
"Of his father."
"Has he appeared at all in this business?"
"No," said Fleda, feeling for the first time that there was
something notable about it.
"What sort of person do you take him to be?"
"Very kind  very pleasant, always, he has been to me, and I
should think to everybody  very unlike the son."
Mr. Carleton had ordered the coachman back to Mrs. Evelyn's.
"Do you know the amount of the note? It may be desirable that
I should not appear uninformed."
"It was for four thousand dollars," Fleda said, in the low
voice of shame.
"And when given?"
"I don't know exactly  but six years ago  some time in the
winter of '43, it must have been."
He said no more till the carriage stopped; and then, before
handing her out of it, lifted her hand to his lips. That
carried all the promise Fleda wanted, from him. How oddly 
how curiously, her hand kept the feeling of that kiss upon it
all night!
CHAPTER XVIII.
"Heat not a furnace for your friend so hot
That it may singe yourself."
SHAKESPEARE.
Mr. Carleton went to Madame Fouché's, who received most
graciously, as any lady would, his apology for introducing
himself unlooked-for, and begged that he would commit the same
fault often. As soon as practicable, he made his way to
Charlton, and invited him to breakfast with him the next
morning.
Mrs. Carleton always said it never was known that Guy was
refused anything he had a mind to ask. Charlton, though taken
by surprise, and certainly not too much prepossessed in his
favour, was won by an influence that, where its owner chose to
exert it, was generally found irresistible; and not only
accepted the invitation, but was conscious to himself of doing
it with a good deal of pleasure. Even when Mr. Carleton made
the further request that Captain Rossitur would, in the
meantime, see no one on business of any kind, intimating that
the reason would then be given, Charlton, though startling a
little at this restraint upon his freedom of motion, could do
no other than give the desired promise, and with the utmost
readiness. Guy then went to Mr. Thorn's. It was, by this time,
not early.
"Mr. Lewis Thorn  is he at home?"
"He is, Sir," said the servant, admitting him rather
hesitatingly.
"I wish to see him a few moments on business."
"It is no hour for business," said the voice of Mr. Lewis from
over the balusters  "I can't see anybody to-night."
"I ask but a few minutes," said Mr. Carleton. "It is
important."
"It may be anything!" said Thorn. "I wont do business after
twelve o'clock."
Mr. Carleton desired the servant to carry his card, with the
same request, to Mr. Thorn the elder.
"What's that?" said Thorn, as the man came up stairs  "my
father?  Pshaw! he can't attend to it. Well, walk up, Sir, if
you please!  may as well have it over and done with it."
Mr. Carleton mounted the stairs and followed the young
gentleman into an apartment, to which he rapidly led the way.
"You've no objection to this, I suppose?" Thorn remarked, as
he locked the door behind them.
"Certainly not," said Mr. Carleton, coolly, taking out the key
and putting it in his pocket  "my business is private  it
needs no witnesses."
"Especially as it so nearly concerns yourself," said Thorn,
sneeringly.
"Which part of it, Sir?" said Mr. Carleton, with admirable
breeding. It vexed, at the same time that it constrained
Thorn.
"I'll let you know, presently!" he said, hurriedly proceeding
to the lower end of the room, where some cabinets stood, and
unlocking door after door in mad haste.
The place had somewhat the air of a study  perhaps Thorn's
private room. A long table stood in the middle of the floor,
with materials for writing, and a good many books were about
the room, in cases and on the tables, with maps, and
engravings, and portfolio's, and a nameless collection of
articles  the miscellaneous gathering of a man of leisure and
some literary taste.
Their owner presently came back from the cabinets with tokens
of a very different kind about him.
"There, Sir!" he said, offering to his guest a brace of most
inhospitable-looking pistols  "take one, and take your stand,
as soon as you please  nothing like coming to the point at
once!"
He was heated and excited even more than his manner indicated.
Mr. Carleton glanced at him, and stood quietly examining the
pistol he had taken. It was already loaded.
"This is a business that comes upon me by surprise," he said,
calmly. "I don't know what I have to do with this, Mr. Thorn."
"Well, I do," said Thorn, "and that's enough. Take your place,
Sir! You escaped me once, but "  and he gave his words
dreadful emphasis  "you wont do it the second time!"
"You do not mean," said the other, "that your recollection of
such an offence has lived out so many years?"
"No, Sir! No Sir!" said Thorn  "it is not that. I despise it,
as I do the offender. You have touched me more nearly."
"Let me know ill what," said Mr. Carleton, turning his
pistol's mouth down upon the table, and leaning on it.
"You know already  what do you ask me for?" said Thorn, who
was foaming; "if you say you don't, you lie heartily. I'll
tell you nothing but out of this."
"I have not knowingly injured you, Sir  in a whit."
"Then a Carleton may be a liar," said Thorn, "and you are one
 I dare say not the first. Put yourself there, Sir, will
you?"
"Well," said Guy, carelessly, "if it is decreed that I am to
fight, of course there's no help for it; but as I have
business on hand that might not be so well done afterwards, I
must beg your attention to that in the first place."
"No, Sir," said Thorn, "I'll attend to nothing  I'll hear
nothing from you. I know you! I'll not hear a word. I'll see
to the business! Take your stand."
"I will not have anything to do with pistols," said Mr.
Carleton, coolly, laying his out of his hand; "they make too
much noise."
"Who cares for the noise?" said Thorn. "It wont hurt you; and
the door is locked."
"But people's ears are not," said Guy.
Neither tone, nor attitude, nor look, had changed in the least
its calm gracefulness. It began to act upon Thorn.
"Well, in the devil's name, have your own way," said he,
throwing down his pistol too, and going back to the cabinets
at the lower end of the room  "there are rapiers here, if you
like them better  I don't  the shortest the best for me 
but here they are  take your choice."
Guy examined them carefully for a few minutes, and then laid
them both, with a firm hand upon them, on the table.
"I will choose neither, Mr. Thorn, till you have heard me. I
came here to see you on the part of others  I should be a
recreant to my charge if I allowed you or myself to draw me
into anything that might prevent my fulfilling it. That must
be done first."
Thorn looked with a lowering brow on the indications of his
opponent's eye and attitude; they left him plainly but one
course to take.
"Well, speak and have done," he said, as in spite of himself;
"but I know it already."
