 the danger that, if it did not, our eyes would look nowhere
else?"
There is something very touching in hearing a kind voice say
what one has often struggled to say to one's-self.
"I know it, Sir," said Fleda, her words a little choked  "and
one may not wish the cloud away  but it does not the less
cast a shade upon the face. I guess Hugh has worked his way
into the middle of that stump by this time, Mr. Olmney."
They rejoined him; and the baskets being now sufficiently
heavy, and arms pretty well tired, they left the further
riches of the pine woods unexplored, and walked sagely
homewards. At the brow of the table-land, Mr. Olmney left them
to take a shorter cut to the high road, having a visit to make
which the shortening day warned him not to defer.
"Put down your basket, and rest a minute, Hugh," said Fleda.
"I had a world of things to talk to you about, and this
blessed man has driven them all out of my head."
"But you are not sorry he came along with us?"
"O no. We had a very good time. How lovely it is, Hugh! Look
at the snow down there  without a track; and the woods have
been dressed by the fairies. Oh, look how the sun is glinting
on the west side of that hillock!"
"It is twice as bright since you have come home," said Hugh.
"The snow is too beautiful to-day. Oh, I was right! One may
grow morbid over books, but I defy anybody, in the company of
those chick-a-dees. I should think it would be hard to keep
quite sound in the city."
"You are glad to be here again, aren't you?" said Hugh.
"Very! O, Hugh!  it is better to be poor, and have one's feet
on these hills, than to be rich, and shut up to brick walls!"
"It is best as it is," said Hugh, quietly.
"Once," Fleda went on  "one fair day, when I was out driving
in New York, it did come over me with a kind of pang, how
pleasant it would be to have plenty of money again, and be at
ease; and then, as I was looking off over that pretty north
river to the other shore, I bethought me  'A little that a
righteous man hath is better than the riches of many wicked.'
"
Hugh did not answer, for the face she turned to him, in its
half-tearful, half-bright submission, took away his speech.
"Why, you cannot have enjoyed yourself as much as we thought,
Fleda, if you dislike the city so much."
"Yes, I did. Oh, I enjoyed a great many things. I enjoyed
being with the Evelyns. You don't know how much they made of
me  every one of them  father and mother, and all the three
daughters  and uncle Orrin. I have been well petted, I can
tell you, since I have been gone."
"I am glad they showed so much discrimination," said Hugh;
"they would be puzzled to make too much of you."
"I must have been in a remarkably discriminating society,"
said Fleda, "for everybody was very kind."
"How do you like the Evelyns, on a nearer view?"
"Very much, indeed; and I believe they really love me. Nothing
could possibly be kinder, in all ways of showing kindness. I
shall never forget it."
"Who were you driving with that day?" said Hugh.
"Mr. Thorn."
"Did you see much of him?"
"Quite as much as I wished. Hugh, I took your advice."
"About what?" said Hugh.
"I carried down some of my scribblings, and sent them to a
magazine."
"Did you!" said Hugh, looking delighted. "And will they
publish them?"
"I don't know," said Fleda; "that's another matter. I sent
them, or uncle Orrin did, when I first went down; and I have
heard nothing of them yet."
"You showed them to uncle Orrin?"
"Couldn't help it, you know. I had to."
"And what did he say to them?"
"Come!  I'm not going to be cross-questioned," said Fleda,
laughing. "He did not prevent my sending them."
"And if they take them, do you expect they will give anything
for them  the magazine people?"
"I am sure, if they don't, they shall have no more; that is my
only possible inducement to let them be printed. For my own
pleasure, I would far rather not."
"Did you sign with your own name?"
"My own name!  Yes, and desired it to be printed in large
capitals. What are you thinking of? No!  I hope you'll
forgive me,  but I signed myself what our friend the doctor
calls 'Yugh.' "
"I'll forgive you, if you'll do one thing for me."
"What?"
"Show me all you have in your portfolio  Do, Fleda!  to-
night, by the light of the pitch-pine knots. Why shouldn't you
give me that pleasure? And, besides, you know Molière had an
old woman?"
"Well," said Fleda, with a face that to Hugh was extremely
satisfactory, "we'll see  I suppose you might as well read my
productions in manuscript as in print. But they are in a
terribly scratchy condition  they go sometimes for weeks in
my head before I find time to put them down  you may guess,
polishing is pretty well out of the question. Suppose we try
to get home with these baskets."
Which they did.
"Has Philetus got home?" was Fleda's first question.
"No," said Mrs. Rossitur, "but Dr. Quackenboss has been here,
and brought the paper; he was at the post-office this morning,
he says. Did you see Mr. Olmney?"
"Yes, Ma'am, and I feel he has saved me from a lame arm 
those pine-knots are so heavy."
"He is a lovely young man!" said Mrs. Rossitur, with uncommon
emphasis.
"I should have been blind to the fact, aunt Lucy, if you had
not made me change my shoes. At present, no disparagement to
him, I feel as if a cup of tea would be rather more lovely
than anything else."
"He sat with me some time," said Mrs. Rossitur; "I was afraid
he would not overtake you."
Tea was ready, and only waiting for Mrs. Rossitur to come down
stairs, when Fleda, whose eye was carelessly running along the
columns of the paper, uttered a sudden shout, and covered her
face with it. Hugh looked up in astonishment, but Fleda was
beyond anything but exclamations, laughing and flushing to the
very roots of her hair.
"What is the matter, Fleda?"
"Why," said Fleda, "how comical!  I was just looking over the
list of articles in the January number of the Excelsior" 
"The Excelsior!" said Hugh.
"Yes  the magazine I sent my things to  I was running over
their advertisement here, where they give a special puff of
the publication in general, and of several things in
particular, and I saw  here they speak of 'A tale of
thrilling interest, by Mrs. Eliza Lothbury, unsurpassed,' and
so forth, and so forth; 'another valuable communication from
Mr. Charleston, whose first acute and discriminating paper all
our leaders will remember; the beginning of a new tale from
the infallibly graceful pen of Miss Delia Lawriston: we are
sure it will be so and so; 'The Wind's Voices,' by our new
correspondent, 'Hugh,' has a delicate sweetness that would do
no discredit to some of our most honoured names!' What do you
think of that?"
What Hugh thought he did not say, but he looked delighted, and
came to read the grateful words for himself.
"I did not know but they had declined it utterly," said Fleda;
"it was so long since I had sent it, and they had taken no
notice of it; but it seems they kept it for the beginning of a
new volume."
" 'Would do no discredit to some of our most honoured names!'
" said Hugh. "Dear Fleda, I am very glad! But it is no more
than I expected."
"Expected!" said Fleda. "When you had not seen a line! Hush,
my dear Hugh, aren't you hungry?"
The tea, with this spice to their appetites, was wonderfully
relished; and Hugh and Fleda kept making despatches of secret
pleasure and sympathy to each other's eyes; though Fleda's
face, after the first flush had faded, was perhaps rather
quieter than usual. Hugh's was illuminated.
"Mr. Skillcorn is a smart man," said Barby, coming in with a
package; "he has made out to go two miles in two hours, and
get back again safe."
"More from the post-office!" exclaimed Fleda, pouncing upon
it.  "O yes, there has been another mail. A letter for you,
aunt Lucy, from uncle Rolf. We'll forgive him, Barby  and
here's a letter for me, from uncle Orrin, and  yes  the
Excelsior. Hugh, uncle Orrin said he would send it. Now for
those blessed pineknots. Aunt Lucy, you shall be honoured with
the one whole candle the house contains."
The table soon cleared away, the basket of fat fuel was
brought in; and one or two splinters being delicately
insinuated between the sticks on the fire, a very brilliant
illumination sprang out. Fleda sent a congratulatory look over
to Hugh on the other side of the fireplace, as she cosily
established herself on her little bench at one corner with her
letter: he had the magazine. Mrs. Rossitur between them at the
table, with her one candle, was already insensible to all
outward things.
And soon the other two were as delightfully absorbed. The
bright light of the fire shone upon three motionless and rapt
figures, and getting no greeting from them, went off and
danced on the old cupboard doors and paper-hangings, in a
kindly hearty joviality, that would have put any number of
stately wax candles out of countenance. There was no poverty
in the room that night. But the people were too busy to know
how cosy they were, till Fleda was ready to look up from her
note, and Hugh had gone twice carefully over the new poem 
when there was a sudden giving out of the pine splinters. New
ones were supplied in eager haste and silence, and Hugh was
beginning "The Wind's Voices," for the third time, when a
soft-whispered "Hugh!" across the fire, made him look over to
Fleda's corner. She was holding up, with both hands, a five-
dollar bank note, and just showing him her eyes over it.
"What's that?" said Hugh, in an energetic whisper.
"I don't know!" said Fleda, shaking her head comically; "I am
told 'The Wind's Voices' have blown it here, but, privately, I
am afraid it is a windfall of another kind."
"What?" said Hugh, laughing.
"Uncle Orrin says it is the first-fruits of what I sent to the
Excelsior, and that more will come; but I do not feel at all
sure that it is entirely the growth of that soil."
"I dare say it is," said Hugh; "I am sure it is worth more
than that. Dear Fleda, I like it so much!"
Fleda gave him such a smile of grateful affection  not at all
as if she deserved his praise, but as if it was very pleasant
to have.
"What put it into your head? anything in particular?"
"No  nothing  I was looking out of the window one day, and
seeing the willow-tree blow; and that looked over my shoulder;
as you know Hans Andersen says his stories did."
