brutality as systematically as he had his bull-dogs ; and, by 
long practice in hardness and cruelty, brought their whole 
nature to about the same range of capacities. It is a common remark, and one that is thought to militate strongly 
against the character of the race, that the negro overseer is 
always more tyrannical and cruel than the white one. This 
is simply saying that the negro mind has been more crushed 
and debased than the white. It is no more true of this race 
than of every oppressed race, the world over. The slave is 
always a tyrant, if he can get a chance to be one. 
Legree, like some potentates we read of in history, 
governed his plantation by a sort of resolution of forces. 
Sambo and Quimbo cordially hated each other ; the plantation hands, one and all, cordially hated them ; and by playing off one against another he was pretty sure, through ono 
or the other of the three parties, to get informed of whatever 
was on foot in the place. 
Nobody can live entirely without social intercourse ; and 
Legree encouraged his two black satellites to a kind of 
coarse familiarity with him a familiarity, however, at any 
moment liable to get one or the other of them into trouble ; 
for, on the slightest provocation, one of them always stood 
ready at a nod to be a minister of his vengeance on the 
other. 
As they stood there now by Legree, they seemed an apt 
illustration of the fact that brutal men are lower even than 
animals. Their coarse, dark, heavy features; their great 
eyes, rolling enviously on each other; their barbarous, 
guttural, half-brute intonation; their dilapidated garments 
fluttering in the wind were all in admirable keeping with 
the vile and unwholesome character of everything about the 
place. 
" Here, you Sambo," said Legree, " take these yer boys 
down to the quarters; and here's a gal I've got foryow," said 
he, as he separated the mulatto woman from Emmeline and 
pushed her towards him. " I promised to bring you one, 
you know." 
The woman gave a sudden start, and, drawing back, said 
suddenly 
" O mas'r ! I left my old man in New Orleans." 
" What of that, you ! won't you want one here ? 
None o' your words go 'long ! " said Legree, raising his 
whip. 
" Come, mistress," he said to Emmeline, " you go in here 
with me." 
A dark, wild face was seen, for a moment, to glance at the 
window of the house ; and, as Legree opened the door, a 
female voice said something in a quick imperative tone. 
Tom, who was looking with anxious interest after Emmeline, 
as she went in, noticed this, and heard Legree answer 
angrily, " You may hold your tongue ! I'll do as I please, 
for all you ! " 
Tom heard no more ; for lie was soon following Sambo to 
the quarters. The quarters was a little sort of street of rude 
shanties, in a row, in a part of the plantation far off from 
the house. They had a forlorn, brutal, forsaken air. Tom's 
heart sank when he saw them. He had been comforting 
himself with the thought of a cottage, rude, indeed, but one 
which he might make neat and quiet, and where he might 
have a shelf for his Bible, and a place to be alone out of his 
labouring hours. He looked into several ; they were mere 
rude shells, destitute of any species of furniture, except a 
heap of straw foul with dirt, spread confusedly over the 
floor, which was merely the bare ground, trodden hard by the 
tramping of innumerable feet. 
"Which of these will be mine?" said he to Sambo, 
submissively. 
" Dunno ; ken turn in here, I s'pose," said Sambo; " 'spect 
thar's room for another thar; thar's a pretty smart heap o' 
niggers to each on 'em now; sure I dunno what I's to do 
with more." 
It was late in the evening when the weary occupants of 
the shanties came flocking home men and women, in soiled 
and tattered garments, surly and uncomfortable, and in no 
mood to look pleasantly on new-comers. The small village 
was alive with no inviting sounds ; hoarse, guttural voices 
contending at the hand-mills where their morsel of hard corn 
was yet to be ground into meal, to fit it for the cake that was 
to constitute their only supper. From the earliest dawn of 
the day they had been in the fields, pressed to work under 
the driving lash of the overseers ; for it was now in the very 
heat and hurry of the season, and no means were left untried 
to press every one up to the top of their capabilities. 
"True," says the negligent lounger, "picking cotton isn't 
hard work." Isn't it ? And it isn't much inconvenience, 
either, to have one drop of water fall on your head ; yet the 
worst torture of the Inquisition is produced by drop after 
drop, drop after drop, falling moment after moment, with 
monotonous succession, on the same spot ; and work in itself 
not hard becomes so by being pressed, hour after hour, with 
unvarying, unrelenting sameness, with not even the consciousness of free-will to take from its tediousness. Tom 
looked in vain among the gang, as they poured along, for 
companionable faces. He saw only sullen, scowling, embruted men, and feeble, discouraged women, or women that 
were not women the strong pushing away the weak the 
gross, unrestricted animal selfishness of human beings, of 
whom nothing good was expected and desired ; and who, 
treated in every way like brutes, had sunk as nearly to 
their level as it was possible for human beings to do. To a 
late hour in the night the sound of the grinding was protracted ; for the mills were few in number compared with the 
grinders, and the weary and feeble ones were driven back 
by the strong, and came on last in their turn. 
" Ho yo ! " said Sambo, coming to the mulatto woman, 
and throwing down a bag of corn before her, " what a cuss 
yo name ? " 
" Lucy," said the woman. 
" Wai, Lucy, yo my woman now. To grind dis yer corn, 
and get my supper baked, ye har P " 
" I an't your woman, and I won't be ! " said the woman, 
with the sharp sudden courage of despair ; " you go 'long !" 
" I'll kick yo, then ! " said Sambo, raising his foot 
threateningly. 
" Te may kill me, if ye choose the sooner the better 
"Wish't I was dead ! " said she. 
" I say, Sambo, you go to spilin' the hands, I'll tell mas'r 
o' you," said Quimbo, who was busy at the mill, from which 
he had viciously driven two or three tired women, who were 
waiting to grind their corn. 
" And I'll tell him ye won't let the women come to the 
mills, yo old nigger ! " said Sambo. " Yo jes keep to yo own 
row." 
Tom was hungry with his day's journey, and almost faint 
for want of food. 
" Thar, yo ! " said Quimbo, throwing down a coarse bag, 
which contained a peck of corn ; " thar, nigger, grab take 
car on't, yo won't get no more dis yer week." 
Tom waited till a late hour to get a place at the mills ; 
and then, moved by the utter weariness of two women, 
whom he saw trying to grind their corn there, he ground 
for them, put together the decaying brands of the fire, 
where many had baked cakes before them, and then went 
about getting his own supper. It was a new kind of work 
there a deed of charity, small as it was ; but it woke an 
answering touch in their hearts an expression of womanly 
kindness came over their hard faces. They mixed his cake 
for him, and tended its baking ; and Tom sat down by the 
light of the fire, and drew out his Bible for he had need of 
comfort. 
" What's that ? " said one of the women. 
"A Bible," said Tom. 
" Good Lord ! han't seen un since I was in Kentuck." 
" Was you raised in Kentuck ? " said Tom, with 
interest. 
" Yes, and well raised, too ; never 'spected to come to dis 
yer! " said the woman, sighing. 
" What's dat ar book, any way ? " said the other woman. 
"Why, the Bible." 
" Laws a me, what's dat ? " said the woman. 
" Do tell ! you never heam on't ? " said the other woman. 
" I used to har missis a readin' on't, sometimes, in Kentuck; 
but, laws o' me ! we don't har nothin' here but crackin' and 
swarin'." 
" Read apiece, anyways!" said the first woman, curiously, 
seeing Tom attentively poring over it. 
Tom read, " Come unto ME, all ye that labour and are 
heavy laden, and I will give you rest." 
"Them's good words enough," said the woman; "who 
says 'em?" 
The Lord," said Tom. 
"I jest wish I know'd whar to find Him," said the 
woman ; " I would go. 'Pears like I never should get 
rested agin. My flesh is fairly sore, and I tremble all over, 
every day, and Sambo's allers a jawin' at me, 'cause I doesn't 
pick faster ; and nights it's most midnight 'fore I can get 
my supper ; and then 'pears like I don't turn over and shut 
my eyes 'fore I hear de horn blow to get up, and at it agin 
in de mornin'. If I knew whar de Lord was, I'd tell him." 
" He's here, he's everywhere," said Tom. 
" Lor ! you an't gwine to make me believe dat ar ! I 
know de Lord an't here," said the woman ; " 'tan't no use 
talking, though. I's jest gwine to camp down, and sleep 
while I ken." 
The women went off to their cabins, and Tom sat alone 
by the smouldering fire, that nickered up redly in his face. 
The silver, fair-browed moon rose in the purple sky, and 
looked down, calm and silent, as God looks on the scene of 
misery and oppression looked calmly on the lone black 
man, as he sat with his arms folded, and his Bible on his 
knee. 
" Is God here ?" Ah! how is it possible for the untaught 
heart to keep its faith, unswerving, in the face of dire misrule, and palpable, unrebuked injustice ? In that simple 
heart waged a fierce conflict : the crushing sense of wrong, 
the foreshadowding of a whole life of future misery, the wreck 
of all past hopes, mournfully tossing in the soul's sight, like 
dead corpses of wife, and child, and friend, rising from the 
dark wave, and surging in the face of the half-drowned 
mariner ! Ah, was it easy here to believe and hold fast the 
great pass-word of Christian faith, that " God is, and is the 
EE WARDER of them that diligently seek Him ? " 
Tom rose, disconsolate, and stumbled into the cabin that 
had been allotted to him. The floor was already strewn 
with weary sleepers, and the foul air of the place almost 
repelled him ; but the heavy night dews were chill and hia 
limbs weary, and wrapping about him a tattered blanket, 
which formed his only bed-clothing, he stretched himself in 
the straw, and fell asleep. 
In dreams, a gentle voice came over his ear ; he waa 
sitting on the mossy seat in the garden by Lake Pontchartrain, and Eva, with her serious eyes bent downward, was 
reading to him from the Bible ; and he heard her read : 
" When thou passest through the waters, I will be with 
thee ; and the rivers, they shall not overflow thee ; when 
thou walkest through the fire thou shalt not be burned, 
neither shall the flame kindle upon thee : for I am the Lord 
thy God, the Holy One of Israel, thy Saviour." 
