A venerable friend of the writer, a lady born and educated a
slave-holder, used to the writer the very words attributed to Mrs.
Shelby:—“I never thought it was right to hold slaves. I always thought
it was wrong when I was a girl, and I thought so still more when I came
to join the church.” An incident related by this friend of her
examination for the church shows in a striking manner what a difference
may often exist between theoretical and practical benevolence.
A certain class of theologians in America have advocated the doctrine of
disinterested benevolence with such zeal as to make it an imperative
article of belief that every individual ought to be willing to endure
everlasting misery, if by doing so they could, on the whole, produce a
greater amount of general good in the universe; and the inquiry was
sometimes made of candidates for church-membership whether they could
bring themselves to this point, as a test of their sincerity. The
clergyman who was to examine this lady was particularly interested in
these speculations. When he came to inquire of her with regard to her
views as to the obligations of Christianity, she informed him decidedly
that she had brought her mind to the point of emancipating all her
slaves, of whom she had a large number. The clergyman seemed rather to
consider this as an excess of zeal, and recommended that she should take
time to reflect upon it. He was, however, very urgent to know whether,
if it should appear for the greatest good of the universe, she would be
willing to be damned. Entirely unaccustomed to theological speculations,
the good woman answered, with some vehemence, that “she was sure she was
not;” adding, naturally enough, that if that had been her purpose she
need not have come to join the church. The good lady, however, was
admitted, and proved her devotion to the general good by the more
tangible method of setting all her slaves at liberty, and carefully
watching over their education and interests after they were liberated.
Mrs. Shelby is a fair type of the very best class of Southern women; and
while the evils of the institution are felt and deplored, and while the
world looks with just indignation on the national support and patronage
which is given to it, and on the men who, knowing its nature,
deliberately make efforts to perpetuate and extend it, it is but justice
that it should bear in mind the virtues of such persons.
Many of them, surrounded by circumstances over which they can have no
control, perplexed by domestic cares of which women in free states can
have very little conception, loaded down by duties and responsibilities
which wear upon the very springs of life, still go on bravely and
patiently from day to day, doing all they can to alleviate what they
cannot prevent, and, as far as the sphere of their own immediate power
extends, rescuing those who are dependent upon them from the evils of
the system.
We read of Him who shall at last come to judgment, that “His fan is in
his hand, and he will thoroughly purge his floor, and gather his wheat
into the garner.” Out of the great abyss of national sin he will rescue
every grain of good and honest purpose and intention. His eyes, which
are as a flame of fire, penetrate at once those intricate mazes where
human judgment is lost, and will save and honor at last the truly good
and sincere, however they may have been involved with the evil; and such
souls as have resisted the greatest temptations, and persisted in good
under the most perplexing circumstances, are those of whom he has
written, “And they shall be mine, saith the Lord of Hosts, in that day
when I make up my jewels; and I will spare them as a man spareth his own
son that serveth him.”
-----
Footnote 1:
  The leader of the insurrection in lower Virginia, in which upwards of
  a hundred white persons, principally women and children, were
  massacred in cold blood.
                              CHAPTER IV.
                             GEORGE HARRIS.
The character of George Harris has been represented as overdrawn, both
as respects personal qualities and general intelligence. It has been
said, too, that so many afflictive incidents happening to a slave are
improbable, and present a distorted view of the institution.
In regard to person, it must be remembered that the half-breeds often
inherit, to a great degree, the traits of their white ancestors. For
this there is abundant evidence in the advertisements of the papers.
Witness the following from the Chattanooga (Tenn.) Gazette, Oct.
5th, 1852:
                              $500 REWARD.
[Illustration]
  Runaway from the subscriber, on the 25th May, a VERY BRIGHT MULATTO
  BOY, about 21 or 22 years old, named WASH. Said boy, without close
  observation, might pass himself for a white man, as he is very
  bright—has sandy hair, blue eyes, and a fine set of teeth. He is an
  excellent bricklayer; but I have no idea that he will pursue his
  trade, for fear of detection. Although he is like a white man in
  appearance, he has the disposition of a negro, and delights in comic
  songs and witty expressions. He is an excellent house servant, very
  handy about a hotel,—tall, slender, and has rather a down look,
  especially when spoken to, and is sometimes inclined to be sulky. I
  have no doubt but he has been decoyed off by some scoundrel, and I
  will give the above reward for the apprehension of the boy and
  thief, if delivered at Chattanooga. Or, I will give $200 for the boy
  alone; or $100 if confined in any jail in the United States, so that
  I can get him.
                                                    GEORGE O. RAGLAND.
  Chattanooga, June 15, 1852.
From the Capitolian Vis-a-vis, West Baton Rouge, Louisiana, Nov. 1,
1852:
                              $150 REWARD.
  Runaway about the 15th of August last, Joe, a yellow man; small,
  about 5 feet 8 or 9 inches high, and about 20 years of age. Has a
  Roman nose, was raised in New Orleans, and speaks French and
  English. He was bought last winter of Mr. Digges, Banks Arcade, New
  Orleans.
In regard to general intelligence, the reader will recollect that the
writer stated it as a fact which she learned while on a journey through
Kentucky, that a young colored man invented a machine for cleaning hemp,
like that alluded to in her story.
Advertisements, also, occasionally propose for sale artisans of
different descriptions. Slaves are often employed as pilots for vessels,
and highly valued for their skill and knowledge. The following are
advertisements from recent newspapers.
From the South Carolinian (Columbia), Dec. 4th, 1852:
                      VALUABLE NEGROES AT AUCTION.
                          BY J. & L. T. LEVIN.
  WILL be sold, on MONDAY, the 6th day of December, the following
  valuable NEGROES:
  Andrew, 24 years of age, a bricklayer and plasterer, and thorough
  workman.
  George, 22 years of age, one of the best barbers in the State.
  James, 19 years of age, an excellent painter.
  These boys were raised in Columbia, and are exceptions to most of
  boys, and are sold for no fault whatever.
  The terms of sale are one-half cash, the balance on a credit of six
  months, with interest, for notes payable at bank, with two or more
  approved endorsers.
  Purchasers to pay for necessary papers.
                                                     WILLIAM DOUGLASS.
  November 27, 36.
From the same paper, of November 18th, 1852:
  Will be sold at private sale, a LIKELY MAN, boat hand, and good
  pilot; is well acquainted with all the inlets between here and
  Savannah and Georgetown.
With regard to the incidents of George Harris’ life, that he may not be
supposed a purely exceptional case, we propose to offer some parallel
facts from the lives of slaves of our personal acquaintance.
Lewis Clark is an acquaintance of the writer. Soon after his escape from
slavery, he was received into the family of a sister-in-law of the
author, and there educated. His conduct during this time was such as to
win for him uncommon affection and respect, and the author has
frequently heard him spoken of in the highest terms by all who knew him.
The gentleman in whose family he so long resided says of him, in a
recent letter to the writer, “I would trust him, as the saying is, with
untold gold.”
Lewis is a quadroon, a fine-looking man, with European features, hair
slightly wavy, and with an intelligent, agreeable expression of
countenance.
The reader is now desired to compare the following incidents of his
life, part of which he related personally to the author, with the
incidents of the life of George Harris.
His mother was a handsome quadroon woman, the daughter of her master,
and given by him in marriage to a free white man, a Scotchman, with the
express understanding that she and her children were to be free. This
engagement, if made sincerely at all, was never complied with. His
mother had nine children, and, on the death of her husband, came back,
with all these children, as slaves in her father’s house.
A married daughter of the family, who was the dread of the whole
household, on account of the violence of her temper, had taken from the
family, upon her marriage, a young girl. By the violence of her abuse
she soon reduced the child to a state of idiocy, and then came
imperiously back to her father’s establishment, declaring that the child
was good for nothing, and that she would have another; and, as poor
Lewis’ evil star would have it, fixed her eye upon him.
To avoid one of her terrible outbreaks of temper, the family offered up
this boy as a pacificatory sacrifice. The incident is thus described by
Lewis, in a published narrative:
  Every boy was ordered in, to pass before this female sorceress, that
  she might select a victim for her unprovoked malice, and on whom to
  pour the vials of her wrath for years. I was that unlucky fellow.
  Mr. Campbell, my grandfather, objected, because it would divide a
  family, and offered her Moses; * * * but objections and claims of
  every kind were swept away by the wild passion and shrill-toned
  voice of Mrs. B. Me she would have, and none else. Mr. Campbell went
  out to hunt, and drive away bad thoughts; the old lady became quiet,
  for she was sure none of her blood run in my veins, and, if there
  was any of her husband’s there, it was no fault of hers.
  Slave-holding women are always revengeful toward the children of
  slaves that have any of the blood of their husbands in them. I was
  too young—only seven years of age—to understand what was going on.
  But my poor and affectionate mother understood and appreciated it
  all. When she left the kitchen of the mansion-house, where she was
  employed as cook, and came home to her own little cottage, the tear
  of anguish was in her eye, and the image of sorrow upon every
  feature of her face. She knew the female Nero whose rod was now to
  be over me. That night sleep departed from her eyes. With the
  youngest child clasped firmly to her bosom, she spent the night in
  walking the floor, coming ever and anon to lift up the clothes and
  look at me and my poor brother, who lay sleeping together.
  Sleeping, I said. Brother slept, but not I. I saw my mother when
  she first came to me, and I could not sleep. The vision of that
  night—its deep, ineffaceable impression—is now before my mind with
  all the distinctness of yesterday. In the morning I was put into the
  carriage with Mrs. B. and her children, and my weary pilgrimage of
  suffering was fairly begun.
Mrs. Banton is a character that can only exist where the laws of the
land clothe with absolute power the coarsest, most brutal and
violent-tempered, equally with the most generous and humane.
If irresponsible power is a trial to the virtue of the most watchful and
careful, how fast must it develop cruelty in those who are naturally
violent and brutal!
This woman was united to a drunken husband, of a temper equally
ferocious. A recital of all the physical torture which this pair
contrived to inflict on a hapless child, some of which have left
ineffaceable marks on his person, would be too trying to humanity, and
we gladly draw a veil over it.
Some incidents, however, are presented in the following extracts:
