wild exuberance of feeling ever bursting from the heart of childhood
were rarely checked; or, if repressed, with a hand that wounded not
in its firm contraction. She had grown up to womanhood amid all that
was gentle, kind and loving. Transplanted, then, like a tender
flower from a sunny border, to the cold and formal home of her
husband, she drooped in the uncongenial soil, down into which her
heart-fibres penetrated in search of nutrition. And yet, while
drooping thus, she tenderly loved her husband, and earnestly sought
to overcome in herself many true impulses of nature to which he gave
the false name of weaknesses. It was less painful thus to repress
them herself, than to have them crushed in the iron hand with which
he was ever ready to grasp them.
Let it not be thought that Andrew Howland was an evil minded man. In
the beginning we have intimated that this was not so. He purposed
wrong to no one. Honest he was in all his dealings with the world;
honest even to the division of a penny. The radical fault of his
character was coldness and intolerance. Toward wrong-doing and
wrong-doers, he had no forbearance whatever; and to him that strayed
from the right path, whether child or man, he meted out, if in his
power, the full measure of consequences. Unfortunately for those who
came within the circle of his authority, his ideas of right and
wrong were based on warped and narrow views, the result of a
defective religious education. He, therefore, often called things
wrong, from prejudice, that were not wrong in themselves; and
sternly reacted upon others, and drove them away from him, when he
might have led and guided them into the paths of virtue.
The first year of Andrew Howland's married life was one of deep
trial to the loving young creature he had taken from her sunny home
to cherish in his bosom--a bosom too cold to warm into vigorous life
new shoots of affection. And yet he loved his wife; loved her
wisely, as he thought, not weakly, nor blindly. He saw her faults,
and, true to his character, laid his hands upon them. Alas! how much
of good was crushed in the rigid pressure!
To Mr. Howland life was indeed a stern reality. Duties and
responsibilities were ever in his thoughts. Pleasure was but another
name for sin, and a weakness of character an evil not to be
tolerated.
Enough, for our present purpose, can be seen of the character of
Andrew Howland in this brief outline. As our story advances, it will
appear in minuter shades, and more varied aspects. Seven years from
the day of his marriage we will introduce him to the reader.
"What shall I do with this boy?" said Mr. Howland. He spoke
sternly, yet in a perplexed voice, while he walked the floor of the
room with a quickness of tread unusual. "If something is not done to
break him into obedience he will be ruined."
"He needs all our forbearance," Mrs. Howland ventured to remark, "as
well as our care and solicitude."
"Forbearance! I have no forbearance toward wrong, Esther. You have
forborne until the child is beyond your control."
"Not entirely," was meekly answered, as the mother's eyes drooped to
the floor.
At this moment a servant, who had been sent for the child, came in
with him. A few doors away lived another child, about the same age,
of whom little Andrew was very fond, and whose companionship he
sought on every occasion. Against the father of this child Mr.
Howland had imbibed a strong prejudice, which was permitted to
extend itself to his family. Rigid and uncompromising in everything,
he had observed that Andrew was frequently in company with the child
of this neighbor, and felt impelled to lay a prohibition on their
intercourse. But Andrew, a light-hearted, high-spirited boy, who
inherited from his father a strong will, was by no means inclined to
yield a ready obedience in this particular. He loved his little
companion, and never was happier than when in her society.
Naturally, therefore, he sought it on every occasion, and when the
positive interdiction of their intercourse came, the child felt that
a duty was imposed upon him that was impossible of fulfillment.
Young as he was, he could endure punishment, but not give up his
little friend. Advantage was therefore taken of every opportunity to
be with her that offered. Punishments of various kinds were
inflicted, but they acted only as temporary restraints.
As to this little girl herself, let it be understood, Mr. Howland
had no personal objection. He had never seen anything that was wrong
in her, and had never heard a word of evil spoken against her. The
simple, yet all-embracing defect that appertained to her was his
dislike of her father; and this dislike had its chief foundation in
a wrong estimate of his character, the result of his own narrow
prejudices. Somewhat hastily, we will admit, did Mr. Howland utter
the word that was to separate the little friends, and the word was
half-repented of as soon as spoken. But once uttered, it was a law
to which he required the most implicit obedience. He thought not of
the wrong the separation might do his child; he thought only of
enforcing obedience--of breaking a stubborn will. Obedience in
children was, in his eyes, everything--and he visited, with the
sternest displeasure, every deviation therefrom. The consequence
was, that his little ones, in their nest at home, rarely saw in the
face of their father a smile of affection; rarely heard his voice in
words of tenderness. Something, in their conduct was ever
displeasing to him, and he attempted its correction by coldness,
repulsion, harsh words, or cruel punishment. He never sought to
lead, but to force them into the right way.
The word of interdiction was uttered, but Andrew could not give up
his sweet little friend; and the word was therefore disregarded.
Stealthily, to avoid punishment, he went to her but watchful eyes
were upon him, and he was soon brought back. Gently and earnestly
his mother would chide his disobedience; harshly his father would
punish it--but all was of no avail.
"Where is Andrew?" asked Mr. Howland, on returning home one evening
from his store, and not seeing the bright little fellow in the room
with his mother. This was on the occasion of his introduction to the
reader.
"I don't know. He was here just now," replied Mrs. Howland.
"I saw him a little while ago playing on the steps with Emily
Winters," said the nurse, who had come recently into the family, and
was not aware of the prohibition that existed in regard to the child
she had mentioned.
"Is it possible!" exclaimed Mr. Howland, angrily. Then he added in
an excited voice, "go and bring him home immediately!"
The nurse left the room and soon returned with the child. In his
face was a look of blended fear, anger and resolution.
"Where have you been, sir?" sternly asked Mr. Howland.
The child made no answer.
"Do you hear me, sir?"
A slight motion of shrinking and alarm might have been seen in the
little fellow as the angry voice of his father fell upon his ears.
But he did not look up or make a reply.
"Will you answer me? Stubborn boy!" exclaimed Mr. Howland, now
catching hold tightly of Andrew's arm.
"Why don't you answer your father, my child?" said the mother, in a
voice that was tender and appealing. The tone reached the boy's
heart, and he lifted his large blue eyes from the floor and fixed
them on his father's threatening countenance.
"Say! Where have you been?" repeated Mr. Howland.
"To see Emily," returned Andrew.
"Haven't I forbidden you to go there?"
The child's eyes sunk again to the floor.
"Say! Haven't I forbidden you to go there?"
But there was no answer.
"Do you hear me?"
"Andrew! Andrew! why don't you answer your father?" came in
distressed and tremulous tones from his mother's lips.
Mr. Howland was about turning to chide sharply his wife for this
interference, when Andrew again raised his eyes and said--
"Yes, sir."
"Then why have you disobeyed me?"
The boy's eyes fell again, and he remained silent.
"I'll break you of this if I break your heart!" said Mr. Howland
severely, and, as he spoke, he almost lifted the child from the
floor with his strong arm as he led him from the room. A groan
issued from the mother's heart and she covered her face and wept.
By the time Mr. Howland reached the chamber above, to which he
repaired with Andrew, the excitement of his anger had subsided; but
not his stern purpose in regard to his child, who had again
disobeyed him. The absolute necessity of obedience in children he
recognized in all its length and breadth. He saw no hope for them in
the future unless obedience were constrained at every cost. Happy
both for them and himself would it have been if he had been wiser in
his modes of securing obedience, and more cautious about exacting
from his children things almost impossible for them to perform.
Without a law there is no sin. Careful, then, should every parent be
how he enacts a law, the very existence of which insures its
violation.
Mr. Howland had sought, by various modes of punishment, other than
chastisement, to enforce obedience in this particular case. Now he
was resolved to try the severer remedy. Andrew had expected nothing
farther than to be shut up, alone, in the room, and to go, perhaps,
supperless to bed, and he was nerved to bear this without a murmur.
But when the rod became suddenly visible, and was lifted above him
in the air, his little heart was filled with terror.
"Oh, father!" he exclaimed, in a voice of fear, while his upturned,
appealing face became ashy pale.
"You have disobeyed me again, my son," said Mr. Howland, coldly and
sternly, "and I must whip you for it. Disobedient children have to
be punished."
"Oh, father! Don't whip me! Don't!" came huskily from the lips of
the terrified child. But even while he thus pleaded, the smarting
strokes began to fall.
"Now, sir!" at length said Mr. Howland, pausing with the rod
uplifted, "will you go into Mr. Winters' again?"
The child hesitated, and down came a blow upon his tender limbs,
followed by the words--
"Say! Will you go in there any more?"
Still there was a reluctance to make this promise, and another and
harder stroke was given. The father was resolved to conquer, and he
did conquer. A promise was extorted from the child's lips, while,
his heart yielded nothing.
"Very well, sir! See that you keep your word," said Mr. Howland, as
he released the writhing sufferer from his firm grasp. "If you
disobey me again in this thing, I will give five times as much."
And he turned from the chamber leaving the wronged and suffering
child alone.
"I've begun now, and I'll go through with it," muttered Mr. Howland,
as he reentered the room where his wife was sitting. "I never saw so
perverse and self-willed a child in my life. If he is not subdued
now, and forced to obey, his ultimate destruction is inevitable."
"His fault was not a very great one," Mrs. Howland ventured to
suggest.
"Do you call disobedience a little fault?" asked Mr. Howland, his
brow contracting as he spoke.
"I did not mean that," quickly answered Mrs. Howland. "I meant his
going in to see Emily Winters. The children are very fond of each
other."
"But I have told him not to go in there, haven't I?"
"Yes."
"Very well. That settles the matter. If he goes, he disobeys me; and
if he disobeys me, he must be punished."
"But, Andrew--"
"It is useless to argue about this with me, Esther. Entirely
useless. In your weakness you would indulge and ruin the boy. But I
know my duty better."
Mrs. Howland sighed deeply and remained silent. Some ten minutes
