is the only one who weeps 
 
" For millions of spirits for his fault amerced, 
And from eternal splendors flung." 
God does not care, nor his angels. Ah, quite otherwise is 
God revealed in Him who wept over Jerusalem, and is touched 
with the feeling of our infirmities. 
I went with Mrs. Fazy the other night to call on Mrs. Cs 
friend, Pastor C. They were so affectionate, so full of beautiful kindness ! The French language sounds sweetly as a 
language of affection and sympathy : With all its tart vivacity, 
it has a richness in the gentler world of feeling. Then, in the 
evening, I was with a little circle of friends at the house of the 
sister of Merle d'Aubigne, and they prayed and sang together. 
It was beautiful. The hymn was one on the following of 
Jesus, similar to that German one of old Godfrey Arnold, 
which is your favorite. These Christians speak with deep 
sorrow of our slavery ; it grieves, it distresses them, for the 
American church has been to them a beloved object. They 
have leaned towards it as a vine inclines towards a vigorous 
elm. To them it looks incomprehensible that such a thing 
could gain strength in a free Christian republic. 
I feel really sorry that I have had to withdraw so much 
from proffered kindness here, and to seem unwilling to meet 
feeling ; but so it has been. Yet, to me, apparently so cold, 
many of these kind Genevese have shown most considerate 
attention. Fruit and flowers have been sent in anonymously; 
and one gentleman offered to place his garden at my disposal 
lor walks, adding that, if I wished to be entirely private, neither lie nor his family would walk there. This, I thought, 
was too much kindness. 
One social custom here, is new to me. The husband, by 
marriage, takes the wife's name. Thus M. Fazy, our host, 
is known as M. Fazy Meyer — Meyer being his wife's name 
— a thing which at first perplexed me. I was often much 
puzzled about names, owing to this circumstance. 
From the conversation I hear I should think that democracy was not entirely absolute in Switzerland. I hear much 
about patrician families, particularly at Berne, and these are 
said to be quite exclusive; yet that the old Swiss fire still 
burns in Switzerland, I see many indications. 
The other day I visited Beautte's celebrated watch and 
jewelry store, and saw all the process of making watches, 
from the time the case is cut from a sheet of gold, on through 
the enamelling, engraving, and linishing. Enamel is metal- 
lic paint, burned on in a furnace. Many women are em- 
ployed in painting the designs. The workmen looked in- 
telligent and thoughtful, like men who can both think and do. 
Some glimpses showed their sympathy with republicanism — 
as one should see fire through a closed door. 
I have had full reason io observe that difference between 
Protestant and Catholic cantons on which Horace Greeley 
commented while here. They are as different as our slave 
and free states, and in the same ways. Geneva seems like 
Kew England — the country around is well cultivated, and 
speaks of thrift. But, still, I find no land, however beautiful, 
that can compare with home — Andover Hill, with its arched 
elms, its blue distance pointing with spires, its Merrimac 
crowned with labor palaces, and, above all, an old stone 
house, brown and queer, &c. Good by. 
Thursday, July 14. Spent a social evening at Mrs. La 
V.'s, on the lake shore. Mont Blanc invisible. We met M. 
Merle d'Aubigne, brother of our hostess, and a few other 
friends. Returned home, and listened to a serenade to H. 
from a glee club of fifty performers, of the working men of 
Geneva. The songs were mostly in French, and the burden 
of one of them seemed to be in words like these : — 
" Travaillons, travaillez, 
Pour la liber to ! " 
Friday, July 15. Mrs. C. and her two daughters are here 
from Paris. They intend to come to Madame Fazy till we 
leave. 
Saturday, July 16. Our whole company resorted to the 
lake, and spent the forenoon on its tranquil waters. If this 
life seem idle, we remember that there must be valleys be- 
tween mountains ; and as, in those vales, tired mountaineers 
love to rest, so we, by the silver shore of summer Leman, 
while away the quiet hours, in this interval, between great 
mountain epochs Chamouni and Oberland. 
Monday, July 18. Weather suspicious. Stowed ourselves 
and our baggage into our voiture, and bade adieu to our 
friends and to Geneva. Ah, how regretfully! From the 
market-place we carried away a basket of cherries and fruit, 
as a consolation. Dined at Lausanne, and visited the cathedral and picture gallery, where was an exquisite Eva. Slept 
at Mcudon. 
Tuesday, July 19. Rode through Payerne to Freyburg. 
Stopped at the Zahringer Hof — most romantic of inns. Our 
gentlemanly host ushered us forth upon a'terrace overhanging 
the deep gorge of the Saarine, spanned, to the right and left 
of us, by two immense suspension bridges, one of which 
seemed to spring from the hotel itself. Ruins of ancient 
walls and watch towers lined the precipice. 
After dinner we visited the cathedral to hear the celebrated organ. The organist performed a piece descriptive 
of a storm. We resigned ourselves to the illusion. Low, 
mysterious wailings, swelling, dying away in the distance, 
seeming* at first exceedingly remote, drew gradually near. 
Fitful sighings and sobbings rose, as of gusts of wind ; then 
low, smothered roarings. Anon came flashes of lightning, 
rattling hail, and driving rain, succeeded by bursts of storm, 
and howlings of a hurricane — fierce, furious, frightful. I 
felt myself lost in a snow storm in winter, on the pass of 
Great St. Bernard. 
One note there was of strange, terrible clangor — bleak, 
dark, yet of a lurid fire — that seemed to prolong itself through 
all the uproar, like a note of doom, cutting its way to the 
heart as the call of the last archangel. Yes, I felt myself 
alone, lost in a boundless desert, beyond the abodes of man ; 
and this was a call of terror — stern, savage, gloomy — the 
call as of fixed fate and absolute despair. 
Then the storm died away, in faint and far-off murmurs ; 
and we broke, as it were, from the trance, to find ourselves, 
not lost, but here among the living. We then drove quietly 
to Berne. 
Wednesday, July 20. Examined, not the lions, but the 
bears of Berne. It is indeed a city of bears, as its name 
imports. There are bears on its gates, bears on its fountains, bears in its parks and gardens, bears every where. 
But, though Berne rejoices in a fountain adorned with an 
image of Saturn eating children, nevertheless, the old city 
— quaint, quiet, and queer — looks as if, bear-like, it had 
been hybernating good-naturedly for a century, and were just 
about to wake up. 
Engaged a voiture, and drove to Thun. Dined, and drove 
by the shore of the lake to Interlachen, arriving just after a 
brilliant sunset. 
Thursday, July 21. S. and G. remained at the Belvedere. 
W., H., and I took a guide and voiture for Lauterbrunn. 
Here we visited Byron's apocalyptic horse-tail waterfall, the 
Staubbach. This waterfall is very sublime, all except the 
water and the fall. Whoever has been " under the sheet " at 
Niagara will not be particularly impressed here. This pic- 
ture is sufficiently accurate, with the exception of the cottage. 
People here do not build cottages under waterfalls. 
Here we crossed the Wengern Alps to Grindelwald. The 
Jungfrau is right over against us — her glaciers purer, ten- 
derer, more dazzlingly beautiful, if possible, than those of 
Mont Blanc. Slept at Grindelwald. 
LETTER XXXVIII. 
Dear Children : — 
To-day we have been in the 
Wengern Alps — the scenes 
described in Manfred. Imagine us mounting, about ten 
o'clock, from the valley of 
Lauterbrunn, on horseback 
— our party of three — with 
two guides. We had first 
been to sec the famous Staub- 
bach, a beautiful, though not 
sublime, object. Up we began to go among those green 
undulations which form the 
lower part of the mountain. 
 
It is haying time; a bright day; all is cheerful; the birds 
sing ; men, women, and children are busy in the field. Up 
we go, zigzag ; it grows steeper and steeper. Now right below me is a field, where men are literally working almost on a 
perpendicular wall, cutting hay ; now we are so high that the 
houses in the valley look like chips. Here we stand in a 
place two thousand feet above the valley. There is no shield 
or screen. The horse stands on the very edge ; the guide 
stops, lets go his bridle, and composedly commences an oration on the scene below. " O, for mercy's sake, why do you 
stop here ? " I say. " Pray go on." He looks in my face, 
with innocent wonder, takes the bridle on his arm, and 
goes on. 
Now we have come to the little village of Wengern, 
whence the Wengern Alps take their name. How beautiful ! 
how like fairyland ! Up here, midway in air, is a green nook, 
with undulating dells, and shadowy, breezy nests, where are 
the cottages of the haymakers. The Delectable Mountains 
had no scene more lovely. . Each house has its roof heavily 
loaded with stones. "What is that for?" I ask. "The 
whirlwinds," says my guide, with a significant turn of his 
hands. " This is the school house," he adds, as we pass a 
building larger than the rest. 
Now the path turns and slopes down a steep bank, covered 
with haycocks, to a little nook below, likewise covered with 
new hay. If my horse is going to throw me any where, I 
wish it may be here : it is not so bad a thing to roll down into 
that hay. But now we mount higher ; the breezy dells, en- 
amelled with flowers and grass, become fewer ; the great black 
pines take their place. Right before us, in the purest white, 
as a bride adorned for her husband, rises the beautiful Jung- 
 
frau, wearing on her forehead the Silver Horn, and the Snow 
Horn. The Silver Horn is a peak, dazzlingly bright, of snow ; 
and its crest is now seen in relief against a sky of the deepest 
blue. See, also, how those dark pines of the foreground contrast with it, like the stern, mournful realities of life seen 
against the dazzling hopes of heaven. 
There is something celestial in these mountains. You 
might think such a vision as that to be a bright footstool 
of Heaven, from which the next step would be into an unknown world. The pines here begin to show that long 
white beard of moss which I admire so much in Maine. 
Now, we go right up over their heads. There, the tall 
pines are under our feet. A little more — and now above us 
rise the stern, naked rocks, where only the chamois and the 
wild goat live. But still, fair as the moon, clear as the sun, 
looks forth the Jungfrau. 
We turn to look down. That Staubbach, which in the 
valley seemed to fall from an immense precipice, "higher 
than we could gaze, is now a silver thread, far below our 
feet ; and the valley of Lauterbrunn seems as nothing. Only 
bleak, purplish crags, rising all around us, and silent, silver 
mountains looking over them. 
" That one directly before you is the Monk," says C, 
calling to me from behind, and pointing to a great snow 
