across the dusty, uncarpeted floor, and on the dingy furniture of the
room. As it did so, the moaning voice which had drawn me thither
swelled on the air again; and now I saw, lying upon an old sofa, the
form of a man. It needed no second glance to tell me that this was
Judge Hammond. I put my hand upon him, and uttered his name; but he
answered not. I spoke more firmly, and slightly shook him; but only a
piteous moan was returned.

"Judge Hammond!" I now called aloud, and somewhat imperatively.

But it availed nothing. The poor old man aroused not from the stupor in
which mind and body were enshrouded.

"He is dying!" thought I; and instantly left the house in search of
some friends to take charge of him in his last, sad extremity. The
first person to whom I made known the fact shrugged his shoulders, and
said it was no affair of his, and that I must find somebody whose
business it was to attend to him. My next application was met in the
same spirit; and no better success attended my reference of the matter
to a third party. No one to whom I spoke seemed to have any sympathy
for the broken-down old man. Shocked by this indifference, I went to
one of the county officers, who, on learning the condition of Judge
Hammond, took immediate steps to have him removed to the Alms-house,
some miles distant.

"But why to the Alms-house?" I inquired, on learning his purpose. "He
has property."

"Everything has been seized for debt," was the reply.

"Will there be nothing left after his creditors are satisfied?"

"Very few, if any, will be satisfied," he answered. "There will not be
enough to pay half the judgments against him."

"And is there no friend to take him in,--no one, of all who moved by
his side in the days of prosperity, to give a few hours' shelter, and
soothe the last moments of his unhappy life?"

"Why did you make application here?" was the officer's significant
question.

I was silent.

"Your earnest appeals for the poor old man met with no words of
sympathy?"

"None."

"He has, indeed, fallen low. In the days of his prosperity, he had many
friends, so called. Adversity has shaken them all like dead leaves from
sapless branches."

"But why? This is not always so."

"Judge Hammond was a selfish, worldly man. People never liked him much.
His favoring, so strongly, the tavern of Slade, and his distillery
operations, turned from him some of his best friends. The corruption
and terrible fate of his son--and the insanity and death of his
wife--all were charged upon him in people's minds, and every one seemed
to turn from him instinctively after the fearful tragedy was completed.
He never held tip his head afterward. Neighbors shunned him as they
would a criminal. And here has come the end at last. He will be taken
to the poorhouse, to die there--a pauper!"

"And all," said I, partly speaking to myself, "because a man, too lazy
to work at an honest calling, must needs go to rum-selling."

"The truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth," remarked the
officer with emphasis, as he turned from me to see that his directions
touching the removal of Mr. Hammond to the poor-house were promptly
executed.

In my wanderings about Cedarville during that day, I noticed a small
but very neat cottage, a little way from the centre of the village.
There was not around it a great profusion of flowers and shrubbery; but
the few vines, flowers, and bushes that grew green and flourishing
about the door, and along the clean walks, added to the air of taste
and comfort that so peculiarly marked the dwelling.

"Who lives in that pleasant little spot?" I asked of a man whom I had
frequently seen in Blade's bar-room. He happened to be passing the
house at the same time that I was.

"Joe Morgan," was answered.

"Indeed!" I spoke in some surprise. "And what of Morgan? How is he
doing?"

"Very well."

"Doesn't he drink?"

"No. Since the death of his child, he has never taken a drop. That
event sobered him, and he has remained sober ever since."

"What is he doing?"

"Working at his old trade."

"That of a miller?"

"Yes. After Judge Hammond broke down, the distillery apparatus and
cotton spinning machinery were all sold and removed from Cedarville.
The purchaser of what remained, having something of the fear of God, as
well as regard for man, in his heart, set himself to the restoration of
the old order of things, and in due time the revolving mill-wheel was
at its old and better work of grinding corn and wheat for bread. The
only two men in Cedarville competent to take charge of the mill were
Simon Slade and Joe Morgan. The first could not be had, and the second
came in as a matter of course."

"And he remains sober and industrious?"

"As any man in the village," was the answer.

I saw but little of Slade or his son during the day. But both were in
the bar-room at night, and both in a condition sorrowful to look upon.
Their presence, together, in the bar-room, half intoxicated as they
were, seemed to revive the unhappy temper of the previous evening, as
freshly as if the sun had not risen and set upon their anger.

During the early part of the evening, considerable company was present,
though not of a very select class. A large proportion were young men.
To most of them the fact that Slade had fallen into the sheriff's hands
was known; and I gathered from some aside conversation which reached my
ears, that Frank's idle, spendthrift habits had hastened the present
crisis in his father's affairs. He, too, was in debt to Judge Lyman--on
what account, it was not hard to infer.

It was after nine o'clock, and there were not half a dozen persons in
the room, when I noticed Frank Slade go behind the bar for the third or
fourth time. He was just lifting a decanter of brandy, when his father,
who was considerably under the influence of drink, started forward, and
laid his hand upon that of his son. Instantly a fierce light gleamed
from the eyes of the young man.

"Let go of my hand!" he exclaimed.

"No, I won't. Put up that brandy bottle--you're drunk now."

"Don't meddle with me, old man!" angrily retorted Frank. "I'm not in
the mood to bear anything more from YOU."

"You're drunk as a fool now," returned Slade, who had seized the
decanter. "Let go the bottle."

For only an instant did the young man hesitate. Then he drove his
half-clenched hand against the breast of his father, who went
staggering several paces from the counter. Recovering himself, and now
almost furious, the landlord rushed forward upon his son, his hand
raised to strike him.

"Keep off!" cried Frank. "Keep off! If you touch me, I'll strike you
down!" At the same time raising the half-filled bottle threateningly.

But his father was in too maddened a state to fear any consequences,
and so pressed forward upon his son, striking him in the face the
moment he came near enough to do so.

Instantly, the young man, infuriated by drink and evil passions, threw
the bottle at his father's head. The dangerous missile fell, crashing
upon one of his temples, shivering it into a hundred pieces. A heavy,
jarring fall too surely marked the fearful consequences of the blow.
When we gathered around the fallen man, and made an effort to lift him
from the floor, a thrill of horror went through every heart. A mortal
paleness was already on his marred face, and the death-gurgle in his
throat! In three minutes from the time the blow was struck, his spirit
had gone upward to give an account of the deeds done in the body.

"Frank Slade! you have murdered your father!"

Sternly were these terrible words uttered. It was some time before the
young man seemed to comprehend their meaning. But the moment he
realized the awful truth, he uttered an exclamation of horror. Almost
at the same instant, a pistol-shot came sharply on the ear. But the
meditated self-destruction was not accomplished. The aim was not surely
taken; and the ball struck harmlessly against the ceiling.

Half an hour afterward, and Frank Slade was a lonely prisoner in the
county jail!

Does the reader need a word of comment on this fearful consummation?
No; and we will offer none.




NIGHT THE TENTH.

THE CLOSING SCENE AT THE "SICKLE AND SHEAF."


On the day that succeeded the evening of this fearful tragedy, placards
were to be seen all over the village, announcing a mass meeting at the
"Sickle and Sheaf" that night.

By early twilight, the people commenced assembling. The bar, which had
been closed all day, was now thrown open, and lighted; and in this
room, where so much of evil had been originated, encouraged and
