Mr. Talbot explained that the signal was to be the dropping of a
handkerchief, after he should have counted three slowly. Mr. Villet
held the handkerchief "One--two--" said Talbot, deliberately. Lynn had
only time to see the murder in his antagonist's eye, when a report rang
through the forest, and he felt a sharp pain in his breast and arm.
"Treachery!" shouted Thornton, excitedly. "Shoot him down, Holmes! he
deserves a dog's death!"
Lynn's hot blood was up--he raised his arm. The loaded and discharged
pistols were whirling in the air--and Charley Dana and Morton Lacy
threw themselves between the combatants.
"At whose instance was this meeting brought about, gentlemen?"
questioned the former, peremptorily, scanning the group.
"The challenge came from my principal," answered Watson, with a brazen
look.
"Will you honour me by a minute's private conversation, sir?" asked
Charley, facing Pemberton, with a sneer seen by him alone. "You need
not be afraid," he pursued, not receiving an immediate reply, "I do
not carry concealed weapons."
Pemberton went aside with him very reluctantly. He respected, because
he feared Charley. Without a correct understanding of his character,
he stood in awe of the keen ridicule and calm courage, for which his
blustering was no match.
"You must be at a loss for something to do, that you covet such
business as this;" began Charley. "I have no objection to your blowing
your brains out--and any coroner in the country would decide that an
inquest would be 'much-ado about nothing;' but it is another matter
when you try, in cold blood, to take the life of one, who has some
pretensions to the name of man. You are a cowardly poltroon! If you are
on the look-out for insults, there is one, if truth can insult. Two
policemen are at a little distance. The law will have a more serious
job than I anticipated. There are five witnesses to the fact, that
you fired in advance of the time. Join this to your provocation of
the other night, and your having sent the challenge; and it will not
require a Philadelphia lawyer to make out a case, which will put a
stop to your murderous propensities for awhile. Now, sir, what do you
propose to do?"
The bully shook visibly. "Really, Mr. Dana, this is an extraordinary
procedure. You and I have no quarrel."
"I beg your pardon--men of honour do not pass over such remarks as I
have indulged in. You did not hear me, perhaps; I said, and say now,
you are a pitiful poltroon! shaking in your shoes, this minute, at the
prospect of the penitentiary, and the loss of your soap-locks. But
before I give you into the keeping of your lawful guardians, I have a
proposal to make on my own account. I came here with the intention of
giving you a castigation for your impertinent mention of a lady. I will
not fight a duel with you, but if you resist, I will take care you do
not shoot me. I meant to horse-whip you, and I will--within an inch
of your life, if you do not make an ample apology. You cannot bully or
blarney me, Pemberton. We know each other."
In abject terms, he declared that he had the highest veneration for Mr.
Dana's friend, Miss Ross; he was in wine at the time spoken of, and was
unaware, until told of it, that he had mentioned her--
"That will do!" interposed Charley. "Are you ready to rejoin your
friends?"
"You will not do me this great injury, Mr. Dana! think of the
exposure--the disgrace! A duel is an honourable affair, if carried
out; but when it takes a turn like this, you will admit it looks
confoundedly mean."
Charley could not but smile at his ludicrously pathetic tone.
"Will you bind yourself to behave better to your superiors--Mr. Holmes
included--if I help you out of the scrape?"
The pledge was eagerly given.
"Your best plan will be to state to the company that, in consequence
of explanations made by me, you retract the challenge, and likewise
the offensive remark that provoked Mr. Holmes to assault you. Offer
your hand to him, with the best grace you can muster; jump into your
carriage--and you shall not be pursued."
The seconds were huddled together, talking of the novel phase of
the affair; Lynn and Morton walking to and fro; the latter speaking
earnestly, while Lynn's averted face showed he was not unmoved.
Pemberton obeyed instructions to the letter; and with a trepidation
and hurry which nearly betrayed Charley into a disgrace of the dignity
of the occasion. After a grasp at Lynn's hand, he bowed hastily,
summoned his attendants, and disappeared among the trees. The crack of
the driver's whip proclaimed his departure. Thornton and Villet were
profuse in their inquiries, but they were little wiser for Charley's
replies. An exclamation from Morton interrupted them.
"You are wounded!" said he, pointing to Lynn's arm, from which the
blood was oozing.
"Only a scratch," replied he.
Charley ripped up his sleeve; uncovering a flesh wound of no great
depth. The ball had passed between his side and arm, grazing both;--its
aim was the heart.
"If I had seen this sooner!" said Charley, involuntarily.
"What if you had?" inquired Lynn.
He made no reply, but proceeded to bind up the wound. "Gentlemen!" said
he, when he had done;--"your carriage and breakfast are waiting. I take
it, you have nothing more on hand this morning."
Thornton and Villet bowed, half-offended; Lynn lingered. "How are you
going back?" he asked of Morton, but looking at Charley.
"Our horses are not far off," answered the former, kindly. "We will see
you again in an hour or two."
"Coming!" responded Lynn, to his friends' impatient call. He looked
again to Charley's grave face, beseechingly and timidly; but could not
summon courage to break the silence.
"Do not punish him too severely, Charley," said Morton. He turned from
him without speaking. He had never seen him so affected before. They
were alone in the glade; and the birds, silenced for a time by human
voices, were heard again twittering in the boughs. Charley spoke at
length.
"I have been deceived, Lacy. I thought I knew men, and was prepared
for any inconsistency; but if I had been told that the man, cherished
for years as a brother, would mislead me purposely in a matter of
vital importance to us both, I would not have credited it. I had his
promise, or what amounted to a promise, that he would not stir without
consulting me. What weakness!" he continued, more agitated, "to abandon
fame and friends and life, because of a fancied slight from a woman!"
"Yet are we guiltless of similar failings?" said Morton, impressively.
"Have there not been times when we too were impatient--despairing--for
no more weighty cause? My dear Charley, let us judge leniently errors
into which we might have fallen, but for greater strength or less
powerful temptation. Disapproval and forgiveness are not incompatible."
"You have witnessed the one--will you be the bearer of the other!"
asked Charley, trying to smile. "I will not oblige him to ask it. He
has had humiliation enough for one day."
Mr. Lacy's first care, upon their return to the city, was to dispatch a
note to Ida. It merely announced the success of their expedition; the
means adopted to secure it, she gathered from Charley. They had gone
together, first to Lynn's then to Pemberton's lodgings, when Charley
had been informed of the projected meeting. They were reported "not
at home." They then hit upon the unpromising expedient of going to
every hackstand in the city, to ascertain, if possible, at what time
the party was to start in the morning, and its route. They failed, in
two or three cases to arouse the keepers; and from others received
unimportant and early replies. Charley had just asked, "Do you mean
to give it up?" and been answered by a firm "Never!" when a negro
bustled by them. Morton seized him by the shoulder, and led him to an
apothecary's lamp.
"I thought so!"
"I've got a pass. Let me go!" said the fellow, struggling.
"Not until I know where you have been. You are Mr. Talbot's
servant--you may gain something, and shall not lose, by answering me
civilly. What were you sent for!"
By smooth and harsh words, he was brought to acknowledge that his
"young master" having had company all the evening, had forgotten, until
late, to send him to a livery-stable to engage a carriage for five
o'clock next morning.
"Who is with him, besides Mr. Pemberton?" inquired Mr. Lacy.
"Mr. Watson, sir."
"How far are they to go, after crossing the river?"
"Lor! Massa! how you reckon I know?"
"No trifling, sir! If I wanted to create mischief, you have said
enough. Tell me everything, or I will go at once to your master!"
The man instantly named their destination, which his master had let
slip in his hearing; and added that they were "fixing pistols." The
information was corroborated by a call upon the liveryman, and they
acted upon it. The delay, which was so near being fatal, arose from
their ignorance of a newer and shorter road than they chose.
"How Lacy guessed their intentions, I cannot imagine," said Charley.
"He would not entrust to me the name of his informant; and Lynn is as
much in the dark. He brought your letter to the door after he was sure
you had retired and mine was left upon his desk. But Lacy is discreet
from principle, not from caprice."
"He is," said Ida with heightened color. "If any stigma attaches to the
informer, it must rest upon me."
"Just like him, noble-hearted and faithful!" exclaimed Charley, when
her story was ended. "Shall you tell Lynn?"
"Yes--if only to show him how his friends love him. He may view it as
a breach of confidence, but I had rather he should reproach me, than
suspect the innocent."
Whether he reproached her or not, the revelation did not diminish his
regard for her. Except at their first agitating interview, he never
adverted to the unfinished duel; but he seemed drawn to her by a new
tie, in the recollection of her readiness to adventure so much in his
behalf. Ellen Morris had left town for a visit to Petersburg, the day
after the rupture:--left without a message or line of penitence or
conciliation. Lynn did not complain, but his moodiness subsided into a
pensiveness, illumined by the flashes of his former animation, like the
sparkle of smouldering embers.
It was during one of these gleams that he spent the evening at the
rendezvous of what Josephine styled the "Dana clique." John Dana and
his amiable wife were great favorites of his and Mr. Lacy's. Their
friendly calls may have been more frequent because it was Ida's chief
visiting place. Mr. Dana was in New York, and she had dined and taken
tea with her friend.
Lynn came in with Charley, and the latter, excusing himself for an hour
after supper, left Ida and the young artist together.
"I have been thinking lately, how sublime a thing is philanthropy,"
said Lynn, throwing himself with boyish abandon, upon the rug at her
feet. "I welcome this train of thought as a sign, that I am growing
less selfish, for I have been sadly, sinfully selfish, Ida--madly
intent upon my schemes, my happiness--forgetting that God placed me
in the world to benefit others. Lacy was in my studio to-day, and we
had a talk upon this subject. He says there is always a reflex tide
of the happiness we send forth to those around us; a purer, truer joy
than self-gratification. 'In this respect,' he observed, 'we can best
imitate the example of our Supreme Benefactor.' Imitate our Creator,
Ida! that is something worth living for."
"You have much besides, to make life precious, Lynn. I remember when it
seemed worthless to me; when I thought I had tasted all the sweetness
it possessed--I have changed my opinion since."
"Ah! but you have never bowed soul and spirit to an idol, and 'found it
clay;' never realised in the dread hour that saw its demolition, that
the fairest growth of heart and mind--the plants which you flattered
yourself were climbing heavenward, had only twined themselves with
strengthening tendrils about the altar of that one love! I know the
meaning of the expression, 'broken cisterns, which can hold no water.'
I have felt for some time past as if my heart were a stagnant marsh,
flooded by wasted affections. To-day I have been happier, more hopeful.
I will begin life anew, and strive for my art and for my kind."
