boat."
"The gentleman wants to see Tony very much."
"Who is he?"
"His name is Walker; it would do your heart good to hear him speak of
Tony."
"I dare say; but Tony is worthy of all the praise that can be bestowed
upon him. How is the lady?"
"She is nicely, and she thinks Tony is an angel. She declares that a
dozen strong men could have done no more for them."
"She is right; you did all that could have been done by any persons. The
Butterfly's first laurel is a glorious one, and I can congratulate you
on the honors you have won."
"Thank you, Frank," said Little Paul, modestly. "I am sorry you were not
with us to share the honors."
"We should have been, if it hadn't been for Tim Bunker," said Charles
Hardy, a little sourly.
Tim had gone with the Butterfly, or Charles would not have dared to make
such a remark.
"And if you had had your way, we shouldn't have come when we did," added
William Bright, smartly.
"What do you mean, Bill?"
"Didn't you protest against passing the rocks."
"I did, because it was directly in opposition to Captain Sedley's
orders."
"Never mind, fellows," interposed Frank; "for my part, I am glad the
Butterfly had it all to herself. She has just come out, and it will be a
feather in her cap."
"But we saved the chaise," said Charles.
"We pulled it ashore; it was safe enough where it was. The Butterfly
saved the lives of the man and woman, and of the horse. They would have
drowned, and all the glory consisted in saving them. Tony and his crew
deserve all the credit, and I, for one, am happy to accord it to them."
"That's just like you, Frank!" exclaimed Little Paul. "I believe, if the
two boats had changed places, you would have given us all the credit."
"You behaved nobly."
"Just as you would have done if you had been in Tony's place."
"We will talk that over some other time. We are ready to return when
you are."
"I suppose there is nothing more to be done."
They were about to embark, when they discovered a party of men
approaching the place, several of them carrying ropes and poles.
"Hold on;" shouted Farmer Leeds, to whose house the boys had conducted
the lady and gentleman. "We want your boat to get the chaise out of the
river with."
"It is out now," replied Little Paul.
The boys waited till the party reached the river. A clump of trees had
prevented them from seeing the chaise till they had got almost to the
shore; and, as Little Paul expressed it afterwards, "they looked
surprised enough, to see it high and dry upon the rocks."
"I must say one thing, Mr. Leeds," began Mr. Walker; "and that is, you
have smart boys in this vicinity."
"Toler'ble," replied the farmer, with a smile.
"They are men in noble deeds."
"This boating business turns the boys into men; and though, in my
opinion, it would be just as well to set 'em to work in the cornfields,
there is no denying that it brings 'em out, and makes 'em smart."
"My wife would certainly have been drowned without their help."
"I daresay."
"But where is the little fellow that commanded the boat?" asked Mr.
Walker, scrutinizing the faces of the boys.
"He has gone home, sir; he was wet and cold."
"That is right; I am glad he has; I shall go and see him by and by. And
these are the boys that brought the chaise ashore?"
"Yes, sir," replied Little Paul. "This is Frank Sedley, the coxswain of
the Zephyr."
"Well, Master Sedley, I am under great obligations to you."
"Not at all to me, sir. Tony Weston saved you. We only pulled the chaise
ashore."
"But you shall not be forgotten. The other boat is gone, you say?"
"Yes, sir. Tony Weston is the coxswain of the Butterfly."
"And a noble fellow he is, too. He will be a great man one of these
days. It did my heart good to see how cool and collected he was; how
skilfully he managed the boat, when it came down upon us like a race
horse. He gave off his orders like a hero, and they were obeyed with a
promptness and precision that would have been creditable to the crew of
a man-of-war, after a three years' cruise. And then, when he ordered six
of the boys to stay in the boat, and the rest to follow him into the
water, it was really heroic. Over he went, with his crew after him, as
though they had been so many ducks. And in the water, they worked with
as much coolness and courage as though it had been their native element.
I would give half my fortune to be the father of such a son."
"I would give all of mine," added Farmer Leeds. "You don't know half his
worth yet. But there is nothing for us to do here; the men shall haul
your chaise up to the house, and as we walk along I will tell you about
Tony."
"Master Sedley, I shall see you again to-day or to-morrow. Tell Tony
how highly I value his noble service, and tell him I shall call upon him
this evening," said Mr. Walker, as he went away with Farmer Leeds.
"My father would be very happy to have you stop at his house while you
remain in Rippleton," continued Frank, who was not sure that the
farmhouse would accommodate him.
"As to that," interposed Farmer Leeds, "I can't offer you so grand a
house as Captain Sedley's, but such as it is, you are welcome to it."
"Thank you, Master Sedley, for your hospitable invitation; but I think I
will remain with my good friend here." And he departed with the farmer.
"All aboard!" said Frank, and the boys tumbled into the boat, and
grasped their oars.
The Zephyr pushed off, and her cheerful crew pulled merrily down the
river. Frank was conscious that the organization of the boat clubs had
been the means of accomplishing the good work which the crew of the
Butterfly had just achieved. He was aware that some of the people in the
vicinity had cherished strong objections to the clubs, and that Tony had
had considerable difficulty in persuading the parents of his crew to
allow their sons to join. The adventure at the bridge, he thought, would
have a tendency to reconcile them, and to elevate and dignify boating.
At any rate a good deed had been done, and the parents of those who had
taken part in it could not but be proud of the laurels their sons had
earned.
The Zephyr, under Frank's skilful pilotage passed the rocks in safety,
though, as they darted through the narrow channel, he could see their
sharp edges only a little way below the surface of the clear water.
They had scarcely entered the open lake before they perceived the Sylph,
under full sail with a smashing breeze, close aboard of them.
"Frank!" shouted Captain Sedley, who was at the helm, while Uncle Ben
was gazing at them with a very sorrowful face from the half deck.
"Ay, ay, sir!" replied Frank, as he laid the Zephyr's course towards the
sailboat.
Though his father had only spoken his name, there was something in the
tone which could not be misapprehended; but it did not occur to him, he
was so engaged in thinking of the incidents at the bridge, that he had
disobeyed his father's command in passing into the river.
As the Zephyr approached, the Sylph luffed, and came up into the wind,
to wait for her. Frank brought his boat round under the stern of the
sailboat, and "lay to" an oar's length from her.
"Frank," said his father, sternly, "I am surprised that you should
venture among those rocks, when I have expressly forbidden you ever to
go into the river."
"But, father, there was--"
"How could you do such a thing, after I had so carefully warned you--so
positively interdicted it? Suppose your boat had been dashed in pieces,"
continued Captain Sedley, who, though deeply grieved at his son's
apparent disobedience, was too indignant to hear an excuse; for such he
supposed Frank was about to offer--one of those silly, frivolous excuses
which boys sometimes seize upon to palliate their misconduct.
"I protested against it!" said Charles Hardy, rising from his seat.
"Shut up!" exclaimed Little Paul, his cheek glowing with indignation, as
he pulled Charles back into his seat.
"I went to save life, father," replied Frank, almost choked by his
emotions, a flood of tears springing in his eyes and well-nigh blinding
him.
"To save life!" said Captain Sedley, touched by the reply, and far more
by Frank's emotion.
He saw that he had spoken too quick--that his son had not passed the
rocks without a good and sufficient reason.
"Yes, sir," replied Frank, struggling to master his feelings; and then
he related all that had occurred at the bridge; how Tony had saved the
lady and gentleman, and the horse; and how his crew had pulled the
chaise ashore.
"You did right, Frank; forgive my hasty words," said Captain Sedley,
with deep feeling.
"Good, my hearty!" exclaimed Uncle Ben, clapping his hands.
A heavy load had been removed from the mind of the veteran, who had
almost come to believe that Frank could do no wrong.
"Tony's a hero; and shiver my timbers, if he oughtn't to be president of
the United States, when he's old enough," exclaimed Uncle Ben.
"He is a brave fellow. You have done well, both of you. However strict
our orders are, no person should be a machine. Orders should be obeyed
with judgment," continued Captain Sedley.
"That's a fact. I could tell a yarn about that," added Uncle Ben. "When
I was in the old Varsayles, bound round the Horn--"
"Another time we will hear your yarn, Ben," interposed Captain Sedley.
"We will go over and see Tony now, and congratulate him on the honors
the Butterfly has won. Haul in the gib sheet, Ben."
"Ready--pull!" said Frank.
"Who protested now, Master Charles Hardy?" asked Little Paul, as he
good-naturedly punched the forward youth in the ribs.
"Circumstances alter cases," replied Charles, sagely, as he bent on his
oar.
"Fact! but they altered them when the deed was done, not now, when you
have found out that it was all right."
CHAPTER VII.
COMMODORE FRANK SEDLEY.
For a few days all Rippleton rang with the praises of Tony and his
companions. All the particulars of the affair at the bridge had been
given in the Rippleton Mercury, and the editor was profuse in his
commendations of the skill and courage of the Butterfly Boat Club; and
he did not withhold from the Zephyr the credit which was justly due.
Tony was a hero, and his fame extended for many miles around.
Mr. Walker and his lady, who had been rescued from the river, visited
Captain Sedley and the Weston family the next day. I need not tell my
young readers how earnest he was in the expression of his admiration and
gratitude. He was a wealthy merchant, and resided in a neighboring town.
Being as warm-hearted and generous as he was just and discriminating, it
was quite natural that he should give his feelings expression in some
substantial token of his gratitude.
Before he left Rippleton, a check for five hundred dollars was placed in
the hands of George Weston, with directions to give four hundred of it
to the Butterfly, and one hundred to the Zephyr. In the division of the
Butterfly's share, Mr. Walker desired that one hundred dollars should be
given to Tony, and twenty-five dollars apiece to the crew; consenting,
however, to let the whole sum be common property if the club desired.
This liberality was certainly munificent, princely; but Mr. Walker's
wealth was quite sufficient to enable him to gratify his generous
impulses. Tony said he felt a little "ticklish" about taking it, at
first; but George assured him that Mr. Walker would feel hurt if he did
not, and he concluded to accept it.
"But what shall we do with it, George?" asked the young hero, who was
not a little embarrassed by the possession of so much money.
"That is for you to decide."
"What can we do with it?"
