"what's the matter? There hain't nothin' burst, has there?" "No, no,
no!" exclaim the provoked and despairing opposition party, who find that
there is no such thing as going to sleep till they have made the old
lady below and the young ladies above understand exactly the philosophy
of a lock. After a while the conversation again subsides; again all is
still; you hear only the trampling of horses and the rippling of the
rope in the water, and sleep again is stealing over you. You doze, you
dream, and all of a sudden you are started by a cry, "Chambermaid! wake
up the lady that wants to be set ashore." Up jumps chambermaid, and up
jump the lady and two children, and forthwith form a committee of
inquiry as to ways and means. "Where's my bonnet?" says the lady, half
awake, and fumbling among the various articles of that name. "I thought
I hung it up behind the door." "Can't you find it?" says poor
chambermaid, yawning and rubbing her eyes. "O, yes, here it is," says
the lady; and then the cloak, the shawl, the gloves, the shoes, receive
each a separate discussion. At last all seems ready, and they begin to
move off, when, lo! Peter's cap is missing. "Now, where can it be?"
soliloquizes the lady. "I put it right here by the table leg; maybe it
got into some of the berths." At this suggestion, the chambermaid takes
the candle, and goes round deliberately to every berth, poking the light
directly in the face of every sleeper. "Here it is," she exclaims,
pulling at something black under one pillow. "No, indeed, those are my
shoes," says the vexed sleeper. "Maybe it's here," she resumes, darting
upon something dark in another berth. "No, that's my bag," responds the
occupant. The chambermaid then proceeds to turn over all the children on
the floor, to see if it is not under them. In the course of which
process they are most agreeably waked up and enlivened; and when every
body is broad awake, and most uncharitably wishing the cap, and Peter
too, at the bottom of the canal, the good lady exclaims, "Well, if this
isn't lucky; here I had it safe in my basket all the time!" And she
departs amid the--what shall I say?--execrations?--of the whole company,
ladies though they be.
Well, after this follows a hushing up and wiping up among the juvenile
population, and a series of remarks commences from the various shelves,
of a very edifying and instructive tendency. One says that the woman did
not seem to know where any thing was; another says that she has waked
them all up; a third adds that she has waked up all the children, too;
and the elderly ladies make moral reflections on the importance of
putting your things where you can find them--being always ready; which
observations, being delivered in an exceedingly doleful and drowsy tone,
form a sort of sub-bass to the lively chattering of the upper shelfites,
who declare that they feel quite wide awake,--that they don't think they
shall go to sleep again to-night,--and discourse over every thing in
creation, until you heartily wish you were enough related to them to
give them a scolding.
At last, however, voice after voice drops off; you fall into a most
refreshing slumber; it seems to you that you sleep about a quarter of an
hour, when the chambermaid pulls you by the sleeve. "Will you please to
get up, ma'am? We want to make the beds." You start and stare. Sure
enough, the night is gone. So much for sleeping on board canal boats.
Let us not enumerate the manifold perplexities of the morning toilet in
a place where every lady realizes most forcibly the condition of the old
woman who lived under a broom: "All she wanted was elbow room." Let us
not tell how one glass is made to answer for thirty fair faces, one ewer
and vase for thirty lavations; and--tell it not in Gath!--one towel for
a company! Let us not intimate how ladies' shoes have, in a night,
clandestinely slid into the gentlemen's cabin, and gentlemen's boots
elbowed, or, rather, toed their way among ladies' gear, nor recite the
exclamations after runaway property that are heard. "I can't find
nothin' of Johnny's shoe!" "Here's a shoe in the water pitcher--is this
it?" "My side combs are gone!" exclaims a nymph with dishevelled curls.
"Massy! do look at my bonnet!" exclaims an old lady, elevating an
article crushed into as many angles as there are pieces in a minced pie.
"I never did sleep so much together in my life," echoes a poor little
French lady, whom despair has driven into talking English.
But our shortening paper warns us not to prolong our catalogue of
distresses beyond reasonable bounds, and therefore we will close with
advising all our friends, who intend to try this way of travelling for
pleasure, to take a good stock both of patience and clean towels with
them, for we think that they will find abundant need for both.
FEELING.
There is one way of studying human nature, which surveys mankind only as
a set of instruments for the accomplishment of personal plans. There is
another, which regards them simply as a gallery of pictures, to be
admired or laughed at as the caricature or the beau ideal
predominates. A third way regards them as human beings, having hearts
that can suffer and enjoy, that can be improved or be ruined; as those
who are linked to us by mysterious reciprocal influences, by the common
dangers of a present existence, and the uncertainties of a future one;
as presenting, wherever we meet them, claims on our sympathy and
assistance.
Those who adopt the last method are interested in human beings, not so
much by present attractions as by their capabilities as intelligent,
immortal beings; by a high belief of what every mind may attain in an
immortal existence; by anxieties for its temptations and dangers, and
often by the perception of errors and faults which threaten its ruin.
The first two modes are adopted by the great mass of society; the last
is the office of those few scattered stars in the sky of life, who look
down on its dark selfishness to remind us that there is a world of light
and love.
To this class did He belong, whose rising and setting on earth were
for "the healing of the nations;" and to this class has belonged many a
pure and devoted spirit, like him shining to cheer, like him fading away
into the heavens. To this class many a one wishes to belong, who has
an eye to distinguish the divinity of virtue, without the resolution to
attain it; who, while they sweep along with the selfish current of
society, still regret that society is not different--that they
themselves are not different. If this train of thought has no very
particular application to what follows, it was nevertheless suggested by
it, and of its relevancy others must judge.
Look into this school room. It is a warm, sleepy afternoon in July;
there is scarcely air enough to stir the leaves of the tall buttonwood
tree before the door, or to lift the loose leaves of the copy book in
the window; the sun has been diligently shining into those curtainless
west windows ever since three o'clock, upon those blotted and mangled
desks, and those decrepit and tottering benches, and that great arm
chair, the high place of authority.
You can faintly hear, about the door, the "craw, craw," of some
neighboring chickens, which have stepped around to consider the dinner
baskets, and pick up the crumbs of the noon's repast. For a marvel, the
busy school is still, because, in truth, it is too warm to stir. You
will find nothing to disturb your meditation on character, for you
cannot hear the beat of those little hearts, nor the bustle of all those
busy thoughts.
Now look around. Who of these is the most interesting? Is it that tall,
slender, hazel-eyed boy, with a glance like a falcon, whose elbows rest
on his book as he gazes out on the great buttonwood tree, and is
calculating how he shall fix his squirrel trap when school is out? Or is
it that curly-headed little rogue, who is shaking with repressed
laughter at seeing a chicken roll over in a dinner basket? Or is it that
arch boy with black eyelashes, and deep, mischievous dimple in his
cheeks, who is slyly fixing a fish hook to the skirts of the master's
coat, yet looking as abstracted as Archimedes whenever the good man
turns his head that way? No; these are intelligent, bright, beautiful,
but it is not these.
Perhaps, then, it is that sleepy little girl, with golden curls, and a
mouth like a half-blown rosebud. See, the small brass thimble has fallen
to the floor, her patchwork drops from her lap, her blue eyes close like
two sleepy violets, her little head is nodding, and she sinks on her
sister's shoulder: surely it is she. No, it is not.
But look in that corner. Do you see that boy with such a gloomy
countenance--so vacant, yet so ill natured? He is doing nothing, and he
very seldom does any thing. He is surly and gloomy in his looks and
actions. He never showed any more aptitude for saying or doing a pretty
thing than his straight white hair does for curling. He is regularly
blamed and punished every day, and the more he is blamed and punished,
the worse he grows. None of the boys and girls in school will play with
him; or, if they do, they will be sorry for it. And every day the master
assures him that "he does not know what to do with him," and that he
"makes him more trouble than any boy in school," with similar judicious
information, that has a striking tendency to promote improvement. That
is the boy to whom I apply the title of "the most interesting one."
He is interesting because he is not pleasing; because he has bad
habits; because he does wrong; because, under present influences, he is
always likely to do wrong. He is interesting because he has become what
he is now by means of the very temperament which often makes the noblest
virtue. It is feeling, acuteness of feeling, which has given that
countenance its expression, that character its moroseness.
He has no father, and that long-suffering friend, his mother, is gone
too. Yet he has relations, and kind ones too; and, in the compassionate
language of worldly charity, it may be said of him, "He would have
nothing of which to complain, if he would only behave himself."
His little sister is always bright, always pleasant and cheerful; and
his friends say, "Why should not he be so too? He is in exactly the same
circumstances." No, he is not. In one circumstance they differ. He has a
mind to feel and remember every thing that can pain; she can feel and
remember but little. If you blame him, he is exasperated, gloomy, and
cannot forget it. If you blame her, she can say she has done wrong in a
moment, and all is forgotten. Her mind can no more be wounded than the
little brook where she loves to play. The bright waters close again, and
smile and prattle as merry as before.
Which is the most desirable temperament? It would be hard to say. The
power of feeling is necessary for all that is noble in man, and yet it
involves the greatest risks. They who catch at happiness on the bright
surface of things, secure a portion, such as it is, with more certainty;
those who dive for it in the waters of deeper feeling, if they succeed,
will bring up pearls and diamonds, but if they sink they are lost
forever!
But now comes Saturday, and school is just out. Can any one of my
readers remember the rapturous prospect of a long, bright Saturday
afternoon? "Where are you going?" "Will you come and see me?" "We are
going a fishing!" "Let us go a strawberrying!" may be heard rising from
the happy group. But no one comes near the ill-humored James, and the
little party going to visit his sister "wish James was out of the way."
He sees every motion, hears every whisper, knows, suspects, feels it
all, and turns to go home more sullen and ill tempered than common. The
world looks dark--nobody loves him--and he is told that it is "all his
own fault," and that makes the matter still worse.
When the little party arrive, he is suspicious and irritable, and, of
course, soon excommunicated. Then, as he stands in disconsolate anger,
looking over the garden fence at the gay group making dandelion chains,
and playing baby house under the trees, he wonders why he is not like
other children. He wishes he were different, and yet he does not know
what to do. He looks around, and every thing is blooming and bright. His
little bed of flowers is even brighter and sweeter than ever before, and
a new rose is just opening on his rosebush.
There goes pussy, too, racing and scampering, with little Ellen after
her, in among the alleys and flowers; and the birds are singing in the
trees; and the soft winds brush the blossoms of the sweet pea against
his cheek; and yet, though all nature looks on him so kindly, he is
wretched.
Let us now change the scene. Why is that crowded assembly so
attentive--so silent? Who is speaking? It is our old friend, the little
disconsolate schoolboy. But his eyes are flashing with intellect, his
face fervent with emotion, his voice breathes like music, and every mind
is enchained.
Again, it is a splendid sunset, and yonder enthusiast meets it face to
face, as a friend. He is silent--rapt--happy. He feels the poetry which
God has written; he is touched by it, as God meant that the feeling
spirit should be touched.
