you think anything but duty would tear me from you? It is my duty to
be just to all men, and to pay what I owe as soon as I can."
"But take me!" sobbed Elma.
"Dear child! you must be reasonable. I know that you fear the
influence about me will not be as angelically pure as your own, and
I love you for that fear. I shall go where no man will care for my
soul as you do; but I shall not forget you, Elma. Now, cheer up, and
show me the ready resolution you have always had at hand."
"I never had such a cruel blow as this before!" returned Elma, in an
entire abandonment of grief. "Oh! take me with you, Horace, and
nothing in the world will be hard for me."
The wife's pleadings were vain, and in a week she parted from her
husband. After he had gone, she won back a spirit of resignation;
indeed, as soon as she found her doom was sealed, she gathered up
her strength, and strove to cheer Horace, whose spirits sunk
miserably when he had no longer to support Elma. She laid out a plan
for her life during her widowhood, as she called it, and this plan
was after the example of One who went about doing good. The weary
time passed slowly, but each day added a little gem to Elma's
heavenly life, and when, at length, she received her husband's last
letter before his return, her thanks gushed forth in gladness, as
they had so often before done, in holy confidence. Part of his
letter ran thus:--
And now, dear love, having told you of the outward success which has
met my efforts, let me tell you a little of the heart that belongs
to you--which you have won from darkness to light. It is filled with
images of hope and love, and a light from your spirit shines through
all--have been ever with me, ever leading me to that 'true light
which lighteth every man that cometh into the world.' I often gave
you pain, my darling, when we were together; it was unintentional,
and sprang from the evil of my nature; and a thousand times, when
you did not suspect it, your gentle look and touch brought to my
spirit better thoughts, and the thoughts brought better words and
deeds. You have been the angel of my life still more during our
separation; for my soul has yearned for your dear presence
constantly, and every day I have said to myself, 'Would this please
Elma?' and when I have been enabled to do a kindness, my heart
glowed at the thought of Elma's approval. Your blessed spirit never
seems so near to me as when I lift up my soul in prayer. I sometimes
fancy your prayers, beloved, have unlocked the Kingdom of Heaven for
me. Good bye, dearest life, we shall soon meet.
HORACE."
And when they met, the joy of their first wedding days seemed
doubled. Elma rejoiced at the discipline she had been through, for
it had better fitted her for the joyful existence that was before
her. It had now become more of a habit for her soul to dwell in a
heavenly atmosphere--she had learned to rely steadfastly upon her
God for the good gifts of her life, and they were showered upon her
abundantly; doubly beautiful, they were shared by a heart in unison.
LIVING LIKE A LADY.
MR. HAMILTON BURGESS was a man of limited means, but having married
a beautiful and amiable woman, he resolved to spare no expense in
surrounding her with comforts, and in supporting her, as he said,
"like a lady."
"My dear Ammy," said Mrs. Burgess, to her indulgent husband, about a
year after their marriage--"My dear Ammy"--this was the name she
called him by at home--"you are too kind to me, altogether. You
are unwilling that I should work, or do anything towards our
support, when I actually think that a little exertion on my part
would not only serve to lighten your expenses, but be quite as good
for my health and spirits as the occupations to which my time is now
devoted."
"Oh, you industrious little bee!" exclaimed Mr. Burgess, "you have
great notions of making yourself useful, I declare! But, Lizzie, I
shall never consent to your propositions. I did not marry you to
make you my slave. When you gave me this dear hand, I resolved that
it should never be soiled and made rough by labour--and it never
shall, as long as I am able to attend to my business."
Mrs. Burgess would not have done anything to displease her husband
for the world, and she accordingly allowed him to have his way
without offering farther remonstrance.
But Hamilton's business was dull, and it required the greatest
exertion on his part, and the severest application, to raise
sufficient money to meet the daily expenses of his family.
"My affairs will be in a better state next year," he said to
himself, "and I must manage to struggle through this dull season
some way or another. I will venture to run in debt a little, I
think; for any way is preferable to reducing our household
expenditures, which are by no means extravagant. At all events,
Lizzie must not know what my circumstances are, for she would insist
upon a change in our style of living, and revive the subject of
doing something towards our support."
Mr. Burgess then ventured to run in debt a little; he did not
attempt to reduce the expenses of his housekeeping; he never gave
his wife a hint respecting the true state of his business matters,
but insisted upon her accepting, as usual, a liberal allowance of
funds to meet her private expenses.
Lizzie seemed quite happy in her ignorance of her husband's
circumstances, never spoke again of assisting to support the
establishment, but seemed to devote herself to the pursuit of quiet
pleasures, and to procuring Hamilton's happiness. But Mr. Burgess's
circumstances, instead of improving, grew continually worse. His
venture of "running in debt a little," resulted in running in debt a
great deal. Thus the second year of his married life passed, and the
dark shadows of disappointed hope and the traces of corroding care
began to change the aspect of his brow.
One day a friend said to Hamilton--
"I am surprised at your conduct! Here you are, making a slave of
yourself, while your wife is playing the lady. She is not to blame;
it is you. She would gladly do something for her own support, if
you would permit her; and it would be better for her and for you.
Remember the true saying--
  'Satan finds some mischief still
  For idle hands to do!'"
"What do you mean?" demanded Hamilton, reddening.
"I mean that, generally speaking, young wives of an ardent
temperament, when left to themselves, with nothing but their
pleasures to occupy their minds, are apt to forget their husbands,
and find enjoyment in such society as he might not altogether
approve."
"Sir, you do not know my wife," exclaimed Hamilton. "She, thank
Heaven, is not one of those."
"I hope not," was the quiet reply.
Although Hamilton Burgess had not a jealous nature, and would never
have entertained unjust suspicions of his wife, these words of his
friend set him to thinking. He remembered that Lizzie was always
happy, however he might be oppressed with cares; and now he wondered
how it was that she could be so unmindful of everything except
pleasure, while he was so constantly harassed. The consistent Mr.
Hamilton Burgess undoubtedly forgot that he had taken the utmost
pains to conceal his circumstances from his wife.
It was in this state of mind that Mr. Burgess one day left his
business, and went home unexpectedly. It was at an hour when Lizzie
least thought of seeing him, and on this occasion she appeared
considerably embarrassed; nor did Mr. Burgess fail to observe that
she was very tardy in making her appearance in the sitting-room.
On another occasion, Mr. Burgess returned home under similar
circumstances, and going directly to his wife's room, found, to his
astonishment, that he could not gain admittance. After some delay,
however, during which Hamilton heard footsteps hurrying to and fro
within, and whispering, Mrs. Burgess opened the door, and, blushing
very red, attempted to apologize for not admitting him before.
"Who was with you?" demanded Hamilton.
"With me?" cried Lizzie, much confused.
"Yes, madam. I heard whispering, and I am sure somebody just passed
through that side door."
"Oh, that was nobody but Margaret!" exclaimed Mrs. Burgess, hastily.
Hamilton could ill conceal his vexation; but he did not intimate to
his wife that he suspected her of equivocation, nor did she see fit
to attempt a full exposition of the matter.
Nothing was said of this incident afterwards; but for many weeks it
occupied Hamilton's mind. All this time he was harassed with cares
of business, and his brow became more darkly shrouded in gloom as
his perplexities thickened. At last the crisis came! Mr. Burgess saw
the utter impossibility of longer continuing his almost profitless
trade, under heavy expenses, which not only absorbed his small
capital, but actually plunged him into debt. But one honest course
was left for him to pursue; and he resolved to close up his affairs,
and sell off what stock he had to pay his debts.
It was at this time that Mr. Burgess saw in its true light the error
of which he had been guilty, in opposing his wife's desire to
economize, and devote a portion of her time to useful occupation.
"Had I allowed her to lighten our expenses in this way," thought he,
"I might not have been driven to such extremities. And what has been
the result of my folly? Why, I have kept her ignorant of our poverty
until the very last, and now the sudden intelligence that we are
beggars, will well nigh kill her!"
Satisfied of the danger, if not the impossibility, of keeping the
secret longer from his wife, Mr. Burgess went home one day, resolved
to break the intelligence to her without hesitation. Entering the
house with his latch-key, he went directly to Lizzie's room, which
he entered unceremoniously. To his surprise, he found on the table a
gentleman's cap, of that peculiar fashion which he had seen worn by
postmen and dandies about town. Anxious for an explanation, he
looked around for his wife; but Lizzie was not in the room. Then
hearing voices in another part of the house, he left the room by a
different door from that by which he had entered, and hastened to
the parlour, where he expected to find Mrs. Burgess in company with
the owner of that cap. To his surprise, he found the parlour
vacant, and meeting Margaret in the hall a moment after, he
impatiently demanded his wife.
"She is in the room, sir," said the domestic.
Without saying a word, Hamilton again hastened to Lizzie's room,
where he found her reading a late magazine with affected
indifference!
"Madam," cried he, angrily, "what does this mean? Here I have been
chasing you all over the house, without being able to catch you.
What company have you just dismissed?"
"What company?" asked Lizzie.
"Yes, madam, what company?"
"Do not speak so angrily, dear Ammy. Why are you so impatient?"
"Because I wish to know what gentleman has been favouring you with
such a confidential visit!"
Hamilton remembered other occasions when, on his coming home
unexpectedly, his wife had shown signs of embarrassment; and, added
to this, her present equivocation rendered him violently jealous.
She appeared to shrink from him in fear, and became alternately red
and pale, as she answered--
"There has been no gentleman here to see me!"
"No one?"
"No one, dear Ammy!"
Mr. Burgess was on the point of demanding to know who was the owner
of the cap which he had seen on his wife's table, and which had now
mysteriously disappeared; but emotion checked him, and he paced the
floor in silence.
"This is too much!" he muttered, at length, in the bitterness of his
heart. "I could endure poverty, without uttering a complaint for
myself; I could endure anything but this!"
"Why, Ammy, what is the matter?" cried Mrs. Burgess, in alarm.
"Nothing--only we are beggars!" answered Hamilton, abruptly.
