almost any where." 
u Very true ; but in some places much better than 
in others." 
Mr. Bayard mentioned a large town about eighteen 
miles from the city, in which he thought a good trade 
might be carried on, and Bobby at once decided to 
adopt the suggestion. 
" You can make this place your head quarters for 
the week ; if books do not sell well right in the 
village, why, you can go out a little way, for the 
country in the vicinity is peopled by intelligent 
farmers, who are well off, and who can afford to buy 
books." 
" I was thinking of that ; but what shall I take 
with me, sir ? ' 
" There is a new book just published, called ' The 
Wayfarer,' which is going to have a tremendous run. 
It has been advertised in advance all over the country, 
so that you will find a ready sale for it. You will 
get it there before any one else 5 and have the market 
all to yourself." 
" The Wayfarer ? I have heard of it myself." 
" You shall take fifty copies with you, and if you 
find that you shall want more, write, and I will send 
them." 
" But I cannot cany fifty copies." 
" You must take the cars to B , and have a 
trunk or box to carry your books in. I have a stout 
trunk down cellar which you shall have." 
" I will pay for it, sir." 
" Never mind that, Bobby ; and you will want a 
small valise or carpet bag to carry your books from 
house to house. I will lend you one." 
" You are very kind, sir ; I did not mean to ask 
 
any favors of you except to trust me for the books 
until my return." 
" All right, Bobby." 
Mr. Bayard called the porter, and ordered him to 
bring up the trunk, in which he directed Mr. Timmins 
to pack fifty " Wayfarers." 
" Now, how much will these books cost me apiece ? " 
asked Bobby. 
" The retail price is one dollar ; the wholesale price 
is one third off; and you shall have them at what 
they cost me." 
" Sixty-seven cents," added Bobby. " That will 
give me a profit of thirty-three cents on each 
book." 
" Just so." 
" Perhaps Mr. Timmins will sell me one of those 
blank books now ; for I like to have things down in 
black and white." 
" I will furnish you with something much better 
than that ; " and Mr. Bayard left the counting room. 
In a moment he returned with a handsome pocket 
memorandum book, which he presented to the little 
merchant. 
" But I don't like to take it unless you will let me 
pay for it," said Bobby, hesitating. 
" Never mind it, my young friend. Now you can 
sit down at my desk and open your accounts. I like 
to see boys methodical, and there is nothing like 
keeping accounts to make one accurate. Keep your 
books posted up, and you will know where you are 
at any time." 
" I intend to keep an account of all I spend and 
all I receive, if it is no more than a cent." 
" Right, my little man. Have you ever studied 
book-keeping ? ' 
" No, sir, I suppose I haven't ; but there was a 
page of accounts in the back part of the arithmetic I 
studied, and I got a pretty good idea of the thing 
from that. All the money received goes on one side, 
and all the money paid out goes on the other." 
" Exactly so ; in this book you had better open a 
book account first. If you wish I will show you how." 
" Thank you, sir ; I should be very glad to have 
you ; " and-Bobby opened the memorandum book, and 
seated himself at the desk. 
" Write ' Book Account ' at the top of the pages, 
 
one word on each. Very well. Now write 4 To fifty 
copies of Wayfarer, at sixty-seven cents, $33.50,' on 
the left hand page, or debit side of the account." 
" I am not much of a writer," said Bobby, apolo- 
getically. 
"You will improve. Now, each day you will 
credit the amount of sales on the right hand page, or 
credit side of the account ; so, when you have sold 
out, the balance due your debit side will be the profit 
on the lot. Do you understand it ? ' 
Bobby thought a moment before he could see 
through it ; but his brain was active, and he soon man- 
aged the idea. 
" Now you want a personal account ; ' and Mr. 
Bayard explained to him how to make this out. 
He then instructed him to enter on the debit side 
all he spent for travel, board, freight, and other 
charges. The next was the " profit and loss " account, 
which was to show him the net profit of the business. 
Our hero, who had a decided taste for accounts, 
was very much pleased with this employment ; and 
when the accounts were all opened, he regarded them 
with a great deal of satisfaction. He longed to com- 
 
mence his operations, if it were only for the pleasure 
of making the entries in this book. 
" One thing I forgot," said he, as he seized the pen, 
and under the cash account entered, " To Cash from 
mother, $1.00." " Now I am all right, I believe." 
" I think you are. Now, the cars leave at seven in 
the morning. Can you be ready for a start as early 
as that? " asked Mr. Bayard. 
" O, yes, sir, I hope so. I get up at half past four 
at home." 
" Very well ; my small valise is at the house ; but 
I believe every thing else is ready. Now, I have some 
business to attend to ; and if you will amuse your- 
self for an hour or two, we will go home then." 
" I shall want a lodging place when I am in the 
city ; perhaps some of your folks can direct me to 
one where they won't charge too much." 
" As to that, Bobby, you must go to my house when- 
ever you are in the city." 
" Law, sir ! you live so grand, I couldn't think of 
going to your house. I am only a poor boy from the 
country, and I don't know how to behave myself 
among such nice folks." 
 
"You will do very well, Bobby. Ellen would 
never forgive me if I let you go any where else. So 
that is settled ; you will go to my house. Now, you 
may sit here, or walk out and see the sights." 
"If you please, sir, if Mr. Timmins will let me look 
at some of the books, I shouldn't wish for any thing 
better. I should like to look at the Wayfarer, so 
that I shall know how to recommend it." 
'' Mr. Timmins will let you," replied Mr. Bayard, 
as he touched the spring of a bell on his desk. 
The dapper clerk came running into the counting- 
room to attend the summons of his employer. 
" Mr. Timmins," continued Mr. Bayard, with a mis- 
chievous smile, " bring Mr. Bright a copy of ' The 
Wayfarer.'" 
Mr. Timmins was astonished to hear " Country ' 
called " Mister," astonished to hear his employer call 
him " Mister," and Bobby was astonished to hear 
himself called " Mister ; ' nevertheless, our hero en- 
joyed the joke. 
The clerk brought the book ; and Bobby proceeded 
to give it a thorough, critical examination. He read the 
preface, the table of contents, and several chapters 
of the work, before Mr. Bayard was ready to go home.' 
 
" How do you like it, Bobby ? ' asked the book- 
seller. 
" First rate." 
" You may take that copy in your hand ; you will 
want to finish it." 
" Thank you, sir ; I will be careful of it." 
" You may keep it. Let that be the beginning of 
your own private library." 
His own private library ! Bobby had not got far 
enough to dream of such a thing yet ; but he thanked 
Mr. Bayard, and put the book under his arm. 
After tea, Ellen proposed to her father that they 
should all go to the Museum. Mr. Bayard acceded, 
and our hero was duly amazed at the drolleries per- 
petrated there. He had a good time ; but it was so 
late when he went to bed, that he was a little fearful 
lest he should oversleep himself in the morning. 
He did not,' however, and was down in the parlor 
before any of the rest of the family were stirring. An 
early breakfast was prepared for him, at which Mr. 
Bayard, who intended to see him off, joined him. 
Depositing his little bundle and the copy of " The 
Wayfarer " in the valise provided for him, they walked 
 
to the store. The porter wheeled the trunk down to 
the railroad station, though Bobby insisted upon do- 
ing it himself. 
The bookseller saw him and his baggage safely 
aboard of the cars, gave him a ticket, and then bade 
him an affectionate adieu. In a little while Bobby 
was flving over the rail, and at about eisrht o'clock, 
reached B . 
The station master kindly permitted him to deposit 
his trunk in the baggage room, and to leave it there 
for the remainder of the week. 
Taking a dozen of the books from the trunk, and 
placing them in his valise, he sallied out upon his 
mission. It must be confessed that his heart was 
filled with a tumult of emotions. The battle of life 
was before him. He was on the field, sword in hand, 
ready to plunge into the contest. It was victory or 
defeat. 
" March on, brave youth ! the field of strife 
"With peril fraught before thee lies ; 
March on ! the battle plain of life 
