she said,
“I’m sure it was a little thing. A very little thing. She might have
known that nothing unkind was intended on my part.”
“There are some subjects, aunt,” I replied, “to which we cannot bear the
slightest allusion. And a sudden reference to them is very apt to throw
us off of our guard. What you said to Mary has, in all probability
touched some weakness of character, or probed some wound that time
has not been able to heal. I have always thought her a sensible,
good-natured girl.”
“And so have I. But I really cannot think that she has showed her good
sense or good nature in the present case. It is a very bad failing this,
of being over sensitive; and exceedingly annoying to one’s friends.”
“It is, I know; but still, all of, us have a weak point, and to her that
is assailed, we are very apt to betray our feelings.”
“Well, I say now, as I have always said--I don’t like to have anything
to do with people who have these weak points. This being hurt by a word,
as if words were blows, is something that does not come within the range
of my sympathies.”
“And yet, aunt,” said I, “all have weak points. Even you are not
entirely free from them.”
“Me!” Aunt Rachel bridled.
“Yes; and if even as light a thing as a word were to fall upon them, you
would suffer pain.”
“Pray, sir,” said Aunt Rachel, with much dignity of manner; she
was chafed by my words, light as they were, “inform me where these
weaknesses, of which you are pleased to speak, lie.”
“Oh, no; you must excuse me. That would be very much out of place. But I
only stated a general fact that appertains to all of us.”
Aunt Rachel looked very grave. I had laid the weight of words upon a
weakness of her character, and it had given her pain. That weakness was
a peculiarly good opinion of herself. I had made no allegation against
her; and there was none in my mind. My words simply expressed the
general truth that we all have weaknesses, and included her in their
application. But she imagined that I referred to some particular defect
or fault, and mail-proof as she was against words, they had wounded her.
For a day or two Aunt Rachel remained more sober than was her wont.
I knew the cause, but did not attempt to remove from her mind any
impression my words had made. One day, about a week after, I said to
her,
“Aunt Rachel, I saw Mary Lane’s mother this morning.”
“Ah?” The old lady looked up at me inquiringly.
“I don’t wonder your words hurt the poor girl,” I added.
“Why? What did I say?” quickly asked Aunt Rachel.
“You said that she was a jilt.”
“But I was only jest, and she knew it. I did not really mean anything.
I’m surprised that Mary should be so foolish.”
“You will not be surprised when you know all,” was my answer.
“All? What all? I’m sure I wasn’t in earnest. I didn’t mean to hurt the
poor girl’s feelings.” My aunt looked very much troubled.
“No one blames you, Aunt Rachel,” said I. “Mary knows you didn’t intend
wounding her.”
“But why should she take a little word go much to heart? It must have
had more truth in it than I supposed.”
“Did you know that Mary refused an offer of marriage from Walter Green
last week?”
“Why no! It can’t be possible! Refused Walter Green?”
“They’ve been intimate for a long time.”
“I know.”
“She certainly encouraged him.”
“I think it more than probable.”
“Is it possible, then, that she did really jilt the young man?”
 exclaimed Aunt Rachel.
“This has been said of her,” I replied. “But so far as I can learn, she
was really attached to him, and suffered great pain in rejecting his
offer. Wisely she regarded marriage as the most important event of
her life, and refused to make so solemn a contract with one in whose
principles she had not the fullest confidence.”
“But she ought not to have encouraged Walter, if she did not intend
marrying him,” said Aunt Rachel, with some warmth.
“She encouraged him so long as she thought well of him. A closer view
revealed points of character hidden by distance. When she saw these
her feelings were already deeply involved. But, like a true woman, she
turned from the proffered hand, even though while in doing so her heart
palpitated with pain. There is nothing false about Mary Lane. She could
no more trifle with a lover than she could commit a crime. Think, then,
how almost impossible it would be for her to hear herself called, under
existing circumstances, even in sport, a jilt, without being hurt. Words
sometimes have power to hurt more than blows. Do you not see this, now,
Aunt Rachel?”
“Oh, yes, yes. I see it; and I saw it before,” said the old lady. “And
in future I will be more careful of my words. It is pretty late in life
to learn this lesson--but we are never too late to learn. Poor Mary! It
grieves me to think that I should have hurt her so much.”
Yes, words often have in them a smarting force, and we cannot be too
guarded how we use them. “Think twice before you speak once,” is a trite
but wise saying. We teach it to our children very carefully, but are too
apt to forget that it has not lost its application to ourselves.
THE THANKLESS OFFICE.
“AN object of real charity,” said Andrew Lyon to his wife, as a poor
woman withdrew from the room in which they were seated.
“If ever there was a worthy object she is one,” returned Mrs. Lyon. “A
widow, with health so feeble that even ordinary exertion is too much for
her; yet obliged to support, with the labour of her own hands, not only
herself, but three young children. I do not wonder that she is behind
with her rent.”
“Nor I,” said Mr. Lyon, in a voice of sympathy. “How much, did she say,
was due to her landlord?”
“Ten dollars.”
“She will not be able to pay it.”
“I fear not. How can she? I give her all my extra sewing, and have
obtained work for her from several ladies; but with her best efforts she
can barely obtain food and decent clothing for herself and babes.”
“Does it not seem hard,” remarked Mr. Lyon, “that one like Mrs. Arnold,
who is so earnest in her efforts to take care of herself and family,
should not receive a helping hand from some one of the many who could
help her without feeling the effort? If I didn’t find it so hard to make
both ends meet, I would pay off her arrears of rent for her, and feel
happy in so doing.”
“Ah!” exclaimed the kind-hearted wife, “how much I wish that we were
able to do this! But we are not.”
“I’ll tell you what we can do,” said Mr. Lyon, in a cheerful voice;
“or rather what I can do. It will be a very light matter for say ten
persons to give a dollar apiece, in order to relieve Mrs. Arnold from
her present trouble. There are plenty who would cheerfully contribute,
for this good purpose; all that is wanted is some one to take upon
himself the business of making the collections. That task shall be
mine.”
“How glad I am, James, to hear you say so!” smilingly replied Mrs. Lyon.
“Oh, what a relief it will be to poor Mrs. Arnold. It will make her
heart as light as a feather. That rent has troubled her sadly. Old
Links, her landlord, has been worrying her about it a good deal, and,
only a week ago, threatened to put her things in the street, if she
didn’t pay up.”
“I should have thought of this before,” remarked Andrew Lyon. “There
are hundreds of people who are willing enough to give if they were only
certain in regard to the object. Here is one worthy enough in every way.
Be it my business to present her claims to benevolent consideration. Let
me see. To whom shall I go? There are Jones, and Green, and Tompkins. I
can get a dollar from each of them. That will be three dollars,--and one
from myself, will make four. Who else is there? Oh, Malcolm! I’m sure of
a dollar from him; and also from Smith, Todd, and Perry.”
Confident in the success of his benevolent scheme, Mr. Lyon started
forth, early on the very next day, for the purpose of obtaining, by
subscription, the poor widow’s rent. The first person he called on was
Malcolm.
“Ah, friend Lyon!” said Malcolm, smiling blandly, “Good morning! What
can I do for you, to-day?”
“Nothing for me, but something for a poor widow, who is behind with her
rent,” replied Andrew Lyon. “I want just one dollar from you, and as
much more from some eight or nine as benevolent as yourself.”
At the word poor widow the countenance of Malcolm fell, and when his
visiter ceased, he replied, in a changed and husky voice, clearing his
throat two or three times as he spoke.
“Are you sure she is deserving, Mr. Lyon?” The man’s manner had become
exceedingly grave.
“None more so,” was the prompt answer. “She is in poor health, and has
three children to support with the product of her needle. If any one
needs assistance, it is Mrs. Arnold.”
“Oh! Ah! The widow of Jacob Arnold?”
“The same,” replied Andrew Lyon.
Malcolm’s face did not brighten with a feeling of heart-warm
benevolence. But he turned slowly away, and opening his money-drawer,
very slowly toyed with his fingers amid its contents. At length
he took therefrom a dollar bill, and said, as he presented it to
Lyon,--signing involuntarily as he did so,--
“I suppose I must do my part. But we are called upon so often.”
The ardour of Andrew Lyon’s benevolent feelings suddenly cooled at this
unexpected reception. He had entered upon his work under the glow of a
pure enthusiasm; anticipating a hearty response the moment his errand
was made known.
“I thank you in the widow’s name,” said he, as he took the dollar.
When he turned from Mr. Malcolm’s store, it was with a pressure on his
feelings, as if he had asked the coldly-given favour for himself.
It was not without an effort that Lyon compelled himself to call upon
Mr. Green, considered the “next best man” on his list. But he entered
his place of business with far less confidence than he had felt when
calling upon Malcolm. His story told, Green, without a word or smile,
drew two half dollars from his pocket and presented them.
“Thank you,” said Lyon.
“Welcome,” returned Green.
Oppressed with a feeling of embarrassment, Lyon stood for a few moments.
Then bowing, he said,
“Good morning.”
“Good morning,” was coldly and formally responded.
And thus the alms-seeker and alms-giver parted.
“Better be at his shop, attending to his work,” muttered Green to
himself, as his visiter retired. “Men ain’t very apt to get along too
well in the world who spend their time in begging for every object of
charity that happens to turn up. And there are plenty of such, dear
knows. He’s got a dollar out of me; may it do him, or the poor widow he
talked so glibly about, much good.”
Cold water had been poured upon the feelings of Andrew Lyon. He had
raised two dollars for the poor widow, but, at what a sacrifice for
one so sensitive as himself! Instead of keeping on in his work of
benevolence, he went to his shop, and entered upon the day’s employment.
How disappointed he felt;--and this disappointment was mingled with a
certain sense of humiliation, as if he had been asking alms for himself.
“Catch me at this work again!” he said half aloud, as his thoughts dwelt
upon what had so recently occurred. “But this is not right,” he added,
quickly. “It is a weakness in me to feel so. Poor Mrs. Arnold must
be relieved; and it is my duty to see that she gets relief. I had no
thought of a reception like this. People can talk of benevolence; but
putting the hand in the pocket is another affair altogether. I never
dreamed that such men as Malcolm and Green could be insensible to an
appeal like the one I made.”
“I’ve got two dollars towards paying Mrs. Arnold’s rent,” he said to
himself, in a more cheerful tone, some time afterwards; “and it will go
hard if I don’t raise the whole amount for her. All are not like Green
and Malcolm. Jones is a kind-hearted man, and will instantly respond to
the call of humanity. I’ll go and see him.”
