be saw John's great wagon, forhedreaded some fear- 
ful announcement from his sick friend. He had nn t 
before been so deeply conscious of his indebtedness 
to the little angel, as now, when she lay upon the 
bed of pain, perhaps of death. She had kindled in 
his soul a love for the good and the beautiful. She 
had inspired him with a knowledge of the difference 
between tne right and the wrong. In a word, she 
was the guiding star of his existence. Her approba- 
tion was to be the bright guerdon of fidelity to truth 
and principle. 
" How is Julia ? " asked Harry, without giving 
John time to inquire why he had left the stable. 
" They think she is a little grain better." 
" Then she is still living ? " continued Harry, a 
great load of anxiety removed from his soul. 
" She is ; but it is very doubtful how it will turn 
I went in to see her yesterday, and she spoke of 
vou." 
" Spoke of me ? " 
" She said she should like to see you." 
" I should like to see her very much." 
" Her father told me, if you was a mind to go ay 
to Rockville, he would pay y>ur expenses." 
" I don't mind the expenses. I will go. if I cab 
get away." 
*' Her father feels very bad about it. Julia is an 
only child, and he would do any thing in the world 
to please her." 
" I will go and see the gentlemen I work for, and 
if they will let me, I will go with you to-morrow 
morning." 
" Better take the stage; you will get there so much 
quicker." 
" I will do so, then." 
Harry returned home to ascertain of Edwaid where 
Mr. Wake lived, and hastened to see him. That 
gentleman, however, coldly assured him, if he went 
to Rockville, he must lose his place — they could 
not get along without a boy. Ir vain Harry urged 
that he should be gone but two days ; the senior was 
inflexible. 
" What shall I do ? " said he to himself, when he 
get into the street again. "Mr. Wake says, sie is 
xx j relation of mine, and he don't see why I should 
go. Poor Julia! She may die, and I shall ne^ej 
»ee her again. I must go." 
It did not require a gieat deal of deliberation to 
convince himself that it was his duty to visit the sick 
girl. She had been a true friend to him, i.z i he 
could afford to sacrifice his place to procure her even 
a slight gratification. Affection and duty called him 
one way, self-interest the other. If he did not go, 
he suould regret it as long as he lived. Perhaps Mr. 
Wake would take him again on his return ; if not, 
Le could at least go to work in the stable again. 
" Edward, I am going to Rockville to-morrow," he 
remarked to his " chum," on his return to Mrs. 
Flint's. 
" The old man agreed to it, then ? I thought he 
wouldn't. He never will let a fellow off even for a 
day." 
" He did not ; but I must go." 
" Better not, then. He will discharge you, for he 
is a hard nut '" 
" I must go," repeated Harry, taking a candle, and 
going up to their chamber. 
" You have got more spunk than I gave you credit 
for; but you are sure of losing your place," replied 
Edwaid, following him up stairs . 
" I can't help it." 
Harry opened a drawer in the old broken Imiean 
ir the room, and from beneath his clothes took out 
(he great pill box which served him for a savinga 
tank 
" You have got lots of money," remarked Edward, 
 he glanced at the contents of the box. 
" Not much ; only twelve dollars," replied Harry, 
iaking out three of them to pay his expenses to 
Rockville. 
" You won't leave that box there, will you, while 
fou are gone ? " 
" Why not ? " 
" Somebody may steal it." 
" I guess not. I can hide it, though, before I go." 
" Better do so." 
Harry took his money and went to a bookstore in 
Washington Street, where he purchased an appropriate present for Julia, for which he gave half a dollar. 
On his return, he wrote her name in it, with his own 
as the giver. Then t'^e safety of his money came up 
for consideration; and this matter was settled by 
raising a loose board in the floor, and depositing Kha 
pill box in a secure place. He had scarcely done so 
icfore Edward joined him. 
Our hero did not sleep much that night. He was 
not altogether satisfied with the step he was about to 
taka. It was not doing right by his employers ; but 
he compromised the matter in part by engaging Ed- 
ward, " for a consideration," to make the fires and 
sweep out the next morning. 
At noon, on the following day, he reached Rock- 
ville, and hastened to the house of Mr. Biyant. 
" How is she ? " he asked, breathless with interest, 
of the girl who answered his knock. 
" She is better to-day. Are you the boy from 
Boston ? " 
" Yes. Do they think she will get well ? " 
" The doctor has more hope of her." 
" I am very glad to hear it." 
Harry was conducted into the house, and Mr. Bry- 
ant was informed of his presence. 
" I am glad you have come, Harry. Julia is much 
better to-day," said her father, taking him by the 
hand " She has frequently spoken of you, during 
her illness, and feels a very strong interest in youi 
welfare." 
" She was very good to me. I don't know what 
would have tecorae of me if she had not been a friend 
to me." 
" That is the secret of her interest in you. We 
love those best whom we serve most. She is asleep 
now ; but you shall see her as soon as she wakes. 
In the mean time you had better have your dinner. 
Mr. Bryant looked very pale, and his eyes were 
reddened with weeping. Harry saw how much he 
nad suffered during the last fortnight ; but it seemed 
natural to him that he should suffer terribly at the 
thought of losing one so beautiful and precious as 
the little angel. 
He dined alone with Mr. Bryant, for Mrs. Bryant 
could not leave the couch of the little sufferer. The 
fond father could speak of nothing but Julia, and 
more than once the tears flooded his eyes, as he told 
Harry how meek and patient she had been through 
the fever, how loving she was, and how resigned 
even to leave her parents, and go to the heavenlv 
Parent, to dwell with him forever. 
Harry wept, too ; and after dinner, he most
feared to enter the chamber, and behold the wreck 
tthirh disease had made of that bright and beautiful 
form. Removing the wrapper from the book he had 
brought, — a volume of sweet poems, entitled " Angel 
Songs," — he followed Mr. Bryant into the sick gill's 
chamber. 
" Ah, Harry, I am delighted to s;>e you ! " ex- 
claimed she, in a whisper, for her diseased throat 
rendered articulation difficult and painful. 
" I am sorry to see you so sick, Julia," replied 
Harry, taking the wasted hand she extended to him. 
" I am better, Harry. I feel as though I should 
get well now." 
" I hope you will." 
" You don't know how much I have thought of 
you, while I lay here ; how I wished you were my 
brother, and could come in every day and see me," 
she continued, with a faint smile. 
" I wish I could." 
" Now tell me how you get along in Boston." 
" Very well ; but your father says I must not tulV 
much with you now. I have brought you a little 
jook ; " and he placed it in her hand. 
" Jiow gcod you are, Harry! 'Arjipl Songs. 
Hew pretty ! Now, Harry, you must read me on€ 
of the angel songs." 
" I will ; but I can't read very well," said he, as 
he opened the volume. 
But he did read exceedingly well. The piece he 
selected was a very pretty and a very touching littla 
song ; and Harry's feelings were so deeply moved by 
the pathetic sentiments of the poem and their adap- 
tation to the circumstances of the case, that he was 
quite eloquent. 
When he had finished, Mrs. Bryant interfered to 
prevent further conversation ; and Julia, though she 
had a great deal to say to her young friend, cheerful- 
ly yielded to her mother's wishes, and Harry reluc- 
tantly left the room. 
Towards night he was permitted to see her again, 
when he read several of the angel songs to her, and 
^ave her a brief account of the events of his resi- 
dence in Boston. She was pleased with his earnest- 
ness, and smiled approvingly upon him for the moral 
triumphs he had achieved. The reward of all his 
struggles with trial and temptation was lavishly be- 
stowed in her commendation, and if fidelity had not 
been its own reward, he could have accepted hex 
approval as abundant compensation for  all he had 
endured. There was no silly sentiment in Harry's 
composition ; he had read no novels, seen no piayfi, 
knew nothing of romance even " in real life." The 
nomage he yielded to the fair and loving girl was an 
unaffected reverence for simple purity and goodness; 
that which the True Heart and the True Life never 
fail to call forth wherever they exert their power. 
On the following morning, Julia's condition was 
very much improved, and the physician spoke confi- 
dently of a favorable issue. Harry was permitted to 
pend an hour by her bedside, inhaling the pure spirit 
that pervaded the soul of the sick one. She was so 
much better that her father proposed to visit the city, 
