to play off the same trick again so soon; and she was very much
surprised and very indignant when she saw her begin to cry with all her
might, just as she had done before. While the deceitful girl's eyes
were covered with her apron, in the extremity of her grief, Katy
contrived to get on the hotel steps behind her, so that she could see
and hear all that passed.
"What is the matter with that girl?" asked a gentleman, who presently
appeared at the door, addressing another who was just behind him.
"It is the broken candy dodge," replied the second gentleman. "That
trick has been played off a dozen times within a week."
"What does it mean?" asked the first. "I don't understand it."
The second explained the trick, precisely as Katy had just witnessed it
in Court Street.
"Now, don't say a word," he continued. "I have a counterfeit half
dollar in my pocket, and you shall see how it is done."
With this announcement of his purpose, he accosted Ann, who told him
about the same story she had told the lady, and he finally gave her the
counterfeit half dollar, which Ann did not suspect was a bad one.
"How abominably wicked she is," exclaimed Katy, as she followed her up
the street. "But I will soon spoil all her fun, and cut off her
profits. I will teach her that honesty is the best policy."
It was easier for Katy to resolve what to do than it was to do it; for
the wicked girl could easily get her stock through another person. As
she walked up the street, Ann lightened her load by eating the pieces
of broken candy, upon which she seemed to feed with hearty relish. At a
window in Court Street, Ann stopped to look at some pictures, when she
was joined by another of the candy sellers, and they walked together
till they came to an unfrequented court, which they entered. Katy could
hear enough of their conversation, as she followed them, to ascertain
that they were talking about the tricks Ann had practiced. In the court
they seated themselves on a door-stone, and as they talked and laughed
about the deceit, they ate the pieces of candy.
"There," said Ann, "I have made a dollar and ten cents this afternoon.
You don't catch me walking all over the city for twenty-four cents,
when I don't get but eight of that."
"I ain't so smart as you," modestly replied Julia Morgan, the other
girl.
"You'll learn," said Ann, as she took out her money and exhibited the
two half dollars.
"I don't think people would believe me, if I should try that game."
"Try some other. I think I shall, for I've about used up the broken
candy game."
"What other?"
"I have one," replied Ann, prudently declining to divulge her secret;
"and when I've tried it, I'll tell you all about it."
"Why don't you try it now?"
"I would if my candy wasn't broken."
"I will let you have mine."
"Then I will."
"Give me fourteen cents."
"I will when I've done with it."
"No, you don't," laughed Julia, who justly inferred that if Ann would
cheat one person, she would another.
But Ann was so much interested in the experiment that she decided to
give the fourteen cents, and took the candy. Katy wondered what the new
game could be, and wanted to see her carry it out, though her
conscience smote her for permitting the lady to be deceived, when she
could have unmasked the deceit. She resolved not to let another person
be deceived, and followed the two girls into State Street, as much for
the purpose of exposing Ann's wickedness, as to learn the trick she
intended to play.
"Now you go away," said Ann to her companion, as she placed herself on
the steps of the Merchants-Bank.
It was nearly dark by this time, and as there were but few persons in
the street, Ann did not commence her part of the performance till she
saw a well-dressed gentleman approach; whereupon she began to cry as
she had done twice before that day.
"Boo, hoo, hoo! O, dear me! I shall be killed!" cried she, so lustily,
that the well-dressed gentleman could not decently avoid inquiring the
cause of her bitter sorrow.
"I haven't sold out," sobbed Ann.
"What if you haven't? Why need you cry about it?" asked the stranger.
"My mother will kill me if I go home without half a dollar."
"She is a cruel woman, then."
"Boo, hoo, hoo! She'll beat me to death! O, dear me! I only got ten
cents."
"Why don't you fly round and sell your candy?" said the gentleman.
"I can't now, the folks have all gone, and it's almost dark. O, I wish
I was dead!"
"Well, well, don't cry any more; I'll give you half a dollar, and that
will make it all right;" and he put his hand in his pocket for the
money.
"Don't give it to her," said Katy, stepping out of the lane by the side
of the bank. "She has deceived you, sir."
"Deceived me, has she?" added the stranger as he glanced at Katy.
"Yes, sir. She has got more than a dollar in her pocket now."
"Don't you believe her," sobbed Ann, still prudently keeping up the
appearance of grief.
"How do you know she has deceived me?" asked the stranger, not a little
piqued, as he thought how readily he had credited the girl's story.
"Because I saw her play a trick just like this twice before this
afternoon. She has two half dollars in her pocket now, though one of
them is counterfeit."
"What do you mean by that, Katy Redburn?" demanded Ann, angrily, and
now forgetting her woe and her tears.
"You speak very positively," said the gentleman to Katy; "and if what
you say is true, something should be done about it."
"She is telling lies!" exclaimed Ann, much excited.
"We can soon determine, for here comes a policeman, and I will refer
the matter to him."
At these words, Ann edged off the steps of the bank, and suddenly
started off as fast as she could run, having, it seemed, a very
wholesome aversion to policemen. But she made a bad mistake, for, not
seeing in what direction the officer was approaching, she ran into the
very jaws of the lion.
"Stop her!" shouted the gentleman.
The policeman laid a rude hand upon her shoulder, and marched her back
to the bank. In a few words the gentleman stated what had happened, and
requested the officer to search her, and thus decide whether Katy told
the truth or not. He readily consented, and on turning out Ann's
pocket, produced the two half dollars, one of which the gentleman
decided was a counterfeit coin.
"How could you know this was a counterfeit?" he asked of Katy.
"I heard a gentleman at the door of the American House, who knew the
game, tell another that it was a counterfeit;" and she proceeded to
give all the particulars of the two tricks she had seen Ann play off.
"I shall have to take you to the lock-up, my little joker," said the
policeman.
"O, dear me!" cried Ann, and this time she was in earnest.
"Please don't do that!" said Katy, who had not foreseen this
consequence of the game.
"I must; it is downright swindling."
"Please don't; she has a father and mother and I dare say they will
feel very bad about it. I promise you she shall never do it again,"
pleaded Katy.
"I must do my duty. This candy trick has been played a good many times,
and has become a nuisance. I must lock her up."
"Save me, Katy, save me!" begged Ann terrified at the thought of being
put in a prison or some dreadful place.
"Why do you wish to save her?" interposed the gentleman.
"Because her mother will feel so bad; and she will lay it all to me."
Katy told him all about herself and about Ann, and he was so much
interested in her that he joined in pleading for Ann's release. The
officer was firm for a long time, but when the gentleman declared that
he should not appear against her, he decided to let her go, to Katy's
great delight, as well as to Ann's.
Humbled by the peril from which she had just escaped, Ann promised
never to be guilty of playing another trick upon travelers; but Katy
was firm in her purpose not to supply her with any more candy. She did
not dare to resent Katy's interference, for the terrors of the lock-up
were still in her mind, and she did not know but that Katy might have
her arrested and punished for what she had done, if she attempted to
retaliate upon her.
Katy was shocked at the wickedness of her companion; and, as they
walked home together she tried to make her see the enormity of her
offense, and give her some better views of her duty to her
fellow-beings. Ann heard her in silence and with humility, and the
little moralist hoped the event would result in good to her.
CHAPTER XVII.
THE SUN SETS, AND THE NIGHT COMES ON.
Having recorded the steps by which Katy had carried forward her now
flourishing trade, from the dawn of the idea up to the height of its
prosperity, we may pass over a year with only a brief note of its
principal incidents.
My young readers may have supposed that Katy and her mother had
gathered a great deal of money in the candy trade. It was not so, for
as the business increased, and Katy's labors as a saleswoman were
withdrawn, the expenses increased, and the profits were proportionally
less. And then, neither Mrs. Redburn nor her daughter had a faculty for
saving up much money; so that, though they made  considerable, their
prosperity permitted new demands to be made upon the purse. They hired
two more rooms; they replaced the clothing and furniture which had been
sacrificed under the pressure of actual want, and they lived better
than they had lived before; and Mrs. Redburn had availed herself of the
services of a distinguished physician, whose attendance had cost a
large sum. It is true they lived very well, much better than people in
their circumstances ought to have lived. Therefore, notwithstanding
their prosperity, they had saved but a small sum from the proceeds of
the year's business. They were not rich; they were simply in
comfortable circumstances, which, considering their situation when Katy
commenced business, was quite enough to render them very thankful to
the Giver of all good for the rich blessings He had bestowed upon them.
These were not all temporal blessings; if they had been, their success
would only have been partial and temporary, their prosperity only an
outward seeming, which, in the truest and highest sense, can hardly be
called prosperity; no more than if a man should gain a thousand dollars
worth of land, and lose a thousand dollars worth of stocks or
merchandise. Both Katy and her mother, while they were gathering the
treasures of this world, were also "laying up treasures in heaven,
where neither moth nor rust doth corrupt." Want had taught them its
hard lessons, and they had come out of the fiery furnace of affliction
the wiser and the better for the severe ordeal. The mother's foolish
pride had been rebuked, the daughter's true pride had been encouraged.
They had learned that faith and patience are real supports in the hour
of trial. The perilous life in the streets which Katy had led for a
time, exposed her to a thousand temptations; and she and her mother
thanked God that they had made her stronger and truer, as temptation
resisted always makes the soul. That year of experience had given Katy
a character; it expanded her views of life, and placed her in a
situation where she was early called upon to decide between the right
and the wrong; when she was required to select her path for life. She
had chosen the good way, as Ann Grippen had chosen the evil way.
I do not mean to say her character was formed, or that having chosen to
be good, she could not afterwards be evil. But the great experiences of
life which generally come in more mature years, had been forced upon
her while still a child; and nobly and truly had she taken up and borne
the burden imposed upon her. As a child she had done the duties of the
full-grown woman, and she had done them well. She had been faithful to
herself.
Providence kindly ordains that the child shall serve a long
