"Yes, that is my advice."
This was about the extent of aid I ever received from my husband in
any of my domestic difficulties. He is a first-rate abstractionist,
and can see to a hair how others ought to act in every imaginable,
and I was going to say unimaginable case; but is just as backward
about telling people what he thinks of them, and making everybody
with whom he has anything to do toe the mark, as I am.
As the idea of moving to get rid of my borrowing neighbor was
considered perfect nonsense by Mr. Smith, I began to think seriously
how I should check the evil, now grown almost insufferable. On the
next morning the coffee-mill was borrowed to begin with.
"Hasn't Mrs. Jordon got a coffee-mill of her own?" I asked of
Bridget.
"Yes, ma'am," she replied, "but it is such a poor one that Nancy
won't use it. She says it takes her forever and a day to grind
enough coffee for breakfast."
"Does she get ours every morning?"
"Yes, ma'am."
Nancy opened the kitchen door at this moment--our back gates were
side by side--and said--
"Mrs. Jordon says, will you oblige her so much as to let her have an
egg to clear the coffee? I forgot to tell her yesterday that ours
were all gone."
"Certainly," I said. "Bridget, give Nancy an egg."
"Mrs. Jordon is very sorry to trouble you, Mrs. Smith," said Nancy,
re-appearing in a little while, and finding me still in the kitchen,
"but she says if you will lend her a bowl of sugar it will be a
great accommodation. I forgot to tell her yesterday that the sugar
was all gone."
"You appear to be rather forgetful of such matters, Nancy," I could
not help saying.
"I know I am a little forgetful," the girl said, good humoredly, "but
I have so much to do, that I hardly have time to think."
"Where is the large earthen dish that you use sometimes in making
bread?" I asked, after Mrs. Jordon's cook had withdrawn, missing it
from its usual place on the shelf.
"Nancy borrowed it last week."
"Why don't she bring it home?"
"I've told her about it three or four times."
Nancy opened the door again.
"Please, ma'am to let Mrs. Jordon have another half pound of butter.
We haven't enough to do for breakfast, and the butter man don't come
until the middle of the day."
Of course, I couldn't refuse, though I believe I granted the request
with no very smiling grace. I heard no more of Nancy until toward
dinner-time. I had given my cook orders not to lend her anything
more without first coming to me.
"Mrs. Jordon has sent in to know if you won't lend her two or three
scuttles full of coal," said Bridget. "Mr. Jordon was to have sent
home the fires are going down."
"Certainly," I replied, "let her have it, but I want you to see that
it is returned."
"As to that, ma'am, I'll do my best; but I can't get Nancy to return
one half what she borrows. She forgets from one day to another."
"She mustn't forget," I returned, warmly. "You must go to Mrs.
Jordon yourself. It isn't right."
"I shall have to go, I guess, before I'm able to get back a dozen
kitchen things of ours they have. I never saw such borrowing people.
And then, never to think of returning what they get. They have got
one of our pokers, the big sauce-pan and the cake-board. Our muffin
rings they've had these three months. Every Monday they get two of
our tubs and the wash-boiler. Yesterday they sent in and got our
large meat-dish belonging to the dinner-set, and haven't sent it
home yet. Indeed, I can't tell you all they've got."
"Let Nancy have the coal," said I. "But we must stop this in some
way, if it be possible."
For three or four days the same thing was kept up, until I lost all
patience, and resolved, offence or no offence, to end a system that
was both annoying and unjust.
Mrs. Jordon called in to see me one day, and sat conversing in a
very pleasant strain for an hour. She was an agreeable companion,
and I was pleased with the visit. In fact, I liked Mrs. Jordon.
About an hour after she was gone, Nancy came into the kitchen, where
I happened to be.
"What's wanted now?" said I. My voice expressed quite as much as my
words. I saw the color flush in Nancy's face.
"Mrs. Jordon says, will you please to lend her a pan of flour? She
will return it to-morrow."
"Tell Mrs. Jordon," I replied, "that we are going to make up bread
this afternoon, and haven't more than enough flour left, or I would
let her have what she wants. And, by the way, Nancy, tell Mrs.
Jordon that I will be obliged to her if she will send in my large
earthen dish. We want to use it."
Nancy didn't seem pleased. And I thought she muttered something to
herself as she went away.
Not five minutes elapsed before word came to my room that Mrs.
Jordon was in the parlor and wished to speak to me.
"Now for trouble," thought I. Sure enough, when I entered the
parlor, the knit brow, flushed face, and angry eyes of my neighbor
told me that there was to be a scene.
"Mrs. Smith," she began, without ceremony or apology for her
abruptness of manner, "I should like to know what you mean by the
manner in which you refused to let me have a little flour just now?"
"How did I refuse?" I was cool enough to inquire.
"You refused in a manner which plainly enough snowed that you
thought me a troublesome borrower. 'What's wanted now?' I think
rather strange language to use to a domestic of mine."
Really, thought I, this caps the climax.
"To speak the plain truth, Mrs. Jordon," said I, "and not wishing to
give any offence, you do use the privilege of a neighbor in this
respect rather freely--more freely, I must own, than I feel
justified in doing."
"Mrs. Smith, this is too much!" exclaimed Mrs. Jordon. "Why you
borrow of me twice where I borrow of you once. I am particularly
careful in matters of this kind."
I looked at the woman with amazement.
"Borrow of you?" I asked.
"Certainly!" she replied, with perfect coolness. "Scarcely a day
passes that you do not send in for something or other. But dear
knows! I have always felt pleasure in obliging you."
I was mute for a time.
"Really, Mrs. Jordon," said I, at length, as composedly as I could
speak, "you seem to be laboring under some strange mistake. The
charge of frequent borrowing, I imagine, lies all on the other side.
I can name a dozen of my things in your house now, and can mention
as many articles borrowed within the last three days."
"Pray do so," was her cool reply.
"You have my large wash-boiler," I replied, "and two of my washing
tubs. You borrow them every Monday, and I have almost always to send
for them."
"I have your wash-boiler and tubs? You are in error, Mrs. Smith. I
have a large boiler of my own, and plenty of tubs."
"I don't know what you have, Mrs. Jordon; but I do know that you get
mine every week. Excuse me for mentioning these things--I do so at
your desire. Then, there is my coffee-mill, borrowed every morning."
"Coffee-mill! Why should I borrow your coffee-mill? We have one of
our own."
"Yesterday you borrowed butter, and eggs, and sugar," I continued.
"I?" my neighbor seemed perfectly amazed.
"Yes; and the day before a loaf of bread--an egg to clear your
coffee--salt, pepper, and a nutmeg."
"Never!"
"And to-day Nancy got some lard, a cup of coffee, and some Indian
meal for a pudding."
"She did?" asked Mrs. Jordon in a quick voice, a light seeming to
have flashed upon her mind.
"Yes," I replied, "for I was in the kitchen when she got the lard
and meal, and Bridget mentioned the coffee as soon as I came down
this morning."
"Strange!" Mrs. Jordon looked thoughtful. "It isn't a week since we
got coffee, and I am sure our Indian meal cannot be out."
"Almost every week Nancy borrows a pound or a half pound of butter
on the day before your butter man comes; and more than that, doesn't
return it, or indeed anything she gets more than a third of the
time."
"Precisely the complaint I have to make against you," said Mrs.
Jordon, looking me steadily in the face.
"Then," said I "there is something wrong somewhere, for to my
knowledge nothing has been borrowed from you or any body else for
months. I forbid anything of the kind."
"Be that as it may, Mrs. Smith; Nancy frequently comes to me and
says you have sent in for this, that, and the other thing--coffee,
tea, sugar, butter; and, in fact, almost everything used in a
family."
"Then Nancy gets them for her own use," said I.
"But I have often seen Bridget in myself for things."
"My Bridget!" I said, in surprise.
I instantly rang the bell.
"Tell Bridget I want her," said I to the waiter who came to the
door. The cook soon appeared.
"Bridget, are you in the habit of borrowing from Mrs. Jordon without
my knowledge?"
"No, ma'am!" replied the girl firmly, and without any mark of
disturbance in her face.
"Din't you get a bar of soap from our house yesterday?" asked Mrs.
Jordon.
"Yes, ma'am," returned Bridget, "but it was soap you owed us."
"Owed you!"
"Yes, Ma am. Nancy got a bar of soap from me last washing-day, and I
went in for it yesterday."
"But Nancy told me you wanted to borrow it," said Mrs. Jordon.
"Nancy knew better," said Bridget, with a face slightly flushed; but
any one could see that it was a flush of indignation.
"Will you step into my house and tell Nancy I want to see her?"
"Certainly, ma'am." And Bridget retired.
"These servants have been playing a high game, I fear," remarked
Mrs. Jordon, after Bridget had left the room. "Pardon me, if in my
surprise I have spoken in a manner that has seemed offensive."
"Most certainly there is a game playing that I know nothing about,
if anything has been borrowed of you in my name for these three
months," said I.
"I have heard of your borrowing something or other almost every day
during the time you mention," replied Mrs. Jordon. "As for me, I
have sent into you a few times; but not oftener, I am sure, than
once in a week."
Bridget returned, after having been gone several minutes, and said
Nancy would be in directly. We waited for some time, and then sent
for her again. Word was brought back that she was nowhere to be
found in the house.
"Come in with me, Mrs. Smith," said my neighbor, rising. I did so,
according to her request. Sure enough, Nancy was gone. We went up
into her room, and found that she had bundled up her clothes and
taken them off, but left behind her unmistakable evidence of what
she had been doing. In an old chest which Mrs. Jordon had let her
use for her clothes were many packages of tea, burnt coffee, sugar,
soap, eggs; a tin kettle containing a pound of butter, and various
other articles of table use.
Poor Mrs. Jordon seemed bewildered.
"Let me look at that pound lump of butter," said I.
Mrs. Jordon took up the kettle containing it. "It isn't my butter,"
