other and more effectual measures. It cooled at last, into complete
quietness and sweetness; and Faith's face was just like itself when the
first of the party came back from the nut field.

That first one, as we have seen, was Mr. Linden. He found both the
ladies in the farmhouse kitchen; Mrs. Derrick very comfortably at her
knitting. Faith was doing nothing; but she looked up, when she looked
up, with just her own face; not certainly in the happy glow he had seen
under the nut tree, nor with the sparkle of busy pleasure it had worn
in the morning; but as it was every day at home.

Mr. Linden arranged the fire and then stood considering it--or
something--for a minute in silence; until Mrs. Derrick inquired "if he
had found as much as he expected?"--but upon his replying somewhat
dryly, "Rather more"--the conversation dropped again.

"You ought to be tired now, Mr. Linden," Faith said gently.

"I am afraid you are."

"No," she said,--"I am not at all."

"Well then--why shouldn't we have our look at Kildeer river? You said
we must."

"O, if you like it!" said Faith, a bright little tinge of pleasure
coming into her cheek, and her sunbonnet was in hand immediately. "But
aren't you tired?" she added doubtfully as they were passing out of the
door. "You've been hard at work."

"You will have to pay for saying you are not, Miss Faith,--I mean to
make you run all the way down to the bank."

And holding out his hand to her, Mr. Linden half made his threat good;
for though his own pace was not much more than a quick walk, by means
of skilful short cuts and long steps, Faith had a gentle little run a
good part of the way. Not down through the crowd of boys and baskets,
but skirting the meadow--passing from the shelter of one great tree to
another, till they reached the bank and saw the blue waters of Kildeer
river at their feet. There she was permitted to sit down and rest. A
little laughing and a little flushed, her happy look was almost brought
back again. But she sat and gazed down at the pretty stream and its
picturesque banks without saying anything; letting Mr. Linden take his
own view of them. His own view was a peculiar one--to judge by his
words.

"Miss Faith, I suppose you are not much acquainted with law forms,--yet
you perhaps know that an important witness in an important case, is
sometimes put in prison until his evidence is obtained."

Faith looked up at him in pure astonishment, the corners of her mouth
indicating that she expected another puzzle, or rather was already
engaged in one. The look made his gravity give way a little.

"I thought you might like to know your position at present," he said.

"I don't know it yet, Mr. Linden."

"It is that of the unfortunate prisoner to whom I referred."

"A prisoner!--" said Faith looking up at him very much amused. "Well,
Mr. Linden?"

He looked amused too, yet with a difference.

"Well, Miss Faith--You are a prisoner, for political purposes. There is
no practicable way for you to get back to the house save through the
witness-box."

"Where is the witness-box?" said Faith.

"Are you in a hurry to be in it?"

"No," said Faith with a very unshadowed smile, "I am not in a hurry for
anything."

"Then tell me what you have been reading to-day," he said, throwing
himself down on the grass beside her.

She looked at him, hesitated, then said with a lowered tone,

"I have been reading what you told me to read--and my testament."

Mr. Linden lifted his hat a little, replaced it--rather more down over
his brows than before, looking steadily down at Kildeer river the while.

"Why did you look grave when I asked you if you had brought 'Le
Philosophe'?"

"I didn't know I did!" said Faith simply. "I had brought only my
testament."

"Only--" Mr. Linden repeated. "Well, from 'only' a testament and only
such a scene--a skilful reader may get much." Then turning and looking
her full in the face, he said, "Miss Faith--what have those boys done
to vex you?"

A sudden, painful, startled flush answered him. She did not look now;
she said earnestly,

"Please Mr. Linden, don't speak of it!"

"I must know--" was his only answer.

"No," she said gently but troubled,--"you mustn't know, and there is no
need you should. There is no need," she repeated eagerly.

"There is another true little witness I can call upon--but I would
rather have your account."

"How did you know?--how did you know anything about it?" said Faith,
facing round upon him in her turn.

"Gentlemen of what Miss Danforth is pleased to call 'my profession'
must know things occasionally," said Mr. Linden.

"What do you think you know, Mr. Linden?" she said a little timidly.

His answer was gentle though resolute.

"I don't think I know anything. What I know, I know----what I do not,
I will."

Faith's head half drooped for an instant, and the flush which had faded
came back painfully. Then she looked at him again, and though the flush
was there she spoke as usual.

"You won't try, Mr. Linden--because I am going to ask you not. It is
nothing you need take up--it was nothing but--what perhaps I was
foolish to mind. I don't mind it now--much--"

But there was a grave falling off in the tone of that much. She felt it
herself, for she rallied and said with her own quiet frank smile,

"I shall not mind it at all to-morrow."

Mr. Linden looked at her while she spoke, gravely and intently enough;
but then he looked away at the river again, and probably read problems
in its soft rippling waters, for he spoke not. Overhead a hawk sailed
noiselessly to and fro, on spread wings,--in the trees close at hand a
squirrel chattered and barked with his mouth full. The afternoon light
left Kildeer river step by step, and the shadows crept after.

Now the one white speck of cloud reflected in that peaceful stream was
no break in its beauty,--it marred nothing, nay, even brought a little
glow of its own to replace the sunbeams. Yet at that speck did Mr.
Linden take aim--sending his pebble so surely, so powerfully, that the
mirror itself was shattered to the remotest shore! Then he stood up and
announced that it was time to go.

Faith stood up, but stood still, and waited somewhat anxiously upon the
answer to her question.

"Then, Mr. Linden, you will not speak of it any more?"

"The witness is discharged," he answered lightly, and walking on.

She sprang after and placed herself directly in his way.

"Mr. Linden--please give me your promise!"

He looked down at her with eyes that were a little moved.

"Miss Faith," he said, "please give me yours!"

"For what?" said Faith.

"That you will trust me--and not ask what I do."

"Yes,"--said Faith,--"but--You must trust me, Mr. Linden," she said
smiling at him,--"and believe me that this is nothing for you to take
up--mere nonsense;--nothing at all to-morrow,--it is nothing to me now.
I want your word."

She wanted it very much, it was easy to see; but beyond that, her face
did not belie her words.

"I don't suppose Mrs. Derrick ever called you 'naughty child'"--said
Mr. Linden,--"but if ever she did she might to-night. Look where the
sun is--and where I am,--and guess where those boys are! Come--" and it
was not easy to resist the hand that again took hold of hers, nor the
quick pace at which he went forward.

And for some fields' length Faith yielded and went as fast as he
pleased. Then as he stopped to put up a bar-place she said again, very
gently but firmly too, standing before him,

"Mr. Linden, I think I have a right to ask this. I know what I ask,
but you do not."

"I never questioned your right, Miss Faith."

"Then you'll not deny it to me?"

"What is your idea of trust?" said Mr. Linden, replacing the last bar.

"That it is something I ought to have just now," said Faith, smiling a
little.

He stood leaning on the bars and looking at her--a kind look, that she
