“You are kind and considerate, Mr. Wallingford,” said the Judge, his
manner softening considerably, for there had been a coldness of some
years’ standing on the part of Judge Bigelow, which more recent events
had increased.
“And why should it be otherwise, Judge?” inquired his old student.
“Mr. Dewey has not given you cause for either kindness or
consideration.”
“It would hurt me more than it would him, were I to foster his unhappy
spirit. It is always best, I find, Judge, to be right with myself.”
“All men would find it better for themselves, were they to let so fine
a sentiment govern their lives,” remarked Judge Bigelow, struck by the
language of Wallingford.
“It is the only true philosophy,” was replied. “If a man is right with
himself, he cannot be wrong towards others; though it is possible, as in
my case, that other eyes, looking through a densely refracting medium,
may see him out of his just position. But he would act very unwisely
were he to change his position for all that. He will be seen right in
the end.”
Judge Bigelow reached out his hand and grasped that of Mr. Wallingford.
“Spoken like a man, Henry! Spoken like a man!” he said, warmly. “I only
wish that Ralph had something of your spirit. I have seen you a little
out of your right position, I believe; but a closer view is correcting
the error.”
Wallingford returned the pressure as warmly as it was given, saying, as
he did so--
“I am aware, Judge, that you have suffered your mind to fall into a
state of prejudice in regard to me. But I am not aware of any thing
in my conduct towards you or others, to warrant the feeling. If in any
thing I have been brought into opposition, faithfulness to the interests
I represented has been the rule of my conduct. I have sought by no trick
of law to gain an advantage. The right and the just I have endeavored
to pursue, without fear and without favor. Can you give me a better rule
for professional or private life?”
“I cannot, Henry,” was the earnest reply. “And if all men would so
pursue the right and the just, how different would be the result for
each, as the sure adjustment of advancing years gave them their true
places in the world’s observation!”
The Judge spoke in a half--absent way, and with a shade of regret in his
tones; Wallingford noted this with a feeling of concern.
“Let us be friends in the future,” he added, again offering his hand to
Wallingford.
“It will be your fault, not mine, if we are not fast fiends, Judge. I
have never forgotten the obligations of my boyhood; and never ceased
to regret the alienation you have shown. To have seemed in your eyes
ungrateful, has been a source of pain whenever I saw or thought of you.”
The two men parted, each feeling better for the interview. A day or two
afterwards Wallingford received a note from Judge Bigelow asking him,
as a particular favor, to call at his office that evening. He went,
of course. The Judge was alone, and received him cordially. But, his
countenance soon fell into an expression of more than usual gravity.
“Mr. Wallingford,” he said, after the passage of a few casual
observations, “I would like to consult you in strict confidence on some
matters in which I have become involved. I can trust you, of course?”
“As fully as if the business were my own,” was the unhesitating answer.
“So I have believed. The fact is, Henry, I have become so entangled in
this cotton mill business with Squire Floyd, Dewey, and others, that I
find myself in a maze of bewildering uncertainty. The Squire and Ralph
are at loggerheads, and seem to me to be getting matters snarled up.
There is no denying the fact that this summary footing of our accounts,
as executors, has tended to cripple affairs. We were working up to the
full extent of capital invested, and the absence of a hundred thousand
dollars--or its representative security--has made financiering a thing
of no easy consideration.”
“I am afraid, Judge Bigelow,” said Wallingford, as the old man paused,
“that you are in the hands of one who, to gain his own ends, would
sacrifice you without a moment’s hesitation.”
“Who?”
“You will permit me to speak plainly, Judge.”
“Say on. The plain speech of a friend is better than the flatteries of
an enemy.”
“I have no faith in Ralph Dewey.”
The two men looked steadily at each other for some moments.
“Over fifteen years’ observation of the man has satisfied me that he
possesses neither honor nor humanity. He is your nephew. But that does
not signify. We must look at men as they are.”
“His movements have not been to my satisfaction for some time,” said the
Judge; speaking as though conviction had to force itself upon his mind.
“You should canvass all he does with the closest care; and if your
property lies in any degree at his mercy, change the relation as quickly
as possible.”
“Are you not prejudiced against him, Henry?” The Judge spoke in a
deprecating tone.
“I believe, sir, that I estimate him at his real value; and I do most
earnestly conjure you to set to work at once to disentangle your affairs
if seriously involved with his. If you do not, he will beggar you in
your old age, which God forbid!”
“I am far from sure that I can disentangle my affairs,” said the Judge.
“There is nothing like trying, you know.” Wallingford spoke in a tone of
encouragement. “And everything may depend on beginning in time. In what
way are you involved with him?”
It was some time before Judge Bigelow answered this direct question. He
then replied,
“Heavily in the way of endorsements.”
“Of his individual paper?”
“Yes. Also of the paper of his firm.”
“To an extent beyond your ability to pay if there should be failure on
their part?”
“Yes; to three times my ability to pay.”
Wallingford dropped his eyes to the floor, and sat for some time. He
then looked up into Judge Bigelow’s face, and said,
“If that be so, I can see only one way for you.”
“Say on.”
“Let no more endorsements be given from this day forth.”
“How can I suddenly refuse? The thing has been going on for years.”
“You can refuse to do wrong on the plea of wrong. If your name gives no
real value to a piece of paper, yet accredits it in the eyes of others,
it is wrong for you to place your endorsement thereon. Is not this so?”
“I admit the proposition, Henry.”
“Very well. The only way to get right, is to start right. And my dear,
dear sir! let me implore you to take immediately the first step in a
right direction. Standing outside of the charmed circle of temptation as
I do, I can see the right way for your feet to walk in better than you
can. Oh, sir! Let me be eyes, and hand, and feet for you if need be; and
if it is not too late, I will save you from impending ruin.”
Wallingford took the old man’s hand, and grasped it warmly as he
spoke. The Judge was moved by this earnest appeal, coming upon him so
unexpectedly; and not only moved, but startled and alarmed by the tenor
of what was said.
“The first thing,” he remarked, after taking time to get his thoughts
clear, “if I accept of your friendly overtures, is for me to lay before
you everything just as it is, so that you can see where I stand, and how
I stand. Without this, your view of the case would be partial, and your
conclusions might not be right.”
“That is unquestionably so,” Wallingford replied. “And now, Judge, if
you wish my friendly aid, confide in me as you would a son or brother.
You will find me as true as steel.”
A revelation succeeded that filled Mr. Wallingford with painful
astonishment. The endorsements of Judge Bigelow, on paper brought to him
by Dewey, and of which he took no memorandums, covered, no doubt, from a
hundred to a hundred and fifty thousand dollars! Then, as to the affairs
of the Clinton Bank, of which Judge Bigelow was still the President, he
felt a great deal of concern. The Cashier and Mr. Dewey knew far more
about the business and condition of the institution than anybody else,
and managed it pretty much in their own way. The directors, if not
men of straw, might almost as well have been, for all the intelligent
control they exercised. As for Judge, Bigelow, the principal duty
required of him was to sign his name as President to great sheets of
bank bills, the denomination running from one dollar to a thousand.
Touching the extent to which these representatives of value were issued,
he knew nothing certain. He was shown, at regular periods, a statement
wherein the condition of the bank was set forth, and to which he
appended his signature. But he had no certain knowledge that the figures
were correct. Of the paper under discount over two-thirds was drawn or
endorsed by Floyd, Lawson, Lee, & Co.
At the time Judge Bigelow began investing in mill property, he was
worth, in productive stocks and real estate, from thirty to forty
thousand dollars. He now estimated his wealth at from sixty to eighty
thousand dollars; but it was all locked up in the mills.
The result of this first interview between the Judge and Mr. Wallingford
was to set the former in a better position to see the character of his
responsibilities, and the extreme danger in which he stood. The clear,
honest, common sense way in which Wallingford looked at everything, and
comprehended everything, surprised his old preceptor; and gave him so
much confidence in his judgment and discretion, that he placed himself
fully in his hands. And well for him was it that he did so in time.
CHAPTER XXIX.
In accordance with the advice of Mr. Wallingford, the first reactionary
movement on the part of Judge Bigelow, was his refusal to endorse any
more paper for his nephew, or the firm of which he was a member, on
the ground that such endorsements, on his part, were of no real value,
considering the large amounts for which he was already responsible, and
consequently little better than fraudulent engagements to pay.
A storm between the uncle and nephew was the consequence, and the latter
undertook to drive the old gentleman back again into the traces, by
threats of terrible disasters to him and all concerned. If Judge Bigelow
had stood alone, the nephew would have been too strong for him. But he
had a clear-seeing, honest mind to throw light upon his way, and a young
and vigorous arm to lean upon in his hour of weakness and trial. And so
Ralph Dewey, to his surprise and alarm, found it impossible to bend the
Judge from his resolution.
Then followed several weeks, during which time Dewey was flying back
and forth between New York and S----, trying to re-adjust the disturbed
balance of things. The result was as Mr. Wallingford had anticipated.
There was too much at stake for the house of Floyd, Lawson, Lee, & Co.,
to let matters fail for lack of Judge Bigelow’s endorsements. Some other
prop must be substituted for this one.
The four months that followed were months of anxious suspense on the
part of Judge Bigelow and his true friend, who was standing beside
him, though invisible in this thing to all other eyes, firm as a rocky
pillar. No more endorsements were given, and the paper bearing his name
was by this time nearly all paid.
“Right, so far,” said Mr. Wallingford, at the expiration of the time
in which most of the paper bearing Judge Bigelow’s name reached its
maturity. “And now for the next safe move in this difficult game, where
the odds are still against us. You must get out of this Bank.”
The Judge looked gravely opposed.
“It may awaken suspicion that something is wrong, and create a run upon
the Bank, which would be ruin.”
“Can you exercise a controlling influence in the position you hold? Can
you be true, as President of the Clinton Bank, to the public interest
you represent?”
“I cannot. They have made of me an automaton.”
“Very well. That settles the question. You cannot honorably hold your
place a single day. There is only one safe step, and that is to resign.”
“But the loose way in which I held office will be exposed to my
successor.”
“That is not the question to consider, Judge--but the right. Still, so
far as this fear is concerned, don’t let it trouble you. The choice of
successor will fall upon some one quite as facile to the wishes of Ralph
Dewey & Company as you have been.”
