
•' I have to attend to my business." 

" You can afford to take a vacation of a week 
or two, I should think." 

Paul shook his head. He was delighted with 
the idea, and would have been very glad to go, 
but he could not think of neglecting his business 
to go away upon a pleasure excursion. 

" You must go, Paul ; the fellows all want you 
to go, and we shall have a first-rate time.". 

'' I have no doubt you will ; and I should be 
very glad to go with you if I could ; but it is of 
no use for me to think of such a thing." 

"It is not fully decided that we are to go yet ; 
but Captain Littleton and my father have con- 
sented to let us have the Flyaway. We shall 
know all about it next week." 

Paul continued his walk, but the project of the 
excursion in the Flyaway haunted his imagination, 
and it required a great deal of self-denial for him 
to forego the anticipated pleasure. He felt that 
the summer season was the harvest time of his 
business, and he could not afford to waste a week 



 

or two in idle play. '' Little by Little," was his 
motto, and lie was not willing that any of those 
'' littles " should slip through his fingers. 

When they "went down in the Fawm the next 
day, he told John about the excursion, and that 
he had been invited to form one of the party. 

" But I can't afford to go," he added. 

" Why not ? It won't cost you any thing." 

'' I shall lose my time, for the Fawn will lie 
idle at her moorings while I' am gone." 

" No, she won't. I will go a fishing in her every 
day." 

" I think not, John." 

" Do you think I can't manage her ? " demanded 
the first officer, indignant that such an aspersion 
should be cast upon his nautical skill. 

" She's too heavy a boat for you to manage 
alone." 

" I will get a couple of fellows to help me ; 
they will be glad enough of the chance." 

" I dare say they will ; but you are not quite 
old enough yet to run the boat yourself," 



 

" What odds does it make how old I am, if I 
only know how to handle her ? Could you work 
her any better if you were a hundred years old ? " 

"But you are reckless, careless, John; you 
know you are." 

'' I don't think I am ; but I will promise to be 
very careful. You may take the foresail off, if 
you please, before you go ; then you will be sure 
I shall not carry too much sail." 

" I don't intend to go ; so it is of no use to 
talk about it." 

'' You are a fool if you don't ; that's all I have 
to say." 

" You have a right to your own opinion, John." 

" I wish I had a chance to go. I would give all 
my old shoes, if I could only be one of the party. 
What a glorious time they will have ! " 

Paul was of precisely the same opinion, but the 
idea of letting John run the Fawn during his absences 
not for a moment to be tolerated. He 
would certainly run her on the rocks, or carry sail 
till the wind took the masts out of her. 



 

As it was a very pleasant day, Paul decided to 
run down below, and try his luck among the cod 
and haddock ; and they went farther out than they 
had ever been before, A fine lot of fish, including 
a mammoth cod, that had required the strength of 
both of them to pull out of the water, rewarded 
their enterprise. 

The wind was very light, and instead of getting 
home before the tide turned, as Paul had calcu- 
lated, they were two miles below Rock Island, when 
the ebb tide set in against them. To add to this 
misfortune, the wind entirely died out, and they 
were forced to come to anchor, to prevent drifting 
down with the tide. With a good wind they 
were only two hours' sail from home ; but, as it 
was, there was a prospect of spending another 
night in the cabin of the Fawn — not a very un- 
pleasant alternative, John thought, especially as 
they had a lantern, and plenty of provisions on 
board. 

The cod and haddock had all been dressed, and 
there was nothing for the boys to do ; so Paul 



 

went into the cabin and stretched himself on his 
berth. He had placed two or three books on 
board for such an emergency as the present, and 
he was soon absorbed in the contents of one of 
them. He did not read longv for a hard day's 
work is not a good preparation for literary labors. 
The book fell from his hand, and to the music of 
the flapping sails he dropped asleep. 

It is a noticeable fact that fishermen can sleep 
twenty- four hours on a stretch. Many years ago, 
we went down a-fishing in one of the pinkey-stern 
schooners, which wpre much more common then 
in the waters of Massachusetts Bay than at the 
present time. The crew consisted of the skipper 
and three men, the former of whom was an old, 
weather-beaten fisherman, who had roughed it on 
the coast from his boyhood. We went down one 
night, intending to fish the next day, and return 
by sunset ; but unfortunately a heavy rain kept us 
at our anchorage off Spectacle Island for twenty-four 
hours. The old skipper got out of his berth and 
ate his breakfast about ten, and after going half way 




 

up the companion ladder, to smell the weather, 
turned in again, and slept till four, when he was 
called to partake of a greasy chowder. As soon 
as he had disposed of a reasonable allowance for 
four hearty men, be tumbled into his berth once 
more, and was not visible again till the next' morn- 
ing. The rest of the crew slept about two thirds 
of the time. They were the sleepiest men we ever 
encountered during their leisure; but even the old 
skipper su4denly joined the "wide-awakes" when 
we reached the fishing grounds. 

Paul had already contracted this fisherman's 
habit, and while the Fawn lay at anchor, he slept 
like a rock. After amusing himself for an hour 
on deck, John went below to take an observation, 
and to announce the prospect of "a breeze from 
the southward," for he had discovered a gentle 
ripple on the water at a distance. ' But when he 
saw that Paul was having his watch below," he 
quickly returned to the standing room, closing the 
cabin doors behind him. 

" There is a capfull of wind," said he to him- 



 

self, " and I will just show the skipper of the Fawn 
that I can handle her as well as he can." 

He waited till the breeze reached her, and then, 
with as little noise as possible, he weighed the 
anchor, and took his place at the helm. 

'' All right. Captain Duncan ; you can finish 
