beautiful; and whether they wear red 
shoes or no shoes, does not make much 
difference. You may learn the whole 




hymn, if you like.” So Debby sat down 
to learn. 

“ CHILDREN AT THE GATE OF HEAVEN.” 

“Little travellers Zionward, 

Each one entering into rest, 

In the kingdom of your Lord, 

In the mansions of the blest; 

There, to welcome, Jesus waits, 

Gives the crowns his followers win : 

Lift your heads, ye golden gates ! 

Let the little travellers in ! 

“ Who are they whose little feet, 

Pacing life’s dark journey through, 

Now have reach’d that heavenly seat 
They had ever kept in view ? 

‘ I from Greenland’s frozen land;’ 

‘ I from India’s sultry plain;’ 

‘ I from Afric’s barren sand ;’ 

‘ I from islands of the main!’ 

“All our earthly journey past, 

Every tear and pain gone by, 

Here together met at last, 

At the portal of the sky, 

Each the welcome ‘ Come !’ awaits, 
Conquerors over death and sin : 

Lift your heads, ye golden gates ! 

Let the little travellers in !” 



CHAPTER II. 

“Mother,” said Debby, “what does 
Zionward mean ?” 

“Sometimes,” said her mother, “Zion 
is one of the names of Jerusalem, in the 
Bible ; and sometimes it is used as a name 
for all of God’s own people: as when the 
Psalmist says, ‘The Lord shall reign forever ; even thy God, O Zion, unto all generations!’ But here in the hymn, Debby, 
and in many places in the Bible, Zion is 
but another word for the heavenly Jerusalem. ‘The redeemed of the Lord shall 
return and come to Zion, with songs and 
everlasting joy upon their heads.’ ” 

“And Zionward means towards Zion,” 
said Debby. “I know that.” 



“Yes,” said her mother: “these little 
travellers have heard that the Lord hath 
founded Zion, and so they have chosen 
it for their home. Every day they are 
travelling on towards it, and there Jesus has 
a crown for each one of them.” 

“I guess they walk well, then,” said 
Debby, “since they’re going to such a 
good place.” 

“One who is really travelling towards 
Zion, with his face thitherwards, Debby,” 
said her mother, “walks as no one else 
can ! In the first place, he walks in safety ; 
for ‘ the Lord keepeth the feet of his 
saints.’ If they trust in him, ‘their feet 
shall not slip.’ Sin shall neither conquer 
nor mislead them.” 

“Don’t they ever want to do wrong?” 
said Debby. 

“Sin may tempt them sometimes,” said 
her mother; “but if they pray, — ‘Teach


 


me thy way, O Lord; lead me in a plain 
path, because of mine enemies — then the 
Lord will answer them, ‘ This is the way : 
walk ye in it.’ None of the attacks 
of sin shall hurt them; for the Lord 
is a buckler to them that walk uprightly.” 

“And what then ?” said Debby. 

“Why, then/’ said her mother, “they 
walk in the way of peace and in the light 
of God’s countenance.” 

“And that makes them shine,” said 
Debby. “I remember all about my little 
stone.” 

“Yes, that makes them shine,” said her 
mother. “And so, with this glory about 
them and in their hearts, they walk in the 
fear of the Lord, and in love towards them 
that are without, redeeming the time. 
For any one who is travelling towards 
Zion ‘with a perfect heart’ wants to do 

every bit of work the Lord has given him 
to do, on the way.” 

“Then they always mind, I guess,” said 
Debby. 

“Ah, Debby,” said her mother, “they 
do a great deal more than that ! — they are 
eager to mind. ‘I made haste, and delayed not, to keep thy commandments,' 
said King David. Now, you know all 
minding is not like that.” 

“No, indeed,” said Debby, thinking how 
slowly she had gone up-stairs that very 
morning on some errand for her mother. 

“No, indeed,” her mother repeated. 
“Now the Bible says that the feet of the 
wicked run to evil ; but the righteous ‘ run 
the way of God’s commandments.’ Walk- 
ing is not enough for them : they must 
run. When there is any work to be 
done for the Lord, they say, ‘Here am I: 
send me.’ ” 


“I guess they feel good always, then,” 
said Debby. 

“They feel happy, — if that is what you 
mean,” said her mother. “No matter 
what troubles or difficulties they have to 
go through, ‘the word of the Lord is a 
lamp unto their feet and a light unto their 
path.’ Men may ill-treat them and throw 
them into prison; yet shall they ‘walk 
at liberty, for they seek his precepts.’ 

‘ Though I walk through the valley of the 
shadow of death, I will fear no evil; for 
thou art with me.’ Walking with God, 
none need be afraid.” 

“What more do they do?” said Debby. 

“They always walk in truth, for one 
thing,” said her mother. “And then, 
Debby, they try to do good to other people, and to bring them out of the ways of 
darkness. Oh, what walking that is ! 
‘ How beautiful upon the mountains are 




the feet of him that bringeth good tidings, 
that publisheth peace ; that bringeth good 
tidings of good, that publisheth salvation !’ ” 

“The good tidings,” said Debby : “ that’s 
the news that Jesus came to save people. 
Because when he was born the angels 
called it good tidings of great joy.” 

“Yes: you remember very well,” said 
her mother. “Now, the Bible says that 
