"I shall go with you, Agnes," said Elsie, resolutely.
"No, you will not," said the attendant, insolently. "This maiden is
commanded, and none else."
"He belongs to the Pope's nephew," whispered a voice in Elsie's ear.
"You had better have your tongue torn out than say another word."
Whereupon, Elsie found herself actually borne backward by three or four
stout women.
Agnes looked round and smiled on her,--a smile full of innocent
trust,--and then, turning, followed the servant into the finest of the
equipages, where she was lost to view.
Elsie was almost wild with fear and impotent rage; but a low,
impressive voice now spoke in her ear. It came from the white figure
which had followed them in the morning.
"Listen," it said, "and be quiet; don't turn your head, but hear what
I tell you. Your child is followed by those who will save her. Go your
ways whence you came. Wait till the hour after the Ave Maria, then come
to the Porta San Sebastiano, and all will be well."
When Elsie turned to look she saw no one, but caught a distant glimpse
of a white figure vanishing in the crowd. She returned to her asylum,
wondering and disconsolate, and the first person whom she saw was old
Mona.
"Well, good-morrow, sister!" she said. "Know that I am here on a
strange errand. The Princess has taken such a liking to you that
nothing will do but we must fetch you and your little one out to her
villa. I looked everywhere for you in church this morning. Where have
you hid yourselves?"
"We were there," said Elsie, confused, and hesitating whether to speak
of what had happened.
"Well, where is the little one? Get her ready; we have horses in
waiting. It is a good bit out of the city."
"Alack!" said Elsie, "I know not where she is."
"Holy Virgin!" said Mona, "how is this?"
Elsie, moved by the necessity which makes it a relief to open the
heart to some one, sat down on the steps of the church and poured forth
the whole story into the listening ear of Mona.
"Well, well, well!" said the old servant, "in our days, one does
not wonder at anything, one never knows one day what may come the
next,--but this is bad enough!"
"Do you think," said Elsie, "there is any hope in that strange promise?"
"One can but try it," said Mona.
"If you could but be there then," said Elsie, "and take us to your
mistress."
"Well, I will wait, for my mistress has taken an especial fancy to your
little one, more particularly since this morning, when a holy Capuchin
came to our house and held a long conference with her, and after he was
gone I found my lady almost in a faint, and she would have it that we
should start directly to bring her out here, and I had much ado to let
her see that the child would do quite as well after services were over.
I tired myself looking about for you in the crowd."
The two women then digressed upon various gossiping particulars,
as they sat on the old mossy, grass-grown steps, looking up over
house-tops yellow with lichen, into the blue spring air, where flocks
of white pigeons were soaring and careering in the soft, warm sunshine.
Brightness and warmth and flowers seemed to be the only idea natural
to that charming weather, and Elsie, sad-hearted and foreboding as she
was, felt the benign influence. Rome, which had been so fatal a place
to her peace, yet had for her, as it has for every one, potent spells
of a lulling and soothing power. Where is the grief or anxiety that can
resist the enchantment of one of Rome's bright, soft, spring days?
CHAPTER XXIX
THE NIGHT-RIDE
The villa of the Princess Paulina was one of those soft, idyllic
paradises which lie like so many fairy-lands around the dreamy
solitudes of Rome. They are so fair, so wild, so still, these villas!
Nature in them seems to run in such gentle sympathy with Art, that
one feels as if they had not been so much the product of human skill
as some indigenous growth of Arcadian ages. There are quaint terraces
shadowed by clipped ilex-trees, whose branches make twilight even in
the sultriest noon; there are long-drawn paths, through wildernesses
where cyclamens blossom in crimson clouds among crushed fragments
of sculptured marble green with the moss of ages, and glossy-leaved
myrtles put forth their pale blue stars in constellations under the
leafy shadows. Everywhere is the voice of water, ever lulling, ever
babbling, and taught by Art to run in many a quaint caprice,--here
to rush down marble steps slippery with sedgy green, there to spout
up in silvery spray, and anon to spread into a cool, waveless lake,
whose mirror reflects trees and flowers far down in some visionary
underworld. Then there are wide lawns, where the grass in spring is a
perfect rainbow of anemones, white, rose, crimson, purple, mottled,
streaked, and dappled with ever varying shade of sunset clouds. There
are soft, moist banks where purple and white violets grow large
and fair, and trees all interlaced with ivy, which runs and twines
everywhere, intermingling its dark, graceful leaves and vivid young
shoots with the bloom and leafage of all shadowy places.
In our day, these lovely places have their dark shadow ever haunting
their loveliness: the malaria, like an unseen demon, lies hid in their
sweetness. And in the time we are speaking of, a curse not less deadly
poisoned the beauties of the Princess's villa,--the malaria of fear.
The graveled terrace in front of the villa commanded, through the
clipped arches of the ilex-trees, the Campagna with its soft,
undulating bands of many-colored green, and the distant city of Rome,
whose bells were always filling the air between with a tremulous
vibration. Here, during the long sunny afternoon while Elsie and Monica
were crooning together on the steps of the church, the Princess Paulina
walked restlessly up and down, looking forth on the way towards the
city for the travelers whom she expected.
Father Francesco had been there that morning and communicated to her
the dying message of the aged Capuchin, from which it appeared that
the child who had so much interested her was her near kinswoman.
Perhaps, had her house remained at the height of its power and
splendor, she might have rejected with scorn the idea of a kinswoman
whose existence had been owing to a mésalliance; but a member of
an exiled and disinherited family, deriving her only comfort from
unworldly sources, she regarded this event as an opportunity afforded
her to make expiation for one of the sins of her house. The beauty and
winning graces of her young kinswoman were not without their influence
in attracting a lonely heart deprived of the support of natural
ties. The Princess longed for something to love, and the discovery
of a legitimate object of family affection was an event in the weary
monotony of her life; and therefore it was that the hours of the
afternoon seemed long while she looked forth towards Rome, listening to
the ceaseless chiming of its bells, and wondering why no one appeared
along the road.
The sun went down, and all the wide plain seemed like the sea at
twilight, lying in rosy and lilac and purple shadowy bands, out of
which rose the old city, solemn and lonely as some enchanted island of
dreamland, with a flush of radiance behind it and a tolling of weird
music filling all the air around. Now they are chanting the Ave Maria
in hundreds of churches, and the Princess worships in distant accord,
and tries to still the anxieties of her heart with many a prayer.
Twilight fades and fades, the Campagna becomes a black sea, and the
distant city looms up like a dark rock against the glimmering sky,
and the Princess goes within and walks restlessly through the wide
halls, stopping first at one open window and then at another to listen.
Beneath her feet she treads a cool mosaic pavement where laughing
Cupids are dancing. Above, from the ceiling, Aurora and the Hours look
down in many-colored clouds of brightness. The sound of the fountains
without is so clear in the intense stillness that the peculiar voice
of each one can be told. That is the swaying noise of the great jet
that rises from marble shells and falls into a wide basin, where
silvery swans swim round and round in enchanted circles; and the other
slenderer sound is the smaller jet that rains down its spray into the
violet-borders deep in the shrubbery; and that other, the shallow
babble of the waters that go down the marble steps to the lake. How
dreamlike and plaintive they all sound in the night stillness! The
nightingale sings from the dark shadows of the wilderness; and the
musky odors of the cyclamen come floating ever and anon through the
casement, in that strange, cloudy way in which flower scents seem to
come and go in the air in the night season.
At last the Princess fancies she hears the distant tramp of horses'
feet, and her heart beats so that she can scarcely listen: now she
hears it,--and now a rising wind, sweeping across the Campagna, seems
to bear it moaning away. She goes to a door and looks out into the
darkness. Yes, she hears it now, quick and regular,--the beat of
many horses' feet coming in hot haste along the road. Surely the few
servants whom she has sent cannot make all this noise! and she trembles
with vague affright. Perhaps it is a tyrannical message, bringing
imprisonment and death. She calls a maid, and bids her bring lights
into the reception-hall. A few moments more, and there is a confused
stamping of horses' feet approaching the house, and she hears the
voices of her servants. She runs into the piazza, and sees dismounting
a knight who carries Agnes in his arms pale and fainting. Old Elsie and
Monica, too, dismount, with the Princess's men-servants; but, wonderful
to tell, there seems besides them to be a train of some hundred armed
horsemen.
The timid Princess was so fluttered and bewildered that she lost all
presence of mind, and stood in uncomprehending wonder, while Monica
pushed authoritatively into the house, and beckoned the knight to bring
Agnes and lay her on a sofa, when she and old Elsie busied themselves
vigorously with restoratives.
The Lady Paulina, as soon as she could collect her scattered senses,
recognized in Agostino the banished lord of the Sarelli family, a race
who had shared with her own the hatred and cruelty of the Borgia tribe;
and he in turn had recognized a daughter of the Colonnas. He drew her
aside into a small boudoir adjoining the apartment.
"Noble lady," he said, "we are companions in misfortune, and so, I
trust, you will pardon what seems a tumultuous intrusion on your
privacy. I and my men came to Rome in disguise, that we might watch
over and protect this poor innocent, who now finds asylum with you."
"My Lord," said the Princess, "I see in this event the wonderful
working of the good God. I have but just learned that this young
person is my near kinswoman; it was only this morning that the fact
was certified to me on the dying confession of a holy Capuchin,
who privately united my brother to her mother. The marriage was an
indiscretion of his youth; but afterwards he fell into more grievous
sin in denying the holy sacrament, and leaving his wife to die in
misery and dishonor, and perhaps for this fault such great judgments
fell upon him. I wish to make atonement in such sort as is yet possible
by acting as a mother to this child."
"The times are so troublous and uncertain," said Agostino, "that she
must have stronger protection than that of any woman. She is of a most
holy and religious nature, but as ignorant of sin as an angel who never
has seen anything out of heaven; and so the Borgias enticed her into
their impure den, from which, God helping, I have saved her. I tried
all I could to prevent her coming to Rome, and to convince her of the
vileness that ruled here; but the poor little one could not believe me,
and thought me a heretic only for saying what she now knows from her
own senses."
The Lady Paulina shuddered with fear.
"Is it possible that you have come into collision with the dreadful
Borgias? What will become of us?"
"I brought a hundred men into Rome in different disguises," said
Agostino, "and we gained over a servant in their household, through
whom I entered and carried her off. Their men pursued us, and we had a
fight in the streets, but for the moment we mustered more than they.
Some of them chased us a good distance. But it will not do for us to
remain here. As soon as she is revived enough, we must retreat towards
one of our fastnesses in the mountains, whence, when rested, we shall
go northward to Florence, where I have powerful friends, and she has
also an uncle, a holy man, by whose counsels she is much guided."
