the damp, woody soil, ears pointed forward, eyes dilate, and 
nostrils quivering widely the picture of mortal fear. 
"There is something in this, Lay!" said the magistrate 
a grave, judicious man, whom no one had ever accused of 
excitability of imagination or a too ready credulity. " Gentlemen, if you please, we will examine this ground before 
going further !" 
Every man was upon his feet in a moment. The under 
growth was thick thereabouts, and they literally crawled 
upon their hands and knees in their anxiety to make the 
search thorough. Stones were upturned ; leaves swept away, 
that the bare earth might testify of any recent disturbance ; 
broken twigs and boughs inspected ; but the keenest eyes 
discerned nothing unusual, nothing that varied from the 
ordinary aspect of a winter forest. 
Leaving their horses, they went on foot to the natural 
clearing marked by the evergreen spruce, and there the examination was, if possible, more narrowly vigilant, and with 
a like result. There was absolutely naught to indicate that 
any deed of violence had ever marred the peaceful quiet of 
the pretty glade. The sun shone brightly upon the young 
turf, already sprouting under the genial skies ; and warm 
breezes of the past week ; there were birds twittering in 
the naked branches above their heads ; and as they drew to 
gether in the centre of the grass-plot, for conference upon 
the next best step to be taken, a hare, the most timid of 
forest-bred creatures, scudded by on her way to her not 
distant form. 
" We must make the arrest without additional evidence, 
gentlemen !" decided Mr. Reverdy, the magistrate. "Colonel Floyd's possession of the watch and bonds must be accounted for, and the matter of the supposed forgery cleared 
up, before we can lawfully or conscientiously abandon the 
task we have undertaken." 
" It will be a bad business for us all if he gets clear, after 
we; have brought so serious a charge," demurred one of the 
quartette a nervous, cautious man, and a near neighbor of 
the Floyds. "The colonel is a troublesome customer to 
manage, when his blood is up. I shouldn't relish being at 
enmity with him, if he is to go at large. He never forgives 
an affront." 
"Then, Mr. Dickson, you had better not accompany us !" 
rejoined Mr. Reverdy, in calm contempt. "For my own 
part, I shall probe this affair to the bottom, at any and every 
cost to myself. If no one else will go with us, Mr. Lay and 
myself will serve the warrant. Shall we return to our 
horses ?" 
Murmuring something to the effect that he had been 
"misunderstood," and that he was as " little afraid as any 
other man," Mr. Dickson walked back with the rest. 
" Lay ! this is certainly very singular !" said the foremost 
of them, going up to Hero and laying his hand upon his 
neck. 
The poor beast was covered with sweat, and shook in 
every joint. He responded to the friendly touch by another 
frightened neigh, wild and piercing as the former; and 
when Aleck took him by the head to lead him on again, 
struck his hoofs deep into the earth and pulled back with 
all his might. They all gathered about him, in wonder 
ment and inquiry. Aleck was the first to remark that the 
creature paid no attention to their movements ; that his eyes 
were fixed upon a cluster of saplings not four feet off. This 
they had examined more than once in their fruitless quest, 
but the change in his features now directed the attention of 
the others to the place. 
" There are no pine-trees near ! Those are hickory sap 
lings ! Why should the ground under them be covered 
with pine-needles !" 
The exclamation acted like an electric shock. All sprang 
forward to the work of clearing away the thick brown covering. It was several inches in depth, and looked as if 
swine had been bedded there during the cold weather an 
illusion that had completely imposed upon the search-party, 
until they observed that the leaves could not have fallen 
from the trees above ; and the improbability that they had 
been brought from a distance for such a purpose, when the 
herd could as well have been littered under the pines them 
selves, presented itself to every mind. A hoe, spade, and 
pickaxe were hastily produced from a bag which was lashed 
to the front of Hero's saddle, and while three used these to 
rake off the matted needles, the fourth scraped it aside with 
his bare hands. 
It was removed in less time than it has taken to describe 
the process, and there remained exposed a considerable area 
of lighter color than the black, rich soil around it, as if the 
earth had been carefully spread over a wide space, to avoid 
the appearance of elevation in any one spot. Near the 
middle of this was plainly visible a sunken spot, long and 
narrow, and perfectly regular in outline. Not a word was 
uttered, of command or remark, as each of the three men 
bent to his work, and dug as if his own life or death depended upon his diligence. 
Of the three ! The spade had fallen from the nerveless 
hand of the fourth, and his next neighbor, he who had 
labored with his fingers only, caught it ere it touched the 
ground, and struck it boldly into the soil. Sick with horror, 
Aleck leaned against a tree, and watched the rapidly 
deepening chasm at his feet ; noted the signs of a former 
excavation, in the leaves and sticks mingled with the earth 
they cast np. Would they have to dig far down ? and if 
so, would his strength and reason endure this racking suspense until they reached it ? 
The pit was already two feet deep, and the dirt lay compact as ever, settled by the snows and rains of two long 
winter months. Three feet ! they worked well ! Four ! 
they must be nearing it. 
Ha ! how carelessly that man plunged the pick-axe up to 
the helve ! Had he no thought of what he might strike 
into what substance the keen, cruel point might sink at any 
moment ! Again he swung the implement in the air and 
Aleck seized his arm convulsively when he would have 
brought it down. 
" For heaven's sake, Dickson ! be careful ! you cannot be 
far from it now!" he cried, harshly. 
None of the excited laborers had realized their exact 
position before ; but they eyed the dimensions of the pit 
now with careful, wondering attention, and the man who 
wielded the pick stepped one side and laid down the dangerous instrument. The others kept on with their task 
but delved warily, more slowly scraping instead of dig 
ging. The tedious process, necessary as he felt it to be 
their expression of watchfulness as each spadeful was're 
moved were more horrible than ah  that had gone be 
fore. 
" This is dying by inches !" he whispered to Dickson, who 
stood at his side ; and he put up his hand to wipe away the 
cold beads that, dripping from his forehead, were literally 
blinding him. 
"My God!" 
The low cry broke from one of the workmen, and at the 
same instant Dickson clutched Aleck's shoulder, dragged 
him some paces before he could recover from his surprise at 
the movement. 
" You must not see this, Lay ! indeed you must not !" remonstrated the neighbor, withstanding, with friendly 
violence, Aleck's struggles to escape from his hold. " Sit 
here !" He pushed him down upon the trunk of a fallen 
tree " Sit here, until I go and see whether it is best for 
you to be there !" 
Misled by the apparent obedience of his charge, he ran 
back to the grave. 
A grave, in truth, it was, and within it a figure, from 
whose features gentle hands were that moment withdrawing 
the only shield between it and the earth a coarse, gray 
blanket spread over the body, after the manner of a pall. 
Unchanged, save by the pallor of death, he slept there 
peacefully, as if loving, and not bloody hands had laid him 
down to his long rest ; as if a costly coffin had sheltered his 
mortal frame from the contaminating touch of his mother 
earth, and costly marble sought to immortalize his name and 
memory. 
A hollow groan caused the beholders to look up, and 
Aleck Lay's white face was seen leaning forward beside Mr. 
Dickson's, turned for one second to the blue, smiling heavens, 
and his arms were tossed aloft, none doubted, in agonized in 
vocation of Divine vengeance upon the murderer ; then, he 
spoke in accents more stern than sad 
" Lift him out ! Mr. Dickson, your house is nearest ; will 
you ride over and send some conveyance in which the body 
can be carried to Maple Hill ? Frank ! you will stay here 
until he returns, then gallop ahead, and prepare my wife for 
what she must see that is, if I am not at home myself by 
that time. I will exchange horses with you ; I think that mine 
will follow him. Mr. Reverdy, if you are ready, we will 
go direct to Belleview." 
They left the corpse upon a bed, hurriedly made of dry 
leaves a cloak wrapped about it and concealing it, save 
where one curl of fair hair, escaping from the folds, caught 
the reflection of the afternoon sun Frank Travis, a cousin 
of the Lays, and Robert's bosom friend, and the faithful 
Hero, its only guards. 
NOTE. It may interest the reader to know that nearly 
every incident relative to Robert Lay's murder had its 
counterpart in a case which came within range of the au 
thor's personal observation. The most important variations 
in the history, as here narrated, are the needful changes of 
dates, names, and locality. No portion of the story is more 
authentic than the phenomenon of Hero's behavior when 
in the vicinage of the hidden grave, and the discovery of 
the body as a direct sequence of the horse's remarkable 
conduct. 
CHAPTER XVII. 
COLONEL FLOYD S horse and buggy were at the door that 
morning at an unusually early hour. He had business to 
transact with a man who lived ten or twelve miles off, and 
he grumbled loudly at his wife's negligence, and cursed the 
cook's laziness in not having breakfast precisely at half-past 
seven, according to the mandate he had issued over night. 
" Lily, my love, you are eating nothing !" said Mrs. Floyd, 
solicitously, as she witnessed her niece's want of application 
to the tempting repast. 
" I am doing very well, thank you, mamma !" and the 
girl made a feint of using her knife arid fork. 
" Colonel ! I wish you would call at Dr. Bryan's as you 
are passing through the village, and ask him to drop in to 
see her," pursued the aunt. 
" What's the matter with you ?" snarled the master of 
the household, addressing Lily. 
" Nothing, sir. I feel quite well the warm weather 
makes me a little languid that is all !" she answered. 
But the slight agitation occasioned by his harsh, abrupt 
query, brought a tremor to her lips and tears into the large 
eyes, now sadly sunken and unnaturally bright. 
Her uncle scrutinized her sneeringly. 
" Which means that you are lovesick, and have the 
vapors ! Vastly pretty and interesting these look to younger men, but I don't believe that Dr. Bryan will admire 
them any more than I do. I sha n't be home to dinner, 
Mrs. Floyd," and having made these affectionate adieux, he 
stalked out. 
" Nine o'clock ! What is that confoundedly slow fellow 
