"I'm not afraid: don't use that word to me again, Dick. If I had been
afraid, I shouldn't come, of course."
By this time the Greyhound was off the little inlet, near Mr.
Batterman's garden, and, as a matter of prudence, all conversation was
suspended. The boat shot into the inlet, and was made fast to the same
tree as on the former occasion. As the business of these hopeful youths
was not with the melon patch, they took a different road this time.
They had gone but a short distance before the rushing of a boat through
the water was heard. They paused and Richard saw a sail, which he
believed he had seen before that night, pass by the mouth of the inlet.
He caught but a glance of it, as it cut a tangent along the small
circle of his vision.
"I don't like the looks of that boat, Sandy," whispered Richard, as the
sail disappeared in the gloom.
"Why not?"
"What is any one sailing about the river at this time of night for?"
"I don't know," added Sandy, who did not seem to be at all alarmed at
the appearance of the boat.
"I think I have seen her before to-night," continued Richard.
"If you are afraid, we will both back out, and then neither can twit
the other."
"I'm not afraid; come along. I've no notion of backing out." And
Richard moved on, followed by his reluctant associate.
When they had ascended the hill, they carefully walked all over the
grounds to satisfy themselves that the farmer and his man were not
keeping vigil over the melons; but they could neither see nor hear any
thing that betokened the presence of a human being. Satisfied with this
survey of the ground, Richard led the way to the barn, where he had
received his terrible flagellation. The memories of the place were not
pleasant, and they intensified the hatred he bore the owner of the
premises, and fanned the flame of vengeance that was burning in his
soul.
The barn was an old building, and very much out of repair. It contained
the farmer's horses and oxen, his wagons, his hay, and other produce.
On the side nearest to the river, some of the boards had been forced
partly off by the pressure of the hay; and against one of these places
Richard sat down upon the ground.
"Pull out some of the hay, Sandy," whispered Richard, as he drew from
his pocket the bottle which he had taken from the locker of the boat.
Sandy hinted something about backing out again; but a sneer from
Richard silenced him, and he obeyed the order. While he was doing so,
Richard walked round the barn to satisfy himself that no one was near.
They were alone, and the wicked work proceeded.
CHAPTER VII.
RICHARD KINDLES A LITTLE FIRE.
Sandy continued to pull out the hay from behind the board, till
Richard, who, as engineer, conducted the operations, directed him to
suspend his labors. The contents of the bottle were poured upon the
heap of loose hay.
"What's that, Dick?" asked Sandy.
"Spirits of turpentine. I intend to make sure work of it," answered
Richard.
"I wouldn't use that stuff," added Sandy.
"Why not?"
"To tell the truth, Dick, I was in hopes the fire wouldn't burn."
"I believe you are a fool, Sandy Brimblecom. Have you come clear over
here, in the dead of the night, to kindle a fire that will not burn?"
"I don't like the idea of setting the barn on fire," whispered Sandy,
in an earnest tone. "What do you suppose they will do with us, if we
should get found out?"
"We shall not get found out."
"We shall be sent to the state prison--at least I shall."
"I shall, if you are; we shall both be in the same boat, and if one
goes down the other must."
"I don't know about that," said Sandy; "your father is rich, and he
will get you off. I shall have to stand all the racket."
"Shut up, Sandy! I have gone too far to back out now," added Richard,
decidedly, as he took a bunch of matches from his pocket.
"Hold on a moment, Dick, before it is too late. It will be cheaper to
do our thinking now than it will be after the barn is burned down."
"I have done all the thinking I care to do already. The die is cast,
Sandy. I won't back out now, and you shall not."
"It's too bad to burn up the horses and oxen in the barn. That's cruel.
If it wasn't for them, I wouldn't say a word."
"Very well; we will go round and turn out the horses and oxen. I don't
want to burn them any more than you do."
"But the noise will wake the farmer and his man."
"No, it won't. I have thought a great deal about the animals, and it
goes right against my grain to hurt them, especially the horses."
"I don't want to burn the barn, any way."
"You are a coward and a fool, Sandy."
"It's easy enough for you to say so, when you know your father has
money enough to buy up Old Batterbones, if we get into any scrape."
"Come, no more whining, Sandy; I'm going to get the horses and oxen
out, and then I'm going to burn the barn."
"I'm off, then."
"Very good; but if I get into trouble, I will blow on you."
This consideration staggered Sandy, and he concluded to stay and see
the end of the wicked enterprise. The house of Mr. Batterman was at a
considerable distance from the barn, and there was but little danger
that the humane policy of the young incendiaries would expose them to
any additional peril.
Richard, followed by Sandy, entered the barn, and turned all the
animals loose. They drove them into a lot where they could not get near
the fire. The only thing that had weighed upon the mind of the broker's
son, in the prosecution of his mad enterprise, was now removed, and he
returned to the place where he had prepared the materials for starting
the conflagration. Again Sandy stated his objections, and urged Richard
to abandon the scheme; but the latter, without any reply to this
remonstrance, drew a card of matches across a stone, and applied the
burning mass to the hay which had been saturated with turpentine.
The heap of combustible matter suddenly blazed up, lighting all the
fields around them. The work had been surely done, and it was too late
for Sandy to urge any more of his objections.
"Come, Sandy, the work is done. Now use your legs," said Richard, as he
started at the top of his speed towards the inlet where the Greyhound
lay.
Sandy's legs did not fail him on this emergency, for he soon
outstripped his companion. They had gone but a few rods, when both were
appalled at the discovery of two men, who were running towards the fire
with all their might--which was not saying much, for both of them
seemed to be old and stiff, and incapable of making very good time even
on so pressing an emergency as the present.
The guilty boys were filled with terror. The shock was so great that it
seemed to deprive them of their strength, and they found their legs
giving out under them.
"We are caught, Dick," gasped Sandy, when he could regain breath enough
to speak.
"No, we are not; come along. Don't stop here," answered Richard, who
was beginning to recover his self-possession.
They ran as fast as their weakened limbs would permit, till they
reached the bank of the river. Richard jumped into the boat and hoisted
the sails, while Sandy cast off the painter, and they were soon
standing out from the shore before the fresh breeze. Neither of them
spoke for some minutes, for neither of them had breath enough left in
his body to do so.
"The fire don't burn," said Richard, when the boat had gone far enough
to enable him to see over the high bank of the river.
"Don't it?" asked Sandy, hoarsely, for the terror and exhaustion of the
awful moments through which he had just passed seemed to have choked up
his throat, and deprived him of his voice.
"No; it is as dark up there as it was before we landed."
"I am glad of it," gasped Sandy, who was beginning to breathe a little
easier.
"I'm not," added Richard, firmly. "We shall only have the job to do
over again."
"If you ever catch me in such a scrape as this again, you may let me
know it when you do."
"You might as well have the game as the name."
"I don't know about that. I am glad the barn didn't burn. Are you sure
the fire has gone out?"
"No doubt of it. There isn't enough to light your cigar."
"I suppose those men put it out. Who do you think they were?"
"I don't know, and I don't care. I wish they had been somewhere else.
They have spoiled my night's work."
"I am glad they have; and I thank them with all my heart for what they
have done."
"I don't; you might as well be hung for an old sheep as a lamb. If we
are caught it will be all the same with us as though we had burned the
barn."
"Who do you suppose the men were?"
"I haven't the least idea. I don't care."
"Yes, you do care, Dick. What's the use of talking in that way? You
don't want to be found out any more than I do."
"I know that, but we are not found out; and that isn't all--we shall
not be."
"I should like to be satisfied on that point."
"The men didn't take any notice at all of us, and I am certain they did
not see us."
"They couldn't help seeing us, Dick. The fire lit up the whole field,
so that it was as light as broad day."
"Suppose they did see us; they couldn't tell who we were. Keep a stiff
upper lip, Sandy, and it will be all right."
"I can only hope for the best, but I shall be scared at my own shadow
for a month to come," added Sandy, in whose nature a vein of candor
appeared to be suddenly developed, for he was not in the habit of
acknowledging that he was afraid of any thing.
"You don't talk a bit like Sandy Brimblecom," sneered Richard; "and you
act more like an old woman than a fellow of any spunk."
"Humph! I'll bet you are as scared as I am, only you won't own it."
"I don't know what fear means, Sandy."
"O, you can brag; but when a fellow can go and set a man's barn afire,
without wincing, he's worse than I am; that's all I've got to say."
"Worse than you are!" said Richard. "Didn't you agree to the whole
thing? Didn't you go in for paying off Old Batterbones? Didn't you come
down here to burn the barn with me?"
"I did, but I didn't want to come."
"What did you come for, then?"
"Because I agreed to come."
"You're not the fellow I took you to be. You joined me in the affair,
and then, at the last moment, you begin to whine like a sick monkey."
"I'm not so far gone that I can burn a man's barn without feeling it."
"You haven't got the pluck of a mosquito."
"You've said about enough on that tack, Dick Grant," replied Sandy, who
did not relish the reflections cast upon his courage.
"I shall say what I think best."
"No, you won't! I'm sorry for what I've done, and I'm willing to own
it; but I won't take any sauce from you or any other fellow."
"You can talk big enough," sneered Richard.
"Shut up, or I'll bat you over the head."
"Humph!"
"Just put me ashore, Dick Grant, and you and I will part company."
"I'm willing."
Both boys felt that enough had been said, and the conversation was
discontinued by mutual consent. Richard, notwithstanding his bravado,
was no better satisfied with himself than Sandy. Though he had spoken
of "doing the job over again," he had not the slightest idea of
repeating the experiment. The shock which the discovery of the two men
had given him, was too much even for his strong nerves; and though he
was not willing to confess it, he was sorry for what he had done. The
