accompanied by her sister, Julia. Julia flitted about through the
garden, in very irregular fashion, followed by her friend; till their
wanderings brought them near the open door within which Eleanor sat. To
the door Julia immediately darted, drawing her companion with her; and
as soon as she came up exclaimed, as if she had been armed with a
search warrant and had brought her man,--
"Here's Mr. Rhys, Eleanor. Now you can ask him yourself whatever you
like."
Eleanor felt startled. But it was with such a pleasant face that Mr.
Rhys came up, such a cordial grasp of the hand greeted her, that the
feeling vanished immediately. Perhaps that hand-clasp was all the
warmer for Eleanor's changed appearance. She was very unlike the girl
of superb health who had wandered over the old priory grounds a few
weeks before. Eleanor's colour was gone; the blue veins shewed
distinctly on the temples; the full lips, instead of their brilliant
gay smile, had a languid and much soberer line. She made quite a
different impression now, of a fair delicate young creature, who had
lost and felt she had lost the proud strength in which she had been so
luxuriant a little while before. Mr. Rhys looked at her attentively.
"You have been very ill, Miss Powle."
"I suppose I have--some of the time."
"I am rejoiced to see you well again."
"Thank you."
"Julia has been leading me over the garden and grounds. I did not know
where she was bringing me."
"How do you like my garden?"
"For a garden of that sort--it seems to me well arranged."
He was very cool, certainly, in giving his opinion, Eleanor thought.
Her gardening pride was touched. This was a pet of her own.
"Then you do not fancy gardens of this sort."
"I believe I think Nature is the best artist of all."
"But would you let Nature have her own way entirely?"
"No more in the vegetable than I would in the moral world. She would
grow weeds."
The quick clear sense and decision, in the eye and accent, were just
what Eleanor did not want to cope with. She was silent. So were her two
companions; for Julia was busy with a nosegay she was making up. Then
Mr. Rhys turned to Eleanor,
"Julia said you had a question to ask of me, Miss Powle."
"Yes, I had,"--said Eleanor, colouring slightly and hesitating. "But
you cannot answer it standing--will you come in, Mr. Rhys?"
"Thank you--if you will allow me, I will take this instead," said he,
sitting down on one of the steps before the glass door. "What was the
question?"
"That was the other day, when she brought in her ferns--it was a wish I
had. But she ought not to have troubled you with it."
"It will give me great pleasure to answer you--if I can."
Eleanor half fancied he knew what the question was; and she hesitated
again, feeling a good deal confused. But when should she have another
chance? She made a bold push.
"I felt a curiosity to ask you--I did not know any one else who could
tell me--what that 'helmet' was, you spoke of one day;--that day at the
old priory?"
Eleanor could not look up. She felt as if the clear eyes opposite her
were reading down in the depth of her heart. They were very unflinching
about it. It was curiously disagreeable and agreeable both at once.
"Have you wanted it, these weeks past?" said he.
The question was unexpected. It was put with a penetrating sympathy.
Eleanor felt if she opened her lips to speak she could not command
their steadiness. She gave no answer but silence.
"A helmet?" said Julia looking up. "What is a helmet?"
"The warriors of old time," said Mr. Rhys, "used to wear a helmet to
protect their heads from danger. It was a covering of leather and
steel. With this head-piece on, they felt safe; where their lives would
not have been worth a penny without it."
"But Eleanor--what does Eleanor want of a helmet?" said Julia. And she
went off into a shout of ringing laughter.
"Perhaps you want one," said Mr. Rhys composedly.
"No, I don't. What should I want it for? What should I cover my head
with leather and steel for, Mr. Rhys?"
"You want something stronger than that."
"Something stronger? What do I want, Mr. Rhys?"
"To know that, you must find out first what the danger is."
"I am not in any danger."
"How do you know that?"
"Am I, Mr. Rhys?"
"Let us see. Do you know what the Lord Jesus Christ has done for us
all?"
"No."
"Do you know whether God has given us any commandments?"
"Yes; I know the ten commandments. I have learned them once, but I
don't remember them."
"Have you obeyed them?"
"Me?"
"Yes. You."
"I never thought about it."
"Have you disobeyed them then?"
Eleanor breathed more freely, and listened. It was curious to her to
see the wayward, giddy child stand and look into the eyes of her
questioner as if fascinated. The ordinary answer from Julia would have
been a toss and a fling. Now she stood and said sedately, "I don't
know."
"We can soon tell," said her friend. "One of the commandments is, to
remember the Sabbath day and keep it holy. Have you always done that?"
"No," said Julia bluntly. "I don't think anybody else does."
"Never mind anybody else. Have you always honoured the word and wish of
your father and mother? That is another command."
"I have done it more than Alfred has."
"Let Alfred alone. Have you always done it?"
"No, sir."
"Have you loved the good God all your life, with all your heart?"
"No."
"You have loved to please yourself, rather than anything else?"
The nod with which Julia answered this, if not polite, was at least
significant, accompanied with an emphatic "Always!" Mr. Rhys could not
help smiling at her, but he went on gravely enough.
"What is to keep you then from being afraid?"
"From being afraid?"
"Yes. You want a helmet."
"Afraid?" said Julia.
"Yes. Afraid of the justice of God. He never lets a sin go unpunished.
He is perfectly just."
"But I can't help it," said Julia.
"Then what is to become of you? You need a helmet."
"A helmet?" said Julia again. "What sort of a helmet?"
"You want to know that God has forgiven you; that he is not angry with
you; that he loves you, and has made you his child."
"How can I?" said the child, pressing closer to the speaker where he
sat on the step of the door. And no wonder, for the words were given
with a sweet earnest utterance which drew the hearts of both bearers.
He went on without looking at Eleanor; or without seeming to look that
way.
"How can you what?"
"How can I have that?"
"That helmet? There is only one way."
"What is it, Mr. Rhys?"
They were silent a minute, looking at each other, the man and the
child; the child with her eyes bent on his.
"Suppose somebody had taken your punishment for you? borne the
displeasure of God for your sins?"
"Who would?" said Julia. "Nobody would."
"One has."
"Who, Mr. Rhys?"
"One that loved you, and that loved all of us, well enough to pay the
price of saving us."
"What price did he pay?"
"His own life. He gave it up cruelly--that ours might be redeemed."
"What for, Mr. Rhys? what made him?"
"Because he loved us. There was no other reason."
"Then people will be saved"--said Julia.
"Every one who will take the conditions. It depends upon that. There
are conditions."
"What conditions, Mr. Rhys?"
"Do you know who did this for you?"
"No."
"It is the Lord himself--the Lord Jesus Christ--the Lord of glory. He
thought it not robbery to be equal with God; but he made himself of no
reputation, and took upon him the form of a servant, and was made in
the likeness of men; and being found in fashion as a man, he humbled
himself and became obedient unto death--even the death of the cross. So
now he is exalted a Prince and a Saviour--able to save all who will
accept his conditions."
"What are the conditions, Mr. Rhys?"
"You must be his servant. And you must trust all your little heart and
life to him."
"I must be his servant?" said Julia.
"Yes, heart and soul, to obey him. And you must trust him to forgive
you and save you for his blood's sake."
Doubtless there had been something in the speaker himself that had held
the child's attention so fast all this while. Her eyes had never
wandered from his face; she had stood in docile wise looking at him and
answering his questions and listening, won by the commentary she read
in his face on what her friend was saying. A strange light kindled in
it as he spoke; there were lines of affection and tenderness that came
in the play of lips and eyes; and when he named his Master, there had
shined in his face as it were the reflection of the glory he alluded
to. Julia's eyes were not the only ones that had been held; though it
was only Julia's tongue that said anything in reply. Standing now and
looking still into the face she had been reading, her words were an
unconscious rendering of what she found there.
"Mr. Rhys, I think he was very good."
The water filled those clear eyes at that, but he only returned the
child's gaze and said nothing.
"I will take the conditions, Mr. Rhys," Julia went on.
"The Lord make it so!" he said gravely.
"But what is the helmet, Mr. Rhys?"
"When you have taken the conditions, little one, you will know." He
rose up.
"Mr. Rhys," said Eleanor rising also, "I have listened to you, but I do
not quite understand you."
"I recommend you to ask better teaching, Miss Powle."
"But I would like to know exactly what you mean, and what you meant, by
that 'helmet' you speak of so often?"
He looked steadily now at the fair young face beside him, which told so
plainly of the danger lately passed through. Eleanor could not return,
though she suffered the examination. His answer was delayed while he
made it.
"Do you ask from a sense of need?" he said.
Eleanor looked up then and answered, "Yes."
"To say, 'I know that my Redeemer liveth'--that is it," he said. "Then
the head is covered--even from fear of evil."
It was impossible that Eleanor ever should forget the look that went
with the words, and which had prevented her own gaze from seeking the
ground again. The look of inward rejoicing and outward fearlessness;
the fire and the softness that at once overspread his face. "He was
looking at his Master then"--was the secret conclusion of Eleanor's
mind. Even while she thought it, he had turned and was gone again with
Julia. She stood still some minutes, weak as she was. She was not sure
that she perfectly comprehended what that helmet might be, but of its
reality there could be no questioning. She had seen its plumes wave
