does. Your mother don't like the farm; but I think my sister is right.
Better be independent and ask leave of nobody. Well, you must get
dressed, must you. I am glad to have you home, child!"

"Why are we going to leave home, papa?"

"St. George and the Dragon! Ask your mother."

So Eleanor did not get much wiser on the subject till dinner-time; nor
then either, though it was nearly the only thing talked about, both
directly and indirectly. A great weariness came over her, as the
contrast rose up of Mrs. Caxton's dinner-table and the three faces
round it; with the sweet play of talk, on things natural or
philosophical, religious or civil, but always sensible, fresh, and
original and strong. Always that; the party might lapse into silence;
if one of them was tired it often did; but when the words came again,
they came with a ready life and purpose--with a sort of perfume of love
and purity--that it made Eleanor's heart ache now to think of. Her
mother was descanting on lodgings, on the people already at Brighton,
or coming there; on dresses ready and unready; and to vary this topic
the Squire complained that his wine was not cooled properly. Eleanor
sank into silence and then into extreme depression of spirits; which
grew more and more, until she caught her little sister's eye looking at
her wistfully. Julia had hardly said a word all dinner-time. The look
smote Eleanor's conscience. "Is this the way I am doing the work given
me?" she thought; "this selfish forgetting of all others in myself? Am
I standing in my post like a good soldier? Is this 'pleasing all men
for their good?'" Conscience thumped like a hammer; and Eleanor roused
up, entered into what was going, talked and made herself pleasant to
both father and mother, who grew sunshiny under the influence. Mrs.
Powle eat the remainder of her dinner with more appetite; and the
Squire declared Eleanor had grown handsome and Plassy had done her no
harm. But Julia looked and listened and said never a word. It was very
hard work to Eleanor, though it brought its reward as she went along,
not only in comments but in the sense of duty performed. She would not
run away from her post; she kept at it; when her father had gone away
to smoke she stayed by her mother; till Mrs. Powle dropped off into her
usual after dinner nap in her chair. Eleanor sat still a minute or two
longer, then made an escape. She sought her old garden, by the way of
her old summer parlour. Things were not changed there, except that the
garden was a little neglected. It brought painful things back, though
the flowers were sweet and the summer sunset glow was over them all. So
it used to be in old times. So it used to be in nearer times, last
summer. And now was another change. Eleanor paced slowly down one walk
and up another, looking sorrowfully at her old friends, the roses,
carnations and petunias, which looked at her as cheerfully as ever;
when a hand touched hers and she found Julia at her side.

"Eleanor," she said wistfully, "are you sorry to be at home again?"

"I am glad to see you, darling; and papa, and mamma."

"But you don't look glad. Was it so much pleasanter where you have
been?"

Eleanor struggled with herself.

"It was very different, Julia--and there were things that you and I
both love, that there are not here."

"What?"

"Here all is for the world, Julia; there, at Plassy, nothing is for the
world. I feel the difference just at first--I suppose I shall get a
little used to it presently."

"I have not thought so much about all that," said Julia soberly, "since
Mr. Rhys went away. But you must have loved aunt Caxton very much,
Eleanor, to make you sorry to come home."

Julia spoke almost sadly. Eleanor felt bitterly reproached. Was there
not work at home here for her to do! Yet she could hardly speak at
first. Putting her arm round Julia she drew her down beside her on a
green bank and took her little sister in her arms.

"You and I will help each other, Julia, will we not?"

"In what?"

"To love Christ, and please him."

"Why, do you love him?" said Julia. "Are you like Mr. Rhys?"

"Not much. But I do love the same Master he loves, Julia; and I have
come home to serve him. You will help me?"

"Mamma don't like all that," remarked Julia.

Eleanor sighed. The burden on her heart seemed growing heavy. Julia
half rose up and putting both arms round her neck covered her lips with
kisses.

"You don't seem like yourself!" she said; "and you look as grave as if
you had found us all dead. Eleanor--are you afraid?" she said with an
earnest look.

"Afraid of what, dear?"

"Of that man--afraid of Mr. Carlisle?"

"No, I am not afraid of him, or of anything. Besides, he is hundreds of
miles away, in Switzerland or somewhere."

"No he isn't; he is here."

"What do you mean by 'here?'"

"In England, I mean. He isn't at the Priory; but he was here at the
Lodge the other day."

Eleanor's heart made two or three springs one way and another.

"No dear, I am not afraid of him," she repeated, with a quietness that
was convincing; and Julia passed to other subjects. Eleanor did not
forget that one; and as Julia ran on with her talk, she pondered it,
and made a secret thanksgiving that she was so escaped both from danger
and from fear. Nevertheless she could not help thinking about the
subject. It seemed that Mr. Carlisle's wound had healed very rapidly.
And moreover she had not given him credit for finding any attraction in
that house, beyond her own personal presence in it. However, she
reflected that Mr. Carlisle was busy in politics, and perhaps
cultivated her father. They went in again, to take up the subject of
Brighton.

And what followed? Muslins, flowers, laces, bonnets and ribbands. They
were very irksome days to Eleanor, that were spent in getting ready for
Brighton; and the thought of the calm purity of Plassy with its
different occupations sometimes came over her and for the moment
unnerved her hands for the finery they had to handle. Once Eleanor took
a long rambling ride alone on her old pony; she did not try it again.
Business and bustle was better, at least was less painful, than such a
time for thinking and feeling. So the dresses were made, and they went
to Brighton.




CHAPTER IV.

AT A WATERING-PLACE.


  "In the world's broad field of battle,
  In the bivouac of Life,
  Be not like dumb, driven cattle!
  Be a hero in the strife!"


Eleanor was at once plunged into a whirl of engagements, with
acquaintances new and old. And the former class multiplied very
rapidly. Mrs. Powle's fair curls hung on either side of her face with
almost their full measure of complacency, as she saw and beheld her
daughter's successful attractions. It was true. Eleanor was found to
have something unique about her; some said it was her beauty, some said
it was her manners; some insisted it was neither, but had a deeper
origin; at any rate she was fresh. Something out of the common line and
that piqued curiosity, was delightful; and in despite of her very
moderate worldly advantages, compared with many others who were there,
Eleanor Powle seemed likely to become in a little while the belle of
Brighton. Certain rumours which were afloat no doubt facilitated and
expedited this progress of things. Happily Eleanor did not hear them.

The rush of engagements and whirl of society at first was very wearying
and painful to her. No heart had Eleanor to give to it. Only by putting
a force upon herself, to please her father and mother, she managed to
enter with some spirit into the amusements going forward, in which she
was expected to take an active part. Perhaps this very fact had
something to do with the noble and sweet disengagedness of manner which
marked her unlike those about her, in a world where self-interest of
some sort is the ruling motive. It was not Eleanor's world; it had
nothing to do with the interests that were dear in her regard; and
something of that carelessness which she brought to it conferred a
grace that the world imitates in vain. Eleanor found however after a
little, that the rush and hurry of her life and of all the people about
her had a contagion in it; her own thoughts were beginning to be
absorbed in what absorbed everybody; her own cherished interests were
getting pushed into a corner. Eleanor resolved to make a stand then,
and secure time enough to herself to let her own inner life have play
and breathing room. But it was very difficult to make such a stand.
Mrs. Powle ever stood like a watchman at the door to drive Eleanor out
when she wanted to be in. Time! there seemed to be no time.

Eleanor had heard that Mr. Carlisle was expected at Brighton; so she
was not greatly surprised one evening to find herself in the same room
with him. It was at a public assembly. The glances that her curiosity
cast, found him moving about among people very like, and in very
exactly the manner of his old self. No difference that she could see.
She wondered whether he would have the audacity to come and speak to
her. Audacity was not a point in which Mr. Carlisle was failing. He
came; and as he came others scattered away; melted off, and left her
alone.

He came with the best air in the world; a little conscious, a little
apologetic, wholly respectful, not altogether devoid of the old
familiarity. He offered his hand; did not to be sure detain hers, which
would have been inconvenient in a public assembly; but he detained
her, falling into talk with an ease or an effrontery which it was
impossible not to admire. And Eleanor admired him involuntarily.
Certainly this man had capacities. He did not detain her too long;
passed away as easily as he had come up; but returned again in the
