"But there was an awful sea for a few moments. Why, the water dashed
clean over our decks," added Dan. "One of them may have saved himself,
but I am confident the other two must have been lost."

"Hi, Dan!" shouted Cyd, from his position at the heel of the bowsprit.

"What is it, Cyd?"

"Dar's someting ober dar," added Cyd, pointing over to leeward, as he
walked aft.

"What is it?"

"Cyd tinks it's de boat ob de slabe-hunters."

"Perhaps it is," said Dan, musing. "And our wounded or dying enemies may
be clinging to it. Shall we save them?"

"Hossifus! Dey kill us ef we does," exclaimed Cyd.

"'Lub your enemies,'" said Quin, piously. "Let us sabe dem if we can. We
kin tie dar hands and fotch 'em ober dar."

"I don't think they are there."

"We must save their lives," added the gentle Lily.

"And perhaps lose our own; but I will overhaul the boat, to satisfy
myself whether the men were lost or not," said Dan, as he let out the
main sheet, and put up the helm. "Stand by with the boat-hook, Cyd."

In a few moments the Isabel had run up to the wreck of the boat, and Cyd
grappled it with the boat-hook. There were no men clinging to it, but in
the bottom of the boat, covered over with water, lay the body of one of
the slave-hunters. It was probably the one who had been shot. He had not
been killed at once, for he had spoken after he was hit; it looked as
though he had been drowned in the bottom of the boat where he lay.

The fugitives were filled with horror at this discovery. Poor Lily had
nearly fainted, and if Cyd had been shot himself, he could hardly have
made a stronger demonstration. Quin uttered many pious ejaculations,
showing that he had, from his heart, forgiven this man, who, an hour
before, had thirsted for his blood. Dan, though not less impressed than
his companions, was calm and resolute.

"This body may betray us," said he. "We must sink it in the lake."

"Ugh!" exclaimed Cyd, with a thrill of horror.

"We have no time to spare," added Dan, briskly. "Bring up another
fifty-six, Quin."

The weight was brought up and tied to the corpse of the slave-hunter, as
it lay in the boat. Dan then ordered his companions to tip the boat
over; but Quin, asking for a moment's delay, threw himself upon his
knees, and commenced an earnest prayer in behalf of the deceased,
supplicating forgiveness for his bloodthirsty enemy. Dan listened
reverently to the prayer, while Lily sobbed as though the departed
slave-hunter had been her dearest friend, instead of the bitter foe of
her race.

The service was ended; the boat was careened till the body rolled out,
and disappeared in the depths of the lake.

"May de good Lo'd hab mercy on his poor, sinful soul, for de lub of
Jesus' sake!" exclaimed Quin, as the corpse sank to its resting-place.

"Make fast the boat to that cleat on the quarter, Cyd," said Dan, as he
hauled aft the sheets, and put his helm down.

Cyd obeyed, and the Isabel filled away upon her course again. Lily was
calmer now, but she was still much impressed by the solemn and awful
scene of which she had just been a witness.

"It's all over now, Lily. Don't think any more about it," said Dan, in
soothing tones.

"It is terrible--isn't it, Dan?" replied she, with a shudder.

"It is, Lily; but there was no help for it. All that we have done was in
self-defence."

"But it is awful to think of killing them."

"It is better as it is than if we had let them take us."

"Did you really mean to kill them, Dan?"

"Not if I could help it; but I would have killed a dozen of them rather
than be carried back into slavery."

"We didn't kill 'em, Missy Lily," interposed Quin. "Dey done drownded.
De good Lo'd strike 'em down jus like he did de 'Gyptians in de Red Sea,
in de midst ob dar wickedness. We didn't kill 'em, Missy Lily."

"That's it, Lily," added Dan, indorsing the explanation, though the
religious aspect of the case was not so strongly impressed upon his mind
as upon that of his pious companion.

"We might have saved them," continued the gentle-hearted girl, who
derived but little consolation from the words of Quin. "You might have
taken them on board when the squall came."

"Why, Lily, I had just smashed their boat with my own hands, and I
wasn't going to put my head into the lion's mouth. It is best as it is,
Lily. The death of these men will remove all danger from our path, for
no one has seen us except them."

"But how awful!" sighed she.

"I told you, Lily, before we started, that terrible things might happen
to us. You shall be free; let this thought comfort you."

But it did not comfort her, and she continued to bewail the catastrophe
that had befallen the slave-hunters till the attention of her companions
was called to the position of the Isabel.

"Dar's land on de bof sides of us," called Cyd, who had again been
stationed at the heel of the bowsprit to act as lookout man.

"All right! I see it," responded Dan. "Quin, let go the foresail
halyards. How does it look ahead, Cyd?"

"Dark as de back of dis chile's hand."

"Look out sharp!"

"Do dat, for sartin."

The Isabel continued slowly on her course, for the woods on the shore
now began to shelter the sails from the full force of the wind. The
corner of the lake grew narrower with every moment she advanced, till
the boat was not more than a couple of rods from either shore. She was
running up one of the tributaries of the lake.

Presently the creek was less than thirty feet wide; and having passed
round a bend so as to hide her from the open lake, Dan ordered his
companions to make fast to a tree, as he ran her up to the shore.




CHAPTER XVI.

IN THE SWAMP.


The place where the Isabel had been moored was in the midst of a gloomy
and extensive swamp. Though Dan had never been here before, he had heard
of the region, and from the first had determined to conceal his party
within its deep and almost impenetrable morasses. The swamp was about
fifteen miles in extent from north to south, and ten from east to west.
It was full of bayous and lagoons, and inhabited only by herons,
alligators, and other wild animals of the south-west.

It was impossible to penetrate the swamp without a boat, for the terra
firma of the region consisted only of islands covered with trees, most
of them surrounded by shallow and muddy waters. It is doubtful whether
any human being had ever fully explored this extensive swamp; and Dan
was confident that, if he could succeed in making his way with the
Isabel to a distance of two or three miles from the lake, his party
would be free from intrusion, unless, indeed, the slave-hunters made a
business of driving them from their covert.

The information of the leader of the expedition in regard to the swamp
was exceedingly limited. All he knew had been derived from Colonel
Raybone, who, in conversation with some of his friends, had mentioned
the region, and given a partial description of it. He had learned that
the bayou, which was the outlet of the waters of the swamp, was
obstructed by fallen timber a short distance from the lake. As runaway
slaves could not live in this desolate place, there had been no occasion
to pursue them into its deep recesses.

The party on board the Isabel were very much fatigued by the labor and
excitement of the night; and when the schooner was safely moored, Dan
declared that nothing more should be done until the party had rested
themselves. It was not yet daylight, and the boat was in a secure
position.

"But we must not all go to sleep," added Dan. "I intend to keep a watch
night and day while we stay in this place, if it should be for a year."

"Hossifus! What's de use of keepin de watch?" yawned Cyd, as he
stretched himself, and opened his mouth wide enough to take in a small
alligator.

"Suppose half a dozen slave-hunters should come up here while we are all
asleep!" replied Dan, sharply.

"'Pose dey come when we're all awake--what den?"

"We can beat them off, as we did those last night."

"Gossifus! Some ob us git killed for shore, if dey keep shooten wid de
guns."

"Better die than be taken, Cyd. We must believe this before we can be
sure of success."

"Dat's what I's gwine to do," added Quin. "Dis chile will fight till dey
