" Silence ! or I shall put you under arrest." 
" No, you won't." 
" Do you know the Channel of the river?" 
" Of course I do. What do you suppose Andy sent 
me here for?" snarled Somers. 
"Keep a civil tongue in your head, man." 
" You had better show ire how to do it first. Come, 
Graves," he added, turning to De Banyan, " we are 
not wanted here, and we will go home again." 
" Who is that man with you ?" 
" Graves." 
" Where did you get all these men?" 
" They came with me to see the fun, and help the 
thing along." 
The officer stepped on board of the steamer, and 
Somers and De Banyan joined him on the 4eck. 
" I think I've seen you somewhere." 
" I think very likely : I was there once." 
" You are a crusty young cub ; but it may b you 
know your duty." 
" Of course I do ; and as fcr being crusty, I treated 
you like a gentleman till you began to snarl at me." 
 
" Well, well, my friend, we will rub out the past, and 
begin again," said the officer pleasantly. 
" With all my heart, if you say so," replied Somers 
with equal suavity. 
" This is a very important enterprise, and we want to 
teach the Yankees that it will be better for them to stay 
at home next time they want to come down South. 
What is your name ? " 
" Tom Leathers. What's yours? Andy told me ; but 
I've forgotten." 
" Captain Osborn." 
The rebel officer proceeded to give the supposed pilot 
very full instructions in regard to the steamer, which 
was to be run up the river to City Point, set on fire, and 
then abandoned to float with the current through the 
thickest of the Federal fleet, blowing up gunboats, and 
consuming transports by the hundred. The fire-steamer 
had been loaded with pitch-wood, tar, pitch, and turpen- 
tine ; and Captain Osborn was satisfied that the plan, if 
thoroughly carried out, would cause tremendous havoc 
among the Yankee vessels. He rubbed his hands with 
delight as he contemplated the prospect of driving the 
 Hessian " fleet from the river, and starving the Union 
army out of its position. 
An engineer and two firemen, whom they found on board 
the steamer, were all the crew she had, and all she 
needed besides the pilot. They had got up steam, and 
 
the vessel was all ready to move on her errand of destruc- 
tion when the word should be given. 
" Now you are all ready," said Captain Osboru when 
he had completed his instructions. " You will hoist the 
American flag, and pretend you are a Yankee, if they 
attempt to stop you on your way up the river." 
" I can do that to a charm," replied Somers. "I am 
all readv. Where is Graves? Hallo, Graves!" he 
shouted, when lie found that his companion had left his 
side to take a look at the other parts of the steamer. 
" Here I am, Tom," answered Graves, emerging from 
the engine-room, where he had been talking with the 
presiding genius of that department. 
" Run up the colors." 
" Ay, ay, sir ! " replied De Banyan. 
The colors went up, and other preparations were made 
for the great enterprise. 
" Cast off that stern line ! " said Somers. " Make 
fast your painter on the port quarter," he added to the 
man in the boat ; and no doubt, by this time, Captain 
Osborn was fully satisfied that he was perfectly familiar 
with the management of a steamer. 
Now, Somers was very well satisfied that he should 
run the steamer aground before he rounded the first 
point in the river, and he had wisely concluded not to 
undertake so rash an enterprise. Besides, he did not 
come over there to be the skipper of a steamer : he had 
other and even more important duties to perform. He 
was much more interested in certain rebel batteries 
which were believed to be in process of construction 
farther up the river. But Captain Osboru was an 
unreasonable man, and demanded the execution of his 
plan. He was determined to sec a conflagration, and 
Somers was equally determined to gratify him. 
Our pilot discovered the value of his limited nautical 
experience in Pinchbrook Harbor ; for it enabled him to 
convince the rebel officer that he was a full-fledged 
"salt," and was entirely at home on the deck of any 
vessel that could float in the waters of the James. The 
stern-line and the bow-line were cast off; and Somers 
stood in the little wheel-house, ready to ring the bells. 
Captain Osborn had just stepped on shore, intending to 
mount his horse and ride up the river, where he could 
see the conflagration when it came off. 
Just then, there was a tremendous commotion among 
the firemen and engineer ; and, a moment later, a broad, 
bright sheet of flame rose from the heap of combustibles 
in the after-part of the steamer. 
CHAPTER XX. 
CAPTAIN DE BANYAN FINDS AN OLD FRIEND. 
OTII Somers and De Banyan flew to the rescue, 
and made a most enthusiastic attempt to check 
the fire ; but the raging element was now past 
control. The flames spread through the combus- 
tible material which had been stored on the deck ; and 
they were compelled to abandon the ill-starred steamer 
with the utmost precipitation, in order to save their own 
lives. 
De Banyan had rolled up an old newspaper, making 
of it a kind of torch, some three feet in length, which 
he had inserted in a mass of pitch-wood shavings, and 
set the end on fire. It had burned long enough to 
remove suspicion from him ; and, when the pilot and 
crew went on shore, Captain Osborn had no idea of 
the trick of which he had been made the victim. Our 
scouts kept up appearances in the most remarkable 
manner, and Somers was only afraid that his zealous 
companion would overdo the matter. 
"What do you mean by that, Captain Osborn?" 
 
demanded Somers, as he shook the cinders from "his 
clothes in the presence of the rebel officer. " Did you 
intend to sacrifice our lives?" 
"Yes ; burn us up before we had time to leave the old 
hulk ! ' added De Banyan furiously. ; > I thought we 
were to light the fire ourselves." 
" I didn't do it," replied Captain Osborn. 
"You didn't? Who did do it, then?" persisted 
Somers. 
" I don't know." 
" Well, I don't know ; but, in my opinion, you did it 
yourself." 
"You are an idiot ! Do you think I would destroy the 
work of my own hands ? " added the rebel warmly. 
" Well, I supposed you fired the train so as to be sure 
the thing was done right." 
" You are a fool, or else you didn't suppose any such 
thing." 
" I didn't know but you had one of those clock 
machines, that touch a thing off at a certain time. 
Well, how did it happen, then?" 
" I don't know ; perhaps from a spark from the fire. 
No matter how it was done now. It is done, and can't 
be helped. I have lost the satisfaction of seeing half 
the Yankee fleet burnt up. I- would rather have given 
a year's pay than have had this accident happen." 
Haven't they got most ready for the Yankee fleet 
above here ? ' : asked Somers as carelessly as he 
could. 
" What do you mean?" 
" They are building batteries up above, to knock the 
Yankees into pieces, aren't they?'  
" Perhaps they are." 
" Well, Captain Osborn, I don't believe your plan 
would have succeeded if the steamer hadn't caught 
afire." 
" Don't you : why not?" 
" Suppose the Yankees had stopped us on our way up, 
and come on board the steamer. Don't you think they 
would have known what she was for?" 
" Perhaps they would." 
" Of course they would. Why didn't you fit out your 
steamer up the river ? " 
" We haven't so many steamers that we can afford to 
burn them up. We took this one because she hap- 
pened to be in the creek, where the Yankees could cap- 
ture her at any time they pleased." 
"It wouldn't need a steamer above the fleet: a raft 
would do just as well. I think I shall go up the river, 
and see what can be done. Well, boys," added 
Somers to the men in the boat, " there will be no 
fun to-night, and you may as well go home." 
As this order was in conformity with previous in- 
structions, the men pulled down the creek to its mouth, 
 
where they could remain concealed till their officers 
returned. 
By the light of the burning steamer, Captain Osborn 
had attentively scanned the features of the pilot and his 
companion, apparently for the purpose of determining 
where he had seen the former. As they had both dressed 
themselves for the occasion, they submitted to his scru- 
tiny without fear. When he had finished his survey, he 
mounted his horse, which was fastened to a tree near 
the creek, and had become very restive as the glaring 
tire scattered burning cinders near him. As the rider 
had no further use for our enterprising operatives, he be- 
stowed no further notice upon them, and rode off to re- 
port to his commanding officer the failure of the hopeful 
enterprise. 
" Well, we have done some good by coming over here," 
said Captain de Banyan as the officer galloped up the 
road above the creek. 
"Hush, Captain!' replied Somers. "You forget 
where you are." 
" No, I don't : we are alone." 
"Perhaps not: the trees have ears sometimes." 
"Well, where are you going now?" 
" Up the river. We will take a walk up to the bat- 
