had dispersed its sun-dried clay; the bricks of the casing 
had been split, and the earth of the interior had been scattered in heaps. Merodach, the great lord, excited my mind 
to repair this building. I did not change the site, nor did I 
take away the foundation-stone. In a fortunate month, an 
auspicious day, I undertook to build porticos around the 
crude brick masses, and the casing of burnt bricks. I 
adapted the circuits. I put the inscription of my name in 
die Kiitir of the porticos. 
" ' I set my hand to finish it and to exalt its head. As it 
had been in former times, so I founded, I made it ; as it had 
been in ancient days, so I exalted its summit. 
" Nebo, son of himself, ruler who exaltest Merodach, be 
propitious to my works to maintain my authority. Grant 
me a life until the remotest time, a sevenfold progeny, the 
stability of my throne, the victory of my sword, the pacification of foes, the triumph over the lands ! In the columns 
of thy eternal table, that fixes the destinies of the heaven and 
of the earth, bless the course of my days, inscribe the fecundity of my race. 
" ' Imitate, O Merodach, king of heaven and earth, the 
father who begat thee ; bless my buildings, strengthen my 
authority. May Nebuchadnezzar, the king-repairer, remain 
before thy face ! ' 
"That is the insciption. It would have done me good if 
I had known it when I was there. I could not have set my 
. foot on anything those old Babel builders had done : but I 
could have looked round, as I did, from the top of Nebuchadnezzar's ruin, and known that I looked on just the same 
piece of the country and just the same horizon line that was 
round about them when they were presumptuously making 
their brick and laying them up." 
"Then the tower of Babel was not built at Babylon ? '' 
said liph. 
 
" Why do you conclude that ? " 
" You said Borsippa, sir." 
" In Nebuchadnezzar's time Borsippa was included within 
the wall of Babylon ; at any time it was but a mile or two 
from it The same place. Borsippa was the great high city 
of the Chaldees' worship. And now I must tell you what 
these great temple-towers were. All of them in Babylonia 
were built on one general plan; so we have the greatest 
reason to think the tower of Babel was but another of the 
same kind. They were all square, in the first place; they 
were set with their comers to the four cardinal points ; and 
they were built in stages; one great platform supporting 
another not quite so large, and that a third, and so on. We 
have a full description of the one Nebuchadnezzar built at 
Borsippa. That had seven stages. The first foundation or 
platform was six hundred feet broad and seventy-five feet 
high. This was to begin with. The other seven stages of 
the temple were laid up upon this; each one twenty-five 
feet high ; and the top was the temple of Nebo." 
" Uncle Sam, is the pile of ruins very big ? " 
" Big yes ; it is a shapeless huge mass rising out of the 
plain ; and on the top is a large piece of masonwork yet 
standing, like a broken tower. Big ? why it is all that immense temple crumbled down ; and of course it takes more 
ground now at the bottom, than it did when it was perfect. 
It was made no doubt of sun-dried bricks within ; a solid 
mass of earth; and these cased with burnt brick. Now it is 
an immense pile of bricks and slag and broken pottery; 
shapeless, higher at one side than at the other, and cut up 
by watercourses. Over all this mass there is a thin covering of the dry dust of the plain blown over it; but no green 
thing ever grows there ; it is a great, bare, yellow, broken 
hill, at all times. That is what is left of Nebo's tower; himself and his worship gone to dust together. ' Overturn, and 
overturn, until he come whose right it is ! ' " 
" Uncle Sam, how comes the ruin to be one-sided? " 
"Well, it should be," said my uncle. "Those temple 
towers were not laid up all sides alike. The second great 
platform was laid a little to one side of the first, instead of 
being exactly in the middle ; the third was pushed back on 
the second, and so on ; making one very sloping side to the 
pyramid and one very steep. The sloping face was the 
grand side of approach. You can see all this in the ruin. 
It seems shapeless at first ; but if you take a side view from 
the south-west, you see that it has a p3rramidal or cone 
shape; and then going to the north or south side you can 
see that the pile slopes gradually down towards the north- 
east, while it has a steep south-western face rising right up 
out of the plain. All round it a low sort of step can be 
traced, which is probably the remains of the first foundation 
platform ; and there are traces of some of the other stages ; 
but you cannot make out more than four perhaps. Once it 
had eight." 
" Then were there great steps up the sides, like the pyramids 
of Egypt ? " Priscilla asked. 
" Why, uncle Sam just said so ! " Dan exclaimed. " How 
did people get up to the top, uncle Sam ? were there inside 
stairways, as in the pyramids of Egypt ? " 
" No, Dan ; it was solid work ; solid work from top to 
bottom." 
" But it was a tremendous big thing ! " 
" So it is yet. It stands near two hundred feet high, besides the piece of thick masonwork at the top, which is 
about forty feet more. The masonry of Nebuchadnezzar's 
workmen was very fine. The bricks are laid close together, 
with a thin layer of mortar between ; and yet it is hardly possible to get out a brick whole, without breaking it. Around 
the temple there was a wide enclosure, and the remains of 
that can be seen; and at the north-east, where was the 
grand approach, there was a separate building, a vestibule or 
entrance temple ; and the ruins of it are plain enough now, 
stretching along for a quarter of a mila Yes, it was a big 
thing. The first of these ruins that I saw was the mound 
called Babil, where was once the pyramid built for Merodach, 
that Nebuchadnezzar mentions first in his inscription, you 
remember. I was coming from Bagdad to Hillah and several 
 
miles north of the town I came to one of the old great canals 
— this one had still water in it. I crossed, and as soon as I 
was at the top of the high embankment of the canal, I saw 
to the south, spread out before me, the endless plains of 
Shinar; with a dark line of palm-trees winding through 
them, and marking where the course of the river lay. They 
hardly grow anywhere now but along the rivers, though the 
inhabitants of the country depend on them for food. Well, 
across these plains, far to the south, I saw in the distance 
what seemed a hill,— rising out of the plain ; the whole 
country is so level that any elevation is seen from afar oK 
This was high over everything else. I should have thought 
it was a hiD, only its sides rose up too square from the plain, 
and its top was too level And as I got near, the hill took 
shape ; I could see other remains of embankments around it, 
and the broken places in its sides, like ravines, worn by time 
and weather. All a lid piece of masonry, with rubbish of 
course at top ; with sides so steep that you must go up by 
winding paths." 
" Well, how did they get up to the top ? " said Priscilla, 
" before it was a ruin. There were no stairways." 
" The ascent was by a winding way carried up round the sides 
of the stages to the top. They must have been grand places, 
those old Babylonian temple-towers, for studying the stars ; 
lifted up in the midst of that flat country, with the unbroken 
vault of the heaven overhead ; better for study than for 
worship. It is worth notice, children, that the tower of 
Babel was the first heathen temple of which we have any 
account." 
" But the Bible does not say it was a heathen temple, sir." 
" I think history does, Liph, by implication. I told you 
the Babylonian temple-towers were all built on the same 
plan ; and they had the double purpose of the study and the 
worship of the heavenly bodies. And, furthermore — there 
are ruins of others of them, nearly or quite as old as the very 
tower of Babel, stUl remaining on the sites of old cities farther down the river, at Warka and Mugheir; and they were 
heathen temples, we know ; one of them was dedicated 
to the moon-god. In them there is the very masony of 
Nimrod's time ; but they had only two, or at the most four, 
stages or platforms." 
" There most have been a nice view of the earth, as well 
as of the sky, from Nebuchadnezzar's tower, uncle Sam." 
" In those days — yes, Tiny. There is a grand view from 
the top of it now ; a view of waste and desolation ; a view of 
God's judgments and promises. But we shall have a great 
deal more to say about that by and by — when we come back 
to Babylon again. We have not done with the plain of 
Shinar now. There is a view of a wide spread of marshes — 
with little villages or huts of the Arabs scattered about on 
island spots in the distance, I could just see them — and 
Arab boats flying about over the water, and flocks of black 
bnfioes, where the morass was firm enough to bear them. 
That, where there used to be the riches and the beauty of 
Babylon— the palms and the com of the plain of Shinar. So 
much for pride. They said, ' Go to, let us build us a city and 
a tower, whose top may reach unto heaven ; and let us make 
us a name.' Well, so they did." 
" Was their mortar, that the Bible calls ' slime,' the same 
kind that Nebuchadnezzar's builders had ?" 
" No ; his builders used real lime mortar, and knew how 
to make it. No ; but in the ruins at Warka and Mttgheir, 
we have the true work of the time of BabeL The Warka 
temple is built of sun-dried bricks laid in mud mortar, with 
layers of reeds put in from time to time to hold the mass 
together. At Mugheir there is the very thing described in 
the Bible. The mass is of sun-dried brick ; and outside of 
it is a wall coating of ten feet thick, made of burnt brick laid 
in bitumen. You know they said, ' Go to, let us make brick 
and bum them thoroughly.' The bricks are small and inferior, such I suppose as the builders of the tower of Babel 
used. They knew something about writing even in those 
early times, for these little bricks are stamped with the name 
and titles of the king." 
"What is bitumen, uncle Sam ?" 
" You know, Tiny, in setting about their great undertaking the people had to nae sadi materials as they could get 
Now, no wood grows in that country, except pahn trees, and 
they are much too loedons even if they would do for the 
world. There is no stcme to be found, either ; and those old 
boilders probably did not know how to make lime mortar. 
But they had excellent day for brick making, and a furious 
hot sun to dry the bricks ; and it seems they had the art of 
burning bricks in kilns, for the outside and more exposed 
work where sun-dried bricks would not be sufficiently 
durable. Then they had slime for mortar. And that means, 
bitumen. It is a black, slimy, viscous substance, found in 
pits and qraings coming up out of the earth ; when it is 
cold it becomes hard, and dry, and brittle, but it melts easily 
enough. The bricks were laid in hot bitumen' It is not 
equal to good mortar by any means." 
"Where could they get enough of it ? " said lipL. 
" Close at hand, in their own country. There is plenty of 
it there. Above at Hill on the Euphrates, there are and 
always have been bitumen springs; in other parts of the 
country there are pits of it The Arabs have a way of setting 
fire to them when they are passing by; and that makes 
bonfires that would satisfy you boys. Hie smoke can be 
seen for miles oK Then they throw stones in to break the 
crust which the burning makes on the surface ; and the jets 
