I can tell you." 
"So I tossed about for twenty-four hours. By this 
time the gale had gone down, and the sea was more 
quiet. It was at this time that, casting my eyes about 
to see if I could anywhere catch sight of a sail, I de- 
d cried one apparently making towards mo." 
" Wer'n't you delighted ? " 
" I was at first," said Bill, "but as she came nearer 
I tried not to attract her notice." 
" Why? " asked Charlie, in great surprise. 
" Because, my lad, I recognized in her the Red Eover  
one of the mo  noted pirates that cruised in those seas.'' 
 
XXI. 
 
" How did you know she was a pirate?" inquired 
Charlie. 
. "I suspected her in the first place, from her rakish 
look. All pirate ships, you know, are made for speed. 
Besides, this particular ship had been described to me 
by a messmate who had once been on board a ship that 
was chased by her, though, luckily, before the pirate 
had a chance to overhaul her, two other vessels came in 
sight, and frightened her away. 
" As soon as I made out the approaching vessel to be 
the Red Rover, I repented bitterly the signs by which I 
had drawn her attention. I ceased making signals, but 
it was too late. She had already seen me, and a boat 
was filling with men to take me on board. Finding I 
could not well help myself, I concluded to make the 
best of it, and not show any objection to going with the 
boat's crew. So when they came near, and hailed me, 
asking me who I was, I answered as heartily as I could, 
'Bill Sturdy, of the good ship Peregrine, bound for 
Havana.' 
'' ' And what's become of your ship? ' 
'' ' Gone to the bottom,' I answered. 
 
 
" ' How long since ? ' 
" ' About twenty-four hours.' 
" ' How did it happen? ' 
. "In reply, I told all the circumstances, without 
reserve, for concealment would have done no good. 
" There was a little  consultation on board the boat, 
and then the officer in command brought it up alongside 
my hen-coop, and ordered me aboard. 
" This I did with as much alacrity as possible, and I 
tell you, my lad, it did seem good once more to be in a 
boat, even though it belonged to a pirate, after pitching 
about on a hen-coop for twenty-four hours. 
" Now that I had a chance, I looked at the men thaj 
manned the boat. They were villanous-lpoking cut- 
throats, — mostly Spaniards, with dark, lowering faces 
and forbidding expressions. I couldn't help turning it 
over in my mind, what they would be likely to do with 
me. 
" It didn't take long to reach the pirate vessel. Those 
On board pressed forward, as I came up and got on deck. 
They were all pretty much alike. The captain was a 
large, stout, muscular man, though I believe," added 
Bill, with some complacency, " that I could have got 
the better of him in a regular rough-and-tumble fight. 
However, this isn't neither here nor there. He came up 
to me, and made me answer over again the same ques- 
tions which had been asked me before. I answered 
them in the same way. After he had got through with 
his questions, he fixed his sharp, black eyes on me, and 
inquired, ' Do you know the name of the ship that has 
picked you up?' 
 
 
" ' I do said I, coolly, though I didn't feel as cool as 
I.appeared. 
"'Ha!' he exclaimed, in surprise. 'What is it?' 
" ' It is the Red Rover said I, making believe to be 
unconcerned. . 
"'And are you acquainted with its character?' said 
the captain, with another of his sharp looks. 
" ' I believe so,' said I. 
" ' Name it.' 
" ' I think it is a pirate,' said I, not moving a muscle. 
" ' Ha ! ' he exclaimed, looking at me rather curiously. 
' Are you not afraid to find yourself on board a pirate?' 
" ' Why should I be ? ' I answered. ' But for you, I 
should have died on the hen-coop, and I suppose, if you 
had meant to take away my life, you wouldn't have 
taken the trouble to save me, since death was certain.' 
'"A bold fellow!' said the captain, aside, to the 
mate. He spoke in the Spanish language, but I had 
managed to pick up some odd phrases in that lingo, so 
I knew what he was driving at. The mate seemed to 
agree, and they talked a little more. I didn't under- 
stand, but guessed it was about me. 
" The pirate captain, after a short confab with the 
mate, turned round, and spoke to me. ' Well, my man,' 
said he, ' I don't mind telling you that you've hit the 
mark in guessing that this is the Red Rover, and a pirate. 
I believe she has made something of a reputation for 
herself,' he added, proudly. 
" I bowed. 
" ' Now I have a proposal to make to you. We're 
rather short-handed. We need two or three brave fel- 
lows, and I am inclined to think, from your bearing, 
 
that you will suit us. Now, if you would like it, yon 
shall be admitted to equal privileges with the rest of the 
crew, with an equal share of whatever booty we manage 
to pick up, and that, I may tell you, is not small. Here, 
Roderigo, step forward, and tell this man how much 
your share was last year.' 
" Roderigo, a villanous-looking fellow, stepped for- 
ward, and answered, ' Nearly two thousand dollars in 
goods and money.' 
" ' You see, then, what are the inducements. Will 
you join us or not? ' 
" Now I very well knew what the consequences of my 
refusal would be, so I replied, without a moment's liesi- 
tation, ' I will.'" 
"What, did you become a pirate?" asked Charlie, 
horror-struck. 
" Pretty much in the same way that you became a 
sailor, my lad ; because I couldn't help it." 
"And did you join in robbing vessels, and killing all 
onboard?" 
"Hold OQ, my lad; you're a little too fast forme. 
You'll know in due time. The pirate captain seemed 
pleased with my promptness, and made me sign the 
books. I should have given a wrong name, only I had 
given the right one when I was hailed, though, for that 
matter. Sturdy isn't my right name. The captain told 
me, in a very polite sort of way, that if I should under- 
take to play them false, or interfere with them in any 
way, I should be pitched overboard. As this threat did 
not seem to trouble me much, he seemed to be satisfied 
that it was all right with me. In the course of a day or ' 
two, I got acquainted with the crew. They were mostly 
 
 
Spaniards, bat there was a sprinkling of other nations, 
— French, Danes, Germans, and one Englishman." 
" Were there any Yankees? " 
" No, Tm proud to say there wasn't one except my- 
self, and I wasn't there of my own free will. Piracy 
doesn't chime in with our Yankee notions, and it's my 
belief you'll find precious few Ml-blooded Yankees that 
are engaged in the business." 
"How did you get out of their clutches?" asked 
Charlie. 
'' That's what Fm coming to by and by. For a few 
days we didn't meet a vessel, or, at least, one that was 
alona, and so would do to attack. I was glad of that, 
for I was ready enough to do my duty on board the . 
ship, but I knew that, just as soon as we met a vessel, I 
should be expected to do my share of the fighting, and" 
it went against my grain to engage in any such villain- 
ous business as that. However, I thought I wouldn't 
borrow trouble, but wait till it came, and then I could 
decide what to do. 
"At last I heard the cry I so much dreaded, 'Sail 
ho ! ' from one of the crew, who had been sent aloft to 
give notice of an approaching vessel. 
" 'Where away?' shouted the pirate captain. 
" ' To the eastward.' 
" Orders were at once given to change the course of 
the vessel, and to make for the stranger. As soon as 
she saw us she made every effort to get away, but the 
Bed Rover was too swift for her. When we got within 
a short distance, I made out the vessel to be the Sally 
. Ann, which had left port about the time the Peregrine 
did. I knew some of those on board very well, and the 
captain was an old school-mate of mine. 
" ' What would they think,' I couldn't help saying to 
myself, with a groan, ' if they knew their old messmate 
was regularly enrolled among the crew of the pirate 
that is o7erhauling them? ' " 
Bill Sturdy paused to take a whiff at his pipe, and 
then resumed his story, in which Charlie manifested no 
slight interest. 
" I was taken all aback," he continued, " when I 
found it was the Sally Ann I was expected to join hands 
with the pirates against. I couldn't help thinking of 
tlie many pleasant hours I had spent on board that ves- 
sel, chatting and spinning yarns with the crew. What 
to do I didn't know. 
" The pirates were already clearing for action, and 
all seemed as busy as bees. You ought to have seen the 
eager look there was on their villainous faces, as they 
watched the Sally Ann, just, for all the world, like a 
crafty spider, lying in wait for a fat fly. 
" Just then the captain came up to where I was stand- 
ing, and fixed his sharp glance on me.   Now, my man,' 
said he, ' here's a chance for you to distinguish yourself. 
. That vessel will no doubt prove a rich prize. Do your 
duty, like a man, in the coming engagement, and you 
shall have a good share of the spoils. If you don't, or 
if you prove false to us, you know your fate.' 
" He pointed up to the yard-arm, as much as to say 
that I should be. strung up, if I refused obedience, and 
I've no doubt he would have kept his word. 
