him in spirit against the authorities of the ship. Shuffles knew his
state of mind, and was prepared to take advantage of it, hoping through
him to gain other discontented spirits in the cabin.
When the first part of the port watch was relieved, the "Chain"
consisted of five links, and the conspirators were well satisfied with
the present success of the enterprise. Each of the new members of the
League was commissioned to obtain a recruit, whose name was given to
him, and he was required to report upon the case, to Shuffles, before
eight bells in the afternoon watch. As a measure of precaution, it was
required that no meetings should be held; that not more than three
members should assemble for business at any one time. The utmost care
and circumspection were urged, and it was agreed that not a word should
be said in the steerage, where it was possible for any of the professors
to overhear it.
The second part of the port watch, with Pelham as officer of the deck,
went on duty at ten o'clock. The wind had been freshening for the last
two hours, and it was now necessary to reduce sail. The royals were
first taken in, and then the top-gallant sails.
"We can't lay this course, sir," said Burchmore, the quartermaster, who
was conning the helm. "The wind is hauling to the eastward."
"Make the course east by north then," replied Pelham, without taking the
trouble to consult the captain or Mr. Fluxion, both of whom were on
deck.
"The wind is north-north-east, sir," reported the quartermaster, a short
time afterwards.
"Keep her east then."
At six bells the wind was north-east, and coming heavier and heavier
every moment. The ship was headed east-south-east, and it was evident
that she still had on more sail than she could easily carry.
"What's the course, Mr. Pelham?" asked Captain Gordon.
"East-south-east, sir," replied Pelham.
"The course given out was east-north-east."
"I have changed it three times within the last hour," answered the
fourth lieutenant, in rather surly tones.
"By whose order?" demanded the captain.
"By no one's order, sir."
"You know the regulation for the officer of the deck. He is not
permitted to alter the course of the ship, unless to avoid some sudden
danger, without informing the captain."
"I had to alter the course, or have the topsails thrown aback," replied
Pelham.
"Very likely it was proper to alter the course; but it was also proper
to inform me, especially when I was on deck."
"Very well, Captain Gordon. I will not alter the course again without
your order," added the fourth lieutenant, stiffly.
"The regulation is not mine, Mr. Pelham," continued the captain,
sternly.
As the wind increased, sail was reduced to topsails and courses, jib and
spanker; but at seven bells even these were found to be too much for
her.
"Captain Gordon, it is coming heavier," said Mr. Fluxion. "I think it
will be necessary to reef."
"I was thinking of that, sir. The wind is north-east, and blowing a
gale."
"You had better call all hands, and do it at once."
"Mr. Pelham, you will call all hands to reef topsails!"
"All hands, sir?"
"Certainly, Mr. Pelham; that was my order," replied the captain, more
sharply than usual, for there was something in the manner of the officer
of the deck which he did not like, and he found it necessary to maintain
the dignity of his position.
Pelham touched his cap; he felt the weight of authority upon him heavier
than ever before. Until recently he had always performed his duty
cheerfully, and was considered a first-rate officer. Since the new
regulation had been put in force, and he had been compelled to deliver
up ten sovereigns in his possession he had been rather disagreeable. In
the cabin he had used some language reflecting upon the principal, and
he was now regarded as a malcontent by the captain, and by those who
still sustained the discipline of the ship.
"Morrison," called he, as he went forward to the waist.
"Here, sir," replied the boatswain, who belonged in this quarter watch;
and there was a boatswain's mate in each of the others.
"Call all hands to reef topsails."
The shrill pipe of the boatswain's whistle soon rang above the howling
winds, which now sounded gloomily through the rigging. The call was
repeated in the steerage, and at the door of the after cabin, where it
could be heard by the officers, for no one on board is exempted when all
hands are called. This was the first taste of the hardships of a
seaman's life to which the students had been invited. It is not
pleasant, to say the least, to be turned out of a warm bed in a gale,
when the wind comes cold and furious, laden with the spray of the ocean,
and be sent aloft in the rigging of the ship, when she is rolling and
pitching, jumping and jerking, in the mad waves. But there is no excuse
at such a time, and nothing but positive physical disability can exempt
officer or seaman from duty.
It was the first time the boys had seen a gale at sea, and though it was
not yet what would be called a strong gale, it was sufficiently terrific
to produce a deep impression upon them. The ship was still close-hauled,
under topsails and courses, with jib and spanker. The wind came in heavy
blasts, and when they struck the sails, the Young America heeled over,
until her lee yard-arm seemed to be dipping the waves. Huge billows came
roaring down from the windward, crowned with white foam, and presenting
an awful aspect in the night, striking the ship, lifting her bow high in
the air, and breaking over the rail, pouring tons of water on the deck.
Before the whole crew had been called, every opening in the deck had
been secured, and the plank guards placed over the glass in the
skylights. Life lines had been stretched along the decks, and the
swinging ports, through which the water that came over the rail escaped,
were crossed with whale line by Peaks, to prevent any unlucky boy from
being washed through, if he happened to be thrown off his feet by a rush
of water to the scuppers.
The scene was wild and startling; it was even terrible to those who had
never seen anything of the kind before, though the old sailors regarded
it quite as a matter of course. Peaks had never been known to be so
jolly and excited since he came on board. He was full of jokes and witty
sayings; he seemed to be in his element now, and all his powers of body
and mind were in the keenest state of excitement.
The students were disposed to look upon it as a rough time, and
doubtless some of them thought the ship was in great peril. Not a few of
them pretended to enjoy the scene, and talked amazingly salt, as though
they had been used to this kind of thing all their lives. Mr. Lowington
came on deck, when all hands were called; and though, to his experienced
eye, there was no danger while the ship was well managed, he was
exceedingly anxious, for it was a time when accidents were prone to
happen, and the loss of a boy at such an hour, would endanger the
success of his great experiment. On deck, the students could not get
overboard without the grossest carelessness; but it was perilous to send
them aloft in the gloom of the howling tempest. He had hoped that he
might be permitted to meet the onslaught of the first gale the ship
encountered in the daytime; but as the "clerk of the weather" otherwise
ordained it, he was compelled to make the best of the circumstances.
Before the manoeuvre of reefing, in the gale, was begun, Mr. Fluxion was
sent forward. Bitts was placed in the fore rigging, Peaks in the main,
and Leach in the mizzen, to see that the young tars did not needlessly
expose themselves, and that they used all proper precautions to avoid
an accident. All the officers were at their stations.
"Man the topsail clewlines, and buntlines, and the weather topsail
braces," shouted Haven, the first lieutenant who always handled the ship
when all hands were called. "Stand by the lee braces, bowlines, and
halyards."
The clewlines are ropes fastened to the corners of the topsail, passing
through blocks on the topsail yard, and leading down to the deck through
the lubber's hole. They are used in hauling the corners of the sail up
when they are to be reefed or furled.
The buntlines are two ropes attached to cringles, or eyes, in the bottom
of the sail, which are used for hauling up the middle, or bunt, of the
topsail.
The braces are the ropes secured to the ends of the yards, leading down
to the deck, directly, or to a mast first, and thence below, by which
the yards and the sails attached to them are hauled round so as to take
the wind. They are distinguished by the terms "weather" and "lee," the
former being those on the side from which the wind comes, the latter on
the opposite side. They also have their specific names, as the "weather
fore-top-gallant brace," the "lee main brace."
The bowlines are ropes attached to the leeches of square sails to draw
the edge forward, so that they may take the wind better. They are
fastened to the bridles, which are loops like those of a kite, two or
three of them extending from the side of the sail.
The halyards are the ropes by which any sail is hoisted. For square
sails they are secured to the yards, which, with the exception of the
lower one on each mast slide up and down.
"Clear away the bowlines," said the first lieutenant when all hands were
reported ready for the manoeuvre which had been ordered.
At this command the bowlines on the topsails and courses were
unfastened.
"All clear, sir," reported the officers from their stations.
"Round in the weather braces, ease off the lee braces!" was the next
order. "Settle away the topsail halyards! Clew down!"
To round in the weather braces was simply to haul them up as the lee
braces were slacked, so that the yard was squared. As the command was
executed, the sail was "spilled," or the wind thrown out of it.
"Haul out the reef tackles! Haul up the buntlines!" continued the
executive officer.
To reef a sail is to tie up a portion of it, so as to present less
surface of canvas to the force of the wind. Topsails are reefed in the
upper part; a portion of the sail nearest to the yard from which it is
suspended being rolled up and secured by strings to the yard. Fore and
aft sails, like the spanker, the fore and main spencers, or the mainsail
of a schooner, are reefed at the foot, the lower part being tied down to
the boom.
The topsails of the Young America had three reef bands, or strips of
canvas sewed crosswise over them, in which were the reef points, or
strings by which the sail is tied up when reefed. When the first or
highest row of reef points was used, the sail was single reefed; when
the second was used, it was double reefed; and when the third row was
used, it was close reefed. On each side of the sail, at the end of each
reef band, was a cringle, or eye, in which the reef pendent was
fastened. The reef tackle consists of a rope passing from the eye, at
the end of the reef band, through a block at the extremity of the yard,
thence to the mast, and down to the deck. Hauling on this rope draws the
required portion of the sail up to the yard in readiness to be reefed.
The reef tackles were hauled out, and the buntlines hauled up to bring
the sail where it could be easily handled. When the sail is to be
reefed, the seamen have to a "lay out" on the yards, and tie up the
sail. To enable them to do this with safety, there are horses, or
foot-ropes, extending from the slings, or middle of the spar, to the
yard-arms. This rope hangs below the yard, the middle parts being
supported by stirrups. When a man is to "lay out," he throws his breast
across the yard with his feet on the horse. The man at the "weather
earing," or eye for the reef pendent, has to sit astride the yard, and
pull the sail towards him.
The foot-rope sometimes slips through the eyes in the stirrups when only
one hand goes out upon it, which does, or may, place him in a dangerous
position. During the preceding day, when the barometer indicated a
change of weather, Mr. Lowington had sent the old boatswain aloft to
"mouse the horses," in anticipation of the manoeuvre which the boys were
now compelled to perform at midnight, in a gale of wind. Mousing the
horses was merely fastening the foot-ropes to the eyes of the stirrups,
so that they could not slip through, and thus throw the entire slack of
the horse under one boy, by which he sank down so low that his neck was
