man, and belongs to a good family, who are great favorites 
with Bel ; so she trusts me with him very willingly. The 
ride was tempting, and I had been rather distant of late ; so 
I thought I would console him a trifle with the light of my 
presence. But you should have seen Mr. Auchester's face 
when I announced the fact ! He said, " O, please do not 
go ! " in such a pretty, pleading tone, that my heart almost 
misgave me. I could not very well break my promise, and I 
thought maybe a little solitude would be good for Mr. Auches- 
ter. He coaxed a while, and then was rather eulky, I fancied, 



 

and had a hundred wants. I was all amiability, and went 
off at last with a smiling face. Mr. Joslyn was disappointed 
that I would not go to tea, and spend the evening with his 
mother ; but I had a frantic curiosity to know how Mr. 
Auchester endured my absence. We reached home just at 
dusk. I had taken off my wrappings, and was running into 
Bel's room to tell her of my nice ride, when nurse met me, 
and said,  Please, Miss Bertrand, won't you go sit with Mr. 
Auchester while I make his toast and tea ? He has asked 
for you fifty times in the last half hour.' 

" I went to his room radiant, and found him decidedly 
waspish. He sneered a little at the ride a sort of elegant 
bitterness, that he makes an admirable weapon of; and then 
at Mr. Joslyn, who does sometimes treat Lindley Murray 
rather disrespectfully. So I began to defend Mr. Joslyn, 
and as nurse lingered, we had a spicy tete-a-tete. It was 
such fun to see his eyes flash, and rouse him out of his cus- 
tomary easy nonchalance ! 

'' After supper he sent for me to read to him. Philip had 
gone out. The two men admire each other extremely, and 
Philip spends much of his time in Mr. Auchester's room. I 
read a little while ; but he was cross as a bear, found fault 
with my emphasis, my rhythm, and finally told me to put up 
the book. I was a little vexed at first ; but when I found 
how everything annoyed him, I determined to have my own 
amusement. He wanted his pillows changed ; he wanted 
the lamp placed so it wouldn't shine in his eyes ; he wanted 
a drink, and twenty other things, that kept me on the stir 
continually ; and then he had the audacity to request me to 
move quietly, as his nerves were not in quite so robust a 
state as Mr. Joslyn's ! He said ' good night ' in a sort of 
martyr fashion when I went away, and the next morning 
asked me would you believe it ? if I was not sorry for 
neglecting' him so yesterday ! Since then we have had 
rather spicy times, and when he is very naughty I play off 
Mr. Joslyn against him. 






" He has improved rapidly of late, and Mrs. Suydam ex- 
pects to take him home next week. I think her a most 
charming woman. But, Daisy, she wishes me to accompany 
them, and I never was so puzzled in my life. I want to go, 
and yet I don't want to. Mabel has written to Richard, but 
I expect to feel disappointed whichever way he decides. 
Was ihere ever such an odd girl ? " 

They were all ready for their journey on Mdnday morn- 
ing. Archie bade them good by with a rueful face, and de- 
clared he did not know how he could exist in their absence. 
The day was lovely, and Tessy merry as a bird. She epen 
infected Richard with her joyous spirits. Daisy was quiet 
and pale, but much interested in the ride. The Hudson 
looked beautiful in the bright spring sunshine ; its banks 
dotted here and there with patches of pale green, suggest- 
ing verdure ; and then rising in high, frowning cliffs, broken 
at intervals by mysterious nooks. The girls looked steadily 
out of the window, and talked Irving until the conductor 
sang out Rothelan. 

As they supposed, they took the whole family greatly by 
surprise, but were none the less welcome. Daisy found 
herself quite an object of interest with her pale face. Lily 
hovered about her with fond caresses, while Tessy was soon 
won over to Mr. Chaloner's side. Neither Bel nor Lily had 
overdrawn the delights of the place. 

Mr. Auchester did not make his appearance until dinner. 
He was unusually handsome, though still pale, and he carried 
his arm in a sling. There was nothing in him for Richard 
to distrust. His face was manly and honorable in the high- 
est degree, a little imperious, perhaps, but it sat well upon 
him. A man so self-poised, and used to perfect control, 
would not be easily mastered by any feeling or passion un- 
less strictly genuine. 

He was rather quiet at first. Lily bantered him a little 
on being disappointed. Mr. Suydam's gardener had prom- 
ised to send him some birds, but had brought chickens. 



 

" Well," said Tessy, " you'll have to comfort yourself as 
the old lady I once read of did, when she boiled the hedge 
stake on which the croAv had been sitting, by saying, ' It 
tastes of game, though.' " 

" Extremely philosophical," laughed Mr. Auchester, " and 
worth remembering, when I am reduced to greater straits 
than this. Do you think, with your sister, that I look disap- 
pointed ? "" 

" Not so dreadfully," returned Tessy, slowly. 

Mr. Auchester began to relate to her how he had been 
treated during his illness. They had put three grains of tea 
in two quarts of water, for fear of rendering him nervous 
and unmanageable, and when the nurse made his first soup, 
she hung a chicken's wing in the sunshine and boiled the 
shadow. And he had never been able to coax Lily to bring 
him up any nice little dish without nurse's knowledge. Tessy 
commiserated him greatly. There was much drollery in her 
nature. When they adjourned to the parlor, she and Mr. 
Auchester were fast friends. 

As the afternoon was lovely, he sent over for Mr. Suy- 
dam's family carriage, and they all went out to ride. Daisy 
and he were placed on the back seat, well wrapped up, "to 
keep the winds of heaven from visiting them too roughly,' 
Lily said. She, Tessy, and Richard faced them, Philip driv- 
ing, and Mabel beside him. 

Mr. Auchester made himself very agreeable, talking mostly 
to Daisy. In the evening he persuaded her to share the 
sofa with him, while the others were engrossed with music. 
She remembered afterwards that their conversation was prin- 
cipally about Lily. The next day was still more charming, 
as there was less restraint. Daisy's eyes and cheeks bright- 
ened with pleasurable excitement. A heart less true and 
honorable than Mabel's might have experienced a jealous 
pang at finding herself superseded in the old household 
place ; but she loved Daisy too dearly for such a feeling. 

" I wonder if I am selfish about you" she said to Richard. 



 

" So many evenings I have thought of you coming home 
weary in body and mind, and being comforted by Daisy's 
low, sweet voice, and cheered by the dear face so full of 
ready sympathy. I should not have dared to keep Lily so 
long, only I knew you had better care than she would bestow. 
I am so glad Robert gave her to us." 

Richard remembered one night, that stood out like a 
star among other pleasant ones, and said, in a fervent 
tone, 

" She will be a treasure to us all ; I am more than thank- 
ful to have her." 

Mr. Auchester seemed weary, and retired quite early in 
the evening ; Mabel was called away by a visitor, and the 
gentlemen went to the study for a comfortable smoke. Lily 
carried Daisy off to her room, and bestowing her on a corner 
of the lounge, said, 

" Now for a nice long talk. I have hardly seen you yet." 

" Well," Daisy exclaimed, after a silence, " do you want 
me to begin the conversation by asking what you said to Mr. 
Auchester immediately after supper. It changed his mood, 
visibly." 

" Did you think so ? It was about not going home with 
his sister. I am so glad you all came up, and that Richard 
wants to take me back with him. I would like very much to 
go to Mrs. Suydam's ; but I am sure it was his proposal. He 
rules her completely. I want him to see that he is not mas- 
ter of every one. How do you like him ? " 

" O, very, very much. Are you doing just right, Lily ? 
for I think he admires you greatly, and if you can pain him 
so easily " 

" After he tells me what he means, I shall know ; " and 
Lily laughed. 

" Yet you like him ? " 

" Yes ; that is just the word to use after a five weeks' ac- 
quaintance. But this may be with him ' pastime 'ere ha 
goes to town ; ' and you see I can match him." 



