evening, and there was no more trouble. To 
see Gypsy’s eyes twinkle, and the dimples dance 
all over her face, and to hear her laugh ringing 
out above all the rest (Gypsy’s laugh always 
reminded one of fountains, and cascades, and 
little brooks), one would never have guessed 
what she had found out that evening; it had 
come in the flash of a moment : in a moment 
she seemed to understand, and wondered that 
she had not understood before, all the rubs and 
jars that were coming between Tom and his 
father, all the misery of them and the wrong. 
More than this and worse than this, came a dim, 
doubtful suspicion of Tom. Could it be that 
he had not done just right in this long college 
term ? Could Tom be to blame for any- 
thing? 
This was the first faint outline of the first 
shadow of Gypsy’s life. 
Tom was tired with his journey, and started 
early to bed. 
And not a thing unpacked ? ” said Gypsy. 
“ I ’ll go up with you.” 
“That trunk isn’t packed — well, not exactly 
after the patterns,” said Tom, shutting the door. 
Gypsy had the straps unfastened before he 
could get there to help her, and threw open 
the trunk, and uttered a little scream. 
“ O - oh ! Why, I never ! Who ever saw 
such a looking muss? Why, Tom Breyn- 
ton ! ” 
“ Why, that ’s nothing,” said Tom. “ I 
smoothed it all over on top so as not to frighten 
the soul out of mother’s body; you ought to see 
the strata underneath ; that ’s something like. 
You see I was in such a thundering hurry — ” 
“ Tom ! ” 
“ Well, such a hanged hurry, if you like it 
better.” 
“ But I don’t like it better. It isn’t wicked, 
of course, nor anything like that, only — well, 
you used to talk like a gentleman before you 
went to college.” 
“And now I don’t? Thank you, ma’am. 
Well, the fact is, a fellow doesn’t have much 
time to be a gentleman in college. If he gets 
through and saves his soul, he does well.” 
Tom did not say these words lightly, but in a 
changed, serious tone, with a sudden flash of 
trouble in his eyes. Gypsy turned to answer 
him, letting the cover of the trunk fall in her 
haste, some eager words upon her lips. What- 
ever they were, Tom saw them coming. 
“ There ! look out ! didn’t that go on your 
hand? I thought it certainly had; you must 
be careful or you ’ll chop off all your fingers. 
As I was about to observe, my dear, when you 
were so impolite as to interrupt me by criticising
my syntax, I was in such a — hem ! such a 
hurry that I tossed things in as they came, and 
at that I didn’t get the trunk locked till the 
porter was dragging it down the last stair. 
Look out for the ink-bottles ! My prophetic 
soul tells me there are several lying round loose 
there somewhere.” 
“ I should think so ! Look here, — a pile 
of clean shirts, with two boots and a rubber, 
without any paper, right on top of them, and — 
oh, a bottle of mucilage tipped right into your 
box of paper collars! Just see that jelly 
tumbler stuck on your best vest ! What ’s this 
in the middle of the pile of handkerchiefs, — 
a blacking-box ! Oh, Tom, your Bible, — that ’s 
too bad ! All scratched up with the clasp of 
your photograph album ! Mother ’ll be so 
sorry, and — oh, dear me! Look at the broken 
glass and the ink, and the neck-ties — swim- 
ming! ” 
“Well,” said Tom, looking rather subdued, 
“ most of it’s gone into that pasteboard box; 
sponge it up quick, before mother sees. Bother 
it all ! If I were an ink-bottle, I shouldn’t see 
any particular occasion for tipping over. Hand 
me the towel, or the pillow-case, or something.
Newspaper doesn’t get it up half as quick ! — 
well, there, we ’re all right now.” 
“ I should think you ’d taken a great spoon 
and stirred the trunk up like hasty pudding,” 
said Gypsy, trying to look severe, but laughing 
from eyes, mouth, and dimples. “ Oh, what 
are those books? Greek Lexicon — Euclid? 
What do you want of those in vacation?” 
“To make little girls ask questions,” said 
Tom, evasively. 
“ Oh, what a pretty dark-blue book, with 
Harper down at the bottom, — let me see ; 
what’s the name?” 
Tom took, — no, I am afraid he snatched it 
from her. 
“Let alone, Gypsy ! You bother me, touching
my things.” 
And at that he put it in his bureau drawer 
and locked it up. Gypsy said nothing, but she 
thought much. 
Presently, in hunting for his dressing-case, 
they came across something dark, ill-smelling, 
and ugly-looking. Gypsy took it up with an 
exclamation. 
“ Oh,” said Tom, carelessly, “ some of Hall’s 
cigars.” 
“ Hall’s?” 
“ Yes, — that is to say, they were his once. 
He gave them to me on a bet one day.” 
“ And you haven’t used them. I ’m so glad. 
You don’t smoke, of course.” 
“Where is that shaving-brush? ” said Tom. 
When Gypsy left him for the night, she clung 
to him a little, her face hidden. 
“ Oh, Tom, it is so good to get you back ! 
And, Tom, dear, if you ’d come back anything 
like Francis Rowe, I don’t know what I should 
have done ! ” 
“ Better go to bed,” said Tom, and walked 
straight over to the window and stood twisting 
the curtain cord till it broke. 
The next morning Tom and his father were 
shut up together for an hour and a half: nobody 
could get in ; nobody knew what was going on. 
At the end of the hour and a half Tom came out 
with a terrible frown on his handsome forehead, 
a look very unlike Tom about his mouth. He 
went directly to his room, shut his door hard, 
and locked it. He did not come down till 
dinner-time, and Gypsy did not dare to go to 
him. About the middle of the afternoon she 
went up and knocked. He did not hear, so 
she pushed open the door softly and went 
in. He was sitting by his table, with his 
books open before him, — the Greek and the 
Euclid, and, Gypsy had time to see before 
she spoke, the mysterious blue book which 
he had taken out of her sight so roughly the 
night before. 
“Why, Tom, what are you doing?” 
“ Cramming.” 
“ Cramming? ” 
“ Studying, then ; shut the door, if you ’re 
going to talk about it.” 
Gypsy shut the door, and came up and stood 
beside him. 
“ Studying in vacation? Why, I don’t 
understand.” 
“ I don’t suppose you do, and I wish you 
needn’t. I ’m conditioned, that’s all.” 
“ Conditioned ! ” Gypsy sat down slowly, 
looking at him. Tom took out his knife and 
began to whittle the table in dogged silence. 
“ That means — why, it means you didn’t 
get your lessons, and they — ” 
“ It means I fell below average, and I ’ve 
got to make it up. There ! you have it now,” 
said Tom, bringing his hand down heavily on 
the table. 
“ Oh, Tom,” said Gypsy, “ I am so sorry ! ” 
And that was every word she said, and the very 
best thing she could have said. Tom winked. 
and coughed, and turned over the leaves of his 
book, and threw it down sharply. 
“That’s the worst of it. I suppose I might 
have made you and mother proud of me. The 
tutors were rough on me, all through, every 
one, just because they said I might head the 
division if I chose to ; I should like to know 
how they knew ! ” 
“ Of course they knew ; everybody knows,” 
said Gypsy, sadly. “ And I thought — we all 
thought — ” She stopped, fearing that what 
she was going to say would sound like a taunt. 
Tom’s handsome face flushed. 
“ I know what you all thought. And if ever 
a fellow meant to behave and get a rank, I did. 
But you see there ’s always so much fun going 
on at college, and father doesn’t make the least 
account of that. He ’s given me a terrible 
blowing this morning.” 
“ I was afraid so. About the rank? ” 
“Yes; that’s all he knows to talk about yet. 
He’ll hunt up something else before long.” 
“ Tom ! ” 
“Well, he does put me out so, Gypsy. I 
suppose I deserve a little of it, but he has such 
a way of hacking at you. It’s Tom this, Tom- 
that, Tom the other, forever reminding you that 
you ’ve been acting like a fool. He knocks out 
all the sorry there is in me.” 
Gypsy sat in silence, not wishing to say any- 
thing disrespectful of her father, not daring or 
wishing to throw all the blame on Tom. Pres- 
ently, thinking that she was in his way, she rose 
to go out of the room. Tom called her back. 
