Grant had two cousins, John and Edward, the latter of whom--the father
of the wayward girl--had died three years previous to her introduction
to the reader. At the time of his decease, he was in the employ of the
wealthy broker, as a travelling agent. Just before his death, which
occurred in a western city, while conscious that his end was near, he
had written a letter to Mr. Grant, begging him to see that his only
child was properly cared for when he could no longer watch over her.

Edward Grant's wife had been dead several years. At her decease Fanny
Jane had been committed to the care of her father's brother, then
residing in Illinois. Mr. Grant, impressed by the solemn duty intrusted
to him by his deceased cousin, promptly wrote to the child's uncle, who
was dependent upon his own exertions for his daily bread, offering any
assistance which the orphan might need; but no demand was made upon
him.

A year after the father's death, Mr. Grant's business affairs required
him to visit the west, and he improved the opportunity to satisfy
himself that the charge committed to him by the dying father was well
cared for. On his arrival he was not pleased with the relations
subsisting between Fanny Jane and her aunt. Mrs. Grant declared that
the child was stubborn, wilful, and disobedient, needing frequent and
severe punishment. On the other hand, Fanny said that her aunt abused
her; worked her "almost to death;" did not give her good things to eat,
and whipped her when she "did not do anything."

Mr. Grant was a prudent and judicious man. He conversed with each party
alone, and, being then in doubt, he consulted the uncle. John Grant's
testimony, in the main, confirmed that of his wife, though he was
willing to confess that the aunt "might have been a little hard on the
child." Mr. Grant was far from satisfied; he thought it more than
probable that Fanny was wilful, but he could not endure to think of her
being abused. The sacred duty imposed upon him could not be trifled
with, and, as the only method by which he could meet the demands of his
conscience, he decided to take the orphan to Woodville with him.

The uncle and the aunt, who had no children of their own, objected to
this procedure, both because they did not wish to part with the child,
and because her withdrawal from their care implied a condemnation of
their former treatment of the orphan. Mr. Grant, however, succeeded in
overcoming both of these objections, and they consented that Fanny
should remain at Woodville for two years; Mrs. Grant assuring the
benevolent broker that he would be glad to get rid of her in less than
six months.

Fanny had behaved so well during the stay of Mr. Grant at her uncle's
house, that he was completely deceived in regard to her real character.
The presence of so important a person as the wealthy broker, who had
been represented to her as a person hardly less dignified than the
President of the United States, had overawed her, and put her on her
best behavior. Her kind friend, therefore, was unable to realize that
the orphan girl was half so bad as she was described to be by her aunt.

Edward Grant, while in the employ of the broker, had often visited
Woodville, and being especially pleased with the person and the manners
of Miss Fanny, had named his own daughter after her. On the arrival of
the orphan at her new home, it was deemed fitting that Miss Fanny
should have the especial care of her namesake, then only ten years of
age. Fanny Jane, amid the novelties of the great house, and the
beautiful grounds, was so much occupied for a few weeks that she
behaved very well; but when she grew weary of horses and boats, house
and grounds, she astonished her young mistress by conduct so outrageous
that Miss Fanny wept in despair over the miserable failure she made in
governing her charge.

Miss Bertha was called in to assist in taming the refractory subject;
but it was soon found that Fanny Jane had none of the chivalrous
reverence which had rendered the wild Noddy Newman tolerably tractable,
and her failure was as complete and ignominious as that of her sister.
Mr. Grant was finally appealed to; and the sternness and severity to
which he was compelled to resort were, for a time, effectual. But even
these measures began to be impotent, and the broker realized that the
uncle and aunt had understood the case better than himself.

As a last resort, he threatened to send the wayward girl back to her
uncle, who had now removed to Minnesota; for it would be better for
such a child to put her down to hard work, and to keep her constantly
under the eye of her guardians. This threat was more efficient than all
the other means which had been used to keep the child within the bounds
of common decency; but even this had grown stale upon her.

Miss Fanny, finding that her failure involved no disgrace, renewed her
exertions to reform her pupil and charge. With the utmost diligence she
instructed her in her moral and religious duties, and endeavored by
love and gentleness to win her from the error of her ways. Sometimes
she felt that there was much to encourage her, at other times she
despaired of ever making any impression upon her pupil. Her father
induced her to persevere, for he had hope. He remembered what Edward
Grant, her father, had been when a child; that he was accounted the
worst and most hopeless boy in the town where he resided; but in spite
of this unpromising beginning, he had become a very worthy and
respectable man. Such a change might in due time come over the
daughter, and Mr. Grant frequently impressed upon Fanny the necessity
of perseverance, and of remitting no effort to reach her pupil's moral
and spiritual nature.

If Miss Fanny did not improve her pupil, she did improve herself, for
the more of love and truth we impart to others, the more we have for
ourselves; making the very pretty moral paradox, that the more of love
and truth we subtract from our store, the more we have left in our own
heart.

Fanny Jane was undoubtedly a very naughty girl. We do not mean to say
that she was merely rude and unlady-like in her manners; that she was
occasionally angry without a just cause; that she had a few bad habits,
and a few venial faults: she was impudent to her benefactors; she was
untruthful, and even dishonest. Not only to Fanny and Bertha, but also
to Mr. Grant, she was openly defiant. She used bad language, told
falsehoods by wholesale, and had several times been detected in
stealing valuable articles from the house.

Yet with all her faults and failings, there were some good traits in
Fanny Jane, though they seemed like the two grains of wheat in the
bushel of chaff. What these redeeming features of her character were,
we shall let our story disclose. One meeting the wayward girl on the
lawn for a moment, or spending a few hours in the house with her, would
have been deceived, as Mr. Grant had been, for her black eyes were full
of animation; her manner was spirited, and her answers were quick and
sharp. She was light and rather graceful in form; she did not appear to
walk; she flashed about like a meteor. She was bold and daring in her
flights, and as strong as most boys of her years. She would not run
away from a rude boy; she laughed in the thunder storm, and did not
fear to go through the glen at midnight.

Bertha and Fanny had gone up to Hudson to spend a few days with the
family of Mr. Sherwood's father, previous to their departure for
Europe. This visit had been talked about for a fortnight, and the
wayward girl knew that it was to take place. Contrary to her usual
custom, she made the fairest of promises to her kind mistress, who,
from this very readiness, suspected her sincerity; and her fears were
more than realized.

Fanny Jane stood at the open door gazing at the carriage until it
disappeared beyond the hill. Her black eyes snapped under the stimulus
of certain exciting thoughts which agitated her mind. When the carriage
could no longer be seen, she slammed the front door, and bounded like a
gazelle across the entry to the library of Mr. Grant, which she
entered, closing the door behind her.

"O, yes! I'll be good!" laughed she; "I'm always good! Send me to my
uncle's? I should like to see them do it! I won't go! There are not men
and women enough at Woodville to make me go!"

Then she bounded to the windows in the library, one after another, and
looked out at each. She closed the inner blinds of one, before which
the gardener was at work on the lawn.

"I can do as Miss Berty did, if worse comes to worst," said she,
throwing herself into a great armchair. "She went to live out, and had
her own way, and I can do the same; but I won't be as poor as she was.
Ha, ha, ha! I know their secrets," she continued, as she crawled under
the desk, in the middle of the room, and pushing the middle drawer out,
took from a nail behind it a key. "They needn't think to cheat me."

She sprang to her feet again with the key in her hand, laughing with
delight at her own cunning.




CHAPTER II.

THOU SHALT NOT STEAL.


Fanny--as we shall call her when she is not in the company of her
namesake--revelled in the possession of the key, and congratulated
herself on her own shrewdness in obtaining it. She applied it to one of
the drawers of the desk. Though her devoted young mistress had been
faithful to the last degree in her efforts to instil good principles in
the mind of her pupil, Fanny appeared to have no scruples of
conscience. She did not hesitate, did not pause to consider the
wickedness of her acts.

The drawer was unlocked and opened with an eager rather than a
trembling hand. She seemed to fear nothing, and to be intent only on
obtaining possession of some coveted treasure. As she pulled out the
drawer, she was startled by a very unexpected incident. A great black
cat, suddenly released from imprisonment, sprang out of the drawer,
and, terrified by the appearance of the naughty girl, ran around the
room several times, and then disappeared through an open window. The
cat was a stranger to her; it was not a Woodville cat; and, though
Fanny was not frightened, the presence of the animal in the drawer was
suggestive.

"I am not so sharp as I thought I was," said she to herself, quite
soberly. "The housekeeper must have seen me when I was looking for that
key; but she needn't think I am afraid of a cat!"

Fanny sneered at the thought, and after glancing at the window through
which the cat had made her escape, she turned to the drawer again, but
it was empty; or it contained only a great card, such as those used in
the Sunday school, on which was painted, in large black letters,

    THOU SHALT NOT STEAL!

This card, which must have been placed there for her especial benefit
by some member of the family, rendered it certain that her intentions
were suspected, if not known.

