Three cold fish-balls on a cracked saucer ! 
" That depraved female has either been read- 
ing her Bible, or getting her quarter 's wages," 
observed Mary Blunt, after a solemn pause. 
" I 'm going down to appeal to the humanity 
&gt;f Dolly. I gave Dolly two old crinolines and 
linen collar last week; habit of mine to pro 
vide for emergencies ; you see if I don't bring 
up bread and butter for you hot bread ; crisp 
pieces of crust; right out of the oven; with 
the butter melting." 
Mary was gone another ten minutes, and 
came back with a tumbler of water. 
" Take it somebody, do ! I can't hold it for 
laughing. Here, Lou Armstrong, you must 
faint right away if you have the least regard for 
my conscience. Ran into Mrs. M. splash ! 
Knocked off her waterfall you ought to have 
seen it spin ! begged her pardon, but my 
feelings were agitated my room-mate was 
sick, and wanted a glass of water. And Oh 
dear ! the woman was so compassionate, and 
offered to come up and see her ! Wouldn't 
anybody have the goodness to be thirsty ! " 
The prospect began to look serious; the 
" clear, bare, unadulterated pickles," 
impossible, through that hope deferred, which maketh 
the heart sick. 
At last Maude Clare said that she had 
thought of a plan. Maude Clare was famous 
for thinking of plans, and very willing to look 
on and see somebody else carry them out. 
There is a plate of oyster crackers on the 
china closet shelf; I saw them this noon, when 
we hadn't enough for the oysters, and Dolly 
said they were all gone." Maude was inter 
rupted by a chorus of " Just the thing ! " 
"And Gypsy might go down she 's so 
little through the dining-room ; there isn't 
a soul there ; if anybody comes, she can whisk 
up the kitchen stairs, and if anybody comes 
from the kitchen, she can want my Testament 
that I dropped under the dining-room table at 
Biblical. You are so little, you know, Gypsy, 
and can get out of the way like a squirrel. I 
would go myself, but I 'm always so big; 
everybody sees me" 
Gypsy 's eyes had begun to twinkle at th 
prospect. What good fun it would be ! And 
when a thing promised good fun, Gypsy was 
not apt to think very far about it. 
" Good ! I 'll do it. Here I bequeath you 
my pickle, girls, if I come to an untimely end. 
Keep it sacred to my memory, will you?" So, 
with her bubbling laugh, she bounded away 
from them, and downstairs. 
The entry was nearly dark. The lamp at 
the foot of the stairs had gone out, and only 
the light from the front hall fell in faintly. The 
house was quite still. 
Mademoiselle was correcting exercises in the 
back parlour. Jacqueline Delancey had fallen 
asleep over her practising, in the music-room. 
Phoebe Hand 's room was just opposite the din 
ing-room door, but Phcebe Hand 's room was 
always still. Phcebe roomed with Miss Ayre, 
and that kept the girls away. Besides, as 
Maude Clare said, " a lame girl isn't nice com 
pany; she can't go about; and then it makes 
you nervous to see an ugly crutch round all the 
time, though, to be sure, it isn't her fault." 
Gypsy stole into the dining-room, and 
looked around; crept to the closet door, and 
looked around; nobody was to be seen; nobody 
was to be heard. A little fleck of light fell 
through a chink in the kitchen door, and fell 
exactly upon the plate of crackers. 
She stepped in on the softest tiptoe, leaving 
the door open a crack behind her, for the sake 
of the light. The plate was large, and very 
full. She could not move it without rattling 
off its contents, and she reflected that to climb 
the side stairs dropping crackers all the way, 
and that within an entry 's width of Miss Ayer, 
would be an undertaking more rash than val 
orous. Accordingly she decided to put the 
crackers into her pocket. Maude had a plate 
upstairs, and school-girls are not particular. 
The last cracker was just in, when she heard 
a noise. Somebody groping for the door- 
handle, and before she could stir, somebody 
groping, groping, across the dining-room; then 
a resounding blow, and a crash, and a groan, 
and a voice, 
"Oh, the Land 's End! Oh, goodness gra 
cious mercy on me ! I ve gone over that 
rocking-chair again ! Nancy, Nancy ! Here ! 
You ve let that entry lamp go out, and this is 
the third time I ve broken my bones over Mrs. 
McMunn 's rocking-chair, this blessed night. 
Come right along with a match now, as quick 
as you can ! " 
Gypsy, in the closet, choked and gasped, 
and stuffed her mouth with crackers to keep 
herself from laughing. Nancy came, mutter 
ing, with a lamp, and the housekeeper scolded 
till her ankle-bones felt better. 
" You may leave the lamp," she said then. 
" I want to use it, to lock up for the night." 
Oh dear ! Oh dear ! she was coming into the 
closet ! Already her heavy steps sounded half 
way across the room, limped by the register, 
thundered up to the door. Gypsy had but an 
instant to think. A barrel, nearly empty, stood 
under the shelves. She whisked it out, climbed 
into it, gave a little lurch partly back under the 
shelves, and crouched there, waiting. Mrs. 
Holt came in with her lamp in her hand, and 
her spectacles on her nose. 
Gypsy held her breath. Mrs. Holt dusted a 
plate, and looked into the sugar-bowl; shook 
down the salt-cellars; looked in the macaroni 
drawer, and counted the tumblers. 
Gypsy, becoming suffocated, gave a little 
gasp. 
Mrs. Holt stopped, and looked around. 
" Another mouse, I declare ! Nancy, bring 
the trap." 
Nancy brought the trap, and the housekeeper, 
after setting it, put it down behind Gypsy 's 
barrel. 
" Nancy ! " she called again. Nancy came 
back. 
" Have you been meddling with this barrel, 
pushing it out in this style, from under the 
shelf ? " 
Nancy had not been meddling with the 
barrel, and Nancy wished, though this was in 
an undertone, that folks would mind their 
business, and let her go to bed in peace. 
Mrs. Holt took hold of the barrel with her 
stout arms, and rolled it up with a jerk into the 
corner, under the shelves. 
" I wouldn't have thought of its being so 
heavy," she remarked half aloud, as she paused 
for breath. "There must be more sugar left 
than I supposed." 
Upon that, she went out, shut the door, 
locked it, put the key in her pocket, and 
limped away. 
" And never thought a thing about the 
crackers ! " gasped Gypsy, through her stifled 
laughter. " Locked me in, with them in my 
pocket. Oh, I never did ! How the girls will 
laugh ! Oh dear, oh dear ! Now it 's only to 
jerk out my barrel from under this old shelf, 
and then in through the dumb waiter into the 
kitchen and up the back stairs. Nancy will be 
abed, or if she isn't, why, I 'll give her an old 
necktie to-morrow, and that will be the end of 
her. Now, Mrs. Halt, we 'll see ? " 
See, she did, in a very unexpected manner. 
For the sugar barrel absolutely refused to 
move. She jerked it and turned it ; she leaned 
over on this side, she leaned over on the other; 
she worked herself round in it; she jumped 
up and down in it that is to say, she rose and 
fell a very little way laboriously, bumping her 
head each time against the shelf. But all 
to no purpose. The barrel remained in statu 
quo. 
"You won't will you?" said Gypsy, 
apostrophising it slowly. " Now, my dear, if 
I were a barrel, I wouldn't ; I really would n t. 
I don't think it 's sweet-tempered in you ; and 
who has facilities for cultivating sweet temper, 
if you haven t? Now, if Jo Courtis gets over 
this in a term ! I don't see as there is anything 
to do but to call the daughters of Erin. 
" Nancy ! Dolly ! Nancy ! " Somebody was 
shuffling about the kitchen, but nobody 
answered. 
"Nancy!" 
The shuffling stopped, apparently in some 
alarm. 
" Nancy ! Nancy Donnavan I Let me out ! " 
" Arrah ! The howly mither ! What 's that 
now?" 
"It 's I locked up here in a barrel, and I 
can't get out ! " called Gypsy. " You crawl 
in the dumb waiter, and pull me out, you 
know. Nan-try, unfasten the dumb waiter, 
quick ! " 
The only answer was a quick stampede, as 
of some one hiding behind the pantry door, 
and a terrified, panting breath broken up into 
short cries of " Oh, Lor have mercy ! " " An 
it 's kilt intirely I am with the fear!" And 
"To think of their selthin afther a poor 
creether this time o night the very time this 
