out of the sound of falling water. The Corso 
and some of the principal streets do not so much im- 
press you with their filth as with their dullness ; 
but that part of the city where some of the most 
memorable relics of antiquity are to be found is un- 
imaginably vile. The least said of the state of 
the archways of the Coliseum the soonest mended ; 
and I have already spoken of the Forum. The 
streets near the Theatre of Pompey are almost im- 
passable, and the so-called House of Rienzi is a stable, 
fortified against approach by a fosse of excrement. 
A noisome smell seems to be esteemed the most ap- 
propriate offering to the memory of ancient Rome, 
and I am not sure that the moderns are mistaken in 
this. In the rascal streets in the neighborhood of 
the most august ruins, the people turn round to stare 
at the stranger as he passes them ; they are all dirty, 
and his decency must be no less a surprise to them 
than the neatness of the French soldiers amid all the 
filth is a puzzle to him. We wandered about a long 
time in such places one day, looking for the Tarpeian 
Rock, less for Tarpeia's sake than for the sake of 
 
Miriam and Donatello and the Model. There are 
two Tarpeian rocks, between which the stranger 
takes his choice ; and we must have chosen the 
wrong one, for it seemed but a shallow gulf com- 
pared to that in our fancy. We were somewhat dis- 
appointed ; but then Niagara disappoints one ; and as 
for Mont Blanc 
v. 
IT is worth while for every one who goes to Rome 
to visit the Church of St. Peter's ; but it is scarcely 
worth while for me to describe it, or for every one 
to go up into the bronze globe on the top of the 
cupola. In fact, this is a great labor, and there is 
nothing to be seen from the crevices in the ball 
which cannot be far more comfortably seen from the 
roof of the church below. 
The companions of our ascent to the latter point 
were an English lady and gentleman, brother and 
sister, and both Catholics, as they at once told us. 
The lady and myself spoke for some time in the 
Tuscan tongue before we discovered that neither of 
us was Italian, after which we paid each other some 
handsome compliments upon fluency and perfection 
of accent. The gentleman was a pleasant purple 
porpoise from the waters of Chili, whither he had 
wandered from the English coasts in early youth. 
He had two leading ideas :* one concerned the Pope, 
to whom he had just been presented, and whom he 
viewed as the best and blandest of beings ; the other 
 
related to his boy, then in England, whom he called 
Jack Spratt, and considered the grandest and great- 
est of boys. With the view from the roof of the 
church this gentleman did not much trouble himself. 
He believed Jack Spratt could ride up to the roof 
where we stood on his donkey. As to the great 
bronze globe which we were hurrying to enter, he 
seemed to regard it merely as a rival in rotundity, 
and made not the slightest motion to follow us. 
I should be loth to vex the reader with any de- 
scription of the scene before us and beneath us, even 
if I could faithfully portray it. But I recollect, with 
a pleasure not to be left unrecorded, the sweetness 
of the great fountain playing in the square before the 
church, and the harmony in which the city grew in 
every direction from it, like an emanation from its 
music, till the last house sank away into the pathetic 
solitude of the Campagna, with nothing beyond but 
the snow-capped mountains lighting up the remotest 
distance. At the same moment I experienced a rap- 
ture in reflecting that I had underpaid three hack- 
men during my stay in Rome, and thus contributed 
to avenge my race for ages of oppression. 
The vastness of St. Peter's itself is best felt in 
looking down upon the interior from the gallery that 
surrounds the inside of the dome, and in comparing 
one's own littleness with the greatness of all the 
neighboring mosaics. But as to the beauty of the 
temple, I could not find it,without or within. 
 
VI. 
IN Rome one's fellow -tourists are a constant 
source of gratification and surprise. I thought that 
American travellers were by no means the most ab- 
surd among those we saw, nor even the loudest in 
their approval of the Eternal City. A certain orcjer 
of German greenness affords, perhaps, the pleasant- 
est pasturage for the ruminating mind. For example, 
at the Villa Ludovisi there was, beside numerous 
Englishry in detached bodies, a troop of Germans, 
chiefly young men, frugally pursuing the Sehens- 
wiirdigkeiten in the social manner ofrtheir nation. 
They took their enjoyment very noisily, and wran- 
gled together with furious amiability as they looked 
at Guercino's " Aurora." Then two of them parted 
from the rest, and went to a little summer-house in 
the gardens, while the others followed us to the top 
of the Casino. There they caught sight of their 
friends in the arbor, and the spectacle appeared to 
overwhelm them. They bowed, they took off their 
hats, they waved their handkerchiefs. It was not 
enough : one young fellow mounted on the balus- 
trade of the roof at his neck's risk, lifted his hat on 
his cane and flourished it in greeting to the heart's- 
friends in the arbor, from whom he had parted two 
minutes before. 
In strange contrast to the producer of this enthusi- 
asm, so pumped and so unmistakably mixed with beer, 
a fat and pallid Englishwoman sat in a chair upon 
the roof and coldly, coldly sketched the lovely land- 
 
scape. And she and the blonde young English girl 
beside her pronounced a little dialogue together, winch 
I give, because I saw that they meant it for the public : 
The Young Girl. I wonder, you knoa, you don't 
draw-ow St. Petuh's ! 
The Artist. O ah, you knoa, I can draw-ow St. 
Petuh's from so mennee powints. 
I am afraid that the worst form of American green- 
ness appears abroad in a desire to be perfectly up in 
critical appreciation of the arts, and to approach the 
great works in the spirit of the connoisseur. The 
ambition is not altogether a bad one. Still I could 
not help laughing at a fellow-countryman when he 
told me that he had not yet seen Raphael's " Trans- 
figuration," because he wished to prepare his mind 
for understanding the original by first looking at all 
the copies he could find. 
VII. 
THE Basilica San Paolo fuori le Mura surpasses 
every thing in splendor of marble and costly stone 
porphyry, malachite, alabaster and luxury of gild- 
ing that is to be seen at Rome. But I chiefly remem- 
ber it because on the road that leads to it, through 
scenes as quiet and peaceful as if history had never 
known them, lies the Protestant graveyard in which 
Keats is buried. Quite by chance the driver men- 
tioned it, pointing in the direction of the cemetery 
with his whip. We eagerly dismounted and repaired 
to the gate, where we were met by the son of the 
sexton, who spoke English through the beauteous line 
 
of a curved Hebrew nose. Perhaps a Christian could 
not be found in Rome to take charge of these here- 
tic graves, though Christians can be got to do almost 
any thing there for money. However, I do not think 
a Catholic would have kept the place in better order, 
or more intelligently understood our reverent curi- 
osity. It was the new burial-ground which we had 
entered, and which is a little to the right of the elder 
cemetery. It was very beautiful and tasteful in every 
way ; the names upon the stones were chiefly Eng- 
lish and Scotch, with here and there an American's. 
But affection drew us only to the prostrate tablet in- 
scribed with the words, " Percy Bysshe Shelley, Cor 
Cordium," and then we were ready to go to the 
grave of him for whom we all feel so deep a tender- 
ness. The grave of John Keats is one of few in the 
old burying-ground, and lies almost in the shadow of 
the pyramid of Caius Cestius ; and I could not help 
thinking of the wonder the Roman would have felt 
could he have known into what unnamable richness 
and beauty his Greek faith had ripened in the heart 
of the poor poet, where it was mixed with so much 
sorrow. Doubtless, in his time, a prominent citizen 
like Caius Cestius was a leading member of the 
temple in his neighborhood, and regularly attended 
sacrifice : it would have been but decent ; and yet I 
fancied that a man immersed like him in affairs might 
have learned with surprise the inner and more fra- 
grant meaning of the symbols with the outside of 
which his life was satisfied ; and I was glad to reflect 
that in our day such a thing is impossible. 
 
The grave of our beloved poet is sunken to the 
level of the common earth, and is only marked by 
the quaintly lettered, simple stone bearing the famous 
epitaph. While at Rome I heard talk of another 
and grander monument which some members of the 
Keats family were to place over the dust of their 
great kinsman. But, for one, I hope this may never 
be done, even though the original stone should also 
be left there, as was intended. Let the world still 
keep unchanged this shrine, to which it can repair 
with at once pity and tenderness and respect. 
A rose-tree and some sweet-smelling bushes grew 
upon the grave, and the roses were in bloom. We 
asked leave to take one of them ; but at last could 
only bring ourselves to gather some of the fallen 
petals. Our Hebrew guide was willing enough, and 
unconsciously set us a little example of wantonness ; 
for while he listened to our explanation of the mys- 
tery which had puzzled him ever since he had learned 
English, namely, why the stone should say " writ on 
water," and not written, he kept plucking mechan- 
ically at one of the fragrant shrubs, pinching away 
the leaves, and rending the tender twig, till I, re- 
