" Why, it's after seven ; " and Joe forced a short, dis- 
cordant laugh. Was the world being turned upside down ? 
" Stephen's a good boy. He allers was. He won't 
stan' by and see his old father 'bused. Is the Fotmdery 
open, Joe?" 
" Lord ! Why should the Foundery be shut up ? 
You're half fuddled." 
He looked up at her, his eyes glazing over with dull 
terror. 
"I don't want any breakfast, Joe " staggering up. 
"Take me back to bed. And if anybody comes, send 
for Stephen. He'll stan' by me. He's a good boy 
Stephen. He's all I've got ; " and the old man 
maundered on, while Joe cleared away the dishes, her 
usually torpid brain roused to new activity. 
Meanwhile Stephen Dane had gone down the street, 
in a slow, irresolute manner, peering cautiously into the 
faces of those he passed, as he gave his familiar, half- 
abstracted nod. Arrived at the flouring-mill, he went 
in ami did his errand. As he took out his money he 
thought of the hundreds at home with a bright red 
mark upon them. This was honestly earned and free 
from stain. He fingered it with a little manly pride ; 
but as he recalled the bitter sneers that had come with 
it, his brow grew fiercely hot. 
He lingered until the Foundery bell rang. Some one 
said, 
" Taking a holiday, Dane ? " 
He gave a sickly smile, but had not the courage to 
own the truth. Had no one heard ? 
 
Two men halted, seeing him standing in the door. 
One was Forbes. 
"Dane," he asked, "what's the row down yonder? 
Doesn't any one know where Vennard is ? He's plaguy 
close-mouthed ; but he wouldn't go off without a word 
to any one would he ? " 
Stephen Dane made a great effort. " Gone off 
where?" he asked, incredulously. 
"Why, man, haven't you heard? haven't you been 
down to the Foundery ? " 
"No." 
"They're all up in arms. Mrs. Vennard sent over 
he wasn't home last night didn't leave any mes- 
sage. No one can tell anything about him. Fact. You 
needn't look as if you didn't believe a fellow ! " 
"He might have had business," said Dane, speaking 
over a great lump in his throat. 
" He'd a' told time-keeper, any how. And it's mighty 
odd. There's no love lost atween Vennard and some 
o' the men." 
" You don't mean " and Mr. Bross paused amid the 
bags he was lifting. 
" I don't mean anything special," said Forbes. " Only, 
if an accident had happened to him, I know a few who 
wouldn't make their black very expensive. He's a mean 
old niggard. It was a sorry day for Trcgony when he 
came into it. And I'll bless the Lord for the day he goes 
out o' it. I don't see why God lets such men live and 
prosper." 
Forbes was growing excited. Stephen Dane shiv- 
ered. 
"Wasn't he home last night?" asked Mr. Bross. 
"No. And it ain't just his style to go off without a 
word. It looks queer." 
Dane could not endure the talk ; so he stepped out. 
The glare of the sunlight in the street blinded him. 
How strange this glowing wealth of summer appeared, 
when human souls were hourly dying and leaving 
it all ! Then his mind wandered to the secluded spot 
in the river, where some one lay sleeping never to 
waken again. 
Some inexplicable whim dragged him to the Foun- 
dery. His breath came hard and short ; every nerve 
in his body seemed bare and exposed to a biting blast. 
The fearful expectation of something kept his senses 
alert and keen, yet his outward self was 'as rigid as if 
slowly turning to stone. 
No gate-keeper peering suspiciously out at the en- 
trance. A knot of men in the office groups else- 
where, talking and gesticulating, their faces full of 
dumb wonder. What if he went to his place and 
worked as usual? A whole day's idleness would drive 
him crazy. He paused in the wide doorway. 
"Pretty work this, Dane !" ejaculated a gruff fore- 
man. "Everybody's about cracked, I think. As if 
 
Vennard didn't know his own business ! There'll be a 
nice breeze when he comes back. What you gaping 
there for ? You was off all yesterday afternoon. Go 
to work." 
Then the man did not know he had been discharged. 
He hung up his hat and coat, tied on his leathern apron, 
and went to work with a resolute will. Yet his mind 
was full of busy thoughts an island floating in a dim 
sea of space, with no sure rock for foundation. 
By noon the excitement had increased. About four 
on the preceding afternoon Mr. Vennard had been seen 
to leave the Foundery. He had gone to the office of 
Slocum & Adsley, to discuss the new mill, and had 
promised to view the site, and give his opinion of it. 
No one had seen him since. The place had been 
searched, but not a vestige discovered. Inquiries had 
been made everywhere. Mr. Ellicott had telegraphed 
to several business friends in the city. The town au- 
thorities had even taken up the matter. He surely was 
not in Tregony. 
Stephen Dane drew a long breath of 'relief. The 
place had been searched, then ! What had led him to 
destroy that sure evidence, that inanimate tongue whose 
wordless story would have been certain proof? A 
strange awe fell upon him. What if God meant to 
save him? For now he must believe in something 
higher and stronger than mere blind chance. 
No one remarked his silence. He took his way 
through the groups unnoticed. He was glad to have 
Adams still absent ; for friendly eyes are often keen. 
What of his father through all this long morning? 
He almost dreaded to enter the house. 
An expression in Joe's face startled him. Those 
slow-moving brown eyes were quickened with a sense 
of fear or suspicion. He turned pale through all the 
grime and heat. 
"Where have you been all the morning?" she asked, 
excitedly. 
" To work." 
"Why, they say Mr. Vennard is that he has no 
one can find him. Is it so, Stephen?" 
Her voice sank to a terrified whisper. 
"What's the matter?" he exclaimed, roughly, more 
to regain his own self-possession than to startle her. 
" Can't a man go off if he likes ? Where's father ? " 
" He's sick, and wouldn't eat any breakfast," Joe said, 
sulkily. 
What is it fever ? Does he talk ? " 
Stephen was washing his face and hands and wiping 
them on the coarse towel. Did this girl know or sus- 
pect? Had she penetrated the poor old man's secret? 
"Mutters to himself that's all. Guess he was 
pretty drunk last night." 
Stephen winced, but went straight to the bedroom. 
His father moved uneasily, and drew the soiled counter- 
pane over his head. 
 
" You're sick, father." The tone was tender and re- 
assuring. 
"Yes, Stephen, sick," was the quavering reply. 
" What can I do for you ? " 
"Nothin', Stephen, nothin'. I'm gettin' to be a 
feeble old man. Le' me lay here and rest." 
All this time he had not once turned his eyes towards 
his son. 
"I think rest will be the best medicine," was the 
decisive answer " After a few days' quiet you will 
come around all right again ; " and Stephen gave the 
withered hand a pressure that said so much. It com- 
forted the poor soul suffering all the remorse and agony 
possible for such a nature. If Stephen suspected his 
secret, it was in safe keeping. 
"Have you been to work, Stephen?" Joe asked, as 
he seated himself at the table. 
" Yes. I went down there, and Bartow told me to 
go to work. Vennard hasn't been in all the morning. 
There's a precious row about him." 
"And Mrs. Vennard is taking on like a crazy 
woman ! Sally Fawcett says she'll bet anything that 
that " 
" That what? " Stephen stirred his coffee impatiently. 
" That he's been murdered ! " Joe's tone dropped to 
a whisper, and she glanced around fearfully. 
" Well," Stephen replied, slowly, " Vennard has 
made some bitter enemies j but a man must hate another 
pretty fiercely to murder him in cold blood. Hard 
blows are sometimes given in a quarrel, but they can't 
prove that against any one. Slocum was the last man 
who saw him." 
" They've been searching haven't they ? Down by 
theP'int?" 
"Yes. They fancied he might have gone to view 
the new mill-site. And they are sending everywhere." 
" What do you think of it, Stephen?" 
Joe dared not raise her eyes from her plate. 
"I don't want to think just now. It looks very 
mysterious; but Vennard was. a close man, not much 
given to telling his plans. If he should come back this 
afternoon " 
" If he shouldn't what then ? " 
" I should begin to suspect foul play. Saturday is an 
important day for him." 
Stephen's tones were calm and measured. Some- 
how he began to distrust Joe, and thought it best to 
allay any vague suspicious. 
" Stephen," the old man called as he rose. "What's 
come o' Mr. Vennard ? " The eyes seemed starting out 
of their deep sockets. 
" No one knows." Stephen cleared his throat, and 
told the story, the surmises, and the search. 
" Didn't they find nothin' ? " Each word came 
with a gasp. 
"Not a fragment. Not a trace " 
