loves, and whose failing health will soon restore her liberty--”
“And then, Maurice?” interrupted my lady.
“She hopes to win Jasper, I think.”
“Never! We must prevent that at all costs. I had rather see him dead
before me, than the husband of such a woman. Why is she permitted to
visit homes like mine? I should have been told this sooner,” exclaimed
my lady angrily.
“I should have told you had I known it, and I reproved Jasper for his
neglect. Do not be needlessly troubled, Aunt. There is no blemish on
Mrs. Snowdon’s name, and, as the wife of a brave and honorable man, she
is received without question; for beauty, grace, or tact like hers can
make their way anywhere. She stays but a week, and I will devote myself
to her; this will save Jasper, and, if necessary, convince Tavie of my
indifference--” Then he paused to stifle a sigh.
“But yourself, have you no fears for your own peace, Maurice? You must
not sacrifice happiness or honor, for me or mine.”
“I am safe; I love my cousin, and that is my shield. Whatever happens
remember that I tried to serve you, and sincerely endeavored to
forget myself.”
“God bless you, my son! Let me call you so, and feel that, though I deny
you my daughter, I give you heartily a mother’s care and affection.”
Lady Treherne was as generous as she was proud, and her nephew had
conquered her by confidence and submission. He acted no part, yet, even
in relinquishing all, he cherished a hope that he might yet win the
heart he coveted. Silently they parted, but from that hour a new and
closer bond existed between the two, and exerted an unsuspected
influence over the whole household.
      
Maurice waited with some impatience for Mrs. Snowdon’s entrance, not
only because of his curiosity to see if she had discovered the thief,
but because of the part he had taken upon himself to play. He was equal
to it, and felt a certain pleasure in it for a threefold reason. It
would serve his aunt and cousin, would divert his mind from its own
cares, and, perhaps by making Octavia jealous, waken love; for, though
he had chosen the right, he was but a man, and moreover a lover.
Mrs. Snowdon was late. She always was, for her toilet was elaborate, and
she liked to enjoy its effects upon others. The moment she entered
Treherne’s eye was on her, and to his intense surprise and annoyance she
addressed Octavia, saying blandly, “My dear Miss Treherne, I’ve been
admiring your peacocks. Pray let me see you feed them tomorrow. Miss
Talbot says it is a charming sight.”
“If you are on the terrace just after lunch, you will find them there,
and may feed them yourself, if you like” was the cool, civil reply.
“She looks like a peacock herself in that splendid green and gold dress,
doesn’t she?” whispered Rose to Sir Jasper, with a wicked laugh.
“Faith, so she does. I wish Tavie’s birds had voices like Mrs.
Snowdon’s; their squalling annoys me intensely.”
“I rather like it, for it is honest, and no malice or mischief is hidden
behind it. I always distrust those smooth, sweet voices; they are
insincere. I like a full, clear tone; sharp, if you please, but decided
and true.”
“Well said, Octavia. I agree with you, and your own is a perfect sample
of the kind you describe.” And Treherne smiled as he rolled by to join
Mrs. Snowdon, who evidently waited for him, while Octavia turned to her
brother to defend her pets.
“Are you sure? How did you discover?” said Maurice, affecting to admire
the lady’s bouquet, as he paused beside her.
“I suspected it the moment I saw her this morning. She is no actress;
and dislike, distrust, and contempt were visible in her face when we
met. Till you so cleverly told me my note was lost, I fancied she was
disturbed about her brother--or you.”
A sudden pause and a keen glance followed the last softly uttered
word, but Treherne met it with an inscrutable smile and a quiet “Well,
what next?”
“The moment I learned that you did not get the note I was sure she had
it, and, knowing that she must have seen me put it there, in spite of
her apparent innocence, I quietly asked her for it. This surprised her,
this robbed the affair of any mystery, and I finished her perplexity by
sending it to the major the moment she returned it to me, as if it had
been intended for him. She begged pardon, said her brother was
thoughtless, and she watched over him lest he should get into mischief;
professed to think I meant the line for him, and behaved like a charming
simpleton, as she is.”
“Quite a tumult about nothing. Poor little Tavie! You doubtlessly
frightened her so that we may safely correspond hereafter.”
“You may give me an answer, now and here.”
“Very well, meet me on the terrace tomorrow morning; the peacocks will
make the meeting natural enough. I usually loiter away an hour or two
there, in the sunny part of the day.”
“But the girl?”
“I’ll send her away.”
“You speak as if it would be an easy thing to do.”
“It will, both easy and pleasant.”
“Now you are mysterious or uncomplimentary. You either care nothing for
a tête-à-tête with her, or you will gladly send her out of my way.
Which is it?”
“You shall decide. Can I have this?”
She looked at him as he touched a rose with a warning glance, for the
flower was both an emblem of love and of silence. Did he mean to hint
that he recalled the past, or to warn her that someone was near? She
leaned from the shadow of the curtain where she sat, and caught a
glimpse of a shadow gliding away.
“Who was it?” she asked, below her breath.
“A Rose,” he answered, laughing. Then, as if the danger was over, he
said, “How will you account to the major for the message you sent him?”
“Easily, by fabricating some interesting perplexity in which I want sage
counsel. He will be flattered, and by seeming to take him into my
confidence, I can hoodwink the excellent man to my heart’s content, for
he annoys me by his odd way of mounting guard over me at all times. Now
take me in to dinner, and be your former delightful self.”
“That is impossible,” he said, yet proved that it was not.
Chapter IV
FEEDING THE PEACOCKS
It was indeed a charming sight, the twelve stately birds perched on the
broad stone balustrade, or prancing slowly along the terrace, with the
sun gleaming on their green and golden necks and the glories of their
gorgeous plumes, widespread, or sweeping like rich trains behind them.
In pretty contrast to the splendid creatures was their young mistress,
in her simple morning dress and fur-trimmed hood and mantle, as she
stood feeding the tame pets from her hand, calling their fanciful names,
laughing at their pranks, and heartily enjoying the winter sunshine, the
fresh wind, and the girlish pastime. As Treherne slowly approached, he
watched her with lover’s eyes, and found her very sweet and blithe, and
dearer in his sight than ever. She had shunned him carefully all the day
before, had parted at night with a hasty handshake, and had not come as
usual to bid him good-morning in the library. He had taken no notice of
the change as yet, but now, remembering his promise to his aunt, he
resolved to let the girl know that he fully understood the relation
which henceforth was to exist between them.
“Good-morning, cousin. Shall I drive you away, if I take a turn or two
here?” he said, in a cheerful tone, but with a half-reproachful glance.
She looked at him an instant, then went to him with extended hand and
cheeks rosier than before, while her frank eyes filled, and her voice
had a traitorous tremor in it, as she said, impetuously: “I will be
myself for a moment, in spite of everything. Maurice, don’t think me
unkind, don’t reproach me, or ask my leave to come where I am. There is
a reason for the change you see in me; it’s not caprice, it is
obedience.”
“My dear girl, I know it. I meant to speak of it, and show you that I
understand. Annon is a good fellow, as worthy of you as any man can be,
and I wish you all the happiness you deserve.”
“Do you?” And her eyes searched his face keenly.
“Yes; do you doubt it?” And so well did he conceal his love, that
neither face, voice, nor manner betrayed a hint of it.
Her eyes fell, a cloud passed over her clear countenance, and she
withdrew her hand, as if to caress the hungry bird that gently pecked at
the basket she held. As if to change the conversation, she said
playfully, “Poor Argus, you have lost your fine feathers, and so all
desert you, except kind little Juno, who never forgets her friends.
There, take it all, and share between you.”
Treherne smiled, and said quickly, “I am a human Argus, and you have
been a kind little Juno to me since I lost my plumes. Continue to be so,
and you will find me a very faithful friend.”
“I will.” And as she answered, her old smile came back and her eyes met
his again.
“Thanks! Now we shall get on happily. I don’t ask or expect the old
life--that is impossible. I knew that when lovers came, the friend
would fall into the background; and I am content to be second, where I
have so long been first. Do not think you neglect me; be happy with
your lover, dear, and when you have no pleasanter amusement, come and
see old Maurice.”
She turned her head away, that he might not see the angry color in her
cheeks, the trouble in her eyes, and when she spoke, it was to say
petulantly, “I wish Jasper and Mamma would leave me in peace. I hate
lovers and want none. If Frank teases, I’ll go into a convent and so be
rid of him.”
Maurice laughed, and turned her face toward himself, saying, in his
persuasive voice, “Give him a trial first, to please your mother. It can
do no harm and may amuse you. Frank is already lost, and, as you are
heart-whole, why not see what you can do for him? I shall have a new
study, then, and not miss you so much.”
“You are very kind; I’ll do my best. I wish Mrs. Snowdon would come, if
she is coming; I’ve an engagement at two, and Frank will look tragical
if I’m not ready. He is teaching me billiards, and I really like the
game, though I never thought I should.”
“That looks well. I hope you’ll learn a double lesson, and Annon find a
docile pupil in both.”
“You are very pale this morning; are you in pain, Maurice?” suddenly
asked Octavia, dropping the tone of assumed ease and gaiety under which
she had tried to hide her trouble.
“Yes, but it will soon pass. Mrs. Snowdon is coming. I saw her at the
hall door a moment ago. I will show her the peacocks, if you want to go.
She won’t mind the change, I dare say, as you don’t like her, and I do.”
“No, I am sure of that. It was an arrangement, perhaps? I understand. I
will not play Mademoiselle De Trop.”
Sudden fire shone in the girl’s eyes, sudden contempt curled her lip,
and a glance full of meaning went from her cousin to the door, where
Mrs. Snowdon appeared, waiting for her maid to bring her some additional
wrappings.
“You allude to the note you stole. How came you to play that prank,
Tavie?” asked Treherne tranquilly.
“I saw her put it under the urn. I thought it was for Jasper, and I took
it,” she said boldly.
“Why for Jasper?”
“I remembered his speaking of meeting her long ago, and describing her
beauty enthusiastically--and so did you.”
“You have a good memory.”
“I have for everything concerning those I love. I observed her manner
of meeting my brother, his devotion to her, and, when they stood
laughing together before the fire, I felt sure that she wished to charm
him again.”
“Again? Then she did charm him once?” asked Treherne, anxious to know
how much Jasper had told his sister.
“He always denied it, and declared that you were the favorite.”
“Then why not think the note for me?” he asked.
“I do now” was the sharp answer.
“But she told you it was for the major, and sent it.”
“She deceived me; I am not surprised. I am glad Jasper is safe, and I
wish you a pleasant tête-à-tête.”
Bowing with unwonted dignity, Octavia set down her basket, and walked
