sum of money. I had no idea that they were even acquainted with each
other before," I continued.

"Then I wonder that Parasyte made a row with you, if he owed your
uncle so much money."

"I don't understand it; but I think Mr. Parasyte didn't expect any
trouble. He judged hastily between Poodles and me, and when he had
given his decision, he was too proud and too obstinate to alter it. I
suppose he was a little afraid after what he had done, and went to see
my uncle and ask for instructions."

"But it was cold-blooded for your uncle to say what he did."

"Probably Parasyte told his own story," I replied, willing to shield
my uncle as much as possible.

"What did your uncle say to you when you went home?" asked Bob Hale,
full of interest and sympathy.

"We had some words, and he disowned and cast me out--to use his own
expression."

"Turned you out of house and home!" exclaimed Tom Rush.

"That was what he meant."

"Don't mind it, Ernest," interposed Bob. "You shall come to my house."

"I can take care of myself, I think," was my reply, rather proudly
spoken.

"Of course you can; but you shall have half my bed and half my dinner
as long as I have any."

"Thank you, Bob."

"We will talk that over another time, Ernest; for at present we have a
big job on our hands."

"What is that?"

"We'll tell you by and by. Parasyte says you assaulted him, and hit
him over the head with a big ruler. How was that, Ernest?"

I told them what had occurred after we left the school-room, and gave
them all the particulars of my battle with the principal.

"Served him right," was the verdict of the boys. "He didn't tell us
that he attempted to flog you; only that you pitched into him,
apparently without any cause or reason," added Tom Rush.

"You all ran out of school," said I. "What is Mr. Parasyte going to do
about it?"

"We don't know, and we don't care. He is a tyrant, and a toady; and
all but about a dozen of the fellows are going to quit the school."

"But where are you going?" I asked, surprised at this decided step.

"We have it all arranged, and are going to break away in a bunch. We
are getting things ready; but we want you, Ernest."

"Why me?"

"Because you are a good sailor, and know all about boats?"

That was highly complimentary in a direction where I was peculiarly
weak--my love of boats and boating. Bob Hale then informed me that the
students were going into camp on their own hook this year. This was an
annual institution at the academy. Belonging to the Institute were
seven tents, large enough to accommodate all the boys and all the
teachers; and in the month of July the whole school camped out for one
or two weeks. This custom did more for the popularity of the Institute
than anything else, and without it, it was doubtful if the school
could have been kept together; for it was an offset to the dislike
with which a large majority of the boys regarded the principal.

The students had begun to talk about camping out as soon as the spring
opened, and when the rebellion broke out, it immediately ran into this
channel. The camp during the preceding year had been in a piece of
woods ten miles east of Parkville; but the rebels had already decided
to establish it, at the present time, on Cleaver Island, two miles
north-west of the steamboat pier, and including an area of about
twenty acres, well covered with wood.

I could not say that I approved of this scheme; but Bob Hale and Tom
Rush said the students had unanimously agreed to it. I was not in
favor of insubordination and rebellion. But the moral sense of the
boys had been outraged; Mr. Parasyte had resorted to the grossest
injustice, and they were determined to "break away" from him. Rather
reluctantly I consented to join the insurrection. I ought not to have
done so; but smarting as I then was under the injustice of my uncle
and the principal, I found an argument to satisfy myself with my
conduct.

The Splash seemed to be necessary, in my estimation, for the success
of the enterprise, and my friends volunteered to assist me in raising
her. I went to Parkville, and procured a long spruce pole, to which
the blacksmith attached a hook. Without much difficulty the ballast
was hoisted out of the sunken craft, and obedient to the law of
gravitation, she came to the surface. We towed her to a bank of the
lake in the town, near the shop of a wheelwright, who promised to
have her repaired in a few hours. One of the ribs was snapped off, and
six of the "streaks" stove in. We hauled her up on the shore, and got
the water out of her; and the wheelwright went to work upon her at
once, assisted by his journeyman.

I had regarded the Splash as a lost boat; and I was delighted with my
success in raising her, and with the prospect of having her again as
good as new; for the wheelwright assured me she was not materially
injured in her timbers. The result of this enterprise rather inflated
my spirits, and not without good reason; for, as I was now to take
care of myself, it had already occurred to me that I could make money
enough to support me by boating--for there were always residents and
strangers enough in the town who wanted to sail to afford me a good
business for at least three months in the year.

"Now, Ernest," said Bob Hale, who had embarked with me in my row-boat,
"how shall we get the crowd, the tents, and the provisions over to
Cleaver Island?"

"I don't think it is a very big job," I replied.

"I do. Of course Parasyte will prevent us from going if he can," said
he.

"Too many cooks will spoil the broth," I added. "You want a leader, or
captain, who shall manage the affair."

"We will choose you."

"No; I decline at the outset. I don't want the credit of being the
ringleader in this scrape after what has happened."

"What do you say to the parson?" asked he.

"Capital!"

We consulted the students in the other boat, and they agreed to this
selection. Both boats then pulled to the pier at the Institute. As we
approached, all the rebels gathered around us. Bob Hale immediately
called them to order, and made a brief statement of the necessity of
the hour, and then nominated Henry Vallington as leader of the
enterprise. He was unanimously elected, and somewhat to my surprise he
accepted.

"Fellow-students," said the parson, in accepting the position, "if I
didn't feel that every decent fellow in the Institute had been
outraged and insulted by the conduct of the principal, I wouldn't
have anything to do with such an affair as this. I want you all to
understand that I, for one, am going into this thing for a purpose,
and on principle."

"So say we all of us!" shouted the boys.

"Now, you must obey orders, and have no rioting or rows. We shall do
this thing in order."

The boys were excited; but the parson told them to keep cool, and,
when the orders came, to execute them promptly, which they promised
with one voice to do. By this time I had a scheme arranged in my mind
for the conveyance of the forces to Cleaver Island, and the leader did
me the honor to appoint me master of transportation. I stated my plan
to Vallington and two or three of the more influential of the boys. It
was cordially approved.

At half past twelve the dinner bell of the Institute rang, as usual;
and the boys, who had no idea of being deprived of their rations,
marched in to dinner in order; and I went home with Bob Hale, who had
invited me to dine with him. On our return, we learned that Mr.
Parasyte had made a stirring appeal to the students, in the
dining-room, to support the discipline of the school, and had
intimated that he intended to prosecute Thornton in the courts for the
assault upon him. I was rather startled at this intelligence, for a
court was an appalling affair to me.

The boys heard in silence what the principal had to say, and left the
dining-room in as good order as usual. At quarter before two the
school-bell rang; but only about twenty obeyed the summons. I was on
the pier at this time, and shortly after I saw Mr. Parasyte coming
down to see the students. Deeming it best to keep out of his way, I
pulled over to the wheelwright's, to look after the Splash. An hour
later, Bob Hale, Henry Vallington, and Tom Rush joined me, saying that
Mr. Parasyte had been very gentle with the boys, and had used only
mild persuasions. Having failed in all, he had taken his horse and
gone away. This was favorable to our operations, and I advised the
parson to hasten back, and do the job at once.

At four o'clock the Splash was finished, and a coat of paint put on
the new streaks. I got under way at once in her, taking my tender in
tow. Near the Institute lived a man who owned a large flat-boat, or
scow, used for bringing wood down the lake. Tom Rush had hired this
clumsy craft for a week. The three row-boats belonging to the
Institute had been manned by the boys, and were towing this scow down
to the pier, according to the plan I had suggested to the parson. When
the flat was near the pier, a signal was given, and the boys on shore
all rushed to the building in which the tents were stored. There were
enough of them to carry all the canvas, poles, and other materials at
one load, and the students rushed down to the pier with them at a
