seemed probable.
The boys were just on the point of going to bed, later in the
evening, when a knock was heard at the door, and, to their no little
surprise, their neighbor, Jim Travis, proved to be the caller. He
was a sallow-complexioned young man, with dark hair and bloodshot
eyes.
He darted a quick glance from one to the other as he entered, which
did not escape the boys' notice.
"How are ye, to-night?" he said, sinking into one of the two chairs
with which the room was scantily furnished.
"Jolly," said Dick. "How are you?"
"Tired as a dog," was the reply. "Hard work and poor pay; that's the
way with me. I wanted to go to the theater, to-night, but I was hard
up, and couldn't raise the cash."
Here he darted another quick glance at the boys; but neither
betrayed anything.
"You don't go out much, do you?" he said
"Not much," said Fosdick. "We spend our evenings in study."
"That's precious slow," said Travis, rather contemptuously. "What's
the use of studying so much? You don't expect to be a lawyer, do
you, or anything of that sort?"
"Maybe," said Dick. "I haven't made up my mind yet. If my
feller-citizens should want me to go to Congress some time, I
shouldn't want to disapp'int 'em; and then readin' and writin'
might come handy."
"Well," said Travis, rather abruptly, "I'm tired and I guess
I'll turn in."
"Good-night," said Fosdick.
The boys looked at each other as their visitor left the room.
"He came in to see if we'd missed the bank-book," said Dick.
"And to turn off suspicion from himself, by letting us know he had
no money," added Fosdick.
"That's so," said Dick. "I'd like to have searched them pockets
of his."
CHAPTER XXII
TRACKING THE THIEF
Fosdick was right in supposing that Jim Travis had stolen the
bank-book. He was also right in supposing that that worthy young
man had come to the knowledge of Dick's savings by what he had
accidentally overheard. Now, Travis, like a very large number of
young men of his class, was able to dispose of a larger amount of
money than he was able to earn. Moreover, he had no great fancy for
work at all, and would have been glad to find some other way of
obtaining money enough to pay his expenses. He had recently received
a letter from an old companion, who had strayed out to California,
and going at once to the mines had been lucky enough to get
possession of a very remunerative claim. He wrote to Travis that he
had already realized two thousand dollars from it, and expected to
make his fortune within six months.
Two thousand dollars! This seemed to Travis a very large sum, and
quite dazzled his imagination. He was at once inflamed with the
desire to go out to California and try his luck. In his present
situation he only received thirty dollars a month, which was
probably all that his services were worth, but went a very little
way towards gratifying his expensive tastes. Accordingly he
determined to take the next steamer to the land of gold, if he
could possibly manage to get money enough to pay the passage.
The price of a steerage passage at that time was seventy-five
dollars,--not a large sum, certainly,--but it might as well have
been seventy-five hundred for any chance James Travis had of raising
the amount at present. His available funds consisted of precisely
two dollars and a quarter; of which sum, one dollar and a half was
due to his washerwoman. This, however, would not have troubled
Travis much, and he would conveniently have forgotten all about it;
but, even leaving this debt unpaid, the sum at his command would not
help him materially towards paying his passage money.
Travis applied for help to two or three of his companions; but they
were all of that kind who never keep an account with savings banks,
but carry all their spare cash about with them. One of these friends
offered to lend him thirty-seven cents, and another a dollar; but
neither of these offers seemed to encourage him much. He was about
giving up his project in despair, when he learned, accidentally, as
we have already said, the extent of Dick's savings.
One hundred and seventeen dollars! Why, that would not only pay his
passage, but carry him up to the mines, after he had arrived in San
Francisco. He could not help thinking it over, and the result of
this thinking was that he determined to borrow it of Dick without
leave. Knowing that neither of the boys were in their room in the
daytime, he came back in the course of the morning, and, being
admitted by Mrs. Mooney herself, said, by way of accounting for his
presence, that he had a cold, and had come back for a handkerchief.
The landlady suspected nothing, and, returning at once to her work
in the kitchen, left the coast clear.
Travis at once entered Dick's room, and, as there seemed to be no
other place for depositing money, tried the bureau-drawers. They
were all readily opened, except one, which proved to be locked. This
he naturally concluded must contain the money, and going back to his
own chamber for the key of the bureau, tried it on his return, and
found to his satisfaction that it would fit. When he discovered the
bank-book, his joy was mingled with disappointment. He had expected
to find bank-bills instead. This would have saved all further
trouble, and would have been immediately available. Obtaining money
at the savings bank would involve fresh risk. Travis hesitated
whether to take it or not; but finally decided that it would be
worth the trouble and hazard.
He accordingly slipped the book into his pocket, locked the drawer
again, and, forgetting all about the handkerchief for which he had
come home went downstairs, and into the street.
There would have been time to go to the savings bank that day, but
Travis had already been absent from his place of business some time,
and did not venture to take the additional time required. Besides,
not being very much used to savings banks, never having had occasion
to use them, he thought it would be more prudent to look over the
rules and regulations, and see if he could not get some information
as to the way he ought to proceed. So the day passed, and Dick's
money was left in safety at the bank.
In the evening, it occurred to Travis that it might be well to find
out whether Dick had discovered his loss. This reflection it was
that induced the visit which is recorded at the close of the last
chapter. The result was that he was misled by the boys' silence on
the subject, and concluded that nothing had yet been discovered.
"Good!" thought Travis, with satisfaction. "If they don't find out
for twenty-four hours, it'll be too late, then, and I shall be all
right."
There being a possibility of the loss being discovered before the
boys went out in the morning, Travis determined to see them at that
time, and judge whether such was the case. He waited, therefore,
until he heard the boys come out, and then opened his own door.
"Morning, gents," said he, sociably. "Going to business?"
"Yes," said Dick. "I'm afraid my clerks'll be lazy if I aint
on hand."
"Good joke!" said Travis. "If you pay good wages, I'd like to speak
for a place."
"I pay all I get myself," said Dick. "How's business with you?"
"So so. Why don't you call round, some time?"
"All my evenin's is devoted to literatoor and science," said Dick.
"Thank you all the same."
"Where do you hang out?" inquired Travis, in choice language,
addressing Fosdick.
"At Henderson's hat and cap store, on Broadway."
"I'll look in upon you some time when I want a tile," said Travis.
"I suppose you sell cheaper to your friends."
"I'll be as reasonable as I can," said Fosdick, not very cordially;
for he did not much fancy having it supposed by his employer that
such a disreputable-looking person as Travis was a friend of his.
However, Travis had no idea of showing himself at the Broadway
store, and only said this by way of making conversation, and
encouraging the boys to be social.
"You haven't any of you gents seen a pearl-handled knife, have you?"
he asked.
"No," said Fosdick; "have you lost one?"
"Yes," said Travis, with unblushing falsehood. "I left it on my
bureau a day or two since. I've missed one or two other little
matters. Bridget don't look to me any too honest. Likely she's
got 'em."
"What are you goin' to do about it?" said Dick.
"I'll keep mum unless I lose something more, and then I'll kick up a
row, and haul her over the coals. Have you missed anything?"
"No," said Fosdick, answering for himself, as he could do without
violating the truth.
There was a gleam of satisfaction in the eyes of Travis, as he heard
this.
"They haven't found it out yet," he thought. "I'll bag the money
to-day, and then they may whistle for it."
Having no further object to serve in accompanying the boys, he bade
them good-morning, and turned down another street.
"He's mighty friendly all of a sudden," said Dick.
"Yes," said Fosdick; "it's very evident what it all means. He wants
to find out whether you have discovered your loss or not."
"But he didn't find out."
"No; we've put him on the wrong track. He means to get his money
to-day, no doubt."
"My money," suggested Dick.
"I accept the correction," said Fosdick.
"Of course, Dick, you'll be on hand as soon as the bank opens."
"In course I shall. Jim Travis'll find he's walked into the
wrong shop."
"The bank opens at ten o'clock, you know."
"I'll be there on time."
The two boys separated.
"Good luck, Dick," said Fosdick, as he parted from him. "It'll all
come out right, I think."
"I hope 'twill," said Dick.
He had recovered from his temporary depression, and made up his mind
that the money would be recovered. He had no idea of allowing
himself to be outwitted by Jim Travis, and enjoyed already, in
anticipation, the pleasure of defeating his rascality.
It wanted two hours and a half yet to ten o'clock, and this time to
Dick was too precious to be wasted. It was the time of his greatest
harvest. He accordingly repaired to his usual place of business,
succeeded in obtaining six customers, which yielded him sixty cents.
He then went to a restaurant, and got some breakfast. It was now
half-past nine, and Dick, feeling that it wouldn't do to be late,
left his box in charge of Johnny Nolan, and made his way to the
bank.
The officers had not yet arrived, and Dick lingered on the outside,
waiting till they should come. He was not without a little
uneasiness, fearing that Travis might be as prompt as himself, and
finding him there, might suspect something, and so escape the snare.
But, though looking cautiously up and down the street, he could
discover no traces of the supposed thief. In due time ten o'clock
struck, and immediately afterwards the doors of the bank were thrown
open, and our hero entered.
As Dick had been in the habit of making a weekly visit for the last
nine months, the cashier had come to know him by sight.
"You're early, this morning, my lad," he said, pleasantly. "Have you
got some more money to deposit? You'll be getting rich, soon."
"I don't know about that," said Dick. "My bank-book's been stole."
"Stolen!" echoed the cashier. "That's unfortunate. Not so bad as it
might be, though. The thief can't collect the money."
