Aylmer snatched my hand and pressed it to his lips rap- 
turously. But another revelation greeted my astonished 
vision : St. John's hands met in a passionate, nervous clasp, 
and his intense eyes settled upon Aylmer as if he could 
have hurled him to the uttermost part of the earth, so 
fierce and terrible that I stood positively magnetized, my 
very breath chilled. And then glance encountered glance. 
Was it love, or hate, or disdain, or revenge, that we read 
in each other's eyes? 
"Heaven help us both," I felt tempted to cry. 
lie walked carelessly out of the room. 
 
CHAPTER XIV. 
" What mirncle 
Can work me into hope ? Heaven here is bankrupt 
The wondering gods blush at their want of power,' 
And, quite abashed, confess they cannot help me." 
NAT LEE. 
"Mr dear Sydnie, you have come to your senses at 
last," Mrs. Lawrence commenced, with a smile. " I am 
thoroughly glad. But there are only three months in 
which to prepare; so we must be expeditious." 
" Three months ! Why, one could be married a hundred 
times in that period." 
"I suppose so, if the ceremony were all. The engage- 
ment had better be announced immediately." 
"Announced ! " I exclaimed, aghast. 
"A very short lime, I assure you. You will be busy 
shopping and having sewing done, and go very little into 
society." 
" I don't expect to begin wedding dresses until Decem- 
ber at least," I said, positively ; "and I do hate to be gos- 
siped about. Three weeks will be the utmost limit of my 
endurance." 
" What are you thinking of?" And her soft eyes opened 
in unbounded astonishment. 
"Thinking that no announcement or wedding dresses 
will be made lor the next two months. Aylmer goes 
home to-morrow, and we shall return to our usual life." 
"This is most unreasonable." 
" Most reasonable, it appears to me. Twenty things may 
 
occur death, disagreement, changes. I don't want to 
hear one word of the matter outside of Laurelwood. I 
mean to take all the comfort and pleasure that belong to 
Miss Adriance proper; and the first of December I promise 
to deliver myself into your hands, and become the most 
pliable young woman you ever saw." 
" What a singular girl ! " 
"Yes, I am singular. It is the last gasp of expiring 
liberty." 
"One would think you did not wish to be married." 
" I believe I don't : but it's a woman's destiny ; and what 
matters a few years, sooner or later?" 
" You do love Aylmer?" 
" As well, perhaps, as I am capable of loving any one. 
I've almost become a convert to your faith. He will make 
a charming husband, fond, indulgent, and all that, and I 
shall, no doubt, settle into a sensible wife. The old belief 
was all a farce the chimera of a school-girl's brain." 
She glanced at me in silence. 
" Dear Mrs. Lawrence," and my tone softened, " be pa- 
tient with me this brief while. Only, I don't want the 
talk and the congratulations until the latest moment." 
"We shall have to do something, though. We couldn't 
more than make the dresses in three weeks." 
" Do all that can be done quietly, then. Save the fuss 
and the tumult to the very last." 
With this we compromised. 
Aylmer and I parted tenderly, after the fashion of lov- 
ers. Was I hypocritical and insincere ? Heaven knows 
that I was honest in my resolve that I meant to use my 
utmost endeavors to make this man happy, when he laid 
" his sleeping life within my hands." But this restless mood 
tortured me into strange phantasies. 
Mr. St. John was polite, interested in all that demanded 
 
his concern ; but cold and withdrawn into self abstracted. 
He might have experienced a, momentary twinge of jeal- 
ousy concerning Aylmer, but he had not been moved 
thereto by any love for me. Every day I realized this 
more and more. No betrayal, no weak moment of tender- 
ness, no longing. A great gulf was between. 
And yet I lived through the two months very comfort- 
ably. The old gayetics seemed to have a fresh zest for 
me. I was brilliant, attractive, and glittering, like an ice- 
peak in the sun of a mid-winter noon. Nothing seemed 
to warm me to touch me with that enkindling spark 
of humanity which brings all souls to a level. So the days 
sped along. 
With the first of December came Aylmer; 
" My darling," he said, " how wonderfully beautiful you 
have grown ! but there's a look about it that almost fright- 
ens one." 
" Do you fancy that I shall melt into a shadow ethe- 
rialize ? " 
"No, not that: the Scotch have a good word for it 
uncanny." 
I laughed. 
" You'll set all Washington to raving about you this 
winter." 
" Well, if I soar too high, you can clip my wings, you 
know." 
" I shall never want to do that, my darling. Believe that 
I shall be proud of all the admiration you win." 
So generous, so delighted in the success of another. 
I tried to make him feel that I appreciated his tenderness. 
Mrs. Lawrence was in her element. I verily believe she 
and Aylmer were much more concerned about the respec- 
tive elegance of silks, laces, and jewels than I. The whole 
thing seemed incongruous to me. That one should care 
 
so much for the adornment of the body, so little for the 
aliment of the soul ! After the excitement was over, what 
then? After one wearied of dresses and revels and idle 
compliments, what could appease this restless, gnawing 
hunger? 
Matters went on to everybody's satisfaction, except that 
it rained continually and kept us indoors. 
" Do you realize the date, and how fast the month is 
going ? " Mrs. Lawrence asked, one morning. 
"Why? Are you counting on the moon to make a 
change in the weather?" and Aylmer yawned. "I verily 
believe the sun has forgotten how to shine?" 
O 
" It is the tenth, and not an invitation directed." 
"There's plenty of time," I said, quickly. 
."None to spare, at least." 
" I wish people could get married without all this foolish 
fuss and talk," I exclaimed, petulantly. 
Aylmer glanced up. " I believe this vile weather affects 
you, too. The first respectable morning we will take a good 
long gallop, and bring ourselves back to serenity." 
" Well," I said, with an effort, " let us amuse ourselves 
counting up our dear five hundred friends." 
With that we adjourned to the library. Aylmer was 
quite out of spirits, more so than I had ever seen him. 
There might be many rainy days to life what then? 
Moralizing over one's wedding cards was not quite the 
thing. 
Presently we all became interested. The lists were gone 
over by each one, all the additions made, and St. John of- 
fered to direct them. Aylrner amused himself writing a 
few, then sauntered up and down the room. A sky of 
hopeless gray, drooping so low that it seemed to envelop 
the tree tops; a drizzling, uncomfortable rain, and a melan- 
choly wail through the distant pines. More than once the 
 
vision of Annt Mildred's death crossed ray mind. How 
strangp that I should think of it now ! 
We lingered over our lunch, we strolled throngh draw- 
ing-room and conservatory, counted the flowers we might 
expect to blossom in time, went to dinner without any 
appetites, dawdled through the dessert, and at last lights 
were brought in. 
" What a musty old hermit St. John is!" Ayhncr said, 
pettishly. " If he had not gone off to his den, we might 
have had a game of whist." 
"I will send for him," Mrs. Lawrence rejoined. 
"No, don't; his high mightiness would only feel bored. 
Commend me to a city in rainy weather, say I. Sydnie, 
suppose you sing." 
I went to the piano, mistrusting my voice, but I deter- 
mined to make the effort. It was a failure, and he ner- 
vously critical on this evening. 
" You are dreadfully out of tune," he commented, pres- 
ently. 
I rose angrily : my first impulse was to leave the room ; 
then I reconsidered, and crossed over to the sofa. What a 
handsome face this was, thrown into clear relief by the 
crimson pillow! An exterior merely : the soul was narrow, 
dark, ill-governed, with no resources in itself. Could I 
minister to it, could I endure it for years and years? 
" How dull you are to night." 
This time I was wounded. I stood irresolute, every pulse 
within me mutinous, and rising to a white heat. 
"My darling," he said, with sudden softness, and drew 
me to a seat beside him. "When we get to Washington 
we shall be as gay as larks. I only wish Christmas came 
sooner." 
The fondness had lost its flavor. Kisses were weak and 
insipid. There were no true and fervent depths in him to 
be roused by love. All that I had been trying to make 
myself believe vanished in an instant and left a hideous 
blank. Already we had come to the dregs. In time, 
when utterly weaned with his vapidness and trifles, I 
might even hate him. I shivered at the thought. 
" You're not well," he said. " This miserable weather 
has given you a cold. Isabelle, I can't have her looking 
like a fright on her wedding day." 
" Never fear," I answered, bravely, and with a touch of 
scorn. 
" I think it would be as sensible to retire as sitting up 
here playing stupid," Mrs. Lawrence remarked ; and we 
accordingly dispersed. 
I went to my own room, and in a burst of passionate 
emotion buried my face in the pillow of the lounge. The 
wild wind blew tempestuous gusts of rain against the win- 
dows, and then moaned off down to the hollows with a 
desolate wail. I pressed my hands to my burning, throb- 
