though Edward had never boasted of his good fortune, it used to disturb
Roswell to think that his place and salary were so much superior to his
own. He felt that it was much more respectable to be in a broker's
office, independent of the salary, than to run around the city with
heavy bundles. But if he could enter such an establishment as Rockwell &
Cooper's, at a salary of ten dollars, he felt that he could look down
with conscious superiority upon Edward McLean, with his six dollars a
week.
He went over to his neighbor's, and found Edward just starting for Wall
Street.
"How are you, Roswell?" said Edward.
"Pretty well. Are you going down to the office?"
"Yes."
"You've got a pretty good place,--haven't you?"
"Yes, I like it."
"How much do you get?"
"Six dollars a week."
"That's very fair," said Roswell, patronizingly.
"How do you like your place?" asked Edward. "I believe you're in a
dry-goods store on Sixth Avenue."
"Oh, no," said Roswell.
"You were?"
"Yes, I went in temporarily to oblige them," said Roswell, loftily;
"but, of course, I wouldn't engage to remain any length of time in such
a place, however large the inducements they might offer."
Considering Roswell's tone, it would hardly have been supposed that the
large inducements were four dollars a week, and that, even at that
compensation, his services were not desired.
"Then it wasn't a good place?" said Edward.
"Well enough for such as liked it," said Roswell. "I have no complaint
of Hall & Turner. I told them that it was not dissatisfaction with them
that led me to leave the place, but I preferred a different kind of
business."
"Have you got another place?"
"I have an offer under consideration," said Roswell, consequentially;
"one of the most solid firms in the city. They offer me ten dollars a
week."
"Ten dollars a week!" repeated Edward, somewhat staggered by the
statement. "That's big pay."
"Yes," said Roswell; "but I think I ought to get as much as that."
"Why, I thought myself lucky to get six dollars," said Edward.
"Yes, that's very fair," said Roswell, condescendingly. "In fact, I've
worked at that figure myself; but, of course, one expects more as he
grows older."
"I suppose you'll accept your offer," said Edward.
"I haven't quite made up my mind," said Roswell, carelessly. "I think I
shall."
"You'd better. Such places don't grow on every bush."
Though Edward did not more than half believe Roswell's statement, he
kept his disbelief to himself, feeling that it was a matter of
indifference to him whether Roswell received a large or small salary.
"I must be going down to the office," he said. "Good-morning."
"Good-morning," said Roswell, and he re-entered the house, feeling that
he had impressed Edward with a conviction of his superiority, and the
value set upon his services by the business men of New York. He went
upstairs, and picked out a flashy necktie from his drawer, tied it
carefully before the glass, and about nine set out for Rockwell &
Cooper's warehouse.
It is necessary for us to precede him.
Gilbert reached the counting-room at the usual time. His thoughts on the
way thither were pleasant.
"I shan't be subjected to that young rascal's impertinence," he
considered. "That's one satisfaction."
His astonishment, nay, dismay, may be imagined, therefore, when, on
entering the counting-room, the first object his eyes rested on was the
figure of Dick.
"Good-morning, Mr. Gilbert," said our hero, pleasantly.
"How came you here?" he demanded.
"I walked," said Dick. "I don't often ride. I think walkin's good for
the constitution."
"You know what I mean, well enough. How did you get out of prison?"
"I haven't been there."
"You were arrested for picking a man's pocket yesterday afternoon," said
Gilbert.
"Excuse me, Mr. Gilbert, you're slightly mistaken there. I was arrested
on suspicion of picking a man's pocket."
"The same thing."
"Not quite, as it has been proved that I was innocent, and the wallet
was taken by another boy."
"Have you been tried?"
"Yes, and acquitted."
Gilbert looked and felt disappointed. He could not conceive how Dick
could have escaped when the plot to entrap him had been so artfully
contrived.
"Well, young man," he said, "I'll give you a piece of advice, and if
you're wise you'll follow it."
"That's kind in you," said Dick.
"I pass over your impertinence this time, and will advise you as a
friend to resign your situation before Mr. Rockwell comes."
"Why should I?"
"It'll save your being discharged."
"Do you think he'll discharge me?"
"I know he will. He won't have any one in his employ who has been
arrested for picking pockets."
"Not even if he didn't do it?"
"Not even if he was lucky enough to get off," said Gilbert.
"You think I'd better give up my place?"
"That'll be the best course for you to pursue."
"But how'll I get another place?"
"I'll do what I can to help you to another place if you leave at once."
"I think I'll wait and see Mr. Rockwell first."
"I'll make all the necessary explanations to Mr. Rockwell," said the
book-keeper.
"I think I'd rather see him myself, if it doesn't make any difference to
you."
"You're acting like a fool. You'll only be kicked out of the store. If
you don't follow my advice, I shan't interest myself in getting you
another place."
"Do you think I took the wallet, Mr. Gilbert?" asked Dick.
"Of course I do."
"Then how could you recommend me to another place?"
"Because I think this may prove a lesson to you. You've been lucky
enough to escape this time, but you can't expect it always."
"I'm much obliged to you for your favorable opinion; but I don't think I
shall resign at once."
At this moment Mr. Rockwell entered the warehouse. He had been informed
of Dick's misfortune by Mr. Murdock, who had had occasion to call at his
house on his way from the trial.
"How's this, Richard?" he said, advancing, with a frank smile. "I hear
you got into strange quarters last night."
"Yes," said Dick; "but I didn't like it well enough to stay long."
"Why didn't you send for me?"
"Thank you, sir, I didn't like to trouble you. Mr. Murdock was very
kind."
"Have they got the real thief?"
"I don't know, sir."
"Well, 'all's well that ends well.' You can afford to laugh at it now."
Mr. Gilbert listened to this colloquy with very little satisfaction.
It seemed to show such a good understanding between Dick and his
employer that he perceived that it would be a very difficult thing to
supersede him.
"Mr. Rockwell seems to be infatuated with that boy," he muttered to
himself.
"I think I won't resign just yet," said Dick, in a low voice, to the
book-keeper.
"You'll be found out some day," said Gilbert, snappishly. "Go to the
post-office, and mind you don't stop to play on the way."
Dick started on his errand, and, in passing out into the street,
encountered Roswell Crawford, who, attired with extra care, had just
come down the street from Broadway. On seeing Dick, he started as if he
had seen a ghost.
"Good-morning, Roswell," said Dick, pleasantly.
"Good-morning," said Roswell, stiffly.
"Your cousin is in the counting-room. I am in a hurry, and must leave
you."
"I thought he was on his way to the Island by this time," thought
Roswell, perplexed. "What can it mean?"
It occurred to him all at once that Dick might just have been
discharged, and this thought cheered him up considerably. He entered the
counting-room with a jaunty step.
"Good-morning, Cousin James," he said.
Gilbert turned round, and said, in a surly tone, "You may as well take
yourself off. There's no chance for you here."
"Hasn't the boot-black been discharged?"
"No; and isn't going to be."
"How is that?" asked Roswell, looking very much disappointed.
"I can't stop to tell you now. You'd better go now, and I'll tell you
this evening."
"Just my luck!" said Roswell to himself, considerably crest-fallen. "I
wish I hadn't said a word to Edward McLean about the place."
CHAPTER XIX.
ANOTHER ARREST.
Micky Maguire, as the reader will remember, was by no means satisfied
with the compensation he received from Gilbert for his share in the plot
which came so near proving disastrous to our friend Dick.
He felt that the book-keeper had acted meanly to him, and he meant to
have his revenge if a good opportunity should ever offer. He was very
much disappointed to think he must do without the watch which he had set
his heart upon. He would have felt no particular scruples against
stealing it, but that would be rather dangerous. He began to wish he had
kept the pocket-book. Very probably it contained more than enough to buy
the watch.
But, in spite of his disappointment, he had one satisfaction. He had
avenged himself upon Dick, whom he had long disliked. He knew nothing of
Tim Ryan's testimony, and supposed there was no doubt of Dick's
conviction. He would like very well to have been present at the trial;
but he had unpleasant associations connected with the court-room at the
Tombs, having figured there on several occasions in an important but not
very enviable capacity.
As he was standing by the park railings, his particular friend and
admirer, Limpy Jim, came up.
"Mornin', Jim," said Micky. "What luck?"
"None at all," said Jim. "I haven't had a shine yet, and I'm precious
hungry."
"Come and take breakfast with me," said Micky, in an unusual fit of
generosity; for he was generally more willing to be treated than to
treat.
"Have you got stamps enough?"
"Look at this," and Micky displayed the bill which he had received from
Gilbert.
"You're in luck, Micky. Did you make all that by shines?"
"Never mind how I made it. I guess it's good. Come along if you're
hungry."
Limpy Jim followed Micky across Printing-House Square to a cheap
restaurant on Nassau Street, between Ann and Beekman Streets, and they
were soon partaking with relish of a breakfast which, as they were not
very fastidious, proved abundantly satisfactory.
"I've got some news," said Micky, after he had drained his cup of
coffee. "You haven't forgot Ragged Dick, have ye?"
"He's set up for a gentleman. I saw him a week ago strutting round as if
