words."
He smiled. "I see, you have studied the subject."
"I mean, only, that whenever a duty is plainly put before me 
something given me to do  I know I have 'orders' to do it.
And then, Mr. Thorold, as the orders are not spoken, nor
brought to me by a messenger, only made known to me by a sign
of some sort,  if I did not keep a good watch, I should be
sure to miss the sign sometimes, don't you see?"
"This is soldiership!" said Thorold. And getting up, he stood
before me in attitude like a soldier as he was, erect, still,
with arms folded, only not up to his chin like Captain
Percival, but folded manfully. He had been watching me very
intently; now he stood as intently looking off over the
further landscape. Methought I had a sort of pride in his fine
appearance; and yet he did in no wise belong to me.
Nevertheless it was pleasant to see, the firm, still attitude,
the fine proportions, the military nicety of all his dress,
which I had before noticed on the parade ground. For as there
is a difference between one walk and another, though all
trained; so there is a difference between one neatness and
another, though all according to regulation; and Preston never
looked like this.
He turned round at last, and smiled down at me.
"Are you rested?"
"Oh, yes!" I said, rising. "I was not fatigued."
"Are you tired talking?"
"No, not at all. Have I talked so very much?"
He laughed at that, but went on.
"Will you be out of patience with my stupidity?"
I said no.
"Because I am not fully enlightened yet. I want to ask further
questions; and asking questions is very impertinent."
"Not if you have leave," I said. "Ask what you like."
"I am afraid, nevertheless. But I can never know, if I do not
ask. How is it  this is what puzzles me,  that other people
who call themselves Christians do not think as you think about
all this matter?"
"Soldiership?" I asked.
"Well, yes. It comes to that, I suppose."
"You know what soldiership ought to be," I said.
"But one little soldier cannot be all the rank and file of
this army?" he said, looking down at me.
"Oh, no!" I said, laughing,  "there are a great many more, 
there are a great many more,  only you do not happen to see
them."
"And these others, that I do see, are not soldiers then?"
"I do not know," I said, feeling sadly what a stumbling block
it was. "Perhaps. they are. But you know yourself, Mr.
Thorold, there is a difference between soldiers and soldiers."
He was silent a while, as we mounted the hill, and then
suddenly broke out again.
"But it makes religion a slavery  a bondage  to be all the
while under arms, on guard, watching orders. Always on the
watch and expecting to be under fire  it is too much; it
would make a gloomy, ugly life of it."
"But suppose you are under fire?" I said.
"What?" said he, looking and laughing again.
"If you are a good soldier in an enemy's country, always with
work to do; will you wish to be off your guard, or off duty?"
"But what a life!" said Thorold.
"If you love your Captain?" said I.
He stopped and looked at me with one of the keenest looks of
scrutiny I ever met. It seemed to scrutinise not me only, but
the truth. I thought he was satisfied; for he turned away
without adding anything more at that time. His mind was at
work, however; for he broke down a small branch in his way and
busied himself with it in sweeping the trunks of the trees as
we went by; varying the occupation with a careful clearing
away of all stones and sticks that would make my path rougher
than it need be. Finally, giving me his hand to help me spring
over a little rivulet that crossed our way.
"Here is an incongruity, now I think of it," said he, smiling.
"How is it that you can be on such good terms with a rebel?
Ought you to have anything to do with me?"
"I may be friends with anybody in his private capacity," I
answered in the same tone. "That does not compromise anything.
It is only when  You know what I mean."
"When they are assembled for doubtful purposes."
"Or gathered in a place where the wrong colours are
displayed," I added. "I must not go there."
"There was no false banner hung out on the Academic Building
the other night," he said humorously.
But I knew my King's banner was not either. I knew, people did
not think of Him there, nor work for Him, and would have been
very much surprised to hear any one speak of Him. Say it was
innocent amusement; people did not want Him with them there;
and where He was not, I did not wish to be. But I could not
tell all this to Mr. Thorold. He was not contented, however,
without an answer.
"How was it?" he asked.
"You cannot understand me," I said, "and you may laugh at me."
"Why may I not understand you?" he said gently, with the
utmost deference of manner.
"I suppose, because you do not understand something else," I
said; "and you cannot, Mr. Thorold, until you know what the
love of Jesus is, and what it is to care for His honour and
His service more than for anything else in the world."
"But are they compromised?" he asked. "That is the thing. You
see, I want you back at the hop."
"I would like to come," said I; "but I must not."
"On the ground ?"
"I told you, Mr. Thorold. I do not find that my orders allow
me to go there. I must do nothing that I cannot do in my
King's name."
"That is "
"As His servant  on His errands  following where He leads
me."
"I never heard it put so before," said Thorold. "It bears the
stamp of perfection  only an impossible perfection."
"No " said I.
"To ordinary mortals," he rejoined, with one of his quick
brilliant flashes of the eye. Then as it softened and changed
again, 
"Miss Randolph, permit me to ask a not irrelevant question 
Are you happy?"
And with the inquiry came the investigating look, keen as a
razor or a rifle ball. I could meet it though; and I told him,
it was this made me happy. For the first time his face was
troubled. He turned it from me and dropped the conversation. I
let it drop too; and we walked side by side and silently the
remainder of the steep way; neither of us, I believe, paying
much attention to what there was to be seen below or around
us. At the top however this changed. We found a good place to
rest, and sat there a long time looking at the view; Thorold
pointing out its different features, and telling me about them
in detail; his visits to them, and exploration of the region
generally. And we planned imaginary excursions together; one
especially to the top of the Crow's Nest, with an imaginary
party, to see the sun rise. We would have to go up of course
over night; we must carry a tent along for shelter, and camp
beds, and cooking utensils, at least a pot to boil coffee; and
plenty of warm wraps and plenty of provisions, for people
always eat terribly in cold regions, Thorold said. And
although the top of the Crow's Nest is not Arctic by any
means, still it is cool enough even in a warm day, and would
be certainly cool at night. Also the members of our party we
debated; they must be people of good tempers and travelling
habits, not to be put out for a little; people with large
tastes for enjoyment, to whom the glory of the morning would
make amends for all the toil of the night; and good talkers,
to keep up the tone of the whole thing. Meanwhile, Thorold and
I heartily enjoyed Number Four; as also I did his explanations
of fortifications, which I drew from him and made him apply to
all the fortifications in sight or which I knew. And when the
sun's westing told us it was time to go home, we went down all
the way talking. I have but little remembrance of the path.
The cool bright freshness of the light in the trees, and its
brilliant gleams in the distance after it had left our
hillside,  I remember that. I have an impression of the calm
clear beauty that was under foot and overhead, that afternoon;
but I saw it only as I could see it while giving my thought to
something else. Sometimes, holding hands, we took runs down
the mountain side; then walked demurely again when we got to
easier going. We had come to the lower region at last and were
not far from the gate, talking earnestly and walking close
together, when I saw Thorold touch his cap. I do not know what
made me ask, "Was that anybody I knew?".
"I believe it was your friend Dr. Sandford," he said, smiling
into my face with a smile of peculiar expression and peculiar
beauty. I saw something had pleased him, pleased him very
much. It could not have been Dr. Sandford. I cannot say I was
pleased, as I had an intuitive assurance the doctor was not.
But Thorold's smile almost made amends.
That evening the doctor informed us he had got intelligence
which obliged him to leave the Point immediately; and as he
could go with us part of the way to Niagara, we had better all
set off together. I had lost all my wish to go to Niagara; but
I said nothing. Mrs. Sandford said there was nothing to be
gained by staying at the Point any longer, as I would not go
to the hops. So Monday morning we went away.
CHAPTER XVIII.
SOUTH AND NORTH.
We made a round of pleasure after leaving West Point. That is,
it was a round of pleasure to the rest of the party. I had
left my best pleasure behind me. Certainly I enjoyed Catskill,
and Trenton Falls, and Niagara, after some sort; but there was
nothing in them all like my walk to Number Four. West Point
had enough natural beauty to satisfy; any one, I thought, even
for all summer; and there I had besides what I had not
elsewhere and never had before, a companion. All my earlier
friends were far older than I, or beneath me in station.
Preston was the single exception; and Preston and I were now
widely apart in our sympathies; indeed always had been. Mr.
Thorold and I talked to each other on a level; we understood
each other and suited each other. I could let out my thoughts
to him with a freedom I never could use with anybody else.
It grieved me a little that I had been forced to come away so
abruptly that I had no chance of letting him know. Courtesy, I
thought, demanded of me that I should have done this; and I
could not do it; and this was a constant subject of regret to
me.
At the end of our journey I came back to school. Letters from
my father and mother desired that I would do so, and appointed
that I was to join them abroad next year. My mother had
decided that it was best not to interfere with the regular
course of my education; and my father renewed his promise that
I should have any reward I chose to claim, to comfort me for
the delay. So I bent myself to study with new energies and new
hope.
I studied more things than school books that winter. The bits
