"I am not grateful," said Preston. "I shall not have her
stay."
"What has brought you here, Preston?" I asked by way of
diversion.
"Me? Powder. It's an infernal invention. If one could fight
with steel, there would be some fun in it. But powder has no
respect of persons."
"How has it hurt you?" I asked. I had somehow never chosen to
put the question to Dr. Sandford; I can hardly tell why. Now
it was time to know. Preston's eye fell on me with sudden
gentleness.
"Daisy, go away," he said. "You have no business here. It is
of all places no place for you. Go away, and don't come
again."
"Dr. Sandford," said I, "will you take me with you and give me
my lesson? That is the first thing. I must earn my right to
the place, it seems."
The doctor looked at me in his turn; I avoided the eye of
Preston. He looked at me in a way not hard to read; quite
agreeing with Preston in wishing me away, but, I saw also,
respecting my qualifications for the work I had come to do. I
saw that he gave me a great reverence on account of it; but
then, Dr. Sandford always gave me more reverence than belonged
to me. I made use of this, and held my advantage. And the
doctor seeing that I was calmly in earnest, even took me at my
word.
We began a progress through the ward; during which every man's
condition was inquired into; wounds examined and dressed; and
course of treatment prescribed. I looked on at first as a mere
spectator; bearing the revelation of pain and suffering with
all the fortitude I could muster; but I found in a little
while that it would overmaster me if I continued an idle
looker-on; and putting aside the attendant nurse at last with
a whisper to which she yielded, I offered myself quietly in
her place to do her work. Dr. Sandford glanced at me then, but
made no remark whatever; suffering me to do my pleasure, and
employing me as if I had been there for a month. He began to
give me directions too. It seemed a long age of feeling and
experience, the time while we were passing through the ward;
yet Dr. Sandford was extremely quick and quiet in his work,
and lost no seconds by unnecessary delay. Even I could see
that. He was kind, too; never harsh, though very firm in his
authority and thorough in his business. I could not help an
unconscious admiration for him growing as we went on. That
steady, strong blue eye; what a thing it was for doubt and
fear to rest on. I saw how doubt and fear rested. I thought I
did; though the bearing of all the sufferers there was calm
and self-contained to an admirable degree. It was so, I heard,
with all our soldiers everywhere.
We came round, last of all, to Preston's couch again; and the
doctor paused. He glanced at me again for the first time in a
long while. I do not know how I trembled inwardly; outwardly,
I am sure, I did not flinch. His eye went to Preston.
"Do you see, you are to have a better nurse than you deserve?"
he said.
"It is disgusting!" Preston muttered.
"Some things are," answered the doctor; "not a brave woman, or
a gentle man."
"Send Daisy away from this place. You know she ought not to be
here; and you can forbid it."
"You overstate my power, my friend," said the doctor. "Shall
we see how you are getting along to-day."
Preston's eye came to me again, silently, with reluctance and
regret in it. I was touched more than I chose to show, and
more than it was safe to think about."
"Does she know?" he asked.
"She does not know. Your cousin, Miss Randolph, has given one
of his arms for his cherished cause."
"And one of my legs too," said Preston. "If it would do the
cause any good, I would not care; but what good does it do?
That's what I don't like about powder."
I had much ado to stand this communication. The work of
examining and dressing Preston's wounds, however, immediately
began; and in the effort to do my part, as usual, I found the
best relief for overstrained nerves. I think some tears fell
upon the bandages; but no word of remark was made by either
physician or patient, till the whole business was concluded.
Dr. Sandford then carried me off to a nice, warm, comfortable
apartment, which he told me I might always hold as my own
whenever I had time to be there; he seated me in a chair, and
a second time poured me out a glass of wine, which he took
from a cupboard.
"I do not drink it," I said, shaking my head.
"Yes, you do, - to-day."
"I never drink it," I said. "I cannot touch it, Dr. Sandford."
"You must take something. What is the matter with the wine? Is
it disagreeable to you?"
"I will not help anybody else drink it," I said, looking at
him and forcing a smile; for I was tired and very sick at
heart.
"Nobody will know you take it."
"Not if I do not take it. They will if I do."
"Are you going upon that old childish plan of yours?" said the
doctor, sitting down beside me and looking with a wistful kind
of tenderness into my face. "Are you bent still upon living
for other people, Daisy?"
"You know, the Master I follow did so; and His servants must
be like him," I said, and I felt my smile was stronger and
brighter this time. Dr. Sandford arose, summoned an attendant
and sent him off for a cup of tea for me; then saw me take it.
"Now," said he, "are you fixed in the plan of devoting
yourself to the care of this ungracious cousin?"
"Of him, and of others," I said.
"He does not deserve it."
"Suppose we waited to give people their deserts, Dr.
Sandford?"
"Some people deserve to be allowed to take care of you," said
the doctor, getting up and beginning to pace up and down the
floor. "They deserve it; and find it hard work; or denied them
altogether."
"You do take care of me," I said gratefully. "You always did,
Dr. Sandford. You are doing it now; and I am thanking you all
the time in my heart."
"Well," said he abruptly, standing still before me, - "you are
one of those who are born to command; and in your case I
always find I have to obey. This room you will use as you
please; no one will share it with you; and you need a
retiring-place for a breath of rest when you can get it. I
shall see you constantly, as I am going out and in; and
anything you want you will tell me. But you will not like it,
Daisy. You can stand the sight of blood, like other women,
whose tenderness makes them strong; but you will not like some
other things. You will not like the way you will have to take
your meals in this place."
I had finished my cup of tea, and now stood up to let the
doctor take me back to my place beside Preston; which he did
without any more words. And there he left me; and I sat down
to consider my work and my surroundings. My cousin had
forgotten his impatience in sleep; and there was a sort of
lull in the business of the ward at that hour.
I found in a few minutes that it was a great comfort to me to
be there. Not since papa's death, had so peaceful a sense of
full hands and earnest living crept into my heart. My thoughts
flew once or twice to Mr. Thorold, but I called them back as
soon; I could not bear that; while at the same time I felt I
was nearer to him here than anywhere else. And my thoughts
were very soon called effectually home from my own special
concerns, by seeing that the tenant of one of the neighbouring
beds was restless and suffering from fever. A strong, fine-
looking man, flushed and nervous on a fever bed, in helpless
inactivity, with the contrast of life energies all at work and
effectively used only a little while ago, in the camp and the
battlefield. Now lying here. His fever proceeded from his
wounds, I knew, for I had seen them dressed. I went to him and
laid my hand on his forehead. I wonder what and how much there
can be in the touch of a hand. It quieted him, like a charm;
and after a while, a fan and a word or two now and then were
enough for his comfort. I did not seem to be Daisy Randolph; I
was just - the hospital nurse; and my use was to minister; and
the joy of ministering was very great.
From my fever patient I was called to others, who wanted many
various things; it was a good while before I got round to
Preston again. Meanwhile, I was secretly glad to find out that
I was gaining fast ground in the heart of the other nurse of
the ward, who had at first looked upon me with great doubt and
mistrust on account of my age and appearance. She was a
clever, energetic New England woman; efficient and helpful as
it was possible to be; thin and wiry, but quiet, and full of
sense and kindliness. With a consciousness of her growing
favour upon me, I came at last to Preston's bedside again. He
looked anything but amicable.
"Where is Aunt Randolph?" were his first words, uttered with
very much the manner of a growl. I replied that I had left her
in New York.
"I shall write to her," said Preston. "How came she to do
such an absurd thing as to let you come here? and whom did you
come with? Did you come alone?"
"Not at all. I came with proper company."
"Proper company wouldn't have brought you," Preston growled.
"I think you want something to eat, Preston," I said. "You
will feel better when you have had some refreshment."
It was just the time for a meal and I saw the supplies coming
in. And Preston's refreshment, as well as that of some others,
I attended to myself. I think he found it pleasant; for
although some growls waited upon me even in the course of my
ministering to him, I heard from that time no more
remonstrances; and I am sure Preston never wrote his letter. A
testimonial of a different sort was conveyed in his whispered
request to me, not to let that horrid Yankee spinster come
near him again.
But Miss Yates was a good friend to me.
"You are looking a little pale," she said to me at evening.
"Go and lie down a spell. All's done up; you ain't wanted now,
and you may be, for anything anybody can tell, before an hour
is gone. Just you go away and get some rest. It's been your
first day. And the first day's rather tough."
I told her I did not feel tired. But she insisted; and I
yielded so far as to go and lie down for a while in the room
which Dr. Sandford had given to me. When I came back, I met
Miss Yates near the door of the room. I asked her if there
were any serious cases in the ward just then.
"La! half of 'em's serious," said she; "if you mean by that
they might take a wrong turn and go off. You never can tell."
"But are there any in immediate danger, do you think?"
She searched my face before she answered.
"How come you to be so strong, and so young, and so - well, so
unlike all this sort of thing? - Have you ever, no you never
have, seen much of sickness and death, and that?"
"No; not much."
"But you look as calm as a field of white clover. I beg your
