when he found himself once more on the solid earth.
"Hookie! Hookie!" shouted he, opening his mouth from ear to ear, while
his fat face lighted up with an expression of delight, like a baby with
a new rattle.
"Are you going to let me go down stream, Sim?" I called to him,
reproachfully, for he seemed to have more regard for his own safety than
for mine.
"What shall I do?" he asked, blankly; and he appeared to have an idea
that I could not possibly need any assistance from him.
"Catch hold of the end of the log, and haul it up so that I can get
ashore. If I let go the branch, the log will go down stream again."
Sim lifted the log, and hauled it far out of the water. He was as strong
as an ox now, though he had been as weak as an infant a few moments
before. I crawled up the stick, and went ashore. The moment I was fairly
on the land, Sim threw his arms around my neck, and hugged me as though
I had been his baby, blubbering in incoherent terms his gratitude and
love.
"Hold on, Sim! You have hugged me enough for one day," said I, shaking
him off.
"Hurrah! Hurrah!" shouted he.
"Silence, Sim," I added.
I threw myself on my knees, dripping with water as I was.
"O Lord God, I thank thee for saving my life, and for saving Sim's life.
In my heart I thank thee, O Lord. May it be a good lesson to him and me.
May we both try to be better boys, and obey thy holy law as we have
never done before."
I had never prayed before in my life, but I could not help it then. I
felt that God had saved my life, and that I could not be so wicked as
not to pray to him then. My heart was full of gratitude, and I felt the
better for speaking it.
I opened my eyes, and saw Sim kneeling before me, very reverently, and I
realized that he was as sincere as I was. He was not satisfied with
hearing. He uttered a prayer himself, using nearly my own words. He
finished, and both of us were silent for several minutes. However long I
may live, I shall never forget the agony of that fearful moment, when,
with Sim clinging to me, I felt myself going down, never to come up;
never to see the light of the blessed sun again; never more to look into
the eyes of my loving sister. The influence of that thrilling incident
will go with me to the end of my days, and I am sure it has made me a
better man.
We walked through the swamp to the open prairie beyond, where the sun
shone brightly. We took off our clothes, and wrung them out, and then
lay in the sunshine to dry them. We talked of the event of the
afternoon, and Sim, in his bungling speech, poured forth his gratitude
to me for saving his life. I staid there till it was time for me to go
back to the house. My clothes were still wet, and I crept through the
back entry up to my chamber and changed them. Squire Fishley was going
home that day, and was to ride down to Riverport with me.
I was sorry he was going, for during his visit our house seemed to be a
paradise. Mrs. Fishley was all smiles, and never spoke a cross word,
never snarled at Flora or at me. If the squire had been a steady boarder
at his brother's, I should have been content to cut my raft adrift, and
let it go down the river without me. He was going home, and there would
be a storm as soon as he departed.
During the week of the senator's stay, not a word was said about Miss
Larrabee's letter; and Ham appeared about the same as usual. I observed
his movements with interest and curiosity. Sometimes I thought he was
more troubled than was his habit. After the thrashing his father had
given me, he seemed to be satisfied that I had been "paid off," and he
was tolerably civil to me, though I concluded that he did not wish to
have any more difficulty during the visit of the distinguished guest.
After supper, with my passenger, I drove down to Riverport. On the way
he talked very kindly to me, and gave me much good advice. He counselled
me to "seek the Lord," who would give me strength to bear all my
troubles. He told me he had spoken to his brother about me, but he was
afraid he had done more harm than good, for the captain did not seem to
like it that I had said anything to the guest about my ill usage.
I bade him good by at the hotel, where he was to spend the night; and we
parted the best of friends, with a promise on his part to do something
for me in the future. After changing the mail-bags at the post-office, I
went to several stores, and picked up various articles to furnish the
house on the raft, including a small second-hand cook-stove, with eight
feet of pipe, for which I paid four dollars, and a few dishes and some
table ware.
I succeeded in placing these things in the wheelbarrow, back of the
barn, without detection. Early in the morning Sim wheeled them down to
the swamp. When I joined him after breakfast, I found he had waded
through the water to the branch, and brought up the small raft, upon
which he had loaded the stove and other articles. Before noon that day,
the outside of the house was done, and the cook-stove put up. I went
home to dinner as usual, that my absence might not be noticed.
"Where have you been all the forenoon?" demanded Captain Fishley, in the
most uncompromising of tones.
The storm was brewing.
CHAPTER XIV.
WHO ROBBED THE MAIL.
"Where on airth have you been?" said Mrs. Fishley, chiming in with her
husband; and if I had not realized before, I did now, that the squire
had actually gone home.
"I haven't been a great ways," I replied.
As the fact of my absence, rather than where I had been, was the great
grievance with my tyrants, I concluded not to tell them in what precise
locality I had spent the forenoon. The old order of things was fully
restored. It was snap, snarl, and growl. But I soon learned that there
was something more than this. Captain Fishley and Ham both looked glum
and savage; but they ate their dinner in silence.
"Buck, I want you," said the captain, in a very ugly tone, as I was
going to the barn after dinner. "Come into the store."
I followed him into the shop. He sat down behind the post-office
counter, looked at me sternly, and then gazed at the floor.
"Where have you been to-day?" said he, after his gaze had vibrated for
some time between me and the floor.
"I haven't been far."
"Buck, have you got any money?" he added, sharply, and putting the
question as a home thrust at me.
"Yes, sir, I have," I replied, startled by the inquiry; for it was
evident to me now that the storm was coming in the shape of a tempest.
"How much have you got?"
"I haven't got any of your money," I answered.
If Ham could rob the mail, it would not be a very hard step for him to
take to rob his father's pocket-book; and I began to think he had done
so, charging the crime upon me.
"I didn't say you had got any of my money," added Captain Fishley. "I
asked you how much you had."
"What do you want to know for?"
"No matter what I want to know for. Why don't you answer me?"
"Because I don't choose to answer you," I replied, saucily.
I felt innocent, and I could not tell him anything about my money
without exposing his brother. He made a movement towards me, and I
thought he was going to seize me by the collar. I jumped over the
counter, for I had all my money in my pocket, and I did not care about
being searched.
"Come back here!" said he, savagely.
"I am just as well here."
"Will you tell me how much money you have got, or shall I send for the
constable?" he continued.
"You may send for the constable, if you like; but I haven't any money
that belongs to you, or anybody but myself."
"Yes, you have! You have been robbing the mail!" retorted my tyrant,
fiercely.
Robbing the mail! I saw through the mill-stone. The postmaster had heard
from Miss Larrabee, or her brother, in regard to the missing letter,
and I was accused of purloining it! No doubt Captain Fishley thought I
was the robber. Probably Ham had charged the crime upon me, and his
father was willing to believe him.
"I have not robbed the mail," I replied, smartly.
"Yes, you did; and I can prove it. You had better own it, and give back
the money."
"I didn't take the money."
"What's the use to deny it, Buck?" said he, more mildly. "If you will
own it, and give back the money, I will try and make it as easy as I can
for you."
"I tell you I didn't take the money, and I won't own it when I didn't do
it."
"Well, just as you like, Buck. If you won't give up the money, I shall
have to hand you over to the constable, and see what he can do."
"You may hand me over to the constable as much as you please. Neither he
nor anybody else can make me own up to what I didn't do."
"Why will you persist in saying you didn't do it?"
"Because I didn't do it."
"I can prove it."
"Let's see you prove it."
"You carry the mail to Riverport and back."
"I know it; but I don't have any key to the bag."
"You know where the key is," said he, earnestly. "This morning I had a
letter from Miss Larrabee's brother, saying that he sent his sister
forty dollars, which must have come on before she left."
"That don't prove that I took it," I interposed; for I wished to know
what the trap was before I said anything about Ham.
"It proves that the letter came. I've been down to Riverport this
forenoon, and seen the postmaster there. He says the name was an odd one
to him, and he distinctly remembers seeing it when he sorted the mail. I
haven't any doubt the letter came to this office."
"Nor I either," I replied, glancing at Ham, who had taken position by
his father's side to hear what was said.
"What do you mean by that?" demanded Captain Fishley, puzzled by my
remark.
"You haven't proved that I took the letter."
"It came here, but none of us saw it. The very night the mail containing
that letter came in, you were seen counting money."
"Who saw me?" I asked.
"Ham saw you--didn't you, Ham?" replied the captain, appealing to his
son.
"Yes, I did. After I came home from Crofton's, I put on my old rubbers,
and went out to the barn after the lantern. I found Buck on the
hay-loft, counting a roll of bank bills," answered Ham, glibly.
"How much was there?" asked the postmaster.
"I asked him how much he had, but he wouldn't tell me," replied Ham. "He
said it was a little money that he had made on his own account."
"How did you make it, Buck?"
"I made it honestly, and I did not steal it," was the only safe answer I
could give.
I confess that it must have looked very bad for me; but I could not
expose Squire Fishley, and my lips were sealed.
"How much did there appear to be, Ham?" continued Captain Fishley; and I
must do him the justice to say that he now appeared to be only anxious
to elicit the truth.
"I don't know. I thought there were five or six bills. It was a good
deal of money for him to have, anyhow. I didn't think much about it till
since we found this letter was lost."
"Didn't you, Ham Fishley?" said I, looking him right in the eye. "You
know very well that I didn't take that letter."
"I know it!" repeated he, trying to bluster; but I saw that it was hard
work.
"Yes, you know it, if your father don't."
"I don't see who could have taken it, if he didn't," added Ham, turning
to his father.
"Don't you, Ham?" I shouted, in my excitement.
"Of course he took it," said the postmaster. "He isn't willing to tell
where he got that money, which he don't deny having."
