before Mr. Oakley died," added Squire Selwyn,--"a will by which John
would have come into possession of two-thirds of the estate."
"I have heard a great deal about that will," retorted Mrs. Oakley.
"Undoubtedly my husband destroyed it, as unjust to me."
"I don't see how it was unjust to you. It left the property as the law
would have left it."
"Very well, where is the will? If you will produce it, I shall of
course surrender to John all except the third which comes to me."
"I wish I could produce it."
"But you can't," said Mrs. Oakley, triumphantly, looking the lawyer in
the face.
"In my opinion it has never been properly searched for," said the
lawyer. "I have the strongest reason to believe that it exists."
"May I inquire what is that reason?" asked Mrs. Oakley.
"Mr. Oakley, in his last sickness, spoke to John about the will."
"What did he say about it?" asked the lady. "This is the first I have
heard of it."
"Unfortunately he was so low that he was unable to declare where it
was."
Mrs. Oakley looked relieved.
"But John heard the words 'secret drawer.'"
"Then you conclude that the will is still in existence."
"I do."
"And where do you think it is?"
"Somewhere in this house," said Squire Selwyn, emphatically.
"It is strange then that it has not been found," said Mrs. Oakley.
"I do not think so. If hidden in a secret drawer, it would naturally be
difficult to find."
Mrs. Oakley rapidly made up her mind what to do. She saw that Squire
Selwyn was suspicious of her. By a show of fair dealing she could allay
those suspicions, and this would be worth while.
"If this will exists," she said, "it ought to be found."
"So I think," said the lawyer, surprised to hear her speak thus.
"And though its discovery would be to my disadvantage, I certainly
shall not object to a search. Are you at leisure now to assist me in
such a search?"
"I am," said the lawyer. "I think there is no time like the present."
"Then let us begin in this very room."
"It wouldn't be likely to be here. Still it is best not to slight any
possible place of concealment."
Assisted by Mrs. Oakley, Squire Selwyn commenced a strict search,
beginning with the parlor, and proceeding from room to room. He little
suspected how near him the document was all the time. Of course the
search proved fruitless.
"There is one room which has not yet been searched," said Mrs.
Oakley,--"the only one except the kitchen, in which Mr. Oakley would be
hardly likely to conceal it. I mean my own room."
"There's no occasion to search there."
"I would prefer that the search should be thorough. Here are my keys. I
would rather have you go up."
Thus requested, Squire Selwyn complied with the request. He returned
from the quest disappointed.
"It is very strange," he thought. "I am firmly convinced that my friend
Oakley left a will in existence. But where is it?"
That question he was unable to answer.
"I cannot find the will," he said.
"I am glad you have searched," said Mrs. Oakley. "The fact that I have
given you every facility for searching proves that I am perfectly
willing that my husband's will should be carried out."
"And his wishes as well?"
"What do you refer to?"
"I refer to John's education."
"I have made up my mind as to that," said Mrs. Oakley, briefly.
"Do you consider your brother's house a suitable home for Mr. Oakley's
son?"
"Why not?" she demanded, sharply.
"Do you think, in setting him to work in a shoe-shop, you are doing as
his father wished?"
"I do not know where you got your information, Mr. Selwyn," said Mrs.
Oakley, angrily, "but I must tell you that you are meddling with
business that does not concern you. As you were my husband's lawyer,
and drew up the will which you thought in existence, I have asked you
to search for it; I have even opened my own chamber to your search.
You ought to be satisfied by this time that you are mistaken. In doing
this, I have done all that I intend doing. I shall take my own course
with John Oakley, who is dependent upon me, and whatever you choose to
think or say can have no effect upon me. Good-afternoon, sir."
Mrs. Oakley swept from the room, and Squire Selwyn left the house,
feeling that his visit had not benefited John in the slightest degree.
That night he wrote John a letter.
CHAPTER XXII.
MR. HUXTER GETS INTO HOT WATER.
It was Mr. Huxter's intention to set John to work as soon as possible;
but it so happened that the shoe business, in which he was engaged,
had been for some time unusually dull, and had not yet revived. To
this circumstance our hero was indebted for the comparative freedom
which for a few days he was permitted to enjoy. During that time he
was waiting anxiously for the expected letter from Squire Selwyn. He
wished to know whether his stepmother was resolutely determined upon
her present course with regard to himself, before he decided to take
the matter into his own hands, and help himself in his own way. Upon
one thing he was fully resolved,--not to remain much longer a member of
Mr. Huxter's household.
As the letter was to come to the Milbank post-office, on the fourth
afternoon he walked over to that village. This time he was not
fortunate enough to meet David Wallace, and therefore had a long and
tiresome walk.
"Is there a letter here for John Oakley?" he inquired of the postmaster.
"John Oakley," said the old official, looking under his glasses. "Do
you live round here?"
"I am passing a short time in the neighborhood," said John.
The postmaster took some time to adjust his spectacles, and a longer
time in looking over the letters. John waited anxiously, fearing that
he had taken the long walk for nothing. But he was destined to be more
fortunate.
"You said your name was John Oakley?" repeated the official, balancing
a letter in his hand.
"Yes," said John, quickly.
"Then here's a letter for you. It looks like Squire Selwyn's writing."
"It is from him," said John.
"Then you know him?"
"Yes," said John, mechanically, impatiently tearing open the letter.
"He's a good lawyer, the squire is," said the postmaster. "He was here
only last week."
"Yes, I saw him."
This was the letter which John received:--
 "MY DEAR YOUNG FRIEND:--I called upon your stepmother yesterday in
 the afternoon, hoping to induce her to adopt different measures
 with regard to yourself. I regret to say that I failed utterly in my
 mission. She will not permit you to go to college, declaring that you
 have already a sufficient education. Nor will she remove you from the
 house of Mr. Huxter, though I represented that he was not a proper
 person to have the charge of you.
 "We had some conversation about the missing will. I was a little
 surprised by her suggesting that I should search the house for it. I
 was glad of the opportunity, and proceeded to do so. I made the search
 as thorough as possible, but discovered nothing. I still believe,
 however, that the will is in existence, unless it has been destroyed
 since your father's death.
 "I hardly know what to advise under the circumstances. If you should
 leave Mr. Huxter, I advise you to seek your aunt at Wilton, and I
 shall be glad to hear from you when you have arrived there. If you
 should need money, do not hesitate to apply to me, remembering that I
 am your father's friend."
  "Your true friend,
  JAMES SELWYN."
 "P. S. I enclose a few lines from Sam."
There was another sheet inside the envelope, on which John recognized
easily Sam's familiar handwriting. He was very glad to hear from Sam,
for whom he felt a warm attachment.
Here is Sam's letter:--
 "DEAR JOHN:--I have been missing you awfully. I couldn't think what
 had become of you till father told me he had seen you at Milbank. So
 you are in the spider's clutches, you poor innocent fly? A nice time
 you must have of it with old Huxter. I declare I've no patience with
 Mrs. Oakley, when I think of the way she has treated you. I can't do
 anything to her; but I'll take it out in tricks on Ben. By the way,
 your amiable stepbrother has got a new friend,--a flashy young man
 from New York, who sports a lot of bogus jewelry, and smokes from
 ten to a dozen cigars a day, and spends his time in lounging about
 the billiard and bar room. He isn't doing Ben any good. They play
 billiards a good deal, and he tells Ben stories about the city, which
 I expect will make Ben want to go there. Do you think Mrs. Oakley will
 let him?
 "You've no idea how I miss you, old fellow. All the hard parts in
 Virgil and Xenophon come to me now. I don't enjoy studying half so
 much now that you are away. If I were you, I'd give old Huxter the
 slip some fine morning. I only wish you could come and stay at our
 house. Wouldn't it be jolly? I know father would like it; but I
 suppose people would talk, and Mrs. Oakley would make a fuss.
 "Well, it's time for me to go to studying. Keep up a stiff upper lip,
 and never say die. Things will be sure to come round. One thing, you
 must be sure to write to me as soon as you can. Tell me all about how
 you're getting along with the monstrum horrendum informe. Of course
 I mean old Huxter."
  "Your affectionate friend,
  SAM SELWYN."
John felt much better after reading these letters. He felt that,
whatever might be the hardships of his present lot, he had two good
friends who sympathized with him. He read over the lawyer's letter once
more. Though he didn't expressly advise him to leave Mr. Huxter, it was
evident that he expected him to do so. John himself had no doubts on
that point. He felt that he would be willing anywhere else to work for
his living; but to remain in his present position was insupportable.
He could feel neither regard nor respect for Mr. Huxter. He witnessed
daily with indignation the manner in which he treated his poor wife,
whom he sincerely pitied. But it was not his business to interfere
between man and wife. No, he could not stay any longer in such a house.
To-morrow morning he would rise early, and, before Mr. Huxter woke, bid
a silent farewell to Jackson, and start on his journey to Wilton.
When he reached his boarding-place, it was already four o'clock in the
afternoon. Mr. Huxter had come home just drunk enough to be ugly. He
had inquired of his wife where John was. She couldn't tell him.
"What business has he to leave the house without permission?" he
growled.
"He is old enough for that, surely," said Mrs. Huxter.
"Shut up, Mrs. Huxter! What do you know about it?" said her husband.
"The boy needs a good flogging."
"I'm sure he's a very good boy," said Mrs. Huxter. "He is quite a young
gentleman."
"He is altogether too much of a young gentleman," said Mr. Huxter. "He
puts on too many airs for me."
"You are not just to him, Mr. Huxter."
"How many times, Mrs. Huxter, must I request you to mind your own
business?" said her husband, coarsely. "Do you know what I am going to
do?"
"What?" asked his wife, with apprehension.
"I'm going to cut a stout stick out in the orchard, and give the young
gentleman a lesson when he returns. That's what I'm going to do."
"Oh don't, Mr. Huxter!" implored his wife, clasping his arm.
