  "MADISON CLUB.
  "Mr. ROSWELL CRAWFORD.
  "Sir:--I have the honor of informing you that at the last regular
  meeting of the Madison Club you were unanimously elected a member.
  "Yours respectfully,
  "JAMES TRACY."
This document Roswell read with much satisfaction. It sounded well
to say that he was a member of the Madison Club, and his unanimous
election could only be regarded as a high compliment.
"I will join," he said, pompously. "When is the next meeting?"
"Next Tuesday evening."
"Where does the society meet?"
"In a room on Fourth Avenue. You can come round early, and we will go
together."
"All right. What do you do at the meetings?"
"Well, we smoke, and tell stories, and have a good time. Generally
there are some eatables provided. However, you'll know all about it,
when you join. Oh, by the way, there's one thing I forgot to tell you,"
added Ralph. "There's an initiation fee of five dollars."
"A fee of five dollars!" repeated Roswell, soberly.
"Yes."
"What is it for?"
"To defray expenses, of course. There's the rent, and lights, and
stationery, and the eatables. They always, I think, have an initiation
fee at clubs."
"Are there any other expenses?"
"Not much. There's only a dollar a month. That isn't much."
"I don't know how I'm going to raise the five dollars," said Roswell,
soberly. "I could manage the dollar a month afterwards."
"Oh, you'll think of some way," said Ralph.
"My mother wouldn't give it to me, so there's no use asking her."
"Why can't you pay it out of your extra wages?" said Ralph,
significantly.
"I shouldn't dare to take such a large sum," said Roswell. "They would
find me out."
"Not if you're careful."
"They don't keep but a few dollars in the drawer at one time."
"But didn't you tell me there was another drawer?"
"Yes; but that is always kept locked."
"Open it then."
"I have no key."
"Get one that will fit it then."
"I don't like to do that."
"Well, it's nothing to me," said Ralph, "only I should like to have
you belong to the club, and you can't unless you are able to pay the
initiation fee."
"I would like very much to belong," said Roswell, irresolutely.
"I know you would enjoy it. We have splendid times."
"I'll see what I can do to raise the money," said Roswell.
"That's the way to talk. You'll manage to get it some way."
It was a great temptation to Roswell. The more he thought of it, the
more he thought he should like to say that he was a member of the
Madison Club. He had a weak love of gentility, and he was persuaded
that it would improve his social standing. But he did not wish to adopt
the course recommended by Ralph if there was any other way of getting
the money. He determined, therefore, first to make the effort to obtain
the money from his mother on some pretext or other. By the time he
reached home, which was at an earlier hour than usual, he had arranged
his pretext.
"I am glad you are home early," said Mrs. Crawford.
"Yes, I thought I'd come home early to-night. Mother, I wish you'd let
me have four dollars."
"What for, Roswell?"
"I want to buy a new hat. This one is getting shabby."
Roswell's plan was, if he could obtain the four dollars from his
mother, to make up the extra dollar out of sales unaccounted for. As to
the failure to buy the hat, he could tell his mother that he had lost
the money, or make some other excuse. That thought did not trouble him
much. But he was not destined to succeed.
"I am sorry you are dissatisfied with your hat, Roswell," said Mrs.
Crawford, "for I cannot possibly spare you the money now."
"So you always say," grumbled Roswell.
"But it's true," said his mother. "I'm very short just now. The rent
comes due in a few days, and I am trying hard to get together money
enough to pay it."
"I thought you had money coming in from your lodgers."
"There's Mr. Bancroft hasn't paid me for six weeks, and I'm afraid I am
going to lose his room-rent. It's hard work for a woman to get along.
Everybody takes advantage of her," said Mrs. Crawford, sighing.
"Can't you possibly let me have the money by Saturday, mother?"
"No, Roswell. Perhaps in a few weeks I can. But I don't think your hat
looks bad. You can go and get it pressed if you wish."
But Roswell declared that wouldn't do, and left the room in an
ill-humor. Instead of feeling for his mother, and wishing to help her,
he was intent only upon his own selfish gratifications.
So much, then, was plain,--in his efforts to raise the money for the
initiation fee at the club, he could not expect any help from his
mother. He must rely upon other means.
Gradually Roswell came to the determination to follow the dangerous
advice which had been proffered him by Ralph Graham. He could not bear
to give up the project of belonging to the club, and was willing to
commit a dishonest act rather than forego the opportunity.
He began to think now of the manner in which he could accomplish what
he had in view. The next day when noon came he went round to the locked
drawer, and, lighting a piece of sealing-wax which he had taken from
one of the cases, he obtained a clear impression of the lock.
"I think that will do," thought Roswell.
At that moment a customer entered the store, and he hurried the stick
of sealing-wax into his pocket.
When the store closed, Roswell went round to a locksmith, whose sign he
remembered to have seen in Third Avenue.
He entered the shop with a guilty feeling at his heart, though he had a
plausible story arranged for the occasion.
"I want a key made," he said, in a business-like manner; "one that will
fit this lock."
Here he displayed the wax impression.
"What sort of a lock is it?" asked the locksmith, looking at it.
"It is a bureau drawer," said Roswell. "We have lost the key, and can't
open it. So I took the impression in wax. How soon can you let me have
it?"
"Are you in a hurry for it?"
"Yes; didn't I tell you we couldn't open the drawer?"
"Well, I'll try to let you have it by to-morrow night."
"That will do," said Roswell.
He left the locksmith's shop with mixed feelings of satisfaction and
shame at the thought of the use to which he was intending to put the
key. It was a great price he had determined to pay for the honor of
belonging to the Madison Club.
CHAPTER XXI.
ROSWELL JOINS THE MADISON CLUB.
It was not until Saturday night that Roswell obtained the key. The
locksmith, like tradesmen and mechanics in general, kept putting him
off, to Roswell's great annoyance.
As he did not get the key till Saturday night, of course there would
be no opportunity of using it till Monday. The only time then was the
hour in which Mr. Baker and Mr. Jones were absent, and Roswell was left
alone. But to his great vexation, an old gentleman came in directly
after Mr. Baker went out, and inquired for him.
"He's gone to dinner," said Roswell.
"I think I'll wait till he returns," said the visitor, coolly sitting
down in Mr. Baker's arm-chair.
Roswell was in dismay, for this would of course prevent his using the
key which he had taken so much trouble to obtain.
"Mr. Baker is always out a good while," said Roswell.
"Never mind, I can wait for him. I came in from the country this
morning, and shall not need to start back till four."
"Perhaps," suggested Roswell, "you could go out and do the rest of your
errands, and come back at two o'clock. Mr. Baker will be sure to be
back then."
"Who told you I had any more errands to do?" asked the old gentleman,
sharply.
"I thought you might have," said Roswell, somewhat confused.
"You are very considerate; but, as my business is over for the day, I
will ask your permission to remain till my nephew returns."
So this was Mr. Baker's uncle, a shrewd old gentlemen, if he did live
in the country.
"Certainly," said Roswell, but not with a very good grace, adding to
himself; "there'll be no chance for me to get the money to-day. I hope
the old fellow won't come round again to-morrow."
The next day was Tuesday. In the evening the club was to meet, so there
was no time to lose.
Fortunately, as Roswell thought, the coast was clear.
"Suppose the key won't fit?" he thought with uneasiness.
It would have been lucky for Roswell if the key had not fitted. But it
proved to fit exactly. Turning it in the lock, the drawer opened, and
before him lay a pile of bills.
How much or how little there might be Roswell did not stop to examine.
He knew that a customer might come in at any time, and he must do
at once what he meant to do. At the top of the pile there was a
five-dollar bill. He took it, slipped it hastily into his vest-pocket,
relocked the drawer, and, walking away from it, began to dust the books
upon the counter.
He felt that he had taken the decisive step. He was supplied with the
necessary money to pay the initiation fee. The question was, would Mr.
Baker find it out?
Suppose he should, how would it be possible to evade suspicion, or to
throw it upon some one else?
"If I could make him think it was the match boy," thought Roswell,
"I should be killing two birds with one stone. I must see what can be
done."
When Mr. Baker returned, Roswell feared he would go to the drawer, but
he did not seem inclined to do this.
He just entered the store, and said, "Mr. Jones, I am obliged to go
over to Brooklyn on a little business, and I may not be back this
afternoon."
"Very well, sir," said Mr. Jones.
Roswell breathed freer after he had left the shop. It had occurred to
him as possible that if the money were missed, he might be searched,
in which case the key and the bill in his pocket would be enough to
convict him. Now he should not see Mr. Baker again till the next day
probably, when the money would be disposed of.
Mr. Baker, as he anticipated, did not return from Brooklyn before
Roswell left the store.
Roswell snatched a hasty supper, and went over to his friend, Ralph
Graham's room, immediately afterwards.
"Glad to see you, Roswell," said Ralph; "are you coming to the club
with me to-night?"
"Yes," said Roswell.
"Have you got the five dollars?"
"Yes."
"How did you manage it?"
"Oh, I contrived to get it," said Roswell, who did not like to confess
in what way he had secured possession of the money.
"Well, it's all right, as long as you've got it. I was afraid you
wouldn't succeed."
"So was I," said Roswell. "I had hard work of it. What time do the club
meetings begin?" he asked.
"At eight o'clock, but I generally go round about half an hour before.
Generally, some of the fellows are there, and we can have a social
chat. I guess we'll go round at half-past seven, and that will give me
