the full moon, a crimson globe upon the hazy horizon, while Venus lay,
large and tremulous, among the dying fires of the west.

“‘Lovers love the western star,’” quoted Rosa, merrily, taking Mabel’s
work from her and throwing it upon the bed. “Come and enjoy the holy
hour with me.”

They leaned together upon the window-sill, their young faces tinted
by the changeful hues of the sky, both thoughtful and mute, until Rosa
broke the silence by a heavy sigh.

“O Mabel, you should be a happy, happy girl; blessed among women. You
can love--freely and joyously--and have pride and faith in the one
beloved.”

“As you will some day,” rejoined the other, drawing nearer to her, “when
you, in your turn, shall know the unspeakable sweetness of unquestioning
faith--of utter dependence upon him to whom you have given your heart.”

“Utter dependence!” echoed Rosa. “That would mean utter wreck of
heart, hope--everything--should the anchor give way. It is a hazardous
experiment, ma belle!”

The other looked down at her with simple fearlessness.

“‘For it was founded upon a rock!’” she repeated softly; yet the
exultant ring of her accent vibrated upon the ear like a joyous
challenge.

Rosa’s fretful movement was involuntary.

“Mine would drag in the sand at every turn of the tide, every rise
of the wind, if I were to follow your advice, and say ‘yes’ to the
pertinacious Alfred,” she said reproachfully.

“Don’t say advice, dear!” corrected the other. “I only endeavored
to convince you that there must be latent tenderness beneath your
sufferance of Mr. Branch’s devotion; that if you really were averse to
the thought of marrying him, you could not take pleasure in his society
or enjoy the marks of his attachment which are apparent to you and to
everybody else.”

“Can’t you understand,” said the beauty, petulantly, “that it is one
thing to flirt with a man in public, and another to cherish his image
in private? There is no better touchstone of affection than the holiness
and calm of an hour like this. If Frederic were with you, the scene
would be the fairer, the season more sacred for its association with
thoughts of him and his love. Whereas, my Alfred’s adoring platitudes
would disgust me with the sunset, with the world, and with myself, for
permitting him to haunt my presence and hang upon my smile--foppish
barnacle that he is! If you knew how I despise myself sometimes!”

“Dear Rosa! I shall never try again to persuade that you care for him
as a woman should for the man GOD intended her to marry. But why not act
worthily of yourself--justly to him, and reject him decidedly?”

“Because”--her face shrewd and wilful as it had been sorrowful just
now--“I am by no means certain that I can do better than to marry him.
He is rich, good-looking (so people say!), well-born, gentlemanly, and
pleasant of temper. An imposing array of advantages, you see! I might go
further, and fare very much worse. We shall not expect to pass our days
in gazing at sunsets and walking in the moonlight, you know. It is not
every woman who can marry the man she loves best. While the right to
select and to woo is usurped by the masculine portion of the community,
it must, perforce, be Hobson’s choice with an uncountable majority
of feminines. I should not complain. The stall allotted to me by
Hobson--alias Fate--might hold a worse-conditioned animal than my
worshipping swain.”

“What a wicked rattle you are!” Mabel said, affecting to box her ears.
“I could not love you if I believed you to be in earnest. As to
your figure of the stabled steed--this disapproving customer has the
consolation that she need not accept him, unless she wishes to do so.
She has the invaluable privilege of saying ‘no’ as often and obstinately
as she pleases.”

“I deny it,” said Rosa, perversely. “Parents, in this age, do not make a
custom of locking up refractory daughters in nunneries or garrets until
they consent to wed Baron Buncombe or my Lord Nozoo, but there are,
nevertheless, compulsory marriages in plenty. Society warns me to make
a creditable match, upon penalty, if I decline, of being pointed out
to the succeeding--and a fast-succeeding generation it is! as a
disappointed old maid--passée belle, who squandered her capital of
fascinations, and has become a pauper upon public toleration, while
my mother, sisters, and brothers are growing impatient at my many and
profitless flirtations, and anxious to see me ‘settled.’ My mother’s
pet text, since I was sixteen, has been her prayerful desire that I, the
last of her nestlings, should make choice of a tenable bough and helpful
partner, and set up a separate establishment before she dies. When that
event occurs, I shall be, in effect, homeless--a boarder around upon my
rebukeful relatives, who ‘always thought how my trifling would end,’ and
who will be forever scribbling ‘vanitas vanitatum,’ upon the tombstone
of my departed youth--my day of beaux and offers. You may shake your
head and look heroic with all your might! You are no better off than
I, should your brother see cause to refuse his consent to your marriage
with Mr. Chilton. He could, and probably would, coerce you into another
alliance before you were twenty-one. There are so many ways of
letting the life out of a woman’s heart, when it is already faint from
disappointment! The spirit is oftener broken by unyielding, but not
seemingly cruel pressure, than by outrageous violence. And Winston would
show himself an adept in such arts, if occasion offered.”

“Rosa Tazewell! you are speaking of my brother, my friend and
benefactor! one of the best, noblest, most disinterested creatures
Heaven ever made!” cried Mabel, erect and indignant. “You have no
warrant--I shall never give you the right--to asperse him in my
presence. He is incapable of cruelty or unfairness. It is my duty to
obey him, but it is no less a pleasure, for he is a hundred-fold
wiser and better than I am--knows far more truly what is for my real
advantage. As to his conduct in this affair of Frederic and myself, you
cannot deny that it has been generous and consistent throughout. He has
been cautious--never harsh!”

“So!” said Rosa, scrutinizing the flushed countenance of the other, her
own full of intense meaning, “you HAVE had your misgivings!”

Mabel reddened more warmly.

“Misgivings! What do you mean?”

“That the uncalled-for vehemence of your defence is a proof of disturbed
confidence, of wanting belief in the infallibility of your semi-deity.
The trailing robes of divinity have been blown aside by a chance breath
of suspicion, and you had a glimpse of the clay feet. I am glad of
it. Scepticism is the parent of rebellion, and the time is coming when
fealty to your betrothed may demand disloyalty to the power that now
is.”

Mabel’s smile was meant to be careless, but it was only uneasy, and gave
the lie direct to her asseveration.

“I have no apprehensions of such a conflict. Winston’s word is as
good as another man’s oath. It is pledged to my marriage with Frederic
Chilton, in the event of the prosperous issue of his inquiries into
his, Frederic’s, character and prospects. That these will be answered
favorably, I have the word of another, who is every whit as trustworthy.
Where is there room for doubt?”

The brunette shook her head--unconvinced.

“Have your own way! I can afford to abide the showing of the logic of
events.”

“And I!” retorted Mabel, hastily, turning from her, without attempting
to dissemble her chagrin, to answer a knock at the door.

It was a servant, with two letters. The annoyance passed from her brow,
like the sheerest mist, as she read the superscriptions--one in her
brother’s handwriting, the other in Frederic’s.

Rosa interfered to prevent the breaking of the seals.

“I am going to leave you to the undisturbed enjoyment of your feast,”
 she said, in her most winsome manner. “But--won’t it taste the sweeter
if your antepast is the delight of forgiveness? Say you are not angry
with me--mia cara!”

“You are a ridiculous child!” Mabel bent to kiss the pleading lips, then
the great, melting eyes. “Who could be out of temper with you for half a
minute at a time? You did try my patience with your nonsense, but since
it WAS nonsense, I have forgotten it all, and love you none the less for
your prankish humor--you gypsy!”

“She calls my prophecies humbug--turns a deaf ear to my warnings!” cried
the incorrigible rattle, clasping her hands above her head and rolling
her eyes tragically. “I have a lively appreciation, at this instant, of
Cassandra’s agonies when Troilus named her ‘our mad sister!’--

      ‘Woe! woe! woe!
    Let us pay betimes
    A moiety of that mass of moans to come!’”

Laughing anew at her frantic rush from the chamber, Mabel sat down in
the broad window-seat to read her love-letter.

Frederic was too manly in feeling and habit of speech to deal in florid
rhapsodies, but each line had its message from his heart to hers. He
loved her purely and in truth, and there was not a sentence that did not
tell her this, by inference, if not directly. He trusted her--and this,
too, he told her, more as a husband might the wife of years than a lover
of her he had won so lately. Their hopes were the same and their lives,
and she dwelt longest upon the sketched plans for the future of these.
It brought him closer to her than anything else--put her secret and
reluctant imaginations of evil, and Rosa’s daring insinuations, out of
sight and recollection. She read slowly, and with frequent pauses,
that she might take in the exquisite flavor of this and that phrase of
endearment; set before herself in beauty and distinctness the scenes he
portrayed as the adornment of the prospect which was theirs.

The second and yet more deliberate perusal over, she folded the sheet
with lingering touches to every corner, thrust it into the envelope,
and drew it forth again to peep once more at the signature--“Forever and
truly, your own Frederic;” pressed it to her lips, then to her heart,
and bestowed it securely in her writing-desk, before she unclosed her
brother’s epistle.

With her finger upon the seal--a big drop of red wax, like a petrified
blood-gout, stamped with the Aylett coat-of-arms--she leaned through
the casement to watch for the flutter of Rosa’s white dress among the
vari-colored maples shading the lawn--sang a clear, sweet second to the
