now I have been cowardly in putting off the evil day. There 
is a taint in my blood which would sully Cragness with its 
honorable ancestry. Yet why should I delay ? Let me go and 
have it ended. " 
He opened the gate, standing aside for her to pass, and 
strode up the remainder of the path. She dragged herself 
along, her brain in a strange whirl, dimly guessing at the awful 
pain that he had borne, longing to comfort, and yet dumb with 
her own wordless anguish of love. 
"I doubt if I ever cross this threshold again," he com 
mented, sharply. 
 
" I shall wait for you here," she said, sitting down in one 
of the great carved oaken hall-chairs. " Nothing can make 
any difference to a man's soul but his own sins." 
He seized her hands in a strange transport " And if I 
were an outcast, with the finger of honor pointed at me in scorn, 
if I had to make a new name, to come up through poverty 
and toil, and perhaps fail, working against overpowering odds, 
what would I be to you then ? nothing ?" 
The words were uttered in a low, hurried, passionate breath, 
and by the light he glanced at her pale face. 
"You will still be Victor my king. In God's world the 
one who wins is crowned, even though men may never dis 
cover the royal signet." 
He stooped and kissed her hand with burning lips, then 
hurried to the door whose portals were to open upon his 
secret. 
Janet McRae sat in her high-backed chair, with no light in 
the room, save the ruddy blaze of the pine-logs just kindled. 
Her face looked a little worn and perplexed, he thought. 
" Have you brought Sylvia home ? You would never come 
without an excuse, I fancy," she said, with some asperity. "I 
saw you half an hour ago walking down the road. " 
"I brought her in yes." Then he paused, walking 
straight up to the brilliant firelight 
She saw something in his face, a set resolve that was akin 
to the rigidity of death. 
"Forgive!" and her tone softened, "I am a cranky old 
woman, but you try me, Victor Hurst, you try me !" 
With that she came and stood beside him, placed her hand 
on his shoulder, and endeavored to read these baffling lines. 
"It is for the last time ;" and there was a touch of solem 
nity in his voi -e. "I have a story to tell you, and I think 
afterward you ^ill be able to judge me more clearly. If I have 
been weak and cowardly in thus keeping it a secret, in coming 
here when I knew that I must one day be confessed other than 
 
I appeared, remember in extenuation that it was not for my 
own sake. God gave me some duties to another, and when I 
began to see them, they were sacred in my eyes." 
" There has always been some mystery about you. How far 
it was due to morbid pride " 
"I fought off that devil ! No, it was an honest question 
between truth and silence. While I could not speak the truth, 
I compelled myself to risk being misunderstood, and perhaps 
considered ungrateful." 
She held up her hand and he paused in his justification. 
"You have been nobly generous. I think, too, that you 
have given me a strange, yearning love. I have felt as if I 
could be your very servant to your life's end ; but that is not 
what you want Sonship and heirship I cannot take, the 
honor of this long, pu^e line is not for me. I am not John 
Hurst's son !" 
"Not John Hurst's son ! Not Anah McRae's child !" and 
her eyes seemed to pierce his very soul. 
"Anah McRae's child yes." 
Her hand dropped from his shoulder, and a mortal paleness 
overspread her features. He crossed his arms on his chest, 
and stood there in the firelight crowned with youth, integrity, 
and manly beauty, a soul replete with the highest capabilities. 
A man to make himself respected, honored, loved. 
"Yes." His tone was low but strong and clear. "I must 
justify my mother. For a brief while she believed herself 
legally married to a man whose simple word would have been 
a bond to any of his compeers. God knows that it was not 
her fault nor mine that I was crowded out of an honorable 
birthright. But the world that can forgive crimes of revenge 
and dishonesty, has no condonement for this. Now you know 
why I could not accept your honors, your affection even, at its 
full value. Perhaps I was wrong to come in any event, but 
my purpose was simply to work. How could I dream ?" 
Janet McRae took two or three steps and sank into her chair. 
 
"Who knows this?" she demanded fiercely, though her 
voice was strangely hollow. 
"My mother and myself, and " yes, it was better to tell the 
whole truth now " Kirke Gilliat." 
She was silent so long, that he threw himself on his knees 
before her, and took the trembling hands in his. 
"Forgive me," he cried in anguish. "It was not a fact 
one could soften. God knows that I would have spared you 
any pain that was possible. You see now why I must be an 
outcast until I earn a place among my fellow-men, and then 
I can never come wholly out of the shadow." 
"Leave me now." Her voice was weak and broken, with 
the quaver of old age in it. "I must think a little. Kirke 
Gilliat's son !" wincing as if some one had struck her a blow, 
"Bring your mother up here to-morrow I must see her. 
And I will tell you then." 
He walked partly across the room, then came back to where 
she sat so bowed and stricken. 
"You understand that I could not have taken your love or 
your honors with this secret untold. I should have loathed 
myself for cowardice and hypocrisy. There have been times 
when I could have cried out against God's injustice, as I 
thought it ; but when Kirke Gilliat's sore punishment over 
took him I was shamed into silence. There is a deeper lesson 
in it than I have yet learned. But wherever I go, to whatever 
station I may attain, this year at Cragness will be like the palm 
and the fountain in the desert of my life. How much T owe 
you for the sake of one dead, I never can put into words." 
"I have not sent you away: remember that," she cried 
weakly. "You will come to-morrow." 
Victor bowed and withdrew. Sylvia still sat crouched in 
the hall ; but she glanced up with desperate, questioning eyes. 
He took her hand. 
"I will bind you by no promises," he said. "You shall 
b<i quite free ; but you must know you do know, that I love 
 
you. There may be brighter fortunes for you than to go into 
exile with me." 
"I choose it, I choose it !" she cried, in accents of strong, 
steadfast faith. "Whatever you were, my love would be the 
same. If you had gone in silence, I must still have loved. 
For all time, forever." 
He kissed the quivering lips, and strained her to his heart. 
No matter how great the wreck, he had saved this priceless 
treasure. One old dream had come true she would be the 
judge and inspiration of his future, of his work. It was not so 
hard to be an outcast as it had looked an hour ago. 
Doctor Trewartha and Ruth Gamier had the spacious room 
and glowing fire to themselves that evening. Sylvia went to 
bed directly after supper, and Madam McRae wanted solitude 
and silence. All the strong prejudices of a lifetime were to be 
combatted. The McRae blood might not be heroic, but it 
was clean, honorable, and through the long line there had 
been no such miserable soul as Eustace Gilliat. Was that 
God's way of punishing a secret sin? Ah, in the face of His 
sharp judgment what right had she to deal out anything but 
mercy? Why should she make the innocent suffer for the 
guilty ? They had borne the burden, and he who laid it upon 
them had been prospered, honored. Should she swell the 
list of the world's false and easily-biased judges ? 
Her face was worn and gray at breakfast the next morning. 
Sylvia watched it furtively, but the stern lines never relaxed. 
And she hid the precious secret in her heart, gloating over it, 
that whatever came, she would not be thrust out of his life, 
but find there her work and her abiding-place. 
The morning was strangely long. Doctor Trewartha came 
over and insisted upon taking Ruth and Sylvia out to drive ; 
but Sylvia persisted in declining. 
"Go to your room, then," said Mrs. McRae, brusquely. 
"I must be alone." 
Watching from her window, she saw Victor Hurst and his 
 
mother come up the winding avenue. At any other time she 
would have flown down-stairs ; but now a secret delicacy for 
bade. She listened to Mrs. McRae's slow step, so unlike the 
tread of a day ago ; and then she sat tormenting herself with 
the strange mischances of life the mingled good and evil, 
like golden and gray threads in a warp. 
It seemed hours to her. She saw the farm-hands go up and 
down ; the sturdy women, with their careless gayety ; and 
occasionally a stray child rilling out the picture. Long after 
ward, a well-known form, that sent a strange, cold apprehen 
sion through ever}' nerve. A summons for her, perhaps; 
for what should Mr. Gilliat want of any other inmate in that 
house. 
She went down mechanically, for the mere sake of doing 
something ; the solitude oppressed her so like a dead weight. 
Listening to the voices in the hall she went forward. 
" Yes, Hannah, Mrs. Hurst is here, engaged with Mrs. 
McRae. " 
"Ah, Sylvia!" and Mr. Gilliat came toward her, taking 
both hands gravely, "I had not thought of seeing you here. 
My child, there have been many sorrows since our last meet 
ing. " 
All the tragedy of their lives lay between. 
"Do you know if I could see Mrs. Hurst alone? If you 
will hand her this card ?" 
Sylvia ushered him into the seldom used drawing-room, and 
then tapped lightly at the other door. 
"We are engaged," the voice replied, impatiently. She 
opened it the merest trifle. " Mrs. McRae, if you will please 
give this to Mrs. Hurst," thrusting forward the penciled mes 
sage. 
"Yes ; run away, Sylvia, Child ;" and the door was shut. 
She walked slowly up-stairs again, wondering. Would they 
never be done? And what could Mr. Gilliat want? How 
grave and sorrowful he looked. Ah, if these wearisome mys- 
 
teries were only at an end, if she might hear the one voice so 
dear to her !" 
When Anah Hurst entered the dim drawing-room, her eyes 
still bore traces of weeping ; but there was a sad, sweet dignity 
about her, a blending of gracious, yet sorely-tried womanhood. 
She did not take the hand half-proffered ; her heart was too full 
for mere courtesy toward Kirke Gilliat. 
He apologized briefly for his intrusion. He had sought her 
