“ and I ’m glad that we have a nurse. You don’t 
take care of your little brother, — do you ? ” 


 


“ Oh yes ; I don’t mind it very much, though ; but 
sometimes he is quite troublesome. Only I think 
we always love our family so well that it is a pleas- 
ure to care for them.” 

Ada shrugged her shoulders. 

“ Can’t we go in the nursery ? ” Katliie asked, 
presently. 

“ Yes, if you like ” ; and Ada led the way to a 
large, plainly furnished room, strewn with toys, and 
containing four occupants, — a nurse and three chil- 
dren. The baby was a sweet little girl of about four. 

Kathie held out her hands and she came at once. 

“ Why, how odd ! Florence is generally shy of 
strangers ” ; and Ada looked surprised. 

But Kathies sweet smile had won the little one. 

“ What a pretty name, — Florence ! If I had such 
a darling little sister I shouldn’t want ever to go 
away from her.” 

Ada smiled rather indifferently as she replied, 
“ But I have so much to occupy my attention, and 
I don’t love to take care of children.” 

The boys began to make shy advances to Kathie. 
She told George about her little brother at home ; 
and Willie asked if she didn’t know any stories. 


 


But Ada had no intention of her visitor’s wasting 
so much time upon the children. 

“ I want to show you my piano,” she said, “ and we 
will take a walk in the grounds. Uncle Edward said 
I was to entertain you.” 

“ Don’t go ’way,” pleaded Willie, holding fast her 
dress. 

“ Ask Miss Kathie if she will not call on us again,” 
prompted the nurse. 

“Ada won’t let her,” George appended, rather crossly. 

“ Hush, Georgie ; that isn’t nice.” 

They had a great time kissing Kathie, and begging 
her to come again. Then Ada took her down stairs 
and played for her quite a while. The music inter- 
ested Kathie very much, still she could not help 
thinking of the little children in the nursery. Pres- 
ently they were summoned to lunch, and afterwards 
the whole party rambled through the grounds. Mrs, 
Meredith then proposed a drive, as they would have 
just about time before the boat returned. 

Mr. Meredith came down stairs just as the girls 
were putting on their hats. “ Kathie,” he exclaimed, 
" those little rogues in the nursery insist upon saying 
another good by to you ; will you come ? ” 


 


She was delighted to comply ; and the children 
would have almost devoured her if Uncle Edward 
had not interfered. 

“ She will never dare venture in this lion’s den 
again,” he said, with a laugh. 

The drive was delightful. Mrs. Meredith was 
very cordial in her invitation for them to come again, 
and Ada regretted that Kathie’s stay must be so 
short. 

“ I begin to have some wants,” Kathie said that 
night, sitting on Uncle Robert’s knee ; “ I ’d like to 
have a piano and quantities ol nice books, and a 
pony. Ada has such a pretty one. Will my purse 
buy them all ? ” and she looked archly up in his 
face. 

“You don’t know until you test it.” 

“ The visit was very pleasant,” she said to Aunt 
Ruth, when they were alone ; “ but I couldn’t help 
thinking that Miss Jessie makes you happy by doing 
everything your way, just as if she had asked you 
what you liked most, and Ada thinks her way is 
so much better that you ought to be pleased with it 
as a matter of course.” 

Aunt Ruth smiled. “ That is the germ of selfish- 


 


ness, Katliie, and people in Ada’s circumstances have 
many temptations to yield to it. Only by striving 
very hard can it be overcome. And since my dear 
little girl can see it, she must endeavor to strive 
against it.” 

There were several more very busy days, and at 
last Katliie tried her purse. She bought a set of 
books for Rob, he having read stray ones and liked 
them very much ; and she saw a most elegant little 
locomotive with a train of cars, that, being wound up 
like a clock, ran all over the floor. That must he for 
Fred. But then in dismay she found that she had 
not money enough. Just as she laid the last piece 
on the counter there was a glitter before her eyes, 
and sure enough her store was immediately in- 
creased. 

“ But if I should be away from you, Uncle Rob ? ” 

“ Oh, it ’s part of the bargain that you always take 
me along.” 

“ Now I ’d like to buy something for mamma, — a 
gray silk dress, just like Mrs. Darrell’s.” 

After quite a search they found it. Kathie 
laughed each time her purse was replenished. 

“ But you have bought nothing for yourself."



“ I believe I don’t want anything just now.” 

“ Very well,” Uncle Robert said, a merry twinkle 
dancing in his eye a moment. 

Mr. Meredith was very sorry to part with Kathie, 
and promised to come to Brookside as soon as the new 
house was in order. Several of the ladies besides 
Mrs. Havens had taken a great fancy to her, for she 
had proved herself so sweet-tempered and engaging. 

“ I should be real sorry to go home if it wasn’t 
for seeing mamma and Freddy and Rob, but that 
seems so delightful. And I wonder what they have 
done to the house ! Then there ’s Miss J essie and 
Charlie, and all the girls. Yes, I believe I do want 
to go home.” 

It was royal to see them all again. Freddy near- 
ly kissed her to death, until presently Rob said, 
“ Come, Fred, give me a chance. Remember that 
I haven’t seen Kathie for ’most a fortnight.” 

Fred opened his eyes at this, not exactly taking in 
the meaning. 

“ Dear mamma,” Kathie said, “ I ’m so glad to get 
back to you ! It has all been splendid, and I have 
seen ever so many nice people ; but you are the best 
and sweetest of them all.” 




Two trunks came from New York instead of the 
one they had taken. The largest Kathie was to 
unpack herself. 

“ I tried my purse, Rob, and here \s what came out 
of it for you ; and Oh, here is mamma’s share ! ” 

“ You might ha’ brought me something. It ’s real 
mean ” ; and Fred’s face was the picture of woe. 

“ Just wait and see.” 

She took out a large package and began tearing 
off the wrappings. Fred watched with anxious eyes. 
Kathie lifted the cars carefully out one by one, 
linked them together, and wound up the locomotive. 

