times, but I had no idea where I was or whither I was going, and I soon
found myself out on the prairie.

  [Illustration: PHIL ESCAPES FROM GLYNN. Page 40.]

No one was near me, and I was satisfied that Glynn had abandoned the
chase. I put on my coat, and walked leisurely in the direction which
I thought would lead me to the river. I was vexed and discouraged at
the loss of my money. My first mishap gave me some experience of the
disadvantages of civilization, for in the field and forest from which I
had come, we had no gamblers, or thieves, except the Indians. It would
be a very pretty story to tell Mr. Gracewood, that I had not been smart
enough to take care of myself, in spite of my boast to that effect, and
that I had lost all my money, except a little change in silver, which I
carried in my vest pocket. It was exceedingly awkward and annoying, and
I was almost ashamed to meet my excellent friend.

I continued to walk, keeping the houses of the town on my left,
expecting soon to see the river. But it seemed to me that the longer I
walked, the more I did not see it, and the less became the probability
that I should see it. In a word, I could not find any river, and I
concluded that I was journeying away from it, instead of towards it.
The houses on my left diminished in number, and I saw that all the
lights were behind me. I thought that, by this time, Glynn had given
up the chase, and was probably busy in attending to the wants of the
gamblers in Redwood's den. Turning to the left, I walked towards the
centre of the town, and soon struck a broad street, which had been laid
out, and on which an occasional house had been erected.

This course brought me to the middle of the place, and in front of the
hotel. I ventured to inquire the way to the river. Taking the direction
pointed out to me, I reached the landing-place without further
difficulty. I found the place where the steamers stopped, but there was
no boat to be seen. I visited every point above and below the landing;
I inquired in shops and offices, and of everybody I met; but I could
not discover the steamer's boat, and no one had seen it or heard of
it. It was very strange, and I was perplexed, but not alarmed. A trip
of seven miles in a boat, even in the evening, was not a very perilous
undertaking, and I was not willing to believe that any accident had
happened to my friends.

I had seen a clock in one of the stores where I had called, and I knew
it was half past eight. The boat must have arrived at least an hour
before, if it had come at all; but I had almost reached the conclusion
that my friends had abandoned the excursion. But if they had come, Mr.
Gracewood would go to the prayer-meeting, expecting to find me there,
and I went in search of such a gathering.




  CHAPTER IV.

  IN WHICH PHIL ENDEAVORS TO REMEDY HIS FIRST MISHAP.


I went up to the centre of the town, where I had seen a church; but
it was closed, and all its windows were dark. I inquired for the
other churches, and visited the rest of them; but I could find no
prayer-meeting. Those whom I asked had not heard of any meetings.
By this time I concluded that I was an idiot to believe that the
prayer-meeting was anything but a ruse on the part of Mr. Leonidas
Lynchpinne, otherwise Lynch, which was probably his true name, and
which he had doubtless extended for my especial benefit.

I was disgusted, and heartily wished I had not left the steamer. I
made up my mind that it was not safe to trust any stranger, even if he
said he was in the habit of attending prayer-meetings; but I ought to
add that I have always found it safe to trust those who really attend
them, and really take an interest in them. I had been duped, deceived,
robbed. I wanted my money back, and I was quite as anxious to see Lynch
as I was Mr. Gracewood.

I walked up to the hotel, and looked at every body I saw in the public
rooms, hoping that my fellow-passenger had concluded to pay a dollar
for his lodging, instead of fifty cents at the gambling den, which I
thought he now could afford to do, with his funds replenished with the
contents of my shot-bag. He was not there, and I went over towards
the house where I had been robbed. I approached the locality very
cautiously, for I was not anxious to confront the burly Glynn.

I examined the building at a respectful distance, and tried to fix the
location of the attic chamber where Lynch had plundered me; but I had
twisted about so many times in the long entries that I was unable to
do so. Occasionally a man, or a party of men, went up the steps, and I
supposed them to be the lodgers in the house. I watched those who went
in and those who came out, in the hope that I might see Lynch. I did
not see him, and perhaps it was just as well for me that I did not,
for, as I felt then, I should certainly have "pitched into him."

I could not do anything to help myself. I was tempted to arm myself
with a club and go into the lodging-house in search of the rascal
who had robbed me; but this would have been very imprudent. It was
possible that Lynch was still in the house, and that he would occupy
the room in the attic. I could not help thinking that Redwood was his
confederate, and that my money would be shared between them. They
seemed to understand each other perfectly, and I recalled the remark of
my companion, incomprehensible to me when it was uttered, that I was
"a dove with the yellows." A dove is the emblem of innocence, and the
yellows I took to be a metaphor, based upon the color of the pieces in
my shot-bag.

It was clearly more prudent for me to wait till the next morning
before I attempted to do anything; and, having satisfied myself of the
correctness of my conclusion, I decided to wait, with what patience I
could, for the assistance of my friends the next day. The night was
advancing, and I had no place to sleep. I had not money enough left
to pay even for a cheap lodging; and it was rather cool to camp on the
ground without a blanket. But I had a berth on board of the steamer, if
I could find my way back to her. I was not so tired that I could not
walk four miles.

I started for the wood-yard, and, with less difficulty than I expected,
I found the road over the prairie. As I trudged along in the darkness,
I thought of all the events of the evening. It was a pity that the
world contained any such rascals as "Mr. Leonidas Lynchpinne;" but I
was confident that the next time I met one of his class I should be a
match for him, and would not even go to a prayer-meeting with him. It
was possible that this worthy had returned to the steamer, relying upon
Redwood to retain me till after the steamer had left the town; but I
did not depend much upon finding him in his state-room.

Reaching the wood-yard, I went on board of the steamer. Though it was
nearly midnight, the gamblers on board were still plying their infamous
vocation. I went to the table, and satisfied myself that Lynch was not
among them. I visited the state-room which Mr. Gracewood had occupied
with me since we left Council Bluffs, where the number of passengers
increased so that I could no longer have a room to myself. He was not
there; and there was no light in the room occupied by his wife and
daughter. I was not willing to believe they had left the boat till I
obtained this evidence.

The bar of the steamer was still open, for wherever the gamblers were
whiskey was in demand. I asked the bar-keeper where the captain was,
and learned that he had retired; but the clerk was still up, and I soon
found him, for I wished to ascertain where Lynch's room was.

"Well, Phil, you are up late," said the clerk, as I walked up to him;
and in the long trip I had become well acquainted with him.

"I have been down to Leavenworth," I replied.

"Why did you come back? We shall be there early in the morning."

"I had to come back. Do you take the names of all the passengers?"

"Yes; we have to put all the names on the berth list."

"Is there one by the name of Leonidas Lynchpinne?" I asked.

"Certainly not," he replied, laughing.

"Or any name like it?"

"I will look, if you wish."

"Do, if you please, and I will tell you why I ask."

We went to the office, and he examined his list.

"Lyndon Lynch--"

"That's the man," I interposed. "Lynch. Which is his room?"

"No. 24."

"I should like to know whether he is in it, or not," I added.

"He came on board at St. Joe," said the clerk, as we walked to No. 24.

Lynch was not there, and the other occupant of the room was playing
cards at the table. I sat down with the clerk, and related to him all
the events of the evening. Occasionally he smiled, and even laughed
when I spoke of going to a prayer-meeting. I felt cheap to think I had
been duped so easily, and was a subject for the merriment of the clerk.

"You will never see your money again, Phil," said he, when I had
concluded.

"Why not? Don't they have any law in these civilized regions."

"You can have all the law you want when you find your man. This Lynch
is probably one of these blacklegs. They are miserable scoundrels, who
float about everywhere."

"But the man who kept the lodging-house was in league with him."

"Very likely; but it don't appear from your story that he had anything
to do with the robbery. Your own evidence would acquit him."

I did not derive much comfort from the clerk's remarks, though I could
not help acknowledging the truth of what he said. However, the loss of
a hundred dollars would not ruin me, uncomfortable and inconvenient
as it was. I could draw upon Mr. Gracewood, who had fifteen hundred
dollars of my funds in his possession. But I intended to make an effort
the next day, while the boat lay at Leavenworth, to find Lynch, and
have him lynched, if possible.

"But why did you come back, Phil?" continued the clerk. "Mr. Gracewood
and his family went down in the boat."
