but 

" Eob," she exclaimed, " did I tease you too much 
the other day about going ? It would be pleasanter, 
but if you 'd rather not " 


" Oh, I 'll go," said Rob,, with sudden decision. 

"Do you want anything fixed to-day that I 
do ? And I 'm so glad ! " 

" No, I believe not/' he answered, slowly, yet he 
lingered as if all had not been said. 

Kathie studied his face. It was rather uneasy and 
wistful. " Dear Eob," she began, " I wish I could do 
something for you." 

" You can, Kathie," hesitatingly and with an 
effort. " I hate to ask it of you, but - 

" What is it ? You know I 'd do anything, Rob, 
that was right," she added, in a lower tone. 

" Oh, there 's nothing wrong about this," he spoke 
up more bravely. "I wish you'd lend me twenty- 
five cents until Uncle Robert gives me mine on 
Monday." 

""With pleasure," returned Kathie, and she ran 
swiftly up stairs to her little store. 

Uncle Robert had given Fred fifty cents a month, 
and Rob a dollar, for any small expenses they might 
have from time to time. They were to receive it 
weekly, and not to ask their mother or Kathie for 
any more spend ing-money, But this was only 
borrowing. 



 

Katliie came down with a beaming face. Of course 
Bob must be rather short, for in the beginning he had 
to pay the fine on his stray articles. And since he 
had pleased her about the party she would do any 
kindness for him. 

She squeezed it softly into his hand and kissed 
him. He felt much relieved, and would have gone to 
half a dozen parties, he thought. 

All the day Kathie was as merry as a lark, but she 
did not forget her lessons, nor some sewing she had 
taken in hand. And while she sewed Uncle Robert 
read a very entertaining child's history aloud to her, 
questioning her afterward concerning the principal 
events. She progressed as rapidly with her studies 
as if she had been in school. 

Miss Jessie had sent her bird over, and she found it 
a great deal of company. It was a very pretty canary, 
quite deep in color, with a tiny black crest on the top 
of its head, and a little black tuft that it was fond 
of pulling out so that it could droop over its wing. 
Kathie used to laugh at this proceeding. 

Gypsy would wash, pick out his feathers and oil 
them until they shone, and last of all pull the black 
ones until they were in the most conspicuous place, 



 

and then march up and down the perch as if he 
thought himself exceedingly fine. He was a magnifi- 
cent singer, though he had but recently begun, for he 
was only a little over a year old. 

" But, after all, nothing can make amends for 
mamma and Aunt Euth," Kathie declared: " So you 
will have to tell me whether I am nice and party- 
like, Uncle Eobert." 

He thought she looked very pretty in her white 
dress and blue sash. Eob returned home in good 
spirits, and as Annie had charged them to come 
early, they did not loiter until an ultra-fashionable 
hour. Indeed, they were nearly the first, but Kathie 
didn't mind that, and as Eob and Mr. Gardiner 
compared notes on ponies, he felt quite well enter- 
tained. 

They did have a good time. Sophie Dorrance had 
gone to boarding-school, and Lottie Thorne was at her 
aunt's, and some of the boys seemed to have grown 
so much since the night they frolicked at Charlie 
DarrelTs. But they played ever so many amusing 
games, and danced Sir Eoger de Coveiiey, and then 
came the refreshments. 

Mrs. Gardiner's wide kitchen had been scrubbed 

until it shone. The table was spread its full length, 
and graced by two lovely pyramids of flowers. There 
was the grand iced cake in the middle, and different 
varieties at each end, and great dishes of the most 
luscious peaches and pears and grapes. Then on a 
side-table were slices of watermelon, crisp and rosy, 
and as the evening was warm the children enjoyed it 
wonderfully. The fruit they had of their own, and as 
Mrs. Gardiner said afterward, " it couldn't have been 
any nicer if they had spent a month's wages upon it." 

But the funniest of all was a play they had after- 
ward called Adventures. The children took a slip of 
paper and wrote first the date of any year, then any 
kind of a house, any sort of business, a place, a rela- 
tive's name, a sum of money, the name of a town or 
country, any sight, an article of any kind, and then 
any sort of deed that any one might do. After this 
the papers were collected, though I should say each 
child's name was signed to the paper. 

Mr. Gardiner was to read them. The first was 
Kathie's. He had a little outline on a card, and the 
blanks were to be filled in with what the children 
had written. 

"Here is Miss Kathie Alston's adventures/' he 
announced. 





" Miss Kathie Alston was born in the year fourteen 
nundred and ninety-two' at which the children 
all smiled, " in a log-cabin on the prairie, and 
followed shelling peas for a living. At the island of 
St. Helena she met her grandmother, who gave her 
six cents and told her to travel round the world and 
enjoy herself." Here the half-suppressed merriment 
became so audible that it broke into open laughter. 

"Think of travelling round the world for six 
cents ! " whispered Charlie Darrell. 

" Well, she went to China, and saw the man in 
the moon, and bought an elephant. When she re- 
turned home she put on the teakettle and made 
tea." 

" What did you do with your elephant ? ' some 
one asked, and " Whom did you invite to tea ? " 

" But your grandmother wasn't very generous," 
declared Lucy Gardiner. 

So when they had laughed and asked her all 
the questions they could think of, Mr. Gardiner 
prepared to read another. 

"Master Charlie Darrell was born on Fourth of 
July morning, eighteen hundred and sixty, at West- 
minster Abbey, and followed shoemaking for a liv- 

ing. At the extreme north of Greenland he met 
his brother, who gave him fifty thousand dollars and 
told him to travel all round the world and enjoy 
himself. He went to Dublin and bought a fish- 
ing-pole. When he returned home he pulled off 
his shoes and drowned himself in the Atlantic 
Ocean." 

" A tragic ending, I must confess," laughed Ka- 
thie. 

Some of them were very amusing indeed. Eob had 
a million of dollars, with which he bought a quart 
of peanuts ; and one little girl had twenty dollars, 
with which she bought a crying baby. And they 
went to nearly every corner of the world, while 
some of them were mere children and others hun- 
dreds of years old. 

It was quite late after this was through, and 
they began to disperse. 

" We 've all had such a delightful time," said 
Kathie. " I 've enjoyed everything and laughed 
until I actually ache all over. What fun it has 
been ! " 

" I 'm so glad ! " replied Annie. " Of course it 
wasn't anything like your party." 

