this time he was decidedly hungry. How to provide himself with a dinner
was a subject that required immediate attention.
He walked about for an hour or two without finding himself at the end of
that time any nearer the solution of the question than before. To work
all day may be hard; but to do nothing all day on an empty stomach is
still harder.
About four o'clock, Martin found himself at the junction of Wall Street
and Nassau. I hardly know what drew this penniless man to the street
through which flows daily a mighty tide of wealth, but I suspect that he
was hoping to meet Rufus, who, as he had learned from Ben Gibson, was
employed somewhere on the street. Rufus might, in spite of the manner in
which he had treated him, prove a truer friend in need than the
worthless companions of his hours of dissipation.
All at once a sharp cry of pain was heard.
A passing vehicle had run over the leg of a boy who had imprudently
tried to cross the street just in front of it. The wheels passed over
the poor boy's legs, both of which appeared to be broken. Of course, as
is always the case under such circumstances, there was a rush to the
spot where the casualty took place, and a throng of men and boys
gathered about the persons who were lifting the boy from the ground.
"The boy seems to be poor," said a humane by-stander; "let us raise a
little fund for his benefit."
A humane suggestion like this is pretty sure to be acted upon by those
whose hearts are made tender by the sight of suffering. So most of those
present drew out their pocket-books, and quite a little sum was placed
in the hands of the original proposer of the contribution.
Among those who had wedged themselves into the crowd was James Martin.
Having nothing to do, he had been eager to have his share in the
excitement. He saw the collection taken up with an envious wish that it
was for his own benefit. Beside him was a banker, who, from a plethoric
pocket-book, had drawn a five-dollar bill, which he had contributed to
the fund. Closing the pocket-book, he carelessly placed it in an outside
pocket. James Martin stood in such a position that the contents of the
pocket-book were revealed to him, and the demon of cupidity entered his
heart. How much good this money would do him! There were probably
several hundred dollars in all, perhaps more. He saw the banker put the
money in his pocket,--the one nearest to him. He might easily take it
without observation,--so he thought.
In an evil moment he obeyed the impulse which had come to him. He
plunged his hand into the pocket; but at this moment the banker turned,
and detected him.
"I've caught you, you rascal!" he exclaimed, seizing Martin with a
vigorous grip. "Police!"
Martin made a desperate effort to get free, but another man seized him
on the other side, and he was held, despite his resistance, till a
policeman, who by a singular chance happened to be near when wanted,
came up.
Martin's ragged coat was rent asunder from the violence of his efforts,
his hat fell off, and he might well have been taken for a desperate
character, as in this condition he was marched off by the guardian of
the city's peace.
There was another humiliation in store for him. He had gone but a few
steps when he met Rufus, who gazed in astonishment at his step-father's
plight. Martin naturally supposed that Rufus would exult in his
humiliation; but he did him injustice.
"I'm sorry for him," thought our hero, compassionately; "he's done me
harm enough, but I'm sorry."
He learned from one of the crowd for what Martin had been arrested, and
started for Franklin Street to carry the news to Miss Manning and Rose.
CHAPTER V.
THE LAST EVENING IN FRANKLIN STREET.
Though Rufus felt sorry for Mr. Martin's misfortune, there was at least
one satisfaction connected with it. He would doubtless be sent to
Blackwell's Island for three months, and of course when there he would
be unable to annoy Rose, or contrive any plots for carrying her off.
This would be a great relief to Rufus, who felt more than ever how much
the presence of his little sister contributed to his happiness. If he
was better than the average of the boys employed like himself, it was in
a considerable measure due to the fact that he had never been adrift in
the streets, but even in the miserable home afforded by his step-father
had been unconsciously influenced towards good by the presence of his
mother, and latterly by his little sister Rose. He, in his turn, had
gained a salutary influence among the street boys, who looked up to him
as a leader, though that leadership was gained in the first place by
his physical superiority and manly bearing.
It occurred to him, that perhaps, after all, it might not be necessary
for Rose and Miss Manning to move from Franklin Street at present, on
account of Mr. Martin's arrest. He was rather surprised, when, on
entering the little room, after hurrying upstairs two or three steps at
a time, he saw Miss Manning's trunk open and half packed, with various
articles belonging to herself and Rose spread out beside it.
"Hallo!" he exclaimed, stopping short on the threshold, "what are you
doing?"
"Getting ready to move, Rufus," answered the seamstress.
"So you've found a place?"
"Oh, such a nice place, Rufie!" chimed in little Rose; "there's a nice
carpet, and there's going to be a sofa, and oh, it's beautiful!"
"So you're going to live in style, are you?" said Rufus. "But how about
the cost, Miss Manning?"
"That's the pleasantest part of it," was the reply; "it isn't going to
cost me anything, and I am to be paid two dollars a week besides."
Rufus looked bewildered.
"Can't I get a chance there too?" he asked. "I'd be willin' to give 'em
the pleasure of my society for half a price, say a dollar a week,
besides a room."
"We are to be boarded also," said Miss Manning, in a tone of
satisfaction.
"If it's a conundrum I'll give it up," said Rufus; "just tell a feller
all about it, for I begin to think you're crazy, or else have come
across some benevolent chap that's rather loose in the upper story."
Hereupon Miss Manning, unwilling to keep Rufus longer in suspense, gave
him a full account of her morning's adventures, including her engagement
with Mrs. Colman.
"You're in luck," said Rufus, "and I'm glad of it; but there's one thing
we'll have to settle about."
"What's that?"
"About Rose's board."
"Oh, that is all settled already. Mrs. Colman is to pay for her board as
well as mine."
"Yes, I know that; but it is your teachin' that is to pay for it."
"Yes, I suppose so."
"Then I must pay you for her board. That will make it all right."
"Oh, no, Rufus, I couldn't accept anything. You see it doesn't cost me
anything."
"Yes, it does," persisted the newsboy; "if it wasn't for that, you would
be paid more money."
"If it wasn't for her, I should not have applied for board in that
place; so you see that it is to Rose, after all, that I am indebted for
the situation."
"I see that you are very kind to Rose, Miss Manning, but I can't have
you pay for her board. I am her brother, and am well and strong. I can
afford to pay for Rose, and I will. Now how much will it be?"
Miss Manning persisted that she was not willing to receive anything; but
upon this point the newsboy's pride was aroused, and finally this
arrangement was made: Miss Manning was to receive three dollars a week,
and for this sum she also agreed to provide Rose with proper clothing,
so that Rufus would have no responsibility or care about her. He wanted
the seamstress to accept four dollars; but upon this point she was quite
determined. She declared that three dollars was too high, but finally
agreed to accept it.
"I don't want to make money out of Rose," she said.
"It'll take some time to get ahead of A. T. Stewart on three dollars a
week."
"I shall have five dollars a week."
"But you will have to buy clothes for Rose and yourself."
"I shall make them myself, so that they won't cost me more than half of
the money."
"Then you can save up the rest."
"But you will only have five dollars left to pay your expenses, Rufus."
"Oh, I can get along. Don't mind me."
"But I wanted you to come and board with us. Mrs. Clayton has a hall
bedroom which she would let to you with board for five dollars a week.
But that would leave you nothing for clothes."
"I could earn enough some other way to pay for my clothes," said Rufus;
"but I don't know about going to board with you. I expect it's a
fashionable place, and I shouldn't know how to behave."
"You will know how to behave as well as I do. I didn't think you were
bashful, Rufus."
"No more I am in the street," said the newsboy; "but you know how I've
lived, Miss Manning. Mr. Martin didn't live in fashionable style, and
his friends were not very select. When I took breakfast at Mr. Turner's,
I felt like a cat in a strange garret."
"Then it's time you got used to better society," said Miss Manning. "You
want to rise in the world, don't you?"
"Of course I do."
"Then take my advice, and come with us. You'll soon get used to it."
"Maybe I will. I'll come round to-morrow, and see how I like it."
"Remember you are in business in Wall Street, and ought to live
accordingly. Don't you think Mr. Turner would prefer to have you board
in a good place rather than sleep at the Lodging House, without any home
of your own?"
"Yes, I suppose he would," said Rufus.
The idea was a new one to him, but it was by no means disagreeable. He
had always been ambitious to rise, but thus far circumstances had
prevented his gratifying this ambition. His step-father's drunken
habits, and the consequent necessity he was under of contributing to his
support as well as that of Rose, and his mother when living, had
discouraged him in all his efforts, and led him to feel that all his
efforts were unavailing. But now his fortunes had materially changed.
Now, for the first time, there seemed to be a chance for him. He felt
that it was best to break off, as far as possible, his old life, and
turn over a new leaf. So the advice of his friend, Miss Manning,
commended itself to his judgment, and he about made up his mind to
become a boarder at Mrs. Clayton's. He would have the satisfaction of
being in the same house with his little sister Rose, and thus of seeing
much more of her than if he boarded down town at the Lodging House. It
would cost him more to be sure, leaving him, as Miss Manning suggested,
nothing for his clothes; but, as his duties in Wall Street did not
commence until nine o'clock, and terminated at five, he felt sure that
in his leisure time he would be able to earn enough to meet this
expense. Besides, there would be the interest on his five hundred
dollars, which would amount to not less than thirty dollars, and
probably more, for, with the advice of Mr. Turner, he was about to
purchase with it some bank shares. Then, if it should be absolutely
necessary, he could break in upon his principal, although he would be
sorry to do this, for, though he did not expect to add to it for a year
to come, he hoped to keep it at its present amount.
These thoughts passed rapidly through his mind, and, when little Rose,
taking his hand, said, pleadingly, "Do come and live with us, Rufie!" he
answered, "Yes, Rosy, I will, if Mrs. Clayton will make room for me."
"Oh, that will be so nice, won't it, Miss Manning?" said Rose, clapping
her hands.
"Perhaps Mr. Martin will come and board with us," said Rufus, jestingly;
"wouldn't you like that, Rose?"
"No," said Rose, looking frightened; "do you think he will find out
where we are?"
"Not for some time at least," said her brother. "By the way, I saw him
to-day, Miss Manning."
"Did you speak with him, Rufus?"
"Did he try to carry you off, Rufie?" asked Rose, anxiously.
