remained, there was always hope.
She now began to speak of her grounds for thinking it might be her duty
fully to publish this story before she left the world.
First she said that, through the whole course of her life, she had
felt the eternal value of truth, and seen how dreadful a thing was
falsehood, and how fearful it was to be an accomplice in it, even by
silence. Lord Byron had demoralised the moral sense of England, and he
had done it in a great degree by the sympathy excited by falsehood.
This had been pleaded in extenuation of all his crimes and vices, and
led to a lowering of the standard of morals in the literary world. Now
it was proposed to print cheap editions of his works, and sell them
among the common people, and interest them in him by the circulation of
this same story.
She then said in effect, that she believed in retribution and suffering
in the future life, and that the consequences of sins here follow us
there; and it was strongly impressed upon her mind that Lord Byron
must suffer in looking on the evil consequences of what he had done in
this life, and in seeing the further extension of that evil.
'It has sometimes strongly appeared to me,' she said, 'that he cannot
be at peace until this injustice has been righted. Such is the strong
feeling that I have when I think of going where he is.'
These things, she said, had led her to inquire whether it might not be
her duty to make a full and clear disclosure before she left the world.
Of course, I did not listen to this story as one who was investigating
its worth. I received it as truth. And the purpose for which it was
communicated was not to enable me to prove it to the world, but to ask
my opinion whether she should show it to the world before leaving
it. The whole consultation was upon the assumption that she had at her
command such proofs as could not be questioned.
Concerning what they were I did not minutely inquire: only, in answer
to a general question, she said that she had letters and documents
in proof of her story. Knowing Lady Byron's strength of mind, her
clear-headedness, her accurate habits, and her perfect knowledge of the
matter, I considered her judgment on this point decisive.
I told her that I would take the subject into consideration, and give
my opinion in a few days. That night, after my sister and myself had
retired to our own apartment, I related to her the whole history, and
we spent the night in talking of it. I was powerfully impressed with
the justice and propriety of an immediate disclosure; while she, on the
contrary, represented the painful consequences that would probably come
upon Lady Byron from taking such a step.
Before we parted the next day, I requested Lady Byron to give me some
memoranda of such dates and outlines of the general story as would
enable me better to keep it in its connection; which she did.
On giving me the paper, Lady Byron requested me to return it to her
when it had ceased to be of use to me for the purpose indicated.
Accordingly, a day or two after, I enclosed it to her in a hasty note,
as I was then leaving London for Paris, and had not yet had time fully
to consider the subject.
On reviewing my note, I can recall that then the whole history appeared
to me like one of those singular cases where unnatural impulses to
vice are the result of a taint of constitutional insanity. This has
always seemed to me the only way of accounting for instances of
utterly motiveless and abnormal wickedness and cruelty. These my first
impressions were expressed in the hasty note written at the time:--
  'LONDON, Nov. 5, 1856.
 'DEAREST FRIEND,--I return these. They have held mine eyes
 waking! How strange! how unaccountable! Have you ever subjected the
 facts to the judgment of a medical man learned in nervous pathology?
 'Is it not insanity?
  "Great wits to madness nearly are allied,
  And thin partitions do their bounds divide."
 'But my purpose to-night is not to write you fully what I think of
 this matter. I am going to write to you from Paris more at leisure.'
The rest of the letter was taken up in the final details of a
charity in which Lady Byron had been engaged with me in assisting an
unfortunate artist. It concludes thus:--
 'I write now in all haste, en route for Paris. As to America, all
 is not lost yet.[36] Farewell! I love you, my dear friend, as never
 before, with an intense feeling I cannot easily express. God bless you!
  'H. B. S.'
The next letter is as follows:--
  'PARIS, Dec. 17, 1856.
 [Footnote 36: Alluding to Buchanan's election.]
 'DEAR LADY BYRON,--The Kansas Committee have written me a
 letter desiring me to express to Miss ---- their gratitude for the
 five pounds she sent them. I am not personally acquainted with her,
 and must return these acknowledgments through you.
 'I wrote you a day or two since, enclosing the reply of the Kansas
 Committee to you.
 'On that subject on which you spoke to me the last time we were
 together, I have thought often and deeply.
 'I have changed my mind somewhat. Considering the peculiar
 circumstances of the case, I could wish that the sacred veil of
 silence, so bravely thrown over the past, should never be withdrawn
 during the time that you remain with us.
 'I would say, then, Leave all with some discreet friends, who, after
 both have passed from earth, shall say what was due to justice.
 'I am led to think this by seeing how low, how unjust, how unworthy,
 the judgments of this world are; and I would not that what I so much
 respect, love, and revere should be placed within reach of its harpy
 claw, which pollutes what it touches.
 'The day will yet come which will bring to light every hidden thing.
 "There is nothing covered that shall not be revealed, neither hid that
 shall not be known;" and so justice will not fail.
 'Such, my dear friend, are my thoughts; different from what they were
 since first I heard that strange, sad history. Meanwhile, I love you
 ever, whether we meet again on earth or not.
  'Affectionately yours,
  'H. B. S.'
The following letter will here be inserted as confirming a part of Lady
Byron's story:--
 TO THE EDITOR OF 'MACMILLAN'S MAGAZINE.'
 'SIR,--I trust that you will hold me excused from any desire
 to be troublesome, or to rush into print. Both these things are far
 from my wish. But the publication of a book having for its object the
 vindication of Lord Byron's character, and the subsequent appearance
 in your magazine of Mrs. Stowe's article in defence of Lady Byron,
 having led to so much controversy in the various newspapers of the
 day, I feel constrained to put in a few words among the rest.
 'My father was intimately acquainted with Lady Byron's family for many
 years, both before and after her marriage; being, in fact, steward to
 Sir Ralph Milbanke at Seaham, where the marriage took place; and, from
 all my recollections of what he told me of the affair (and he used
 often to talk of it, up to the time of his death, eight years ago), I
 fully agree with Mrs. Stowe's view of the case, and desire to add my
 humble testimony to the truth of what she has stated.
 'Whilst Byron was staying at Seaham, previous to his marriage, he
 spent most of his time pistol-shooting in the plantations adjoining
 the hall, often making use of his glove as a mark; his servant being
 with him to load for him.
 'When all was in readiness for the wedding-ceremony (which took place
 in the drawing-room of the hall), Byron had to be sought for in the
 grounds, where he was walking in his usual surly mood.
 'After the marriage, they posted to Halnaby Lodge in Yorkshire, a
 distance of about forty miles; to which place my father accompanied
 them, and he always spoke strongly of Lady Byron's apparent distress
 during and at the end of the journey.
 'The insulting words mentioned by Mrs. Stowe were spoken by Byron
 before leaving the park at Seaham; after which he appeared to sit
 in moody silence, reading a book, for the rest of the journey. At
 Halnaby, a number of persons, tenants and others, were met to cheer
 them on their arrival. Of these he took not the slightest notice, but
 jumped out of the carriage, and walked away, leaving his bride to
 alight by herself. She shook hands with my father, and begged that he
 would see that some refreshment was supplied to those who had thus
 come to welcome them.
 'I have in my possession several letters (which I should be glad to
 show to anyone interested in the matter) both from Lady Byron, and her
 mother, Lady Milbanke, to my father, all showing the deep and kind
 interest which they took in the welfare of all connected with them,
 and directing the distribution of various charities, &c. Pensions were
 allowed both to the old servants of the Milbankes and to several poor
 persons in the village and neighbourhood for the rest of their lives;
 and Lady Byron never ceased to take a lively interest in all that
 concerned them.
 'I desire to tender my humble thanks to Mrs. Stowe for having
 come forward in defence of one whose character has been much
 misrepresented; and to you, sir, for having published the same in your
 pages.
  'I have the honour to be, sir, yours obediently,
  'G. H. AIRD.
  'DAOURTY, NORTHAMPTONSHIRE, Sept. 29, 1869.'
CHAPTER III.
CHRONOLOGICAL SUMMARY OF EVENTS.
I have now fulfilled as conscientiously as possible the requests of
those who feel that they have a right to know exactly what was said in
this interview.
It has been my object, in doing this, to place myself just where I
should stand were I giving evidence under oath before a legal tribunal.
In my first published account, there were given some smaller details of
the story, of no particular value to the main purpose of it, which I
received not from Lady Byron, but from her confidential friend. One
of these was the account of her seeing Lord Byron's favourite spaniel
lying at his door, and the other was the scene of the parting.
The first was communicated to me before I ever saw Lady Byron, and
under these circumstances:--I was invited to meet her, and had
expressed my desire to do so, because Lord Byron had been all my life
an object of great interest to me. I inquired what sort of a person
Lady Byron was. My friend spoke of her with enthusiasm. I then said,
'but of course she never loved Lord Byron, or she would not have left
him.' The lady answered, 'I can show you with what feelings she left
him by relating this story;' and then followed the anecdote.
Subsequently, she also related to me the other story of the
parting-scene between Lord and Lady Byron. In regard to these two
incidents, my recollection is clear.
It will be observed by the reader that Lady Byron's conversation with
me was simply for consultation on one point, and that point whether
she herself should publish the story before her death. It was not,
therefore, a complete history of all the events in their order, but
specimens of a few incidents and facts. Her object was, not to prove
her story to me, nor to put me in possession of it with a view to my
proving it, but simply and briefly to show me what it was, that I
might judge as to the probable results of its publication at that time.
It therefore comprised primarily these points:--
1. An exact statement, in so many words, of the crime.
2. A statement of the manner in which it was first forced on her
attention by Lord Byron's words and actions, including: his admissions
and defences of it.
3. The admission of a period when she had ascribed his whole conduct to
insanity.
4. A reference to later positive evidences of guilt,--the existence of
a child, and Mrs. Leigh's subsequent repentance.
And here I have a word to say in reference to the alleged inaccuracies
of my true story.
The dates that Lady Byron gave me on the memoranda did not relate
either to the time of the first disclosure, or the period when her
doubts became certainties; nor did her conversation touch either of
these points: and, on a careful review of the latter, I see clearly
that it omitted dwelling upon anything which I might be supposed to
