"Don't shoot any one, Philip--pray don't."
"I shall not be likely to do so while the rifle is not loaded."
"But you may do something you don't intend to do."
"I certainly don't intend to fire a rifle that isn't loaded; and I
shall not shoot any one."
I had not yet decided what to do, though a desperate scheme was
flitting through my mind. If Mr. Whippleton slept in the cabin of the
Florina that night, it would be possible to board the yacht by stealth
in the darkness, fall upon him, and bind him hand and foot. The plan
looked practicable to me, and though I had not yet arranged the details
of it in my mind, or considered its difficulties, I was disposed to
undertake it. I did not care, therefore, to have the negro return to
the Florina with the intelligence that I was in possession of the
Marian. I intended, therefore, to make him sleep on board of our boat.
Before I had fully determined in what manner I should detain the cook
on board of the Marian, the boat came alongside. I turned my head away
from the man, so that her need not discover that I was not Mr.
Waterford before he came on board. I opened a conversation with Miss
Collingsby, and appeared to take no notice of the arrival. The negro
was evidently one of the lazy kind, for he did not offer to come on
board.
"How do you do, Mr. Waterford?" said the cook, as he brought his boat
under the quarter of the yacht.
"How do you do?" I replied, in a gruff tone.
"Gorrificious! Don't you know old Peter?" exclaimed the cook,
apparently wounded at my want of recognition of him.
"How are you, old Peter?" I added, coughing violently to disguise my
voice.
"Gorrificious, Mr. Waterford! I reckon you've got a bad cold. I've got
a letter for you from Mr. Whippleton," continued the cook.
"Take it--will you, Marian?" I added, still coughing. "I don't want him
to see me;" and I retreated into the cabin.
"Thank you miss," said Peter, as he delivered the letter. "I'm right
down sorry Mr. Waterford has got such a terrible cough--on his wedding
day, too, miss. Gorrificious, Miss Collingsby! Mr. Waterford is a lucky
gentleman; but he desarves you. He's a fine gentleman--liberal to old
Peter and all the boys."
Marian made no reply to this speech, though, when she appeared in the
cabin, her cheeks and forehead were crimson with confusion.
"Did you hear what old Peter said," she asked.
"I did; and it is plain enough that Mr. Whippleton is in the secret,
and has even told it to his cook."
"If I ever get home again, I shall not disobey my father. To think that
the wretch told Mr. Whippleton all about it beforehand."
"I supposed he had," I replied, as I opened the letter.
"What does he say, Philip?" asked Marian, curiously.
"'Dear Ben'--that's the way he begins. 'How is the fawn?'"
"The fawn?"
"Probably meaning Miss Collingsby," I replied. "'I was afraid Phil
would give you some trouble when I saw you had him on board. But you
fixed him handsomely. I saw him tip over the bow of the boat. If you
hadn't got rid of him, I should have gone ashore and helped you. I'm
glad it's all right. Why didn't you run up the river farther, and
anchor near the Florina? I thought I wouldn't call upon you till I knew
how the fawn was. If she is agreeable, we will run to St. Joseph in the
morning, and have your business done before noon.'"
"The brute!" exclaimed Marian, indignantly. "This has cured me of all
the romance I ever had. I used to think my father was very harsh; but
now I know he was right. He knew this man better than I did."
The familiarity and coarseness of the epistle were very offensive to
her, and she could hardly restrain her indignation.
"'P.S.' I continued, reading from the letter. 'In my hurry I forgot
the most important part of my stores. Please send me a couple of
bottles of whiskey, and let me know all about the fawn.'"
That was all; and Mr. Whippleton wanted but two things--whiskey and
information in regard to the fawn. I intended to furnish him with both,
as the representative of Mr. Ben Waterford. I found a sheet of paper in
the cabin, and I proceeded to describe the condition of the "fawn."
"Dear Charley," I began; and I had heard Mr. Waterford apply this
familiar name to our junior partner: "The fawn is very uneasy, and does
not like the idea of staying over night in this lagoon. I don't think
it is safe for you to remain here. Phil said the officers were on your
track, that Collingsby was after you with a sharp stick. Phil must have
spoken to the fawn, for she is very suspicious. I shall have to leave
in order to quiet her. I am all alone, and can't cook, or do anything,
while sailing. I am in a fix. I want Peter badly. Can't you let me have
him? I need him more than you do. Why can't you leave the Florina here,
and come on board of the Marian? I send you four bottles of whiskey.
"P.S. I got a rap on the right hand in the fight, and can't write
much."
I wrote this with a pencil, and in a style which would pass for
anybody's handwriting who had been wounded in a fight. I folded it up,
and having placed the four bottles of whiskey in a basket, I asked
Marian to deliver them to the cook, while I continued to cough
vigorously. I stood at the companion-way while my fair companion did
the errand.
"Gorrificious, Miss Collingsby!" exclaimed the negro. "Whiskey's plenty
as water, but none of it for old Peter."
"Take this letter to Mr. Whippleton," added Marian.
"Yes, miss. Old Peter'll do that. Can you told me if the letter says
how many bottles of whiskey they is in the basket?"
"It says four."
"Marian," I called to her. "Here is one for Peter."
I gave her the extra bottle, and she presented it to the cook, who was
more grateful for the gift than he would have been for its value in
cash. I am willing to acknowledge that it was against my principles to
give liquor to any one; but the probability was, that I should have a
battle with the master, who would perhaps be aided by the man; and I
regarded the whiskey as an ally of mine, as long as they, and not I,
drank it. As soon as Peter had departed, my cough improved, and I
ventured on deck again. I was sure that what I had written would make a
breeze, when Mr. Whippleton read it, and I tried to prepare myself for
whatever might happen.
CHAPTER XXII.
IN WHICH PHIL IS BEWILDERED, AND THE MARIAN SAILS FOR CHICAGO.
"What next, Philip?" asked Marian, when I had seated myself in the
standing-room.
"That boat will return next with Mr. Whippleton," I replied, picking up
the rifle which I had left upon the cushion.
"I hope there will be no violence," she added, anxiously.
"I hope not; but what shall I do? Shall I let him rob your father of
half the capital of the firm? Shall I let him rob his mother of nearly
all she has in the world? If I don't strike when I have an opportunity,
everything will be lost."
"What do you mean by his mother?"
"The package which Mr. Whippleton took from the safe was placed in my
charge by his mother, to keep it from falling into his hands. She was
very sick, and may not live many days. Your father had no idea what a
villain his partner was."
"I am sure he had not; but can't you manage it without any violence?"
"If I can, I will. I have no taste for a fight; but I have still less
for letting Mr. Whippleton run away with his ill-gotten gains. I should
be ashamed of myself if I did. Besides, your father accuses me of
concealing the villany of his partner, and even of being a participator
in it. He would have good reason to think so if I let him slip through
my fingers now. No, I will not do it. I will follow him to the end of
the earth, and if he don't give up his plunder there will be a fight,
though I may get my own head smashed in the scrape."
Marian said no more about peace on such terms, and I watched the boat
with interest, as it came up under the counter of the Florina. I did
not see Mr. Whippleton read the letter I had written; but I have no
doubt that he did read it, for in a few moments more he embarked in the
tender with Peter.
"There they come, just as you said!" exclaimed Marian, apparently in
despair.
"I knew that letter would bring him, for I informed him that the
officers of justice were on his track. I have no doubt that the police
have telegraphed to all the cities within a thousand miles of Chicago
by this time. If anything would wake up the rascal, the news I sent him
would have that effect. Besides, I invited him to take passage in the
Marian."
"You did!"
"Yes, for I want him where I can put my hand upon him."
"But he can put his hand upon you, and then I shall be alone. What will
become of me?"
"You need not be at all alarmed. He will not injure or insult you."
"What do you mean to do, Philip? Can't I help you?"
"I intend to make a prisoner of him, if possible. I don't think you can
help me do such a job. I am going into the cabin now, for I don't wish
him to see me until he is fairly on board."
"What shall I do?"
"Stay here, if you please. He will go below immediately."
The tender was rapidly approaching the yacht, and I went into the
cabin, where I had another attack of coughing as soon as I heard Mr.
Whippleton step upon the deck.
"Good evening, Miss Collingsby," said he, as he saw our fair passenger.
"I hope you are very well. Where is your friend?"
"What friend?" she asked, in such a tone that I was afraid she would
excite his suspicions before he came into the cabin.
"Why, Mr. Waterford, of course. Since you are to become his wife
to-morrow morning, he ought to be the dearest friend on earth to you.
But as he is not on deck, he must be in the cabin."
I heard his step on the ladder, and I confess that I felt no little
anxiety for the issue. I sat upon one of the lockers, still wearing the
skipper's coat and hat. It was rather dark in the cabin, and I was not
surprised that he did not recognize me at first.
"What's all this, Ben?" said he, in hurried speech. "Every dollar
counts now, and I can't afford to lose a thousand by leaving my boat
here. I was to deliver her to the purchaser to-morrow at St. Joseph.
What do you mean about officers? Collingsby hasn't the remotest
suspicion that anything is wrong."
"Yes, he has," I replied, coughing and choking, so that I could not
have identified my own voice.
"What has happened?" he demanded, in obvious alarm.
"He knows everything," I barked, with my handkerchief over my mouth.
"He has telegraphed to St. Joseph and fifty other places before this
time to have you arrested."
"Arrested!"
I heard the long breath he drew in his terror.
"We must be off at once."
"What's the matter with you? What makes you cough so?"
"A cold."
"What will you do with the fawn, Ben?"
"She is not agreed to anything," I replied, as I struck a match, for I
thought it was time to have a little more light on the subject.
I had waited till he was in a comfortable position on the locker
opposite me, with the table between us. I lighted the lamp, which was
suspended from the ceiling of the cabin. My cough was suddenly and
miraculously cured.
"What are you going to do, Ben?"
"That will depend upon what you do," I replied, in my natural voice.
"Who are you?"
"Your obedient servant," I answered, throwing off the hat I had worn,
which concealed my face in part.
"Phil!" gasped he, starting back with astonishment.
"Assistant book-keeper, &c.," I replied.
"What are you doing here?"
"Attending to the affairs of the firm which I have the honor to serve.
I am here on their business, though I have a little of mine to attend
to at the same time."
