Susie, when she was very loving, called me Hazzy, and sometimes would
play on my name, and call me Hazzy Dazzy, and sometimes Dazzy, and we
laughed at this because it was between us; and we amused ourselves with
thinking how surprised people would be to hear her say Dazzy, and how
they would wonder who she meant. In like manner, I used to call her
Daisy when we were by ourselves, because she seemed to me so neat and
trim and pure, and wore a little flat hat on Sundays just like a daisy.
"I'll tell you, Daisy," said I, "just what I'm going to do--I'm going to
grow strong as Sampson did."
"Oh, but how can you?" she suggested, doubtfully.
"Oh, I'm going to run and jump and climb, and carry ever so much water
for Mother, and I'm to ride on horseback and go to mill, and go all
round on errands, and so I shall get to be a man fast, and when I get to
be a man I'll build a house all on purpose for you and me--I'll build it
all myself; it shall have a parlor and a dining-room and kitchen, and
bed-room, and well-room, and chambers"--
"And nice closets to put things in," suggested the little woman.
"Certainly, ever so many--just where you want them, there I'll put
them," said I, with surpassing liberality. "And then, when we live
together, I'll take care of you--I'll keep off all the lions and bears
and panthers. If a bear should come at you, Daisy, I should tear him
right in two, just as Sampson did."
At this vivid picture, Daisy nestled close to my shoulder, and her eyes
grew large and reflective. "We shouldn't leave poor Mother alone," said
she.
"Oh, no; she shall come and live with us," said I, with an exalted
generosity. "I will make her a nice chamber on purpose, and my mother
shall come, too."
"But she can't leave your father, you know."
"Oh, father shall come, too--when he gets old and can't preach any more.
I shall take care of them all."
And my little Daisy looked at me with eyes of approving credulity, and
said I was a brave boy; and the bobolinks chittered and chattered
applause as they sung and skirmished and whirled up over the meadow
grasses; and by and by, when the sun fell low, and looked like a great
golden ball, with our hands full of lilies, and our baskets full of
strawberries, we climbed over the old wall, and toddled home.
After that, I remember many gay and joyous passages in that happiest
summer of my life. How, when autumn came, we roved through the woods
together, and gathered such stores of glossy brown chestnuts. What joy
it was to us to scuff through the painted fallen leaves and send them
flying like showers of jewels before us! How I reconnoitered and marked
available chestnut trees, and how I gloried in being able to climb like
a cat, and get astride high limbs and shake and beat them, and hear the
glossy brown nuts fall with a rich, heavy thud below, while Susie was
busily picking up at the foot of the tree. How she did flatter me with
my success and prowess! Tom Halliday might be a bigger boy, but he could
never go up a tree as I could; and as for that great clumsy Jim Fellows,
she laughed to think what a figure he would make, going out on the end
of the small limbs, which would be sure to break and send him bundling
down. The picture which Susie drew of the awkwardness of the big boys
often made us laugh till the tears rolled down our cheeks. To this day I
observe it as a weakness of my sex that we all take it in extremely good
part when the pretty girl of our heart laughs at other fellows in a
snug, quiet way, just between one's dear self and herself alone. We
encourage our own dear little cat to scratch and claw the sacred
memories of Jim or Tom, and think that she does it in an extremely
cunning and diverting way--it being understood between us that there is
no malice in it--that "Jim and Tom are nice fellows enough, you
know--only that somebody else is so superior to them," etc.
Susie and I considered ourselves as an extremely forehanded, well-to-do
partnership, in the matter of gathering in our autumn stores. No pair of
chipmonks in the neighborhood conducted business with more ability. We
had a famous cellar that I dug and stoned, where we stored away our
spoils. We had chestnuts and walnuts and butternuts, as we said, to last
us all winter, and many an earnest consultation and many a busy hour did
the gathering and arranging of these spoils cost us.
Then, oh, the golden times we had when father's barrels of new cider
came home from the press! How I cut and gathered and selected bunches of
choice straws, which I took to school and showed to Susie,
surreptitiously, at intervals, during school exercises, that she might
see what a provision of bliss I was making for Saturday afternoons. How
Susie was sent to visit us on these occasions, in leather shoes and
checked apron, so that we might go in the cellar; and how, mounted up on
logs on either side of a barrel of cider, we plunged our straws through
the foamy mass at the bung-hole, and drew out long draughts of sweet
cider! I was sure to get myself dirty in my zeal, which she never did;
and then she would laugh at me and patronize me, and wipe me up in a
motherly sort of way. "How do you always get so dirty, Harry?" she
would say, in a truly maternal tone of reproof. "How do you keep so
clean?" I would say, in wonder; and she would laugh, and call me her
dear, dirty boy. She would often laugh at me, the little elf, and make
herself distractingly merry at my expense, but the moment she saw that
the blood was getting too high in my cheeks, she would stroke me down
with praises, as became a wise young daughter of Eve.
Besides all this, she had her little airs of moral superiority, and used
occasionally to lecture me in the nicest manner. Being an only darling,
she herself was brought up in the strictest ways in which little feet
could go; and the nicety of her conscience was as unsullied as that of
her dress. I was hot tempered and heady, and under stress of great
provocation would come as near swearing as a minister's son could
possibly do. When the big boys ravaged our house under the tree, or
threw sticks at us, I used to stretch every permitted limit, and scream,
"Darn you!" and "Confound you!" with a vigor and emphasis that made it
almost equal to something a good deal stronger.
On such occasions Susie would listen pale and frightened, and, when
reason came back to me, gravely lecture me, and bring me into the paths
of virtue. She used to rehearse to me the teachings of her mother about
all manner of good things.
I have her image now in my mind, looking so crisp and composed and neat
in her sobriety, repeating, for my edification, the hymn which contained
the good child's ideal in those days:
  "Oh, that it were my chief delight
    To do the things I ought,
  Then let me try with all my might
    To mind what I am taught.
  Whene'er I'm told, I'll freely bring
    Whatever I have got,
  And never touch a pretty thing,
    When mother tells me not.
  If she permits me, I may tell
    About my little toys,
  But if she's busy or unwell,
    I must not make a noise."
I can hear now the delicious lisp of my little saint, and see the
gracious gravity of her manner. To my mind, she was unaccountably well
established in the ways of virtue, and I listened to her little lectures
with a secret reverence.
Susie was especially careful in the observation of Sunday, and as that
is a point where children are apt to be particularly weak, she would
exhort me to rigorous exactitude.
I kept it, first, by thinking that I should see her at church, and by
growing very precise about my Sunday clothes, whereat my sisters winked
at each other and laughed slyly. Then at church we sat in great square
pews adjoining to each other. It was my pleasure to peep through the
slats at Susie. She was wonderful to behold then, all in white, with a
profusion of blue ribbons and her little flat hat over her curls--and a
pair of dainty blue shoes peeping out from her dress.
She informed me that little girls never must think about their clothes
in meeting, and so I supposed she was trying to be entirely absorbed
from earthly vanities, unconscious of the fixed and earnest stare with
which I followed every movement.
Human nature is but partially sanctified, however, in little saints as
well as grown up ones, and I noticed that occasionally, probably by
accident, the great blue eyes met mine, and a smile, almost amounting to
a sinful giggle, was with difficulty choked down. She was, however, a
most conscientious little puss and recovered herself in a moment, and
looked gravely upward at the minister, not one word of whose sermon
could she by any possibility understand, severely devoting herself to
her religious duties, till exhausted nature gave way. The little lids
would close over the eyes like blue pimpernel before a shower,--the head
would drop and nod, till finally the mother would dispense the little
Christian from further labors, by laying her head on her lap and drawing
her feet up comfortably upon the seat, to sleep out to the end of the
sermon.
When winter came on I beset my older brother to make me a sled. Sleds,
such as every boy in Boston or New York now rejoices in, were blessings
in our parts unknown; our sled was of rough, domestic manufacture.
My brother, laughing, asked if my sled was intended to draw Susie on,
and on my earnest response in the affirmative he amused himself with
painting it in colors, red and blue, most glorious to behold.
My soul was magnified within me when I first started with this stylish
establishment to wait on Susie.
What young fellow does not exult in a smart team when he has a girl whom
he wants to dazzle? Great was my joy and pride when I first stopped at
Susie's and told her to hurry on her things, for I had come to draw her
to school!
What a pretty picture she made in her little blue knit hood and mittens,
her bright curls flying and cheeks glowing with the keen winter air!
There was a long hill on the way to school, and seated on the sled
behind her, I careered gloriously down with exultation in my breast,
while a stream of laughter floated on the breeze behind us. That was a
winter of much coasting down hill, of red cheeks and red noses, of cold
toes, which we never minded, and of abundant jollity. Susie, under her
mother's careful showing, knit me a pair of red mittens, warming to the
heart and delightful to the eyes; and I piled up wood and carried water
for Mother, and by vigorous economy earned money enough to buy Susie a
great candy heart as big as my two hands, that had the picture of two
doves tied together by a blue ribbon on one side, and on the other two
very red hearts skewered together by an arrow.
No work of art ever gave greater and more unmingled delight. Susie gave
it a prominent place in her baby-house,--and though it was undeniably
sweet, as certain little nibbling trials on its edges had proved, yet
the artistic sense was stronger than the palate, and the candy heart was
kept to be looked at and rejoiced in.
Susie's mother was an intimate and confidential friend of my mother, and
a most docile and confiding sheep of my father's flock. She regarded her
minister's family, and all that belonged to it, as something set apart
and sacred. My mother had imparted to her the little joke of my
matrimonial wishes, and the two matrons had laughed over it together,
and then sighed, and said, "Ah! well, stranger things have happened."
Susie's mother told how she used to know her husband when he was a
little boy, and what if it should be! and then they strayed on to the
general truth that this was a world of uncertainty, and we never can
tell what a day may bring forth.
Our little idyl, too, was rather encouraged by my brothers and sisters,
who made a pet and plaything of Susie, and diverted themselves by the
gravity and honesty with which we devoted ourselves to each other. Oh!
dear ignorant days--sweet little child-Eden--why could it not last?
But it could not. It was fleeting as the bobolink's song, as the spotted
yellow lilies, as the grass and daisies. My little Daisy was too dear to
the angels to be spared to grow up in our coarse world.
The winter passed and spring came, and Susie and I rejoiced in the first
bluebird, and found blue and white violets together, and went to school
together, till the heats of summer came on. Then a sad epidemic began to
linger around in our mountains, and to be heard of in neighboring
villages, and my poor Daisy was scorched by its breath.
I remember well our last afternoon together in the meadow, where, the
year before, we had gathered strawberries. We went down into it in high
spirits; the strawberries were abundant, and we chatted and picked
