
"If I see them, I'll settle the Alabama claims with them on my own
account. But you ought to have seen the big boatswain floundering in
the water, sir."

"No doubt it was very funny."

"It was, indeed," added Clyde, as the waiter appeared, and handed a
card to Captain Kendall.

"In the court yard, sir," said the servant; and Paul followed the man
to the place where the visitors were waiting.

Peaks, as dry, clean, and good-natured as ever, was talking to Mr.
Lowington. Paul could not help laughing as he thought of the
confidence which Clyde had reposed in him, and that the fugitive had
voluntarily, and without any precautions, told his adventures to one
who really belonged to the fleet.

"He has told me all about it," said Paul.

"Told you?" exclaimed Mr. Lowington.

"Yes, sir; how he pushed Peaks overboard, and then ran away," laughed
Paul. "I don't often wear my uniform on shore, for my wife thinks it
attracts too much attention; so that he did not suspect me of any
connection with the fleet."

"But where is he now?" asked the principal.

"I left him in the hall only a moment since."

"Show me his room, my hearty," said Peaks to the waiter.

"Call a carriage," added Mr. Lowington. "He will make a disturbance in
the streets."

The servant led the way to the room of Clyde, followed by the rest of
the party. All were rather anxious to see the clever Briton, who had
done such wonders of valor and cunning, captured.

But Clyde had a pair of eyes, and, withal, a pair of ears. From
the hall where he promenaded were several doors opening into the
court-yard. Perhaps the youth had a Yankee's curiosity to see who
called upon his new acquaintance, and he went to one of these doors.
He saw Paul walk up to the principal, and shake hands with him. There
was the big boatswain too, and there were two of the nobs with the
gold bands. It was evident enough to Clyde, then, that he had made a
blunder in relating his exploits to a stranger. But the battle was not
lost yet. His chamber was on the ground floor, and had a window which
opened into Dronningensgaden. Without losing another instant, he
opened the window, and dropped out into the street. He did not even
wait to take the bundle which contained his ship's uniform.

When Peaks entered the chamber, the bird had flown, and the open
window indicated the means by which he had escaped; but Clyde had
several minutes the start of his pursuers, and had made good use of
his time. The boatswain dropped out of the window, followed by Norwood
and Lincoln, while the principal and the doctor went round by the
doors as the more dignified means of egress. Peaks went one way, and
the two lieutenants the other way.

Clyde, fearful that haste might look suspicious, walked a short
distance, till he came to a building on which was a sign, Hôtel du
Nord, and which appeared to be under repairs. He stepped in at the
open door, and went up stairs. Men were at work in some of the rooms;
but he avoided them, and appeared to be looking over the building. At
last he came to an open window on the street from which he had
entered. He looked out, and in the distance saw his pursuers running
rapidly in opposite directions. After he had remained in the hotel
about an hour, he ventured to leave, and walked very cautiously up the
street. Feeling the need of an overcoat, he entered a store, and
purchased one, which still further disguised him, so that if he met
any of his late shipmates, they would be still less likely to
recognize him. He walked till he came to a carriage stand; where,
entering a vehicle, he pointed in the direction he wished to go, which
was towards the king's palace. When the driver stopped at the gate, he
pointed towards the hills in the rear of the city. The Norwegian
looked astonished, and could not understand him.

"I want to go out of town."

The driver drove his horse to the other side of the street, and hailed
a short, stout man, who was passing at the time.

"Do you want a guide, sir?" asked the stranger.

"Yes," promptly replied Clyde.

"Where do wish to go?"

"Over there," replied Clyde, pointing again in the direction he wished
to go.

"To Sandviken?"

"Yes; that's the place," added the youth, who did not care where he
went, if he could only get out of the city.

"It is more than eight miles," suggested the guide.

"I don't care if it is eighty; that's where I want to go. Are you a
commissionaire?"

"Yes. I belong to the Victoria Hotel."

"All right; jump in."

The man made a bargain with the driver, and in a few moments Clyde was
on his way to Sandviken, confident that he had escaped any further
pursuit. He had already come to the conclusion not to see his mother
until after the Young America had left Christiania.

In the mean time, Peaks had given up the chase. Paul assured the
principal that Clyde would come back as soon as his mother arrived.
Mr. Lowington did not care to have the new scholar see his mother
again if he was to be a student in the Academy; but as Clyde could not
be found, there appeared to be no alternative.

In a couple of hours, the fugitive reached Sandviken, where he
informed his astonished guide that he intended to proceed to
Christiansand by land. His courier was willing to go with him so long
as he was paid; and as Clyde had plenty of money, and disbursed it
freely, there was no difficulty. Though the next day was Sunday, the
young traveller continued his journey, and on Monday afternoon arrived
at Apalstö, at the head of one of the inland lakes, where he intended
to sleep; but the station-house was full. Clyde was tired, and did not
feel like going any farther. While he was sending his courier to look
up a bed for him, about a dozen boys wearing the uniform of the
Academy ship flashed upon his view. He was astonished and alarmed. He
suspected that this party had been sent to the interior to head him
off. He was determined not to be an easy victim.

One of the party had a good-sized salmon in his hand, which indicated
that they had been a-fishing.

They took no notice of him, though they could not help seeing him, and
Clyde took courage from this circumstance.

The fishing squad was composed of the crew of the second cutter--the
unfortunates who had been run down by the steamer.




CHAPTER IX.

THE EXCURSION WITHOUT RUNNING AWAY.


The second cutter was a wreck on the water, and the crew saved
themselves by climbing up the bow of the steamer which had run down
the boat. They received prompt assistance from those on board, and, as
the cutter did not sink, and would not have done so, having no
ballast, even if she had been cut in two, the crew were so well
trained that not one of them was guilty of the absurdity of jumping
overboard, and therefore no one was even very wet.

It appeared to be one of those cases where both parties had struggled
to avoid the catastrophe, but the more they struggled the worse was
the situation. If the cutter, on the one hand, had continued on her
course, she would have escaped. If the steamer, on the other hand, had
not changed her course when the calamity was threatened, the boat
could have avoided her. The change of purpose in each had confused the
other, and rendered unavailing the attempt to avoid the collision. The
boat would have gone clear of the steamer if the latter had not put
her helm to starboard. But the catastrophe was accomplished so quickly
that there was not much time to philosophize; and as nothing worse
than a stove boat had resulted from it, there was not much reason to
complain. We are not aware that any one did complain; and we only
state the appearances, not the facts.

The steamer started her wheels again after the cutter had been secured
and made fast astern. The captain spoke only a few words of English,
and Sanford found it quite impossible to hold a conversation with him.
But Ole Amundsen was at hand in this emergency.

"Tell him he needn't stop for us, Ole," said the coxswain.

"Don't you want to return to the ship?" asked the astonished waif.

"No, no," replied Sanford, in a low tone, so that some of the doubtful
members of his crew might not hear him. "Where is the steamer going,
Ole?"

"To Christiania, stopping at all the ports on the coast," answered
Ole, when he had obtained the information from the captain.

"All right; we will go to the first place where she stops," added
Sanford. "Don't say a word to the rest of the fellows, Ole."

"The first port she stops at is Lillesand," said Ole.

"Very well; we will go there."

Ole explained to the captain that the boys he had picked up wished to
go to Lillesand, where they could join their ship. This plan exactly
suited the young Norwegian, for he did not like the idea of being
landed at Christiansand, or taken back to the ship.

