And we never were free till now." 

" But if I go to buy a coat " said Nor 
ton ; and he stopped. 

" Yes, if you go to buy a coat ; you will 
remember that you and the coat are the 
Lord's together ; and you will buy that coat 
which you think is the one he would like you 
to wear, and in which you can best work for 
him ; and not use his money for any other." 

Norton was silent, not because he had no 
thoughts to speak. Matilda was silent, but 



 

with a very different face. It was serious, 
sweet, meditative, and content. 

" I see how it is, Mr. Richmond," she said 
at last, looking up to his face. " Thank you, 
sir." 

" It is very nice to have people apply sermons for themselves, Matilda," said the minister. 




CHAPTER XII. 

MISS REDWOOD did not come back 
the next morning to get breakfast. No 
sign of her. Mr. Richmond and Matilda 
managed it, between them. Norton, I am 
afraid, was not up till Matilda called him, and 
that was when the coffee was nearly ready. 

Matilda learned how to get breakfast at the 
parsonage, and Norton learned to be up and 
help her ; for they made a long stay at the old 
brown house. Mrs. Laval's Swiss servants 
were all down with ship fever; and the two 
children were forbidden to come even near the 
house. Mrs. Laval herself staid at home and 
did what she could for the sufferers ; but she 
and Miss Redwood kept house alone together. 
Not a servant would be hired to come within 

reach of the dreadful contagion; and not a 




 

friend thought it was any use to go there just 
then to see anybody. Mrs. Laval and Miss 
Redwood had it all to themselves, with no one 
to look at besides but Mr. Richmond and the 
doctor. Mr. Richmond came to them con 
stantly. 

The flow of human sympathy went all to 
the house with the brown door. It was remarkable, how many friends were eager to 
know how the children got on ; and how 
many more were anxious to be allowed to 
come in to help Matilda. 

What shall I do, Mr. Richmond?" she 
would say. " There have been three this 
morning." 

Who were they, Tilly ? " 

" Mrs. Barth, and Miss Van Dyke, and Miss 
Spenser, O there were four! and Ailie 
Swan." 

" Do you want Ailie to help you ? " 

" No, Mr. Richmond ; I don't want any 
body, but Norton." 

" Well, I don't. You may tell them that 



we do not want anybody, Matilda. I have 
seen Mrs. Pottenburg. She will come in to 
scrub floors and do the hard work." 

So for several weeks the two children and 
the minister kept house together ; in a way 
highly enjoyed by Matilda, and I think by Mr. 
Richmond too. Even Norton found it oddly 
pleasant, and got very fond of Mr. Richmond ; 
who he declared privately to Matilda was a 
brick of the right sort. All the while the poor 
Swiss people at Mrs. Laval's farmhouse were 
struggling for life, and their two nurses led a 
weary, lonely existence. Norton sometimes 
wished he and Matilda could get at the grey 
ponies and have a good drive ; but Matilda 
did not care about it. She would rather not 
be seen out of doors. As the weeks went on, 
she was greatly afraid that her aunt would 
come back and reclaim her. 

And Mrs. Candy did come back; and 
meeting Mr. Richmond a day or two after her 
return, she desired that he would send Matilda 
home to her. She had just learned where she 
was, she said. 




" You know that Matilda has been exposed 
to ship fever ? " said Mr. Richmond. 

" No. I heard she was at your house." 

" But not until she had been in the house 
with the fever patients, and nursing them, 
before any one knew what was the matter. 
Had she not better stay where she is, at least 
until we can be certain that she has got no 
harm ? " 

" Well, perhaps," said Mrs. Candy, looking 
confused ; "it is very perplexing ; I cannot 
expose my daughter " 

" She will stay where she is," said Mr. 
Richmond," for the present. Good morning." 

He never told Matilda of this encounter. 
And before another week had gone, Mrs. 
Candy and Clarissa had again left Shady- 
walk. 

So week after week went by peacefully. 
The beautiful days of October were all past ; 
November winds came, and the trees were 
bare, and the frosts at night began to be 
severe. The sick people were getting better, 




and terrible qualms of fear and sorrow now 
and then swept over Matilda's heart. Her 
aunt would surely want her back now, and 
she should never finish her visit at Mrs. 
Laval's ! 

One day she was in Mr. Richmond's study, 
all alone, thinking so. There was a flurry of 
snow in the air, the first snow of the season ; 
falling thickly on the grass, and eddying in 
windy circles through the pine trees. Matilda 
had knelt in a chair at the window to watch 
it, with that spasm of fear at her heart. Now 
it is winter! she thought. Aunt Candy must 
be home soon. Yet the whirling great flakes 
of snow were so lovely, that in a few minutes 
they half distracted her from her fear. 

It came back again, when she saw Mr. 
Richmond appear from the end of the church 
porch and make his way across the snow 
towards the parsonage door. Matilda 
watched him lovingly ; then was possessed 
with a sudden notion that he was bringing 
her news. He walks as if he had something 



 

to say, she said to herself; and he will come 
in and say it. 

He came in and warmed his hands at the 
fire, without sitting down ; certainly there 
was an air of business about him, as she had 
thought. Matilda stood watching and waiting ; that fear at her heart. 

" Where's Norton?" said Mr. Richmond. 

" He went out a good while ago. I don't 
know, sir." 

" I suppose you have expected to hear of 
your aunt's coming home, before now, Matilda?" 

" Yes, sir," said the child. He watched 
