too drunk to float in sight of the mill-gate. 
Until at least next " Lord's day," there would 
be no strike in Hayle and Kelso. 
By that time Mr. Garrick hoped that we 
should be upon our feet again. 
Mr. Garrick walked home with Miss Kelso in 
the autumn rain. 
Unfortunately for the weed of a fellow stranded 
in the mill-yard, they passed and recognized him. 
It was the overseer, Irish Jim. Next morning 
he received his notice. They had borne with 
him too long, and warned him too often, Mr. 
Garrick insisted. Go he should, and go he did. 
- But Mr. Garrick walked home with Miss Kelso 
in the autumn rain. 
They passed between the cotton-house and 
the old boiler, in going out. Dirk Burdock had 
stepped through just before them, trying to over- 
take Sip in the distance, hurrying home. Either 
this circumstance or a mood of the mill-master's 
own recalled to his mind his midnight talk with 
the young watchman on that spot, and what Dirk 
had said of its being a " churchly place." It was 
a dreary, dingy place now, in the gray storm- 
light, prosaic and extremely rusty. He held the 
lady's cloak back from the boiler in passing by. 
His hand had but brushed the hem of her 
garment, but it trembled visibly. He touched a 
priestess in a water-proof Fire from heaven fell 
before his eyes upon the yellow boiler. Such a 
" churchliness " struck the mill-yard, that the 
man would have lifted his hat, but considered 
that he would take cold, and so kept it on like a 
sensible fellow. 
Of course he loved her. How should he help 
it ? Anybody but Perley would have thought 
of it, long ago. 
Yet, oddly enough, nobody had thought of it. 
Occasionally one meets people, though they are 
rather apt to be men than women, who seem to 
go mailed through life in a gossip-proof armor. 
Perley Kelso is one of them. Rumor winks and 
blinks and shuts its eyes upon her. Your un- 
pleasant stories, " had upon authority," pass her 
by unscathed. This young lady's life had been a 
peculiar, rather a public one, for now nearly two 
years, and in its most vital interests Stephen 
Garrick had stood heart and soul and hand in 
hand with her. Yet her calm eyes turned upon 
him that autumn afternoon as placidly as they 
did upon the old boiler. When she saw that 
tremble of the hand, she said : " You are cold !
It is growing chilly. The counting-room was 
close." 
How could man help it ? Of course he loved 
her. He had seen the shining of her rare, fine 
face in such strange places ! In sick-rooms and 
in the house of mourning he had learned to hsten 
for the stealing, strong sweetness of her young 
voice. They had met by death-beds and over 
graves. They had burrowed into mysteries of 
misery and sin, in God's name, together. Wher- 
ever people were cold, hungry, friendless, deso- 
late, in danger, in despair, she struck across his 
path. Wherever there was a soul for which no 
man cared, he found her footprints. Wherever 
there was a life to be lifted from miasmas to 
heights, he saw the waving of her confident 
white hand. If ever there were earnest work, 
solemn work, solitary work, mistrusted work, 
work misunderstood, neglected, discouraging, 
hopeless, thankless, — Christ's work, to be done, 
he faced her. 
Now, among several hundred factory-opera- 
tives, it naturally happened that he had thus 
faced her not infrequently. 
The woman's life had become a service in a 
temple, and he had lighted the candles for her. 
One would miss it, perhaps, to worship in the 
dark .' The man asked himself the question, turn- 
ing his face stiffly against the autumn storm. 
There had been no sun since yesterday. The 
sky was locked with a surcharged cloud. A fine, 
swift rain blurred the outlines of the river-banks 
and hills. 
" And yet," he said, " the day seems to be full 
of sun. Do you notice ? There is light about us 
everywhere." 
" It is from the hickories and maples," said 
Perley. 
Ripened leaves streaked and dotted their path, 
wreathed blazing arms about the pine groves, 
smouldered over the fields, flung themselves 
scorched into the water, flared across the dam, 
and lighted the little cascades luridly. The singular
effect of dying trees on a dead day was at 
its richest. One could not believe that the sun 
did not shine. 
"An unreal light," said Stephen Garrick, hardly, "
and ugly. We should find it cold to live 
by." 
" I had not thought of that," said Perley, 
smiling ; " I rather like it." 
Her face, as she lifted it to his, seemed to warm 
itself at its own calm eyes ; slowly, perhaps, as if 
the truant day had tried to leave a chill upon it, 
but thoroughly and brightly. 
Garrick turned, and looked it over and over 
and through and through, — the lifted haunting 
face ! 
What a face it was ! His own turned sharply 
gray. 
" I see no room for me there ! " he said, and 
stopped short where he stood. 
No ; he was right. There was no room. The 
womanly, calm face leaped with quick color, then 
drifted pale as his own. 
" Let us walk on," said Garrick, with a twang 
in his voice. 
They walked on nervously. Neither spoke 
just then. They walked on, under and through 
a solid arch of the unreal sunshine, which a pha- 
lanx of maples made in meeting over their heads. 
" I had hoped," said Stephen Garrick then, 
between his breath, " that I had — a chance. I 
have been — stupid, perhaps. A man is so slow 
to feel that he has — no chance. I have not 
played at love like — many men. There has 
been such an awfulness," said Stephen Garrick, 
passing his hand confusedly over his eyes, — 
" such an awfulness about the ground I have 
seen you tread upon. Most men love women in 
parlors and on play-days ; they can sing them 
little songs, they can tie up flowers for them, 
they can dance and touch their hands. I — I 
have had no way in which to love you. We 
have done such awful work together. In it, 
through it, by it, because of it, I loved you. I 
think there 's something — in the love — that is 
like the work. It has struck me under a ledge 
of granite, I believe. Miss Kelso, it would come 
up — hard." 
His hand dropped against his side, very slowly, 
but the blue nails clenched the flesh from its 
palm. 
What did the woman mean ? What should he 
do with the sight, sound, touch of her ; the rustle 
of her dress, the ripple of her sweet breath, the 
impenetrable calm of her grieving eyes .'' 
He felt himself suddenly lifted and swung from 
the centre of his controlled, common, regula- 
ted, and regulating days. Five Falls operatives 
ceased to appear absorbing as objects of life. 
How go dribbling ideal Christian culture through 
highways and hedges, if a man sat and starved on 
husks himself, before the loaded board .'' The 
salvation of the world troubled him yesterday. 
To-day there was only this woman in it. 
They two, in the mock light of dying leaves, 
they two only and together, stood, the Alpha and 
Omega, in the name of nature and in the sight 
of God. 
" I have loved you," said the man, trembling 
heavily, " so long ! My life has not been like 
that of — many people. I have taken it — hard 
and slowly. I have loved you slowly, and — 
hard. You ought to love me. Before God, I 
say you ought to love me ! " 
" The fact is — " said Perley, in her sensible, 
every-day voice. 
Stephen Garrick drew breath and straightened 
himself. His blanched face quivered and set 
into its accustomed angles. His shut fingers 
opened, and he cleared his throat. He struck to 
his orbit. Ah ! Where had he been ? Most 
too old a man for that ! See how he had let 
the rain drip on her. He grasped his umbrella. 
He could go to a Mission meeting now. All the 
women in the world might shake their beautiful 
heads at him under yellow maple-trees in an 
autumn rain ! 
" The fact is ? " he gravely asked. 
" The fact is,'' repeated Perley, " that I have no 
time to think of love and marriage, Mr. Garrick. 
That is a business, a trade, by itself to women. 
I have too much else to do. As nearly as I can 
understand myself, that is the state of the case. 
I cannot spare the time for it." 
And yet, as nearly as she understood herself, 
she might have loved this man. The dial of her 
young love and loss cast a little shadow in her 
sun to-day. She felt old before her time. All 
the glamour that draws men and women together 
had escaped her somehow. Possible wifehood 
was no longer an alluring dream. Only its prosaic
and undesirable aspects presented them- 
selves to her mind. No bounding impulse cried 
within her : That is happiness ! There is rest ! 
But only : It were unreasonable ; it is unwise. 
And yet she might have loved the man. In 
