It was no church, nor near a church, the building before which the two
paused. They went up a few steps and entered a little hare vestibule.
The doors giving further entrance were closed; a boy stood there as if
to guard them; and a placard with a few words on it was hung up on one
of them. The words were these
"And the door was shut."
"What sort of a place is this?" said Norton.
"This is the Sunday school," said Matilda. "They are singing; don't you
hear them? We are late."
"It seems a queer Sunday school," said Norton. "Don't they let folks in
here?"
"In ten minutes"--said the boy who stood by the door.
"Ten minutes!" echoed Norton. "It's quite an idea, to shut the door in
people's faces and then hang out a sign to tell them it is shut!"
"O no, Norton;--that door isn't this door."
"That isn't this?" said Norton. "What do you mean, Pink? Of course I
know so much; but it seems to me this is this."
"No, Norton; it means the door spoken of in the Bible--in the New
Testament;--don't you know? don't you remember?"
"Not a bit," said Norton. "I can't say, Pink, but it seems to me this
is not just exactly the place for you to come to Sunday school. Don't
look like it."
"Mr. Richmond told me to come here, you know, Norton."
But Norton looked with a disapproving eye upon what he could see of the
neighbourhood; and it is true that nobody would have guessed it was
near such a region as Blessington avenue. The houses were uncomely and
the people were poor; and more than that. There was a look of positive
want of respectability. But the little boy who was keeping the door was
decent enough; and presently now he opened the door and stood by to let
Norton and Matilda pass in.
There they found a large plain room, airy and roomy and light, filled
with children and teachers all in a great breeze of business. Everybody
seemed to be quite engrossed with something or other; and Norton and
Matilda slowly went up one of the long aisles between rows of classes,
waiting and looking for somebody to speak to them. The children seemed
to have no eyes to give to strangers; the teachers seemed to have no
time. Suddenly a young man stood in front of Norton and greeted the two
very cordially.
"Are you coming to join us?" he asked with a keen glance at them. And
as they did not deny it, though Norton hardly made an intelligible
answer, he led them up the room and at the very top introduced them to
a gentleman.
"Mr. Wharncliffe, will you take charge of these new comers? For to-day,
perhaps it will be the best thing."
So Norton and Matilda found themselves at one end of a circular seat
which was filled with the boys and girls of a large class. Very
different from themselves these boys and girls were; belonging to
another stratum of what is called society. If their dress was decent,
it was as much as could be said of it; no elegance or style was within
the aim of any of them; a faded frock was in one place, and a patched
pair of trowsers in another place, and not one of the little company
but shewed all over poverty of means and ignorance of fashion. Yet the
faces testified to no poverty of wits; intelligence and interest were
manifest on every one, along with the somewhat spare and pinched look
of ill supplied appetites. Norton read the signs, and thought himself
much out of place. Matilda read them; and shrank a little from the
association. However, she reflected that this was the first day of her
being in the school; doubtless when the people saw who and what she was
they would put her into a class more suited to her station. Then she
looked at the teacher; and she forgot her companions. He was a young
man, with a very calm face and very quiet manner, whose least word and
motion however was watched by the children, and his least look and
gesture obeyed. He sent one of the boys to fetch a couple of Bibles for
Matilda and Norton, and then bade them all open their books at the
first chapter of Daniel.
The first questions were about Nebuchadnezzar and his kingdom of
Babylon. Unknown subjects to most of the members of the class; Mr.
Wharncliffe had to tell a great deal about ancient history and
geography. He had a map, and he had a clear head of his own, for he
made the talk very interesting and very easy to understand; Matilda
found herself listening with much enjoyment. A question at last came to
her; why the Lord gave Jehoiakim, king of Judah, into the hands of the
king of Babylon? Matilda did not know. She was told to find the 25th
chapter of Jeremiah and read aloud nine verses.
"Now why was it?" said the teacher.
"Because the people would not mind the Lord's words."
The next question came to Norton. "Could the king of Babylon have taken
Jerusalem, if the Lord had not given it into his hands?"
Norton hesitated. "I don't know, sir," he said at length.
"What do you think?"
"I think he could."
"I should like to know why you think so."
"Because the king of Babylon was a strong king, and had plenty of
soldiers and everything; and Jehoiakim had only a little kingdom
anyhow."
"The Bible says 'there is no king saved by the multitude of an host.'
How do you account for the fact that when strong kings and great armies
came against Jerusalem at times that she was serving and trusting God,
they never could do anything, but were miserably beaten?"
"I did not know it, sir," said Norton flushing a little.
"I thought you probably did not know it," said Mr. Wharncliffe quietly.
"You did not know that many a time, when the people of the Jews were
following God, one man of them could chase a thousand?"
"No, sir."
"Who remembers such a case?"
Norton pricked up his ears and listened; for the members of the class
spoke out and gave instance after instance, till the teacher stopped
them for want of time to hear more. The lesson went on. The carrying
away of Daniel and his companions was told of, and "the learning and
the tongue of the Chaldeans" was explained. Gradually the question came
round to Matilda again. Why Daniel and the other three noble young Jews
would not eat of the king's meat?
Matilda could not guess.
"You remember that the Jews, as the Lord's people, were required to
keep themselves ceremonially clean, as it was called. If they eat
certain things or touched certain other things, they were not allowed
to go into the temple to worship, until at least that day was ended and
they had washed themselves and changed their clothes. Sometimes many
more days than one must pass before they could be 'clean' again, in
that sense. This was ceremony, but it served to teach and remind them
of something that was not ceremony, but deep inward truth. What?"
Mr. Wharncliffe abruptly stopped with the question, and a tall boy at
one end of the class answered him.
"People must keep themselves from what is not good."
"The people of God must keep themselves from every thing that is not
pure, in word, thought, and deed. And how if they fail sometimes,
Joanna, and get soiled by falling into some temptation? what must they
do?"
"Get washed."
"What shall they wash in, when it is the heart and conscience that must
be made clean?"
"The blood of Christ."
"How will that make us clean?"
There was hesitation in the class; then as Mr. Wharncliffe's eye came
to her and rested slightly, Matilda could not help speaking.
"Because it was shed for our sins, and it takes them all away."
"How shall we wash in it then?" the teacher asked, still looking at
Matilda.
"If we trust him?"--she began.
"To do what?"
"To forgive,--and to take away our wrong feelings."
"For his blood's sake!" said the teacher. "'They have washed their
robes, and made them white in the blood of the Lamb.' And as the
sacrifices of old time were a sort of picture and token of the pouring
out of that blood; so the outward cleanness about which the Jews had to
be so particular was a sort of sign and token of the pure
heart-cleanness which every one must have who follows the Lord Jesus.
"And so we come back to Daniel. If he eat the food sent from the king's
table he would be certain to touch and eat now and then something which
would be, for him, ceremonially unclean. More than that. Often the
king's meat was prepared from part of an animal which had been
sacrificed to an idol; to eat of the sacrifice was part of the worship
of the idol; and so Daniel and his fellows might have been thought to
share in that worship."
"But it wouldn't have been true," said a boy in the class.
"What would not have been true?"
"He would not have been worshipping the idol. He didn't mean it."
"So you think he might just as well have eaten the idol's meat? not
meaning any thing."
"It wouldn't have been service of the idol."
"What would it have been?"
"Why, nothing at all. I don't see as he would have done no harm."
"What harm would it have been, or what harm would it have done, if
Daniel had really joined in the worship of Nebuchadnezzar's idol?"
"He would have displeased God," said one.
"I guess God would have punished him," said another.
"He would not have been God's child any longer," said Matilda.
"All true. But is no other harm done when a child of God forgets his
Father's commands?"
"He helps others to do wrong," said Matilda softly.
"He makes them think 'tain't no odds about the commands," a girl
remarked.
"How's they to know what the commands is?" a second boy asked, "if he
don't shew 'em?"
"Very true, Robert," said Mr. Wharncliffe. "I have heard it said, that
Christians are the only Bible some folks ever read."
"'Cause they hain't got none?" asked one of the class.
"Perhaps. Or if they have got one, they do not study it. But a true,
beautiful life they cannot help reading; and it tells them what they
ought to be."
"Daniel gave a good example," said the slim lad at the end of the class.
"That we can all do, if we have a mind, Peter. But in that case we must
not seem to do what we ought not to do really. We help the devil that
way. Now read the 9th and 10th verses. What was Daniel's friend afraid
of?"
"Afraid the king would not like it."
"If Daniel and his friends did not eat like the others. Do our friends
sometimes object to our doing right, on the ground that we shall not
be like other people if we do?"
There was a general chorus of assent.
"Well, we don't want to be unlike other people, do we?"
Some said yes, and some said no; conflicting opinions.
"You say no, Heath; give us your reasons."
"They make fun of you"--said the boy, a little under breath.
"They fight you"--said another more boldly.
"They don't want to have nothing to do with you," a girl said.
"Laugh, and quarrel, and separate you from their company," repeated the
teacher. "Not very pleasant things. But some of you said yes. Give us
your reasons, if you please."
"We can't be like Christ and like the world," Peter answered.
"'Ye are not of the world, even as I am not of the world,'" said Mr.
Wharncliffe. "Most true! And some of us do want to be like our Master.
Well? who else has a reason?"
"I think it is very hard," said Matilda, "to do right and not be unlike
other people."
"So hard, my dear, that it is impossible," said the teacher, looking
somewhat steadily at his new scholar. "And are you one of those who
want to do right?"
Matilda answered; but as she did so something made her voice tremble
and her eyes fill.
