the vicinity. For the time, even the exciting topic of the change in
the "tenure of office" was dropped. Scott, who had been quietly at work
ever since the meeting at the picnic, suspended his labors, and made
queer comments upon the old castle, the boats, and the people around
the ship. Though there was actually a village in sight, it did not
entirely remove the impression from the minds of many of the students
that they were almost "out of the world," for the oppressive fact
that they were in sixty and a half degrees of north latitude was not
entirely removed by the fort, the village, and the people.

"All hands, attend lecture!" shouted the boatswain, as his shrill pipe
rang through the ship, and was repeated in the two consorts.

"Lecture!" exclaimed Scott. "That's too bad! What does the professor
think we are made of? We have been patient and long-suffering in the
matter of lectures, and I didn't suppose we were to be dosed with any
more till we got to Russia."

"We are in Russia now," replied Laybold.

"Not much, if my soundings are correct. Finland isn't Russia, any more
than the Dominion of Canada is Great Britain. It is subject to Russia,
but the people here make their own laws, or at least have a finger in
the pie, which they don't under the nose of the Czar. Do you see that
big fish, Laybold?"

"What fish?" asked the other.

"Why, that one near the shore. He is over five feet long."

Scott pointed at a man who had just taken a small boy on his back, and
was wading out to a boat, with a man on each side of him.

"I don't see any fish," added Laybold, straining his eyes as he gazed
earnestly in the direction indicated by his companion.

"Don't you? Then you are a little blind in one of your ears. There he
goes towards the boat."

"What is it?" asked several others.

"A big fish," replied Scott, demurely.

"I see some men, but no fish," said Laybold.

"There, he has stopped by the boat."

"That isn't a fish; it's a man."

"I tell you it is a fish. Do you think I don't know a fish when I see
one."

"Nonsense!" shouted the others. "It's a man."

"I say he is a fish. Don't you see that he has a Finn on his back, and
Finns each side of him?" returned Scott.

"You get out!" shouted Jones. "A fellow that will deliberately make a
pun isn't fit to live in polite society."

"Then I'm finished for polite society," added Scott; "though I don't
see how you know anything about it, for you never were there, or your
manners belie you. By the way, did you know that our government had
sent over to this country for a fortune-teller, or seer--one of those
fellows they used to have in Scotland?"

"What for?" asked Laybold.

"They want to make him secretary of the treasury."

"Why so?" inquired Jones.

"Because they need a financier; for the fellow would certainly be one.
There, do you see that French conjunction on the shore? Hear him bark."

"That is a dog," protested Laybold.

"What of it? Isn't it afin que? Well, those are strange people,"
continued Scott, shaking his head.

"What's the matter with them?"

"Matter? Did you oversee the 'finny tribe' walking about on shore
before?"

"You are a monster, Scott," laughed Jones.

"Yes, a sea-monster; and if I were monarch of all I surveyed, I should
have plenty of Finns. Do you suppose those women have any nephews and
nieces?" asked Scott, still gazing at the group of men, women, and
children, who had gathered on the beach to see the squadron.

"Of course they have."

"Then we must go on shore and be introduced to them."

"But we can't speak Finnish."

"In that case we shall be obliged to finish speaking."

"But why should we be introduced to the 'women with nephews and
nieces?'"

"Because it is eminently proper and right that American young gentlemen
should be acquainted with finance. The boats are coming, and I am like
that shed on the beach."

"I don't see it."

"Yes--Finnish shed. Come, tumble down the hatchway," said Scott, as he
led the way to the steerage.

Mr. Mapps, the instructor in geography and history, was already at
his post, which post was the foremast of the ship, whereon was hung a
large map of Finland, drawn by himself on the back side of another map,
with black paint and a marking brush; for he had not been able to find
a printed one on a large scale. The students from the consorts soon
appeared, and a few raps with the professor's pointer procured silence.

"Where are we now, young gentlemen?" he began.

"Here, sir," responded Scott.

"A little more definitely, if you please."

"Eastern hemisphere, sir," added Scott.

"Excellent; but couldn't you venture to come a little nearer to the
point."

"Near Åbo, in Finland," said another student.

"Right; but the little ring which you see over the A in the printed
name of the town makes the pronunciation as though it were written
O-bo. The proper style of the country is the Grand Duchy of Finland;
and in his relations to it, the Czar of Russia has been called the
Emperor Grand Duke. The Finnish name of the country is Suomema, which
means 'the region of lakes.' You see, by a glance at the map,--which
is rather rudely drawn,--that this is the character of the country,
even to a greater degree than in Norway and Sweden. It has the Gulf
of Bothnia on the west, and the Gulf of Finland on the south, with
Finmark, a province of Norway, on the north, and Russia proper on the
east."

"But where is Lapland?" asked a student.

"Lapland is a region which belongs to Russia and Norway, and part of
it is included in Finland. The name is not applied to a political
division, but to the country of a particular people. Finland has
about one hundred and forty thousand square miles of territory; about
the size of Montana Territory, more than half as large as Texas, or
eighteen times as large as Massachusetts. Its population is about the
same as this last state--in round numbers, one million four hundred
thousand. A large portion of the country is a desolate region. In the
southern part; the soil is good, and in former times Finland was the
granary of Sweden; but its agriculture has since declined. Vast forests
cover a considerable portion of its territory, and the lumber from
them is the principal source of wealth to the people, who are also
largely engaged in the fisheries. There are some extensive cotton
and iron manufactures. All the principal towns are on the coast,
except Tavastehus; but the largest place, Helsingfor, has only sixteen
thousand inhabitants.

"Not much is known of the early history of Finland; but the country
was governed in tribes by chiefs, or kings. They took to the water
very naturally, and became pirates, harassing the Swedes to such a
degree, that Eric, their king, sent an expedition to Finland in the
twelfth century, where he established Swedish colonies, and introduced
Christianity. One of the colonies was planted here in Åbo, where the
first Christian church in the country was built. From this time the
Swedes and Finns blended, and the history of Finland was merged in that
of Sweden. Birger Jarl built Tavastehus, and confirmed the conquest.
But Russia coveted this desolate region, and first conquered Wyborg,
its most eastern province, and the Finns fought with Sweden in the
various wars with her powerful neighbor. The people suffered terribly
from these wars, and from famine. From 1692 to 1696, sixty thousand
perished from famine in the province of Åbo alone. In the wars of
Charles XII., thousands of Finns were sacrificed, and five regiments
of them were killed or captured during the march into the Ukraine, and
in the battle of Pultowa. After this battle, in 1709, in which Charles
XII. was totally defeated, the Russians invaded the whole of Finland,
and held it until 1721, when, with the exception of Wyborg, it was
restored to Sweden.

"In 1741 the Swedes made an attempt to recover what they had lost, but
utterly failed. Again, in 1788, Gustavus III., commanding the Swedish
army in person, tried to regain the ancient province of Wyborg; but
a conspiracy at home compelled him to return, and the favorable
opportunity was lost. In 1790 the king renewed the attack by sea, and
his fleet of thirty-eight vessels was blockaded at Wyborg by a Russian
squadron of fifty-one ships. The Swedes cut their way out of the trap,
but with the loss of fifteen ships. The fleet, reduced by these heavy
losses, was again attacked by the Russians in overwhelming force; but
the result was a glorious victory for the Swedes, in which their enemy
lost fifty-three vessels and four thousand men. This event ended the
war for the time, and a treaty honorable to the Swedes was signed.
In 1808 Finland was again invaded by the Russians, without even the
formality of a declaration of war. The Swedes were unprepared for the
contest, and slowly retired to the north, fighting several battles, and
gaining some unimportant victories, but were completely overwhelmed in
