Sometimes I think " 
Ada paused so long that Kathie glanced shyly at 
her, and found her eyes filled with tears. 
" You are all very good," she said, in a tone that 
sounded cold and ungracious almost, and yet it was 
because her heart had been stirred to its very depths 
with a new and unwonted emotion. Love and grati- 
tude did not come to her naturally, and the first 
awakenings were a little constrained and awkward. 
Kathie went over to her presently, and kissed 
her quietly. Perhaps one great charm in her affec- 
tion was that it never overwhelmed, was never ob- 
trusive, but as simple and graceful as her own pure 
self. 
 
CHAPTEE VII. 
THE ENEMIES' TABES. 
" I WONDER what we shall do, or can do ? " Kathie 
said to her mother the next evening, in great per- 
plexity. 
It had been a long, quiet day. No one had " run 
in." Ada had rested and read and looked out of the 
windows. Kathie had gone up and down and in and 
out rather restlessly for her, sewed a little and tatted 
a little. 
" About what ? " asked her mother. 
" I want to try and entertain Ada, and I don't just 
know what to do. If Eob were home, or if all the 
larger girls were not away " 
" It seems to me the most necessary lesson for Ada 
to learn is to entertain herself." 
" But, mamma - 
" Not that you should be indifferent, my dear. Yet 
a great many of the loveliest li ves I have known were 
made up of common things and trifles. It cannot be 
 
one great holiday, and the quicker every one learns 
this the better." 
" But I am afraid Ada cannot understand." 
" You must not let your missionary work become 
a task and a burden. I cannot have my little girl's 
bright face grave and overclouded." 
" But, mamma, isn't it right that one should do 
everything for a friend, if one wanted to make her 
happier and ' " Better," Kathie was about to say, 
but paused, rather distrusting her own powers. 
" In one sense, yes ; in another, no. I am not sure 
that I can quite explain my meaning to you, so we 
will take Ada for an illustration. All her life she 
has been waited upon, amused, and had a constant 
variety in every respect. Eich people can nearly 
always do this, if they choose. It has made her en- 
tirely dependent upon others. Now she cannot have 
this constant ministering, and perhaps never will in 
her life again. Is it wise for all her friends to keep 
up the pretence ? " 
" But it isn't comfortable to feel that one is dull." 
" No. I should like to see you use all the means 
within your power, and though there are cases when 
we go out of our way and take upon ourselves a 
 
great deal of arduous perplexity, it does not seem to 
me that this is one of the instances where it can be 
rightly demanded. Ada has had very little come to 
interest her through the winter and spring, and I dare 
say it never occurred to her that she might go out 
and find something, use her own dormant energies 
instead of taxing other people. I think we know of 
one who made a little heaven below by her unselfish 
ways, when she had a great deal to suffer and no 
outside pleasures." 
" Oh ! Aunt Kuth," Kathie said, with a glad, bright 
smile. 
" Yes, dear Aunt Euth. Yet she might easily have 
made herself so unlovely that she would not at all 
have attracted the notice of a grand and tender gen- 
tleman like General Mackenzie, and said, with much 
show of truth, that she could not help being fretful, 
dependent, and dissatisfied." 
" I wish you would tell me just what to do, mam- 
ma," her perplexity not entirely cleared. 
" I should go on much as usual, and not give up 
my own duties and pleasures altogether. Always in- 
vite Ada to share them, but not allow her to feel that 
she has the right to change your whole life simply 
 
because she has come into it for a while. You will 
have to go on when she drops out of it." 
Kathie began to understand. Each person in this 
world had certain individual rights which, though 
she might relinquish them for a brief while under 
peculiar circumstances, were not to be made another's 
property through selfishness. 
An incident occurred the next morning. Kathie 
was up early, and had been down to the Morrison 
cottage to see Ethel and grandmother, coming back 
with glowing cheeks, as Freddy had bantered her to 
run a race up the drive. 
Mrs. Alston made no difference with the breakfast 
hour, but she did not insist that Ada should be pres- 
ent, since she was in the habit of rising late. It was 
only a few minutes' work to get a dainty little meal, 
and Jane was willing to do it if Hannah was busy. 
Kathie was just sitting down to the table when 
Harry Cox ran across the lawn. She went to the 
open window. 
" O," said Harry, laughingly, " good morning ! I 
shouldn't have come so early, but the girls asked me 
to do an errand last evening, and I did forget all 
about it." 
 
" Won't you walk in and take some breakfast with 
us ? " asked Mrs. Alston. " You ought to have a good 
appetite for it." 
" O, I had it, fifteen minutes ago, appetite and 
all ; but thank you all the same. The girls want to 
come over this afternoon, Kathie, if you were not 
going anywhere. And could we have the boat out 
a while ? " 
Kathie glanced at her mother with an odd smile. 
" How many ? " asked Mrs. Alston. 
" O, Mary and Till, and the Gardiner girls, and 
Carry Jelliffe, and two or three of us boys. Mary 
thought it would be nice before before you had 
company," exclaimed Harry, blushing. 
" Mary and Lucy and Annie were to come to tea. 
mamma, can't we have them all ? " and Kathie 
glanced up entreatingly. 
" But the company ? " said Uncle Kobert, in a low 
tone. 
Kathie's thoughts recurred to her last evening's 
conversation. Would it not be rather foolish and 
selfish to disappoint the gay little party for the 
sake of one ? 
" Well, Kathie ? " 
 
" O mamma, I should like to have them come." 
"Very well. Harry, tell them that we shall be 
very glad to see them all, and that we shall expect 
them to stay to supper. And you boys as well." 
Harry nodded, with graceful satisfaction. 
" And come early," appended Kathie. " Give my 
love to them." 
" Now you must tell Hannah as soon as you are 
through, and decide what it would be nice to have ; 
for I am afraid a little cream and sponge-cake will 
not be just the thing for a hungry troop." 
Before breakfast was ended they had another call. 
Little Dolly Maybin ran over to see " if Janie might 
come home to-day. Mother was sick in bed, and 
Martha had a sore finger." 
" It will be rather bad to spare her to-day, still, I 
suppose she ought to go." 
" yes," said Kathie. " I can help, and there 
won't be so very much to do." 
" If she will come back early." 
Jane was in something of a flurry when she heard 
it. Mrs. Maybin had been ailing for a week or ten 
days. Threatened with a fever, Jane thought. And 
if she should have a long illness 
 
' Never mind ; we will not worry until it happens," 
said Mrs. Alston. " Come back by five, and let us 
know how she is. Then, after supper is through, you 
may return." 
Kathie ran out to the kitchen. " We are going to 
have a surprise-party, Hannah," she said, " only they 
do not bring their eatables along. And Jane has had 
to go home to her sick mother." 
" How large a party ? ' and Hannah held up her 
skimmer, as she was improving her spare moments 
by doing blackberries. 
" O, four or five girls, and as many boys maybe. 
But we don't need to make any great time." 
" I was going to do preserves all the morning," said 
Hannah, who gave the possible objections first and 
the cheerful willingness afterward. 
"I can make the cake and some jelly; and, 
mamma, may we have cream ? Uncle Robert will 
see to that, I know." 
" Yes, if he chooses. Kathie may as well make the 
cake this morning, Hannah, but wait until Ada has 
had her breakfast." 
" And the bread and biscuit ? " said Hannah. " We 
had just about enough to last over till to-morrow." 
 
" The biscuits may as well be cold, as they are 
really better for the children." 
" Why, I can make them too. It will seem quite 
like old times. I haven't done any kitchen work in 
ever so long." 
Kathie cleared the "pastry-table," and began to 
bring out some materials. 
"You had better put your room in order," said 
her mother, " and then you will have the whole 
morning." 
So Kathie ran up stairs. The bed had been airing 
in the morning sunshine, so she spread it up and 
dusted, and brought in a few fresh flowers. At that 
juncture Ada called. 
