[Illustration]
Next him was stretched a man who was deserving still more pity, since
his misfortunes sprang rather from a want of judgment than from his own
fault. He was a scholar, with a fair knowledge of Latin and Greek, and
some ability as a writer. He was an Englishman who had come to the city
in the hope of making his acquisitions available, but had met with very
poor encouragement. He found that both among teachers and writers the
demand exceeded the supply, at least for those of moderate
qualifications; and, having no influential friends, had sought for
employment almost in vain. His small stock of money dwindled, his suit
became shabby, until he found himself, to his deep mortification and
disgust, compelled to resort to such lodging-houses as this, where he
was obliged to herd with the lowest and most abandoned class.
Next to him lay a mechanic, once in profitable employment. But drink had
been his ruin; and now he was a vagabond, spending the little money he
earned, at rum-shops, except what was absolutely necessary for food.
There is no need of cataloguing the remainder of Meg Morely’s lodgers.
Her low rates generally secured her a room-full, and a dozen, sometimes
more, were usually packed away on the floor. On the whole she found it a
paying business, though her charges were low. Sixty cents a day was
quite a respectable addition to her income, and she had occupied the
same place for two years already. Tom’s experience will show that she
had other, and not quite so lawful, ways of swelling her receipts, but
she was cautious not to put them in practice, unless she considered it
prudent, as in the present instance.
It was seven o’clock when Tom awoke. She looked around her in
bewilderment, thinking at first she must be in granny’s room. But a
glance at the prostrate forms around her brought back the events of the
day before, and gave her a realizing sense of her present situation.
“I’ve had a good sleep,” said Tom to herself, stretching, by way of
relief from her constrained position. “I guess it’s time to get up.”
She rubbed her eyes, and shook back her hair, and then rising, went into
the front room. Her landlady was already up and getting breakfast.
“What time is it?” asked Tom.
“It’s just gone seven,” said Meg, looking sharply at Tom to see if she
had discovered the loss of her money. “How did you sleep?”
“Tip-top.”
“Come ag’in.”
“All right!” said Tom. “Maybe I will.”
She climbed up the basement stairs to the street above, and began to
think of what the day had in store for her. Her prospects were not
brilliant certainly; but Tom on the whole felt in good spirits. She had
thrown off the yoke of slavery. She was her own mistress now, and
granny’s power was broken. Tom felt that she could get along somehow.
She had confidence in herself, and was sure something would turn up for
her.
“Now, what’ll I do first?” thought Tom.
With twenty-five cents in her pocket, and a good appetite, breakfast
naturally suggested itself.
She dove her hand into her pocket, but the face of the little Arab
almost instantly expressed deep dismay.
Her money was gone!
                              CHAPTER VII.
                          TOM MAKES A FRIEND.
Twenty-five cents is not a large sum, but it was Tom’s entire fortune.
It was all she had, not only to buy breakfast with, but also to start in
business. She had an excellent appetite, but now there was no hope of
satisfying it until she could earn some more money.
Tom hurried back to the lodging, and entered, looking excited.
“Well, what’s wanted?” asked Meg, who knew well enough without asking.
“I’ve lost some money.”
“Suppose you did,” said the woman, defiantly, “you don’t mean to say I
took it.”
“No,” said Tom, “but I had it when I laid down.”
“Where was it?”
“In my pocket.”
“Might have tumbled out among the straw,” suggested Meg.
This struck Tom as not improbable, and she went back into the bedroom,
and, getting down on her hands and knees, commenced poking about for it.
But even if it had been there, any of my readers who has ever lost money
in this way knows that it is very difficult to find under such
circumstances.
Tom persevered in her search until her next-door neighbor growled out
that he wished she would clear out. At length she was obliged to give it
up.
“Have you found it?” asked Meg.
“No,” said Tom, soberly.
“How much was it?”
“Twenty-five cents.”
“That aint much.”
“It’s enough to bust me. I don’t believe it’s in the straw.”
“What do you believe?” demanded Meg, whose guilty conscience made her
scent an accusation.
“I think some of them took it while I was asleep,” said Tom, indicating
the other lodgers by a jerk of her finger.
“Likely they did,” said Meg, glad to have suspicion diverted elsewhere.
“I wish I knew,” said Tom.
“What’ud you do?”
“I’d get it back again,” said Tom, her black eyes snapping with
resolution.
“No, you wouldn’t. You’re nothin’ but a babby. You couldn’t do nothin’!”
“Couldn’t I?” returned Tom. “I’d let ’em know whether I was a baby.”
“Well, you go along now,” said Meg. “Your money’s gone, and you can’t
get it back. Next time give it to me to keep, and it’ll be safe.”
Being penniless, Tom was in considerable uncertainty when she would
again be mistress of so large a sum. At present she felt in no
particular dread of being robbed. She left the lodgings, realizing that
the money was indeed gone beyond hope of recovery.
There is some comfort in beginning the day with a good breakfast. It
warms one up, and inspires hope and confidence. As a general rule people
are good-natured and cheerful after a hearty breakfast. For ten cents
Tom might have got a cup of coffee, or what passed for such, and a plate
of tea-biscuit. With the other fifteen she could have bought a few
morning papers, and easily earned enough to pay for a square meal in the
middle of the day. Now she must go to work without capital, and on an
empty stomach, which was rather discouraging. She would have fared
better than this at granny’s, though not much, her breakfast there
usually consisting of a piece of stale bread, with perhaps a fragment of
cold sausage. Coffee, granny never indulged in, believing whiskey to be
more healthful. Occasionally, in moments of extreme good nature, she had
given Tom a sip of whiskey; but the young Arab had never got to like it,
fortunately for herself, though she had accepted it as a variation of
her usual beverage, cold water.
In considering what she should do for the day, Tom decided to go to some
of the railway stations or steamboat landings, and try to get a chance
to carry a carpet-bag. “Baggage-smashing” required no capital, and this
was available in her present circumstances.
Tom made her way to the pier where the steamers of the Fall River line
arrive. Ordinarily it would have been too late, but it had been a windy
night, the sound was rough, and the steamer was late, so that Tom
arrived just in the nick of time.
Tom took her place among the hackmen, and the men and boys who, like
her, were bent on turning an honest penny by carrying baggage.
“Clear out of the way here, little gal!” said a stout, overgrown boy.
“Smash your baggage, sir?”
“Clear out yourself!” said Tom, boldly. “I’ve got as much right here as
you.”
Her little, sharp eyes darted this way and that in search of a possible
customer. The boy who had been rude to her got a job, and this gave Tom
a better chance. She offered her services to a lady, who stared at her
with curiosity and returned no answer. Tom began to think she should not
get a job. There seemed a popular sentiment in favor of employing boys,
and Tom, like others of her sex, found herself shut out from an
employment for which she considered herself fitted. But, at length, she
saw approaching a big, burly six-footer, with a good-natured face. There
was something about him which inspired Tom with confidence, and,
pressing forward, she said, “Carry your bag, sir?”
He stopped short and looked down at the queer figure of our heroine.
Then, glancing at his carpet-bag, which was of unusual size and weight,
the idea of his walking through the streets with Tom bending beneath the
weight of his baggage, struck him in so ludicrous a manner that he burst
into a hearty laugh.
“What’s up?” demanded Tom, suspiciously. “Who are you laughin’ at?”
“So you want to carry my carpet-bag?” he asked, laughing again.
“Yes,” said Tom.
“Why, I could put you in it,” said the tall man, his eyes twinkling with
amusement.
“No, you couldn’t,” said Tom.
“Do you think you could carry it?”
“Let me try.”
He set it down, and Tom lifted it from the ground; but it was obviously
too much for her strength.
“You see you can’t do it. Have you found anything to do this morning?”
“No,” said Tom.
“Business isn’t good, hey?”
“No,” said Tom, “but I wouldn’t mind so much if I hadn’t had my money
stole. I’m bust!”
“How’s that? Did the bank break or have you been speculating?”
“Oh, you’re gasin’! I aint got nothing to do with banks. Somebody stole
two shillin’s I had, so I’ve had no breakfast.”
“Come, that’s bad. I guess I must give you a job, after all. You can’t
carry my bag, but you can carry this.”
He had under his arm something wrapped in a paper, making a small
bundle. He handed it to Tom, and she trudged along with it after him.
“You couldn’t guess what that is, I suppose?” said her companion,
sociably.
“No,” said Tom; “it feels soft.”
“It’s a large wax doll, for my little niece,” said her patron. “You
haven’t got any dolls, I suppose?”
“I had one once,” said Tom. “It was made of rags. But granny threw it
into the fire.”
“I suppose you were sorry.”
“I was then; but I’m too old for dolls now.”
“How old are you?”
“I aint sure. Somewheres about twelve.”
“You live with your granny, then?”
“No, I don’t,—not now.”
“Why not?”
“She wanted to lick me, so I run away.”
“Then where do you live now?”
“Nowhere.”
“You have no home?”
“I don’t want no home. I can take care of myself,” said Tom, briskly.
“I see you are an independent, young woman. Now, if you were a boy, I’d
give you a chance on board my ship.”
“Have you got a ship?” asked Tom, becoming interested.
“Yes, I am a sea-captain, and go on long voyages. If you wasn’t a girl,
I’d take you along with me as cabin-boy.”
“I wish you would,” said Tom, eagerly.
“But you are a girl, you know? You couldn’t climb a mast.”
“Try me,” said Tom. “I’m strong. I fit with a boy yesterday, and licked
him.”
Captain Barnes laughed, but shook his head.
“I see you’re spunky, if you are a girl,” he said. “But I never heard of
a girl being cabin-boy, and I don’t think it would do.”
“I’d put on a boy’s clothes,” suggested Tom.
“You’ve begun to do it already,” said the captain, glancing at the cap
and jacket. “I didn’t know at first but you were a boy. What makes you
wear a cap?”
“Granny gave it to me. I like it better than a bonnet.”
