down where it was before — 
walked away a few steps, and 
approached again, pretending he 
did not know it was there, so that prize. 
he could re-enjoy the luxury of finding it. He walked around it, 
viewing it from different points ; then sauntered about with his 
hands in his jockets, looking up at the signs and now and then 
glancing at it and feeling the old thrill again. Finally he took 
it up, and went away, fondling it in his pocket. He idled 
through unfrequented streets, stopping in doorways and corners 
to take it out and look at it. By and by he went home to his 
lodgings — an empty queensware hogshead,— and employed him- 
self till night trying to make up his mind what to buy with it. 
But it was hard to do. To get the most for it was the idea. 
He knew that at the Miner's Restaurant he could get a plate 
of beans and a piece of bread for ten cents ; or a lish-ball and 
some few trifles, but they gave "no bread with one fish-ball" there. 
At French Pete's he could get a veal cutlet, plain, and some 
radishes and bread, for ten cents ; or a cup of coffee — a pint at 
least— and a slice of bread ; but the slice was not thick enough 
by the eighth of an inch, and sometimes they were still more 
criminal than that in the cutting of it. At seven o'clock his 
hunger was wolfish ; and still his mind was not made up. He 
turned out and went up Merchant street, still cipliering ; and 
chewing a bit of stick, as is the way of starving men. He 
passed before the lights of Martin's restaurant, the most 
aristocratic in the city, and stopped. 
It was a place where he had often dined, in better days, and 
Martin knew him well. Standing aside, just out of the range 
of the light, he worshiped the quails and steaks in the show 
window, and imagined that 
may be the fairy times were not 
gone yet and some prince in disguise would come along 
presently and tell him to go in there 
and take whatever he wanted. 
He chewed his stick with a hungry interest as he warmed to 
Ids subject. Just at this juncture he was conscious of some 
one at his side, sure enough ; 
and then a finger touched his arm. He looked up, over his 
shoulder, and saw an apparition — a very allegory of Hunger ! 
It was a man six feet high, gaunt, unshaven, hung with rags ; 
with a haggard face and sunlcen cheeks, and eyes that pleaded 
piteously. This phantom said : 
' " Come with me — please." 
He locked his arm in Blucher's and walked up the street to 
.where the passengers were lew and the light not strong, and 
then facing about, put out his hands in a beseeching way, and 
said : 
'' Friend — stranger — look at me ! Life is easy to you — you go 
about, placid and content, as I did once, in my day — you have 
been in there, and eaten your sumptuous supper, and picked 
your teeth, and hummed your tune, and thought your pleasant 
thoughts, and said to yourself it is a good world— but you've never 
8u;fl'ered. You don't know what trouble is — you don't know 
what misery is — nor hunger ! Look at me ! Stranger have 
pity on a poor friendless, homeless dog ! As God is my judge, 
I have not tasted food for eight and forty hours ! — look in my 
eyes and see if I lie ! Give me the least trifle in the world to 
keep me from starving — anything — twenty-five cents ! Do ity 
stranger — do it, please. It will be nothing to you, but life to 
me. Do it, and I will go down on my knees and lick the dust 
before you ! I will kiss your footprints — I will worship the 
very ground you walk on ! Only twenty-five cents ! I am 
famishing — perishing — starving by inches ! For God's sake 
don't desert me ! " 
Blucher was bewildered — and touched, too — stirred to the 
depths. He reflected. Thought again. Then an idea struck 
him, and he said : 
" Come with me." 
He took the outcast's arm, walked him down to Martin's 
restaurant, seated him at a marble table, placed the bill of fare 
before him, and said : 
" Order what you want, friend. Charge it to me, Mr. Mar- 
tin." 
" All right, Mr. Blucher," said Martin. 
Then Blucher stepped back and leaned against the counter 
and watched the man stow away cargo after cargo of buckwheat 
cakes at seventy-five cents a plate ; cup. after cup of coffee, and 
porter house steaks worth two dollars apiece ; and when six 
dollars and a half's worth of destruction had been accomplished, 
and the stranger's hunger appeased, Blucher went down to 
French Pete's, bought a veal cutlet plain, a slice of bread, and 
three radishes, with his dime, and set to and feasted like a 
king ! 
Take the episode all around, it was as odd as any that can 
be culled from the myriad cmiosities of Californian life, 
perhaps. 
CHAPTER LX. 
BY and by, an old friend of mine, a miner, came down from 
one of the decayed mining camps of Tiiolmnne, Califor- 
nia, and I went back with him. We lived in a small cabin on 
a verdant hillside, and there were not five other cabins in view 
over the wide exjmnse of hill and forest. Yet a flourishing 
city of two or three thousand population had occupied this 
grassy dead solitude during the flush times of twelve or fifteen 
years before, and where our cabin stood had once been the 
heart of the teeming hive, the centre of the city. When the 
mines gave out the town fell into decay, and in a few years 
wholly disappeared — streets, dwellings, shops, everything — and 
left no sign. The grassy slopes were as green and smooth and 
desolate of life as if they had never been disturbed. The mere 
handful of miners still remaining, had seen the town spring up, 
spread, grow and flourish in its pride ; and they had seen it 
sicken and die, and pass away like a dream. With it their 
hopes had died, and their zest of life. They had long ago 
resigned themselves to their exile, and ceased to correspond 
with their distant friends or turn longing eyes toward their 
early homes. They had accepted banishment, forgotten the 
world and been forgotten of the world. They were far from 
telegraphs and railroads, and they stood, as it were, in a living 
grave, dead to the events that stirred the globe's great popula- 
tions, dead to the common interests of men, isolated and out- 
cast from brotherhood with their kind. It was the most singu- 
lar, and almost the most touching and melancholy exile that 
fancy can imagine. — One of my associates in this locality, for 
two or three months, was a man who had had a imiversity eau- 
cation ; but now for eighteen years he had decayed there by 
inches, a bearded, rongh-clad, clay-stained miner, and at times, 
among his sighings and soHlo- 
qnizings, he unconsciously in- 
terjected vaguely remembered 
Latin and Greek sentences — 
dead and musty tongues, meet 
vehicles for the thoughts of one 
whose dreams were all of the 
past, whose life was a failure ; 
a tired man, burdened with the 
present, and indifferent to the 
future ; a man without ties, 
hopes, interests, waiting for 
rest and the end. 
In that one little corner of 
California is found a species of 
mining which is seldom or never mentioned in print. It is 
THE OLD COLLEGIATE. Called " poctct miuing " and I 
am not aware that any of it is done outside of that little corner. 
The gold is not evenly distributed through the surface dirt, as 
in ordinary placer mines, but is collected in little spots, and 
they are very wide apart and exceedingly hard to find, but when 
you do find one you reap a rich and sudden harvest. There 
are not now more than twenty pocket miners in that entire little region. 
I think I know every one of them personally I 
have known one of them to hunt patiently about the hill-sides 
every day for eight months without finding gold enough to 
make a snuif-box — his grocery bill ruiniing up relentlessly all 
the time — and then find a pocket and take out of it two 
thousand dollars in two dips of his shovel. I have known him 
to take out three thousand dollars in two hours, and go and 
pay up every cent of his indebtedness, then enter on a dazzling 
spree that finished the last of his treasure before the night was 
gone. And the next day he bought his groceries on credit as 
usual, and shouldered his pan and shovel and went off to the 
hills hunting pockets again liappj and content. This is the 
most fascinating ot'all the different kinds of mining, and furnishes 
a very handsome percentage of victims to the hmatic asyhun. 
Pocket Imnting is an ingenious process. You take a spade- 
ful of earth from the hill-side and put it in a large tin pan and 
dissolve and wash it gradually away till nothing is left but a 
teaspoonful of fine sediment. Whatever gold was in that eai-th 
has remained, because, being the heaviest, it has sought the 
bottom. Among the sediment you will find half a dozen yellow 
particles no larger than pin-heads. You are delighted. You 
move off to one side and wash another pan. If you find gold 
again, you move to one side further, and wash a third pan. If 
you find no gold this time, you 
are delighted again, because you 
know you are on the right scent. 
You lay an imaginary plan, 
shaped like a fan, with its handle up the hill — for just where 
the end of the handle is, you 
argue that the rich deposit lies 
hidden, whose vagrant grains of 
gold have escaped and been 
washed down the hill, spreading farther and further apart 
as they  wandered. And so you 
proceed up the hill, washing the earth and narronng your 
lines every time the absence of gold in the pan shows that you 
are outside the spread of the fan ; 
and at last, twenty yards up the hill your lines have converged 
to a point — a single foot from that point you cannot find any 
gold. Your breath comes short and quick, you are feverish 
with excitement ; the dinner-bell may ring its clapper off, you 
pay no attention ; friends may die, weddings transpire, houses 
burn down, they are nothing to you ; you sweat and dig and 
delve with a frantic interest — and all at once you strike it ! 
Up comes a spadeful of earth and quartz that is all lovely with 
soiled lumps and leaves and sprays of gold. Sometimes that 
one spadeful 13 all — $500. Sometimes the nest contains $10,000. 
and it takes you three or four days to get it all out. The pock- 
et-miners tell of one nest that yielded $G0,000 and two men 
exhausted it in two weeks, and then sold the ground for $10,- 
000 to a party who never got $300 out of it afterward. 
The hogs are good pocket hunters. All the summer they 
root around the hushes, and turn up a thousand little piles of 
dirt, and then the miners long for the rains ; for the rains beat 
upon these little piles and wash them down and expose the gold, 
possibly right over a pocket. Two pockets were found in 
this way by the same man in one day. One had $5,000 in it 
and the other $8,000. That man could appreciate it, for he 
hadn't had a cent for about a year. 
