only stared a little, as if we were not worthy to be even 
forerunners of Monseigrneur. 
I do not care to write here how serious a drawback to 
the pleasures of this region are its inhabitants. You get 
the impression that half of them are beggars. The other 
half are watching for a chance to prey upon you in other 
ways. I heard of a woman in the Zormatt Valley who 
refused pay for a glass of milk ; but I did not have time 
to verify the report. Besides the beggars, who may or 
may not be horrid-looking creatures, there are the grin- 
ning Cretins, the old women with skins of parchment 
and the goitre, and even young children with the loath- 
some appendage, the most wretched and filthy hovels, 
and the dirtiest, ugliest people in them. The poor 
women are the beasts of burden. They often lead, mow- 
ing in the hayfield ; they carry heavy baskets on their 
backs ; they balance on their heads and carry large wash- 
tubs full of water. The more appropriate load of one 
was a cradle with a baby in it, which seemed not at all 
to fear falling. When one sees how the women are 
treated, he does not wonder that there are so many de- 
formed, hideous children. I think the pretty girl has yet 
to be born in Switzerland. 
This is not much about the Alps ? Ah, well, the Alps 
are there. Go read your guide-book, and find out what 
your emotions are. As I said, everybody goes to Cha- 
mouny. Is it not enough to sit at your window, and 
watch the clouds when they lift from the Mont Blanc 
range, disclosing splendor after splendor, from the 
Aiguille de Goute to the Aiguille Verte, — white needles 
which pierce the air for twelve thousand feet, until, jubi- 
late ! the round summit of the monarch himself is visible, 
and the vast expanse of white snow-fields, the whiteness of 
which is rather of heaven than of earth, dazzles the eyes, 
even at so great a distance ? Everybody who is patient, 
and waits in the cold and inhospitable-looking valley of 
the Chamouny long enough, sees Mont Blanc ; but every 
one does not see a sunset of the royal order. The clouds 
breaking up and clearing, after days of bad weather, 
showed us height after height, and peak after peak, now 
 wreathing the summits, now settling below or hanging in 
patches on the sides, and again soaring above, until we 
had the whole range lying, far and brilliant, in the evening light. The clouds took on gorgeous colors, at length, 
and soon the snow caught the hue, and whole fields were 
rosy pink, while uplifted peaks glowed red, as with inter- 
nal fire. Only Mont Blanc, afar off, remained purely 
white, in a kind of regal inaccessibility. And, after- 
ward, one star came out over it, and a bright light shone 
from the hut on the Grand Mulets, a rock in the waste 
of snow, where a Frenchman was passing the night on 
his way to the summit. 
Shall I describe the passage of the Tete Noire ? My 
friend, it is twenty-four miles, a road somewhat hilly, 
with splendid views of Mont Blanc in the morning, and 
of the Bernese Oberland range in the afternoon, when 
you descend into Martigny, — a hot place in the dusty 
Rhone Valley, which has a comfortable hotel, with a 
pleasant garden, in which you sit after dinner and let 
the mosquitoes eat you. 
IT was eleven o'clock at night when we reached Sion, 
a dirty little town at the end of the Khone -Valley 
Railway, and got into the omnibus for the hotel ; and it 
was also dark and rainy. They speak German in this 
part of Switzerland, or what is called German. There 
were two very pleasant Americans, who spoke American, 
going on in the diligence at half-past five in the morn- 
ing, on their way over the Simplon. One of them was 
accustomed to speak good, broad English very distinctly 
to all races ; and he seemed to expect that he must be 
understood if he repeated his observations in a louder 
tone, as he always did. I think he would force all this 
country to speak English in two months. We all desired 
to secure places in the diligence, which was likely to be 
full, as is usually the case when a railway discharges itself 
into a post-road. 
We were scarcely in the omnibus, when the gentleman 
said to the conductor : — 
" I want two places in the coupe of the diligence in the 
morning. Can I have them ? " 
" Yah," replied the good-natured German, who didn't 
understand a word. 
" Two places, diligence, coupe, morning. Is it full ? " 
" Yah," replied the accommodating fellow. " Hotel, 
man spik English." 
I suggested the banquette as desirable, if it could be 
obtained, and the German was equally willing to give it 
to us. Descending from the omnibus at the hotel, in a 
 
drizzling rain, and amidst a crowd of porters and postil- 
ions and runners, the "man who spoke English " imme- 
diately presented himself; and upon him the American 
pounced with a torrent of questions. He was a willing 
lively little waiter, with his moony face on the top of his 
head ; and he jumped round in the rain like a parchino- 
pea, rolling his head about in the funniest manner. 
The American steadied the little man by the collar 
and began, — ' 
"I want to secure two seats in the coupe of the dili- 
gence in the mornino-," 
" Yaas," jumping l-ound, and looking from one to an- 
other. " Diligence, coupe, morning." 
"I — want — two seats — in — coupe. If I can't get 
them, two — in — banquette." 
" Yaas — banquette, coupe,— yaas, diligence." 
" Do you understand ? Two seats, diligence, Simplon, 
morning. Will you get them ? " 
" Oh, yaas ! morning, diligence. Yaas, sirr." 
" Hang the fellow ! Where is the office ? " And the 
gentleman left the spry little waiter bobbing about in the 
middle of the street, speaking English, but probably com- 
prehending nothing that was said to him. I inquired the 
way to the office of the conductor : it was closed, but 
would soon be open, and I waited; and at length the 
official, a stout Frenchman, appeared, and I secured 
places in the interior, the only ones to be had to Visp. 
I had seen a diligence at the door with three places in 
tl coupe, and one perched behind ; no banquette. The 
office is brightly lighted ; people are waiting to secure 
places; there is the usual crowd of loafers, men and 
women, and the Frenchman sits at his desk. Enter the 
American. 
 " I want two places in coupe, in the mornino-. Or 
banqitte. Two places, diligence." The officiarwaves 
mm off, and says somethintr. 
" What does he say ? " ° 
"He tells you to sit down on that bench till he is 
ready." 
Soon the Frenchman has run over his big way-bills, and 
turns to us. 
" I want two places in the diligence, coupe," &c., &c., 
says the American. 
This remark being lost on the official, I explain to 
him as well as I can what is wanted, at first, — two places 
in the coupe. 
" One is taken," is his reply. 
" The gentleman will take two," I said, having in mind 
the diligence in the yard, with three places in the coupe. 
" One is taken," be repeats. 
" Then the gentleman will take the other two." 
" One is taken ! " he cries, jumping up and smiting the 
table, — " one is taken, I tell you ! " 
" How many are there in the coupe ? ** 
''Two." 
" Oh ! then the gentleman will take the one remaining 
in the coupe, and the one on top." 
So it is arranged. When I come back to the hotel, the 
Americans are explaining to the lively waiter " who 
speaks English " that they are to go in the diligence at 
half-past five, and that they are to be called at half-past 
four, and have breakfast. He knows all about it, — 
" Diligence, half-past four, breakfast. Oh, yaas ! " While 
I have been at the diligence-office, my companions have 
secured rooms, and gone to them ; and I ask the waiter to 
show me to my room. First, however, I tell him that we 
three, two ladies and myself, who came together, are 
going in the diligence at half-past five, and want to be 
called, and have breakfast. Did he comprehend ? 
" Yaas," rolling his face about on the top of his head 
violently. " You three gentleman want breakfast. What 
you hare ? " 
I had told him before what we would have, and now I 
gave up all hope of keeping our parties separate in his 
mind ; so I said, — 
" Five persons want breakfast at five o'clock. Five 
persons, five hours. Call all of them at half-past four." 
And T repeated it, and made him repeat it in English 
and French. He then insisted on putting me into the 
room of one of the American gentlemen ; and then he 
knocked at the door of a lady, who cried out in indigna- 
tion at being disturbed ; and, finally, I found my room. 
At the door I reiterated the instructions for the morn- 
ing; and he cheerfully bade me good-night. But he 
almost immediately came back, and poked in his head 
with, — 
" Is you go by de diligence ? " 
" Yes, you stupid." 
In the morning one of our party was called at half-past 
three, and saved the rest of us from a like fate ; and we 
were not aroused at all, but woke time enough to get 
down and find the diligence nearly ready, and no break- 
fast, but " the man who spoke English " as lively as ever. 
And we had a breakfast brought out, so filthy in all re- 
spects that nobody could eat it. Fortunately, there was 
not time to seriously try ; but we paid for it, and departed. 
The two American gentlemen sat in front of the house, 
waiting. The lively waiter had called them at half-past 
three, — for the railway train, instead of the diligence ; 
and they had their wretched breakfast early. They will 
remember the funny adventure with " the man who speaks 
English," and, no doubt, unite with us in warmly com- 
mending the Hotel Lion d'Or at Sion as the nastiest inn 
in Switzerland. 
A WALK TO THE GORNER-GRAT. 
THEN one leaves the dusty Rhone Valley, and 
turns southward from Visp, he plunges into the 
wildest and most savage part of Switzerland, and pene- 
trates the heart of the Alps. The valley is scarcely 
more than a narrow gorge, with high precipices on 
either side, through which the turbid and rapid Visp 
tears along at a furious rate, boiling and leaping in foam 
