against."
"Run against a promise to Abraham!" said Norton.
"Well, yes," said the housekeeper, setting her chair back at the wall
in its place. "I wouldn't like to run against none o' the Lord's words,
and this is one of 'em. 'I will bless them that bless thee, and curse
him that curseth thee.'"
The housekeeper went off and left Matilda and Norton looking at each
other. Norton wore a vexed face.
"This is all trumpery," he said. "It will blow away like smoke."
"No it won't, Norton," said Matilda. "I hope not."
"And how long have you and David been holding secret meetings together
to talk about this?"
"I don't know, Norton. But we had better go to bed, I suppose; for Miss
Redwood will call us very early to have breakfast before the omnibus
comes for us."
"Nonsense to have breakfast!" said Norton. "We shall be home time
enough."
"But then you and Davy will have to rush right off to school. Good
night."
"Good night"--said Norton, in an uncomfortable tone. And they went up
to their rooms, leaving David and Mr. Richmond still shut up in the
study.
It was early, dawn just breaking, when the summons came for them to get
up; the dawn of a fair spring morning. What a visit it had been!
Matilda thought to herself, as she dressed and put up her things in her
little hand bag. And as the first sunbeams were glinting on the top of
the old tower, she ran down to breakfast. Mr. Richmond gave her a very
warm greeting, in his quiet way. So did David. He looked bright and
well, Matilda saw at a glance. Norton had not by any means got over his
discomfiture. He seemed embarrassed as well as uneasy; watched David
with furtive glances, and eat his breakfast in silence. Mr. Richmond
and Matilda were the talkers.
"Have you had any more difficulties about boots?" he asked in the
course of the conversation. Matilda looked at him in bewilderment.
"You wrote me some time ago, on the subject of a deep question that had
to do with boots."
Matilda coloured and laughed, while Norton remarked that boots were a
queer subject for deep questions to have to do with.
"Deep questions can spring out of anything--out of your bread and
butter," said Mr. Richmond. "How is it, Tilly, about the matter of
boots?"
"I have hardly thought about it, Mr. Richmond, this long while."
"How is that?"
"I have had so much else to think of, I believe."
"Studies?"
"No, sir; my studies have been a good deal broken off by my being sick."
"What then? Can you tell me?"
Matilda gave briefly the history of her connexion with Sarah Staples.
She meant to give it briefly; but the story was too sweet in the
telling; it rather grew long. Yet she did by no means put herself or
her own doings in the foreground; that place was given as much as
possible to Mr. Wharncliffe and David and the poor family themselves.
The minister and the housekeeper were both very much interested.
"Yes," said the former, in conclusion, "I understand, and am satisfied.
I see that now boots are boots; and nothing more."
Matilda laughed, for the boys looked mystified.
"Will you tell me, sir," inquired Norton, "how deep questions could
spring out of my bread and butter?"
The minister could have smiled at the boy's air, which had much the
effect of seeming to put a "poser" to him; but he controlled himself
and answered quite gravely.
"Shall we consider them together? or apart?"
"Apart, if you please."
"Well--Bread, you know, daily bread, stands for the matters which
support life, in all variety. This question arises.--Who gives this
daily bread to you, and gives you power to eat it? And what use does He
wish to make of you, that he should give you both?"
Norton was silent.
"You are not prepared with an answer?" said the minister.
"I never thought of the questions before, sir. The second one sounds to
me very strange."
"Does it? Do you think the Lord had no purpose to serve, in putting you
here and nourishing you up to strength and power?"
"That's for the bread," said Norton after a pause, but not rudely;
lifting his eyes to the minister as he spoke. "You were going to
consider the bread and butter."
"I think you do not seem disposed to 'consider' anything," said Mr.
Richmond smiling; "but, however, I will hope the time of consideration
may come. Now for deep question Number three, or Number four,--You have
butter to your bread, and plenty of it; what is your duty towards
others who have no butter, and others still who have no bread?"
"There's the omnibus, Mr. Richmond," said the housekeeper. And there
was no more talk. Only a hurried putting on of hats and seizing of hand
bags; eager, warm, hearty grasping of hands in good bye; and then the
three travellers were in the omnibus and rolling along the parsonage
lane and out at the gate.
What a visit it had been! Matilda was so full of content that she was
still. Not a very noisy child at any time, she was now as quiet as a
mouse, just with content. Three days of sweet pleasure, three days of
country skies and greening grass and free sunshine; three nights and
mornings of parsonage delights. And more than that; more than all she
had hoped for; David going home with his deep questions solved and
his calls of duty and privilege met. What would they think at home? and
how would they find out about it? "He was one of those lost pieces of
silver," thought Matilda, smiling to herself; "and Jesus has found him!"
"What's so amusing?" inquired Norton. He was rather in a disordered
state of mind, and certainly seemed to see nothing amusing himself.
Matilda looked up, still smiling, though her eyes were dewy, and from
him glanced at David. Their eyes met. His smile answered hers, quite
recognizing its meaning. Norton whistled. There was no other passenger
in the omnibus; and he whistled half way to the station.
In the cars the same content possessed Matilda. It was still early
morning; she thought the river had never looked so pretty as in the
crisp light of that hour; nor the opposite hills so lovely as under
those wreaths of bright vapour which lay along the hillsides; nor ever
was there a blue sky more smiling. She glanced at her two companions.
Norton was not smiling by any means; his discomposure had not gone off,
whatever it might mean; and he eyed David now and then with a jealous,
doubtful expression. David was grave enough, but not as usual. Matilda
looked again and again, to see how different the thoughtful bright calm
of his face was from the old dark gloom that used to be there; and then
her eyes turned to the sunny river and sky and hills, with a glad
feeling of the harmony between things outward and inward. Before long,
David had taken out a little book and was deep in the study of it;
which he never interrupted till they reached Poughkeepsie. There Norton
rushed out, to get something to eat, he said; though Matilda guessed it
was rather to get rid of himself for a minute. Many other people left
the car on the same errand; and David looked up from his book and came
over to Matilda.
"Well," said he, "how are you getting along?"
"Nicely. I am so happy, David!"
"So am I," said he gravely. "All the world is new, and it seems to me I
see the sun shine for the first time."
"See the sun shine?" repeated Matilda doubtfully.
"Yes," said he smiling.
"But you don't look at it, David. You are reading all the while."
"I see it, though. Now I know what the prophet Malachi meant by the sun
of righteousness. Do you remember, Matilda? I guess you don't; but I
know the words.
   'And risen to you, ye who fear my name,
   Hath the sun of righteousness and healing in its wings.'
I feel that now. I never could understand it before."
"There are a great many things that we cannot understand till we feel
them,--are there not, David?"
"I suppose so," he said thoughtfully.
Their talk stopped there; and presently the people who had gone out
came pouring back. Norton brought a great piece of sponge-cake to
Matilda.
"Thank you, Norton, but I'm not hungry, I've just had breakfast a few
minutes ago."
"You hadn't time to eat."
"Yes, I had. You spent your time talking, I suppose; you and Mr.
Richmond; that's the reason you are hungry."
Norton sat down and eat his sponge-cake; and spoke no more till the
train got in. The carriage was in waiting; took the two boys
immediately to school, and carried Matilda and the bags home.
She wondered all day how and when David's disclosure would be made, and
how it would be taken at home. She had a good many questions to answer
herself, even Judy seeming curious to know what they had been doing and
how they had spent the time, and why they had not come home Saturday;
especially what David had done with himself and why he had taken it
into his head to go at all. Matilda declined to enter into any
discussion of David's affairs, and left him to speak for himself. But
much she wondered how he would, and whether he would, and when he would.
It happened that evening that there was no company, and the family were
all gathered together in the little reception room; talking over the
children's reports and discussing plans for the coming summer.
Matilda's heart began to beat; for she saw that David was thoughtfully
still, and that Norton, in a corner, only talked by jerks, as it were,
and sat turning over and over one of his school-books, with an odd air
of expectancy. Yes, certainly he knew that David was going to speak,
and was waiting for it. Matilda could think of nothing else; her talk
all came to an end.
"Norton hasn't much to say to-night," Mrs. Bartholomew remarked. "No
more than if he were my boy."
"I haven't anything to talk about," said Norton, looking at nothing but
his book.
"Matilda has lost her tongue too," said Judy.
"She never had such a one as yours," replied her grandmother; "you must
remember that. It isn't such a loss in the house."
Judy seemed inclined to pout at this; but then her attention was turned
to her brother, who began rather suddenly.
"May I speak, grandmamma?"
"I shall be very happy to hear," said Mrs. Lloyd smiling.
"I am not so sure of that," said David; "at least, not of you all;
though I really have something to say."
All eyes turned to David. Norton looked up at him from under his brows,
with a strange expression of curiosity and displeasure. Matilda only
looked away. David hesitated, then went on very calmly and gently.
"You know, mother and grandmother, that I have been very strong in my
love for my own people, and very strong in my sympathies with them."
"Is it in the past tense?" asked Mrs. Lloyd.
"And very fixed in my prejudices against what was not Jewish; against
what in your beliefs was contrary to mine."
"We all know that," said his mother a little bitterly.
"Is that in the past tense?" demanded Judy.
"I joined with my people in expecting the Messiah and hoping for him."
"Did you?" said his mother.
"I have changed," said David slowly. "I have been studying these things
for some time past; I have studied and studied; and now I know. Our
Messiah has come; our people did not know him, and--they lost him. I
know now that Jesus of Nazareth is the Messiah."
A scream of startled rage from Judy broke in upon the closing
utterances of this speech. She prevented everybody else.
"You do not mean to say that, David Bartholomew!" she exclaimed,
jumping out of her chair and standing before him. "You don't mean it."
"Do I ever say what I do not mean, Judy?" he answered gravely.
"Say it again. Say you have left us and gone over to the Christians."
"Judy! are you not ashamed!" cried Mrs. Bartholomew. "What do you think
of your mother?"
