II. 
You cannot know, the Young Lady wrote, with 
what longing I look back to those winter days by 
the fire ; though all the windows are open to this 
May morning, and the brown thrush is singing 
in the chestnut-tree, and I see everywhere that 
first delicate flush of spring, which seems too 
evanescent to be color even, and amounts to little 
more than a suffusion of the atmosphere. I 
doubt, indeed, if the spring is exactly what it 
used to be, or if, as we get on in years [no one 
ever speaks of " getting on in years " till she is 
virtually settled in life, its promises and sugges 
tions do not seem empty in comparison with the 
sympathies and responses of human friendship, 
and the stimulation of society. Sometimes noth 
ing is so tiresome as a perfect day in a perfect 
season. 
I only imperfectly understand this. The Parson says that woman is always most restless 
under the most favorable conditions, and that 
there is no state in which she is really happy 
except that of change. I suppose this is the 
truth taught in what has been called the " Myth 
of the Garden." Woman is perpetual revolution, 
and is that element in the world which continually destroys and re-creates. She is the experimenter and the suggester of new combinations. 
She has no belief in any law of eternal fitness 
of things. She is never even content with any 
arrangement of her own house. The only reason 
the Mistress could give, when she rearranged her 
apartment, for hanging a picture in what seemed 
the most inappropriate place, was that it had 
never been there before. Woman has no respect 
for tradition, and because a thing is as it is is 
sufficient reason for changing it. When she gets 
into law, as she has come into literature, we shall 
gain something in the destruction of all our vast 
and musty libraries of precedents, which now 
fetter our administration of individual justice. It 
is Mandeville's opinion that women are not so 
sentimental as men, and are not so easily touched 
with the unspoken poetry of nature ; being less 
poetical, and having less imagination, they are 
more fitted for practical affairs, and would make 
less failures in business. I have noticed the 
almost selfish passion for their flowers which old 
gardeners have, and their reluctance to part with 
a leaf or a blossom from their family. They love 
the flowers for themselves. A woman raises 
flowers for their use. She is destruction in a 
conservatory. She wants the flowers for her 
lover, for the sick, for the poor, for the Lord on 
Easter day, for the ornamentation of her house. 
She delights in the costly pleasure of sacrificing 
them. She never sees a flower but she has an 
intense but probably sinless desire to pick it. 
It has been so from the first, though from the 
first -she has been thwarted by the accidental 
superior strength of man. Whatever she has 
obtained has been by craft, and by the same coaxing which the sun uses to draw the blossoms out 
of the apple-trees. I am not surprised to learn 
that she has become tired of indulgences, and 
wants some of the original rights. We are just 
beginning to find out the extent to which she has 
been denied and subjected, and especially her condition among the primitive and barbarous races. 
I have never seen it in a platform of grievances, 
but it is true that among the Fijians she is not, 
unless a better civilization has wrought a change 
in her behalf, permitted to eat people, even her 
own sex, at the feasts of the men ; the dainty 
enjoyed by the men being considered too good 
to be wasted on women. Is anything wanting to 
this picture of the degradation of woman ? By a 
refinement of cruelty she receives no benefit 
whatever from the missionaries who are sent out 
by what to her must seem a new name for 
Tan-talus the American Board. 
I suppose the Young Lady expressed a nearly 
universal feeling in her regret at the breaking up 
of the winter-fireside company. Society needs 
 
a certain seclusion and the sense of security. 
Spring opens the doors and the windows, and 
the noise and unrest of the world are let in. 
Even a winter thaw begets a desire to travel, and 
summer brings longings innumerable, and dis 
turbs the most tranquil souls. Nature is, in fact, 
a suggester of uneasiness, a promoter of pilgrim 
ages and of excursions of the fancy which never 
come to any satisfactory haven. The summer in 
these latitudes is a campaign of sentiment and 
a season, for the most part, of restlessness and 
discontent. We grow now in hot-houses roses 
which, in form and color, are magnificent, and 
appear to be full of passion ; yet one simple June 
rose of the open air has for the Young Lady, 
I doubt not, more sentiment and suggestion of 
love than a conservatory full of them in January. 
And this suggestion, leavened as it is with the 
inconstancy of nature, stimulated by the promises 
which are so often like the peach-bloom of the 
Judas-tree, unsatisfying by reason of its vague 
possibilities, differs so essentially from the more 
limited and attainable and home-like emotion 
born of quiet intercourse by the winter fireside, 
 
that I do not wonder the Young Lady feels as if 
some spell had been broken by the transition of 
her life from in-doors to out-doors. Her secret, 
if secret she has, which I do not at all know, is 
shared by the birds and the new leaves and the 
blossoms on the fruit trees. If we lived else 
where, in that zone where the poets pretend 
always to dwell, we might be content, perhaps 
I should say drugged, by the sweet influences 
of an unchanging summer ; but not living else 
where, we can understand why the Young Lady 
probably now looks forward to the hearthstone 
as the most assured centre of enduring attach 
ment 
If it should ever become the sad duty of this bi 
ographer to write of disappointed love, I am sure 
he would not have any sensational story to tell 
of the Young Lady. She is one of those women 
whose unostentatious lives are the chief blessing 
of humanity ; who, with a sigh heard only by 
herself and no change in her sunny face, would 
put behind her all the memories of winter even 
ings and the promises of May mornings, and 
give her life to some ministration of human kind- 
 
ness with an assiduity that would make her occu 
pation appear like an election and a first choice. 
The disappointed man scowls, and hates his race, 
and threatens self-destruction, choosing oftener 
the flowing bowl than the dagger, and becoming 
a reeling nuisance in the world. It would be 
much more manly in him to become the secre- 
tary of a Dorcas society. 
I suppose it is true that women work for 
others with less expectation of reward than men, 
and give themselves to labors of self-sacrifice 
with much less thought of self. At least, this is 
true unless woman goes into some public per 
formance, where notoriety has its attractions, and 
mounts some cause, to ride it man-fashion, when 
I think she becomes just as eager for applause 
and just as willing that self-sacrifice should result 
in self-elevation as man. For her, usually, are 
not those unbought " presentations " which are 
forced upon firemen, philanthropists, legislators, 
railroad-men, and the superintendents of the 
moral instruction of the young. These are 
almost always pleasing and unexpected tributes 
to worth and modesty, and must be received with 
 
satisfaction when the public service rendered has 
not been with a view to procuring them. We 
should say that one ought to be most liable to 
receive a " testimonial " who, being a superintendent of any sort, did not superintend with a 
view to getting it. But "testimonials" have 
become so common that a modest man ought 
really to be afraid to do his simple duty, for fear 
his motives will be misconstrued. Yet there are 
instances of very worthy men who have had 
things publicly presented to them. It is the 
blessed age of gifts and the reward of private 
virtue. And the presentations have become so 
frequent that we wish there were a little more 
variety in them. There never was much sense 
in giving a gallant fellow a big speaking-trumpet 
to carry home to aid him in his intercourse with 
his family ; and the festive ice-pitcher has become 
a too universal sign of absolute devotion to the 
public interest. The lack of one will soon be 
proof that a man is a knave. The legislative 
cane with the gold head, also, is getting to be 
recognized as the sign of the immaculate public 
servant, as the inscription on it testifies, and the 
steps of suspicion must erelong dog him who 
does not carry one. The " testimonial " business 
is, in truth, a little demoralizing, almost as much 
so as the " donation " ; and the demoralization 
has extended even to our language, so that a per 
fectly respectable man is often obliged to see 
himself " made the recipient of" this and that. 
It would be much better, if testimonials must be, 
to give a man a barrel of flour or a keg of oys 
ters, and let him eat himself at once back into 
the ranks of ordinary men. 
III. 
WE may have a testimonial class in time, a 
sort of nobility here in America, made so by pop 
ular gift, the members of which will all be able 
to show some stick or piece of plated ware or 
massive chain, "of which they have been the 
recipients." In time it may be a distinction not 
to belong to it, and it may come to be thought 
more blessed to give than to receive. For it 
must have been remarked that it is not always to 
the cleverest and the most amiable and modest 
