easily dodged the blows which were aimed at him, till the tippler, out
of breath from his exertions, placed himself before the door to prevent
the escape of the culprit, and there rested himself from the fatigue of
the onslaught.

"Don't you strike that boy," said Mrs. Taylor, warmly; and she had
before essayed to suspend the strife.

"Yes I will! I'll flog him within an inch of his life. I'll teach him to
meddle with my property," gasped Ezekiel.

"If you do, I'll leave this house, and never come into it again. I won't
have no such goings on where I am," said the woman, warmly and
energetically.

"That's right, mother; you leave," added Robert, who had remained in the
room only to turn the wrath of the husband from her to himself.

"He shan't hurt you, Robert. I'll stand up for you to the end," added
Mrs. Taylor, as she passed into her chamber, which was next to the
"living-room."

"I don't care who goes, nor who stays. I ain't a going to have any such
works as this," continued Ezekiel, as he gathered himself up for another
attack. "I ain't a going to have my property, that cost money,
destroyed, and you won't want to do such a thing again, I can tell you."

The angry man rushed towards Robert, who stood near the door which
opened into the front entry; but he knew that it was locked, and so he
did not attempt to escape in that direction. Being in the corner, his
furious assailant attempted to pin him there; but Robert, by a flank
movement, reached the door which led to the wood-shed, and passed out.
He was closely pursued by Ezekiel; but the tipsy man might as well have
attempted to catch a wild antelope. The boy dodged around the wood-shed
and other buildings till he had thrown his pursuer off the track; then
he went to the back window of his mother's chamber to assure himself
that she was still safe. She was putting on her bonnet and shawl, with
the evident intention of leaving the house.

"Did he strike you, Robert?" she asked, through the open window, with
more of indignation than terror in her manner.

"Not he," replied Robert. "I can keep out of his way easy enough."

"Don't go near him again--that's a good boy. There's no knowing what he
may do. He's as ugly as sin when he has had two or three glasses and
wants more."

"But where are you going, mother?" asked the boy.

"I don't know where to go yet; but I'm not going to stay here to-day. I
can't bear it any longer. You will keep out of his way--won't you,
Robert?"

"I'm not afraid of him; but I'm going out a fishing as soon as the tide
makes enough to get the boat off."

"Well, I'll go up and spend the day with Mrs. Paine," added Mrs. Taylor.
"I hope your father will get over it before night."

"I've got about enough of this, mother; and if it wasn't for you, I'd
clear out this very day."

"Don't leave me yet, Robert," pleaded the poor woman. "I mean to leave
him myself if he don't behave better. He shan't abuse you."

"I don't mean he shall. But I think I can take care of myself better
than you can of yourself."

Mrs. Taylor did not think so; but she did not dispute the point. The
approach of Ezekiel caused the youth to beat another retreat; but, from
the other side of the street, he saw his mother leave the house and walk
towards the village. Satisfied that she was safe from the wrath of her
brutal husband, he soon followed her, though he did not overtake her,
for his course, after a short distance, led him in another direction.

"I'm glad that man is not my father," muttered Robert to himself, as he
walked towards the village.

A knowledge of this fact had come to him only a few days before, and it
was a great relief to him, for certainly there was no meaner man in
Camden than Ezekiel Taylor. He was sorry that he had ever been permitted
even to bear his name. He was sixteen years old, though, for his age, he
was rather short. But he was a stout, wiry, athletic little fellow. He
was just as much puzzled as the rest of the town's people to know how
his mother contrived to feed and clothe herself and him, when it was
patent to everybody that her husband spent all that he earned for rum.
She always had money enough to buy a beefsteak and to pay her store
bill. When everything seemed to have "gone to the dogs," and his last
suit of clothes was out at the elbows, she astonished him by getting a
new suit. The coat had very brief skirts, after the fashion then
prevailing. On his short, stubbed form, it gave him a peculiar
appearance, which promptly attracted the attention of his companions,
when he went to church and Sunday school, after a long absence caused by
the want of suitable clothing. The boys called him "Bob Taylor;" but
when this coat appeared, they cut off one syllable, and made his
cognomen "Bobtail," which soon became "Little Bobtail," for he was often
called little Bob Taylor before, by the larger boys.

Robert was disposed to resent all these liberties with his name; but as
Squire Gilfilian, the hotel keeper, and the deputy collector of the
port, good-naturedly adopted the fashion of the youngsters, he was
compelled to acquiesce. After all, there was not much difference between
Little Bobtail and little Bob Taylor, certainly not enough to quarrel
about.

Robert went to the post-office, not because he expected any
letters,--for he had no correspondence,--but because a great many people
went there when the mail arrived. He was always ready to make a quarter
when an opportunity presented. He spent half his time on the water in
the summer, and knew all about a boat. Sometimes the strangers at the
hotel wanted him to go out with them, and indicate the best places to
catch cod, haddock, and mackerel, and sometimes there was an errand to
be done.

"Little Bobtail!" shouted the post-master through his window, as Robert
entered the office.

He went up to the window, and asked what was wanted.

"Here is a letter for Squire Gilfilian, who was in a desperate hurry to
get it, if one came," added the post-master. "Will you carry it up to
his office?"

"Yes, sir," replied Little Bobtail, promptly.

"Here is another for Captain Chinks. I think he is at the squire's
office, for they just went up the street together. You may as well take
it along."

Robert took the two letters, and hastened to the squire's office. As he
entered, Captain Chinks came out of the rear apartment, where the lawyer
held his private conferences with his clients.

"Here's a letter for you, sir," said Robert, as he handed one of them to
the captain, who immediately tore it open.

"Thank you, Little Bobtail," said Captain Chinks, taking a quarter in
scrip from his vest pocket, and giving it to him.

"I am very much obliged to you, Captain Chinks," replied Robert, glad to
earn a quarter so easily. "Is Squire Gilfilian in that room?"

"Yes; but he's busy."

"I have a letter for him."

"Put it on the table, and he will find it when he comes out; on his
writing desk there."

Little Bobtail tossed the letter on the desk, and left the office,
thinking only of the quarter he had just made, and how he should invest
it to the best advantage in provisioning the old boat with which he
intended to go a fishing that day. A sheet of gingerbread and a "hunk of
cheese," as he expressed it, seemed to suit the emergencies of the
occasion; and after purchasing these articles, he walked down the road
leading to the Portland steamboat wharf. He had gone but a short
distance before he overtook Captain Chinks, who was reading the letter
he just received as he walked along the plank sidewalk.

Captain Chinks, who was, possibly, a distant relative of him of the
horse-marines, though his name had become corrupted, was a man of
doubtful reputation. The officials of the custom-house kept a sharp eye
upon him, and endeavored to connect him with certain irregular
transactions, whereby sundry cases of brandy and sundry boxes of cigars
had come into Camden without paying tribute to the majesty of the
custom-house. The goods were seized, and duly confiscated; but there was
a link wanting in the chain of testimony which connected Captain Chinks
with the affair. Robert supposed he had been consulting Squire Gilfilian
about the matter; and the youth judged from the angry look of the
captain that the lawyer had not been able to afford him any
satisfaction.

Captain Chinks read his letter, and made his way down to the steamboat
wharf. As Bobtail ran his old boat by the end of the pier, he saw the
man of doubtful reputation go on board of the steamer, and noticed him
on her deck when she started.

That afternoon Robert sold a good mess of fish at the market, and went
home to the cottage, which was on the road leading to the steamboat
wharf. Ezekiel was not there, but his mother was. As the tippler could
not obtain the liquor for a spree, he had become sober. He went to work
the next day, and a temporary peace was patched up. He offered no
violence to the boy while he was sober, but this was only for a brief
period. In a few days he obtained another jug of rum, and Robert and his
mother were obliged to abandon the house to him.

On this afternoon Robert went to the post-office as usual. He had not
been on the water since the day he had carried the letters to Squire
Gilfilian's office, for the reason that he could not obtain a boat, for
he was not the owner of the old craft in which he generally sailed. She
belonged to a boatman by the name of Prince, who managed a larger
Newport boat, in which he conveyed passengers from the hotel, and
others, upon excursions on the bay. Anybody who wanted the old boat took
her, without the formality of asking the owner's leave, though Robert,
being a boy, was not quite so independent as others; but Prince was a
good fellow, and allowed him to use her whenever she was not taken by
somebody else. But Robert had borrowed her for the day, and secured her
near the cottage the night before, so that she could not be used till
the tide served.
