muscular form of Phil’s friend stood in his way.
“Out wid ye!” said she, flourishing a broom, which she had snatched up.
“Is that the way you inter a dacint woman’s house, ye spalpeen!”
“I want my brother,” said Pietro, drawing back a little before the
amazon who disputed his passage.
“Go and find him, thin!” said Bridget McGuire, “and kape out of my
house.”
“But he is here,” said Pietro, angrily; “I saw him come in.”
“Then, one of the family is enough,” said Bridget. “I don’t want
another. Lave here wid you!”
“Give me my brother, then!” said Pietro, provoked.
“I don’t know anything of your brother. If he looks like you, he’s a
beauty, sure,” returned Mrs. McGuire.
“Will you let me look for him?”
“Faith and I won’t. You may call him if you plase.”
Pietro knew that this would do very little good, but there seemed
nothing else to do.
“Filippo!” he called; “come here. The padrone has sent for you.”
“What was ye sayin’?” demanded Bridget not comprehending the Italian.
“I told my brother to come.”
“Then you can go out and wait for him,” said she. “I don’t want you in
the house.”
Pietro was very angry. He suspected that Phil was in the rear room, and
was anxious to search for him. But Bridget McGuire was in the way--no
light, delicate woman, but at least forty pounds heavier than Pietro.
Moreover, she was armed with a broom, and seemed quite ready to use it.
Phil was fortunate in obtaining so able a protector. Pietro looked at
her, and had a vague thought of running by her, and dragging Phil out if
he found him. But Bridget was planted so squarely in his path that this
course did not seem very practicable.
“Will you give me my brother?” demanded Pietro, forced to use words
where he would willingly have used blows.
“I haven’t got your brother.”
“He is in this house.”
“Thin he may stay here, but you shan’t,” said Bridget, and she made a
sudden demonstration with the broom, of so threatening a character
that Pietro hastily backed out of the house, and the door was instantly
bolted in his face.
CHAPTER XXI
THE SIEGE
When the enemy had fairly been driven out of the house Mrs. McGuire
went upstairs in search of Phil. Our hero had come out from his place of
concealment, and stood at the window.
“Where is Pietro?” he asked, as his hostess appeared in the chamber.
“I druv him out of the house,” said Bridget, triumphantly.
“Then he won’t come up here?” interrogated Phil.
“It’s I that would like to see him thry it,” said Mrs. McGuire, shaking
her head in a very positive manner, “I’d break my broom over his back
first.”
Phil breathed freer. He saw that he was rescued from immediate danger.
“Where is he now?”
“He’s outside watching for you. He’ll have to wait till you come out.”
“May I stay here till he goes?”
“Sure, and you may,” said the warm-hearted Irishwoman. “You’re as
welcome as flowers in May. Are you hungry?”
“No, thank you,” said Phil. “I have eaten my dinner.”
“Won’t you try a bit of bread and cold mate now?” she asked, hospitably.
“You are very kind,” said Phil, gratefully, “but I am not hungry. I only
want to get away from Pietro.”
“Is that the haythen’s name? Sure I niver heard it before.”
“It is Peter in English.”
“And has he got the name of the blessed St. Peter, thin? Sure, St. Peter
would be mightily ashamed of him. And is he your brother, do you say?”
“No,” said Phil.
“He said he was; but I thought it was a wicked lie when he said it. He’s
too bad, sure, to be a brother of yours. But I must go down to my work.
My clothes are in the tub, and the water will get cold.”
“Will you be kind enough to tell me when he goes away?” asked Phil.
“Sure I will. Rest aisy, darlint. He shan’t get hold of you.”
Pietro’s disappointment may be imagined when he found that the victim
whom he had already considered in his grasp was snatched from him in
the very moment of his triumph. He felt nearly as much incensed at Mrs.
McGuire as at Phil, but against the former he had no remedy. Over the
stalwart Irishwoman neither he nor the padrone had any jurisdiction,
and he was compelled to own himself ignominiously repulsed and baffled.
Still all was not lost. Phil must come out of the house some time, and
when he did he would capture him. When that happy moment arrived he
resolved to inflict a little punishment on our hero on his own account,
in anticipation of that which awaited him from his uncle, the padrone.
He therefore took his position in front of the house, and maintained a
careful watch, that Phil might not escape unobserved.
So half an hour passed. He could hear no noise inside the house, nor
did Phil show himself at any of the windows. Pietro was disturbed by a
sudden suspicion. What if, while he was watching, Phil had escaped by
the back door, and was already at a distance!
This would be quite possible, for as he stood he could only watch the
front of the house. The rear was hidden from his view. Made uneasy by
this thought, he shifted his ground, and crept stealthily round on the
side, in the hope of catching a view of Phil, or perhaps hearing some
conversation between him and his Amazonian protector by which he might
set at rest his suddenly formed suspicions.
He was wrong, however. Phil was still upstairs. He was disposed to be
cautious, and did not mean to leave his present place of security until
he should be apprised by his hostess that Pietro had gone.
Bridget McGuire kept on with her washing. She had been once to the front
room, and, looking through the blinds, had ascertained that Pietro was
still there.
“He’ll have to wait long enough,” she said to herself, “the haythen!
It’s hard he’ll find it to get the better of Bridget McGuire.”
She was still at her tub when through the opposite window on the side
of the house she caught sight of Pietro creeping stealthily along, as we
have described.
“I’ll be even wid him,” said Bridget to herself exultingly. “I’ll tache
him to prowl around my house.”
She took from her sink near by a large, long-handled tin dipper, and
filled it full of warm suds from the tub. Then stealing to the window,
she opened it suddenly, and as Pietro looked up, suddenly launched the
contents in his face, calling forth a volley of imprecations, which I
would rather not transfer to my page. Being in Italian, Bridget did not
exactly understand their meaning, but guessed it.
“Is it there ye are?” she said, in affected surprise.
“Why did you do that?” demanded Pietro, finding enough English to
express his indignation.
“Why did I do it?” repeated Bridget. “How would I know that you were
crapin’ under my windy? It serves ye right, anyhow. I don’t want you
here.”
“Send out my brother, then,” said Pietro.
“There’s no brother of yours inside,” said Mrs. McGuire.
“It’s a lie!” said Pietro, angrily stamping his foot.
“Do you want it ag’in?” asked Bridget, filling her dipper once more
from the tub, causing Pietro to withdraw hastily to a greater distance.
“Don’t you tell Bridget McGuire that she lies.”
“My brother is in the house,” reiterated Pietro, doggedly.
“He is no brother of yours--he says so.”
“He lies,” said Pietro.
“Shure and it’s somebody else lies, I’m thinkin’,” said Bridget.
“Is he in the house?” demanded Pietro, finding it difficult to argue
with Phil’s protector.
“I don’t see him,” said Bridget, shrewdly, turning and glancing round
the room.
“I’ll call the police,” said Pietro, trying to intimidate his adversary.
“I wish you would,” she answered, promptly. “It would save me the
trouble. I’ll make a charge against you for thryin’ to break into my
house; maybe you want to stale something.”
Pietro was getting disgusted. Mrs. McGuire proved more unmanageable than
he anticipated. It was tantalizing to think that Phil was so near him,
and yet out of his reach. He anathematized Phil’s protector in his
heart, and I am afraid it would have gone hard with her if he could have
had his wishes fulfilled. He was not troubled to think what next to
say, for Bridget suddenly terminated the interview by shutting down the
window with the remark: “Go away from here! I don’t want you lookin’ in
at my windy.”
Pietro did not, however, go away immediately. He moved a little further
to the rear, having a suspicion that Phil might escape from the door at
the back. While he was watching here, he suddenly heard the front door
open, and shut with a loud sound. He ran to the front, thinking that
Phil might be taking flight from the street door, but it was only a
ruse of Mrs. McGuire, who rather enjoyed tantalizing Pietro. He looked
carefully up and down the street, but, seeing nothing of Phil, he
concluded he must still be inside. He therefore resumed his watch, but
in some perplexity as to where he ought to stand, in order to watch both
front and rear. Phil occasionally looked guardedly from the window
in the second story, and saw his enemy, but knew that as long as he
remained indoors he was safe. It was not very agreeable remaining in
the chamber alone, but it was a great deal better than falling into
the clutches of Pietro, and he felt fortunate to have found so secure a
place of refuge.
Pietro finally posted himself at the side of the house, where he could
command a view of both front and rear, and there maintained his
stand nearly underneath the window at which his intended prisoner was
standing.
As Phil was watching him, suddenly he heard steps, and Bridget McGuire
entered the chamber. She bore in her hand the same tin dipper before
noticed, filled with steaming hot water. Phil regarded her with some
surprise.
“Would you like to see some fun now?” she asked, her face covered by a
broad smile.
“Yes,” said Phil.
“Open the windy, aisy, so he won’t hear.”
Phil obeyed directions, and managed not to attract the attention of his
besieger below, who chanced at the moment to be looking toward the door
in the rear.
“Now,” said Bridget, “take this dipper and give him the binifit of it.”
“Don’t let him see you do it,” cautioned his protector.
Phil took the idea and the dipper at once.
Phil, holding the dipper carefully, discharged the contents with such
good aim that they drenched the watching Pietro. The water being pretty
hot, a howl of pain and rage rose from below, and Pietro danced about
frantically. Looking up, he saw no one, for Phil had followed directions
and drawn his head in immediately. But Mrs. McGuire, less cautious,
looked out directly afterward.
“Will ye go now, or will ye stand jist where I throw the hot water?”
In reply, Pietro indulged in some rather emphatic language, but being
in the Italian language, in which he was more fluent, it fell unregarded
upon the ears of Mrs. McGuire.
“I told you to go,” she said. “I’ve got some more wather inside.”
Pietro stepped back in alarm. He had no disposition to take another warm
shower bath, and he had found out to his cost that Bridget McGuire was
not a timid woman, or easily frightened.
But he had not yet abandoned the siege. He shifted his ground to the
front of the house, and took a position commanding a view of the front
door.
CHAPTER XXII
THE SIEGE IS RAISED
Though Phil was the besieged party, his position was decidedly
preferable to that of Pietro. The afternoon was passing, and he was
earning nothing. He finally uncovered his organ and began to play. A few
gathered around him, but they were of that class with whom money is not
plenty. So after a while, finding no pennies forthcoming, he stopped
suddenly, but did not move on, as his auditors expected him to. He still
