upon in the act of lifting the drapery, and stabbed with forty wounds.'
'Oh! how horrid!' gasped Matilda, staring about as if she saw the
sanguinary gentlemen approaching.
'So interesting! Do go on!' cried Lavinia, who was fond of woe, and
enjoyed horrors.
'This is the hall where the body lay for two hours, covered with a cloak
and a cross of straw on the breast,' cut in Amanda, as the guide opened
his mouth. 'Here the king came to look upon the corpse of the once
mighty Henri le Balafré, and spurned it with his foot, saying, I shall
not translate it for you, Mat,--"Je ne le croyais pas aussi grand" and
then ordered it to be burnt, and the ashes cast into the river. Remember
the date, I implore you, December 23, 1588.'
As Amanda paused for breath the little man took the word, and rattled
off a jumble of facts and fictions about the window from which Marie de
Medicis lowered herself when imprisoned here by her dutiful son, Louis
XIII.
'I wish the entire lot had been tossed out after her, for I do think
kings and queens are a set of rascals,' cried Mat, scandalized by the
royal iniquities to which she had been listening, till the hair stood
erect upon her innocent head.
The Salle des États was being prepared for the trial of the men who had
lately attempted the Emperor's life, and a most theatrical display of
justice was to be presented to the public. The richly carved stair-case,
with Francis the First's salamanders squirming up and down it, was a
relic worth seeing; but the parched pilgrims found the little pots of
clotted cream quite as interesting, and much more refreshing, when they
were served up at lunch (the pots, not the pilgrims), each covered with
a fresh vine-leaf, and delicately flavoured with butter-cups and
clover.
Amanda won the favour of the stately garçon by praising them warmly,
and he kept bringing in fresh relays, and urging her to eat a third, a
fourth, with a persuasive dignity hard to resist.
'But yes, Mademoiselle, one more, for nowhere else can crême de St.
Gervais be achieved. They are desired, ardently desired, in Paris; but,
alas! it is impossible to convey them so far, such is their exquisite
delicacy.'
How many the appreciative ladies consumed, the muse saith not; but the
susceptible heart of the great garçon was deeply touched, and it was
with difficulty that they finally escaped from his attentions.
On being presented with a cast-off camp-stool, and a pair of old boots
to dispose of, he instantly appropriated them as graceful souvenirs,
and clasping his hands, declared with effusion that he would seat his
infant upon the so-useful stool, and offer the charming boots to Madame
my wife, who would weep for joy at this touching tableau.
With this melodramatic valedictory, he suffered the guests to depart,
and the last they saw of him, he was still waving a dirty napkin as he
stood at the gate, big, bland, and devoted to the end, though the drops
stood thick upon his manly brow, and the sun glared fiercely on his
uncovered head.
'I shall write an article on garçons when I get home,' said Lavinia,
who was always planning great works and never executing them. 'We have
known such a nice variety, and all have been so good to us that we owe
them a tribute. You remember the dear, tow-headed one at Morlaix, who
insisted on handing us dishes of snails, and papers of pins with which
to pick out the repulsive delicacy?'
'Yes, and the gloomy one with black linen sleeves who glowered at us,
sighed gustily in our ears, and anointed us with gravy as he waited at
table,' added Amanda.
'Don't forget the dark one with languid, Spanish eyes and curly hair, on
the boat going down the Rance. How picturesque and polite he was, to be
sure, as he kept picking up our beer-bottles when they rolled about the
deck!' put in Mat, who had the dark youth safely in her sketch-book,
with eyes as big and black as blots.
'The solemn one at Tours, who squirted seltzer-water out of window at
the beggars, without a smile, was very funny. So was the little one with
grubby hands, who tottered under the big dishes, but insisted on
carrying the heaviest.'
'The fast-trotter at Amboise won my heart, he was so supernaturally
lively, and so full of hurried amiability. A very dear garçon indeed.'
'Be sure you remember the superb being at Brest, whose eyes threatened
to fall out of his head at exciting moments. Also, Flabot's chubby boy
who adored Mat, and languished at her, over the onions, like a Cupid in
a blue blouse.'
'I will do justice to everyone,' and Lavinia took copious notes on the
spot.
Orleans was a prim, tidy town, and after taking a look at the fine
statue of the Maid, and laughing at some funny little soldiers drumming
wildly in the Place, our travellers went on to Bourges.
'This, now, is a nice, dingy old place, and we will take our walks
abroad directly, for it looks like rain, and we must make the most of
our time and money,' said Amanda;
     'For, though on pleasure she was bent,
     She had a frugal mind.'
Forth they went, as soon as dinner was over, and found the waters all
abroad also; for every man was playing away with a hose, every woman
scrubbing her door-steps, and the children gaily playing leap-frog in
the puddles.
'Nasty, damp place!' croaked the Raven, obscuring her disgusted
countenance behind the inevitable grey cloud, and gathering her garments
about her, as they hopped painfully over the wet stones, for sidewalks
there were none.
'I find it refreshing after the dust and heat. Please detach Mat from
that shop window, and come on, or we shall see nothing before dark,'
replied the ever amiable Amanda.
Matilda would glue herself to every jeweller's window, and remain
fascinated by the richness there displayed, till led away by force. On
this occasion, however, her mania led to good results; for, at the ninth
window, as her keepers were about to drag her away, a ring of peculiar
antiquity caught their eyes simultaneously, and, to Mat's amazement,
both plunged into the little shop, clamouring to see it. A pale emerald,
surrounded by diamond chippings set in silver, with a wide gold band cut
in a leafy pattern, composed this gem of price.
'A Francis First ring, sold by a noble but impoverished family, and only
a hundred francs, Madame,' said the man, politely anxious to cheat the
fair foreigners out of four times its value.
'Can't afford it,' and Lavinia retired. But the shrewd Amanda, with
inimitable shrugs and pensive sighs, regretted that it was so costly. 'A
sweet ring; but, alas! forty francs is all I have to give.'
The man was desolated to think that eighty francs was the lowest he was
permitted to receive. Would Madame call again, and perhaps it might be
arranged?
Ah, no! Madame is forced to depart early, to return no more.
Mon Dieu! how afflicting! In that case, sixty would be possible for so
rare a relic.
Madame is abîmé, but it is not to be. Forty is the utmost; therefore
Merci, and Bonjour.
'Hold! Where shall it be sent?' cries the man, giving in, but not
confessing it, with awkward frankness.
A thousand thanks! Madame will pay for it at once; and laying down the
money, she sweetly bows herself away, with the ring upon her finger.
'What a people!' ejaculated Lavinia, who always felt like a fly in a
cobweb when she attempted to deal with the French, in her blunt,
confiding way.
'It is great fun,' answered Amanda, flashing her ring with satisfaction
after the skirmish. 'Will Madame kindly direct me to the house of
Jacques Coeur?' she added, addressing an old woman clattering by in
sabots.
'Allez toujours à droit en vous appuyant sur la gauche,' replied the
native, beaming and bowing till the streamers of her cap waved in the
wind.
They followed these directions, but failed to find the place, and
applied to another old woman eating soup on her door-step.
'Suivez le chemin droit en tombant à gauche' was the reply, with a wave
of the spoon to all the points of the compass.
'Great heavens, what a language!' cried Lavinia, who had been vainly
endeavouring to 'support' herself, as she 'fell' in every direction over
and into the full gutters.
The house was found at last, an ancient, mysterious place, with a very
curious window, carved to look as if the shutters were half open, and
from behind one peeped a man's head, from the other a woman's, both so
life-like that it quite startled the strangers. Murray informed the
observers that these servants are supposed to be looking anxiously for
their master's return, Jacques having suddenly disappeared, after
lending much money to the king, who took that mediæval way of paying his
debts.
Service was being held in the church, and the ladies went in to rest
and listen, for the music was fine. Much red and white drapery gave the
sanctuary the appearance of a gay drawing-room, and the profane Lavinia
compared the officiating clergy to a set of red furniture. The biggest
priest was the sofa, four deacons the arm-chairs, and three little boys
the foot-stools, all upholstered in crimson silk, and neatly covered
with lace tidies.
As if to rebuke her frivolity, a lovely fresh voice from the hidden
choir suddenly soared up like a lark, singing so wonderfully that a
great stillness fell on the listeners, and while it lasted the tawdry
church and its mummery were quite forgotten, as the ear led the heart up
that ladder of sweet sounds to heaven. Even when the others joined in,
one could still hear that child-voice soaring and singing far above the
rest, as if some little angel were playing with the echoes among the
arches of the roof.
A proud native informed the strangers that it was a poor boy whose
exquisite voice was the pride of the town, and would in time make his
fortune. As the choir-boys came racing down stairs after service,
pulling off their dingy robes as they ran, Lavinia tried to pick out the
little angel, but gave it up in despair, for a more uninteresting set of
bullet-headed, copper-coloured sprigs she never saw.
Rain drove the wanderers back to the hotel, and there they made a night
of it. Ordering a fire in the largest of the three stuffy little cells
which they occupied, they set about being comfortable, for it had turned
chilly, and a furious wind disported itself in and out through
numberless crevices. Lavinia was inspired to mull some wine, and brewed
a mild jorum that cheered, but did not inebriate. Amanda produced her
Shakspeare, and read aloud while the simmering and sipping went on.
Matilda sketched the noble commander as she lay upon the sofa, with her
Egyptian profile in fine relief, and her aristocratic red slippers
gracefully visible. A large grey cat of a social turn joined the party,
and added much to the domesticity of the scene by sitting on the hearth
in a cosy bunch and purring blissfully.
'Now it is your turn to propose something for the general amusement,
Mandy,' said Mat, when the beakers were drained dry and the Montagues
and Capulets comfortably buried.
'Let us attend to the culture of our nails,' replied Amanda, producing
her polissoir, powder, and knife.
Three cups of tepid water were produced, and the company sat eagerly
soaking their finger tips for a time, after which much pruning and
polishing went on, to the great bewilderment of Puss, who poked her own
paws into the cups, as if trying to test the advantages of this
remarkable American custom.
'What would our blessed mother say if she saw us now?' said Mat,
proudly examining ten pointed pink nails at the tips of her long
fingers.
'People told us we should get demoralised if we came abroad, and this is
the first step on the downward road,' returned Lavinia, shaking her head
over her own backslidings.
'No: it's the second step. We ate calves' brains for dinner, and what
I'm sure were frogs' legs with mushrooms. You know we vowed we wouldn't
touch their horrid messes, but I really begin to like them,' confessed
Mat, who had pronounced every dish at dinner 'De-licious!'
'Ha! I will write a poem!' cried Amanda, and leaping from the sofa she
grasped her pen, flung open her portfolio, and in a few brief moments
