such an idea! You are too young, and such positions 
always give a girl a bold and flippant manner; and you are 
careless enough now, Madge. If you must do anything 
presently, there is gchool teaching, which is always respect- 
able " 
"And which would kill me, I am sure. I never could 
endure that." 
A ring at the door made a break in the discussion. 
Madge ran, and brought back a letter for Eleanor. 
" From aunt Waltham," she said, handing it to her sister. 
Eleanor broke the seal of violet-colored wax containing 
her aunt's aristocratic monogram. Then she read in silence. 
The others could not well renew the conversation ; so Jessie 
took up some sewing that was in her kitchen work-basket. 
" Aunt Waltham is coming next week," said Eleanor, 
presently. " She will spend Tuesday with us." 
That was not the most agreeable announcement in the 
world, but the girls took it without comment. 
Philip laughed a little at their long faces that evening, 
when they related their poor attempt at economy. 
" Why, I think that does very well," he said. " You 
will learn much by experience, and there have been several 
articles purchased this month that we may not need in 
some time again." 
" But by the end of the year we shall have all our money 
spent," rejoined Jessie, in a tone of apprehension. 
"Well, we may be doing better another year at least, 
I may. Just now, you see, my age is against me. Every 
year tells on a salary." 
Philip spoke hopefully, as he believed. Having taken 
hold of work in good earnest, he would look only at the 
bright side. 
" And there is always Clement to fall back upon," pui- 
sued Madge. 
a l have a fancy that I should like to work through with- 
out any help from Clement. I know just how he will feel 
about the loss of Home Nook, and he will never rest until 
it is ours again. So if we could save that much for him, 
it would be like adding to the store." 
" Dear Phil, when I hear you talk it seems as if we 
might have it ; but I am doubtful." 
" Well, we'll do the best we can." 
" But some of us ought to help." 
Madge uttered this with a perplexed face. She was 
quite anxious to know Philip's opinion concerning employ- 
ment for girls. 
" I think you do assist," he said, gravely. " For a month 
we have only had a woman come in to wash and iron. 
You have kept the house in order, cooked, gone to market, 
and helped wait upon papa. I have found no buttons oflj 
had plenty of collars and handkerchiefs, and have not been 
compelled to go without my breakfast. Are you not satisfied 
with that praise, O small housekeeper?" 
They both laughed. Madge felt that she must give up 
her point for the present, but it only slept in the active 
brain, and was ready to wake at the first summons. 
"I am glad that you do not feel discouraged with us," 
Jessie said, almost gayly. 
" Discouraged ! No, indeed." 
Then they talked a little about aunt Waltham's visit, 
which was rather dreaded. 
"Girls," said Philip, "she must take us just as we are. 
And I think aunt Waltham is very sensible in some mat- 
ters. She will not expect the elegance of Home Nook in 
this little nest, and I'm sure Jessie cooks nicely enough for 
a queen." 
"And Madge can make lovely desserts," was Jessie's 
comforting rejoinder. 
It could hardly be said that Mr. Ashburton improved at 
all. Some days he cheered them a good deal ty coming 
down stairs and taking a walk around the garden, as 
Madge insisted upon calling it. Small as it was, it proved 
quite a source of interest and pleasure. The lilacs had 
budded, and the honeysuckle thrust out long, brownish-red 
tendrils, that suggested sweetness and bloom. The peach 
tree was ready to shower the glory of its pale pink blos- 
soming, and Philip had brought home several clusters of 
pansies, and a lovely monthly rose. 
Mr. Ashburton glanced at them listlessly, as if his mind 
was far away. It had certainly received a severe shock. 
Then there were days when he hardly left his couch, and 
his pallid face filled them all with alarm. 
Mr. Stanhope had gone to Europe, though no one knew 
in exactly what capacity, taking his daughter with him. 
Mr. Ashburton had not seen him since the commencement 
of his illness, and he had felt quite hurt at this want of 
friendly interest. It could hardly be called that, either, 
for he had always been eager in his inquiries. Frequently 
had he said to Philip, "I was coming up to Riverside 
yesterday, but this or that event occurred. Remember 
me to your father, and tell him that I shall surely be up 
in a day or two." 
A few days before his sailing he had hurried into Philip's 
place of business. 
"I just stepped in to leave a good by for your father," 
he exclaimed, in apparent haste. " It is too bad that I've 
not seen him, for we have been the best of friends many a 
year, and I'm sorry to go away without ; but my time is so 
brief, and I have been just driven every moment. We both 
tried to do our best, Fin sure, and no one can regret this 
unfortunate affair more deeply than I. Give him my sin- 
cerest regards, and my hopes for his recovery and prosper- 
ity. I have set out to do the best that I can." 
"He wanted to see you very much," Philip could not 
help saying ; and he gave a quick, scrutinizing glance at 
the other's face. 
Mr. Stanhope colored, and his peculiar light-gray eye* 
wavered somewhat. 
" It is just possible that I may run up a moment. Give 
me the number, please ; and I am sure that I wish you all 
success, though there are many changes in life ;" and he 
Bighed. 
Philip went on with his writing, but he could not dismiss 
the half suspicion that Mr. Stanhope was at the bottom of 
their misfortunes. He had acted rather singularly. Mr. 
Weir, who had now gone to Chicago, had once expressed 
something like a doubt, and it haunted Philip persistently. 
He never whispered it at home, however. 
Mr. Ashburton felt the coldness and neglect keenly, 
though he made no sign. After this last message, he waited 
in a nervous, expectant state, the disappointment rendering 
him noticeably worse. 
He had never been able to recall the exact conversation 
of that fatal morning. It seemed to him that he had in 
the heat of the moment expressed some unguarded doubt 
or suspicion that he regretted the instant after. The 
swarthy flush upon Mr. Stanhope's face and the flash of 
his eye had startled him in many a dreaming moment 
since. Then that endless and confusing mass of fig- 
ures, the appalling losses, the sort of crushing, hopeless 
weight that seemed to be dashed upon him, still made him 
shiver. 
He knew that Home Nook was Bold, and that he had 
come out of the wreck with a good name ; but it was the 
dreary waste between that so troubled him. If some one 
could set the weak brain straight, and tell him what was 
reality, and how much feverish dreams and reveries ! Or 
if he could recover ! But this lapse of time and energy 
upon a sick-bed seemed unendurable. 
Madge's two or three unwittingly pointed sentences 
stirred an uncomfortable feeling in Eleanor's soul. She 
kept thinking of it that night in the solitude of her own 
 
room, after the rest were in peaceful slumber. She could 
not deny but that the new life had entailed some duty upon 
her as well as the rest. If Philip was unable to meet the 
family expenses, she surely came next on the list. 
What should she do ? Teach school, as she had recom- 
mended to Madge? Situations in private schools were 
generally dispensed to those who were well armed with 
credentials, and, perhaps, for public schools one would 
need favor or friends. She shrank from both with intense 
disgust. There was music left, but how could she gain 
any pupils ? And could her fine, sensitive nerves stand 
the rude shocks such labor would bring? 
She could be spared the best, it was true. She had a 
bitter feeling that no one would miss her or long for her, 
that the girls would be really happier without her. It 
was her misfortune to be so far removed from ordinary 
souls that she could feel very little sympathy with their 
tastes and aims. Hers were so different. Any great and 
heroic task she would be quite ready for, but these petty, 
wearying cares were distasteful in the last degree. 
In this mood she turned again to aunt Waltham's letter, 
with its dangerous tenderness and counsel. Eleanor felt 
that here she was indeed understood ; that her shrinking 
from aught that was commonplace or coarse was appreciated 
to the full. And when that lady mentioned that she had 
a plan to propose which might render dear Eleanor's life 
more comfortable, she knew that she might trust in its 
being something that she could accept. 
Not that Eleanor had complained she was too proud 
for that, even if her delicacy had not kept her from such 
a step. But there had been a weariness and foreboding 
in her letters that her aunt understood well, and gener- 
ously hastened to the rescue. 
I say generously, for Mrs. Waltham was a selfish woman, 
and not quite as rich as she delighted to appear. Her 
regret now was, that she had not insisted, the summer before, 
upon giving her a fashionable tour, instead, of having hei 
go to Canada with her parents, and ramble around old 
churches and nunneries. The family prestige would have 
afforded her a fine opportunity of marriage ; but she was 
still young and handsome, and it was worth trying. 
Eleanor ended her troubled thoughts at last by resolving 
to wait until aunt Waltham came. So she looked forward 
anxiously to the following Tuesday, while it came quite too 
noon for the girls. 
A handsome carriage set Mrs. Waltham down at her 
brother's house. The unfashionable neighborhood was bad 
enough, but this mean abode ! Poor Eleanor, indeed ! 
It looked very cheerful and pretty within, this June 
morning. A small vase of flowers stood on the centre- 
table, and the piano was open. She entered with her arm 
around Eleanor, and her voice modulated to the tenderest 
inflection. 
" My poor child, how wonderfully you have borne the 
trial ! Why, you are not as worn and faded as I felt almost 
sure you must be." 
Eleanor flushed, perhaps with a little conscious pride. 
