but I took good care to hide it in the bottom of 
the basket. By the way, Sibyl, how did you like 
Graham Man's Lyric? Pretty deep,' wasn't 
it ? " 
Sibyl was arranging the books and music in 
their proper places. " You know I am not 
myself poetical," she answered calmly ; " but I 
like Mr. Man, and therefore I like his verses, 
Hugh." 
 
" Oh, Sibyl! surely not so well as Mr. Leslie's 
story ? " said Bessie earnestly. 
"Poetry and prose cannot be compared, 
neither can Mr. Man* and Mr. Leslie be com- 
pared," said Sibyl ; " they are very different." 
" I should think they were ! " said Hugh. 
" And tastes are different also," added Sibyl, 
as she finished her task. " Good-night all." 
The cousins dispersed, while Aunt Faith 
turned out the lights. " I almost think she 
likes that Marr, after all," whispered Hugh to 
Bessie as they went up the stairs ; " she was with 
him all the evening." 
" Let me tell you, Hugh Warrington, that if 
Sibyl likes anybody, it is Mr. Leslie," returned 
Bessie emphatically. 
" When did you discover that, Brownie ? " 
" I have always suspected it, but to-night I 
saw it plainly," replied Bessie. 
" To-night ! Why, she was with Marr all the 
time ! " 
" Men are as blind as bats," said Bessie scorn- 
fully; " good-night." 
CHAPTER IV. 
HUGH. 
ONE bright morning towards the last of 
June, Bessie and Hugh were together in 
the studio ; Bessie was working at her 
picture, and her cousin, seated in an old 
arm-chair, was gazing dreamily out through the 
open window over the pasture, and grove, and 
the blue lake beyond. " I think life is very 
beautiful," he said, after a long pause. " I have 
no patience with people who are always sighing 
and complaining, always talking of the cold 
world, the hard lot of man, and the sufferings 
 
of humanity. I always felt sure that they 
themselves have no taste for beauty, no affec- 
tion for their friends, or enthusiasm for great 
deeds, and, judging others by themselves, of 
course they are always looking for double 
motives in the kindest actions, and hypoc- 
risy in the most unselfish impulses." 
" What has brought these thoughts to the 
surface, Hugh ? " 
" The beauty of the sky and the lake. How 
can any one look at them and not be happy ? " 
" If you were very poor, Hugh, you might 
not have time to look at them," said Bessie, 
taking up the other side. 
" Why not ? One can work and not be 
blind ! I expect to work all my life, but I am 
going to be happy too." 
" But suppose you should lose all those 3'ou 
love, — suppose they should all die," said Bessie, 
pursuing the argument. 
" Even then I should be happy on such a day 
and with such a sky. I cannot understand how 
people who believe God's word can brood over 
their sorrows in such a gloomy way. Are not 
the dead with their great Creator ? Can we not 
trust them to Him ? Why, when I look up 
into this blue sky, I can almost see them there. 
My mother, — how often I think of her ; not 
with sadness, always with pleasure, and a bright 
anticipation of meeting her again. Bessie, if I 
should die, you must not mourn for me. Think 
of me as gone into another world where sooner 
or later you will come too." 
" Why do you say such things, Hugh ? " said 
Bessie, laying down her brush with her eyes full 
of tears. 
"Because they happened to come into my 
mind, I suppose. Why, you are not crying ! 
Nonsense, Brownie ! look at me. Do I look like 
dying? Am I not a young giant, with every 
prospect of outliving all my family ? I fully ex- 
pect to live to a hale old age, and you have no 
idea how full and busy my life is going to be. 
Go to work again, and I will tell you all my 
plans ; I have never told them to any one before. 
In the first place, I shall go, of course, to New 
York, and enter Cousin John's establishment. I 
shall work with all my might, and, with the aid 
of my relationship, I shall no doubt be able to 
obtain a good position there in the course of a 
few years. Gradually I shall mount higher and 
higher, I shall make myself indispensable to the 
firm, and at the end of ten years you will see me 
a partner ; at the end of twenty, a rich man. I 
shall then retire from active business, and spend 
part of my time in travelling, although I intend 
to be very domestic, also. I shall buy beautiful 
pictures, choice books, and fine statues ; f shall 
give private concerts, and, if possible, have a 
small orchestra of my own ; I shall entertain my 
friends in the easiest and most charming manner. 
In addition to my city home, I shall have a yacht 
for summer cruises, and a pretty cottage on the 
seashore, and I shall invite pleasant people to 
visit me ; not the rich and the fashionable merely, 
but others who are shut out from all such luxu- 
 
ries, young authors, poor artists, musicians, and 
many others who are obliged to work night and 
day while their intellectual inferiors live in ease. 
Oh ! I shall have a beautiful, happy life, Bessie. 
Do you not think so ? " 
" Yes, Hugh. But will it be so easy to get 
rich ? " 
" Twenty years of hard labor and earnest ap- 
plication will do it, with the opening I have. I 
suppose it sounds conceited, but I have un- 
bounded confidence in myself. What man has 
done man can do, you know ; and why am not I 
the man ? " 
" I think you can do anything, Hugh.' , 
" Thank you, Miss Flattery. But, really Bes- 
sie, there is something stirring within me that 
makes me feel sure I can take my place in the 
world, and make my mark among men. I do 
not mean that I am wiser or stronger than my 
fellows, but only, that my courage is indomitable, 
and that I am determined to succeed. I will 
succeed ! " 
 
" Of course you will," said Bessie, laying clown 
her brush again, and looking at her cousin's kind- 
ling eyes and flushed cheeks with sympathetic ex- 
citement. 
" And then," pursued Hugh, " when I have 
got my money, I shall not hoard it ; I shall make 
others as well as myself happy with it. I shall 
use it worthily ; I shall not be ashamed to render 
my account at last. Oh, Bessie, it is a glorious 
future ! Life is so beautiful, — so full of happi- 
ness ! " Hugh paused, and his eyes wandered 
over the blue horizon ; Bessie went on with her 
painting, and there was silence in the studio for 
many minutes. At length Aunt Faith's voice 
was heard at the foot of the stairs ; " Hugh ! 
Hugh ! " she called. 
"Coming, aunt," said Hugh, opening the door 
and going down to the second story ; " do you 
want me ? " 
" Yes, will you come into my room, dear." 
The two went in and the door was closed. 
Aunt Faith's room was like herself, old-fashioned
and pleasant; the sunshine streamed in 
through the broad windows across the floor, and 
the perfume of the garden filled the air. Hugh 
took a seat on the chintz lounge, and Aunt Faith 
having taken a letter from her desk, sat down in 
'ier arm-chair by the table. " I wish to consult 
you, my dear boy, on a matter of business," she 
said. " You know the condition of my property 
and the amount of my income. I am anxious to 
make some necessary repairs in that little house 
of mine in Albion, where poor Mrs. Crofts lives, 
a second cousin of mine, you remember, a widow 
with very limited means of support. The re- 
pairs ought to be made at once, and, just at 
present, I have not the money on hand ; I could 
borrow it, of course, elsewhere, but I prefer to 
borrow it of you, the amount that came to you a 
week or two ago. Sibyl will need hers for her 
summer wardrobe, but you will have no use for 
yours at present, and on the first of August, I 
shall repay you ; with interest," added Aunt 
Faith, smiling ; " I am not sure but that I shall 
pay twenty-five per cent." 
 
A flush rose in Hugh's face ; he did not raise 
his eyes, but trifled with a piece of string. 
"Well, my dear?" said Aunt Faith in some 
surprise at his silence. 
" I am very sorry, Aunt," said Hugh in a low 
tone ; " I have not got the money, I have spent 
it all." 
" Spent it ? " echoed Aunt Faith in astonish- 
ment. " My dear boy, is it possible ! " 
" Yes, it is all gone," said Hugh, with down- 
cast eyes. 
A shade of trouble clouded Mrs. Sheldon's 
gentle face, and she sighed ; the old heart-ache 
came back, the same pain which had assailed her 
on the first of June, her birthday, when doubts 
came thronging into her mind, doubts as to her 
own fitness for her position with its heavy re- 
