was promptly answered by Mrs. Sykes.
"Is Captain Shivernock at home?" asked the late visitor.
"He is; but he don't see anybody so late as this," replied the
housekeeper.
"I wish to speak to him on very important business, and it is absolutely
necessary that I should see him to-night," persisted Laud.
"I will tell him."
Mrs. Sykes did tell him, and the strange man swore he would not see any
one, not even his grandmother, come down from heaven. She reported this
answer in substance to Laud.
"I wish to see him on a matter in which he is deeply concerned," said
the troubled visitor. "Tell him, if you please, in regard to the
Hasbrook affair."
Perhaps Mrs. Sykes knew something about the Hasbrook affair herself, for
she promptly consented to make this second application for the admission
of the stranger, for such he was to her.
She returned in a few moments with an invitation to enter, and so it
appeared that there was some power in the "Hasbrook affair." Laud was
conducted to the library,--as the retired shipmaster chose to call the
apartment, though there were not a dozen books in it,--where the captain
sat in a large rocking-chair, with his feet on the table.
"Who are you?" demanded the strange man; and we are obliged to modify
his phraseology in order to make it admissible to our pages.
"Mr. Laud Cavendish, at your service," replied he, politely.
"Mister Laud Cavendish!" repeated the captain, with a palpable sneer;
"you are the swell that used to drive the grocery wagon."
"I was formerly employed at Miller's store, but I am not there now."
"Well, what do you want here?"
"I wish to see you, sir."
"You do see me--don't you?" growled the eccentric. "What's your
business?"
"On the morning after the Hasbrook outrage, Captain Shivernock, you were
seen at Seal Harbor," said Laud.
"Who says I was?" roared the captain, springing to his feet.
"I beg your pardon sir; but I say so," answered Laud, apparently unmoved
by the violence of his auditor. "You were in the boat formerly owned by
Mr. Ramsay, and you ran over towards the Northport shore."
"Did you see me?"
"I did," replied Laud.
"And you have come to levy black-mail upon me," added the captain, with
a withering stare at his visitor.
"Nothing of the sort, sir. I claim to be a gentleman."
"O, you do!"
Captain Shivernock laughed heartily.
"I do, sir. I am not capable of anything derogatory to the character of
a gentleman."
"Bugs and brickbats!" roared the strange man, with another outburst of
laughter. "You are a gentleman! That's good! And you won't do anything
derogatory to the character of a gentleman. That's good, too!"
"I trust I have the instincts of a gentleman," added Laud, smoothing
down his jet mustache.
"I trust you have; but what do you want of me, if you have the instincts
of a gentleman, and don't bleed men with money when you think you have
them on the hip?"
"If you will honor me with your attention a few moments, I will inform
you what I want of you."
"Good again!" chuckled the captain. "I will honor you with my attention.
You have got cheek enough to fit out a life insurance agency."
"I am not the only one who saw you that Saturday morning," said Laud.
"Who else saw me?"
"Don John."
"How do you know he did?"
"He told mo so."
"The young hypocrite!" exclaimed the strange man, with an oath. "I made
it a rule years ago never to trust a man or a boy who has much to do
with churches and Sunday Schools. The little snivelling puppy! And he
has gone back on me."
"It is only necessary for me to state facts," answered Laud. "You can
form your own conclusions, without any help from me."
"Perhaps I can," added Captain Shivernock, who seemed to be in an
unusual humor on this occasion, for the pretentious manners of his
visitor appeared to amuse rather than irritate him.
"Again, sir, Jacob Hasbrook, of Lincolnville, believes you are the man
who pounded him to a jelly that night," continued Laud.
"Does he?" laughed the captain. "Well, that is a good joke; but I want
to say that I respect the man who did it, whoever he is."
"Self-respect is a gentlemanly quality. The man who don't respect
himself will not be respected by others," said Laud, stroking his chin.
"Eh?"
Laud confidently repeated the proposition.
"You respect yourself, and of course you respect the man that pounded
Hasbrook," he added.
"Do you mean to say I flogged Hasbrook?" demanded the strange man,
doubling his fist, and shaking it savagely in Laud's face.
"It isn't for me to say that you did, for you know better than I do; but
you will pardon me if I say that the evidence points in this direction.
Hasbrook has been over to Belfast several times to work up his case. The
last time I saw him he was looking for Don John, who, I am afraid, is
rather leaky."
In spite of his bluff manners, Laud saw that the captain was not a
little startled by the information just imparted.
"The miserable little psalm-singer," growled the strange man, walking
the room, muttering to himself. "If he disobeys my orders, I'll thrash
him worse than--Hasbrook was thrashed."
"It is unpleasant to be suspected of a crime, and revolting to the
instincts of a gentleman," added Laud.
"Do you mean to say that I am suspected of a crime, you long-eared
puppy?" yelled the captain.
"I beg your pardon, Captain Shivernock, but it isn't agreeable to a
gentleman to be called by such opprobrious names," said Laud, rising
from his chair, and taking his round-top hat from the table. "I am
willing to leave you, but not to be insulted."
Laud looked like the very impersonation of dignity itself, as he walked
towards the door.
"Stop!" yelled the captain.
"I do not know that any one but Hasbrook suspects you of a crime," Laud
explained.
"I'm glad he does suspect me," added the strange man, more gently.
"Whoever did that job served him just right, and I envy the man that did
it."
"Still, it is unpleasant to be suspected of a crime."
"It wasn't a crime."
"People call it so; but I sympathize with you, for like you I am
suspected of a crime, of which, like yourself, I am innocent."
"Are you, indeed? And what may your crime be, Mr. Cavendish?"
"It is in this connection that I wish to state my particular business
with you."
"Go on and state it, and don't be all night about it."
"I may add that I also came to warn you against the movements of
Hasbrook. I will begin at the beginning."
"Begin, then; and don't go round Cape Horn in doing it," snarled the
captain.
"I will, sir. Captain Patterdale--"
"Another miserable psalm-singer. Is he in the scrape?"
"He is, sir. He has lost a tin box, which contained nearly fourteen
hundred dollars in cash, besides many valuable papers."
"I'm glad of it; and I hope he never will find it," was the kindly
expression of the eccentric nabob for the Christian nabob. "Was the box
lost or stolen?"
"Stolen, sir."
"So much the better. I hope the thief will never be discovered."
Laud did not say how he happened to know that the tin box had been
stolen, for Captain Patterdale, the deputy sheriff, and Nellie were
supposed to be the only persons who had any knowledge of the fact.
"It appears that in this tin box there was a certain fifty-dollar bill,
which had been torn into four parts, and mended by pasting two strips of
paper upon it, one extending from right to left, and the other from top
to bottom, on the back."
"Eh?" interposed the wicked nabob. "Wait a minute."
The captain opened an iron safe in the room, and from a drawer took out
a handful of bank bills. From these he selected three, and tossed them
on the table.
"Like those?" he inquired, with interest.
"Exactly like them," replied Laud, astonished to find that each was the
counterpart of the one he had paid Donald for the Juno, and had the
"white cross of Denmark" upon it.
"Do you know how those bills happened to be in that condition, Mr.
Cavendish?" chuckled the captain.
"Of course I do not, sir."
"I'll tell you, my gay buffer. I have got a weak, soft place somewhere
in my gizzard; I don't know where; if I did, I'd cut it out. About three
months ago, just after I brought from Portland one hundred of these new
fifty-dollar bills, there was a great cry here for money for some
missionary concern. I read something in the newspaper, at this time,
about what some of the missionaries had done for a lot of sailors who
had been cast away on the South Sea Islands. I thought more of the
psalm-singers than ever before, and I was tempted to do something for
them. Well, I actually wrote to some parson here who was howling for
money, and stuck four of those bills between the leaves. I think it is
very likely I should have sent them to the parson, if I hadn't been
called out of the room. I threw the note, with the bills in it, on the
table, and went out to see a pair of horses a jockey had driven into the
yard for me to look at. When I came back and glanced at the note, I
thought what a fool I had been, to think of giving money to those
canting psalm-singers. I was mad with myself for my folly, and I tore
the note into four pieces before I thought that the bills were in it.
But Mrs. Sykes mended them as you see. Go on with your yarn, my buffer."
"That bill I paid to Don John for the Juno," continued Laud. "He paid it
to Mr. Leach, the sail-maker, who paid it to Captain Patterdale, and he
says it was one of the bills in the tin chest when it was stolen. Don
John says he had it from me."
"Precisely so; and that is what makes it unpleasant to be suspected of a
crime," laughed Captain Shivernock. "But you don't state where you got
the bill, Mr. Cavendish. Perhaps you don't wish to tell."
"I shall tell the whole story with the greatest pleasure," added Laud.
"I was sailing one day down by Haddock Ledge, when I saw a man tumble
overboard from a boat moored where he had been fishing. He was staving
drunk, and went forward, as I thought, to get up his anchor. The boat
rolled in the sea, and over he went. I got him out. The cold water
sobered him in a measure, and he was very grateful to me. He went to his
coat, which he did not wear when he fell, and took from his pocket a
roll of bills. He counted off ten fifties, and gave them to me. Feeling
sure that I had saved his life, I did not think five hundred dollars was
any too much to pay for it, and I took the money. I don't think he would
have given me so much if he hadn't been drunk. I asked him who he was,
but he would not tell me, saying he didn't want his friends in Boston
to know he had been over the bay, and in the bay; but he said he had
been staying in Belfast a couple of days."
"Good story!" laughed the wicked nabob.
"Every word of it is as true as preaching," protested Laud.
"Just about," added the captain, who hadn't much confidence in
preaching.
"You can see, Captain Shivernock, that I am in an awkward position,"
added Laud. "I have no doubt the man I saved was the one who stole the
tin box. He paid me with the stolen bills."
"It is awkward, as you say," chuckled the strange man. "I suppose you
wouldn't know the fellow you saved if you saw him."
"O, yes, I think I should," exclaimed Laud. "But suppose, when Captain
Patterdale comes to me to inquire where I got the marked bill, I should
tell him this story. He wouldn't believe a word of it."
