shoots of passion or poetry might spring up within us from out this
growing dream-life.
The birds!--who can describe their jubilees, their exultations, their
never-ending, still beginning babble and jargon of sweet sounds? All day
the air rings with sweet fanciful trills and melodies, as if there were
a thousand little vibrating bells. They iterate and reiterate one sweet
sound after another; they call to one another, and answer from thicket
to thicket; they pipe; they whistle; they chatter and mock at each other
with airy defiance: and sometimes it seems as if the very air broke into
rollicking bird-laughter. A naturalist, who, like Thoreau, has sojourned
for months in the Florida forests to study and observe Nature, has told
us that no true idea of the birds' plumage can be got till the hot
months come on. Then the sun pours light and color, and makes feathers
like steely armor.
The birds love the sun: they adore him. Our own Phoebus, when his cage
is hung on the shady side of the veranda, hangs sulky and silent; but
put him in the full blaze of the sun, and while the thermometer is going
up to the nineties, he rackets in a perfectly crazy abandon of bird
babblement, singing all he ever heard before, and trying his bill at new
notes, and, as a climax, ending each outburst with a purr of
satisfaction like an overgrown cat. Several pairs of family
mocking-birds have their nests somewhere in our orange-trees; and there
is no end of amusement in watching their dainty evolutions. Sometimes,
for an hour at a time, one of them, perched high and dry on a topmost
twig, where he gets the full blaze of the sun, will make the air ring
with so many notes and noises, that it would seem as if he were forty
birds instead of one. Then, again, you will see him stealing silently
about as if on some mysterious mission, perching here and there with a
peculiar nervous jerk of his long tail, and a silent little lift of his
wings, as if he were fanning himself. What this motion is for, we have
never been able to determine.
Our plantation, at present, is entirely given over to the domestic
affairs of the mocking-birds, dozens of whom have built their nests in
the green, inaccessible fastnesses of the orange-trees, and been rearing
families in security. Now, however, the young birds are to be taught to
fly; and the air resounds with the bustle and chatter of the operation.
Take, for example, one scene which is going on as we write. Down on the
little wharf which passes through the swamp in front of our house, three
or four juvenile mocking-birds are running up and down like chickens,
uttering plaintive cries of distress. On either side, perched on a tall,
dry, last-year's coffee-bean-stalk, sit "papa and mamma," chattering,
scolding, exhorting, and coaxing. The little ones run from side to side,
and say in plaintive squeaks, "I can't," "I daren't," as plain as birds
can say it. There! now they spread their little wings; and--oh,
joy!--they find to their delight that they do not fall: they exult in
the possession of a new-born sense of existence. As we look at this
pantomime, graver thoughts come over us, and we think how poor, timid
little souls moan, and hang back, and tremble, when the time comes to
leave this nest of earth, and trust themselves to the free air of the
world they were made for. As the little bird's moans and cries end in
delight and rapture in finding himself in a new, glorious, free life;
so, just beyond the dark step of death, will come a buoyant, exulting
sense of new existence. Our life here is in intimate communion with
bird-life. Their singing all day comes in bursts and snatches; and one
awakes to a sort of wondering consciousness of the many airy dialects
with which the blue heavens are filled. At night a whippoorwill or two,
perched in the cypress-trees, make a plaintive and familiar music. When
the nights are hot, and the moon bright, the mocking-birds burst into
gushes of song at any hour. At midnight we have risen to listen to
them. Birds are as plenty about us as chickens in a barnyard; and one
wonders at their incessant activity and motion, and studies what their
quaint little fanciful ways may mean, half inclined to say with
Cowper,--
      "But I, whatever powers were mine,
      Would cheerfully those gifts resign
      For such a pair of wings as thine,
        And such a head between 'em."
Speaking of birds reminds us of a little pastoral which is being enacted
in the neighborhood of St. Augustine. A young man from Massachusetts,
driven to seek health in a milder climate, has bought a spot of land for
a nursery-garden in the neighborhood of St. Augustine. We visited his
place, and found him and his mother in a neat little cottage, adorned
only with grasses and flowers picked in the wild woods, and living in
perfect familiarity with the birds, which they have learned to call in
from the neighboring forests. It has become one of the fashionable
amusements in the season for strangers to drive out to this cottage and
see the birds fed. At a cry from the inmates of the cottage, the
blue-jays and mocking-birds will come in flocks, settle on their
shoulders, eat out of their hands, or out of the hands of any one who
chooses to hold food to them. When we drove out, however, the birds were
mostly dispersed about their domestic affairs; this being the nesting
season. Moreover, the ample supply of fresh wild berries in the woods
makes them less anxious for such dry food as contented them in winter.
Only one pet mocking-bird had established himself in a neighboring tree,
and came at their call. Pic sat aloft, switching his long tail with a
jerky air of indifference, like an enfant gâté. When raisins were
thrown up, he caught them once or twice; but at last, with an evident
bird-yawn, declared that it was no go, and he didn't care for raisins.
Ungrateful Pic! Next winter, eager and hungry, he will be grateful; and
so with all the rest of them.
One of the charms of May not to be forgotten is the blossoming of the
great Cape jessamine that stands at the end of the veranda, which has
certainly had as many as three or four hundred great, white, fragrant
flowers at once.
As near as possible, this is the most perfect of flowers. It is as pure
as the white camellia, with the added gift of exquisite perfume. It is a
camellia with a soul! Its leaves are of most brilliant varnished green;
its buds are lovely; and its expanded flower is of a thick, waxen
texture, and as large as a large camellia. We have sat moonlight nights
at the end of the veranda, and enjoyed it. It wraps one in an atmosphere
of perfume. Only one fault has this bush: it blossoms only once a
season; not, like the ever-springing oleander, for months. One feels a
sense of hurry to enjoy and appropriate a bloom so rare, that lasts only
a few weeks.
Here in Florida, flowers form a large item of thought and conversation
wherever one goes; and the reason of it is the transcendent beauty and
variety that are here presented. We have just returned from St.
Augustine, and seen some gardens where wealth and leisure have expended
themselves on flowers; and in our next chapter we will tell of some of
these beauties.
  [Illustration]
ST. AUGUSTINE.
      MANDARIN, May 30, 1872.
The thermometer with us, during the third week in May, rose to
ninety-two in the shade; and as we had received an invitation from a
friend to visit St. Augustine, which is the Newport of Florida, we
thought it a good time to go seaward. So on a pleasant morning we
embarked on the handsome boat "Florence," which has taken so many up
the river, and thus secured all the breeze that was to be had.
"The Florence" is used expressly for a river pleasure-boat, plying every
day between Jacksonville and Pilatka. It is long and airy, and nicely
furnished; and one could not imagine a more delightful conveyance. In
hot weather, one could not be more sure of cool breezes than when
sailing up and down perpetually in "The Florence." Our destiny, however,
landed us in the very meridian of the day at Tekoi. Tekoi consists of a
shed and a sand-bank, and a little shanty, where, to those who require,
refreshments are served.
On landing, we found that we must pay for the pleasure and coolness of
coming up river in "The Florence" by waiting two or three mortal hours
till "The Starlight" arrived; for the railroad-car would not start till
the full complement of passengers was secured. We had a good
opportunity then of testing what the heat of a Florida sun might be,
untempered by live-oaks and orange shades, and unalleviated by
ice-water; and the lesson was an impressive one.
The railroad across to St. Augustine is made of wooden rails; and the
cars are drawn by horses.
There was one handsome car like those used on the New-York
horse-railroads: the others were the roughest things imaginable.
Travellers have usually spoken of this road with execration for its
slowness and roughness; but over this, such as it was, all the rank and
fashion of our pleasure-seekers, the last winter, have been pouring in
unbroken daily streams. In the height of the season, when the cars were
crowded, four hours were said to be consumed in performing this fifteen
miles. We, however, did it in about two.
To us this bit of ride through the Florida woods is such a
never-ceasing source of interest and pleasure, that we do not mind the
slowness of it, and should regret being whisked by at steam-speed. We
have come over it three times; and each time the varieties of shrubs and
flowers, grasses and curious leaves, were a never-failing study and
delight. Long reaches of green moist land form perfect flower-gardens,
whose variety of bloom changes with every month. The woods hang full of
beautiful climbing plants. The coral honeysuckle and the red bignonia
were in season now. Through glimpses and openings here and there we
could see into forests of wild orange-trees; and palmetto-palms raised
their scaly trunks and gigantic green fans. The passengers could not
help admiring the flowers: and as there were many stops and pauses, and
as the gait of the horses was never rapid, it was quite easy for the
gentlemen to gather and bring in specimens of all the beauties; and the
flowers formed the main staple of the conversation. They were so very
bright and gay and varied, that even the most unobserving could not but
notice them.
St. Augustine stands on a flat, sandy level, encompassed for miles and
miles by what is called "scrub,"--a mixture of low palmettoes and bushes
of various descriptions. Its history carries one back almost to the
middle ages. For instance, Menendez, who figured as commandant in its
early day, was afterwards appointed to command the Spanish Armada, away
back in the times of Queen Elizabeth; but, owing to the state of his
health, he did not accept the position.
In the year 1586, Elizabeth then being at war with Spain, her admiral,
Sir Francis Drake, bombarded St. Augustine, and took it; helping
himself, among other things, to seven brass cannon, two thousand pounds
in money, and other booty. In 1605 it was taken and plundered by
buccaneers; in 1702, besieged by the people of the Carolinas; in 1740,
besieged again by Gen. Oglethorpe of Georgia.
So we see that this part of our country, at least, does not lie open to
the imputation so often cast upon America, of having no historic
associations; though, like a great deal of the world's history, it is
written in letters of blood and fire.
Whoever would know, let him read Parkman's "Pioneers of France," under
the article "Huguenots in Florida," and he will see how the first
Spanish governor, Menendez, thought he did God service when he butchered
in cold blood hundreds of starving, shipwrecked Huguenots who threw
themselves on his mercy, and to whom he had extended pledges of shelter
and protection.
A government-officer, whose ship is stationed in Matanzas Inlet, told
me that the tradition is that the place is still haunted by the unquiet
ghosts of the dead. An old negro came to him, earnestly declaring that
he had heard often, at midnight, shrieks and moans, and sounds as of
expostulation, and earnest cries in some foreign language, at that
place; and that several white people whom he had taken to the spot had
heard the same. On inquiring of his men, Capt. H---- could find none who
had heard the noises; although, in digging in the sands, human bones
were often disinterred. But surely, by all laws of demonology, here is
where there ought to be the materials for a first-class ghost-story.
Here, where there has been such crime, cruelty, treachery, terror, fear,
and agony, we might fancy mourning shades wandering in unrest,--shades
of the murderers, forever deploring their crime and cruelty.
The aspect of St. Augustine is quaint and strange, in harmony with its
romantic history. It has no pretensions to architectural richness or
beauty; and yet it is impressive from its unlikeness to any thing else
