the meal was finished,--Eunice hurrying through hers in the belief
that the wife wished to be alone when she read it.
Instead of this, Jessie broke the seal, and read the four closely
written pages by the lamp upon the supper-table, while her sister
washed the silver and china in the same little cedar-wood pail, with
shining brass hoops, her mother had used for this purpose a quarter
of a century before. Eunice was inclined to be scrupulous in the
matters of extreme cleanliness and system in housekeeping, and
neatness and fitness of apparel; and had other and quaint, but never
unpleasant, peculiarities that leaned toward what the vulgar and
unappreciative style "old-maidism." But she was a bonny picture to
behold to-night, her black dress setting off her fairness to
exquisite advantage; her features chastened into purer outline and a
softer serenity by sorrow; her eyes more beautiful for the shadows
that had darkened them.
She was younger in appearance and feeling than her companion, who
scanned, without change of expression and complexion, the love-words
that had streamed, a strong, living tide, from the writer's heart.
She read it all, from address to signature; then handed it to her
sister, who had just summoned Patsey to remove the hot water and
towels.
"There are several messages to you in it," she said, languidly. "You
can read them for yourself."
Eunice drew back.
"I don't think he meant it for any eyes but yours, dear. Tell me
what he says to me."
"I should have to go all over it again in order to do that,"
returned Jessie. "They are scattered sentences--business items and
the like. You may look for them at your leisure. I shall leave the
letter upon the table here."
She put it down under her lamp, and turned her chair to the fire.
This was their sitting-room, now that the two, with Patsey, composed
the household. By tacit consent, they avoided the parlor, as
recalling too vividly the gatherings and the happiness of other
days. Jessie had leaned back in her cushioned seat, staring, in a
blank, purposeless way, at the fire for five minutes or more, when
Eunice took her place with her work-box on the other side of the
hearth.
"You insist, then, that I shall read your love-letter?" she asked,
pleasantly.
Faithful to her promise to Roy to do all in her power for the
restoration of Jessie's native cheerfulness, she compelled herself
to wear a tranquil countenance in her sight, to speak hopefully,
and, when she could, brightly, in addressing her.
Jessie neither smiled nor frowned. She looked simply and wearily
indifferent.
"If you please," she said, without withdrawing her eyes from the
blazing logs.
Eunice skimmed the first three pages cursorily, on the watch for any
mention of her own name, beset, all the while, by the idea that her
act in opening the letter at all bordered upon profanation, and
affected almost to tears by stray sentences she could not avoid
seeing, eloquent of the young husband's tender compassion for his
loved one, his longings to be with her, and fond prognostications of
the peace and joy of their future life.
At the top of the fourth page, a passage seemed to dart up at her
from the sheet, and, leaping into view, to be changed into
characters of red-hot flame:
"What a discreet little woman you are, never to hint to me your
knowledge of Orrin's engagement! The communication took me
completely by surprise. He would scarcely believe that you had not
told me; said that he went down to Dundee on purpose to impart to
you the agreeable and important secret. The marriage is fixed for
December. I always prophesied that he would marry in haste when he
had once selected the lady, whom I am extremely curious to meet. He
has floated from flower to flower so long that his selection ought
to be worth seeing. You know her, he tells me. I shall expect a
full-length description of her--done in your finest style, when I
return. I own I should be better satisfied that he is to be made as
happy as I would have him, if Miss Sanford were not an heiress.
While we--you and I--and others who know him well, will never
suspect him of selling himself for money, the above fact may give
occasion for scandal-mongers to rave and exult. The father of the
bride-elect is in town. I met him on the street to-day with Orrin.
Rumor has it that his business here is to purchase the new house
opposite Judge Provost's, as a residence for the happy pair. It will
be a handsome home, but I hope and believe that we shall be as
content with our love-nest of a cottage."
Jessie did not look around as her sister refolded the letter, tucked
it into the envelope, and laid it upon the table. But while each
believed herself to be separated from the other by a fathomless gulf
of memories, every one of which was an anguish, both were pondering
the same section of the epistle that lay between them. The
announcement of Wyllys' approaching marriage was, in itself, nothing
to the wife. The thought of it had lost the power to wound when she
parted with her faith in him. The wrong he had done her could never
be forgiven; he had misled her purposely; deceived her cruelly; had
robbed her life of love and hope, and given her self-contempt and
remorse in their stead. But she did not regret him--as she now knew
him to be--or linger fondly upon recollections of their by-gone
intimacy. Hester Sanford was welcome to the suitor her gold had
bought.
The phrases that had found a sentient spot in her breast were these:
"Whom I am extremely curious to meet." "I shall expect a full-length
description of her." The apathetic misery which had locked brain and
heart with fetters of ice since her father's death had not rendered
her totally unmindful of her husband's long-suffering and
gentleness, his unselfish love and care of herself. She was
persuaded that the girlish passion that had made of him a demi-god
was gone forever. Her flesh fainted, and her spirit died within her,
at the caresses to which she had turned herself in the days of her
idolatry, as roses open to the sun--as innocently and as naturally.
She could never love again. The fires had scathed too deeply for
that; but she had begun to believe that she might find comfort in
esteeming and liking her only protector; might seek, and not in
vain, in a calm, true friendship for this good man, forgetfulness of
the storms that had wrecked her early dreams. In his frank and noble
presence suspicion stood rebuked. It was easier to discredit the
evidence of one's own senses and judgment, than to doubt his
integrity.
But here was a deliberate deception. He--Roy Fordham--had known
Hester Sanford before she--Jessie--ever saw her. She was the
intimate associate and confidante of his former love;--of the
woman he had renounced heartlessly and without compunction,--and
whose name had never passed his lips in his wife's hearing. She
recalled faithfully Hester's account of the call "Maria" had paid
with her then betrothed at Mr. Sanford's house--a statement she
would not have dared to make, had it been groundless. Whence this
affectation of ignorance, on Fordham's part, of the person and
character of his cousin's intended bride, if not as a further means
of keeping the knowledge of the affair from her?
"To whom it should have been told, more than a year ago!" she
reflected, a dreary loneliness creeping over her, with the
conclusion--"He is like the rest of them! I would have believed in
him if I could!"
The door shut quietly. She did not hear it, or miss her sister from
her place. It was not an uncommon occurrence for them to sit
together without speaking, for an hour at a time, Eunice's fingers
busied with some article of useful needlework, Jessie's holding a
book which she pretended to read as a cover for her griefful
musings. Much less was it in the imagination of the younger sister
to follow the elder in her progress up the staircase, her face more
stony and eyes more desolate with each step, to the fair, large
chamber she had occupied from her childhood.
It was cold and dark, but for the light of the taper she set down
upon the mantel. There were none of the fanciful ornaments,--none of
the luxurious devices, the patches of bright coloring that reflected
the owner's tastes and whims in Jessie's apartment. All the
draperies--those of the windows, the dressing-table, and the antique
chairs, were pure white, as were also the walls. The carpet was a
sober drab, checkered with narrow lines of blue. The aspect of the
whole was so chill and grave on this bleak night, that Eunice
shivered as at the breath of winter, as she drew up a seat to a
stand in the middle of the floor, and leaned her head upon the hard
wood. Not a tear or word escaped her, but a deft and an invisible
engraver was at work upon her features, sharpening outlines,
deepening here a stroke and there a furrow, until the father would
not have known his child.
I said, many pages back, that Orrin Wyllys' victims made no moan.
Least of them all, was this one likely to publish her case to the
world,--to shriek out her great and sudden woe in the ear of heaven
and of her kind. She had never loved before she met him, and the
discovery of this curious fact had stimulated his professional
zeal--animated his pride in the honor and success of his vocation.
He had found the key to her heart, and had used it. Love is no
holiday romance when it comes thus late in life to a woman of large
capacity for affection, and a will, the strength of which has
hitherto made the repression of such seeking instincts and needs as
win for weaker girls the reputation of lovingness and dependence,
appear even to those who know her best like tranquil contentment
with her allotted share of love and companionship. She had heard
herself called, "a predestined old maid," ever since her mother left
her, a demure infant, apt and serious beyond her years--to become
her father's co-worker and comforter. Her calm smile at the nickname
looked like conscious superiority to dread of the obloquy--a fear
that infects all classes of her sex. Her love was as reticent as her
longing for affection had been. Orrin's most insidious arts had not
sufficed to surprise her into confession. Of marriage he had never
spoken, nor she permitted herself to think. Her attachment was
artless and uncalculating as a child's. He had convinced her that
the subtle sympathy of their souls had made them one from their
earliest meeting; that he had then recognized in her his
spirit-mate. The seductive cant came trippingly from his tongue with
the fluent convincingness of much practice, and she was listening to
it for the first time. His dual game was adroitly conducted, and the
result was a triumphant cap-sheaf to his harvest of hearts. His
bride-expectant would have torn her flaxen hair--natural and
artificial--with rage had she guessed how tame he found his pursuit
of herself; how deficient in the flavor of excitement that had
marked his courtship of the beautiful but fortuneless country girls.
The hall-clock rang out nine strokes when Eunice shook off her
reverie, and unlocked a drawer of her bureau. It was lined with
silver paper, and the odor of dried violets stole into the still,
cold air when she opened it. A bunch of withered flowers; a small
herbarium filled by Wyllys and herself in their woodland and
mountain rambles,--the vignette on the title-page, from his pencil;
all the inscriptions, names of specimens, and poetical legends,
penned by his hand; a thin bundle of letters and notes; five or six
books--favorite works with both of them--composed the contents. She
took them out carefully, one by one, and laid them in a heap upon
the table. Then, she sought in the closet for a walnut box, one of
her childhood's treasures, an oblong casket with a sliding top and a
strong lock. Without audible evidence of suffering, she arranged the
relics within it, with the nice regard to neatness and order which
was, with her, intuitive as it had become habitual. The last article
was a volume of Spenser's "Faerie Queene"--an English edition
elegantly illustrated. Wyllys had sent it to her, the Christmas
Jessie passed with Mrs. Baxter. His pencillings were upon several
pages, and one of the fly-leaves bore an extract from Tennyson. He
had apologized for transcribing it, there, in the letter
