and now at the wooden effigy of the House of St. Ann borne by two gilt
angels above the high-altar. There was no service, and the visitors soon
quitted the chapel amid the clamors of the boys outside. Some young
girls, in the dress of our period, were promenading up and down the road
with their arms about each other and their eyes alert for the effect
upon spectators.
From one of the village lanes came swaggering towards the visitors a
figure of aggressive fashion,--a very buckish young fellow, with a heavy
black mustache and black eyes, who wore a jaunty round hat, blue checked
trousers, a white vest, and a morning-coat of blue diagonals, buttoned
across his breast; in his hand he swung a light cane.
"That is the son of the chief, Paul Picot," whispered the driver.
"Excuse me," said the colonel, instantly; and the young gentleman
nodded. "Can you tell me if we could see the chief to-day?"
"O yes!" answered the notary in English, "my father is chief. You can
see him"; and passed on with a somewhat supercilious air.
The colonel, in his first hours at Quebec, had bought at a bazaar of
Indian wares the photograph of an Indian warrior in a splendor of
factitious savage panoply. It was called "The Last of the Hurons," and
the colonel now avenged himself for the curtness of M. Picot by styling
him "The Next to the Last of the Hurons."
"Well," said Fanny, who had a wife's willingness to see her husband
occasionally snubbed, "I don't know why you asked him. I'm sure nobody
wants to see that old chief and his wretched bead trumpery again."
"My dear," answered the colonel, "wherever Americans go, they like to be
presented at court. Mr. Arbuton, here, I've no doubt has been introduced
to the crowned heads of the Old World, and longs to pay his respects to
the sovereign of Lorette. Besides, I always call upon the reigning
prince when I come to Lorette. The coldness of the heir-apparent shall
not repel me."
The colonel led the way up the principal lane of the village. Some of
the cabins were ineffectually whitewashed, but none of them were so
uncleanly within as the outside prophesied. At the doors and windows sat
women and young girls working moccasins; here and there stood a well-fed
mother of a family with an infant Huron in her arms. They all showed the
traces of white blood, as did the little ones who trooped after the
strangers and demanded charity as clamorously as so many Italians; only
a few faces were of a clear dark, as if stained by walnut-juice, and it
was plain that the Hurons were fading, if not dying out. They responded
with a queer mixture of French liveliness and savage stolidity to the
colonel's jocose advances. Great lean dogs lounged about the thresholds;
they and the women and children were alone visible; there were no men.
None of the houses were fenced, save the chief's; this stood behind a
neat grass plot, across which, at the moment our travellers came up, two
youngish women were trailing in long morning-gowns and eye-glasses. The
chief's house was a handsome cottage, papered and carpeted, with a huge
stove in the parlor, where also stood a table exposing the bead trumpery
of Mrs. Ellison's scorn. A full-bodied elderly man with quick, black
eyes and a tranquil, dark face stood near it; he wore a half-military
coat with brass buttons, and was the chief Picot. At sight of the
colonel he smiled slightly and gave his hand in welcome. Then he sold
such of his wares as the colonel wanted, rather discouraging than
inviting purchase. He talked, upon some urgency, of his people, who, he
said, numbered three hundred, and were a few of them farmers, but were
mostly hunters, and, in the service of the officers of the garrison,
spent the winter in the chase. He spoke fair English, but reluctantly,
and he seemed glad to have his guests go, who were indeed willing enough
to leave him.
Mr. Arbuton especially was willing, for he had been longing to find
himself alone with Kitty, of which he saw no hope while the idling about
the village lasted.
The colonel bought an insane watch-pocket for une dolleur from a
pretty little girl as they returned through the village; but he forbade
the boys any more archery at his expense, with "Pas de grand shoot,
now, mes enfans!--Friends," he added to his own party, "we have the
Falls of Lorette and the better part of the afternoon still before us;
how shall we employ them?"
Mrs. Ellison and Kitty did not know, and Mr. Arbuton did not know, as
they sauntered down past the chapel, to the stone mill that feeds its
industry from the beauty of the fall. The cascade, with two or three
successive leaps above the road, plunges headlong down a steep
crescent-shaped slope, and hides its foamy whiteness in the
dark-foliaged ravine below. It is a wonder of graceful motion, of
iridescent lights and delicious shadows; a shape of loveliness that
seems instinct with a conscious life. Its beauty, like that of all
natural marvels on our continent, is on a generous scale; and now the
spectators, after viewing it from the mill, passed for a different
prospect of it to the other shore, and there the colonel and Fanny
wandered a little farther down the glen, leaving Kitty with Mr. Arbuton.
The affair between them was in such a puzzling phase, that there was as
much reason for as against this: nobody could do anything, not even
openly recognize it. Besides, it was somehow very interesting to Kitty
to be there alone with him, and she thought that if all were well, and
he and she were really engaged, the sense of recent betrothal could be
nowhere else half so sweet as in that wild and lovely place. She began
to imagine a bliss so divine, that it would have been strange if she had
not begun to desire it, and it was with a half reluctant,
half-acquiescent thrill that she suffered him to touch upon what was
first in both their minds.
"I thought you had agreed not to talk of that again for the present,"
she feebly protested.
"No; I was not forbidden to tell you I loved you: I only consented to
wait for my answer; but now I shall break my promise. I cannot wait. I
think the conditions you make dishonor me," said Mr. Arbuton, with an
impetuosity that fascinated her.
"O, how can you say such a thing as that?" she asked, liking him for his
resentment of conditions that he found humiliating, while her heart
leaped remorseful to her lips for having imposed them. "You know very
well why I wanted to delay; and you know that--that--if--I had done
anything to wound you, I never could forgive myself."
"But you doubted me, all the same," he rejoined.
"Did I? I thought it was myself that I doubted." She was stricken with
sudden misgiving as to what had seemed so well; her words tended rapidly
she could not tell whither.
"But why do you doubt yourself?"
"I--I don't know."
"No," he said bitterly, "for it's really me that you doubt. I can't
understand what you have seen in me that makes you believe anything
could change me towards you," he added with a kind of humbleness that
touched her. "I could have borne to think that I was not worthy of you."
"Not worthy of me! I never dreamed of such a thing."
"But to have you suspect me of such meanness--"
"O Mr. Arbuton!"
--"As you hinted yesterday, is a disgrace that I ought not to bear. I
have thought of it all night; and I must have my answer now, whatever it
is."
She did not speak; for every word that she had uttered had only served
to close escape behind her. She did not know what to do; she looked up
at him for help. He said with an accent of meekness pathetic from him,
"Why must you still doubt me?"
"I don't," she scarcely more than breathed.
"Then you are mine, now, without waiting, and forever," he cried; and
caught her to him in a swift embrace.
She only said, "Oh!" in a tone of gentle reproach, yet clung to him a
helpless moment as for rescue from himself. She looked at him in blank
pallor, striving to realize the tender violence in which his pulses
wildly exulted; then a burning flush dyed her face, and tears came into
her eyes. "O, I hope you'll never be sorry," she said; and then, "Do let
us go," for she had no distinct desire save for movement, for escape
from that place.
Her heart had been surprised, she hardly knew how; but at his kiss a
novel tenderness had leaped to life in it. She suffered him to put her
hand upon his arm, and then she began to feel a strange pride in his
being tall and handsome, and hers. But she kept thinking as they walked,
"I hope he'll never he sorry," and she said it again, half in jest. He
pressed her hand against his heart, and met her look with one of protest
and reassurance, that presently melted into something sweeter yet. He
said, "What beautiful eyes you have! I noticed the long lashes when I
saw you on the Saguenay boat, and I couldn't get away from them."
"O please, don't speak of that dreadful time!" cried Kitty.
"No? Why not?"
"O because! I think it was such a bold kind of accident my taking your
arm by mistake; and the whole next day has always been a perfect horror
to me."
He looked at her in questioning amaze.
"I think I was very pert with you all day,--and I don't think I'm pert
naturally,--taking you up about the landscape, and twitting you about
the Saguenay scenery and legends, you know. But I thought you were
trying to put me down,--you are rather down-putting at times,--and I
admired you, and I couldn't bear it."
"Oh!" said Mr. Arbuton. He dimly recollected, as if it had been in some
former state of existence, that there were things he had not approved in
Kitty that day, but now he met her penitence with a smile and another
pressure of the hand. "Well, then," he said, "if you don't like to
recall that time, let's go back of it to the day I met you on Goat
Island Bridge at Niagara."
"O, did you see me there? I thought you didn't; but I saw you. You
had on a blue cravat," she answered; and he returned with as much the
air of coherency as if really continuing the same train of thought, "You
won't think it necessary to visit Boston, now, I suppose," and he smiled
triumphantly upon her. "I fancy that I have now a better right to
introduce you there than your South End friends."
Kitty smiled, too. "I'm willing to wait. But don't you think you ought
to see Eriecreek before you promise too solemnly? I can't allow that
there's anything serious, till you've seen me at home."
They had been going, for no reason that they knew, back to the country
inn near which you purchase admittance to a certain view of the falls,
and now they sat down on the piazza, somewhat apart from other people
who were there, as Mr. Arbuton said, "O, I shall visit Eriecreek soon
enough. But I shall not come to put myself or you to the proof. I don't
ask to see you at home before claiming you forever."
Kitty murmured, "Ah! you are more generous than I was."
"I doubt it."
"O yes, you are. But I wonder if you'll be able to find Eriecreek."
"Is it on the map?"
"It's on the county map; and so is Uncle Jack's lot on it, and a picture
of his house, for that matter. They'll all be standing on the
piazza--something like this one--when you come up. You'll know Uncle
Jack by his big gray beard, and his bushy eyebrows, and his boots, which
he won't have blacked, and his Leghorn hat, which we can't get him to
change. The girls will be there with him,--Virginia all red and heated
with having got supper for you, and Rachel with the family mending in
her hand,--and they'll both come running down the walk to welcome you.
How will you like it?"
Mr. Arbuton suspected the gross caricature of this picture, and smiled
securely at it. "I shall like it well enough," he said, "if you run down
with them. Where shall you be?"
"I forgot. I shall be up stairs in my room, peeping through the
window-blinds, to see how you take it. Then I shall come down, and
receive you with dignity in the parlor, but after supper you'll have to
excuse me while I help with the dishes. Uncle Jack will talk to you.
He'll talk to you about Boston. He's much fonder of Boston than you are,
even." And here Kitty broke off with a laugh, thinking what a very
different Boston her Uncle Jack's was from Mr. Arbuton's, and
maliciously diverted with what she conceived of their mutual
bewilderment in trying to get some common stand-point. He had risen from
his chair, and was now standing a few paces from her, looking toward the
fall, as if by looking he might delay the coming of the colonel and
Fanny.
She checked her merriment a moment to take note of two ladies who were
