"Do you want my advice?" he said, looking up from the perusal.  "Buy
the paper.  It is worth what Anderson asks for it."
"So I think, but there is a difficulty.  Harry and I can only raise
twelve hundred dollars or so between us."
"Give a note for the balance.  You'll be able to pay it off in two
years, if you prosper."
"I am afraid that won't do.  Mr. Anderson wants cash.  Can't you lend
us the money, Squire Trevor?" continued Ferguson, bluntly.
The village capitalist shook his head.
"If you had asked me last week I could have obliged you," he said;
"but I was in Boston day before yesterday, and bought some railway
stock which is likely to enhance in value.  That leaves me short."
"Then you couldn't manage it?" said Ferguson, soberly.
"Not at present," said the squire, decidedly.
"Then we must write to Mr. Anderson, offering what we have, and a
mortgage to secure the rest."
"That will be your best course."
"He may agree to our terms," said Harry, hopefully, after their
visitor had left the office.
"We will hope so, at all events."
A letter was at once despatched, and in a week the answer was
received.
"I am sorry," Mr. Anderson wrote, "to decline your proposals, but, I
have immediate need of the whole sum which I ask for the paper.  If I
cannot obtain it, I shall come back to Centreville, though I would
prefer to remain here."
Upon the receipt of this letter, Ferguson gave up his work for the
forenoon, and made a tour of the Village, calling upon all who he
thought were likely to have money to lend.  He had small expectation
of success, but felt that he ought to try everywhere before giving up
so good a chance.
While he was absent, Harry had a welcome visitor.  It was no other
than Professor Henderson, the magician, in whose employ he had spent
three months some years before, as related in "Bound to Rise."
"Take a seat, professor," said Harry, cordially.  "I am delighted to
see you."
"How you have grown, Harry!" said the professor.  "Why, I should
hardly have known you!"
"We haven't met since I left you to enter this office."
"No; it is nearly three years.  How do you like the business?"
"Very much indeed."
"Are you doing well?"
"I receive fifteen dollars a week."
"That is good.  What are your prospects for the future?"
"They would be excellent if I had a little more capital."
"I don't see how you need capital, as a journeyman printer."
"I have a chance to buy out the paper."
"But who would edit it?"
"I would."
"You!" said the magician, rather incredulously.
"I have been the editor for the last two months."
"You--a boy!"
"I am nineteen, professor."
"I shouldn't have dreamed of editing a paper at nineteen; or, indeed,
as old as I am now."
Harry laughed.
"You are too modest, professor.  Let me show you our last two issues."
The professor took out his glasses, and sat down, not without
considerable curiosity, to read a paper edited by one who only three
years before had been his assistant.
"Did you write this article?" he asked, after a pause, pointing to
the leader in the last issue of the "Gazette."
"Yes, sir."
"Then, by Jove, you can write.  Why, it's worthy of a man of twice
your age!"
"Thank you, professor," said Harry, gratified.
"Where did you learn to write?"
Harry gave his old employer some account of his literary experiences,
mentioning his connection with the two Boston weekly papers.
"You ought to be an editor," said the professor.  "If you can do as
much at nineteen, you have a bright future before you."
"That depends a little on circumstances.  If I only could buy this
paper, I would try to win reputation as well as money."
"What is your difficulty?"
"The want of money."
"How much do you need?"
"Eight hundred dollars."
"Is that all the price such a paper commands?"
"No.  The price is two thousand dollars; but Ferguson and I can raise
twelve hundred between us."
"Do you consider it good property?"
"Mr. Anderson made a comfortable living out of it, besides paying for
office work.  We should have this advantage, that we should be our
own compositors."
"That would give you considerable to do, if you were editor also."
"I shouldn't mind," said Harry, "if I only had a paper of my own.  I
think I should be willing to work night and day."
"What are your chances of raising the sum you need?"
"Very small.  Ferguson has gone out at this moment to see if he can
find any one willing to lend; but we don't expect success."
"Why don't you apply to me?" asked the professor.
"I didn't know if you had the money to spare."
"I might conjure up some.  Presto!--change!--you know.  We professors
of magic can find money anywhere."
"But you need some to work with.  I have been behind the scenes,"
said Harry, smiling.
"But you don't know all my secrets, for all that.  In sober earnest,
I haven't been practising magic these twenty-five years for nothing.
I can lend you the money you want, and I will."
Harry seized his hand, and shook it with delight.
"How can I express my gratitude?" he said.
"By sending me your paper gratis, and paying me seven per cent.
interest on my money."
"Agreed.  Anything more?"
"Yes.  I am to give an exhibition in the village to-morrow night.
You must give me a good puff."
"With the greatest pleasure.  I'll write it now."
"Before it takes place?  I see you are following the example of some
of the city dailies."
"And I'll print you some handbills for nothing."
"Good.  When do you want the money?  Will next week do?"
"Yes.  Mr. Anderson won't expect the money before."
Here Ferguson entered the efface.  Harry made a signal of silence to
the professor, whom he introduced.  Then he said:--
"Well, Ferguson, what luck?"
"None at all," answered his fellow-compositor, evidently dispirited.
"Nobody seems to have any money.  We shall have to give up our plan."
"I don't mean to give it up."
"Then perhaps you'll tell me where to find the money."
"I will."
"You don't mean to say--" began Ferguson, eagerly.
"Yes, I do.  I mean to say that the money is found."
"Where?"
"Prof. Henderson has agreed to let us have it."
"Is that true?" said Ferguson, bewildered.
"I believe so," said the professor, smiling.  "Harry has juggled the
money out of me,--you know he used to be in the business,--and you
can make your bargain as soon as you like."
It is hardly necessary to say that Prof. Henderson got an excellent
notice in the next number of the Centreville "Gazette;" and it is my
opinion that he deserved it.
CHAPTER XXXV.
FLETCHER'S OPINION OF HARRY WALTON.
In two weeks all the business arrangements were completed, and
Ferguson and Harry became joint proprietors of the "Centreville
Gazette," the latter being sole editor.  The change was received with
favor in the village, as Harry had, as editor pro tem. for two
months, shown his competence for the position.  It gave him
prominence also in town, and, though only nineteen, he already was
classed with the minister, the doctor and the lawyer.  It helped him
also with the weekly papers to which he contributed in Boston, and
his pay was once more raised, while his sketches were more frequently
printed.  Now this was all very pleasant, but it was not long before
our hero found himself overburdened with work.
"What is the matter Harry?  You look pale," said Ferguson, one
morning.
"I have a bad headache, and am feeling out of sorts."
"I don't wonder at it.  You are working too hard."
"I don't know about that."
"I do.  You do nearly as much as I, as a compositor.  Then you do all
the editorial work, besides writing sketches for the Boston papers."
"How can I get along with less?  The paper must be edited, and I
shouldn't like giving up writing for the Boston papers."
"I'll tell you what to do.  Take a boy and train him up as a printer.
After a while he will relieve you almost wholly, while, by the time
he commands good wages, we shall be able to pay them."
"It is a good idea, Ferguson.  Do you know of any boy that wants to
learn printing?"
"Haven't you got a younger brother?"
"The very thing," said Harry, briskly.  "Father wrote to me last week
that he should like to get something for ----."
"Better write and offer him a place in the office."
"I will."
The letter was written at once.  An immediate answer was received, of
a favorable nature.  The boy was glad to leave home, and the father
was pleased to have him under the charge of his older brother.
After he had become editor, and part proprietor of the "Gazette,"
Harry wrote to Oscar Vincent to announce his promotion.  Though Oscar
had been in college now nearly two years, and they seldom met, the
two were as warm friends as ever, and from time to time exchanged
letters.
This was Oscar's reply:--
  "HARVARD COLLEGE, June 10.
"DEAR MR. EDITOR: I suppose that's the proper way to address you now.
I congratulate you with all my heart on your brilliant success and
rapid advancement.  Here you are at nineteen, while I am only a
rattle-brained sophomore.  I don't mind being called that, by the
way, for at least it credits me with the possession of brains.  Not
that I am doing so very badly.  I am probably in the first third of
the class, and that implies respectable scholarship here.
"But you--I can hardly realize that you, whom I knew only two or
three years since as a printer's apprentice (I won't use Fletcher's
word), have lifted yourself to the responsible position of sole
editor.  Truly you have risen from the ranks!
"Speaking of Fletcher, by the way, you know he is my classmate.  He
occupies an honorable position somewhere near the foot of the class,
where he is likely to stay, unless he receives from the faculty leave
of absence for an unlimited period.  I met him yesterday, swinging
his little cane, and looking as dandified as he used to.
"'Hallo! Fletcher,' said I, 'I've just got a letter from a friend of
yours.'
"'Who is it?' he asked.
"'Harry Walton.'
"'He never was a friend of mine,' said Fitz, turning up his
delicately chiselled nose,--'the beggarly printer's devil!'
"I hope you won't feel sensitive about the manner in which Fitz spoke
of you.
"'You've made two mistakes,' said I.  'He's neither a beggar nor a
printer's devil.'
"'He used to be,' retorted Fitz.
