setting of merit above birth, and also so completely 
stripped the divinity from royalty that, whereas 
crowned beads in Europe were gods before, they are 
only men since, and can never be gods again, but only 
figure-heads, and answerable for their acts like com- 
mon clay. Such benefactions as these compensate the 
temporary harm which Bonaparte and the Revolution 
did, and leave the world in debt to them for these great 
and permanent services to liberty, humanity, and 
progress. 
Then comes Sir Walter Scott with his enchantments, 
and by his single might checks this wave of progress, 
and even turns it back; sets the world in love with 
dreams and phantoms ; with decayed and swinish 
forms of religion ; with decayed and degraded systems 
of government; with the sillinesses and emptinesses, 
sham grandeurs, sham gauds, and sham chivalries of a 
brainless and worthless long-vanished society. He did 
measureless harm; more real and lasting harm, per- 
haps, than any other individual that ever wrote. Most 
of the world has now outlived good part of these 
harms, though by no means all of them ; but in our 
South they flourish pretty forcefully still. Not so 
forcefully as half a generation ago, perhaps, but still 
forcefully. There, the genuine and wholesome civiliza- 
tion of the nineteenth century is curiously confused 
and commingled with the Walter Scott Middle-Age 
sham civilization, and so you have practical common- 
sense, progressive ideas, and progressive works, mixed 
up with the duel, the inflated speech, and the jejune 
romanticism of an absurd past that is dead, and out of 
charity ought to be buried. But for the Sir Walter 
disease, the character of the Southerner — or Southron, 
according to Sir Walter's starchier way of phrasing it — 
would be wholly modern, in place of modern and 
mediaeval mixed, and the South would be fully a 
generation further advanced than it is. It was Sir 
Walter that made every gentleman in the South a 
major or a colonel, or a general or a judge, before the 
war; and it was he, also, that made these gentlemen 
value these bogus decorations. For it was he that 
created rank and caste down there, and also reverence 
for rank and caste, and pride and pleasure in them. 
Enough is laid on slavery, without fathering upon it 
these creations and contributions of Sir Walter. 
Sir Walter had so large a hand in making Southern 
character, as it existed before the war, that he is in 
great measure responsible for the war. It seems a 
little harsh toward a dead man to say that we never 
should have had any war but for Sir Walter; and yet 
something of a plausible argument might, perhaps, be 
made in support of that wild proposition. The 
Southerner of the American Revolution owned slaves ; 
so did the Southerner of the Civil War; but the 
former resembles the latter as an Englishman resem- 
bles a Frenchman. The change of character can be 
traced rather more easily to Sir Walter’s influence than 
to that of any other thing or person. 
One may observe, by one or two signs, how deeply 
that influence penetrated, and how strongly it holds. 
If one take up a Northern or Southern literary periodi- 
cal of forty or fifty years ago, he will find it filled with 
wordy, windy, flowery “eloquence’ romanticism, 
sentimentality — all imitated from Sir Walter, and 
sufficiently badly done, too — innocent travesties of his 
style and methods, in fact. This sort of literature 
being the fashion in both sections of the country, 
there was opportunity for the fairest competition ; and 
as a consequence, the South was able to show as many 
well-known literary names, proportioned to population, 
as the North could. 
But a change has come, and there is no opportunity 
now for a fair competition between North and South. 
For the North has thrown out that old inflated style, 
whereas the Southern writer still clings to it — clings to 
it and has a restricted market for his wares, as a conse- 
quence. There is as much literary talent in the South, 
now, as ever there was, of course; but its work can 
gain but slight currency under present conditions ; the 
authors write for the past, not the present; they use 
obsolete forms and a dead language. But when a 
Southerner of genius writes modern English, his book 
goes upon crutches no longer, but upon wings; and 
they carry it swiftly all about America and England, 
and through the great English reprint publishing 
houses of Germany — as witness the experience of Mr. 
Cable and “Uncle Remus ’ two of the very few 
Southern authors who do not write in the Southern 
style. Instead of three or four widely-known literary 
names, the South ought to have a dozen or two — and 
will have them when Sir Walter’s time is out. 
A curious exemplification of the power of a single 
book for good or harm is shown in the effects wrought 
by “ Don Quixote” and those wrought by “ Ivan- 
hoe.” The first swept the world’s admiration for the 
mediaeval chivalry-silliness out of existence; and the 
other restored it. As far as our South is concerned, 
the good work done by Cervantes is pretty nearly a 
dead letter, so effectually has Scott’s pernicious work 
undermined it. 
CHAPTER XLVII. 
“UNCLE REMUS” AND MR CABLE 
M R. JOEL CHANDLER HARRIS (" Uncle Re- 
mus”) was to arrive from Atlanta at seven 
o’clock Sunday morning ; so we got up and received 
him. We were able to detect him among the crowd of 
arrivals at the hotel-counter by his correspondence 
with a description of him which had been furnished us 
from a trustworthy source. He was said to be under- 
sized, red-haired, and somewhat freckled. Pie was the 
only man in the party whose outside tallied with this 
bill of particulars. He was said to be very shy. He 
is a shy man. Of this there is no doubt. It may not 
show on the surface, but the shyness is there. After 
days of intimacy one wonders to see that it is still in 
about as strong force as ever. There is a fine and 
beautiful nature hidden behind it, as all know who have 
read the “Uncle Remus” book; and a fine genius, 
too, as all know by the same sign. I seem to be talk- 
ing quite freely about this neighbor; but in talking to 
the public I am but talking to his personal friends and 
these things are permissible among friends. 
He deeply disappointed a number of children who 
had flocked eagerly to Mr. Cable’s house to get a 
glimpse of the illustrious sage and oracle of the nation’s 
nurseries. They said : 
“ Why, he’s white !” 
They were grieved about it. So, to console them, 
the book was brought, that they might hear Uncle 
Remus' Tar-Baby story from the lips of Uncle Remus 
himself — or what, in their outraged eyes, was left of 
him. But it turned out that he had never read aloud 
to people, and was too shy to venture the attempt 
now. Mr. Cable and I read from books of ours, to 
show him what an easy trick it was ; but his immortal 
shyness was proof against even this sagacious strategy ; 
so we had to read about Brer Rabbit ourselves. 
Mr. Harris ought to be able to read the negro dialect 
better than anybody else, for in the matter of writing 
it he is the only master the country has produced. 
Mr. Cable is the only master in the writing of French 
dialects that the country has produced ; and he reads 
them in perfection. It was a great treat to hear him 
read about Jean-ah Poquelin, and about Innerarity and 
his famous " pigshoo " representing " Louisihanna 
i?z-fusing to Hanter the Union," along with passages 
of nicely-shaded German dialect from a novel which 
was still in manuscript. 
It came out in conversation that in two different in- 
stances Mr. Cable got into grotesque trouble by using, 
in his books, next-to-impossible French names which 
nevertheless happened to be borne by living and sensi- 
tive citizens of New Orleans. His names were either 
inventions or were borrowed from the ancient and 
obsolete past, I do not now remember which ; but at 
any rate living bearers of them turned up, and were a 
good deal hurt at having attention directed to them- 
selves and their affairs in so excessively public a 
manner. 
Mr. Warner and I had an experience of the same 
sort when we wrote the book called "The Gilded 
Age." There is a character in it called " Sellers." I 
do not remember what his first name was, in the
beginning; but anyway, Mr. Warner did not like it, and 
wanted it improved. He asked me if J was able to 
imagine a person named " Eschol Sellers. ” Of course 
I said I could not, without stimulants. He said that 
away out West, once, he had met, and contemplated, 
and actually shaken hands with a man bearing Uia'. 
impossible name — “ Eschol Sellers.” He added: 
“It was twenty years ago; his name has probably 
carried him off before this; and if it hasn’t, he will 
never see the book anyhow. We will confiscate his 
name. The name you are using is common, and 
therefore dangerous; there are probably a thousand 
Sellerses bearing it, and the whole horde will come 
after us; but Eschol Sellers is a safe name — it is a 
rock. ’ ’ 
So we borrowed that name ; and when the book had 
been out about a week, one of the stateliest and hand- 
somest and most aristocratic looking white men that 
ever lived, called around, with the most formidable 
libel suit in his pocket that ever — well, in brief , we 
got his permission to suppress an edition of ten million
copies of the book and change that name to“Beriah 
Sellers” in future editions. 
Figures taken from memory, and probably incorrect. Think it was 
more. 
CHAPTER XLVI1L 
SUGAR AND POSTAGE 
O NE day, on the street, I encountered the man 
whom, of all men, I most wished to see — 
Horace Bixby; formerly pilot under me, — or rather, 
over me, — now captain of the great steamer City of 
Baton Rouge , the latest and swiftest addition to the 
Anchor Line. The same slender figure, the same tight 
curls, the same springy step, the same alertness, the 
same decision of eye and answering decision of hand, 
the same erect military bearing; not an inch gained or 
lost in girth, not an ounce gained or lost in weight, 
