Ferris had noticed that all his countrywomen, 
past their girlhood, seemed to be sick, he did not 
know how or why ; he supposed it was all right, it 
was so common. In Mrs. Vervain's case, though 
she talked a great deal about her ill-health, he had 
noticed it rather less than usual, she had so great 
spirit. He recalled now that lie had thought her 
at times rather a shadowy presence, and that occa 
sionally it had amused him that so slight a structure 
should hang together as it did not only success 
fully, but triumphantly. 
He said yes, he knew that Mrs. Vervain was 
not strong, and Florida continued : " It's only ad 
vice that I want for her, but I think we had better 
see some one or know some one that we could go 
to in need. We are so far from any one we know, 
or help of any kind." She seemed to be trying to 
account to herself, rather than to Ferris, for what 
she was doing. " We must n t let anything pass 
unnoticed " . . . . She looked at him entreat- 
ingly, but a shadow, as of some wounding memory, 
passed over her face, and she said no more. 
" I'll go with you to a doctor's," said Ferris, 
kindly. 
" No, please, I won 't trouble you." 
" It's no trouble." 
" I don 't want you to go with me, please. I d 
rather go alone," Ferris looked at her perplexedly, 
as she rose. " Just give me the address, and I shall 
manage best by myself. I'm used to doing it." 
" As you like. Wait a moment." Ferris wrote 
the address. " There," he said, giving it to her ; 
" but isn 't  there anything I can do for you ? " 
" Yes," answered Florida with awkward hesita 
tion, and a half-defiant, half-imploring look at him. 
" You must have all sorts of people applying to 
 
you, as a consul ; and you look after their affairs 
and try to forget them " 
"Well?" said Ferris. 
" I wish you would n t remember that I've asked 
this favor of you ; that you d consider it a " 
" Consular service ? With all my heart," an 
swered Ferris, thinking for the third or fourth time 
how very young Miss Vervain was. 
" You are very good ; you are kinder than I have 
any right," said Florida, smiling piteously. " I only 
mean, don 't speak of it to my mother. Not," she 
added, " but what I want her to know everything I 
do ; but it would worry her if she thought I was 
anxious about her. Oh! I wish I wouldn 't." 
She began a hasty search for her handkerchief ; 
he saw her lips tremble and his soul trembled with 
them. 
In another moment, " Good-morning," she said 
briskly, with a sort of airy sob, " I don 't want you 
to come down, please." 
She drifted out of the room and down the stairs, 
the servant-maid falling into her wake. 
Ferris filled his pipe and went out on his balcony 
again, and stood watching the gondola in its course 
toward the address he had given, and smoking 
thoughtfully. It was really the same girl who had 
given poor Don Ippolito that cruel slap in the face, 
yesterday. But that seemed no more out of reason 
than her sudden, generous, exaggerated remorse ; 
both were of a piece with her coming to him for 
 
help now, holding him at a distance, flinging her 
self upon his sympathy, and then trying to snub 
him, and breaking down in the effort. It was all 
of a piece, and the piece was bad ; yes, she had an 
ugly temper ; and yet she had magnanimous traits 
too. These contradictions, which in his reverie lie 
felt rather than formulated, made him smile, as he 
stood on his balcony bathed by the morning air and 
sunlight, in fresh, strong ignorance of the whole 
mystery of women's nerves. These caprices even 
charmed him. He reflected that he had gone on 
doing the Vervains one favor after another in spite 
of Florida's childish petulancies ; and he resolved 
that he would not stop now ; her whims should be 
nothing to him, as they had been nothing, hitherto. 
It is flattering to a man to be indispensable to a 
woman so long as he is not obliged to it : Miss Ver 
vain's dependent relation to himself in this visit 
gave her a grace in Ferris's eyes which she had 
wanted before. 
In the mean time he saw her gondola stop, turn 
round, and come back to the canal that bordered 
the Vervain garden. 
" Another change of mind," thought Ferris, com 
placently ; and rising superior to the whole fitful 
sex, he released himself from uneasiness on Mrs. 
Vervain's account. But in the evening he went to 
ask after her. He first sent his card to Florida, 
having written on it, " I hope Mrs. Vervain is bet 
ter. don 't let me come in if it's any disturb- 
 
ance." He looked for a moment at what lie had 
written, dimly conscious that it was patronizing : 
and when he entered he saw that Miss Vervain 
stood on the defensive and from some willfulness 
meant to make him feel that he was presumptuous 
in coming ; it did not comfort him to consider that 
she was verv young. " Mother will be in directly," 
said Florida in a tone that relegated their morning's 
interview to the age of fable. 
Mrs. Vervain came in smiling and cordial, appar 
ently better and not worse for yesterday's misad 
ventures. 
" Oh, I pick up quickly," she explained. " I'm 
an old campaigner, you know. Perhaps a little too 
old, now. Years .do make a difference ; and you'll 
find it out as you get on, Mr. Ferris." 
" I suppose so," said Ferris, not caring to have 
Mrs. Vervain treat him so much like a boy. " Even 
at twenty-six I found it pleasant to take a nap this 
afternoon. How does one stand it at seventeen, 
Miss Vervain ? " he asked. 
"I haven t felt the need of sleep," replied Flor 
ida, indifferently, and he felt shelved, as an old fellow. 
He had an empty, frivolous visit, to his thinking. 
Mrs. Vervain asked if he had seen Don Ippolito, 
and wondered that the priest had. not come about, 
all day. She told a long story, and at the end 
tapped herself on the mouth with her fan to pun 
ish a yawn. 
Ferris rose to go. Mrs. Vervain wondered again 
in the same words why Don Ippolito had not been 
near them all day. 
" Because he's a wise man," said Ferris with bit 
terness, " and knows when to time his visits." Mrs. 
Vervain did not notice his bitterness, but something 
made Florida follow him to the outer door. 
" Why, it's moonlight ! " she exclaimed ; and 
she glanced at him as though she had some purpose 
of atonement in her mind. 
But he would not have it. " Yes, there's a 
moon," he said moodily. " Good-night." 
" Good night," answered Florida, and she impul 
sively offered him her hand. He thought that it 
shook in his, but it was probably the agitation of 
his own nerves. 
A soreness that had been lifted from his heart, 
came back ; he walked home disappointed and de 
feated, he hardly knew why or in what. He did 
not laugh now to think IIOAV she had asked him that 
morning to forget her coming to him for help ; he 
was outraged that he should have been repaid in 
this sort, and the rebuff with which his sympathy 
had just been met was vulgar; there was no other 
name for it but vulgarity. Yet he could not relate 
this quality to the face of the young girl as he con 
stantly beheld it in his homeward walk. It did not 
defy him or repulse him ; it looked up at him wist 
fully as from the gondola that morning. Neverthe 
less he hardened his heart. The Vervains should 
see him next when they had sent for him. After 
all, one is not so very old at twenty-six. 
X. 
" DON IPPOLITO has come, signorina," said Nina, 
the next morning, approaching Florida, where she 
sat in an attitude of listless patience, in the garden. 
"Don Ippolito!" echoed the young girl in a 
weary tone. She rose and went into the house, and 
they met with the constraint which was but too nat 
ural after the events of their last parting. It is 
hard to tell which has most to overcome in such a 
case, the forgiver or the forgiven. Pardon rankles 
even in a generous soul, and the memory of having 
pardoned embarrasses the sensitive spirit before the 
object of its clemency, humbling and making it 
ashamed. It would be well, I suppose, if there need 
be nothing of the kind between human creatures, 
who cannot sustain such a relation without mutual 
distrust. It is not so ill with them when apart, but 
when they meet they must be cold and shy at first. 
" Now I see what you two are thinking about," 
said Mrs. Vervain, and a faint blush tinged the 
cheek of the priest as she thus paired him off with 
her daughter. " You are thinking about what hap 
pened the other day ; and you had better forget it. 
There is no use brooding over these matters. Dear 
me ! if I had stopped to brood over every little 
unpleasant thing that happened, I wonder where I 
 
should be now ? By the way, where were you all 
day yesterday, Don Ippolito ?" 
 I did not come to disturb you because I thought 
you must be very tired. Besides I was quite busy." 
" Oh yes, those inventions of yours. I think you 
are so ingenious ! But you must n t apply too 
closely. Now really, yesterday, after all you had 
been through, it was too much for the brain." She 
tapped herself on the forehead with her fan. 
" I was not busy with my inventions, madarna," 
answered Don Ippolito, who sat in the womanish 
attitude priests get from their drapery, and fingered 
the cord round his three-cornered hat. " I have 
