with her. To say that from that moment they flirted boundlessly all the
afternoon does not express it. I am sorry to say, also, that John and
the poet openly, and Sara and I tacitly, egged them on. The bullion star
of Mokes had been in the ascendant long enough, we thought. The
Professor had a staff, a trowel, and a large basket for specimens. He
made forays into the thicket, lost himself regularly, and Miss Sharp as
regularly went to the rescue and guided him back.
“How many old tracks there are turning off to the right and the left!” I
said. “Where do they go?”
“The most delightful roads are those that go nowhere,” said Eugenio,
“roads that go out and haze around in the woods just for fun. Who wants
to be always going somewhere?”
“These roads will answer your purpose, then,” said John. “Most of them
go nowhere. They did go out to old military posts once upon a time, in
the Seminole war, but the military posts have disappeared, and now they
go nowhere. They are pretty tracks, some of them, especially the old
Indian entrance to St. Augustine--a trail coming up from the south.”
Turning to the right, we passed through a little nook of verdure,
leaving the sand behind us. “This,” said John, “is a hamak; and if I
have a pet grievance, it is the general use of the word ‘hummock’ in its
place. ‘Hummock’ is an arctic word, meaning to pile up ice; but ‘hamak’
is pure Carib or Appalachian, and signifies a resting or abiding place,
a small Indian farm. There is another kind of soil in Florida which has
the singular name of ‘sobbed land.’ This has a rocky substratum,
impervious to water, four feet below the surface, which holds the
rain-falls as though it--”
“Devoured its own tears,” suggested Eugenio. “But where are your
flowers, good people? Is not this the land of flowers?”
“No,” said John; “that is another mistake. The Spaniards happened to
land here during the Easter season, which they call Pascua Florida, the
flowery Passover, on account of the palms with which their churches are
decorated at that time; and so they named the country from the festival,
and not from the flowers at all. There is not one word said about
flowers in all their voluminous old records--”
“Don’t be statistical, I beg,” interrupted Eugenio. “And are there no
flowers, then?”
“Oh yes,” answered Sara, “little wee blossoms in delicate colors
starring over the ground, besides violets and gold-cups; these are the
yeomanry. The Cherokee roses, the yellow jasmine, and the
Spanish-bayonets, with their sceptres of white blossoms, are the
nobility.”
Presently we came out upon the barren, with its single feathery trees,
its broad sky-sweep, its clear-water ponds, an endless stretch of desert
which was yet no desert, but green and fair. The saw-palmetto grew in
patches, and rustled its stiff leaves as we passed.
“I can’t think of any thing but Spanish ladies looking out between the
sticks of their fans,” remarked Eugenio.
“That’s just like it,” said Iris, and plucking one of the fan-shaped
leaves, she gave the idea a lovely coquettish reality. The Captain
murmured something (he had a way of murmuring). What it was we could not
hear, but then Iris heard, and blushed very prettily. Mokes took the
“other young lady,” the sliced one, and walked on loftily. She went. The
truth is, they generally go with three millions.
“There is something about the barrens that always gives me the feeling
of being far away,” said Sara.
“The old attraction,” replied Eugenio. “‘Over the hills and far away’ is
the dream of all imaginative souls. Do you remember
    “‘Afar in the desert I love to ride,
     With the silent Bush-boy alone by my side?’”
         “‘There is a happy land,
           Far, far away,’”
I sang.
“Yes, that is it,” said John, “and even our old friend ‘Swannee Ribber’
owes his dominion to the fact that he is ‘far, far away.’”
A little trail turned off to a low cabin on the bank of a brook; we saw
some flowers, and wandered that way for a moment. It was the lonely
little home of a freedman, and two children stood in the doorway staring
at us with solemn eyes. We bestowed some pennies, which produced a bob
of a courtesy; then some jokes, which brought out the ivories.
“What are your names, children?” I asked.
“They’s jes Lou-ee-zy and Low-ii-zy,” replied a voice from within-doors.
“They’s twins, and I’s took car’ ob dein allays.”
It was a crippled old auntie who spoke. She told us her story, with long
digressions about “ole massa” and “ole miss.”
“After all, I suspect you were more comfortable in the old times,
auntie,” I said.
“What’s dat to do wid de acquisition ob freedom?” replied the old woman,
proudly. “De great ting is dis yer: Lou-ee-zy is free, and Low-ii-zy is
free! Bot’ ob dem! Bot’ ob dem, ladies!”
“I have never been able to make them confess that they were more
comfortable in the old days, no matter how poor and desolate they may
be,” I said.
“The divine spark in every breast,” replied Eugenio. “But where is the
spring, Hoffman? I like your barren; it smacks of the outlaw and bold
buccaneer, after the trim wheat fields of the North, and there is a
grand sweep of sky overhead. Nevertheless, I own to being thirsty.”
“It is not ordinary thirst,” replied John; “it is the old yearning which
Ponce de Leon always felt when he had come as far as this.”
“He came this way, then, did he?”
“Invariably.”
“If I had been here at the time I should have said, ‘Ponce’ (of course
we should have been intimate enough to call each other by our first
names)--‘Ponce, my good friend, have your spring a little nearer while
you are magically about it!’” And taking off his straw hat the poet
wiped his white forehead, and looked at us with a quizzical expression
in his brilliant eyes.
“It is warm,” confessed Aunt Diana, who, weary and worried, was
toiling along almost in silence. Mokes was nearly out of sight with the
“other young lady;” Iris and the Captain were absorbed in that murmured
conversation so hopeless to outsiders; and Spartan matron though she
was, she had not the courage to climb around after the Professor in
cloth boots that drew like a magnet the vicious cacti of the thicket.
Miss Sharp had leather boots, and climbed valiantly.
At last we came to the place, and filed in through a broken-down fence.
We found a deserted house, an overgrown field, a gully, a pool, and an
old curb of coquina surrounding the magic spring.
“I wonder if any one was ever massacred here?” observed Sara, looking
around.
“The Fountain of Youth,” declaimed John, ladling out the water. “Who
will drink? Centuries ago the Indians of Cuba came to these shores to
seek the waters of immortality, and as they never returned, they are
supposed to be still here somewhere enjoying a continued cherubic
existence. Father Martyn himself affirms in his letter to the Pope that
there is a spring here the water thereof being drunk straightway maketh
the old young again. Ladies and gentlemen, the original and only Ponce
de Leon Spring! Who will drink?”
We all drank; and then there was a great silence.
“Well,” said the poet, deliberately, looking around from his seat on the
curb, “take it altogether, that shanty, those bushes, the pig-sty, the
hopeless sandy field, the oozing pool, and this horrible tepid water,
drawn from, to say the least, a dubious source--a very dubious
source--it is, all in all, about the ugliest place I ever saw!”
There was a general shout.
“We have suspected it in our hearts all winter,” said the “other young
lady;” “but not one of us dared put the thought into words, as it was
our only walk.”
The poet staid with us a day or two longer, and charmed us all with his
delightful, winsome humor.
“Do you know, I really love that man,” I announced.
“So do I,” said Iris.
“That is nothing,” said John; “he is ‘the poet whom poets love,’ you
know.”
“But we are not poets, Mr. Hoffman.”
“We are only plebes, and plebes may very well love what poets love, I
think.”
“But it does not always follow,” I said.
“By no means. In this case, however, it is true. All love Eugenio, both
poets and plebes.”
“He is the Mendelssohn of poets,” I said; “and, besides that, he is the
only person I ever met who reminded me of my idea of Mendelssohn
personally--an idea gathered from those charming ‘letters’ and the
Auchester book.”
The next evening Eugenio and Sara went off for a stroll on the sea-wall;
two hours later Sara came back to our room, laid a blank book on the
table, and threw herself into a chair.
“Tired?” I asked.
“Yes.”
“It is a lovely evening.”
“Yes.”
“Did you have a pleasant time?”
“Yes.”
I knew that blank book well; it contained all Sara’s printed stories and
verses; my eyes glanced toward it.
“Yes,” said Sara; “there it is! I gave it to him yesterday. I knew he
would read it through, and I knew also that I could read his real
opinion in those honest eyes of his.”
“Well?”
“There isn’t a thing in it worth the paper it is written on.”
“Oh, Sara!”
“And what is more, I have known it myself all along.”
“Is it possible he said so?”
“He? Never. He said every thing that was generous and kind and cordial
and appreciative; and he gave me solid assistance, too, in the way of
advice, and suggestive hints worth their weight in gold to an isolated
beginner like myself. But--”
“But?”
“Yes, ‘but.’ Through it all, Martha, I could see the truth written in
the sky over that old look-out tower; we were on the glacis under that
tower all the time, and I never took my eyes off from it. That tower is
my fate, I feel sure.”
“What do you mean? Your fate?”
“I don’t know exactly myself. But, nevertheless, in some way or other
that look-out tower is connected with my fate--the fate of poor Sara St.
John.”
In John Hoffman’s room at the same time another conversation was going
on.
JOHN. “Has she genius, do you think?”
EUGENIO. “Not an iota.”
JOHN. “What do you mean, you iron-hearted despot? Has the girl no
poetry in her?”
EUGENIO. “Plenty; but not of the kind that can express itself in
writing. Sara St. John has poetry, but she ought not to try to write it;
she is one of the kind to--”
JOHN. “Well, what?”
EUGENIO. “Live it.”
Eugenio went, leaving real regret behind. The crowd of tourists began to
diminish, the season was approaching its end, and Aunt Diana gathered
her strength for a final contest.
“We are not out of the wilderness yet, it seems,” said Sara to me, in
her mocking voice. “Mokes, the Captain, the Professor, and the
Knickerbocker, and nothing settled! How is this, my countrymen?”
Our last week came, and the Captain and Iris continued their murmured
conversations. In vain Aunt Diana, with the vigilance of a Seminole,
contested every inch of the ground; the Captain outgeneraled her, and
Iris, with her innocent little ways, aided and abetted him. Aunt Di
never made open warfare; she believed in strategy; through the whole she
never once said, “Iris, you must not,” or wavered for one moment in her
charming manner toward the Captain. But the pits she dug for that young
man, the barriers she erected, the obstructions she cast in his way,
would have astonished even Osceola himself. And all the time she had
