But on Saturday night Joe came home in triumph.
"There's the beginning of my fortune," he said, displaying his dollar
and a half all in hard cash. For that was a long while ago, when the
eagle, emblem of freedom, used to perch on silver half-dollars.
CHAPTER VI.
  FORTUNES AND MISFORTUNES.
"I think I'll go into business," said Hal one evening, as he and Granny
and Florence sat together.
They missed Joe so much! He seldom came home until eight o'clock; and
there was no one to stir up the children, and keep the house in a
racket.
"What?" asked Granny.
"I am trying to decide. I wonder how chickens would do?"
"It takes a good deal to feed 'em," said Granny.
"But they could run about, you know. And buckwheat is such a splendid
thing for them. Then we can raise ever so much corn."
"But where would you get your buckwheat?" asked Florence.
"I was thinking. Mr. Peters never does any thing with his lot down
here, and the old apple-trees in it are not worth much. If he'd let me
have it ploughed up! And then we'd plant all of our ground in corn,
except the little garden that we want."
"What a master hand you are to plan, Hal!"
Granny's face was one immense beam of admiration.
"I want to do something. It's too hard, Granny, that you should have to
go out washing, and all that."
Hal's soft brown eyes were full of tender pity.
"Oh! I don't mind. I'm good for a many day's work yet, Hal."
"I hope some of us will get rich at last."
Florence sighed softly.
"I thought you were going to have a green-house," she said.
"I'm afraid I can't manage the green-house now, though I mean to try
some day. And I noticed old Speckly clucking this morning."
"But we haven't any eggs," said Granny.
"I could get some."
"How many chickens would you raise?" asked Florence.
"Well, if we should set the five hens,--out of say sixty-four eggs we
ought to raise fifty chickens; oughtn't we, Granny?"
"With good luck; but so many things happen to 'em."
"And if I could clear thirty dollars. Then there's quite a good deal of
work to do in the summer."
"I shall soon be a fine lady, and ride in my carriage," Granny
commented with a cheerful chirrup of a laugh.
"Mrs. Kinsey's chickens are splendid," said Florence.
"Yes. Shall I get some eggs, and set Speckly?"
"It's rather airly to begin."
"But I'll make a nice coop. And eggs are not twenty-four cents a dozen."
Hal finished off with a quiet smile at the thought of Mrs. Van Wyck.
So he went to Mrs. Kinsey's the next morning, and asked her for a dozen
of eggs, promising to come over the first Saturday there was any thing
to do, and work it out.
"I'll give you the eggs," she said; "but we will be glad to have you
some Saturday, all the same."
So old Speckly was allowed to indulge her motherly inclinations to
her great satisfaction. Hal watched her with the utmost solicitude.
In the course of time a tiny bill pecked against white prison walls;
and one morning Hal found the cunningest ball of soft, yellow down,
trying to balance itself on two slender legs, but finding that the
point of gravity as often centred in its head. But the little fellow
winked oddly, as much as to say, "I know what I'm about. I'll soon find
whether it is the fashion to stand on your head or your feet in this
queer world."
One by one the rest came out. Hal had a nice coop prepared, and set
Mrs. Speckly up at housekeeping. Dot caught one little "birdie," as she
called it, and, in running to show Granny, fell down. And although Dot
wasn't very heavy, it was an avalanche on poor "birdie." He gave two
or three slow kicks with his yellow legs, and then was stiff for all
time.
"Hal's boofer birdie," said Dot. "See, Danny!"
"O Dot! what have you done?"
"Him 'oont 'alk;" and Dot stood him down on the doorstep, only to see
him tumble over.
"Oh, you've killed Hal's birdie! What will he say?"
"I 'ell down. Why 'oont him run, Danny?"
What could Granny do? Scolding Dot was out of the question. And just
then Hal came flying up the road.
Granny had seen the fall, and explained the matter.
"But she mustn't catch them! You're a naughty little Dot!"
Dot began to cry.
"Poor little girl!" said Hal, taking her in his arms. "It is wrong to
catch them. See, now, the little fellow is dead, and can never run
about any more. Isn't Dot sorry? She won't ever touch Hal's birdies
again, will she?"
So Dot promised, and Hal kissed her. But she carried the dead birdie
about, petting it with softest touches, and insisting upon taking it to
bed with her.
One more of the brood met with a mishap, but the other ten throve and
grew rapidly. By the time the next hen wanted to set, Hal had a dozen
eggs saved.
He asked Farmer Peters about the lot. It was just below their house,
between that and the creek, a strip of an acre and a half perhaps.
The old trees were not worth much, to be sure; and Mr. Peters never
troubled himself to cultivate the plot, as it was accounted very poor.
"Yes, you may have it in welcome; but you won't git enough off of it to
pay for the ploughin'?"
"I'm going to raise chickens; and I thought it would be nice to sow
buckwheat, and let them run in it."
"Turnin' farmer, hey? 'Pears to me you're makin' an airly beginnin'."
Hal smiled pleasantly.
"You'll find chickens an awful sight o' bother."
"I thought I'd try them."
"Goin' to garden any?"
"A little."
"Hens and gardens are about like fox an' geese. One's death on the
other. But you kin have the lot."
So Hal asked Abel Kinsey to come over and plough. In return he helped
plant potatoes and drop corn for two Saturdays. By this time there was
a third hen setting.
House-cleaning had come on, and Granny was pretty busy. But she and
Hal were up early in the morning garden-making. The plot belonging to
the cottage was about two acres. Hal removed his chicken-coops to the
lot, and covered his young vegetables with brush to protect them from
incursions,--pease, beans, lettuce, beets, and sweet-corn; and the
rest was given over to the chickens.
"I am going to keep an account of all that is spent for them," he said;
"and we will see if we can make it pay."
When Joe had saved three dollars, he teased Granny to let him order his
clothes.
"I don't like running in debt, Joe," she said with a grave shake of the
head.
"But this is very sure. Mr. Terry likes me, and I shall go on staying.
There will be four dollars and a half to pay down by the time they are
done, and in five weeks I can earn the rest."
"How nice it seems!" said Hal. "You and Flo earn a deal of money."
Flo gave a small sniff. She wanted some new clothes also. And Kit and
Charlie were going to shreds and patches. Charlie, indeed, was shooting
up like Jack's bean-stalk, Joe declared, being nearly as tall as Hal.
She was wild as a colt, climbed trees, jumped fences, and wouldn't be
dared by any of the boys.
"I'm sure I don't know what you'll come to," Granny would say with a
sigh.
Joe carried his point, and ordered his clothes; for he insisted that
he could not think of going to Sunday school until he had them. It was
quite an era in his life to have real store clothes. He felt very grand
one day when he went to Mr. Briggs the tailor, and selected the cloth.
There were several different patterns and colors; but he had made up
his mind that it should be gray, just like Archie Palmer's.
He was so dreadfully afraid of being disappointed, that he dropped in
on Friday to see if they were progressing. There was the jacket in the
highest state of perfection.
"But the pants?" he questioned.
"Never you mind. Them pants'll be done as sure as my name's Peter
Briggs."
"All right," said Joe; and he ran on his way whistling.
"Kit," he announced that evening, "I've just found out a good business
for you."
"What?" and Kit roused himself.
"You shall be a tailor. I was thinking to-day how you would look on the
board, with your scalp-lock nodding to every stitch."
"I won't," said Kit stoutly; and he gave a kick towards Joe's leg.
"It's a good business. You will always have plenty of cabbage."
"You better stop!" declared Kit.
"It will be handy to have him in the house, Granny. He can do the
ironing by odd spells. And on the subject of mending old clothes he
will be lovely."
With that Kit made another dive.
Granny gave a sudden spring, and rescued the earthen jar that held the
cakes she had just mixed and set upon the stove-hearth.
"O Kit! Those precious pancakes! We are not anxious to have them
flavored with extract of old shoes."
"Nor to go wandering over the floor."
Kit looked sober and but half-awake.
"Never mind," said Granny cheerily. "You mustn't tease him so much,
Joe."
"Why, I was only setting before him the peculiar advantages of this
romantic and delightful employment;" and with that, Joe executed a
superior double-shuffle quickstep, accompanied by slapping a tune on
his knee.
"You'd do for a minstrel," said Kit.
Joe cleared his voice with a flourish, and sang out,--
    "I'd be a tailor,
      Jolly and free,
    With plenty of cabbage,
      And a goose on my knee.
    Monday would be blue,
      Tuesday would be shady,
    Wednesday I'd set out
      To find a pretty lady."
"Much work you would do in that case," commented Florence.
"It's time to go to bed, children," said Granny.
"Yes," Joe went on gravely. "For a rising young man, who must take
time by the fore-lock, or scalp-lock, and who longs to distinguish
himself by some great and wonderful discovery, there's nothing like,--
    'Early to bed, and early to rise,
    To make a man healthy, wealthy, and wise.'"
With that Joe was up stairs with a bound.
"Joe!" Charlie called in great earnest.
"Well?"
"You better take a mouthful of Granny's rising before you go."
"Good for you, Charlie; but smart children always die young. Granny,
won't you put a stone on Charlie's head for fear?"
Hal said his good-night in a tenderer manner.
They were all wonderfully interested in Joe's clothes; and, though it
was always later on Saturday night when he reached home, they begged to
sit up, but Kit took a nap by the chimney-corner with Tabby. Granny sat
nodding when they heard the gay whistle without.
"Hurrah! The country's safe!" exclaimed Joe. "Get out your spectacles,
all hands."
"You act as if you never had any thing before, Joe," said Florence,
with an air of extreme dignity.
"But these are real 'boughten' clothes," said Joe, "and gilt buttons
