acute, unsleeping, untiring, always wide-awake, up and dressed, and
in full command of his faculties, at any hour of day or night, ready
for any emergency, overflowing with inconsiderate fun and frolic, and,
like the public he served, going for his joke at any price. Since his
intimacy with Alice she had assumed to herself the right of looking
over his ways and acting the part of an exterior conscience; and Jim
had formed the habit of bringing to her his articles for criticism.
And Alice flattered herself that she was not altogether selfish
in accepting his devotion, but was saving him from many an unwise
escapade, and exciting him to higher standards and nobler ways of
looking at life.
Of all the Christian and becoming rôles in the great drama of life,
there is none that so exactly suits young ladies of a certain degree
of gravity and dignity as that of guardian angel.
Now, in respect to Jim, Alice certainly was fitted to sustain this
rôle. She was well-poised, decided, sensible and serious in her
conceptions of life, truthful and conscientious; and the dash of
ideality which pervaded all her views gave to her, in the eyes of the
modern New York boy, a sort of sacred prestige, like the halo around a
saint.
No one sees life on a harder, colder, more utterly unscrupulous
side than the élève of the New York press. He grinds in a mill
of competition. He serves sharp and severe masters, who in turn
are driven up by an exacting, irresponsible public, panting for
excitement, grasping for the latest sensation. The man of the press
sees behind the scenes in every illusion of life; the shapeless
pulleys, the dripping tallow candles that light up the show, all are
familiar to him.
To him come all the tribes who have axes to grind, and want him to
turn their grindstones. Avarice, ambition, petty vanity, private
piques, mean intrigues, sly revenges, all unbosom themselves to him
as to a father confessor, and invoke his powerful aid. To him it is
given to see the back door and back stairs of much that the world
venerates, and he finds there filthy sweepings and foul débris. Even
the church of every name and sect has its back door, its unsightly
sweepings. He who is in so many secrets, who explores so many cabals,
who sees the wrong side of so many a fair piece of goods, with all its
knots, and jags, and thrums, what wonder if he come to that worse form
of scepticism--the doubt of all truth, of all virtue, of all honor?
When he sees how reputations can be made and unmade in the secret
conclaves of printing offices, how generous and holy enthusiasms are
assumed as a cloak for low and selfish designs, how the language
which stirs man's deepest nature lies around loose in the hands of
skilled word-experts, to be used in getting up cabals and carrying
party intrigues, it is scarcely to be wondered at if he come to regard
life as a mere game of skill, where the shrewdest player wins. It is
exactly here that a true, good woman is the moral salvation of man.
Such a woman seems to a man more than she can ever seem to her female
acquaintances. She is to him the proof of a better world, of a truer
life, of the reality of justice, purity, honor, and unselfishness. He
regards her, to be sure, as unpractical, and ignorant of the world's
ways, but with a holy ignorance which belongs to a higher region.
Jim had dived into New York life at first with the mere animal
recklessness with which an expert swimmer shows his skill in difficult
navigation. Life was an adventure, a game, a game at which he was
determined nobody should cheat him, a race in which he was determined
to come out ahead. Nobody should catch him napping; nobody should
outwit him; he would be nobody's fool. His acquaintance with a certain
class of girls was only a continuation of the bright, quick, adroit
game of fencing which he played in the world. If a girl would flirt,
so would Jim. He was au courant of all the positions and strategy of
that sort of encounter; he had all the persiflage of flattery and
compliment at his tongue's end, and enjoyed the rustle and flutter
of ribbons, the tapping of fans, and the bustle and mystery of small
secrets, the little "ohs and ahs," and feminine commotions that
he could stir up in almost any bevy of nymphs in evening dresses.
Speaking of female influence, there are some exceptions to be taken
to the general theory that woman has an elevating power over man.
It may be doubted whether there goes any of this divine impulse
from giggling, flirting girls, whose highest aim is to secure the
admiration and attention of men, and who, to get it, will flatter and
fawn, profess to adore tobacco smoke, and even to have a warm side
towards whiskey punch,--girls whose power over men is based on an
indiscriminate deference to what men themselves feel to be their lower
and less worthy nature.
The woman who really wins for herself a worthy influence with a man
is she who recognizes in him the divine under all worldly disguises,
and invariably and strongly takes part with his higher against his
lower nature. This was the secret of Alice's power over Jim; and this
was why she had become, in the secret and inner world of his life,
almost a religious image. All his dawning aspirations to be somewhat
better than a mere chaser of expedients, to be a man of lofty objects
and noble purposes, had come from her acquaintance with him--an
acquaintance begun on both sides in the spirit of mere flirtation,
and passing from that to esteem and friendship. But, in the case of
a marriageable young man of twenty-five, friendship is like some
of those rare cacti of the greenhouses which, in an unexpected
hour, burst out into blossoms of untold splendor. An engagement
just declared in their circle had breathed a warmer atmosphere of
suggestion around them, and upon that had come a position in his
profession which offered him both consideration and money; and when
Jim was assured of this, his first thought was of Alice.
"Friendship is a humbug," was that young gentleman's mental decision.
"It may do all very well with some kinds of girls"--and Jim mentally
reviewed some of his lady acquaintances--"but with Alice Van Arsdel,
it is all humbug for me to go on talking friendship. I can't, and
shan't, and WON'T." And in this mood it was that he gave to
Alice's hand that startling kind of pressure, and something of this
flashed from his eyes into hers. It was that something, like the gleam
of a steel blade, determined, resolute, assured, that disconcerted and
alarmed her. It was like the sounding of a horn, summoning a parley
at the postern gate of a fortress, and the lady chatelaine not ready
either to surrender or to defend. So, in a moment, Alice resolved
not to walk the four or five squares between her present position
and home, tête-à-tête with Jim Fellows; and she sat very composed
and very still in her corner, and put in demand all those quiet,
repressive tactics by which dignified young ladies keep back issues
they are not precisely ready to meet.
The general subject under discussion when Jim came in, was a party to
be given at Aunt Maria's the next evening in honor of the Stephenses,
when Angie and Mr. St. John would make their first appearance
together as a betrothed couple.
"Now, Jim," said Eva, "how lucky that you came in, for I was just
going to send a note to you! Here's Harry has got to give a lecture
to-morrow night and can't come in till towards the end of the evening.
Alice is coming to dine and dress down here with me, and I want you
to dine with us and be our escort to the party--that is, if you will
put up with our dressing time and not get into such a state of perfect
amazement as Harry always does when we are not ready at the moment."
"If you ever get a wife, Jim, you'll be made perfect in this science
of waiting," said Harry. "The only way to have a woman ready in season
for a party is to shut her up just after breakfast and keep her at
it straight along through the day. Then you may have her before ten
o'clock."
"You see," said Eva, "Harry's only idea, when he is going to a party,
is to get home again early. We almost never go, and then he is in such
a hurry to get there, so as to have it over with and be at home again."
"Well, I confess, for my part, I hate parties," said Harry. "They
always get agoing just about my usual bed-time."
"Well, Harry, you know Aunt Maria wants an old-fashioned, early party,
at eight o'clock at the latest; and when she says she wants a thing,
she means it. She would never forgive us for being late."
"Dear me, Eva, do begin to dress over night then," said Harry. "You
certainly never will get through to-morrow, if you don't."
"Harry, you sauce-box, I think you talk abominably about me. Just
because I have so many more things to see to than he has! A woman's
dress, of course, takes more time; there's a good deal more to do and
every little thing has to be just right."
"Of course, I know that," said Harry. "Haven't I stood, and stood, and
stood, while bows were tied, and picked out, and patted, and flatted,
and then pulled out and tied over, and when we were half an hour
behind time already?"
"I fancy," said Alice, "that if the secrets of some young gentlemen's
toilets were unveiled, we should see that we were not alone in tying
bows and pulling them out. I've known Tom to labor over his neck-ties
by the hour together; it took him quite as long to prink as any of us
girls."
"But don't you be alarmed, Jim," said Eva; "we intend to be on time."
"No, don't," said Harry; "you can have my writing-table, and get up
your editorials, while the conjuration is going on up-stairs."
"Just think," said Alice, "how Aunt Maria is coming out."
"Why, yes, it's a larger affair than usual," said Eva. "A hundred
invitations! That must be on account of Angie."
"Oh, yes," said Alice, "Aunt Maria is pluming herself on Angie's
engagement. Since she has discovered that Mr. St. John has an
independent fortune, there is no end to her praises and felicitations.
Oh, and she has altered her opinion entirely about his ritualism. The
Bishop, she says, stands by him; and what the Bishop doesn't condemn,
nobody has any right to; and then she sets forth what a good family
he belongs to, and so well connected! I'd like to see anybody say
anything against Mr. St. John's practices before Aunt Maria now!"
"I'm sure this party is quite an outlay for Aunt Maria," said Eva.
"Oh," said Alice, "she's making all her jellies, and blanc-manges,
and ice creams in the house. You know how perfectly she always does
things. I've been up helping her. She will have a splendid table. She
was rather glorifying herself to me that she could get up so fine a
show at so little expense."
"Well, she can," said Eva. "No one can get more for a given amount of
money than Aunt Maria. I suppose that is one of the womanly virtues,
and one can learn as much of it from her as anybody."
"Yes," said Alice, "if a stylish party is the thing to be
demonstrated, Aunt Maria will get one up more successfully, more
perfect in all points, and for less money, than any other woman in New
York. She will have exactly the right people, and exactly the right
things to give them. Her rooms will be lovely. She will be dressed
herself to a T, and she will say just the right thing to everybody.
All her nice silver and her pretty things will come out of their
secret crypts and recesses to do honor to the occasion, and, for one
night, all will be suavity and sociability personified; and then
everything will go back into lavender, the silver to the safe, the
chairs and lounges to their cover, the shades will come down, and her
part of the world's debt of sociability will be done up for the year.
Then she will add up the expense, and set it down in her account book,
and that thing'll be finished and checked off."
"A mode of proceeding which she was very anxious to engraft upon me,"
said Eva; "but I am a poor stock. My instincts are for what she would
call an expensive, chronic state of hospitality, as we live down here!"
"Well," said Jim, "when I get a house of my own, I'm going to do as
you do."
"Jim has got sight of the domestic tea-kettle in the future," said
Harry. "That's the first effect of his promotion."
"Oh, don't be in a hurry about setting up a house of your own," said
Eva. "I'm afraid we should miss you here, and you're an institution,
Jim; we couldn't get on without you."
"Oh, Jim ought not to give up to one what was meant for mankind," said
Alice, hardily. "I think there would be a universal protest against
his retiring to private life."
And Alice looked into the fire, apparently as sweetly unconscious of
anything particular on Jim's part as if she had not read aright the
flash of his eye and the pressure of his hand.
