foolish to leave a house where he got such good suppers, but he wanted
a couple of hours of freedom. He did not mean to return till it was
too late to study the catechism any longer.
"What's the use of wearin' out a feller's eyes over such stuff?" he
thought.
It is not necessary to follow Sam's movements through the evening. At
nine o'clock he opened the front door, and went in, not exactly
abashed, but uncertain how the deacon would receive him.
Deacon Hopkins had his steel-bowed spectacles on, and was engaged in
reading a good book. He looked up sternly as Sam entered.
"Samuel, where have you been?" he asked.
"Out in the woods," said Sam, coolly.
"Didn't I tell you to get your catechism?" demanded the old man,
sternly.
"So I did," said Sam, without blushing.
"I am afraid you are telling a lie. Mrs. Hopkins said she went out of
the room a minute, and when she came back you were gone. Is that so?"
"Yes, I guess so," said Sam.
"Then how did you have time to l'arn your lesson?"
"It wasn't long," muttered Sam.
"Come here, and I will see if you know anything about it."
The deacon took the book, laid it flat on his lap, and read out the
first question, looking inquiringly at Sam for the answer.
Sam hesitated, and scratched his head. "I give it up," said he.
"Do you think I am askin' conundrums?" said the deacon, sternly.
"No," said Sam, honestly.
"Why don't you know?"
"Because I can't tell."
"Because you didn't study it. Aint you ashamed of your ignorance?"
"What's the use of knowin'?"
"It is very important," said the deacon, impressively. "Now I will ask
you the next question."
Sam broke down, and confessed that he didn't know.
"Then you told me a lie. You said you studied the lesson."
"I didn't understand it."
"Then you should have studied longer. Don't you know it is wicked to
lie?"
"A feller can't tell the truth all the time," said Sam, as if he were
stating a well-known fact.
"Certainly he can," said the deacon. "I always do."
"Do you?" inquired Sam, regarding the old man with curiosity.
"Of course. It is every one's duty to tell the truth. You ought to die
rather than tell a lie. I have read of a man who was threatened with
death. He might have got off if he had told a lie. But he wouldn't."
"Did he get killed?" asked Sam, with interest.
"Yes."
"Then he must have been a great fool," said Sam, contemptuously. "You
wouldn't catch me makin' such a fool of myself."
"He was a noble man," said the deacon, indignantly. "He laid down his
life for the truth."
"What good did it do?" said Sam.
"I am afraid, Samuel, you are in a very benighted condition. You
appear to have no conceptions of duty."
"I guess I haven't," said Sam. "I dunno what they are."
"It is all the more necessary that you should study your catechism. I
shall expect you to get the same lesson to-morrow evenin'. It's too
late to study now."
"So it is," said Sam, with alacrity.
"I will show you where you are to sleep. You must get up airly to go
to work. I will come and wake you up."
Sam was not overjoyed at this announcement. It did not strike him that
he should enjoy going to work early in the morning. However, he felt
instinctively that it would do no good to argue the matter at present,
and he followed the deacon, upstairs in silence. He was ushered into a
small room partitioned off from the attic.
"You'll sleep there," said the deacon, pointing to a cot-bed in the
corner. "I'll call you at five o'clock to-morrow mornin'."
Sam undressed himself, and got into bed.
"This is jolly," thought he; "a good deal better than at home. If it
warn't for that plaguey catechism, I'd like livin' here fust-rate. I
wish I had another piece of that pie."
In ten minutes Sam was fast asleep; but the deacon was not so
fortunate. He lay awake a long time, wondering in perplexity what he
should do to reform the young outlaw of whom he had taken charge.
"He's a cur'us boy," thought the good man. "Seems to have no more
notion of religion than a Choctaw or a Hottentot. An yet he's been
livin' in a Christian community all his life. I'm afeared he takes
after his father."
CHAPTER IV.
SAM FRIGHTENS THE HOUSEHOLD.
Sam usually slept the whole night through; but to-night was an
exception. It might have been because he was in a strange bed, and in
a strange house. At any rate, he woke in time to hear the clock on the
church, of which his guardian was deacon, strike two.
"Where am I?" was his first thought.
He remembered almost immediately, and the thought made him broad
awake. He ought not to have been hungry at that hour, and in fact he
was not, but the thought of the pie forced itself upon his mind, and
he felt a longing for the slice that was left over from supper. Quick
upon this thought came another, "Why couldn't he creep downstairs
softly, and get it? The deacon and his wife were fast asleep, Who
would find him out?"
A boy better brought up than Sam might have reflected that it was
wrong; but, as the deacon said, Sam had no "conceptions of duty," or,
more properly, his conscience was not very active. He got out of bed,
slipped on his stockings, and crept softly downstairs, feeling his
way. It was very dark, for the entries were unlighted, but finally he
reached the kitchen without creating any alarm.
Now for the closet. It was not locked, and Sam opened the door without
difficulty.
"I wish I had a match, so's to see where the pie is," he thought.
He felt around, but the pie must have been placed elsewhere, for he
could not find it. It had really been placed on the highest shelf,
which Sam had not as yet explored. But there are dangers in feeling
around in the dark. Our hero managed to dislodge a pile of plates,
which fell with a crash upon his feet. There was a loud crash of
broken crockery, and the noise was increased by the howls of Sam, who
danced up and down with pain.
The noise reached the chamber where the deacon and his wife were
calmly reposing. Mrs. Hopkins was a light sleeper, and was awakened at
once.
She was startled and terrified, and, sitting up in bed, shook her
husband violently by the shoulder.
"Deacon--Deacon Hopkins!" she exclaimed.
"What's the matter?" asked the deacon, drowsily.
"Matter enough. There's robbers downstairs."
Now the deacon was broad awake.
"Robbers!" he exclaimed. "Pooh! Nonsense! You're dreamin', wife."
Just then there was another racket. Sam, in trying to effect his
escape, tumbled over a chair, and there was a yell of pain.
"Am I dreaming now, deacon?" demanded his wife, triumphantly.
"You're right, wife," said the deacon, turning pale, and trembling.
"It's an awful situation. What shall we do?"
"Do? Go downstairs, and confront the villains!" returned his wife,
energetically.
"They might shoot me," said her husband, panic-stricken.
"They're--they're said to be very desperate fellows."
"Are you a man, and won't defend your property?" exclaimed his wife,
taunting him, "Do you want me to go down?"
"Perhaps you'd better," said the deacon, accepting the suggestion with
alacrity.
"What!" shrieked Mrs. Hopkins. "You are willing they should shoot
me?"
"They wouldn't shoot a woman," said the deacon.
But his wife was not appeased.
Just then the unlucky Sam trod on the tail of the cat, who was quietly
asleep on the hearth. With the instinct of self-defence, she scratched
his leg, which was undefended by the customary clothing, and our hero,
who did not feel at all heroic in the dark, not knowing what had got
hold of him, roared with pain and fright.
"This is terrible!" gasped the deacon. "Martha, is the door locked?"
"No."
"Then I'll get up and lock it. O Lord, what will become of us?"
Sam was now ascending the stairs, and, though he tried to walk softly,
the stairs creaked beneath his weight.
"They're comin' upstairs," exclaimed Mrs. Hopkins. "Lock the door
quick, deacon, or we shall be murdered in our bed."
The deacon reached the door in less time than he would have
accomplished the same feat in the daytime, and hurriedly locked it.
"It's locked, Martha," he said, "but they may break it down."
"Or fire through the door--"
"Let's hide under the bed," suggested the heroic deacon.
"Don't speak so loud. They'll hear. I wish it was mornin'."
The deacon stood at the door listening, and made a discovery.
"They're goin up into the garret," he announced. "That's strange--"
"What do they want up there, I wonder?"
"They can't think we've got anything valuable up there."
"Deacon," burst out Mrs. Hopkins, with a sudden idea, "I believe we've
been fooled."
"Fooled! What do you mean?"
"I believe it isn't robbers."
"Not robbers? Why, you told me it was," said her husband, bewildered.
"I believe it's that boy."
"What,--Sam?"
"Yes."
"What would he want downstairs?"
"I don't know, but it's him, I'll be bound. Light the lamp, deacon,
and go up and see."
"But it might be robbers," objected the deacon, in alarm. "They might
get hold of me, and kill me."
"I didn't think you were such a coward, Mr. Hopkins," said his wife,
contemptuously. When she indulged in severe sarcasm, she was
accustomed to omit her husband's title.
"I aint a coward, but I don't want to risk my life. It's a clear
flyin' in the face of Providence. You'd ought to see that it is,
Martha," said the deacon, reproachfully.
"I don't see it. I see that you are frightened, that's what I see.
Light the lamp, and I'll go up myself."
"Well, Martha, it's better for you to go. They won't touch a woman."
He lighted the lamp, and his wife departed on her errand. It might
have been an unconscious action on the part of the deacon, but he
locked the door after his wife.
Mrs. Hopkins proceeded to the door of Sam's bed-chamber, and, as the
door was unfastened, she entered. Of course he was still awake, but he
pretended to be asleep.
"Sam," said Mrs. Hopkins.
There was a counterfeited snore.
"Sam--say!"
Sam took no notice.
The lady took him by the shoulder, and shook him with no gentle hand,
so that our hero was compelled to rouse himself.
"What's up?" he asked, rubbing his eyes in apparent surprise.
"I am," said Mrs. Hopkins, shortly, "and you have been."
"I!" protested Sam, innocently. "Why, I was sound asleep when you came
in. I don't know what's been goin on. Is it time to get up?"
"What have you been doing downstairs?" demanded Mrs. Hopkins,
sternly.
"Who says I've been downstairs?" asked Sam.
"I'm sure you have. I heard you."
"It must have been somebody else."
