a rich man." 
" Yes." Cameron knew the subtle temptation was 
working. " I do not know but I have made a dolt of 
myself. Ten chances to one if she will be grateful to 
me when it is all through. Working for nothing is not 
to my taste." 
" She does not love you, Cameron?" 
"Well, it is not to be expected that she would in 
three days' time. She was frantic enough as a girl, 
though, and perhaps I can kindle the old embers into 
a flame when she finds that her wings are clipped." 
"I do not know what arts you used then, Cameron, 
but I should pity the woman who was in your power 
now." 
" Well, Dora' Tremaine is. What will you offer md 
to let my bird go?" 
There was a diabolical, sneering smile on the hand- 
some face, that made Colby shudder. 
"No, Cameron, I will not wrong a defenceless 
woman." 
' * Virtuous, eh ? Very well. I have been thinking if 
anybody would buy me off, and possibly she might, but 
in that case she would want about all her fortune. I 
would take my part and go into a strange land. Riot- 
ous living is not much of a bugbear to me. I take it 
rather easy." 
" You do not mean, Cameron — " 
"I mean that, for a sufficient compensation, I would 
destroy the proofs I hold, securely enough." 
" And you propose that I shall buy them?" 
" Yes, for kindlings. A jolly fire they would make. 
Just as you like however. I am safe enough either way." 
"Suppose Mrs. Tremaine refuses to live with you, 
and prefers taking care of her fortune herself? " 
"I shall make my bargain beforehand. And if I 
cannot beguile her with my winning tongue, I may be 
able to offer her an inducement in the shape of freedom. 
If I chose to oppose, it would be very difficult for her 
to obtain legal liberty. And I shall, if it suits me. I 
think I could play the devoted and distressed lover to 
perfection." 
Colby felt that he hated the man. 
"I am sorry Mrs. Tremaine is in your power," he 
replied with a fervent sincerity. 
Cameron laughed again. 
"Well," he said, " if you are so interested in her 
behalf, buy me off. She can get a divorce quietly and 
re-marry Tremaine, and there will be no great harm 
done. I wish I had thought of that before. However, 
time is up. I have another engagement, so I will drop 
in again in the course of a day or two, and if you insist 
then upon my producing proofs and heir, I am at your 
service." 
With this he nodded carelessly to Colby and saun- 
tered out. He gave Oldson a sort of familiar stare, 
and went gayly down the steps, emerging into the nar- 
row street. 
"I think the thing will work," he said to himself 
exultantly. 
LEFT to himself, Leonard Colby glanced fur- 
tively around, as if to make certain that he was 
quite alone. Then he unlocked a drawer to 
which he never allowed any other person access, and 
took out a small memorandum book. Page after page 
was covered with fine figures. Ten days ago he had 
computed themfor the first time. Ten days.! It seemed 
years instead. 
He went over them carefully now. No mistake. 
Everything was exact to a farthing. Then he looked 
at the aggregate in dismay, and groaned. Everything 
swept away ! 
When he undertook this trust, he did not believe there 
could be a claimant. Giles Walsingham's son had mar- 
ried to be sure, though, as the woman was hot one to be 
proud of, the fact had at first been denied. A hand- 
some, indolent, graceless fellow, disinherited by his 
father, rambling off no one knew whither, and whether 
dead or alive, none could tell. He had quarrelled with 
his spirited wife, and she had taken their child into her 
sole care and keeping. Once Giles found her and made 
overtures — that she should give up the child, a bright, 
engaging boy, but she refused utterly. Shortly after- 
ward she announced to him that she had become the 
mother of a second child, and from that time he never 
heard a word. 
Old Giles lived a miser, but at his death ties of blood 
re-asserted their sway. Leonard Colby had gained a 
peculiar influence over him, was in fact his one friend, 
so he left his fortune in trust for these grandchildren if 
they could be found. If no one appeared to claim the 
fortune, it was to revert to the lawyer. 
Colby had endeavored earnestly in the beginning to 
discover these missing heirs, not because he was so 
anxious for their appearance — he was appointed their 
guardian as well, but he did want to be assured that no 
one had a claim to interfere with his. He looked at it 
with longing eyes, though he meant to be honest and 
upright and restore to the uttermost. 
As years passed on, possession grew into a certainty. 
He began to use the money for his own convenience 
and advancement. It was a line thing to be a prosper * 
ous man. He built a handsome house, gave several 
elegant dinners in the course of the season, and allowed 
his wife many expensive indulgences. He had a good 
deal of pride and liked to see his wife the centre of an 
admiring group ; besides, it pleased him to be praised 
for his good taste, his wines, and his horses. He was 
a man of note, and he found others deferring to him as 
if they placed the greatest confidence in his judgment. 
The principal, it is true, was in different investments, 
comparatively untouched, and yielding a very fine in- 
come. He had been allowed a certain sum each year 
for the care and trouble it might cause him ; but feel- 
ing so sure of it all, he had gone on spending the profits 
as fast as they accrued. Had this trust been taken out, 
he would have proved only a moderately successful man, 
without the ability to indulge in palaces or costly din- 
ners. Set aside this sum with the accumulated inter- 
est, and it swallowed everything he had. 
He had treated Jasper Cameron's story at first as a 
pure myth, but the claimant had produced indisputable 
proofs. With all his swagger and insolence, Cameron 
was not one to be lightly bullied. He kept to his point 
in a most convincing manner, and Colby really dared 
not bring it to an open issue at present. 
In three months more, his right would have been be- 
yond question. "What evil fate had brought this man 
back just now ! Turn wherever he would, ruin stared 
him in the face. 
True, Cameron had half proposed a compromise. 
Would Mrs. Tremaine carer for this fortune when it was 
to blight her whole life? He had met Tremaine in a 
business way, and seen his wife a few times in society, 
and they appeared to him a very happy couple. Doubt- 
less she could obtain legal freedom in spite of Cameron, 
but it would be a hard battle, bringing them both into 
unenviable notoriety, and perhaps not enabling her to 
lived honorably with Tremaine. Was not her case worth 
considering? 
His plan had been to see her alone and inform her of 
the fortune, in a manner that would reflect much credit 
upon himself, and enlist her sympathy. He proposed 
to array her against their mutual ene^r, Cameron, and 
if she had any gratitude, she could not be hard upon 
him. This had looked very fair as he thought it over, 
but fate intervened and threw her into Cameron's 
hands, or she had gone there herself. She might 
.have an old penchant for her first lover. Cameron had 
proposed that they should come together, but Colby had 
put off the interview, hoping in some manner to outwit 
his adversary. 
He was not sure, but that it would be the best move 
to go at once to Tremaine tod explain the whole mat- 
ter. If, in most cases, people did not fancy their in- 
tricate judgment so much superior to plain, straight- 
forward truth, how much it would simplify all our deal- 
ings. We get confused in an endless mass of plans 
and doubts, in the vain endeavor to find an easier path 
out of the difficulty. And as Mr. Colby thought of 
this; there was also the phantom of irremediable loss, 
which he shrank from with weakness and bitterness of 
soul. 
He returned to the main office about noon. Oldson 
took his hat and went out for some lunch. Be did n< 
want any, and yet he felt sick and faint. His usually 
keen mind seemed wandering in every direction, and 
those figures he had been computing, danced before his 
eyes in grotesque shapes. Ruin ! It was not a pleasant 
thought. Perhaps it would be best to temporize awhile. 
At the la«^ he could but give up everything. 
It was a trying, wearisome day. Mr. Colby went 
home early, for he began to hate the sight of every ob- 
ject in the office. He stopped a horse car, for the day 
was warm, and he felt exceedingly tired. 
A friend nodded to him from the opposite side, and 
as there was plenty of room, came over and took a seat 
beside him. 
"So, Mortimer's gone under!" was the remark, 
after a few common-place sentences. 
"No! has he? Poor fellow ! " 
Mr. Colby experienced a strange sympathy with the 
ruined man. 
"Yes — but I do not know that he deserves anj' one's 
pity. I wish there was a public sentiment strong enough 
to hold such men guilty of actual crime. Now here is 
Mortimer with liabilities between fifty and sixty thou- 
sand dollars, and assets that probably will not cover 
five thousand. . In tight times, when a man has loss 
upon loss, and fate makes a dead set against him, there 
seems some excuse — but in this case, it is a positive 
swindle. We might have been in for a considerable 
amount, but I took good care of that. I had a sus- 
picion that things were going that way," 
" But what happened?"
"Oh, nothing. Two years ago Mortimer's credit 
was first rate. I thought him one of our most prom- 
ising young business men. Then he married that Miss 
Wylie, with a pretty face, and no brains, and they 
started off at a high rate. Of course he knew he could 
not afford a fast horse and all manner of luxuries, and 
