
1 pound of flour.

1 pound of powdered sugar.

¾ pound of butter.

½ pound of currants, washed and dried.

4 eggs, beaten very light.

Juice of 1 lemon, and half the grated peel.

½ teaspoonful of soda, wet up with hot water.

Dredge the currants, and put them in last of all. Drop the mixture by
the spoonful, upon buttered paper, taking care that they are not so
close together as to touch in baking.


KELLOGG COOKIES.

1 cup of butter.

2 cups powdered sugar, creamed with the butter.

3 table-spoonfuls sour cream.

4 eggs, beaten very light.

5 cups of flour.

1 teaspoonful—an even one—of soda.

1 teaspoonful of nutmeg.

A handful of currants, washed and dried.

Mix all except the fruit, into a dough just stiff enough to roll out.
The sheet should be about a quarter of an inch thick. Cut round, and
bake quickly. When about half done open the oven-door; strew a few
currants upon each cookey, and close the door again immediately, lest
the cakes should get chilled.


BERTIE’S COOKIES. +

1 large cup of sugar.

½ cup of butter.

1 cup sweet milk.

3 eggs, beaten light.

4 cups prepared flour, or enough to enable you to roll out the dough.

Nutmeg and cinnamon.

Cream butter, spice and sugar; add the yolks, then the milk; whites
and flour alternately; roll into a thin sheet with as few strokes as
possible; cut into fancy shapes with tin-cutters, and bake quickly.


SEED COOKIES.

1 cup of butter.

2½ cups powdered sugar.

4 eggs.

4 cups of flour, or enough for soft dough.

2 ounces carraway-seeds, scattered through the flour while dry.

Rub butter and sugar to a cream; add the yolks, and mix up well. Put in
flour and whites in turns; roll out thin and cut into round cakes.


MONTROSE COOKIES. +

1 pound of flour.

½ pound of butter.

½ pound of powdered sugar.

1 teaspoonful mixed spices—cinnamon, nutmeg, and mace, and a few
raisins.

3 eggs, well beaten.

Juice of 1 lemon, and half the grated peel.

Roll out rather thin, and cut into round or oval cakes. Sprinkle a
little white sugar over the top; lay a whole raisin in the centre of
each, and bake quickly until crisp.


AUNT MOLLY’S COOKIES.

1 cup of butter.

2 cups powdered sugar.

4 eggs.

4 cups of prepared flour, or enough for soft dough.

2 table-spoonfuls of cream.

Nutmeg and mace.

Roll into a thin sheet, and cut into small cakes. Bake in a quick oven
until crisp and of a delicate brown. Brush them over while hot with a
soft bit of rag dipped in sugar and water, pretty thick.


LEMON MACAROONS.

1 pound of powdered sugar.

4 eggs, whipped very light and long.

Juice of 3 lemons, and peel of one.

1 heaping cup of prepared flour.

½ teaspoonful nutmeg.

Butter your hands lightly; take up small lumps of the mixture; make
into balls about as large as a walnut, and lay them upon a sheet of
buttered paper—more than two inches apart. Bake in a brisk oven.


LEMON COOKIES.

1 pound of flour, or enough for stiff dough.

¼ pound of butter.

1 pound of powdered sugar.

Juice of 2 lemons, grated peel of one.

3 eggs, whipped very light.

Stir butter, sugar, lemon-juice and peel to a light cream. Beat at
least five minutes before adding the yolks of the eggs. Whip them in
thoroughly, put in the whites, lastly the flour. Roll out about an
eighth of an inch in thickness, and cut into round cakes. Bake quickly.

Keep in a dry place in a tin box, but do not wrap them up, as they are
apt to become soft.


CARRAWAY COOKIES. +

  ½ pound of butter, }
  ½ pound of sugar,  } rubbed to a cream.

3 eggs, beaten long and light.

1 ounce carraway seeds, sifted through the flour.

Flour to roll out pretty stiff.

Roll into a thin sheet; cut out with a cake-cutter; prick with a sharp
fork, and bake in a moderate oven.


SMALL ALMOND CAKES.

1 pound of powdered sugar.

6 eggs, beaten very light.

½ pound of almonds, blanched and pounded.

½ pound of prepared flour.

Rose-water, mixed with the almond-paste.

Whip up the whites of the eggs to a méringue with half the sugar;
stir in the almond-paste. Beat the yolks ten minutes with the remainder
of the sugar. Mix all together, and add the flour lightly and rapidly.

Bake in well-buttered paté-pans, or other small tins, very quickly.
Turn out as soon as done upon a baking-pan, bottom uppermost, that
these may dry out.


CREAM CAKES. + (Pretty and good.)

Some good puff-paste.

Whites of 2 eggs, ½ cup sweet jelly.

1 cup of cream, whipped to a froth.
