express his meaning. " The little sprig had been kept 
 
as a talisman, and no saintly relic was ever more 
honored ; the Emperor had touched it ! 
" Grenadier Jacques made one of the ill-fated Rus- 
sian army, and, although wounded and suffering, he 
still endured until the capture of Paris. Then, when 
Napoleon retired to Elba, he fell sick from grief, nor 
did he recover until the Emperor returned, when, 
with thousands of other soldiers, our Jacques hastened 
to his standard, and the hundred days began. Then 
came Waterloo. Then came St. Helena. But the 
grenadier lived on in hope, year after year, until 
the Emperor died, died in exile, in the hands of 
the hated English. Broken-hearted, weary of the sight 
of his native land, he packed his few possessions, 
and fled away over the ocean, with a vague idea of 
joining a French settlement on the Red Eiver; I 
have always supposed it must be the Red River of 
the South; there are French there. But the poor 
soldier was very ignorant; some one directed him to 
these frozen regions, and he set out; all places were 
alike to him now that the Emperor had gone from 
earth. Wandering as far as Mackinac on his blind 
pilgrimage, Jacques found his strength failing, and 
crept into this deserted house to die. Recovering, he 
made for himself a habitation from a kind of instinct, 
as a beaver might have done. He gathered together 
the wrecks of furniture, he hung up his treasures, he 
had his habits for every hour of the day; soldier- 
 
like, everything was done by rule. At a particular 
hour it was his custom to sit on that bench in the 
sunshine, wrapped in his blankets in the winter, in 
summer in his shirt-sleeves with his one old coat 
carefully hung on that peg; I can see him before 
me now. On certain days he would wash his few 
poor clothes, and hang them out on the bushes to 
dry; then he would patiently mend them with his 
great brass thimble and coarse thread. Poor old gar- 
ments ! they were covered with awkward patches. 
" At noon he would prepare his one meal ; for his 
breakfast and supper were but a cup of coffee. 
Slowly and with the greatest care the materials were 
prepared and the cooking watched. There was a 
savor of the camp, a savor of the Paris cafe", and a 
savor of originality ; and often, wearied with the 
dishes prepared by my half-breeds, I have come over 
to the island to dine with Jacques, for the old sol- 
dier was proud of his skill, and liked an appre- 
ciative guest. And I But it is not my story I 
tell." 
"O Father Piret, if you could but " 
" Thanks, madame. To others I say, ' What would 
you ? I have been here since youth ; you know my 
life.' But to you I say, there was a past ; brief, full, 
crowded into a few years ; but I cannot tell it ; my 
lips are sealed ! Again, thanks for your sympathy, 
madame. And now I will go back to Jacques. 
 
"We were comrades, he and I; he would not come 
over to the Chenaux ; he was unhappy if the routine 
of his day was disturbed, but I often stayed a day 
with him at the Agency, for I too liked the silent 
house. It has its relics, by the way. Have you 
noticed a carved door in the back part of the main 
building ? That was brought from the old chapel on 
the mainland, built as early as 1700. The whole of 
this locality is sacred ground in the history of our 
Church. It was first visited by our missionaries in 
1670, and over at Point St. Ignace the dust which 
was once the mortal body of Father Marquette lies 
buried. The exact site of the grave is lost ; but we 
know that in 1677 his Indian converts brought back 
his body, wrapped in birch-bark, from the eastern 
shore of Lake Michigan, where he died, to his be- 
loved mission of St. Ignace. There he was buried 
in a vault under the little log-church. Some years 
later the spot was abandoned, and the resident priests 
returned to Montreal. We have another little Indian 
church there now, and the point is forever conse- 
crated by its unknown grave. At various times I 
told Jacques the history of this strait, its islands, 
and points ; but he evinced little interest. He lis- 
tened with some attention to my account of the bat- 
tle which took place on Dousman's farm, not far 
from the British Landing; but when he found that 
the English were victorious, he muttered a great oath 
 
and refused to hear more. To him the English were 
fiends incarnate. Had they not slowly murdered his 
Emperor on their barren rock in the sea? 
" Only once did I succeed in interesting the old 
soldier. Then, as now, I received twice each year 
a package of foreign pamphlets and papers ; among 
them came, that summer, a German ballad, written 
by that strange being, Henri Heine. I give it to 
you in a later English translation : 
THE GRENADIERS. 
To the land of France went two grenadiers, 
From a Russian prison returning ; 
But they hung down their heads on the German frontiers, 
The news from the fatherland learning. 
For there they both heard the sorrowful tale, 
That France was by fortune forsaken : 
That her mighty army was scattered like hail, 
And the Emperor, the Emperor taken. 
Then there wept together the grenadiers, 
The sorrowful story learning ; 
And one said, "O woe ! " as the news he hears, 
" How I feel my old wound burning ! " 
The other said, " The song is sung, 
And I wish that we both were dying ! 
But at home I 've a wife and a child, they "re young, 
On me, and me only, relying." 
"O, what is a wife or a child to me? 
Deeper wants all my spirit have shaken : 
Let them 'beg, let them beg, should they hungry be ! 
My Emperor, my Emperor taken ! 
 
" But I beg you, brother, if by chance 
You soou shall see me dying, 
Then take my corpse with you back to France : 
Let it ever in France be lying. 
" The cross of honor with crimson band 
Shall rest on my heart as it bound me : 
Give me my musket in my hand, 
And buckle my sword around me. 
" And there I will lie and listen still, 
In my sentry coffin staying, 
Till I feel the thundering cannon's thrill, 
And horses tramping and neighing. 
" Then my Emperor will ride well over my grave, 
'Mid sabres' bright slashing and fighting, 
And I'll rise all weaponed up out of my grave, 
For the Emperor, the Emperor fighting ! " 
"This simple ballad went straight to the heart of 
old Jacques; tears rolled down his cheeks as I read, 
and he would have it over and over again. ' Ah ! 
that comrade was happy,' he said. ' He died when 
the Emperor was only taken. I too would have gone 
to my grave smiling, could I have thought that my 
Emperor would come riding over it with all his army 
around him again ! But he is dead, - my Emperor 
is dead ! Ah ! that comrade was a happy man ; he 
died ! He did not have to stand by while the English 
may they be forever cursed! slowly, slowly mur- 
dered him, murdered the great Napoleon ! No j that 
comrade died. Perhaps he is with the Emperor now, 
that comrade-grenadier.' 
 
"To be with his Emperor was Jacques's idea of 
heaven. 
" From that moment each time I visited the Agency 
I must repeat the verses again and again ; they became 
a sort of hymn. Jacques had not the capacity to learn 
the ballad, although he so often listened to it, but the 
seventh verse he managed to repeat after a fashion 
of his own, setting it to a nondescript tune, and croon- 
ing it about the house as he came and went on his 
little rounds. Gradually he altered the words, but I 
could not make out the new phrases as he muttered 
them over to himself, as if trying them. 
" ' What is it you are saying, Jacques ? ' I asked. 
"But he would not tell me. After a time I dis- 
covered that he had added the altered verse to his 
prayers ; for always when I was at the Agency I went 
with him to his sanctuary, if for no other purpose 
than to prevent the uttered imprecation that served 
as amen for the whole. The verse, whatever it was, 
came in before this. 
" So the summer passed. The vague intention of 
going on to the Red River of the North had faded 
away, and Jacques lived along on the island as though 
he had never lived anywhere else. He grew wonted 
to the Agency, like some old family cat, until he 
seemed to belong to the house, and all thought of 
disturbing him was forgotten. ' There is Jacques out 
washing his clothes,' 'There is Jacques going to buy 
 
his coffee,' 'There is Jacques sitting on the piazza/ 
said the islanders ; the old man served them instead 
of a clock. 
" One dark autumn day I came over from the Che- 
naux to get the mail. The water was rough, and my 
boat, tilted far over on one side, skimmed the crests of 
the waves in the daring fashion peculiar to the Macki- 
nac craft ; the mail-steamer had not come in, owing to 
the storm outside, and I went on to the Agency to see 
Jacques. He seemed as usual, and we had dinner over 
the little fire, for the day was chilly ; the meal over, 
iny host put everything in order again in his method- 
ical way, and then retired to his sanctuary for prayers. 
I followed, and stood in the doorway while he knelt. 
The room was dusky, and the uniform with its out- 
stretched sabre looked like a dead soldier leaning 
against the wall ; the face of Napoleon opposite seemed 
to gaze down on Jacques as he knelt, as though listen- 
ing. Jacques muttered his prayers, and I responded 
Amen ! then, after a silence, came the altered verse ; 
