“She isn’t half as stern as she looks, and if you go to her without
fear, you’ve no idea how sensible and helpful she is. I used to be
frightened out of my wits with her, but now I’m not a bit, and we get on
nicely. Indeed, I’m fond of her, she is so reliable and upright in all
things.”
“She certainly is the straightest woman I ever saw, and the most
precise. I never shall forget how scared I was when Steve took me up to
see her that first time. I put on all my plainest things, did my hair
in a meek knob, and tried to act like a sober, sedate young woman. Steve
would laugh at me and say I looked like a pretty nun, so I couldn’t be
as proper as I wished. Mrs. Mac was very kind, of course, but her eye
was so sharp I felt as if she saw right through me, and knew that I’d
pinned on my bonnet strings, lost a button off my boot, and didn’t brush
my hair for ten minutes every night,” said Kitty in an awe-stricken
tone.
“She likes you, though, and so does Uncle, and he’s set his heart on
having you live with them by and by, so don’t mind her eyes but look
straight up at her, and you’ll see how kind they can grow.”
“Mac likes me, too, and that did please me, for he doesn’t like girls
generally. Steve told me he said I had the ‘making of a capital little
woman in me.’ Wasn’t it nice of him? Steve was so proud, though he does
laugh at Mac sometimes.”
“Don’t disappoint them, dear. Encourage Steve in all the good things he
likes or wants, make friends with Mac, love Aunt Jane, and be a daughter
to Uncle, and you’ll find yourself a very happy girl.”
“I truly will, and thank you very much for not making fun of me. I know
I’m a little goose, but lately I’ve felt as if I might come to something
if I had the right sort of help. I’ll go up and see Aunt Jessie
tomorrow. I’m not a bit afraid of her, and then if you’ll just quietly
find out from Uncle Doctor what I must read, I’ll work as hard as I
can. Don’t tell anyone, please, they’ll think it odd and affected, and I
can’t bear to be laughed at, though I daresay it is good discipline.”
Rose promised, and both worked in silence for a moment, then Kitty asked
rather timidly: “Are you and Charlie trying this plan too? Since you’ve
left off going out so much, he keeps away also, and we don’t know what
to make of it.”
“He has had what he calls an ‘artistic fit’ lately, set up a studio, and
is doing some crayon sketches of us all. If he’d only finish his things,
they would be excellent, but he likes to try a great variety at once.
I’ll take you in sometime, and perhaps he will do a portrait of you for
Steve. He likes girls’ faces and gets the likenesses wonderfully well.”
“People say you are engaged but I contradict it, because, of course, I
should know if you were.”
“We are not.”
“I’m glad of it, for really, Rose, I’m afraid Charlie hasn’t got ‘firm
principles,’ though he is a fascinating fellow and one can’t scold him.
You don’t mind my saying so, do you, dear?” added Kitty, for Rose did
not answer at once.
“Not in the least, for you are one of us now, and I can speak frankly
and I will, for I think in one way you can help Steve very much. You
are right about Charlie, both as to the principles and the fascination.
Steve admires him exceedingly, and always from a boy liked to imitate
his pleasant ways. Some of them are very harmless and do Steve good, but
some are not. I needn’t talk about it, only you must show your boy that
you depend on him to keep out of harm and help him do it.”
“I will, I will! And then perhaps, when he is a perfect model, Charlie
will imitate him. I really begin to feel as if I had a great deal to
do.” And Kitty looked as if she was beginning to like it also.
“We all have and the sooner we go to work the better for us and those we
love. You wouldn’t think now that Phebe was doing anything for
Archie, but she is, and writes such splendid letters, they stir him up
wonderfully and make us all love and admire her more than ever.”
“How is she getting on?” asked Kitty, who, though she called herself a
“little goose,” had tact enough to see that Rose did not care to talk
about Charlie.
“Nicely, for you know she used to sing in our choir, so that was a good
recommendation for another. She got a fine place in the new church at
L----, and that gives her a comfortable salary, though she has something
put away. She was always a saving creature and kept her wages carefully.
Uncle invested them, and she begins to feel quite independent already.
No fear but my Phebe will get on she has such energy and manages so
well. I sometimes wish I could run away and work with her.”
“Ah, my dear! We rich girls have our trials as well as poor ones, though
we don’t get as much pity as they do,” sighed Kitty. “Nobody knows what
I suffer sometimes from worries that I can’t talk about, and I shouldn’t
get much sympathy if I did, just because I live in a big house, wear
good gowns, and have lots of lovers. Annabel used to say she envied me
above all created beings, but she doesn’t now, and is perfectly absorbed
in her dear little Chinaman. Do you see how she ever could like him?”
So they began to gossip, and the sober talk was over for that time, but
when Kitty departed, after criticizing all her dear friends and their
respective sweethearts, she had a helpful little book in her muff, a
resolute expression on her bright face, and so many excellent plans for
self-improvement in her busy brain that she and Steve bid fair to turn
out the model couple of the century.
Chapter 14 AUNT CLARA’S PLAN
Being seriously alarmed by the fear of losing the desire of his heart,
Charlie had gone resolutely to work and, like many another young
reformer, he rather overdid the matter, for in trying to keep out of
the way of temptation, he denied himself much innocent enjoyment. The
“artistic fit” was a good excuse for the seclusion which he fancied
would be a proper penance, and he sat listlessly plying crayon or
paintbrush, with daily wild rides on black Brutus, which seemed to do
him good, for danger of that sort was his delight.
People were used to his whims and made light of what they considered a
new one, but when it lasted week after week and all attempts to draw him
out were vain, his jolly comrades gave him up and the family began
to say approvingly, “Now he really is going to settle down and do
something.” Fortunately, his mother let him alone, for though Dr. Alec
had not “thundered in her ear” as he threatened, he had talked with her
in a way which first made her very angry, then anxious, and, lastly,
quite submissive, for her heart was set on the boy’s winning Rose and
she would have had him put on sackcloth and ashes if that would have
secured the prize. She made light of the cause of Rose’s displeasure,
considering her extremely foolish and straitlaced, “for all young men
of any spirit had their little vices, and came out well enough when the
wild oats were sowed.” So she indulged Charlie in his new vagary, as she
had in all his others, and treated him like an ill-used being, which was
neither an inspiring nor helpful course on her part. Poor soul! She saw
her mistake by and by, and when too late repented of it bitterly.
Rose wanted to be kind, and tried in various ways to help her cousin,
feeling very sure she should succeed as many another hopeful woman has
done, quite unconscious how much stronger an undisciplined will is than
the truest love, and what a difficult task the wisest find it to undo
the mistakes of a bad education. But it was a hard thing to do, for at
the least hint of commendation or encouragement, he looked so hopeful
that she was afraid of seeming to promise too much, and, of all things,
she desired to escape the accusation of having trifled with him.
So life was not very comfortable to either just then; and while Charlie
was “mortifying soul and body” to please her, she was studying how to
serve him best. Aunt Jessie helped her very much, and no one guessed,
when they saw pretty Miss Campbell going up and down the hill with such
a serious face, that she was intent upon anything except taking, with
praiseworthy regularity, the constitutionals which gave her such a
charming color.
Matters were in this state when one day a note came to Rose from Mrs.
Clara.
MY SWEET CHILD, Do take pity on my poor boy and cheer him up with a
sight of you, for he is so triste it breaks my heart to see him. He has
a new plan in his head, which strikes me as an excellent one, if you
will only favor it. Let him come and take you for a drive this fine
afternoon and talk things over. It will do him a world of good and
deeply oblige
Your ever loving
AUNT CLARA.
Rose read the note twice and stood a moment pondering, with her eyes
absently fixed on the little bay before her window. The sight of several
black figures moving briskly to and fro across its frozen surface seemed
to suggest a mode of escape from the drive she dreaded in more ways than
one. “That will be safer and pleasanter,” she said, and going to her
desk wrote her answer.
DEAR AUNTY, I’m afraid of Brutus, but if Charlie will go skating with
me, I should enjoy it very much and it would do us both good. I can
listen to the new plan with an undivided mind there, so give him my
love, please, and say I shall expect him at three.
Affectionately, ROSE.
Punctually at three Charlie appeared with his skates over his arm and
with a very contented face, which brightened wonderfully as Rose came
downstairs in a sealskin suit and scarlet skirt, so like the one she
wore years ago that he involuntarily exclaimed as he took her skates:
“You look so like little Rose I hardly know you, and it seems so like
old times I feel sixteen again.”
“That is just the way one ought to feel on such a day as this. Now let
us be off and have a good spin before anyone comes. There are only a few
children there now, but it is Saturday, you know, and everybody will be
out before long,” answered Rose, carefully putting on her mittens as she
talked, for her heart was not as light as the one little Rose carried
under the brown jacket, and the boy of sixteen never looked at her with
the love and longing she read in the eyes of the young man before her.
Away they went, and were soon almost as merry and warm as the children
around them, for the ice was in good condition, the February sunshine
brilliant, and the keen wind set their blood a-tingle with a healthful
glow.
“Now tell me the plan your mother spoke of,” began Rose as they went
gliding across the wide expanse before them, for Charlie seemed to have
forgotten everything but the bliss of having her all to himself for a
little while.
“Plan? Oh, yes! It is simply this. I’m going out to Father next month.”
“Really?” and Rose looked both surprised and incredulous, for this plan
was not a new one.
“Really. You don’t believe it, but I am, and mother means to go with
me. We’ve had another letter from the governor, and he says if she can’t
part from her big baby to come along too, and all be happy together.
What do you think of that?” he asked, eyeing her intently, for they were
face to face as she went backward and he held both of her hands to steer
and steady her.
“I like it immensely, and do believe it now only it rather takes my
breath away to think of Aunty’s going, when she never would hear of it
before.”
“She doesn’t like the plan very well now and consents to go only on one
condition.”
“What is that?” asked Rose, trying to free her hands, for a look at
Charlie made her suspect what was coming.
“That you go with us.” And, holding the hands fast, he added rapidly,
“Let me finish before you speak. I don’t mean that anything is to be
changed till you are ready, but if you go, I am willing to give up
everything else and live anywhere as long as you like. Why shouldn’t you
come to us for a year or two? We’ve never had our share. Father would be
delighted, mother contented, and I the happiest man alive.”
“Who made this plan?” asked Rose as soon as she got the breath which
certainly had been rather taken away by this entirely new and by no
means agreeable scheme.
“Mother suggested it I shouldn’t have dared even to dream of such
richness. I’d made up my mind to go alone, and when I told her, she
was in despair till this superb idea came into her head. After that, of
course, it was easy enough for me to stick to the resolution I’d made.”
“Why did you decide to go, Charlie?” And Rose looked up into the eyes
that were fixed beseechingly on hers.
They wavered and glanced aside, then met hers honestly yet full of
humility, which made her own fall as he answered very low: “Because I
