
I bowed, and wondered what was coming.

“I found among her papers a note for a thousand dollars, signed by
you,” he added, taking the document from his pocket.

My heart came up into my throat. What was he driving at?

“If you can afford to give parties and fill your guests with champagne,
you can afford to pay this note,” he continued, sternly.

My plan was set at naught.




CHAPTER XV.

MY UNCLE IS SAVAGE.




CAPTAIN Halliard was as grim as an ogre, and evidently intended to make
me pay the thousand dollars I owed my Aunt Rachel. Of course he did not
care half so much about the money as he did to bring me to a realizing
sense of the peril of living too fast. He had worked hard for me, and
used his influence in obtaining the situation I then held. He was fond
of power and influence, and a failure to consult him in regard to any
important movement was a mortal insult.

His views of life and living were different from mine, and I found
it necessary to steer clear of him. I do not say that this was not a
mistake on my part—it was. If I had followed his prudent counsels,
I should have kept out of trouble. I had sinned against my uncle, and
was no more worthy to be called a protégé of his. I had married, I
had taken a house, I had furnished it, I had given a party, without
consulting him, and even without inviting him to any of the later
festive occasions. I knew that they were not to his taste, and it was
almost a cause of offence to ask him to attend a merry-making of any
kind.

He had lent me three hundred dollars for my bridal tour, though he did
not know what it was for—if he had he would not have loaned it to me.
He made me pay him when it was the least convenient for me to do so.
Now he crossed my path again in the same disagreeable manner. Aunt
Rachel was very sick. Probably Captain Halliard had deemed it his duty
to look over her papers while she lay insensible on her bed. Notes or
interest might fall due. Perhaps it was proper enough that he should do
so, but it was deused unfortunate for me.

It was equally unfortunate that I had written this note “On demand,
with interest.” I had done so because I did not wish to fix a time when
Aunt Rachel would feel compelled to ask me for the money. In avoiding
a dun in this direction, I had courted one in an other. As sharp people
are apt to do, I had overreached myself.

The captain was in bad humor. I had once been his favorite. If I was
so now, I was under a shadow. But the case was a very simple one. I
had been acting without his advice, and contrary to his well known
opinions, which was perhaps very imprudent in me. He was a man of the
world, with no fine feelings to interfere with what he regarded as
his duty. Of course I could not think of such a thing as paying him.
He looked ugly, and my pride was touched by the attitude in which he
placed himself.

“Paley, you are going too fast!” said my uncle, sternly.

“I don’t think so, sir.”

“I think so!” he added, in a tone which was intended to indicate that
he regarded the question as settled, and that it would be useless for
me to attempt to argue the matter with him.

“I don’t know what you mean by too fast,” I replied.

“Champagne suppers!”

“Only one, and probably I shall never have another as long as I live.”

“You had a party at your house, and the champagne flowed as free as
water. Two or three hundred dollars for wine in one evening, as I am
informed by one who knows!”

“Who was he?”

“No matter who he was. Deny it if you dare.”

“Well, I dare!”

“Show me the bill, then!” said he, fiercely.

I was vexed and indignant at this rude treatment. I forgot that this
man had labored to procure my situation; that he was my mother’s
brother; that he had always taken a deep interest in me. I could not
bear to be regarded as a child, and be taken to task as such by any
one. My pride revolted.

“I don’t understand that you are my guardian,” I answered.

“I’m not your guardian! If I were, I would send you a hundred miles
from the city, and make you work on a farm. I’m the guardian of this
note, though; and it must be paid, or I’ll trustee your salary. When
you owe your aunt a thousand dollars, you shall not fool away your
money on champagne suppers. Pay the note!”

“The note don’t belong to you,” I added, doggedly, as I beat about me
for the means of escaping from the uncomfortable dilemma.

“Don’t belong to me!” growled my uncle. “What do you mean by that?”

“How did the note come into your possession?”

“None of your business how it came into my possession, you puppy! Do
you mean to insult me?”

“No, sir; but I think you mean to insult me.”

“Insult you!” sneered he. “Why, you young cub, I am your uncle, and old
enough to be your grandfather!”

“You are not old enough to insult me.”

“You have said enough! Will you pay the note?” demanded he, impatiently.

He talked to me as though he were on the quarter-deck, while I belonged
in the forecastle. He was not in the habit of permitting his positions
to be disputed by those whom he regarded as his dependents or inferiors.

“Not till you have shown me by what authority you hold the note.”

“As the agent of the promisee!” snapped he.

“Did she authorize you to collect it?” I inquired.

He drew his out pocket-book, and trembling with rage and impatience
took a document from it, which he thrust into my face. It was a general
power of attorney, authorizing him to transact any and all business for
my aunt, and ratifying all his proceedings under it. Of course it was
dated before Aunt Rachel’s present sickness, but I could not deny his
power to act under it.

“Are you satisfied?” said he, in a triumphant tone, and he folded up
the paper and restored it to his pocket-book.

“I am,” I answered.

“Pay then!”

“When do you want the money?” I asked, in a tone of easy indifference,
for I saw that I could make nothing by attempting to bluff the old
fellow.

“Now!”

“Of course I don’t carry a thousand dollars around with me, in my
pocket, and I did not expect to be called upon to pay this note to-day.
It is not convenient for me to do so.”

“I suppose not,” sneered my uncle. “But you seem to have money enough
to pay for champagne suppers, and better furniture than I can afford to
have in my house.”

Buckleton was the villain who had been talking to my uncle! “Better
furniture” meant the étagère. But I must not quarrel with my uncle.
He had the power to throw me out of my situation in the bank. As my
mother’s brother he would not be likely to do that. I was even willing
to believe that he was acting for my good, but certainly he was doing
so in a very clumsy and ungainly manner. He evidently wished to get me
into a tight place, where he could control me, and thus compel me to
forego my habits of extravagance.

“Uncle, the champagne supper was a mistake. I did not know there was to
be any wine until I saw it. My wife ordered it without my knowledge.
I did not suspect she intended to have it, or I should have spoken in
season to prevent it.”

“Very well; let that pass,” said he, considerably mollified. “You have
fifteen hundred dollars’ worth of furniture in your house. I will sell
you all mine for half that sum.”

“Buckleton cheated me into taking twice as much as I wanted.”

“Humph! Did he?”

“He did.”

“Did you pay cash for all these things?”

“Of course I did; though I did not intend to pay Buckleton for a month
or two. But he is a scoundrel, and I was glad to get rid of him, even
at the expense of sacrificing some stocks I had.”

“Stocks?” said my uncle.

“I haven’t been so reckless as you think I have,” I replied. “I
saved two-thirds of my salary till I was married, and doubled it by
speculation every year.”

“What did you borrow a thousand dollars of your aunt for?”
