quick, bright eye flash went over her, but Dane kept his 
countenance and went on with his dinner. He understood very well 
one or two things that were in Hazel's mind. He knew that she 
thought she had lost liberty in marrying, and he knew that she was 
mistaken in thinking so; but he also knew that the sweet growths 
of the mind cannot be forced; and he could wait. He never said 
"my dear" and "my love" to her, this man; he let Hazel find him 
out for what he was, all hers; but it might take time. He thought he 
would give her a little help.
'Have you been studying the third chapter of Genesis?' he asked 
when the servant was out of the room.
'No. At leastI was thinking of Adam and Eve a little when you 
came home.'
'In German or English?'
'English prose.'
'It is stronger yet in German. "Dein Wille soll deinem Manne 
unterworfen sein, and er soll dein Herr sein." I think you have been 
studying it in German. But Hazel, that is the form of the curse; and 
the curse is done away in Christ.'
'But,' she said gravely, her timid reserve coming back with the 
subject,'But the facts stand.'
'What facts? And take some nuts along with the facts.'
'The factsof the case,' said Hazel, using her nut-cracker and 
laying the meats abstractedly on one side. 'The right of way,and 
strength to enforce it,for two.'
Again Dane's eyes flashed and the corners of his mouth were a 
little hard to keep in order.
'Neatly put' he said.
Hazel glanced at him, but she ventured no questions.
'But you forget, Hazel,' he went on gravely, 'that all that, the 
odious part of it, belongs to a state of things that in Christ is passed 
away. It remains true, no doubt, that "the man is the head of the 
woman;" else the lesson-type would not answer to the lesson, 
which is to set forth the beauty and nearness of the relation 
between Christ and his church. But in a right marriage it is also 
true that "the woman is the glory of the man." Not the 
housekeeper, nor the nurse, or the plaything, still less the bond-
woman; but the GLORY. She is the flower of all humanity; the 
good and beauty and grace of all earth, findsfor himits 
perfectest bloom and expression in her.'
She listened, smiling a little bit, then grave again.
'But that'she said,'is that what it means?'
'Excuse me. What what means, Wych?'
'The words you quoted. The last words.'
'Do they mean what I said? Certainly.'
'And only that?'
'Can you make them mean more?'
'For me, a good deal more.'
'Then it will be for me, probably. Go on, and explain.'
'No, perhaps not for you. You might be perfectly content with the 
flower, as you call it, in your hand; content with your content; 
looking no further.'
'You are mistaken,' said Dane, with a manner both amused and 
pleased.'I should never be content with my content.'
'But I mean' She was not very willing to tell her meaning, the 
words came slowly,'I used to think, that being so much to him, 
she must needs be something in herself. That only one who was a 
glory in herself, could be the glory of another. In my way'Hazel 
added, dropping her voice, ' "She will do him good and not evil all 
the days of her life." And he will be "known in the gates" by more 
than the robe of purple and silk which her hands have woven!'
As far as the face could then, it went down, bending over the nuts. 
Dane looked, and smiled, and took no advantage.
'I do not see the difference of your view from mine,' he remarked 
quietly. 'You credit me surely with so much discrimination as to 
perceive that some women are nobody's glory,even as some men 
are fit to be nobody's head.'
'But people do not think so,' said Hazel. 'People make it out to be 
just something supplemental,a sort of convenient finishing up 
the few trifles of comfort or help wherein a man may be deficient. 
That is what they all say.It is a very queer thing to be a woman!'
'Is it?' said Dane gravely.
'Yes!' said Hazel with one of her outbursts.'Prim tells me not to 
vex you, and Dr. Maryland wants to know ifif I shall be a help 
or a hindrance, in short; and he hopes you will not let me have my 
own way too much. Nobody enquires if you are likely to vex me, 
or to try my temper, or to develope my character, or help on my 
work; nobody supposes that I have any work, of my own. But if I 
have not, that is only the more queer.'
Rollo left his seat, he had got enough of his nuts; and coming 
behind Wych Hazel gently laid hold of both her hands and freed 
them from what they held, then insinuated her chair backwards, 
and lifting her out of it led her away to the fire and wrapped her in 
his arms. What it was no use to say, he did not say, however; as he 
had once told her he never asked for a thing he could not have, so 
even now, he would not supplicate for confidence which must be 
the growth of time. She would find out for herself, by and by, what 
concerned him; and the rest he did not are about. So his answer 
now was a departure. He did not kiss her; he stood pushing back 
the brown curls from her brow, on one side and on the other, 
looking down into her face with eyes which Hazel instinctively 
knew were too mighty to meet just then. So standing he coolly 
asked her,
'Do you love me, duchess?'
'I was talking of loving myself,' said Hazel, touching up her 
flushed cheeks with vivid carnation.
'I can do that better than you can. How about your part?'
'Reasoning from factsprobablyI must!'
'You are afraid to confide that deep secret to me? Now I should 
have no sort of difficulty in proclaiming mine to anybody who had 
any business to ask it. It must be a queer thing to be a woman!'
said Dane, with a dry, humourous, but at the same time wholly 
tender and sweet expression.
'Have I not confided it?' Hazel said under her breath. 'Do you think 
I would be here? What makes you ask such things? Is it because' 
But there she stopped.
'Because is a woman's reason. I never do things "because." What 
did you mean to ask?'
'I think I have been very unlike myself,that is all.'
'I never saw you unlike yourself,' Dane said, in that gentle manner 
and tone of his which was more than epithets and endearments 
from other people. Much more; for those might be mere forms of 
expression, and these could not be. And she enquired no further, 
nor raised her eyes to search. Standing there with a host of other 
questions in her mind; questions she would like to have discussed 
and settled, but which never would be;so she thought. Unless 
indeed in the slow, unsatisfactory way in which time settles all 
things.
CHAPTER XXV.
PRIM'S TRUNK.
We cannot go into the next day's shopping, though it was a very 
enjoyable day for the two people engaged. Some things however 
must be mentioned, on account of words and thoughts to which 
they gave occasion.
The business on hand this day was the getting of New Year's gifts 
for everybody in general. And as, with the exception of the Hollow 
people, it had also to be for everybody in particular, the work was 
slow.
Wych Hazel wanted a secretary for Primrose, in the first place. A 
very beautiful one was found, very perfect also, of some light-
coloured ornamental wood, finely inlaid, price three hundred 
dollars. On the other hand, Rollo got one, a larger one, and equally 
good, for Arthur Maryland, for just half the money. One for Prim 
was to be had for a third of the money; but it was unadorned black 
walnut, and less elegant in form, and Wych Hazel recoiled. She 
would have got the first without hesitation, only she could not 
coax any encouragement out of Rollo.
'Do you think she would like this plain one better? Do you?'
'Suppose the difference, in the charge of a note, lay in one of the 
drawers, for Prim's poor people? Which do you think would give 
her most pleasure?'
'O that,if you put it so. But I wish I could suit myself too.'
'You can suit yourself too,' said Dane smiling.
'I'll think about it as we go along. You see,' she said meditatively, 
'I could put the cheque in, just the same.'
The next place in order was Stewart's.
'I have something to get for Prim, too,' said Rollo as the carriage 
stopped. 'I have provided a new patent upright trunk; and I propose 
to stock all its compartments. Will you help me? Else, I am afraid, 
I shall never know all that ought to go in.'
'Well,' said Wych Hazel,'is it to be filled with Prim's ideas, or 
mine?'
'Let us give her what she can use and enjoy; every comfort we can 
think of; and nothing that would not be a comfort. You wonder at 
my choice of a present, perhaps; but Dr. Maryland's means are 
very limited, and I know Rosy often hesitates about a new pair of 
gloves.'
'I can choose gloves,' said Hazel confidently. 'But thenDane"
'Well?' said he, smiling, as he pushed open the swinging door.
Hazel walked on in a brown study.
'Never mind,let me see you begin, and maybe I shall learn how 
to go on,' she said, as they paused before one of the dress goods 
counters.
It was no doubt new experience to her. For Rollo began with soft 
merino and warm plaid pieces, choosing colours and qualities 
indeed with care, yet refusing the more costly stuffs which were 
offered. Except that he indulged himself and Primrose with a 
delicate gray camel's hair at last. At the silk counter he would not 
be tempted by the exquisite tender hues which the shopman 
suggested to his notice; no, he looked, and called for others, and 
finally bought a good dark green and a black, the mate to Mrs. 
Coles' black silk. At the glove counter he handed the matter over to 
Wych Hazel. She had watched all his proceedings with observant 
eyes, saying hardly a word, unless upon some point of quality 
where she knew best. Now she faced him again.
'How much do you want to invest in gloves, please?'
'That is not the point. I want to stock her glove drawer. Warm 
gloves, cool gloves, dark gloves, light gloves; you have carte 
blanche. I will look on now.'
Hazel laughed a little.
'There are more sorts of gloves than that. What about six buttons?'
'Six buttons!' repeated Rollo.
'Would you like more?'
'I do not understand the question. Excuse me.'
Wych Hazel held out her dainty wrist, turning it slightly that he 
might see.
'I approve of that,' said he, looking gravely down at it.
'But you cannot have that for nothing,' said Hazel.
'What?' said Dane, his eyes coming now with a sparkle in them to 
her face.
'Hush!Don't you understand? The more buttons, the fewer 
glovesif you are limited. That was why I asked how much.'
'The buttons do not look costly.'
'But they arein effect.'
'What's the difference?'
'Every additional button counts for so much,' Hazel told him.
'How many buttons are needed for comfort?'
'Twelve are best for some occasions,and I think I have one box 
with two.'
'But how many are needed for comfort?' said Dane, inquisitorially 
