
I Considering a captain's ostentatious but hollow chieftainship 
and a pilot's real authority, there was somethmg impudently apt 
aad happy about that way of phrasing it. 
 The captain stood around awhile in 
evident discomfort, and once or twice seemed about 
to make a suggestion; but the etiquetta of the 
river taught him to avoid that sort of rashness, and 
so he managed to hold his peace. He chafed and 
puzzled a few minutes longer, then retired to his 
apartments. But soon he was out again, and 
apparently more perplexed than ever. Presently 
he ventured to remark, with deference, — 

" Pretty good stage of the river now, ain't it, sir?" 

" Well, I should say so ! Bank-full is a pretty 
liberal stage." 

" Seems to be a good deal of current here." 

"Good deal don't describe it! It's worse than 
a mill-race." 

'' Isn't it easier in toward shore than it is out 
here in the middle ? " 

"Yes, I reckon it is; but a body can't be too 
careful with a steamboat. It's pretty safe out here ; 
can't strike any bottom here, you can depend on 
that." 

The captain departed, looking rueful enough. 
At this rate, he would probably die cf old age before 
his boat got to St. Louis. Next day he appeared 
on deck and again found Stephen faithfully standing 
up the middle of the river, fighting the whole vast 
force of the Mississippi, and whistling the same 
placid tune. This thing was becoming serious. 
In by the shore was a slower boat clipping along in 
the easy water and gaining steadily ; she began to 
make for an island chute; Stephen stuck to the 
middle of the river. Speech was wrung from the 
captain. He said, — 

 '' Mr. W , don't that chute cut off a good deal 

of distance?" 

" I think it does, but i don't know." 

" Don't know ! Well, isn't there water enough 
in it now to go through 9 " 

" I expect there is, but I am not certain." 

" Upon my word this is odd ! Why, those pilots 
on that boat yonder are going to try it. Do you 
mean to say that you don't know as much as they 
do?" 

" Theyf Why, they are two-hundred-and -fifty- 
dollar pilots ! But don't you be uneasy ; I know 
as much as any man can afford to know for a 
hundred and twenty-five ! " 

Five minutes later Stephen was bowling through 
the chute and showing the rival boat a two-hun- 
dred-and-fifty-doUars pair of heels. 

One day, on board the Aleck Scott, my chief, 

Mr. B , was crawling carefully through a close 

place at Cat Island, both leads going, and every- 
body holding his breath. The captain, a nervous, 
apprehensive man, kept still as long as he could, 
but finally broke down and shouted from the hur- 
ricane deck, — 

'' For gracious' sake, give her steam, Mr. B ! 

give her steam ! She'll never raise the reef on this 
headway!" 


For ail the effects that was prodnoed apon Mr. 

B , one would have supposed that noremark had 

been made. But five minutes later, when the dan- 
ger was past and the leads laid in, he ibursi in- 
stantly into a consuming fury, and gave the cap- 
tain the most admirable cursing I ever listened to. 
No bloodshed ensued ; but that was because the 
captain's cause was weak : for ordinarily he wap 
not a man to take correction quietly. 

Having now set forth in detail the nature of the 
science of piloting, and likewise described le rank 
which the pilot held among the fraternity of steam- 
boatmen, this seems a fitting place to say a few 
words about an organization which the pilots once 
'formed for the protection of their guild. It was 
curious and noteworthy in this, that it was per- 
haps the compact'est, the completest, and the 
strongest commercial organization ever formed 
among men. 

For a long time wages had been two hundred 
and fifty dollars a month ; but curiously enough, 
as steamboats multiplied and business increased, 
the wages began to fall, little by little. It was 
easy to discover the reason of tJiis. Two many 
pilots were being '* made." It was nice to have a 
'' cub," a steersman, to do all the hard work for a 
couple of years, gratis, while his master sat on a 
high bench and smoked ; all pilots And captains 
had sons or brothers who wanted to be pilots. By 
and by it came to pass that nearly every pilot on 
the river had a steersman. When a steersraan had 
made an araonnt of progress that was satisfactory 
to any two pilots in the trade, they could get a 
pilot's license for him by signing an application 
directed to the United States Inspector. Noth- 
ing further was needed ; usually no questions were 
Msked, no proofs of capacity required. 

Very well, this growing swarm of new pilots pre- 
sently began to undermine the wages, in order to 
get berths. Too late — apparently — the knights of 
the tiller perceived their mistake. Plainly, some- 
thing had to be done, and quickly ; but what was 
to be the needful thing ? A close organization. 
Nothing else would answer. To compass this ' 
seemed an impossibility ; so it was talked, and 
talked, and then dropped. It was too likely to 
ruin whoever ventured to move in the matter. But 
at last about a dozen of the boldest — and some of 
them the best — pilots on the river launched them- 
selves into the enterprise and took all the chances. 
They got a special charter from the legislature, 
with large powers, under the name oi the Pilots' 
Benevolent Association ; elected their officers, 
completed their organization, contributed capital, 
put " association " wages up to two hundred and 
fifty dollars at once — and then retired to their 
homes, for they were promptly discharged from 
employment. But there were two or three un- 
noticed trifles in their by-laws which had the seeds 
6i propagation in them. For instance, all idle 

members of the associaaon, in good standing, were 
entitled to a pension of twenty-five dollars per 
month. This began to bring in one straggler after 
another from the ranks of the new-fledged pilots, 
in the dull (summer) season. Bettei have twenty- 
five dollars than starve ; the initiation fee was only 
twelve dollars, and no dues required from the un- 
employed. 

Also, the widows of deceased members in good 
standing could draw twenty-five dollars per month, 
and a certain sum for each of their children. Also, 
the said deceased would be buried at the associa- 
tion's expense. These things resurrected all the 
superannuated and forgotten pilots in the Missis- 
sippi Valley. Thoy came from farms, they came 
from interior villages, they came from every- 
where. They came on crutches, on drays, in 
ambulances, — any way, so they got there. They 
paid in their twelve dcUars, and straightway began 
to draw out twenty-fie dollars a month and calcu- 
late their burial bills. 

By and by, all the useless, helpless pilots, and a 
dozen first-class ones, were in the association, and 
nine-tenths of the best pilots out of it and laughing 
at it. It was the laughing-stock of the whole river. 
Everybody joked about the by-law requiring mem- 
bers to pay ten per cent, of their wages, every 
month, into the treasury for the support of the 
association, whereas all the members were outcast' 
and tabooed, and no one would employ them.

Everybody was derisively grateful to the association 
for taking all the worthless pilots out of the way 
and leaving the whole field to the excellent and the 
deserving ; and everybody was not only jocularly 
grateful for that, but for a result which naturally 
followed, namely, the gradual advance of wages as 
the busy season approached. Wages had gone up 
from the low figure of one hundred dollars a month 
to one hundred and twenty-five, and in some cases 
to one hundred and fifty ; and it was great fun to 
enlarge upon the fact that this charming thing had 
been accomplished by a body of men not one of 
whom received a particle of benefit from it. Some 
of the jokers use to call at the association rooms 
and have a good time chaffing the members and 
