gall where my lips would find it.'
'Two guardians!' said Wych Hazel; 'so that queer woman at
Catskill thought I had. But it is a great deal harder to have
a man find fault with you, nevertheless.'
'Why?' said Rollo, laughingly and seriously too.
'They are so quick in their judgments,' said the girl; 'so
sure about the evidence. The jury agree without retiring, and
sentence is passed before you are summoned to attend your own
trial. You are out of play; you suddenly find yourself
convicted of manslaughter in the fourth degree--or the
fiftieth; it makes no difference.' The words came out with her
usual quick emphasis, and then Miss Hazel remembered that one
or two of her words were suggestive. She flushed very much,
drooping her head.
'Coroner's inquest?' said Rollo, with a mixture of gentleness
and fun. But she made no answer, unless by the soft laugh
which hardly let itself be heard. He stretched out his hand
again, laying it this time lightly upon hers, altering its
bearing.
'Curb him in a little more,' said he, 'a little--so. Now touch
him gently on the shoulder. What is it you think you miss so
much in a man's guardianship?'
She looked round at him then--one of her girlish, searching
looks, resolving perhaps how far it was safe to be
confidential.
'A good many things, Mr. Rollo,' she answered, slowly. 'I do
not believe you could understand. But I would rather have
fourteen lectures from Mrs. Bywank than just to hear one of
Mr. Falkirk's stiff "Miss Hazels." '
'I cannot remember any lectures from Mrs. Bywank,' said Rollo,
looking as if his recollections in that quarter were pleasant--
'which were not as soft as swansdown. But here we are coming
to Moscheloo. How much do you know about fishing?'
'Rather less than I do about anything else. O, I remember Mrs.
Bywank said she used to know you.'
'Mrs. Bywank is an old friend. In the times when I had,
practically, two guardians--though only Dr. Maryland held the
position officially--when there was nobody at Chickaree, I used
to go nutting in your woods and fishing in the same brook
which will, I hope, give me some trout to-day; and when I was
thoroughly wetted with a souse in the water, or had torn my
clothes half off my back in climbing to the tops of the trees,
I used to carry my fish ad my difficulties to Mrs. Bywank. She
cooked the one and she mended the other; we eat the fish in
company, and parted with the promise to meet again. Seems to
me I ought to have had lectures, but I didn't get them from
her.'
'Well, that is just it,' said Hazel, with her earnest face.
'She understood.'
'Understood what?' said Rollo, smiling.
'Things,' said Hazel, 'and you.'
'There's a great deal in that. Now do you want another
canter?'
There was a mile of smooth way between them and the grounds of
Moscheloo; a level road bordered with Lollard poplars. The
grey went well, spite of his age and steadiness, and Vixen
behaved her prettiest; but she was not much of a steed after
all, and just now was shewing the transforming power of a good
rider. And the rider was good company. They came to the open
gate of Moscheloo, and began to ascend more slowly the
terraced road of the grand entrance. The house stood high; to
reach it the avenue made turn after turn, zig-zagging up the
hill between and under fine old trees that overshadowed its
course.
'Here we are, said Rollo, looking up toward the yet distant
house. 'How many people do you suppose there will be here that
know anything about fish!'
'Why, it is a fishing party!' said Wych Hazel. 'I suppose I am
the only one who does not know.'
'I will tell you beforehand what to expect. There will be a
great deal of walking, a good deal of luncheon, a vast deal of
talk, and a number of fishing rods. I shouldn't be surprised
if you caught the first fish. The rest will be dinner.'
'And you will reverse that,' said Wych Hazel,--'little dinner
and much fish.'
'Depends,' said Rollo. 'I am going to look after Mr. Falkirk,
if he is in my neighbourhood.'
'Look after him!--Let him learn how it feels?' she said, with a
laugh.
'Not just in that sense,' said Rollo, smiling. 'Only keep him
from getting lost in the woods.'
'He has nothing to do in the woods till I come,' said Wych
Hazel. 'And I thought you said you were off for a day's
fishing?'
'I'll combine two pleasures--if I can.'
'What is the other?' she said, looking at him.
'Woodcraft.'
A tinge came up in her cheeks that might have been only
surprise. She looked away, and as it were tossed off the first
words that came. Then with very sedate deliberation:
'Mr. Rollo, I do not allow anybody to practice woodcraft among
my trees without my special oversight. Not even Mr. Falkirk.'
'Suppose Mr. Falkirk takes a different view,' said Rollo, also
sedately, 'am I answerable? Because, if that is your meaning,
I will tell him he undergoes my challenge.'
'He is not to cut a tree nor a branch till I come home.'
'Suppose we arrange, then, for a time when you will come out
and give a day to the business. Shall we say to-morrow?'
'O yes, I agree to that.'
'There shall not be a tree cut, then, till to-morrow. And to-
morrow you shall have a lesson. Now here we are.'
CHAPTER XVI.
FISHING.
Several people were on the steps before the door, watching and
waiting for them. The house shewed large and stately; the
flight of steps imposing. Hot-house plants stood around in
boxes; the turf was well shaven; the gravelled road in order;
the overhanging trees magnificent. Moscheloo was a fine place.
As the riders approached the door, Mme. Lasalle came forward,
pouring forth welcomes, and invitations to Rollo. But after
dismounting Wych Hazel, and so disappointing the gentleman who
wanted to do it, Rollo excused himself and set off down the
hill again. Mme. Lasalle turned to Wych Hazel, and led her,
with flying introductions by the way, to the stairs and up to
a dressing-room.
'It is quite charming to see you, and to think that Chickaree
is inhabited and has a mistress--it makes Moscheloo, I assure
you, several degrees brighter. Now, my dear, what will you
have?--is it nothing but to take off this habit-skirt?--let me
undo it. What an odd mortal that is, that came with you!'
But to that Wych Hazel answered nothing. The light riding
skirt and jacket taken off, left her in green from head to
foot. A daring colour for a brunette. But her own tint was so
clear and the mossy shade of her dress was so well chosen,
that the effect was extremely good. She looked like a wood
nymph.
'Charming!--vraie Française'--said Madame, softly. 'That is a
coquettish colour, my dear--are you of that character!'
'I am not sure that I know my own character yet,' Hazel said,
laughing a little.
'Ah! that's dangerous. You don't know your own character?--then
do you read other people's? Rollo--do you know him well?'
Mme. Lasalle was somewhat officiously but with great attention
stroking into order one or two of Wych Hazel's curls which the
riding had tossed.
'O, I dare say I shall make new discoveries, Mme. Lasalle.'
'He's the best creature in the world, everybody likes him;
but--Oh dear! well I suppose all young men are so; they all
like power. Did you notice that Miss Powder down stairs, that
I introduced to you?'
'Hardly.'
'You had no time. She's a sweet creature. Oh, no, you hadn't
time; but I want you to see her do-day. I have a little plan
in my head.' And Mme. Lasalle left the curls and whispered
with a serious face. 'She's the young lady Rollo paid so much
devotion to before he went abroad. Everybody knew that; and I
know he liked her; but then, you see, he went off, and nothing
came of it; but it's a pity, for Mrs. Powder would have been
much pleased, I know, with her large family of daughters--to be
sure, she has married two of them now;--but what is worse,' (in
a lower whisper) 'Annabella would have been pleased too; and
she hasn't been pleased since. Now isn't it a shame?'
Wych Hazel considered the matter. With a curious feeling of
disbelief in her mind, which (without in the least knowing
where it came from) found its way to her face.
'I wonder she would tell of it!'
'My dear, she didn't; only one sees, one can't help it. One
sees a great many disagreeable things, but it's no use to
think about it. It was nothing very bad in Rollo, you know; he
has that way with him, of seeming to like people; but it don't
mean anything, except that he does like them. O, I know that
he liked her--and I am going to make you accomplice in a little
plot of mine. I won't tell you now--by and by, when you have
seen Annabella a little more. I would have asked Dane to join
our party to-day, but I didn't dare--I was afraid he would
guess what I was at. Now, my dear, I won't keep you up here
any longer. Pardon me, you are charming! If Dane sees much of
you, I am afraid my fine scheming will do Annabella no good!'
And shaking her head gaily, the lady ran down stairs followed
by Wych Hazel.
There was a great muster then of fishing-rods and baskets; and
everybody being provided, the company was marshalled forth,
each lady being under the care of a gentleman, who carried her
basket and rod. Wych Hazel found herself without knowing how
or why, leading the march with Mr. Lasalle. He proved rather a
sober companion. A sensible man, but thoroughly devoted to
business, his French extraction seemed to have brought him no
inheritance of grace or liveliness--unless Mme. Lasalle had
acted as an absorbent and usurped it at all. He was polite,
and gave good host-like attention to his fair little
companion; but it was as well for her that the walk presently
sufficed of itself for her entertainment. They went first
across several fields, where the sun beat down freely on all
their heads, and divers fences gave play to the active and
useful qualities of the gentlemen. Suddenly from the last
field they went down a grassy descent--and found themselves at
the side of a brook.
Well, it was a good-sized brook, overhung with a fine
bordering of trees that shaded and sheltered it. The ladies
cried 'lovely!'--and so it was, after the sunshiny fields on a
warm June morning. But this was not the fishing ground. The
brook must be followed up to the woods whence it came. And
soon the banks became higher and broken, the ascent steeper,
the trees closer; no longer a mere fringe or veil to the
fostering waters. Fields were forgotten; the brook grew wild
and lively, and following its course became a matter of some
difficulty. Sometimes there was no edge of footing beside the
stream; they must take to the stones and rocks which broke its
way, or cross it by fallen trees, and recross again. The woods
made a thicket of wilderness and stillness and green beauty
