“Money values in Spain are generally reckoned in
reales, a real being five cents of our money. This is
the unit of the system. The Isabelino, or Isabel as it
is generally called, is a gold coin worth one hundred
reales, or five dollars. A peso, or duro, is the same as
our dollar: it is a silver coin. The escudo is half a
dollar. The peseta is twenty cents; the half peseta is
ten. The real is the smallest silver coin. Of the copper
coins, the medio real means half a real. You will
see a small copper coin stamped ‘1 centimo de escudo,’
which means one hundredth of an escudo, or half dollar.
It is the tenth of a real, or half a cent. Then
there is the doble decima, worth one cent; and the
medio decima, worth a quarter of a cent. But probably
you will not hear any of these copper coins mentioned.
Instead of them the small money will be counted in
cuartos, eight and a half of them making a real. An
American cent, an English halfpenny, a French sou,
or any other copper coin of any nation, and about the
same size, will go for a cuarto. A maravedis is an
imaginary value, four of which were equal to a cuarto.
It is used in poetry and plays; and, though there is no
such coin, any piece of base metal, even a button, will
pass for a maravedis. There is a vast quantity of bad
money in circulation in Spain, especially of the gold
coins; and the traveller should be on the lookout for it.
There are also a great many counterfeit escudos, or half–dollars.
Travellers should have nothing to do with
paper money, as it is not good away from the locality
where it is issued.
“Having said all that occurs to me on these general
topics, I shall now ask your attention to the history of
Spain, which is very interesting to the student, though
I am obliged to make it quite brief. I hope you have
read the historical writings of our own Prescott, which
are more attractive than the novels of the day. If you
have not read these works, do so before you are a year
older; and here in Spain is the time for you to begin.
“Recent events have called an unusual amount of
attention to the Spanish peninsula; and this unhappy
country has long been in so uneasy a state that a revolution
surprises very few. Spain has had its full share,
both of the smiles and the frowns of fortune. It was
as widely known in early ages for its wealth, as it has
been in modern times for its beggars.
“Nearly three thousand years ago, the Phœnicians
began to plant colonies in the South of Spain. They
found the country abounding with silver. So plenty,
indeed, was the silver ore, that, according to one
account, they not only loaded their fleet with it, but
they returned home with their anchors and the commonest
implements made of the same precious metal.
“This is doubtless an exaggeration; but we have
reason to believe that silver was more abundant in
Spain than in any other quarter of the ancient world.
Few silver–mines were known in Asia in those days:
yet an immense quantity of silver was in circulation
there during the flourishing period of the Persian empire.
Herodotus tells us that in the reign of Darius,
son of Hystaspes, all the nations under the yoke of the
Persians, except the Indians and the Ethiopians, paid
their tribute in silver. A large portion of this was
obtained from the Phœnicians, and was distributed
through Asia by the traders who came to Tyre. The
Carthaginians also drew uncounted treasures in silver
from Spain. When Carthagina was taken from them
by Scipio, the portion of the precious metals that went
into the Roman treasury was eighteen thousand three
hundred pounds in weight of silver, two hundred and
seventy–six golden cups each weighing a pound, and
silver vessels without number. Near this city is a
silver–mine which is said to have employed forty thousand
workmen, and which paid the Romans nearly two
million dollars annually. Another mine in the Pyrenees
furnished to the Carthaginians in Hannibal’s time
three hundred pounds every day. The quantities of
gold and silver brought into the public treasury by the
Roman consuls who subjugated the different parts of
the Spanish peninsula were enormous. Still the
country was not exhausted; for it was almost as highly
favored in soil and climate as in its mineral treasures.
‘Next to Italy, if I except the fabulous regions of India,
I would rank Spain,’ wrote Pliny in the first century of
our era. At that time the country contained four hundred
and nine cities; and there was not within the
Roman empire a province where the people were more
industrious or more prosperous. How strongly this
account contrasts with the history of modern Spain!
When the Spanish monarchs were aspiring to rule the
world, in the sixteenth century, the streets of their
cities were overrun with beggars. Only a century ago,
the number of people in Spain who were without shirts,
because they were too poor to buy such a luxury, was
estimated at three millions, or one–third of the population
of the kingdom. Within a hundred years, however,
in spite of numerous drawbacks, the wealth of
the country has vastly increased, and the population
has nearly doubled.
“The Spaniards are the descendants of various
races, tribes, and nations. At the dawn of history, we
find the country in possession of the Iberians and
Celts. Of the Iberians we know but little. From
them Spain received its ancient name, Iberia; and the
Iberus River, now the Ebro, took the name by which,
with slight changes, it is still known. The language
of the Iberians is supposed to survive in that of the
Basque provinces of Biscaya, Guipuzcoa, and Alava,
which I located a few moments since.
“The Celts, who a little more than two thousand
years ago had not lost possession of Northern Italy
and the countries now known as England, Scotland,
and Ireland, drove the Iberians from the South of
France and from the north–western part of Spain, in
very early times. In the centre of the latter country
these people united, and were afterwards known as
Celt–Iberians.
“About a thousand years before Christ, the Phœnicians
began to build towns on the southern coast of
Spain; and, a century or two later, colonies were established
on the eastern coast by the Rhodians and by
other Greeks. Cadiz, Malaga, and Cordova were Phœnician
towns; and Rhodos and Saguntum—now Rosas
and Murviedro—were among those founded by the
Greeks.
“Carthage was founded by the Tyrians; but the
Carthaginians did not allow relationship to stand in
the way of gain or conquest. Nearly six hundred
years before our era, they found an opportunity to
supplant the Phœnicians in Spain; and in the course
of two centuries and a half they had brought under
their sway a large portion of the country. At length
the Greek colonies on the coast of Catalonia and
Valencia, and several independent nations of the
interior, seeing no other way to avoid submitting to
Carthage, called upon the Romans for help. Rome
sent commissioners to Carthage in the year B.C.
227, who obtained a promise that the Carthaginians
would not push their conquests beyond the Ebro, and
that they would not disturb the Saguntines and other
Greek colonies. But, in spite of this agreement,
Saguntum was besieged eight years later, by a Carthaginian
army under Hannibal. The siege and
destruction of this city caused the second Punic war,
lasting from B.C. 218 to 201, during which Carthage
lost her last foot–hold in Spain.
“But the Romans did not obtain quiet possession of
the country their great enemy had lost. Nearly all the
territory had to be won again from the natives; and in
some parts of the peninsula the contest was doubtful
for years. As if this were not enough, many of the
battles of the civil wars, during the decline of the Roman
republic, were fought on the soil of Spain, which,
for two centuries after the fall of Saguntum, hardly
knew the blessing of peace for a single year. To say
nothing of lesser celebrities, we find the names of Hasdrubal,
Hanno, Mago, and Hannibal, among the Carthaginians;
of Viriathus, the Lusitanian; and, of the
Romans, the Scipios, Sertorius, Metellus, Pompey the
Great, and Julius Cæsar,—in the military annals of
Spain during this period.
“Shortly after the Roman republic became an empire,
under Augustus,—B.C. 30 to A.D. 14,—war
was suspended throughout the Roman empire; and the
Spaniards enjoyed a large share of tranquillity from
that time till the barbarians poured across the Pyrenees,
at the beginning of the fifth century. As a province of
the empire, Spain held a high rank. The stupendous
Bridge of Alcantara, the well–preserved Theatre of
Murviedro, and the celebrated Aqueducts of Segovia
and Tarragona, still attest the magnificence of that
period. Nor was the peninsula wanting in illustrious
men during these times. The most learned and practical
writer on agriculture among the ancients,—Columella,—the
poets Martial and Lucan, the philosopher
Seneca, the historian Florus, the geographer Pomponius
Mela, and the rhetorician Quintilian, were
Spaniards. Three of the Roman emperors—Trajan,
one of the greatest princes that ever swayed a sceptre;
Hadrian, the enlightened protector of arts and literature;
and Marcus Aurelius, whose name was long held
in grateful remembrance by his subjects—were also
natives of the Spanish peninsula.
“After the death of Constantine, A.D. 337, the
prosperity of Spain began to decline. The taxes
became heavier, and were increased till they were more
than the people could bear. In a short time towns
were deserted, fields ran to waste, and fruit–trees were
uprooted, so as to reduce the value of property in order
to avoid taxation. At the close of the century nothing
was to be seen but desolation, poverty, and misery.
But there was still a lower deep: the barbarians crossed
the Pyrenees, and the country was turned into a desert.
“The great irruption of the northern nations into the
Roman empire began in 375. A century later, the
western empire fell. The most important division of
the barbarians, who occupy so large a place in the history
of the fourth and fifth centuries, were the Germans.
The Vandals and Suevi, two of the nations that entered
Spain in 409, were Germans. It is not certain that the
third nation coming to Spain, the Alani, were of the
