so cranky, it had never been quite taken out of his mind. 
He's a good, clever, steady man ; has a nice farm; and 
the old lady was a master hand to save, and make bed 
ding. The house is full of furniture, and he's fond of 
little Katy. I'm sure I hope we'll have some children 
of our own : it would be such a joy to him. So I think, 
ma'am, it's too good to let slip, since I do like him very 
much, and can make him happ}*." 
Mary looked up blushingly at the end of her con 
fession. 
u I caunot blame you," rejoined Nelly, " though I am 
very sorry to lose you ; and I hope you will be happy. 
At all events, Henry will get a good wife. When will 
you want to leave? " 
"Just as soon as you can spare me, ma'am. I told 
him I wouldn't be later than the first of October." 
Nelly gave a sigh. 
" If it wasn't for this, I'd staj r always with you," said 
the faithful creature. " And if the farm wasn't so far 
it's about a mile the other side of Kelly's Falls." 
"And you will have your hands full," said Mrs. Kinnard 
with a smile, that she had some ado to make cheerful. 
"I supposed as much," was the doctor's comment, 
when he heard it. " Henry Kline has been coming 
steadily all summer. Well, it's tne way of the world. 
I set a bad example myself: so I cannot complain." 
And he smiled humorously. 
Aunt Adelaide would be home the last of the month : 
she trusted all danger of the fever would be over, as she 
could not think of exposing Maud to it. Bertie recom 
menced school, though his father exercised a careful 
supervision over him. The fall cleaning and changes 
were attended to ; the flowers put in train for winter 
blooming ; and Nelly was as busy as a bee. Bess was 
bright and helpful, and a great comfort. 
And then fell upon Nelly the first real sorrow of her 
life, so far. Rose's baby, that almost marvellous embodi 
ment of infantile grace, beauty, and sweetness, sickened 
and died. Its short week of illness had not prepared any 
one for the loss : it did not seem, indeed, as if he could 
die. So Nelly went to her for a few days. 
A month before, Mrs. Whitcomb had gone to Europe 
with a dear invalid friend. Rose and Stephen had given 
a rather sad but not unwilling assent. Surely Mrs. Whit- 
comb had earned this pleasure. 
Daisy was to remain, and help her bear the pain and 
anguish. The first death in their little circle, the loveli 
est flower of all. Dr. Kinnard was profoundly stirred. 
" I really believe I have coveted that baby, Nelly," he 
said in a tone of deep emotion that thrilled her strangely. 
But she had to return home. Here was Aunt Adelakb 
and Maud, the first severely consequential ; the latter, a 
good deal improved, but with many airs of fine ladyism. 
Nelly's heart sank within her. The pleasantness of life 
seemed suddenly dimmed. 
Bertie's sleeping-room had been changed to one at the 
head of the hall, taking him quite out of his aunt's care. 
She treated him with a lofty contempt, and took every 
occasion to snub him. Mother Kinnard's half-defection 
angered her secretly. She was compelled to admit that 
she could no longer be prime mover of the forces. But 
there were many ways to annoy "my brother-in-law's 
second wife," as she usually termed her; and none more 
effective than an almost insulting deference when visitors 
were present, indicating that she was in the house merely 
on sufferance, because related to the children. 
And then began another great perplex! tj^. Mrs. Berk- 
man was married, and went to her new home ; but her 
successor found it "so lonesome of evenings," and 
wanted to go farther in town. There followed a list of 
incapables. The once tidy kitchen was a scene of dis 
order. Meals were irregular and half cooked, unless Nelly 
supervised everything. The ironing dragged around all 
the week. One great brawny Irishwoman found the work 
so hard she couldn't stand it : " she woodent worruk her 
. fingers to the bone for any one, that she woodent ! " 
Jane Ferris heard of it with peculiar delight. Mrs. 
Kinnard's good fortune had been a personal affront to 
her. 
"I said they'd see!" and she tossed her head with 
emphasis. " But I'd never go back for a soul of them, 
save the doctor. I've seen ladies enough in my day to 
tell the genuine article when I do meet with it." 
However, no one asked Jane to come back. Mat was 
almost as good as a girl to Ms young mistress, and very 
helpful. She gave tip her rides, her books, her music, her 
village calling, and tried her best to fight it through. If 
she had only been alone, or if Mother Kinnard had fought 
with her! But that lady held secret sessions with the 
enemy, that were detrimental to a firm faith in her 
daughter-in-law. . 
How hard Nelly Kinnard worked all this time to keep 
her temper, and her pleasant household ways, no one but 
Him who seeth in secret knew. There were days when 
heart and mind and hands were so overtasked, that her 
husband's voice almost failed to charm ; nights when she 
laid her throbbing temples on the pillow, and cried softly, 
so that he might not hear, out of pure weariness and 
discouragement. 
It came to an end just after the holidays, in the person 
of a rather stolid German, who had been well trained, and 
was exceedingly good natured, though rather slow. But 
poor Nelly had not reached any promised land yet. Mrs. 
Kinnard was taken ill with fever and rheumatism ; and, 
from that time until spring, there was nursing and amus 
ing. Yet out of this came an abundant reward. She 
conquered here a lasting peace. Feeble, querulous, and 
oftentimes tiresome ; yet the elder woman learned to love 
and appreciate her son's wife, to give her her due un 
grudgingly. 
Had it not been worth striving for? Two years, and 
two souls brought into her kingdom. Youth and age 
bowing down in simple homage, watching her with longing, 
wistful eyes, bringing her some first-fruit of love, tiying to 
make smooth ways for the often tired feet. 
Bertie paid his mother a chivalrous homage in spite of 
Aunt Adelaide's sneers, and would have thrashed imy boy 
of his size who dared to breathe a suspicion against step 
mothers. Mr. Herrick considered him a promising pupil ; 
and he had become quite a companion to his father. 
Slow of thought in some matters, yet he had a quaint, 
droll quickness in others. He grew fonder of his grand 
mother, too, and was delighted when he was allowed to 
take her out to drive. 
She had broken very much, and was quite an old \acly. 
The rather massive chignon was discarded ; and Nelly used 
to make a pretty coil of braids (for her hair was still 
abundant) , and some becoming finger-puffs brought down 
on the somewhat too high forehead. A dainty little 
square of lace with a bit of purple ribbon, and a soft 
ruche around her neck, quite transformed her. She would 
always be tall, and rather severe looking ; but the dark 
eyes had softened a little, and the voice taken on a gentler 
chord in weakness. 
" I'm sure no daughter ever could be better," she 
would occasionally say to Nelly. ' ' I never thought to be 
beholden to any one ; but you have such a sweet way of 
doing favors, as if it was no trouble. But I know well 
enough a sick old woman is a burthen." 
"Don't say 'beholden,'" and then Nelly gives her 
most beguiling smile. "It is such a hard, ungracious 
sort of a word. Am I not your daughter really, Barton's 
wife?" 
" Yes, my dear ; and I've come to see the day that I'm 
thankful. I don't believe he was ever very happy with 
Mary, though I picked her out, and thought she would 
make a good wife. She was always sweet enough to me ; 
but she had a terrible temper, and no pretty little ways 
toward him, as }~ou have. And then I never can forgive 
myself, though it didn't <lo any harm ; but I wanted him 
to marry Adelaide, if he married at all. One does dread 
stepmothers for young children ; and I did not know any 
thing about you, except that you were a very young girl. 
But I am sure no one could have been tenderer toward 
Bertie ; and, if he wasn't so large, you would make people 
believe he was your own child. It was all for the best, 
dear ; and I am sorry for the many times I must have 
pained you . You are quite sure you do not remember it 
against me? " 
"Mother dear!" and kisses stop the garrulous, wrinkled lips. 
" If you had not a sweet, forgiving nature, my dear, it 
would come up every now and then. But I shall try to 
make you happy in my poor way. You see I have only 
been used to doing, not loving ; and to me it is like learn 
ing new lessons. And I'm like Bertie. I sometimes 
forget when I don't really mean to ; but your sweetness 
sets it all straight. There's Barton's carriage ; and you. 
must run down to him. I can't have my son defrauded 
of a happiness, Mrs. Kinnard ; " and there is a twinkle 
in her eye that stops short of pure pleasantry-, because 
it meets with a tear. 
Such bits of confidence have become quite frequent. 
And, when Mrs. Kinnard is well enough to get down 
stairs, she finds a delightful easy-chair in her corner, and 
her own workstancl, as if she might have left it yesterday. 
Then, across the opposite corner, a luxurious lounge, and 
on it a pretty Afghan that Nelly has found time to 
crotchet, to throw over one's shoulders, if the room is 
chilly. 
" It was such a bright thought of yours, Nelly, having 
this place altered," says the mother. "The sun and 
the flowers make it so cheerful ! And I used to think 
flowers unhealthy, the absurd idea ! Why, the very 
sight of them is cheering, and makes a perpetual summer. 
My dear, it's because you have so much summer in your 
heart, I think, that your ideas are all so bright." 
" Halloo ! " cries the doctor with a genial laugh, as he 
comes in, and finds Bertie reading Kingsley's grand old 
fairy-tales aloud. "Why, this is quite a grandmother's 
corner, isn't it? I do believe mamma likes it better than 
she does my ' den.' I am quite jealous." 
"The old lady has failed very much," says Miss Grove 
as she goes around making calls, stiffer and colder than 
ever. "She has grown absolutely childish ; and Bertie 
will be good for nothing at all, she indulges him so. That 
child doesn't know as much as he did when his father first 
put him in school. He spends his time reading all kinds 
of nonsense. I always shall believe that novels and such 
things are very detrimental to any child. But, if they 
ruin him now, it cannot be helped : he is quite out of my 
