times it seems as if I ought to go : I should not live very 
long, and the trouble would be over for all of you — I 
have made you so much in my short life ! He loves me, 
and will be good to me the little while ’ ’ — 
“O Theo, Theo!” I cry. “Tell me God’s solemn 
truth. Was he always good? I have come to mistrust 
him strangely. His gleaming eyes looked so tigerish to- 
night ! Why, it seemed as if he could crush you in his 
hands I ” 
A great shudder runs over her. My poor darling ! I 
kiss the cold cheek : she is cold so much now, as if she 
were but half alive. 
“ Tigerish — that is just the word, Chrissie : it ex- 
presses the quality of his love, or infatuation. Let me 
tell you all, Chris, as I never have before. On our wed- 
ding-journey I used to feel as if I iriust run away. It was 
so strange, — being loved every moment, being questioned 
continually, never having an instant or a thought that 
were your very own. I tried at first to laugh him out of 
it. And then I found that he was frightfully jealous. If 
a person looked at me in the street, at the table, or across 
the room, he was vexed. One day some one said, ‘ Is 
that pretty little girl that man’s wife, or daughter? ’ and it 
 
put him in such a fearful passion, that he changed our 
hotel, though we were going away the next morning. So 
I began to lay aside my innocent little vanities. I am not 
jealous a bit, you know ; and it seemed so foolish to me ! 
And, after we came home, he did not want me to see any 
of my old friends. I had him: why was I not satisfied? 
He wanted no one beside me. He used to sit and read, 
with me in his lap : it was so absurd, and I used to get so 
tired! And, Chris!’’ with a little hysteric laugh, “he 
objected to my sitting in this room, or in the parlor, 
because I could look out on the street. I used to hope it 
was the foolishness of the honeymoon merely ; and I was 
so glad, so thankful, when the ‘ Works ’ opened. Yet he 
always questioned me about the minutest thing. He used 
to make me promise, that, if he died, I never would marry 
again ; and he used to suppose cases, — that if he com- 
mitted some crime and had to go to prison, would I be 
true and faithful, never allowing any one to so much as 
kiss me? Oh, I can’t tell you all ! It was hourly, daily 
torture. I tried to be patient, thinking it was his great 
love ; I tried to be good, devoted, to have no way but 
his” — 
She breaks down then in a fit of sobbing. I kiss away 
the tears, and try to comfort. 
‘ ‘ I was like a prisoner always ; yet no princess of royal 
blood could have been more faithfully waited upon. And, 
oh ! how he hated to have me do any thing in the house, — 
wipe a dish, or dust a room. He was jealous of you all, 
and apparently afi'aid of the least confidence. Did I ever 
tallt about him ? What did the family say about him to 
me ? Yet I do beheve, if you had wanted money, he would 
have given you any amount, — shared all things but just 
me. And, Chris, this was why I asked him that night 
about another wife. It flashed upon me mysteriously that 
he had some secret he was afraid of. Once we had read 
‘ Jane Eyre ’ together ; and he insisted that it was simply 
because she did not love him enough, that she did not go 
off and marry Rochester secretly. • But suppose she had 
already been married to him? ’ he asked ; and, O Chrissie ! 
his face turned such a deadly, solemn white ! ‘ She would 
not have been his wife,’ I made answer; and we argued 
the point until he was angry. All these things have come 
back to me during his absence. I do not want to be 
unjustly suspicious. I married him of my own accord, and 
meant to make him happy while I did live. But oh ! it 
wears me out : it seems to crush and torture every pulse in 
my body. And, because I have such a wild longing for 
freedom, I distrust myself. Have I any right now to seek 
my own happiness ? If we have been joined together in 
God, ought we not to stay? If there is nothing but a 
miserable complication concerning some one else, that is 
none of my business, ought I not to overlook it? I think 
and think, until my brain is all chaos. Then I imagine I 
am away among strangers, and he goes off as he did that 
evening, and I am left to die alone.” 
“ O Theo, it can not, shall not be ! ” I cry. “ And we 
all love you so ! ” 
“Then my life may be so short, dear. Perhaps he 
would feel better if I died in his arms.” 
In the frantic terror that seizes me I sit up in the bed, 
and cry and pray and implore that she will not go back to 
him. There has been enough on his side, surely, to jus- 
tify suspicion. If she will only wait — one month more. 
In that time, if nothing new occurs — 
Something shall occur, I decide mentally, even as I am 
pleading. I will sell my dear watch, I will borrow some 
money of Miss Newby, and send to Scotland. 
As last she promises me to wait the month. 
CHAPTER XIX. 
I GO about all day as if in a dream. The lessons are 
purely mechanical. I find, when I reach home, that Theo 
and mother are agreed that she had better stay at home 
another month. Indeed, she is still in the doctor’s hands, 
and he strenuously opposes any change. 
The next day I pluck up courage, and go to a watch- 
maker. Fifty dollars is all I can get for my watch unless 
I wish to exchange it ; then he will offer me a very good 
bargain. 
I apply to another. Second-hand watches are a drug, 
he informs me, and he should think this was not — the 
very best time-keeper. How long have I had it ? 
I assure him that it has been excellent. 
He will undertake to sell it for me. So many people 
are parting with their watches ! Now if I wanted any 
thing, — jewelry or silver- ware — 
I walk out slowly, wondering how much it will cost to 
send to Scotland. I do not number many lawyers among 
my acquaintances, although a few students. There is Mr. 
Sargent, and I smile bitterly. Are we Durant girls fated 
to be unfortunate in love ? What will happen to Dell ? 
As I saunter along, some one comes toward me. I see 
the shadow, but do not look up. 
‘ ‘ Miss Durant ! ’ ’ 
Oh ! I should know that voice anywhere. It is not the 
 
first time I have spoken to Mr. Sargent in the street, 
though more frequently I avoid him. Now I absolutely 
put out my hand. I need some strong, true friend. 
He turns. “ Are you going down Harvard Street? ” 
“I? Yes, I suppose so.” 
He sees the pain and anguish in my face, that I hardly 
know is there. 
“ I will walk a little way with you. I have wanted to 
see you so much, Miss Durant ! Even at the risk of being 
considered impertinent, I want to ask you about my little 
friend Theo, — Mrs. Ross. Would you very much mind 
telling me what has happened ? ’ ’ 
His voice is so truly sympathetic, that it brings tears to 
my eyes. 
‘‘ Let us put ourselves entirely aside,” he says with a 
sweet, calm gravity. “ I have been wondering this past 
week if I could do auy thing for you or yours. I used to 
hke your sister so much ! She has been very ill, I hear. 
Can the story be true, that she has married a villain who 
has basely deceived her? The truth ought to be pub- 
lished, once for all.” 
“If we could learn the truth ! ’ ’ And somehow I can 
hardly keep from crying there in the street. 
“ Do you not know truly? ” 
“ Mr. Sargent, may I tell yOU the story? It is a long 
one,” and I look up eagerlj'. 
“ Then let us walk down John Street to the park.” He 
finds my hand, and draws it through his arm, so like old 
limes. 
I clear my voice, and begin, — before the marriage, 
Theo’s hesitation, Mr. Ross’s e\'ident determination to win 
her at all hazard, and then go briefly over to the night he 
went away, and his subsequent conduct, and all the little 
incidents that led us to suspect. 
‘ ‘ But why do you not find this man at Pittsburg ? ” he 
asks. 
 
“ How could we? We do not even know his name,’ 
I answer in surprise. 
“ I think I could find him. That would determine 
whether it was marriage, or some crime ; and, if the latter, 
I should advise your sister to get a divorce. There is a 
limit to mercy, or justice would not have been instituted. 
There may be little sins against one, to be forgiven 
seventy times seven ; but a crime against civil law is not 
included in that, to my thinking. Is your sister too ill to 
discuss this matter with a friend ? ’ ’ 
“No,” hesitatingly. 
“ Will you allow me to see her? ” 
His voice is clear, and sharp almost, so free is it from 
any weakness of sentiment. It gives me a strange, exult- 
ant courage. I can have my friend back. 
“ If you will take the trouble, Mr. Sargent.” My 
face fiushes horribly, and my voice trembles. “You 
know, perhaps, that papa has been unfortunate, and is in 
very poor health.” 
“Yes,” briefly. “But I think I can manage this for 
you, so that the actual cost shall be very little. I should 
be glad to prove of any service to her. I am engaged 
this evening : perhaps I could see her as well in the day- 
time ? ’ ’ 
“ Quite as well,” I answer. 
“ To-morrow then, at three, say. Tell her not to be 
worried. Give her my truest, warmest sjunpathy. Why, 
she can be nothing but a child.” 
“ Nineteen this very month.” 
“ And in one year she has run through the octave of a 
woman’s life. How sad ! She was so bright and winsome, 
and with a piquant beauty. Why should this have come 
upon her? ” 
We have walked round the park, and up again. I see a 
car, and signal it. 
“ To-morrow', remember,” he says, and puts me in 
with a kind “ good-night.” 
It is late when I reach home. The> are just sitting 
down to supper. 
“O father! Mr. Hatfield was here to-day,” says 
mother, in the midst of pouring tea. “ They want a man 
in the store, chiefly to take orders and deliver goods ; and 
he wondered if you would accept of it. They pay only 
nine dollars a week.” 
