our darkened vision perceives them not. And 
yet, in God 's inercy, angels still walk and talk 
with us, leading our thoughts upward, and these 
are they of whom we have just spoken. Their 
lives are in heaven ; but they dwell in natural bo 
dies, and talk with us face to face. Blessings on 
them, we repeat. 
Our changes of state are all dependent on 
things within us. Disturbing influences may 
come from without ; but, if there is nothing to 
disturb, the pressure is vain. The wind that 
lashes the sea into fury, sweeps scarcely heeded 
over the level earth. What a lesson in this ! 
what a revelation ! Every touch from the out 
side meets some response within, or dies unheeded. 
If to an evil allurement an evil desire starts up, 
what will you say? That the allurement created 
 
the desire? Not so. The magnet revealed the 
iron. The evil was there. And so of any and 
all responses made by the soul. Thus, our 
changes of state are our instructors. They show 
us the quality of our lives ; admonish us of hid 
den diseases ; and encourage us by revelations of 
progress in the right way, or triumphs in the 
good fight. 
III. 
THE SWEET FOUNTAIN. 
cup is too bitter," said the lady "Too, 
too bitter ! I cannot drink of it." And a 
shudder ran through her frame. Her face was 
wan and troubled ; her eyes red from a night of 
weeping. 
" But at last, it shall be sweet to the taste." 
"You mock me!" the lady exclaimed, with a 
sudden throb of almost indignant rejection in her 
voice. 
" Not so, my dear Mrs. Lea," was calmly, al 
most tenderly answered. " We are in God 's 
hand, and all his ways are in mercy. If he per 
mit sorrow or trouble, misfortune or bereavement, 
to darken our homes, it is that he may open the 
way for brighter sunbeams to enter. In the bittcrest cup 
placed to our lips, will be found sweet 
ness at last." 
"There can be no sweetness in my cup. I 
shall find the draft grow bitterer and bitterer 
even to the dregs." 
"And yet I say, dear friend! it was dipped 
from a sweet fountain." 
The face of the lady who thus answered was 
serene; and yet, no one could look into it without 
seeing the old marks of pain, of care, of endu 
rance and long suffering. The lines were not 
now sharply cut; but rounded and softened by the 
verdure which heavenly sunshine and refreshing 
dew had wakened into life. 
" It was dipped from a sweet fountain," she repeated, " and the water is sweet." 
" Sweet ! Why will you mock me ?" And 
Mrs. Lea, with a half offended air, shut her eyes, 
and leaned back among the cushions amid which 
she languidly reposed. Her face was very, very 
sad. 
" The bitterness lies in your taste. But, when 
 
that is refined and made perceptive in a higher 
degree, then will this cup of offence, as it now 
seems, be found to contain heavenly nectar. I 
amnot speaking with a vague idealism no, 
no but from life-experience. What we have 
lived we comprehend. Time was, when the cup 
God placed to my lips was as gall and worm 
wood. Often and often since, have I drank from 
the same cup, and found it honey to my taste. 
Have you been very happy in the time past, my 
friend?" 
Mrs. Lea did not answer this abruptly-put 
question, and a period of silence followed. As 
her friend looked into her troubled countenance 
the eyes were still shut she saw thought begin 
ning to obliterate many of the lines that expressed 
only rebellion and suffering. 
" In the time past," she resumed, " the abun 
dance of this world has been gathered to your 
door. You have enjoyed wealth and position. 
But, has your soul, in dwelling with these, found 
unalloyed pleasure ? Did they bring satisfactions, 
 
delights, tranquilities ? Was there no reaching 
of the soul beyond ? No yearnings for a higher 
life ? Have you not grown weary, and restless, 
often, under a sense of inadequacy in all around 
you to minister to crying wants ? Like a caged 
bird, have you not fluttered as in a prison, pant 
ing for a wider range and purer atmosphere? 
Yes, my friend ; it has been even so. You need 
not answer. We have stood, in past years, very 
near together, and I have seen it all. You have 
not been happy !" 
"My own fault," answered Mrs. Lea, with 
slight impatience of manner. " I had everything 
to make me happy. Now, I lose everything on 
which my soul can rest." 
" So far from that," said the friend, " you will 
lose nothing on which true happiness is based. 
* Riches and honors have no power, in themselves, 
to give blessing. That is a state of the soul, and 
comes from right activities. The will acts in 
useful ends, and gives delight according to its 
quality of love to God and man, without reference 
 
to external conditions. So the way to happiness 
is set before the humblest and the poorest, even 
as it is set before the rich and great. If the rich 
will not, in their riches, find the way that leads 
to true enjoyment, and it is possible to lead them 
to right paths through the vale of poverty, God, 
wlrt) is infinite in his love, will, from love, take 
them down into this valley, and in it show them 
the paths of peace,, leading up to the mountains 
of delight. He will put a cup to their lips which 
may prove exceedingly bitter to the taste ; but, in 
the end, they will find that its waters came from 
a sweet fountain. In these sad times, He is lead 
ing many thousands down into dark and difficult 
ways, and they shrink, and tremble, and shudder 
as they descend. But, He knows what is in 
them, and will see that no good is lost, and no 
true source of happiness destroyed. If they will 
be patient, submissive, and self-denying, he will 
surely make their sun to shine in an unclouded 
sky, and their peace to flow as a river. Not, it 
may be, through any restoration of former things 
 
but in a new life, to which shall be given, for 
nourishment, celestial food. The difference of 
this life from the former life, will be as that be 
tween the chrysalis and the butterfly. O my 
friend, seek for this life ! As you go down in the 
ways of misfortune that must be trodden, do it 
with a brave heart and with trust in God. He is 
very near to all ; but especially and intimately 
near to those who, in suffering and sorrow, turn 
to him in tearful hope, and prayerful confidence. 
He will make what looks so rough in the dis 
tance, smooth and soft as grassy meadows. Down 
amid those gloomy shadows that appal your soul, 
rays of divine light will come. Angel hands 
shall lead you, and angel voices speak words of 
consolation and hope." 
And it came, in time, to be even so. There 
was good in Mrs. Lea. Potent in her heart were 
all the elements of a true woman, ind these found 
life and development in a lower plane of social 
activity from the one in which she had moved in 
a spirit of proud self-seeking, or idle indulgence. 
 
Her fall, like that of many others, was rapid. 
In the concussion, she was stunned and bewil 
dered; and for a brief time lay as one in whom 
all useful life was extinguished. But, Mrs. Lea 
was a wife and mother. Her husband was dear 
to her, and so were her children. Yet, had she 
not filled out the measure of her obligations as 
wife and mother for all the love in her heart. 
Wealth had placed her in a false relation to com 
mon duties ; and brought her within the sphere 
of false ideas. Because she was rich, and could, 
for hire, command the services of others, she had 
permitted herself to accept the hurtful fallacy, 
that in useful employments there was something 
degrading. And so accepting the ease and idle 
ness which were offered, she had delegated her 
most sacred obligations, and left even her tender 
babes to the exclusive care of those who worked 
for hire. 
But so sweeping was the disaster that fell upon 
her husband, that every vestige of fortune disap 
peared, and, at the age of forty, he found himself 
 
just on the level from which he started nearly 
twenty years before. 
Six months after the period of wreck, let us 
look in upon Mrs. Lea. The cup of misfortune 
has been, for all this time, at her lips ; let us see 
whether she has found any sweetness in the 
draught. The home in which we find her is 
very humble compared with the one out of which 
she passed, not long before, with hardly restrained 
tears. She is sitting with two children by her 
side, one a girl of seven years, and the other a 
boy of nine. The boy has his arm around her 
neck, and is looking upon a book that she is 
holding. The little girl stands in front, with her 
large eyes, full of light and happiness, fixed in 
tently on her mother 's face. Mrs. Lea is reading 
aloud. There is no sadness in her voice ; but, on 
the contrary, a firm cheerfulness. Every now 
and then she pauses, and talks to the children 
about what she is reading. They listen with the 
