' Yes. And Mrs. Reverdy is waiting for you all this 
while.' 

' I have been waiting all these years. She don't know 
what waiting means. Mayn't I come again before Mon- 
day ? ' 

' Certainly not. You must wait till then, and longer.' 
' I am not going to wait longer. Then Monday, Diana ? ' 
He stretched out his hand to her and she laid hers 
within it. The first time that day ; the first time since 
so many days. Hands lingered, were slow to unclasp, 
loath to leave the touch which was such exquisite pain and 
pleasure at once. Then, without looking again, slowly, de. 
liberately, as all her movements had been made, Diana 
withdrew from the room ; not bearing perhaps to stay and 
have him leave her, or doubting of her power to make him 
go, or unable to endure anything more for this time. She 
left him standing there, and slowly went up the stairs. But 
the moment she got to her room she stopped, and stood 
with her hands pressed upon her heart, listening ; every 
parHcle of colour vanishing from her face and her eyes 
taking a strained look of despair ; listening to the footsteps 
that, also slowly, now went through the hall. When they 
went out and had quitted the house, she flew to the window. She watched to see the stately figure go along the 
little walk and out at the gate ; she had hardly dared to 
look at him down stairs. Now her eye sought out every 
well known line and trait with an eagerness like the madness of thirst. Yes, he had grown broader in the shoulders ; his frame was developed ; he had become more 
manly, and so, even finer in appearance than ever. Without meaning it, Diana drew comparisons. How well he 
walked ! what a firm, sure graceful gait ! How beloved of 
old time was the officer's undress coat, and the little cap 



 

which reminded Diana so inevitably of the time when it 
was at home on her table or lying on a chair near. Only 
for a minute or two she tasted the bitter-sweet pang of associations ; and then cap and wearer were passed from 
her sight. 



CHAPTER XXXII. 

WIND AND TIDE. 

How that night went by it would be useless to try to 
tell. Some things cannot be described. A loosing of all 
the bands of law and order in the material world we call 
chaos ; and once in a while the mental nature of some poor 
mortal falls for a time into a like condition. No hold 
of anything, not even of herself; no clear sense of anything, except of the disorder and pain ; no hope at the 
moment that could fasten on either world, the present 
or the future ; no will to lay hold of the unruly forces within her and reduce them to obedience. An awful night for 
Diana ; such as she never had spent, nor in its full measure 
would ever spend again. Nevertheless, through all the confusion, under all the tumult, there was one fixed point ; indeed it was the point round which all the confusion work- 
ed, and which Diana was dimly conscious of all the while ; 
one point of action. At the time she could not steady herself to look at it ; but when the dawn came up in the sky, 
with its ineffable promise of victory by and by, and when 
the rays of the sun broke over the hills with their golden 
performance of conquest begun, strength seemed to come 
into her heart. Certainly light has no fellowship with 
darkness ; and the spiritual and the material are more 
closely allied perhaps than we wot of. Diana washed herself and dressed and felt that she had done with yesterday. 



It was a worn and haggard face that was opposite Basil 
at the breakfast table ; but she sat there, and poured out 
his tea with not less care than usual. Except for cups of 
tea, the meal was not much more than a pretence. After 
it was done, Diana followed her husband to his study. 

'Basil,' she said, 'I must go away.' 

Mr. Masters started, and asked what she meant. 

' I mean just that,' said Diana. ' I must go away 
Basil, help me ! ' 

' Help you, my child ? ' said he ; ' I will help you all I 
can ; but sit down, Diana ; you are not able to stand. Why 
do you want to go away ? ' 

' I must.' 

' Where do you wish to go ? ' 

' I do not know. I do not care. Anywhere.' 

' You have no plan ? ' 

' No, only to get away.' 

' Why, Diana ? ' he said very tenderly. ' Is it necessary ? ' 

' Yes, Basil. I must go.' 

' Do you know that it would be extremely difficult for 
me to leave home just at present. There are so many 
people wanting me.' 

' I know that. I have thought of all that. You cannot 
go. Let me go, and baby.' 

' Where, my dear ? ' 

' I don't know,' she said with almost a sob. ' You must 
know. You must help me, Basil.' 

Basil looked at her, and took several turns up and 
down the room, in sorrow and perplexity. 

' What is your reason, Di ? ' he asked gently. ' If I understood your thought better, I should know better how to 
meet it.' 




 

' I must be away,' said Diana vaguely. ' I must not be 
here. I musn't be where I can see anybody. Nobody 
must know where I am, Basil do you understand ? You 
must send me away and you must not tell anybody? 

The minister walked up and down, thinking. He let 
go entirely the thought of arguing with Diana. She had the 
look at moments of a creature driven to bay ; and when 
not so, the haggard, eager, appealing face rilled his inmost 
heart with grief and pity. Nobody better than Basil could 
manage the unreasonable and bring the disorderly to obedience ; he had a magical way with him ; but now he only 
meditated how Diana's wish was to be met. It was not 
just easy, for he had few family connections in the world, 
and she had none. 

' I can think of nobody to whom I should like to send 
you,' he said. ' Unless' 

He waited, and Diana waited ; then he finished his 
sentence. 

' I was going to say. unless a certain old grand aunt of 
mine. Perhaps she would do.' 

' I do not care where or who it is,' said Diana. 

' I care, though.' 

' Where does she live ? ' 

' On Staten Island.' 

' Staten Island ? ' repeated Diana. 

' Yes. It is near New York ; about an hour from the 
city, down the bay.' 

' The bay of New York ? ' 

'Yes.' 

' May I go there ? ' said Diana. ' That would do.' 

' How soon do you wish to go ? ' 

' To-day, if I could ! ' she said with a half caught breath. 
' Can I, Basil ? To-day is best.' 

Mr. Masters considered again. 



 

' Will you be ready to go by the seven o'clock train this 
evening ? ' 

' Yes. O yes ! ' 

' Very well. We will take that.' 

' We ? ' Diana repeated. ' Must I take you, Basil, away 
from your work ? Cannot I go alone ? ' 

He looked up at her with a very sweet grave smile as 
he answered, ' Not possibly.' 

' I am a great deal of trouble' she said with a woeful 
expression. 

' Go and make your preparations,' he said cheerfully ; 
' and I will tell you about aunt Sutphen when we are off.' 

There was no bustle in the house that day, there was 
no undue stir of making arrangements ; but at the time appointed Diana was ready. She had managed to keep Miss 
Collins in the dark down to the very last minute, and 
answered her questions then with, ' I can't tell you. You 
must ask Mr. Masters.' And Diana knew anybody might 
