happiness you can seek for at your own good pleasure.”
“You have divined my longing. I do hunger and thirst for fame; I dream
of it by night, I sigh for it by day; every thought and aspiration
centres in that desire; and if I did not still cling to that hope, even
the perfect home you offer me would seem a prison. I must have it; the
success men covet and admire, suffer and strive for, and die content if
they win it only for a little time. Give me this and I am yours, body
and soul; I have nothing else to offer.”
Canaris spoke with passionate energy, and flung out his hand as if he
cast himself at the other’s feet, a thing of little worth compared to
the tempting prize for which he lusted.
Helwyze took the hand in a light, cold clasp, that tightened slowly as
he answered with the look of one before whose will all obstacles go
down,—
“Done! Now show me the book, and let us see if we cannot win this time.”
------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                  II.
Nothing stirred about the vine-clad villa, except the curtains swaying
in the balmy wind, that blew up from a garden where mid-summer warmth
brooded over drowsy flowers and whispering trees. The lake below gleamed
like a mirror garlanded about with water-lilies, opening their white
bosoms to the sun. The balcony above burned with deep-hearted roses
pouring out their passionate perfume, as if in rivalry of the purple
heliotrope, which overflowed great urns on either side of the stone
steps.
Nothing broke the silence but the breezy rustle, the murmurous lapse of
waters upon a quiet shore, and now and then the brief carol of a bird
waking from its noontide sleep. A hammock swung at one end of the
balcony, but it was empty; open doors showed the wide hall tenanted only
by statues gleaming, cool and coy, in shadowy nooks; and the spirit of
repose seemed to haunt the lovely spot.
For an hour the sweet spell lasted; then it was broken by the faint,
far-off warble of a woman’s voice, which seemed to wake the sleeping
palace into life; for, as if drawn by the music, a young man came
through the garden, looking as Ferdinand might, when Ariel led him to
Miranda.
Too beautiful for a man he was, and seemed to protest against it by a
disdainful negligence of all the arts which could enhance the gracious
gift. A picturesque carelessness marked his costume, the luxuriant curls
that covered his head were in riotous confusion; and as he came into the
light he stretched his limbs with the graceful abandon of a young
wood-god rousing from his drowse in some green covert.
Swinging a knot of lilies in his hand, he sauntered up the long path,
listening with a smile, for as the voice drew nearer he recognized both
song and singer.
“Little Gladys must not see me, or she will end her music too soon,” he
whispered to himself; and, stepping behind the great vase, he peered
between the plumy sprays to watch the coming of the voice that made his
verses doubly melodious to their creator’s ear.
Through the shadowy hall there came a slender creature in a quaint white
gown, who looked as if she might have stepped down from the marble
Hebe’s pedestal; for there was something wonderfully virginal and fresh
about the maidenly figure with its deep, soft eyes, pale hair, and
features clearly cut as a fine cameo. Emerging from the gloom into a
flood of sunshine, which touched her head with a glint of gold, and
brought out in strong relief the crimson cover of the book, held
half-closed against her breast, she came down the steps, still singing
softly to herself.
A butterfly was sunning its changeful wings on the carved balustrade,
and she paused to watch it, quite unconscious of the picture she made,
or the hidden observer who enjoyed it with the delight of one whose
senses were keenly alive to all that ministers to pleasure. A childish
act enough, but it contrasted curiously with the words she sung,—fervid
words, that seemed to drop lingeringly from her lips as if in a new
language; lovely, yet half learned.
“Pretty thing! I wish I could sketch her as she stands, and use her as
an illustration to that song. No nightingale ever had a sweeter voice
for a love-lay than this charming girl,” thought the flattered listener,
as, obeying a sudden impulse, he flung up the lilies, stepped out from
his ambush, and half-said, half-sung, as he looked up with a glance of
mirthful meaning,—
                    “Like a high-born maiden
                      In a palace tower,
                    Soothing her love-laden
                      Soul in secret hour,
          With music sweet as love which overflows her bower.”
The flowers dropped at her feet, and, leaning forward with the supple
grace of girlhood, she looked down to meet the dangerous dark eyes,
while her own seemed to wake and deepen with a sudden light as beautiful
as the color which dawned in her innocent face. Not the quick red of
shame, nor the glow of vanity, but a slow, soft flush like the shadow of
a rosy cloud on snow. No otherwise disconcerted, she smiled back at him,
and answered with unexpected aptness, in lines that were a truer
compliment than his had been,—
                      “Like a poet hidden
                        In the light of thought,
                      Singing hymns unbidden,
                        Till the world is wrought
            To sympathy with hopes and fears it heeded not.”
It was this charm of swift and subtle sympathy which made the girl seem
sometimes like the embodied spirit of all that was most high and pure in
his own wayward but aspiring nature. And this the spell that drew him to
her now, glad to sun himself like the butterfly in the light of eyes so
clear and candid, that he could read therein the emotions of a maiden
heart just opening to its first, half-conscious love.
Springing up the steps, he said with the caressing air as native to him
as his grace of manner. “Sit here and weave a pretty garland for your
hair, while I thank you for making my poor verses beautiful. Where did
you find the air that fits those words so well?”
“It came itself; as the song did, I think,” she answered simply, as she
obeyed him, and began to braid the long brown stems, shaping a chaplet
fit for Undine.
“Ah! you will never guess how that came!” he said, sitting at her feet
to watch the small fingers at their pretty work. But though his eyes
rested there, they grew absent; and he seemed to fall into a reverie not
wholly pleasant, for he knit his brows as if the newly won laurel wreath
sat uneasily upon a head which seemed made to wear it.
Gladys watched him in reverential silence till he became conscious of
her presence again, and gave her leave to speak, with a smile which had
in it something of the condescension of an idol towards its devoutest
worshipper.
“Were you making poetry, then?” she asked, with the frank curiosity of a
child.
“No, I was wondering where I should be now if I had never made any;” and
he looked at the summer paradise around him with an involuntary shiver,
as if a chill wind had blown upon him.
“Think rather what you will write next. It is so lovely I want more,
although I do not understand all this,” touching the book upon her knee
with a regretful sigh.
“Neither do I; much of it is poor stuff, Gladys. Do not puzzle your
sweet wits over it.”
“That is because you are so modest. People say true genius is always
humble.”
“Then, I am not a true genius; for I am as proud as Lucifer.”
“You may well be proud of such work as this;” and she carefully brushed
a fallen petal from the silken cover.
“But I am not proud of that. At times I almost hate it!” exclaimed the
capricious poet, impetuously, then checked himself, and added more
composedly, “I mean to do so much better, that this first attempt shall
be forgotten.”
“I think you will never do better; for this came from your heart,
without a thought of what the world would say. Hereafter all you write
may be more perfect in form but less true in spirit, because you will
have the fear of the world, and loss of fame before your eyes.”
“How can you know that?” he asked, wondering that this young girl, so
lately met, should read him so well, and touch a secret doubt that kept
him idle after the first essay, which had been a most flattering
success.
“Nay, I do not know, I only feel as if it must be so. I always sing best
when alone, and the thought of doing it for praise or money spoils the
music to my ear.”
“I feel as if it would be possible to do any thing here, and forget
that there is a world outside.”
“Then it is not dull to you? I am glad, for I thought it would be,
because so many people want you, and you might choose many gayer places
in which to spend your summer holiday.”
“I have no choice in this; yet I was willing enough to come. The first
time is always pleasant, and I am tired of the gayer places,” he said,
with a blasé air that ill concealed how sweet the taste of praise had
been to one who hungered for it.
“Yet it must seem very beautiful to be so sought, admired, and loved,”
the girl said wistfully, for few of fortune’s favors had fallen into her
lap as yet.
“It is, and I was intoxicated with the wine of success for a time. But
after all, I find a bitter drop in it, for there is always a higher step
to take, a brighter prize to win, and one is never satisfied.”
He paused an instant with the craving yet despondent look poets and
painters wear as they labor for perfection in “a divine despair;” then
added, in a tone of kindly satisfaction which rung true on the sensitive
ear that listened,—
“But all that nonsense pleases Helwyze, and he has so few delights, I
would not rob him of one even so small as this, for I owe every thing to
him, you know.”
“I do not know. May I?”
“You may; for I want you to like my friend, and now I think you only
fear him.”
“Mr. Canaris, I do not dislike your friend. He has been most kind to me,
I am grieved if I seem ungrateful,” murmured Gladys, with a vague
trouble in her artless face, for she had no power to explain the
instinctive recoil which had unconsciously betrayed itself.
“Hear what he did for me, and then it may be easier to show as well as
to feel gratitude; since but for him you would have had none of these
foolish rhymes to sing.”
With a look askance, a quick gesture, and a curious laugh, Canaris
tossed the book into the urn below, and the heliotrope gave a fragrant
sigh as it closed above the treasure given to its keeping. Gladys
uttered a little cry, but her companion took no heed, for clasping his
hands about his knee he looked off into the bloomy wilderness below as
if he saw a younger self there, and spoke of him with a pitiful sort of
interest.
“Three years ago an ambitious boy came to seek his fortune in the great
city yonder. He possessed nothing but sundry accomplishments, and a
handful of verses which he tried to sell. Failing in this hope after
various trials, he grew desperate, and thought to end his life like poor
Chatterton. No, not like Chatterton,—for this boy was not an impostor.”
“Had he no friend anywhere?” asked Gladys,—her work neglected while she
listened with intensest interest to the tale so tragically begun.
“He thought not, but chance sent him one at the last hour, and when he
called on death, Helwyze came. It always seemed to me as if,
unwittingly, I conjured from the fire kindled to destroy myself a genie
who had power to change me from the miserable wretch I was, into the
happy man I am. For more than a year I have been with him,—first as
secretary, then protégé, now friend, almost son; for he asks nothing
of me except such services as I love to render, and gives me every aid
towards winning my way. Is not that magnificent generosity? Can I help
regarding him with superstitious gratitude? Am I not rightly named
Felix?”
“Yes, oh yes! Tell me more, please. I have led such a lonely life, that
human beings are like wonder-books to me, and I am never tired of
reading them.” Gladys looked with a rapt expression into the face
