beg your pardon. Is it because of the circumstan- 
ces that you can't imagine my being in love with 
her?" 

Cummings: "Oh, no; I wasn't thinking of the 
circumstances; but it seemed so out of character 
, for you" 

Bartlett, impatiently : " Oh, love 's always out 
of character, just as it 's always out of reason. I 
admit freely that I 'm an ass. And then?" 

Cummings : " Well, then, I don't believe you 
have any more reason to be in despair than you 



 

have to be in love. If she tolerates you, as you 
say, it can't be because you look like the man who 
jilted her." 

Bartlett : "Ah ! But if she still loves him? " 
Gummings : " You don't know that. That strikes 
me as a craze of jealousy. What makes you think 
she tolerates you for that reason or no-reason ? " 
Bartlett: "What makes me think it? From the 
very first she interpreted me by what she knew of 
him. She expected me to be this and not to be 
that; to have one habit and not another; and I 
could see that every time the fact was different, it 
was a miserable disappointment to her, a sort of 
shock. Every little difference between me and that 
other rascal gave her a start ; and whenever I 
looked up I found her wistful eyes on me as if they 
were trying to puzzle me out ; they used to follow 
me round the room like the eyes of a family por- 
trait. You wouldn't have liked it yourself, Cum- 
mings. For the first three weeks I simply existed 
on false pretenses, involuntary false pretenses, at 
that. I wanted to explode ; I wanted to roar out, 
'If you think I'm at all like that abandoned scoun- 



 

drel of yours ID anything but looks, I'm not!' But 
I was bound by everything that was decent, to hold 
my tongue, and let my soul be rasped out of me in 
silence and apparent unconsciousness. That was 
your fault. If you hadn't told me all about the 
thing I could have done something outrageous and 
stopped it. But I was tied hand and foot by what 
I knew. I had to let it go on." 

Oummings: "I'm very sorry, Bartlett, but" 
Barllett: "Oh, I dare say you wouldn't have 
done it if you hadn't had a wild ass of the desert 
to deal with. Well, the old people got used to 
some little individuality in me, by and by, and be- 
yond a suppressed whoop or two from the mother 
when I came suddenly into the room, they didn't 
do anything to annoy me directly. But they were 
anxious every minute for the effect on her ; and 
it worried me as much to have them watching her 
as to have her watching me. Of course I knew 
that she talked this confounded resemblance over 
with her mother every time I left them, and avoided 
talking it over with the father." 

Cummings : " But you say the trouble 's over 
now." 



Not at all Like. Ill 

Bartlett: "Oh over! No, it isn't over. When 
she's with me a while she comes to see that I am 
not a mere doppelganger. She respites me to that 
extent. But I have still some small rags of self- 
esteem dangling about me; and now suppose I 
should presume to set up for somebody on my own 
account; the first hint of my caring for her as I 
do, if she could conceive of anything so atrocious, 
would tear open all the old sorrows. Ah! I can't 
think of it. Besides, I tell you, it isn't all over. 
It 's only not so bad as it was. She 's subject to 
relapses, when it 's much worse than ever. Why " 
Bartlett stands facing his friend, with a half- 
whimsical, half-desperate smile, as if about to illus- 
trate his point, when Constance and her mother 
enter the parlor. 



II. 



CONSTANCE, MRS. WYATT, BARTLETT, and CUM- 
MINGS. 

Constance, with a quick, violent arrest, "Ah! 
Oh!" 

Mrs. Wyatt: "Constance, Constance, darling! 
What ? H the matter ? " 

Constance: " Oh, nothing nothing." She 
laughs, nervously. " I thought there was nobody 
here; and it startled me. How do you do, 
Mr. Cummings?" She goes quickly up to that 
gentleman, and gives him her hand. " Don't you 
think it wonderful to find such a day as this, 
up here, at this time of year?" She struggles 
to control the panting breath in which she speaks. 

Gumming s : "Yes, I supposed I had come quite 
too late for anything of the sort. You must make 
haste with your Ponkwasset, Miss Wyatt, or you'll 
have to paint him with his winter cap on." 



 

Constance : " Ah, yes ! My picture. Mr. Bart- 
lett has been telling you." Her eyes have already 
wandered away from Cummings, and they now 
dwell, with a furtive light of reparation and im- 
ploring upon Bartlett's disheartened patience : 
" Good morning.'  It is a delicately tentative salu- 
tation, in a low voice, still fluttered by her nervous 
agitation. 

Bartlett, in dull despair : " Good morning." 

Constance : " How is the light on the mountain 
this morning ? " She drifts deprecatingly up to the 
picture, near which Bartlett has stolidly kept his 
place. 

 Bartlett, in apathetic inattention : " Oh, very 
well, very well, indeed, thank you." 

Constance, after a hesitating glance at him : 
" Did you like what I had done on it yesterday ? " 

Bartlett, very much as before : " Oh, yes ; why 
not ? " 

Constance, with meek subtlety : " I was afraid I 
had vexed you by it." She bends an appealing 
glance upon him, to which Bartlett remains im- 
pervious, and she drops her eyes with a faint sigh. 



 

Then she lifts them again : " I was afraid I had 
made the distance too blue." 

Bartlett : " Oh, no ; not at all." 

Constance : " Do you think I had better try to 
finish it?" 

Bartlett: "Oh, certainly. Why not? If it 
amuses you! " 

Constance, perplexedly : " Of course." Then 
with a sad significance : " But I know I am trying 
your patience too far. You have been so kind, so 
good, I can't forgive myself for annoying you." 

Bartlett : " It doesn't annoy me. I 'm very glad 
to be useful to you." 

Constance, demurely : " I didn't mean painting ; 
I meant screaming." She lifts her eyes to Bart- 
lett's face, with a pathetic, inquiring attempt at 
lightness, the slightest imaginable experimental 
archness in her self-reproach, which dies out as 
Bartlett frowns and bites the corner of his mus- 
tache in unresponsive silence. " I ought to be well 
enough now to stop it ; I 'm quite well enough to 
be ashamed of it." She breaks off a miserable 
little laugh. 




Bartlett, with cold indifference : " There 's no 
reason why you should stop it if it amuses you." 
She looks at him in surprise at this rudeness. " Do 
you wish to try your hand at Ponkwasset this 
