keeps what does not belong to him is a thief; and " 
he added with great seriousness, "you said, a 
Christian child must not be a thief!" I received 
the groschen now and thanked him. But the boy 
had not done yet. He asked me if it were true, 
that two of the pupils had been expelled from the 
mission house ? When with a sorrowful face I assented, he answered, " You need not be so troubled 
about that. You can send me instead. I can spell 
already, and I will soon learn to read." When the 
little fellow with great earnestness had said that, I 
could not help folding him to my breast in heart 
felt gladness. Then I knelt down and together 
with him prayed that the Lord would some time 
make a true missionary of him. He went away at 



 

last, but could not at first rightly understand how 
it was that I had as yet no use for him. 

'"Soon after this, I received a letter from a dear 
friend who had been making a lively stir in the 
matter of the mission among his school and the 
parish to which his school belonged. The Lord 
had granted him access to the hearts of great and 
small, and with cordial pleasure he had been collecting till he should have a full thaler made up, 
which then should be sent me. Now he wrote, 
the thaler was made up, and he sent it, and this 
was how it had come about. In a hospital, where 
he is accustomed to hold devotional service for an 
hour, he had mentioned the conversion of the hea 
then. The next day came a widow, shoved four 
groschen under one of the books which lay on the 
table, and then, with a greeting from her children, 
laid two groschen on the table, saying: "Now the 
thaler will be made up ! " To this mission thaler, 
which indeed was made up now, a little girl of 
nine years old had every Sunday contributed two 
pennies, which she received from her mother to buy 
rolls with. Some time after, the mother brought 
the child's two pennies again, silently ; but it struck 
our friend that she had great tears in her eyes. 
The thing was soon explained. The child had fallen ill. Sunday her mother said to her, "To-day 
you shall keep your roll for yourself." " No," the 
child answered, " I could not be easy if I did. I 
promised my dear Saviour once, that as long as 
you gave me two pennies to buy rolls with, I 



 

would give the money on Sunday for the heathen." 
How glad that true mother's heart must have been. 
She had reason to say, "But what a value these 
two pennies had for me ! I could not let them out 
of my hands at first, for joy." God bless mother, 
child, and teacher ! The mission must indeed thrive 
when such gifts are offered. From another dear 
friend of missions, personally unknown to me more 
over, I received a contribution for the mission, in 
the making up of which both men and beasts had 
given their help. The contributors were specially 
mentioned, the men at their head ; then 'at the conclusion followed, "A hen, so much and so much." 

"Well, Ditto," said Flora, "I will say, you do 
read the most extraordinary stories ? " 

"Like them?" 

"No, I don't think I do, much. Do you bring 
them forward as our examples, hen and all ? " 

" You might do worse." 

" But, Ditto," Maggie said anxiously, "you do not 
think we ought to go without what we want, do 
you? for the sake of the heathen." 

"Ask Mr. Murray that question, Maggie. Whose 
hat is that I see over the wall, coming up to the 
gate?" 

Maggie jumped up to look, and then with a 
scream of " Uncle Eden ! Uncle Eden ! " sprang 
away down the path to meet him. The others 
dropped book and work and followed her. The 
pine wood was screened off from the shrubbery 
and pleasure grounds (but indeed all Mosswood 




 

pretty much was pleasure grounds) by a low stone 
wall, in which wall a little gate admitted to the 
entrance of the wood. By the time Mr. Murray, 
skirting the wall, had come to that point, the group 
of young people had reached it also; and there 
Mr. Murray received a welcome that might have 
satisfied any man. Maggie threw herself on his 
neck with cries of delight ; Flora's bright, handsome 
face sparkled with undisguised pleasure; even Es 
ther looked glad, and Meredith's wringing grasp of 
the hand was as expressive as anything else. Sur 
rounded by them, almost hemmed in his steps, questioned and answered and welcomed, all in a breath, 
by the gay little group, Mr. Murray slowly made his 
progress along the pine walk towards the, present 
camping place. He had got the round-robin, yes, 
and he had obeyed their summons as soon as he 
could after clearing away a few impediments of 
business; he had made an early start and come all 
the way that morning from Bay House; and he 
was very glad to be with them. Now what were 
they going to do with him ? 

Saying which last, Mr. Murray stretched himself 
on the soft carpet of pine needles and surveyed the 
tokens of work and play around the spot. 

" From Bay House this morning ! And no lunch 
yet ? That's good ! " cried Maggie. " Now, dear 
Ditto, the first thing is to give him something to 
eat. He must be ravenous. If you'll build a fire 
place, I'll make the fire ; and then we can have the 
kettle boiled in a very little time. " 



 

Mr. Murray lay on his elbow on the pine needles 
and watched them, as Meredith built a few stones 
together to support the tea-kettle, and then he and 
Maggie ran about collecting bits of pine and pine 
cones and fuel generally. And then there was the 
careful laying of dry tinder together, and the match 
applied, and the blue, hospitable smoke began to 
curl up under and round the kettle, and an aromatic, odoriferous smell came floating in the air. 

"This is better than anything I have seen for 
some time, children," he said. 

"Ah wait ! " cried Maggie. "We have got stewed 
pigeons for lunch." 

Mr. Murray laughed. " What are you all doing 
out here, besides eating pigeons V " 

" We have set out with the determination to live 
out of doors," said Flora; "and so we do it. This 
is the third day; and it is absolutely delightful." 

" What are you doing ? " 

" I see you looking at our worsteds aren't they 
pretty colours, Mr. Murray? Esther and I play 
with these, while Ditto reads to us. And we have 
laid up a great deal of work for you." 

" In what shape, pray ? " 

" Questions. Somehow, as we read, we get up 
difficult questions, that nobody can answer, and 
that we are not all agreed upon ; and then by general consent we refer them to you." 

Mr. Murray watched the tiny tongues of flame 
which were darting up round the tea-kettle, where 
Maggie sat supplying small sticks and resinous 



 

pine cones to feed the fire. The scene was as pretty as possible ; Meredith roaming hither and thither collecting more fuel, and the shawls and even 
the worsted lying about, with the gay, young figures, touching up the gipsey view with bits of colour. He watched in silence. 

"Moos wood is the most delicious place we have 
ever seen," Flora went on. 

"Almost any place is good in October. How 
pleasant this veiled light is. What are you about, 
Maggie ? " 

 "This is the pot of pigeons, Uncle Eden; we are 
going to get them hot. The kettle boils ; now 
would you like some coffee, Uncle Eden?" 

But Mr. Murray declared himself satisfied with 
tea. And in a little while the scene became more 
gipsey than ever; except that gipseys are not supposed to indulge in much refinement of china cups 
and silver spoons. Everybody was picking pigeon 
bones, however; and bread and butter, and cups 
of tea, and baked potatoes (which came out hot 
from the house, brought in a basket by Fairbairn), 
and peaches and pears to conclude with, were discussed with great enjoyment and amidst a great 
deal of talk. Fenton arrived from the fishing to 
