"but my father has trusted the cattle here to me and I cannot leave
them, so I cannot bring you there. But if you are King Otto, turn off
out of the field into the road, for the king guards the law."
"'And King Otto the first, surnamed the Great, obeyed the boy's voice,
for the boy was in the right, and rode back to the road. Presently
Hermann was fetched from the field. The king had gone into his father's
house and had said to him, "Billing, give me your oldest son and let him
go with me, I will have him brought up at court, he is going to be a
true man, and I have need of true men." And what true Saxon could refuse
anything to a king like Otto?
"'So the brave boy was to journey forward with his king, and when Otto
asked him, "Hermann, will you go with me?" the boy answered gladly, "I
will go with you; you are the king, for you protect the right."
"'So King Otto took the boy along with him, that he might have him
brought up to be a faithful and capable servant of the crown. Otto was
allied in the bonds of warmest friendship with Adaldag, the archbishop
of Bremen, a man who was distinguished for his learning, his piety, and
a lively zeal for the spread of Christianity among the then heathen
Danes and Norsemen. Otto could not confide the boy who had become so
dear to him to a better teacher; and so he sent him to Adaldag at
Bremen. Adaldag, too, recognised the great gifts which God had bestowed
on the boy, and had him instructed under his own eye by the most able
ecclesiastics; among whom a certain Raginbrand is especially named,
who later was appointed to be bishop and preacher to the heathen in
Denmark, and laboured there with great faithfulness and a great
blessing. In Bremen Hermann grew up to be a good young man, loving his
Saviour from his heart; but also he was instructed in the use of arms
and in the business of the state, for Adaldag was at that time one of
King Otto's most confidential advisers. And now Otto took the young
Hermann into his court; and soon could perceive that he had not deceived
himself when his acuteness discerned the boy's lofty nature. Spirit,
daring, and keen intelligence shot in fire from the young man's blue
eyes; his uncommonly fine figure had been grandly developed by knightly
exercises; and, with all that, he was so humble-hearted, and attached to
his benefactor with such grateful, touching devotion, that Otto's eyes
rested on him with pleasure, and he often called Hermann his truest
friend, even called him "his son." But the loveliest thing in Hermann
was, that he never forgot his origin: he showed the most charming
kindness to those who were poor and mean; so that high and low at the
king's court respected as much as they loved him. So he mounted from
step to step, was dubbed a knight, attended the king on his journeys and
campaigns, and the king even intrusted to him the education of his two
sons Wilhelm and Ludolf. Still later he administered the most important
offices of state to the satisfaction of the king; and often travelled
through the country of the Saxons as Graf, i.e., a judge.
"'That is: The judgment of criminal cases, or the tribunal of life and
death, in the whole German fatherland was vested in the king alone.
Therefore at certain times the royal judges made a progress through the
entire German country. They were called Grawen, from the word graw
or grau' (that means, 'grey,' Maggie,) 'because ordinarily old,
experienced, eminent men were chosen for the office. These courts for
cases of life and death were holden by the Grafs under the open sky, in
public, and in full daylight, so that the judgment pronounced could be
at once carried into execution. Our chronicle takes this occasion to
relate a story about our Hermann Billing, which sets in a clear light
the pure character of this admirable man. In his journeyings as Graf, he
came also to his native place, to Harm's ouden dorp. It was then long
after his father's death; and as head of the family he had distributed
his seven manor-farms, as fiefs, partly to his brothers, partly to other
near relations. The great honours to which Hermann had been elevated had
become the ruin of these men; they behaved themselves proudly towards
their neighbours, and even took unrighteous ways to enlarge their
boundaries, secure in the belief that no one would dare to call them in
question about it, whilst they had such a powerful brother and kinsman.
Now, when Hermann, after the accustomed fashion, was holding the
criminal court on the Grawenberg (where now the grauen farm lies,
half an hour from Hermannsburg) there presented himself a certain
Conrad, a freiling, that is, a free man, and accused the holders of
Hermann's fiefs, that they had by violent and unjust means taken from
him half his farm and joined it to their own estates.
"'Hermann's face, at other times so gentle and kind, grew dark, and with
deep sadness but with a lofty severity he ordered his brothers and
kinsmen to be brought before him. Conrad's charge was proved to be true,
for the Billings could not lie, even if they had done injustice. And
what did Hermann? When the acts of violence that his brothers and
relations had done were proved, great tears flowed down the cheeks of
the tall strong man, and he cried out with a voice which his tears half
choked, "Could you do that, and bear the name of Billing!" He said no
more, but was seen to fold his hands and pray with the greatest
earnestness. Then he spoke: "My brothers and kinsmen, make your peace
now with God; we look upon each other for the last time. You are guilty
of death; you must die; you have doubly deserved death, because you are
of the race of Billing."
"'The priests, who were always in attendance on the tribunal of life and
death where Hermann was the judge, came forward; in the grounds of the
court they received the criminals' confession, and upon their penitent
acknowledgment of their sin, gave them assurance of forgiveness and then
the bread that represents the Lord's body. So, reconciled with God, the
seven men came back to the place of judgment; and after Hermann had
again prayed with them and commended the penitents to the Lord, he had
their heads struck off before his eyes.'"
Meredith stopped perforce, for a storm of exclamations burst upon him.
"Horrible!" "Frightful!" "I never heard of such an awful man!"
"I think he was rather an awful man," said Meredith. "I have no doubt
all ill-doers would have held him in a good deal of awe."
"But his own brothers!" said Esther.
"They were convicted criminals, all the same."
"But don't you think a man ought to spare his own!"
"A man--yes. A judge--no."
"But a judge is a man."
"I should think it was very disagreeable for a man to be a judge," said
Meredith.
"But why?" asked Flora. "I should think it was nice, just for that
reason, that a man could spare people he wanted to spare."
"Flora Franklin!" exclaimed her brother. "Is that your idea of a judge?"
"It is my idea of a man."
"But don't you know better? A judge has no business to spare anybody,
except the innocent; his duty is to see justice done--he has nothing to
do with mercy."
"Nothing to do with mercy! O Meredith!"
"Not as a judge. He is put in his place to see the laws executed."
"Then you think that dreadful old heathen you are reading about did
right to have his friends' heads struck off?"
"I think he did just his duty."
"Oh, do you, Ditto?" cried Maggie.
"He did not make the law, Maggie; he had only to see it obeyed. The law
was terribly severe; but I think the judge was very tender."
"O Ditto!"
"He was what you call a true man. He was no heathen, Flora. But nothing
would make him budge from the right. I think he was magnificent. I
wonder how many men could be found nowadays who would be faithful to
duty at such a cost."
"You have strange notions of duty!" said his sister.
"I am afraid you have imperfect notions of faithfulness."
"Well, go on. I have no opinion of religion that is not kind."
"The religion that is from above 'is first pure, then peaceable,'"
said Meredith.
"Go on," said Flora. "I suppose you would cut my head off, if you were
judge, and I had done something you thought deserved it."
"If the law said you deserved it. But I think I would give my head in
that case for yours, Flora. It would be easier."
"What good would that do?"
"Keep the law unbroken and save you. Well, I will go on with my story--
"'When the sitting of the court was ended he sent his retinue to find
quarters in the other six of his manors, but he himself passed the night
at the principal manor-house on the Oerze, which he had himself built,
called the Bondenhof, that is, the "peasant's manor;" for in old Saxon
Bond meant a free peasant. But what a night that was! Sleep never came
to his eyes; he passed that night and also the following day in praying
and fasting. When at last, by the Word of God and the talk of a faithful
priest he had got some comfort, at least a little, he vowed to the Lord
that he would build a church on this manor, the "Bondenhof," which
should be dedicated to the apostles Peter and Paul, like the first one
built by his forefathers at the Deep Moor, which in the course of time
had become far too small. And as with him to resolve and to do were
always the same thing, he did not quit the manor till he had laid the
foundation-stone of the new church and given order to have the building
vigorously carried forward. That was in the year 958.
"'By this deed of rigid, impartial justice, which nevertheless was found
in beautiful harmony with a tender and good heart, the honour in which
people held him was raised to such a point, that everywhere they carried
him on their hands, and at his return to the royal court he was received
with wondering admiration. The great Otto folded him in his arms and
called him his most faithful knight, who served his God and his king
with equal fidelity.
"'Soon thereafter followed Hermann's greatest elevation. Otto had
determined, you must know, in the year 960, to take a journey into
Italy, in order to compose certain troubles which had arisen through
the godless Pope John. But now his beloved Saxon country, out of which
Otto himself drew his origin, lay just in the north of Germany; and was
bordered on the north and north-east by the Danes and Sclaves, but
recently conquered, who indeed were in part nominally Christian, but in
part were still heathen, and the whole of them haters of Christianity.
Who would take care of Christian Saxony in the king's absence, which it
was possible might last for years? Then Otto's eye fell upon the
faithful Hermann, and he had found his man. Hermann was appointed to the
dukedom of Saxony, so that he might thus supply the king's place and
govern in his stead. When this was made known to the good Archbishop
Adaldag, who was to accompany the king in his journey to Rome, he
rejoiced aloud, and said to the king, "Now we can travel in peace and
have no care; for, O king, you can trust him with the land, and I can
trust him with my church; Hermann with God's help will protect church
and land both." And that is what the faithful man truly did. In the
following year the king really set out on his journey to Rome, and
Adaldag went with him. Otto set up a stern tribunal in Rome, deposed the
godless Pope John, and made good Leo Pope. Five years Otto spent in
Italy, and wherever he came he wrought righteousness and judgment,
punished the wicked and relieved the innocent and oppressed; being such
a prince as Germany has had few. In the year 962 Otto was solemnly
crowned kaiser by Leo at Rome, and thus acknowledged as the earthly head
of the whole Christian world. During all this time, the Saxons might
count themselves happy that they had such a true and valiant duke in
Hermann. The Sclaves ventured again to make a marauding incursion,
probably to try whether in Otto's absence they could not accomplish
something. One tribe of the great Sclavic race, namely, the Wends, dwelt
not on the other side of Elbe only, but also on this side, as far as the
neighbourhood of Melzen. These Wends, on the hither side of the Elbe,
reinforced by a strong party of their brethren from beyond the river,
undertook a campaign against Saxony; for they themselves were still
heathen and therefore had a hatred against the Christians. This hatred
was all the stronger because the Saxons under Otto had vanquished them.
In this campaign, so far as they went, they burnt and laid waste
everything, and in especial their aim was directed against the churches
and chapels and Christian priests; the former were burned and levelled
with the ground, the latter were put to death in tortures. So it befell
with that first church which Landolf had built at the Deep Moor; it was
burned down and entirely destroyed. Eight priests, who served this
church and the chapels lying in the neighbourhood, were slain, part of
them at once, part of them were dragged to the Wendish idol altar in
Radegast, not far from the Elbe, and there slaughtered in honour of the
