monstrous lady whose adventures in the wilderness 
Phelps was fond of relating. She was built something 
on the plan of the mountains, and her ambition to 
explore was equal to her size. Phelps and the other 
guides once succeeded in raising her to the top of 
Marcy ; but the feat of getting a hogshead of molasses 
up there would have been easier. In attempting to 
give us an idea of her magnitude that night, as we 
 
sat in the forest camp, Phelps hesitated a moment, 
while he cast his eye around the woods : '' Waal, there 
aint no tree ! " 
It is only by recalling fragmentary remarks and 
incidents that I can put the reader in possession of 
the peculiarities of my subject ; and this involves the 
wrenching of things out of their natural order and 
continuity, and introducing them abruptly, — an ab- 
ruptness illustrated by the remark of '• Old Man Hos- 
kins," which Phelps liked to quote, when one day he 
suddenly slipped down a bank into a thicket, and 
seated himself in a wasps' nest : '' I hain't no business 
here ; but here I be I " 
The first time we went into camp on the Upper 
Ausable Pond, which has been justly celebrated as 
the most prettily set sheet of water in the region, we 
were disposed to build our shanty on the south side, 
so that we could have in full view the Gothics and that 
loveliest of mountain contours. To our surprise. Old 
Phelps, whose sentimental weakness for these moun- 
tains we knew, opposed this. His favorite camping- 
ground was on the north side, — a pretty site in itself, 
but with no special view. In order to enjoy the lovely 
mountains, we should be obliged to row out into the 
lake : we wanted them always before our eyes, — at 
sunrise and sunset, and in the blaze of noon. With 
deliberate speech, as if weighing our arguments and 
disposing of them, he replied, " Waal, now, them 
Gothics ain't the kinder scenery you want ter hog 
dovm! " 
It was on quiet Sundays in the woods, or in talks 
by the camp-fire, that Phelps came out as the philoso- 
pher, and commonly contributed the light of his obser- 
vations. Unfortunate marriages, and marriages in 
general, were, on one occasion, the subject of discus- 
sion ; and a good deal of darkness had been cast on 
it by various speakers ; when Phelps suddenly piped 
up, from a log where he had sat silent, almost invis- 
ible, in the shadow and smoke, — 
" Waal, now, when you Ve said all there is to be 
said, marriage is mostly for discipline." 
Discipline, certainly, the old man had, in one way 
or another ; and years of solitary communing in the 
forest had given him, perhaps, a childlike insight into 
spiritual concerns. Whether he had formulated any 
creed or what faith he had, I never knew. Keene 
Valley had a reputation of not ripening Christians 
any more successfully than maize, the season there 
being short ; and on our first visit it was said to con- 
tain but one Bible Christian, though I think an accu- 
rate census disclosed three. Old Phelps, who some- 
times made abrupt remarks in trying situations, was 
not included in this census ; but he was the disciple 
of supernaturalism in a most charming form. I have 
heard of his opening his inmost thoughts to a lady, one 
Sunday, after a noble sermon of Eobertson's had been 
read in the cathedral stillness of the forest. His 
experience was entirely first-hand, and related with 
unconsciousness that it was not common to all. There 
was nothing of the mystic or the sentimentalist, only a 
vivid realism, in that nearness of God of which he 
spoke, — "as near sometimes as those trees," — and 
of the holy voice, that, in a time of inward struggle, 
had seemed to him to come from the depths of the 
forest, saying, " Poor soul, I am the way." 
In later years there was a " revival " in Keene Val- 
ley, the result of which was a number of young " con- 
verts," whom Phelps seemed to regard as a veteran 
 
might raw recruits, and to have his doubts what sort 
of soldiers they would make. 
" Waal, Jimmy," he said to one of them, " you 've 
kindled a pretty good fire with light wood. That 's 
what we do of a dark night in the woods, you know ; 
but we do it just so as we can look around and find the 
solid wood : so now put on your solid wood." 
In the Sunday Bible-classes of the period Phelps 
was a perpetual anxiety to the others, who followed 
closely the printed lessons, and beheld with alarm his 
discursive efforts to get into freer air and light. His 
remarks were the most refreshing part of the exercises, 
but were outside of the safe path into which the others 
thought it necessary to win him from his " speckerla- 
tions." The class were one day on the verses concern- 
ing " God's word " being " written on the heart," and 
were keeping close to the shore, under the guidance of 
" Barnes's Notes," when Old Phelps made a dive to the 
bottom, and remarked that he had " thought a good 
deal about the expression, ' God's word written on the 
heart,' and had been asking himself how that was to 
be done ; and suddenly it occurred to him, having been 
much interested lately in watching the work of a pho- 
tographer, that, when a photograph is going to be 
taken, all that has to be done is to put the object in 
position, and the sun makes the picture ; and so he 
rather thought that all we had got to do was to put our 
hearts in place, and God would do the writin'." 
Phelps's theology, like his science, is first-hand. 
In the woods, one day, talk ran on the Trinity as being 
nowhere asserted as a doctrine in the Bible, and some 
one suggested that the attempt to pack these great and 
fluent mysteries into one word must always be more 
or less unsatisfactory. " JT^-es," droned Phelps : " I 
never could see much speckerlation in that expression 
the Trinity. Why, they 'd a good deal better say 
Legion,'''' 
The sentiment of the man about nature, or his poetic 
sensibility, was frequently not to be distinguished 
from a natural religion, and was always tinged with 
the devoutness of Wordsworth's verse. Climbing 
slowly one day up the Balcony, — he was more than 
usually calm and slow, — he espied an exquisite fragile 
flower in the crevice of a rock, in a very lonely spot. 
" It seems as if," he said, or rather dreamed out, — 
" it seems as if the Creator had kept something just 
to look at himself." 
To a lady whom he had taken to Chapel Pond, a 
retired but rather uninteresting spot, and who ex- 
pressed a little disappointment at its tameness, say- 
" Why, Mr. Phelps, the principal charm of this 
place seems to be its loneliness," — 
"Yes," he replied in gentle and lingering tones, 
" and its nativeness. It lies here just where it was 
born." 
Rest and quiet had infinite attractions for him. A 
secluded opening in the woods was a " calm spot." 
He told of seeing once, or rather being, a circular 
rainbow. He stood on Indian Head, overlooking the 
Lower Lake, so that he saw the whole bow in the sky 
and the lake, and seemed to be in the midst of it ; 
"only at one place there was an indentation in it, 
where it rested on the lake, just enough to keep it from 
rolling off." This "resting" of the sphere seemed to 
give him great comfort. 
One Indian-summer morning in October, some 
ladies found the old man sitting on his doorstep, smok- 
 
ing a short pipe. He gave no sign of recognition of 
their approach, except a twinkle of the eye, being evi- 
dently quite in harmony with the peaceful day. They 
stood there a full minute before he opened his mouth : 
then he did not rise, but slowly took his pipe from his 
mouth, and said in a dreamy way, pointing towards 
the brook, — 
" Do you see that tree ? " indicating a maple almost 
denuded of leaves, which lay like a yellow garment 
cast at its feet. " I 've been watching that tree all the 
morning. There hain't been a breath of wind : but 
for hours the leaves have been falling, falling, just as 
you see them now ; and at last it 's pretty much bare." 
And after a pause, pensively : " Waal, I suppose its 
hour had come." 
This contemplative habit of Old Phelps is wholly 
unappreciated by his neighbors ; but it has been in- 
dulged in no inconsiderable part of his life. Rising 
after a time, he said, " Now I want you to go with me 
and see my golden city I 've talked so much about." 
He led the way to a hill-outlook, when suddenly, 
emerging from the forest, the spectators saw revealed 
the winding valley and its stream. He said quietly, 
" There is my golden city." Far below, at their feet, 
they saw that vast assemblage of birches and ''pop- 
ples," yellow as gold in the brooding noonday, and 
slender spires rising out of the glowing mass. With- 
out another word, Phelps sat a long time in silent con- 
tent : it was to him, as Bunyan says, '' a place desirous 
to be in." 
Is this philosopher contented with what life has 
brought him ? Speaking of money one day, when we 
had asked him if he should do differently if he had 
his life to live over again, he said, '' Yes, but not about 
money. To have had hours such as I have had in 
these mountains, and with such men as Dr. Bushnell 
and Dr. Shaw and Mr. Twichell, and others I could 
name, is worth all the money the world could give." 
He read character very well, and took in accurately 
the boy nature. " Tom," — an irrepressible, rather 
overdone specimen, — " Tom 's a nice kind of a boy ; 
but he 's got to come up against a snubbin'-post one 
of these days." — " Boys ! " he once said : " you can't 
git boys to take any kinder notice of scenery. I never 
yet saw a boy that would look a second time at a sun- 
set. Now, a girl will sometimes ; but even then it 's 
instantaneous, — comes and goes like the sunset. As 
for me," still speaking of scenery, " these mountains 
about here, that I see every day, are no more to me, in 
one sense, than a man's farm is to him. What mostly 
interests me now is when I see some new freak or shape 
in the face of Nature." 
In literature it may be said that Old Phelps prefers 
the best in the very limited range that has been open 
