old place. Bessie Alden was in ecstasies ; she 
went about murmuring and exclaiming. 
" It 's too lovely," said the young girl ; " it 's too 
enchanting ; it 's too exactly what it ought to be !" 
At Hampton Court the little flocks of visitors 
are not provided with an official bell-wether, but 
are left to browse at discretion upon the local 
antiquities. It happened in this manner that, in 
default of another informant, Bessie Alden, who 
on doubtful questions was able to suggest a great 
many alternatives, found herself again applying 
for intellectual assistance to Lord Lambeth. But 
he again assured her that he was utterly help 
less in such matters that his education had been 
sadly neglected. 
"And I am sorry it makes you unhappy," he 
added, in a moment. 
" You are very disappointing, Lord Lambeth," 
she said. 
" Ah, now, don 't say that," he cried. " That 's 
the worst thing you could possibly say." 
" No," she rejoined, u it is not so bad as to say 
that I had expected nothing of you." 
" I don 't know. Give me a notion of the sort 
of thing you expected." 
" Well," said Bessie Alden, " that you would be 
more what I should like to be what I should 
try to be in your place." 
" Ah, my place !" exclaimed Lord Lambeth. 
" You are always talking about my place !" 
The young girl looked at him ; he thought she 
colored a little ; and for a moment she made no 
rejoinder. 
"Does it strike you that I am always talking 
about your place ?" she asked. 
" I am sure you do it a great honor," he said, 
fearing he had been uncivil. 
" I have often thought about it," she went on, 
after a moment. " I have often thought about 
your being a hereditary legislator. A hereditary legislator ought to know a great many 
things." 
" Xot if he doesn 't legislate." 
" But you do legislate ; it 's absurd your saying 
you don 't. You are very much looked up to here 
I am assured of that." 
" I don 't know that I ever noticed it." 
" It is because you are used to it, then. You 
ought to fill the place." 
"How do you mean to fill it?" asked Lord 
Lambeth. 
" You ought to be very clever and brilliant, and 
to know almost every thing." 
  
Lord Lambeth looked at her a moment. 
"Shall I tell you something?" he asked. "A 
young man in my position, as you call it " 
"I didn 't invent the term," interposed Bessie 
Alden. " I have seen it in a great many books." 
" Hang it ! you are always at your books. A 
fellow in my position, then, does very well what 
ever he does. That 's about what I mean to say." 
" Well, if your own people are content with 
you," said Bessie Alden, laughing, " it is not for 
me to complain. But I shall always think that, 
properly, you should have been a great mind a 
great character." 
" Ah, that 's very theoretic," Lord Lambeth declared. " Depend upon it, that 's a Yankee prejudice." 
" Happy the country," said Bessie Alden, 
" where even people 's prejudices are so elevated !" 
" Well, after all," observed Lord Lambeth, " I 
don 't know that I am such a fool as you are trying to make me out." 
" I said nothing so rude as that ; but I must 
repeat that you are disappointing." 
" My dear Miss Alden," exclaimed the young 
man, " I am the best fellow in the world !" 
" Ah, if it were not for that !" said Bessie 
Alden, with a smile. 
Mrs. Westgate had a good many more friends 
in London 'than she pretended, and before long 
she had renewed acquaintance with most of them. 
Their hospitality was extreme, so that, one thing 
leading to another, she began, as the phrase is, to 
go out. Bessie Alden, in this way, saw some 
thing of what she found it a great satisfaction to 
call to herself English society. She went to balls 
and danced, she went to dinners and talked, she 
went to concerts and listened (at concerts Bessie 
always listened), she went to exhibitions and 
wondered. Her enjoyment was keen and her curiosity insatiable, and, grateful in general for all her 
opportunities, she especially prized the privilege 
of meeting certain celebrated persons authors 
and artists, philosophers and statesmen of 
whose renown she had been a humble and distant 
beholder, and who now, as a part of the habitual 
furniture of London drawing-rooms, struck her 
as stars fallen from the firmament and become 
palpable revealing also sometimes, on contact, 
qualities not to have been predicted of sidereal 
bodies. Bessie, who knew so many of her con 
temporaries by reputation, had a good many per 
sonal disappointments ; but, on the other hand, 
she had innumerable satisfactions and enthusiasms, and she communicated the emotions of 
either class to a dear friend, of her own sex, in 
Boston, with whom she was in voluminous correspondence. Some of her reflections, indeed, she 
attempted to impart to Lord Lambeth, who came 
almost every day to Jones 's Hotel, and whom Mrs. 
Westgate admitted to be really devoted. Captain 
Littledale, it appeared, had gone to India ; and of 
several others of Mrs. Westgate 's ex-pensioners 
gentlemen who, as she said, had made, in New 
York, a club-house of her drawing-room no tid 
ings were to be obtained ; but Lord Lambeth was 
certainly attentive enough to make up for the accidental absences, the short memories, all the other 
irregularities, of every one else. He drove them in 
the Park, he took them to visit private collections 
of pictures, and, having a house of his own, in 
vited them to dinner. Mrs. Westgate, following 
the fashion of many of her compatriots, caused 
herself and her sister to be presented at the English court by her diplomatic representative for 
it was in this manner that she alluded to the 
American minister to England, inquiring what 
on earth he was put there for, if not to make 
the proper arrangements for one 's going to a 
Drawing-room. 
Lord Lambeth declared that he hated Drawing- 
rooms, but he participated in the ceremony on 
the day on which the two ladies at Jones 's Hotel 
repaired to Buckingham Palace in a remarkable 
coach which his lordship had sent to fetch them. 
He had on a gorgeous uniform, and Bessie Alden 
was particularly struck with his appearance especially when on her asking him, rather foolishly 
as she felt, if ho were a loyal subject, he replied 
that he was a loyal subject to her. This decla 
ration was emphasized by his dancing with her 
at a royal ball to which the two ladies afterward 
went, and was not impaired by the fact that she 
thought he danced very ill. He seemed to her 
wonderfully kind ; she asked herself, with growing vivacity, why he should be so kind. It was 
his disposition that seemed the natural answer. 
She had told her sister that she liked him very 
much, and now that she liked him more she wondered why. She liked him for his disposition ; 
to this question as well that seemed the natural 
answer. When once the impressions of London 
life began to crowd thickly upon her she completely forgot her sister 's warning about the cyn 
icism of public opinion. It had given her great 
pain at the moment, but there was no particular 
reason why she should remember it ; it corre 
sponded too little with any sensible reality; and 
it was disagreeable to Bessie to remember dis 
agreeable things. So she was not haunted with 
the sense of a vulgar imputation. She was not 
in love with Lord Lambeth she assured herself 
of that. It will immediately be observed that 
  
when such assurances become necessary the 
state of a young lady 's affections is already ambiguous ; and, indeed, Bessie Alden made no attempt to dissimulate to herself, of course a 
certain tenderness that she felt for the young 
nobleman. She said to herself that she liked the 
type to which he belonged the simple, candid, 
manly, healthy English temperament. She spoke 
to herself of him as women speak of young men 
they like alluded to his bravery (which she had 
never in the least seen tested), to his honesty 
and gentlemanliriess, and was not silent upon 
the subject of his good looks. She was perfectly conscious, moreover, that she liked to think of 
his more adventitious merits ; that her imagination was excited and gratified by the sight of a 
handsome young man endowed with such large 
opportunities opportunities she hardly knew for 
what, but, as she supposed, for doing great things 
for setting an example, for exerting an influence, for conferring happiness, for encouraging 
the arts. She had a kind of ideal of conduct for 
a young man who should find himself in this mag 
nificent position, and she tried to adapt it to Lord 
Lambeth 's deportment, as you might attempt to fit 
a silhouette in cut paper upon a shadow projected 
upon a wall. But Bessie Alden 's silhouette refused to coincide with his lordship 's image, and this 
want of harmony sometimes vexed her more than 
she thought reasonable. When he was absent it 
was, of course, less striking ; then he seemed to 
her a sufficiently graceful combination of high responsibilities and amiable qualities. But when he 
sat there within sight, laughing and talking with 
his customary good humor and simplicity, she 
measured it more accurately, and she felt acutely 
that if Lord Lambeth 's position was heroic, there 
was but little of the hero in the young man himself. Then her imagination wandered away from 
him very far away ; for it was an incontestable 
fact that at such moments he seemed distinctly 
dull. I am afraid that while Bessie 's imagination was thus invidiously roaming, she can not 
have been herself a very lively companion ; but 
it may well have been that these occasional fits 
of indifference seemed to Lord Lambeth a part 
of the young girl 's personal charm. It had been 
a part of this charm from the first that he felt 
that she judged him and measured him more 
freely and irresponsibly more at her ease and 
her leisure, as it were than several young ladies 
with whom he had been on the whole about as 
intimate. To feel this, and yet to feel that she 
also liked him, was very agreeable to Lord Lambeth. He fancied he had compassed that gratification so desirable to young men of title and 
  
