" Why, I should think that when a woman was 
relating history " .... Acton answered. "And 
now he wants to break it off ? " 
" They want him to make a political marriage. 
It is his brother's idea. His brother is very 
clever." 
" They must be a precious pair ! " cried Robert 
Acton. 
The Baroness gave a little philosophic shrug. 
" Que voulez-vous? They are princes. They 
think they are treating me very well. Silberstadt 
is a perfectly despotic little state, and the Reign- 
ing Prince may annul the marriage by a stroke of 
his pen. But he has promised me, nevertheless, 
not to do so without my formal consent." 
" And this you have refused ? " 
" Hitherto. It is an indignity, and I have 
wished at least to make it difficult for them. 
But I have a little document in my writing-desk 
   
which I have only to sign and send back to the 
Prince." 
" Then it will be all over ? " 
The Baroness lifted her hand, and dropped it 
again. " Of course I shall keep my title; at least, 
I shall be at liberty to keep it if I choose. And I 
suppose I shall keep it. One must have a name. 
And I shall keep my pension. It is very small 
it is wretchedly small ; but it is what I live on." 
" And you have only to sign that paper ? " 
Acton asked. 
The Baroness looked at him a moment. " Do 
you urge it ? " 
He got up slowly, and stood with his hands in 
his pockets. " What do you gain by not doing 
it?" 
" I am supposed to gain this advantage that 
if I delay, or temporize, the Prince may come 
back to me, may make a stand against his brother. 
He is very fond of me, and his brother has pushed 
him only little by little." 
" If he were to come back to you," said Acton, 
" would you would you take him back ? " 
The Baroness met his eyes ; she colored just a 
little. Then she rose. " I should have the sat- 
isfaction of saying, 4 Now it is my turn. I break 
with your serene highness ! ' : 
They began to walk toward the carriage. 
 
" Well," said Robert Acton, " it 's a curious 
story ! How did you make his acquaintance ? " 
" I was staying with an old lady an old 
Countess in Dresden. She had been a friend 
of my father's. My father was dead ; I was very 
much alone. My brother was wandering about 
the world in a theatrical troupe." 
" Your brother ought to have stayed with you," 
Acton observed, " and kept you from putting your 
trust in princes." 
The Baroness was silent a moment, and then, 
" He did what he could," she said. " He sent me 
money. The old Countess encouraged the Prince ; 
she was even pressing. It seems to me," Mad- 
ame Minister added, gently, " that under the 
circumstances I behaved very well." 
Acton glanced at her, and made the observa- 
tion he had made it before that a woman 
looks the prettier for having unfolded her wrongs 
or her sufferings. " Well," he reflected, audibly, 
" I should like to see you send his serene highness 
somewhere ! " 
Madame Miinster stooped and plucked a daisy 
from the grass. "And not sign my renuncia- 
tion ? " 
"Well, I don't know I don't know," said 
Acton. 
 
" In one case I should have my revenge ; in 
another case I should have my liberty." 
Acton gave a little laugh as he helped her into 
the carriage. " At any rate," he said, " take good 
care of that paper." 
A couple of days afterward he asked her to 
come and see his house. The visit had already 
been proposed, but it had been put off in conse- 
quence of his mother's illness. She was a constant 
invalid, and she had passed these recent years, 
very patiently, in a great flowered arm-chair at 
her bedroom window. Lately, for some days, she 
had been unable to see any one ; but now she 
was better, and she sent the Baroness a very civil 
message. Acton had wished their visitor to come 
to dinner ; but Madame Miinster preferred to be- 
gin with a simple call. She had reflected that if 
she should go to dinner Mr. Wentworth and his 
daughters would also be asked, and it had seemed 
to her that the peculiar character of the occasion 
would be best preserved in a tete-d-tete with her 
host. Why the occasion should have a peculiar 
character she explained to no one. As far as any 
one could see, it was simply very pleasant. Acton 
came for her and drove her to his door, an oper- 
ation which was rapidly performed. His house 
the Baroness mentally pronounced a very good 
one ; more articulately, she declared that it was 
 
enchanting. It was large and square and painted 
brown; it stood in a well-kept shrubbery, and 
was approached, from the gate, by a short drive. 
It was, moreover, a much more modern dwelling 
than Mr. Wentworth's, and was more redundantly 
upholstered and expensively ornamented. The 
Baroness perceived that her entertainer had ana- 
lyzed material comfort to a sufficiently fine point. 
And then he possessed the most delightful chi- 
noiseries trophies of his sojourn in the Celestial 
Empire : pagodas of ebony and cabinets of ivo- 
ry ; sculptured monsters, grinning and leering on 
chimney-pieces, in front of beautifully figured 
hand-screens ; porcelain dinner-sets, gleaming be- 
hind the glass doors of mahogany buffets ; large 
screens, in corners, covered with tense silk and 
embroidered with mandarins and dragons. These 
things were scattered all over the house, and they 
gave Eugenia a pretext for a complete domiciliary 
visit. She liked it, she enjoyed it ; she thought 
it a very nice place. It had a mixture of the 
homely and the liberal, and though it was almost 
a museum, the large, little-used rooms were as 
fresh and clean as a well-kept dairy. Lizzie Ac- 
ton told her that she dusted all the pagodas and 
other curiosities every day with her own hands ; 
and the Baroness answered that she was evidently 
a household fairy. Lizzie had not at all the look 
   
of a young lady who dusted things ; she wore such 
pretty dresses and had such delicate fingers that 
it was difficult to imagine her immersed in sordid 
cares. She came to meet Madame Minister on 
her arrival, but she said nothing, or almost noth- 
ing, and the Baroness again reflected she had 
had occasion to do so before that American 
girls had no manners. She disliked this little 
American girl, and she was quite prepared to 
learn that she had failed to commend herself to 
Miss Acton. Lizzie struck her as positive and 
explicit almost to pertness; and the idea of her 
combining the apparent incongruities of a taste 
for housework and the wearing of fresh, Parisian- 
looking dresses suggested the possession of a dan- 
gerous energy. It was a source of irritation to 
the Baroness that in this country it should seem 
to matter whether a little girl were a trifle less 
or a trifle more of a nonentity ; for Eugenia had 
hitherto been conscious of no moral pressure as 
regards the appreciation of diminutive virgins. 
It was perhaps an indication of Lizzie's pertness 
that she very soon retired and left the Baroness 
on her brother's hands. Acton talked a great 
deal about his chinoiseries ; he knew a good deal 
about porcelain and bric-a-brac. The Baroness, 
in her progress through the house, made, as it 
were, a great many stations. She sat down every- 
 
where, confessed to being a little tired, and asked 
about the various objects with a curious mixture 
of alertness and inattention. If there had been 
any one to say it to she would have declared that 
she was positively in love with her host ; but she 
could hardly make this declaration even in the 
strictest confidence to Acton himself. It gave 
her, nevertheless, a pleasure that had some of the 
charm of unwontedness to feel, with that admira- 
ble keenness with which she was capable of feeling 
things, that he had a disposition without any 
edges ; that even his humorous irony always ex- 
panded toward the point. One's impression of 
his honesty was almost like carrying a bunch of 
flowers ; the perfume was most agreeable, but 
they were occasionally an inconvenience. One 
could trust him, at any rate, round all the corners 
of the world ; and, withal, he was not absolutely 
simple, which would have been excess ; he was 
only relatively simple, which was quite enough 
for the Baroness. 
Lizzie reappeared to say that her mother would 
now be happy to receive Madame Minister ; and 
the Baroness followed her to Mrs. Acton's apart- 
ment. Eugenia reflected, as she went, that it was 
not the affectation of impertinence that made her 
dislike this young lady, for on that ground she 
could easily have beaten her. It was not an as- 
   
piration on the girl's part to rivalry, but a kind 
of laughing, childishly-mocking indifference to the 
results of comparison. Mrs. Acton was an emaci- 
ated, sweet-faced woman of five and fifty, sitting 
with pillows behind her, and looking out on a 
clump of hemlocks. She was very modest, very 
timid, and very ill ; she made Eugenia feel grate- 
