"That is a good idea. I will write to-day so as to catch the next
steamer, and I will also speak to John."
Tom had to shake Dick Russell energetically before that young man opened
his eyes.
"What's the matter?" he ejaculated, drowsily.
"Don't you want some breakfast?" asked Tom.
"Oh, it's you, Tom! Yes, you have touched the right chord. I have a
first-class appetite--and no money," he added, his face clouding.
"Mr. Ferguson is treasurer," said Tom, lightly, wishing to divert
Russell from the thoughts of his heavy loss, and the folly to which he
owed it; "but we know very little of the city. Can you guide us to a
good restaurant?"
"To a good one, but not a cheap one. Everything is high here."
"Then it is fortunate we are going to leave so soon."
In a small restaurant, on Montgomery street, our three friends partook
of a hearty breakfast. It might not have attracted an epicure, but
neither of the three was fastidious; and, though the charge was five
dollars, Ferguson, economical as he was, paid the bill cheerfully. It
was the first "civilized" breakfast he had eaten for months, and it
might be months before he would be able to partake of another as good.
"I wish we could breakfast like this at the mines," said Tom.
"So say I," chimed in Dick Russell; "but you know that the gold-hunter
must sacrifice home comforts."
"I shan't complain of that, if I can do as well as you did," said Tom.
"I see no reason why you can't. There is plenty of gold there, and all
that is needed is work and perseverance."
"I am willing to contribute them," said Tom. "I mean to do my best to
succeed."
"None of us can do more, my lad," said Ferguson. "Let us hope that God
will prosper our undertakings."
"I say, I am glad I have met with you two," said Dick Russell. "You'll
keep me on the right track; and, in spite of my past folly, I hope in
time to win success."
"I am glad to hear you speak so sensibly, my young friend," said the
Scotchman, kindly. "It's a great deal better to put your back to the
wheel once more, than to take the life God gave you."
"Don't speak of that again, Mr. Ferguson," said Russell, shuddering. "I
don't like to think of it."
"He'll do," thought Ferguson, with satisfaction. "His mind is now in a
healthy condition, and I have great hopes of him."
The rest of the day was devoted to the purchase of supplies. Ferguson
also bought a mule, in behalf of the party, which was of service in
carrying a part of their burdens. It was not until afternoon that Tom
found an opportunity to call on John Miles, and acquaint him with his
almost immediate departure.
"I am sorry you are going away so soon, Tom," said Miles. "I thought you
would stay at least a week."
"So I would if I were not so anxious to be at work once more. You know
how my father is situated, John, for I have told you more than once."
"Yes, Tom; but I see no reason why you should feel uneasy. With the help
you are to send him, there will be no trouble about his paying his
interest regularly."
"I know that, John; but I shall feel uneasy until the mortgage is paid
off, and he is out of Squire Hudson's power."
"For how long a time has the farm your father owns been encumbered with
this mortgage?"
"For ten years, at least."
"Is the mortgage for any specified term of years?"
"I don't think so."
"It merely runs from year to year then?"
"I suppose so."
"In that case this Squire Hudson could foreclose at any time, could he
not?"
"Yes," answered Tom, soberly.
"Don't make yourself uneasy about it, however," said Miles, observing
that Tom seemed apprehensive. "As your father's farm is not particularly
valuable, there can be no danger of foreclosure. By the way, wouldn't
you like to have me remit your father something next month out of the
profits of the business?--I can charge it to your account."
"I am glad you mentioned it, John. You may send him fifty or
seventy-five dollars, if my share should amount to so much."
"I will."
"And I am going to have my home letters directed to your care. You can
forward them to me whenever you have an opportunity."
"I won't fail, Tom. If there is anything you need sent out to you, you
have only to write me, and I will attend to your commissions."
"It is very convenient to have an agent in the city," said John,
smiling. "I shall feel much more comfortable out at the mines."
"I wish you good luck, Tom; but remember, even if you don't succeed in
your search for gold, I shall be making money for you here."
"You make me feel quite like a capitalist, John."
"I hope you may be one some day. Good-by!"
They shook hands and parted. Before night-fall Tom had started on his
new journey in quest of gold.
CHAPTER XXV.
WHITEFACE.
Mark Nelson missed sorely the cow which he had been compelled to yield
to the squire on account of default of interest. Whiteface was his best
cow, and a great favorite with all the children. She gave nearly as much
milk as the other two, and had been one of the main dependences of the
family. It was worth considerably more than the thirty dollars for which
the squire took it; but he insisted upon that and no other, and
Whiteface had to go.
Six months had passed, and there seemed to be very little chance of
redeeming the lost cow. Squire Hudson had agreed to give her back on
payment of the balance due, with accrued interest; but neither he nor
Mark Nelson expected that such an offer would be made.
"I was passing Squire Hudson's to-day, and saw poor Whiteface," said
Walter, one evening. "I think she knew me, for when I called her she
lowed back."
"I wish we had her back," said Sarah. "It was heartless in the squire to
take her. He had a dozen cows of his own."
"He hasn't any heart," said Walter, "or, if he has, it must be pretty
small."
"We must not forget that he was entitled to some security for the
balance of interest I owe him," said the farmer.
"The cow was worth a good deal more than thirty dollars," said Sarah.
"Yes, she was; but I am not sure whether I could have got any more money
for her at a forced sale. Then you know the squire is pledged to give
her back whenever I can pay him the thirty dollars, with interest."
"I wish you could pay it now, father," said Walter.
"So do I, my boy; but I cannot, unless your brother sends me some
money."
"It is three weeks since we have heard from Tom," said Mrs. Nelson,
anxiously. "I am afraid he is sick."
"Don't worry yourself with imaginary fears, Mary," said her husband.
"Tom may be sick, of course; but he is strong and healthy, and we won't
fear such a thing without some ground. Probably a letter is on the way
from him now."
"I hope he is making money," said Walter. "I wish I were with him."
"I would never consent to have you go too," said Mrs. Nelson, hastily.
"I don't think Walter seriously thinks of asking leave," said Mr.
Nelson, smiling. "As he is only thirteen years old, I should be inclined
to object myself. I must have him at home to help me with the farm."
"I should be perfectly contented to stay at home if we had Whiteface
back," said Walter. "I've a great mind to steal her out of the squire's
yard. I bet she'd be glad to come."
"Don't speak in that way, Walter," said his father. "I dislike to have
you speak of stealing, even in fun."
At this moment there was a knock at the front door. Farmer Nelson's
house was an old-fashioned one, and not provided with a bell.
"Go to the door, Sarah," said her father.
Sarah obeyed.
"Good-evening, Nahum," she said to the village expressman.
"I've got a small package for your folks," said Nahum. "It's marked all
over. Guess it came from Californy."
"It must be from Tom," exclaimed Sarah, in delight.
"That's what I thought," said the expressman, who knew everybody in the
village, and could probably give a fairly correct list of their sisters,
cousins, and aunts, with a fair guess at their worldly circumstances.
"Is there anything to pay, Nahum?"
"Only fifty cents,--the expressage from Boston. Never mind about it now,
for I'm in a hurry. Your father can hand it to me next time he sees me."
"O father, here's a package from Tom," said Sarah, hurrying into the
room where they were all sitting.
"Open it quick," said Walter. "See if there's any money in it."
The cord was cut, and a small box was disclosed containing a hundred
dollars in gold pieces and a line from Tom, stating that he was doing
well, and that he hoped soon to send some more money.
"A hundred dollars! What a lot of money!" exclaimed Walter, gazing on
the little pile of coins as if fascinated.
"I am so glad the dear boy is doing well," said Mrs. Nelson.
"Now we can have Whiteface back, can't we, father?" asked Walter,
joyfully.
"Yes, Walter," said Mark Nelson, almost as excited as his son. "I will
go over the first thing in the morning."
"Can't we go over this evening?" asked Walter, impatiently.
"No, it is dark, and Whiteface is stalled for the night."
"You'll have seventy dollars left over, father, won't you?"
"Yes; and that will provide for my next interest. I feel grateful and
happy at Tom's success and his thoughtfulness."
Could Tom have seen the effect of his remittance it would have made his
heart glad, and he would have felt abundantly repaid for his labor and
self-denial.
CHAPTER XXVI.
SQUIRE HUDSON'S DISAPPOINTMENT.
If Whiteface was missed at her old home, she was scarcely less
appreciated by her new possessor. On the very morning succeeding the day
when Tom's remittance was received the squire remarked to his head
workman, "Whiteface is an excellent cow, Abner."
"Yes, squire, I calculate she's the best you've got."
"I don't know but she is, Abner," said the squire, complacently. "I
consider her worth at least fifty dollars."
"So she is, every cent of it."
"And she cost me only thirty," thought Squire Hudson, with a smile of
content.
He was a rich man, and abundantly able to pay his poor neighbor the full
value of the cow; but somehow it never occurred to him to do it. He was
not above taking an unfair advantage of a man who was unluckily in his
power. Of course the squire knew that Farmer Nelson had a right to
redeem the cow at the price agreed upon with interest; but he felt
pretty safe on this point. The farmer was not very likely to have thirty
dollars to spare, and as for a remittance from Tom the squire was pretty
sure none would be received.
"It'll be all the boy can do to take care of himself out there," he
reflected, "let alone sending money home. He may send ten dollars or so
some time; but it's very doubtful, very doubtful!"
Squire Hudson turned to go back to the house when he saw the man of whom
he had been thinking coming up the road. He stopped short, thinking the
farmer might wish to speak to him.
"Good-morning, Mr. Nelson," he said, pleasantly, for he was in
good-humor.
"Good-morning, squire."
"Your Whiteface has got to feel quite at home in my barn-yard."
"She is a good cow, Squire Hudson."
"Yes, tolerable, tolerable."
"She is worth more than the thirty dollars for which you took her."
"Well, I don't know about that. Cows are pretty cheap nowadays."
"I see how it is," thought the squire. "Nelson wants me to allow him
more for the cow; but a bargain is a bargain, and I shan't do it."
