keep the books, and take the money as she was quite a scholar. Several
of the mill-hands went over immediately for their lunches. Such splendid
wheat, rye, and Graham bread, spread already, and brought on a clean
plate! A nice bite for three cents, and a solid meal for six. Sylvie was
to go down now and then, of a morning, to keep matters straight.
"There is one entering-wedge in the cause of temperance," she remarked,
in her piquant way. "Only, Jack, it does not seem quite right for us
women to take the credit of it. I confess, among all my plans, there has
been nothing like this."
"I would rather not be openly connected with it," and Jack made a queer
little grimace. "By and by I may have to do some real fighting on my own
account, and I don't want too many vulnerable points. Human nature is
rather queer and cranky, as you have, no doubt, observed by this time."
"But I do not see why any one should want to fight against your good
work, Jack," said Sylvie, with an indignant flush. "I am sure it is no
light undertaking to provide all these people with work; and everybody
ought to strengthen your hands, instead of putting obstacles in the
way."
"I must be prepared for all things."
Maverick was very enthusiastic over the coffee-house. It was a new
institution in Yerbury. There had been in good times several so-called
cheap lunch-rooms, but the fare was invariably poor.
"Keppler will be your first enemy, and your worst one," said the doctor
with a shrewd smile.
"Very well. He must fight Miss Barry and Miss Morgan. I did send a man
to do some work, but Miss Barry paid the bills. I keep my hands out of
it altogether."
"Good for you, Jack. And how does business progress?"
"I am dubious," and Jack shook his head in a mock-serious way. "There is
too much rose-color. Every thing works to a charm. Whether people really
have learned something by the hard times, remains to be seen; but it
looks so now. And we couldn't have a better working firm. Owen Cameron
is the same kind of a man that Miss Morgan is for a woman, not stingy
here and wasteful there, but a thorough-going economist. Every week he
makes a little saving somewhere. It is what we needed to learn, badly
enough. He manages to make the men understand that every penny saved is
for the benefit of all, that a yard of cloth or a pound of wool spoiled
is to the loss of all. And that is the only way to settle this business,
this everlasting wrangle between labor and capital."
Amos Hurd and Peter Yardley used to talk over the other scheme of a
co-operative store. It would not do to have too many irons in the fire
in such times as these, when no one had any great deal of money. But it
did seem as if poor people were paying at the dearest rate for every
thing, partly because they asked for trust, and the only man willing to
trust them to any extent kept a very full line of second or third rate
articles, but the prices did not always correspond.
"Now, there's coal," said Yardley one evening. "At the trade-sale it
went up ten cents a ton on the average. Our dealers here, who had their
yards full, put up their prices from twenty to thirty cents. I know, on
the other hand, if coal takes a sudden tumble, they may lose; but, after
watching this thing for years, I find the prices go up five times with
full yards, where they fall once. Now, I was thinking, when coal was
bought for the mill, some extra car-loads might be ordered for the men."
"Yes," and Hurd opened his eyes widely. "Let us talk to Darcy about it."
Jack listened to their proposal with a sudden interest.
"It will be some trouble to you," he answered. "It is not as thoroughly
screened, and there is the delivering. The men cannot carry it home in
market-baskets."
"I don't know about the screening," said Yardley rather grimly. "When
you clean up your bin, and find several bushels of sand and refuse out
of five or six tons, you think half of it, at least, ought to have been
good burning-coal. And in wholesale buying you get long tons."
"I can do it as well as not," replied Jack. "In fact,"--laughingly,--"it
will rather redound to my credit to order largely, and we have a
somewhat extensive coal-shed. But you must look up one or two men who
will cart it, and a man to screen; and, when you have counted up your
labor, decide upon what price you can offer your coal. Perhaps it would
be as well to canvass, and learn how many tons you can dispose of."
The workmen had their own board of managers, of which Yardley had been
elected president. They generally met every week, and now Yardley laid
this matter before them. There would be an average saving, he thought,
of two dollars on every ton, but the coal must be paid for in thirty
days. If the men chose to leave one or two dollars every Monday night
(for Darcy had wisely made Monday instead of Saturday pay-day) they
might give in an order for one or two or even three tons.
Meanwhile Peter Yardley found some thorns even in his path. A good,
stout Irish lad was willing to do the screening at a dollar per day; but
when he spoke to several carters, who were not busy half the time, to a
man they stuck to their regular price, fifty cents per ton. Not one of
them would work by the day.
"I can fix that just right," declared one of the men. "My wife's brother
has a heavy wagon and two mules. He used to do carting for the
iron-mills, and since then he has had mostly catch-jobs. He owns a
little place over on the creek-road; and I know he will be glad enough
to do it, and maybe take part of his pay in coal."
Seth Williams was hunted up. He would come, and bring his son who would
help about loading, for two dollars and a half a day. There were
seventy-odd tons subscribed for, but they decided to make their order
one hundred tons. Coal was selling at six dollars and a half per ton at
Yerbury. After due calculation, they offered theirs to the men at four.
It came duly to hand. After the first day, Williams hired another team
on his own account, and his son drove one to its destination, making
thereby extra time. Before the seventy tons had been delivered, the
remainder was bespoken. They found when it had all been disposed of, and
their workmen paid, that they had counted very closely, but there was a
small balance on hand. This was deposited in the bank as a nucleus for a
co-operative store as soon as there might be sufficient capital to
warrant it. This, at least, had been a success. So many of the poorer
class of Yerbury were not able to pay for the last ton of coal until
they ordered again, being always that much behind.
Yardley was quite jubilant over his scheme.
"You forget that in this you and Hurd have received nothing for your
trouble," said Darcy. "Then," smilingly, "you have no bad debts to count
out. Still only a philanthropist can do business this way. If you were
the proprietor of a coal-yard, you could not afford it."
"I think I have something for my trouble, Mr. Darcy," the man answered
proudly. "I have saved ten dollars on my four tons of coal, and that
surely pays me."
They were doing moderately well at the mill. Several orders had come in
from old buyers; and now Winston started out on a travelling tour, being
admirably fitted for that part of the business. At the West he managed
to talk two large wool-dealers into a trade; they taking cloth of
various grades in exchange, and disposing of it to the best of their
ability.
"A regular old-fashioned barter," he wrote to Maverick. "It took a good
deal of talking, to be sure, but I'm never the worse for that. They were
pleased to get a fair price for their wool, and I lost nothing on my
cloth. It clears out the stock, and keeps the men busy."
Indeed, Hope Mills was doing a great thing for Yerbury. There was a
brisker air on the streets, a kind of inspiring music in the whir and
clatter, that spoke of food and warmth and raiment. Good feeling and
sympathy had been touched; and though some of the workmen, who were
harassed by back debts, looked rather ruefully at their small weekly
pittance, still it was so much better than no money and no employment.
At the Darcys they held what Sylvie laughingly called "symposiums." The
churches were organizing their winter work, for there would be need
enough. The few who had found employment merely made a ripple on the
surface. Some who had stretched out their scanty means the past year now
found themselves penniless. Others had tramped about the neighboring
towns and cities, getting a few weeks' work here and there, but had no
fancy for facing winter in this precarious manner. The hopeful feeling
animating so many in the early autumn died out again. It was feared
that we had not seen the worst of the panic.
To Sylvie, who the preceding winter had been engrossed in art-studies
and delightful social life, the want and misery were appalling. She and
Miss Morgan did organize a visiting-society according to an idea of Dr.
Maverick's; and though they alleviated many cases of distress, and were
the better able to distinguish who were worthy, still they increased
upon their hands.
"I begin to realize that poor people do not make the best of their
money," she said. "They do not know how to prepare dishes that shall be
cheap and palatable. And, worst of all, many of them cannot cook a
potato so that it shall be fit to eat."
"The weak point of this world, Miss Sylvie," said Dr. Maverick. "When
women learn to make good bread and cook potatoes, there will be a
decrease of one-half in dyspepsia. Now, what is the secret of the
potatoes? Come, air your ideas! Give me a recipe, and I will take it
around among my patients. I advise them pretty generally to bake them,
but I find some soggy and watery even then."
"Overdone," said Miss Morgan briefly.
"Well, state the exact time."
The women looked at each other, and laughed.
"From twenty minutes to half an hour," said Mrs. Darcy. "Some kinds boil
easier than others. For baking, three-quarters to an hour."
"But the infallible test?"
"Watchfulness," said Jane.
"I must admit that you seem to understand it thoroughly, judging from
the specimens I have seen and eaten. But are you not a little chary in
your information?" and he glanced from one to another.
"Miss Morgan shall be first spokeswoman," declared Sylvie gayly.
"If it is a boiled potato," began Jane sententiously, as if she were a
child speaking a piece, "I put mine in the saucepan, and pour hot water
over them, as they come to a boil sooner, taking care that they shall be
as nearly of a size as possible. In about twenty minutes I try an
average potato. If I can stick a fork through it nicely, it is done.
Then I pour off the water, letting it drain until every drop is gone,
when I shake up the lot two or three times rather hard and quick, stand
them on the back of the stove with the cover partly off, so that the
steam may escape; and you have a dry, light, flaky potato, unless it was
irremediably bad to begin with. I have sometimes boiled new and rather
small potatoes in twelve minutes over a good fire. But cooking, like
liberty, has the same high price, eternal vigilance."
Maverick laughed. "I shall remember this," he exclaimed. "You will yet
hear of me teaching some of my poor patients to cook potatoes. Heaven
knows there is enough need of it. Wasn't there some talk of a school for
useful arts?"
"Yes," answered Sylvie, "only there was no money to start with, and we
have all been so busy."
"What would be needed?"
"Imprimis: a room, a cooking-stove, a fire, a cook, and some
materials," replied Sylvie with merry audacity.
How pretty and bright she was! He liked to watch her in these changeful
moods. One great charm of this place was finding her here so frequently.
"And Mr. Darcy has been so much engrossed with weightier matters," she
continued in a half apology.
"I really think I ought to be more interested in this question than Mr.
Darcy. It supplements my work. While cheap living is an imperative
necessity in times of depression and low wages, I cannot see why we do
not make it more of a study. While we are so ready to copy the vices of
our French neighbors, perhaps their virtues would do us no harm. A
doctor often finds himself quite nonplussed by something in the
preparation of the patient's diet. The old doctrine preached years ago,
on St. Paul's text of 'keeping the body under,' has worked as much
damage as the asceticism of the middle ages. A good healthy body is the
first requisite everywhere; and to keep it so, every one's first duty.
When men began to consider the body a poor, vile thing, to be treated
with contumely, and fed with what would just sustain life, they offered
an outrage to the highest work of God. When people think it is no matter
what they eat, and that no pains need be taken in the preparation, they
have made a big lapse toward heathenism. Confusion of the physical
