“And what is the evidence you have offered?” asked Winterbourne, rather
annoyed at Miss Miller’s want of appreciation of the zeal of an admirer
who on his way down to Rome had stopped neither at Bologna nor at
Florence, simply because of a certain sentimental impatience. He
remembered that a cynical compatriot had once told him that American
women--the pretty ones, and this gave a largeness to the axiom--were at
once the most exacting in the world and the least endowed with a sense
of indebtedness.

“Why, you were awfully mean at Vevey,” said Daisy. “You wouldn’t do
anything. You wouldn’t stay there when I asked you.”

“My dearest young lady,” cried Winterbourne, with eloquence, “have I
come all the way to Rome to encounter your reproaches?”

“Just hear him say that!” said Daisy to her hostess, giving a twist to a
bow on this lady’s dress. “Did you ever hear anything so quaint?”

“So quaint, my dear?” murmured Mrs. Walker in the tone of a partisan of
Winterbourne.

“Well, I don’t know,” said Daisy, fingering Mrs. Walker’s ribbons. “Mrs.
Walker, I want to tell you something.”

“Mother-r,” interposed Randolph, with his rough ends to his words, “I
tell you you’ve got to go. Eugenio’ll raise--something!”

“I’m not afraid of Eugenio,” said Daisy with a toss of her head. “Look
here, Mrs. Walker,” she went on, “you know I’m coming to your party.”

“I am delighted to hear it.”

“I’ve got a lovely dress!”

“I am very sure of that.”

“But I want to ask a favor--permission to bring a friend.”

“I shall be happy to see any of your friends,” said Mrs. Walker, turning
with a smile to Mrs. Miller.

“Oh, they are not my friends,” answered Daisy’s mamma, smiling shyly in
her own fashion. “I never spoke to them.”

“It’s an intimate friend of mine--Mr. Giovanelli,” said Daisy without
a tremor in her clear little voice or a shadow on her brilliant little
face.

Mrs. Walker was silent a moment; she gave a rapid glance at
Winterbourne. “I shall be glad to see Mr. Giovanelli,” she then said.

“He’s an Italian,” Daisy pursued with the prettiest serenity. “He’s a
great friend of mine; he’s the handsomest man in the world--except Mr.
Winterbourne! He knows plenty of Italians, but he wants to know some
Americans. He thinks ever so much of Americans. He’s tremendously
clever. He’s perfectly lovely!”

It was settled that this brilliant personage should be brought to Mrs.
Walker’s party, and then Mrs. Miller prepared to take her leave. “I
guess we’ll go back to the hotel,” she said.

“You may go back to the hotel, Mother, but I’m going to take a walk,”
 said Daisy.

“She’s going to walk with Mr. Giovanelli,” Randolph proclaimed.

“I am going to the Pincio,” said Daisy, smiling.

“Alone, my dear--at this hour?” Mrs. Walker asked. The afternoon was
drawing to a close--it was the hour for the throng of carriages and of
contemplative pedestrians. “I don’t think it’s safe, my dear,” said Mrs.
Walker.

“Neither do I,” subjoined Mrs. Miller. “You’ll get the fever, as sure as
you live. Remember what Dr. Davis told you!”

“Give her some medicine before she goes,” said Randolph.

The company had risen to its feet; Daisy, still showing her pretty
teeth, bent over and kissed her hostess. “Mrs. Walker, you are too
perfect,” she said. “I’m not going alone; I am going to meet a friend.”

“Your friend won’t keep you from getting the fever,” Mrs. Miller
observed.

“Is it Mr. Giovanelli?” asked the hostess.

Winterbourne was watching the young girl; at this question his attention
quickened. She stood there, smiling and smoothing her bonnet ribbons;
she glanced at Winterbourne. Then, while she glanced and smiled, she
answered, without a shade of hesitation, “Mr. Giovanelli--the beautiful
Giovanelli.”

“My dear young friend,” said Mrs. Walker, taking her hand pleadingly,
“don’t walk off to the Pincio at this hour to meet a beautiful Italian.”

“Well, he speaks English,” said Mrs. Miller.

“Gracious me!” Daisy exclaimed, “I don’t to do anything improper.
There’s an easy way to settle it.” She continued to glance at
Winterbourne. “The Pincio is only a hundred yards distant; and if Mr.
Winterbourne were as polite as he pretends, he would offer to walk with
me!”

Winterbourne’s politeness hastened to affirm itself, and the young girl
gave him gracious leave to accompany her. They passed downstairs
before her mother, and at the door Winterbourne perceived Mrs. Miller’s
carriage drawn up, with the ornamental courier whose acquaintance he had
made at Vevey seated within. “Goodbye, Eugenio!” cried Daisy; “I’m going
to take a walk.” The distance from the Via Gregoriana to the beautiful
garden at the other end of the Pincian Hill is, in fact, rapidly
traversed. As the day was splendid, however, and the concourse of
vehicles, walkers, and loungers numerous, the young Americans found
their progress much delayed. This fact was highly agreeable to
Winterbourne, in spite of his consciousness of his singular situation.
The slow-moving, idly gazing Roman crowd bestowed much attention upon
the extremely pretty young foreign lady who was passing through it upon
his arm; and he wondered what on earth had been in Daisy’s mind when
she proposed to expose herself, unattended, to its appreciation. His own
mission, to her sense, apparently, was to consign her to the hands
of Mr. Giovanelli; but Winterbourne, at once annoyed and gratified,
resolved that he would do no such thing.

“Why haven’t you been to see me?” asked Daisy. “You can’t get out of
that.”

“I have had the honor of telling you that I have only just stepped out
of the train.”

“You must have stayed in the train a good while after it stopped!” cried
the young girl with her little laugh. “I suppose you were asleep. You
have had time to go to see Mrs. Walker.”

“I knew Mrs. Walker--” Winterbourne began to explain.

“I know where you knew her. You knew her at Geneva. She told me so.
Well, you knew me at Vevey. That’s just as good. So you ought to have
come.” She asked him no other question than this; she began to prattle
about her own affairs. “We’ve got splendid rooms at the hotel; Eugenio
says they’re the best rooms in Rome. We are going to stay all winter,
if we don’t die of the fever; and I guess we’ll stay then. It’s a great
deal nicer than I thought; I thought it would be fearfully quiet; I was
sure it would be awfully poky. I was sure we should be going round
all the time with one of those dreadful old men that explain about the
pictures and things. But we only had about a week of that, and now
I’m enjoying myself. I know ever so many people, and they are all so
charming. The society’s extremely select. There are all kinds--English,
and Germans, and Italians. I think I like the English best. I like their
style of conversation. But there are some lovely Americans. I never saw
anything so hospitable. There’s something or other every day. There’s
not much dancing; but I must say I never thought dancing was everything.
I was always fond of conversation. I guess I shall have plenty at Mrs.
Walker’s, her rooms are so small.” When they had passed the gate of the
Pincian Gardens, Miss Miller began to wonder where Mr. Giovanelli might
be. “We had better go straight to that place in front,” she said, “where
you look at the view.”

“I certainly shall not help you to find him,” Winterbourne declared.

“Then I shall find him without you,” cried Miss Daisy.

“You certainly won’t leave me!” cried Winterbourne.

She burst into her little laugh. “Are you afraid you’ll get lost--or run
over? But there’s Giovanelli, leaning against that tree. He’s staring at
the women in the carriages: did you ever see anything so cool?”

Winterbourne perceived at some distance a little man standing with
folded arms nursing his cane. He had a handsome face, an artfully poised
hat, a glass in one eye, and a nosegay in his buttonhole. Winterbourne
looked at him a moment and then said, “Do you mean to speak to that
man?”

“Do I mean to speak to him? Why, you don’t suppose I mean to communicate
by signs?”

“Pray understand, then,” said Winterbourne, “that I intend to remain
with you.”

Daisy stopped and looked at him, without a sign of troubled
consciousness in her face, with nothing but the presence of her charming
eyes and her happy dimples. “Well, she’s a cool one!” thought the young
man.

“I don’t like the way you say that,” said Daisy. “It’s too imperious.”

“I beg your pardon if I say it wrong. The main point is to give you an
idea of my meaning.”

The young girl looked at him more gravely, but with eyes that were
prettier than ever. “I have never allowed a gentleman to dictate to me,
or to interfere with anything I do.”

“I think you have made a mistake,” said Winterbourne. “You should
sometimes listen to a gentleman--the right one.”

Daisy began to laugh again. “I do nothing but listen to gentlemen!” she
exclaimed. “Tell me if Mr. Giovanelli is the right one?”

The gentleman with the nosegay in his bosom had now perceived our two
