"Have you any particular instructions to give me?" asked Frank.
"No, only to follow Haynes, and find out all you can about him. Use
great care in doing it, not to arouse his or any one else's suspicion. I
will find an opportunity for you to make your reports."
"Very well, sir."
       *       *       *       *       *
When Frank got home, he found a letter awaiting him from his country
home. It was in answer to one which he had written to his uncle, Deacon
Pelatiah Kavanagh, in reference to a trunk which had belonged to his
father.
This is the letter:--
     MY DEAR NEPHEW,--I am glad to learn that you are making a living in
     the city. It is much better that you should earn your own living
     than to be a burden upon me, though of course I would not see you
     suffer. But a man's duty is to his own household, and my income
     from the farm is very small, and Hannah and I agreed that we had
     little to spare for others.
     There is an old trunk, belonging to your deceased father, in the
     attic. It contains some old clothes, which may be made over for
     you, and so save you expense. I would use them myself, and allow
     you for them, but your father was a much smaller man than I, and
     his clothes would not fit me. I will send the trunk by express to
     the address which you gave me. Of course I shall expect you to pay
     the express, as I have no interest in it, or its contents.
     Your cousin Jonathan has left school, and is working on the farm. I
     feel so glad that he has no extravagant tastes, but inherits the
     careful and economical habits of his mother and myself. I am sure
     he will never waste or squander the little property which I hope to
     leave him.
"I don't believe he will," thought Frank, "for he is about as mean as
his mother, and that is saying a good deal."
     Your aunt and I hope that you will steer clear of the temptations
     of the city. Do not seek after vain amusements, but live a sober
     life, never spending a cent unnecessarily, and you will in time
     become a prosperous man. I would invite you to come and stop with
     us over Sunday, but for the railroad fare, which is high. It will
     be better to save your money, and put off the visit till you can
     afford it.
     Your uncle,
     PELATIAH KAVANAGH.
Reading this letter, it would hardly be supposed that the writer owned
ten thousand dollars in stocks, bonds, and mortgages, over and above an
excellent farm. Such, however, was the worldly position of the man who
sent Frank to the city in quest of a living, because he could not afford
to provide for him. With some men prudence is a virtue; with Deacon
Pelatiah Kavanagh it was carried so far as to be a positive defect.
CHAPTER XXI.
FRANK'S FIRST DISCOVERY.
So far as Frank could observe, Mr. Haynes was an active, energetic
salesman. He appeared to understand his duties thoroughly, and to go
about them in a straightforward manner. So far as his personal habits
were concerned, they seemed irreproachable. He was neatly but plainly
dressed, wore no jewelry, and carried a plain silver watch, which, when
new, probably did not cost over twenty dollars.
Frank had no difficulty in ascertaining where he lived. It was in a
brick house, on Waverley place, very unpretentious and certainly not
fashionable. In order to find out how much he paid for his
accommodations Frank visited the house on pretence of being in search of
board.
"We have a hall bed-room on the third floor, at five dollars a week,
including board," said the landlady. "How would that suit you?"
"I may have a friend board with me," said Frank. "In that case we should
need a large room. Have you any vacant?"
"There is the front room on the third floor. We would let it to two
gentlemen at eleven dollars for the two."
"Isn't the back room cheaper?" inquired our hero.
"Yes; but it is occupied by a business gentleman."
"Can you tell me his name? I may be acquainted with him."
"His name is Haynes."
"How much does he pay?"
"He pays eight dollars a week, and has the room alone."
"I suppose his room is not likely to become vacant soon?"
"Oh, dear, no. He has been with us for several years. We should be sorry
to lose him. Last Christmas he gave my daughter a present of a nice
silk-dress pattern."
Frank was struck by this information.
"I don't believe he paid anything for the silk," thought he. "I wish I
could find out."
He had learned all he cared for, and left, saying he might call again.
"His expenses seem very moderate for a man in his position," thought
Frank. "I wonder if he makes any investments."
Fortune favored our hero in the prosecution of his inquiry. Keeping
Haynes in sight, as was his custom, he observed that the latter, in
pulling out a handkerchief from the breast-pocket of his coat, had
brought with it a letter also. Frank, quickly and unobserved, picked it
up, and when he was alone looked at the address. It was directed to
James Haynes, at his residence in Waverley place. On the envelope was
the printed address of a real-estate broker in Brooklyn.
Frank knew that there was at that time considerable speculation in
Brooklyn real estate, and he examined the letter. It ran thus:--
     We have found a corner lot, with several lots adjoining, near
     Prospect Park, which may be obtained for five thousand dollars,
     half cash. We have no hesitation in recommending the purchase,
     being convinced, from the tendencies of the market, that the buyer
     will double his money in a comparatively short time. If you are
     engaged at other times, come over on Sunday afternoon, and we will
     show you the property. The house you purchased of us last year is
     worth fully a thousand dollars more than the price you gave.
"I wonder how much he gave," said Frank to himself.
The letter was signed "Henderson & Co., No. -- Fulton street."
Our hero was elated by the discovery he had made, and he sought an
interview with Mr. Hartley.
"Have you discovered anything?" asked the merchant, noticing the eager
look of his young detective.
Without attaching especial importance to the fact, Frank answered, "I
have found out that Mr. Haynes owns a house in Brooklyn."
"Indeed!" said Hartley, quickly. "But," he continued more slowly, "he
might buy one with the money saved from his salary."
"He is also thinking of buying some lots near Prospect Park."
"How did you learn this?" asked the merchant, surprised.
"I would rather not tell you," said Frank, who was not quite sure
whether Mr. Hartley would sanction his examination of a private letter.
"You may be sure that it is true."
"Very well; I will rest contented with that assurance. I will leave you
to work in your own way. Your information is important, for it seems to
show that Mr. Haynes has made investments beyond his ability, if he were
dependent upon his savings alone."
"That is what I thought," said Frank. "I must try to find out where he
gets this extra money."
"If you do that, and prove my suspicions correct, I will make you a
handsome present, besides paying the company regular rates for your
services."
"Thank you, sir. I will try to earn your gifts."
CHAPTER XXII.
FOLLOWING UP A CLUE.
This is not a detective story, and I shall not, therefore, detail the
steps by which our young hero succeeded in tracing out the agency of
Haynes in defrauding the firm by which he was employed. It required not
one week, but three, to follow out his clues, and qualify himself to
make a clear and intelligible report to Mr. Hartley. He had expressly
requested the merchant not to require any partial report, as it might
interfere with his working unobserved. Towards the end of the third week
he asked an interview with Mr. Hartley.
"Well, Frank," said the merchant, familiarly, "who is the rogue?"
"Mr. Haynes," answered our hero.
"You speak confidently," said his employer; "but surmise will not do. I
want proof, or I cannot act."
"I will tell you what I have discovered," said Frank; "and I leave you
to judge for yourself."
"Have you a customer in Hartford named Davis?" he asked.
"Yes; and a very good customer. He is frequent in his orders, and makes
prompt payments. I wish I had more like him."
"If you had more like him you would soon be bankrupt," said Frank,
quietly.
"What do you mean?" asked Mr. Hartley, in genuine surprise. "How can a
customer who buys largely, and pays promptly, be undesirable?"
"Did you know that Mr. Davis is a brother-in-law of Mr. Haynes?"
"No; but even if he is I have to thank Mr. Haynes for securing me so
excellent a customer."
Hartley spoke confidently, evidently believing that Frank was on the
wrong tack.
"I have noticed," said Frank, "that when goods are packed to go to Mr.
Davis, Mr. Haynes personally superintends the packing, and employs one
particular man to pack."
"What then?"
"I think he has something to conceal."
"I don't understand what he can have to conceal. If Davis is his
brother-in-law, it is natural that he should feel a special interest in
filling his orders."
"I shouldn't wonder if Mr. Haynes were a partner as well as a
brother-in-law of Mr. Davis."
Mr. Hartley looked surprised.
"That may be true; though I don't know why you should conjecture it.
Admitting that you are right, I don't know that I have any right to
object. I should like it better, however, if I were frankly told by Mr.
Haynes of this circumstance."
"I will tell you what I think I have discovered," continued Frank. "The
cases that are shipped to Mr. Davis not only contain the goods he has
ordered, but valuable silks that he has not ordered, and does not
propose to pay for."
"I see, I see," exclaimed Mr. Hartley, a light dawning upon him for the
first time. "I was stupid not to comprehend your meaning earlier. What
warrant have you for suspecting this?"
"First, your steady losses of goods; next, the ease with which Mr.
Haynes, in his position of trust, could carry out this plan. Why should
he superintend the packing of Mr. Davis's goods, alone of all your
customers?"
"There is weight in what you say, Frank. You are certainly an
extraordinary boy. You have shown so much shrewdness that I now ask your
advice. What steps shall I take to ascertain whether Mr. Haynes is
really guilty of what we suspect him?"
"There is an order now being filled for Mr. Davis," answered Frank.
"When the order is filled, can't you open the case, and find out whether
the contents correspond exactly to the bill?"
"The very thing. To facilitate matters I will send Mr. Haynes to
Brooklyn on a confidential errand. Fortunately there is a matter that
will give me a good excuse for doing so. Go back to your post, and when
Mr. Haynes appears to be at liberty send him to me."
Half an hour later Mr. Haynes entered the counting room of his
employer.
"You sent for me, sir?" he said, a little uneasily; for, when conscience
accuses, the mind is always apprehensive.
"Yes, Mr. Haynes," said the merchant, in his usual tone. "Have you any
objection to go to Brooklyn for me, on a confidential errand?"
"None in the world, sir," said Haynes, relieved. "I shall be glad to
take the trip this fine morning. It is almost too pleasant to remain
in-doors."
"Thank you; I will give you your instructions, and shall be glad to have
you go at once."
It is not necessary to our story that we should know the nature of the
