women would suit him ; he has found nothing that 
would do in all the cities he has lived in " 

" They say he broke his heart over somebody a 
long while ago," Miss Forella interrupted; "and 
that that is the reason he never married before." 

" I don't believe it. And now he has come up 
to the mountains of New Hampshire and picked 
himself out a wife there ! " 

" No, Mrs. Bowdoin," Ernestine went on, " she 
went down to Philadelphia to see him. It's very 
useful to have a married sister living among people ; it gives the unmarried sisters a capital chance. 
I wish I had a sister in some strange place. There's 
nothing like striking the eye with novelty." 

"I do not think so," said Mrs. Bowdoin. " I 
think it is just the other way. Men will take anybody that happens to be near them, generally. It's 
propinquity there needs nothing more. Bat Max 
Iredell is not one of your common sort of people; 


and I am curious to know what the woman is thai 
he has chosen." 

"Well, I will tell you, Mrs. Bowdom. She 
is handsome, and stately and wise. She knows 
what she is about." 

" Desire, tell me what your sister is like. I can 
not make out anything from this girl's chatter." 

" Miss Forella has described her, ma 'am." 

"Truly?" 

"With some truth. Olive has a great deal of 
judgment, and calmness to exercise it ; and I think 
she has a great deal of sense." 

" Is she as religious as you are ? " 

I hesitated, and Miss Forella spoke out. "No. 
she isn't." 

"Not religious?" cried Mrs. Bowdom. 

"Yes, she is," I said; "but she and I do not 
always think alike." 

" I am afraid Max has got the wrong one," said 
my hostess. " Why religion is the whole of .life to 
Max Iredell." 

" That is what spoils him," said Miss Forella. 

" He is not spoiled, and you do not think he is. 
Come! I won't have you make believe in that 
way, Ernestine. He is nearer right than you and 
I, and you know it- But I hope Olive is good 
enough for him ! " 

I had got about as much as I could stand, for 
one time; and I broke off from the conversation 
and went out to take a walk. It was windy and 
cold; nothing in outer nature spoke soothing to 



 

the storm within; and my walk was a struggle 
both to mind and body. However I was alone, 
and I could let the wind dry the tears which came 
and wet my cheeks. 

In the evening I had something harder to bear 
than even the morning talk. Mr. Holland took 
an opportunity to tell me that he loved me, and 
begged me to let him hope that in time he might 
make himself agreeable to me. Now he is very 
agreeable to me; but never in all time could he 
be more. I like him for a friend, I would like to 
keep him for a friend, and as a friend I could take 
a great deal of pleasure in him, if that would do. 
It would not do. He wanted more, and to my 
very great astonishment, wanted it very persist 
ently and eagerly. I had not dreamed that he 
liked me; so, I mean. The discovery now filled 
me Avith a kind of unendurable torment. It was 
not simply that I was forced to give him pain, 
though that hurt me and I was grieved to do it. 
There was another feeling, which I cannot quite 
analyze ; a feeling as if this proposition from one 
whom I cannot like, mocked the bitter pain of 
which my heart was full. I cannot say how I 
wished that such an idea had never come into 
Mr. Holland's imagination. I made him under 
stand that it could never have a place in mine; 
and then I ran away and had a great fit of tears. 
Out of which I came with a sort of sad recogni 
tion that the world is full of crossed and tangled 
threads of human life ; mine is but one of many ; 



 

and that in the vagueness and confusion only one 
thing is clear, that " Life is, to do the will of 
God." Then, somehow, some time, He will bring 
out into sinooth order all the threads he holds in 
his hand. I can wait I will trust. But that 
distant time of light and peace seems very far 
ahead ; and the way between very long. 



Nov. 15. 

I BEGAN to look forward with inexpressible dread 
to my going home. The summons could not 
be long delayed, I knew. And the very next day 
after Mr. Holland had so distressed me, it came. 
Olive wrote that she was to be married soon after 
New Year s; and wanted my help in the house, as 
she was naturally very busy with her own affairs. 

I packed my trunk, with my heart in my mouth 
and my hands trembling. How should I do what 
I had to do ? How meet all the faces ? One com 
fort; people would be more curious to look at Olive 
than to look at me; but our Chesterfield folk have 
sharp eyes for everybody. And suppose Mr. Iredell were there? Not likely, yet it might be. 
Well, if he were not there now, he certainly would 
be another time; it had got to be faced and borne, 
and as well sooner as ktter. What an ending this 
was of my beautiful visit ! 

So I finished my packing and said my good byes. 
Mrs. Bowdoin drove into town with me and saw 



 

me established in the car for my night journey. 
She stocked me with biscuits and sandwiches and 
cold coffee ; and at last left me, very sorry to have 
me go, I believe. That night was a whirl through 
the darkness. 

It is often a wonder to me, how people bear the 
troubles of life, who do not know the refuge there 
is at Christ's feet. How do they stand? For if 
one can but get to his feet, one is under protection ; 
one knows things are clear to him that are very 
confused to us; and his eye sees a way for his 
child through the trackless wilderness, and his 
hand can guide safely. I knew it that night; 
and though it was, as I said, a whirl through 
the darkness, I had a certain rest in the knowledge. I was not trying to guide myself. 

Having to Avait at one place for a connecting 
train, I should not reach home until afternoon. I
imagined it all beforehand ; my walk from the station, a good four miles down the valley, the possible meetings and words with neighbours, every one 
of which I shrank from, and then the possibility of 
another encounter at home from which I shrank 
most of all. But what one imagines is not apt to 
be the reality. As I left the car at the station, the 
first person I saw was Mr. Iredell. 

I think I was perfectly calm and cool in my manner; indeed much more so than I should have been 
last summer if he had come then to see us as he proposed. Then I should have shewn delight. Ought 
I now ? I could not, and did not. And he did not. 



 

He was calm too, kind, attentive to my wants, as 
of course a gentleman would be who expected to 
call me his sister. 

Happily the interview was short. Mr. Iredell 
had driven to the station to take another train 
himself in an hour or two which would carry him 
away; he had come earlier than was quite necessary, in order that, if [ arrived, the wagon might 
take me home. He explained this while he was 
putting me into it and seeing that somebody did 
the same for my baggage. 

"I could have walked home," I said. "I ex 
pected to walk home." 

" I do not doubt you could," said he ; " but after 
a night in cars and station rooms one does not al 
ways feel like such a tramp for one's next experience. Good bye ! " 

