of confidence, then." Staniford paused, with one 
boot in his hand. " I should never have thought 
it." 




" What was her father ? " asked Dunham. 

" Upon my word, I don't know. I didn 't seem 
to get beyond elemental statements of intimate fact 
with her. He died in California, where she was 
born ; and he always had a longing to go to Italy. 
That was rather pretty." 

" It 's very touching, I think." 

" Yes, of course. We might fancy this about 
Lurella : that she has a sort of piety in visiting the 
scenes that her father wished to visit, and that — 
Well, anything is predicable of a girl who says so 
little and looks so much. She 's certainly very 
handsome ; and I 'm bound to say that her room 
could not have been better than her company, so 
far." 



X. 

The dress that Lydia habitually wore was one 
which her aunt Maria studied from the costume of 
a summer boarder, who had spent a preceding sum- 
mer at the sea-shore, and who found her yachting- 
dress perfectly adapted to tramping over the South 
Bradfield hills. Thus reverting to its original use 
on shipboard, the costume looked far prettier on 
Lydia than it had on the summer boarder from 
whose unconscious person it had been plagiarized. 
It was of the darkest blue flannel, and was fitly set 
off with those bright ribbons at the throat which 
women know how to dispose there according to 
their complexions. One day the bow was scarlet, 
and another crimson ; Staniford did not know which 
was better, and disputed the point in vain with 
Dunham. They all grew to have a taste in such 
matters. Captain Jenness praised her dress out- 
right, and said that he should tell his girls about it. 
Lydia, who had always supposed it was a walking 
costume, remained discreetly silent when the young 
men recognized its nautical character. She enjoyed 
its success ; she made some little changes in the hat 
she wore with it, which met the approval of the 
cabin family ; and she tranquilly kept her black 
silk in reserve for Sunday. She came out to break- 
fast in it, and it swept the narrow spaces, as she 



THE LADY OF THE AROOSTOOK. Ill 

emerged from her state-room, with so rich and deep 
a murmur that every one looked up. She sustained 
their united glance with something tenderly depre- 
catory and appealingly conscious in her manner, 
much as a very sensitive girl in some new finery 
meets the eyes of her brothers when she does not 
know whether to cry or laugh at what they will say. 
Thomas almost dropped a plate. " Goodness ! " he 
said, helplessly expressing the public sentiment in 
regard. to a garment of which he alone had been in 
the secret. No doubt it passed his fondest dreams 
of its splendor ; it fitted her as the sheath of the 
flower fits the flower. 

Captain Jenness looked hard at her, but waited 
a decent season after saying grace before offering 
his compliment, which he did in drawing the carv- 
ing-knife slowly across the steel. "Well, Miss 
Blood, that 's right ! " Lydia blushed richly, and 
the young men made their obeisances across the 
table. 

The flushes and pallors chased each other over 
her face, and the sight of her pleasure in being 
beautiful charmed Stamford. "If she were used to 
worship she would have taken our adoration more 
arrogantly," he said to his friend when they went 
on deck after breakfast. " I can place her ; but 
one's circumstance doesn 't always account for one 
in America, and I can't make out yet whether she 's 
ever been praised for being pretty. Some of our 
hill-country people would have felt like hushing up 



 

her beauty, as almost sinful, and some would have 
gone down before it like Greeks. I can't tell 
whether she knows it all or not ; but if you sup- 
pose her unconscious till now, it 's pathetic. And 
black silks must be too rare in her life not to be 
celebrated by a high tumult of inner satisfaction. 
I 'in glad we bowed down to the new dress. " 

" Yes," assented Dunham, with an uneasy ab- 
sence; "but — Stamford, I should like to propose 
to Captain Jenness our having service this morning. 
It is the eleventh Sunday after " — 

" Ah, yes ! " said Stamford. " It is Sunday, 
isn 't it ? I thought we had breakfast rather later 
than usual. All over the Christian world, on land 
and sea, there is this abstruse relation between a 
late breakfast and religious observances." 

Dunham looked troubled. " I wish you wouldn 't 
talk that way, Staniford, and I hope you won't say 
anything " — 

" To interfere with your proposition ? My dear 
fellow, I am at least a gentleman." 

" I beg your pardon," said Dunham, gratefully. 

Staniford even went himself to the captain with 
Dunham's wish ; it is true the latter assumed the 
more disagreeable part of proposing the matter to 
Hicks, who gave a humorous assent, as one might 
to a joke of doubtful feasibility. 

Dunham gratified both his love for social man- 
agement and his zeal for his church in this organi- 
zation of worship ; and when all hands were called 



 

aft, and stood round in decorous silence, he read the 
lesson for the day, and conducted the service with a 
gravity astonishing to the sailors, who had taken 
him for a mere dandy. Staniford bore his part in 
the responses from the same prayer-book with Cap- 
tain Jenness, who kept up a devout, inarticulate 
under-growl, and came out strong on particular 
words when he got his bearings through his spec- 
tacles. Hicks and the first officer silently shared 
another prayer-book, and Lydia offered half hers to 
Mr. Mason. 

When the hymn was given out, she waited while 
an experimental search for the tune took place 
among the rest. They were about to abandon the 
attempt, when she lifted her voice and began to 
sing. She sang as she did in the meeting-house at 
South Bradfleld, and her voice seemed to fill all the 
hollow height and distance ; it rang far off like a 
mermaid's singing, on high like an angel's ; it 
called with the same deep appeal to sense and soul 
alike. The sailors stood rapt ; Dunham kept up a 
show of singing for the church's sake. The others 
made no pretense of looking at the words ; they 
looked at her, and she began to falter, hearing her- 
self alone. Then Staniford struck in again wildly, 
and the sea-voices lent their powerful discord, while 
the girl's contralto thrilled through all. 

" Well, Miss Blood," said the captain, when the 
service had ended in that subordination of the spirit- 
ual to the artistic interest which marks the process 



 

and the close of so much public worship in our 
day, "you 've given us a surprise. I guess we shall 
keep you pretty busy with our calls for music, after 
this." 

" She is a genius ! " observed Staniford at his 
first opportunity with Dunham. "I knew there 
must be something the matter. Of course she's 
going out to school her voice ; and she hasn 't 
strained it in idle babble about her own affairs ! I 
must say that Lu — Miss Blood's power of holding 
her tongue commands my homage. Was it her lit- 
tle coup to wait till we got into that hopeless hobble 
before she struck in ? " 

" Coup ? For shame, Staniford ! Coup at such 
a time ! " 

" Well, well ! I don't say so. But for the thea- 
tre one can't begin practicing these effects too soon. 
Really, that voice puts a new complexion on Miss 
Blood. I have a theory to reconstruct. I have 
been philosophizing her as a simple country girl. 
