Margaret watched her out of sight. The summer sun- 
shine lay warm around ; birds were singing, and the south 
wind stirred the branches idly. Was she dreaming ? 
Here on the table lay the money. How strange the 
whole episode appeared ! The lady surely could not have 
any designs against Nora; indeed, it was evident the 
Grenvilles cared nothing for the child. 
Margaret had lived through her own bitter romance. 
The man she had loved, trusted, and married, proved to be 
the husband of another woman. Her little girl had been 
snatched from her after a brief illness. When she had 
come to live with Mrs. Waldeburgh, that lady's husband 
was already in Europe. For eighteen months he had not 
made his appearance ; was there really such a person in 
existence? Or rather was she a true and lawful wife? 
Ladies were sometimes deceived in this matter, as well as 
poor girls. And if her own father doubted the marriage 
"Maggie, Maggie!" called a sweet voice from the 
adjoining chamber. 
She worshipped the child. A subtle temptation stole 
into her soul. If she could have her for hers, alone ! If 
the bird-like voice would learn, presently, to say " mamma " 
to her, and a thrill of rapture filled her being. She had 
promised, and if Nora's father never came, yes, this 
beautiful little creature would be hers. There was no one 
else in the world to care for it. 
"My darling! my darling!" she cried, clasping Nora to 
her heart. 
"I want mamma, Maggie. Why must she stay in 
heaven always ? " 
" Because it is God's will, my darling. I am to be your 
mamma now, kiss me." 
She slipped down from the bed, out of her nurse's tender 
embrace, and stood there grave and sad, and said, with 
most unchildlike firmness, 
"Maggie, you can never be my mamma, never." 
CHAPTER IIL 
TIM CHAPNKY'S PRIZE. 
HERB," said Tim Chafney. " It ain't hardly fit for a 
little lady like you, but mebbe it's best. Anyhow, it's 
where I live. Up these stairs you're so tired I'd better 
carry you, I guess." 
Nora made no demur. She was still sobbing, and the 
paroxysms seemed to rend her slight frame ; but she had 
ceased to weep tears, and was too much exhausted to ob- 
ject to anything. 
She had wandered on in terror and bewilderment until 
she had reached the festering purlieus of the east side. A 
few brick tenements reared their lofty heads, and were 
crowded with human beings, but the larger part were old, 
tumble-down shanties, or houses that had once been quite 
respectable but were now given over to greed of land- 
lords, and the huddling together of miserable wretches. 
It was one of the last that Tim Chafney entered, and it 
still showed some traces of its former grandeur. The stairs 
were wide, the ceilings high, and the windows capacious. 
But the floors were a mass of grease and dirt, the walls 
were smoked and smeared. To the front room on the sec- 
ond floor he carried his burden, having a key of his own to 
fit the door. 
There was a tumbled bed in one corner, a few chairs, a 
table with the remnants of breakfast, a rusty stove in the 
fireplace, surmounted by a much-banged teakettle and two 
flat-irons. The air was close and foul, the sun had shone 
hi the windows all day long, leaving it hotter than ever. 
Nora gave one glance around, then, shivering with dis- 
gust, clung to Tim and cried out : 
" Oh, take me away, take me away ! I can't stay here 
in this " 
" Well, where'll  I take you ? n the boy asked, roughly. 
" You wouldn't go to the Station oh, jiminy ! what's to 
pay now ? " 
Exhausted and overcome, nature had suddenly given 
way. Fainting-fits were not new in Tim's experience, 
though they were generally preceded by some well-direct- 
ed blow. The child was more manageable now. He laid 
her on the bed, ran for a pitcher of water, and bathed her 
face, touching her long hair with a kind of awe, its color 
and texture were so wondrously beautiful. 
" Will you look at the clothes ! " he said to himself. 
" That's swell toggery. And light kid boots ! She's some- 
body's young 'un, I know. Now, if her dad, or any of her 
folks, would do the han'some " 
She drew a long sigh, and opened her eyes. 
" I am so tired, so tired I And my feet ache dreadfully. 
Is this your house ? " 
"Yes." 
Tim Chafney blushed with a feeling compounded of 
shame and mortification. 
"It's my guv'ner's, an' Mother Mell's. You see my 
mammy she died too, and then dad married Kelsey's 
Bet ; but she run off with Long Joe, went to Californy, we 
heerd; and then he took Mother Mell. T'other room's 
mine, in there ; " and he nodded toward the door with his 
head. " I sell papers, and do odd jobs," and a broad grin 
illumined his face. 
Could I have a drink ? " 
He rinsed the coffee-grounds out of a cup and filled it 
with water. She drank it eagerly, then attempted to rise, 
but fell back again. 
" You're clean beat out, you see," he explained. " Now 
I'll tell you what I'll do. You jest lay here, and I'll fix up 
my room a bit. You've been used to better fare, I know 
but mebbe you can make it do till to-morrow. And then 
I'll find Maggie." 
" Oh, if you only will ! " she exclaimed, imploringly. 
" You may bet your life I'll have her, if she is to be 
found. But see here ! Where's your daddy ? " 
She looked at him in momentary confusion. 
" My papa is ever so far ofij across the ocean, in Ger- 
many. Oh, my feet do ache BO ! Can't you take off my 
shoes ? n 
Tim became a willing lady's-maid, though he was some' 
what clumsy. 
Poor little feet! They throbbed and burned like fire. 
The pain absolutely brought tears to her eyes. 
Tim went to prepare his room. It was not very large, 
being at the head of the hall, and contained a cot and an 
old-fashioned chest of drawers. A dilapidated comfortable 
was thrown over the bed, and the straw pillow had no 
case. A dim sense of neatness and propriety struggled 
through his thick brain. He might creep into his kennel 
like a dog, but this pretty little girl 
"I'll sweep up a bit first. An' I s'pose she has sheets 
and things on her bed ;" and thereat Tim gave his shaggy 
chestnut curls a dig. " If Mother Mell didn't come home 
drunk, but she will, and mebbe the guv'ner 'll be a little 
high oh, I'll jest ask Ann Rooney ! " 
He ran up on the next floor, and told his story ovef 
briefly. 
" The saints be praised ! It's not lying that ye are, Tim ? " 
and the round, rosy, Irish face, with its keen blue eyes, 
was turned full upon him. 
"Come and see for yourself, then. Come down do, and 
mebbe you can tell me what to do with her. I'll hunt her 
iolks up to-morrow, an' if I get a reward I'll go you shares, 
Ann Rooney, so I will." 
Nothing doubting now, the woman followed him. Sure 
enough, there lay the pale little waif on the bed, and her 
tired face went to the motherly heart at once. 
" The poor lamb ! And it's lost ye are ? No, don't go 
to cryin'. I wouldn't hurt a hair o' yer head. And Tim 
here's goin' to make a nice bed for yer; but yez must have 
a bite and sup, and a cup o' tay." 
I'd like to get her fixed afore Mother Mell comes in. 
There's no tellin' " 
"Ye'r right, there, honey!" and Mrs. Rooney gave a sly 
wink out of her eyes. " The misthress may have a drop 
too much of some'at stronger'n tea. And the sheets, ye 
said ? " 
She ran off after them. Spreading the ragged comfort- 
able over the cot, she covered it with a sheet, and then 
rejoined Tim. 
" An' now, if ye didn't mind, I might be afther undress- 
in' the poor lamb. Will ye come to me, honey ? I've a 
little gal half yer size in height, but she'd make two of ye 
in the body. Now will ye tell me about yer folks, and 
where they are ? Tim 'll find 'em for ye to-morrow-" 
Nora began with her story, but in a few moments she 
was again in a fit of violent hysterical crying, and became 
almost unmanageable. Mrs. Rooney coaxed and soothed, 
and after having disrobed her, laid her between the clean 
sheets. 
" An' now a good cup o' tay 'll settle her narves, I'm 
thinkin'. Poor lamb! Ye can't go to night, ye know. 
Wait till the morrer and Maggie 'll be there a huntin' for 
ye. An' Tim, I might jist rub out her frock to-night, an' 
her little stockings, that are like a cobweb with fineness, 
and she'll be fresh as a rose in the mornin'. Now don't 
cry any more, me little darlin', an' the holy mother 'll bring 
it all out right for such a swate little thing. She looks 
like an angel now, that she does, Tim; an' the saints 'll re- 
member the good deed agin ye, Tim, when yer goin 
through purgatory." 
Tim gave a cheerful laugh, and dropped on the floor 
by the bedside. There was a hurrying and scurrying 
through the house, shrill voices scolding, coarse voices 
swearing, and noisy children filling in the pauses. Now 
and then Nora started up, her eyes dilating in wild terror, 
but the boy soothed and explained, and watched her 
curiously. A strange sense of her power and superiority 
seemed to grow upon him, and he felt coarse and clumsy 
by contrast. 
Mrs. Rooney came presently with the tea and a bit of 
bread and butter, but the taste of both sickened Nora. 
Try to feed her, Tim. The old man's home, makin' a 
row about supper, an' I must go. But I'll be back agin 
prisently." 
Tim took surreptitious swallows of the tea and nibbles of 
the bread, since Nora would have none of it. Then he 
brought in the part of a loaf left from breakfast, and 
munched it while he tried to comfort the child with prom- 
ises of finding Maggie " easy." The daylight waned, and 
at last the poor tired little girl fell asleep. Ann Rooney, 
busy with her old man and the childers', stole a few 
moments at last to " run down a bit." 
" It's glad I am that she's asleep, the poor lamb. If ye 
can but find her folks, Tim, for they're not the common 
kind I'm thinking. An' hasn't Mother Mell come home 
yet?" 
