Tie the spices in thin muslin bags; boil juice, sugar, and spices
together fifteen minutes, skimming well; add the brandy; set aside in
a closely covered vessel to cool. When perfectly cold, strain out the
spices, and bottle, sealing the corks.
ELDERBERRY WINE.
    8 quarts of berries.
    4 quarts of boiling water poured over the berries.
Let it stand twelve hours, stirring now and then. Strain well, pressing
out all the juice. Add
    3 lbs. of sugar to 4 quarts of juice.
    1 oz. powdered cinnamon.
    ½ oz. powdered cloves.
Boil five minutes, and set away to ferment in a stone jar, with a
cloth thrown lightly over it. When it has done fermenting, rack it off
carefully, not to disturb the lees. Bottle and cork down well.
CRANBERRY WINE.
    Mash ripe berries to a pulp; put into a stone jar.
    Add 1 quart of water to 2 quarts of berries.
Stir well and let it stand two days. Strain through a double flannel
bag; mash a second supply of berries, equal in quantity to the first,
and cover with this liquid. Steep two days more; strain; add
    1 lb. sugar for 3 quarts of liquor,
and boil five minutes. Let it ferment in lightly covered jars; rack off
and bottle.
This is said to be very good for scrofula.
STRAWBERRY WINE.
3 quarts of strawberries, mashed and strained. To the juice (there
should be about a quart, if the berries are ripe and fresh) add
    1 quart of water.
    1 lb. of sugar.
Stir up well and ferment in a clean, sweet cask, leaving the bung out.
When the working subsides close tightly, or rack off into bottles.
This is said by those who have tasted it to be very good.
CURRANT WINE.
Pick, stem, mash, and strain the currants, which should be very ripe.
    To 1 quart of juice add
       ¾ lb. white sugar.
       ½ pint of water.
Stir all together long and well; put into a clean cask, leaving out the
bung, and covering the whole with a bit of lace or mosquito net. Let it
ferment about four weeks—rack off when it is quite still, and bottle.
JAMAICA GINGER-BEER.
    1 bottle Jamaica Ginger Extract.
    1 oz. cream-tartar.
    6 quarts water.
    1 lb. sugar.
Stir until the sugar is melted, then put in the grated peel of a lemon,
and heat until blood-warm. Add a tablespoonful of brewers’ yeast; stir
well and bottle, wiring down the corks. It will be fit for use in four
days.
This is a refreshing and healthful beverage mixed with pounded ice in
hot weather.
RAISIN WINE.
    1 lb. white sugar.
    2 lbs. raisins, seeded and chopped.
    1 lemon—all the juice and half the grated peel.
    2 gallons boiling water.
Put all into a stone jar, and stir every day for a week. Strain, then,
and bottle it. It will be fit for use in ten days.
LEMONADE OR SHERBET.
    3 lemons to a quart of water.
    6 tablespoonfuls of sugar.
Pare the yellow peel from the lemons, and, unless you mean to use the
Sherbet immediately, leave it out. It gives a bitter taste to the sugar
if left long in it. Slice and squeeze the lemons upon the sugar, add
a very little water, and let them stand fifteen minutes. Then fill up
with water; ice well, stir, and pour out.
ORANGEADE
Is made in the same manner, substituting oranges for lemons.
STRAWBERRY SHERBET. (Delicious.) 
    1 quart of strawberries.
    3 pints of water.
    1 lemon—the juice only.
    1 tablespoonful orange-flower water.
    ¾ lb. white sugar.
The strawberries should be fresh and ripe. Crush to a smooth paste; add
the rest of the ingredients (except the sugar), and let it stand three
hours. Strain over the sugar, squeezing the cloth hard; stir until the
sugar is dissolved; strain again and set in ice for two hours or more
before you use it.
REGENT’S PUNCH. (Fine.)
    1 lb. loaf-sugar or rock candy.
    1 large cup strong black tea—(made).
    3 wineglasses of brandy.
    3 wineglasses of rum.
    1 bottle champagne.
    2 oranges—juice only.
    3 lemons—juice only.
    1 large lump of ice.
This receipt was given me by a gentleman of the old school, a
connoisseur in the matter of beverages as of cookery. “Tell your
readers,” he writes, “that better punch was never brewed.” I give
receipt and message together.
ROMAN PUNCH.
    3 coffee cups of lemonade—(strong and sweet.)
    1 glass champagne.
    1 glass rum.
    2 oranges—juice only.
    2 eggs—whites only—well whipped.
    ½ lb. powdered sugar, beaten into the stiffened whites.
You must ice abundantly—or, if you prefer, freeze.
SHERRY COBBLER.
    Several slices of pineapple, cut in quarters.
    A lemon, sliced thin.
    An orange, sliced thin.
    ½ cup of powdered sugar.
    1 tumbler of Sherry wine.
    Ice-water.
    Pounded ice.
Take a wide-mouthed quart pitcher and lay the sliced fruit in order at
the bottom, sprinkling sugar and pounded ice between the layers. Cover
with sugar and ice, and let all stand together five minutes. Add then
two tumblers of water and all the sugar, and stir well to dissolve
this. Fill the pitcher nearly full of pounded ice, pour in the wine,
and stir up from the bottom until the ingredients are thoroughly mixed.
In pouring it out put a slice of each kind of fruit in each goblet
before adding the liquid.
It is best sucked through a straw or glass tube.
NECTAR. 
Make as above, substituting a little rose-water for the pineapple, and
squeezing out the juice of the orange and lemon, instead of putting in
the slices. Sprinkle nutmeg on the top.
This forms a delicious and refreshing drink for invalids.
CLARET PUNCH. 
    1 bottle of claret.
    ¼ the quantity of ice-water.
    2 lemons, sliced.
    ½ cup powdered sugar.
Cover the sliced lemon with sugar and let it stand ten minutes. Add the
water; stir hard for a whole minute, and pour in the wine. Put pounded
ice in each glass before filling with the mixture.
EGG NOGG. 
    6 eggs—whites and yolks beaten separately and very stiff.
    1 quart rich milk.
    ½ cup of sugar.
    ½ pint best brandy.
    Flavor with nutmeg.
Stir the yolks into the milk with the sugar, which should first be
beaten with the yolks. Next comes the brandy. Lastly whip in the whites
of three eggs.
CHERRY BOUNCE.
    4 lbs. of sour and the same quantity of sweet cherries.
    2½ lbs. white sugar.
    1 gallon best whiskey.
Crush the cherries to pieces by pounding in a deep wooden vessel with
a smooth billet of wood. Beat hard enough to crack all the stones.
Put into a deep stone jar, mix in the sugar well, and cover with the
whiskey. Shake around briskly and turn into a demijohn. Cork tightly
and let it stand a month, shaking it every day, and another month
without touching it. Then strain off and bottle.
It is better a year than six months old.
If the Maltese cross appears but seldom in the section devoted
to drinks, it is because most of my information respecting their
manufacture is second-hand. In my own family they are so little used,
except in sickness, that I should not dare to teach others, upon my own
authority, how to prepare them. Indeed, the temptation I felt to omit
many of them reminded me of a remark made, introductory of preserves,
by one of the “Complete Housewives,” who, all five together, drove me
to the verge of an attack of congestion of the brain, before I had
been a housekeeper for a week. Said this judicious lady:—“Preserves
of all kinds are expensive and indigestible, and therefore poisonous.
Therefore”—again—“I shall not give directions for their manufacture,
except to remark that barberries stewed in molasses are economical, and
a degree less hurtful than most others of that class of compounds.”
Then I reflected that I might, upon the same principle, exclude all
receipts in which cocoanut is used, because it is rank poison to me;
while a dear friend of mine would as soon touch arsenic as an egg. A
large majority of the beverages I have named are highly medicinal, and
deserve a place in the housekeeper’s calendar on that account. Many, so
far from being hurtful, are beneficial to a weak stomach or a system
suffering under general debility. None which contain alcohol in any
shape should be used daily, much less semi- or tri-daily by a well
person.
This principle reduced to practice would prove the preventive ounce
which would cure, all over the land, the need for Temperance Societies
and Inebriate Asylums.
THE SICK-ROOM.
The sick-chamber should be the most quiet and cheerful in the house—a
sacred isle past which the waves of domestic toil and solicitude glide
silently. This is not an easy rule to obey. Whoever the invalid may
be, whether the mother, father, or the sweet youngling of the flock,
the foundations of the household seem thrown out of course while the
sickness lasts. You may have good servants and kind friends to aid
you, but the hitch in the machinery is not to be smoothed out by their
efforts. The irregularity does not annoy you: you do not notice it if
the attack be severe or dangerous. All other thoughts are swallowed
up in the all-absorbing, ever-present alarm. You count nothing an
inconvenience that can bring present relief, or possible healing to the
beloved one; disdain for yourself rest or ease while the shadow hangs
above the pillow crushed by the helpless head. But when it passes,
when the first transport of thankfulness has subsided into an abiding
sense of safety, the mind swings back to the accustomed pivot, and
your eyes seem to be suddenly unbound. You find, with dismay, that
the children have run wild, and the comfort of the whole family been
neglected during your confinement to the post of most urgent duty; with
displeasure, that the servants have, as you consider, taken advantage
of your situation to omit this task, and to slur over that;—in fine,
that nothing has been done well, and so many things left altogether
undone, that you are “worried out of your senses”—a phrase that too
often signifies, out of your temper.
