to narrow to a point of flame. Before we knew it she had 
turned, seized something, and plunged it into his encircling 
arm. It was my little Venetian dagger. 
We sprang forward ; our dresses were spotted with the 
fast-flowing blood ; but Edward did not relax his hold on the 
 
writhing, wild little body he held until it lay exhausted in his 
arms. "I am glad I did it," said the child, looking up into 
his face with her inflexible eyes. " Put me down put me 
down, I say, by the gracious senora, that I may die with the 
trailing of her white robe over me." And the old grand 
mother with trembling hands received her and laid her down 
mutely at Christine's feet. 
Ah, well ! Felipa did not die. The poisons racked but 
did not kill her, and the snake must have spared the little thin 
brown neck so despairingly offered to him. We went away ; 
there was nothing for us to do but to go away as quickly as 
possible and leave her to her kind. To the silent old grand 
father I said : " It will pass ; she is but a child." 
" She is nearly twelve, sefiora. Her mother was married 
at thirteen." 
" But she loved them both alike, Bartolo. It is nothing ; 
she does not know." 
" You are right, lady ; she does not know," replied the old 
man slowly ; " but I know. It was two loves, and the strong 
er thrust the knife." 
Two houses, a saw-mill, and a tide-water marsh, with a 
railroad-track crossing it from northeast to southwest ; on 
the other side the sea. One of the houses was near the 
drawbridge, and there the keeper lived, old Mr. Vickery. 
Not at all despised was old Mr. Vickery on account of his 
lowly occupation : the Vickerys had always lived on Vickery 
Island, and, although they were poor now, they had once 
been rich, and their name was still as well known as the sun 
in Port Wilbarger, and all Wilbarger district. Fine sea-island 
cotton was theirs once, and black hands to sow and gather 
it ; salt-air made the old house pleasant. The air was still 
there, but not the cotton or the hands ; and, when a keeper 
was wanted for the drawbridge of the new railroad, what 
more natural than that one should be selected who lived on 
the spot rather than a resident of Port Wilbarger, two miles 
away ? 
The other house was on Wilbarger Island, at the edge of 
the town, and, in itself uninteresting and unimportant, was 
yet accepted, like the plain member of a handsome family, 
because of its associations ; for here lived Mrs. Manning and 
her daughter Marion. 
The saw-mill was on the one point of solid mainland 
which ran down into the water cleanly and boldly, without 
any fringe of marsh ; the river-channel was narrow here, and 
a row-boat brought the saw-miller across to the Manning 
cottage opposite three times each day. His name was 
Cranch, Ambrose Cranch, but everybody called him " Bro." 
He took his meals at the cottage, and had taken them there 
for years. New-comers at Wilbarger, and those persons who 
never have anything straight in their minds, supposed he was 
a relative; but he was not only a friend. Mrs. Manning 
was a widow, fat, inefficient, and amiable. Her daughter 
Marion was a slender, erect young person of twenty-five 
years of age, with straight eyebrows, gray eyes, a clearly cut, 
delicate profile, and the calmness of perfect but unobtrusive 
health. She was often spoken of as an unmoved sort of girl, 
and certainly there were few surface-ripples ; but there is a 
proverb about still waters which sometimes came to the minds 
of those who noticed physiognomy when they looked at her, 
although it is but fair to add that those who noticed anything 
in particular were rare in Wilbarger, where people were either 
too indolent or too good-natured to make those conscientious 
studies of their neighbors which are demanded by the code 
of morals prevailing on the coast farther north. 
Port Wilbarger was a very small seaport, situated on the 
inland side of a narrow island ; the coastwise steamers going 
north and south touched there, coming in around the water- 
comer, passing the Old Town, the mile-long foot-bridge, and 
stopping at the New Town for a few moments ; then back 
ing around with floundering and splashing, and going away 
again. The small inside steamers, which came down from 
the last city in the line of sea-cities south of New York by 
an anomalous route advertised as " strictly inland all the way," 
also touched there, as if to take a free breath before plunging 
again into the narrow, grassy channels, and turning curves 
by the process of climbing the bank with the bow and letting 
the stern swing round, while men with poles pushed off again. 
It was the channel of this inside route which the railroad- 
drawbridge crossed in the midst of a broad, sea-green prairie 
below the town. As there was but one locomotive, and, when 
it had gone clown the road in the morning, nothing could 
cross again until it came back at night, one would suppose 
that the keeper might have left the bridge turned for the 
steamers all day. But no: the superintendent was a man 
of spirit, and conducted his railroad on the principle of 
what it should be rather than what it was. He had a hand 
car of his own, and came rolling along the track at all hours, 
sitting with dignity in an arm-chair while two red-shirted ne 
groes worked at the crank. There were several drawbridges 
on his route, and it was his pleasure that they should all be 
exactly in place, save when a steamer was actually passing 
through ; he would not even allow the keepers to turn the 
bridges a moment before it was necessary, and timed himself 
sometimes so as to pass over on his hand-car when the bow 
of the incoming boat was not ten yards distant. 
But, even with its steamers, its railroad, and railroad su 
perintendent of the spirit above described, Port Wilbarger 
was but a sleepy, half-alive little town. Over toward the sea 
it had a lighthouse and a broad, hard, silver-white beach, 
which would have made the fortune of a Northern village ; 
but when a Northern visitor once exclaimed, enthusiastically, 
" Why, I understand that you can walk for twenty miles 
down that beach ! " a Wilbarger citizen looked at him slowly, 
and answered, " Yes, you can if you want to." There was, 
in fact, a kind of cold, creeping east wind, which did not rise 
high enough to stir the tops of the trees to and fro, but 
which, nevertheless, counted for a good deal over on that 
beach. 
Mrs. Manning was poor ; but everybody was poor at 
Wilbarger, and nobody minded it much. Marion was the 
housekeeper and house-provider, and everything went on like 
clock-work. Marion was like her father, it was said ; but 
nobody remembered him very clearly. He was a Northerner, 
who had come southward seeking health, and finding none. 
But he found Miss Forsythe instead, and married her. How 
it happened that Ambrose Cranch, not a relative but a non 
descript, should be living in a household presided over by 
Forsythe blood, was as follows : First, he had put out years 
before a fire in Mrs. Manning's kitchen which would other 
wise have burned the wooden house to the ground ; that be 
gan the acquaintance. Second, learning that her small prop 
erty was in danger of being swept away entirely, owing to 
unpaid taxes and mismanagement, he made a journey to the 
capital of the State in her behalf, and succeeded after much 
trouble in saving a part of it for her. It was pure kindness 
on his part in a time of general distress, and from another 
man would have been called remarkable ; but nothing could 
be called remarkable in Ambrose Cranch : he had never been 
of any consequence in Wilbarger or his life. Mrs. Manning 
liked him, and, after a while, asked him to come and take his 
meals at the cottage : the saw-mill was directly opposite, and 
it would be neighborly. Ambrose, who had always eaten his 
dinners at the old Wilbarger Hotel, in the dark, crooked din 
ing-room, which had an air of mystery not borne out by any 
thing, unless it might be its soups, gladly accepted, and trans 
ferred his life to the mainland point and the cottage opposite, 
with the row-boat as a ferry between. He was so inoffensive 
and willing, and so skillful with his hands, that he was soon 
as much a part of the household as old Dinah herself ; he 
mended and repaired, praised the good dishes, watered the 
flowers, and was an excellent listener. It would be amusing 
to know how much the fact of being, or securing, a good 
listener has to do with our lives. Mrs. Manning, fond of 
reminiscence and long narratives which were apt to run off at 
random, so that, whereas you began with the Browns, you 
ended with something about the Smiths, and never heard the 
Brown story at all, actually retained Ambrose Cranch at her 
table for eleven years because he listened well. But she did 
not realize it ; neither did he. A simpler, more unplotting 
soul never existed than that in the saw-miller's body. A 
word now as to that body : it had a good deal to do with its 
owner's life, and our story. (O brothers and sisters, if Justice 
holds the balance, how handsome some of us are going to be 
in the next life !) Ambrose Cranch was tall and thin, what is 
called rawboned ; all his joints were large and prominent, 
from his knuckles to his ankles. He had large, long feet and 
hands, and large, long ears ; his feet shambled when he 
walked, his arms dangled from the shoulders like the arms of 
a wooden doll, and he had a long, sinewed throat, which no 
cravat or collar could hide, though he wore them up to his 
ears. Not that he did so wear them, however: he had no 
idea that his throat was ugly ; he never thought about it at 
all. He had a long face, small, mild blue eyes, thin, lank 
brown hair, a large mouth, and long, narrow nose ; he was, also, 
the most awkward man in the world. Was there no redeem 
ing point ? Hardly. His fingers were nicely finished at the 
ends, and sometimes he had rather a sweet smile. But in the 
contemplation of his joints, shoulders, elbows, wrists, and 
knuckles, even the student of anatomy hardly got as far as 
his finger-ends ; and as to the smile, nobody saw it but the 
Mannings, who did not care about it. In origin he was, as 
before mentioned, a nondescript, having come from the up- 
country, where Southern ways shade off into mountain rough 
ness ; which again gives place to the river-people, and they, 
farther on, to the Hoosiers and Buckeyes, who are felicitously 
designated by the expressive title of "Western Yankees." 
He had inherited the saw-mill from an uncle, who had tried 
to make something of it, failed, and died. Ambrose, being a 
patient man, and one of smallest possible personal expendi 
ture, managed to live, and even to save a little money but 
only a little. He had been there twelve years, and was now 
thirty-eight years old. All this the whole town of Wilbarger 
knew, or might have known ; it was no secret. But the saw 
mill had a secret of its own, besides. Up stairs, in the back 
part, was a small room with a lock on the door, and windows 
with red cloth nailed over them in place of glass. Here Am 
brose spent many moments of his day, and all of his even- 
ings, quite alone. His red lights shone across the marsh, and 
could be seen from Vickery Island and the drawbridge ; but 
they were not visible on the Wilbarger side, and attracted, 
therefore, no attention. However, it is doubtful whether they 
would have attracted attention anyway. Wilbarger people 
did not throw away their somewhat rarely excited interest 
upon Ambrose Cranch, who represented to them the flattest 
