reason for doing his duty, it was at least not a reason 
for being rude. He had not yet come to that — to 
accepting rudeness as an incident of virtue ; it had 
always been his theory that virtue had the best manners in the world, and he flattered himself at any 
rate that he could guard his integrity without making 
himself ridiculous. So, at what he thought a proper 
hour, in the course of the morning, he retraced his 
steps along the little lane through which, two days 
ago, Angela Vivian had shown him the way to her 
mother's door. At this humble portal he knocked ; 
the windows of the little chalet were open, and the 
white curtains, behind the flower-pots, were fluttering 
as he had seen them before. The door was opened 
by a neat young woman, wno informed him very 
promptly that Madame and Mademoiselle had left 
Blanquais a couple of hours earlier. They had gone 
to Paris — yes, very suddenly, taking with them but 
little luggage, and they had left her — she had the 
honor of being the fenime de chambre of ces dames 
— to put up their remaining possessions and follow 
as soon as possible. On Bernard's expressing sur- 
prise and saying that he had supposed them to be 
fixed at the sea-side for the rest of the season, the 
femme de chambre, who seemed a very intelligent 
person, begged to remind him that the season was 
drawing to a close, that Madame had taken the chalet 
but for five weeks, only ten days of which period 
were yet to expire, that ces dames, as Monsieur perhaps knew, were great travellers, who had been half 
over the world and thought nothing of breaking 
camp at an hour's notice, and that, in fine, Madame 
might very well have received a telegram summoning 
her to another part of the country. 
" And where have the ladies gone ? " asked Ber- 
nard. 
" For the moment, to Paris." 
" And in Paris where have they gone ?" 
" Bame, chez dies — to their house," said the 
femme .de chambre, who appeared to think that Ber- 
nard asked too many questions. 
But Bernard persisted. 
" Where is their house ? " 
The waiting-maid looked at him from head to foot. 
" If Monsieur wishes to write, many of Madame's 
letters come to her banker," she said, inscrutably. 
" And who is her banker ? " 
" He lives in the Eue de Provence." 
" Very good — I will find him out," said our hero, 
turning away. 
The discriminating reader who has been so good as 
to interest himself in this little nan-ative will perhaps at this point exclaim with a pardonable consciousness of shrewdness : " Of course he went the 
next day to the Rue de Provence ! " Of course, yes ; 
only as it happens Bernard did nothing of the kind. 
He did one of the most singular things he ever did 
in his life — a thing that puzzled him even at the 
time, and with regard to which he often afterward 
wondered whence he had drawn the ability for so 
remarkable a feat — he simply spent a fortnight at 
Blanquais-les-Galets. It was a very quiet fortnight ; 
he spoke to no one, he formed no relations, he was 
company to himself. It may be added that he had 
never found his own company half so good. He 
struck himself as a reasonable, delicate fellow, who 
looked at things in such a way as to make him refrain — refrain successfully, that was the point — 
from concerning himself practically about Angela 
Vivian. His saying that he would find out the 
banker in the Rue de Provence had been for the 
benefit of the femme de chambre, whom he thought 
rather impertinent ; he had really no intention what- 
ever of entering that classic thoroughfare. He took 
long walks, rambled on the beach, along the base of 
the cliffs and among the brown sea-caves, and he 
thought a good deal of certain incidents which have 
figured at an earlier stage of this narrative. He had 
forbidden himself the future, as an object of contem- 
plation, and it was therefore a matter of necessity 
that his imagination should take refuge among the 
warm and familiar episodes of the past. He wondered why Mrs. Vivian should have left the place so 
suddenly, and was of course struck with the analogy 
between this incident and her abrupt departure from 
Baden. It annoyed him, it troubled him, but it by 
no means rekindled the alarm he had felt on first 
perceiving the injured Angela on the beach. That 
alarm had been quenched by Angela's manner during 
the hour that followed and during their short talk in 
the evening. This evening was to be forever memorable, for it had brought with it the revelation which 
still, at moments, suddenly made Bernard tremble ; 
but it had also brought him the assurance that Angela 
cared as little as possible for anything that a chance 
acquaintance might have said about her. It is all 
the more singular, therefore, that one evening, after 
he had been at Blanquais a fortnight, a train of 
thought should suddenly have been set in motion in 
his mind. It was kindled by no outward occurrence, 
but by some wandering spark of fancy or of memory, 
and the immediate effect of it was to startle our hero 
very much as he had been startled on the evening I 
have described. The circumstances were the same ; 
he had wandered down to the beach alone, very late, 
and he stood looking at the duskily-tumbling sea. 
Suddenly the same voice that had spoken before 
murmured another phrase in the darkness, and it 
rang upon his ear for the rest of the night. It 
startled him, as I have said, at first ; then, the next 
morning, it led him to take his departure for Paris. 
During the journey it lingered in his ear ; he sat in 
the corner of the railway-carriage with his eyes 
closed, abstracted, on purpose to prolong the reverberation. If it were not true it was at least, as the 
Italians have it, hen trovato, and it was wonderful 
how well it bore thinking of It bears telling less 
well ; but I can at least give a hint of it. The 
theory that Angela hated him had evaporated in her 
presence, and another of a very different sort had 
sprung into being. It fitted a great many of the 
facts, it explained a great many contradictions, anomalies, mysteries, and it accounted for Miss Vivian's 
insisting upon her mother's leaving Blanquais at a 
few hours' notice, even better than the theory of her 
resentment could have done. At any rate, it obliterated Bernard's scruples very effectually, and led him 
on his arrival in Paris to repair instantly to the Euede Provence. This street contains more than one 
banker, but there is one with whom Bernard deemed 
Mrs. Vivian most likely to have dealings. He found 
he had reckoned rightly, and he had no difficulty in 
procuring her address. Having done so, however, he 
by no means went immediately to see her ; he waited 
a couple of days — perhaps to give those obliterated 
scruples I have spoken of a chance to revive. They 
kept very quiet, and it must be confessed that Ber- 
nard took no great pains to recall them to life. After 
he had been in Paris three days, he knocked at Mrs. 
Vivian's door. 
XXII. 
It was opened by the little waiting-maid whom he 
had seen at Blanquais, and who looked at him very 
hard before she answered his inquiry. 
"You see I have found Mrs. Vivian's dwelling, 
though you wouldn 't give me the address," Bernard 
said to her, smiling. 
" Monsieur has put some time to it ! " the young 
woman answered dryly. And she informed him that 
Madame was at home, though Mademoiselle, for 
whom he had not asked, was not. 
Mrs. Vivian occupied a diminutive apartment at 
the summit of one of the tall white houses which 
ornament the neighborhood of the Arc de Triomphe. 
The early days of September had arrived, but Paris 
was still a city of absentees. The weather was warm 
and charming, and a certain savour of early autumn 
in the air was in accord with the somewhat melan- 
choly aspect of the empty streets and closed shutters 
of this honorable quarter, where the end of the monumental vistas seemed to be curtained with a hazy 
emanation from the Seine. It was late in the afternoon when Bernard was ushered into Mrs. Vivian's 
little high-nestling drawing-room, and a patch of 
sunset tints, faintly red, rested softly upon the 
gilded wall. Bernard had seen these ladies only 
in borrowed and provisional abodes ; but here was 
a place where they were really living and which 
was stamped with their tastes, their habits, their 
charm. The little salon was very elegant; it contained a multitude of pretty things, and it appeared 
to Bernard to be arranged in perfection. The long 
windows — the ceiling being low, they were really 
very short — opened upon one of those solid bal- 
conies, occupying the width of the apartment, which 
are often in Paris a compensation for living up five 
flights of stairs, and this balcony was filled with 
flowers and cushions. Bernard stepped out upon it 
to await the coming of Mrs. Vivian, and, as she was 
not quick to appear, he had time to see that his 
friends enjoyed a magnificent view. They looked up 
at the triumphal Arch, which presented itself at a 
picturesque angle, and near the green tree-tops of the 
Champs Elyses, beyond which they caught a broad 
gleam of the Seine and a glimpse, blue in the distance, of the great towers of Notre Dame. The 
whole vast city lay before them and beneath them, 
with its ordered brilliancy and its mingled aspect of 
compression and expansion ; and yet the huge Pari- 
sian murmur died away before it reached Mrs. 
Vivian's sky-parlor, which seemed to Bernard the 
brightest and quietest little habitation he had ever 
known. 
His hostess came rustling in at last; she seemed 
agitated; she knocked over with the skirt of her 
dress a little gilded chair which was reflected in the 
polished parquet as in a sheet of looking-glass. Mrs. 
Vivian had a fixed smile — she hardly knew what to 
say. 
" I found your address at the banker's," said Bernard. " Your maid, at Blanquais, refused to give it 
to me." 
Mrs. Vivian gave him a little look — there was 
always more or less of it in her face — which seemed 
equivalent to an entreaty that her interlocutor should 
spare her. 
" Maids are so strange," she murmured ; " especially 
the French ! " 
It pleased Bernard for the moment not to spare 
her, though he felt a sort of delight of kindness for 
her. 
" Your going off from Blanquais so suddenly, without leaving me any explanation, any clue, any message of any sort — made me feel at first as if you 
didn' t wish that T should look you up. It reminded 
me of the way you left Baden — do you remember ? 
— three years ago." 
"Baden was so charming — but one couldn't stay 
