
“You remember that we had some trouble last winter about keeping the
boys away from the saloon, and that a rule was made forbidding any
pupil to go to town during recess?” began Mr. Acton, who, being a
conscientious man as well as an excellent teacher, felt that he was
responsible for the children in school hours, and did his best to aid
parents in guarding them from the few temptations which beset them in
a country town. A certain attractive little shop, where confectionery,
baseballs, stationery, and picture papers were sold, was a favorite
loafing place for some of the boys till the rule forbidding it was made,
because in the rear of the shop was a beer and billiard saloon. A wise
rule, for the picture papers were not always of the best sort; cigars
were to be had; idle fellows hung about there, and some of the lads, who
wanted to be thought manly, ventured to pass the green baize door “just
to look on.”

A murmur answered the teacher’s question, and he continued, “You all
know that the rule was broken several times, and I told you the next
offender would be publicly reprimanded, as private punishments had no
effect. I am sorry to say that the time has come, and the offender is a
boy whom I trusted entirely. It grieves me to do this, but I must keep
my promise, and hope the example will have a good effect.”

Mr. Acton paused, as if he found it hard to go on, and the boys looked
at one another with inquiring eyes, for their teacher seldom punished,
and when he did, it was a very solemn thing. Several of these anxious
glances fell upon Joe, who was very red and sat whittling a pencil as if
he dared not lift his eyes.

“He’s the chap. Won’t he catch it?” whispered Gus to Frank, for both
owed him a grudge.

“The boy who broke the rule last Friday, at afternoon recess, will come
to the desk,” said Mr. Acton in his most impressive manner.

If a thunderbolt had fallen through the roof it would hardly have caused
a greater surprise than the sight of Jack Minot walking slowly down the
aisle, with a wrathful flash in the eyes he turned on Joe as he passed
him.

“Now, Minot, let us have this over as soon as possible, for I do not
like it any better than you do, and I am sure there is some mistake. I’m
told you went to the shop on Friday. Is it true?” asked Mr. Acton very
gently, for he liked Jack and seldom had to correct him in any way.

“Yes, sir;” and Jack looked up as if proud to show that he was not
afraid to tell the truth as far as he could.

“To buy something?”

“No, sir.”

“To meet someone?”

“Yes, sir.”

“Was it Jerry Shannon?”

No answer, but Jack’s fists doubled up of themselves as he shot another
fiery glance at Joe, whose face burned as if it scorched him.

“I am told it was; also that you were seen to go into the saloon with
him. Did you?” and Mr. Acton looked so sure that it was a mistake that
it cost Jack a great effort to say, slowly,--

“Yes, sir.”

Quite a thrill pervaded the school at this confession, for Jerry was one
of the wild fellows the boys all shunned, and to have any dealings with
him was considered a very disgraceful thing.

“Did you play?”

“No, sir. I can’t.”

“Drink beer?”

“I belong to the Lodge;” and Jack stood as erect as any little soldier
who ever marched under a temperance banner, and fought for the cause
none are too young nor too old to help along.

“I was sure of that. Then what took you there, my boy?”

The question was so kindly put that Jack forgot himself an instant, and
blurted out,--

“I only went to pay him some money, sir.”

“Ah, how much?”

“Two seventy-five,” muttered Jack, as red as a cherry at not being able
to keep a secret better.

“Too much for a lad like you to owe such a fellow as Jerry. How came
it?” And Mr. Acton looked disturbed.

Jack opened his lips to speak, but shut them again, and stood looking
down with a little quiver about the mouth that showed how much it cost
him to be silent.

“Does any one beside Jerry know of this?”

“One other fellow,” after a pause.

“Yes, I understand;” and Mr. Acton’s eye glanced at Joe with a look that
seemed to say, “I wish he’d held his tongue.”

A queer smile flitted over Jack’s face, for Joe was not the “other
fellow,” and knew very little about it, excepting what he had seen when
he was sent on an errand by Mr. Acton on Friday.

“I wish you would explain the matter, John, for I am sure it is better
than it seems, and it would be very hard to punish you when you don’t
deserve it.”

“But I do deserve it; I’ve broken the rule, and I ought to be punished,”
 said Jack, as if a good whipping would be easier to bear than this
public cross-examination.

“And you can’t explain, or even say you are sorry or ashamed?” asked Mr.
Acton, hoping to surprise another fact out of the boy.

“No, sir; I can’t; I’m not ashamed; I’m not sorry, and I’d do it again
to-morrow if I had to,” cried Jack, losing patience, and looking as if
he would not bear much more.

A groan from the boys greeted this bare-faced declaration, and Susy
quite shivered at the idea of having taken two bites out of the apple of
such a hardened desperado.

“Think it over till to-morrow, and perhaps you will change your mind.
Remember that this is the last week of the month, and reports are
given out next Friday,” said Mr. Acton, knowing how much the boy prided
himself on always having good ones to show his mother.

Poor Jack turned scarlet and bit his lips to keep them still, for he had
forgotten this when he plunged into the affair which was likely to cost
him dear. Then the color faded away, the boyish face grew steady, and
the honest eyes looked up at his teacher as he said very low, but all
heard him, the room was so still,--

“It isn’t as bad as it looks, sir, but I can’t say any more. No one is
to blame but me; and I couldn’t help breaking the rule, for Jerry was
going away, I had only that time, and I’d promised to pay up, so I did.”

Mr. Acton believed every word he said, and regretted that they had not
been able to have it out privately, but he, too, must keep his promise
and punish the offender, whoever he was.

“Very well, you will lose your recess for a week, and this month’s
report will be the first one in which behavior does not get the highest
mark. You may go; and I wish it understood that Master Minot is not to
be troubled with questions till he chooses to set this matter right.”

Then the bell rang, the children trooped out, Mr. Acton went off without
another word, and Jack was left alone to put up his books and hide a
few tears that would come because Frank turned his eyes away from the
imploring look cast upon him as the culprit came down from the platform,
a disgraced boy.

Elder brothers are apt to be a little hard on younger ones, so it is not
surprising that Frank, who was an eminently proper boy, was much cut up
when Jack publicly confessed to dealings with Jerry, leaving it to be
supposed that the worst half of the story remained untold. He felt it
his duty, therefore, to collar poor Jack when he came out, and talk to
him all the way home, like a judge bent on getting at the truth by main
force. A kind word would have been very comforting, but the scolding
was too much for Jack’s temper, so he turned dogged and would not say a
word, though Frank threatened not to speak to him for a week.

At tea-time both boys were very silent, one looking grim, the other
excited. Frank stared sternly at his brother across the table, and no
amount of marmalade sweetened or softened that reproachful look. Jack
defiantly crunched his toast, with occasional slashes at the butter,
as if he must vent the pent-up emotions which half distracted him. Of
course, their mother saw that something was amiss, but did not allude to
it, hoping that the cloud would blow over as so many did if left alone.
But this one did not, and when both refused cake, this sure sign of
unusual perturbation made her anxious to know the cause. As soon as tea
was over, Jack retired with gloomy dignity to his own room, and Frank,
casting away the paper he had been pretending to read, burst out with
the whole story. Mrs. Minot was as much surprised as he, but not angry,
because, like most mothers, she was sure that her sons could not do
anything very bad.

“I will speak to him; my boy won’t refuse to give me some
explanation,” she said, when Frank had freed his mind with as much
warmth as if Jack had broken all the ten commandments.

“He will. You often call me obstinate, but he is as pig-headed as a
mule; Joe only knows what he saw, old tell-tale! and Jerry has left
town, or I’d have it out of him. Make Jack own up, whether he can or
not. Little donkey!” stormed Frank, who hated rowdies and could not
forgive his brother for being seen with one.

“My dear, all boys do foolish things sometimes, even the wisest and best
behaved, so don’t be hard on the poor child. He has got into trouble,
I’ve no doubt, but it cannot be very bad, and he earned the money to pay
for his prank, whatever it was.”

