of you." 

" And how am I to find that out ? " 



 

"Cau't tell, I declare. Unless you volunteer to 
become my secretary." 

" Does your secretary live in your family ? " 

" Of course he does. One of us completely." 

" Will you take me, Mr. Copley ? " 

" Yes, but you would never take the drudgery. 
It is not in your line." 

" Try me," said the young man. " I'll take it at 
once. Will you have me, Mr. Copley ? But she 
must not know what you take me for. I don't 
care for the drudgery. Will you let me come? 
On trial ? " 

" Why is the boy in earnest? This is Jacob and 
Rachel over again ! " 

" Not for seven years, I hope." 

" No, I shall not stay in this old crib as long 
as that. The question will have to be decided 
sooner. We haven't so much time to spare as 
those old patriarchs. But Dolly must have time 
to make up her mind, if it takes seven years. She 
is a queer little piece, and usually has a mind of 
her own. About this affair she certainly will. I'll 
give Mrs. Copley a hint to keep quiet, and Dolly 
will never suspect anything." 

Lawrence was so thoroughly in earnest that 
he insisted on going to work at once. And the 
next day he was introduced at the house and 
made at home there. 

It was quite true that Mrs. Copley was unwell ; 
the doctors were not yet agreed as to the cause. 
She was feeble and nervous and feverish, and 



 

Dolly's time was wholly devoted to her. In these 
circumstances St. Leger's coming into the family 
made a very pleasant change. Dolly wondered a 
little that the rich banker's son should care to do 
business in the American consul's office; but she 
troubled her head little about it. What he did in 
the office was out of her sphere; at home, in the 
family, he was a great improvement on the former 
secretary. Mr. Barr, his predecessor, had been an 
awkward, angular, taciturn fourth person in the 
house ; a machine of the pen ; nothing more. Mr. 
St. Leger brought quite a new life into the family 
circle. It is true, he was himself no great talker; 
but his blue eyes were, eloquent. They were beautiful eyes; and they spoke of kindness of heart, 
gentleness of disposition, and undoubted liking for 
his present companions. There was refinement 
too, and the habit of the world, and the power of 
comprehending at least what others spoke; anol 
gentle as he was, there was also now and then a 
gleam which shewed some fire and some persistent 
self-will; that amount of back bone without which 
a man's agreeable qualities go for nothing with 
women. It was pleasant, his respectful attention 
to Mrs. Copley; it was pleasant too the assistance 
he was to Mr. Copley's monologues; if he did not 
say a great deal himself, his blue eyes gave intelligent heed, and he could also now and then say 
a word in the right place. With Dolly he took 
very soon the familiar habit of a brother. She 
liked him, she liked to pour out his coffee for him, 



 

it amused her to hear her father talk to him, she 
was grateful for his kindness to her mother; and 
before long the words exchanged between themselves came in the easy, enjoyable tone of a thorough good understanding. I don't know but St. 
Leger would have liked a little more shyness on 
her part. Dolly was not given to shyness in any 
company ; and as to being shy with him, she would 
as soon have thought of being on terms of ceremony with Berdan, the great hound that her father 
was so proud of. And poor St. Leger was more 
hopelessly in love every day. Dolly was so fresh 
and cool and sweet, as she came down to breakfast in her white wrapper; she was so despairingly 
careless and free; and at evening, dressed for dinner, she was so quiet and simple and graceful; it 
was another thing, he said to himself, seeing a girl 
in this way, from dancing with her in a cloud of 
lace and flowers in a crowded room, and talking 
conventional nothings. Now, on the contrary, he 
was always admiring Dolly's practical business 
ways; the quick eye and capable hand; the efficient attention she bestowed on the affairs of the 
household and gave to her father's and mother's 
comfort, and also not less to his own. And she 
was quaint; she moved curiosity. With all her 
beauty, she never seemed to think of her looks; 
and with all her spirit and sense, she never seemed 
to talk but when she had something to say; while 
yet, if anything in the conversation deserved it, 
it was worth while to catch the sparkle of Dolly's 



 

eye and see her face dimple. Nevertheless she 
would often sit for a long time silent at the table, 
when others were talking, and remind nobody voluntarily of her presence. 

Spring had come now, and London was filling; 
and Lawrence was hoping for some gayeties that 
would draw Dolly out into society, notwithstanding his secret confession about ball rooms. He 
wanted to see how she would bear the great world, 
how she would meet it; but still more he hoped to 
have some chance to make himself of importance 
to her. And then the doctors decided that Mrs. 
Copley must go into the country. 

What was to be done? Mr. Copley could not 
quit London without giving up his office. To any 
distance Mrs. Copley could not go without him. 
The dilemma, which Lawrence at first had heard 
of with dismay, turned for his advantage; or he 
hoped so. His father owned a cottage in a pretty 
part of the country, not a great many miles from 
London, which cottage just then was untenanted. 
Mr. Copley could run down there any day (so could 
he); and Mrs. Copley would be in excellent air, with 
beautiful surroundings. This plan was agreed to, 
and Lawrence hurried away to make the needful 
arrangements with his father and at the cottage. 

" dear ! " said Mrs. Copley, when all this was 
communicated to her, "why can't we go home?" 

"Father is not ready for that, mother," Dolly 
said somewhat sadly. 

"Where is this place you are talking of?" 



 

" Down in shire. Mr. St. Leger says you 

will be sure to like it." 

" Mr. St. Leger doesn't know everything. Is the 
house furnished ? " 

" I believe so. I hope it will be very pleasant, 
mother dear. It's a pretty place; and they say 
it will be very good for you." 

"Who says so ? " 

" The doctors." 

" They don't know everything, either. I tell you 
what I believe would do me good, Dolly; only your 
father never wants what I want, unless he wants it 
at a different time; I should like to go travelling." 

"Travelling! Where?" Dolly exclaimed and in- 
quired. 

"Anywhere. I want a change. I am so tired 
of London, I could die ! I have swallowed dust 
and fog enough to kill me. I should like to go 
where there is no dust. That would be a change. 
I should like to go to Venice." 

" Venice ! So should I," said Dolly in a changed 
tone. " Well, mother, we'll go down first to this cottage in the country they say it's delightful there ; 
and then, if it does you good, youll be well enough; 
and we will coax father to take us to Italy." 

"I don't care about Italy. I only want to be 
quiet in Venice, where there are no carts or omnibusses. I don't believe this cottage will do me 
one bit of good." 

" Mother, I guess it will. At any rate, I suppose 
we must try." 



