Carew," she says, with regal contempt, " and it is too 
silly, too insulting even to notice. If you like to hold to 
any such view, if it affords you any gratification to sup- 
pose I would be glad to come between Miss Allaire and 
her lover, believe it by all means. It cannot make the 
folly true. And I shall take every possible step not only 
to protect Miss Allaire, but to get at the truth of your 
assertion. You surely did not marry her I " 
" Find out by your own wisdom," he says sullenly. 
She goes over to Dolly. Among Miss Allaire's accom- 
plishments she has the art of fainting gracefully on the 
 
 
slightest proYocatioii. But this is no delusion. She lies 
there like one dead. 
"Yon have sorely killed her!" Miss Ormiston cries 
despairingly. 
Carew takes from a velvet case a tiny bottle of aromatic 
hartshorn and, sprinkling it on his handkerchief, bathes 
the ghostly face with rarest tenderness. One might be- 
lieve he loved her. After a minute or two she begins to 
evince signs of returning animation. 
" She must be taken home,' Miss Ormiston exclaims, 
distressed beyond measure. 
"I will carry her.'' And he lifts her gently in his 
arms. 
" Miss Ormiston,'' he begins, gravely, " men and women 
in their early youth do many foolish things. When I met 
Dolly Allaire at Newport, she was a very fascinating girl, 
the maddening kind of a girl who seems with a look to 
lead men captive, who meshes you with her glittering 
hair, her seductive smiles, her innocent entreating eyes, 
and the voice that appears to take on richer, deeper tones 
for you alone. I am not the man to lose my senses easily, 
but I may as well admit that I was captivated, that a 
delusion steeped every sense in a trance. Her mother, 
beginning to fear it might verge into earnest, took some 
steps to prevent too close an intimacy. Why did I not go 
away at once? Well, I was in Fools' Paradise, and the 
opposition was just enough to add piquancy to the affair. 
We wrote notes, we met in secret, and then they took a 
journey westward while I remained in New York. When 
they returned we renewed our folly. Among other things, 
Miss Allaire could go into tempests of the most passionate 
jealousy exceeding any woman I ever saw. We were en- 
gaged, of course." 
" But you were not married ! " Miss Ormiston exclaims 
in a tone exultant with hope. 
" There was a ceremony," he answers. " If you have 
 
' the welfare of your friend reaUy at heart, yon can make it 
worth while for me to tell you the rest/* 
"Can I buy your seca-et ? " 
" Not with money. But it can be given in exchange 
for something I shall hold above all price." 
She makes a gesture of indignant contempt. " When 
money can purchase your secret, you may let me know," 
she answers, in a tone that seems to cleave the very air. 
, " Till then I do not wish to hear from you or see you. 
Do not attempt to venture within Glen Onniston. There, 
stop here. I will relieve you of your burden." 
They have reached a kind of rustic summer-house, seats 
shaded by a clump of trees. 
" Put her down here," she requests, in such a decisive 
tone of command that he involuntarily obeys. Then they 
face each other. Never perhaps has Christmas Ormiston 
looked so regally strong and handsome. It seems to 
Carew that he has held all the points of the game in his 
hands, but playing to some extent in the dark he has gone 
wrong. If he had let that weak, miserable flirt of a Dolly 
Allaire alone I He might have known she could have no 
influence over such a character as Miss Ormiston's. He 
has been used to ordinary women, not the exceptions. 
" Well," he asks, " what is it — friendship or en- 
mity?" 
" It is not friendship." 
" You are your father's own daughter," he says bitterly. 
" See here, he owed my mother marriage by the honor 
of a gentleman. She would have been tenderest of nurses, 
most devoted of wives, and to you a true mother." 
" A false friend could not be true in anything," Miss 
Ormiston replies. " I went to a cheap boarding school, I 
was dressed in the most inexpensive attire, I was crowded 
out of every place, and you all reigned here and spent my 
father's money lavishly. When I look back at that time, 
there is no remembrance in it that moves me to pity. 
 
 
Your mother is dead and can want for nothing, and 
you— But go your way and leave me to my own." 
" Then it is war between us. You dare me to strike ! " 
His eyes have the lurid fire of lightning at midnight, 
and his Ups are compressed in a deadly line. 
"No," she answers, "I do not dare anything. You 
are a stranger to me. What you choose to do in respect 
to Miss Allaire, I may not be able to help." 
"Very well. Let Miss Allaire go on and marry Mr. 
St. G-eorge. It was a farce between us, a retaliation for 
her earlier torments. But your friend needs care, and 
I must not detain you." 
He bows as if he were a prince of the blood royal. 
Christmas stands stupidly for a moment, feeling as if a 
net had closed around her. Then she takes Dolly in her 
arms, surprised at the lightness of the burden, and bears 
her to the porch at the side of the study, where she rests 
a few seconds, and finds the windows are barred. 
"Fanny," she calls, catching sight of the handmaiden, 
" will you help me take Miss Allaire upstairs? She has 
famted." 
They bear her to her bed and try the usual restoratives, 
to find that it is something beyond their knowledge, and 
the man is at once despatched for Dr. Herrick. 
Miss Ormiston announces the sad tidings of Mr. Stan- 
nard's death to her household. If she could only see Mr. 
St. George again. 
Why has the burden of all these lives been thrust upon 
her, with the hideous secrets that make her shudder? 
What is her duty? In a way. Miss Ormiston has con- 
sidered herself religious ; she has gone to church regu- 
larly, she has taken an interest in the benevolent plans 
and work, she has desired the advancement of her fellow- 
creatures, she has been ready with purse and sympathy. 
But she has not had occasion to test that greater strength 
for herself, and now she reaches out empty hands in one 
 
 
long, agonizing prayer. " Show me the way," she cries, 
"keep my feet from falling, keep my soul just and tme, 
give me some greater than human wisdom." 
Dr. Herriek comes. Fanny has undressed her dainty 
mistress and washed the ghastly touches of pink off the 
cheeks. She does not seem to breathe, but even her 
fingers are soft and flexible, so it is not death. 
He makes a long search for pulses and other indica- 
tions, raises the golden fringed eyelids and the mocking 
eyes seem to flash out at them in ghostly smiles. 
Christmas shivers. Then he makes an extensive exami- 
nation of the heart. 
" It is as I fancied," he begins gravely. "It can do 
no harm to confide in you — it will not be the first time " ; 
and a friendly smile crosses his strong and earnest face. 
"Your friend's days are numbered. Miss Ormiston, 
though the end is not, may not," correcting himself, " be 
immediate. She has had a terrible shock: was it the 
news of Mr. Stannard's death." 
" I think not," Christmas answers slowly ; yet as she 
remembers that she is in ignorance of the first part of her 
interview with Carew, she adds, "It might have been. 
A friend was over from Cliff House?" 
"People of her temperament are always shocked at 
the idea of death. It would not do to inform her of her 
danger, so you must not even suggest it, for it would 
bring about the dreaded event. Be careful and cheerful, 
do not cross her in anything, and above all do not argue 
any point wilh her to excite her. So much depends upon 
tranquillity." 
"For how long?" Christmas asks in an awe-stricken 
tone. 
"I doubt if, with the best of care, she can last more 
than six months. She will be entirely worn out by that 
time. But any untoward incident may hasten her end.' 
"Could she — go abroad?" 
 
 
" My dear Miss Ormiston, no. In good truth, unless 
you have reasons for it, she had better remain here through 
the autumn at least. And now for a fortnight or so she 
must keep her bed. No hops nor picnics nor late hours, 
no dissipation of any kind, save a gentle drive out in the 
sunshine." 
"And now-" Christmas inquires looking at her in 
secret terror. 
" This is nature's method," replies Dr. Herrick. " It is 
like a sleep — it will be a sleep presently. I think she 
has been in the habit of taking an anodyne. When she 
wakes I wish to have some medicine given her every hour, 
but I will be in again presently. Meanwhile treat this 
matter with the utmost lightness. Call it a simple faint- 
ing fit." 
Mrs. Byrne comes in to sit at the bedside and receives 
directions. Christmas goes about her duties as if the 
whole world were unreal. There are letters to write, and 
she has to rouse herself sharply to consider what she 
must say. Miss Miller has invited some young people to 
luncheon and then they are to take a sail down the river, 
her last excursion, as to-morrow the two guests return 
home. 
Everything presents a weird and solemn aspect. The 
wind through the pines and cedars has a mournful metallic 
wail, as if haunted by troops of ghosts. The very sky 
has a far-off, indrawn look, and the sunshine lays in 
broad sheets instead of a thousand dancing motes. 
After an hour or two you can see Dolly's chest rise and 
fall with a faint motion, but she does not open her eyes 
until mid-afternoon, then with a strange, frightened grasp 
she seizes Mrs. Byrne's arm. 
"Where have I been?" she cries. "I thought—" 
" You have been in fairyland," replies the lady reas- 
suringly. " Some time you must tell us what you saw. 
It was quite a Journey, and you must lie still now and rest." 
