 
through the floor. When he lifted her, he saw that 
she was in a dead faint, and while the swoon lasted 
would be out of her misery. The sight of this had 
wrung him so that he had a kind of relief in looking 
at her lifeless face ; and he was slow in laying her 
down again, like one that fears to wake a sleeping 
child. Then he went to the foot of the stairs, and 
softly called to his wife : " Miranda ! Miranda ! " 
 
IX. 
KINNEY came into town the next morning bright 
and early, as he phrased it ; but he did not stop at 
the hotel for Bartley till nine o clock. " Thought I d 
give you time for breakfast," he exclaimed, " and so I 
didn 't hurry up any about gettin in my supplies." 
It was a beautiful morning, so blindirigly sunny 
that Bartley winked as they drove up through the 
glistening street, and was glad to dip into the gloom 
of the first woods ; it was not cold ; the snow felt the 
warmth, and packed moistly under their runners. 
The air was perfectly still ; at a distance on the 
mountain-sides it sparkled as if full of diamond dust. 
Far overhead some crows called. 
"The sun 's getting high," said Bartley, with the 
light sigli of one to whom the thought of spring 
brings no hope. 
" Well, I shouldn 't begin to ^plough for corn just 
yet," replied Kinney. "It 's curious," he went on, 
" to see how anxious we are to have a thing over, it 
don 't much matter what it is, whether it 's summer or 
winter. I suppose we d feel different if we wan 't 
sure there was going to be another of em. I guess 
that 's one reason why the Lord concluded not to keep 
us clearly posted on the question of another life. If 
it wan 't for the uncertainty of the thing, there are a 
lot of fellows like you that wouldn 't stand it here a 
minute. Why, if we had a dead sure thing of over- 
the-river, good climate, plenty to eat and wear, and 
not much to do, I don 't believe any of us would 
 
 
keep Darling Minnie waiting, well, a great while. 
But you see, the thing 's all on paper, and that 
makes us cautious, and willing to hang on here awhile 
longer. Looks splendid on the map : streets regularly 
laid out ; public squares ; band-stands ; churches ; 
solid blocks of houses, with all the modern improve 
ments ; but you can 't tell whether there 's any town 
there till you 're on the ground; and then, if you 
don 't like it, there 's no way of gettin back to 
the States." He turned round upon Bartley and 
opened his mouth wide, to imply that this was 
pleasantry. 
" Do you throw your philosophy in, all under the 
same price, Kinney ? " asked the young fellow. 
" Well, yes ; I never charge anything over," said 
Kinney. " You see, I have a good deal of time to 
think when I 'm around by myself all day, and the 
philosophy don 't cost me anything, and the fellows 
like it. Ploughing it the way they do, they can stand 
most anything. Hey ? " He now not only opened 
his mouth upon Bartley, but thrust him in the side 
with his elbow, and then laughed noisily. 
Kinney was the cook. He had been over pretty 
nearly the whole uninhabitable globe, starting as a 
gaunt and awkward A boy from the Maine woods, and 
keeping until he came back to them in late middle- 
life the same gross and ridiculous optimism. He had 
been at sea, and shipwrecked on several islands in the 
Pacific ; he had passed a rainy season at Panama, and 
a yellow-fever season at Vera Cruz, and had been 
carried far into the interior of Peru by a tidal wave 
during an earthquake season ; he was in the Border 
liuffian War of Kansas, and he clung to California till 
prosperity deserted her after the completion of the 
Pacific road. Wherever he went, he carried or found 
adversity ; but, with a heart fed on the metaphysics 
of Horace Greeley, and buoyed up by a few wildly in- 
 
terpreted maxims of Emerson, he had always believed 
in other men, and their fitness for the terrestrial mil 
lennium, which was never more than ten days or ten 
miles off. It is not necessary to say that he had con 
tinued as poor as he began, and that he was never 
able to contribute to those railroads, mills, elevators, 
towns, and cities which were sure to be built, sir, sure 
to be built, wherever he went. When he came home 
at last to the woods, some hundreds of miles north of 
Equity, he found that some one had realized his early 
dream of a summer hotel on the shore of the beautiful 
lake there ; and he unenviously settled down to ad 
mire the landlord 's thrift, and to act as guide and cook 
for parties of young ladies and gentlemen who started 
from the hotel to camp in the woods. This brought 
him into the society of cultivated people, for which 
lie had a real passion. He had always had a few 
thoughts rattling round in his skull, and he liked to 
make sure of them in talk with those who had en 
joyed greater advantages than himself. He never 
begrudged them their luck ; he simply and sweetly 
admired them ; he made studies of their several char 
acters, and was never tired of analyzing them to their 
advantage to the next summer 's parties, Late in the 
fall, he went in, as it is called, with a camp of loggers, 
among whom he rarely failed to find some remarkable 
men. But he confessed that he did not enjoy the 
steady three or four months in the winter woods with 
no coming out at all till spring; and he had been 
glad of this chance in a logging camp near Equity, in 
which he had been offered the cook 's place by the 
owner who had tested his fare in the Northern woods 
the summer before. Its proximity to the village al 
lowed him to loaf in upon civilization at least once a 
week, and he spent the greater part of his time at 
the Free Press office on publication day. He had 
always sought the society of newspaper men, and, 
 
wherever he could, he had given them his. He was 
not long in discovering that Bartley was smart as a 
steel trap ; and by an early and natural transition 
from calling the young lady compositors by their pet 
names, and patting them on their shoulders, he had 
arrived at a like affectionate intimacy with Bartley. 
As they worked deep into the woods on their way 
to the camp, the road dwindled to a well-worn track 
between the stumps and bushes. The ground was 
rough, and they constantly plunged down the slopes 
of little hills, and climbed the sides of the little val 
leys, and from time to time they had to turn out for 
teams drawing logs to the mills in Equity, each with 
its equipage of four or five wild young fellows, who 
saluted Kinney with an ironical cheer or jovial taunt 
in passing. 
" They 're all just so," lie explained, with pride, 
when the last party had passed. " They 're gentle- 
inen, every one of em, perfect gentlemen." 
They came at last to a wider clearing than any they 
had yet passed through, and here on a level of the 
hillside stretched the camp, a long, low structure of 
logs, with the roof broken at one point by a stove 
pipe, and the walls irregularly pierced by small win 
dows ; around it crouched and burrowed in the drift 
the sheds that served as stables and storehouses. 
The sun shone, and shone with dazzling brightness, 
upon the opening ; the sound of distant shouts and 
the rhythmical stroke of axes came to it out of 
the forest ; but the camp was deserted, and in the 
stillness Kinney 's voice seemed strange and alien. 
" Walk in, walk in !" he said, hospitably. "I 've got 
to look after my horse." 
But Bartley remained at the door, blinking in the 
sunshine, and harking to the near silence that sang in 
his ears. A curious feeling possessed him ; sickness 
of himself as of some one else ; a longing, consciously 
 
helpless, to be something different ; a sense of captiv 
ity to habits and thoughts and hopes that centred in 
himself, and served him alone. 
" Terribly peaceful around here," said Kinney, com 
ing back to him, and joining him in a survey of the 
landscape, with his hands on his hips, and a stem of 
timothy projecting from his lips. 
" Yes, terribly," assented Bartley. 
" But it aint a bad way for a man to live, as long 
as he 's young ; or haint got anybody that wants his 
company more than his room. Be the place for 
you." 
" On which ground ? " Bartley asked, drily, without 
taking his eyes from a distant peak that showed 
through the riotch in the forest. 
Kinney laughed in as unselfish enjoyment as if he 
had made the turn himself. " Well, that aint exactly 
what I meant to say : what I meant was that any 
man engaged in intellectual pursuits wants to come 
out and commune with nature, every little while." 
" You call the Equity Free Press intellectual pur 
suits?" demanded Bartley, with scorn. "I suppose 
it is," he added. "Well, here I am, right on the 
commune. But nature 's such a big thing, I think it 
takes two to commune with her." 
" Well, a girl 's a help," assented Kinney. 
" I wasn 't thinking of a girl, exactly," said Bartley, 
with a little sadness. " I mean that, if you 're not in 
first-rate spiritual condition, you 're apt to get floored, 
if you undertake to commune with nature." 
" I guess that 's about so. If a man 's got anything 
on his mind, a big railroad depot 's the place for him. 
But you 're run down. You ought to come out here, 
and take a hand, and be a man amongst men." Kin 
ney talked partly for quantity, and partly for pure, 
indefinite good feeling. 
Bartley turned toward the door. " What have you 
got inside, here ? " 
 
Kinney flung the door, open, and followed his 
guest within. The first two-thirds of the cabin was 
used as a dormitory, and the sides were furnished 
with rough bunks, from the ground to the roof. The 
round, unhewn logs showed their form everywhere ; 
