self what it signified to him whether Isabel's admirers should be 
desperadoes or laggards ; they were not rivals of his, and were 
perfectly welcome to act out their genius. Nevertheless he felt 
much curiosity as to the result of Miss Stackpole's promised 
inquiry into the causes of Mr. Goodwood's stiffness a curiosity 
for the present ungratitied, inasmuch as when he asked her 
three days later whether she had written to London, she was 
obliged to confess that she had written in vain. Mr. Goodwood 
had not answered her. 
"I suppose he is thinking it over," she said; "he thinks 
everything over ; he is not at all impulsive. But I am accus- 
tomed to having my letters answered the same day." 
Whether it was to pursue her investigations, or whether it was 
in compliance with still larger interests, is a point which remains 
somewhat uncertain ; at all events, she presently proposed to 
Isabel that they should make an excursion to London together. 
" If I must tell the truth," she said, " I am not seeing much 
 
at this place, and I shouldn't think you were either. I have not 
even seen that aristocrat what's his name 1 Lord Washburton. 
He seems to let you severely alone." 
" Lord Warburton is coming to-morrow, I happen to know," 
replied Isabel, who had received a note from the master of Lock- 
leigh in answer to her own letter. "You will have every 
opportunity of examining him." 
" Well, he may do for one letter, but what is one letter when 
you want to write fifty   I have described all the scenery in this 
vicinity, and raved about all the old women and donkeys. You 
may say what you please, scenery makes a thin letter. I must 
go back to London and get some impressions of real life. I was 
there but three days before I came away, and that is hardly time 
to get started." 
As Isabel, on her journey from New York to Gardencourt, had 
seen even less of the metropolis than this, it appeared a happy 
suggestion of Henrietta's that the two should go thither on a 
visit of pleasure. The idea struck Isabel as charming ; she had 
a great desire to see something of London, which had always 
been the city of her imagination. They turned over their scheme 
together and indulged in visions of aesthetic hours. They would 
stay at some picturesque old inn one of the inns described by 
Dickens and drive over the town in those delightful hansoms. 
Henrietta was a literary woman, and the great advantage of being 
a literary woman was that you could go everywhere and do 
everything. They would dine at a coffee-house, and go after- 
wards to the play ; they would frequent the Abbey and the " 
British Museum, and find out where Doctor Johnson had lived, 
and Goldsmith and Addison. Isabel grew eager, and presently 
mentioned these bright intentions to Ralph, who burst into a 
fit of laughter, which did not express the sympathy she had 
desired. 
" It's a delightful plan," he said. " I advise you to go to the 
Tavistock Hotel in Covent Garden, an easy, informal, old- 
fashioned place, and I will have you put down at my club." 
"Do you mean it's improper 1" Isabel asked. "Dear ine, 
isn't anything proper here 1 With Henrietta, surely I may go 
anywhere ; she isn't hampered in that way. She has travelled 
over the whole American continent, and she can surely find her 
way about this simple little island." 
" Ah, then," said Kalph, " let me take advantage of her pro- 
tection to go up to town as well. I may never have a chance to 
travel so safely ! " 
 
XIV. 
Miss STACKPOLE would have prepared to start for London 
immediately ; but Isabel, as we have seen, had been notified that 
Lord Warburton would come again to Gardencourt, and she 
believed it to be her duty to remain there and see him. For four 
or five days he had made no answer to her letter ; then he had 
written, very briefly, to say that he would come to lurich two 
days later. There was something in these delays and postpone- 
ments that touched the girl, and renewed her sense of his desire 
to be considerate and patient, nat to appear to urge her too 
grossly ; a discretion the more striking that she was so sure he 
really liked her. Isabel told her uncle that she had written to 
him, and let Mr. Touch ett know of Lord Warburton' s intention 
of coming ; and the old man, in consequence, left his room earlier 
than usual, and made his appearance at the lunch-table. This 
was by no means an act of vigilance on his part, but the fruit of 
a benevolent belief that his being of the company might help to 
cover the visitor's temporary absence, in case Isabel should find 
it needful to give Lord Warburton another hearing. This per- 
sonage drove over from Lockleigh, and brought the elder of his 
sisters with him, a measure presumably dictated by considerations 
of the same order as Mr. Touchett's. The two visitors were 
introduced to Miss Stackpole, who, at luncheon, occupied a seat 
adjoining Lord Warburton's. Isabel, who was nervous, and had 
no relish of the prospect of again arguing the question he had so 
precipitately opened, could not help admiring his good-humoured 
self-possession, which quite disguised the symptoms of that 
admiration it was natural she should suppose him to feel. He 
neither looked at her nor spoke to her, and the only sign of his 
emotion was that he avoided meeting her eye. . He had plenty 
of talk for the others, however, and he appeared to eat his 
luncheon with discrimination and appetife. Miss Molyneux, 
who had a smooth, nun-like forehead, and wore a large silver 
cross suspended from her neck, was evidently preoccupied with 
Henrietta Stackpole, upon whom her eyes constantly rested in a 
manner which seemed to denote a conflict between attention and 
alienation. Of the two ladies from Lockleigh, she was the one 
that Isabel had liked best ; there was such a world of hereditary 
quiet in her. Isabel was sure, moreover, that her mild forehead 
and silver cross had a romantic meaning that she was a mem- 
ber of a High Church sisterhood, had taken some picturesque 
vows. She wondered what Miss Molyneux would think of hoi 
if she knew Miss Archer had refused her brother ; and then she 
felt sure that Miss Molyneux would never know that Lord 
Warburton never told her such things. He was fond of her and 
kind to her, but on the whole he told her little. Such, at least, 
was Isabel's theory ; when, at table, she was not occupied in 
conversation, she was usually occupied in forming theories about 
her neighbours. According to Isabel, if Miss Molyneux should 
ever learn what had passed between Miss Archer and Lord 
"Warburton, she would probably be shocked at the young lady's 
indifference to such an opportunity ; or no, rather (this was 
our heroine's last impression) she would impute to the young 
American a high sense of general fitness. 
Whatever Isabel might have made of her opportunities, 
Henrietta Stackpole wa by no means disposed to neglect those 
in which she now found herself immersed. 
"Do you know you are the first lord I have ever seen?" she 
said, very promptly, to her neighbour. " I suppose you think I 
am awfully benighted." 
" You have escaped seeing some very ugly men," Lord 
Warburton answered, looking vaguely about the table and 
laughing a little. 
" Are they very ugly ? They try to make us believe in 
America that they are all handsome and magnificent, and that 
they wear wonderful robes and crowns." 
" Ah, the robes and crowns are gone out of fashion," said 
Lord Warburton, " like your tomahawks and revolvers." 
" I am sorry for that ; I think an aristocracy ought to be
splendid," Henrietta declared. " If it is not that, what is 
itl" 
" Oh, you know, it isn't much, at the best," Lord Warburton 
answered. " Won't you have a potato   " 
" I don't care much for these European potatoes. I shouldn't 
know you from an ordinary American gentleman." 
" Do talk to me as if I were one," said Lord Warburton. 
" I don't see how you manage to get on without potatoes ; you 
must find so few things to eat over here." 
Henrietta was silent a moment ; there was a chance that he 
was not sincere. 
" I have had hardly any appetite since I have been here," she 
went on at last ; " so it doesn't much matter. I don't approve 
of you, you know ; I feel as if I ought to tell you that." 
" Don't approve of me 1 " 
" Yes, I don't suppose any one ever said such a thing to you 
. Ill 
before, did they 1 I don't approve of lords, as an institution. 
I think the world has got beyond that far beyond. 
" Oh, so do I. I don't approve of myself in the least. 
Sometimes it comes over me how I should object to myself if 
I were not myself, don't you know "? But that's rather good, by 
the way not to be vain-glorious." 
" Why don't you give it up, then?" Miss Stackpole inquired. 
" Give up a 1 " asked Lord Warburton, meeting her harsh 
inflection with a very mellow one. 
" Give up being a lord." 
" Oh, I am so little of one ! One would really forget all 
about it, if you wretched Americans were not constantly remind- 
ing one. However, I do think of giving up the little there is 
left of it one of these days." 
" I should like to see you do it," Henrietta exclaimed, rather 
grimly. 
" I will invite you to the ceremony ; we will have a supper 
and a dance." 
" Well," said Miss Stackpole, " I like to see all sides. I 
don't approve of a privileged class, but I like to hear what they 
have got to say for themselves." 
" Mighty little, as you see ! " 
" I should like to draw you out a little more," Henrietta 
continued. " But you are always looking away. You are 
afraid of meeting my eye. I see you want to escape me." 
" No, I am only looking for those despised potatoes." 
" Please explain about that young lady your sister then 
I don't understand about her. Is she a Lady ? " 
" She's a capital good girl." 
" I don't like the way you say that as if you wanted to 
change the subject. Is her position inferior to yours ? " 
" We neither of us have any position to speak of ; but she is 
better off than I, because she has none of the bother." 
"Yes, she doesn't look as if she had much bother. I wish I 
had as little bother as that. You do produce quiet people 
over here, whatever you may do." 
" Ah, you see one takes life easily, on the whole," said Lord 
Warburton. " And then you know we are very dull. Ah, we 
can be dull when we try ! " 
" I should advise you to try something else. I shouldn't 
know what to talk to your sister about ; she looks so different. 
Is that silver cross a badge 1 " 
" A badge." 
" A sign of rank." 
 
Lord Warburton' s glance had wandered a good deal, but at 
this it met the gaze of his neighbour. 
" Oh, yes," he answered, in a moment ; " the women go in 
for those things. The silver cross is worn by the eldest 
daughters of Viscounts." 
This was his harmless revenge for having occasionally had 
his credulity too easily engaged in America. 
