is, I dare say, one of the sons of her Majesty, the Queen of England,"
added the passenger, laughing.
"On the contrary, he is a son of a Michigan farmer, now well to do in
the world," I replied.
"Of course, he is a millionaire!"
"O, no, sir, only in comfortable circumstances. He has known what
poverty is, but he has enough to live on now."
"By the way, Captain Alick, do you happen to have anybody on board who
is not 'well to do,' as you call it?" asked the planter.
"Ben Bowman, the assistant, who was in the boat that brought off your
family to the steamer, has been a lake sailor, cook and fireman all his
life; and I don't know that he has five hundred dollars in the world.
He sends most of his wages to his mother, and is one of the truest and
bravest men I ever saw."
I also told him the story of Cobbington and the two firemen. I judged
that he felt very grateful for the service the Sylvania had rendered to
him and "his people," and that he was thinking up some way to reward
her officers and crew for what they had done.
"The pilot is a Louisiana man, and says he was raised near St.
Charles," I added.
"His name is Billy Bell, and I know him very well," replied Colonel
Hungerford. "You have a very distinguished and wealthy ship's company,
Captain Alick. I wished to distribute a thousand dollars, more or less,
among them; but I see that such a proposition would be taken as an
insult by some of them."
"It would be taken as it was intended, not as an insult; but it would
be respectfully declined by the captain, the mate, the two deck-hands,
and perhaps by all the others; for I am sure that no one on board would
be willing to be paid for an act of common humanity," I replied.
"A strange ship and a strange crew," added Colonel Hungerford. "Perhaps
we shall find some way to get out of it."
I had just resolved not to assist him in his task, for it was a little
humiliating to have my crew paid for what they had done, when Miss
Blanche and Miss Margie came on the hurricane deck. They were already
fast friends. The English girl began to pour out a volley of questions
about the river and the steamers we saw, and I answered them as well as
I could; but Colonel Hungerford was better acquainted with the scene,
and he took the task upon himself of informing her, leaving Miss
Blanche to ply me with other interrogatories.
I told her all about the steamer, her going south, our adventures in
Florida, and our yachting on the Mississippi, which had thus far been a
series of adventures. Then she wanted to know who and what my father
was, and I told her all I had just related to her father.
"Then you will one day be Sir Alexander Garningham, and as a genuine
republican, I shall be under the necessity of hating you, Captain
Alick," said she, mirthfully.
"Then I promise never to allow myself to be called by that title," I
replied. "I have said as much to my father; and he does not like to be
called by anything but his military title, for he says he has earned
that fighting against the enemies of his queen. But I am a democrat,
and don't believe in any titles. Are you really a Republican, Miss
Hungerford?"
"I am a republican, but I am also a Democrat."
"I see! and I am a democrat and also a Republican."
"I don't think it will be safe for us to talk politics. You may do that
with father."
"I have told you my story, Miss Hungerford; and now it is no more than
fair that you should tell me yours," I added.
"I shall be very happy to give you my whole history from my birth to
the present day," replied the fair maiden, laughing. "I was born at St.
Charles, and lived there and in New Orleans until about a year ago,
since which time we have resided most of the time in Baton Rouge."
"Then your home is not at St. Charles?"
"Oh, yes! Our home is there, but we have one at the capital of the
state also," said the mischievous girl.
"I thought you were going to your uncle's in Baton Rouge to stay until
the mansion was repaired."
"I haven't any uncle in Baton Rouge, or anywhere else," chuckled Miss
Blanche.
"Your father certainly said he should stay at his brother's in Baton
Rouge," I added, puzzled by the statement.
"That was just as we girls used to say we were 'going to grandmother's'
when we went to the seminary."
"Who is your father, Miss Hungerford?" I asked, repeating the question
the planter had put to me.
"Colonel Hungerford," she answered, naïvely.
"Yes, I know; but what is he?"
"The Governor of Louisiana," replied Miss Blanche, with a merry laugh.
"The governor!" I exclaimed, appalled to think I had been talking so
familiarly to the chief magistrate of the state.
"But he won't let any one call him governor when he is not attending to
his official duties, if he can help it. He likes to be a plain citizen
when he is off duty," continued the young lady. "We went down to stay a
few days at the plantation."
Miss Margie's father called her, and thought it was too damp for her to
be out after dark. We all went below, and the colonel said he must
smoke his cigar. I conducted him to the pilot-house, where Owen and
Miss Edith were spending the evening. My father was there also; and I
took the occasion to introduce our distinguished guest to him again,
with his title in full.
"So you have found me out, Captain Alick," said his excellency, with a
pleasant laugh, which did much to restore the equilibrium between us.
"That puss of mine has been telling family secrets, and you must
promise not to tell anybody what you have discovered."
"No one not on board," I replied.
"Everybody else will know the secret, so that I shall gain nothing. But
we will not quarrel about trifles."
Everybody on board was tired enough to retire early, and before ten
o'clock we had the deck and pilot-house to ourselves. The watches
continued the same as before. Washburn gave up his berth in our room to
Billy Bell, as we learned to call him, for the captain and mate never
had their watch below at the same time, and we could both occupy the
same bed at different times. The river is a mile wide, and at the
present high stage of the water, there was no difficulty in steering,
under the instructions of the pilot.
We had a sort of panorama, or diagram of the river, which I had
obtained in New Orleans, arranged on the space between the windows of
the pilot-house, so that we could tell where we were at all times. Ben
Bowman had put the chart on rollers, and it could be wound up from one
end to the other. The only things that were likely to bother us were
the bayous and cut-offs; and the pilot was at hand at any moment he
might be needed.
We passed no place of importance during the night; and at five o'clock
in the morning we were at Donaldsonville. We made fast to the levee,
and as we were in no hurry, I did not call any of the passengers. I
told Gopher and Cobbington who the planter we had rescued was, that
they might have things in proper condition at the breakfast-table. I
inquired what boats had stopped at the place, and learned that the
Queen of the South had left two hours before. This showed that her
speed did not exceed that of our little fleet.
I asked if any passengers had landed, and was informed that several had
done so. I thought I would visit the hotels, and see if Cornwood and
Nick were at any one of them. I was about to leave the steamer when the
governor came out of the cabin. He insisted that I should not leave the
vessel, as the rascals might see me. They could not escape from the
place except by boat. He went ashore himself, after I had given him a
full description of the fugitives.
He returned in a short time, and said a report would come down in the
course of an hour or two. Our party had a merry time at breakfast, and
the meal was as elaborate as the resources of the New Orleans market
and the skill of Gopher could make it. Colonel Hungerford, as he
insisted that we should call him, was in the highest spirits. Before
the meal was over, a gentleman came on board and desired to see the
governor. He was the marshal of the city. No such passengers as had
been described to him had landed. He had telegraphed to Baton Rouge for
the police to search the steamer on her arrival.
Nothing more could be done, and we started up the river again. We
arrived at the capital of the state at four in the afternoon. We spent
the day in viewing the wonders of the mighty river, the waters of which
were almost up to the top of the levees. The governor said that the
country was inundated for thirty miles, though we could see but little
water except what was between the fringe of the trees on the banks of
the stream.
It takes the waters about a month to travel from the melting snows on
the north and north-west to the Gulf. At the mouth of the Missouri the
flood rises about twenty-five feet; below the Ohio the rise is
sometimes more than fifty feet, while at New Orleans it seldom exceeds
twelve feet. The greater height, caused by the addition of the waters
of the Ohio to the flood, is reduced in Louisiana by the passage of
much of the flow through the Atchafalaya, La Fourche, and other bayous,
into the Gulf of Mexico.
On our arrival at the capital, we found that the Queen had not been
searched, for telegraphic communication with points below had been cut
off by the flood.
CHAPTER XXIX.
UP THE RIVER FOR MANY DAYS.
Colonel Hungerford was even more vexed at the failure of the plan to
arrest the fugitives than I was. But Baton Rouge was on the last of the
bluffs that one sees in descending the great river, and above the
region of continuous levees. There was no doubt we could operate from
this region, and secure the capture of the fugitives.
"How long since the Queen left?" asked the governor, of the man who had
given us the information.
"She must have been gone nearly three hours," he replied.
"The fugitives are not likely to leave the steamer before she gets to
Vicksburg, for there is no railroad from any point this side of that
city. It is thirty-five miles from here to Bayou Sara. The steamer may
stop there, and may not," said the governor, musing. "That is the last
place in this State at which she is at all likely to make a landing. I
will telegraph at once."
Without waiting to see any of our passengers ashore, I went with the
governor to the telegraph office. He sent the dispatch to an official,
directing him to board the steamer, if she did not stop, and arrest the
fugitives, a sufficient description of whom I gave him. When this was
done, Colonel Hungerford had time to attend to the landing of the
party. He insisted that all the passengers should go to his residence
and stay over Sunday with him. Colonel Shepard declined, and declared
that he and his family had no claims upon his hospitality. A
good-natured controversy ensued, and ended in the Colonel and all the
others yielding the point.
Three carriages started for the residence of the chief magistrate, and
another was awaiting his orders at the levee. By this time a reply came
from the official in Bayou Sara, in which he promised to follow the
instructions of the governor as soon as the steamer came in sight, for
she had not yet appeared.
"Now, Captain Alick, if you will get into the carriage, I will take you
up to the house," said Colonel Hungerford.
"You must excuse me, sir, for I have to attend to the affairs of the
vessel," I answered.
"Must I argue this same question with you, too?" demanded the governor.
"I hope you will not, for I think it will do no good," I added,
laughing. "Your excellency forgets that I am the captain of the
Sylvania, and a true sailor never gives up his ship."
"Your ship is all well enough. You must go to my house, and bring Mr.
Washburn with you."
"Impossible, sir! Our steamer is not a river boat, and she is not a
flat-bottomed craft," I tried to explain. "Her keel does not take
kindly to the levee. I must stay here and look out for her; but I will
call at your house this evening."
But it was no use to argue the point; the governor persisted, and I
