mine old departed father!” Then he answered, 
aloud, “Right well, your worship.” 
“Good — is he within?” 
“Yes,” said the boy; and added, to himself, 
“within his grave.” 
“Might I crave your favor to carry my name to 
him, and say I beg to say a word in his ear?” 
“I will despatch the business right willingly, fair 
sir.” 
“Then say Miles Hendon, son of Sir Richard, is 
here without — I shall be greatly bounden to you, 
my good lad.” 
The boy looked disappointed — “the king did 
not name him so,” he said to himself — “but it mat- 
tereth not, this is his twin brother, and can give 
his majesty news of t’other Sir-Odds-and-Ends, 
I warrant.” So he said to Miles, “Step in there 
a moment, good sir, and wait till I bring you word.” 
Hendon retired to the place indicated — it was a 
recess sunk in the palace wall, with a stone bench 
in it — a. shelter for sentinels in bad weather. He 
had hardly seated himself when some halberdiers, in 
charge of an officer, passed by. The ofScer saw 
him, halted his men, and commanded Hendon to 
come forth. He obeyed, and was promptly arrested 
as a suspicious character prowling within the pre- 
cincts of the palace. Things began to look ugly. 
Poor Miles was going to explain, but the ofi&cer 
roughly silenced him, and ordered his men to dis- 
arm him and search him. 
“God of his mercy grant that they find some- 
what,” said poor Miles; “I have searched enow, 
and failed, yet is my need greater than theirs.” 
Nothing was found but a document. The officer 
tore it open, and Hendon, smiled when he recog- 
nized the “pot-hooks” made by his lost little friend 
that black day at Hendon Hall. The officer’s face 
grew dark as he read the English paragraph, and 
Miles blenched to the opposite color as he listened. 
“Another new claimant of the crown!” cried the 
officer. “Verily they breed like rabbits to-day. 
Seize the rascal, men, and see ye keep him fast 
while I convey this precious paper witlin and send 
it to the king.” 
He hurried away, leaving the prisoner in the grip 
of the halberdiers. 
“Now is my evil luck ended at last,” muttered 
Hendon, “for I shall dangle at a rope’s end for a 
certainty, by reason of that bit of writing. And 
what will become of my poor lad! — ah, only the 
good God knoweth.” 
By and by he saw the officer coming again, in a 
great hurry; so he plucked his courage together, 
purposing to meet his trouble as became a man. 
The officer ordered the men to loose the prisoner 
and return his sword to him; then bowed respect- 
fully, and said: 
“Please you, sir, to follow me.” 
Hendon followed, saying to himself, “An I were 
not traveling to death and judgment, and so must 
needs economize in sin, I woxxld throttle this knave 
for his mode courtesy.” 
The two traversed a populous court, and arrived 
at the grand entrance of the palace, where the 
officer, with another bow, delivered Hendon into 
the hands of a gorgeous official, who received him 
with profound respect and led him forward through 
a great hall, lined on both sides with rows of splen- 
did flunkies (who made reverential obeisance as 
the two passed along, but fell into death-throes of 
silent laughter at our stately scarecrow the moment 
his back was turned), and up a broad staircase, 
among flocks of fine folk, and finally conducted him 
to a vast room, clove a passage for him through 
the assembled nobility of England, then made a 
bow, reminded him to take his hat off, and left him 
standing in the middle of the room, a mark for all 
eyes, for plenty of indignant frowns, and for a
sufficiency of amused and derisive smiles. 
Miles Hendon was entirely bewildered. There 
sat the young king, under a canopy of state, five 
steps away, with his head bent down and aside, 
speaking with a sort of human bird of paradise — a 
duke, maybe; Hendon observed to himself that it 
was hard enough to be sentenced to death in the 
full vigor of life, without having this peculiarly 
public humiliation added. He wished the king 
would hurry about it — some of the gaudy people 
near by were becoming pretty offensive. At this 
moment the king raised his head slightly and 
Hendon caught a good view of his face. The sight 
nearly took his breath away! He stood gazing at 
the fair young face like one transfixed; then pres- 
ently ejaculated: 
“Lo, the lord of the Kingdom of Dreams and 
Shadows on his throne!” 
He muttered some broken sentences, stni gazing 
and marveling; then turned his eyes around and 
about, scanning the gorgeous throng and the splen- 
did saloon, murmuring “But these are real — verily 
these are real — surely it is not a dream.” 
He stared at the king again — and thought, “Is 
it a dream? ... or w he the veritable sovereign of 
England, and jiot the friendless poor Tom o’ 
Bedlam I took him for — who shall solve me this riddle?” 
A sudden idea flashed in his eye, and he strode 
to the wall, gathered up a chair, brought it back, 
planted it on the floor, and sat down in it !  
A buzz of indignation broke out, a rough hand 
was laid upon him, and a voice exclaimed: 
“Up, thou mannerless clown! — wouldst sit in the 
presence of the king?" 
The disturbance attracted his majesty’s attention, 
who stretched forth his hand and cried out: 
“Touch him not, it is his right!” 
The throng fell back, stupefied. The king went 
on: 
“Learn ye all, ladies, lords and gentlemen, that 
this is my trusty and well-beloved servant. Miles 
Hendon, who interposed his good sword and saved 
his prince from bodily harm and possible death — 
and for this he is a knight, by the king’s voice. 
Also learn, that for a higher service, in that he 
saved his sovereign stripes and shame, taking these 
upon himself, he is a peer of England, Earl of Kent, 
and shall have gold and lands meet for the dignity. 
More — the privilege which he hath just exer- 
dsed is his by royal grant; for we have ordained 
that the chiefs of his line shall have and hold the 
right to sit in the presence of the majesty of Eng- 
land henceforth, age after age, so long as the carown 
shall endure. Molest him not.” 
Two persons, who, through delay, had only arrived 
from the country during this morning, and had 
now been in this room only five minutes, stood 
listening to these words and looming at the king, 
then at the scarecrow, then at the king again, in a 
sort of torpid bewilderment. These were Sir Hugh 
and the Lady Edith. But the new earl did not see 
them. He was still staring at the monarch, in a 
dazed way, and muttering; 
“Oh, body o’ me! This my pauper! This my 
lunatic! This is he whom I would show what 
grandeur was, in my house of seventy rooms and 
seven and twenty servants! This is he who had 
never known aught but rags for raiment, kicks for 
comfort, and offal for diet! This is he whom I 
adopted and would noake respectable! Woidd God 
I had a bag to hide my head in!” 
Then his manners suddenly came back to him, 
and he dropped upon his knees, with his hands 
between the king’s, and swore allegiance and did 
homage for his lands and titles. Then he rose and 
stood respectfully aside, a mark still for all eyes — 
and much envy, too. 
Now the king discovered Sir Hugh, and spoke 
out, with wrathful voice and kindling eye: 
“Strip this robber of his false show and stolen 
estates, and put him under lock and key till I have 
need of him.” 
The late Sir Hugh was led away. 
There was a stir at the other end of the room 
now; the assemblage fell apart, and Tom Canty, 
quaintly but richly clothed, marched down, between 
these living walls, preceded by an usher. He knelt 
before the king, who said: 
“I have learned the story of these past few 
weeks, and am well pleased with thee. Thou hast 
governed the realm with right royal gentleness and 
mercy. Thou hast found thy mother and thy sisters 
again? Good; they shall be cared for — and thy 
father shall hang, if thou desire it and the law 
consent. Know, all ye that hear my voice, that from 
this day, they that abide in the shelter of Christ’s 
Hospital and share the king’s bounty, shall have their 
minds and hearts fed, as well as their baser parts; 
and this boy shall dwell there, and hold the chief 
place in its honorable body of governors, during 
life. And for that he hath been a king, it is meet 
that other than common observance shall be his due; 
wherefore, note this his dress of state, for by it he 
shah be known, and none shall copy it; and where- 
soever he shall come, it shall remind the people that 
he hath been royal, in his time, and none shah deny 
him his due of reverence or fah to give him saluta- 
tion. He hath the throne’s protection, he hath the 
crown’s support, he shall be known and called by 
the honorable title of the King’s Ward.” 
The proud and happy Tom Canty rose and kissed 
the king’s hand, and was conducted from the pres- 
ence. He did not waste any time, but flew to his 
mother, to tell her and Nan and Bet all about it and 
get them to help him enjoy the great news. 
WHEN the mysteries were all cleared up, it came 
out, by confession of Hugh Hendon, that his 
wife had repudiated Miles by his command that day 
at Hendon Hall — a command assisted and sup- 
ported by the perfectly trustworthy promise that if 
she did not deny that he was Miles Hendon, and 
stand firmly to it, he would have her life; where- 
