sufficient; and he objects, when he is at the public table, to the
conduct of his neighbor who carelessly took up "Simeon's" fork and used
it as a tooth-pick. All this, no doubt, passed for wit in the beginning
of the century. Punning, broad satire, exaggerated compliment, verse
which has love for its theme and the "sweet bird of Venus" for its
object, an affectation of gallantry and of ennui, with anecdotes of
distinguished visitors, out of which the screaming fun has quite
evaporated, make up the staple of these faded mementos of ancient
watering-place. Yet how much superior is our comedy of to-day? The
beauty and the charms of the women of two generations ago exist only in
tradition; perhaps we should give to the wit of that time equal
admiration if none of it had been preserved.
Irving, notwithstanding the success of "Salmagundi," did not immediately
devote himself to literature, nor seem to regard his achievements in it
as anything more than aids to social distinction. He was then, as
always, greatly influenced by his surroundings. These were unfavorable
to literary pursuits. Politics was the attractive field for preferment
and distinction; and it is more than probable that, even after the
success of the Knickerbocker history, he would have drifted through
life, half lawyer and half placeman, if the associations and stimulus of
an old civilization, in his second European residence, had not fired his
ambition. Like most young lawyers with little law and less clients, he
began to dabble in local politics. The experiment was not much to his
taste, and the association and work demanded, at that time, of a ward
politician soon disgusted him. "We have toiled through the purgatory of
an election," he writes to the fair Republican, Miss Fairlie, who
rejoiced in the defeat he and the Federals had sustained:--
     "What makes me the more outrageous is, that I got fairly drawn into
     the vortex, and before the third day was expired, I was as deep in
     mud and politics as ever a moderate gentleman would wish to be; and
     I drank beer with the multitude; and I talked hand-bill fashion
     with the demagogues; and I shook hands with the mob, whom my heart
     abhorreth. 'Tis true, for the first two days I maintained my
     coolness and indifference. The first day I merely hunted for whim,
     character, and absurdity, according to my usual custom; the second
     day being rainy, I sat in the bar-room at the Seventh Ward, and
     read a volume of 'Galatea,' which I found on a shelf; but before I
     had got through a hundred pages, I had three or four good Feds
     sprawling round me on the floor, and another with his eyes half
     shut, leaning on my shoulder in the most affectionate manner, and
     spelling a page of the book as if it had been an electioneering
     hand-bill. But the third day--ah! then came the tug of war. My
     patriotism then blazed forth, and I determined to save my country!
     Oh, my friend, I have been in such holes and corners; such filthy
     nooks and filthy corners; sweep offices and oyster cellars! 'I have
     sworn brother to a leash of drawers, and can drink with any tinker
     in his own language during my life,'--faugh! I shall not be able to
     bear the smell of small beer and tobacco for a month to come....
     Truly this saving one's country is a nauseous piece of business,
     and if patriotism is such a dirty virtue,--prythee, no more of it."
He unsuccessfully solicited some civil appointment at Albany, a very
modest solicitation, which was never renewed, and which did not last
long, for he was no sooner there than he was "disgusted by the servility
and duplicity and rascality witnessed among the swarm of scrub
politicians." There was a promising young artist at that time in Albany,
and Irving wishes he were a man of wealth, to give him a helping hand; a
few acts of munificence of this kind by rich nabobs, he breaks out,
"would be more pleasing in the sight of Heaven, and more to the glory
and advantage of their country, than building a dozen shingle church
steeples, or buying a thousand venal votes at an election." This was in
the "good old times!"
Although a Federalist, and, as he described himself, "an admirer of
General Hamilton, and a partisan with him in politics," he accepted a
retainer from Burr's friends in 1807, and attended his trial in
Richmond, but more in the capacity of an observer of the scene than a
lawyer. He did not share the prevalent opinion of Burr's treason, and
regarded him as a man so fallen as to be shorn of the power to injure
the country, one for whom he could feel nothing but compassion. That
compassion, however, he received only from the ladies of the city, and
the traits of female goodness manifested then sunk deep into Irving's
heart. Without pretending, he says, to decide on Burr's innocence or
guilt, "his situation is such as should appeal eloquently to the
feelings of every generous bosom. Sorry am I to say the reverse has been
the fact: fallen, proscribed, pre-judged, the cup of bitterness has been
administered to him with an unsparing hand. It has almost been
considered as culpable to evince toward him the least sympathy or
support; and many a hollow-hearted caitiff have I seen, who basked in
the sunshine of his bounty while in power, who now skulked from his
side, and even mingled among the most clamorous of his enemies.... I bid
him farewell with a heavy heart, and he expressed with peculiar warmth
and feeling his sense of the interest I had taken in his fate. I never
felt in a more melancholy mood than when I rode from his solitary
prison." This is a good illustration of Irving's tender-heartedness; but
considering Burr's whole character, it is altogether a womanish case of
misplaced sympathy with the cool slayer of Alexander Hamilton.
                               CHAPTER V.
                        THE KNICKERBOCKER PERIOD.
Not long after the discontinuance of "Salmagundi," Irving in connection
with his brother Peter projected the work that was to make him famous.
At first nothing more was intended than a satire upon the "Picture of
New York," by Dr. Samuel Mitchell, just then published. It was begun as
a mere burlesque upon pedantry and erudition, and was well advanced,
when Peter was called by his business to Europe, and its completion was
fortunately left to Washington. In his mind the idea expanded into a
different conception. He condensed the mass of affected learning, which
was their joint work, into five introductory chapters,--subsequently he
said it would have been improved if it had been reduced to one, and it
seems to me it would have been better if that one had been thrown
away,--and finished "A History of New York," by Diedrich Knickerbocker,
substantially as we now have it. This was in 1809, when Irving was
twenty-six years old.
But before this humorous creation was completed, the author endured the
terrible bereavement which was to color all his life. He had formed a
deep and tender passion for Matilda Hoffman, the second daughter of
Jeremiah Ogden Hoffman, in whose family he had long been on a footing of
the most perfect intimacy, and his ardent love was fully reciprocated.
He was restlessly casting about for some assured means of livelihood
which would enable him to marry, and perhaps his distrust of a literary
career was connected with this desire, when after a short illness Miss
Hoffman died, in the eighteenth year of her age. Without being a
dazzling beauty, she was lovely in person and mind, with most engaging
manners, a refined sensibility, and a delicate and playful humor. The
loss was a crushing blow to Irving, from the effects of which he never
recovered, although time softened the bitterness of his grief into a
tender and sacred memory. He could never bear to hear her name spoken
even by his most intimate friends, or any allusion to her. Thirty years
after her death, it happened one evening at the house of Mr. Hoffman,
her father, that a granddaughter was playing for Mr. Irving, and in
taking her music from the drawer, a faded piece of embroidery was
brought forth. "Washington," said Mr. Hoffman, picking it up, "this is a
piece of poor Matilda's workmanship." The effect was electric. He had
been talking in the sprightliest mood before, but he sunk at once into
utter silence, and in a few moments got up and left the house.
After his death, in a private repository of which he always kept the
key, was found a lovely miniature, a braid of fair hair, and a slip of
paper, on which was written in his own hand, "Matilda Hoffman;" and with
these treasures were several pages of a memorandum in ink long since
faded. He kept through life her Bible and Prayer Book; they were placed
nightly under his pillow in the first days of anguish that followed her
loss, and ever after they were the inseparable companions of all his
wanderings. In this memorandum--which was written many years
afterwards--we read the simple story of his love:--
     "We saw each other every day, and I became excessively attached to
     her. Her shyness wore off by degrees. The more I saw of her the
     more I had reason to admire her. Her mind seemed to unfold leaf by
     leaf, and every time to discover new sweetness. Nobody knew her so
     well as I, for she was generally timid and silent; but I in a
     manner studied her excellence. Never did I meet with more intuitive
     rectitude of mind, more native delicacy, more exquisite propriety
     in word, thought, and action, than in this young creature. I am not
     exaggerating; what I say was acknowledged by all who knew her. Her
     brilliant little sister used to say that people began by admiring
     her, but ended by loving Matilda. For my part, I idolized her. I
     felt at times rebuked by her superior delicacy and purity, and as
     if I was a coarse, unworthy being in comparison."
At this time Irving was much perplexed about his career. He had "a fatal
propensity to belles-lettres;" his repugnance to the law was such that
his mind would not take hold of the study; he anticipated nothing from
legal pursuits or political employment; he was secretly writing the
humorous history, but was altogether in a low-spirited and disheartened
state. I quote again from the memorandum:--
     "In the mean time I saw Matilda every day, and that helped to
     distract me. In the midst of this struggle and anxiety she was
     taken ill with a cold. Nothing was thought of it at first; but she
     grew rapidly worse, and fell into a consumption. I cannot tell you
     what I suffered. The ills that I have undergone in this life have
     been dealt out to me drop by drop, and I have tasted all their
     bitterness. I saw her fade rapidly away; beautiful, and more
     beautiful, and more angelical to the last. I was often by her
     bedside; and in her wandering state of mind she would talk to me
     with a sweet, natural, and affecting eloquence, that was
     overpowering. I saw more of the beauty of her mind in that
     delirious state than I had ever known before. Her malady was rapid
     in its career, and hurried her off in two months. Her dying
     struggles were painful and protracted. For three days and nights I
     did not leave the house, and scarcely slept. I was by her when she
     died; all the family were assembled round her, some praying, others
     weeping, for she was adored by them all. I was the last one she
     looked upon. I have told you as briefly as I could what, if I were
     to tell with all the incidents and feelings that accompanied it,
     would fill volumes. She was but about seventeen years old when she
     died.
     "I cannot tell you what a horrid state of mind I was in for a long
     time. I seemed to care for nothing; the world was a blank to me. I
     abandoned all thoughts of the law. I went into the country, but
     could not bear solitude, yet could not endure society. There was a
     dismal horror continually in my mind, that made me fear to be
     alone. I had often to get up in the night, and seek the bedroom of
     my brother, as if the having a human being by me would relieve me
     from the frightful gloom of my own thoughts.
     "Months elapsed before my mind would resume any tone; but the
     despondency I had suffered for a long time in the course of this
     attachment, and the anguish that attended its catastrophe, seemed
     to give a turn to my whole character, and throw some clouds into my
     disposition, which have ever since hung about it. When I became
     more calm and collected, I applied myself, by way of occupation, to
     the finishing of my work. I brought it to a close, as well as I
     could, and published it; but the time and circumstances in which it
     was produced rendered me always unable to look upon it with
     satisfaction. Still it took with the public, and gave me celebrity,
     as an original work was something remarkable and uncommon in
     America. I was noticed, caressed, and, for a time, elevated by the
     popularity I had gained. I found myself uncomfortable in my
     feelings in New York, and traveled about a little. Wherever I went
     I was overwhelmed with attentions; I was full of youth and
     animation, far different from the being I now am, and I was quite
     flushed with this early taste of public favor. Still, however, the
     career of gayety and notoriety soon palled on me. I seemed to drift
     about without aim or object, at the mercy of every breeze; my heart
     wanted anchorage. I was naturally susceptible, and tried to form
