and I expect you to bring it back in good order, or stand the loss. My 
business wouldn't keep me, sir, on no other principles. You must make the 
damage good, if you're a gentleman or no gentleman." 
"Take the best supposition, and let me have supper. If you will make 
that good, Mr. Landlord, you may add the phaeton to my bill." 
"You'll pay it, I s'pose?" cried the anxious landlord, as his guest 
turned away. 
"I always pay my bills," said Mr. Southwode, mounting the steps to the 
piazza. "Now Rotha, come and have something to eat." 
Supper was long since over for the family; the two had the great dining 
hall to themselves. It was the room in which Rotha had taken her solitary 
breakfast the morning of her arrival. Now as she and her companion took 
their seats at one of the small tables, it seemed to the girl that she 
had got into an enchanted country. Aladdin's vaults of jewels were not a 
pleasanter place in his eyes, than this room to her to-night. And she had 
not to take care even of her supper; care of every sort was gone. One 
thing however was on Rotha's mind. 
"Mr. Southwode," she said as soon as they had placed themselves,--"it was 
not your fault, all that about the phaeton." 
"No." 
"Then you ought not to pay for it." 
"It would be more loss to this poor man, than to me, Rotha, I fancy." 
"Yes, but right is right. Making a present is one thing; paying an unjust 
charge is another. It is allowing that you were to blame." 
"I do not know that it is unjust. And peace is worth paying for, if the 
phaeton is not." 
"How much do you suppose it will be?" 
"I do not know," he said laughing a little. "Are you anxious, about it?" 
Rotha coloured up brightly. "It seems like allowing that you were in the 
wrong," she said. "And the man was very impertinent." 
"I recognize your old fierce logic of justice. Haven't you learned yet 
that one must give and take a good deal in this world, to get along 
smoothly? No charge the man can ever make will equal what the broken 
phaeton is worth to me, Rotha." 
CHAPTER XXXI. 
DISCUSSIONS. 
The sitting room, when they came to it after supper, looked as pleasant 
as a hotel sitting room could. It was but a bare apartment, after the 
fashion of country hotels; however it was filled with the blaze of a good 
fire, and that gives a glimmer of comfort anywhere. Moreover it was a 
private room; they had it to themselves. Now what next? thought Rotha. 
Mr. Southwode put a chair for her, gave a little dressing to the fire, 
and then stood by the mantel-piece with his back towards it, so that his 
face was in shadow. Probably he was considering Rotha's face, into which 
the fire shone full. For it was a pleasant thing to look at, with its 
brightness just now softened by a lovely veil of modesty, and a certain 
unmistakeable blessedness of content lurking in the corners of the mouth 
and the lines of the brow. It met all the requirements of a fastidious 
man. There was sense, dignity, refinement, sensitiveness, and frankness; 
and the gazer almost forgot what he wanted to do, in the pleasure of 
looking. Rotha had time to wonder more than once "what next?"  
"It seems to me we have a great deal to talk about, Rotha," Mr. Southwode 
said at last. "And not much time. What comes first?" 
"I suppose," said Rotha, "the first thing is, that I must go back to 
school." 
"I suppose you must!" he said. There was an accent about it that made 
Rotha laugh. 
"Why I must of course!" she said. "I do not know anything;--only the 
beginnings of things." 
"Yes," repeated Mr. Southwode, "for a year you must go, I suppose. For a 
year.-- After that, I will not wait any longer. You shall do the rest of 
your studying with me." 
"You know I like that best of all--" she said softly. 
"Perhaps I will take you to Germany." 
"Germany!"-- 
"It is a good place to study German. Or to study anything." 
"Must one go to France too, to study French?" Rotha asked with a nervous 
laugh. 
"We must not be too long away from home. But a year--or till next summer; 
school terms end in summer, do they not?" 
"In June." 
"So, for a year, or for eight months, I shall hardly see you. We must do 
a great deal of talking to-night." 
"Where will you be, Mr. Digby?" Rotha asked timidly, as he took a chair 
beside her. 
"Not far off; but for this interval I shall choose to play the part of 
guardian, rather than that of lover, before the eyes of the world." 
"O yes, indeed!" said Rotha earnestly. "For every reason." 
"All the more, I am not going to play the part of guardian to-night. 
Rotha I think now, it would be as well to return to Mrs. Mowbray for 
these eight months. Would you like that?" 
"O I shall like it very much! if you like it." 
"Things are changed, since we talked about it this afternoon." 
"Yes!--" said Rotha breathless. And there was something she wanted to 
say, but at that minute she could not say it. For that minute she could 
not disturb the sweetness of things as they were. Scruples must wait. 
Mr. Southwode saw that she was a little disturbed, shy and nervous, 
albeit there was no doubt that she was very happy. He stretched out his 
hand and took hers, holding it in a fast steady clasp; as if to assure 
her of something tangible and real in her new happiness. "Now," said 
he, "tell me about yourself--about all these years." 
"I did tell you, in part." 
"Yes. Tell me the other part. I want to have the whole now." 
"It would just--annoy you, I am afraid." 
"What sort of a home did you have with your aunt?" 
"Not pleasant. That was partly my own fault. I was not patient and 
gentle and quiet--as you told me to be. I got into a kind of a fury, at 
things and at her." 
"What did she do?" 
And then Rotha told him the whole story, not sparing herself at all by 
the way; till he knew pretty well what her life had been these three 
years, and what part Mrs. Mowbray and what part Mrs. Busby had played in 
it. Only one thing Rotha did not tell him; the episode of the stockings. 
He listened in absolute silence, save that now and then he helped her on 
with a question; holding her hand firmly all the while. And Rotha felt 
the clasp and knew what it meant, and poured out her heart. After she had 
done, he was still silent a minute. 
"What shall we do to Mrs. Mowbray!" he broke out. 
"You cannot do anything to her," said Rotha. "Thanks are nothing; and 
there is no way of doing the least thing beside;--unless she could be 
very ill and left to my care; and I do not wish that." 
"Perhaps she will give up schooling some day; and we will coax her over 
to England and make her live with us." 
Rotha started and turned upon the speaker one of her brilliant looks. A 
sort of delight at the thought, and admiration of his thought, with a 
flush of intense affection which regarded at least two people, made her 
face like a cluster of diamonds. Mr. Southwode smiled, and then began to 
talk about that home to which he had alluded. He described it to Rotha; 
sketched the plan of the house for her; told her about the people of the 
surrounding country. The house was not magnificent or stately, he said; 
but large, comfortable, old, and rather picturesque in appearance; 
standing in the midst of extensive and very lovely grounds, where art had 
not interfered with nature. He told Rotha he thought she would like it. 
Rotha's eyes fell; she made no answer, but was he thought very grave. He 
went on to tell her about himself and his business. He, and his father 
and grandfather before him, had been owners of a large manufacturing 
establishment, the buildings of which made almost a village some three 
miles from the house, and the workmen in which were very many. 
"Isn't that troublesome often?" Rotha asked, forgetting herself now. 
"No. Why should it be troublesome?" 
"I read in the papers so much about strikes, and disagreements between 
masters and workmen in this country." 
"We never had a strike, and we never have disagreements." 
"That is nice; but how do you manage? I suppose I can guess! They all do 
what you tell them." 
"I do not tell them anything unreasonable." 
"Still, ignorant people do not always know what is reasonable." 
"That is true. And it is rather the Golden Rule we go by, than the might 
of Reason or the reign of Law." 
"How do you manage, Mr. Digby?" 
"I am not to be Mr. Digby always, I hope?" 
"This year--" murmured Rotha.
"This year! I do not mean to ask anything unreasonable of you either; but 
I would like you to remember that things are changed," he said, amused. 
"Yes, I will," said Rotha confusedly--"I will remember; I do remember, 
but now please tell me about your factory people." 
"What about them?" 
"O, how you manage; how they do; anything!" 
"Well--the hands go to work at six o'clock, and work two hours; or not 
quite that, for the bell rings in time to let them wash their hands 
before breakfast; and for that there are rooms provided, with soap and 
towels and everything necessary. Then they gather in the dining halls, 
where their breakfast is ready; or if any of them prefer to bring their 
own food, it is cooked for them. There is no compulsion." 
"What do they have for breakfast?" 
"Coffee and tea and bread, and porridge with milk or with syrup--all at 
certain fixed low rates and all of good quality. There are people to 
cook, and boys and girls to wait upon the tables. They have the time till 
half past eight, but it is not all used for eating; the last quarter of 
an hour they stroll about and talk together. At half past eight comes the 
time for prayers. One of the managers conducts the service in the chapel; 
the Bible is read, and a hymn is sung, and there is a short prayer. At 
nine o'clock all hands go back to work." 
"They have had an hour's good rest," said Rotha. "You say, in the  
chapel? have you a chapel for them?" 
"In the midst of the mills. It is a pretty little building--in old 
English rustic style; I think it very pretty." 
"I dare say the people enjoy that," said Rotha. "It ought to be pretty, 
for them. I should think your hands would never want to leave you, Mr. 
Southwode." 
"They never do. And as I told you, there is never a question of strikes. 
Neither do we ever have a time of bad business. The work done is so 
thorough and has been so long well known, that we never need to ask for 
orders. We never lose by making bad debts; and we never give notes, or 
take them. I say 'we'--I am using the old formula--it is all in my hand 
now." 
"Why are not other people wise enough to make such arrangements and have 
the same sort of comfort?" 
"Men fail to recognize their common humanity with those under them. That 
has been the basis of our management from the beginning. But the chapel, 
and the religious influence, are of later date.--I must find a ring for 
this finger, Rotha." 
"A ring!" exclaimed the girl. 
"Yes. Is not that the custom here? to make people remember what they have 
pledged themselves to?--" he said smiling. 
"Oh never mind that, Mr. Southwode!" said Rotha hurriedly. "Go on and 
tell me more about your mill people." 
"What shall I tell you?" 
"About your ways,--and their ways. When do they have dinner?" 
"Between one and two. They have an hour for it. A little after half past 
one they go to work again and work till six; only they have time allowed 
them for tea and coffee at half past four." 
"There is no drinking, I suppose?" 
"Not even of beer. Half the people do their work at their own homes; they 
bring it in on certain days, when we give them hot tea and coffee and 
bread and cheese, which they have without paying for it. That saves them 
from the temptation of the public houses; and there is no such thing as 
drunkenness known in the community." 
"Tea and coffee seem to play a great part," said Rotha. 
"So they do. People steadily at work in any mechanical way need frequent 
