 "You cannot make me believe," he insisted, 
" that you are not musical. Physicians are." 
" That is true enough," she answered, quickly 
warming to the subject. " Science is harmony. 
Music ancl science are twins. Music is the femi 
nine, though, I think." 
" It is a fine marriage. Oh, you call them 
twins, though." 
" You are not so far out of the way. There is 
nn element of twinship in all absolute marriage." 
This was said with her scientific expression, as if 
she were dissecting a radial artery. 
" How many absolute marriages have you 
known ? " asked Yorke, as nearly as possible in 
the same tone. 
" Just three," said Dr. Doctor Zay. 
" In all your experience ? Only three that 
would that you would have been satisfied 
with ? " 
" It is not a question of what would satisfy one 's 
self," she said, freezing swiftly and slightly, like 
thin November ice. "It is a matter of psychological 
investigation." 
 
" What a horrible advantage over mankind 
your -profession gives ! " said Yorke, between his 
teeth. She nodded gravely. 
" It is unmatched, I believe. Even the clergy : 
have a poor one beside us. We stand at an eter 
nal confessional, in which the chance of moral 
escape or evasion is reduced to a minimum. It is 
holding human hearts to count their beats. When 
you add the control of life and death, you have a 
position unique in human relations. When I be 
gan, it seemed to me like God 's. My mother 
used to " She stopped. 
" What did your mother do ? " asked Yorke, 
gently. 
" She encouraged that feeling," said Doctor 
Zay. " She said no one was fit to enter the 
profession who did not have it." 
"I wish I had known your mother," he ventured. 
" You would have loved her," said the doctor, 
simply. 
"And I wish you knew mine! " continued the 
young man, fatuously. 
" She would not be interested in me," returned 
Doctor Zay, coldly. It was good, honest Decem 
ber ice now. He could have skated on the barrier 
she had thrust between them, he neither knew 
how nor why. 
"Oh, you don't know her" he began. At 
this moment the office-bell rang. Handy answered 
it, and knocked at the parlor door to announce 
(with evident pleasure) the presence of a patient 
who " was in an Ananias V Sapphiry hurry. 
Guessed it was somebody dyin or smushed." 
The doctor rose leisurely, too used to these in 
terruptions to expend nerve force on little haste 
or premature excitement, and went into the reception-room. She did not excuse herself to her 
visitor. She left the doors ajar, and he could hear 
her hearty voice : 
" Ah, Mr. Beckwith ! What now ? " 
" Wall," replied the man 's voice that Yorke 
had heard on his first office-call, " Puella, you see, 
she 's bad. She 's took screechin bad ag in, and 
don't give none of us no peace. She wants you 
right away. She made me tackle up so 's to bring 
you myself. I told her, says I, t was a kind of 
shame ! you 'd be all beat out, this time o night. 
But, Doctor," plaintively, "it ain't no use to tell 
Puella things." 
" Anything new, Mr. Beckwith ? Any serious 
change in the case ? What are the symptoms ? " 
"Wall," said Mr. Beckwith slowly, "I can't 
 
say 's it 's so very noo. It 's that same crookedness 
in her mind. She suffers a sight," solemnly, 
"from crookedness in the mind, Doctor." 
" I 'll send her something," said the doctor 
kindly. " I do not think it necessary for me to 
go to-night. There ! One powder dry on the 
tongue, if you please, every two hours. I will 
look in to-morrow." 
" I told her you wouldn't  come," said Mr. Beck- 
with, triumphantly. " And what 's more, I said, 
says I, Puella, I wouldn't  if I was her, says I. 
But says she, You don't none of you know what 
it is to have crookedness into your mind." 
Silence succeeded. The doctor returned, clos 
ing the doors as she came. She made no com 
ments on the interruption. She drifted into the 
quiet room, past the green and golden lamps, in 
her violet dress, and resumed her chair in silence. 
Yorke looked at her without speaking. 
" What are you thinking ? " she asked abruptly. 
There was a dash of something which he could 
almost have dared to call friendly freedom in the 
tone of the question. 
" I was thinking that you harmonize with your 
environment." 
" That would be the acquisition, as it is the as 
piration, of one 's life-time. The compliment is 
too large for the occasion." 
 
For answer, he glanced about the room and 
back at herself. She smiled, not without a touch 
of scorn, or it might have been of bitterness. 
" But then," he continued dreamily, "you are 
of course an exception, not a representative, among 
women who adopt your vocation." 
" You only exhibit your ignorance by such a 
remark," said the young lady quietly. " Among 
the thousand of us now practicing medicine in 
this country, there are many more successful than 
I, and abroad there is some superb work done. I 
should like to give you the figures some time. 
They are very interesting. But I won't bore you 
now. It would be like putting sermons in a 
novel." 
"What is the proportion of ladies in the profes 
sion ? " asked Yorke, with a slight shrug. 
" What is the proportion of gentlemen in the 
profession ? " 
" Except that I really know nothing about it, I 
should suppose it is larger." 
" It probably is a little. Until recently it needed 
force rather than fineness to bring a woman to the 
surface of a great progressive movement. We are 
coming to a point where both are to be absolutely 
necessary to success in the art of healing. A union 
of these qualities will be demanded of women, because 
they are women, such as has never been ex 
pected of men, or perhaps been possible to them. 
We have a complex task before us." 
" It seems a dreary one to me," said Yorke, 
rather sadly. " And yet you find it " 
" Bright ! " she said quickly ; " bright, bright ! " 
Her earnest face fired. 
" You really seem happy," he urged. 
" I am happy ! " she cried, in her resonant, joy 
ous tone. 
" I wonder if I could say as much, if I had done 
as much ? " queried the sick man. 
Her whole expression changed instantly. Both 
felt what neither said, that they had approached 
difficult and delicate ground. 
" I do not take as dark a view of your case as 
you do," she said. 
" In other words, I am not lost to your respect, 
because I have not become an eminent jurist at the 
age of I am only twenty-eight, after all," he 
added. 
" I am a year older than that," she smiled. " I 
ought to have done more. What is the trouble, 
Mr. Yorke ? Don't you get any clients ? " She 
took unconsciously the professional tone she had 
so long assumed to him, as if she had asked, 
" Doesn't  your dinner agree with you ? " 
 
" I had one divorce case last winter ; I lost it." 
" You resent my asking questions. You ought 
not to." 
" I feel it. I do not resent it." 
" That is kind in you, and discriminating. You 
silence me." 
" No, go on. Say what you think of me. Tell 
me, I can stand it. What a consummate don 
key a man of my sort must seem to a woman of 
yours ! And yet I'm not a donkey ; I am really 
a very good sort of fellow." 
" You are rudimentary," said the doctor, with 
an inscrutable look. 
" Hum um urn." 
" Honestly, Mr. Yorke, my diagnosis of you is 
different from It is my own, at any rate, be it 
worth little or much." 
" You have had some chance to form one, I 'll 
admit," said Yorke. " Let me make a guess at it: 
Inherited inertia. Succumbed to his environment. 
Corrosion of Beacon Street upon what might, in a 
machine-shop, for instance, or a factory, have been 
called his brain. Native indolence, developed by 
acquired habit. Hopeless correlation of predes 
tined forces. Atrophied ambition. Paralyzed as 
piration. No struggle for existence. Destitute of 
scientific basis. Reductio ad absurdum, Labo- 
 
rare est orare, Facilis descensus. No correspond 
ent in the Materia Medica. Hahnemann knew 
not of him. (JHe was mobbed for a great cause.) 
The Organon foresaw him not. There is no divine 
remedy for him. Give him sac. lac. powders, 
and send him back to Beacon Street. By the way, 
Doctor, did you ever give me a sugar powder?" 
" Once." 
" When was that ? I 'll know, or I 'll never for 
give you." 
" The day you disobeyed me about going out 
doors, and caused me an unnecessary call." 
