objection to see a good many of them, if he is."
"I heard he went to Sunday School with Lois, through the rain."
"How did you know?" said Lois.
"Why shouldn't I know?"
"I thought nobody was out but me."
"Do you think folks will see an umbrella walkin' up street in the rain,
and not look to see if there's somebody under it?"
"I shouldn't," said Lois. "When should an umbrella be out walking,
but in the rain?"
"Well, go along. What sort of a man is he? and what brings him to
Shampuashuh?"
"He came to see Mrs. Barclay," said Madge.
"He's a sort of man you are willin' to take trouble for," said Charity.
"Real nice, and considerate; and to hear him talk, it is as good as a
book; and he's awfully polite. You should have seen him marching in
here with Lois's wet cloak, out to the kitchen with it, and hangin' it
up. So to pay, I turned round and hung up his'n. One good turn deserves
another, I told him. But at first, I declare, I thought I couldn't keep
from laughin'."
Mrs. Marx laughed a little here. "I know the sort," she said. "Wears
kid gloves always and a little line of hair over his upper lip, and is
lazy like. I would lose all my patience to have one o' them round for
long, smokin' a cigar every other thing, and poisonin' all the air for
half a mile."
"I think he is sort o' lazy," said Charity.
"He don't smoke," said Lois.
"Yes he does," said Madge. "I found an end of cigar just down by the
front steps, when I was sweeping."
"I don't think he's a lazy man, either," said Lois. "That slow, easy
way does not mean laziness."
"What does it mean?" inquired Mrs. Marx sharply.
"It is nothing to us what it means," said Mrs. Armadale, speaking for
the first time. "We have no concern with this man. He came to see Mrs.
Barclay, his friend, and I suppose he'll never come again."
"Why shouldn't he come again, mother?" said Charity. "If she's his
friend, he might want to see her more than once, seems to me. And
what's more, he is coming again. I heard him askin' her if he might;
and then Mrs. Barclay asked me if it would be convenient, and I said it
would, of course. He said he would be comin' back from Boston in a few
weeks, and he would like to stop again as he went by. And do you know
I think she coloured. It was only a little, but she ain't a woman to
blush much; and I believe she knows why he wants to come, as well as
he does."
"Nonsense, Charity!" said Madge incredulously.
"Then half the world are busy with nonsense, that's all I have to say;
and I'm glad for my part I've somethin' better to do."
"Do you say he's comin' again?" inquired Mrs. Armadale.
"He says so, mother."
"What for?"
"Why, to visit his friend Mrs. Barclay, of course."
"She is our friend," said the old lady; "and her friends must be
entertained; but he is not our friend, children. We ain't of his
kind, and he ain't of our'n."
"What's the matter? Ain't he good?" asked Mrs. Marx.
"He's very good!" said Madge.
"Not in grandmother's way," said Lois softly.
"Mother," said Mrs. Marx, "you can't have everybody cut out on your
pattern."
Mrs. Armadale made no answer.
"And there ain't enough o' your pattern to keep one from bein'
lonesome, if we're to have nothin' to do with the rest."
"Better so," said the old lady. "I don't want no company for my chil'en
that won't help 'em on the road to heaven. They'll have company enough
when they get there."
"And how are you goin' to be the salt o' the earth, then, if you won't
touch nothin'?"
"How, if the salt loses its saltness, daughter?"
"Well, mother, it always puzzles me, that there's so much to be said on
both sides of things! I'll go home and think about it. Then he ain't
one o' your Appledore friends, Lois?"
"Not one of my friends at all, aunt Anne."
So the talk ended. There was a little private extension of it that
evening, when Lois and Madge went up to bed.
"It's a pity grandma is so sharp about things," the latter remarked to
her sister.
"Things?" said Lois. "What things?"
"Well--people. Don't you like that Mr. Dillwyn?"
"Yes."
"So do I. And she don't want us to have anything to do with him."
"But she is right," said Lois. "He is not a Christian."
"But one can't live only with Christians in this world. And, Lois, I'll
tell you what I think; he is a great deal pleasanter than a good many
Christians I know."
"He is good company," said Lois. "He has seen a great deal and read a
great deal, and he knows how to talk. That makes him pleasant."
"Well, he's a great deal more improving to be with than anybody I know
in Shampuashuh."
"In one way."
"Why shouldn't one have the pleasure, then, and the good, if he isn't a
Christian?"
"The pleasanter he is, I suppose the more danger, grandmother would
think."
"Danger of what?"
"You know, Madge, it is not my say-so, nor even grandmother's. You
know, Christians are not of the world."
"But they must see the world."
"If we were to see much of that sort of person, we might get to wishing
to see them always."
"By 'that sort of person' I suppose you mean Mr. Dillwyn? Well, I have
got so far as that already. I wish I could see such people always."
"I am sorry."
"Why? You ought to be glad at my good taste."
"I am sorry, because you are wishing for what you cannot have."
"How do you know that? You cannot tell what may happen."
"Madge, a man like Mr. Dillwyn would never think of a girl like you or
me."
"I am not wanting him to think of me," said Madge rather hotly. "But,
Lois, if you come to that, I think I--and you--are fit for anybody."
"Yes," said Lois quietly. "I think so too. But they do not take the
same view. And if they did, Madge, we could not think of them."
"Why not?--if they did. I do not hold quite such extreme rules as you
and grandmother do."
"And the Bible."--
"Other people do not think the Bible is so strict."
"You know what the words are, Madge."
"I don't know what the words mean."
Lois was brushing out the thick masses of her beautiful hair, which
floated about over her in waves of golden brown; and Madge had been
thinking, privately, that if anybody could have just that view of Lois,
his scruples--if he had any--would certainly give way. Now, at her
sister's last words, however, Lois laid down her brush, and, coming up,
laid hold of Madge by the shoulders and gave her a gentle shaking. It
ended in something of a romp, but Lois declared Madge should never say
such a thing again.
CHAPTER XXXVI.
TWO SUNDAY SCHOOLS.
Lois was inclined now to think it might be quite as well if something
hindered Mr. Dillwyn's second visit. She did not wonder at Madge's
evident fascination; she had felt the same herself long ago, and in
connection with other people; the charm of good breeding and gracious
manners, and the habit of the world, even apart from knowledge and
cultivation and the art of conversation. Yes, Mr. Dillwyn was a good
specimen of this sort of attraction; and for a moment Lois's
imagination recalled that day's two walks in the rain; then she shook
off the impression. Two poor Shampuashuh girls were not likely to have
much to do with that sort of society, and--it was best they should not.
It would be just as well if Mr. Dillwyn was hindered from coming again.
But he came. A month had passed; it was the beginning of December when
he knocked next at the door, and cold and grey and cloudy and windy as
it is December's character in certain moods to be. The reception he got
was hearty in proportion; fires were larger, the table even more
hospitably spread; Mrs. Barclay even more cordial, and the family
atmosphere not less genial. Nevertheless the visit, for Mr. Dillwyn's
special ends, was hardly satisfactory. He could get no private speech
with Lois. She was always "busy;" and at meal-times it was obviously
impossible, and would have been impolitic, to pay any particular
attention to her. Philip did not attempt it. He talked rather to every
one else; made himself delightful company; but groaned in secret.
"Cannot you make some excuse for getting her in here?" he asked Mrs.
Barclay at evening.
"Not without her sister."
"With her sister, then."
"They are very busy just now preparing some thing they call 'apple
butter.' It's unlucky, Philip. I am very sorry. I always told you your
way looked to me intricate."
Fortune favoured him, however, in an unexpected way. After a day passed
in much inward impatience, for he had not got a word with Lois, and he
had no excuse for prolonging his stay beyond the next day, as they sat
at supper, the door opened, and in came two ladies. Mr. Dillwyn was
formally presented to one of them as to "my aunt, Mrs. Marx;" the other
was named as "Mrs. Seelye." The latter was a neat, brisk little body,
with a capable air and a mien of business; all whose words came out as
if they had been nicely picked and squared, and sorted and packed, and
served in order.
"Sorry to interrupt, Mrs. Armadale" she began, in a chirruping little
voice. Indeed, her whole air was that of a notable little hen looking
after her chickens. Charity assured her it was no interruption.
"Mrs. Seelye and I had our tea hours ago," said Mrs. Marx. "I had
muffins for her, and we ate all we could then. We don't want no more
now. We're on business."
"Yes," said Mrs. Seelye. "Mrs. Marx and I, we've got to see everybody,
pretty much; and there ain't much time to do it in; so you see we can't
choose, and we just come here to see what you'll do for us."
"What do you want us to do for you, Mrs. Seelye?" Lois asked.
"Well, I don't know; only all you can. We want your counsel, and then
your help. Mr. Seelye he said, Go to the Lothrop girls first. I didn't
come first, 'cause there was somebody else on my way here; but this
is our fourth call, ain't it, Mrs. Marx?"
"I thought I'd never get you away from No. 3," was the answer.
"They were very much interested,--and I wanted to make them all
understand--it was important that they should all understand--"
"And there are different ways of understanin'," added Mrs. Marx; "and
there are a good many of 'em--the Hicks's, I mean; and so, when we
thought we'd got it all right with one, we found somebody else was in a
fog; and then he had to be fetched out."
"But we are all in a fog," said Madge, laughing. "What are you coming
to? and what are we to understand?"
"We have a little plan," said Mrs. Seelye.
"It'll be a big one, before we get through with it," added her
coadjutor. "Nobody'll be frightened here if you call it a big one to
start with, Mrs. Seelye. I like to look things in the face."
"So do we," said Mrs. Armadale, with a kind of grim humour,--"if you
will give us a chance."
"Well, it's about the children," said Mrs. Seelye.
"Christmas--" added Mrs. Marx.
"Be quiet, Anne," said her mother. "Go on, Mrs. Seelye. Whose children?"
"I might say, they are all Mr. Seelye's children," said the little
lady, laughing; "and so they are in a way, as they are all belonging to
his church. He feels he is responsible for the care of 'em, and he
don't want to lose 'em. And that's what it's all about, and how the
