in his tone now.
Bill Mosely looked at him as if he suspected there was something
suspicious under this speech, but Tom Hadley wore his usual look, and
his companion dismissed his momentary doubt. "You never saw me afraid of
any living man--eh, Tom?"
"I should say so," answered Hadley.
There was something equivocal in this speech, and Bill Mosely looked
vexed.
"Can't you say anything but that?" he grumbled. "It looks as if you
doubted my statement. No man doubt my word--and lives."
Tom Hadley merely shrugged his shoulders. He was not a man of brilliant
intellectual ability or of rare penetration, but there were times when
even he was led to suspect that his companion was a humbug. Yet Mosely
had greater force of character, and took uncommon pains to retain his
ascendency over his more simple-minded companion, and had in the main
been successful, though in the matter of the gold-dust he had been
obliged to score a defeat.
As Hadley did not see fit to express any doubt of this last statement,
Bill Mosely was content to let the matter drop, assuming that he had
gained a victory and recovered his ascendency over his echo.
They had met no one for some hours, and did not look for an encounter
with anything wearing the semblance of humanity, when all at once Tom
Hadley uttered an exclamation.
"What is it, Tom?" asked Mosely.
"Look there!" was the only answer, as Hadley, with outstretched finger,
pointed to a Chinaman walking slowly up the hill.
"It's a heathen Chinee!" exclaimed Mosely with animation.
"I should say so," echoed Hadley.
Mosely urged his mustang to greater speed, and soon overtook Ki Sing,
for it was Richard Dewey's attendant whom the two adventurers had fallen
in with.
CHAPTER IV.
KI SING IN THE HANDS OF THE ENEMY.
Ki Sing turned when he heard the sound of horses' feet, for in that
mountain-solitude such a sound was unusual. He was not reassured by the
appearance of the two men, whose intention seemed to be to overtake him,
and he turned aside from the path with the intention of getting out of
the way.
"Stop there, you heathen!" called Bill Mosely in his fiercest tone.
Ki Sing halted, and an expression of uneasiness came over his broad,
flat face.
"What are you doing here, you Chinese loafer?"
Ki Sing did not exactly comprehend this speech, but answered mildly,
"How do, Melican man?"
"How do?" echoed Bill Mosely, laughing rather boisterously.--"Tom, the
heathen wants to know how I do.--Well, heathen, I'm so's to be around,
and wouldn't mind chawing up a dozen Chinamen. Where do you live?"
"Up mountain," answered Ki Sing.
"Which way?"
The Chinaman pointed in the right direction.
"What do you do for a living?"
"Wait on Melican man--cookee, washee."
"So you are a servant to a white man, John?"
"Yes, John."
"Don't you call me John, you yellow mummy! I'm not one of your
countrymen, I reckon.--What do you say to that, Tom? The fellow's
gettin' familiar."
"I should say so," remarked Tom Hadley, with his usual originality.
"What's the name of the Melican man you work for?" continued Mosely,
after a slight pause.
"Dickee Dewee," answered Ki Sing, repeating the familiar name applied by
Bradley to the invalid. The name seemed still more odd as the Chinaman
pronounced it.
"Well, he's got a queer name, that's all I can say," continued Mosely.
"What's your name?"
"Ki Sing."
"Ki Sing? How's Mrs. Ki Sing?" asked Mosely, who was disposed, like the
cat, to play with his victim before turning and rending him.
"Me got no wifee," said the Chinaman, stolidly.
"Then you're in the market. Do you want to marry?"
"Me no want to mally?"
"So much the worse for the ladies. Well, as to this Dickee, as you call
him? What does he do?"
"He sick--lie down on bedee."
"He's sick, is he? What's the matter with him?"
"Fall down and hurt leggee."
"Oh, that was it? What did he do before he hurt himself?"
"Dig gold."
Bill Mosely became more interested. "Did he find much gold?" he asked
eagerly.
"Yes, muchee," answered Ki Sing, unsuspiciously.
"Does he keep it with him?"
Bill Mosely betrayed a little too much interest when he asked this
question, and the Chinaman, hitherto unsuspicious, became on his guard.
"Why you wantee know?" he asked shrewdly.
"Do you dare give me any of your back talk, you yellow heathen?"
exclaimed Mosely, angrily. "Answer my question, or I'll chaw you up in
less'n a minute."
"What you ask?" said Ki Sing, innocently.
"You know well enough. Where does this Dickee keep the gold he found
before he met with an accident?"
"He no tellee me," answered Ki Sing.
This might be true, so that Mosely did not feel sure that the Chinaman's
ignorance was feigned. Still, he resolved to push the inquiry, in the
hope of eliciting some information that might be of value, for already a
plan had come into his mind which was in accordance with his general
character and reputation--that of relieving the invalid of his hoard of
gold-dust.
"Where do you think he keeps the gold, John?" he asked mildly.
Ki Sing looked particularly vacant as he expressed his ignorance on this
subject.
"Has he got a cabin up there?" asked Mosely.
"Yes."
"And how far might it be?"
"Long way," answered Ki Sing, who wished to divert Mosely from the plan
which the faithful servant could see he had in view.
Bill Mosely was keen enough to understand the Chinaman's meaning, and
answered, "Long or not, I will go and see your master. I am a doctor,"
he added, winking to Hadley, "and perhaps I can help him.--Ain't I a
doctor, Tom?"
"I should say so," answered Hadley, whose respect for truth did not
interfere with his corroborating in his usual style anything which his
companion saw fit to assert.
Ki Sing did not express any opinion on the subject of Bill Mosely's
medical pretensions, though he was quite incredulous.
"Lead the way, John," said Mosely.
"Where me go?" asked the Chinaman innocently.
"Go? Go to the cabin where your master lives, and that by the shortest
path. Do you hear?"
"Yes."
Ki Sing, however, still faithful to the man who had befriended him in
the hour of danger, did not direct his course toward Richard Dewey's
cabin, but guided the two adventurers in a different direction. The
course he took was a circuitous one, taking him no farther away from the
cabin, but encircling the summit and drawing no nearer to it. He hoped
that the two men, whose purpose he suspected was not honest nor
friendly, would become tired and would give up the quest.
He did not, however, understand the perseverance of Mosely when he felt
that he was on the scent of gold.
Finally, Mosely spoke. "John," he said, "is the cabin near by?"
Ki Sing shook his head. "Long way," he answered.
"How did you happen to get so far away from it, then, I should like to
know?" and he examined the face of his guide sharply.
But Ki Sing's broad face seemed utterly void of expression as,
neglecting to answer the question, he reiterated his statement, "Housee
long way."
"The man's a fool, Tom," said Mosely, turning to his companion.
"I should say so," was all the help he got from Hadley.
"Do you know what I mean to do, Hadley?--Here, you yellow mummy, go a
little ahead." (The Chinaman did so.)--"There's a bonanza up there in
that cabin, wherever it is. The Chinaman says that this man with the
queer name had got out a good deal of gold before he met with an
accident--broke his leg, likely. Well, it stands to reason he's got the
gold now. There ain't no chance here of sendin' off the dust, and of
course he's got it hid somewhere in his cabin. Do you see the point,
Tom?"
"I should say so."
"And I should say so too. It strikes me as a particularly good chance.
This man is disabled and helpless. He can't prevent us walking off with
his gold, can he?"
"Suppose he won't tell us where it is?" suggested Tom Hadley with
extraordinary mental acuteness.
"Why, we'll knock him on the head or put a bullet in him, Hadley. It's
a pity if two fire-eaters like us can't tackle a man with a broken leg.
What do you say?"
"I should say so."
Fifteen minutes more passed, and they seemed to be getting no nearer
their destination. At any rate, no cabin was in sight. Ki Sing only
answered, when interrogated, "Long way."
"Hadley," said Bill Mosely, "I begin to believe that heathen's
misleading us. What do you say?"
"I should say so."
"Then I'll attend to his case.--Here, you heathen!"
"Whatee want?"
Bill Mosely sprang from his mustang, seized Ki Sing, and, in spite of
howls, with Hadley's assistance tied him to a small tree with a strong
cord he had in his pocket.
"That disposes of you, my friend," he said, mounting his mustang. "I
think we shall find the cabin better without you."
The two men rode off, leaving poor Ki Sing in what appeared, considering
the loneliness of the spot, to be hopeless captivity.
CHAPTER V.
FURTHER ADVENTURES OF BILL MOSELY.
Bill Mosley and his companion pushed on after leaving the poor Chinaman
tied to the tree.
"The yellow heathen may starve, for all I care," said Mosely,
carelessly. "It's all his own fault. Why didn't he speak up like a man
and tell me what I wanted to know?"
"I should say so," chimed in Tom Hadley.
"The question is now, 'Whereabouts is that cabin we are in search of?'"
Hadley appeared to have no idea, and no suggestion to offer.
"It strikes me it must be somewhere near the top of the mountain," said
Mosely. "What do you say?"
"I should say so."
"Then we'll take the shortest way to the summit. I tell you, Tom, we're
on the track of something rich. We'll take all this fellow's gold-dust,
and he can't help himself. It'll be richer than any claim we've worked
yet, if it pans out as well as I expect--eh, Tom?"
"I should say so, Bill," answered Hadley, with an expression of
interest.
"I tell you, Tom," said Bill Mosely, complacently, "you were in luck
when you fell in with me. We've done pretty well since we j'ined hosses,
pard."
"I should say so--but," added Hadley, after a pause, "it would go hard
with us if we got caught."
"We don't mean to get caught," said Mosely, promptly. "As for this new
job, there's no danger in it. This man is down with a broken leg, and he
can't help our taking his gold. The Chinaman's out of the way, and we've
got a clear field. Take a good look, Tom, for your eyes are better than
mine, and tell me if you see anything that looks like a cabin anywhere
