taken the money.
"I am as certain of it as I am of my own existence," replied Pearl
warmly. "I have found out something about the boy since I was here. He
has the reputation of being wild, and no one sent him over here to buy a
boat. And a fellow like him don't have forty or fifty dollars to invest
in boats."
"All that may be; but you can be careful just as well as not," added the
landlord.
"He is nothing but a young cub, and has no friends, so that nothing will
come of it if he shouldn't happen to be the thief."
"If he has no one to defend him, so much the more reason why he should
be fairly dealt with," replied the hotel-keeper,--a sentiment with
which Pearl Hawlinshed had no sympathy. "I have seen Moody since you
went out, and he says a man was looking into the keyhole of the room
next to his about ten o'clock last evening. That was your father's room.
Have you any idea who that man was, Hawlinshed?"
"I haven't the least idea in the world," answered Pearl; and possibly
the landlord did not notice his confusion when he replied, "Very likely
it was this same boy."
"It wasn't a boy, but a man: I asked Moody particularly about this
matter."
"I don't know any thing about the matter at all," protested Pearl. "If
the man that lost the money saw any thing of this kind, why didn't he
tell of it before?"
"I asked him this question, and he says he did not think of it before.
The fact of it is, that Moody had been drinking, though he sticks to it
that he wasn't drunk. He went into his room at about ten o'clock, and
put the money into his trunk, for he was afraid he might lose it. He saw
the man looking in at the keyhole of your father's room when he went
into his own to put the money in a safe place. He heard voices in the
next room when he opened his trunk. The boy was with your father at that
time very likely."
"If the man had been drinking, it is not probable that he knows much
about the boy or the man," added Pearl.
"He had not got very tipsy, or he would not have thought to look out for
his money. But bring the boy up, if you can get him without violence or
outrage. If he explains where he got the money to buy the boat, that is
the end of the matter so far as he is concerned. In my opinion the man
who was looking in at the keyhole of your father's room is more likely
to be the thief than the boy."
"Where did the boy get forty-two dollars to pay for the boat, then?"
demanded Pearl.
"I give it up," laughed the landlord. "But we are likely to know
something more about the case before dinner-time. I called in Peppers,
who used to be a detective in New York City; and he is at work on the
case now."
"What did you do that for?" demanded Pearl, who did not seem to relish
the information. "You set me at work on the case; and now you have
called in another person to attend to it, after I have engaged a
steamer."
"All I asked you to do was to bring the boy in to be questioned. Peppers
won't interfere with any thing that you may do," replied the landlord,
not a little surprised at the objection of Pearl.
"What is Peppers doing?" asked Pearl uneasily.
"I don't know what he is doing: at least, I don't know much about it,
and he told me not to tell what I did know."
"But you can tell me, for I am at work on the case," said Pearl in a
coaxing tone.
"No: I won't tell you any thing. You won't interfere with each other,
and it is best for each of you to work on his own hook," replied the
hotel-keeper, as he turned to attend to a guest who wished to speak to
him.
Pearl saw that it was useless to press the matter any farther; and he
was evidently very much disturbed about the turn the investigation had
taken during his absence. He was particularly anxious to know what the
detective was about, but he was unable to obtain any information from
any person. He returned to the steamboat wharf. When he came in sight of
the breakwater, he was not a little startled to see the Goldwing dart
out from behind the structure, with only a small jib and a reefed
mainsail.
He was startled; because not more than an hour had elapsed since he left
the Missisquoi, and he expected it would be another hour before she
would be ready to go in pursuit of the Goldwing. The latter could sail
like the wind if she would only keep right side up, and she would get a
long start of the steamer. Besides, Pearl did not like the looks of the
big waves on the lake any better than Mr. Button had; and he was not
altogether sure that he could manage her any better than Captain Vesey
had done.
The Goldwing was running from the end of the breakwater over towards the
main shore, and it was possible that Dory intended to make a landing at
Plattsburgh. But it was not more than a quarter of a mile from the
breakwater to the shore, and he could soon tell what she intended to do.
He hastened down the railroad to settle this point. In the furious
breeze that was blowing, the Goldwing seemed to leap over the water. If
she intended to go up to the wharf from which she had started, she would
have to tack in a moment.
Pearl ran with all his might; for it occurred to him that if he could
induce Dory to come on shore and go up to the hotel with him, he might
save the ten dollars he had agreed to give the captain and engineer, and
contrive some way to have it stick in his own pocket. The Goldwing ran
within a hundred feet of the shore, and Pearl got behind a car on a side
track to ascertain what she intended to do.
Gradually her main sheet was let off, and the Goldwing was headed to the
southward. This settled the matter. The boat was not going back to the
wharf. Her skipper had evidently run her over in that direction in order
to get her under the lee of the shore, where she would not get the full
force of the wind.
"Hallo! on board of the Goldwing!" shouted Pearl, as he ran to the
water's edge, yelling as loud as he could.
"On shore!" replied Dory, "what do you want?"
"You are wanted at the hotel," replied Pearl.
Dory discovered by this time who it was that hailed him; and he took no
further notice of Pearl, who hastened to the wharf.
CHAPTER VIII.
THE COLCHESTER CLUB CHANGES ITS NAME.
"What in the world are you doing over here, fellows?" asked Dory
Dornwood, as the four passengers of the Missisquoi tumbled in over the
stern of the Goldwing.
"And what under the breezes of Lake Champlain are you doing in this
boat?" shouted Thad Glovering, who was the first to get a footing in the
standing-room of the Goldwing.
"What boat is it?" asked Nat Long in a blustering manner.
"What are you going to do with her, Dory?" demanded Dick Short.
"Can't you take us over to Burlington in her?" queried Corny Minkfield.
"How many questions do you think I can answer at once, fellows?" replied
Dory. "I am going over to Burlington as soon as the weather is fit; and
you can go with me if you like."
"All right, Dory! Hurrah for Dory Dornwood! You are all right, and so
are we: only we are half starved, for we haven't had any breakfast this
morning," said Thad Glovering.
It must be confessed that the party that arrived in the Missisquoi were
not very promising-looking boys. They had a wild, harum-scarum
appearance and manner, which fully justified the description Captain
Vesey had given of them. In a word, they were evidently wild boys; and
in this respect they did not differ much from Dory himself.
They are the boat-builders whose exploits and achievements are to be
recorded, and they may as well be introduced at this as at any other
time. Thad Glovering was an orphan, who lived with his uncle. As this
relative had several children of his own, the added one was a burden to
him, for he had but small wages. Thad declared that he was willing to
work; but up to this time nothing had been found for him to do. The
worst that could be said of him was that he was wild.
[Illustration: "THE FOUR PASSENGERS TUMBLED IN OVER THE STERN OF THE
GOLDWING." PAGE 87.]
Nat Long's father was a deck-hand on a steamer; and, as he was away most
of the time, Nat was permitted to have his own way. His mother was dead;
and his older sister, who had the care of the family, found herself
unable to control him. He was not a confirmed bad boy, and had worked
for a year in one place, and done very well. A change in the business
had thrown him out of work, and he had been unable to find another
situation. Idleness led him into mischief; and, without some kind of
control, it was only a question of time when he got into the hands of
the law for some crime.
Dick Short and Corny Minkfield were the sons of widows, both of whom had
some property. Their mothers were able to support them without work; but
work was the one thing they needed, whether it was with the head or the
hands.
These five boys lived near together, and they had been cronies from
their earliest school-days. Two of them were usually well dressed; and
the others were somewhat ragged, and considerably patched, showing the
efforts of their protectors to keep them decent. They had all been to
school up to the present time, and now it was vacation; and the next
thing to be decided by their friends was what should be done with them.
Dick and Corny were to go to the high school; but the others must go to
work, and earn their own living,--do something for the support of their
parents.
Dory had gone to work before the school closed for the summer, and all
the boys talked as though they intended to do something. But they did
not feel like going to work in vacation time. They had always had great
larks on the lake when school did not keep, and they were not disposed
to dispense with the good time the present year.
It could not be said that one of these boys was really bad. But they
kept all kinds of company; and, in the absence of any strong controlling
force, they were in great danger of becoming "hard boys." Sometimes they
assisted about the steamers and other vessels; and, by making themselves
useful, they obtained the privilege of sailing on the lake. Their
associations were not always of the best character. They were all "smart
boys;" and wise and steady people who knew them wished they might be put
to some useful labor, or be subjected to some salutary control. Mrs.
Short and Mrs. Minkfield had both been warned of the peril of their
sons; and both had considered the means of redeeming them from the bad
company into which their habits threw them. But they had not done any
thing beyond reasoning with the boys, who always promised to mend their
ways.
Assisted by his four cronies, Dory Dornwood had built a sort of bateau,
a flat-bottomed craft, in which they used to row about the lake near the
shore. It was a rude boat; for the young boat-builders had few tools,
and very inferior lumber for the construction of the bateau. But it
would carry them all, and Dory was the captain of the craft. She was
called the Colchester; and the boys formed a club for aquatic sports, to
which they gave the name of the boat.
Doubtless the Colchester Club gave a great deal of satisfaction to its
members. Unfortunately the Colchester broke adrift in a September
squall, and went to pieces on Colchester Reef, as reported by the
light-keeper. No other boat could be obtained; but the members all said
that as soon as they got to work they should give a portion of their
earnings for the purchase of a suitable craft for the association. Up
to this time they had not gone to work, and the successor of the
Colchester did not appear.
Dory proceeded to answer the questions of his fellow-members of the
Colchester Club. The boat in which they found him belonged to him; and
this was the most astounding statement he made in the course of the
interview. They opened their eyes, and stared at Captain Dory, as they
called him, in silent wonder. Then they looked the boat over with
renewed interest, and seemed to be unable to believe the statement of
their companion.
"The Colchester Club shall have the use of her when I am on board,"
added Dory magnanimously.
"That's handsome; and we shall have the biggest kind of times," added
Thad Glovering. "I'll tell you what we'll do, fellows. We will change
