is the first I ever saw, but I should have known he was 
not a common mortal. There is something strange 
about him. To begin with, he has no manners. You 
may say that it 's not for me to blame him, for I have 
none myself. That 's very true, but the difference is that 
I can have them when I wish to (and very charming 
ones too ; I will show you some day) ; whereas Mr. 
Hudson will never have them. And yet somehow one 
sees he is a gentleman. He seems to have something 
urging, driving, pushing him, making him restless and 
defiant. You see it in his eyes. They are the finest, 
by the way, I ever saw. When a person has such eyes 
as that, you can forgive him his bad manners. I suppose 
that is what they call the sacred fire." 
Rowland made no answer except to ask her in a mo 
ment if she would have another roll. She merely shook 
her head and went on 
Tell me how you found him. Where was he how 
was he ?" 
"He was in a place called Northampton. Did you 
ever hear of it ? He was studying law but not learning 
it." 
"It appears it was something horrible, eh?" 
" Something horrible ?" 
"This little village. No society, no pleasures, no 
beauty, no life." 
" You have received a false impression. Northampton 
is not so gay as Rome, but Roderick had some charming 
friends. " 
" Tell me about them. Who were they?" 
 
"Well, there was my cousin, through whom I made 
his acquaintance a delightful woman." 
"Young pretty?" 
" Yes, a good deal of both. And very clever." 
" Did he make love to her ?" 
" Not in the least." 
"Well, who else?" 
"He lived with his mother. She is the best of 
women." 
" Ah yes, I know all that one 's mother is. But she 
does not count as society. And who else?" 
Rowland hesitated. He wondered whether Christina 's 
insistence were the result of a general interest in Roderick 's 
antecedents or of a particular suspicion. He looked at 
her ; she was looking at him a little askance, waiting for 
his answer. As Roderick had said nothing about his 
engagement to the Cavaliere, it was probable that with 
this beautiful girl he had not been more explicit. And 
yet the thing was announced, it was public ; that other 
girl was happy in it, proud of it. Rowland felt- a kind 
of dumb anger rising in his heart. He deliberated a 
moment intently. 
" What are you frowning at ?" Christina asked. 
"There was another person," he answered, "the 
most important of all the young girl to whom he is 
engaged." 
Christina stared a moment, raising her eyebrows. 
"Ah, Mr. Hudson is engaged?" she said, very simply. 
"Is she pretty?" 
"She is not called a beauty." Rowland meant to 
practise great brevity, but in a moment he added, " I 
have seen beauties, however, who pleased me less." 
Ah, she pleases you too ? Why don't they marry ?" 
" Roderick is waiting till he can afford to marry." 
Christina slowly put out her arm again and looked at 
the dimple in her elbow. "Ah, he 's engaged?" she 
repeated in the same tone. " He never told me." 
 
Rowland perceived at this moment that the people 
about them were beginning to return to the dancing 
room, and immediately afterwards he saw Roderick 
making his way towards themselves. Roderick pre 
sented himself before Miss Light. 
" I don't claim that you have promised me the cotillon," 
he said, "but I consider that you have given me hopes 
which warrant the confidence that you will dance with 
me." 
Christina looked at him a moment. " Certainly I 
have made no promises," she said. "It seemed to me 
that, as the daughter of the house, I should keep myself 
free, and let it depend on circumstances." 
"I beseech you to dance with me " said Roderick, 
with vehemence. 
Christina rose and began to laugh. "You say that 
very well, but the Italians do it better." 
This assertion seemed likely to be put to the proof. 
Mrs. Light hastily approached, leading, rather than led 
by, a tall slim young man, of an unmistakably Southern 
physiognomy. " My precious love," she cried, "what 
a place to hide in ! We have been looking for you for 
twenty minutes ; I have chosen a cavalier for you and 
chosen well ! " 
The young man disengaged himself, made a ceremoni 
ous bow, joined his two hands, and murmured with an 
ecstatic smile, "May I venture to hope, dear signorina, 
for the honour of your hand ? " 
"Of course you may!" said Mrs. Light. "The 
honour is for us ! " 
Christina hesitated but for a moment, then swept the 
young man a curtsey as profound as his own salutation. 
"You are very kind, but you are too late. I have just 
accepted !" 
"Ah, my own darling!" murmured almost moaned 
Mrs. Light. 
Christina and Roderick exchanged a single glance 
a glance brilliant on each side. She passed her hand 
into his arm ; he tossed his clustering locks and led her 
away. 
A short time afterwards Rowland saw the young man 
she had rejected leaning against a doorway. He was 
ugly, but what is called distinguished-looking. He had 
a heavy black eye, a sallow complexion, a long thin 
neck ; his hair was cropped en brosse. He looked very 
young, yet extremely bored. He was staring at the ceil 
ing, and stroking an imperceptible moustache. Rowland 
espied the Cavaliere Giacosa hard by, and having joined 
him asked him the young man 's name. 
" Oh," said the Cavaliere, "he is a pezzo grosso ! A 
Neapolitan. Prince Casamassima." 
XI. 
ONE day on entering Roderick 's lodging (not the modest 
rooms on the Ripetta which he had first occupied, but 
a much more sumptuous apartment on the Corso) Row 
land found a letter on the table addressed to himself. 
It was from Roderick, and consisted of but three lines. 
" I am gone to Frascati for meditation. If I am not 
at home on Friday you had better join me. " On Friday 
he was still absent, and Rowland went out to Frascati. 
Here he found his friend living at the inn and spending 
his days, according to his own account, lying under the 
trees of the Villa Mondragone and reading Ariosto. He 
was in a sombre mood ; "meditation" seemed not to 
have been fruitful. Nothing especially pertinent to our 
narrative had passed between the two young men since 
Mrs. Light 's ball save a few words bearing on an incident 
of that entertainment. Rowland informed Roderick the 
next day that he had told Miss Light of his engagement. 
"I don't know whether you will thank me," he had 
said, " but it is my duty to let you know it. Miss 
Light perhaps has already done so." 
Roderick looked at him a moment intently, with his 
colour slowly rising. " Why should I not thank you ?" 
he asked. " I am not ashamed of my engagement." 
"As you had not spoken of it yourself, I thought you 
might have a reason for not having it known." 
"A man doesn't gossip about such a matter with 
strangers," Roderick rejoined, with the ring of irritation 
in his voice. 
"With strangers no !" said Rowland, smiling. 
Roderick continued his work ; but, after a moment, 
turning round with a frown " If you supposed I had 
a reason for being silent, pray why should you have 
spoken?" 
" I did not speak idly, my dear Roderick. I weighed 
the matter before I spoke, and promised myself to let 
you know immediately afterwards. It seemed to me 
that Miss Light had better know that your affections are 
pledged." 
" The Cavaliere, then, has put it into your head that I 
am making love to her?" 
"No ; in that case I should not have spoken to her 
first " 
" Do you mean, then, that she is making love to me?" 
"This is what I mean," said Rowland, after a pause. 
" That girl finds you interesting, and she is pleased, even 
though she may feign indifference, at your finding her so. 
I said to myself that it might save her some sentimental 
disappointment to know without delay that you are not at 
liberty to become indefinitely interested in other women." 
"You seem to have taken the measure of my liberty 
with extraordinary minuteness !" cried Roderick. 
"You must do me justice. I am the cause of your 
separation from Miss Garland, the cause of your being 
exposed to temptations which she hardly even suspects. 
How could I ever meet her again," Rowland demanded, 
with much warmth of tone, " if at the end of it all she 
should be unhappy?" 
" I had no idea that she had made such an impression 
on you ! You are too zealous. I take it she didn't 
charge you to look after her interests." 
If anything happens to you I am accountable. You 
must understand that." 
"That 's a view of the situation I can't accept in 
your own interest no less than in mine ! It can only 
make us both very uncomfortable. I know all I owe 
you ; I feel it ; you know that ! But I am not a small 
boy nor an amiable simpleton any longer, and whatever 
I do I do with my eyes open. When I do well the 
merit 's my own ; if I do ill the fault 's my own ! The 
idea that I make you nervous is ridiculous. . Dedicate 
your nerves to some better cause, and believe that if Miss 
Garland and I have a quarrel we shall settle it between 
ourselves. " 
Rowland had found himself wondering shortly before 
whether possibly his brilliant young friend were without 
a conscience ; now it dimly occurred to him that he was 
without a heart. Rowland, as we have already intimated, 
was a man with a moral passion, and no small part of it 
had gone forth into this adventure. There had been 
