appear, no one in the village was as yet aware that any change had come
to the Major, save a somewhat invalid condition, the result of his
illness of the preceding winter.
Sara herself had now learned how much this opinion of the Far Edgerley
public was to her father; he rested on Saturday almost all day in order
to prepare for Sunday, and the same preparation was made before each of
the receptions. At these receptions she could now be of use; she could
take Madam Carroll's place from time to time, stand beside him and keep
other people down to his topics, prevent interruptions and sudden
changes of subject, move with him through the rooms, as, with head erect
and one hand in the breast of his coat, he passed from group to group,
having a few words with each, and so much in the old way that when at
length he retired, excusing himself on account of his health, he left
unbroken the impression which all Far Edgerley cherished, the impression
of his distinguished appearance, charming conversation, and polished,
delightful manners.
During these weeks, the more his daughter had studied him and the ways
to make herself of use to him, even if not a pleasure, the greater had
become her admiration for the little woman who was his wife--who did it
all, and so thoroughly! who did it all, and so tenderly! What she, the
daughter, with all her great love for him, could think out only with
careful effort, the wife divined; what she did with too much
earnestness, the wife did easily, lightly. Her own words when she was
with him were considered, planned; but the wife's talk flowed on as
naturally and brightly as though she had never given a thought to
adapting it to him; yet always was it perfectly adapted. Sara often sat
looking at Madam Carroll, during these days, with a wonder at her own
long blindness; a wonder also that such a woman should have borne always
in silence, and with unfailing gentleness, her step-daughter's moderate
and somewhat patronizing estimate of her. But even while she was
thinking of these things Madam Carroll would perhaps rise and cross the
room, stopping to pat dog Carlo on the rug as she passed, and she would
seem so small and young, her very prettiness so unlike the countenance
and expression one associates with a strong character, that the daughter
would unconsciously fall back into her old opinion of her, always,
however, to emerge from it again hurriedly, remorsefully, almost
reverentially, upon the next example of the exquisite tact, tenderness,
and care with which she surrounded and propped up her husband's broken
days.
But the Major's life was now very comfortable. His daughter, if she had
not as yet succeeded in doing what she did without thought over it, had,
at least, gradually succeeded in relieving him from all feeling of
uneasiness in her society: she now came and went as freely as Scar. She
had made her manner so completely unexpectant and (apparently)
unobservant, she had placed herself so entirely on a line with him as he
was at present, that nothing led him to think of making an effort; he
had forgotten that he had ever made one. She talked to him on local
subjects, generally adding some little comment that amused him; she had
items about the garden and fields or dog Carlo to tell him; but most of
all she talked to him of the past, and led him to talk of it. For the
Major had a much clearer remembrance of his boyhood and youth than he
had of the events of later years, and not only a clearer remembrance,
but a greater interest; he liked to relate his adventures of those
days, and often did it with spirit and zest. He was willing now to have
her present at "Scar's lessons;" she formed sentences in her turn from
the chivalrous little manuscript book, and took part in the game of
dominoes that followed. The Major grew into the habit also of taking an
afternoon walk with her about the grounds--always at a safe distance
from the entrance gate. They went to visit the birds' nests she had
discovered, and count the eggs or fledglings, and he recalled his
boyhood knowledge of birds, which was clear and accurate; they went down
to the pond made by the brook, and sent in dog Carlo for a bath; they
strolled through the orchard to see how the apples were coming on, and
sat for a while on a bench under the patriarch tree. These walks became
very precious to the daughter; her father enjoyed them, enjoyed so much
the summer atmosphere, pure and fresh and high, yet aromatic also with
the scents from the miles of unbroken pine and fir forest round about,
enjoyed so much looking at the mountains, noting the moving bands of
light and shadow cast upon their purple sides as the white clouds sailed
slowly across the sky, that sometimes for an hour at a time he would
almost be his former self again. He knew this when it happened, and it
made him happy. And Sara was so glad to see him happy that she began to
feel, and with surprise, as if she herself too might be really happy
again, happy after all.
This first little beginning of happiness grew and budded like a flower;
for now more and more her father asked for her, wanted her with him; he
took her arm as they walked about the grounds, and she felt as glad and
proud as a child because she was tall enough and strong enough to be of
real use to him. She remembered the desolation of those hours when she
had thought that she should never be of use to him again, should have no
place beside him, should be to him only a care and a dread; thinking of
this, she was very thankfully happy. When she could do something for
him, and he was pleased, it seemed to her almost as if she had never
loved him so much; for, added to her old strong affection, there was now
that deep and sacred tenderness which fills the heart when the person
one loves becomes dependent--trustingly dependent, like a little
child--upon one's hourly thought and care.
The rector of St. John's had continued those visits which Miss Carroll
had criticised as too frequent. When he came he seldom saw his senior
warden; but the non-appearance was sufficiently excused by the state of
the senior warden's health, as well as made up for by the presence of
his wife. For Madam Carroll was charming in her manner to the young
clergyman, always giving him the kind of welcome which made him feel
sure that she was glad to see him, and that she wished him to come
again. As he continued to come, it happened now and then that the
mistress of the house would be engaged, and unable to see him. Perhaps
she was reading to the Major from his Saturday Review; and this was
something which no one else could do in the way he liked. She alone knew
how to select the items he cared to hear, and, what was more important,
how to leave the rest unread; she alone knew how to give in a line an
abstract that was clear to him, and how to enliven the whole with gay
little remarks of her own, which, she said, he must allow her--a
diversion for her smaller feminine mind. The Major greatly valued his
Saturday Review; he would have been much disturbed if deprived of the
acquaintance it gave him with the events of the day. Not that he enjoyed
listening to it; but when it was done and over for that week, he had the
sensation of satisfaction in duty accomplished which a man feels who has
faced an east wind for several hours without loss of optimism, and
returned home with a double appreciation of his own pleasant library and
bright fire. One's life should not be too personal, too easy; there
should be a calm consideration of public events, a general knowledge of
the outside world--though that outside world, tending as it did at
present too much towards mere utilitarian interests, was not especially
interesting; thus spoke the Major at the receptions (with that week's
Saturday fresh in his memory), as he alluded briefly to the European
news. For they never discussed American news at the receptions; they
never came farther westward, conversationally, than longitude
twenty-five, reckoned, of course, from Greenwich. In 1868 there was a
good deal of this polite oblivion south of the Potomac and Cumberland.
When, therefore, Mr. Owen happened to call at a time when Madam Carroll
was engaged, Miss Carroll was obliged to receive him. She did not
dislike him (which was fortunate; she disliked so many people!), but she
did not care to see him so often, she said. He talked well, she was
aware of that; he had gone over the entire field of general subjects
with the hope, as it seemed, of finding one in which she might be
interested. But as she was interested in nothing but her father, and
would not talk of him now, save conventionally, with any one, he found
her rather unresponsive.
His congregation thought her, in addition, cold. Not a few of them had
mentioned to him this opinion. But there was something in Sara
Carroll's face which seemed to Owen the reverse of cold, though he could
not deny that to him personally she was, if not precisely wintry, at
least as neutral as a late October day, when there is neither sun to
warm nor wind to vivify the gray, still air. Yet he continued to come to
the Farms. His liking for the little mistress of the house was strong
and sincere. He thought her very sweet and winning. He found there, too,
an atmosphere in which he did not have to mount guard over himself and
his possessions--an atmosphere of pleasant welcome and pleasant words,
but both of them unaccompanied by what might have been called, perhaps,
the acquisitiveness which prevailed elsewhere. No one at the Farms
wanted him or anything that was his, that is, wanted it with any
tenacity; his time, his thoughts, his opinions, his approval or
disapproval, his ideas, his advice, his personal sympathy, his especial
daily guidance, his mornings, his evenings, his afternoons, his favorite
books, his sermons in manuscript--all these were considered his own
property, and were not asked for in the large, low-ceilinged
drawing-room where the Major's wife and daughter, one or both, received
him when he came. They received him as an equal (Miss Carroll as a not
especially important one), and not as a superior, a being from another
world; though Madam Carroll always put enough respect for his rector's
position into her manner to make him feel easy about himself and about
coming again.
He continued to come again. And Miss Carroll continued her neutral
manner. The only change, the only expression of feeling which he had
seen in her in all these weeks, was one look in her eyes and a sentence
or two she had uttered, brought out by something he said about her
mother. During one of their first interviews he had spoken of this lady,
expressing, respectfully, his great liking for her, his admiration.
Madame Carroll's daughter had responded briefly, and rather as though
she thought it unnecessary for him to have an opinion, and more than
unnecessary to express one. He had remembered this little passage of
arms, and had said no more. But having met the mistress of the house a
few days before, at a cabin on the outskirts of the town, where a poor
crippled boy had just breathed his last breath of pain, he had been much
touched by the sweet, comprehending, sisterly tenderness of the mother
who was a lady to the mother who was so ignorant, rough-spoken, almost
rough-hearted as well. But, though rough-hearted, she had loved her poor
child as dearly as that other mother loved her little Scar. The other
mother had herself said this to him as they left the cabin together. He
spoke of it to Sara when he made his next visit at the Farms; he could
not help it.
And then a humility he had never seen there before came into her eyes,
and a warmth of tone he had not heard before into her voice.
"My mother's goodness is simply unparalleled," she answered. "You admire
her sincerely; many do. But no one save those who are in the house with
her all the time can comprehend the one hundredth part of her
unselfishness, her energy--which is always so quiet--her tenderness for
others, her constant thought for them."
Frederick Owen was surprised at the pleasure these words gave him. For
they gave him a great pleasure. He felt himself in a glow as she
finished. He thought of this as he walked home. He knew that he admired
Madame Carroll; and he was not without a very pleasant belief, too, that
she had a respect for his opinion, and even an especial respect. Still,
did he care so much to hear her praised?--care so much that it put him
in a glow?
Towards the last of August occurred, on its regular day, one of Madame
Carroll's receptions. To Sara Carroll it was an unusually disagreeable
one. She had never been fond of the receptions at any time, though of
late she had accepted them because they were so much to her father; but
this particular one was odious.
It was odious on account of the presence of a stranger who had appeared
in Far Edgerley three weeks before, a stranger who had made his way into
society there with so much rapidity and success that he had now
penetrated even the exclusive barriers of the Farms. But this
phraseology was Miss Carroll's. In reality, the stranger's "way" had not
been made by any effort of his own, but rather by his manners and
appearance, which were original, and more especially by a gift for which
nature was responsible, not himself. And as to "penetrating the
barriers" of the Farms, he had not shown any especial interest in that
old-fashioned mansion, and now that he was actually there, and at one of
