“I know he did! And then he tumbled me into the water at the island.”
“But you pitched into him then; and, as he could stand up better than
you could in the boat, he threw you overboard.”
“I shall get even with him; and if I don’t throw him into the lake, it
will be because I can’t do it,” blustered the rebel. “I see you are on
his side.”
“I am not on his side; but I don’t expect a fellow to stand still,
and let you thrash him. I advise you to let him alone for a while, and
your time will come before many days have gone by. Don’t touch him
while he is handling the boat,” added the politic companion.
“I shall go for him the first moment I can get at him, and I know
where he is now,” said the intemperate rebel.
“Don’t do it: Dory is the pilot of the steamer, and the engineer just
told me that they can do nothing without him. Didn’t you hear Captain
Gildrock read the telegraph-message, that Dory was away, and for that
reason he could not go down to Burlington to convey us to Beech Hill?”
reasoned Will very earnestly.
“I don’t care what he is: I shall not feel easy for a moment until I
get even with him. I will pull him out of that cubby-house where he
is, and pitch him into the lake, before I am half an hour older,”
persisted the rebel.
“Don’t do it! You will only make trouble for yourself. Captain
Gildrock will come on board as soon as we get to Burlington, and if I
mistake not you will find a Tartar in him.”
“I’m not afraid of him. But I don’t think I shall wait for him,”
replied Oscar. “I have not been to Beech Hill yet, but I have had
about enough already to satisfy me what it is going to be. If I am to
be ordered about by a boy younger than I am, and insulted by him,
because I happen to be in a boat with him, I don’t want any more of
it. My uncle gave me money enough to pay my fare to New York, and you
have more than I have, Will. What do you say: will you go with me?”
“What shall we do when we get there? I don’t believe in jumping out of
the frying-pan into the fire,” replied Will.
“Both of us want to go to sea, and all we have to do is to find places
in a ship going to some foreign country. We can take care of
ourselves,” said Oscar confidently.
“I am not ready to go anywhere yet: I want to see what this Industrial
School is. We are to learn how to handle an engine, and how to manage
ships and boats. I think we had better wait a while before we go to
New York. We haven’t money enough to pay our way till we find a place
in a ship.”
“You can do as you like, Will, but I have had enough of this thing;
and when you miss me you will know where I have gone. If you blow on
me”--
“You know very well I won’t do that,” protested Will.
Oscar did not wait to hear any more. He went forward, and then
ascended to the hurricane deck. He and Will Orwell had been cronies,
so far as the character of Oscar would permit such a relation.
The rebel reached the hurricane deck, and went forward to the
pilot-house. He surveyed the situation carefully. Dory stood before an
open window, with the spokes of the wheel in his hands. The doors of
the apartment, one on each side, were open. The young helmsman had no
more thought of being assaulted than he had of jumping overboard.
Dory was delighted with his occupation, for he had not steered the
Sylph enough to make it an old story to him. From Garden Island he had
run out into the lake until the steamer was in range between Split
Rock and Juniper Island lights, when he headed for the latter. This
course would carry him clear of Quaker Smith Reef.
Most of the boys, after looking over the Sylph with wonder and
astonishment at the elegance of her appointments, had gathered on the
main deck forward, where they could see the lake and the course of the
steamer. But a few of them were on the hurricane-deck, and three of
them were in the pilot-house with Dory. The pilot kept his eye on
Juniper Island lighthouse, the top of which could be seen seventeen
miles. The flag-pole in the bow was kept in range with the object for
which he was steering. He had just explained to the boys in the room
how he kept off the rocks and shoals, and found his way to any part of
the lake.
He had hardly finished this explanation before Oscar Chester rushed
into the pilot-house. He rudely knocked aside a couple of the pilot’s
auditors, and laid violent hands upon Dory. The helmsman was
unconscious of the presence of an enemy until the rebel had seized him
by the collar of his coat. He pulled him over on his back upon the
floor.
“Your time has come now, Dory Dornwood!” said Oscar fiercely, as he
began to drag Dory out of the pilot-house.
“So has yours!” added Mr. Brookbine, as he stepped forward from behind
the pilot-house, where he had been reading the morning paper brought
up by the Goldwing.
The master-carpenter took the rebel by the nape of the neck, and
snapped him off his feet before he could wink twice. He pitched him
half-way across the hurricane deck. Oscar was nothing but a “spring
chicken” in the hands of the burly mechanic.
“It’s a pity I took you off that island!” exclaimed Mr. Brookbine, as
he bestowed a glance of contempt upon the rebel. “Did he hurt you,
Dory?”
“Not at all. He came up behind me when I was not thinking of any thing
of that kind, or I should have taken care of myself,” replied the
young pilot, as he rushed back to the wheel.
The pilot got his range again, and the Sylph went ahead as though
nothing had happened. The master-carpenter walked up to the fallen
rebel, who appeared to have been hurt when he struck the deck, though
he was in the act of getting up. Mr. Brookbine did not wait for him to
finish the act, but seized him by the nape of the neck again, and bore
him to the pilot-house.
“It is a pity we took this fellow from the island, Dory, for we can’t
trust him loose about the steamer,” said the stout Vermonter. “Is
there any place on board where I can lock him up?”
“Put him in the ice-house,” replied Dory, who was entirely willing to
have his assailant placed where he could do no more mischief.
“Let me alone!” growled Oscar, attempting to break away from the grip
of the master-carpenter.
“I will let you alone when I have locked you in the ice-house,” added
Mr. Brookbine, giving his patient several sharp twists and shakes,
which certainly did not improve his temper.
“He sneaked up behind me, or I should not have needed any help,” said
Dory, who felt that he had suffered a partial defeat in being taken by
surprise. “I am sorry I did not see him, for I think I should have
made it hot for him.”
“I shall make it hot for you before you have seen the end of this
affair. I will teach you what it is to insult your betters,” replied
Oscar. “If I don’t pitch you into the lake before I have done with
you, it will be because I can’t.”
“Any time when you are ready, let the fun begin,” added Dory, when he
had better have held his tongue.
“You will cool off in the ice-house; and we will see what you can do
in there,” continued Mr. Brookbine, as he dragged the rebel out of the
pilot-house.
“Let me alone! I don’t let anybody put his hands upon me,” yelled
Oscar, struggling to escape from the grasp of the carpenter.
“But you will be a good boy, and let me put my hands upon you, won’t
you?” added the big mechanic.
“No, I won’t! I will be the death of you if you don’t let go!”
“Steady, my boy: you are getting excited. You are wasting a great deal
of bad breath on nothing.”
The carpenter slapped his victim over a few times on the deck before
he reached the stairs to the main deck. Oscar could not stand this: he
said it hurt, and he became comparatively quiet. His tyrant walked him
down the steps. The boys on both decks gathered to witness the
exciting scene; but no one offered to interfere, and no one spoke a
word of comfort for the rebel.
“Will Orwell!” called the victim, when he saw his crony among the
spectators to his humiliation. “Come here, and help me!”
“No, I thank you! I don’t believe in butting your head against a
stonewall, and I told you not to do it beforehand.”
The carpenter opened the door of the ice-house, and thrust his
prisoner into the dark hole, as it was when the door was closed.
CHAPTER XII.
CAPTAIN GILDROCK’s FIRST LESSON IN NAVIGATION.
Mr. Brookbine secured the door of the ice-house, and put the key into
his pocket. The interior was ventilated for the benefit of the
provisions that were kept on the ice when the steamer was on a long
cruise, but there was no window or other opening which would admit a
particle of light.
“What’s the trouble, Mr. Brookbine?” asked Jepson the engineer, who
was the master-machinist and an instructor of the school.
“That is the most desperate young cub I ever happened to encounter,”
replied the carpenter, as he proceeded to relate what had happened in
the Goldwing and on board of the steamer.
“Captain Gildrock will bring him to his senses,” added the engineer,
laughing; for he believed the captain could do any thing that was
within the scope of mortal man.
“I am ready to have him begin where I leave off; but there won’t be
much left of the young rascal when I get through with him if I have to
deal with him,” replied the carpenter.
“We are likely to have a sweet time with these young fellows if many
of them are like that one,” added Mr. Jepson. “He wants to get even
with Dory, does he? I reckon Dory will be willing to give him a
chance, though I never knew of the skipper’s getting into a fight on
his own account.”
Dory had already become a great favorite at Beech Hill. He was a smart
boy, but he was not perfect by any means. He had a great deal to
learn, but he was willing to learn it. The instructors in the
scholastic department had not yet arrived, but the mechanical
directors were already his fast friends. Even the servants, of whom
there was a small army on the estate, always smiled when he went among
them; for he was invariably kind and obliging to them, and willing to
assist them by all the means in his power. Besides, he was regarded as
the heir of the magnate of Beech Hill; and it was prudent to “keep on
the right side of him.”
Of course the nine other boys who had arrived that day all talked
about the exciting events which had transpired since they left
Burlington in the forenoon. Still, no one belonging to the steamer
heard them say any thing. They made no comments on the conduct of
Oscar: possibly they were afraid they might be reported to him. But
they had learned to feel a great admiration for Dory; first, because
he was not afraid of the rebel, and, second, because he could handle a
sailboat and manage a steamer.
It was about dark when the Sylph arrived at the landing in Burlington.
Captain Gildrock was on the wharf, waiting her coming. As soon as he
went on board, Mr. Brookbine reported the case of discipline to him,
and informed him that the prisoner was confined in the ice-house.
“All right: let him stay there,” replied the captain, when he had
listened to the account of the doings of the new scholar. “Then Dory
has had a hard time of it. I was afraid he might have some
difficulty.”
“No fear for Dory,” replied the carpenter, laughing. “He can take care
of himself. He fought his own battle in the Goldwing, and won the day
every time.”
“I knew that Chester was the worst fellow in the party, but I did not
expect him to break out so soon. I am glad to hear that the others
have behaved well,” said Captain Gildrock, as he walked forward where
the boys were assembled. “How are you getting on, boys?”
“First-rate, sir,” replied several of them in the same breath.
“I am glad to hear it; and none of us will have any trouble as long as
we mean well. What you mean is more than half the battle in morals. I
did not expect you so soon, and I am afraid Dory has not looked out
for your stomachs.”
“Yes, he has, sir,” said Ben Ludlow. “He had a basket of provisions on
the boat, and we fed out of that.”
