does owe something to society for its warm welcome to him.
"I don't really know any one but Mrs. Latimer. Oh," she says, with a
bright ring in her voice, "how nice it would be to have them both, and
the children! Would your mother mind very much, I wonder?"
"It need be no trouble to her," he says, almost coldly, "and you are
to have your wishes gratified in your own house."
She cannot get over the feeling that she is merely on sufferance. As
the time goes on she understands the situation more clearly. Mrs.
Grandon does not like to have her Floyd's wife, and she would like
Madame Lepelletier in the place. But how strange that no one seems to
remember the old time when she jilted him, as Marcia says.
"But all that will be so much nicer in the summer," he goes on,
reflectively. "The children can run out of doors. Yes, we will have the
Latimers and any one else we choose, and be really like civilized
people. I hope Gertrude can get back."
"Oh, I do hope so!" she re-echoes.
The next morning he takes Violet and Cecil out for a long drive, way up
the river. It is the last day of March, and there is a softness in the
air, a bluish mist over the river, and a tender gray green on the
hillsides. The very crags seem less rugged and frowning. It is really
spring!
"Oh, how delightful it will be!" she exclaims. "Are there not wild
flowers about here? We can have some lovely rambles gathering them. And
there will be the gardens, and the whole world growing lovelier every
day."
They stop at a hotel and have a dinner, which they enjoy with the
appetites of travellers. Just above there is a pretty waterfall, much
swollen by the spring rains, then there is a high rock with a legend,
one of the numerous "Lover's Leap," but the prospect from its top is
superb, so they climb up and view the undulating country, the blue,
winding river, the nooks and crags, dotted here and there by cottages
that seem to hang on their sides, a slow team jogging round, or fields
being ploughed. All the air is sweet with pine and spruce, and that
indescribable fragrance of spring.
Floyd Grandon is so happy to-day that he almost wishes he had a little
world of his own, with just Violet and Cecil. If it were not for this
wretched business; but then he is likely to get it off his hands some
time, and as it is turning out so much better than he once feared, he
must be content.
If there were many days like this! If husband and wife could grow into
each other's souls, could see that it was not separate lives, but one
true life that constituted marriage; but she does not know, and does
her best in sweet, brave content; and he is ignorant of the intense joy
and satisfaction the deeper mutual love might bring. He is a little
afraid. He does not want to yield his whole mind and soul to any
overwhelming or exhausting passion, and yet he sometimes wonders what
Violet would be if her entire nature were stirred, roused to its
utmost.
But the morrow brings its every-day cares and duties. Floyd is wanted
in the city. He drops into madame's and finds her in the midst of
plans. She is to give an elegant little musicale about the 10th, and he
must surely bring his wife, who is to stay all night. She, madame, will
hear of nothing to the contrary. No woman was ever more charming in
these daintily arbitrary moods, and he promises. All the singers will
be professional, there will be several instrumental pieces, and the
invitations are to be strictly limited.
She touches upon his work with delicate praise and appreciation. It
would seem that she kept herself informed of all he did, but she never
questions him in any inquisitive manner. She is really intimate with
the Latimers, so she hears, no doubt. It will be charming to add
her to the summer party. There are other delightful people for Violet
to know as soon as she can begin to entertain society.
Violet is not much troubled about society these pleasant days. April
comes in blustering, then turns suddenly warm, and lo! the earth seems
covered with velvet in the wonderful emerald green of spring. She hunts
the woods for violets and anemones, and puts them in her father's
room,--it is her room now, for she was very happy in it when her ankle
was hurt. She moves out her few pictures, a lovely Mater Doloroso,
whose grief is blended with heavenly resignation, and the ever-clear
Huguenot Lovers. Both have been school gifts. For the rest, her girl's
chamber was simple as any nun's.
Marcia makes her second visit to Mr. Wilmarth, and leaves Dolly at
home. Now there is a rather curious desire of secrecy on her part; the
whole thing is so much more charming enveloped in mystery. Mr. Wilmarth
receives her with a brusque sort of cordiality, as if he was rather
striving against himself, and she sees it, as he means she shall. The
drawings are satisfactory, and he expresses his obligation to her.
"I don't know as I can summon up courage to offer you any ordinary
payment," he says, "but if you will accept some gift in its stead,--if
you will allow me to make it something beyond a mere business
transaction----"
"Oh, it is such a trifle," and Marcia's head takes its airy curve. "I
think I should like----"
"Well?" he asks, rather startled.
"Please don't laugh at me," she begins, in a tone of girlish entreaty,
which is not bad, "but I have been thinking--wondering if I could turn
my gift to any advantage?"
Marcia is really blushing now. It seems paltry to think of working for
money, unless one could earn it by the hundreds.
"Yes, I suppose you could," he replies, "but you have a genius for
better things. You can design very well," and he is in earnest now.
"There are a great many branches. Why?" he asks, abruptly.
"Oh," she replies, "I get so tired of the frivolity of life. I long to
do something beyond the mere trifles."
"I suppose you miss both of your sisters," he remarks, with a touch of
sympathy. "You are learning now what loneliness is. Although there is
your brother's wife----"
"A child, a mere child, who can thrum a little on the piano and dress
dolls for Cecil. I never could understand why Floyd married her."
"There was the fortune," suggests Mr. Wilmarth.
"Oh, Floyd did not care for that! You see he has had it all tied up so
that he cannot touch it."
"Those who tie can sometimes untie," he answers, dryly.
"No. I have always thought there was some silly sentiment, or perhaps
Mr. St. Vincent asked it of him," she cries, with sudden inspiration,
"for Floyd could have rewarded her for saving the child's life."
Evidently the marriage is not pleasing to Miss Marcia. That scores one
in her favor as a good ally. Through Eugene he has learned that it was
generally unsatisfactory, but he has fancied Marcia just the kind to be
caught by a sweet young girl.
He has been considering the point in all its bearings these few
days,--whether he really wants to be bothered with a wife, only he need
not allow the wife to bother, and whether it would be better to win her
openly or not. If the house at the park were her father's, but it is
Floyd Grandon's, and he might some day be dismissed. He feels
intuitively that Grandon would oppose the marriage from the
under-current of enmity between. Of course he could persuade Marcia to
secret meetings and a marriage. Would it not be more of a triumph if
the whole matter were kept a secret?
He draws from Marcia, with the requisite astuteness, and it does not
need much, the state of affairs and her own position at home. She would
be ready enough to change it, that he sees. With a touch of secret
elation he knows he could make this woman worship him like a bond slave
while the bewilderment lasted. He has never been so worshipped. He has
known of several women who would have married him, but it would have
been for a home and a protector. He has not been sufficiently
unfortunate to inspire any one with that profound and tender pity that
women do sometimes give to deformity or accident; he has no particular
gifts or genius to win a heart, he is now quite to middle life and
cannot reasonably expect to grow handsomer. Under any circumstances he
could hardly hope to marry into a family like that of the Grandons, and
though he shall not be friends with a single member, still, it will
gratify his pride, and Floyd Grandon must be more considerate of his
business interests.
All these things run through his mind as he talks to her. She is rather
coquettish and vain and silly,--his eyes are pitilessly clear,--and she
may afford him some amusement when her unreasoning adoration ends. He
sees the fact that he is attracted towards her, moves her curiously.
If he is to take a wife he will not have her cold and selfishly
considerate, but quaff the full cup of adoration at first, even if it
does turn to ashes and dust afterward.
"I wonder," he says, after they have talked away the genial spring
afternoon, "when I shall see you again,--when I may present my little
gift. Your brother and I are not cordial friends. I offered him some
advice in the beginning, as an elder might reasonably give to an
inexperienced person, which he resented quite indignantly, and he
prefers to use his own wisdom. I am not quarrelsome, and so we are
comfortable business compeers, but hardly calling friends, and since
you are in his house I must deny myself the pleasure. Do you not
sometimes go to walk? I know you drive a good deal."
She catches the cue, and her heart bounds.
"I do go out to sketch," she says, with admirable modesty.
"Ah, that would be an enjoyment. Will you allow me to come?"
There is a most flattering entreaty in his tone.
Marcia considers. Violet and Cecil are forever rambling round, and she
knows how easily an interview can be spoiled. It will hardly be safe to
appoint one between here and Grandon Park. Down below the park there is
a little cove, with a splendid view opposite, and a grove of trees for
protection. She will appoint it here. Friday is unlucky. Saturday will
be busy for him, so it is settled for Monday of the next week, and he
agrees, with a peculiar smile and a pressure of the hand.
Marcia Grandon walks home in a state of triumph. Experience forbids her
to count upon this man as a positive lover, but he is an admirer.
They have a disagreeable habit of going so far and then taking wing.
Marriage seems an event rather difficult of accomplishment, for with
all Marcia's flighty romance she shrinks from encountering actual
poverty, but it might be this man's admiration is sufficiently strong
to lead him beyond the debatable land. She hesitates just a little,
then solaces herself with the improbability.
Still, she is in a flutter of excitement when she goes up to her room
after luncheon. What shall she wear? Bonnets and hats are tried on, and
she passes and repasses before the glass to study the jauntiness or
attractiveness of different styles. Her dress is gray, and she finally
settles upon a light gray chip, with two long black plumes that almost
touch her shoulder. A cluster of pansies would be very effective at her
throat. Violet wears them a good deal, so she selects the finest in the
greenhouse, and takes a parasol with a lilac lining. She does look very
well. Before mourning, her taste was rather bizarre, but it has been
toned down somewhat.
Jasper Wilmarth is first on the spot. She has dallied so long with
toilet questions, that it has given the man's complacency a little
start, no bad thing. She catches a glimpse of him and is filled with
trepidation, for up to this moment she has not been quite sure but he
would allow something to prevent.
He takes both hands. The consciousness goes over her that he is a
lover. He is not a handsome man, with his high shoulders, short neck,
and rugged face, but to-day he has taken some pains, and lets his
steely eyes soften, his lips show their bit of red under the gray
mustache. His necktie is fresh, his clothes have been brushed, and if
the soul animating the man was even as good as the body it would be
better for all who come in contact with him.
He has resolved to try his utmost at fascination. It is strong,
masterly, imperious, but he seems to check himself now and then, as if
he wanted her to believe he was holding in the actual man for her sake,
and Marcia is immensely flattered. He has brought her a really
beautiful bracelet, counting on her personal vanity, and she is quite
overwhelmed.
"If it had been any ordinary designer, of course I should have paid the
usual price for the work," he explains, "but I wanted you to remember
the pleasure the interviews gave me."
