characters there are among the slides of your theatre, only awaiting the
nod of Sleep, the manager, to issue forth, and rant and rave, make love
and mischief, do battle and murder, play the scoundrel and the hero,
till our poor brains reel and the daylight is turned on again, and all
the players vanish into the thinnest of thin air!
Miss Carnethy rang for her maid, who brought lights and closed the
shutters and let down the curtains preparatory to dressing her mistress
for dinner. Leonora looked down and saw Marcantonio's photograph lying
where it had fallen. She picked it up and looked at it once more by the
candle light.
"Perhaps I shall refuse him after all," she thought, coldly enough, and
she put it back into the drawer of her desk.
Perhaps you are right, Miss Carnethy, and the world is stuffed with
sawdust.
CHAPTER III.
The soft thick air of the ball-room swayed rhythmically to the swell and
fall of the violins; the perfume of roses and lilies was whirled into
waves of sweetness, and the beating of many young hearts seemed to
tremble musically through the nameless harmony of instrument and voice,
and rustling silk, and gliding feet. In the passionately moving symphony
of sound and sight and touch, the whole weal and woe and longing of life
throbbed in a threefold pace.
The dwellers in an older world did well to call the dance divine, and to
make it the gift of a nimble goddess; truly, without a waltz the world
would have lacked a very divine element. Few people can really doubt
what the step was that David danced before the ark.
The ball was at a house where members of various parties met by common
consent as on neutral ground. There are few such houses in Rome, or,
indeed, anywhere else, as there are very few people clever enough, or
stupid enough, to manage such an establishment. Men of entirely inimical
convictions and associations will occasionally go to the house of a
great genius or a great fool, out of sheer curiosity, and are content
to enjoy themselves and even to talk to each other a little, when no one
is looking. It is neutral ground, and the white flag of the ball-dress
keeps the peace as it sweeps past the black cloth legs of clericals and
the grey cloth legs of the military contingent, past the legs of all
sorts and conditions of men elbowing each other for a front place with
the ladies.
Conspicuous by her height and rare magnificence of queenly beauty was
Madame de Charleroi, moving stately along as she rested her fingers on
the arm of a minister less than half her size. But there was a look of
weariness and preoccupation on her features that did not escape her dear
friends.
"Diana is certainly going to be thin and scraggy," remarked a
black-browed dame of Rome, fat and solid, a perfect triumph of the
flesh. She said it behind her fan to her neighbour.
"It is sad," said the other, "she is growing old."
"Ah yes," remarked her husband, who chanced to be standing by and was in
a bad humour, "she was born in 1844, the year you left school, my dear."
The black-browed lady smiled sweetly at her discomfited friend, who
looked unutterable scorn at her consort.
Donna Diana glanced uneasily about the room, expecting every moment to
see her brother appear with Miss Carnethy. She was very unhappy about
the whole affair, though she could not exactly explain to herself the
reason of what she felt. Miss Carnethy was rich, had a certain kind of
distinguished beauty about her, was young, well-born,--but all that did
not compensate in Madame de Charleroi's mind for the fact that she was a
heretic, a freethinker, a dabbler in progressist ideas, and--and--what?
She could not tell. It must be prejudice of the most absurd kind! She
would not submit to it a moment longer, and if the opportunity offered
she would go to Miss Carnethy and say something pleasant to her. Donna
Diana had a very kind and gentle Italian heart hidden away in her proud
bosom, and she had also a determination to be just and honest in all
situations,--most of all when she feared that her personal sympathies
were leading her away.
The diplomat at her side chatted pleasantly, perceiving that she was
wholly preoccupied; he talked quite as much to himself as to her, after
he had discovered that she was not listening. And Donna Diana determined
to do a kind action, and the swinging rhythm of the straining, surging
waltz was in her ears. She was just wondering idly enough what the
little diplomat had been saying to her during the last ten minutes, when
she saw her brother enter the room with Miss Carnethy on his arm. They
had met in one of the outer drawing-rooms and had come in to dance.
Donna Diana watched them as they caught the measure and whirled away.
"She is terribly interesting," remarked the little man beside her as he
noticed where she was looking.
"She is also decidedly a beauty," answered Madame de Charleroi, with the
calm authority of a woman whose looks have never been questioned.
People who are in love are proverbially amusing objects to the general
public. There is an air of shyness about them, or else a ridiculous
incapacity for perceiving the details of life, or at least an absurd
infatuation for each other, most refreshing to witness. There is no
mistaking the manner of them, if the thing is genuine.
The sadness that had been on Donna Diana's face, and which the
resolution to be civil to Miss Carnethy had momentarily dispelled,
returned now, as she watched the young couple. She remembered her own
courtship, and she fancied she saw similar conditions in the wooing now
going on under her eyes. Marcantonio was furiously in love, after his
manner, but she thought Leonora's face looked hard. How could she let
her brother marry a woman who did not love him? Her resolution to be
civil wavered.
But just then, as luck would have it, the waltz brought the pair near to
her. Marcantonio was talking pleasantly, with a quick smile that came
and went at every minute. Leonora stood looking down and toying with her
fan. One instant she looked up at him, and Donna Diana saw the look and
the quick-caught heave of the snowy neck.
"I do not know what it is," she said to herself, "but it is certainly
love of some kind." She moved towards them, steering her little
diplomat through the sea of silk and satin, jewels and lace.
"How do you do, Mademoiselle Carnethy?" she said, in a voice that was
meant to be kind, and was at least very civil.
Leonora stood somewhat in awe of the Vicomtesse de Charleroi, who was so
stately and beautiful and cold. But she was very much pleased at the
mark of attention. It was an approval, and an approval of the most
public kind. The few words they exchanged were therefore all that could
be desired. The vicomtesse nodded, smiled, nodded again, and sailed away
in the easy swinging cadence of the waltz. Marcantonio looked gratefully
after her. The air was warm and soft, and the light fluff from the linen
carpet hung like a summer haze over the people, and the hundreds of
candles, and the masses of flowers.
Marcantonio was silent. Something in the air told him that the time had
come for him to speak,--something in Miss Carnethy's look told him
plainly enough, he thought, that he was not to speak in vain. The last
notes of the waltz chased each other away and died, and the people fell
to walking about and talking. Marcantonio gave Leonora his arm, and the
pair moved off with the stream, and on through the great rooms till they
reached an apartment less crowded than the rest, and sat down near a
doorway.
The young man did not lack courage, and he was honestly in love with
Leonora. He felt little hesitation about speaking, and only wished to
put the question as frankly and as courteously as might be. As for her,
she was obliged to acknowledge that she was agitated, although she had
said to herself a hundred times that she would be as calm as though she
were talking about the weather. But now that the supreme moment had
come, a strange beating rose in her breast, and her face was as white as
her throat. She looked obstinately before her, seeing nothing, and
striving to appear to the world as though nothing were happening.
Marcantonio sat by her side, and glanced quickly at her two or three
times, with a very slight feeling of uncertainty as to the result of his
wooing,--very slight, but enough to make waiting impossible, where the
stake was so high.
"Mademoiselle," he said, in low and earnest tones, "I have the
permission of monsieur your father, and of madame your mother, to
address you upon a subject which very closely concerns my happiness.
Mademoiselle, will you be my wife?"
He sat leaning a little towards her, his hands folded together, and his
face illuminated for a moment with intense love and anxiety. But Miss
Carnethy did not see the look, and only heard the formal proposition his
words conveyed. She saw a man standing in the door near them; she knew
him--a Mr. Batiscombe, an English man of letters--and she wondered a
little whether he would have used the same phrases in asking a woman to
marry him,--whether all men would speak alike in such a case.
She had looked forward to this scene--more than once. Again the figure
of the ideal lover of her dreams came to her, and seemed to pour out
strong speech of love. Again she involuntarily drew a comparison in her
mind between Marcantonio and some one, something she could not define.
On a sudden all the honesty of her conscience sprang up and showed her
what she really felt.
A thousand times she had said to herself that she would never marry a
man she did not love; and for once that she had said it to herself, she
had said it ten times over to her friends, feeling that she was
inculcating a good and serviceable lesson. And now her conscience told
her that she did not love Marcantonio,--at least not truly, certainly
not as much as she would have liked to love. Then she remembered what
she had thought that afternoon. How was it possible that she could have
thought of him for a moment as her husband, if she did not love
him,--especially with her high standard about such things? Oh, that high
standard! With a quick transition of thought she made up her mind; but
there was a strange little feeling of pain in her, such as the prince
might have felt in the fairy tale when the ring pricked him.
Nevertheless, her mind was made up.
"Yes," she said very suddenly, turning so that she could almost see his
eyes, but not quite, for she instinctively dreaded to look him in the
face; "yes, I will be your wife."
"Merci, mademoiselle," he said. The room was nearly empty at the moment,
and Marcantonio took her passive hand and touched her fingers with his
lips, being quite sure that no one was looking. But the man who stood at
the door saw it.
"Such a good match, you know!" said some people, who had no prejudices.
"Such a special grace!" said the resident Anglo-American Catholics; "he
is quite sure to convert her!"
"Such a special grace!" exclaimed the resident Anglo-American
Protestants; "she is quite sure to lead him back!"
"Il faut toujours se méfier des saints," remarked Marcantonio's uncle,
concerning his nephew.
"Never trust red-haired women," said the man who had stood at the door.
The engagement made a sensation in Rome, a consummation very easily
attained, and very little to be desired. In places where the intercourse
between young marriageable men and young marriageable women is so
constrained as it is in modern Europe, a man's inclinations do not
escape comment, and a very small seed of truth grows, beneath the magic
incantations of society tea parties, to a very large bush of gossip.
Nevertheless these good people are always astonished when their
prophecies are fulfilled, and the bush bears fruit instead of vanishing
into emptiness; which shows that there is some capacity left in them for
distinguishing truth and untruth. Marcantonio's marriage had long been a
subject in every way to the taste of the chatterers, and though Madame
de Charleroi had accused her brother of hastiness, for lack of a better
reproach, it was nearly a year since his admiration for Miss Carnethy
had been first noticed. During that time every particular of her
parentage and fortune had been carefully sought after, especially by
those who had the least interest in the matter; and the universal
verdict had been that the Marchese Carantoni might, could, should, and
probably would, marry Miss Leonora Carnethy. And now that the engagement
was out, society grunted as a pig may when among the crab-oaks of
Périgord he has discovered a particularly fat and unctuous truffle.
Probably the happiest person was Marcantonio himself. He was an honest,
whole-souled man, and in his eyes Leonora was altogether the most
beautiful, the most accomplished, and the most charming woman in the
world. That he expressed himself with so much self-control and propriety
