words with you." 
" It is a liberty, as you say, sir," replied Lira, 
 
stiffly, and looking straight before him. " But since 
you have met me, say what you have to say quickly." 
He talked in the same curious constructions as 
formerly, but I will spare you the grammatical 
vagaries. 
"Some time has elapsed," continued Nino, " since 
our unfortunate encounter. I have been in Paris, 
where I have had more than common success in my 
profession. From being a very poor teacher of 
Italian to the signorina, your daughter, I am become 
an exceedingly prosperous artist. My character is 
blameless and free from all stain, in spite of the sad 
business in which we were both concerned, and of 
which you knew the truth from the dead lady's own 
lips." 
"What then?" growled Lira, who had listened 
grimly, and was fast losing his temper. "What 
then ? Do you suppose, Signor Cardegna, that I am 
still interested in your comings and goings ? " 
"The sequel to what I have told you, sir," answered Nino, bowing once more, and looking very 
grave, " is that I again most respectfully ask you to 
give me the hand of your daughter, the Signorina 
Hedwig von Lira." 
The hot blood flushed the old soldier's hard features to the roots of his grey hair, and his voice 
trembled as he answered : 
"Do you intend to insult me, sir? If so, this 
quiet road is a favourable spot for settling the question. It shall never be said that an officer in the 
service of his majesty the King and Emperor refused 
to fight with any one, with his tailor, if need be." 
 
He reined his horse from Nino's side, and eyed him 
fiercely. 
Signor Conte," answered Nino calmly, " nothing 
could be further from my thoughts than to insult 
you, or to treat you in any way with disrespect. 
And I will not acknowledge that anything you can 
say can convey an insult to myself." Lira smiled 
in a sardonic fashion. "But," added Nino, "if it 
would give you any pleasure to fight, and if you 
have weapons, I shall be happy to oblige you. It 
is a quiet spot, as you say, and it shall never be 
said that an Italian artist refused to fight a German 
soldier." 
" I have two pistols in my holsters," said Lira, 
with a smile. " The roads are not safe, and I always 
carry them." 
" Then, sir. be good enough to select one and to 
give me the other, and we will at once proceed to 
business." 
The count's manner changed. He looked grave. 
I have the pistols. Signor Cardegna, but I do 
not desire to use them. Your readiness satisfies me 
that you are in earnest, and we will therefore not 
fight for amusement. I need not defend myself 
from any charge of unwillingness, I believe," he 
added proudly. 
" In that case, sir," said Nino, " and since we have 
convinced each other that we are serious and desire 
to be courteous, let us converse calmly." 
" Have you anything more to say ? " asked the 
count, once more allowing his horse to pace along 
the dusty road, while Nino's mule walked by his side. 
 
"I have this to say, Signer Conte," answered 
Nino: "that I shall not desist from desiring the 
honour of marrying your daughter, if you refuse me 
a hundred times. I wish to put it to you whether, 
with youth, some talent, I speak modestly, and 
the prospect of a plentiful income, I am not as well 
qualified to aspire to the alliance as Baron Benoni, 
who has old age, much talent, an enormous fortune, 
and the benefit of the Jewish faith into the bar 
gain." 
The count winced palpably at the mention of 
Benoni's religion. No people are more insanely 
prejudiced against the Hebrew race than the Germans. They indeed maintain that they have greater ; 
cause than others, but it always appears to me that 
they are unreasonable about it. Benoni chanced to 
be a Jew, but his peculiarities would have been 
the same had he been a Christian or an American. 
There is only one Ahasuerus Benoni in the world. 
" There is no question of Baron Benoni here," 
said the count severely, but hurriedly. "Your observations are beside the mark. The objections to 
the alliance, as you call it, are that you are a man 
of the people, I do not desire to offend you, a 
plebeian, in fact ; you are also a man of uncertain 
fortune, like all singers; and lastly, you are an 
artist. I trust you will consider these points as a 
sufficient reason for my declining the honour you 
propose." 
"I will only say," returned Nino, "that I ven 
ture to consider your reasons insufficient, though I 
do not question your decision. Baron Benoni was 
 
ennobled for a loan made to a government in difficulties ; he was, by his own account, a shoemaker 
by early occupation, and a strolling musician a 
great artist, if you like by the profession he 
adopted." 
"I never heard these facts," said Lira, "and I 
suspect that you have been misinformed. But I 
do not wish to continue the discussion of the subject." 
Nino says that after the incident of the pistols 
the interview passed without the slightest approach 
to ill-temper on either side. They both felt that if 
they disagreed they were prepared to settle their 
difficulties then and there, without any further ado. 
"Then, sir, before we part, permit me to call 
your attention to a matter which must be of importance to you," said Nino. "I refer to the hap 
piness of the Signorina di Lira. In spite of your 
refusal of my offer, you will understand that the 
welfare of that lady must always be to me of the 
greatest importance." 
Lira bowed his head stiffly, and seemed inclined to 
speak, but changed his mind, and held his tongue, to 
see what Nino would say. 
"You will comprehend, I am sure," continued 
the latter, "that in the course of those months, 
during which I was so far honoured as to be of service to the contessina, I had opportunities of observing her remarkably gifted intelligence. I am now 
credibly informed that she is suffering from ill 
health. I have not seen her, nor made any attempt 
to see her, as you might have supposed, but I have 
 
an acquaintance in Fillettino who has seen her pass 
his door daily. Allow me to remark that a mind 
of such rare qualities must grow sick if driven to 
feed upon itself in solitude. I would respectfully 
suggest that some gayer residence than Fillettino 
would be a sovereign remedy for her illness." 
" Your tone and manner," replied the count, " for 
bid my resenting your interference. I have no 
reason to doubt your affection for my daughter, but 
I must request you to abandon all idea of changing 
my designs. If I choose to bring my daughter to 
a true sense of her position by somewhat rigorous 
methods, it is because I am aware that the frailty 
of reputation surpasses the frailty of woman. I 
will say this to your credit, sir: that if she has 
not disgraced herself, it has been in some measure 
because you wisely forbore from pressing your suit 
while you were received as an instructor beneath 
my roof. I am only doing my duty in trying to 
make her understand that her good name has been 
seriously exposed, and that the best reparation she 
can make lies in following my wishes, and accepting the honourable and advantageous marriage I 
have provided for her. I trust that this explanation, which I am happy to say has been conducted 
with the strictest propriety, may be final, and that 
you will at once desist from any further attempts 
towards persuading me to consent to a union I 
Disapprove." 
Tira once more stopped his horse in the road, and 
rang off his hat bowed to Nino. 
" And I, sir," said Nino, no less courteously, " am 
 
obliged to you for your clearly expressed answer. 
I shall never cease to regret your decision, and so 
long as I live I shall hope that you may change your 
mind. Good-day, Signor Conte," and he bowed to 
his saddle. 
"Good-day, Signor Cardegna." So they parted: 
the count heading homeward toward Fillettino, and 
Nino turning back toward Trevi. 
By this manoeuvre he conveyed to the count's mind 
the impression that he had been to Fillettino for the 
day, and was returning to Trevi for the evening ; and 
in reality the success of his enterprise, since his representations had failed, must depend upon Hedwig's 
being comparatively free during the ensuing night. 
He determined to wait by the roadside until it should 
be dark, allowing his mule to crop whatever poor 
grass she could find at this season, and thus giving 
the count time to reach Fillettino, even at the most 
leisurely pace. 
He sat down upon the root of a tree, and allowed 
his mule to graze at liberty. It was already growing 
dark in the valley; for between the long speeches 
of civility the two had employed and the frequent 
pauses in the interview, the meeting had lasted the 
greater part of an hour. 
Nino says that while he waited he reviewed his 
past life and his present situation. 
Indeed, since he had made his first appearance in 
the theatre, three months earlier, events had crowded 
thick and fast in his life. The first sensation of a 
great public success is strange to one who has long 
been accustomed to live unnoticed and unhonoured 
 
by the world. It is at first incomprehensible that 
one should have suddenly grown to be an object of 
interest and curiosity to one's fellow-creatures, after 
having been so long a looker-on. At first a man 
does not realise that the thing he has laboured over, 
and studied, and worked on, can be actually anything 
remarkable. The production of the e very-day task 
has long grown a habit, and the details which the 
artist grows to admire and love so earnestly have 
each brought with them their own reward. Every 
difficulty vanquished, every image of beauty em 
bodied, every new facility of skill acquired, has been 
