" That was so long ago. What a lovely avenue ! And 
there is the lake. And Cedarwood ! Why, it is like some 
beautiful dream." 
"I have brought your son home to you," Kathie ex- 
claimed as she sprang out of the phaeton beside General 
Mackenzie. 
He bent and kissed her tenderly. Once he had said 
almost the same words to her mother. 
" Then Robert went on to Chicago?" Mrs. Alston asked, 
as she shook hands with the distinguished-looking young 
man. 
Kathie blushed vividly. How could she have forgotten 
everything ? 
" Yes," Bruce made answer. " Mr. Conover thought it 
better, I believe." 
They all walked in together. Kathie ran to her room 
and tried to bathe some of the troublesome color out of 
her face. What had happened to her? Surely she was 
not used to this much excitement over so simple a thing as 
the coming of a visitor. 
They had a strangety quiet evening. A sense of satis- 
faction pervaded them all, and, after the first few inquiries 
about absent friends, Kathie went to the piano and played 
some of the old things that had been such a rare pleasure to 
Bruce that remembered winter. Ah, why should she think 
of them now ? Was it comfort again ? He sat and listened 
as if in a trance. There was only the light in the hall and 
the moon flooding the room through the open windows. 
All was so niysteriously sacred, as if he had gone into some 
dream country and was listening to the flow of soft, wind- 
ing streams, of silver bells blown about by the wind. 
She was there. She was free for him. Honor had held 
her so securely before, that there had been no temptation. 
And the grand, generous heart that had given her up, 
the dear friend of her childhood and youth ? For an instant 
it seemed to Bruce as if he ought not to accept the sac- 
rifice. 
The soft flow of music ceased. She came over to the 
sofa with a curious, half-unconscious nearness. 
' ' Have I played you asleep ? I used to do that, you 
know?" 
He took both hands in his and drew her nearer. His 
love was such an old familiar thing to him, but quite new 
and strange to her, he could see that. Yet was it awak- 
ening ? 
" You were so good to me through those days of pain." 
The voice was tenderly suggestive. She drew her hands 
softly away again. What was this coming upon her? 
" Let us go out and walk," he said. " The night is so 
lovely." 
It was stifling here, she thought. The others sat at the 
lower end of the room, talking in a low tone. They passed 
them and went out on the porch, down the steps. The 
wide, warm night lay all about them, the stars glowed softly 
overhead, and the very grass at their feet quivered as the 
tender wind swept over it. It was so new to her, though 
she had seen it hundreds of times before. An enchantment 
transfixed her. 
" Kathie," he cried suddenly, and his tone seemed to 
penetrate every pulse with its sweetness, "Kathie, do 
you know, can you think, why I have come back? I can- 
not wait for the tardy hours to whisper my secret. I love 
you ! I have loved you always, it seems to me, and now 
that you are free I have come to win, if possible, the great 
joy of my life ! " 
" Oh ! " She uttered a sharp, pathetic cry. " I wonder if 
I would have the right to take the joy at so high a price ? 
For I have wounded the noblest heart, and it seems as if 
my life could be none too long a penance " 
" He gave you to me, my darling. His great love was 
not content with merely setting you free, he wrote. I 
can almost guess how he learned my secret, and bade me 
come back and try. For I should not have come other- 
wise for years, unless }~ou had been his wife. I did not 
mean to be tempted with the portion put aside for an- 
other. I waited at first because my father thought it best, 
and all that long winter I wonder if I sometimes ap- 
peared unthankful to you ; but God was keeping me away 
from the temptation I could so illy bear, on the safe, sweet 
side. I am so glad I never wronged Charlie in word or 
deed. But now, now, Kathie? " 
What was this sudden thrill of desire, this great wave of 
intense satisfaction that flooded her heart like a high tide 
and floated her toward him with no doubt or question ? 
She could not ask if it were love, she was simply and 
supremely content. 
He drew her toward him and kissed the dewy, throb- 
bing lips. She remembered then so many little events, 
flashes, something shown and withheld at the same 
moment. Why could she not have seen ? And if she had 
seen, would she not have believed it her duty to uproot 
every fibre of an unlawful longing? Yes, her right to take 
this love now, lay in the fact of truth, perfect and entire ; 
she had never made any kind of barter with her own soul. 
" Kathie ! " The tone was so soft, so entreating, so 
lover-like, impatient. 
She put her hands in his, for she could not speak just 
then. It was so new, so delicious, so overwhelming. 
Ah, she knew now. 
They walked up and down the path in happy silence. 
The fragrant wind, the rhythmic stars, the satisfaction of 
the whole world, told their story for them. Was it 
moments or a lifetime ? 
" We must go in," she said in timid entreaty. The 
girl's delicate sense was returning. There was a nutter in 
her face, in every pulse. 
He turned and led her back, up the steps, her hand in 
his, her face shyly averted with the strange, new knowl- 
edge, the girlish abashment. 
" Truants ! " her mother exclaimed. 
Kathie was thankful for the shaded lights, the fragrant 
dusk, the carelessly unconscious tone. 
" Yes, it is getting late," she said in a rich, tremulous 
voice that missed her mother, but caught Aunt Ruth's 
longing ear. 
She rose hastily. " I suppose it is time we broke up 
our conclave," with a little smile. " Kathie, my darling, 
good night," with a tender kiss. 
She went to her mother, and then held out her hand to 
the General, but she had no courage to raise her eyes 
to Bruce. They all went up-stairs together, and said 
another good-night. 
Kathie hurried to her room. She made quick work with 
her toilet, for she wanted to be in the dark and the 
silence to think. She buried her face in the pillow as if 
to stifle its heat and blushes. Was this great happiness 
for her? Could she, dared she, feel at home and rejoice 
in it? 
She lingered the next morning until she heard them all 
go down. If Uncle Robert were here. 
Bruce was waiting for her in the hall, his eyes luminous 
with happiness, his face full of grand content. 
" They all know," he whispered ; and then she seemed in 
the midst of them, receiving approval in their tender 
kisses. But she could not talk about it. Aunt Ruth saw 
that and came to her rescue, shielding her from obtrusive 
demonstrations. 
" I hope you have made no mistake this time, Kathie," 
her mother said afterward, gently, yet as if she could not 
quite forget. 
" O mamma, I wonder if I have a right to take so 
exquisite a happiness ! " 
"Yes, you foolish little child." And with the kiss she 
gave, vanished the last remnant of bitterness. 
"But I do not want to make any real promise until 
Uncle Robert comes. And oh, if " 
" It will be well with them," Mrs. Alston rejoined hur- 
riedly. " That must not mar your delight." 
" And so I shall have my little girl," the General said 
with deep emotion. " Kathie, the first time I saw you, 
a strange little girl in a box at the opera, you went straight 
to my heart. I wanted you then, and if you had not been 
so well loved and sheltered I should have begged to adopt 
you. But how do you suppose Uncle Robert and I will 
ever get it settled ? " 
Uncle Robert telegraphed when he reached Chicago. 
The poor invalid was living. More than that he would 
not say, for he had a faint presentiment there might be a 
sacred joy at Cedarwood that he would not disturb. 
But they had found Robert's wife unconscious, slowly 
breathing her last. There had been two strokes of paral- 
ysis in rapid succession. Up to the time of the first seiz- 
ure they had considered her improving, and began to hope 
for partial restoration. 
One side of her face had been a little drawn, but she 
lay calm and still beautiful. There was no change through 
the hours, and death came so silently at last that the trained 
eye of the nurse hardly told when the little flicker of life 
went out. 
" It seems very sad," Robert Alston said, when they re- 
turned to the hotel. " I cannot pretend to any deep grief, 
for her utter indifference destroyed what might have been 
affection on my part, and yet to-day I give thanks that 
God kept me from any wild, desperate act. I might have 
made myself, in my madness, the very thing I so hated and 
despised in her. O Uncle Robert, I believe I did learn 
at last to be patient in God's time, to do the work ap- 
pointed for my transgression, and until you came, a few 
days ago, I had no thought of her dying, of my freedom. 
I had so resolved to live that I should not be ashamed or 
confused at the last, to ask for nothing." 
He bowed his head and wept silently. Uncle Robert 
laid his hand affectionately on the shoulder. 
" It has been a hard fight, my dear boy, but you have 
come off conqueror." 
" ' Thanks be to God, who giveth us the victory.' " He 
rose as he reverently uttered this. " And, Uncle Robert, 
I think no boy, no young man, ever had a truer, stronger 
friend than you have been to me. All that is fine and 
noble in me I shall owe to you and Charlie Darrell." 
"There was some good soil, Rob." And the elder smiled 
in his old, meaning way. " It was a rich soil, and the great 
struggle was which should grow the fastest, the wheat or 
the tares." 
"And you have been a faithful gardener. My whole 
life from this time must be an endeavor to repay you. For 
you took all the burden, all the trouble. What if I 
had been left alone?" And he shuddered, remembering 
many bitter hours. 
" God never leaves us quite alone unless we place our- 
