been announced. I am not generally a reporter of the 
gossip of the passing hour, but the fact was alluded to an 
hour ago by a lady with whom I was conversing, and 
here in Europe these conventional futilities usurp the 
lion 's share of one 's attention. I therefore retained the 
 
circumstance in my mind. Yes, I regret that Miss Light 
should marry one of these used-up foreigners. Ameri 
cans should stand by each other. If she wanted a bril 
liant match we could have organised it for her. If she 
wanted a fine fellow a fine, sharp, enterprising, 
modern man I would have undertaken to find him 
for her without going out of my native city Columbus, 
Ohio. And if she wanted a big fortune, I would have 
found her twenty that she would have had hard work 
to spend ; money down not tied up in fever-stricken 
lands and worm-eaten villas ! What is the name 
of the young man? Prince Castaway, or some such 
thing !" 
It was well for Mr. Leavenworth that he was fond of 
listening to his own correct periods ; for the current of 
his eloquence floated him past the short, sharp, startled 
cry with which Roderick greeted his anecdote. The young 
man stood looking at him with parted lips and an excited 
eye. 
" The position of woman," Mr. Leavenworth thought 
fully resumed, " is certainly a very degraded one in these 
countries. I doubt whether a European princess can 
command the respect which in our country is exhibited 
towards the obscurest females. The civilisation of a 
country should be measured by the deference shown to 
the weaker sex. Judged by that standard, where are 
they over here ?" 
Though Mr. Leavenworth had not observed Roderick 's 
emotion it was not lost upon Rowland, who was making 
sundry uncomfortable reflections upon it. He saw that 
it had instantly become one with the acute irritation pro 
duced by the poor gentleman 's oppressive personality, 
and that an explosion of some sort was imminent. Mr. 
Leavenworth, with calm unconsciousness, proceeded to 
fire the mine. 
"And now for our Culture!" he said in the same 
sonorous tones, demanding with a gesture the unveiling 
 
of the figure, which stood somewhat apart, muffled in a 
great sheet. 
Roderick stood looking at him for a moment with 
concentrated rancour, and then strode to the statue and 
twitched off the cover. Mr. Leavenworth settled himself 
into his chair with an air of flattered proprietorship, and 
scanned the unfinished image. "I can conscientiously 
express myself as gratified with the general conception," 
he said. " The figure has considerable majesty, and the 
countenance wears a fine open expression. The forehead, 
however, strikes me as not sufficiently intellectual. In 
the statue of Culture, you know, that should be the great 
point. The eye should instinctively seek the forehead. 
Couldn 't you elevate it a little?" 
Roderick, for all answer, tossed the sheet back over 
the statue. "Oblige me, sir," he said, "oblige me! 
Never mention that thing again." 
" Never mention it ? Why, my dear sir " 
" Never mention it. It 's an abomination !" 
" An abomination ! My Culture ! " 
"Yours, indeed!" cried Roderick. "It 's none of 
mine. I disown it." 
"Disown it, if you please," said Mr. Leavenworth, 
sternly, "but finish it first !" 
" I would rather smash it !" cried Roderick. 
"This is folly, sir. You must keep your engage 
ments." 
"I made no engagement. A sculptor isn 't a tailor. 
Did you ever hear of inspiration ? Mine is dead ! And 
it 's no laughing matter. You yourself killed it." 
"I I killed your inspiration?" cried Mr. Leaven 
worth, with the accent of righteous wrath. "You are a 
very ungrateful young man ! If ever I have been en 
couraging to any one, I have been so to you !" 
" I appreciate your good intentions, and I don 't wish 
to be uncivil. But your encouragement is superfluous. 
I can't work for you ! " 
 
"I call this ill -humour, my good sir!" said Mr. 
Leavenworth, as if he had found the damning word. 
" Oh, I m in an infernal humour ! " Roderick answered. 
" Pray, sir, is it my inopportune allusion to Miss 
Light 's marriage?" 
" It 's your inopportune everything ! I don 't say that 
to offend you ; I beg your pardon if it does. I say it by 
way of making our rupture complete, irretrievable !" 
Rowland had stood by in silence, but he now interfered. 
"Listen to me," he said, laying his hand on Roderick 's 
arm. " You are standing on the edge of a gulf. If you 
suffer this accident to put you out, you take your plunge. 
It 's no matter that you don 't like your work ; you will 
do the wisest thing you ever did if you make the effort 
of will necessary for finishing it. Destroy the statue 
then, if you like, but make the effort. I speak the 
truth!" 
Roderick looked at him with eyes that still inexorable- 
ness made almost tender. " You, too ?" he simply said. 
Rowland felt that he might as well attempt to squeeze 
water from a polished ciystal as hope to move him. He 
turned away and walked into the adjoining room with a 
sense of sickening helplessness. In a few moments he 
came back and found that Mr. Leavenworth had departed 
presumably in a manner sufficiently majestic. Rode 
rick was sitting with his elbows on his knees and his head 
in his hands. 
Rowland made one more attempt. " You won't mind 
me, eh?" 
"Be so good as not to mind me !" 
"There 's one more point that you shouldn 't go to 
Mrs. Light 's for a month." 
" I shall go there this evening." 
"That too is an utter folly." 
"There are such things as necessary follies." 
"You are not reflecting ; you are speaking in passion." 
"Why, then, do you make me speak?" 
 
Rowland meditated a moment. " Is it also necessary 
that you should lose the best friend you have?" 
Roderick looked up. " That 's for you to settle !" 
His best friend clapped on his hat and strode away ; 
in a moment the door closed behind him. 
XVI. 
ROWLAND walked hard for a couple of hours. He passed 
up the Corso, out of the Porta del Popolo and into the 
Villa Borghese, of which he made a complete circuit. 
The keenness of his irritation subsided, but it left him 
with an intolerable weight on his heart. When dusk had 
fallen he found himself near the lodging of his friend 
Madame Grandoni. He frequently paid her a visit during 
the hour which preceded dinner, and he now ascended 
her unillumined staircase and rang at her relaxed bell- 
rope with an especial desire for diversion. He was told 
that for the moment she was occupied, but that if he 
would co.me in and wait she would presently be with him. 
He had not sat musing in the firelight for ten minutes 
when he heard the jingle of the door-bell, and then a 
rustling and murmuring in the hall. The door of the 
little parlour opened, but before the visitor appeared he 
had recognised her voice. Christina Light swept for 
ward, preceded by her poodle, and almost filling the 
narrow room with the train of her dress. She was 
coloured here and there by the flickering firelight. 
"They told me you were here," she said simply, as 
she took a seat. 
"And yet you came in? It is very brave," said 
Rowland. 
"You are the brave one, when one thinks of it! 
Where is the padrona?" 
 
" Occupied for the moment. But she is coming." 
" How soon?" 
I have already waited ten minutes ; I expect her 
from moment to moment." 
"Meanwhile, we are alone?" And she glanced into 
the dusky corners of the room. 
" Unless Stenterello counts," said Rowland. 
"Oh, he knows my secrets unfortunate brute!" 
She sat silent awhile, looking into the firelight. Then 
at last, glancing at Rowland, " Come ! say something 
pleasant !" she exclaimed. 
" I have been very happy to hear of your engagement." 
" No, I don 't mean that. I have heard that so often, 
only since breakfast, that it has lost all sense. I mean 
some of those unexpected charming things that you said 
to me a month ago at St. Cecilia 's." 
" I offended you then," said Rowland. " I was afraid 
I had." 
"Ah, it occurred to you? Why haven't I seen you 
since?" 
"Really I don 't know." And he began to hesitate 
for an explanation. " I have called but you have 
never been at home." 
You were careful to choose the wrong times. You 
have a way with a poor girl ! You sit down and inform 
her that she is a person with whom a respectable young 
man can't associate without contamination ; your friend 
is a very nice fellow, you are very careful of his morals, 
you wish him to know none but nice people, and you 
beg me therefore to desist. You request me to take 
these suggestions to heart and to act upon them as 
promptly as possible. They are not particularly flatter 
ing to my vanity. Vanity, however, is a sin, and I listen 
submissively, with an immense desire to be just. If I 
have many faults I know it in a general way, and I try, 
on the whole, to do my best. Voyons, I say to myself, 
it isn 't particularly charming to hear oneself made out 
 
such a low person, but it is worth thinking over ; there 
is probably a good deal of truth in it, and at any rate 
we must be as good a girl as we can. That 's the great 
point ! And then here 's a magnificent chance for 
humility. If there 's doubt in the matter, let the doubt 
count against oneself. That is what Saint Catherine 
did, and Saint Theresa, and all the others, and they are 
said to have had in consequence the most ineffable joys. 
Let us go in for a little ineffable joy ! I tried it ; I 
