firmly she had decided within herself, it was a very bitter thing to say;
she was so fond of him.
"What?" asked Ronald hoarsely. But he turned red instead of pale. It was
rather disappointment and anger that he felt at the first shock than
sorrow or deep pain.
"Do not make me say it again," said Joe, entreatingly. She was not used to
entreating so much as to commanding, and her voice quavered uncertainly.
"Do you mean to say," said Ronald, speaking loudly in his anger, and then
dropping his voice as he remembered the passers-by,--"do you mean to tell
me, Joe, after all this, when I have come to America just because you told
me to, that you will not marry me? I do not believe it. You are making fun
of me."
"No, Ronald," Joe answered sorrowfully, but regaining her equanimity in
the face of Surbiton's wrath, "I am in earnest. I am very, very fond of
you, but I do not love you at all, and I never can marry you."
Ronald was red in the face, and he trod fast and angrily, tapping the
pavement with his stick. He was very angry, but he said nothing.
"It is much better to be honest about it," said Joe, still very pale; and
when she had spoken, her little mouth closed tightly.
"Oh, yes," said Ronald, who was serious by this time; "it is much better
to be honest, now that you have brought me three thousand miles to hear
what you have to say--much better. By all means."
"I am very sorry, Ronald," Joe answered. "I really did not mean you to
come, and I am very sorry,--oh, more sorry than I can tell you,--but I
cannot do it, you know."
"If you won't, of course you can't," he said. "Will you please tell me who
he is?"
"Who?--what?" asked Joe, coldly. She was offended at the tone.
"The fellow you have pitched upon in my place," he said roughly.
Joe looked up into his face with an expression that frightened him. Her
dark eyes flashed with an honest fire, He stared angrily at her as they
walked slowly along.
"I made a mistake," she said slowly. "I am not sorry. I am glad. I would
be ashamed to marry a man who could speak like that to any woman. I am
sorry for you, but I am glad for myself." She looked straight into his
eyes, until he turned away. For some minutes they went on in silence.
"I beg your pardon, Joe," said Ronald presently, in a subdued tone.
"Never mind, Ronald dear, I was angry," Joe answered. But her eyes were
full of tears, and her lips quivered.
Again they went on in silence, but for a longer time than before. Joe felt
that the blow was struck, and there was nothing to be done but to wait the
result. It had been much harder than she had expected, because Ronald was
so angry; she had expected he would be pained. He, poor fellow, was really
startled out of all self-control. The idea that Joe could ever ultimately
hesitate about marrying him had never seemed to exist, even among the
remotest possibilities. But he was a gentleman in his way, and so he
begged her pardon, and chewed the cud of his wrath in silence for some
time.
"Joe," he said at last, with something of his usual calm, though he was
still red, "of course you are really perfectly serious? I mean, you have
thought about it?"
"Yes," said Joe; "I am quite sure."
"Then perhaps it is better we should go home," he continued.
"Perhaps so," said Joe. "Indeed, it would be better."
"I would like to see you again, Joe," he said in a somewhat broken
fashion. "I mean, by and by, when I am not angry, you know."
Joe smiled at the simple honesty of the proposition.
"Yes, Ronald dear, whenever you like. You are very good, Ronald," she
added.
"No, I am not good at all," said Ronald sharply, and they did not speak
again until he left her at Miss Schenectady's door. Then she gave him her
hand.
"I shall be at home until three o'clock," said she.
"Thanks," he answered; so they parted.
Joe had accomplished her object, but she was very far from happy. The
consciousness of having done right did not outweigh the pain she felt for
Ronald, who was, after all, her very dear friend. They had grown up
together from earliest childhood, and so it had been settled; for Ronald
was left an orphan when almost a baby, and had been brought up with his
cousin as a matter of expediency. Therefore, as Joe said, it had always
seemed so very natural. They had plighted vows when still in pinafores
with a ring of grass, and later they had spoken more serious things, which
it hurt Joe to remember, and now they were suffering the consequence of it
all, and the putting off childish illusions was bitter.
It was not long before Sybil Brandon came in answer to Joe's invitation.
She knew what trouble her friend was likely to be in, and was ready to do
anything in the world to make matters easier for her. Besides, though
Sybil was so white and fair, and seemingly cold, she had a warm heart, and
had conceived a very real affection for the impulsive English girl. Miss
Schenectady had retired to put on another green ribbon, leaving the life
of Mr. Ticknor open on the table, and the two girls met in the drawing-room. Joe was still pale, and the tears seemed ready to start from her
eyes.
"Dear Sybil--it is so good of you to come," said she.
Sybil kissed her affectionately and put her arm round her waist. They
stood thus for a moment before the fire.
"You have seen him?" Sybil asked presently. Joe had let her head rest
wearily against her friend's shoulder, and nodded silently in answer.
Sybil bent down and kissed her soft hair, and whispered gently in her
ear,--"Was it very hard, dear?"
"Oh, yes--indeed it was!" cried Joe, hiding her face on Sybil's breast.
Then, as though ashamed of seeming weak, she stood up boldly, turning
slightly away as she spoke. "It was dreadfully hard," she continued; "but
it is all over, and it is very much better--very, very much, you know."
"I am so glad," said Sybil, looking thoughtfully at the fire. "And now we
will go out into the country and forget all about it--all about the
disagreeable part of it."
"Perhaps," said Joe, who had recovered her equanimity, "Ronald may come
too. You see he is so used to me that after a while it will not seem to
make so very much difference after all."
"Of course, if he would," said Sybil, "it would be very nice. He will have
to get used to the idea, and if he does not begin at once, perhaps he
never may."
"He will be just the same as ever when he gets over his wrath," answered
Joe confidently.
"Was he very angry?"
"Oh, dreadfully! I never saw him so angry."
"It is better when men are angry than when they are sorry," said Sybil.
"Something like this once happened to me, and he got over it very well. I
think it was much more my fault, too," she added thoughtfully.
"Oh, I am sure you never did anything bad in your life," said Joe
affectionately. "Nothing half so bad as this--my dear Snow Angel!" And so
they kissed again and went to lunch.
"I suppose you went to walk," remarked Miss Schenectady, when they met at
table.
"Yes," said Joe, "we walked a little."
"Well, all Englishmen walk, of course," continued her aunt.
"Most of them can," said Joe, smiling.
"I mean, it is a great deal the right thing there. Perhaps you might pass
me the pepper."
Before they had finished their meal the door opened, and Ronald Surbiton
entered the room.
"Oh--excuse me," he began, "I did not know"--
"Oh, I am so glad you have come, Ronald," cried Joe, rising to greet him,
and taking his hand. "Sybil, let me introduce Mr. Surbiton--Miss Brandon."
Sybil smiled and bent her head slightly. Ronald bowed and sat down between
Sybil and Miss Schenectady.
CHAPTER IX.
Josephine Thorn never read newspapers, partly because she did not care for
the style of literature known as journalistic, and partly, too, because
the papers always came at such exceedingly inconvenient hours. If she had
possessed and practiced the estimable habit of "keeping up with the
times," she would have observed an article which appeared on the morning
after the skating party, and which dealt with the speech John Harrington
had made in the Music Hall two days previous. Miss Schenectady had read
it, but she did not mention it to Joe, because she believed in John
Harrington, and wished Joe to do likewise, wherefore she avoided the
subject; for the article treated him roughly. Nevertheless, some unknown
person sent Joe a copy of the paper through the post some days later, with
a bright red pencil mark at the place, and Joe, seeing what the subject
was, read it with avidity. As she read, her cheek flushed, her small mouth
closed like a vise, and she stamped her little foot upon the floor.
It was evident that the writer was greatly incensed at the views expressed
by John, and he wrote with an ease and a virulence which proclaimed a
practiced hand. "The spectacle of an accomplished Democrat," said the
paper, "is always sufficiently unusual to attract attention: but to find
so rare a bird among ourselves is indeed a novel delight. The orator who
alternately enthralled and insulted a considerable audience at the Music
Hall, two nights ago, laid a decided claim both to accomplishment and to
democracy. He himself informed his hearers that he was a Democrat; and,
indeed, it was necessary that he should state his position, for it would
have been impossible to decide from the tone and quality of his opinions
whether he were a socialist, a reformer, a conservative, or an Irishman.
Perchance he has discovered the talisman by which it is possible for a man
to be all four, and yet to be a man, Furthermore, he claims to be an
orator. No one could listen to the manifold intonations of his voice, or
witness the declamatory evolutions of his body, without feeling an inward
conviction that the gentleman on the platform intended to present himself
to us as an orator.
"Lest we be accused of partiality and prejudice, we will at once state
that we believe it possible for a man to be singular in his manner and
quaint in his mode of phrasing, and yet to utter an opinion in some one
direction which, if neither novel nor interesting, nor even tenable, shall
yet have the one redeeming merit of representing a conceivable point of
view. But when a man begins by stating that he belongs to the Democrats
and then claims as his own the views of his political opponents, winding
up by demanding the sympathy and support of a third party, the obvious
conclusion is that he is either a lunatic, a charlatan, or both. A man
cannot serve God and Mammon, neither can any man serve both the Irish and
Chinese.
"Mr. John Harrington has made a great discovery. He has discovered that we
require a Civil Service. This is apparently the ground on which he states
himself to be a Democrat. If we remember rightly, the Civil Service
Convention, which sat in discussion of the subject in the summer of 1881,
was presided over by a prominent member of the Republican party. As some
time has elapsed since then, and the gentlemen connected with the movement
are as active and as much interested in it as ever, our orator will pardon
us for questioning his right of discovery on the one hand, and his claim
to be considered a Democrat on the strength of it, on the other. A Civil
Service is doubtless a good thing, even a very good thing, and in due time
we shall certainly have it; but that the Constitution of the United States
is on the verge of dissolution at the hands of our corrupt public
officers, that our finance is only another name for imminent bankruptcy,
or that the new millennium of Washington morals will be organized by Mr.
John Harrington--these things we deny in toto, from beginning to
end. So wide and deep is our skepticism, that we even doubt whether 'war,
famine, revolution, or all three together' would have instantly ensued if
Mr. John Harrington had not delivered his speech on Wednesday evening.
"In illustration--or rather, in the futile attempt to illustrate--Mr.
Harrington put forth a series of similes that should make any dead orator
turn in his grave. The nation was successively held up to our admiration
in the guise of a sick man, a cripple, a banker, a theatrical company, and
a peddler of tape and buttons. We were bankrupt, diseased; and our bones,
like those of the Psalmist, were all out of joint; and if our hearts did
not become like melting wax in the midst of our bodies, it was not the
fault of Mr. John Harrington, but rather was it due to the hardening of
those organs against the voice of the charmer.
"The Navigation Act called down the choicest of the orator's vessels of
wrath. Fools had made it, worse than fools submitted to it, and the reason
why the Salem docks were no longer crowded with the shipping of the
Peabody family was that there were ferry-boats in Boston harbor, a train
