said he was dead, and we had prayers at church, and talked of setting up
a stone in the grave-yard, and I thought my life was done; for I pined
sadly, and felt as if I could never laugh again. But I did; for the Lord
was very good to us, and out of danger and captivity delivered that dear
boy."
Grandma spoke solemnly, and folded her hands in thanksgiving as she
looked up at the picture of the handsome officer hanging on the wall
before her. The elder children could just remember grandpa as a very old
and feeble man, and it struck them as funny to speak of him as a "dear
boy;" but they never smiled, and dutifully lifted their eyes to the
queue and the high-collared coat, wondering if Joe was as rosy in real
life as in the portrait.
"Well, that's the sentimental part; now comes the merry part, and that
will suit the boys," said the old lady, briskly, as she spun away,--and
went on in a lively tone:--
"One December day, as I sat by that very window, dreaming sorrowfully at
my sewing work, while old Sally nodded over her knitting by the fire, I
saw a man come creeping along by the fence and dodge behind the
wood-pile. There were many bad folks 'round in those times; for war
always leaves a sight of lazy rascals afloat, as well as poor fellows
maimed and homeless.
"Mother had gone over to the sewing society at Mrs. Shirley's, and I was
all alone; for Sally was so stiff with rheumatics she could scarce stir,
and that was why I stayed to take care of her. The old musket always
hung over the kitchen chimney-piece, loaded, and I knew how to fire it,
for Joe had taught me. So away I went and got it down; for I saw the man
popping up his head now and then to spy the land, and I felt sure he
meant mischief. I knew Sally would only scream like a scared hen, so I
let her sleep; and getting behind the shutter I pointed my gun, and
waited to blaze away as soon as the enemy showed signs of attacking.
"Presently he came creeping up to the back door, and I heard him try the
latch. All was fast, so I just slipped into the kitchen and stood
behind the settle, for I was surer than ever he was a rascal since I'd
seen him nearer. He was a tall man, dreadful shabby in an old coat and
boots, a ragged hat over his eyes, and a great beard hiding the lower
part of his face. He had a little bundle and a big stick in his hands,
and limped as if foot-sore or lame.
"I was much afeard; but those were times that made heroes of men, and
taught women to be brave for love of home and country. So I kept steady,
with my eye on the window, and my finger on the trigger of the old gun,
that hadn't been fired for years. Presently the man looked in, and I saw
what a strange roll his great eyes had, for he was thin-faced and looked
half-starved. If mother had been there, she'd have called him in and fed
him well, but I dared not, and when he tried the window I aimed, but did
not fire; for finding the button down he went away, and I dropped on the
settle, shaking like a leaf. All was still, and in a minute I plucked up
courage to go to look out a bit; but just as I reached the middle of the
kitchen, the buttery door opened, and there stood the robber, with a
carving knife in one hand and my best loaf of spice bread in the other.
He said something, and made a rush at me; but I pulled the trigger, saw
a flash, felt a blow, and fell somewhere, thinking, 'Now I'm dead!'"
Here grandma paused for breath, having spoken rapidly and acted out the
scene dramatically, to the intense delight of the children, who sat like
images of interest, staring at her with round eyes.
"But you weren't dead? What next?" cried Walt, eagerly.
"Bless you, no! I only fell into Joe's arms, and when I came to, there
the dear fellow was, crying over me like a baby, while old Sally danced
round us like a bedlamite, in spite of her rheumatics, shouting:
'Hosanna! Thanks and praise! He's come, he's come!'"
"Was he shot?" asked Geoff, anxious for a little bloodshed.
"No, dear; the old gun burst and hurt my hands, but not a mite of harm
was done to Joe. I don't think I could tell all that happened for a
spell, being quite dazed with joy and surprise; but by the time mother
came home I was as peart as a wren, and Joe was at the table eating and
drinking every mortal thing I could find in the house.
"He'd been kept a prisoner till exchanged, and had had a hard time
getting home, with little money and a bad wound in the leg, besides
being feeble with jail fever. But we didn't fret over past troubles,
being so glad to get him back. How my blessed mother did laugh, when we
told her the reception I gave the poor lad! But I said it served him
right, since he came sneaking home like a thief, instead of marching in
like a hero. Then he owned that he came there to get something to eat,
being ashamed to go in upon his mother with all her company about her.
So we fed and comforted him; and when we'd got our wits about us, I
whipped away to Mrs. Shirley's and told my news, and every one of those
twenty-five women went straight over to our house and burst in upon
poor Joe, as he lay resting on the settle. That was my revenge for the
scare he gave me, and a fine one it was; for the women chattered over
him like a flock of magpies, and I sat in the corner and laughed at him.
Ah, I was a sad puss in those days!"
The old lady's black eyes twinkled with fun, and the children laughed
with her, till Walt caused a lull by asking:--
"Where do the wolves come in, grandma?"
"Right along, dear; I'm not likely to forget 'em, for they 'most cost me
my life, to say nothing of my new slippers. There was great rejoicing
over Joe, and every one wanted to do something to honor our hero; for he
had done well, we found out, when the General heard his story. We had a
great dinner, and Judge Mullikin gave a supper; but Major Belknap was
bound to outshine the rest, so he invited all the young folks over to
his house, nigh ten miles away, to a ball, and we all went. I made
myself fine, you may believe, and wore a pair of blue kid slippers, with
mother's best buckles to set 'em off. Joe had a new uniform, and was an
elegant figure of a man, I do assure you. He couldn't dance, poor dear,
being still very lame: but I was a proud girl when I marched into that
ball-room, on the arm of my limping beau. The men cheered, and the
ladies stood up in chairs to see him, and he was as red as my ribbons,
and I could hardly keep from crying, as I held him up,--the floor being
slippery as glass with the extra waxing it had got.
"I declared I wouldn't dance, because Joe couldn't; but he made me,
saying he could see me better; so I footed it till two o'clock, soon
forgetting all my sorrow and my good resolutions as well. I wanted to
show Joe that I was as much a favorite as ever, though I'd lived like a
widow for a year. Young folks will be giddy, and I hope these girls will
take warning by me and behave better when their time comes. There mayn't
be any wolves to sober 'em, but trouble of some sort always follows
foolish actions; so be careful, my dears, and behave with propriety when
you 'come out,' as you call it nowadays."
Grandma held up a warning forefinger at the girls, and shook her head
impressively, feeling that the moral of her tale must be made clear
before she went on. But the lassies blushed a little, and the lads
looked all impatience, so the dear old lady introduced the wolves as
quickly as she could.
"About half-past two, Joe and I drove off home with four fine hams in
the bottom of the sleigh, sent by the Major to our mothers. It was a
bitter-cold February night, with just light enough to see the road, and
splendid sleighing; so we went along at a good pace, till we came to the
great woods. They are all gone now, and the woollen mills stand there,
but then they were a thick forest of pines, and for more than three
miles the road led through them. In former days Indians had lurked
there; bears and foxes were still shot, and occasionally wolves were
seen, when cold weather drove them to seek food near the sheep-folds and
barn-yards.
"Well, we were skimming along pleasantly enough, I rather sleepy, and
Joe very careful of me, when, just as I was beginning to doze a bit with
my head on his arm I felt him start. Old Buck, the horse, gave a jump
that woke me up, and in a minute I knew what the trouble was, for from
behind us came the howl of a wolf.
"'Just the night to bring 'em out,' muttered Joe, using the whip till
Buck went at his quickest trot, with his ears down and every sign of
hurry and worry about him.
"'Are you afraid of them?' I asked, for I'd never had a scare of this
sort, though I'd heard other people tell of the fierceness of the brutes
when hunger made them bold.
"'Not a bit, only I wish I had my gun along,' said Joe, looking over his
shoulder anxiously.
"'Pity I hadn't brought mine--I do so well with it,' I said, and I
laughed as I remembered how I aimed at Joe and hurt myself.
"'Are they chasing us?' I asked, standing up to look back along the
white road, for we were just on the edge of the woods now.
"'Shouldn't wonder. If I had a better horse it would be a lively race;
but Buck can't keep this pace long, and if he founders we are in a fix,
for I can't run, and you can't fight. Betsey, there's more than one;
hold tight and try to count 'em.'
"Something in Joe's voice told me plainer than words that we were in
danger, and I wished we'd waited till the rest of our party came; but I
was tired, and so we had started alone.
"Straining my eyes, I could see three black spots on the snow, and
hear three howls as the wolves came galloping after us. I was a brave
girl, but I'd never tried this kind of thing before, and in a minute all
the wolf stories I'd ever heard came flying through my mind. I was
mortally afeard, but I wouldn't show it, and turned to Joe, trying to
laugh as I said: 'Only three as yet. Tell me just what to do, and I'll
do it.'
"'Brave lass! I must see to Buck or he'll be down, for he's badly
scared. You wait till the rascals are pretty close, then heave over one
of these confounded hams to amuse 'em, while we make the most of their
halt. They smell this meat, and that's what they are after,' said Joe,
driving his best, for the poor old horse began to pant, and limp on his
stiff legs.
"'Lucky for us we've got 'em,' says I, bound to be cool and gay; 'if we
hadn't, they'd get fresh meat instead of smoked.'
"Joe laughed, but a long howl close by made me dive for a ham; for in
the darkness of the woods the beasts had got closer, and now all I could
see were several balls of fire not many yards away. Out went the ham,
and a snarling sound showed that the wolves were busy eating it.
"'All right!' said Joe. 'Rest a bit, and have another ready. They'll
soon finish that and want more. We must go easy, for Buck is nearly
blown.'
"I prepared my ammunition, and, in what seemed five minutes, I heard the
patter of feet behind us, and the fiery eyes were close by. Over went
the second mouthful, and then the third, and the fourth; but they
seemed more ravenous than ever, and each time were back sooner in
greater numbers.
"We were nearly out of the woods when the last was gone, and if Buck had
only had strength we should have been safe. But it was plain to see that
he couldn't keep up much longer, for he was very old, though he'd been a
fine horse in his prime.
"'This looks bad, little Betsey. Cover up in the robes, and hold fast to
me. The beasts will begin to snatch presently, and I'll have to fight
'em off. Thank the powers, I've my arms left.'
"As he spoke, Joe pulled me close, and wrapped me up, then took the
whip, ready to rap the first wolf that dared come near enough to be hit.
We didn't wait long; up they raced, and began to leap and snarl in a way
that made my heart stand still, at first. Then my temper rose, and
catching up the hot brick I had for my feet, I fired it with such good
aim that one sharp, black nose disappeared with a yelp of pain.
"'Hit 'em again, Betsey! Take the demijohn and bang 'em well. We are
nearing Beaman's, and the brutes will soon drop off.'
"It was a lively scrimmage for a few minutes, as we both warmed to our
work, Joe thrashing away with his whip on one side, and I on the other
flourishing the demijohn in which we had carried some cider for the
supper.
"But it was soon over, for in the fury of the fight Joe forgot the
horse; poor Buck made a sudden bolt, upset the sleigh down a bank, and,
breaking loose, tore back along the road with the wolves after him.
"'Run, Betsey! run for your life, and send Beaman's folks back! I'm done
for--my leg's broken. Never mind. I'll crawl under the sleigh, and be
all right till you come. The wolves will take a good while to pick poor
Buck's bones.'
"Just waiting to see Joe safe, I ran as I never ran before,--and I was
