been in Florida before. The Suwannee River can't be far from here.
    "''Way down upon de Suwannee River,
        Far, far away--'
I must confess that Nilsson's singing it is the most I know about it."
"Nilsson!" said Garda, envyingly.
"You, sir, are too young, unfortunately too young, to remember the
incomparable Malibran," said Dr. Kirby. "Ah! there was a voice!" And
with recollections too rich for utterance, he shook his head several
times, and silently waved his hand.
"Oh, when shall I hear something or somebody?" said Garda.
"We shall accomplish it, we shall accomplish it yet, my dear child,"
said the Doctor, coming briskly back to the present in her behalf.
"Malibran is gone. Her place can never be filled. But I hope that you
too may cross the seas some day, and find, if not the atmosphere of the
grand style, which was hers and perished with her, at least an
atmosphere more enlarging than this. And there will be other
associations open to you in those countries besides the
musical--associations in the highest degree interesting; you can pay a
visit, for instance, to the scenes described in the engaging pages of
Fanny Burney, incomparably the greatest, and I fear, from the long
dearth which has followed her, the last of female novelists. For who is
there since her day worthy to hold a descriptive pen, and what has been
written that is worth our reading? With the exception of some few things
by two or three ladies of South Carolina, which I have had the privilege
of seeing, and which exist, I regret to say, only in manuscript as yet,
I know of nothing--no one."
Winthrop glanced at Garda to see if her face would show merriment over
the proposed literary pilgrimage. But no, the young girl accepted Miss
Burney calmly; she had heard the Doctor declaim on the subject all her
life, and was accustomed to think of the lady as a celebrated historical
character, as school-boys think of Helen of Troy.
Beyond the grove, they came to the Levels. Great trees rose here,
extending their straight boughs outward as far as they could reach,
touching nothing but the golden air. For each stood alone, no neighbor
near; each was a king. Black on the ground beneath lay the round mass of
shadow they cast. Above, among the dense, dark foliage, shone out
occasional spots of a lighter green; and this was the mistletoe. Besides
these monarchs there were sinuous lines of verdure, eight and ten feet
in height, wandering with grace over the plain. Most of the space,
however, was free--wide, sunny glades open to the sky. The arrangement
of the whole, of the great single trees, the lines of lower verdure, and
the sunny glades, was as beautiful as though Art had planned and Time
had perfected the work. Time's touch was there, but Art had had nothing
to do with it. Each tree had risen from the ground where it and Nature
pleased; birds, perhaps, with dropped seeds, had been the first planters
of the lower growths. Yet it was not primeval; Winthrop, well used to
primeval things, and liking them (to gratify the liking he had made more
than one journey to the remoter parts of the great West), detected this
at once. Open and free as the Levels were, he could yet see, as he
walked onward, the signs of a former cultivation antecedent to all this
soft, wild leisure. His eye could trace, by their line of fresher green,
the course of the old drains crossing regularly from east to west; the
large trees were sometimes growing from furrows which had been made by
the plough before their first tiny twin leaves had sprouted from the
acorn which had fallen there. "How stationary things are here!" he said,
half admiringly. He was thinking of the ceaseless round of change and
improvement which went on, year after year, on the northern farms he
knew, of the thrift which turned every inch of the land to account, and
made it do each season its full share. The thrift, the constant change
and improvement, were best, of course; Winthrop was a warm believer in
the splendid industries of the great republic to which he belonged;
personally, too, there was nothing of the idler in his temperament.
Still, looked at in another way, the American creed for the moment
dormant, there was something delightfully restful in the indolence of
these old fields, lying asleep in the sunshine with the low furrows of a
hundred years before stretching undisturbed across them. Here was no
dread, no eager speed before the winter. It was, in truth, the absence
of that icy task-master which gave to all the lovely land its appearance
of dreaming leisure. Growing could begin at any time; why, then, make
haste?
"All this ground was once under cultivation," said the Doctor. "The
first Edgar Thorne (your great-grandfather, Garda) I conjecture to have
been a man of energy, who improved the methods of the Dueros; these
Levels probably had a very different aspect a hundred years ago."
"A hundred years ago--yes, that was the time to have lived," said Garda.
"I wish I could have lived a hundred years ago!"
"I don't know what we can do," said Winthrop. "Perhaps Dr. Kirby would
undertake for a while the stately manners of your Spanish ancestors; I
could attempt, humbly, those of the British colonist; I haven't the
high-collared coat of the period, but I would do my best with the
high-collared language which has been preserved in literature. Pray take
my arm, and let me try."
Garda, looking merrily at the Doctor, accepted it.
"Arms were not taken in those days," said the Doctor, stiffly. "Ladies
were led, delicately led, by the tips of their fingers." He was not
pleased with Garda's ready acceptance; but they had kept her a child,
and she did not know. He flattered himself that it would be an easy
matter to bring about a withdrawal of that too freely accorded hand from
the northerner's arm; he, Reginald Kirby, man of the world and noted for
his tact, would be able to accomplish it. In the mean while, the hand
remained where it was.
Beyond the Levels they came to the edge of a bank. Below, the ground
descended sharply, and at some distance forward on the lower plateau
rose the great magnolias, lifting their magnificent glossy foliage high
in the air. "The Magnolia Grandiflora," said the Doctor, as if
introducing them. "You no doubt feel an interest in these
characteristically southern trees, Mr. Winthrop, and if you will walk
down there and stand under them for a moment--the ground is too wet for
your little shoes, Garda--you will obtain a very good idea of their
manner of growth."
Miss Thorne made no objection to this suggestion. But neither did she
withdraw her hand from Winthrop's arm.
"I can see them perfectly from here," answered that gentleman. "They are
like tremendous camellias."
"When they are in bloom, and all the sweet-bays too, it is superb," said
Garda; "then is the time to come here, the perfume is enchanting."
"Too dense," said the Doctor, shaking his head disapprovingly; "it's
fairly intoxicating."
"That is what I mean," Garda responded. "It's as near as I can come to
it, you know; I have always thought I should love to be intoxicated."
"What is your idea of it?" said Winthrop, speaking immediately, in order
to prevent the Doctor from speaking; for he saw that this gentleman was
gazing at Garda with amazement, and divined the solemnity his words
would assume after he should have got his breath back.
"I hardly know how to describe my idea," Garda was answering. "It's a
delicious forgetting of everything that is tiresome, an enthusiasm that
makes you feel as if you could do anything--that takes you way above
stupid people. Stupid people are worse than thieves."
"You describe the intoxication, or rather, to give it a better name, the
inspiration of genius," said Winthrop; "all artists feel this
inspiration at times--musicians, poets, painters, sculptors, all who
have in them a spark, great or small, of the creative fire; even I, when
with such persons--as by good fortune I have been once or twice--have
been able to comprehend a little of it, have caught, by reflection at
least, a tinge of its glow."
"Oh, if you have felt it, it is not at all what I mean," answered
Garda, with one of her sudden laughs. She drew her hand from his arm,
and walked down the slope across the lower level towards the magnolias.
As soon as her back was turned, Dr. Kirby tapped Winthrop on the back
impressively, and raising himself on tiptoe, spoke in his ear. "She has
never, sir, been near--I may say, indeed, that she has never seen--an
intoxicated person in her life." He then came down to earth again, and
folding his arms, surveyed the northerner challengingly.
"Of course I understood that," Winthrop answered.
When Garda reached the dark shade under the great trees she paused and
turned. Winthrop had followed her. She gave him a bright smile as he
joined her. "I wanted to see if you would come," she said, with her
usual frankness.
"Of course I came; what did you suppose I would do?"
"I did not know, that was what I wanted to find out. You are so
different, I should never know."
"Different from whom? From your four persons about here? I assure you
that I am not different, I have no such pretension; your four are
different, perhaps, but I am like five thousand, fifty thousand,
others--as you will see for yourself when you come north."
"I don't believe it," said Garda, beginning to retrace her steps. She
looked at him reflectively, then added, "I don't believe they are like
you."
"What is it in me that you dislike so much?"
"Oh, I haven't thought whether I dislike it or not," responded Garda,
with what he called in his own mind her sweet indifference. "What I
meant was simply that I do not believe there are fifty thousand, or
five thousand, or even five hundred other men, who are as cold as you
are."
"Do I strike you in that way?"
"Yes; but of course you cannot help it, it is probably a part of your
nature--this coldness," said the girl, excusingly. "It was that which
made me say that you could never have felt the feeling I was trying to
describe, you know--intoxication; it needs a certain sort of
temperament; I have it, but you haven't."
"I see you are an observer," said her companion, inwardly smiling, but
preserving a grave face.
"Yes," responded Garda, serenely, "I observe a great deal; it helps to
pass the time."
"You have opportunities for exercising the talent?"
"Plenty."
"The four persons about here?"
Garda's laugh rippled forth again. "My poor four--how you make sport of
them! But I should have said five, because there is the crane, and he is
the wisest of all; he is wiser than any one I know, and more systematic,
he is more systematic even than you are, which is saying a great deal.
His name is Carlos Mateo, and you must be careful not to laugh at him
when he dances, for a laugh hurts his feelings dreadfully. His feelings
are very deep; you might not think so from a first glance, but that will
be because you have not looked deep into his eyes--taken him round the
neck and peered in. He has a great deal of expression; you have none at
all--what has become of it? Did you never have any, or have you worn it
all out? Perhaps you keep it for great occasions. But there will be no
great occasions here."
"No, great occasions are at the North, where they are engaged in
climbing mountains, walking on frozen lakes, wearing diamonds, and
attending the halls of Congress," Winthrop answered.
Dr. Kirby was waiting for them on the bank, he had not stained his
brightly polished little boots with the damp earth of the lower level.
He had surveyed with inward disfavor the thick-soled walking shoes of
the northerner, and the rough material of his gray clothes. The
northerner's gloves were carelessly rolled together in his pocket, but
the Doctor's old pair were on.
Garda led the way westward along the bank. After they had proceeded some
distance, in single file owing to the narrowness of the path, she
suddenly left her place, and, passing the Doctor, took Winthrop's hand
in hers. "Close your eyes," she commanded; "I am going to lead you to a
heavenly wall."
Winthrop obeyed; but retarded his steps.
"How slow you are!" she said, giving his hand a little pull.
"It's a wild country for a blind man," Winthrop answered, continuing to
advance with caution. "Please take both hands."
"Let me lead him, Garda," said the Doctor, preferring to join in this
child's play rather than have her continue it alone.
But the child's play was over, the bend in the path had been but a short
