Thierry laughed, his own mellow, genuine laugh. 

"A wrong guess. I am not that deeply-dyed criminal. 
It was only that I wanted to see you about an interesting 
matter, and I was afraid I might ' dim the grace ' by undue 
impatience. Whether to capture you by a grand coup 
d'etat, or to amble up gently, tickle your vanity, pat your 
good taste and discernment, and lead you gradually up to 
a point of commitment — " 

"What may this dread conspiracy be? You see I am 
forewarned now," and a gleam of humor shone in his eyes. 

"Seriously, my dear friend, I want your help. The 
first step, I will admit, is for you to purchase a picture." 

" One of your own ? " 



 

" Oh, I am not in the market this time," with an inci- 
sive sort of smile. "But — I have & protegee, a pupil, — 
let me confess my crime in its fullest enormity, — a 
young girl who will make her mark on something more than 
shifting sand, since it is my care to see that she isn't 
pushed quite off solid ground. She has painted a pic- 
ture that will capture the hearts of two women ; one is 
Anastasia Van Cleve, the other Mrs. Howarth. For va- 
rious reasons I incline to Mrs. Howarth." 

"Ah ! " Howarth's eyes studied his friend tentatively 
for a moment. 

" You know, of course," continued Thierry, with a se- 
rious air, "that I shouldn't offer you or her any mere daub. 
This is a painting of such unusual excellence in a new be- 
ginner, that five years hence you will feel proud of owning 
the first of her work that was really offered for sale. If it 
were not for her advancement I should take it myself, and 
double my money on it in the course of time." 

"What is it? " asked Howarth. 

"A panel of medium size. As to the subject, I might 
spoil it by a description. I should have waited and brought 
it to you ; and it was between the Scylla of delay and the 
Charybdis of impatience that I lost my serenity. I was 
going home to put myself out of temptation's way, when 
I met you. Being the very omen I wanted, I accepted it. 
Ah, you need not fancy that I have some sentimental 
young lady who only works for pastime — I am not in 
the habit of fathering such, and I should not foist them 
upon you, in any event." 

"Pardon my incredulity, if indeed I expressed that. 
Consider your picture purchased. Am I allowed to in- 
quire the price beforehand ? " 

Thierry mused a moment. " Seventy-five dollars," he 
returned, with something of a business air. 

" Seventy-five ? Why not make it an even hundred if 
you want to encourage your friend ? " 




"My friend is too clear-eyed not to apprehend generos- 
ity. I should be willing to give that for the picture 
myself. As I said, it is something more than merely 
buying a picture. I want to interest Mrs. Howarth in 
her." 

" Does she reside at Westwater ? " 

" She is one of the girls who has a story, or rather is 
shadowed by her mother's story ; one of the bravest, purest, 
and best women I know. Unfortunately, she has been 
compelled to care for a family, to enter business ; and why 
it should ban a woman out of so much I cannot see. 
But in Westwater, lines are closely drawn, and social 
distinctions hard to overcome. This girl is of good birth, 
and how proud we are of that in our republican land ! " 
— with a touch of irony. " By one of the hard twists of 
fate they were reduced from affluence to poverty; the hus- 
band lacked the courage and manliness to strike out again 
with a determined will, so the wife has done it. She is 
educating her children nobly. Now, when we praise a 
man for such an effort, why do we not think it admirable 
in a woman?" 

" I have always maintained that it was," and sincerity 
spoke in his tone. 

"And the daughter is a genius. She had painted some 
before I knew her, girl's work, but she had made it very 
good training. Archer brought her to me, and I knew 
then her level, serene eyes were artist's eyes, formed to 
translate hidden meanings. I was not mistaken. I have 
given her lessons. As I have said, I want her to have a 
secure standing-place. If it were a young fellow I should 
take him to some artist reunion and introduce him, talk 
him up at the club, exhibit his picture, and if he at all 
resembled her, he could work out the remainder of the 
problem himself ; or if it were some other girl, I should 
take her at once to Valerie Adrian and let her win her 
way through those Bohemian ranks, that, after all, have 



 

shaped up many capital people ; or, if the lovely goddess 
were not so hedged about with aristocratic tendencies and 
beliefs and fancies, I should introduce her at home. Mrs. 
Van Cleve would do it, but in Westwater it would fall 
far short of the desired purpose. If you could see her, 
Howarth ; if you could know the mother ! " 

A curious fancy was struggling through the listener's 
brain. Surely if it were Eleanor's child she would not 
have kept so sweet a knowledge from his sympathy and 
interest. 

"What is the name?" he asked with all the indiffer- 
ence he could assume. " I spent the years of my young 
manhood in Westwater, and knew many of its residents." 

"Marshall; they are very well connected people. 
Howarth, do you know them ? " for a gleam of unwonted 
interest in the other's face betrayed him. 

" I know an Eleanor Marshall," — he could not bring 
himself to call her by her husband's name. " She was mar- 
ried while I resided in Westwater — " 

"Did you know her husband? You may not have 
heard that he was a miserable, drunken wretch in later 
years, and that she left him. One cannot decide the 
merits of such a case unless one has known both parties, 
it is commonly supposed ; but a man is more easily won 
to the feminine side. Perhaps he understands what a 
brute beast rum can make of a man, better than Ihe 
women who pity him for his weakness, and relegate all 
the virtues and duties to his wife. Mrs. Marshall has 
made herself a success in a business way, and is educat- 
ing her children admirably. Socially she is — well, if she 
asked bread of society, the cultured and elegant society in 
which she is fitted to shine, I am afraid the stone would 
be given with no great gentleness. She doesn't ask it. 
She has refused Mrs. Van Cleve's overtures as only a high 
and fine woman can refuse. Heaven knows, I for one 
wish that fate had been kinder to her. I am sorry such a 





woman was compelled to take this step. We talk a 
great deal about the dignity of labor, of glorifying our 
work, and all that, but womanhood seems best glorified 
with silken gowns and helpless lily hands, guiltless of 
labor. We have enlarged upon the decalogue until, for 
woman, the whole week is taken in. There are some very- 
noble theories about it, but in practice it amounts to just 
that. So you see my little heroine is shadowed by the 
noblest mother in the world, doing her duty nobly. Why 
should the daughter of a milliner be a genius ? Let her 
make bonnets, not paint pictures. Let her keep in her 
proper sphere." 

" But — the world is wider outside of Westwater." 

" Truly it is," with a humorously ironical smile. " If 
it were not, the millennium would be set back a million or 
so years." 

" And — what would you like to have me do ? " 

" Buy the picture and hang it in your house. Thank 
heaven Mrs. Howarth will not be afraid. Some time you 
can tell her the story. Celia Marshall is but seventeen, 
and it shall go hard indeed with me, if I cannot outwit 
circumstances in the next five years. Or suppose you 
come over some day, — let me see — next week, and see 
for yourself." 

Some indication of a feeling unconfessed shadowed 
Howarth's face for an instant. Then he spoke in a tone 
so curiously calm that it roused Thierry's attention. Had 
there been a romance years agone ? Was he bespeaking 
interest for a child who might have been Howarth's very 
own? 

"I should like to see your little artist," Howarth an- 
swered slowly, "but I would rather take the picture first. 
Will you have the check to-day?" 

