dance and sparkle, 
" Jesus Chrisl:, the same yesterday, and to-day, 
and for ever. " 
" I do not know him " Betty breathed out, after 
staring at her companion. 
" I saw that." 
Esther rose, and Betty felt constrained to rise 
too. 
"0 are you going?" she cried. "I have not 
done talking. How can I know him ? " 
" Do you wish me to tell you ? " 
" Indeed, yes." 
" If you are in dead earnest, and seek him, he will 
reveal himself to you. But then, you must be 
willing to obey every word he says. Good night." 
She offered her hand. Before Miss Frere how 
ever could take it, up came the lady of the house. 
"You are not going, Miss Gainsborough?" 
" My father would be uneasy if I staid out late. 
" well, for once ! What have you two been 
talking about? I saw several gentlemen casting 
longing looks in this direction, but they did not 
venture to interrupt. What were you discussing ? " 
" Life in general," said Betty. 
" Life ! " echoed the older woman, and her brow 
was instantly clouded. " What is the use of talking about that? Can either of you say that her 
life is not a failure ? " 
" Miss Gainsborough will say that," replied Betty. 
" As for me, my life is a problem that I have not 
solved." 
" What do you mean by a * failure, Mrs. Chats- 
worth ? " the other girl asked. 
" just a failure ! Turning out nothing, coming to nothing; nothing, I mean, that is satisfying. 
" Tout lasse, tout casse, tout passe ! A true record ; 
but isn't it sorrowful ? " 
" I do not think it need be true," said Esther. 
" It is not true with you ? " 
" No, certainly not." 
" Your smile says more than your words. What 
a smile ! My dear, I envy you. And yet I do 
not. You have got to wake up from all that. You 
are seventeen, eighteen, nineteen, is it ? and you 
have not found out yet that the world is hollow 
and your doll stuffed with sawdust." 
" But the world is not all." 
" Isn't it? What is?" 
" The Lord said, He that believeth on me hath 
everlasting life. " 
" Everlasting life ! In the next world ! yes, 
my dear; but I was speaking of life now" 
 
"Does not everlasting life begin now? " said Es 
ther, with another of those rare smiles. They were 
so rare and so beautiful that Betty had come to 
watch for them. Arch, bright, above all happy, 
and full of a kind of loving power. " The Lord 
said hath ; he did not say will have " , 
" Miss Gainsborough, you talk riddles." 
" I am sorry," said Esther; " I do not mean to do 
that. I am speaking the simplest truth. We were 
made to be happy in the love of God ; and as we 
were made for that, nothing less will do." 
"Are you happy? My dear, I need not ask; 
your face speaks for you. I believe that pricked 
me on to ask the question with which we began, in 
pure envy. I see you are happy. But confess honestly now, honestly, and quite between ourselves, 
confess there is some delightful lover somewhere, 
who provokes those smiles, with which no doubt 
you reward him ? " 
Esther's grey eyes opened unmistakeably at her 
hostess while she was speaking, and then a light 
colour rose on her cheek, and then she laughed. 
"I neither have, nor ever expect to have, any 
thing of the kind," she said. And then she was no 
longer to be detained, but took leave and went 
away. 
" She is a little too certain about the lover," remarked Miss Frere. " That looks as if there were 
already one, in petto." 
" She is poor," said Mrs. Chatsworth. " She has 
not much chance. I believe she supports herself 
and her father, he is old or invalid or something, 
by teaching; perhaps they have a little some 
thing to help her out. But I fancy she sees very 
little society. I never meet her anywhere. The 
lady in whose house she was educated is a very 
warm friend of hers, and she introduced her to me. 
So I get her to come here sometimes for a little 
change." 
Betty went home with a great many thoughts in 
her mind, which kept her half the night awake. 
Jealousy perhaps pricked her the most. Not that 
Pitt loved this girl ; about that Betty was not sure ; 
but how he would love her if he could see her! 
How anybody would, especially a man of refined 
nature and truth of character, who requires the 
same in those connected with him. What a pure 
creature this was ! and then, she was not only ten 
der but strong. The look on her face, the lines of 
her lips, told surely of self-control, self-denial, and 
habitual patience. People do not look so, who 
have all they need of this world's goods and have 
always dipped their hands into full money bags. 
No, Esther had something to bear, and something 
to do, both of which called for and called out that 
strength and sweetness; and yet she was so happy! 
Happy after Pitt's fashion. And this was the girl 
he had been looking to find. Betty could deserve 
well of him by letting him know where to find her! 
But then all would be lost, and Betty's life a fail 
ure indeed. She could not face it. And besides, 
as things were, they were quite safe for the other 
 
two. The childish friendship iiad faded out ; would 
start up again no doubt if it had a chance; but 
there was no need that it should. Pitt was at 
least heart-whole, if not memory-free; and as for 
Esther, she had just declared a lover to be a pos 
sibility nowhere within the range of her horizon. 
Esther would not lose anything by not seeing Pitt 
any more. But then would she lose nothing? The 
girl teaching to support herself and her father, 
alone and poor, what would it be to her life if 
Pitt suddenly came into it, with his strong hand 
and genial temper and plenty of means? What 
would it be to Betty's life, if he went out of it? 
She turned and tossed, she battled and struggled 
with thoughts; but the end was, she went on to 
Washington without ever paying Esther a visit 
or letting her know that her old friend was look 
ing for her. 
CHAPTER XL. 
LONDON. 
THE winter passed. In the spring Betty received 
a letter from Mrs. Dallas, part of which ran 
as follows. 
"My husband and I have a new plan on foot; 
we have been meditating it all winter, so it ought 
to be ripe now. We are going over to spend the 
summer in England. My son talked of making us 
a visit again this year ; and we decided it was better we should go to him. Time is nothing to us, 
and to him it is something; for although he will 
have no need to practise in any profession, I agree 
with him and Mr. Dallas in thinking that it is good 
a young man should have a profession ; and at any 
rate, what has been begun had better be finished. 
So, some time in May we think to leave Seaforth, 
on our way to London. Dear Betty, will you take 
pity on an old woman and go along, to give us the 
brightness of your youth ? Don't you want to see 
London? and I presume by this time Pitt has qualified himself to be a good cicerone. Besides, we 
shall not be fixed in London. We will go to see 
 
whatever you would most like to see in the king 
dom ; perhaps run up to Scotland. Of course what 
I  want to see is my boy; but other things would 
naturally have an attraction for you. Do not say 
no; it would be a great disappointment to me. 
Meet us in New York about the middle of May. 
Mr. Dallas wishes to go as soon as the spring 
storms are over. I have another reason for making this journey; I wish to keep Pitt from coming 
over to America." 
Betty's heart made a bound, as she read this letter, and went on with faster beats than usual after 
she had folded it up. A voyage, and London, and 
Pitt Dallas for a showman ! What could be more 
alluring in its temptation and promise? Going 
about in London with him to guide and explain 
things could opportunity be more favourable to 
finish the work which last summer left undone? 
Betty's heart jumped at it; she knew she would 
say yes to Mrs. Dallas; she could say nothing but 
yes; and yet, questions did come up to her. Would 
it not be putting herself unduly forward? would 
it not look as though she went on purpose to see 
not London but somebody in London ? That 
would be the very truth, Betty confessed to her 
self with a pang of shame and humiliation; the 
pang was keen; yet it did not change her resolution. What if? Nobody knew, she argued, and 
nobody would have cause to suspect. There was 
reason enough, ostensible, why she should go to 
England with Mrs. Dallas; if she refused to visit 
all the old ladies who had sons, her social limits 
would be restricted indeed. But Mrs. Dallas her 
self? would not she understand? Mrs. Dallas understood enough already, Betty said to herself 
defiantly; they were allies in this cause. It was 
very miserable that it should be so ; however, not 
now to be undone or set aside. Lightly she had 
gone into Mrs. Dallas's proposition last summer; if 
it had grown to be life and death earnest with her, 
there was no need Mrs. Dallas should know that. 
It ivas life and death earnest; and she must go to 
London. It was a capital plan. To have met Pitt 
Dallas again at Seaforth and again spent weeks in 
his mother's house while he was there, would have 
been too obvious ; this was better every way. Of 
course she could not refuse such an invitation; 
such a chance of seeing something of the world; 
she who had always been too poor to travel. Pitt 
could not find any matter of surprise nor any 
ground for criticism in her doing that. And it 
would give her all the opportunity she wished for. 
