no danger of his being any different from his father. 
John Craig was the ruin of your father, dragging him 
into speculation and coaxing his money away ; and 
now I suppose his son's come down to enjoy it. ' 
Elizabeth and her mother sighed rather wearily, the 
one over her work, the other looking into vacancy. It 
was an old subject ; they had all had the chance of 
becoming tired of it. 
Philip ventured, " He can't find much fun in that 
old barn of a place, and it's almost unfurnished, too. 
Besides, Grandmother, I don't see as he's to blame : 
he couldn't help his father's leaving him the property." 
" You don't know any thing about it," said the old 
lady. ' Don't try to find excuses for gambling ! ' 
And having regained her composure, she knit on stern- 
ly. A cloud seemed to have risen over the house. 
The news had evidently a deeper significance than the 
mere fact of one man more or less in town would 
see to warrant. 
Elizabeth and her mother set the table for tea, and 
the meal was eaten in silence. 
CHAPTER II. 
PHILIP had gone out to split kindlings for the morning 
fire and his mother followed him ; she was used 
to little devices for seizing uninterrupted half and 
quarter hours with her children. Grandmother, her 
knitting laid aside for the few minutes it left her hands 
daily, sat by the fire in the sitting-room. She was us- 
ually in her chair at this time between daylight and 
dark, always upright, and always wearing a certain se- 
vere and retrospective look. Those who had seen her 
so for years, day after day, had a portrait of the stern 
woman not to be dimmed by time. Once seen, in- 
deed, she impressed herself on your memory. You 
could never say, "Yes, I saw Madam Nye once, but I 
quite forget how she looks." 
Elizabeth, just completing her dish-washing in the 
large kitchen, heard a quick and decided knock at the 
door. She took the lamp, and holding it above her 
head to illuminate the outside darkness, opened the 
door, standing for a second with her head bent for- 
ward, and the rays brightening her hair. 
" I beg your pardon," said a voice from the dark- 
ness, one peculiarly courteous and appealing. ' I'm 
afraid I can only introduce myself as a beggar. Could 
you give me some bread and butter ? " 
Then, as if overcome by a humorous sense of the 
nature of his request, the unknown supplicant burst 
into a laugh full of enjoyment. Elizabeth smiled too. 
She could by this time distinguish, at one side of her 
shaft of light, a man dressed in shooting-cap and jacket. 
" Come in ; we have just been to supper, but we 
shall be glad to get you some, that is, unless it's a 
joke," she hesitated, for he had stepped inside, within 
the range of the lamp, and she discovered that he was 
not after the manner of Stratford men : still less did 
he belong to the nondescript species known as tramps. 
" I assure you I am in deadly earnest," he said, tak- 
ing off his cap and going at once to the stove, while 
Elizabeth closed the door. 
He had taken in at once the beauty of her white 
arms below the rolled-up sleeves. Beauty could never 
escape his notice : hungry, tired, and bound on the 
least ideal of errands, instinct kept alert the keenness 
of glance many an artist acquires only by practice. 
Nor was a picturesque detail in the homely furnishing 
of the room overlooked. 
" Let me introduce myself. I am Oswald Craig, 
and I own the large house on the other side of the 
street. You know the name ? Ah, I see you do," for 
Elizabeth had given a nervous little start and glance 
in the direction of the sitting-room. It had never 
chanced that any of the Craig family had come in con- 
tact with her own since the death of her father, and 
with a knowledge, all too great, of her grandmother's 
spirit, she half expected an immediate outbreak. 
" I came down from Boston this morning with some 
fellows, to shoot sea-fowl, and found the place exactly 
what I wanted ; so I made up my mind to stay and 
camp, and my friends went home. You know the tra- 
ditional idea of camping? to shoot your own birds, 
catch your fish, and do your own cooking. But," 
with a shrug of his shoulders, ' I'm not prepared to 
play primitive man, with no fowl, no fish, and not even 
a frying-pan. So," with such a rapid transition to his 
former pleading tone that Elizabeth laughed again, 
" will you please give me a piece of bread and but- 
ter ? " 
She had laid the cloth on the kitchen table while he 
talked, and placed on it a second supper. She felt 
quite at ease with him. With most people she had a 
reputation for reserve and perhaps dullness, but Os- 
wald Craig always adapted himself too thoroughly to 
the situation to allow discomfort near him. 
'You are very kind," he said, drawing his chair 
quickly to the table, as soon as her preparations were 
finished. 
Elizabeth, after pouring his tea, began to put her 
dishes away, and Oswald talked and ate with equal 
interest. Just as he finished Philip came in with his 
basket of wood, his mother following with a few sticks 
in her apron, seeming to find in them witnesses to jus- 
tify her for having been out of the kitchen. Both 
started and looked curiously at Elizabeth for an ex- 
planation of the phenomenon of a stranger at home at 
their table. 
" Mother," said Elizabeth, " it is Mr. Craig, who 
has come down for gunning and decided to stay lon- 
ger. My brother Philip," she added, as he ^turned 
from shaking hands with her mother. 
' You see I've had the usual luck of sportsmen," he 
said gayly ; ' I've nothing to show for my day's work 
but a fair amount of stiffness and a tremendous appe- 
tite. And, worst of all, having no means of staying 
the latter, I have boldly begged your hospitality." 
" You're welcome, I'm sure," said Mrs. Nye ; they 
were all standing somewhat awkwardly. ' Won't you 
take a chair, or come into the other room ; we al- 
ways sit there evenings." 
Elizabeth and Philip exchanged a quick glance ; 
hers contained a little shrinking from a probable en- 
counter with Grandmother ; the boy's held only 
amusement. Philip's way through the home annoy- 
ances was daily smoothed by a keen sense of humor, 
of which Elizabeth was quite destitute. Events al- 
ways presented their most literal and serious aspect to 
her. The mother, too, looked about with a slight 
sense of alarm after having committed herself by the 
invitation ; but if there was any hope in her mind that 
it would be refused, it was to be disappointed. 
" I shall be glad to spend an hour with you, if you 
will allow me," Oswald answered, promptly. ' Com- 
pany and firelight seem very attractive, jvhen one 
thinks of the empty walls and close rooms across the 
way." 
Elizabeth, light in hand, led the way to the sitting- 
room. She thought, with a slight relief, that Grand- 
mother could not have failed to hear every word of the 
previous conversation. " At least she knows who he 
is," thought she. Can any one, except those who have 
endured the daily trial of being watched and judged 
by some one who has the power of pricking the sens- 
itive flesh with innumerable pins of criticism, know 
how an outbreak is sometimes dreaded in families ? 
 
Elizabeth, for it was always she on whom the burden 
of disagreeable explanations fell, introduced Craig to 
her grandmother. The young man bowed in his easy 
manner, with perhaps an added deference. Madam 
Nye said, without glancing at him, 
" How do you do ? Elizabeth, hand me my knitting 
and put the candle on the light-stand." The request 
was portentous ; in seasons of great domestic calamity, 
Grandmother, tacitly refusing communion with the rest 
of the family, had a candle on a small stand by her 
side, knitting there in silence while the others occupi- 
ed the table. 
Oswald appeared to be quite unconscious of the chill 
in the social atmosphere, and while Elizabeth quietly 
carried out Grandmother's commands, made himself 
comfortable in the easiest corner of the not very luxu- 
rious sofa. " Such a delightful day, Mrs. Nye," he 
said, easily, with a familiarity which a Stratford man 
would not have attained after six months' acquaintance. 
" There is such a strong taste of salt water in the whole 
town that I shall stay for more of it. May I hold your 
yarn, Madam ? ' turning suddenly to Grandmother, 
who had finished her ball and was untwisting another 
skein. 
" No, I am much obliged to you ; I can do it my- 
self," said the old lady, with a severity which was not 
the less marked for including every one. "' Elizabeth, 
turn the back of that chair round here." 
But Oswald was before her : he placed the chair, 
and seating himself opposite her, took the skein gently 
from her and put it over his own hands. 
" Now which way shall I turn it ? You want to get 
at the end, do you not?" He held it deferentially, 
turning to go on with his day's experience to Mrs. Nye. 
Perhaps even in so small an encounter as this, it 
was the first time Grandmother had been worsted. 
His good-natured, imperturbable way of taking things 
for granted was something to which she was not ac- 
customed, and having hesitated at the decisive first 
minute, she could not retrieve her failure. Scorning to 
glance at the others to see how they took it, she began 
winding steadily. 
Craig had by this time taken to discussing the town. 
' A strange, bare waste of a place, isn't it ? And 
yet, it's a rare field for an artist ; though I should feel 
sorry to have a view of the coast hung in my room. 
It would keep me frozen." The remark held a great 
deal for Elizabeth ; the sea made her uneasy, and the 
low level of the entire view had always oppressed her. 
Sometimes a hint from a book gave her a quick inspi- 
ration of a different life, one in which there should be 
deeper color and warmer air, but the picture soon 
faded ; she had not enough imagination to utilize it 
into permanent comfort. 
'We don't have anytime to think about artists," 
