prehensible preferences ; and he was held in equal 
regard at the next green-grocer's where he spent every 
morning five centessimi for a bunch of radishes and 
ten for a little pat of butter to eat with his bread and 
coffee ; he could not yet accustom himself to mere 
bread- and coffee for breakfast, though he conformed 
 
as completely as he could to the Italian way of living. 
He respected the abstemiousness of the race; he 
held that it came from a spirituality of nature to 
wliich the North was still strange, with all its con- 
science and sense of individual accountability. He 
contended that he never suffered in his small deal- 
ings with these people from the dishonesty which 
most of his countrymen complained of; and he 
praised their unfailing gentleness of manner; this 
could arise only from goodness of heart, which was 
perhaps the best kind of goodness after all. 
None of these humble acquaintance of his could 
well have accounted for the impression they all had 
that he was some sort of ecclesiastic. They could 
never have understood — nor, for that matter, could 
any one have understood through European tradi- 
tion — the sort of sacerdotal office that Mr. Waters 
had filled so long in the little deeply book-clubbed 
New England village where he had outlived most of 
his flock, till one day he rose in the midst of the sur- 
viving dyspeptics and consumptives and, following 
the example of Mr. Emerson, renounced his calling 
for ever. By that time even the pale Unitarianism 
thinning out into paler doubt was no longer tenable 
with him. He confessed that while he felt the 
Divine goodness more and more, he believed that it 
was a mistake to preach any specific creed or doctrine, 
and he begged them to release him from their ser- 
vice. A young man came to fill his place in their 
pulpit, but he kept his place in their hearts. They 
raised a subscription of seventeen hundred dollars 
 
and thirty-five cents; another being submitted to the 
new button manufacturer, who had founded his in- 
dustry in the village, he promptly rounded it out to 
three thousand, and Mr. Waters came to Florence. 
His people parted with him in terms of regret as 
delicate as they were awkward, and their love fol- 
lowed him. He corresponded regularly with two or 
three ladies, and his letters were sometimes read 
from his pulpit. 
Colville took the Piazza San Marco in on his way 
to Palazzo Pinti on the morning when he had made 
up his mind to go there, and he stood at the window 
looking out with the old man, when some more 
maskers passed through the place — two young fellows 
in old Florentine dress, with a third habited as a nun. 
"Ah," said the old man gently, "I wish they 
hadn't introduced the nun ! But I suppose they 
can't help signalising their escape from the domina- 
tion of the Church on all occasions. It 's a natural 
reaction. It will all come right in time." 
" You preach the true American gospel," said Col- 
ville. 
" Of course ; there is no other gospel. That is 
the gospel." 
" Do you suppose that Savonarola would think it 
had all come out right," asked Colville, a little mali- 
ciously, "if he could look from the window with us 
here and see the wicked old Carnival, that he tried 
so hard to kill four hundred years ago, still alive ? 
And kicking ?" he added, in cognisance of the caper 
of one of the maskers. 
 
" Oh yes ; why not ? By this time he knows that 
his puritanisra was all a mistake, unless as a thing 
for the moment only. I should rather like to have 
Savonarola here with us ; he would find these cos- 
tumes familiar ; they are of his time. I shall make 
a point of seeing all I can of the Carnival, as part of 
my study of Savonarola, if nothing else." 
" I 'm afraid you 'll have to give yourself limita- 
tions,'' said Colville, as one of the maskers threw his 
arm round the mock-nun's neck. But the old man 
did not see this, and Colville did not feel it necessary 
to explain himself. 
The maskers had passed out of the piazza now, and 
" Have you seen our friends at Palazzo Pinti lately ?" 
said Mr. Waters. 
"Not very,'' said Colville. "I was just on my 
way there." 
" I wish you would make them my compliments. 
Such a beautiful young creature." 
" Yes," said Colville ; " she is certainly a beautiful 
girl." 
" I meant Mrs. Bowen," returned the old man 
quietly. 
" Oh, I thought you meant Miss Graham. Mrs. 
Bowen is my contemporary, and so I didn't think of 
her when you said young. I should have called her 
pretty rather than beautiful." 
" No ; she 's beautiful. The young girl is good- 
looking — I don't deny that ; but she is very crude 
yet." 
Colville laughed. " Crude in looks ? I should 
 
have said Miss Graham was rather crude in mind, 
though I 'm not sure I wouldn't have stopped at say- 
ing young." 
" No," mildly persisted the old man; " she couldn't 
be crude in mind without being crude in looks." 
" You mean," pursued Colville, smiling, but not 
wholly satisfied, " that she hasn't a lovely nature ? " 
" You never can know what sort of nature a 
young girl has. Her nature depends so much upon 
that of the man whose fate she shares." 
" The woman is what the man makes her ? That 
is convenient for the woman, and relieves her of all 
responsibility." 
" The man is what the woman makes him, too, but 
not so much so. The man was cast into a deep sleep, 
you know " 
" And the woman was what he dreamed her. I 
wish she were." 
" In most cases she is," said Mr. Waters. 
They did not pursue the matter. The truth that 
floated in the old minister's words pleased Colville 
by its vagueness, and flattered the man in him by its 
implication of the man's superiority. He wanted to 
say that if Mrs. Bowen were what the late Mr. 
Bowen had dreamed her, then the late Mr. Bowen, 
when cast into his deep sleep, must have had Lina 
Eidgely in his eye. But this seemed to be person- 
alising the fantasy unwarrantably, and pushing it 
too far. For like reason he forbore to say that if 
Mr. Waters's theory were correct, it would be better 
to begin with some one whom nobody else had 
 
dreamed before ; then you could be sure at least of 
not having a wife to somebody else's mind rather 
than your own. Once on his way to Palazzo Pinti, 
he stopped, arrested by a thought that had not 
occurred to him before in relation to what Mr. 
Waters had been saying, and then pushed on with 
the sense of security which is the compensation the 
possession of the initiative brings to our sex along 
with many responsibilities. In the enjoyment of this, 
tio man stops to consider the other side, which must 
wait his initiative, however they mean to meet it. 
In the Tor San Maria Colville found masks and 
dominoes filling the shop windows and dangling 
from the doors. A devil in red and a clown in 
white crossed the way in front of him from an in- 
tersecting street; several children in pretty mas- 
querading dresses flashed in and out among the 
crowd. He hurried to the Lung' Arno, and reached 
the palace where Mrs. Bowen lived, with these holi- 
day sights fresh in his mind. Imogene turned to meet 
him at the door of the apartment, running from the 
window where she had left Effie Bowen still gazing. 
"We saw you, coming,'' she said gaily, without 
waiting to exchange formal greetings. " We didn't 
know at first but it might be somebody else dis- 
guised as you. We 've been watching the maskers 
go by. Isn't it exciting ? " 
"Awfully," said Colville, going to the window 
with her, and putting his arm on EfSe's shoulder, 
where she knelt in a chair looking out. "What 
have you seen ? " 
 
"OJt, only two Spanish students with mandolins," 
said Imogene ; " but you can see they 're beginning 
to come." 
" They 'II stop now," murmured Effie, with gentle 
disappointment ; " it 's commencing to rain." 
" Oh, too bad ! " wailed the young girl. But just 
then two mediaeval men-at-arms came in sight, carry- 
ing umbrellas. "Isn't that too delicious? Um- 
brellas and chain-armour ! " 
" You can't expect them to let their chain-armour 
get rusty," said Colville. " You ought to have been 
with me — minstrels in scale-armour, Florentines of 
Savonarola's times, nuns, clowns, demons, fairies — 
no end to them." 
" It 's very well saying we ought to have been 
with you ; but we can't go anywhere alone." 
" I didn't say alone," said Colville. " Don't you 
think Mrs. Bowen would trust you with me to see 
these Carnival beginnings ? " He had not meant at 
all to do anything of this kind, but that had not 
prevented his doing it. 
" How do we know, when she hasn't been asked ?" 
said Imogene, with a touch of burlesque dolor, such 
as makes a dignified girl enchanting, when she per- 
mits it to herself. She took Effie's hand in hers, the 
child having faced round from the window, and 
stood smoothing it, with her lovely head patheti- 
cally tilted on one side. 
" What haven't I been asked yet ? " demanded 
Mrs. Bowen, coming lightly toward them from a 
door at the side of the salon. She gave her hand 
 
to Colville with the prettiest grace, and a cordiality 
