"What is charm?"
"It is what the violet has, and the camelia has not--"
"Heavens! Are you going to sigh to me in the language of flowers?"
"Beatrice! Beatrice!" cried the Marchesa, with the same affectation of
horror as before.
"Dear mamma, are you uncomfortable? Oh no! I see now. You are horrified.
Have I said anything dreadful?" she asked, turning to San Miniato.
"Anything dreadful? What an idea! Really, Marchesa carissima, I was just
beginning to explain to Donna Beatrice what charm is, when you cut me
short. I implore you to let me go on with my explanation."
"On condition that Beatrice makes no comments. Give me a cigarette,
Teresina."
"The congregation will not interrupt the preacher before the
benediction," said Beatrice folding her small hands on her knee, and
looking down with a devout expression.
"Charm," began San Miniato, "is the something which some women possess,
and which holds the men who love them--"
"Only those who love them?" interrupted Beatrice, looking up quickly.
"I thought," said the Marchesa, "that you were not to give us any
comments." She dropped the words one or two at a time between the puffs
of her cigarette.
"A question is not a comment, mamma. I ask for instruction."
"Go on, dearest friend," said her mother to the Count. "She is
incorrigible."
"On the contrary, Donna Beatrice fills my empty head with ideas. The
question was to the point. All men feel the charm of such women as all
men smell the orange blossoms here in May--"
"The language of flowers again!" laughed Beatrice.
"You are so like a flower," answered San Miniato softly.
"Am I?" She laughed again, then grew grave and looked away.
Ruggiero's hand shook on the heavy tiller, and San Miniato, who supposed
he was steering all the time, turned suddenly.
"What is the matter?" he asked.
"The rudder is draking, Excellency," answered Ruggiero.
"And what does that mean?" asked Beatrice.
"It means that the rudder trembles as the boat rises and falls with each
sea, when there is a good breeze," answered Ruggiero.
"Is there any danger?" asked Beatrice indifferently.
"What danger could there be, Excellency?" asked the sailor.
"Because you are so pale, Ruggiero. What is the matter with you,
to-day?"
"Nothing, Excellency."
"Ruggiero is in love," laughed San Miniato. "Is it not true, Ruggiero?"
But the sailor did not answer, though the hot blood came quickly to his
face and stayed there a moment and then sank away again. He looked
steadily at the dancing waves to windward, and set his lips tightly
together.
"I would like to ask that sailor what he thinks of love and charm, and
all the rest of it," said Beatrice. "His ideas would be interesting."
Ruggiero's blue eyes turned slowly upon her, with an odd expression.
Then he looked away again.
"I will ask him," said San Miniato in a low voice. "Ruggiero!"
"Excellency!"
"We want to know what you think about love. What is the best quality a
woman can have?"
"To be honest," answered Ruggiero promptly.
"And after that, what next?"
"To be beautiful."
"And then rich, I suppose?"
"It would be enough if she did not waste money."
"Honest, beautiful, and economical!" exclaimed Beatrice. "He does not
say anything about charm, you see. I think his description is extremely
good and to the point. Bravo, Ruggiero!"
His eyes met hers and gleamed rather fiercely for an instant.
"And how about charm, Ruggiero?" asked Beatrice mischievously.
"I do not speak French, Excellency," he answered.
"You should learn, because charm is a word one cannot say in Italian. I
do not know how to say it in our language."
"Let me talk about flowers to him," said San Miniato. "I will make him
understand. Which do you like better, Ruggiero, camelias or violets?"
"The camelia is a more lordly flower, Excellency, but for me I like the
violets."
"Why?"
"Who knows? They make one think of so many things, Excellency. One would
tire of camelias, but one would never be tired of violets. They have
something--who knows?"
"That is it, Ruggiero," said San Miniato, delighted with the result of
his experiment. "And charm is the same thing in a woman. One is never
tired of it, and yet it is not honesty, nor beauty, nor economy."
"I understand, Excellency--è la femmina--it is the womanly."
"Bravo, Ruggiero!" exclaimed Beatrice again. "You are a man of heart.
And if you found a woman who was honest and beautiful and economical and
'femmina,' as you say, would you love her?"
"Yes, Excellency, very much," answered Ruggiero. But his voice almost
failed him.
"How much? Tell us."
Ruggiero was silent a moment. Then his eyes flashed suddenly as he
looked down at her and his voice came ringing and strong.
"So much that I would pray that Christ and the sea would take her,
rather than that another man should get her! Per Dio!"
There was such a vibration of strong passion in the words that Beatrice
started a little and San Miniato looked up in surprise. Even the
Marchesa vouchsafed the sailor a glance of indolent curiosity. Beatrice
bent over to the Count and spoke in a low tone and in French.
"We must not tease him any more. He is in love and very much in
earnest."
"So am I," answered San Miniato with a half successful attempt to seem
emotional, which might have done well enough if it had not come after
Ruggiero's heartfelt speech.
"You!" laughed Beatrice. "You are never really in earnest. You only
think you are, and that pleases you as well."
San Miniato bit his lip, for he was not pleased. Her answer augured ill
for the success of the plan he meant to put into execution that very
evening. He felt strongly incensed against Ruggiero, too, without in the
least understanding the reason.
"You will find out some day, Donna Beatrice, that those who are most in
earnest are not those who make the most passionate speeches."
"Ah! Is that true? How strange! I should have supposed that if a man
said nothing it was because he had nothing to say. But you have such
novel theories!"
"Is this discussion never to end?" asked the Marchesa, wearily lifting
her hand as though in protest, and letting it fall again beside the
other.
"It has only just begun, mamma," answered Beatrice cheerfully. "When San
Miniato jumps into the sea and drowns himself in despair, you will know
that the discussion is over."
"Beatrice! My child! What language!"
"Italian, mamma carissima. Italian with a little Sicilian, such as we
speak."
"I am at your service, Donna Beatrice," said the Count. "Would you like
me to drown myself immediately, or are you inclined for a little more
conversation?"
Ruggiero had now taken the helm altogether. As San Miniato spoke he
nodded to his brother who was forward, intimating that he meant to go
about. He was certainly not in his normal frame of mind, for he had an
evil thought at that moment. Fortunately for every one concerned the
breeze was very light and was indeed dying away as the sun sank lower.
They were already nearing the southernmost point of Capri, commonly
called by sailors the Monaco, for what reason no one knows. To reach
Tragara where the Faraglioni, or needles, rise out of the deep sea close
to the rocky shore under the cliffs, it is necessary to go round the
point. There was soon hardly any breeze at all, so that Bastianello and
the other men shipped half-a-dozen oars and began to row. The operation
of going about involved a change of places in so small a boat and the
slight confusion had interrupted the conversation. A long silence
followed, broken at last by the Marchesa's voice.
"A cigarette, Teresina, and some more lemonade. Are you still there, San
Miniato carissimo? As I heard no more conversation I supposed you had
drowned yourself as you proposed to do."
"Donna Beatrice is so kind as to put off the execution until after
dinner."
"And shall we ever reach this dreadful place, and ever really dine?"
asked the Marchesa.
"Before sunset," answered San Miniato. "And we shall dine at our usual
hour."
"At least it will not be so hot as in the hotel, and after all it has
not been very fatiguing."
"No," said the Count, "I fail to see how your exertions can have tired
you much."
Ruggiero looked down at his master and at the fine lady as she lay
listlessly extended in her cane chair, and he felt that in his heart he
hated them both as much as he loved Beatrice, which was saying much. But
he wondered how it was that less than half an hour earlier he had been
ready to upset the boat and drown every one in it indiscriminately.
Nevertheless he believed that if there had been a stiff breeze just
then, enough for his purpose, he would have stopped the boat's way, and
then put the helm hard up again, without slacking out a single sheet,
and he knew the little craft well enough to be sure of what would have
happened. Murderous intentions enough, as he thought of it all now, in
the calm water under the great cliff from which tradition says that
Tiberius shot delinquents into space from a catapult.
The men pulled hard by the lonely rocks, for the sun had almost set and
they knew how sharp the stones are at Tragara, when one must tread them
barefoot and burdened with hampers and kettles and all the paraphernalia
of a picnic.
Then the light grew rich and deep, and the sea swallows shot from the
misty heights, like arrows, into the calm purple air below, and skimmed
and wheeled, and rose again, startled by the splash of the oars and the
dull knock of them as they swung in the tholes. And the water was like a
mirror in which all manner of rare and lovely things are reflected, with
blots of liquid gold and sheen of soft-hued damask, and great handfuls
of pearls and opals strewn between, and roses and petals of many kinds
of flowers without names. And the air was full of the faint, salt odours
that haunt the lonely places of the sea, sweet and bitter at once as the
last days of a young life fading fast. Then the great needles rose
gigantic from the depths to heaven, and beyond, through the mysterious,
shadowy arch that pierces one of them, was opened the glorious vision of
a distant cloud-lit water, and a single dark sail far away stood still,
as it were, on the very edge of the world.
Beatrice leaned back and gazed at the scene, and her delicate nostrils
expanded as she breathed. There was less colour in her face than there
had been, and the long lashes half veiled her eyes. San Miniato watched
her narrowly.
"How beautiful! How beautiful!" she exclaimed twice, after a long
silence.
"It will be more beautiful still when the moon rises," said San Miniato.
"I am glad you are pleased."
She liked the simple words better, perhaps, than some of his rather
artificial speeches.
"Thank you," she said. "Thank you for bringing us here."
He had certainly taken a great deal of trouble, she thought, and it was
the least she could do, to thank him as she did. But she was really
grateful and for a moment she felt a sort of sympathy for him which she
had not felt before. He, at least, understood that one could like
something better in the world than the eternal terrace of a hotel with
its stiff orange trees, its ugly lanterns and its everlasting gossip and
chatter. He, at least, was a little unlike all those other people,
beginning with her own mother, who think of self first, comfort second,
and of others once a month or so, in the most favourable cases. Yet she
wondered a little about his past life, and whether he had ever spoken to
