stood still. 
" This is a very convenient place for our interview," 
said Darius quietly. " No one can hear us. There- 
fore speak the truth at once." He held up the scroll 
to her eyes. 
Atossa's ready wit did not desert her, nor did she 
change colour, though she knew her life was in the 
balance with her words. She laughed lightly as she 
spoke : 
" I came down the stairs this morning " 
" To see the most beautiful woman in the world," 
interrupted Darius, raising his voice. "You have 
seen her. I am glad of it. Why did you bolt the 
door of the passage ? " 
" Because I thought it unfitting that the passage to 
the women's apartments should be left open when so 
many in the palace know the way," she answered 
readily enough. 
" Where were you taking this letter when you left 
it at the door ? " asked the king, beginning to doubt 
whether there were anything wrong after all. 
"I was about to send it to Ecbatana," answered 
Atossa with perfect simplicity. 
" Who is this Phraortes ? " 
" He is the governor of the lands my father gave 
me for my own in Media. I wrote him to tell him of 
the Great King's victory, and that he should send me 
information concerning my affairs, and do nothing 
further until he hears from me." 
"Why not?" 
" Because I thought it possible that the Great King 
would spend the summer in Ecbatana, and that I 
should therefore be there myself to give my own 
directions. I forgot the letter because I had to take 
both hands to draw the bolt, and I was coming back 
to get it. Nehushta the princess is with me— she is 
now upon the staircase." 
The king looked thoughtfully at liis wife's beautiful 
face. 
" You have evidently spoken the truth," he said 
slowly. " But it is not always easy to understand 
what your truth signifies. I often think it would be 
much wiser to strangle you. Say you that Nehushta 
is near ? Call her, then. Why does she tarry ? " 
In truth Nehushta had trembled as she crouched 
upon the stairs, not knowing whether to descend or to 
fly up the steps again. As she heard the queen pronounce her name, however, she judged it prudent to 
seem to have been out of earshot, and with quick, 
soft steps, she went up till she came to the lighted 
part, and there she waited. 
" Let the Great King go himself and find her," said 
Atossa proudly, " if he doubts me any further." She 
stood aside to let him pass. But Darius beckoned to 
Zoroaster to go. He had remained standing at some 
distance, an unwilling witness to the royal altercation 
that had taken place before him ; but as he passed 
the queen, she gave him a glance of imploring sad- 
ness, as though beseeching his sympathy in what she 
was made to suffer. He ran quickly up the steps in 
spite of the darkness, and found Nehushta waiting by 
the window higher up. She started as he appeared, 
for he was the person she least expected. But he 
took her quickly in his arms, and kissed her passionately twice. 
" Come quickly, my beloved," he whispered. " The 
king waits below." 
"I heard his voice — and then I fled," she whis- 
pered hurriedly; and they began to descend again. 
"I hate her — I knew I should," she whispered, as 
she leaned upon his arm. So they emerged into the 
corridor, and met Darius waiting for them. The 
queen was nowhere to be seen, and the door at the 
farther extremity of the narrow way was wide open. 
The king was as calm as though nothing had 
occurred; he still held the open letter in his hand 
as Nehushta entered the passage, and bowed herself 
before him. He took her hand for a moment, and 
then dropped it ; but his eyes flashed suddenly and 
his arm trembled at her touch. 
" Thou hadst almost lost thy way," he said. " The 
palace is large and the passages are many and devious. 
Come now, I will lead thee to the gardens. There 
thou canst find friends among the queen's noble 
women, and amusements of many kinds. Let thy 
heart delight in the beauty of Shushan, and if there 
is anything that thou desirest, ask and I will give it 
thee." 
 
Nehushta bent her head in thanks. The only thing 
she desired was to be alone for half an hour with 
Zoroaster ; and that seemed difBcult. 
" Thy servant desireth what is pleasant in thy 
sight," she answered. And so they left the passage 
by the open door, and the king himself conducted 
Nehushta to the entrance of the garden, and bade the 
slave-woman who met them to lead her to the pavilion 
where the ladies of the palace spent the day in the 
warm summer weather. Zoroaster knew that what- 
ever liberty his singular position allowed him in the 
quarter of the building where the king himself lived, 
he was not privileged to enter that place which was 
set apart for the noble ladies. Darius hated to be 
always surrounded by guards and slaves, and the ter- 
races and staircases of his dwelling were generally 
totally deserted, — only small detachments of spear- 
men guarding jealously the main entrances. But the 
remainder of the palace swarmed with the gorgeously 
dressed retinue of the court, wdth slaves of every 
colour and degree, from the mute smooth-faced Ethiopian to the accomplished Hebrew scribes of the great 
nobles ; from the black and scantily-clad fan-girls to 
the dainty Greek tirewomen of the queen's toilet, 
who loitered near the carved marble fountain at the 
entrance to the gardens; and in the outer courts, 
detachments of the horsemen of the guard rubbed 
their weapons, or reddened their broad leather bridles 
and trappings with red chalk, or groomed the horse 
of some lately arrived officer or messenger, or hung 
about and basked in the sun, with no clothing but 
their short-sleeved linen tunics and breeches, discuss- 
 
ing the affairs of the nation with the certainty of 
decision peculiar to all soldiers, high and low. There 
was only room for a squadron of horse in the palace ; 
but though they were few, they were the picked men 
of the guard, and every one of them felt himself as 
justly entitled to an opinion concerning the position 
of the new king, as though he were at least a general. 
But Darius allowed no gossiping slaves nor wran- 
gling soldiers in his own dwelling. There all was 
silent and apparently deserted, and thither he led 
Zoroaster again. The young warrior was astonished 
at the way in which the king moved about unattended, 
as carelessly as though he were a mere soldier himself ; 
he was not yet accustomed to the restless independence 
of character, to the unceasing activity and perfect per- 
sonal fearlessness of the young Darius. It was hard to 
realise that this simple, hard-handed, outspoken man 
was the Great King, and occupied the throne of the 
magnificent and stately Cyrus, who never stirred 
abroad without the full state of the court about him ; 
or that he reigned in the stead of the luxurious Cambyses, who feared to tread upon uncovered marble, or 
to expose himself to the draught of a staircase ; and 
who, after seven years of caring for his body, had 
destroyed himself in a fit of impotent passion. Darius 
succeeded to the throne of Persia as a lion coming 
into the place of jackals, as an eagle into a nest of 
crows and carrion birds — untiring, violent, relentless 
and brave. 
" Knowest thou one Phraortes, of Ecbatana ? " the 
king asked suddenly when he was alone with Zo- 
roaster. 
 
"I know him," answered the prince. "A man 
rich and powerful, full of vanity as a peacock, and 
of wiles like a serpent. Not noble. He is the son 
of a fish-vendor, grown rich by selling salted sturgeons in the market-place. He is also the overseer 
of the queen's farmlands in Media, and of the Great 
King's horse-breeding stables." 
" Go forth and bring him to me," said the king 
shortly. Without a word, Zoroaster made a brief 
salute and turned upon his heel to go. But it was 
as though a man had thrust him through with a 
knife. The king gazed after him in admiration of 
his magnificent obedience. 
" Stay ! " he called out. " How long wilt thou be 
gone ? " 
Zoroaster turned sharply round in military fashion, 
as he answered : 
" It is a hundred and fifty farsangs ^ to Ecbatana. 
By the king's relays I can ride there in six days, and 
I can bring back Phraortes in six days more — if he 
die not of the riding," he added, with a grim smile. 
"Is he old, or young? Fat, or meagre?" asked 
the king, laughing. 
" He is a man of forty years, neither thin nor fat 
— a good horseman in his way, but not as we are." 
"Bind him to his horse if he falls off from weariness. And tell him he is summoned to appear before 
me. Tell him the business brooks no delay. Aura- 
mazda be with thee and bring thee help. Go with 
speed." 
1 Between five and six hundred English miles. South American 
postilions at the present day ride six hundred miles a week for a 
bare living. 
 
Again Zoroaster turned and in a moment he was 
gone. He had sworn to be the king's faithful servant, and he would keep his oath, cost what it might, 
though it was bitterness to him to leave Nehushta 
without a word. He bethought him as he hastily 
put on light garments for the journey, that he might 
send her a letter, and he wrote a few words upon a 
piece of parchment, and folded it together. As he 
passed by the entrance of the garden on his way to 
the stables, he looked about for one of Nehushta's 
slaves ; but seeing none, he beckoned to one of the 
Greek tirewomen, and giving her a piece of gold, 
bade her take the little scroll to Nehushta, the 
Hebrew princess, who was in the gardens. Then he 
went quickly on, and mounting the best horse in the 
king's stables, galloped at a break-neck pace down 
the steep incline. In five minutes he had crossed the 
bridge, and was speeding over the straight, dusty 
