fulfil all the conditions mentioned in Balzac 's de 
scription. The edifice in question, however, fulfils con 
ditions enough; in particular, its little court offers 
hospitality to the big buttress of the church. Another 
buttress, corresponding with this (the two, between 
them, sustain the gable of the north transept), is 
planted in the small cloister, of which the door on the 
further side of the little soundless Rue de la Psalette, 
where nothing seems ever to pass, opens opposite to 
that of Mademoiselle Gamard. There is a very genial 
old sacristan, who introduced me to this cloister from 
the church. It is very small and solitary, and much 
mutilated; but it nestles with a kind of wasted friend 
liness beneath the big walls of the cathedral. Its 
lower arcades have been closed, and it has a small 
plot of garden in the middle, with fruit-trees which I 
should imagine to be too much overshadowed. In 
one corner is a remarkably picturesque turret, the 
cage of a winding staircase which ascends (no great 
distance) to an upper gallery, where an old priest, the 
chanoine-gardien of the church, was walking to and fro 
with his breviary. The turret, the gallery, and even 
the chanoine-gardien, belonged, that sweet September 
morning, to the class of objects that are dear to paint 
ers in water-colors. 
III. 
I HAVE mentioned the church of Saint Martin, 
which was for many years the sacred spot, the shrine 
of pilgrimage, of Tours. Originally the simple burial- 
place of the great apostle who in the fourth century 
Christianized Gaul, and who, in his day a brilliant 
missionary and worker of miracles, is chiefly known 
to modern fame as the worthy that cut his cloak in 
two at the gate of Amiens to share it with a beggar 
(tradition fails to say, I believe, what he did with the 
other half), the abbey of Saint Martin, through the 
Middle Ages, waxed rich and powerful, till it was 
known at last as one of the most luxurious religious 
houses in Christendom, with kings for its titular ab 
bots (who, like Francis I., sometimes turned and 
despoiled it) and a great treasure of precious things. 
It passed, however, through many vicissitudes. Pillaged 
by the Normans in the ninth century and by the 
Huguenots in the sixteenth, it received its death-blow 
from the Revolution, which must have brought to 
bear upon it an energy of destruction proportionate 
to its mighty bulk. At the end of the last century 
a huge group of ruins alone remained, and what we 
see to-day may be called the ruin of a ruin. It is 
difficult to understand how so vast an edifice can 
have been so completely obliterated. Its site is given 
up to several ugly streets, and a pair of tall towers, 
separated by a space which speaks volumes as to the 
size of the church, and looking across the close-pressed 
roofs to the happier spires of the cathedral, preserve 
for the modern world the memory of a great fortune, 
a great abuse, perhaps, and at all events a great pen 
alty. One may believe that to this day a consider 
able part of the foundations of the great abbey is 
buried in the soil of Tours. The two surviving towers, 
which are dissimilar in shape, are enormous; with 
those of the cathedral they form the great landmarks 
of the town. One of them bears the name of the Tour 
de FHorloge; the other, the so-called Tour Charle 
magne, was erected (two centuries after her. death) 
over the tomb of Luitgarde, wife of the great Em 
peror, who died at Tours in 800. I do not pretend to 
understand in what relation these very mighty and 
effectually detached masses of masonry stood to each 
other, but in their gray elevation and loneliness they 
are striking and suggestive to-day; holding their hoary 
heads far above the modern life of the town, and 
looking sad and conscious, as they had outlived all 
uses. I know not what is supposed to have become 
of the bones of the blessed saint during the various 
scenes of confusion in which they may have got mislaid; 
but a mystic connection with his wonder-working 
relics may be perceived in a strange little sanctuary 
on the left of the street, which opens in front of the 
Tour Charlemagne, the rugged base of which, by 
the way, inhabited like a cave, with a diminutive 
doorway, in which, as I passed, an old woman stood 
cleaning a pot, and a little dark window decorated 
with homely flowers, would be appreciated by a 
painter in search of "bits." The present shrine of 
Saint Martin is enclosed (provisionally, I suppose) in 
a veiy modern structure of timber, where in a dusky 
cellar, to which you descend by a wooden staircase 
adorned with votive tablets and paper roses, is placed 
a tabernacle surrounded by twinkling tapers and pros 
trate worshippers. Even this crepuscular vault, how 
ever,  fails, I think, to attain solemnity; for the whole 
place is strangely vulgar and garish. The Catholic 
church, as churches go to-day, is certainly the most 
spectacular; but it must feel that it has a great fund 
of impressiveness to draw upon when it opens such 
sordid little shops of sanctity as this. It is impos 
sible not to be struck with the grotesqueness of such 
an establishment, as the last link in the chain of a 
great ecclesiastical tradition. 
In the same street, on the other side, a little below, 
is something better worth your visit than the shrine 
of Saint Martin. Knock at a high door in a white 
wall (there is a cross above it), and a fresh- faced 
sister of the convent of the Petit Saint Martin will 
let you into the charming little cloister, or rather 
fragment of a cloister. Only one side of this exqui 
site structure remains, but the whole place is effective. 
In front of the beautiful arcade, which is terribly 
bruised and obliterated, is one of those walks of inter 
laced tilleuls which are so frequent in Touraine, and 
into which the green light filters so softly through a 
lattice of clipped twigs. Beyond this is a garden, 
and beyond the garden are the other buildings of the 
convent, where the placid sisters keep a school, a 
test, doubtless, of placidity. The imperfect arcade, 
which dates from the beginning of the sixteenth cen 
tury (I know nothing of it but what is related in Mrs. 
Pattison 's "Rennaissance in France") is a truly en 
chanting piece of work; the cornice and the angles of 
the arches being covered with the daintiest sculpture of 
arabesques, flowers, fruit, medallions, cherubs, griffins, 
all in the finest and most attenuated relief. It is like 
the chasing of a bracelet in stone. The taste, the 
fancy, the elegance, the refinement, are of those things 
which revive our standard of the exquisite. Such 
a piece of work is the purest flower of the French 
Renaissance; there is nothing more delicate in all 
Touraine. 
There is another fine thing at Tours which is not 
particularly delicate, but which makes a great impres 
sion, the very interesting old church of Saint Julian, 
lurking in a crooked corner at the right of the Rue 
Roy ale, near the point at which this indifferent thorough 
fare emerges, with its little cry of admiration, on the 
bank of the Loire. Saint Julian stands to-day in a 
kind of neglected hollow, where it is much shut in by 
houses; but in the year 1225, when the edifice was 
begun, the site was doubtless, as the architects say, 
more eligible. At present, indeed, when once you have 
caught a glimpse of the stout, serious Romanesque 
tower, which is not high, but strong, you feel that 
the building has something to say, and that you must 
stop to listen to it. Within, it has a vast and splendid 
nave, of immense height, the nave of a cathedral, 
with a shallow choir and transepts, and some admir 
able old glass. I spent half an hour there one morn 
ing, listening to what the church had to say, in perfect 
solitude. Not a worshipper entered, not even an old 
man with a broom. I have always thought there is a 
sex in fine buildings; and Saint Julian, with its noble 
nave, is of the gender of the name of its patron. 
It was that same morning, I think, that I went in 
search of the old houses of Tours; for the town con 
tains several goodly specimens of the domestic archi 
tecture of the past. The dwelling to which the average 
Anglo-Saxon will most promptly direct his steps, and 
the only one I have space to mention, is the so-called 
[ Maison de Tristan FHermite, a gentleman whom the 
readers of " Quentin Durward " will not have forgotten," 
--the hangman-in-ordinary to the great King Louis XI. 
Unfortunately the house of Tristan is not the house of 
Tristan at all; this illusion has been cruelly dispelled. 
There are no illusions left, at all, in the good city of 
Tours, with regard to Louis XI. His terrible castle of 
Plessis, the picture of which sends a shiver through 
the youthful reader of Scott, has been reduced to sub 
urban insignificance; and the residence of his triste 
compare, on the front of which a festooned rope figures 
as a motive for decoration, is observed to have been 
erected in the succeeding century. The Maison de 
Tristan may be visited for itself, however, if not for I 
Walter Scott; it is an exceedingly picturesque old 
facade, to which you pick your way through a najrow 
and tortuous street, a street terminating, a little be 
yond it, in the walk beside the river. An elegant 
Gothic doorway is let into the rusty-red brick-work, 
and strange little beasts crouch at the angles of the 
windows, which are surmounted by a tall graduated 
gable, pierced with a small orifice, where the large 
surface of brick, lifted out of the shadow of the street, 
looks yellow and faded. The whole thing is disfigured 
and decayed; but it is a capital subject for a sketch 
in colors. Only I must wish the sketcher better luck 
or a better temper than my own. If he ring the 
bell to be admitted to see the court, which I believe 
is more sketchable still, let him have patience to wait 
till the bell is answered. He can do the outside while 
they are coming. 
The Maison de Tristan, I say, may be visited for 
itself; but I hardly know what the remnants of Plessis- 
les-Tours may be visited for. To reach them you 
wander through crooked suburban lanes, down the 
course of the Loire, to a rough, undesirable, incon 
gruous spot, where a small, crude building of red 
brick is .pointed out to you by your cabman (if you 
happen to drive) as the romantic abode of a super 
stitious king, and where a strong odor of pigsties and 
other unclean things so prostrates you for the moment 
that you have no energy to protest against the obvious 
