he had sent his outlandish American gig with his groom to fetch John.
While he was at the vicarage the latter was probably too much occupied
with conversation to notice that Mr. Ambrose seemed preoccupied and
changed, and the vicar was to some extent recalled to his usual manner by
the presence of his pupil. Mrs. Ambrose had taxed her husband with
concealing something from her ever since the previous day, but the good
man was obstinate and merely said that he felt unaccountably nervous and
irritable, and begged her to excuse his mood. Mrs. Ambrose postponed her
cross-examination until a more favourable opportunity should present
itself.
John got into the gig and drove away. He was to return with the squire to
dinner in the evening, and he fully expected that Mrs. Goddard and Nellie
would be of the party--it seemed hardly likely that they should be
omitted. Indeed, soon after John had left a note arrived at the vicarage
explaining that Mrs. Goddard was much better and would certainly come,
according to Mrs. Ambrose's very kind invitation.
It is unnecessary to dwell upon the meeting which took place between Mr.
Juxon and John Short. The squire was hospitable in the extreme and
expressed his great satisfaction at having John under his own roof at
last. He was perhaps, like the vicar, a little nervous, but the young man
did not notice it, being much absorbed by the enjoyment of his good
fortune and of the mental rest he so greatly needed. Mr. Juxon
congratulated him warmly and expressed a hope, amounting to certainty,
that John might actually be at the head of the Tripos; to which John
modestly replied that he would be quite satisfied to be in the first ten,
knowing in his heart that he should be most bitterly disappointed if he
were second to any one. He sat opposite to his host in a deep chair
beside the fire in the library and revelled in comfort and ease, enjoying
every trifle that fell in his way, feeling only a very slight diffidence
in regard to himself for the present and none at all for the future. The
squire was so cordial that he felt himself thoroughly at home. Indeed Mr.
Juxon already rejoiced at his wisdom in asking John to the Hall. The lad
was strong, hopeful, well-balanced in every respect and his presence was
an admirable tonic to the almost morbid state of anxiety in which the
squire had lived ever since his interview with Policeman Gall, two days
before. In the sunshine of John's young personality, fears grew small and
hope grew big. The ideas which had passed through Mr. Juxon's brain on
the previous evening, just after Mr. Ambrose had warned him of Goddard's
intentions, seemed now like the evil shadows of a nightmare. All
apprehension lest the convict should attempt to execute his threats
disappeared like darkness before daylight, and in the course of an hour
or two the squire found himself laughing and chatting with his guest as
though there were no such things as forgery or convicts in the world. The
afternoon passed very pleasantly between the examination of Mr. Juxon's
treasures and the conversation those objects elicited. For John, who was
an accomplished scholar, had next to no knowledge of bibliology and took
delight in seeing for the first time many a rare edition which he had
heard mentioned or had read of in the course of his studies. He would not
have believed that he could be now talking on such friendly terms with a
man for whom he had once felt the strongest antipathy, and Mr. Juxon on
his part felt that in their former meetings he had not done full justice
to the young man's undoubted talents.
As they drove down to the vicarage that evening Mrs. Goddard's name was
mentioned for the first time. John, with a fine affectation of
indifference, asked how she was.
"She has not been very well lately," answered Mr. Juxon.
"What has been the matter?" inquired John, who could not see his
companion's face in the dark shade of the trees.
"Headache, I believe," returned the squire laconically, and silence
ensued for a few moments. "I should not wonder if it rained again this
evening," he added presently as they passed through the park gate, out
into the road. The sky was black and it was hard to see anything beyond
the yellow streak of light which fell from the lamps and ran along the
road before the gig.
"If it turns out a fine night, don't come for us. We will walk home,"
said the squire to the groom as they descended before the vicarage and
Stamboul, who had sat on the floor between them, sprang down to the
ground.
John was startled when he met Mrs. Goddard. He was amazed at the change
in her appearance for which no one had prepared him. She met him indeed
very cordially but he felt as though she were not the same woman he had
known so short a time before. There was still in her face that delicate
pathetic expression which had at first charmed him, there was still the
same look in her eyes; but what had formerly seemed so attractive seemed
now exaggerated. Her cheeks looked wan and hollow and there were deep
shadows about her eyes and temples; her lips had lost their colour and
the lines about her mouth had suddenly become apparent where John had not
before suspected them. She looked ten years older as she put her thin
hand in his and smiled pleasantly at his greeting. Some trite phrase
about the "ravages of time" crossed John's mind and gave him a
disagreeable sensation, for which it was hard to account. He felt as
though his dream were suddenly dead and a strange reality had taken life
in its place. Could this be she to whom he had written verses by the
score, at whose smile he had swelled with pride, at whose careless laugh
he had trembled with shame? She was terribly changed, she looked
positively old--what John called old. As he sat by her side talking and
wondering whether he would fall back into those same grooves of
conversation he had associated with her formerly, he felt something akin
to pity for her, which he had certainly never expected to feel. She was
not the same as before--even the tone of her voice was different; she was
gentle, pathetic, endowed even now with many charms, but she was not
the woman he had dreamed of and tried to speak to of the love he fancied
was in his heart. She talked--yes; but there were long pauses, and her
eyes wandered strangely from him, often towards the windows of the
vicarage drawing-room, often towards the doors; her answers were not
always to the point and her interest seemed to flag in what was said.
John could not fail to notice too that both Mr. Ambrose and Mr. Juxon
treated her with the kind of attention which is bestowed upon invalids,
and the vicar's wife was constantly doing something to make her
comfortable, offering her a footstool, shading the light from her eyes,
asking if she felt any draught where she sat. These were things no one
had formerly thought of doing for Mrs. Goddard, who in spite of her sad
face had been used to laugh merrily enough with the rest, and whose lithe
figure had seemed to John the embodiment of youthful activity. At last he
ventured to ask her a question.
"Have you been ill, Mrs. Goddard?" he inquired in a voice full of
interest. Her soft eyes glanced uneasily at him. He was now the only one
of the party who was not in some degree acquainted with her troubles.
"Oh no!" she answered nervously. "Only a little headache. It always makes
me quite wretched when I have it."
"Yes. I often have headaches, too," answered John. "The squire told me as
we came down."
"What did he tell you?" asked Mrs. Goddard so quickly as to startle her
companion.
"Oh--only that you had not been very well. Where is it that you suffer?"
he asked sympathetically. "I think it is worst when it seems to be in
the very centre of one's head, like a red-hot nail being driven in with a
hammer--is that like what you feel?"
"I--yes, I daresay. I don't quite know," she answered, her eyes wandering
uneasily about the room. "I suppose you have dreadful headaches over
your work, do you not, Mr. Short?" she added quickly, feeling that she
must say something.
"Oh, it is all over now," said John rather proudly. But as he leaned back
in his chair he said to himself that this meeting was not precisely what
he had anticipated; the subject of headaches might have a fine interest
in its way, but he had expected to have talked of more tender things. To
his own great surprise he felt no desire to do so, however. He had not
recovered from the shock of seeing that Mrs. Goddard had grown old.
"Yes," said she, kindly. "How glad you must be! To have done so
splendidly too--you must feel that you have realised a magnificent
dream."
"No," said John. "I cannot say I do. I have done the thing I meant to do,
or I have good reason to believe that I have; but I have not realised my
dream. I shall never write any more odes, Mrs. Goddard."
"Why not? Oh, you mean to me, Mr. Short?" she added with something of her
old manner. "Well, you know, it is much better that you should not."
"Perhaps so," answered John rather sadly. "I don't know. Frankly, Mrs.
Goddard, did not you sometimes think I was very foolish last Christmas?"
"Very," she said, smiling at him kindly. "But I think you have changed. I
think you are more of a man, now--you have something more serious--"
"I used to think I was very serious, and so I was," said John, with the
air of a man who refers to the follies of his long past youth. "Do you
remember how angry I was when you wanted me to skate with Miss Nellie?"
"Oh, I only said that to teaze you," Mrs. Goddard answered. "I daresay
you would be angry now, if I suggested the same thing."
"No," said John quietly. "I do not believe I should be. As you say, I
feel very much older now than I did then."
"The older we grow the more we like youth," said Mary Goddard,
unconsciously uttering one of the fundamental truths of human nature, and
at the same time so precisely striking the current of John's thoughts
that he started. He was wondering within himself why it was that she now
seemed too old for him, whereas a few short months ago she had seemed to
be of his own age.
"How true that is!" he exclaimed. Mrs. Goddard laughed faintly.
"You are not old enough to have reached that point yet, Mr. Short," she
said. "Really, here we are moralising like a couple of old philosophers!"
"This is a moralising season," answered John. "When we last met, it was
all holly-berries and Christmas and plum-pudding."
"How long ago that seems!" exclaimed the poor lady with a sigh.
"Ages!" echoed John, sighing in his turn, but not so much for sadness, it
may be, as from relief that the great struggle was over. That time of
anxiety and terrible effort seemed indeed very far removed from him, but
its removal was a cause of joy rather than of sadness. He sighed like a
man who, sitting over his supper, remembers the hard fought race he has
won in the afternoon, feeling yet in his limbs the ability to race and
win again but feeling in his heart the delicious consciousness that the
question of his superiority has been decided beyond all dispute.
"And now you will stay here a long time, of course," said Mrs. Goddard
presently.
"I am stopping at the Hall, just now," said John with a distinct sense of
the importance of the fact, "and after a week I shall stay here a few
days. Then I shall go to London to see my father."
"No one will be so glad as he to hear of your success."
"No indeed. I really think it is more for his sake that I want to be
actually first," said John. "Do you know, I have so often thought how he
will look when I meet him and tell him I am the senior classic."
John's voice trembled and as Mrs. Goddard looked at him, she thought she
saw a moisture in his eyes. It pleased her to see it, for it showed that
John Short had more heart than she had imagined.
"I can fancy that," she said, warmly. "I envy you that moment."
Presently the squire came over to where they were sitting and joined
them; and then Mrs. Ambrose spoke to John, and Nellie came and asked him
questions. Strange to say John felt none of that annoyance which he
formerly felt when his conversations with Mrs. Goddard were interrupted,
and he talked with Nellie and Mrs. Ambrose quite as readily as with her.
He felt very calm and happy that night, as though he had done with the
hard labour of life. In half an hour he had realised that he was no more
in love with Mrs. Goddard than he was with Mrs. Ambrose, and he was
trying to explain to himself how it was that he had ever believed in such
a palpable absurdity. Love was doubtless blind, he thought, but he was
surely not so blind as to overlook the evidences of Mrs. Goddard's age.
All the dreams of that morning faded away before the sight of her face,
and so deep is the turpitude of the best of human hearts that John was
almost ashamed of having once thought he loved her. That was probably the
best possible proof that his love had been but a boyish fancy.
What the little party at the vicarage would have been like, if John's
presence had not animated it, would be hard to say. The squire and Mr.
Ambrose treated Mrs. Goddard with the sort of paternal but solemn care
which is usually bestowed either upon great invalids or upon persons
bereaved of some very dear relation. The two elder men occasionally
