doubted.
Schopenhauer has denied that a being superior to man could exist; if,
then, the nineteenth century, which plumes itself on the mental
elevation and culture of the age, and in looking back at the ignorance
of earlier epochs considers itself the top of all creation,--if, then,
the nineteenth century, in its perspicacity, refuses such a solution,
there is little left for humanity to do save to bear the pains of life
as it may, or, better still, with the resignation which Leopardi long
ago suggested.
When, putting aside this eccentric theory of deliverance, the teaching
of Schopenhauer is reviewed, it will, according to the nature of the
reader, bring with it a warm approval or a horrified dissent. To some
he will appear like an incarnation of the Spirit of Truth; to others
like the skeleton in Goya's painting, which, leaning with a leer from
the tomb, scrawls on it the one word, Nada,--nothing.
FOOTNOTES:
[Footnote 8: This distinction of Kant's is not strictly original. Its
germ is in Plato, and Voltaire set all Europe laughing at Maupertuis,
who had vaguely stated that "nous vivons dans un monde ou rien de ce
que nous apercevons ne ressemble à ce que nous apercevons." Whether
Kant was acquainted or not with Maupertuis' theory is, of course,
difficult to say; at any rate, he resurrected the doctrine, and
presented idealism for the first time in a logical form.]
[Footnote 9: "Das Fundament der Moral," contained in Die beiden
Grundprobleme der Ethik. Leipsic: Brockhaus.]
CHAPTER IV.
THE BORDERLANDS OF HAPPINESS.
It was with something of the lassitude which succeeds an orgy that
Schopenhauer turned from the riot of the will and undertook to examine
such possibilities of happiness as life may yet afford, and, as
incidental thereto, the manner in which such possibilities may be most
enjoyed.
To this subject he brought a sumptuous variety of reflections, which
are summed up in a multi-colored essay, entitled "Lebensweisheit," or
Conduct of Life, but in which, in spite of the luxury of detail and
brilliancy of description, Schopenhauer almost unconsciously reminds
the reader of a man who takes his constitutional at midnight, and
preferentially when it rains.
The suggestions that occur to him are almost flamboyant in their
intensity, and yet about them all there circles such a series of dull
limitations that one somehow feels a sense of dumbness and suffocation,
a longing to get away and rush out into an atmosphere less charged with
sombre conclusions.
Concerning the baseness and shabbiness of every-day life Schopenhauer
has but little to say. He touches but lightly on its infinite
vulgarity, while its occasional splendor is equally unnoticed. Indeed,
he preaches not to redeem nor convert, but simply that his hearers may
be in some measure enlightened as to the bald unsatisfactoriness of all
things, and so direct their individual steps as to come as little in
contact with avoidable misery as possible. To many it will, of course,
seem quite appalling that a mind so richly receptive as his should have
chosen such shaggy moorlands for habitual contemplation, when, had he
wished, he might have feasted his eyes on resplendent panoramas. The
moorlands, however, were not of his making; he was merely a painter
filling in the landscape with objects which stood within the
perspective, and if he happened upon no resplendent panoramas, the
fault lay simply in the fact that he had been baffled in his attempt to
find them.
Voltaire says, somewhere, "I do not know what the life eternal may be,
but at all events this one is a very poor joke." In this sentiment
Schopenhauer solemnly concurred. That which was a boutade to the one
became a theory to the other, and it is to his treatment of this
subject that the attention of the reader is now invited. The
introduction which he gives to it, if not as light as the overture to a
ballet, will, it is believed, still be found both interesting and
instructive, while its conclusion and supplement form, it may be noted,
an admitted part of that which is best of the modern essayists.
The first chapter opens with an enumeration of those possessions which
differentiate the lot of man, and which in so doing form the basis of
possible happiness. It has been said that the happiest land is the one
which has little, if any, need of importations, and he notes that the
man is most contented whose interior wealth suffices for his own
amusement, and who demands but little, if anything, from the exterior
world. Or, as Oliver Goldsmith has expressed it,--
     "Still to ourselves in ev'ry place consigned
     Our own felicity we make or find."
"In a world such as ours," Schopenhauer thinks, "he who has much to
draw upon from within is not unlike a room in which stands a Christmas
tree, bright, warm, and joyous, while all about are the snows and
icicles of a December night."
That which a man is in himself, that which accompanies him into
solitude, and which none can give him or take from him, is necessarily
more essential than all that he may possess or all that he may appear
in the eyes of others. The scholar, for instance, even when utterly
alone feeds most agreeably on his own thoughts, and we are most of us
very well aware that he whose intelligence is limited may ceaselessly
vary his festivals and amusements without ever succeeding in freeing
himself from the baleful weariness of boredom.
According to Schopenhauer, then, the supreme and all-important elements
of earthly happiness are subjective possessions, such as a noble
character, a capable mind, an easy disposition, and a well-organized
and healthy body; and it is these gifts, he rightly insists, that
should be cultivated and preserved, even at the expense of wealth and
emolument. An easy disposition, however, is that which above all other
things contributes most directly to contentment. Gayety of heart is,
indeed, its own recompense, and he who is really gay has a reason for
so being from the very fact that he is so. Supposing a man to be young,
handsome, rich, and respected, the one question to be asked about him
is, Is he light-hearted? On the other hand, if he is light-hearted,
little does it matter whether he is young or old, straight-limbed or
deformed, poor or rich; in any case he is contented. It is
light-heartedness alone which is, so to speak, the hard cash of
happiness; all the rest is but the note-of-hand; and in making this
observation, he (Schopenhauer) is careful to point out that there is
nothing that contributes so little to gayety as wealth, and nothing
that contributes so much thereto as health. "It is in the lower
classes, among the laborers, and particularly among the tillers of the
soil, that gayety and contentment are to be found, while on the other
hand, the faces of the great and the rich generally present an
expression of sullen constraint. To thoroughly understand, however, how
greatly happiness depends on gayety of disposition and the state of
health, it is only necessary to compare the impression which the same
circumstances and similar wants bring to us in days of health and
vigor, with that which is paramount when through our condition we are
predisposed to dullness and discontent. In brief, it is not the event
itself, but the way in which we view it, that makes or unmakes our
happiness." Or, as Epictetus said long ago, man is not moved by things,
but by his opinion of them.
As a general rule, nine tenths of happiness may be said to rest on the
state of health; when this is perfect, anything and everything may be a
source of pleasure; in illness, on the other hand, nothing, no matter
what its nature may be, is capable of affording any real enjoyment. It
follows, therefore, that it is wanton stupidity to sacrifice health for
any purpose, even for wealth and fame, and especially to passing and
fugitive pleasures, however alluring they may appear.
The next class of possessions of which Schopenhauer treats is property;
and in considering this division he seems not unlike that contented
individual who, on seeing a quantity of objects exposed for sale,
exclaimed pensively, "How much there is of which I have no need!"
Every man, it will be admitted, has his own horizon, beyond which his
pretensions do not extend. They reach the edge, but they do not cross
it. In other words, the absence of those possessions with which a man
is unacquainted is in no sense a privation to him; and it is probably
for this reason that the day-laborer bothers himself so little about
the flaring wealth of the rich. Wealth, on the other hand, is like
salt water; the more one drinks, the greater the thirst. But, even so,
this grim philosopher was far from despising it. "It is a rampart
against an incalculable number of discomforts; and it is in this manner
that it should be viewed, instead of being considered, as is generally
the case, in the light of a permission to procure a diversity of
pleasure."
As a practical man, Schopenhauer saw nothing that could make his ink
blush in repeatedly recommending the preservation of a fortune, made or
inherited; "for even," he says, "if it simply suffices to permit its
possessor to live without the necessity of labor, it is still an
inappreciable advantage in that it brings with it an exemption from the
general drudgery which is the ordinary lot of man. It is only on this
condition that man is born free, master of his hour and his strength,
and enabled to say each morning, 'The day is mine.' The difference,
therefore, between him who has a thousand crowns a year and the
landlord whose rent-roll runs into millions is infinitely less than the
difference between the first and the man who has nothing."
If the man whose necessities are provided for is inclined to follow
Schopenhauer's advice, he will, first of all, seek in repose and
leisure the avoidance of every form of discomfort; especially will he
seek to lead a tranquil and unpretentious existence which, so far as
possible, will be sheltered from all intruders. After having for a
certain time kept up relations with what is termed the world, he will
prefer a retired life; and if he is of superior intelligence, he will
give himself up to solitude. This he will do, because the more a man
possesses in himself, the less he has need of the exterior world.
Superiority of intelligence will therefore lead him to insociability;
for, as Schopenhauer says, "It is precisely in solitude, where each of
us is dependent on his own resources, that every one is brought face to
face with his own individuality; there the imbecile in his purple
groans beneath the weight of his miserable self, while he who is
mentally gifted peoples and animates with his thoughts the most arid
and desert region."
Now, it may be objected that contentment is not to be found in an idle
folding of the hands behind a hedge set against vexation. Nor is this
Schopenhauer's meaning. Wealth is but the means, not the source of
contentment. It is not the certainty of an income that brings
happiness, for its accompanying affranchisement from want carries the
tenant to the opposite pole of misery, where gapes the hydra, ennui.
And it is there that he whose necessities are provided for surely
lands, unless he fills the hour with some one of the many elevated
pursuits from which those who are obliged to work for their bread are
in a great measure debarred.
The third and last class of possessions that Schopenhauer discusses is
that which a man represents; or, in other words, the manner in which
he appears to his neighbors. "There is," he says, "no superstition more
universally dominant than that which leads us to attach a high value to
the opinion of others; and whether it be that this superstition has its
roots in our very nature, or that it has followed us up from the birth
of society and civilization, it is none the less certain that it
influences our conduct in a manner which is incommensurate, and hostile
to our well-being. This influence may be traced from the point in which
it shows itself beneath the anxious and servile deference to the qu'en
dira-t-on, to that in which it drives the dagger of Virginius into his
daughter's heart, or else to where it leads men to sacrifice their
peace, their fortune, their wealth, and their lives, for the sake of
posthumous renown."
The existence, however, which we lead in the minds of others is a
possession, Schopenhauer has carefully explained, which, through a
singular weakness, while highly prized is yet entirely unimportant to
our happiness. Indeed, if the comparison be drawn between that which we
are in reality and that which we are in the eyes of others, it will be
seen that the first term of the comparison comprises our entire
existence, for its sphere of action is in our own perceptions, while,
on the other hand, that which we represent acts on other minds than our
