dignified graeiousness. '' She has not been aware under 
what circumstances she came hither until just now. Cer- 
tainly it has been a great source of mortification to us all, 
that we should have so trespassed upon Mrs. Wentworth 
in her affliction." 
'' I think it has not been a bad thing for Mrs. Went- 
worth; loneliness often adds to the burden of sorrow. 
And as for Olive, we all know what Dr. Prescott thinks." 
Dr. Prescott's opinion has been that just these sur- 
roundings were necessary to restore the equilibrium to 
Olive's mind, which has returned to its normal state, save 
in regard to the lapses of memory. 
" Doctors are not always infallible," he says, in a tone 
of irony. 
The sea does not seem very tranquil. Mrs. Fair glances 
from him to Olive with her bowed head and hidden face 
"Is it necessary you should decide to-day?" she asks^ 
gently. 
" Oh, no ! " in an indifferent tone. '' Allow me to wish 
you both good day." And he bows stiffly. 
Just at the end of the hall down-stairs, as he knows 
how to let himself out, the library door opens. The 
small figure draped in black, with its crown of golden 
hair, is impressed on his senses ; but he does not turn, 
and Doris stands transfixed as he goes away. 
Up-stairs, Olive gives way to the stress of repressed 
feeling. 
"Tell me how I came here — tell me every word ! " she 
demands. " You must know ! " 
Between them both the old links are supplied. Olive 
comes to a clearer understanding. That her brain is 
stronger and in a better condition is quite evident to Mrs. 
 
 
 
Fair. After the first passion of tears, she cahns down, 
listens, remembers bits that have floated through the 
chaos of her brain, and arranges them in their natural 
sequence. 
"Did I frighten Mrs. Wentworth very much?" she 
asks, with a great gasp of pain. ''0h! Mrs. Fair, was 
there ever any one so brave, so lovely, so unconsciously 
heroic ? We Wentworths have always taken great credit 
to ourselves for the higher qualities, but she ' shines us 
down ' ; she makes us look narrow and cold and unjust. 
I don't wonder Lloyd loved her ! How could he help it ? 
As for her thinking about the fortune, there never comes 
a selfish impulse into her soul, day or night. She has 
none of the pride of station that has leavened us so thor- 
oughly ; but who shall say that her exquisite tenderness is 
not a holier thing in the sight of heaven ? In spite of 
tradition, resolve, and belief, I have loved her. I shall 
always fight for her. They may try to crowd her out, but 
I shall be a wall against their most strenuous endeavor. 
Olive has talked herself breathless, exhausted; but 
there is no wildness in her eyes, none of that effort at 
groping among forgotten things. She is ghostly pale, 
but wonderfully composed. 
Still Mrs. Fair watches her with anxious eyes, and pres- 
ently persuades her to lie down awhile. She understands 
now how unjust this verdict against Mrs. Lloyd has been, 
yet neither she nor Olive can right it. It is one of the 
things time must make even. 
Olive rouses herself and comes down to dinner. She is 
considering how she can soften the fact that cousinly hos- 
pitality will be forbidden ; that the first connection between 
them must be placed on the hard footing of a business 
arrangement. Every drop of her Wentworth blood re- 
volts. She knows how delicate Basil can be ; but this 
will have an uncompromising look of business, not any 
refinement of friendship. Would he do such a thing to 
 
 
 
Lloyd? Surely Lloyd's wife should be treated with the 
same family respect. 
That she should think of softeniug anything is a great 
advance to Olive Wentworth, — a kind of moral advance, 
an awakening of the sympathetic side of her nature in 
the broader field of humanity. And she wonders all 
through the evening how it shall be done to wound as 
little as possible. 
Mrs. Ashmead reads. Mrs. Fair sits by with some 
tatting. Doris takes up her lace cushion, and with her 
soft smile places herself in range of Olive. When some 
high sentiment or peculiarly tender turn of the sentence 
touches her, she glances up. How can Doris tell that she, 
Olive, will respond? No one but Lloyd ever considered 
her sympathetic, or perhaps capable of understanding the 
exquisite, half -hidden meanings. It has generally been 
accepted that she has cared for nothing but her own style 
of music. She has ridiculed the scholarly ways and pre- 
tences, and held aloof. Does Doris understand all this? 
The soft flushes wander over her face, a lovely light 
illumines her eye. Why, she is beautiful ! — here, with- 
out any attempt. She almost hates Basil for his cruelty, 
the refinement of coldness. 
Long past midnight, Mrs. Fair hears the irregular 
breathing, with now and then a gasp. 
'' Olive ! " she exclaims, chidingly, " you have not been 
asleep yet. You will be worse again to-morrow." 
" I am going to be better all the days of my life," Olive 
answers, solemnly. 
" Then you must stop thinking, and go to sleep." 
Can she stop ? Like the pages of a book, her life seems 
passing before her. She looks at it with shame and 
abasement. Self everywhere ; nothing noble or generous, 
even in her dealings with Lloyd, in spite of her over- 
whelming passion for him. Fond as she was of minis- 
tering to him, it was always in her own way, detaching 
 
 
 
him from the others. She is confronted with an almost 
appalling consciousness that an absorbing, jealous, exact- 
ing love cannot always win love in return. There is a 
knowledge beyond any she has known, a tenderness that 
has a diviner side. An old couplet floats through her 
brain, — 
'' Love compelling love to pay, 
Sees him bankrupt every day ; 
Love exacting nothing back, 
Never knoweth any lack." 
The awful capacity for self-torture that has seemed 
high and heroic to her, suddenly looks worthless. What 
have been its fruits? Whom has it rendered happy? 
What richness has it poured into her own life ? No one 
has loved her but Doris, out of her own infinite pity, — 
Doris, whom she has blamed and hated most bitterly of 
all. Can she do anything in return ; beat down any of 
the thorns in her path? Yesterday she had bristled up 
with spear-points, and her warfare made no impression. 
Can it be that her first step is to deny herself ; to go out 
of this place, that she loves with the ungoverned passion 
of her life, to make herself content somewhere else, 
where there are no visions of Lloyd to delight her longing 
fancy ? She thrusts out her old, baleful self ; she has no 
real right here, she owes some respect to her own family. 
They do not need her, do not really care for her ; still, if 
they so elect, — she will be free to come and go ; they 
cannot forbid that, and if she bears some contumely for 
Doris, it may make her worthier. She cannot quite divest 
herself of a certain vicarious agency. 
Before breakfast she writes a note to Basil, which Mor- 
ris takes on his first round of errands. It is simply that 
she regrets her hastiness, and has reconsidered ; that his 
opinions are entitled to respect ; and as she has recovered 
sufficiently, she will return home. Since she is mistress 
of her own little fortune, she begs to be allowed to cancel 
 
 
 
her indebtedness to Mrs. Lloyd Wentworth in her own 
manner. 
Doris is quite dismayed when Olive makes her announce- 
ment, and protests earnestly against it. 
" There are reasons why it is proper" ; and Olive cannot 
keep back the half -contemptuous srftile that comes so 
readily to Wentworth faces. " I want to test myself, to 
see if I have really recovered the balance of mind neces- 
sary for a reasonable human being. I might roam about 
some night, and startle you more seriously than before." 
There is a flutter of paleness, like a breath, wandering 
over Doris's face at this. 
'' O Doris ! " the girl cries, with a kind of vehement 
abasement, " I ought to go out of your sight, and never, 
never come into it again. How can you tolerate me?" 
And there is both shame and agony in her tone. 
'' You loved him." There is a little catch of sob in 
Doris's breath. " And you were all so dear to him." 
'' And the one thing he gave us we have rejected." 
Olive Wentworth would rouse a sculptor by her perfect 
pose of remorse. '' Doris, Doris, let me try for your 
love. I can understand dimly how he came to choose 
you ; what a rapture of peace you brought him ! I have 
never cared for any one's love, but I want yours. I want 
to make myself worthier of it — " 
Doris's arms are about her. It may not be a great 
victory or a high prize, but she is glad to win even one of 
them, and she has a feeling that, bright and charming as 
Louise undoubtedly is, there is more depth and earnest- 
ness here. With Olive, she will not be merely one of 
many. She wants a girl friend, something younger than 
these middle-aged women. 
" Doris," she begins presently, calming herself with a 
new effort, ''let us try a sensible friendship ; an earnest, 
practical bond. If you will let me come and share Mrs. 
Ashmead's acquirements, — for I am ignorant, shame- 
 
 
 
fully 80, of many things that have been thrust at me as 
daily bread, only to be disdainfully refused. Let us have 
some hard reading ; and your Italian is so exquisite. Let 
us take up music. I could come every day ; it will give 
me something to do, and make the winter pass less 
drearily. And then — " But no, she will not cheat her- 
self with vague imaginings. 
" Oh, if you would ! It is so different here from any- 
thing I have ever known ! " And she almost sighs for her 
