on, he had nothing particular to complain of. He had 
had a rise, at the chemical works, and a plan of getting 
a larger room for Rosy was under serious consideration. 
On behalf of others he never sounded the pathetic note 
he thought that sort of thing unbusiness-like; and the 
most that he did in the way of expatiatiori on the wrongs 
of humanity was occasionally to mention certain statistics, 
certain 'returns,' in regard to the remuneration of in- 
dustries, applications for employment and the discharge 
of hands. In such matters as these he was -deeply versed, 
and he moved in a dry statistical and scientific air in which 
it cost Hyacinth an effort of respiration to accompany him. 
Simple and kindly as he was, and thoughtful of the woes of 
beasts, attentive and merciful to small insects, and addicted 
even to kissing dirty babies in Audley Court, he sometimes 
emitted a short satiric gleam which showed that his esteem 
for the poor was small and that if he had no illusions 
about the people who had got everything into their hands 
he had as few about those who had egregiously failed to 
do so. He was tremendously reasonable, which was largely 
why Hyacinth admired him, having a desire to be so him- 
self but finding it terribly difficult. 
Muniment's absence of passion, his fresh-coloured cool- 
ness, his easy, exact knowledge, the way he kept himself 
clean (except for the chemical stains on his hands), in 
circumstances of foul contact, constituted a group of 
qualities that had always appeared to Hyacinth singularly 
enviable. Most enviable of all was the force that enabled 
him to sink personal sentiment where a great public good 
was to be attempted and yet keep up the form of caring 
for that minor interest. It seemed to Hyacinth that if he 
had introduced a young fellow to Hoffendahl for his pur- 
poses, and Hoffendahl had accepted him on such a re- 
 
commendation, and everything had been settled, he would 
have preferred never to look at the young fellow again. 
That was his weakness, and Muniment carried it off far 
otherwise. It must be added that he had never made an 
allusion to their visit to Hoffendahl; so that Hyacinth 
also, out of pride, held his tongue on the subject. If his 
friend didn't wish to express any sympathy for him he was 
not going to beg for it (especially as he didn't want it), by 
restless references. It had originally been a surprise to 
him that Muniment should be willing to countenance a 
possible assassination ; but after all none of his ideas were 
narrow (Hyacinth had a sense that they ripened all the 
while), and if a pistol-shot would do any good he was not 
the man to raise pedantic objections. It is true that, as 
regards his quiet acceptance of the predicament in which 
Hyacinth might be placed by it, our young man had given 
him the benefit of a certain amount of doubt; it had 
occurred to him that perhaps Muniment had his own 
reasons for believing that the summons from Hoffendahl 
would never really arrive, so that he might only be treating 
himself to the entertainment of judging of a little book- 
binder's nerve. But in this case, why did he take an 
interest in the little bookbinder's going to Paris? That 
was a thing he would not have cared for had he held that 
in fact there was nothing to fear. He despised the sight 
of idleness, and in spite of the indulgence he had more 
than once been good enough to express on the subject of 
Hyacinth's epicurean tendencies what he would have been 
most likely to say at present was, ' Go to Paris ? Go to 
the dickens ! Haven't you been out at grass long enough 
for one while, didn't you lark enough in the country there 
with the noble lady, and hadn't you better take up your 
tools again before you forget how to handle them?' Rosy 
had said something of that sort, in her free, familiar way 
(whatever her intention, she had been, in effect, only a little 
less sarcastic than old Crookenden) : that Mr. Robinson 
was going in for a life of leisure, a life of luxury, like her- 
self; she must congratulate him on having the means and 
the time. Oh, the time that was the great thing! She 
could speak with knowledge, having always enjoyed these 
advantages herself. And she intimated or was she mis- 
taken ? that his good fortune emulated hers also in the 
matter of his having a high-born and beneficent friend 
(such a blessing, now he had lost dear Miss Pynsent), who 
covered him with little attentions. Rose Muniment, in 
short, had been more exasperating than ever. 
The boulevard became even more brilliant as the even- 
ing went on, and Hyacinth wondered whether he had a 
right to occupy the same table for so many hours. The 
theatre on the other side discharged its multitude; the 
crowd thickened on the wide asphalt, on the terrace of the 
cafe ; gentlemen, accompanied by ladies of whom he knew 
already how to characterise the type des femmes tres-chic 
passed into the portals of Tortoni. The nightly ema- 
nation of Paris seemed to rise more richly, to float and 
hang in the air, to mingle with the universal light and the 
many-voiced sound, to resolve itself into a thousand soli- 
citations and opportunities, addressed however mainly to 
those in whose pockets the chink of a little loose gold 
might respond. Hyacinth's retrospections had not made 
him drowsy, but quite the reverse ; he grew restless and 
excited, and a kind of pleasant terror of the place and hour 
 
entered into his blood. But it was nearly midnight, and 
he got up to walk home, taking the line of the boulevard 
toward the Madeleine. He passed down the Rue Royale, 
where comparative stillness reigned ; and when he reached 
the Place de la Concorde, to cross the bridge which faces the 
Corps Le'gislatif, he found himself almost isolated. He 
had left the human swarm and the obstructed pavements 
behind, and the wide spaces of the splendid square lay 
quiet under the summer stars. The plash of the great 
fountains was audible, and he could almost hear the wind- 
stirred murmur of the little wood of the Tuileries on one 
side, and of the vague expanse of the Champs Elysees on 
the other. The place itself the Place Louis Quinze, the 
Place de la Revolution had given him a sensible emotion, 
from the day of his arrival ; he had recognised so quickly 
its tremendously historic character. He had seen, in a 
rapid vision, the guillotine in the middle, on the site of the 
inscrutable obelisk, and the tumbrils, with waiting victims, 
were stationed round the circle now made majestic by the 
monuments of the cities of France. The great legend of the 
French Revolution, sanguinary and heroic, was more real to 
him here than anywhere else ; and, strangely, what was most 
present was not its turpitude and horror, but its magnificent 
energy, the spirit of life that had been in it, not the spirit 
of death. That shadow was effaced by the modern fair- 
ness of fountain and statue, the stately perspective and 
composition ; and as he lingered, before crossing the Seine, 
a sudden sense overtook him, making his heart sink with a 
kind of desolation a sense of everything that might hold 
one to the world, of the sweetness of not dying/ the fasci- 
nation of great cities, the charm of travel and discovery 
the generosity of admiration. The tears rose to his eyes, 
as they had done more than once in the past six months, 
and a question, low but poignant, broke from his lips, end- 
ing in nothing. ' How could he how could he ? ' 
It may be explained that ' he ' was a reference to Paul 
Muniment ; for Hyacinth had dreamed of the religion of 
friendship. 
Three weeks after this he found himself in Venice, 
whence he addressed to the Princess Casamassima a letter 
of which I reproduce the principal passages. 
' This is probably the last time I shall write to you 
before I return to London. Of course you have been in 
this place, and you will easily understand why here, especi- 
ally here, the spirit should move me. Dear Princess, 
what an enchanted city, what ineffable impressions, what a 
revelation of the exquisite ! I have a room in a little campo 
opposite to a small old church, which has cracked marble 
slabs let into the front ; and in the cracks grow little wild 
delicate flowers, of which I don't know the name. Over 
the door of the church hangs an old battered leather curtain, 
polished and tawny, as thick as a mattress, and with buttons 
in it, like a sofa ; and it flops to and fro, laboriously, as 
women and girls, with shawls on their heads and their feet 
in little wooden shoes which have nothing but toes, pass in 
and out. In the middle of the campo is a fountain, which 
looks still older than the church ; it has a primitive, bar- 
baric air, and I have an idea it was put there by the first 
settlers those who came to Venice from the mainland, 
from Aquileia. Observe how much historical information 
I have already absorbed ; it won't surprise you, however, for 
you never wondered at anything after you discovered I 
 
knew something of Schopenhauer. I assure you, I don't 
think of that musty misogynist in the least to-day, for I 
bend a genial eye on the women and girls I just spoke of, 
as they glide, with a small clatter and with their old copper 
water-jars, to the fountain. The Venetian girl-face is won- 
derfully sweet and the effect is charming when its pale, sad 
oval (they all look underfed), is framed in the old faded 
shawl. They also have very fascinating hair, which never 
has done curling, and they slip along together, in couples or 
threes, interlinked by the arms and never meeting one's 
eye (so that its geniality doesn't matter), dressed in thin, 
cheap cotton gowns, whose limp folds make the same de- 
lightful line that everything else in Italy makes. The 
weather is splendid and I roast but I like it ; apparently, 
I was made to be spitted and " done," and I discover that 
I have been cold all my life, even when I thought I was 
warm. I have seen none of the beautiful patricians who 
sat for the great painters the gorgeous beings whose golden 
hair was intertwined with pearls ; but I am studying Italian 
in order to talk with the shuffling, clicking maidens who 
work in the bead-factories I am determined to make one 
or two of them look at me. When they have filled their old 
water-pots at the fountain it is jolly to see them perch them 
on their heads and patter away over the polished Venetian 
stones. It's a charm to be in a country where the women 
don't wear the hideous British bonnet. Even in my own 
class (excuse the expression I remember it used to offend 
you), I have never known a young female, in London, to 
put her nose out of the door without it ; and if you had 
frequented such young females as much as I have you 
would have learned of what degradation that dreary neces- 
sity is the source. The floor of my room is composed of 
little brick tiles, and to freshen the air, in this temperature, 
one sprinkles it, as you no doubt know, with water. Before 
long, if I keep on sprinkling, I shall be able to swim about ; 
the green shutters are closed, and the place makes a very 
good tank. Through the chinks the hot light of the campo 
comes in. I smoke cigarettes, and in the pauses of this 
composition recline on a faded magenta divan in the corner. 
Convenient to my hand, in that attitude, are the works of 
