character" is in which it appears, may be learned from the introductory
paragraph, as follows:
  "We, too, have a Planchette, and a Planchette with this signal
  merit: it disclaims all pretensions to supermundane inspirations; it
  operates freely--indeed, with extraordinary freedom; it goes at the
  tap of the drum. The first touch of the operators, no matter under
  what circumstances it is brought out to reveal its knowledge, sets
  it in motion. But it brings no communications from any celestial or
  spiritual sources. Its chirography is generally good, and frequently
  excellent. Its remarks evince an intelligence often above that of
  the operators, and its talent at answering or evading difficult
  questions is admirable. We have no theories about it."
It seems, from other passages in the article, that this Planchette
disclaims the ability to tell anything that is not contained in the
minds of the persons present, although it frequently gives theories in
direct contradiction to the opinions of all present, and argues them
with great persistence until driven up into a corner. It simply assumes
the name of "Planchet," leaving off the feminine termination of the
word; and "on being remonstrated with for illiteracy, it defended itself
by saying, 'I always was a bad speler,'--an orthographical blunder,"
says the writer, "that no one in the room was capable of making."
Although the writer in the paragraph above quoted disclaims all theories
on the subject, he does propound a theory, such as it is; but of this
we defer our notice until we come to put the several theories that have
been offered into the hopper and grind them up together; at which time
we will take some further notice of the amusing peculiarities of this
writer's Planchette.
The Ladies' Repository of November, 1868, contains an article, written
by Rev. A. D. Field, entitled "Planchette; or, Spirit-Rapping Made
Easy." This writer mentions a number of test questions asked by him of
Planchette, the answers to which were all false. Yet he acknowledges
that "the mysterious little creature called Planchette is no humbug;
that some mysterious will-power causes it to answer questions, and that
it is useless to ignore these things, or to laugh at them." The writer
submits a theory by which he thinks these mysteries may be explained, in
a measure, if not wholly, but this, with others, will be reserved for
notice hereafter.
Harper's Monthly Magazine for December, 1868, contains an article
entitled "The Confessions of a Reformed Planchettist." In this
article, the writer, no doubt drawing wholly or in part from his
imagination, details a series of tricks which he had successfully
practiced upon the credulity of others, and concludes by propounding
a very sage and charitable theory to account for all Planchette
phenomena, on which theory we shall yet have a word to offer.
Hours at Home, of February, 1869, contains an article, by J. T.
Headley, entitled "Planchette at the Confessional." In this article,
the writer cogently argues the claims of these new phenomena upon the
attention of scientific men. He says: "That it [the Planchette] writes
things never dreamed of by the operators, is proved by their own
testimony and the testimony of others, beyond all contradiction;" and
goes so far as to assert that to whatever cause these phenomena may be
attributed, "they will seriously affect the whole science of mental
philosophy." He relates a number of facts, more or less striking, and
propounds a theory in their explanation, to which, with others, we will
recur by-and-by.
The foregoing are a few of the most noted, among the many less
important, lucubrations that have fallen under our notice concerning
this interesting subject--enough, however, to indicate the intense
public interest which the performances of this little board are
exciting. We will now proceed to notice some of the theories that
have been advanced for the solution of the mystery.
THEORY FIRST--THAT THE BOARD IS MOVED BY THE HANDS THAT REST UPON IT.
It is supposed that this movement is made either by design or
unconsciously, and that the answers are either the result of adroit
guessing, or the expressions of some appropriate thoughts or memories
which had been previously slumbering in the minds of the operators, and
happen to be awakened at the moment.
After detailing his exploits (whether real or imaginary he has left us
in doubt) in a successful and sustained course of deception, the writer
in Harper's reaches this startling conclusion of the whole matter:
  "It would only write when I moved it, and then it wrote precisely
  what I dictated. That persons write 'unconsciously,' I do not
  believe. As well tell me a man might pick pockets without knowing
  it. Nor am I at all prepared to believe the assertions of those who
  declare that they do not move the board. I know what operators will
  do in such cases; I know the distortion, the disregard of truth
  which association with this immoral board superinduces."
This writer has somewhat the advantage of me. I confess I have no means
of coming to the knowledge of the truth but those of careful thought,
patient observation, and collection of facts, and deduction from them.
But here is a mind that can with one bold dive reach the inner mysteries
of the sensible and supersensible world, penetrate the motives and
impulses that govern the specific moral acts of men, and disclose
at once to us the horrible secret of a conspiracy which, without
preconcert, has been entered into by thousands of men, women, and
children in all parts of the land, to cheat the rest of the human
race--a conspiracy, too, in which certain members of innumerable private
families have banded together to play tricks upon their fathers,
mothers, brothers, and sisters! I feel awed by the overshadowing
presence of such a mind--in fact, I do not feel quite at home with
him, and therefore most respectfully bow myself out of his presence
without further ceremony.
As to the hypothesis that the person or persons whose hands are on the
board move it unconsciously, this is met by the fact that the persons
are perfectly awake and in their senses, and are just as conscious of
what they are doing or not doing as at any other time. Or if it be
morally possible to suppose that they all, invariably, and with one
accord, lie when they assert that the board moves without their
volition, how is it that the answers which they give to questions, some
of them mentally, are in so large a proportion of cases, appropriate
answers? How is it, for example, that Planchette, under the hands of
my own daughter, has, in numerous cases, given correctly the names of
persons whom she had never seen or heard of before, giving also the
names of their absent relatives, the places of their residence, etc.,
all of which were absolutely unknown by every person present except the
questioner?
A theory propounded by the Rev. Dr. Patton, of Chicago, in an article
published in The Advance, some time since, may be noticed under this
head. He says:
  "How, then, shall we account for the writing which is performed
  without any direct volition? Our method refers it to an automatic
  power of mind separate from conscious volition. * * * Very common
  is the experience of an automatic power in the pen, by which it
  finishes a word, or two or three words, after the thoughts have
  consciously gone on to what is to follow. We infer, then, from
  ordinary facts known to the habitual penman, that if a fixed idea
  is in the mind at the time when the nervous and volitional powers
  are exercised with a pen, it will often express itself spontaneously
  through the pen, when the mental faculties are at work otherwise. We
  suppose, then, that Planchette is simply an arrangement by which,
  through the outstretched arms and fingers, the mind comes into
  such relation with the delicate movements of the pencil, that its
  automatic power finds play, and the ideas present in the mind are
  transferred unconsciously to paper." (Italics our own.)
That may all be, Doctor, and no marvel about it. That the "fixed
idea"--"the ideas present in the mind," should be "transferred
unconsciously to paper," by means of Planchette, is no more wonderful
than that the same thing should be done by the pen, and without the
intervention of that little board. But for the benefit of a sorely
mystified world, be good enough to tell us how ideas that are not
present, and that never were present, in the mind, can be transferred
to paper by this automatic power of the mind. Grant that the mind
possesses an automatic power to work in grooves, as it were, or in
a manner in which it has been previously trained to work, as is
illustrated by the delicate fingerings of the piano, all correct and
skillful to the nicest shade, while the mind of the performer may for
the moment be occupied in conversation; but not since the world began
has there been an instance in which the mind, acting solely from itself,
by "automatic powers" or otherwise, has been able to body forth any idea
which was not previously within itself. That Planchette does sometimes
write things of which the person or persons under whose hands it moves
never had the slightest knowledge or even conception, it would be
useless to deny.
THEORY SECOND--IT IS ELECTRICITY, OR MAGNETISM.
That electricity, or magnetism (a form of the same thing), is the agent
of the production of these phenomena, is a theory which, perhaps, has
more advocates among the masses than any other. It is the theory urged
by Mr. Headley with a great amount of confidence in his article already
referred to; and with his arguments, as those of an able and, in some
sense, representative writer on this subject, we shall be principally
occupied for a few paragraphs.
When this theory is offered in seriousness as a final solution of the
mystery in question, we are tempted to ask, Who is electricity? what
is his mental and moral status? and how and where did he get his
education? Or if by "electricity" is here simply meant the subtile,
imponderable, and impersonal fluid commonly known by that name,
then let us ask, Who is at the other end of the wire?--for there must
evidently be a who as well as a what in the case. But when the
advocates of the electrical theory are brought to their strict
definitions, they are compelled to admit that this agent is nothing more
than a medium of the power and intelligence that are manifested. Now
a medium, which signifies simply a middle, distinctly implies two
opposite ends or extremes, and as applied in this case, one of those
ends or extremes must be the source, and the other the recipient of the
power or influence that is transmitted through the medium or middle; and
it is an axiom of common sense that no medium can be a perfect medium
which has anything to do with the origination or qualification of that
which is intended simply to flow through it, or which is not absolutely
free from action except as it is acted upon. That there are so-called
mediums which refract, pervert, falsify, or totally obliterate the
characteristics of that which was intended to be transmitted through
them, is not to be denied; but these are by no means perfect or reliable
mediums, either in physical or psychic matters.
If the little instrument in question, therefore, is, through the medium
of electricity or any other agency, brought under perfect control and
then driven to write a communication, the force that drives and the
intelligence that directs it can not be attributed to the medium itself,
but to something behind and beyond it which must embrace in itself all
the active powers and qualifications to produce the effect. Now let us
see where Mr. Headley gets the active powers and qualifications to
produce the phenomena manifested by his Planchette. He shall speak for
himself:
  "That a spirit, good or bad, has anything to do with this piece
  of board and the tips of children's fingers, is too absurd a
  supposition to be entertained for a moment. We are driven,
  therefore, to the conclusion that what is written (by honest
  operators) has its origin either in the minds of those whose hands
  are on the instrument, or else it results from communication with
  other minds through another channel than the outward senses. At all
  events, on this hypothesis I have been able to explain most of the
  phenomena I have witnessed. I had, with others, laughed at the
  stories told about Planchette, when a lady visiting my family from
  the city brought, as the latest novelty, one for my daughter.
  Experiments were of course made with it, with very little success,
  till a young lady came to visit us from the West, whose efforts
  with those of my son wrought a marvelous change. She was modest and
  retiring, with a rich brown complexion, large swimming eyes, dark as
  midnight, and a dreamy expression of countenance, and altogether a
  temperament that is usually found to possess great magnetic power.
  My son, on the contrary, is fair, full of animal life, and enjoying
