Her tone made him feel how little she had suspected 
he could have the weakness of a discouragement, how little 
of a question it must have seemed to her that he would 
one day triumph on his own erratic line. It was the 
sweetest tribute he had yet received to the idea that he 
might have ability; the letter of the editor of the 'Rational 
Review ' was nothing to it. ' No, I felt very blue ; it didn't 
seem to me at all clear that there was a place for me in the 
world.' 
' Gracious !' said Verena Tarrant. 
A quarter of an hour later Miss Birdseye, who had 
returned to her letters (she had a correspondent at Framing- 
ham who usually wrote fifteen pages), became aware that 
Verena, who was now alone, was re-entering the house. 
She stopped her on her way, and said she hoped she hadn't 
pushed Mr. Ransom overboard. 
'  Oh no ; he has gone off round the other way.' 
' Well, I hope he is going to speak for us soon.' 
Verena hesitated a moment. ' He speaks with the pen. 
 
He has written a very fine article for the "Rational 
Review." ' 
Miss Birdseye gazed at her young friend complacently ; 
the sheets of her interminable letter fluttered in the breeze. 
'  Well, it's delightful to see the way it goes on, isn't it?' 
Verena scarcely knew what to say ; then, remembering 
that Doctor Prance had told her that they might lose their 
dear old companion any day, and confronting it with some- 
thing Basil Ransom had just said that the '  Rational 
Review ' was a quarterly and the editor had notified him 
that his article would appear only in the number after the 
next she reflected that perhaps Miss Birdseye wouldn't be 
there, so many months later, to see how it was her supposed 
consort had spoken. She might, therefore, be left to 
believe what she liked to believe, without fear of a day of 
reckoning. Verena committed herself to nothing more 
confirmatory than a kiss, however, which the old lady's 
displaced head-gear enabled her to imprint upon her fore- 
head and which caused Miss Birdseye to exclaim, ' Why, 
Verena Tarrant, how cold your lips are ! ' It was not 
surprising to Verena to hear that her lips were cold; a 
mortal chill had crept over her, for she knew that this time 
she should have a tremendous scene with Olive. 
She found her in her room, to which she had fled on 
quitting Mr. Ransom's presence; she sat in the window, 
having evidently sunk into a chair the moment she came 
in, a position from which she must have seen Verena walk 
through the garden and down to the water with the in- 
truder. She remained as she had collapsed, quite pro- 
strate; her attitude was the same as that other time 
Verena had found her waiting, in New York. What 
Olive was likely to say to her first the girl scarcely knew ; 
her mind, at any rate, was full of an intention of her own. 
She went straight to her and fell on her knees before her, 
taking hold of the hands which were clasped together, 
with nervous intensity, in Miss Chancellor's lap. Verena 
remained a moment, looking up at her, and then said : 
'  There is something I want to tell you now, without a 
moment's delay ; something I didn't tell you at the time it 
happened, nor afterwards. Mr. Ransom came out to see 
me once, at Cambridge, a little while before we went to 
New York. He spent a couple of hours with me ; we 
took a walk together and saw the colleges. It was after 
that that he wrote to me when I answered his letter, as I 
told you in New York. I didn't tell you then of his visit. 
We had a great deal of talk about him, and I kept that 
back. I did so on purpose ; I can't explain why, except 
that I didn't like to tell you, and that I thought it better. 
But now I want you to know everything ; when you know 
that, you will know everything. It was only one visit 
about two hours. I enjoyed it very much he seemed so 
much interested. One reason I didn't tell you was that I 
didn't want you to know that he had come on to Boston, 
and called on me in Cambridge, without going to see you. 
I thought it might affect you disagreeably. I suppose you 
will think I deceived you ; certainly I left you with a wrong 
impression. But now I want you to know all all !' 
Verena spoke with breathless haste and eagerness; there 
was a kind of passion in the way she tried to expiate her 
former want of candour. Olive listened, staring; at first 
she seemed scarcely to understand. But Verena perceived 
that she understood sufficiently when she broke out : ' You 
deceived me you deceived me ! Well, I must say I like 
your deceit better than such dreadful revelations ! And 
what does anything matter when he has come after you 
now? What does he want what has he come for?' 
' He has come to ask me to be his wife.' 
Verena said this with the same eagerness, with as deter- 
mined an air of not incurring any reproach this time. But 
as soon as she had spoken she buried her head in Olive's 
lap. 
Olive made no attempt to raise it again, and returned 
none of the pressure of her hands \ she only sat silent for a 
time, during which Verena wondered that the idea of the 
episode at Cambridge, laid bare only after so many months, 
should not have struck her more deeply. Presently she 
saw it was because the horror of what had just happened 
drew her off from it. At last Olive asked : ' Is that what 
he told you, off there by the water?' 
' Yes' and Verena looked up 'he wanted me to know 
 
it right away. He says it's only fair to you that he should 
give notice of his intentions. He wants to try and make 
me like him so he says. He wants to see more of me, 
and he wants me to know him better.' 
Olive lay back in her chair, with dilated eyes and parted 
lips. ' Verena Tarrant, what is there between you ? what 
can I hold on to, what can I believe ? Two hours, in Cam- 
bridge, before we went to New York?' The sense that 
Verena had been perfidious there perfidious in her reti- 
cence now began to roll over her. ( Mercy of heaven, 
how you did act !' 
'Olive, it was to spare you.' 
' To spare me ? If you really wished to spare me he 
wouldn't be here now !' 
Miss Chancellor flashed this out with a sudden violence, 
a spasm which threw Verena off and made her rise to her 
feet. For an instant the two young women stood con- 
fronted, and a person who had seen them at that moment 
might have taken them for enemies rather than friends. 
But any such opposition could last but a few seconds. 
Verena replied, with a tremor in her voice which was not 
that of passion, but of charity : ' Do you mean that I ex- 
pected him, that I brought him ? I never in my life was 
more surprised at anything than when I saw him there.' 
' Hasn't he the delicacy of one of his own slave-drivers ? 
Doesn't he know you loathe him?' 
Verena looked at her friend with a degree of majesty 
which, with her, was rare. 'I don't loathe him I only 
dislike his opinions.' 
'Dislike! Oh, misery!' And Olive turned away to 
the open window, leaning her forehead against the lifted 
sash. 
Verena hesitated, then went to her, passing her arm 
round her. 'Don't scold me! help me help me!' she 
murmured. 
Olive gave her a sidelong look ; then, catching her up 
and facing her again ' Will you come away, now, by the 
next train?' 
' Flee from him again, as I did in New York ? No, no, 
Olive Chancellor, that's not the way,' Verena went on, 
 
reasoningly, as if all the wisdom of the ages were seated 
on her lips. 'Then how can we leave Miss Birdseye, 
in her state? We must stay here we must fight it out 
here.' 
'Why not be honest, if you have been false really 
honest, not only half so ? Why not tell him plainly that 
you love him?' 
'Love him, Olive? why, I scarcely know him.' 
' You'll have a chance, if he stays a month !' 
' I don't dislike him, certainly, as you do. But how can 
I love him when he tells me he wants me to give up 
everything, all our work, our faith, our future, never to 
give another address, to open my lips in public ? How can 
I consent to that?' Verena went on, smiling strangely. 
'He asks you that, just that way?' 
' No ; it's not that way. It's very kindly.' 
' Kindly ? Heaven help you, don't grovel ! Doesn't 
he know it's my house?' Olive added, in a moment. 
' Of course he won't come into it, if you forbid him.' 
'So that you may meet him in other places on the 
shore, in the country?' 
'I certainly shan't avoid him, hide away from him,' 
said Verena, proudly. ' I thought I made you believe, in 
New York, that I really cared for our aspirations. The 
way for me then is to meet him, feeling conscious of my 
strength. What if I do like him ? what does it matter ? I 
like my work in the world, I like everything I believe in, 
better.' 
Olive listened to this, and the memory of how, in the 
house in Tenth Street, Verena had rebuked her doubts, 
professsed her own faith anew, came back to her with a 
force which made the present situation appear slightly less 
terrific. Nevertheless, she gave no assent to the girl's 
logic ; she only replied : ' But you didn't meet him there ; 
you hurried away from New York, after I was willing you 
should stay. He affected you very much there ; you were 
not so calm when you came back to me from your expedi- 
tion to the park as you pretend to be now. To get away 
from him you gave up all the rest.' 
' I know I wasn't so calm. But now I have had three 
 
months to think about it about the way he affected me 
there. I take it very quietly.' 
' No, you don't ; you are not calm now ! ' 
Verena was silent a moment, while Olive's eyes con- 
tinued to search her, accuse her, condemn her. ' It's all 
the more reason you shouldn't give me stab after stab,' she 
replied, with a gentleness which was infinitely touching. 
It had an instant effect upon Olive; she burst into tears, 
threw herself on her friend's bosom. 'Oh, don't desert 
me don't desert me, or you'll kill me in torture,' she 
moaned, shuddering. 
'  You must help me you must help me ! ' cried Verena, 
imploringly too. 
XXXVII. 
BASIL RANSOM spent nearly a month at Marmion ; in 
announcing this fact I am very conscious of its extra- 
ordinary character. Poor Olive may well have been thrown 
