his ideal how dear she was to him, and how she had 
shaped and governed his life, and made it better and 
nobler from the first moment they had met. The 
fumes of the romances which he had read mixed 
with the love-born delirium in his brain ; he was no 
longer low, but a hero of lofty line, kept from his 
rightful place by machinations that had failed at last, 
and now he was leading her, his bride, into the 
 
 
ancient halls which were to be their home, and the 
source of beneficence and hope to all the poor and 
humbly-born around them. His eyes were so full of 
this fantastic vision, the soul of his youth dwelt so 
deeply within this dream-built tabernacle, that it was 
with a shock of anguish he saw coming up the walk 
towards him the young girl herself. His airy 
structure fell in ruins around him; he was again 
common and immeasurably beneath her; she was 
again in her own world, where, if she thought of 
him at all, it must be as a squalid vagabond and the 
accomplice of a thief. If he could have escaped, he 
would, but he could not move ; he sat still and 
waited with fallen eyes for her to pass him. 
At sight of him she hesitated and wavered ; then 
she came towards him, and at a second impulse held 
out her hand, smiling with a radiant pleasure. 
" I didn't know it was you at first," she said. 
" It seems so strange to see any one that I know ! " 
" I didn't expect to see you, either," he stammered 
out, getting somehow upon his feet, and taking her 
hand, while his fac? burned, and he could not keep 
his eyes on hers; "I didn't know you were 
here." 
" I've  only been here a few days. I' m drawing 
at the Museum. I've  just got back. Have you 
been here all summer ? " 
" Yes all summer. I hope you've  been well I 
suppose you've  been away 
" Yes, I've  just got back," she repeated. 
" Oh yes ! I' meant that ! " 
 
She smiled at his confusion, as kindly as the ideal 
of his day-dream. " I've been spending the summer 
with Madeline, and I've spent most of it out-of-doors, 
sketching. Have you been well ? " 
" Yes not very ; oh yes, I' m well " She 
had begun to move forward with the last question, 
and he found himself walking with her. " Did she 
has Miss Swan come back with you ?" he asked, 
looking her in the eyes with more question than he 
had put into his words. 
" No, I don't think she'll come back this winter," 
said the girl. " You know," she went on, colouring 
a little, "that she 's married now ? " 
"No," said Lemuel. 
" Yes. To Mr. Berry. And I have a letter from 
him for you." 
" Was he there with you, this summer ? " asked 
Lemuel, ignoring alike Berry 's marriage and the 
letter from him. 
" Oh yes ; of course ! And I liked him better 
than I used to. He is very good, and if Madeline 
didn't have to go so far West to live ! He will 
know how to appreciate her, and there are not 
many who can do that ! Her father thinks he has 
a great deal of ability. Yes, if Madeline had to 
get married ! " 
She talked as if convincing and consoling herself, 
and there was an accent of loneliness in it all that 
pierced Lemuel 's preoccupation ; he had hardly noted 
how almost pathetically glad she was to see him. 
"You'll miss her here," he ventured. 
"Oh, I don't dare to think of it," cried the girl. 
" I don't know what I shall do ! When I first saw 
you, just now, it brought up Madeline and last 
winter so that it seemed too much to bear ! " 
They had walked out of the garden across Charles 
Street, and were climbing the slope of Beacon Street 
Mall, in the Common. "I suppose," she continued, 
"the only way will be to work harder, and try to 
forget it. They wanted me to go out and stay with 
them ; but of course I couldn t. I shall work, and 
I shall read. I shall not find another Madeline 
Swan ! You must have been reading a great deal 
this summer, Mr. Barker," she said, in turning upon 
him from her bereavement. "Have you seen any 
of the old boarders ? Or Mrs. Harmon ? I shall 
never have another winter like that at the poor old 
St. Albans ! " 
Lemuel made what answer he could. There was 
happiness enough in merely being with her to have 
counterbalanced all the pain he was suffering ; and 
when she made him partner of her interests and 
associations, and appealed to their common memories 
in confidence of his sympathy, his heavy heart stirred 
with strange joy. He had supposed that Berry must 
have warned her against him ; but she was treating 
him as if he had not. Perhaps he had not, and 
perhaps he had done so, and this was her way of 
showing that she did not believe it. He tried to 
think so ; he knew it was a subterfuge, but he 
lingered in it with a fleeting, fearful pleasure. They 
had crossed from the Common and were walking up 
 
under the lindens of Chestnut Street, and from time 
to time they stopped, in the earnestness of their 
parley, and stood talking, and then loitered on again 
in the summer security from oversight which they 
were too rapt to recognise. They reached the top of 
the hill, and came to a door where she stopped. He 
fell back a pace. " Good-bye It was eternal 
loss, but it was escape. 
She smiled in timorous hesitation. " Won't you 
come in \ And I will get Mr. Berry 's letter." 
She opened the door with a latch-key, and he 
followed her within ; a servant-girl came half-way 
up the basement stairs to see who it was, and then 
wenfr down. She left him in the dim parlour a 
moment, while she went to get the letter. When 
she returned, "I have a little room for my work at 
the top of the house," she said, " but it will never be 
like the St. Albans. There 's no one else here yet, 
and it 's pretty lonesome without Madeline." 
x She sank into a chair, but he remained standing, 
and seemed not to heed her when she asked him to 
sit down. He put Berry 's letter into his pocket 
without looking at it, and she rose again. 
She must have thought he was going, and she 
said with a smile of gentle trust, "It 's been like 
having last winter back again to see you. We 
thought you must have gone home right after the 
fire ; we didn't see anything of you again. We went 
ourselves in about a week." 
Then she did not know, and he must tell her 
himself. 
 
" Did Mr. Berry say anything about me at the 
fire that last day ? " he began bluntly. 
" No ! " she said, looking at him with surprise ; 
there was a new sound in his voice. " He had no 
need to say anything ! I wanted to tell you to 
write and tell you how much I honoured you for 
it how ashamed I was for misunderstanding you 
just before, when " 
He knew that she meant when they all pitied him 
for a coward. 
Her voice trembled ; he could tell that the tears 
were in her eyes. He tried to put the sweetness of 
her praise from him. "Oh, it wasn't that that I 
meant," he groaned; and he wrenched the words 
out. " That fellow, who said he was a friend of mine, 
and got into the house that way, was a thief ; and 
Mr. Berry caught him robbing his room the day of 
the fire, and treated me as if I knew it and was 
helping him on 
" Oh ! " cried the girl. " How cruel ! How could 
lie do that ? " 
Lemuel could not suffer himself to take refuge in 
her generous faith now. 
" When I first came to Boston, I had my money 
stolen, and there were two days when I had nothing 
to eat ; and then I was arrested by mistake for 
stealing a girl 's satchel ; and when I was acquitted, 
I slept the next night in the tramp 's lodging-house, 
and that fellow was there, arid when he came to the 
St. Albans I was ashamed to tell where I had known 
him, and so I let him pass himself off for my friend." 
 
He kept his eyes fixed on hers, bat he could not 
see them change from their pity of him, or light up 
with a sense of any squalor in his history. 
"And I used to think that my life had been 
hard ! " she cried. " Oh, how much you have been 
through ! " 
" And after that," he pursued, " Mr. Sewell got me 
a place, a sort of servant 's place, and when I lost that 
I came to be the man-of-all work at the St. Albans." 
In her eyes the pity was changing to admiration ; 
his confession which he had meant to be so abject 
had kindled her fancy like a boastful tale. 
"How little we know about people and what 
they have suffered ! But I thank you for telling me 
this oh yes ! and I shall always think of myself 
with contempt. How easy and pleasant my life 
has been ! And you 
She stopped, and he stood helpless against her 
misconception. He told her about the poverty he 
had left at home, and the wretched circumstance of 
his life, but she could not see it as anything but 
honourable to his present endeavour. She listened 
with breathless interest to it all, and, " Well," she 
sighed at last, " it will always be something for you 
to look back to, and be proud of. And that girl 
did she never say or do anything to show that she 
was sorry for that cruel mistake ? Did you ever see 
her afterwards ? " 
"Yes," said Lemuel, sick at heart, and feeling how 
much more triumphantly he could have borne 
ignominy and rejection than this sweet sympathy. 
