difference does it make? I’ve lost her, anyway.”
“I don’t believe you’ve lost her,” said Boardman.
“What’s the reason you don’t?” retorted Mavering, with contempt.
“Because, if she’s the serious kind of a girl you say she is, she
wouldn’t let you come up there and dangle round a whole fortnight
without letting you know she didn’t like it, unless she did like it. Now
you just go a little into detail.”
Mavering was quite willing. He went so much into detail that he left
nothing to Boardman’s imagination. He lost the sense of its calamitous
close in recounting the facts of his story at Campobello; he smiled
and blushed and laughed in telling certain things; he described Miss
Anderson and imitated her voice; he drew heads of some of the ladies
on the margin of a newspaper, and the tears came into his eyes when he
repeated the cruel words which Alice had used at their last meeting.
“Oh, well, you must brace up,” said Boardman. “I’ve got to go now. She
didn’t mean it, of course.”
“Mean what?”
“That you were ungentlemanly. Women don’t know half the time how hard
they’re hitting.”
“I guess she meant that she didn’t want me, anyway,” said Mavering
gloomily.
“Ah, I don’t know about that. You’d better ask her the next time you see
her. Good-bye.” He had risen, and he offered his hand to Mavering, who
was still seated.
“Why, I’ve half a mind to go with you.”
“All right, come along. But I thought you might be going right on to
Boston.”
“No; I’ll wait and go on with you. How, do you go to the race?”
“In the press boat.”
“Any women?”
“No; we don’t send them on this sort of duty.”
“That settles it. I have got all I want of that particular sex for the
time being.” Mavering wore a very bitter air as he said this; it seemed
to him that he would always be cynical; he rose, and arranged to leave
his bag with the restaurateur, who put it under the counter, and then he
went out with his friend.
The sun had come out, and the fog was burning away; there was life and
lift in the air, which the rejected lover could not refuse to feel, and
he said, looking round, and up and down the animated street. “I guess
you’re going to have a good day for it.”
The pavement was pretty well filled with women who had begun shopping.
Carriages were standing beside the pavement; a lady crossed the pavement
from a shop door toward a coupe just in front of them, with her hand
full of light packages; she dropped one of them, and Mavering sprang
forward instinctively and picked it up for her.
“Oh, thank you!” she said, with the deep gratitude which society
cultivates for the smallest services. Then she lifted her drooped
eyelashes, and, with a flash of surprise, exclaimed, “Mr. Mavering!” and
dropped all her packages that she might shake hands with him.
Boardman sauntered slowly on, but saw with a backward glance Mavering
carrying the lady’s packages to the coupe for her; saw him lift his
hat there, and shake hands with somebody in the coupe, and then stand
talking beside it. He waited at the corner of the block for Mavering to
come up, affecting an interest in the neck-wear of a furnisher’s window.
In about five minutes Mavering joined him.
“Look here, Boardman! Those ladies have snagged onto me.”
“Are there two of them?”
“Yes, one inside. And they want me to go with then to see the race.
Their father’s got a little steam-yacht. They want you to go too.”
Boardman shook his head.
“Well, that’s what I told them--told them that you had to go on the
press boat. They said they wished they were going on the press boat too.
But I don’t see how I can refuse. They’re ladies that I met Class Day,
and I ought to have shown them a little more attention then; but I got
so taken up with--”
“I see,” said Boardman, showing his teeth, fine and even as grains of
pop-corn, in a slight sarcastic smile. “Sort of poetical justice,” he
suggested.
“Well, it is--sort of,” said Mavering, with a shamefaced consciousness.
“What train are you going back on?”
“Seven o’clock.”
“I’ll be there.”
He hurried back to rejoin the ladies, and Boardman saw him, after some
parley and laughter, get into the coupe, from which he inferred that
they had turned down the little seat in front, and made him take it; and
he inferred that they must be very jolly, sociable girls.
He did not see Mavering again till the train was on its way, when he
came in, looking distraughtly about for his friend. He was again very
melancholy, and said dejectedly that they had made him stay to dinner,
and had then driven him down to the station, bag and all. “The old
gentleman came too. I was in hopes I’d find you hanging round somewhere,
so that I could introduce you. They’re awfully nice. None of that
infernal Boston stiffness. The one you saw me talking with is married,
though.”
Boardman was writing out his report from a little book with shorthand
notes in it. There were half a dozen other reporters in the car busy
with their work. A man who seemed to be in authority said to one of
them, “Try to throw in a little humour.”
Mavering pulled his hat over his eyes, and leaned his head on the back
of his seat, and tried to sleep.
XXIII.
At his father’s agency in Boston he found, the next morning, a letter
from him saying that he expected to be down that day, and asking Dan to
meet him at the Parker House for dinner. The letter intimated the elder
Mavering’s expectation that his son had reached some conclusion in the
matter they had talked of before he left for Campobello.
It gave Dan a shiver of self-disgust and a sick feeling of hopelessness.
He was quite willing now to do whatever his father wished, but he did
not see haw he could face him and own his defeat.
When they met, his father did not seem to notice his despondency, and he
asked him nothing about the Pasmers, of course. That would not have been
the American way. Nothing had been said between the father and son as
to the special advantages of Campobello for the decision of the question
pending when they saw each other last; but the son knew that the father
guessed why he chose that island for the purpose; and now the elder knew
that if the younger had anything to tell him he would tell it, and if
he had not he would keep it. It was tacitly understood that there was no
objection on the father’s part to Miss Pasmer; in fact, there had been a
glimmer of humorous intelligence in his eye when the son said he thought
he should run down to Bar Harbour, and perhaps to Campobello, but he had
said nothing to betray his consciousness.
They met in the reading-room at Parker’s, and Dan said, “Hello, father,”
 and his father answered, “Well, Dan;” and they shyly touched the hands
dropped at their sides as they pressed together in the crowd. The father
gave his boy a keen glance, and then took the lead into the dining-room,
where he chose a corner table, and they disposed of their hats on the
window-seat.
“All well at home?” asked the young fellow, as he took up the bill of
fare to order the dinner. His father hated that, and always made him do
it.
“Yes, yes; as usual, I believe. Minnie is off for a week at the
mountains; Eunice is at home.”
“Oh! How would you like some green goose, with apple-sauce,
sweet-potatoes, and succotash?”
“It seems to me that was pretty good, the last time. All right, if you
like it.”
“I don’t know that I care for anything much. I’m a little off my feed.
No soup,” he said, looking up at the waiter bending over him; and then
he gave the order. “I think you may bring me half a dozen Blue Points,
if they’re good,” he called after him.
“Didn’t Bar Harbour agree with you--or Campobello?” asked Mr. Mavering,
taking the opening offered him.
“No, not very well,” said Dan; and he said no more about it, leaving
his father to make his own inferences as to the kind or degree of the
disagreement.
“Well, have you made up your mind?” asked the father, resting his elbows
on either side of his plate, and putting his hands together softly,
while he looked across them with a cheery kindness at his boy.
“Yes, I have,” said Dan slowly.
“Well?”
“I don’t believe I care to go into the law.”
“Sure?”
“Yes.”
“Well, that’s all right, then. I wished you to choose freely, and I
suppose you’ve done so.”
“Oh Yes.”
“I think you’ve chosen wisely, and I’m very glad. It’s a weight off my
mind. I think you’ll be happier in the business than you would in the
law; I think you’ll enjoy it. You needn’t look forward to a great deal
of Ponkwasset Falls, unless you like.”
“I shouldn’t mind going there,” said Dan listlessly.
“It won’t be necessary--at first. In fact, it won’t be desirable. I want
you to look up the business at this end a little.”
Dan gave a start. “In Boston?”
“Yes. It isn’t in the shape I want to have it. I propose to open a place
of our own, and to put you in charge.” Something in the young man’s
face expressed reluctance, and his father asked kindly, “Would that be
distasteful to you?”
“Oh no. It isn’t the thing I object to, but I don’t know that I care
to be in Boston.” He lifted his face and looked his father full in the
eyes, but with a gaze that refused to convey anything definite. Then the
father knew that the boy’s love affair had gone seriously wrong.
The waiter came with the dinner, and made an interruption in which they
could be naturally silent. When he had put the dinner before them, and
cumbered them with superfluous service, after the fashion of his kind,
he withdrew a little way, and left them to resume their talk.
“Well,” said the elder lightly, as if Dan’s not caring to be in Boston
had no particular significance for him, “I don’t know that I care to
have you settle down to it immediately. I rather think I’d like to have
you look about first a little. Go to New York, go to Philadelphia, and
see their processes there. We can’t afford to get old-fashioned in our
ways. I’ve always been more interested by the aesthetic side of the
business, but you ought to have a taste for the mechanism, from your
grandfather; your mother has it.”
“Oh yes, sir. I think all that’s very interesting,” said Dan.
“Well, go to France, and see how those fellows do it. Go to London, and
look up William Morris.”
“Yes, that would be very nice,” admitted the young fellow, beginning to
catch on. “But I didn’t suppose--I didn’t expect to begin life with a
picnic.” He entered upon his sentence with a jocular buoyancy, but at
the last word, which he fatally drifted upon, his voice fell. He said
to himself that he was greatly changed; that, he should never be gay and
bright again; there would always be this undercurrent of sadness; he had
noticed the undercurrent yesterday when he was laughing and joking with
those girls at Portland.
“Oh, I don’t want you to buckle down at once,” said his father, smiling.
“If you’d decided upon the law, I should have felt that you’d better
not lose time. But as you’re going into the business, I don’t mind your
taking a year off. It won’t be lost time if you keep your eyes open.
I think you’d better go down into Italy and Spain. Look up the old
tapestries and stamped leathers. You may get some ideas. How would you
like it?”
“First-rate. I should like it,” said Dan, rising on the waft of his
father’s suggestion, but gloomily lapsing again. Still, it was pleasing
to picture himself going about through Europe with a broken heart, and
he did not deny himself the consolation of the vision.
“Well, there’s nobody to dislike it,” said his father cheerily. He was
sure now that Dan had been jilted; otherwise he would have put forth
some objection to a scheme which must interrupt his lovemaking. “There’s
no reason why, with our resources, we shouldn’t take the lead in this
