of human feeling is a delicate science; it calls for a fine 
moral equipment. If this were the high-water mark of 
nature for Jack — and who shall say ? — the tide shall 
have its sacred clue, even clown among those weeds and 
in that mud. He liked that girl, among them all, and 
her he thought of gently. He had known her a long 
time ; as much as three months. When the vessel came 
into Boston to sell halibut, he had a few days there, 
drifting about as seamen do, homeless and reckless ; 
clashing out the wages just paid off, in ways that some- 
times he remembered and sometimes he forgot, and that 
usually left him without a dollar toward his next fine 
when he should be welcomed by the police court of his 
native city on returning home. 
Jack thought, I say, gravely of this girl. He never 
once took her name in vain among the fellows ; and she 
had not been a very good girl either. But Jack re- 
flected that he was not very good himself, if you came 
to that. His downright, honest nature stood him in 
stead in this moral distinction ; there was always a 
broad streak of generosity in him at his worst ; it goes 
with the temperament, we say, and perhaps we say it 
too often to give him half the credit of it. 
She was a pretty girl, and she was very young. She 
had told Jack her story, as they strolled about the 
bright Boston streets on comfortable winter evenings ; 
when he took her to the variety show, or to the oystershop, 
and they talked together. Jack pitied her. Per- 
haps she deserved it ; it was a sad little story — and she 
was so very young ! She had a gentle way, with Jack ; 
for some reason, God knows why, she had trusted him 
from the first, and he had never once been known to dis- 
turb her trust. That was the pleasant part of it. 
On this evening that we speak of, Jack was sober. 
He was often sober when he had an evening to spend 
with the Boston girl ; not always — no ; truth must be 
told. She looked as pretty as was in her that night ; 
she had black eyes and a kind of yellow hair that Jack 
had never seen crinkled low on the forehead above black 
eyes before ; he thought her as fine to look at as any 
actress he ever saw ; for the stage was Jack's standard 
of the magnificent, as it is to so many of his sort. The 
girl's name was Teen. Probably she had been called 
Christine once, in her country home ; she even told Jack 
she had been baptized. 
"I wasn't, myself," said Jack; "I roared so, they 
darsen't do it. My mother got me to church, for she 
was a pious woman, and I pummeled the parson in the 
face with both fists, and she said she come away, for she 
was ashamed of me. She always said that christenin' 
wasn't never legal. It disappointed her, too. I was an 
awful baby." 
"I should think likely," said Teen with candor. " Do 
you set much by your mother ? " 
" She 's dead," said Jack in a subdued voice. Teen 
looked at him ; she had never heard him speak like 
that. 
" I 'most wished mine was," said the girl ; "she 'd 'a' 
ben better off — alonsc of me." 
" That 's so," said Jack. 
The two took a turn in silence up and down the 
brightly lighted street ; their thoughts looked out 
strangely from their marred young faces ; they felt as 
if they were in a foreign country. Jack had meant to 
ask her to take a drink, but he gave it up ; he could n't, 
somehow. 
"Was you always a fisherman?" asked Teen, feeling, 
with a woman's tact, that somebody must change the 
current of the subject. 
" I was a fisherman three generations back," Jack an- 
swered her ; " borned a fisherman, you bet ! I couldn't 
'a' ben nothin' else if I 'd drownded for it. It 's a smart 
business. You hev to keep your wits about you. Fishes 
is no fools." 
"Ain't they?" asked the girl listlessly. She was 
conscious of failing in conversational brilliancy ; but the 
truth was, she couldn't get over what they had been 
saying : it was always unfortunate when she remembered 
her mother. Jack began to talk to her about his business 
again, but Teen did not reply ; and when he looked 
down at her to see what ailed her, there were real tears 
rolling over her pretty cheeks. 
" Why, Teen ! " said Jack. 
" Leave go of me, Jack," said Teen, " and let me get 
off ; I ain't good company to-night. I 've got the dumps. 
I can't entertain ye, Jack. And, Jack —don't let 's talk 
about mothers next time, will we ? It spoils the evenin'. 
Leave go of me, and I 'll go home by my own self. I 'd 
rather." 
" I won't leave go of you ! " cried Jack with a sudden 
blazing purpose lighting up all the corners of his soul. 
It was a white light, not unholy ; it seemed to shine 
through and through him with a soft glow like a candle 
on an altar. " I 'll never leave go of you, Teen, if you'll 
say so. I 'd rather marry you." 
" Marry met" said Teen. 
" Yes, marry you. I 'd a sight rather. There, now !
It 's out with it. What do you say to that, Teen ? " 
With one slow finger-tip Teen wiped away the tears 
that fell for her mother. A ring on her finger glistened 
in the light as she did this. She saw the sparkle, tore 
off the ring and dashed it away ; it fell into the mud, 
and was trodden out of sight instantly. Jack sprang 
gallantly to pick it up. 
" Don't you touch it ! " cried the girl. She put her 
bared hand back upon his arm. The ring had left a little 
mark upon her finger ; she glanced at this, and looked 
up into Jack's handsome face ; he looked very kind. 
" Jack, clear," said Teen softly, " I ain't fit to marry 
ye." 
" You 're fitter 'n I be," answered Jack manfully. 
Teen sighed ; she did not speak at once ; other tears 
came now, but these were tears for herself and for Jack. 
Jack felt this, after his fashion ; they gave him singular 
confusion of mind. 
" I wouldn't cry about it, Teen. You needn't have 
me if you don't want to." 
" But I do want to, Jack." 
" Honest ? " 
" Honest it is, Jack." 
" Will ye make a good wife, Teen ? " asked Jack, after 
some unprecedented thought. 
" I 'll try, Jack." 
" You 'll never go back on me, nohow ? " 
" I ain't that sort ! " cried the girl, drawing herself up 
a little. A new dignity sat upon her with a certain grace 
which was beautiful to see. 
" Will you swear it, Teen ? " 
" If you 'd rather, Jack." 
" What 'll you swear by, now ? " asked Jack. " You 
must swear by all you hold holy." 
" What do I hold holy ? " mused Teen. 
"Will you swear," continued Jack seriously, "will you 
swear to me by the Rock of Ages ? " 
" What 's that ? " asked the girl. 
" It 's a hymn-tune. I want you to swear me by the 
Rock of Ages that you 'll be that you say you will, to 
me. Will you do it, Teen ? " 
" Oh yes," said Teen, " I 'll do it. Where shall we 
come across one ? " 
" I guess I can find it," Jack replied. " I can find 
'most anything I set out to." 
So they started out at random, in their reckless 
fashion, in the great city, to find the Rock of Ages for 
the asking. 
Jack led his companion hither and yon, peering into 
churches and vestries and missions, and wherever he 
saw signs of sacred things. Singing they heard abun- 
dantly in the gay town ; songs merry, mad, and sad ; 
but not the song for a girl to swear by, that she would 
be true wife to a man who trusted her. 
Wandering thus, on the strange errand whose pathos 
was so far above their own dream or knowledge, they 
chanced at last upon the place and the little group of 
people known in that part of Boston as Mother Mary's 
meeting. 
The girl said she had been there once, but that Mother 
Mary was too good for her ; she was one of the real 
kind. Everybody knew Mother Mary and her husband ; 
he was a parson. They were poor folks themselves, 
Teen said, and understood poor folks, and did for 
them all the year round, not clearing out, like rich ones, 
when it came hot weather, but stood by 'em, Teen said. 
They kept the little room open, and if you wanted a 
prayer you went in and got it, just as you 'd call for a 
drink or a supper ; it was always on hand for you, and 
a kind word sure to come with it, and you always knew 
where to go for 'em ; and Mother Mary treated you like 
folks. She liked her, Teen said. If she 'd been a different 
girl, she 'd have gone there of a cold night all 
winter. But Teen said she felt ashamed. 
" I guess she 'll have what I 'm after," said Jack. " She 
sounds like she would. Let 's go in and see." 
So they went into the quiet place among the praying 
people, and stood staring, for they felt embarrassed. 
Mother Mary looked very white and peaceful ; she was 
a tall, fair woman ; she wore a black dress with white 
about the bosom ; it was a plain, old dress, much mended. 
Mother Mary did not look rich, as Teen had said. 
The room was filled with poor creatures gathered about 
her like her children, while she talked with them and 
taught them as she could. She crossed the room im- 
mediately to where the young man stood, with the girl 
beside him. 
"We've come," said Jack, "to find the Rock of 
Ages." He drew Teen's hand through his arm, and 
held it for a moment ; then, moved by some fine instinct 
mysterious to himself, he lifted and laid it in Mother 
Mary's own. 
"Explain it to her, ma'am," he said ; "'tell her, won't 
you ? I 'm going to marry her, if she 'll have me. I 
want her to swear by somethin' holy she 'll be a true 
wife to me. She hadn't anything particularly holy herself,
and the holiest thing I know of is the Rock of 
Ages. I 've heard my mother sing it. She 's dead. 
We 've been huntin' Boston over to-night after the Rock 
of Ages." 
"I'll be an honest wife to you." 
Mother Mary was used to the pathos of her sober 
work, but the tears sprang now to her large and gentle 
