decisive note. She determined that he should never enter her life
again. It was no longer his, he had let it go without an effort to
detain it, and in Biarritz if it had seemed that he still held the
key of her heart, it was owing as much to the unexpectedness of his
presence as to the languors of the afternoons. In marrying, she had
meant to be brave; indeed, she had been so--when there was no danger;
and if in spite of her intentions she had faltered, the faltering
had at least served as a lesson which she would never need to learn
again. Over the cinders of her youth she would write a Requiescat. Her
girlhood had been her own to give, but her womanhood she had pledged to
another.
As she thought of these things she wondered at her husband. He had done
what she had hardly dared to expect--he had observed their ante-nuptial
agreement to the letter. A brother could not have treated her with
greater respect. Surely if ever a man set out to win his wife’s
affection he had chosen the surest way. And why had he so acted if it
were not as he had said, that given time and opportunity he would
win her affection. He was doing so, Maida felt, and with infinitely
greater speed than she had ever deemed possible. Beside, if the mangled
remnants of her heart seemed attractive, why should he be debarred from
their possession? Yet, that was precisely the point; he did not know of
the mangled remnants, he thought her heart-whole and virginal. But what
would he do if he learned the truth? And as she wondered, suddenly the
consciousness came to her that she was living with a stranger.
Heretofore she had not puzzled over the possible intricacies of her
husband’s inner nature. She had known that he was of a grave and silent
disposition, and as such she had been content to accept him, without
question or query. But as she collected some of the scattered threads
and memories of their life in common, it seemed to her that latterly
he had become even graver and more silent than before. And this merely
when they were alone. In the presence of a third person, when they
went abroad as guests, or when they remained at home as hosts, he
put his gravity aside like a garment. He encouraged her in whatever
conversation she might have engaged in, he aided her with a word or
a suggestion, he made a point of consulting her openly, and smiled
approvingly at any bright remark she chanced to make.
But when they were alone, unless she personally addressed him, he
seldom spoke, and the answers that he gave her, while perfectly
courteous in tone and couching, struck her, now that she reflected, as
automatic, like phrases learned by rote. It is true they were rarely
alone. In the mornings he busied himself with his correspondence,
and in the afternoons she found herself fully occupied with shops and
visits, while in the evenings there was usually a dinner, a play, or
a reception, sometimes all three. Since the season had begun, it was
only now and then, once in ten days perhaps, that an evening was passed
en tête-à-tête. On such occasions he would take up a book and read
persistently, or he would smoke, flicking the ashes from the cigar
abstractedly with his little finger, and so sit motionless for hours,
his eyes fixed on the cornice.
It was this silence that puzzled her. It was evident that he was
thinking of something, but of what? It could not be archæology, he
seemed to have given it up, and he was not a metaphysician, the only
thinker, be it said, to whom silence is at all times permissible.
At first she feared that his preoccupation might in some way be
connected with the episodes at Biarritz, but this fear faded. Mr.
Incoul had been made a member of the Cercle des Capucines, and now and
then looked in there ostensibly to glance at the papers or to take a
hand at whist. One day he said casually, “I saw your friend Leigh at
the club. You might ask him to dinner.” The invitation was sent, but
Lenox had regretted. After that incident it was impossible for her to
suppose that her husband’s preoccupation was in anywise connected with
the intimacy which had subsisted between the young man and herself.
There seemed left to her then but one tenable supposition. Her husband
had been indulgence personified. He had been courteous, refined and
foreseeing, in fact a gentleman, and, if silent, was it not possible
that the silence was due to a self-restraining delicacy, to a feeling
that did he speak he would plead, and that, perhaps, when pleading
would be distasteful to her?
To this solution Maida inclined. It was indeed the only one at which
she could arrive, and, moreover, it conveyed that little bouquet of
flattery which has been found grateful by many far less young and
feminine than she. And so, one evening, for the further elucidation
of the enigma, and with the idea that perhaps it needed but a word
from her to cause her husband to say something of that which was on
his mind, and which she was at once longing and dreading to hear--one
evening when he had seemed particularly abstracted, she bent forward
and said, “Harmon, of what are you thinking?”
She had never called him by his given name before. He started, and half
turned.
“Of you,” he answered.
But Maida’s heart sank. She saw that his eyes were not in hers, that
they looked over and beyond her, as though they followed the fringes of
an escaping dream.
CHAPTER XIII.
WHAT MAY BE HEARD IN A GREENROOM.
One evening in November a new ballet was given at the Opéra. Its
production had been heralded in the manner which has found most favor
with Parisian impressarii. The dead walls of the capital were not
adorned with colored lithographs. The advertising sheets held no
notice of the coming performance. But for several weeks previous the
columns of the liveliest journals had teemed with items and discreet
indiscretions.
Through these measures the curiosity of the Tout-Paris had been coerced
afresh, and, when the curtain, after falling on the second act of the
“Favorite” parted again before the new ballet, there was hardly a
vacant seat in the house.
The box which Mr. Incoul had taken for the season was on what is known
as the grand tier. It was roomy, holding eight comfortably and twelve
if need be. But Maida, who was adverse to anything that suggested
crowding, was always disinclined to ask more than five or six to
share it with her, and on the particular evening to which allusion is
made she extended her hospitality to but four people: Mr. and Mrs.
Wainwaring and their daughter, New Yorkers like herself, and the
Duc de la Dèche, a nobleman who served as figure-head to the Cercle
des Capucines, and who, so ran the gossip, was anxious to effect an
exchange of his coroneted freedom for the possession of Miss Wainwaring
and a bundle or two of her father’s securities.
During the entr’acte that preceded the ballet the box was invaded by
a number of visitors, young men who were indebted to Maida for a dinner
or a cup of tea and by others who hoped that such indebtedness was
still in store for them; there came, too, a popular artist who wished
to paint Maida’s portrait for the coming Salon and an author who may
have had much cleverness, but who never displayed it to any one.
As the invasion threatened to continue Mr. Incoul went out in the
corridor, where he was presently joined by the duke, who suggested
that they should visit the foyer. They made their way down the
giant stair and turning through the lobby passed on through the
corridor that circles the stalls until they reached a door guarded
from non-subscribers by a Suisse about whose neck there drooped a
medallioned chain of silver. By him the door was opened wide and the
two men passed on through a forest of side scenes till the foyer de la
danse was reached.
It was a spacious apartment, well lighted and lined with mirrors; the
furniture was meagre, a dozen or more chairs and lounges of red plush.
It was not beautiful, but then what market ever is? To Mr. Incoul
it was brilliant as a café, and equally vulgar. From dressing-rooms
above and beyond there came a stream of willowy girls. Few among them
were pretty, and some there were whose faces were repulsive, but the
majority were young; some indeed, the rats, as they are called, were
mere children. Here and there was a mother of the Mme. Cardinal type,
armed with an umbrella and prepared to listen to offers. As a rule,
however, the young ladies of the ballet were quite able to attend to
any little matter of business without maternal assistance. The Italian
element was easily distinguishable. There was the ultra darkness of
the eye, the faint umber of the skin, the richer vitality, in fact, of
which the anemic daughters of Paris were unpossessed. And now and then
the Gothic gutturals of the Spanish were heard, preceded by a wave of
garlic.
That night the subscribers to the stalls were out in full force. There
were Jew bankers in plenty, there were detachments from the Jockey
and the Mirletons, one or two foreign representatives, a few high
functionaries, the Minister of the Interior, and he of the Fine Arts, a
member of the imperial family of Russia, a number of stock brokers and
an Arab Sheik flanked by an interpreter.
Before the curtain rose, battalions of ballerines formed on the stage,
and after the performance began they were succeeded by others, the
first contingent returning to the dressing-rooms or loitering in the
foyer. In this way there was a constant coming and going accompanied by
the murmur of the spectators beyond and the upper notes of the flute.
Mr. Incoul was growing weary; he would have returned to the box, but
he was joined by acquaintances that he had made at the club, Frenchmen
mainly, friends of his companion, and presently he found himself
surrounded by a group of viveurs, men about town, who had their Paris
at the end of their gloves, and to whom it held no secrets. They had
dined and talked animatedly in ends and remnants of phrases in a sort
of verbal telegraphy; an exclamation helped by a gesture sufficing as
often as not for the full conveyance of their thought.
Mr. Incoul spoke French with tolerable ease, but having nothing of
moment to say, he held his tongue, contenting himself with listening
to the words of those who stood about him. And as he listened, the
name of Mirette caught his ear. The programme had already informed
him that it was she who was to assume the principal rôle in the new
ballet, consequently he was not unfamiliar with it, but of the woman
herself he knew nothing, and he listened idly, indifferent to ampler
information. But at once his interest quickened; his immediate neighbor
had mentioned her in connection with one whom he knew.
“They came up from Biarritz together,” he heard him say. “She went
there with Chose, that Russian.”
“Balaguine?”
“Precisely.”
“What did she do with him?”
“Found the Tartar, I fancy.”
“And then?”
“Voilà, this young American is mad about her.”
“He is rich then?”
“What would you? An American! They are it all.”
“Yes, a rich one always wins.”
“How mean you?”
“This: he plays bac at the Capucines. His banks are fructuous.”
“Ah, as to that--” And the first speaker shrugged his shoulders.
A rustle circled through the foyer, men stood aside and nodded affably.
The lights took on a fairer glow. “Stay,” murmured the second speaker,
“she is there.”
Through the parting crowd Mirette passed with a carriage such as no
queen, save perhaps Semiramis, ever possessed. She moved from the hips,
her body was erect and unswayed. It was the perfection of artificial
grace. Her features were not regular, but there was an expression
in them that stirred the pulse. “Je suis l’Amour,” she seemed to
say, and to add “prends garde à toi.” As she crossed the room men
moistened their lips, and when she had gone they found them still
parched.
Mr. Incoul followed her with his eyes. She had not left him unimpressed,
but his impression differed from that of his neighbors. In her face his
shrewdness had discerned nothing but the animal and the greed of
unsatiated appetites. He watched her pass, and stepped from the group
in which he had been standing that he might the better follow her
movements.
From the foyer she floated on into a side scene, yet not near enough
to the stage to be seen by the audience. A few machinists moved aside
to let her pass, and as they did so Mr. Incoul saw Lenox Leigh. It
