"Why are you angry, love?" he asked. "You have let me say it lightly so
often; will you not let me say it earnestly for once?"
"No," she answered firmly. "I do not want to hear it. I have been very
wrong, Alexander. I like you very much--because you are my cousin--but I
do not love you--I will not--I mean, I cannot. No, I am in earnest,
too--far more than you are. I can never love you--no, no, no--never!"
But she had let fall the words "I will not," and Alexander knew that
there was a struggle in her mind.
"You will not?" he said tenderly. "No--but you will, darling. I know you
will. You must; I will make you!"
Again he leaned far out of his saddle, and in an instant his left arm
went round her slender waist, as they rode quickly along, and his lips
touched her soft cheek just below the little gray veil. But he had gone
too far. Hermione's spurred heel just touched the Arab's flank, and he
sprang forward in a gallop up the narrow lane. Alexander kept close at
her side. His blood was up, and burning in his delicate cheek. He still
tried to keep his hand upon her waist, and bent towards her, moving in
his saddle with the ease of a born horseman as he galloped along. But
Hermione spurred her horse, and angrily tried to elude her cousin's
embrace, till in a moment they were tearing through the woods at a
racing pace.
Suddenly there came a crash, followed by a dull, heavy sound, and
Hermione saw that she was alone. She tried to look behind her, but
several seconds elapsed before her Arab could be quieted; at last she
succeeded in making him turn, and rode quickly back along the path.
Alexander's horse was standing across the way, and Hermione was obliged
to dismount and turn him before she could see beyond. Her cousin lay in
the lane, motionless as he had fallen, his face pale and turned upwards,
one arm twisted under his body, the other stretched out upon the soft
mould of the woodland path. Hermione stood holding the two horses, one
with each hand, and looking intently at the insensible man. She did not
lose her presence of mind, though she was frightened by his pallor; but
she could not let the horses run loose in such a place, when they might
be lost in a moment. She paused a moment, and listened for the sound of
hoofs, thinking that her father and I could not be far behind. But the
woods were very still, and she remembered that she and her cousin had
ridden fast over the last two miles. Drawing the bridles over the
horses' heads, she proceeded to fasten them to a couple of trees, not
without some trouble, for her own horse was excited and nervous from the
sharp gallop; but at last she succeeded, and, gathering her habit in one
hand, she ran quickly to Alexander's side.
There he lay, quite unconscious, and so pale that she thought he might
be dead. His head was bare, and his hat, crumpled and broken, lay in the
path, some distance behind him. There was a dark mark on the right side
of his forehead, high up and half covered by his silky brown hair.
Hermione knelt down and tried to lift his head upon her knee. But his
body was heavy, and she was not very strong. She dragged him with
difficulty to the side of the path, and raised his shoulders a little
against the bank. She felt for his pulse, but there was no motion in the
lifeless veins, nor could she decide whether he breathed or not. Utterly
without means of reviving him, for she had not so much as a bottle of
salts in the pocket of her saddle, she kneeled over him, and wiped his
pale forehead with her handkerchief, and blew gently on his face. She
was pale herself, and was beginning to be frightened, though she had
good nerves. Nevertheless she took courage, feeling sure that we should
appear in five minutes at the latest.
It was clear that in galloping by her side at full speed Alexander's
head had struck violently against a heavy branch, which grew lower than
the rest. His eyes had been turned on her, and he had not seen the
danger. The branch was so placed that Hermione, lowering her head to
avoid the leaves, as she looked straight before, had passed under it in
safety; whereas her cousin must have struck full upon the thickest part,
three or four feet nearer to the tree. At the pace they were riding, the
blow might well have been fatal; and as the moments passed and the
injured man showed no signs of life, Hermione's heart beat faster and
her face grew whiter. Her first thought was of his mother, and a keen,
sharp fear shot through her as she thought of the dreadful moment when
Madame Patoff must be told; but the next instant brought her a feeling
of far deeper horror. He had been hurt almost while speaking words of
love to her; he had struck his head because he was looking at her
instead of before him, and it was in some measure her fault, for she had
urged the speed of that foolish race. She bent down over him, and the
tears started to her eyes. She tried to listen for the beating of his
heart, and, opening his coat, she laid her ear to his breast. Something
cold touched her cheek, and she quickly raised her head again and looked
down. It was a small flat silver flask which he carried in the pocket of
his waistcoat, and which in the fall had slipped up from its place.
Hermione withdrew it eagerly and unscrewed the cap. It contained some
kind of spirits, and she poured a little between his parted lips.
The deathly features contracted a little, and the eyelids quivered. She
poured the brandy into the palm of her hand, and chafed his temples and
forehead. Alexander drew a long breath and slowly opened his eyes; then
shut them again; then, after a few moments, opened them wide, stared,
and uttered an exclamation of surprise in Russian.
"Are you better?" asked Hermione, breathlessly. "I thought you were
dead."
"No, I am all right," he said, faintly, trying to raise himself. But his
head swam, and he fell back, once more insensible. This time, however,
the fainting fit did not last long, and he soon opened his eyes again
and looked at Hermione without speaking. She continued to rub the
spirits upon his forehead. Then he put out his hand and grasped the
flask she held, and drank a long draught from it.
"It is nothing," he said. "I can get up now, thank you." He struggled to
his feet, leaning on the young girl's arm. "How did it happen?" he
asked. "I cannot remember anything."
"You must have struck your head against that branch," answered Hermione,
pointing to the thick bough which projected over the lane. "Do you feel
better?"
"Yes. I can mount in a minute," he replied, steadying himself. "I have
had a bad shaking, and my head hurts me. It is nothing serious."
"Better sit down for a few minutes, until the others come up," suggested
the young girl, who was surprised to see him recover himself so quickly.
He seemed glad enough to follow her advice, and they sat down together
on the mossy bank.
"It was my fault," said Hermione, penitently. "It was so foolish of me
to ride fast in such a place."
"Women care for nothing but galloping when they are on horseback," said
Alexander. It was not a very civil speech, and though Hermione forgave
him because he was half stunned with pain, the words rang unpleasantly
in her ear. He might have been satisfied, she thought, when she owned
that it was her fault. It was not generous to agree with her so
unhesitatingly. She wondered whether Paul would have spoken like that.
"Do you really think you can ride back?" she asked, in a colder tone.
"Certainly," he said; "provided we ride slowly. What can have become of
uncle John and Griggs?"
Uncle John and Griggs were at that moment wondering what had become of
the two young people. We had ridden on to the top of the hill, and had
stopped on reaching the open space near the Khedive's farm, where there
is a beautiful view, and where we expected to find our companions
waiting for us. But we were surprised to see no one there. After a great
deal of hesitation we agreed that John Carvel, who did not know the
forest, should follow the main road down the hill on the other side,
while I rode back over the way we had come. I suspected that Alexander
and Hermione had taken the wrong turn, and I was more anxious about them
than I would show. The forest is indeed said to be safe, but hardly a
year passes without some solitary rider being molested by gypsies or
wandering thieves, if he has ventured too far from the beaten tracks. I
rode as fast as I could, but it was nearly twenty minutes before I
struck into the hollow lane. I found the pair seated on the bank, a mile
further on, and Hermione hailed me with delight. Everything was
explained in a few words. Alexander seemed sufficiently recovered from
his accident to get into the saddle, and we were soon walking our horses
back towards the maidám of Buyukdere. Neither Alexander nor Hermione
talked much by the way, and we were all glad when we reached the tiny
bazaar, and were picking out way over the uneven street, amongst the
coppersmiths, the lounging soldiers, the solemn narghylè smokers, the
kaffejis, the beggars, and the half-naked children.
On that evening, two things occurred which precipitated the course of
events. John Carvel had an interview with Hermione, and I had a most
unlucky idea. John Carvel's mind was disturbed concerning the future of
his only daughter, and though he was not a man who hastily took fright,
his character was such that when once persuaded that things were not as
they should be, he never hesitated as to the course he should pursue.
Accordingly, that night he called Hermione into his study, and
determined to ask her for an explanation. The poor girl was nervous, for
she suspected trouble, and did not see very clearly how it could be
avoided.
"Sit down, Hermy," said John, establishing himself in a deep chair with
a cigar. "I want to talk with you, my dear."
"Yes, papa," answered Hermione, meekly.
"Hermy, do you mean to marry Paul, or not? Don't be nervous, my child,
but think the matter over before you answer. If you mean to have him, I
have no objection to the match; but if you do not mean to, I would like
to know. That is all. You know you spoke to me about it in England
before we left home. Things have been going on a long time now, and yet
Paul has said nothing to me about it."
It was impossible to put the matter more clearly than this, and Hermione
knew it. She said nothing for some minutes, but sat staring out of the
window at the dark water, where the boats moved slowly about, each
bearing a little light at the bow. Far down the quay a band was playing
the eternal Stella Confidente, which has become a sort of national air
in Turkey. The strains floated in through the window, and the young girl
struggled hard to concentrate her thoughts, which somehow wound
themselves in and out of the music in a very irrelevant manner.
"Must I answer now, papa?" she asked at last, almost desperately.
"My dear," replied the inexorable John, in kind tones, "I cannot see why
you should not. You are probably in very much the same state of mind
to-night as you were in yesterday, or as you will be in to-morrow. It is
better to settle the matter and be done with it. I do not believe that a
fortnight, a month, or even a longer time will make any perceptible
difference in your ideas about this matter." He puffed at his cigar, and
again looked at his daughter.
"Hermy," he continued, after another interval of silence, "if you do not
mean to marry Paul, you are treating him very badly. You are letting
that idiot of a brother of his make love to you from morning till
night."
"Oh, papa! How can you!" exclaimed Hermione, who was not accustomed to
hearing any kind of strong language from her father.
"Idiot,--yes, my dear, that expresses it very well. He is my nephew, and
I have a right to call him an idiot if I please. I believe the fellow
wears stays, and curls his hair with tongs. He has a face like a girl,
and he talks unmitigated rubbish."
"I thought you liked him, papa," objected Hermione. "I do not think he
is at all as silly as you say he is. He is very agreeable."
"I have no objection to him," retorted John Carvel. "I tolerate him.
Toleration is not liking. He fascinated us all for a day or two, but it
did not last long; that sort of fascination never does."
There was another long pause. The band had finished the Stella
Confidente, and ran on without stopping to the performance of the
drinking chorus in the Traviata. Hermione twisted her fingers
together, and bit her lips. Her father's opinion of Alexander was a
revelation to her, but it carried weight with it, and it aroused a whole
train of recollections in her mind, culminating in the accident of the
afternoon. She remembered vividly what she had felt during those long
minutes before Alexander had recovered consciousness, and she knew that
her feelings bore not the slightest relation to love. She had been
terrified, and had blamed herself, and had thought of his mother; but
the idea that he might be dead had not hurt her as it would have done
had she loved him. She had felt no wild grief, no awful sense of
blankness; the tears which had risen to her eyes had been tears of pity,
