them any better,” answered Ella Carver, softly patting the apple
blossoms she was embroidering on a bit of blue satin.
“But we might help if we really tried, I suppose; you know how much
Happy Dodd did when she once began, and she was only a poor little
girl without half the means of doing good which we have,” said Anna,
glad to discuss the matter, for she had a little plan in her head
and wanted to prepare a way for proposing it.
“Yes, I’m always saying that I have more than my share of fun and
comfort and pretty things, and that I ought and will share them with
some one. But I don’t do it; and now and then, when I hear about
real poverty, or dreadful sickness, I feel so wicked it quite upsets
me. If I knew HOW to begin, I really would. But dirty little
children don’t come in my way, nor tipsy women to be reformed, nor
nice lame girls to sing and pray with, as it all happens in books,”
 cried Marion Warren, with such a remorseful expression on her merry
round face that her mates laughed with one accord.
“I know something that I COULD do if I only had the courage to begin
it. But Papa would shake his head unbelievingly, and Mamma worry
about its being proper, and it would interfere with my music, and
everything nice that I especially wanted to go to would be sure
to come on whatever day I set for my good work, and I should get
discouraged or ashamed, and not half do it, so I don’t begin, but I
know I ought.” And Elizabeth Alden rolled her large eyes from one
friend to another, as if appealing to them to goad her to this duty
by counsel and encouragement of some sort.
“Well, I suppose it’s right, but I do perfectly hate to go poking
round among poor folks, smelling bad smells, seeing dreadful sights,
hearing woful tales, and running the risk of catching fever, and
diphtheria, and horrid things. I don’t pretend to like charity, but
say right out I’m a silly, selfish wretch, and want to enjoy every
minute, and not worry about other people. Isn’t it shameful?”
Maggie Bradford looked such a sweet little sinner as she boldly made
this sad confession, that no one could scold her, though Ida
Standish, her bosom friend, shook her head, and Anna said, with a
sigh: “I’m afraid we all feel very much as Maggie does, though we
don’t own it so honestly. Last spring, when I was ill and thought I
might die, I was so ashamed of my idle, frivolous winter, that I
felt as if I’d give all I had to be able to live it over and do
better. Much is not expected of a girl of eighteen, I know; but oh!
there were heaps of kind little things I MIGHT have done if I hadn’t
thought only of myself. I resolved if I lived I’d try at least to be
less selfish, and make some one happier for my being in the world. I
tell you, girls, it’s rather solemn when you lie expecting to die,
and your sins come up before you, even though they are very small
ones. I never shall forget it, and after my lovely summer I mean to
be a better girl, and lead a better life if I can.”
Anna was so much in earnest that her words, straight out of a very
innocent and contrite heart, touched her hearers deeply, and put
them into the right mood to embrace her proposition. No one spoke
for a moment, then Maggie said quietly,--
“I know what it is. I felt very much so when the horses ran away,
and for fifteen minutes I sat clinging to Mamma, expecting to be
killed. Every unkind, undutiful word I’d ever said to her came back
to me, and was worse to bear than the fear of sudden death. It
scared a great deal of naughtiness out of me, and dear Mamma and I
have been more to each other ever since.”
“Let us begin with ‘The Prisoners of Poverty,’ and perhaps it will
show us something to do,” said Lizzie. “But I must say I never felt
as if shop-girls needed much help; they generally seem so contented
with themselves, and so pert or patronizing to us, that I don’t pity
them a bit, though it must be a hard life.”
“I think we can’t do MUCH in that direction, except set an example
of good manners when we go shopping. I wanted to propose that we
each choose some small charity for this winter, and do it
faithfully. That will teach us how to do more by and by, and we can
help one another with our experiences, perhaps, or amuse with our
failures. What do you say?” asked Anna, surveying her five friends
with a persuasive smile.
“What COULD we do?”
“People will call us goody-goody.”
“I haven’t the least idea how to go to work.”
“Don’t believe Mamma will let me.”
“We’d better change our names from May Flowers to sisters of
charity, and wear meek black bonnets and flapping cloaks.”
Anna received these replies with great composure, and waited for the
meeting to come to order, well knowing that the girls would have
their fun and outcry first, and then set to work in good earnest.
“I think it’s a lovely idea, and I’ll carry out my plan. But I won’t
tell what it is yet; you’d all shout, and say I couldn’t do it, but
if you were trying also, that would keep me up to the mark,” said
Lizzie, with a decided snap of her scissors, as she trimmed the
edges of a plush case for her beloved music.
“Suppose we all keep our attempts secret, and not let our right hand
know what the left hand does? It’s such fun to mystify people, and
then no one can laugh at us. If we fail, we can say nothing; if we
succeed, we can tell of it and get our reward. I’d like that way,
and will look round at once for some especially horrid boot-black,
ungrateful old woman, or ugly child, and devote myself to him, her,
or it with the patience of a saint,” cried Maggie, caught by the
idea of doing good in secret and being found out by accident.
The other girls agreed, after some discussion, and then Anna took
the floor again.
“I propose that we each work in our own way till next May, then, at
our last meeting, report what we have done, truly and honestly, and
plan something better for next year. Is it a vote?”
It evidently was a unanimous vote, for five gold thimbles went up,
and five blooming faces smiled as the five girlish voices cried,
“Aye!”
“Very well, now let us decide what to read, and begin at once. I
think the ‘Prisoners’ a good book, and we shall doubtless get some
hints from it.”
So they began, and for an hour one pleasant voice after the other
read aloud those sad, true stories of workingwomen and their hard
lives, showing these gay young creatures what their pretty clothes
cost the real makers of them, and how much injustice, suffering, and
wasted strength went into them. It was very sober reading, but most
absorbing; for the crochet needles went slower and slower, the
lace-work lay idle, and a great tear shone like a drop of dew on the
apple blossoms as Ella listened to “Rose’s Story.” They skipped the
statistics, and dipped here and there as each took her turn; but
when the two hours were over, and it was time for the club to
adjourn, all the members were deeply interested in that pathetic
book, and more in earnest than before; for this glimpse into other
lives showed them how much help was needed, and made them anxious to
lend a hand.
“We can’t do much, being ‘only girls,’” said Anna; “but if each does
one small chore somewhere it will pave the way for better work; so
we will all try, at least, though it seems like so many ants trying
to move a mountain.”
“Well, ants build nests higher than a man’s head in Africa; you
remember the picture of them in our old geographies? And we can do
as much, I’m sure, if each tugs her pebble or straw faithfully. I
shall shoulder mine to-morrow if Mamma is willing,” answered Lizzie,
shutting up her work-bag as if she had her resolution inside and was
afraid it might evaporate before she got home.
“I shall stand on the Common, and proclaim aloud, ‘Here’s a nice
young missionary, in want of a job! Charity for sale cheap! Who’ll
buy? who’ll buy?’” said Maggie, with a resigned expression, and a
sanctimonious twang to her voice.
“I shall wait and see what comes to me, since I don’t know what I’m
fit for;” and Marion gazed out of the window as if expecting to see
some interesting pauper waiting for her to appear.
“I shall ask Miss Bliss for advice; she knows all about the poor,
and will give me a good start,” added prudent Ida, who resolved to
do nothing rashly lest she should fail.
“I shall probably have a class of dirty little girls, and teach them
how to sew, as I can’t do anything else. They won’t learn much, but
steal, and break, and mess, and be a dreadful trial, and I shall get
laughed at and wish I hadn’t done it. Still I shall try it, and
sacrifice my fancy-work to the cause of virtue,” said Ella,
carefully putting away her satin glove-case with a fond glance at
the delicate flowers she so loved to embroider.
“I have no plans, but want to do so much! I shall have to wait till
I discover what is best. After to-day we won’t speak of our work, or
it won’t be a secret any longer. In May we will report. Good luck to
all, and good-by till next Saturday.”
With these farewell words from their president the girls departed,
with great plans and new ideas simmering in their young heads and
hearts.
It seemed a vast undertaking; but where there is a will there is
always a way, and soon it was evident that each had found “a little
chore” to do for sweet charity’s sake. Not a word was said at the
weekly meetings, but the artless faces betrayed all shades of hope,
discouragement, pride, and doubt, as their various attempts seemed
likely to succeed or fail. Much curiosity was felt, and a few
accidental words, hints, or meetings in queer places, were very
exciting, though nothing was discovered.
Marion was often seen in a North End car, and Lizzie in a South End
car, with a bag of books and papers. Ella haunted a certain shop
where fancy articles were sold, and Ida always brought plain sewing
to the club. Maggie seemed very busy at home, and Anna was found
writing industriously several times when one of her friends called.
All seemed very happy, and rather important when outsiders
questioned them about their affairs. But they had their pleasures as
usual, and seemed to enjoy them with an added relish, as if they
realized as never before how many blessings they possessed, and were
grateful for them.
So the winter passed, and slowly something new and pleasant seemed
to come into the lives of these young girls. The listless,
discontented look some of them used to wear passed away; a sweet
earnestness and a cheerful activity made them charming, though they
did not know it, and wondered when people said, “That set of girls
are growing up beautifully; they will make fine women by and by.”
 The mayflowers were budding under the snow, and as spring came on
the fresh perfume began to steal out, the rosy faces to brighten,
and the last year’s dead leaves to fall away, leaving the young
plants green and strong.
On the 15th of May the club met for the last time that season, as
some left town early, and all were full of spring work and summer
plans. Every member was in her place at an unusually early hour that
day, and each wore an air of mingled anxiety, expectation, and
satisfaction, pleasant to behold. Anna called them to order with
three raps of her thimble and a beaming smile.
“We need not choose a book for our reading to-day, as each of us is
to contribute an original history of her winter’s work. I know it
will be very interesting, and I hope more instructive, than some of
the novels we have read. Who shall begin?”
“You! you!” was the unanimous answer; for all loved and respected
her very much, and felt that their presiding officer should open the
ball.
Anna colored modestly, but surprised her friends by the composure
with which she related her little story, quite as if used to public
speaking.
“You know I told you last November that I should have to look about
for something that I COULD do. I did look a long time, and was
rather in despair, when my task came to me in the most unexpected
way. Our winter work was being done, so I had a good deal of
shopping on my hands, and found it less a bore than usual, because I
liked to watch the shop-girls, and wish I dared ask some of them if
I could help them. I went often to get trimmings and buttons at
