"Well, you can go to your supper, Clip. Here's some money."
"All right, Massa Bob."
Clip did not seem in any great hurry to go. He was rather afraid that
Bob and Sam would explore the boat while he was away. Finally he walked
away with slow steps, looking back from time to time.
"What's got into Clip?" said Bob, wonderingly.
"I guess he isn't hungry," answered Sam, with a laugh.
Ten minutes later Bob's attention was drawn to a crowd of men and boys
who were approaching the boat. He naturally wondered what was the object
of the assemblage.
The leader called out to Bob, when he had approached sufficiently near:
"I say, boy, have you seen anything of a man with dark hair, florid
complexion, wearing a light suit, running along the bank?"
"No, sir. Why?"
"A man of that description has stolen a sum of money from a dry-goods
store in the town. He was seen running in this direction. We thought you
might have seen him."
"No, sir; I have seen nothing of such a man."
Bob little dreamed that the thief in question was concealed at that
moment within twenty-five feet of where he was sitting.
CHAPTER XXV.
CLIP'S SECRET MISSION.
The man who had addressed Bob eyed him sharply on receiving his negative
answer.
"It is a pretty serious thing to connive at the escape of a criminal,"
he said.
"That remark does not affect me, sir. I know nothing of any criminal. If
I had seen him I would tell you."
Bob talked so frankly and honestly that it seemed impossible to doubt
his word. The leader of the pursuing party turned to consult with a
friend.
"The boy seems straightforward," he said. "What do you think?"
"I agree with you. Still, the man was seen to run in this direction."
The first questioner was the one most concerned in the capture of the
guilty party, for it was his store that had been robbed.
"Have you been here all the time?" he asked, turning once more to Bob.
"No, sir; my friend and I have been to the village to get supper."
"Did you leave no one on board?"
"Yes, sir; a colored boy in my service--a boy named Clip."
"Did he mention having seen any suspicious party, or any man who seemed
to be running away?"
"No, sir."
"Where is he? I would like to speak with him."
"He has gone to the village to get his supper."
If Clip had been present he would no doubt have been questioned, but as
he was absent the party of investigation did not think it worth while to
wait.
"That's rather curious, Sam," said Bob, when they were again alone. "We
were suspected of screening a criminal."
"I wouldn't give much for the fellow's chance of escape. They are
evidently determined to catch him."
These words were all distinctly heard by the man in hiding.
"I was lucky to fall in with the little nigger," he reflected. "Them
boys would have refused to help me. They would give me up now if they
knew I was on board. I must be careful."
Clip came back at the end of half an hour. If Bob had taken notice of
him, he would have noticed that the boy's pockets bulged out as if
crowded with articles. But he had no especial reason for suspecting Clip
of any underhand proceeding, and sat with Sam talking about home
matters, leaving his young colored servant to his own devices.
Clip was faithful to his trust. He had agreed to take care of his
concealed passenger, and he was determined to do so.
As soon as he could do so without observation, he went to the man's
hiding-place and poured out the contents of his pockets. There were some
buns and small rolls and a few round cakes.
"Will they do you, mister?" he asked, in a low voice.
"Yes; but I'm terribly thirsty. Have you got any whisky aboard?"
Clip shook his head.
"We ain't got no 'toxicating liquors," he answered.
"Can you bring me a glass of water?"
"I'll try. If you'd let me tell Massa Bob you were on board, I guess
he'd give you some milk."
"Milk be--hanged! No, I'll make it do with water. Don't you tell this
Bob, on any account, that I am here!"
"All right, massa!" answered Clip; but he was getting more and more
puzzled. "Are you goin' to stay in dat place all night?"
"Yes."
"You'll find it mighty uncomfor'ble. If Massa Bob knew you was here--"
"He is not to know, do you hear?" said the other, impatiently.
"All right, massa! You know best."
"Of course I know best."
By this time Clip was missed.
"Where are you, Clip?" asked Bob.
"I'm jist loafin' around, Massa Bob," said Clip, a little startled.
"There's something strange about you to-night, Clip; I don't understand
it."
"I'm thinkin' of old times down in Arkansaw, Massa Bob."
"Would you like to be there now, Clip?"
"No, Massa Bob, I'd rather live with you and your mudder. My ol' massa
use to give me plenty of lickin's. I don't want to go back, never no
more."
Clip still continued to be restless and uneasy. He knew he had no
authority for taking a passenger on board, and feared that Bob would
take away the five dollars if he learned that Clip had accepted so large
a sum. To do Clip justice, he had no idea that the man whom he had
hidden was an offender against the laws, and that the police were in
search of him. Even if he had known this, however, it is not certain
that Clip would have been prejudiced against the offender. In truth, his
prejudices were against the agents of the law rather than against those
who had offended.
Bob and Sam usually retired early; but to-night, to Clip's discontent,
they remained up later than usual, talking about matters at home.
"Isn't you ever goin' to bed, Massa Bob?" asked Clip, at last.
"What is your hurry, Clip? Are you sleepy?"
"Awful sleepy, Massa Bob," answered Clip; "can't hardly keep my eyes
open."
"Then you can go to bed any time. Sam and I will soon follow."
This was not altogether satisfactory, for Clip meant to get up as soon
as Bob and Sam were asleep and visit his passenger, who had expressed a
wish to have him do so. However, there was nothing to be said, and Clip
withdrew to his bunk and lay down; but, as may readily be guessed, his
mind was too active for sleep.
There was some one else who was anxious to have Bob and Sam retire. This
was the hidden passenger, who found his quarters contracted and
uncomfortable.
"What's the matter with those confounded boys?" he growled to himself.
"They seem determined to sit up on purpose to vex me. When they are
once asleep I can get up and stretch my limbs."
In about twenty minutes the boys, judging from their deep and regular
breathing, had fallen asleep.
Clip, who had been waiting anxiously, raised himself on his elbow and
eyed them closely.
Feeling that it was now safe for him to do so, he slipped out of bed
cautiously and began to feel his way toward the hiding-place of his new
acquaintance.
"They're asleep," he whispered. "Now, what you want, massa?"
"It's high time they were," growled the man. "I thought they were going
to sit up all night."
"So did I," returned Clip.
"Are you sure there is no whisky on board?"
"No, massa."
"I suppose you could get some for me on shore. There's a saloon only
three minutes' walk from this place."
Clip was reluctant to go on shore on such an errand; but finally the
offer of fifty cents for himself induced him to do so. He took a tin cup
which Bob had brought with him from home, and started on his errand.
At the saloon he was asked, "Do you want this for yourself? We don't
sell to boys."
"No, massa; it's for a sick man."
"Where's the sick man?"
"On board a boat."
Upon this representation the whisky was obtained, and Clip started on
his return. His curiosity led him to take a swallow of the whisky he was
carrying, but it did not commend itself to Clip's palate.
"It's nasty stuff!" he said with a grimace; "I don't see what fo' people
drink it."
He carried the drink safely to the passenger, who drank it and smacked
his lips over it. "It goes to the right spot," he said.
"Do those boys sleep sound?" he asked.
"Yes, massa."
"Then I'll get out of this beastly hole and take a turn on deck."
"Be keerful, massa!" said Clip anxiously.
"Oh, yes; I won't make any noise."
Clip crept back to bed and succeeded in resuming his place without
disturbing or arousing Bob or Sam.
CHAPTER XXVI.
WAS IT THE CAT?
Usually Bob Burton slept all night; but to-night, unfortunately for
Clip, he awakened about two o'clock in the morning. By an equally
perverse chance, just as he awoke, the concealed passenger, now enjoying
the freedom of the deck, broke out into a stentorian sneeze. Bob heard
it, and so did Clip, whose uneasiness made him sleep more lightly than
usual, and both were startled.
"I hope Massa Bob won't hear dat," thought Clip.
But Bob did hear it.
"What's that?" he asked, half rising in bed.
"It's me!" answered Clip, preferring to admit the sneeze rather than
have Bob suspect that there was any one else on the boat.
"Do you mean to say you sneezed, Clip?" asked Bob, in amazement.
"Yes, Massa Bob."
"You must be dreaming. The sneeze came from another part of the boat."
"Are you sure?" asked Clip.
"Yes. What made you tell me that it was you who sneezed?"
"I t'ought I did, Massa Bob."
"When did you wake up?"
"Just now."
"The sneeze must have waked you up."
"I dunno," answered Clip, dubiously.
"There must be some one on board, unless we both dreamed about the
sneeze."
"Mebbe it's a cat!" remarked Clip, ingenuously.
Bob laughed. "It must be a very remarkable cat that would sneeze like
that," he said.
"Jus' so, Massa Bob," assented Clip, meekly, hoping that Bob would drop
the subject.
"I think, Clip, I shall get up and search for that cat."
"Don't you do it, Massa Bob. He--he might bite you."
"I hope I am not such a coward as to be afraid of a cat."
Bob rose and lighted a candle which he had with him. Then, followed by
Clip, he advanced to the other end of the deck. But the passenger had
warning, having heard the conversation which had taken place between Bob
and Clip, and had hurriedly retreated to his former hiding-place. It did
not occur to Bob to look there, and he returned from his fruitless
search more mystified than ever.
But, Clip being close beside him, he caught the aroma of the single
swallow of whisky which Clip had taken, and he immediately began to
suspect poor Clip of having indulged in much deeper potations than he
was guilty of.
"Clip," he said, suddenly, "I smell whisky."
"Does you, Massa Bob?" asked Clip, feeling that he was getting into a
