girl in some terror, and shrinking away into the corner. 
' You should really control your nerves, Faustina,' replied 
her father in austere tones. ' If the young man is dead, it is 
the will of Heaven. If he is alive we shall soon find it out. 
Meanwhile I must beg you to be calm to be calm, do you 
understand ? ' 
Donna Faustina Montevarchi made no answer to this 
parental injunction, but withdrew as far as she could into the 
corner of the back seat, while her father supported the 
inanimate body of the Zouave as the carriage swung over the 
uneven pavement. In a few minutes they rolled beneath a 
deep arch and stopped at the foot of a broad marble stair 
case. 
' Bring him upstairs carefully, and send for a surgeon,' 
said the prince to the men who came forward. Then he 
offered his arm to his daughter to ascend the steps, as though 
nothing had happened, and without bestowing another look 
on the injured soldier. 
Donna Faustina was just eighteen years old, and had only 
quitted the convent of the Sacro Cuore a month earlier. It 
might have been said that she was too young to be beautiful, 
for she evidently belonged to that class of women who do 
not attain their full development until a later period. Her 
figure was almost too slender, her face almost too delicate 
and ethereal. There was about her a girlish look, an atmos 
phere of half -saintly maidenhood, which was not so much 
the expression of her real nature as the effect produced by 
her being at once very thin and very fresh. There was 
indeed nothing particularly angelic about her warm brown 
eyes, shaded by unusually long black lashes ; and little way 
ward locks of chestnut hair, curling from beneath the small 
round hat of the period, just before the small pink ears, 
softened as with a breath of worldliness the grave outlines 
of the serious face. A keen student of women might have 
  
seen that the dim religious halo of convent life which still 
clung to the young girl would soon fade and give way to the 
brilliancy of the woman of the world. She was not tall, 
though of fully average height, and although the dress of 
that time was ill-adapted to show to advantage either the 
figure or the movements, it was evident, as she stepped 
lightly from the carriage, that she had a full share of ease 
and grace. She possessed that unconscious certainty in 
motion which proceeds naturally from the perfect proportion 
of all the parts, and which exercises a far greater influence 
over men than a faultless profile or a dazzling skin. 
Instead of taking her father's arm, Donna Faustina 
turned and looked at the face of the wounded Zouave, whom 
three men had carefully taken from the carriage and were 
preparing to carry upstairs. Poor Gouache was hardly 
recognisable for the smart soldier who had crossed the bridge 
of Sant' Angelo half an hour earlier. His uniform was 
all stained with mud, there was blood upon his pale face, 
and his limbs hung down, powerless and limp. But as the 
young girl looked at him, consciousness returned, and with 
it came the sense of acute suffering. He opened his eyes 
suddenly, as men often do when they revive after being 
stunned, and a short groan escaped from his lips. Then, as 
he realised that he was in the presence of a lady, he made 
an effort as though to release himself from the hands of those 
who carried him, and to stand upon his feet. 
'Pardon me, Madame,' he began to say, but Faustina 
checked him by a gesture. 
Meanwhile old Montevarchi had carefully scrutinised the 
young man's face, and had recognised him, for they had often 
met in society. 
' Monsieur Gouache !' he exclaimed in surprise. At the 
same time he made the men move on with their burden. 
' You know him, papa ? ' whispered Donna Faustina as 
they followed together. 'He is a gentleman? I was 
right!' 
' Of course, of course,' answered her father. ' But really. 
Faustina, had you nothing better to do than to go and look 
into his face? Imagine, if he had known you! Dear 
me ! If you begin like this, as soon as you are out of the 
convent ' 
Montevarchi left the rest of the sentence to his daughter's 
imagination, merely turning up his eyes a little as though 
deprecating the just vengeance of heaven upon his daughter's 
misconduct. 
' Really, papa ' protested Faustina. 
' Yes really, my daughter I am much surprised,' 
returned her incensed parent, still speaking in an undertone 
lest the injured man should overhear what was said. 
They reached the head of the stairs and the men carried 
Gouache rapidly away ; not so quickly, however, as to 
prevent Faustina from getting another glimpse of his face. 
His eyes were open and met hers with an expression of 
mingled interest and gratitude which she did not forget. 
Then he was carried away and she did not see him again. 
The Montevarchi household was conducted upon the 
patriarchal principle, once general in Koine, and not quite 
abandoned even now, twenty years later than the date of 
Gouache's accident. The palace was a huge square building 
facing upon two streets, in front and behind, and opening 
inwards upon two courtyards. Upon the lower floor were 
stables, coach-houses, kitchens, and offices innumerable. 
Above these there was built a half story, called a mezzanine 
in French, entresol, containing the quarters of the un 
married sons of the house, of the household chaplain, and of 
two or three tutors employed in the education of the Monte 
varchi grandchildren. Next above, came the ' piano nobile,' 
or state apartments, comprising the rooms of the prince and 
princess, the dining-room, and a vast suite of reception- 
rooms, each of which opened into the next in such a manner 
that only the last was not necessarily a passage. In the 
huge hall was the dais and canopy with the family arms 
embroidered in colours once gaudy but now agreeably faded 
to a softer tone. Above this floor was another, occupied by 
the married sons, their wives and children ; and high over all, 
above the cornice of the palace, were the endless servants' 
quarters and the roomy garrets. At a rough estimate the 
establishment comprised over a hundred persons, all living 
under the absolute and despotic authority of the head of the 
house, Don Lotario Montevarchi, Principe Montevarchi, and 
sole possessor of forty or fifty other titles. From his will 
and upon his pleasure depended every act of every member 
of his household, from his eldest son and heir, the Duca di 
Bellegra, to that of Pietro Paolo, the under-cook's scullion's 
boy. There were three sons and four daughters. Two of 
the sons were married, to wit, Don Ascanio, to whom his 
father had given his second title, and Don Onorato, who was 
allowed to call himself Principe di Cantalupo, but who would 
have no legal claim to that distinction after his father's death. 
Last of the three came Don Carlo, a young fellow of twenty 
years, but not yet emancipated from the supervision of his 
tutor. Of the daughters, the two eldest, Bianca and Laura 
were married and no longer lived in Rome, the one having 
been matched with a Neapolitan and the other with a 
Florentine. There remained still at home, therefore, the 
third, Donna Flavia, and the youngest of all the family, 
Donna Faustina. Though Flavia was not yet two and twenty 
years of age, her father and mother were already beginning 
to despair of marrying her, and dropped frequent hints about 
the advisability of making her enter religion, as they called 
it ; that is to say, they thought she had better take the veil 
and retire from the world 
The old princess Montevarchi was English by birth and 
education, but thirty-three years of life in Rome had almost 
obliterated all traces of her nationality. That all-pervading 
influence, which so soon makes Romans of foreigners who 
marry into Roman families, had done its work effectually. 
The Roman nobility, by intermarriage with the principal 
families of the rest of Europe, has lost many Italian 
characteristics ; but its members are more essentially Romans 
than the full-blooded Italians of the other classes who dwell 
side by side with the aristocracy in Rome. 
When Lady Gwendoline Fontenoy married Don Lotario 
Montevarchi in the year 1834, she, no doubt, believed that 
her children would grow up as English as she herself, and 
that her husband's house would not differ materially from an 
establishment of the same kind in England. She laughed 
merrily at the provisions of the marriage contract, which even 
went so far as to stipulate that she was to have at least two 
dishes of meat at dinner, and an equivalent on fast-days, a 
drive every day the traditional trottata two new gowns 
every year, and a woman to wait upon her. After these and 
similar provisions had been agreed upon, her dowry, which 
was a large one for those days, was handed over to the keep 
ing of her father-in-law and she was duly married to Don 
Lotario, who at once assumed the title of Duca di Bellegra. 
The wedding journey consisted of a fortnight's retirement in 
the Villa Montevarchi at Frascati, and at the end of that 
time the young couple were installed under the paternal roof 
in Rome. Before she had been in her new abode a month 
the young Duchessa realised the utter hopelessness of 
attempting to change the existing system of patriarchal 
government under which she found herself living. She 
discovered, in the first place, that she would never have five 
scudi of her own in her pocket, and that if she needed a 
handkerchief or a pair of stockings it was necessary to obtain 
from the head of the house not only the permission to buy 
such necessaries, but the money with which to pay for them. 
She discovered, furthermore, that if she wanted a cup of 
coffee or some bread and butter out of hours, those things 
were charged to her daily account in the steward's office, as 
though she had been in an inn, and were paid for at the end 
of the year out of the income arising from her dowry. Her 
husband's younger brother, who had no money of his own, 
could not even get a lemonade in his father's house without 
his father's consent. 
Moreover, the family life was of such a nature as almost 
to preclude all privacy. The young Duchessa and her 
husband had their bedroom in the upper story, but Don 
Lotario's request that his wife might have a sitting-room of 
her own was looked upon as an attempt at a domestic 
revolution, and the privilege was only obtained at last 
through the formidable intervention of the Duke of Agin- 
court, the Duchessa's own father. All the family meals, too, 
were eaten together in the solemn old dining-hall, hung with 
tapestries and dingy with the dust of ages. The order of 
precedence was always strictly observed, and though the 
cooking was of a strange kind, no plate or dish was ever 
used which was not of solid silver, battered indeed, and 
scratched, and cleaned only after Italian ideas, but heavy and 
massive withal. The Duchessa soon learned that the old 
Roman houses all used silver plates from motives of economy, 
for the simple reason that metal did not break. But the 
sensible English woman saw also that although the most 
rigid economy was practised in many things, there was lavish 
