" Why, he wanted to break it off, the wretch I " 
Francie stared ; then a deeper flush leapt to her 
face, in which already there was a look of fever. 
"To break off my engagement?" 
" Yes, just that. But I 'll be hanged if he shall ! 
Father, will you allow that?" 
" Allow what ? " 
Why Mr. Flack s vile interference. You won 't 
let him do as he likes with us, I suppose, will 
you ? " 
It s all done it s all done ! " said Francie. The 
tears had suddenly started into her eyes again. 
" Well, he s so smart that it is likely he s too 
smart said Mr. Dosson. "But what did they 
want you to do about it ? that s what I want to 
know." 
" They wanted me to say I knew nothing about 
it but I couldn t." 
" But you didn 't and you don 't if you haven 't 
even read it ! " Delia returned. 
" Where is the'd d thing ? " her father asked, 
looking helplessly about him. 
" On the boulevard, at the very first of those 
kiosks you come to. That old woman has it the 
one who speaks English she always has it. Do 
go and get it do ! " And Delia pushed him, 
looked for his hat for him. 
" I knew he wanted to print something and I 
can 't say I didn 't ! " Francie said. " I thought he 
would praise my portrait and that Mr. Waterlow 
would like that, and Gaston and every one. And 
he talked to me about the paper he is always 
doing that and always was and I didn 't see the 
harm. But even just knowing him they think 
that s vile." 
" Well, I should hope we can know whom we 
like ! " Delia declared, jumping in her mystifi 
cation and alarm from one point of view to 
another. 
Mr. Dosson had put on his hat he was going 
out for the paper. " Why, he kept us alive last 
year," he said. 
" Well, he seems to have killed us now ! " Delia 
cried. 
" Well, don 't give up an old friend," said Mr. 
Dosson, with his hand on the door. " And don 't 
back down on anything you've  done." 
" Lord, what a fuss about an old newspaper ! " 
Delia went on, in her exasperation. " It must be 
about two weeks old, anyway. Didn 't they ever 
see a society-paper before ? " 
: They can 't have seen much," said Mr. Dosson. 
He paused, still with his hand on the door. 
" Don 't you worry Gaston will make it all 
right." 
" Gaston ? it will kill Gaston ! " 
" Is that what they say ? " Delia demanded. 
" Gaston will never look at me again." 
" Well, then, he 'll have to look at me, said 
Mr. Dosson. 
" Do you mean that he 'll give you up that 
he 'll be so abject ? " Delia went on. 
" They say he s just the one who will feel it most. 
But I'm the one who does that," said Francie, with 
a strange smile. 
"They're stuffing you with lies because they 
don 't like it. He 'll be tender and true," answered 
Delia, 
" When they hate me ? Never ! " And Francie 
shook her head slowly, still with her touching 
smile. " That s what he cared for most to make 
them like me. " 
" And isn 't he a gentleman, I should like to 
know ? " asked Delia. 
" Yes, and that s why I won 't marry him if 
I've  injured him." 
" Pshaw ! he has seen the papers over there. 
You wait till he comes," Mr. Dosson enjoined, 
passing out of the room. 
The girls remained there together and after a 
moment Delia exclaimed : " Well, he has got to 
fix it that s one thing I can tell you." 
" Who has got to fix it ? " 
"Why, that villainous man. He has got to 
publish another piece saying it s all false or all a 
mistake." 
" Yes, you had better make him," said Francie, 
with a weak laugh. "You had better go after 
him down to Nice." 
" You don 't mean to say he has gone to 
Nice ? " 
" Didn 't he say he was going there as soon as he 
came back from London going right through, 
without stopping ? " 
" I don 't know but he did," said Delia. Then 
she added" The coward ! " 
" Why do you say that ? He can 't hide at Nice 
they can find him there." 
" Are they going after him ? " 
" They want to shoot him to stab him, I don 't 
know what those men." 
" Well, I wish they would," said Delia. 
" They had better shoot me. I shall defend him. 
I shall protect him," Francie went on. 
" How can you protect him ? You shall never 
speak to him again." 
Francie was silent a moment. " I can protect 
him without speaking to him. I can tell the 
simple truth that he didn 't print a word but 
what I told him." 
"That can 't be so. He fixed it up. They 
always do, in the papers. Well now, he has got 
to bring out a piece praising them up praising 
them to the skies : that s what he has got to do ! " 
Delia declared, with decision. 
" Praising them up ? They 'll hate that worse," 
Francie returned, musingly. 
Delia stared. " What on earth do they want 
then ? " 
Francie had sunk upon the sofa ; her eyes were 
fixed on the carpet. She made no reply to her 
sister s question but presently she said, " We had 
better go to-morrow, the first hour that s possible." 
" Go where ? Do you mean to Nice ? " 
" I don 't care where. Anywhere, to get away." 
" Before Gaston comes without seeing him ? " 
" I don 't want to see him. When they were all 
ranting and raving at me just now I wished he 
was there I told them so. But now I feel 
differently I can never see him again." 
" I don 't suppose you're crazy, are you ? " cried 
Delia. 
"I can 't tell him it wasn 't me I can t, I 
can 't ! " the younger girl pursued. 
Delia planted herself in front of her. " Francie 
Dosson, if you're going to tell him you've  done 
anything wrong you might as well stop before you 
begin. Didn 't you hear what father said ? " 
I'm sure I don 't know," Francie replied, list 
lessly. 
" Don 't give up an old friend there s nothing 
on earth so mean. Now isn 't Gaston Probert an 
old friend ? " 
" It will be very simple he will give me up." 
" Then he 'll be a low wretch." 
" Not in the least he 'll give me up as he took 
me. He would never have asked me to marry 
him if he hadn 't been able to get them to accept 
me : he thinks everything in life of them. If they 
cast me off now he 'll do just the same. He il 
have to choose between us, and when it comes to 
that he 'll never choose me." 
"He 'll never choose Mr. Flack, if that s what 
you mean if you are going to identify yourself 
so with him ! " 
&lt;c Oh, I wish he'd never been born ! " Francie 
suddenly shivered. And then she added that she 
was sick she was going to bed, and her sister 
took her off to her room. 
Mr. Dosson, that afternoon, sitting by Francie s 
bedside, read out from the copy of the Re 
verberator which he had purchased on the 
boulevard the dreadful " piece " to his two 
daughters. It is a remarkable fact that as a family 
they were rather disappointed in this compo 
sition, in which their curiosity found less to repay 
it than it had expected, their resentment against 
Mr. Flack less to stimulate it, their imaginative 
effort to take the point of view of the Proberts 
less to sustain it, and their acceptance of the 
promulgation of Francie s innocent remarks as a 
natural incident of the life of the day less to 
make them reconsider it. The letter from Paris 
appeared lively, " chatty," even brilliant, and so 
far as the personalities contained in it were 
concerned Mr. Dosson wanted to know if they 
were not aware over here of the charges brought 
every day against the most prominent men in 
Boston. " If there was anything in that style 
they might talk," he said ; and he scanned the 
effusion afresh with a certain surprise at not 
finding in it some imputation of pecuniary mal 
versation. The effect of an acquaintance with 
the text was to depress Delia, who did not exactly 
see what there was in it to take back or explain 
away. However, she was aware there were some 
points they didn 't understand, and doubtless these 
were the scandalous places the things that had 
thrown the Proberts into a state. But why should 
they be in a state if other people didn 't under 
stand the allusions they were peculiar, but 
peculiarly incomprehensible any better than she 
did ? The whole thing struck Francie as infinitely 
less lurid than Mme. de Brecourt s account of it, 
and the part about herself and her portrait seemed 
to make even less of the subject than it easily 
might have done. It was scanty, it was " skimpy," 
and if Mr. Waterlow was offended it would not be 
because they had published too much about him. 
If was nevertheless clear to her that there were a 
