time came there would be none!" He put his hand again to his
breast-pocket; it was there.
He had taken the seat nearest to the door, absently, as he would have
taken any other, and the conductor found it necessary to touch him on
the shoulder before he could extract the fare. He had no American money,
he discovered, and would have left the car had not the conductor finally
agreed to take his chances with a small piece of foreign gold, though
not, however, until he had bit it tentatively with his teeth. It was
evident that he viewed Tristrem with suspicion.
At Twentieth Street Tristrem swung himself from the moving vehicle, and
turned into Gramercy Park. He declined to think; the rehearsals were
over, he did not even try to recall the rôle. He had had a set speech,
but it was gone from him as the indecision had gone before. Now he was
to act.
He hurried up the stoop of Weldon's house and rang the bell, and as
there seemed to him some unnecessary delay, he rang again, not
violently, but with the assurance of a creditor who has come to be paid.
But when at last the door was opened, he learned that Weldon was not at
home.
As he went down the steps again there came to him a great gust and rush
of joy. He would go now, he had been fully prepared, he had tried his
best. If Weldon had been visible, he would not have hesitated. But he
had not been; that one chance had been left them both, and now, with a
certitude that had never visited his former indecisions, he felt it was
written that that deed should never be done. He gasped as one gasps who
has been nearly stifled. The obsession was gone. He was free.
In the street he raised his arms to testify to his liberty reconquered.
Yet, even as they fell again, he knew that he was tricking himself. A
tremor beset him, and to steady himself he clutched at an area-rail.
Whether he stood there one minute or one hour he could not afterward
recall. He remembered only that while he loitered Weldon had rounded the
corner, and that as he saw him approach, jauntily, in evening dress, a
light coat on his arm, his strength returned.
"Royal," he exclaimed, for the man was passing him without recognition.
"Royal," he repeated, and Weldon stopped. "I have come to have a word
with you."
The voice in which he spoke was so unlike his own, so rasping and
defiant, that Weldon, with the dread which every respectable householder
has of a scene at his own front door, motioned him up the steps. "Come
in," he said, mellifluously, "I am glad to see you."
"I will," Tristrem answered, in a tone as arrogant as before.
"I am sorry," Weldon continued, "Nanny----"
"I did not come to see your wife; you know it."
Weldon had unlatched the door, and the two men passed into the
sitting-room. There Weldon, with his hat unremoved, dropped in a chair,
and eyed his visitor with affected curiosity.
"I say, Trissy, you're drunk."
"I am come," Tristrem continued, and this time as he spoke his voice
seemed to recover something of its former gentleness, "I am come to ask
whether, in the purlieus of your heart, there is nothing to tell you how
base you are."
Weldon stretched himself languidly, took off his hat, stood up, and lit
a cigarette. "Have an Egyptian?" he asked.
"Do you remember," Tristrem went on, "the last time I saw you?"
Weldon tossed the match into an ash-receiver, and, with the cigarette
between his teeth, sprawled himself out on a sofa. "Well, what of it?"
"When I saw you, you had just contracted a debt. And now you can
liquidate that debt either by throwing yourself in the river or----"
"Charming, Triss, charming! You have made a bon mot. I will get that
off. Liquidate a debt with water is really good. There's the advantage
of foreign travel for you."
"Do you know what became of your victim? Do you know? She went abroad
and hid herself. Shall I give you details?"
For the first time Weldon scowled.
"Would you like the details?" Tristrem repeated.
Weldon mastered his scowl. "No," he answered, negligently. "I am not a
midwife. Obstetrics do not interest me. On the contra----"
That word he never finished. Something exploded in his brain, he saw one
fleeting flash, and he was dead. Even as he spoke, Tristrem had whipped
an instrument from his pocket, and before Weldon was aware of his
purpose, a knife, thin as a darning-needle and long as a pencil--a knife
which it had taken the splendid wickedness of mediæval Rome to
devise--had sunk into his heart, and was out again, leaving behind it a
pin's puncture through the linen, one infinitesimal bluish-gray spot on
the skin, and death.
Tristrem looked at him. The shirt was not even rumpled. If he had so
much as quivered, the quiver had been imperceptible, and on the knife
there was no trace of blood. It fell from his fingers; he stooped to
pick it up, but his hand trembled so that, on recovering it, he could
not insert the point into the narrow sheath that belonged to it, and,
throwing the bit of embroidered leather in a corner, he put the weapon
in his pocket.
"It was easier than I thought," he mused. "I suppose--h'm--I seem to be
nervous. It's odd. I feared that afterward I should collapse like an
omelette soufflée. And to think that it is done!"
He turned suspiciously, and looked at the body again. No, he could see
it was really done. "And so, this is afterward," he continued. "And to
think that it was here I first saw her. She came in that door there. I
remember I thought of a garden of lilies."
From the dining-room beyond he caught the glimmer of a lamp. He crossed
the intervening space, and on the sideboard he found some decanters. He
selected one, and pouring a little of its contents into a tumbler he
drank it off. Then he poured another portion, and when he had drunk that
too, he went out, not through the sitting-room, but through the hall,
and, picking up the hat which on entering he had thrown on the table, he
left the house.
XVI.
Several thousand years ago a thinker defined virtue as the agreement of
the will and the conscience. If the will were coercible the definition
would be matchless. Unfortunately it is not. Will declines to be
reasoned with; it insists, and in its insistence conscience, horrified
or charmed, stands a witness to its acts.
For a fortnight Tristrem had been married to an impulse against which
his finer nature rebelled. It was not that the killing of such a one as
Weldon was unjustifiable; on the contrary, it was rather praiseworthy
than otherwise. His crime was one for which the noose is too good. But
to Weldon, in earlier days, he had felt as to a brother; and though
affection may die, does it not leave behind it a memory which should
thereafter serve as a protecting shield? It had been the bonds of former
attachment, bonds long loosened, it is true, but of which the old
impress still lingered, that seemed to Tristrem to tie his hands. Then,
too, was the horror of such a thing. There is nothing, a Scandinavian
poet has said, more beautiful than a beautiful revenge; yet when a man
is so tender of heart that if it be raining he will hesitate to shoo a
persistent fly out of the window, it is difficult for that man, however
great the aggravation, to take another's life. Besides, the impulse
which had acted in Tristrem was not one of revenge. He had not the
slightest wish to take the law into his own hands. The glaive of
atonement was not one which he felt himself called upon to wield. That
which possessed him was the idea that until the world was rid of Weldon
there was a girl somewhere who could not look her own mother in the
face. And that girl was the girl whom he loved, a girl who apparently
had no other protector than himself.
In the rehearsals, it was this that had strung his nerves to acting
pitch. When it was done he proposed to go to her with a reverence even
greater than before, with a sympathy unspoken yet sentiable, and leave
her with the knowledge that the injury had been obliterated and the
shame effaced. For himself, whatever he may have hoped, he determined to
ask for nothing. It was for her he defied the law; he was her agent, one
whom she might recompense or not with her lithe white arms, but one to
whom she would at least be grateful. And how beautiful her gratitude
might be! Though she gave him nothing else, would not the thanks of her
eyes be reward enough? And then, as he worked himself up with the
thought of these things to acting pitch, then would come the horror of
it all, the necessity of taking the life of one who had been his nearest
friend, the dread of the remorse which attaches to death, the soiling of
his own hands. It was in this fashion that he had wavered between
indecision and determination, until, at last, stung by the cynicism of
Weldon's speech, there had come to him a force such as he had never
possessed before, and suddenly the deed had been done.
The possible arraignment that might follow the inquest, he had never
considered. It is said that the art of killing has been lost. The
tribunals, assizes, and general sessions have doubtless led somewhat to
its discouragement, and yet it must be admitted that the office of
police justice in one way resembles that of lover in the tropics--it is
not exactly a sinecure. Perhaps, nowadays, it is only the blunderers
that are detected; yet, however numerous they may or may not be,
Tristrem, without giving a single thought as to how such a thing should
be done and remain undetected, had had such chances in his favor that
Vidocq himself might have tried in vain to fasten the death of Weldon on
him. No one had seen him enter the house, no one had seen him leave it.
Even the instrument which he had used, and which he had bought
hap-hazard, as one buys a knick-knack, had served his end as cleanly as
a paralysis of the heart. It had not spilled a drop of blood.
As Tristrem walked on, he did not think of these things; the possibility
of detection had not troubled him, and now the probability that Weldon's
death would be attributed to natural causes brought him no satisfaction.
Of himself he gave no thought. He had wondered, indeed, that his
presence of mind had not deserted him; he had marvelled at his own calm.
But now his thoughts were wholly with Viola, and when he reached Fifth
Avenue he determined to go to her at once.
A vagabond hansom was loitering near, and with its assistance he
presently reached her door. Even as he entered, it was evident that she
was not alone. On putting his hat down in the hall he noticed two
others, and through the portière came the sound of voices. But he pushed
the curtain aside, and entered the room with the air of one to whom the
conventional has lost its significance. Yet, as he did so, he felt that
he was wrong. If he wished to see Viola, would it not have been more
courteous to her to get into evening dress than to appear among her
guests in a costume suitable only for the afternoon? Society he knew to
be a despot. Though it has no dungeons, at least it can banish, and to
those that have been brought up in its court there are no laws rigider
than its customs. Besides, was he in a mood to thrust himself among
those whose chiefest ambition was to be ornate? He was aware of his
mistake at once, but not until it was too late to recede.
Among those present he recognized a man who, though well on in life,
devoted his entire time to matters appertaining to the amusements of the
selectest circles. He was talking to a girl who, moist as to the lips
and eyes, looked as had she just issued from a vapor-bath. Near to her
was Mrs. Raritan. Tristrem noticed that her hair had turned almost
white. And a little beyond, a young man with a retreating forehead and a
Pall Mall accent sat, splendidly attired, talking to Viola.
Mrs. Raritan was the first to greet him, and she did so in the motherly
fashion that was her own. And as she spoke Viola came forward, said some
simple word, and went back to her former place.
"Come with me," said Mrs. Raritan, and she led him to an S in
upholstery, in which they both found seats. "And now tell me about
yourself," she added. "And where have you been?"
Truly it was pitiful. She looked ten years older. From a handsome,
well-preserved woman she had in a twelvemonth been overtaken by age.
"I have been in Europe, you know," Tristrem answered; "I wrote to you
from Vienna, and again from Rome."
"I am sorry," Mrs. Raritan replied; "the bankers are so negligent. There
were many letters that must have gone astray. Were you--you had a
pleasant winter, of course. And how is your grandfather?"
"I have not seen him. I am just off the ship."
At this announcement Mrs. Weldon looked perplexed.
"Is it possible that you only arrived this evening?" she asked.
"Yes, I wanted to see Viola. You know it is almost a year
since--since--I tried to find you both in Europe, but----"
