else to do. And yet she never pressed her husband to go and 
live in town, nor to fill the castle with visitors. She had lost all 
hold upon the current of events in the outer world ; and as she 
looked at herself in her mirror, and saw better than any one else the 
remorseless signature of time etched deep in the face that had once 
been pretty, she felt a sharp pain in her breast, and a sinking at 
the heart, for she knew that it was all over and that she had grown 
old. There were even moments when she feared lest she were 
 
becoming ridiculous, for she had not originally been without a 
certain acute perception in regard to herself. But the fear of 
ridicule is never strong unless a comparison of ourselves with others 
is possible, and Frau von Greifenstein lived too much alone to 
suffer long any such imaginary terrors. The time when she might 
still have made a figure in the world had gone by, however, and she 
knew it, and as any desire for change which she had formerly felt 
had sprung from the wish to be seen, rather than from the wish to see 
others, she was becoming resigned to her fate. She had reached 
that sad period at which half the pleasure of life consists in 
dreaming of what one might have done twenty years ago. It is 
a dreary amusement, but people who are very hopeless and solitary 
find it better than none at all. 
Greifenstein read on, without much punctuation and with no 
change of tone. There was an article upon the European situation, 
another upon tariffs, the court news, the gazette, the festivities 
projected for a certain great event. It was all the same to him. 
'In view of the solemnity of the occasion, his majesty has 
deigned to grant amnesty to all political 
He stopped suddenly and coughed, running his eye along the 
lines that followed. 
' To all what ? ' inquired his wife with a show of interest. 
' To all political offenders concerned in the revolutionary move- 
ments of 1848 and 1849,' continued Greifenstein, who sat up very 
straight in his chair and tried to read more mechanically than usual, 
though his voice grew unaccountably husky. What followed was 
merely a eulogium upon the imperial clemency, and he read on 
rapidly without taking his eyes from the printed sheet. Frau von 
Sigmundskron uttered a little exclamation. She had pricked her 
thin white finger with her needle. The Lady of Greifenstein saw 
the tiny drop of blood, and immediately exhibited an amount of 
emotion out of all proportion with the accident. 
' Oh, what have you done ! ' she cried, and she was pale with 
anxiety as she bent forward and insisted on seeing the scratch. 
'But, my dear, you have wounded yourself! Your finger is 
bleeding ! Oh, it is too dreadful ! You must have some water, 
and I will go and get you some court -plaster do be careful ! 
Bind it up with your handkerchief till I come ! ' 
She rose quickly, and Pretzel for once was forgotten, and 
rolled from her knees to the grass, falling upon all-fours with a 
pathetic little squeak. But Frau von Greifenstein picked him up 
and fled towards the house in search of the plaster before he could 
make any further protest against such rough treatment. 
 
' My wife cannot bear the sight of blood,' observed Greifenstein, 
who had lowered the newspaper and was looking over his glasses at 
his cousin's hand. 
' The wound is not dangerous,' she answered with an attempt 
to smile, but her eyes fixed themselves on Greifenstein's with a 
look of anxious inquiry. 
' He will come back,' he said, in a low voice, and the colour 
slowly left his face. 
' Do you think it possible ? ' asked his cousin in the same tone. 
' It is certain. He is included in the amnesty. He has hoped 
for it these many years.' 
' Even if he does he will not come here. You will never see 
him.' 
' No. I will not see him. But he will be in Germany. It is 
for Greif ' he stopped, as though he were choking with anger, 
but excepting by the pallor of his stern features, his face expressed 
nothing of what he felt. 
' Greif will live here and will never see him either,' said Frau 
von Sigmundskron. * Besides, he does not know 
' He knows. Some student told him and got a sabre cut for 
his pains. He knows, for he told me so only yesterday.' 
' That only makes it easier, then. Greif will be warned, and 
need never come into contact with him. Hilda would not under- 
stand, even if she were told. What can she know about revolutions 
and those wild times ? I am sure he will never attempt to come 
here.' 
' He shall not sleep under my roof, not if he is starving ! ' 
exclaimed Greifenstein fiercely. ' If he had not been the dog he 
is, he would have made an end of himself long ago.' 
' Do not say that, cousin. It was better that he should live 
out his life in a foreign country than do such a bad thing.' 
' I do not agree with you. When a man has taken Judas 
Iscariot for his model I think he ought to follow so eminent an 
example to the end.' 
Frau von Sigmundskron did not wish to argue the point. Far 
down in her heart there existed an aristocratic and highly irreligious 
prejudice about such matters, and though her convictions told her 
that suicide was a crime, her personal sentiment of honour required 
that a man who had disgraced himself should put an end to his 
existence forthwith. 
' He will write, if he means to come,' she observed, by way of 
changing the current of the conversation. 
' It would be more like him to force himself npon me without 
 
warning,' said Greifenstein, folding the paper with his lean strong 
hands and drawing his thumb-nail sharply along the doubled edges. 
The action was unconscious, but was mechanically and neatly 
performed, like most things the man did. Then he opened it, 
spread it out and looked again at the passage that contained the 
news. Suddenly his expression changed. 
'I do not believe he is included in the amnesty,' he said. ' He 
was not convicted for a political misdeed, but for a military crime 
involving a breach of trust. He aggravated his offence by escaping. 
I do not believe that he is included.' 
'But will he not believe it himself?' asked Frau von Sig- 
mundskron. 
' It will be at his peril, then.' Greifenstein's face expressed a 
momentary satisfaction. Again he folded the paper with the 
utmost care, evidently reflecting upon the situation. 
' I suppose he will be sent back to the fortress/ observed his 
companion. 
' I would almost rather he were pardoned, than that,' answered 
Greifenstein gloomily. 'The whole scandal would be revived 
my name would appear, it would be a fresh injury to Greif. And 
my wife knows nothing of it. She would hear it all.' 
'Does she know nothing  ?' asked Frau von Sigmundskron, 
looking curiously at her cousin. 
' Not a word. She never heard his name.' 
' I could not help supposing that she left us just now because 
she was disturbed at the news and she has not come back.' 
' She is not so diplomatic as that,' answered Greifenstein with 
something like a grim smile. ' She forgets things easily, and has 
probably been detained by some household matter.' 
Frau von Sigmundskron could not help admiring the way in 
which Greifenstein always spoke of his wife, excusing her more 
noticeable eccentricities, and affecting to ignore her minor pecu- 
liarities, with a consistent dignity few men could have sustained 
in the society of such a woman. It was a part of his principle 
of life, and he never deviated from it. It had perhaps been 
strengthened by the necessity of teaching Greif to respect his 
mother and to treat her with a proper show of reverence, but the 
prime feeling itself was inseparable from his character, and did 
honour to it. Whatever he might think of his wife, no living 
person should ever suspect that he could have wished her to be 
different. He had chosen her and he must abide by his choice. 
But his cousin was a very keen-sighted person and understood him 
better than he guessed, admiring his forbearance and giving him full 
 
credit for his constancy. She had her own opinions concerning his 
wife, and did not like her; nor was she quite free from a disturbing 
apprehension lest at some future time Greif might develop some 
of his mother's undesirable peculiarities. At present, indeed, there 
seemed to be nothing which could justify such fears; but she 
found it hard to believe that the young man had inherited nothing 
whatever from his mother. She could remember the time when 
Frau von Greifenstein had been younger and fresher, when her 
hair had been less dull and colourless, and when her complexion 
had possessed something of that radiance which was so especially 
noticeable in her son. And yet Hilda's mother felt instinctively 
that she could never dislike Greif, even if he became vain and 
foolish, which did not seem very probable. 
For some minutes neither of the cousins spoke, and Frau von 
Sigmundskron sat doing nothing, which was altogether contrary to 
her nature, her work lying upon her knees and her hands joined 
one upon the other. As for Greifenstein, he had at last folded the 
paper to his satisfaction and had returned it to his pocket. Pre- 
sently the sound of his wife's footsteps was heard upon the gravel 
path. She seemed less excited than when she had left her seat. 
'I have kept you waiting,' she said, as she came up. 'I could 
not find what I wanted, and when I did that dreadful Pretzel was 
swallowing a pair of scissors and nearly had a fit, so that I had to 
give him a hot bath to calm him. He is such a care ! You have 
no idea but here it is, if it is not too late. I am so dreadfully 
sorry ! I thought I should have died ! Do let me put it upon your 
finger.' 
The scratch had entirely disappeared, but Frau von Sig- 
mundskron did not wish to appear ungracious, or ungrateful, and 
held out her hand without any remark. It would have seemed 
uncharitable to make Clara's errand look wholly superfluous before 
Greifenstein. But he paid very little attention to what was 
passing, for he was preoccupied with his own thoughts, and before 
long he rose, excused himself for going away by saying that he 
had some pressing correspondence, and left the two ladies to their 
own devices. 
Frau von Sigmundskron felt rather uncomfortable, as she always 
did when she was alone with her hostess. To-day she had an 
unpleasant consciousness that she was in the way, and that, if she 
were not present, Clara would have already disappeared, in order to 
be alone. She resolved to make the interview as short as possible. 
'The weather is very warm/ she remarked, as a preparatory 
move towards going into the house. 
 
'Is it?' asked her companion as though she had been told 
something very unusual. 
' It seems so to me,' responded the baroness, rather surprised 
that the fact should be questioned. ' But then, it always seems 
warmer here after Sigmundskron.' 
' Yes yes, perhaps so. I daresay it is. How very good of 
his majesty is it not ?' 
' To grant an amnesty ? ' 
'Yes, to forgive those dreadful creatures who did so much 
harm. I am sure I would not have done it would you*? But 
you are so good did you ever know any of them ? ' 
' Oh no, never. I was ' She was going to say that she had 
been too young, but she was stopped by a feeling of consideration 
for Clara. ' I was never in the way of seeing them,' she said, 
completing the sentence. 
