asserting this — the experience of the trained spir- 
itual sense by which we receive the spiritual 
fact. To this extent and for this reason, are 
you as far qualified for making intelligent 
deductions from our premises as we for drawing 
such from yours ? 
In asking you to answer this, as an act of 
judicial fairness, we cannot refrain from add- 
ing that it would seem natural for a broad- 
minded and intelligent man to feel a certain 
discontent with the partial nature of his 
development. He who trains his body and ex- 
ercises his brain, and stops there, is imperfect, 
unbalanced, crude. He who has not sought 
to develop his spiritual nature is a 
half-educated creature. 
Spiritual power is the flower of the human 
growth. In spiritual character we find the 
highest, finest, and most complex form of the 
species. All other nature, whether physical 
or mental, is embryonic to spiritual nature. 
Spiritual culture is the culmination of human 
education. 
We ask, therefore, evidences of this culture, 
as the first qualification in any man towards 
his becoming a critic of such nature, such 
power, such character, or their philosophy. 
Failing of this culture, your science should, 
we submit, grant to our science the respect 
of ignorance, if not the attention of the 
student. 
We have known invalids, prisoners of their 
inert muscles during all the bloom and
brilliance of life. Some late-found medical
inspiration, some personal surrender of devotion 
on the part of a friend, some unexpected joy 
or unimagined grief, or even some electric 
alarm, has allured, or shocked, or startled the 
sick man to his feet. 
The power of motion was not dead, but slept. 
Late and loath though they be, the great 
flexile and extensor actions of the great muscles 
begin. Between the grave of his life and the 
grave of his death the man partakes of a 
resurrection. 
Such a discovery of blessedness, we may 
suppose, comes to him who, after the sluggish- 
ness, or willfulness, or disease of unbelieving 
years, is led by the late cultivation of his 
spiritual faculties to the possession of spiritual 
truth. 
Facts before which his intellect has been a 
blank illuminate his consciousness. Mysteries 
at which he sneered become shrines before 
which he kneels. Powers which he has not 
hitherto recognized magnify his nature. Hopes 
which he has never known irradiate his life. 
Contrition that he has not understood permeates 
his heart. Tenderness which he has never 
approached gives pathos, as it gives purity, to 
his past. A future of which he has never 
dreamed intensifies and glorifies his present. 
He learns the value of his own being, and 
experiences the friendship of God. In the clos- 
ing days of his history, as in the final scenes of 
the apocalyptic vision, there are " new heavens 
and a new earth." 
A tendency to ask irreverent questions is 
no sign of strength. It is wholesome for us, 
in this day of facile defiance and hard acceptance, 
to remember this. In an age which fails 
in deference, it is a healthful thing to do, to 
summon our spiritual instincts to order. The 
bust of young Augustus in the shop window 
wears a lung protector ; Clytie serves to 
advertise the "Boston battery;" and positivist 
writers go out of their way to address Jehovah 
by the familiar pronoun " you." We 
have not passed the period when skepticism is 
more apt than not to be regarded as a proof 
of superior intelligence, but we have reached 
the stage at which no intelligent mind can 
thus regard it, without severe and honest 
study of its own motives. It is a lesson as 
old as Aristotle that philosophy is not the art 
of doubting, but the art of doubting well. 
While the inclination to irreverence, let us 
repeat, is no indication of mental robustness, 
the courage to question accepted doctrine may 
be not only a proof of devoutness, but the 
condition of the profoundest submission to 
truth. 
This recognition of the inherent right of 
every man to have the reasons for what he be- 
lieves, and to shake his destiny by the shoul- 
ders till he gets such reasons, is postulated to- 
day, in educated thought. 
It is hardly necessary to say that it will not 
be the presumptuous object of this paper to try 
to settle in half a dozen pages that problem 
which is now the acknowledged centre of phil- 
osophical divergence : Given the universe, to 
find a Creator. " It takes me forty lectures," 
said a professional metaphysician, "to prove 
the personality of God." Such things must 
be. God is none the worse for it, or man, 
either, perhaps. The pulse will go throbbing ; 
the blood will have its bound, through the cut 
flesh its escape. But even for the terrible 
protest of the wound there is the reply of the 
ligature ; and behind the beat and fever the 
magnificent action of the hidden heart goes on to 
save the mutilated life. We do not make a 
gloomy prognosis of the case, but, meanwhile, 
prefer to surrender ourselves to the profound 
and sublime argument of hope. We desire 
to be understood as intelligently contented to 
observe that design does not exist without 
a designer ; that moral nature implies moral 
government ; that moral government means a 
moral governor ; that human conscience be- 
speaks a greater than human regulator; that 
aspiration involves an ideal, purity a model, 
the child a father, man God. We desire to be 
ranked among those simple souls who believe 
that this world never got where it is without 
somebody to put it here. In short, we find it, 
of the two difficulties, so much harder to 
explain the nature of things without God than 
with him that we decline at present to perceive 
that he is no longer needed in our affairs. 
Just before the American civil war, a new 
religion, it is said, arose among the negro slaves, 
founded upon the theory that God was dead. 
Much of our haste to dispense with him can 
boast no sounder premises. " I am a priest," 
said Victor Hugo's Cimourdain ; " no matter, 
I believe in God." " God has gone out of 
date," said Danton. " I believe in God," 
said Cimourdain, unmoved. 
So much being understood, we may proceed 
to remind ourselves that the mere fact of hav- 
ing a God is of slight value to us unless we 
know what kind of a God he is. 
The benevolence of the Creator, it is pafe to 
assert, was never so thoughtfully questioned by 
such numbers of human beings as it is to-day. 
Openly or tacitly, this is done on every side of 
us. Falsely or fairly, many types of mind 
spring easily to this attitude. In hope or in 
despair, the awful query works out its fixed 
reply, and life freezes or melts to the mould of 
it. We should remember that this is so. 
The piercing cry of the people in Bichter's 
Dream reechoes about us : "O Christ ! Are 
we all orphans ? " Spiritual tragedies are 
enacting among us, to which none but an unim- 
aginative, unobservant, or un tender eye can be 
blind. Spiritual forms and forces which our 
fathers knew not, pursue us like unlaid ghosts. 
They start in the glamour of the drawing- 
room ; they skulk behind the study chair ; 
they hold the Prayer Book with trembling fingers ; 
they kneel with the worshiper ; they cry 
in the hymn ; they stare above our bridals ; 
they look at us in the eyes of our children ; 
they regard us in the last recognition of our 
dying ; they huddle over our graves. To 
ignore them gives them a fatal fertility ; to 
foster them is death ; to feel out a true 
course among them is a " strait and narrow 
way." He who does this with intelligence 
and candor has to the respect of the unbeliever 
a right as clear as the right of the 
chemist to be followed in the results of his
experiment. He who does this with humility 
and prayer has to the confidence of untroubled 
believers a right as clear as the ecstasy of an 
aged saint at the communion table. 
There is no reason, in the nature of things, 
why a man should not question the benevo- 
lence of God. This may be done as honestly 
(I do not say as intelligently), and it may be 
done as honorably, as to question the good- 
nature of the Czar, or the poetic rank of Mil- 
ton, or the disposition of any other being superior 
to the questioner. 
God is an unknown force. He is expressed 
to us through facts. It is our right to interpret 
the nature of that force through these 
facts. It is our duty to exercise this right in 
a manner worthy of a right so solemn, of facts 
so grave, of a force so vast. 
Human impressions are of a singularly limited 
reliability, but if there is one which can 
be said to be trustworthy, it is that people 
know when they suffer. In the infinitely 
complicated system of pain and pleasure that gov- 
erns this world we find, I premise, the 
emphatic predominance of pain. Did we not re- 
