newer roads have been encouraged to penetrate as far into the city as
they could. Now that it is necessary to make it a city to live in safely
and agreeably, the railways are regarded from another point of view. I
suppose a sociologist would make some reflections on the effect of such
a thorough permeation of tracks, trains, engines, and traffic upon
the temperament of a town, the action of these exciting and irritating
causes upon its nervous centres. Living in a big railway-station must
have an effect on the nerves. At present this seems a legitimate part
of the excited activity of the city; but if it continues, with the rapid
increase of wealth and the growth of a leisure class, the inhabitants
who can afford to get away will live here only the few months necessary
to do their business and take a short season of social gayety, and then
go to quieter places early in the spring and for the summer months.

It is at this point of view that the value of the park system appears,
not only as a relief, as easily accessible recreation-grounds for the
inhabitants in every part of the city, but as an element in society
life. These parks, which I have already named, contain 1742 acres.
The two south parks, connected so as to be substantially one, have 957
acres. Their great connecting boulevards are interfered with somewhat by
railway-tracks, and none of them, except Lincoln, can be reached without
crossing tracks on which locomotives run, yet, as has been said, the
most important of them are led to by good driving-roads from the heart
of the city. They have excellent roads set apart for equestrians as
well as for driving. These facilities induce the keeping of horses, the
setting up of fine equipages, and a display for which no other city has
better opportunity. This cannot but have an appreciable effect upon the
growth of luxury and display in this direction. Indeed, it is already
true that the city keeps more private carriages—for the pleasure not
only of the rich, but of the well-to-do—in proportion to its population,
than any other large city I know. These broad thoroughfares, kept free
from traffic, furnish excellent sleighing when it does not exist in the
city streets generally, and in the summer unequalled avenues for the
show of wealth and beauty and style. In a few years the turnouts on the
Grand Boulevard and the Lincoln Park drive will be worth going far to
see for those who admire—and who does not? for, the world over, wealth
has no spectacle more attractive to all classes—fine horses and the
splendor of moving equipages. And here is no cramped mile or two for
parade, like most of the fashionable drives of the world, but space
inviting healthful exercise as well as display. These broad avenues and
park outlooks, with ample ground-room, stimulate architectural rivalry,
and this opportunity for driving and riding and being on view cannot but
affect very strongly the social tone. The foresight of the busy men who
planned this park system is already vindicated. The public appreciate
their privileges. On fair days the driving avenues are thronged. One
Sunday afternoon in January, when the sleighing was good, some one
estimated that there were as many as ten thousand teams flying up and
down Michigan avenue and the Grand Boulevard. This was, of course, an
over-estimate, but the throng made a ten-thousand impression on the
mind. Perhaps it was a note of Western independence that a woman was
here and there seen “speeding” a fast horse, in a cutter, alone.

I suppose that most of these people had been to church in the morning,
for Chicago, which does everything it puts its hand to with tremendous
energy, is a church-going city, and I believe presents some contrast to
Cincinnati in this respect. Religious, mission, and Sunday-school work
is very active, churches are many, whatever the liberality of the creeds
of a majority of them, and there are several congregations of over two
thousand people. One vast music-hall and one theatre are thronged Sunday
after Sunday with organized, vigorous, worshipful congregations. Besides
these are the Sunday meetings for ethical culture and Christian science.
It is true that many of the theatres are open as on week-days, and there
is a vast foreign population that takes its day of rest in idleness or
base-ball and garden amusements, but the prevailing aspect of the city
is that of Sunday observance. There is a good deal of wholesome New
England in its tone. And it welcomes any form of activity—orthodoxy,
liberalism, revivals, ethical culture.

A special interest in Chicago at the moment is because it is
forming—full of contrasts and of promise, palaces and shanties side by
side. Its forces are gathered and accumulating, but not assimilated.
What a mass of crude, undigested material it has! In one region on the
west side are twenty thousand Bohemians and Poles; the street signs
are all foreign and of unpronounceable names—a physically strong,
but mentally and morally brutal, people for the most part; the adults
generally do not speak English, and claning as they do, they probably
never will. There is no hope that this generation will be intelligent
American citizens, or be otherwise than the political prey of
demagogues. But their children are in the excellent public schools, and
will take in American ideas and take on American ways. Still, the mill
has about as much grist as it can grind at present.

Social life is, speaking generally, as unformed, unselected, as the
city—that is, more fluid and undetermined than in Eastern large cities.
That is merely to say, however, that while it is American, it is young.
When you come to individuals, the people in society are largely from
the East, or have Eastern connections that determine their conduct. For
twenty years the great universities, Harvard, Yale, Amherst, Princeton,
and the rest, have been pouring in their young men here. There is no
better element in the world, and it is felt in every pulse of the town.
Young couples marry and come here from every sort of Eastern circle. But
the town has grown so fast, and so many new people have come into the
ability suddenly to spend money in fine houses and equipages, that the
people do not know each other. You may drive past miles of good houses,
with a man who has grown up with the town, who cannot tell you who any
of the occupants of the houses are. Men know each other on change, in
the courts, in business, and are beginning to know each other in clubs,
but society has not got itself sorted out and arranged, or discovered
its elements. This is a metropolitan trait, it is true, but the
condition is socially very different from what it is in New York or
Boston; the small village associations survive a little yet, struggling
against the territorial distances, but the social mass is still
unorganized, although “society” is a prominent feature in the
newspapers. Of course it is understood that there are people “in
society,” and dinners, and all that, in nowise different from the same
people and events the world over.

A striking feature of the town is “youth,” visible in social life as
well as in business. An Eastern man is surprised to see so many young
men in responsible positions, at the head, or taking the managing oar,
in great moneyed institutions, in railway corporations, and in societies
of charity and culture. A young man, graduate of the city high-school,
is at the same time president of a prominent bank, president of the
Board of Trade, and president of the Art Institute. This youthful spirit
must be contagious, for apparently the more elderly men do not permit
themselves to become old, either in the business or the pleasures of
life. Everything goes on with youthful vim and spirit.

Next to the youth, and perhaps more noticeable, the characteristic
feature of Chicago is money-making, and the money power is as obtrusive
socially as on change. When we come to speak of educational and
intellectual tendencies, it will be seen how this spirit is being at
once utilized and mitigated; but for the moment money is the recognized
power. How could it be otherwise? Youth and energy did not flock here
for pleasure or for society, but simply for fortune. And success in
money-getting was about the only one considered. And it is still that
by which Chicago is chiefly known abroad, by that and by a certain
consciousness of it which is noticed. And as women reflect social
conditions most vividly, it cannot be denied that there is a type known
in Europe and in the East as the Chicago young woman, capable rather
than timid, dashing rather than retiring, quite able to take care of
herself. But this is not by any means an exhaustive account of the
Chicago woman of to-day.

While it must be said that the men, as a rule, are too much absorbed
in business to give heed to anything else, yet even this statement will
need more qualification than would appear at first, when we come to
consider the educational, industrial, and reformatory projects. And
indeed a veritable exception is the Literary Club, of nearly two hundred
members, a mingling of business and professional men, who have fine
rooms in the Art Building, and meet weekly for papers and discussions.
It is not in every city that an equal number of busy men will give
the time to this sort of intellectual recreation. The energy here is
superabundant; in whatever direction it is exerted it is very effective;
and it may be said, in the language of the street, that if the men of
Chicago seriously take hold of culture, they will make it hum.

Still it remains true here, as elsewhere in the United States, that
women are in advance in the intellectual revival. One cannot yet
predict what will be the result of this continental furor for literary,
scientific, and study clubs—in some places in the East the literary wave
has already risen to the height of the scientific study of whist—but for
the time being Chicago women are in the full swing of literary life.
Mr. Browning says that more of his books are sold in Chicago than in any
other American city. Granting some affectation, some passing fashion, in
the Browning, Dante, and Shakespeare clubs, I think it is true that
the Chicago woman, who is imbued with the energy of the place, is more
serious in her work than are women in many other places; at least she
is more enthusiastic. Her spirit is open, more that of frank admiration
than of criticism of both literature and of authors. This carries her
not only further into the heart of literature itself, but into a genuine
enjoyment of it—wanting almost to some circles at the East, who are
too cultivated to admire with warmth or to surrender themselves to the
delights of learning, but find their avocation rather in what may be
called literary detraction, the spirit being that of dissection of
authors and books, much as social gossips pick to pieces the characters
of those of their own set. And one occupation is as good as the other.
Chicago has some reputation for beauty, for having pretty, dashing,
and attractive women; it is as much entitled to be considered for its
intelligent women who are intellectually agreeable. Comparisons are very
unsafe, but it is my impression that there is more love for books in
Chicago than in New York society, and less of the critical, nil admirari
spirit than in Boston.

It might be an indication of no value (only of the taste of individuals)
that books should be the principal “favors” at a fashionable german, but
there is a book-store in the city whose evidence cannot be set aside
by reference to any freak of fashion. McClurg’s book-store is a very
extensive establishment in all departments—publishing, manufacturing,
retailing, wholesaling, and importing. In some respects it has not its
equal in this country. The book-lover, whether he comes from London
or New York, will find there a stock, constantly sold and constantly
replenished, of books rare, curious, interesting, that will surprise
him. The general intelligence that sustains a retail shop of this
variety and magnitude must be considerable, and speaks of a taste for
books with which the city has not been credited; but the cultivation,
the special love of books for themselves, which makes possible this rich
corner of rare and imported books at McClurg’s, would be noticeable
in any city, and women as well as men in Chicago are buyers and
appreciators of first editions, autograph and presentation copies, and
books valued because they are scarce and rare.

Chicago has a physical peculiarity that radically affects its social
condition, and prevents its becoming homogeneous. It has one business
centre and three distinct residence parts, divided by the branching
river. Communication between the residence sections has to be made
through the business city, and is further hindered by the bridge
crossings, which cause irritating delays the greater part of the year.
The result is that three villages grew up, now become cities in size,
and each with a peculiar character. The north side was originally
