neighbors."’
As the mustard-spoon spoke, the teaspoons laughed as if they thought
her rather like Aunt Maria in that respect.
"I gave the baby a fit of colic to teach her to let pickles alone, but
no one thanked me," said the pickle-fork.
"Perhaps if we keep ourselves so bright that those who use us can see
their faces in us, we shall be able to help them a little; for no one
likes to see an ugly face or a dull spoon.  The art of changing frowns
to smiles is never old-fashioned; and lovely manners smooth away the
little worries of life beautifully."  A silvery voice spoke, and all
looked respectfully at Madam Gravy Ladle, who was a very fine old spoon,
with a coat of arms on it, and a polish that all envied.
"People can’t always be remembering how old and valuable and bright they
are.  Here in America we just go ahead and make manners and money for
ourselves.  I don’t stop to ask what dish I ’m going to help to; I
just pitch in and take all I can hold, and don’t care a bit whether I
shine or not.  My grandfather was a kitchen spoon; but I’m smarter than
he was, thanks to my plating, and look and feel as good as any one,
though I have n’t got stags’ heads and big letters on my handle."
No one answered these impertinent remarks of the sauce-spoon, for all
knew that she was not pure silver, and was only used on occasions when
many spoons were needed.  Tony was ashamed to hear her talk in that rude
way to the fine old silver he was so proud of, and resolved he ’d give
the saucy spoon a good rap when he helped himself to the cranberry.
An impressive silence lasted till a lively fork exclaimed, as the clock
struck, "Every one is coasting out-of-doors.  Why not have our share of
the fun inside?  It is very fashionable this winter, and ladies and
gentlemen of the best families do it, I assure you."
"We will!" cried the other forks; and as the dowagers did not object,
all fell to work to arrange the table for this agreeable sport.  Tony
sat up to see how they would manage, and was astonished at the ingenuity
of the silver people. With a great clinking and rattling they ran to and
fro, dragging the stiff white mats about; the largest they leaned up
against the tall caster, and laid the rest in a long slope to the edge
of the table, where a pile of napkins made a nice snowdrift to tumble
into.
"What will they do for sleds?" thought Tony; and the next minute
chuckled when he saw them take the slices of bread laid at each place,
pile on, and spin away, with a great scattering of crumbs like
snowflakes, and much laughter as they landed in the white pile at the
end of the coast.
"Won’t John give it to ’em if he comes in and catches ’em turning his
nice table topsy-turvy!" said the boy to himself, hoping nothing would
happen to end this jolly frolic.  So he kept very still, and watched the
gay forks and spoons climb up and whiz down till they were tired.  The
little salts got Baby Nell’s own small slice, and had lovely times on a
short coast of their own made of one mat held up by grandpa, who smiled
benevolently at the fun, being too old and heavy to join in it.
They kept it up until the slices were worn thin, and one or two upsets
alarmed the ladies; then they rested and conversed again.  The mammas
talked about their children, how sadly the silver basket needed a new
lining, and what there was to be for dinner.  The teaspoons whispered
sweetly together, as young ladies do,--one declaring that rouge powder
was not as good as it used to be, another lamenting the sad effect of
eggs upon her complexion, and all smiled amiably upon the forks, who
stood about discussing wines and cigars, for both lived in the
sideboard, and were brought out after dinner, so the forks knew a great
deal about such matters, and found them very interesting, as all
gentlemen seem to do.
Presently some one mentioned bicycles, and what fine rides the boys of
the family told about. The other fellows proposed a race; and before
Tony could grasp the possibility of such a thing, it was done.  Nothing
easier, for there stood a pile of plates, and just turning them on their
edges, the forks got astride, and the big wheels spun away as if a whole
bicycle club had suddenly arrived.
Old Pickle took the baby’s plate, as better suited to his size.  The
little salts made a tricycle of napkin-rings, and rode gayly off, with
the dogs barking after them.  Even the carving-fork, though not invited,
could not resist the exciting sport, and tipping up the wooden
bread-platter, went whizzing off at a great pace, for his two prongs
were better than four, and his wheel was lighter than the china ones.
Grand-papa Ladle cheered them on, like a fine old gentleman as he was,
for though the new craze rather astonished him, he liked manly sports,
and would have taken a turn if his dignity and age had allowed.  The
ladies chimed their applause, for it really was immensely exciting to
see fourteen plates with forks astride racing round the large table with
cries of, "Go it, Pickle!  Now, then, Prongs!  Steady, Silver-top!
Hurrah for the twins!"
The fun was at its height when young Prongs ran against Pickle, who did
not steer well, and both went off the table with a crash.  All stopped
at once, and crowded to the edge to see who was killed.  The plates lay
in pieces, old Pickle had a bend in his back that made him groan
dismally, and Prongs had fallen down the register.
Wails of despair arose at that awful sight, for he was a favorite with
every one, and such a tragic death was too much for some of the
tender-hearted spoons, who fainted at the idea of that gallant fork’s
destruction in what to them was a fiery volcano.
"Serves Pickle right!  He ought to know he was too old for such wild
games," scolded Miss Mustard, peering anxiously over at her friend, for
they were fond of one another in spite of their tiffs.
"Now let us see what these fine folks will do when they get off the
damask and come to grief. A helpless lot, I fancy, and those fellows
deserve what they ’ve got," said the sauce-spoon, nearly upsetting the
twins as she elbowed her way to the front to jeer over the fallen.
"I think you will see that gentle people are as brave as those who make
a noise," answered Madam Gravy, and leaning over the edge of the table
she added in her sweet voice, "Dear Mr. Pickle, we will let down a
napkin and pull you up if you have strength to take hold."
"Pull away, ma’am," groaned Pickle, who well deserved his name just
then, and soon, thanks to Madam’s presence of mind, he was safely laid
on a pile of mats, while Miss Mustard put a plaster on his injured back.
Meanwhile brave Grandpapa Ladle had slipped from the table to a chair,
and so to the floor without too great a jar to his aged frame; then
sliding along the carpet, he reached the register. Peering down that
dark, hot abyss he cried, while all listened breathlessly for a reply,
"Prongs, my boy, are you there?"
"Ay, ay, sir; I ’m caught in the wire screen. Ask some of the fellows to
lend a hand and get me out before I ’m melted," answered the fork, with
a gasp of agony.
Instantly the long handle of the patriarchal Ladle was put down to his
rescue, and after a moment of suspense, while Prongs caught firmly hold,
up he came, hot and dusty, but otherwise unharmed by that dreadful fall.
Cheers greeted them, and every one lent a hand at the napkin as they
were hoisted to the table to be embraced by their joyful relatives and
friends.
"What did you think about down in that horrid place?" asked one of the
twins.
"I thought of a story I once heard master tell, about a child who was
found one cold day sitting with his feet on a newspaper, and when asked
what he was doing, answered, ’Warming my feet on the "Christian
Register."’  I hoped my register would be Christian enough not to melt
me before help came.  Ha! ha!  See the joke, my dears?" and Prongs
laughed as gayly as if he never had taken a header into a volcano.
"What did you see down there?" asked the other twin, curious, as all
small people are.
"Lots of dust and pins, a doll’s head baby put there, Norah’s thimble,
and the big red marble that boy Tony was raging about the other day.
It’s a regular catch-all, and shows how the work is shirked in this
house," answered Prongs, stretching his legs, which were a little
damaged by the fall.
"What shall we do about the plates?" asked Pickle, from his bed.
"Let them lie, for we can’t mend them. John will think the boy broke
them, and he’ll get punished, as he deserves, for he broke a tumbler
yesterday, and put it slyly in the ash-barrel," said Miss Mustard,
spitefully.
"Oh!  I say, that’s mean," began Tony; but no one listened, and in a
minute Prongs answered bravely,--
"I ’m a gentleman, and I don’t let other people take the blame of my
scrapes.  Tony has enough of his own to answer for."
"I’ll have that bent fork for mine, and make John keep it as bright as a
new dollar to pay for this.  Prongs is a trump, and I wish I could tell
him so," thought Tony, much gratified at this handsome behavior.
"Right, grandson.  I am pleased with you; but allow me to suggest that
the Chinese Mandarin on the chimney-piece be politely requested to mend
the plates.  He can  do that sort of thing nicely, and will be charmed
to oblige us, I am sure."
Grandpapa’s suggestion was a good one; and Yam Ki Lo consented at once,
skipped to the floor, tapped the bits of china with his fan, and in the
twinkling of an eye was back on his perch, leaving two whole plates
behind him, for he was a wizard, and knew all about blue china.
Just as the silver people were rejoicing over this fine escape from
discovery, the clock struck, a bell rang, voices were heard upstairs,
and it was very evident that the family had arrived. At these sounds a
great flurry arose in the dining-room, as every spoon, fork, plate, and
napkin flew back to its place.  Pickle rushed to the jar, and plunged in
head first, regardless of his back; Miss Mustard retired to the caster;
the twins scrambled into the salt-cellar; and the silver dogs lay down
by the carving knife and fork as quietly as if they had never stirred a
leg; Grandpapa slowly reposed in his usual place; Madam followed his
example with dignity; the teaspoons climbed into the holder, uttering
little cries of alarm; and Prongs stayed to help them till he had barely
time to drop down at Tony’s place, and lie there with his bent leg in
the air, the only sign of the great fall, about which he talked for a
long time afterward.  All was in order but the sauce-spoon, who had
stopped to laugh at the Mandarin till it was too late to get to her
corner; and before she could find any place of concealment, John came in
and caught her lying in the middle of the table, looking very common and
shabby among all the bright silver.
"What in the world is that old plated thing here for?  Missis told Norah
to put it in the kitchen, as she had a new one for a present
to-day--real silver--so out you go;" and as he spoke, John threw the
spoon through the slide,--an exile forevermore from the good society
which she did not value as she should.
Tony saw the glimmer of a smile in Grand-papa Ladle’s face, but it was
gone like a flash, and by the time the boy reached the table nothing was
to be seen in the silver bowl but his own round rosy countenance, full
of wonder.
"I don’t think any one will believe what I ’ve seen, but I mean to tell,
it was so very curious," he said, as he surveyed the scene of the late
frolic, now so neat and quiet that not a wrinkle or a crumb betrayed
what larks had been going on.
Hastily fishing up his long-lost marble, the doll’s head, and Norah’s
thimble, he went thoughtfully upstairs to welcome his cousins, still
much absorbed by this very singular affair.
Dinner was soon announced; and while it lasted every one was too busy
eating the good things before them to observe how quiet the usually
riotous Tony was.  His appetite for turkey and cranberries seemed to
have lost its sharp edge, and the mince-pie must have felt itself sadly
slighted by his lack of appreciation of its substance and flavor.  He
seemed in a brown-study, and kept staring about as if he saw more than
other people did.  He examined Nelly’s plate as if looking for a crack,
smiled at the little spoon when he took salt, refused pickles and
mustard with a frown, kept a certain bent fork by him as long as
possible, and tried to make music with a wet finger on the rim of his
bowl at dessert.
But in the evening, when the young people sat around the fire, he amused
them by telling the queer story of the silver party; but he very wisely
left out the remarks made upon himself and family, remembering how
disagreeable the sauce-spoon had seemed, and he privately resolved to
follow Madam Gravy Ladle’s advice to keep his own face bright, manners
