possible, like a tightly fitting cap. Her great dark eyes with long
curling lashes were very beautiful. They had often an absent-minded
look. Under them were bluish rings. Slight and smooth as she was--the
flesh of her whole body was extraordinarily smooth, as though it had
been rubbed with pumice-stone--she yet seemed in one way strong and
unyielding. She was quiet in her looks, in her actions, in her tones.
Eve had now choked down her tears.
"I sent Powlyne with some cherry-bounce," said Miss Sabrina, giving
Eve's hand, secretly, a last pressure, as they came back to the hearth.
"Your maid will find it--such a nice, worthy person as she seems to be,
too; so generally desirable all round. If she is really to leave you
to-morrow, you must have some one else. Let me see--"
"I don't want any one, thanks," Eve answered. Two spots of color rose in
her cheeks. "That is, I don't want any one unless I can have Jack?" She
turned to Cicely, who still stood gazing at the fire. "May Jack sleep
here?"
"With Dilsey?" said Cicely, lifting her eyes with a surprised glance.
"Yes, with Dilsey. The room is large."
"I am sure I don't care; yes, if you like. He cries at night sometimes."
"I hope he will," responded Eve, and her tone was almost fierce. "Then I
can comfort him."
"Dilsey does that better than any one else; he is devoted to her; when
he cries, I never interfere," said Cicely, laughing.
Eve bit her lips to keep back the retort, "But I shall!"
"It is a sweet idea," said Miss Sabrina, in her chanting voice. "It is
sweet of Miss Bruce to wish to have him, and sweet of you, Cicely, to
let him go. We can arrange a little nursery at the other end of this
room to-morrow; there's a chamber beyond, where no one sleeps, and the
door could be opened through, if you like. I am sure it will be very
nice all round."
Eve turned and kissed her. Cicely pushed back a burning log with her
foot, and laughed again, this time merrily. "It seems so funny, your
having the baby in here at night, just like a mother, when you haven't
been married at all. Now I have been married twice. To be sure, I never
meant to be!"
"My precious child!" Miss Sabrina remonstrated.
"No, auntie, I never did. It came about," Cicely answered, her eyes
growing absent again and returning to the fire.
Meadows now came in with deferential step, and presently she was
followed by her own couch, which Uncle Abram spread out, in the shape of
a mattress, on the floor. The English girl looked on, amazed. But this
was a house of amazements; it was like a Drury Lane pantomime.
Later, when the girl was asleep, Eve rose, and, taking the package of
letters, which she had put under her pillow, she felt for a candle and
matches, thrust her feet into her slippers, and, with her dressing-gown
over her arm, stole to the second door; it opened probably into the
unoccupied chamber of which Miss Sabrina had spoken. The door was not
locked; she passed through, closing it behind her. Lighting her candle,
she looked about her. The room was empty, the floor bare. She put her
candle on the floor, and, kneeling down beside it, opened the letters.
There were but four; apparently Cicely had thought that four would be
enough to confirm what she had said. They were enough. More passionate,
more determined letters man never wrote to woman; they did not plead so
much as insist; they compelled by sheer force of persistent
unconquerable love, which accepts anything, bears anything, to gain even
tolerance.
And this was Jack, her brother Jack, who had thus prostrated himself at
the feet of that indifferent little creature, that cold, small, dark
girl who already bore another name! She was angry with him. Then the
anger faded away into infinite pity. "Oh, Jack, dear old Jack, to have
loved her so, she caring nothing for you! And I am to burn your poor
letters that you thought so much about--your poor, poor letters."
Sinking down upon the floor, she placed the open pages upon her knees,
laying her cheek upon them as though they had been something human.
"Some one cares for you," she murmured.
There was now a wild gale outside. One of the shutters was open, and
she could see Jupiter Light; she sat there, with her cheek on the
letters, looking at it.
Suddenly everything seemed changed, she no longer wept; she felt
sluggish, cold. "Don't I care any more?" she thought, surprised. She
rose and went back to her bed, glad to creep into its warmth, and
leaving the letters on a chair by her bedside. Then, duly, she put them
under her pillow again.
IV.
On Christmas Day, Eve was out with little Jack and Dilsey. Dilsey was a
negro woman of sixty, small and thin, with a wise, experienced face; she
increased her dignity as much as she could by a high stiff white turban,
but the rest of her attire was poor and old, though she was not
bare-legged like Powlyne; she wore stockings and shoes. Little Jack's
wagon was a rude cart with solid wooden wheels; but the hoops of its
hood had been twined with holly by the negroes, so that the child's face
was enshrined in a bower of green.
"We will go to the sea," said Eve. "Unless it is too far for you and the
wagon?"
"No, 'm; push 'em easy 'nuff."
The narrow road, passing between unbroken thickets of glittering
evergreen bushes, breast-high, went straight towards the east, like an
unroofed tunnel; in twenty minutes it brought them to the shore. The
beach, broad, firm, and silver white, stretched towards the north and
the south, dotted here and there with drift-wood; a breeze from the
water touched their cheeks coolly; the ocean was calm, little
foam-crested wavelets coming gurgling up to curl over and flatten
themselves out on the wet sand. "Do you see it, Jack?" said Eve,
kneeling down by the wagon. "It's the sea, the great big sea."
But Jack preferred to blow his whistle, and that done, he proceeded to
examine it carefully, putting his little fat forefinger into all the
holes. Eve sat down on the sand beside him; if he scorned the sea, for
the moment she did too.
"I's des sauntered ober, Dilsey; dey 'ain't no hurry 'bout comin' back,"
said a voice. "En I 'low'd miss might be tired, so I fotched a cheer."
It was old Temp'rance, the cook.
"Did you bring that chair all the way for me?" asked Eve, surprised.
"Yass, 'm. It's sut'ny pleasant here; it sut'ny is."
"I am much obliged; but I shall be going back soon."
The two old women looked at each other. "Dat dere ole wrack down der
beach is moughty cu'us--ef yer like ter walk dat way en see 'em?"
suggested Dilsey, after a pause.
"Too far," said Eve.
Both of the old women declared that it was very near. The wind
freshened; Eve, who had little Jack in her arms, feared lest he might
take cold, thinly clad as he was--far too thinly for her Northern
ideas--with only one fold of linen and his little white frock over his
breast. She drew the skirt of her dress over his bare knees. Then after
a while she rose and put him in his wagon. "We will go back," she said.
Again the two old women looked at each other. But they were afraid of
the Northern lady; the munificent presents which she had given them that
morning did not bring them any nearer to her. Old Temp'rance, therefore,
shouldered her chair again, Dilsey turned the wagon, and they entered
the bush-bordered tunnel on their way home, walking as slowly as they
could. In only one place was there an opening through the serried green;
here a track turned off to the right. When Eve had passed its entrance
the first time, there was nothing to be seen but another perspective of
white sand and glittering foliage; but on their return her eyes,
happening to glance that way, perceived a group of figures at the end.
"Who are those people?--what are they doing?" she said, pausing.
"Oh, nutt'n," answered Temp'rance. "Des loungjun roun'."
As Eve still stood looking, Uncle Abram emerged from the bushes. "Shall
I kyar your palasol fer yer, miss?" he asked, officiously. "'Pears like
yer mus' be tired; been so fur."
Eve now comprehended that the three were trying to keep something from
her. "What has happened?" she said. "Tell me immediately."
"Dey' ain' nutt'n happen," answered Uncle Abram, desperately; "dey's too
brash, dem two! Miss S'breeny she 'low'd dat yer moutn't like ter see
her go a moanin', miss; en so she tole us not ter let yer come dishyer
way ef we could he'p it. But dem two--dey's boun' ter do some fool ting.
It's a cohesion of malice 'mong women--'tis dat!"
"Does that road lead to the cemetery, too?" said Eve. "I went by another
way. Take baby home, Dilsey"--she stooped and kissed him; "I will join
Miss Abercrombie." She walked rapidly down the side track; the three
blacks stood watching her, old Temp'rance with the chair poised on her
turban.
The little burying-ground was surrounded by an old brick wall; its high
gate-posts were square, each surmounted by a clumsy funeral urn. The
rusty iron gate was open, and a procession was passing in. First came
Miss Sabrina in her bonnet, an ancient structure of large size, trimmed
with a black ribbon; the gentle lady, when out-of-doors, was generally
seen in what she called her "flat;" the presence of the bonnet,
therefore, marked a solemn occasion. She likewise wore a long scarf,
which was pinned, with two pins, low down on her sloping shoulders, its
broché ends falling over her gown in front; her hands were encased in
black kid gloves much too large for her, the kid wrists open and
flapping. Behind her came Powlyne, Pomp, and Plato, carrying wreaths of
holly. Eve drew near noiselessly, and paused outside. Miss Sabrina first
knelt down, bowing her head upon her hands for a moment; then, rising,
she took the wreaths one by one, and arranged them upon the graves, the
three blacks following her. When she had taken the last, she signed to
them to withdraw; they went out quietly, each turning at the gate to
make a reverential bow, partly to her, partly to the circle of the dead.
Eve now entered the enclosure, and Miss Sabrina saw her.
"Oh, my dear! I didn't intend that you should come," she said,
distressed.
"And why not? I have been here before; and my brother is here."
"Yes; but to-day--to-day is different."
Eve looked at the graves; she perceived that three of them were decked
with small Confederate flags.
"Our dear cousins," said Miss Sabrina; "they died for their country, and
on Memorial Day, Christmas Day, and Easter I like to pay them such small
honor as I can. I am in the habit of singing a hymn before I go; don't
stay, my dear, if it jars upon you."
"It doesn't," said Eve. She had seated herself on the grass beside her
brother's grave, with her arm laid over it.
Miss Sabrina turned her back and put on her glasses. Then, resuming her
original position, she took a small prayer-book from her pocket, opened
it, and, after an apologetic cough, began:
    "Rise, my soul, and stretch thy wings,
    Thy better portion trace."
Eve, sitting there, looked at her. Miss Sabrina was tall and slender;
she had once been pretty, but now her cheeks were wan, her eyes faded,
her soft brown hair was very thin. She had but a thread of a voice.
    "There is everlasting peace,
    Rest, enduring rest, in heaven,"
she sang in her faint, sweet tones; and when she came to the words,
"There will sorrows ever cease," she raised her poor dim eyes towards
the sky with such a beautiful expression of hope in them that the
younger woman began to realize that there might be acute griefs even
when people were so mild and acquiescent, so dimly hued and submissive,
as was this meek Southern gentlewoman.
The hymn finished, Miss Sabrina put her prayer-book in her pocket, and
came forward. "My mother," she said, touching one of the tombs. "My
grandfather and grandmother. My brother Marmaduke, Cicely's father.
Cicely's mother; she was a Northerner, and we have sometimes thought
Cicely rather Northern."
"Oh, no!"
"Well, her grandmother was from Guadeloupe. So perhaps that balances
it."
The older tombs were built of brick, each one covered with a heavy
marble slab, upon which were inscribed, in stately old-fashioned
language, and with old-fashioned arrangement of lines and capitals, the
names, the virtues, and the talents of the one who lay beneath. The
later graves were simple grassy mounds.
