quite so soon. How queer it was to meet thus, but then, could any man
resist Primrose Henry?
Afterward they had a long talk. It seemed true now that Philemon Nevitt
stood very much alone in the world, and certainly whatever dreams he had
entertained of greatness were at an end. They had not been so very
ambitious, to be sure, but he was young yet and could begin a new life.
But first of all he was to get sound and in good spirits, and Madam
Wetherill quite insisted that he should spend the winter in Philadelphia
and really study the country he knew so little about.
Dinner-time came, and she would have him stay. Every moment he thought
Primrose more bewitching. For when one decided she was all froth and
gayety, the serious side would come out and a tenderness that suggested
her mother. It was not all frivolity, and he found she was wonderfully
well-read for a girl of that day.
Philemon Nevitt was more than surprised when his cousin made his
appearance. There was something in the hearty clasp and full, rich voice
that went to his lonely heart. Once he recalled that he had met the
quiet Quaker in his farm attire in this very house, and the bareness of
his uncle's home, at his call, had rather displeased his fashionable and
luxurious tastes.
They could not help thinking of the time when they had met in what might
have been deadly affray if Providence had not overruled. And now Andrew
Henry was many steps up the ladder of success; and he was down to the
very bottom. He felt almost envious.
"But Andrew does not mean to be a soldier for life," Primrose declared
afterward.
"What, not with this splendid prospect? And that martial air seems born
with him. Why, it would be sinful to throw so much away when it is in
his very grasp. I cannot believe it!"
"There is good Quaker blood in his veins as well," said Madam Wetherill
with a smile. "And the fighting Quakers have been the noblest of all
soldiers because they went from the highest sense of patriotism, not for
any glory. And you will find them going back to the peaceful walks of
life with as much zest as ever."
"Yet you are not a Quaker, though you use so much of the speech. And I
miss the pretty quaintness in Primrose. How dainty it was!"
Primrose ran away and in five minutes came back in a soft, gray silken
gown, narrow and quite short in the skirt, a kerchief of sheer mull
muslin crossed on her bosom, and all her hair gathered under a plain
cap. Madam Wetherill was hardly through explaining that she had always
been a Church of England woman, and one thing she had admired in Mr.
Penn more than all his other wisdom, was his insistence that everyone
should be free to worship as he chose.
"Oh, Primrose!" he cried in delight. "What queer gift do you possess of
metamorphosis? For one would declare you had never known aught outside
of a gray gown. And each change brings out new loveliness. Madam
Wetherill, how do you keep such a sprite in order?"
"She lets me do as I like, and I love to do as she likes," was the quick
reply, as she laid her pretty hand on the elder woman's shoulder, and
smiled into her eyes.
"She is a spoiled child," returned madam fondly. "But since I have
spoiled her myself, I must e'en put up with it."
"But Mrs. Wharton spoils me too, and thinks the best of the house must
be brought out for me. And even Aunt Lois has grown strangely
indulgent."
"I believe I should soon get well in this atmosphere. And of course,
Primrose," with a certain amused meaning, "you will never rest until I
am of your way of thinking and have forsworn the king. Must I become a
Quaker as well?"
"Nay, that is as thou pleasest," she said with a kind of gay
sententiousness.
All of life was not quite over for him, Philemon Nevitt decided when he
went back to Mrs. Grayson's house. It had been quite a famous house when
the Declaration of Independence was pending, and held Washington, and
Hancock, and many another rebel worthy. Then it had been a great place
again in the Howe winter. Madam Wetherill had generously invited him to
make her house his home, but he had a delicacy about such a step.
Early in December hostilities at the south ceased and the British
evacuated Charleston. Preparations were made for a discussion of the
preliminaries of peace. John Adams, John Jay, Benjamin Franklin,
Jefferson, and Laurens were, after some discussion, named commissioners
and empowered to act. General and Mrs. Washington came up to
Philadelphia.
There was not a little wrangling in the old State House, for it was not
possible that everyone should agree. And if the men bickered the women
had arguments as well. Some were for having an American King and
degrees of royalty that would keep out commoners, but these were mostly
Tory women.
There was not a little longing for gayety and gladness after the long
and weary strife, the deaths, the wounded soldiers, and all the
privations. The elder people might solace themselves with card-playing,
but the younger ones wanted a different kind of diversion.
The old Southwark Theater was opened under the attractive title of
"Academy of Polite Science." Here a grand ovation was given to General
Washington, "Eugenie," a play of Beaumarchais, being acted, with a fine
patriotic prologue. The young women were furbishing up their neglected
French, or studying it anew, and the French minister was paid all the
honors of the town. The affection and gratitude shown the French allies
were one of the features of the winter.
Philemon Henry was proud enough of his pretty sister, and the still
fine-looking grand dame Mrs. Wetherill. Then there was piquant Polly
Wharton with her smiles and ready tongue, and even Andrew Henry was
recreant enough to grace the occasion, which seemed to restore an
atmosphere of amity and friendly alliance.
There was more than one who recalled the gay young André and his
personations during the liveliest winter Philadelphia had ever known.
Dancing classes were started again, and the assemblies reopened. Many of
the belles of that older period were married; not a few of them, like
Miss Becky Franks, had married English officers, and were now departing
for England since there was no more glory to be gained at war, and these
heroes were somewhat at a discount.
There were many young patriots and not a few Southerners who had come up
with the army, for Philadelphia, though she had been buffeted and
traduced, had proved the focus of the country, since Congress had been
held here most of the time; here the mighty Declaration had been born
and read, when the substance was treason, and here the flag had been
made; here indeed the first glad announcement of the great victory had
been shouted out in the silent night. So the old town roused herself to
a new brightness. Grave as General Washington could be when seriousness
was requisite, he had the pleasant Virginian side to his nature, and was
not averse to entertainments.
Gilbert Vane had returned with the soldiers, and ere long he knew his
friend was in the city; for Major Henry said the brother of Primrose was
almost a daily visitor at Madam Wetherill's.
"And still a stout Tory, I suppose, regarding me as a renegade?" Vane
ventured with a half smile.
"He has changed a great deal. Primrose, I think, lops off a bit of
self-conceit and belief in the divine right of kings, at every
interview. And he is her shadow."
"Then I should have no chance of seeing her," the young man said
disappointedly.
"Nay. I think Cousin Phil nobler than to hold a grudge when so many
grudges have been swept away. I find him companionable in many respects.
He was in quite ill-health when he first came, but improves daily."
"He was like an elder brother to me always, and it was a sore pang to
offend him. But I came to see matters in a new light. And I wonder how
it was his sweet little sister did not convert him? She was always so
courageous and charming, a most fascinating little rebel in her
childhood. I should have adored such a sister. Indeed, if I had
possessed one at home I should never have crossed the ocean."
Andrew repeated part of this conversation to Primrose. He had been
impressed with the young man's patriotism.
"Oh, you know, in a certain way, he was my soldier," she said with her
sunniest smile. "And now I must see him. How will we plan it? For Phil
is a little proud and a good deal obstinate. Polly would know how to
bring it about, she has such a keen wit. And Allin would like him, I
know. Polly shall give you an invitation for him at her next dance. And
you must come, even if you do not dance."
Andrew gave an odd, half-assenting look. It was as Rachel had said long
ago; in most things she wound him around her finger.
But at the first opportunity she put the subject cunningly to Philemon.
"What became of that old friend of yours, who changed your colors for
mine, and went to fight my battles?" she asked gayly, one day, when they
had stopped reading a thin old book of poems by one George Herbert.
"My friend? Oh, do you mean young Vane? I have often wondered. He went
to Virginia--I think I told you. It was a great piece of folly, when
there was a home for him in England."
"But if his heart was with us!" she remarked prettily with her soft
winsomeness. "Art thou very angry with him?" and her beautiful eyes wore
an appealing glance.
"Primrose, when you want to subdue the enemy utterly, use 'thee' and
'thou.' No man's heart could stand against such witchery. Thou wilt be a
sad coquette later on."
She laughed then at his attempt. There was always a little dimple in her
chin, and when she laughed one deepened in her cheek.
"Surely I am spoiled with flattery. I should be vainer than a peacock.
But that is not answering my question. I wonder how much thou hast of
the Henry malice."
"Was I angry? Why, the defection seemed traitorous then. I counted
loyalty only on the King's side. But I have learned that a man can
change when he is serving a bad side and still be honest. He was a fine
fellow, but I think he was tired of idleness and frivolity, and he fell
in with some women who were of your way of believing, and their glowing
talk fascinated him. One of them I know had a brother in the southern
army."
"Then it was not I who converted him." She gave a pretty pout, in mock
disappointment.
"I think you started it. Though New York had many rebels."
"And perhaps he will come back and marry one of them."
"He may be at that now. Nay," seriously, "more likely he is in some
unknown grave. And he was very dear to me," with a manly sigh.
"Then you could forgive him?" softly.
"In his grave, yes. Alive, the question would be whether, being the
victor, he would not crow over me. Oh, little Primrose, war is a very
bitter thing after all. To think I came near to killing Cousin Andrew,
and yet he holds no malice. What a big heart he has! I do not believe
in Henry malice."
"And you will hold no malice?"
"It is hardly likely I shall see him."
She turned around and pretended to be busy with the curtain so that he
might not see the glad light shining in her eyes. But he was thinking of
the old days when they were lads together and talked of what they would
do when they were lords of Vane Priory and Nevitt Grange.
And when they met they simply looked into each other's eyes and clasped
hands; the new disquiet being forgotten and the old affection leaping to
its place. Just a moment. They were forming a little dance, and
Lieutenant Vane was to lead with Miss Polly Wharton, while Primrose had
Allin for a partner.
"You little mischief," and Phil gave Primrose a soft pinch afterward,
"how did you dare? What if we had both been foes to the teeth?"
"Ah, I knew better. Andrew said he was longing to be friends, but would
not dare make the first advances. And if you had refused to speak with
him at this house you would not be gentlemanly."
"I should like to kiss you before everybody."
"It is not good manners."
"You will have a rival."
"I shall not like that. Whatever you do, no one shall be loved better
than I."
"Not even a wife, if I should get one? Oh, you jealous little Primrose!"
"Let me see--if I should choose her----" And she glanced up archly.
