officer. "For the service in which the Bronx is to be engaged, its
success will depend upon the officers, though it is hardly exceptional
in this respect. I understand that you sailed from New York rather
short-handed abaft the mainmast."
"Yes, sir, we did; but fortunately we had most excellent material of
which to make officers, and we made them," replied Christy.
"I should like to know something about them; I mean apart from Captain
Blowitt and yourself, for you have already made your record, and yours,
Mr. Passford, is rather a dazzling reputation for one so young."
"I am willing to apologize for it, sir," replied Christy, blushing like
a maiden, as he was in duty bound to do, for he could not control the
crimson that rose to his browned cheeks.
"Quite unnecessary," replied Captain McKeon, smiling. "As long as you do
your duty nobody will be jealous of you, and you will be a fit officer
for all our young men to emulate. You were the acting commander on the
voyage of the Bronx from New York. Your executive officer is the present
second lieutenant. Is he qualified for the peculiar duty before you?"
"No one could be more so, sir," replied Christy with proper enthusiasm.
"I can fully indorse this opinion of Mr. Passford," added Captain
Blowitt. "In the capture and bringing out of the Teaser, Mr. Flint was
the right hand man of the leader of the enterprise."
"And I gave him the command of the Ocklockonee, after her capture, and
she took an active part in the affair with the Escambia, sir," said
Christy.
"Then we will consider him the right man in the right place," replied
the flag officer. "Who is the present third lieutenant?"
"Mr. Amblen is acting in that capacity at present, and he is a very good
officer, though he holds no rank," answered Christy.
"Then I can hardly confirm him as second lieutenant," added Captain
McKeon.
"In my report of the affairs with the Ocklockonee and the Escambia,
I have strongly recommended him and three other officers for promotion,
for all of them are fitted by education and experience at sea to do duty
on board of such vessels as the Bronx."
"Have you any officer in mind who would acceptably fill the vacant
place, Captain Blowitt?"
"I know of no one at present who holds the rank to entitle him to such a
position, and I shall appeal to Mr. Passford," replied the new
commander.
"You have named Mr. Amblen, Mr. Passford; is he just the officer you
would select if the matter were left to you?" asked the flag officer.
"No, sir, though he would do very well. Mr. Baskirk, who served as
executive officer while Mr. Flint was away in the Ocklockonee, is better
adapted for the place," said Christy. "He commanded the first division
of boarders on board of the Escambia, and he fought like a hero and is a
man of excellent judgment. I am confident that he will make his mark as
an officer. I am willing to admit that I wrote a letter to my father
especially requesting him to do what he could for the immediate
promotion of Mr. Baskirk."
"Then he will be immediately promoted," added Captain McKeon with an
expressive smile.
"I may add also that I was presumptive enough to suggest his appointment
as third lieutenant of the Bronx," continued Christy.
"Then he will be the third lieutenant of the Bronx; and what you say
would have settled the matter in the first place as well as now," said
the flag officer, as much pleased with the reticence of the young
officer as with his modesty. "Amblen may remain on board till his
commission comes, and you can retain him as third lieutenant, Captain
Blowitt, if you are so disposed. I have ordered a draft of twelve seamen
to the Bronx, which will give you a crew of thirty, and I cannot spare
any more until more men are sent down. I may add that I have taken some
of them from the Bellevite."
"I am quite satisfied, sir, with the number, though ten more would be
acceptable," replied the commander of the Bronx.
The two officers were then dismissed and ordered on board of their ship.
A little later the draft of seamen was sent on board, and among them
Christy was not sorry to see Boxie, the old sheet-anchor man of the
Bellevite, who had made him a sort of pet, and had done a great deal to
instruct him in matters of seamanship, naval customs, and traditions not
found in any books.
The commander and the executive officer paid their final visit to the
Bellevite the next day, and the order was given to weigh anchor. When
all hands were called, Christy thought he had never seen a better set of
men except on board of the Bellevite, and the expedition, whatever it
was, commenced under the most favorable auspices.
The Bronx sailed in the middle of the forenoon, and the flag officer was
careful not to reveal the destination of the steamer to any one, for
with the aid of the telegraph, the object of the expedition might reach
the scene of operations in advance of the arrival of the force. At four
o'clock in the afternoon Captain Blowitt opened his envelope in presence
of the executive officer. He looked the paper through before he spoke,
and then handed it to Christy, who read it with quite as much interest
as the commander had.
"Cedar Keys," said the captain, glancing at his associate.
"That is not a long run from the station," added Christy. "We are very
likely to be there before to-morrow morning."
"It is about two hundred and eighty statute miles, I had occasion to
ascertain a week ago when something was said about Cedar Keys," replied
Captain Blowitt. "We have been making about fifteen knots, for the Bronx
is a flyer, and we ought to be near our destination at about midnight.
That would be an excellent time to arrive if we only had a pilot."
"Perhaps we have one," added Christy with a smile.
"Are you a pilot on this coast, Mr. Passford?" asked the commander,
mistaking the smile.
"No, sir, I am not; but I remember a conversation Mr. Flint and I had
with Mr. Amblen, who was engaged in some sort of a speculation in
Florida when the war came on. He was so provoked at the treatment he
received that he shipped in the navy at once. I only know that he had a
small steamer in these waters."
"Send for Mr. Amblen at once!" exclaimed the commander, who appeared to
have become suddenly excited. "There will be no moon to-night in these
parts, and we may be able to hurry this matter up if we have a competent
pilot."
Christy called Dave, and sent him for the acting third lieutenant, for
he knew that Mr. Flint had had the watch since four o'clock. Mr. Amblen
was sunning himself on the quarter deck, and he promptly obeyed the
summons.
"I am glad to see you, Mr. Amblen, and I hope you will prove to be as
useful a person as I have been led to believe you may be," said the
captain.
"I shall endeavor to do my duty, sir," replied the third lieutenant,
who was always very ambitious to earn the good opinion of his superiors.
"I mean to do the best I can to make myself useful, Captain Blowitt."
"I know that very well; but the question now is what you know rather
than what you can do as an officer. Mr. Passford informs me that you
were formerly engaged in some kind of a speculation on the west coast
of Florida."
"Hardly a speculation, sir, for I was engaged in the fish business,"
replied Mr. Amblen, laughing at the name which had been given to his
calling. "When I sold a small coaster that belonged to me, I got in
exchange a tug boat. I had been out of health a few years before; I
spent six months at Cedar Keys and Tampa, and got well. Fish were plenty
here, and of a kind that bring a good price farther north. I loaded my
tug with ice, and came down here in her. I did a first-rate business
buying from boats and in catching fish myself, and for a time I made
money, though ice was so dear that I had to sell in the South."
"Did you have a pilot on board of your tug?" asked the captain.
"No, sir; I was my own pilot. I had the charts, and I studied out the
bottom, so that I knew where I was in the darkest night."
"Then you are just the person we want if you are a pilot in these
waters."
"What waters, sir? We are now off Cape St. Blas and Apalachicola Bay.
I have been into the bay, but I am not a pilot in those waters, as you
suggest."
"I have just opened my orders, and I find we are ordered to Cedar Keys,"
interposed the commander.
"That is quite another thing, sir; and there isn't a foot of bottom
within five miles of the Keys to which I have not been personally
introduced. When I was down here for my health I was on the water more
than half of the time, and I learned all about the bay and coast; and I
have been up the Suwanee River, which flows into the Gulf eighteen miles
north of the Keys."
"I am exceedingly glad to find that we have such an excellent pilot on
board. I am informed in my orders that schooners load with cotton at
this place, and make an easy thing of getting to sea," added Captain
Blowitt.
"I should say that it was a capital port for the Confederates to use for
that sort of business. Small steamers can bring cotton down the Suwanee
River, the railroad from Fernandina terminates at the Key, and this road
connects with that to Jacksonville and the whole of western Florida as
far as Tallahassee."
"We may find a steamer or two there."
"You may, though not one any larger than the Bronx, for there is only
eleven feet of water on the bar. Probably no blockaders have yet been
stationed off the port, and it is a good place to run out cotton."
"I am much obliged to you, Mr. Amblen, for the information you have
given me, and your services will probably be in demand this very night,"
added the commander, rising from his chair.
"I am ready for duty at all times, sir," replied Mr. Amblen, as he
retired from the cabin.
The charts were then consulted, and sundry calculations were made. At
one o'clock that night the Bronx was off Cedar Keys.
CHAPTER XXII
A NIGHT EXPEDITION IN THE BOATS
During the evening Captain Blowitt had consulted his officers, and
arranged his plans for operations, or at least for obtaining information
in regard to the situation inside of North Key, where the landing place
is situated. He had already arranged to give the command of the boat
expedition to Christy, with the second lieutenant in another boat, Mr.
Amblen being with the executive officer in the first.
"Now, Mr. Passford, I do not expect you to capture the whole State of
Florida, and if you should return without accomplishing anything at
all, I shall not be disappointed, but I shall feel that you have done
everything that could be done," said the captain, with a very cheerful
smile, when all had been arranged.
"I shall endeavor to obey my orders, Captain Blowitt, if I can do so in
the exercise of a reasonable prudence," replied Christy, who took in all
that his superior looked, as well as all that he said.
"A reasonable prudence is decidedly good, coming from you, Mr.
Passford," said the captain, laughing outright.
"Why is it decidedly good from me rather than from anybody else?" asked
Christy, somewhat nettled by the remark.
"You objected once on board of the Bellevite when I mildly hinted that
you might sometimes, under some circumstances, with a strong temptation
before you, be just a little audacious," said the captain, still
laughing, as though he were engaged in a mere joke.
"That statement is certainly qualified in almost all directions, if you
will excuse me for saying so, captain," replied Christy, who was fully
determined not to take offence at anything his superior might say, for
he had always regarded him as one of his best friends. "If I remember
rightly the mild suggestion of a criticism which you gently and tenderly
applied to me was after we had brought out the Teaser from Pensacola
Bay."
"That was the time. Captain Breaker sent you to ascertain, if you could,
where the Teaser was, and you reported by bringing her out, which
certainly no one expected you would do, and I believe this part of the
programme carried out on that excursion was not mentioned in your
orders."
"It was not; but if I had a good chance to capture the steamer, was it
my duty to pass over that chance, and run the risk of letting the vessel
