above us, and the thought would intrude sometimes that 
we might be harboring most uncomfortable room-mates in 
our tree, although we had been prudent enough to clear 
the field by several pistol shots. While we were talking 
about it, howevor, our eyelids drooped and we slept pro- 
foundly. At day-break we were awakened by the cawing 
of the forest raven and the shrill pipe of the wood-cock — 
and we left our pleasant couch without delay, loosened our 
rope from the tree, loaded our guns anew, refreshed 
 
ourselves by a hasty breakfast, and then continued oui 
journey. 
The sun rose in glorious majesty, and glided so richly 
the mountain which lay just before us, and which we 
hoped contained such a rich treasure, that we took fresh 
courage and inspiration, and hastened on, not doubting 
that we should arrive at our journey's end before nightfall. 
Our progress was quite as difficult as it had been the day 
before, for the sun seemed hotter than ever after the 
storm, and we went on cutting our path through the 
thicket until fatigue overcame us, and we threw omelves 
down at the foot of a lonely tree to refresh ourselves by 
sleeping alternately for several hours. Invigorated by this 
rest, and a hasty dinner, we began for the first time, as 
we fondly hoped, our weary march towards the desired 
mountain, which was now only about two miles distant. 
We were still more encouraged by perceiving that the 
thicket became less dense at every step, the footing more 
firm and strong, and trees in layers and groups were every 
where seen around us. We could pursue our path with- 
out being continually obliged to make most tiresome 
circuits, and towards evening we reached a thick forest 
of most beautiful trees, which we recognized at once, by 
their thick bark, for ebony. Fruit trees we found none, 
and this rejoiced us, for we argued that few beasts of prey 
would, without that inducement, venture into a forest so 
bare of underbrush which could afford them concealment. 
In excellent spirits we approached the mountain, our 
hopes and delight increasing at every step. We thought 
of nothing but the gratification of our avarice, the contents 
of the iron chest, and future plans of life, upor 
which we were placing the firmest reliance. All distress, 
danger, and fatigue, were forgotten, and we were about to 
give vent to our feelings in a loud joyful shout 
When suddenly we stood still on the edge of a steep 
and profound abyss, about thirty feet wide, which opened 
just across our path, and which stretched unbroken to the 
right and left as far as the eye could reach. It had appa- 
rently been formerly the bed of a river, which had either 
run dry or chosen another channel. The ground was dry 
and covered from the brink downwards with ' such a 
thickly woven rank growth of underbrush, that the utter 
impossibility of working our way down and up again 
through such a living wall, was clear at the first glance 
The attempt to reach the opposite bank in this way would 
have been certain ruin. If we persisted in doing so some 
other path must be found. 
For a long time we gazed speechless at one another, 
until at last I endeavored to recover myself, and observed 
to my companion that no other course remained for us but to 
pursue the brink of the precipice until we could find some 
path to the other side. He agreed with me, and according 
to his advice, we turned to the left ; but the further we 
went the wider grew the dreadful abyss, and as nigh* 
approached we encamped and prepared our evening meal. 
At day-break we patiently continued our journey, without 
however, any success, until, after several fatiguing hours, 
I stopped and conjured Manuel to turn and pursue a path 
to the right. He yielded, and we retraced our steps, but 
so sadly that it would be difficult to imagine a more dreary 
 
journey. At the same time we had not the smallest 
douht of arriving at the end of this unlucky abyss, but we 
were vexed at the detention which we believed it would 
cause us in reaching the place of our destination. 
Covered with dust, we arrived about noon, at a large 
tree just on the edge of the precipice, in the shade of 
which we prepared to take our mid-day meal. But the 
Portuguese would taste nothing, and sat still in a deep 
reverie, until he suddenly sprang up with a cheerful coun- 
tenance and declared that he had at last found a means of 
transporting both ourselves and our baggage to the other 
side of the abyss. His plan was as follows : A tree cor- 
responding to the one under which we were sitting, stood 
directly opposite, upon the bank over against us, and the 
boughs of each were only about twenty feet apart. Now 
Manuel proposed to descend into the abyss and cut his way, 
axe in hand, through the thicket. When he had reached 
the opposite bank I was to make fast the end of our rope 
to my ramrod and then shoot it over with a small charge 
of powder. This end ha was to fasten to a stout branch 
of the opposite tree, while I, on my side, did the same 
with my end of the rone, only taking care to select a 
bough somewhat higher than his ; then nothing would be 
easier than to slip our baggage from one bank to the other, 
and myself after it, if I was afraid to follow him through 
the thicket. 
The plan was odd enough, but it did not seem utterly 
impracticable, and there was no choice left us. But how 
Manuel could hope to penetrate the thickly woven thicket 
and escape the savage beasts that might lay concealed 
 
therein, I could not conceive, and I told him so, with pres. 
sing entreaties to think of it no more ; but he insisted that 
he must succeed if he covered his face and hands with 
cloths, leaving only a little opening for his eyes ; as for the 
wild beasts — as he brought all this upon us, it was but fair, 
he said, that he should have the largest share of the dan- 
ger. I yielded, but only upon the condition that if he 
found the undertaking more difficult than he had imagined, 
or met with any unexpected danger, he should immedi- 
ately return. 
After he had taken a heavy draugh|; from the brandy 
flask, he commenced his perilous descent through the 
horrible thicket, upon his hands and knees, while I stood 
above aud clashed our copper basins together, and from 
time to time, threw heavy stones into the abyss to scare 
away the poisonous snakes and reptiles that might be con- 
cealed there. He refused to allow me to fasten one end 
of our rope around his waist, that I. might hastily draw 
him back in case of urgent need, for he feared that it 
might become so entangled as to impede his progress. 
It was sometime before he could even penetrate so far 
into the thicket as to conceal himself from my view, but 
when at last I lost sight of him I sat down on the edge 
of the abyss and passed a quarter of an hour in such dis- 
tress that I could hear my heart beat against my ribs, 
while my eyes remained immovably fixed upon the spot 
where he was to appear upon the other side. Suddenly I 
observed in the midst of the thicket, a strange commotion, 
and instantly a loud piercing shriek of agony from my 
poor companion, fell upon my ear. "What could I in my 
 
Treakuess do bat return shriek for shriek. There was no 
doubt of his danger and I could give him no help. I do 
not know myself what I attempted in my despair. I dis- 
charged my pistols, clashed the copper basins, and ran 
hither and thither, like one possessed, then plunged into 
the opening where he had disappeared, and hstened with 
breathless attention. In vain ! A deathless silence reigned 
in the abyss, and only*my loud wailing filled the air. 
VIII. 
Almost unconscious, with sensations that cannot be 
described, I at last seated myself upon the spot where I 
had taken leave of my unhappy friend, and gazed down 
fixedly into the abyss, where he had paid so terribly for 
his and my folly. Every thing that I had hitherto suffered 
shrimk into nothing before the woe of this hour. Sunk 
in despondency no thoughts of guarding my miserable 
existence remained in my mind, and at this moment I 
should have been an easy prey to any savage animal that 
might have been lurking near. 
But the love of life at last gained the mastery ; I con- 
sidered how useless and dangerous it was to remain any 
longer on this unhappy spot, and determined to seek the 
shortest path out of this wilderness. But whither should 
I turn. I could not dream of returning to Chilaw, through 
the perilous thickets which our united exertions had so 
hardly penetrated ; that would have been ofiering myself 
up to destruction. 
Still less was it advisable to follow the abyss to the 
north, for I should only arrive among the mountains. 
 
where certain death awaited me ; I had no choice but tc 
follow the horrible abyss to the south, and trust my deliv- 
ery to some happy accident. 
Slowly I set out, oppressed with the weight of woe, and 
almost loaded down with the various necessary utensils, 
whose weight had hitherto been shared by my unfortunate 
companion. Beside my weapons, I carried a copper kettle, 
about ten pounds of rice, and a brandy llask. I also took 
with me my poor companion's sword, whio-h he had laid 
aside, and which must in future serve me instead of the 
axe, which he had taken with him. Tlit bank, along 
which  I slowly wandered, was very monotonous, and as 
evening approached I determined to take up my abode for 
the night in a tree. 
But sleep fled my eyelids, and if fatigue sometimes 
closed them, the howling of the tiger and jackal immedi- 
ately roused me. Horrible fancies oppressed my spirit in 
my half-awake state, and I seemed to see my companion 
standing at the foot of a tree, gazing upon me with hollow 
eyes, and beckoning me to follow him. I started up, my 
hair stood on end, and I should certainly have fallen from 
the tree had I not bound myself firmly to a bough. At 
last, towards day-break, I fell asleep, and the sun was 
wandering in the heavens before I again awaked. Its 
burning rays scorched me, a violent thirst consumed me, 
and I experienced severe pains in my back and side, the 
consequences of my forced position on my airy couch. 
As soon as I had quenched my thirst by a draught from 
the brandy flask, the contents of which I had diluted with 
water the day before, I collected my baggage and wandered 
on, but the violent pain in my head and limbs 
increjised by the heat of the sun, agjinst which I had no 
protection, and the dust raised by my footsteps which in- 
flamed my eyes, and covered my parched lips, made my 
lonely progress more difficult than ever. After a weary 
march of a few hours, I sat down on the bank of a small 
pool of water to drink and to fill my flask — my dinner I 
