heavy tress and selling it which appeals to the pity of most people, and
which, to women themselves, is full of horror. A man might have felt the
same in those days when long locks were the distinctive outward sign of
nobility in man, and perhaps the respect of that obsolete custom has left
in the minds of most people a sort of unconscious tradition. However that
may be, we all feel that in one direction, at least, a woman's sacrifice
can go no further than in giving her head to the shears.
The longer the Count thought of this, the more his gratitude increased,
and the more fully he realised at what great cost poor Vjera had saved him
from what he considered the greatest conceivable dishonour, from the shame
of breaking his word, no matter under what conditions it had been given.
He could, of course, repay her the money, so soon as his friends arrived,
but by no miracle whatever could he restore to her head the only beauty it
had ever possessed. He had scarcely understood this at first, for he had
been confused and shaken by the many emotions which had in succession
played upon his nervous mind and body during the past twenty-four hours.
But now he saw it all very clearly. He had taken only money, which he
would be able to restore; she had given a part of herself, irrevocably.
So deeply absorbed was he in his thoughts that the clocks struck many
successive quarters without rousing him from his reverie, or suggesting
again to him the fixed idea by which his life was governed on that day of
the week. But as midnight drew near, the prolonged striking of the bells
at every quarter at last attracted his attention. He started suddenly and
rose from his seat, trying to count the strokes, but he had not heard the
first ones and was astray in his reckoning. It was very late, that was
certain, and not many minutes could elapse before the door would open and
his friends would enter. He hastily smoothed his hair, looked to the flame
of his bright little lamp and made a trip of inspection round the room.
Everything was in order. He was almost glad that they were to come at
night, for the lamplight seemed to lend a more cheerful look to the room.
The Turkey-red cotton counterpane on the bed looked particularly well, the
Count thought. During the next fifteen minutes he walked about, rubbing
his hands softly together. At the first stroke of the following quarter he
stood still and listened intently.
Four quarters struck, and then the big bell began to toll the hour. It
must be eleven, he thought, as he counted the strokes. Eleven--twelve--he
started, and turned very white, but listened still, for he knew that he
should hear another clock striking in a few seconds. As the strokes
followed each other, his heart beat like a fulling-hammer, giving a
succession of quick blows, and pausing to repeat the rhythmic tattoo more
loudly and painfully than before. Ten--eleven--twelve--there was no
mistake. The day was over. It was midnight, and no one had come. The room
swam with him.
Then, as in a vision of horror, he saw himself standing there, as he had
stood many times before, listening for the last stroke, and suddenly
awaking from the dream to the crushing disappointment of the reality. For
one brief and terrible moment his whole memory was restored to him and he
knew that his madness was only madness, and nothing more, and that it
seized him in the same way, week by week, through the months and the
years, leaving him thus on the stroke of twelve each Wednesday night, a
broken, miserable, self-deceived man. As in certain dreams, we dream that
we have dreamed the same things before, so with him an endless calendar of
Wednesdays was unrolled before his inner sight, all alike, all ending in
the same terror of conscious madness.
He had dreamed it all, there was no one to come to him in his distress, no
one would ever enter that lonely room to bring back to him the treasures
of a glorious past, for there was no one to come. It had all been a dream
from beginning to end and there was no reality in it.
He staggered to his chair and sat down, pressing his lean hands to his
aching temples and rocking himself to and fro, his breath hissing through
his convulsively closed teeth. Still the fearful memory remained, and it
grew into a prophetic vision of the future, reflecting what had been upon
the distant scenery of what was yet to be. With that one deadly stroke of
the great church bell, all was gone--fortune, friends, wealth, dignity.
The majestic front of the palace of his hopes was but a flimsy, painted
tissue. The fire that ran through his tortured brain consumed the gaudy,
artificial thing in the flash and rush of a single flame, and left behind
only the charred skeleton framework, which had supported the vast canvas.
And then, he saw it again and again looming suddenly out of the darkness,
brightening into beauty and the semblance of strength, to be as suddenly
destroyed once more. With each frantic beat of his heart the awful
transformation was renewed. For dreams need not time to spin out their
intolerable length. With each burning throb of his raging blood, every
nerve in his body, every aching recess of his brain, was pierced and
twisted, and pierced again with unceasing agony.
Then a new horror was added to the rest. He saw before him the poor Polish
girl, her only beauty shorn away for his sake, he saw all that he had
promised in return, and he knew that he had nothing to give her, nothing,
absolutely, save the crazy love of a wretched madman. He could not even
repay her the miserable money which had cost her so dear. Out of his
dreams of fortune there was not so much as a handful of coin left to give
the girl who had given all she had, who had sold her hair to save his
honour. With frightful vividness the truth came over him. That honour of
his, he had pledged it in the recklessness of his madness. She had saved
it out of love, and he had not even--but no--there was a new memory
there--love he had for her, passionate, tender, true, a love that had not
its place among the terrors of the past. But--was not this a new dream, a
new delusion of his shaken brain? And if he loved her, was it not yet more
terrible to have deceived the loved one, more monstrous, more infamous,
more utterly damnable? The figure of her rose before him, pitiful, thin,
weak, with outstretched hands and trusting eyes--and he had taken of her
all she had. Neither heart, nor body, nor brain could bear more.
"Vjera! God! Forgive me!" With the cry of a breaking heart the poor Count
fell forward from his seat and lay in a heap, motionless upon the floor.
Only his stiffening fingers, crooked and contorted, worked nervously for a
few minutes, scratching at the rough boards. Then all was quite still in
the little room.
There was a noise outside, and some one opened the door. The Cossack stood
upon the threshold, holding his hand up against the lamp, for he was
dazzled as he entered from the outer darkness of the stairs. He looked
about, and at first saw nothing, for the Count had fallen in the shadow of
the table.
Then, seeing where he lay, Johann Schmidt came forward and knelt down, and
with some difficulty turned his friend upon his back.
"Dead--poor Count!" he exclaimed in a low voice, bending down over the
ghastly face.
The pale eyes were turned upward and inward, and the forehead was damp.
Schmidt unbuttoned the threadbare coat from the breast. There was no
waistcoat under it--nothing but a patched flannel shirt. A quantity of
papers were folded neatly in a flat package in the inner pocket. Schmidt
put down his head and listened for the beatings of the heart.
"So it is over!" he said mournfully, as he straightened himself upon his
knees. Then he took one of the extended hands in his, and pressed it, and
looked into the poor man's face, and felt the tears coming into his eyes.
"You were a good man," he said in sorrowful tones, "and a brave man in
your way, and a true gentleman--and--I suppose it was not your fault if
you were mad. Heaven give you peace and rest!"
He rose to his feet, debating what he should do.
"Poor Vjera!" he sighed. "Poor Vjera--she will go next!"
Once more, he looked down, and his eye caught sight of the papers
projecting from the inner pocket of the coat, which was still open and
thrown back upon the floor. It has been noticed more than once that Johann
Schmidt was a man subject to attacks of quite irresistible curiosity. He
hesitated a moment, and then came to the conclusion that he was as much
entitled as any one else to be the Count's executor.
"It cannot harm him now," he said, as he extracted the bundle from its
place.
One of the letters was quite fresh. The rest were evidently very old,
being yellow with age and ragged at the edges. He turned over the former.
It was addressed to Count Skariatine, at his lodging, and it bore the
postmark of a town in Great-Russia, between Petersburg and Moscow. Schmidt
took out the sheet, and his face suddenly grew very dark and angry. The
handwriting was either in reality Akulina's, or it resembled it so closely
as to have deceived a better expert than the Cossack.
The missive purported to be written by the wife of Count Skariatine's
steward, and it set forth in rather servile and illiterate language that
the said Count Skariatine and his eldest son were both dead, having been
seized on the same day with the smallpox, of which there had been an
epidemic in the neighbourhood, but which was supposed to have quite
disappeared when they fell ill. A week later and within twenty-four hours
of each other they had breathed their last. The Count Boris Michaelovitch
was now the heir, and would do well to come home as soon as possible to
look after his possessions, as the local authorities were likely to make a
good thing out of it in his absence.
The Cossack swore a terrific oath, and stamped furiously on the floor as
he rose to his feet. It was evident to him that Akulina had out of spite
concocted the letter, and had managed to have it posted by some friend in
Russia. He was not satisfied with one expletive, nor with many. The words
he used need not be translated for the reader of the English language. It
is enough to say that they were the strongest in the Cossack vocabulary,
that they were well selected and applied with force and precision.
Johann Schmidt was exceedingly wroth with the tobacconist's wife, for it
was clear that she had caused the Count's untimely death by her abominable
practical joke. He went and leaned out of the window, churning and
gnashing the fantastic expressions of his rage through his teeth.
Suddenly there was a noise in the room, a distinct, loud noise, as of
shuffling with hands and feet. The Cossack's nerves were proof against
ghostly terrors, but as he turned round he felt that his hair was standing
erect upon his head.
The Count was on his feet and was looking at him.
CHAPTER XII.
"I thought you were dead!" gasped the Cossack in dismay.
There was no answer. The Count did not appear to hear Schmidt's voice nor
to see his figure. He acted like a man walking in his sleep, and it was by
no means certain to the friend who watched him that his eyes were always
open. As though nothing unusual had happened, the Count calmly undressed
himself and got into bed. Three minutes later he was sound asleep and
breathing regularly.
For a long time Johann Schmidt stood transfixed with wonder in his place
at the open window. At last it dawned upon him that his friend had not
been really dead, but had fallen into some sort of fit in the course of
his lonely meditations, from which he had been awakened by the Cossack's
terrific swearing. Why the latter had seemed to be invisible and inaudible
to him, was a matter which Schmidt did not attempt to solve. It was clear
that the Count was alive, and sleeping like other people. Schmidt
hesitated some time as to what he should do. It was possible that his
friend might wake again, and find himself desperately ill. He had been so
evidently unlike himself, that Schmidt had feared he would become a raving
maniac in the night, and had entered the house at his heels, seating
himself upon the stairs just outside the door to wait for events, with the
odd fidelity and forethought characteristic of him. The Count's cry had
warned him that all was not right and he had entered the room, as has been
seen.
He determined to wait some time longer, to see whether anything would
happen. Meanwhile, he thrust Akulina's letter into his pocket, reflecting
that as it was a forgery it would be best that the Count should not have
it, lest he should be again misled by the contents. He sat down and
waited.
Nothing happened. The clocks chimed the quarters up to one in the morning,
a quarter-past, half-past--Schmidt was growing sleepy. The Count breathed
regularly and lay in his bed without moving. Then, at last, the Cossack
rose, looked at his friend once more, blew out the lamp, felt his way to
the door and left the room. As he walked home through the quiet streets he
swore that he would take vengeance upon Akulina, by producing the letter
and reading it in her husband's presence, and before the assembled
establishment, before the Count made his appearance. It was indeed not
probable that he would come at all, considering all that he had suffered,
though Schmidt knew that he generally came on Thursday morning, evidently
weary and exhausted, but unconscious of the delusion which had possessed
him during the previous day. Possibly, he was subject to a similar fit
