the effect of a brand plucked from the burning would be so 
much greater if the flames were already high. Yet Nick had 
not held him to the letter of this pledge, and had so fully 
admitted the right of a properly -constituted aesthete to lose 
patience with him that he was now far from greeting his 
visitor with a reproach. He felt much more thrown on his 
defence, 
Gabriel did not attack him however. He brought in only 
blandness and benevolence and a great content at having 
obeyed the mystic voice it was really a remarkable case of 
second sight which had whispered to him that the recreant 
comrade of his prime was in town. He had just come back 
from Sicily, after a southern winter, according to a custom 
frequent with him, and had been moved by a miraculous 
prescience, unfavourable as the moment might seem, to go 
and ask for Nick in Calcutta Gardens, where he had extracted 
from his friend's servant an address not known to all the 
world. He showed Nick what a mistake it had been to fear 
a reproach from Gabriel Nash, and how he habitually ignored 
all lapses and kept up the standard only by taking a hundred 
line things for granted. He also abounded more than ever in 
his own sense, reminding his friend how no recollection of 
him, no evocation of him in absence could do him justice. 
You couldn't recall him without seeming to exaggerate him, 
and then recognized when you saw him that your exagger- 
ation had fallen short. He emerged out of vagueness (his 
Sicily might have been the Sicily of "A Winter's Tale"), and 
would evidently be reabsorbed in it ; but his presence was 
positive and pervasive enough. He was very lively while he 
lasted. His connections were with beauty, urbanity and 
conversation, as usual, but it was a circle you couldn't find in 
the Court Guide. Nick had a sense that he knew " a lot of 
aesthetic people," but he dealt in ideas much more than in 
names and addresses. He was genial and jocose, sunburnt 
and romantically allusive. Nick gathered that he had been 
living for many days in a Saracenic tower, where his principal 
occupation was to watch for the flushing of the west. He 
had retained all the serenity of his opinions, and made light, 
with a candour of which the only defect was apparently that 
it was not quite enough a conscious virtue, of many of the 
objects of common esteem. "When Nick asked him what he 
had been doing he replied : " Oh, living, you know ; " and 
the tone of the words seemed to offer them as a record of 
magnificent success. He made a long visit, staying to 
luncheon and after luncheon, so that the little studio heard 
all at once more conversation, and of a wider scope, than in 
the several previous years of its history. With much of our 
story left to tell, it is a pity that so little of this rich colloquy 
may be transcribed here ; because, as affairs took their course, 
it marked really (if it be a question of noting the exact point) 
a turn of the tide in Nick Dormer's personal situation. He 
was destined to remember the accent with which Nash 
exclaimed, on his drawing forth sundry specimens of amateurish 
earnestness : "I say I say I say ! " 
Nick glanced round with a heightened colour. " They're 
pretty bad, eh ? " 
" Oh, you're a deep one ! " Nash went on. 
"What's the matter?" 
" Do you call your conduct that of a man of honour ? " 
" Scarcely, perhaps. But when no one has seen them ? " 
" That's your villainy. C'est de Vexqids, du pur exquis. 
Come, my dear fellow, this is very serious it's a bad business," 
said Gabriel Nash. Then he added, almost with austerity : 
" You'll be so good as to place before me every patch of paint, 
every sketch and scrap that this room contains." 
Nick complied, in great good-humour. He turned out his 
boxes and drawers, shovelled forth the contents of bulging 
portfolios, mounted on chairs to unhook old canvases that had 
been severely " skied." He was modest and docile and patient 
and amused, and above all quite thrilled thrilled with the 
idea of eliciting a note of appreciation so late in the day. It 
was the oddest thing how at present in fact he found himself 
attributing value to Gabriel Nash attributing to him, among 
attributions more confused, the dignity of judgment, the 
authority of intelligence. Nash was an ambiguous being, 
but he was an excellent touchstone. The two said very little 
for a while, and they had almost half an hour's silence, during 
which, after Nick had hastily improvised a little exhibition, 
there was only a puffing of cigarettes. The visitor walked 
about, looking at this and that> taking up rough studies and 
laying them down, asking a question of fact, fishing with his 
umbrella, on the floor, amid a pile of unarranged sketches. 
Nick accepted jocosely the attitude of suspense, but there 
was even more of it in his heart than in his face. So few 
people had seen his young work almost no one who really 
counted. He had been ashamed of it, never showing it to 
bring on a conclusion, inasmuch as it was precisely of a con- 
clusion that he was afraid. He whistled now while he let 
his companion take time. He rubbed old panels with his 
sleeve and dabbed wet sponges on surfaces that had sunk. It 
was a long time since he had felt so gay, strange as such an 
assertion sounds in regard to a young man whose bridal-day 
had at his urgent solicitation lately been" fixed. He had 
stayed in town to be alone with his imagination, and suddenly, 
paradoxically, the sense of that result had arrived with 
Gabriel ISTash. 
" Nicholas Dormer," this personage remarked at last, " for 
grossness of immorality I think I have never seen your equal." 
" That sounds so well that I hesitate to risk spoiling it by 
wishing it explained." 
" Don't you recognize in any degree the elevated idea of 
duty ? " 
" If I don't grasp it with a certain firmness I'm a great 
failure, for I was quite brought up in it," Nick said. 
"Then you are the wretchedest failure I know. Life is 
ugly, after all." 
" Do I gather that you yourself recognize obligations of the 
order you allude to ? " asked Nick. 
" Do you ' gather ' ? " Nash stared. " Why, aren't they 
the very flame of my faith, the burden of my song ? " 
" My dear fellow, duty is doing, and I inferred that you 
think rather poorly of doing that it spoils one's style." 
"Doing wrong, assuredly." 
" But what do you call right ? What's your canon of 
certainty there ? " 
"The conscience that's in us that charming, conversible, 
infinite thing, the intensest thing we know. But you must 
treat the oracle civilly if you Avish to make it speak. You- 
mustn't stride into the temple in muddy jack-boots, with your 
hat on your head, as the Puritan troopers tramped into the. 
dear old abbeys. One must do one's best to find out the right, 
and your criminality appears to be that you have . not taken- 
common trouble' 
" I hadn't you to ask," smiled Nick. " But duty strikes 
me as doing something. If you are too afraid it may be the 
wrong thing, you may let everything go." 
"Being is doing, and if doing is duty, being is duty. Do 
you follow ] " 
" At a great distance." 
" To be what one may be, really and efficacioiisly," Nash 
went on, " to feel it and understand it, to accept it, adopt it, 
embrace it that's conduct, that's life." 
" And suppose one's a brute or an ass, where's the 
efficacy ? " 
" In one's very want of intelligence. In such cases one is 
out of it the question doesn't exist ; one simply becomes a 
part of the duty of others. The brute, the ass, neither feels, 
nor understands, nor accepts, nor adopts. Those fine processes 
in themselves classify us. They educate, they exalt, they pre- 
serve ; so that, to profit by them, we must be as perceptive as 
we can. We must recognize our particular form, the instru- 
ment that each of us each of us who carries anything 
carries in his being. Mastering this instrument, learning to 
play it in perfection that's what I call duty, what I call 
conduct, what I call success." 
Nick listened with friendly attention and the air of general 
assent was in his face as he said : " Every one has it then, this 
individual pipe  ?" 
" ' Every one,' my dear fellow, is too much to say, for the 
world is full of the crudest remplissage. The book of life is 
padded, ah but padded a deplorable want of editing. I 
speak of every one that is any one. Of course there are pipes 
and pipes little quavering flutes for the concerted movements 
and big cornets-a-piston for the great solos." 
" I see, I see. And what might your instrument be ? " 
Nash hesitated not a moment ; his answer was radiantly 
ready. " To speak to people just as I am speaking to you. 
To prevent for instance a great wrong being done." 
" A great wrong ! " 
"Yes to the human race. I talk I talk; I say the 
things that other people don't, that they can't, that they 
won't," Gabriel continued, with his inimitable candour. 
" If it's a question of mastery and perfection, you certainly 
have them," his companion replied. 
" And you haven't, alas ; that's the pity of it, that's the 
scandal. That's the wrong I want to set right, before it 
becomes too public a shame. I called you just now grossly 
immoral, on account of the spectacle you present a spectacle 
to be hidden from the eye of ingenuous youth : that of a man 
neglecting his own fiddle to blunder away on that of one of 
his fellows. We can't afford such mistakes, we can't tolerate 
such license." 
" You think then I have a fiddle ? " asked Nick. 
" A regular Stradivarius ? All these things you have 
shown me are singularly interesting. You have a talent of a 
wonderfully pure strain." 
" I say I say I say ! " Nick exclaimed, standing in front 
of his visitor with his hands in his pockets and a blush on his 
smiling face, and repeating with a change of accent Nash's 
exclamation of half an hour before. 
"I like it, your talent; I measure it, I appreciate it, I 
insist upon it," Nash went on, between the whiffs of his cigar- 
ette. " I have to be accomplished to do so, but fortunately I 
am. In such a case that's my duty. I shall make you my 
business for a while. Therefore," Nash added, piously, " don't 
say I'm unconscious of the moral law." 
"A Stradivarius?" said Nick, interrogatively, with his eyes 
wide open and the thought in his mind of how different this 
was from having gone to Griffin. 
XXIV. 
GABRIEL NASH had plenty of further opportunity to eluci- 
date this and other figurative remarks, for he not only spent 
several of the middle hours of the day with his friend, but 
came back with him in the evening (they dined together at a 
little foreign pot-house in Soho, revealed to Nick on this occa- 
sion) and discussed the great question far into the night. The 
great question was whether, on the showing of those examples 
of his ability with which the room in which they sat was now 
densely bestrewn, Nick Dormer would be justified in " really 
going in " for the practice of pictorial art. This may strike 
