said:

“Don’t, Mr. Tracy, please.” She turned to her husband and said, “Do
bridle your tongue. What has he done to be treated so? Can’t you see he
has lost his mind, with trouble and distress? He’s not responsible.”

“Thank your kind heart, madam, but I’ve not lost my mind; and if I can
have the mere privilege of stepping to the telegraph office--”

“Well, you can’t,” cried Marsh.

“--or sending--”

“Sending! That beats everything. If there’s anybody that’s fool enough
to go on such a chuckle-headed errand--”

“Here comes Mr. Barrow--he will go for me. Barrow--”

A brisk fire of exclamations broke out--

“Say, Barrow, he’s expecting a cablegram!”

“Cablegram from his father, you know!”

“Yes--cablegram from the wax-figger!”

“And say, Barrow, this fellow’s an earl--take off your hat, pull down
your vest!”

“Yes, he’s come off and forgot his crown, that he wears Sundays. He’s
cabled over to his pappy to send it.”

“You step out and get that cablegram, Barrow; his majesty’s a little
lame to-day.”

“Oh stop,” cried Barrow; “give the man a chance.” He turned, and said
with some severity, “Tracy, what’s the matter with you? What kind of
foolishness is this you’ve been talking. You ought to have more sense.”

“I’ve not been talking foolishness; and if you’ll go to the telegraph
office--”

“Oh; don’t talk so. I’m your friend in trouble and out of it, before
your face and behind your back, for anything in reason; but you’ve lost
your head, you see, and this moonshine about a cablegram--”

“I’ll go there and ask for it!”

“Thank you from the bottom of my heart, Brady. Here, I’ll give you a
Written order for it. Fly, now, and fetch it. We’ll soon see!”

Brady flew. Immediately the sort of quiet began to steal over the crowd
which means dawning doubt, misgiving; and might be translated into the
words, “Maybe he is expecting a cablegram--maybe he has got a father
somewhere--maybe we’ve been just a little too fresh, just a shade too
‘previous’!”

Loud talk ceased; then the mutterings and low murmurings and whisperings
died out. The crowd began to crumble apart. By ones and twos the
fragments drifted to the breakfast table. Barrow tried to bring Tracy
in; but he said:

“Not yet, Barrow--presently.”

Mrs. Marsh and Hattie tried, offering gentle and kindly persuasions; but
he said;

“I would rather wait--till he comes.”

Even old Marsh began to have suspicions that maybe he had been a trifle
too “brash,” as he called it in the privacy of his soul, and he pulled
himself together and started toward Tracy with invitation in his eyes;
but Tracy warned him off with a gesture which was quite positive and
eloquent. Then followed the stillest quarter of an hour which had ever
been known in that house at that time of day. It was so still, and so
solemn withal, that when somebody’s cup slipped from his fingers and
landed in his plate the shock made people start, and the sharp sound
seemed as indecorous there and as out of place as if a coffin and
mourners were imminent and being waited for. And at last when Brady’s
feet came clattering down the stairs the sacrilege seemed unbearable.
Everybody rose softly and turned toward the door, where stood Tracy;
then with a common impulse, moved a step or two in that direction, and
stopped. While they gazed, young Brady arrived, panting, and put
into Tracy’s hand,--sure enough--an envelope. Tracy fastened a bland
victorious eye upon the gazers, and kept it there till one by one they
dropped their eyes, vanquished and embarrassed. Then he tore open the
telegram and glanced at its message. The yellow paper fell from his
fingers and fluttered to the floor, and his face turned white. There was
nothing there but one word--

“Thanks.”

The humorist of the house, the tall, raw-boned Billy Nash, caulker from
the navy yard, was standing in the rear of the crowd. In the midst of
the pathetic silence that was now brooding over the place and moving
some few hearts there toward compassion, he began to whimper, then he
put his handkerchief to his eyes and buried his face in the neck of the
bashfulest young fellow in the company, a navy-yard blacksmith, shrieked
“Oh, pappy, how could you!” and began to bawl like a teething baby, if
one may imagine a baby with the energy and the devastating voice of a
jackass.

So perfect was that imitation of a child’s cry, and so vast the scale of
it and so ridiculous the aspect of the performer, that all gravity was
swept from the place as if by a hurricane, and almost everybody there
joined in the crash of laughter provoked by the exhibition. Then the
small mob began to take its revenge--revenge for the discomfort and
apprehension it had brought upon itself by its own too rash freshness
of a little while before. It guyed its poor victim, baited him, worried
him, as dogs do with a cornered cat. The victim answered back with
defiances and challenges which included everybody, and which only gave
the sport new spirit and variety; but when he changed his tactics and
began to single out individuals and invite them by name, the fun lost
its funniness and the interest of the show died out, along with the
noise.

Finally Marsh was about to take an innings, but Barrow said:

“Never mind, now--leave him alone. You’ve no account with him but a
money account. I’ll take care of that myself.”

The distressed and worried landlady gave Barrow a fervently grateful
look for his championship of the abused stranger; and the pet of the
house, a very prism in her cheap but ravishing Sunday rig, blew him a
kiss from the tips of her fingers and said, with the darlingest smile
and a sweet little toss of her head:

“You’re the only man here, and I’m going to set my cap for you, you dear
old thing!”

“For shame, Puss! How you talk! I never saw such a child!”

It took a good deal of argument and persuasion--that is to say, petting,
under these disguises--to get Tracy to entertain the idea of breakfast.
He at first said he would never eat again in that house; and added that
he had enough firmness of character, he trusted, to enable him to starve
like a man when the alternative was to eat insult with his bread.

When he had finished his breakfast, Barrow took him to his room,
furnished him a pipe, and said cheerily:

“Now, old fellow, take in your battle-flag out of the wet, you’re not in
the hostile camp any more. You’re a little upset by your troubles, and
that’s natural enough, but don’t let your mind run on them anymore than
you can help; drag your thoughts away from your troubles by the ears, by
the heels, or any other way, so you manage it; it’s the healthiest thing
a body can do; dwelling on troubles is deadly, just deadly--and that’s
the softest name there is for it. You must keep your mind amused--you
must, indeed.”

“Oh, miserable me!”

“Don’t! There’s just pure heart-break in that tone. It’s just as I say;
you’ve got to get right down to it and amuse your mind, as if it was
salvation.”

“They’re easy words to say, Barrow, but how am I going to amuse,
entertain, divert a mind that finds itself suddenly assaulted and
overwhelmed by disasters of a sort not dreamed of and not provided for?
No--no, the bare idea of amusement is repulsive to my feelings: Let us
talk of death and funerals.”

“No--not yet. That would be giving up the ship. We’ll not give up the
ship yet. I’m going to amuse you; I sent Brady out for the wherewithal
before you finished breakfast.”

“You did? What is it?”

“Come, this is a good sign--curiosity. Oh, there’s hope for you yet.”





CHAPTER XVI.

Brady arrived with a box, and departed, after saying, “They’re finishing
one up, but they’ll be along as soon as it’s done.”

Barrow took a frameless oil portrait a foot square from the box, set it
up in a good light, without comment, and reached for another, taking a
furtive glance at Tracy, meantime. The stony solemnity in Tracy’s face
remained as it was, and gave out no sign of interest. Barrow placed
the second portrait beside the first, and stole another glance while
reaching for a third. The stone image softened, a shade. No. 3 forced
the ghost of a smile, No. 4 swept indifference wholly away, and No. 5
started a laugh which was still in good and hearty condition when No. 14
took its place in the row.

“Oh, you’re all right, yet,” said Barrow. “You see you’re not past
amusement.”

The pictures were fearful, as to color, and atrocious as to drawing
and expression; but the feature which squelched animosity and made them
funny was a feature which could not achieve its full force in a single
picture, but required the wonder-working assistance of repetition. One
loudly dressed mechanic in stately attitude, with his hand on a cannon,
ashore, and a ship riding at anchor in the offing,--this is merely odd;
but when one sees the same cannon and the same ship in fourteen pictures
in a row, and a different mechanic standing watch in each, the thing
