taking the place because he had not the money required as a deposit. At
length a gentleman who had confidence in him went with him to the
superintendent and supplied the sum, and this removing the last
obstacle, Fred Fenton began his daily runs. He was paid by a twenty per
cent, commission on sales. It was necessary, therefore, for him to take
in five dollars in order to make one for himself. He had thus far
managed to average about a dollar a day, and this, though small, was an
essential help to his widowed mother with whom he lived.
Just before reaching Jersey City, Joshua Bascom appealed to Fred.
"Could you tell me where to stop in York?" he asked. "Some nice cheap
place?"
"I know a plain boarding-house kept by a policeman's wife, who lives
near us," said Fred. "She would probably board you for five dollars a
week."
"By hokey, that's just the place." said Joshua. "If you do it, I'll
make it right with you."
"Never mind about that!" said Fred. "All you've got to do is to come
with me. It will be no trouble."
CHAPTER III.
FRED'S RICH RELATION.
It was seven o'clock when Fred reached home. He and his mother occupied
three rooms in a tenement house, at a rental of ten dollars a month. It
was a small sum for the city, but as Fred was the chief contributor to
the family funds, rent day was always one of anxiety. It so happened
that this very day rent was due, and Fred felt anxious, for his mother,
when he left home, had but seven dollars towards it.
He opened the door of their humble home, and received a welcoming smile
from Mrs. Fenton, a pleasant-looking woman of middle age.
"I am glad to see you back, Fred," she said. "The days seem long
without you."
"Have you brought me a picture book, Fred?" asked his little brother.
"No, Bertie, I can't bring you picture books every day. I wish I
could."
"Albert has been drawing from his last book," said Mrs. Fenton. "He
really has quite a taste for it."
"We must send him to the Cooper Institute Drawing School when he gets
older. Did the landlord come, mother?"
"Yes," answered Mrs. Fenton, a shade passing over her face.
"What did he say? Did he make any fuss?"
"He was rough and unpleasant. He said he mast have his money promptly
or we must vacate the rooms."
"Did he take the seven dollars?"
"Yes, he took it and gave me a receipt on account. He said he must have
the balance to-morrow."
"I don't see how we can pay it. The company owes me more, but I shan't
get paid till Saturday night."
"Don't they advance it to you?"
"It is against the rule. Besides I couldn't get it in time."
"There is a lady in Lexington Avenue owing me four dollars for sewing,
but when I went there today I heard that she was out of town."
"It is very provoking to be kept out of your money when you need it so
much. If we only had a little money ahead, we could get along well.
Something must be done, but I don't know what."
"You might go round to Cousin Ferguson."
"I hate to ask a favor of that man, mother."
"You remember that your poor father owned a small tract of land in
Colorado. When Robert Ferguson went out three months since I asked him
to look after it, and ascertain whether it was of any value. As I have
heard nothing from him, I am afraid it is worthless."
"I will go and ask him, mother. That is a matter of business, and I
don't mind speaking to him on that subject. I will go at once."
"Perhaps he may be willing to advance a few dollars on it."
"At any rate I will go."
Robert Ferguson lived in a plain brick house on East Thirty-Ninth
Street. He was a down-town merchant, and in possession of a snug
competence. Mrs. Fenton was his own cousin, but he had never offered to
help her in any way, though he was quite aware of the fact that she was
struggling hard to support her little family. He had a son Raymond who
was by no means as plain in his tastes as his father, but had developed
a tendency to extravagance which augured ill for his future. He had
never cared to cultivate the acquaintance of his poor cousins, and
whenever he met Fred treated him with ill-concealed contempt.
It so happened that he was just leaving the house as Fred ascended the
steps.
"Good morning, Raymond," said Fred politely.
"Oh, it's you, is it?"
"Yes," answered Fred briefly, for he did not like the style in which
his cousin addressed him.
"What do you want round here?"
"I want to see your father."
"I guess he's busy."
"I want to see him on business," said Fred, pulling the bell.
"If you want to borrow any money it's no use. I struck him for ten
dollars just now, and he only gave me two."
"Did I say I wanted to borrow any money?"
"No, you didn't say so, but I couldn't think of any other business you
could have."
Fred did not have occasion to answer, for here the door opened, and the
servant stood on the threshold.
"Is Mr. Ferguson at home?" he asked.
"Yes; will you come in?"
Fred followed the girl into the back parlor where Robert Ferguson sat
reading the evening paper.
He looked up as Fred entered.
"Good evening, Mr. Ferguson," he said.
"Good evening, Frederick," said his relative coldly.
"My mother asked me to call and inquire whether you heard anything of
father's land in Colorado."
"Ahem!" coughed Mr. Ferguson. "I hope she built no day dreams on its
possible value."
"No sir; but she hoped it might be worth something--even a small sum
would be of value to us."
"The fact is, these Western lands are worth little or nothing."
"Father used to say that some time or other the land would be worth a
good sum."
"Then I don't think much of your father's judgment. Why, I don't
believe you could give it away. Let me see, how much was there?"
"A hundred and twenty-five acres."
"How did you father get possession of it?"
"There was a man he took care of in his sickness, who gave it to him
out of gratitude."
Robert Ferguson shrugged his shoulders.
"It would have been better if he had given him the same number of
dollars," he said.
"Then you don't think it worth as much as that?"
"No, I don't."
Fred looked disappointed. In their darkest days, he and his mother had
always thought of this land as likely some time to bring them
handsomely out of their troubles, and make a modest provision for their
comfort. Now there seemed to be an end to this hope.
"I would have sent your mother word before," said Robert Ferguson, "but
as the news was bad I thought it would keep. I don't see what possessed
your father to go out to Colorado."
"He was doing poorly here, and some one recommended him to try his
chances at the West."
"Well, he did a foolish thing. If a man improves his opportunities here
he needn't wander away from home to earn a living. That's my view."
"Then," said Fred slowly, "you don't think the land of any value?"
"No, I don't. Of course I am sorry for your disappointment, and I am
going to show it. Let your mother make over to me all claim to this
land, and I will give her twenty-five dollars."
"That isn't much," said Fred soberly.
"No, it isn't much, but it's better than nothing, and I shall lose by
my bargain."
Fred sat in silence thinking over this proposal. The land was the only
property his poor father had left, and to sell it for twenty-five
dollars seemed like parting with a birthright for a mess of pottage.
On the other hand twenty-five dollars would be of great service to them
under present circumstances.
"I don't know what to say," he answered slowly.
"Oh, well, it is your lookout. I only made the offer as a personal
favor."
Mr. Ferguson resumed the perusal of his paper, and thus implied that
the interview was over.
"Cousin Ferguson," said Fred, with an effort, "our rent is due to-day,
and we are a little short of the money to meet it. Could you lend me
three dollars till Saturday night?"
"No," answered Robert Ferguson coldly. "I don't approve of borrowing
money. As a matter of principle I decline to lend. But if your mother
agrees to sell the land she shall have twenty-five dollars at once."
Fred rose with a heavy heart.
"I will tell mother what you propose," he said. "Good evening!"
"Good evening!" rejoined Mr. Ferguson without raising his eyes from the
paper.
"Twenty-five dollars would be very acceptable just now," said Mrs.
Fenton thoughtfully, when Fred reported the offer of his rich relative.
"But it wouldn't last long, mother."
"It would do us good while it lasted."
"You are right there, mother, but I have no doubt the land is worth a
good deal more."
"What makes you think so? Cousin Ferguson----"
"Wouldn't have made the offer he did if he hadn't thought so, too."
"He might have done it to help us."
"He isn't that kind of a man. No, mother, it is for our interest to
hold on to the land till we know more about it."
"How shall we manage about the rent?"
Fred looked troubled.
"Something may turn up to-morrow. When the landlord comes, ask him to
come again at eight o'clock, when I shall be home."
"Very well, Fred."
Mrs. Fenton was so much in the habit of trusting to her son that she
dismissed the matter with less anxiety than Fred felt. He knew very
well that trusting for something to turn up is a precarious dependence,
but there seemed nothing better to do.
CHAPTER IV.
ZEBULON MACK.
At twelve that day the landlord, Zebulon Mack, presented himself
promptly at the door of Mrs. Fenton's room.
He was a small, thin, wrinkled man, whose suit would have been refused
as a gift by the average tramp, yet he had an income of four thousand
dollars a year from rents. He was now sixty years of age. At twenty-one
he was working for eight dollars a week, and saving three-fifths of
that. By slow degrees he had made himself rich, but in so doing he had
denied himself all but the barest necessaries. What he expected to do
with his money, as he was a bachelor with no near relatives, was a
mystery, and he had probably formed no definite ideas himself. But it
was his great enjoyment to see his hoards annually increasing, and he
had no mercy for needy or unfortunate tenants who found themselves
unable to pay their rent promptly.
Mrs. Fenton opened the door with a troubled look.
"I've come for that other three dollars, ma'am," said Zebulon Mack,
standing on the threshold.
"I'm very sorry, sir----" began the widow.
"What! haven't you got the money?" snarled Mack, screwing up his
features into a frown that made him look even more unprepossessing.
"My son Fred will be paid on Saturday night, and then----"
"Saturday night won't do. Didn't you promise it to-day?"
"Yes; and Fred tried to get an advance, but could not."
"Where is he working?"
"On the Erie road."
