would be so ready to do honor to Norman Winterburne if 
he were not a prospective millionnaire ? if he were a day 
journeyman in a mill or foundry ? It is the mere money, 
after all. And if money makes people forget a man's past 
delinquencies, or raises his virtues to a higher rank or 
grander glitter, why shouldn't it adorn the past misfor- 
tunes or heroic efforts of a woman's life ? " 
" Women are not so generous to women," says Eegina 
with a touch of cold scorn in her voice. " When three or 
four of them sat in the fitting-room at Madame Lissner's 
they used to tear their absent friends in pieces and shreds : 
criticise, ridicule, pick every little social flaw, boast how 
they snubbed and cut and mortified their sisteit women. 
They go to each other's houses because this one lias a posi- 
tion, that one gives elegant luncheons or dinners, another 
has friends they desire to know. I dare say Miss Nichol 
was among them. If she can find satisfaction in her rude- 
ness " — 
" And the envy was inches thick ! Regina, I never felt 
so glad that you were handsome and have so much style. 
You have been admired on every hand ! " 
She makes a gesture of weary disdain. Has she nothing 
but material charms ? 
" I should like to strike back ! Regina, if you would 
go this evening!" 
" I coulda't," And the pale, weary face excites Cynthia's 
sympathy. 
She would be deeply gratified if she could see Miss 
Niehol spending her evening with two or three young fel- 
lows who bore her immensely, envying Miss Hilliard, Mr. 
Stafford and Mr. De Maurier. She cannot deny Miss Hal- 
ford's grandfathers and grandmothers, and she is aware the 
Staffords are immeasurably proud of their descent. If 
she were in Miss Milliard's place she knows she could not 
pass by such a splendid opportunity for a return shaft. 
Her only comfort is in saying to her aunt, — 
" The insufferable impertinence of that dress-making 
girl going around with the air of a princess ! That class 
ought to be kept to its natural level! " 
" Didn't some one say they were Bradleys ? The 
Bradleys and the Staffords are connected. There is a 
Judge Bradley I used to know years ago." 
Miss Niehol does not feel quite so confident of her 
wisdom. 
Mrs. Halford sways between fear and anticipation for 
the youngest of her flock. Jasper has seemed admirable 
to her undiscriminating mind, but she is quite sure Perdita 
needs some training in household arts, since she may give 
him a violin sonata — she is not quite sure that is right — 
for his supper, or he may find her rambling in the woods 
culling wild flowers and mocking the birds. The step is 
incomprehensible. 
It is so to Regina as well. Could she have done any- 
thing to prevent ? Might she not have studied the family 
interests instead of her own intellectual desires ? She 
feels so uncertain on all the subjects that were vital and 
urgent a month ago. 
" Jasper has chosen the heiress," says Cynthia in a low, 
dry tone. 
" Has that had anything to do with it ? " Eegina wonders. 
"Dear mother," and Cynthia lays her arm caressingly 
on Mrs. Halford's shoulder, "don't worry about Perdita. 
We could all have advised her, doubtless, and even then she 
 
might have insisted upon going her own way. You will 
have to take me for your contidaiite now, to pet, and to 
scold when you feel like it " — 
'' I hope I have not scolded, Cynthia," she cries with a 
touch of injured dignity. * 
" O momsie, no ! " and Cynthia laughs. " But if you 
should ever feel it a sort of safety-valve ! Let us all go to 
bed believing Perdita supremely happy with the man of 
her choice. For no one has aided or abetted or had any 
hand in this startling episode." 
It is quite late when they retire, and Kegina cannot 
sleep. Her failures seem to rise up with cruel distinct- 
ness. There has been a lack of rightful aims ; she has been 
studying herself, putting in little bits that she admires, 
pruning here, training there, yet she has not made charac- 
ter at all. It has been a pretentious, cumbersome, beauti- 
ful, useless pagoda with pretty bells chiming here and 
there in appreciative winds, but it is not in any sense a 
temple of the soul. The futile nothings of idealism have 
been disporting themselves among the serious endeavors of 
human life. Among them is no vivid taste of happiness, 
no sweet reward of well-doing. She despises herself for 
the trivialities she has considered matters of grave import. 
Has she not been drawing a line, setting people in places 
she thinks meet and proper for them ? She has done it 
delicately, with no rudeness. Miss Hilliard has her gift, 
and it does help her' to a definite standing in the world. 
It is a purpose. And she has no gift, oh, bitter, burning 
thought! Yes, there is her beauty and grace, but she has 
no longing to become purely a society woman, and what 
else can she do with it ? Even Cynthia has a truer concep- 
tion of worthy living than she with her strenuous endeavors. 
She does not at that instant realize that youth does not 
comprise all the wisdom of the ages, all the experience of 
the wise. 
They spend the next morning planning their removal. 
"Though what Perdita will do alone in that great house 
I can't imagine," sighs Mrs. Halford. "And she knows 
nothing about housekeeping. She should have had a year's 
training, foolish child." 
" You don't imagine for a moment they will remain ? " 
cries Cynthia energetically. " They will flit like wild bees, 
ta.sting the sweets of hotels, theatres, operas, and all man- 
ner of pleasures. Jasper has been rather bored and restless 
of late, and Mr. Bradley has recovered his health, though I 
do not believe Tie would want to go galloping round the 
world. It is almost a pity for Jasper to have the place. 
He really seems too small to fill it." 
She thinks of Winterburne with his potent personality. 
Regina thinks of him also. He will be over this after- 
noon, and she does not desire to see him ; indeed, every fibre 
of her being is in desperate protest. She has known all 
along that she was no favorite with Miss Hilliard, and yet 
that senseless, foolish, impertinent attack will rouse her 
sympathetic womanhood. She hates to think of it being 
told over to him, of all men. He will show his appreeiar 
tion of her so decisively, and she does not want even the 
praise of his eyes, since his estimate of her would be based 
on false premises. She is too sincere to accept the homage, 
and she is not ready for the more subtle distinction that 
always clouds the atmosphere about him for her. 
Immediately after luncheon she leaves them, charging 
Cynthia to look after their mother, and if she is not home 
by nine they are not to expect her: she will spend the 
night with Mrs. Say re. 
" Oh ! " cries Cynthia disappointedly. " And there's sure 
to be some one in." She will not mention names. 
" You must do the lionors then. The time is so short, 
you see," with an air of importance that allows nb demur. 
"But do come back. There is no sense in your staying." 
" Mrs. Say re will want to hear of the event at first hand," 
Kegina replies with a delicate emphasis. 
The hotel hack is going down and she takes her place in 
it, since now it is for the convenience of passengers coming 
back, and she will not he subjected to curious eyes. There 
is a somewhat gruff, elderly man and a foolishly indul- 
 
gent mother of three children. Both parties rather divert 
her. 
It is a fine day early in September, but vegetation of 
all kinds has kept fresh and lovely from heavy dews and 
occasional rains. Here and there a maple hangs out a soli- 
tary twig of red leaves. The gardens are bright with a 
profusion of imperious autumnal flowers that hold up their 
heads like marching regiments. The bird songs are not so 
jubilant as those of June, and the insects prolong their 
notes in a wavering manner that is almost pathetic. 
Eegina finds that the tenant has gone out of the cottage, 
and two men are there making some repairs. She looks up 
a woman to come in and do the cleaning — the household 
matters gravitate naturally to her. Then she strolls up the 
hill, busy with a tangle of thoughts that surprises her. For 
all of life appears changed to her. The future has an in- 
scrutable cloud hovering about its most familiar aspects. 
Not two years since she came here with such high resolves, 
with a vital force that seemed ready to take hold of the 
highest purposes. She has educated herself up to an impos- 
sible standard, yes, she has disdained the common round. 
Oh, what is the meaning of all this unrest ? The unhesi- 
tating belief in the possibility of many things has merged 
into a kind of cynical enlightenment. She has been com- 
pelled to recede from the hasty generalizations that she has 
taken for truth, and feels stranded on a strange shore. 
Mr. Bradley is sitting on the porch in the afternoon sun- 
shine. He is like a picture with his thin, clear-cut face 
that would be at once pronounced aristocratic, his fine white 
skin where the wrinkles seem to lie delicately instead of 
taking the triumphant clutch of coming age. His silvery 
hair, his sloping shoulders, his white hands with their long 
nails, have such a gentlemanly aspect that you can hardly 
imagine him as being of any real service to the world, 
except for adornment. 
" Ah," he says with a nod, rubbing the thin hands cau- 
tiously, " I thought you would come. Did my boy surprise 
you beyond measure ? " and he gives a weak little laugh 
verging on insolence. " I could imagine the scene when he 
walked in with the youngest of you all on his arm. You 
girls do not appear to be in tremendous demand" — 
" There was no scene/' interrupts Kegina. " Mother felt 
hurt, as was natural, at the lack of confidence and respect. 
r)ut we supposed it would end that way presently." 
" No — did you really ? Why, I thought once it would 
be you. But you are rather too high, too grand. A man 
don't want such an overwhelming sort of wife. I don't 
believe you are the kind to marry. And your sister had 
better take that long-headed chap over yonder," nodding 
his head down the river. "Though I doubt if he will 
always come out on top ! " and he gives another rather 
shrill, unmeaning laugh. 
Regina's face flushes with indignation. It almost seems 
as if Mr. Bradley must have been drinking. His eyes 
have a shifty, exultant light, as if he gloated over some- 
thing. Surely marrying Perdita cannot have proved such a 
great victory when there was no real opposition. 
" Your son told you that we were making preparations to 
go in town ? " she questions coldly. 
