everywhere near the well to see whether some traveller had not perhaps
dropped a few dates or a little barley by accident, but there was
nothing.
'Doubtless,' he said, 'Allah wishes to show me that greediness is a sin
even on the day of feasting.'
He drank as much of the water as he could in order to stay his hunger as
well as assuage his thirst, and then he saddled the mare and rode up out
of the hollow towards the hill country. Towards the middle of the night
he came to a small village where all the people were celebrating the
feast, having killed a young camel and several sheep. Seeing that he was
a traveller they bade him be welcome, and he sat down among them and ate
his fill of meat, praising Allah. And corn was given to his mare, so
that the dumb animal also kept the feast.
'Truly,' said the people, 'thy mare is a daughter of Al Borak, the
heavenly steed called "the Lightning," upon which the nocturnal journey
was accomplished by the Prophet, upon whom be peace.'
They said this not because they divined that the mare had been given to
Khaled by an angel, but because they saw by her beauty that she must be
swift as the wind. For she had a large head, with bony cheeks, and a
full forehead and round black eyes wide apart, with smooth black skin
about them, and a pointed nose, and the under lip was like that of a
camel, projecting a little. And she was neither too long nor too short,
having straight legs like steel, and small feet and round hoofs, neither
overgrown in idleness nor overworn with much work. And her tail lay flat
and long and smooth when she was standing still but arched like the
plume of an ostrich when she moved. Her coat was bright bay, glossy and
smooth and without any white markings. By all these signs, which belong
to the purest blood, the people of the village knew that she was of the
fleetest reared in Arabia. And Khaled was glad that the people admired
her, since she was the chief of his few possessions, which indeed were
not many.
He did not know beforehand what he should do, nor what he should say
when in the presence of the Sultan of Nejed, still less how he could
venture to ask Zehowah in marriage, having no gifts to offer and not
being himself a prince. Before he had become a man it would have been
easy for him to find treasures in the earth such as men had never seen,
for, like all the genii, he had been acquainted with the most deeply
hidden mines and with all places where men had hidden wealth in old
times. But this knowledge does not belong to the intelligence becoming
mortals, but rather to the faculty of seeing through solid substance
which is exercised by the spirits of the air, and in his present state
it was taken from him, together with all possibility of communicating
with his former companions. He had nothing but his mare and his sword
and the garments he wore, and though the mare was indeed a gift for a
king he did not know whether he was meant to offer it to any one, seeing
that it had been given him by an angel.
Nevertheless he did not lose heart, for the celestial messenger had told
him that by the will of Allah he should marry Zehowah, and Allah was
certainly able to give him a king's daughter in marriage without the aid
of gifts, of gold, of musk, of 'Ood, of aloes or of pearls.
He rose, therefore, when he had eaten enough and had rested himself and
his mare, and after thanking the people of the village for their
entertainment he rode on his way. He passed through a hill country,
sometimes fertile and sometimes stony and deserted, but he found water
by the way and such food as he needed; and accomplished the remainder of
the journey without hindrance.
On the morning of the second day he came to a halting-place from which
he could see the city of Riad, and he was astonished at the size and
magnificence of the Sultan's palace, which was visible above the walls
of the fortification. Yet he was aware that he had seen all this before
as in a dream not altogether forgotten when a man wakes at dawn after a
long and restless night.
He gazed awhile, after he had made his ablutions, and then calling to
his mare to come to him, he mounted and rode through the southern gate
into the heart of the city.
CHAPTER II
When Khaled reached the palace he dismounted from his mare, and leading
her by the bridle entered the gateway. Here he met many persons, guards,
and slaves both black and white, and porters bearing provisions, and a
few women, all hurrying hither and thither; and many noticed him, but a
few gazed curiously into his face, and two or three grooms followed him
a little way, pointing out to each other the beauties of his mare.
'Truly,' they said, 'if we did not know the mares of the stud better
than the faces of our mothers, we should swear by Allah that this beast
had been stolen from the Sultan's stables by a thief in the night, for
she is of the best blood in Nejed.'
These being curious they saluted Khaled and asked him whence he came and
whither he was going, seeing that it is not courteous to ask a stranger
any other questions.
'I come from the Red Desert,' Khaled answered, 'and I am going into the
palace as you see.'
The grooms saw that there was a rebuke in the last part of his answer
and hung back and presently went their way.
'Are such mares bred in the Red Desert?' they exclaimed. 'The stranger
is doubtless the sheikh of some powerful tribe. But if this be true,
where are the men that came with him? And why is he dressed like a man
of the city?'
So they hastened out of the gateway to find the Bedouins who, they
supposed, must have accompanied Khaled on his journey.
But Khaled went forward and came to a great court in which were stone
seats by the walls. Here a number of people were waiting. So he sat down
upon one of the seats and his mare laid her nose upon his shoulder as
though inquiring what he would do.
'Allah knows,' Khaled said, as though answering her. So he waited
patiently.
At last a man came out into the courtyard who was richly dressed, and
whom all the people saluted as he passed. But he came straight towards
Khaled, who rose from his seat.
'Whence come you, my friend?' he inquired after they had exchanged the
salutation.
'From the Red Desert, and I desire permission to speak with the Sultan
when it shall please his majesty to see me.'
'And what do you desire of his majesty? I ask that I may inform him
beforehand. So you will have a better reception.'
'Tell the Sultan,' said Khaled, 'that a man is here who has neither
father nor mother nor any possessions beyond a swift mare, a keen sword
and a strong hand, but who is come nevertheless to ask in marriage
Zehowah, the Sultan's daughter.'
The minister smiled and gazed at Khaled in silence for a moment, but
when he had looked keenly at his face, he became grave.
'It may be,' he thought, 'that this is some great prince who comes thus
simply as in a disguise, and it were best not to anger him.'
'I will deliver your message,' he answered aloud, 'though it is a
strange one. It is customary for those who come to ask for a maiden in
marriage to bring gifts--and to receive others in return,' he added.
'I neither bring gifts nor ask any,' said Khaled. 'Allah is great and
will provide me with what I need.'
'I fear that he will not provide you with the Sultan's daughter for a
wife,' said the minister as he went away, but Khaled did not hear the
words, though he would have cared little if he had.
Now it chanced that Zehowah was sitting in a balcony surrounded with
lattice, over the courtyard, on that morning and she had seen Khaled
enter, leading his mare by the bridle. But though she watched the
stranger and his beast idly for some time she thought as little of the
one as of the other, for her heart was not turned to love, and she knew
nothing of horses. But her women thought differently and spoke loudly,
praising the beauty of both.
'There is indeed a warrior able to fight in the front of our armies,'
they said. 'Truly such a man must have been Khaled ibn Walad, the Sword
of the Lord, in the days of the Prophet--upon whom peace.'
By and by there was a cry that the Sultan was coming into the room, and
the women rose and retired. The Sultan sat down upon the carpet by his
daughter, in the balcony.
'Do you see that stranger, holding a beautiful mare by the bridle?' he
asked.
'Yes, I see him,' answered Zehowah indifferently.
'He is come to ask you in marriage.'
'Another!' she exclaimed with a careless laugh. 'If it is the will of
Allah I will marry him. If not, he will go away like the rest.'
'This man is not like the rest, my daughter. He is either a madman or
some powerful prince in disguise.'
'Or both, perhaps,' laughed Zehowah. She laughed often, for although she
was not inclined to love, she was of a gentle and merry temper.
'His message was a strange one,' said the Sultan. 'He says that he
neither brings gifts nor asks them, that he has neither father nor
mother, nor any possessions excepting a swift mare, a keen sword and a
strong hand.'
'I see the mare, the sword and the hand,' answered Zehowah. 'But the
hand is like any other hand--how can I tell whether it be strong? The
sword is in its sheath, and I cannot see its edge, and though the mare
is pretty enough, I have seen many of your own I liked as well. The
elephants of the Indian prince were more amusing, and the prince himself
was more beautiful than this stranger with his black beard and his
solemn face.'
'That is true,' said the Sultan with a sigh.
'Do you wish me to marry this man?' Zehowah asked.
'My daughter, I wish you to choose of your own free will. Nevertheless I
trust that you will choose before long, that I may see my child's
children before I die.'
For the Sultan was old and white-bearded, and was already somewhat bowed
with advancing years and with burden of many cares and the fatigues of
many wars. Yet his eye was bright and his heart fearless still, though
his judgment was often weak and vacillating.
'Do you wish me to marry this man?' Zehowah asked again. 'He will be a
strange husband, for he is a strange suitor, coming without gifts and
having neither father nor mother. But I will do as you command. If you
leave it to me I shall never marry.'
'I did not say that I desired you to take this one especially,'
protested the Sultan, 'though for the matter of gifts I care little,
since heaven has sent me wealth in abundance. But my remaining years are
few, and the years of life are like stones slipping from a mountain
which move slowly at first, and then faster until they outrun the
lightning and leap into the dark valley below. And what is required of a
husband is that he be a true believer, young and whole in every part,
and of a charitable disposition.'
'Truly,' laughed Zehowah, 'if he have no possessions, charity will avail
him little, since he has nothing to give.'
'There is other charity besides the giving of alms, my daughter, since
it is charity even to think charitably of others, as you know. But I
have not said that you should marry this man, for you are free. And
indeed I have not yet talked with him. But I have sent for him and you
shall hear him speak. See--they are just now conducting him to the hall
of audiences. But indeed I think he is no husband for you, after all.'
The Sultan rose and went to receive Khaled, and Zehowah went to the
secret window above her father's raised seat in the hall.
Khaled made the customary salutation with the greatest respect, and the
Sultan made him sit down at his right hand as though he had been a
prince, and asked him whence he had come. Then a refreshment was
brought, and Khaled ate and drank a little, after which the Sultan
inquired his business.
'I come,' said Khaled boldly, 'to ask your daughter Zehowah in marriage.
I bring no gifts, for I have none to offer, nor have I any inheritance.
My mare is my fortune, my sword is my argument and my wit is in my arm.'
'You are a strange suitor,' said the Sultan; but he kept a pleasant
countenance, since Khaled was his guest. 'You are no doubt the sheikh of
a tribe of the Red Desert, though I was not aware that any tribes dwelt
there.'
'So far as being the sheikh of my tribe,' said Khaled with a smile,
'your majesty may call me so, for my tribe consists of myself alone,
seeing that I have neither father nor mother nor any relations.'
