"Madame should not be here," she said to Ghisleri, in a quiet, even
voice. "It may soon be contagious."
Laura heard the words as she stood on the other side of the bed,
watching every passing expression on Arden's flushed face.
"I will not leave him," she said simply.
The sister did not answer. She had done her duty in giving the warning,
and she could do no more. When she had finished all her arrangements,
she sat down, accustomed to husband her strength always, against the
strain that must inevitably fall upon it day by day. She took out her
small black book and began to read, glancing at Arden at regular
intervals of about a minute.
Ghisleri entreated Laura to take some rest, or at least to follow the
sister's example and sit down, since nothing could be done. She did not
seem to understand. He was glad he had come, for he fancied she was
losing her head already. He stood beside her watching his friend and
waiting for the doctor, who appeared before long.
"It is one of the most extraordinarily virulent cases I ever knew," he
said to Ghisleri, when the two were alone together in the drawing-room,
for Laura would not leave her husband's side for a moment. "I hardly
know what to make of it, though of course there can be no doubt as to
what it is. It is better that you should know how serious the case is. I
presume you are an intimate friend of Lord Herbert Arden's?"
"Yes, an old friend."
"And you are not afraid of catching the fever?" asked the doctor.
"Not in the least."
"Oh, I thought from a question you asked--" He hesitated.
"I was going to see a friend, and I wanted to be on the safe side," said
Ghisleri.
"I am glad of that; it is just as well that there should be a man at
hand. Shall you spend the night here?"
"Yes," replied Ghisleri.
"Very good. I have told the sister to send for me if the temperature
rises more than two-tenths of a degree centigrade higher than it is now.
It ought to go down. If I am called anywhere I will leave the address at
my lodgings, where one of my servants will sit up all night. I confess
that I am surprised by the case. In Rome the scarlet fever is rarely so
dangerous."
Thereupon the doctor took his leave and Ghisleri remained alone in the
drawing-room. He sat down and took up a book. For the present it seemed
best not to go back to Arden's room. His constant presence might be
disagreeable to Laura, since she could not be induced to leave her
husband as yet. Ghisleri's turn would come when she was exhausted, or
when he had an opportunity of persuading her to take some rest. Until
then there was nothing to be done but to wait. A servant came in and put
wood on the fire and turned down a lamp that was smoking a little. He
inquired of Ghisleri whether her ladyship would wish any dinner served,
and Pietro told him to keep something in readiness in case she should be
hungry. He himself rarely had much appetite, and to-night he had none at
all. He tried to read, without much success, for his own thoughts
crowded upon each other so quickly and tumultuously that he found it
impossible to concentrate his attention.
The clocks struck half-past eight, nine, ten, and half-past ten, and
still he sat motionless in his place. Again the Italian servant came in,
put wood on the fire and looked to the lamps. Did the Signore know what
orders were to be given for the night? The Signore did not know, as her
ladyship was still with his lordship, and was not to be disturbed, but
some food must be kept ready in case she needed it. Eleven, half-past,
twelve. Again the door opened. There was something awful in the monotony
of it all, Ghisleri thought, but this time Donald appeared instead of
the Italian, who had been sent to bed. After making very much the same
inquiries as the latter, Donald paused.
"His lordship is very ill, sir, as I understand," he said. He had known
Ghisleri as his master's friend for years.
"Yes, Donald, he is very ill," answered Ghisleri, gravely. "It is
scarlet fever, the doctor says. We must all help to take care of him."
"Yes, sir."
The few insignificant words exchanged with the servant seemed to rouse
Ghisleri from the reverie in which he had sat so many hours. When Donald
was gone he rose from the chair and began to walk up and down the
drawing-room. The inaction was irksome, and he longed to be of use. He
would have gone to Arden's room, but he fancied it would be better to
let Laura stay there without him, until she was very tired, and then to
take her place. She would be more likely to rest if she had a long watch
at first, he thought. As a matter of fact, an odd sort of delicacy
influenced him, too, almost without his knowing it,--an undefined
instinct which made him leave her with the man she so dearly loved in
the presence only of a stranger and a woman, rather than intrude himself
as the third person and the witness of her anxiety.
As he turned for the fiftieth time in his short, monotonous walk, he saw
Laura entering at the opposite end of the room. She was dressed all in
white, in a loose robe of some soft and warm material, gathered about
the waist and hanging in straight folds. Her heavy black hair was
fastened in a great knot, low at the back of her head. The light fell
full upon her pale face and deep, dark eyes as she caught sight of
Ghisleri, and stood still at the door, her hand upon the curtain as she
thrust it aside from before her. She was so really beautiful at that
moment that Pietro started and stared at her.
"I did not know you were here," she said softly. He came forward to meet
her.
"I will take my turn when you are willing to go and rest," he answered.
"I have waited for that reason. How is he now?"
"Much more quiet," answered Laura. "The sister persuaded me that my
being there perhaps prevented his going to sleep, and so I came away.
She will call me if there is any change. Oh! if he could only sleep!"
Ghisleri knew how very improbable such a fortunate circumstance was at
the outset of such a severe illness, but he said nothing about it. Any
idea which could give Laura hope was good in itself. She sank into a
deep chair by the fire and watched the flames, her chin resting on her
hand. She seemed almost unconscious of Ghisleri's presence as he stood
leaning against the mantelpiece and looking down at her.
"I will go and see how he is," he said at last, and went towards the
door. Just as he touched the handle she called him in an odd tone as
though she were startled by something.
"Signor Ghisleri! Please come back."
He obeyed, and resumed his former attitude.
"I am very nervous," she said, with a little shiver. "Please do not
leave me--I--I am afraid to be alone. If you wish to go, we will go
together."
Ghisleri concealed his surprise, which was considerable. The wish she
expressed was very foreign to her usually quiet and collected nature. He
saw that her nerves were rudely shaken.
"It is very weak of me," she said presently, in an apologetic tone. "But
I see his face all the time, and I hear that dreadful wandering talk--I
cannot bear it."
"I do not wonder," answered Pietro, quietly. "You must be very tired,
too. Will you not lie down on the sofa, while I sit here and wait? It
would be so much better. You will need your strength to-morrow."
"That is true," she said, as though struck by the truth of the last
words.
She crossed the room and lay down upon a large sofa at a little distance
from the fire, arranged the folds of her dress with that modest, womanly
dignity some women have in their smallest actions, clasped her hands,
and closed her eyes. Pietro sat down and looked at her, musing over the
strange combination of circumstances which formed themselves in his
life. It seemed odd that he should be where he was, towards the small
hours of the morning, watching over one of the women he admired most in
the world, keeping his place at her especial request, when he had in
reality come to help in taking care of her husband. How the world would
wag its head and talk, he thought, if it could guess where he was!
For a long time Laura did not move, and he was sure that she was still
awake. Then, all at once, he saw her hands relax and loosen from each
other, her head turned a little on the dark velvet cushion, and she
sighed as she sank to sleep. She was less quiet after that. Her lips
moved, and she stirred uneasily from time to time, evidently dreaming
over again the painful scenes of the evening. Ghisleri rang the bell,
crossed the room swiftly, and opened the door without noise. Donald
appeared in the hall outside.
"Her ladyship has fallen asleep on the sofa," said Pietro. "She does not
wish to be left alone. Is there any woman servant awake in the house?"
"No, sir. Her ladyship sent her maid to bed."
"Never mind. Go and sit quietly in the drawing-room, in case she should
need anything, while I go and see how Lord Herbert is."
"Very good, sir."
The world would have been even more surprised now than before,
especially if it could have understood the meaning of what Ghisleri did,
and the refined reverence implied in his unwillingness to remain in the
drawing-room longer than necessary. It would not have believed in his
motive, and it would have added that he was very foolish not to enjoy
the artistic pleasure of watching over the beautiful woman in her sleep
as long as he could, more especially as she had gone to the length of
asking him to do so. But Ghisleri thought very differently.
He entered the sick-room, and sat down by the bedside. Arden was in a
restless state between waking and unconsciousness, moaning aloud without
articulating any words, his face flushed to a deep purple hue, his eyes
half open and turned up under the lids, so that only the white was
visible. The sister was seated by the table, on which stood a small
lamp, the light being screened from Arden by a makeshift consisting of
the cover of a bandbox supported by a few heavy books. When Ghisleri had
entered she had glanced at him, and explained by a sign that there was
no change. Neither he nor she thought of speaking during the hour that
followed. The sister had a watch before her on the table, and at regular
intervals she rose, poured a spoonful of something into Arden's mouth,
smoothed his pillow, saw that he was as comfortable as he could be, and
went back to her seat. At the end of the hour she took Arden's
temperature with the fever thermometer, and wrote down the result on a
sheet of paper. It had fallen one-tenth of a degree since midnight.
"It generally does towards morning," said the sister, in a low voice, in
answer to Ghisleri's inquiry as to whether this was a really favourable
symptom of a change for the better.
The night passed wearily. Pietro felt that he was of little use, unless
his presence in the house afforded Laura some sort of moral support. So
far as the nursing was concerned, the sister neither needed nor expected
any assistance. Towards five o'clock, Laura entered the room. On waking
from her sleep, she had seen Donald seated in Ghisleri's place, and had
wondered why the latter had gone away.
"He seems better," she whispered, bending over her husband, and softly
smoothing the thick brown hair from his forehead.
"The temperature has fallen," answered Ghisleri, giving her the only
encouragement he could.
"Thank God!" Laura sat down by the opposite side of the bed. Presently,
by a sign, she asked Ghisleri whether he would not go home.
"I will wait in the drawing-room until the doctor comes, and the other
sister has arrived for the day," he said, coming to her side.
She merely nodded, and he quietly went out. Before long, Donald brought
him some coffee, and he sat where he had sat in the early part of the
night, anxiously awaiting the doctor's coming.
There was little enough to be learned, when the latter actually came. A
very bad case, he said, so bad that he would not be averse to asking the
opinion of a colleague,--and later, the same colleague came, saw Arden,
shook his head, and said that it was the worst case he had ever seen,
but that the treatment so far was perfectly correct.
There was nothing to be done, but to take the best care possible of the
patient. Ghisleri had no hope whatever, and Laura became almost totally
silent. She could not be paler than she was, but Pietro almost fancied
that she was growing hourly thinner, while the sad eyes seemed to sink
deeper and deeper beneath the marble brow. He went home for a few hours
to dress, and returned at midday. The loss of one night's rest had not
even told upon his face, but his expression was grave and reserved in
the extreme, and his manner even more than usually quiet. Laura had not
slept since her nap in the drawing-room, and looked exhausted, though
