with it a grandeur and a mad magnifi- 
cence that enthralled. Then, too, he 
was young, and at his hours what the 
French call channeui-. If at times he 
frightened, always he dazzled. Of 
course he was adored; the prodigal 
emperors always were; so were their 




successors, the wicked popes. The 
virtue and moderation, which we of 
a later day admire so much, were 
not entirely appreciated then. Man 
was still too near to nature to be 
aware of shame, and infantile enough 
to care to be surprised. In that was 
Caligula's charm; he petted his peo- 
ple and surprised them too. Claud 
wearied. Between them they assimilate every contradiction, and in their 
incoherences explain that incomprehensible chaos which was Rome. 
Caligula jeered at everybody, everybody jeered at Claud. 

The latter was a fantastic, vacillating, abstracted, well-meaning and 
cowardly tyrant, issuing edicts in 
regard to the proper tarring of barrels, 
and rendering decisions which would 
insure the fortune of an opera-bouffe; 
declaring himself to be of the opinion 
of those who were right ; falling asleep 







on the bench, and on awakening 
announcing that he gave judgment 
in favor of those whuse reasons were 
the best; slappeJ in the face by an 
irritable plaintiff; held down by main 
force when he wanted to leave; inviting to supper those whom he had 
killed before breakfast; answering the 
mournful salute of the gladiators with 
a grotesque j4i?e/e vos — " Be it well too 
with you," a response, parenthetically, 
which the gladiators construed as a 
pardon and refused to fight; dowering 
the alphabet with three new letters 
which lasted no longer than he did; 
asserting that he would give centennial games as often as he saw fit; an 
emperor whom no one obeyed, whose 
eunuchs ruled in his stead ; whose 
lackeys dispensed exiles, death, con- 
sulates and crucifixions; whose valets 
insulted the senate, insulted Rome, 
insulted the sovereign that ruled the 



 



world ; whose people shared his consort's couch; a sHpshod drunkard in a 
tattered gown — such was the gentleman that succeeded Caligula and had 
Messalina for wife. 

It were curious to have seen that 
woman as Juvenal did, a veil over her 
yellow wig, hunting adventures 
through the streets of Rome, prostituting herself in the ergastules, while 
her husband in the Forum censured 
the dissoluteness of citizens. And it 
were curious, too, to understand 
whether it was her audacity or his 
stupidity which left him the only man 
in Rome unacquainted lAfith the pro- 
digious multiplicity and variety of her 
lovers. History has its secrets, yet, 
in connection with Messalina, there is 
one that historians have not taken the 
trouble to probe; to them she has 
been an imperial strumpet, a hetaira 
on a throne. Messalina was not that. 




 



At heart she was probably no better 
and no worse than any otlicr lady of 
the land, but physically she was a 
victim of nymphomania, one who to- 
day would be put through a course of 
treatment, instead of being put to 
death. When Claud at last learned, 
not the truth, but certain facts, 
namely, that some of her lovers were 
conspiring to get rid of him, he was 
not indignant; he was frightened 
to death. The conspirators were 
promptly disposed of, Messalina with 
them. Suetonius says that, a few 
days later, as he went in to supper, he 
asked why the empress did not ap- 
pear. 

Ap-vt from the malady from which 
she suffered, we're it possible to find 
an excuse for her conduct, the excuse 
would be Claud. The purple which 
made Caligula mad, made him an 
idiot; and when in course of time he 



 



was served with a succulent poison, 
there must have been many conjec- 
tures in Rome as to what the empire 
would next produce. 

The empire was extremely fecund, 
enormously vast. About Rome extended an immense circle of provinces 
and cities that were wholly hers. 
Without that circle was another, the 
sovereignty exercised over vassals 
and allies; beyond that, beyond the 
Rhine on one side, were the silenced 
Teutons; beyond the Euphrates on 
the other, the hazardous Parthians, 
while remotely to the north there 
extended the enigmas of barbarism; 
to the south, those semi-fabulous 
regions where geography ceased to 
be. 

Little by little, through the pa-tience of a people that felt i' elf 
eternal, this immensity had been 
assimilated and fused. A few fortresses and legions on the frontiers, a 
stretch of soldiery at any spot an invasion might be feared; a little tact, 
a maternal solicitude, and that was 
all. Rome governed unarmed, or 
perhaps it might be more exact to 
say she did not govern at all; she 
was the mistress of a federation of 
realms and republics that governed 
themselves, in whose government she 
was content, and from whom she exacted little, tribute merely, and obeisance to herself. Her strength was 
not in the sword; the lioness roared 
rarely, often slept; it was the fear 
smaller beasts had of her awakening 
that made them docile; once aroused, 
those indolent paws could do terrible 
work, and it was well not to excite 
them. When the Jews threatened to 
revolt, Agrippa warned them : "Look 
at Rome; look at her well; her arms 
are invisible, her troops are afar; she 



 



rules, not by them, but by the certainty of her power. If you rebel, the 
invisible sword will flash, and what 
can you do against Rome armed, 
when Rome unarmed frightens the 
world?" 

The argument was pertinent and 
suggestive, but the secret of Rome's 
ascendency consisted in the fact that 
where she conquered she dwelt. 
Wherever the eagles pounced, Rome 
multiplied herself in miniature. In 
the army was the nation, in the legion 
the city. Where it camped, presto! 
a judgment seat and an altar. On 
the morrow there was a forum; in a 
week there were paved avenues; in a 
fortnight, temples, porticoes ; in a 
month you felt yourself at home. 
Rome built with a magic that startled 
as surely as the glint of her sword. 
Time and again the nations whom 
Caesar encountered planned to eliminate his camp. When they reached 
it the camp had vanished; in its place 
was a walled, impregnable town. 
