“Yes; I have been thinking of getting what the miners call a ‘long
tom’—no pun intended.”
“What is that?”
I won’t give Tom’s answer, but quote a more accurate description from an
English book published in 1857: “A ‘long tom’ is nothing more than a
wooden trough from twelve to twenty-five feet long, and about a foot
wide. At the lower end it widens considerably, and the floor of it is a
sheet of iron, pierced with holes half an inch in diameter, under which
is placed a flat box a couple of inches deep. The long tom is set at a
slight inclination over the place which is to be worked, and a stream of
water is kept running through it by means of a hose. While some of the
party shovel the dirt into the tom as fast as they can dig it up, one
man stands at the lower end, stirring up the dirt as it is washed down,
separating the stones and throwing them out, while the earth and small
gravel fall with the water through the sieve into the ripple box. This
box is about five feet long, and is crossed by two partitions. It is
also placed at an inclination, so that the water falling into it keeps
the dirt loose, allowing the gold and heavy particles to settle to the
bottom, while all the lighter stuff washes over the end of the box along
with the water.”
The dirt taken out of the ripple box has to be washed out afterward, so
as to leave the gold particles.
“Where is the claim you have bought for me, Tom?” asked Grant.
“A little farther down the creek. I will show you.”
“Lend me your cradle, and, see if I can work it.”
Grant took the cradle and, under Tom’s direction, shoveled in some dirt,
and proceeded to rock it. He was quite delighted when, as the result of
his labors, a few specks of gold appeared at the bottom.
“How much does it amount to, Tom?” he asked, gathering it into his hand.
“Perhaps a dime.”
Grant looked rather disappointed.
“It would take some time to get rich at that rate,” he said rather
ruefully.
“Yes; but there is always a chance of ‘striking it rich.’ That is what
keeps our spirits up. By the way, Grant, I have a proposal to make to
you.”
“What is it, Tom?”
“Suppose we work together. We can take turns in digging, shovelling in
the dirt, and rocking the cradle. That will be more sociable, and we can
divide equally whatever gold we obtain.”
“That will suit me exactly, Tom; but as you are more experienced than I,
you ought to have more than half.”
“No, Grant. It shall be share and share alike. There is another
advantage. It will save getting an extra rocker.”
“I am ready to begin at once.”
“Are you not too tired?”
“No, Tom. I want to feel that I have begun to work. If I get tired I can
sleep better to-night.”
They worked for two hours, when they knocked off for the day. The work
was done on Grant’s claim. Tom estimated the result at a dollar.
“That is fifty cents apiece,” he said. “To-morrow we’ll do better.”
“I don’t mind, Tom. I have made a beginning. Now I feel that I am a
miner.”
At six o’clock they went to the hotel, which was a general
lounging-place for the miners.
                             CHAPTER XXIV.
                        GRANT HAS AN ADVENTURE.
“Shall we take supper at the hotel?” asked Grant. “How much do they
charge?”
“Two dollars a day for meals and lodging.”
“Isn’t that considerable?” asked Grant, rather dismayed.
“Yes, if one only earns fifty cents,” answered Tom, smiling.
“Do you like sleeping in such a crowd, Tom?”
“No; but there seems no other way, unless I bought a cabin, and I should
feel too lonely.”
“But now there are two of us together. Why can’t we hire a cabin, and
lodge and eat independently? We can take turns in doing the cooking, and
it will be a good deal cheaper.”
“Do you know anything about cooking, Grant? I don’t.”
“Yes; I took some lessons at the restaurant. I can teach you all I know
myself.”
“Then we can establish ourselves to-morrow. There is a deserted cabin a
little way up the gulch, which no one seems to care to occupy. It is in
fair condition, and the last occupant kept house, so that there are
dishes and cooking utensils. We can take possession, and then, if any
one disputes our right, we can agree to pay rent.”
“That will be capital,” said Grant, in a tone of satisfaction.
For a month Grant and Tom Cooper worked assiduously, sometimes at one
claim, sometimes at the other. The life of a miner is full of
excitement. Even when he meets with poor luck, there is the prospect
every day of making a rich find. But in the case of the two friends it
was always hope deferred. At the end of the month they sat down to
consider the situation.
“Well, Grant, we don’t seem to get much richer,” said Tom, taking a
whiff from a clay pipe, which was his evening luxury after a hard day’s
work.
“We made fifty cents yesterday,” responded Grant soberly.
“Between us. That is twenty-five cents each.”
“On the whole, we have been losing ground during the last month. I am
twenty dollars poorer than when I came here.”
“And I have fallen behind as much, or more than that.”
“Digging for gold isn’t what I thought it to be,” said Grant. “I was
doing a good deal better in Sacramento.”
“That maybe; but we mustn’t forget that a man does strike luck once in a
while.”
“It won’t do us any good to have some other man strike luck.”
“I see you are getting down-hearted, Grant.”
“Well, not exactly; but I think I’ve made a mistake. Neither of our
claims amounts to much.”
“What do you propose, then?”
“I have nothing to propose,” said Grant modestly. “You are older and
more experienced than I. I will follow your plan.”
“Then let us work three days longer. If, at the end of that time,
nothing turns up, we will pull up stakes, and go elsewhere. We can’t
afford to go on working and falling behind all the time.”
“Three days then, Tom.”
“You haven’t had any luck yet, Grant. I had a share before you came.”
“I am afraid my coming brought you bad luck.”
“Bad luck or not, I am glad to have you here. After a hard day’s work it
seems pleasant to have some one to talk to.”
“If I should leave you, how would Silverthorn do?” asked Grant, smiling.
“Poor company is worse than none. I’d rather hustle by myself than have
that man ’round.”
The next morning the two partners went to work as usual. They always
started hopeful of good results, but, as the day wore away and results
were meager, their hopes began to sink. That day they cleared between
them a dollar and a half, while their expenses, at a modest calculation,
so high were provisions, were nearly double this sum.
“Another day lost!” commented Tom as they sat over their evening fire,
for it was beginning to grow cold at the close of the day.
“We won’t say anything about it,” said Grant. “Let the three days pass,
and then we will consult.”
About the middle of the next afternoon Grant was attacked by a violent
headache.
“I shall have to close up work for the day, Tom,” he said.
“Go to the cabin and lie down,” suggested Tom.
“I would rather go on a walk. The fresh air may do me good.”
Grant dipped his handkerchief in the stream, bathed his forehead, and
then set out on a stroll to the south of the claims. Finding relief, he
pushed on till he had probably walked a couple of miles.
It was a lonely stretch of country, and, with the exception of a boy, he
met no one. His surprise was the greater, therefore, when at one point
he heard a groan, evidently proceeding from some one in pain. He looked
about him, and finally discovered an old man lying under a tree, doubled
up with pain. It was hard to tell his age, for his appearance was
neglected, and he had the air of one who lived apart from his fellow
men.
“What is the matter?” asked Grant, in a tone of sympathy. “Can I help
you?”
“I am suffering from an attack of rheumatism,” answered the old man. “It
came upon me suddenly, and has disabled me, as you see.”
“What can I do for you?”
“If you can help me to my cabin it will be a great service.”
“Where is your cabin?”
“In the edge of yonder woods.”
He pointed feebly, and Grant, following the direction, espied a small
hut, brown and discolored with age, standing under the shadow of a rock
about a quarter of a mile away.
He helped the old man to his feet, and half supported him as he walked
toward the cabin.
“Are you often seized in this way?” he asked.
“Not often so suddenly and violently, though I have been in the grip of
my enemy for years.”
                              CHAPTER XXV.
                         ANOTHER LONELY CABIN.
They reached the cabin at last, and then a question which Grant was
about to ask was answered. The old man lived alone.
The furniture was of the simplest: a bed, a couple of chairs, a table,
and a few dishes.
“Is there no one to take care of you?” asked Grant.
“No, I need no one,” was the quick reply. “I have remedies that will
soon quiet the pain.”
“I should think you would feel lonely.”
“I prefer solitude to the society of mean, selfish, and designing men,”
answered the old man bitterly.
“All men are not mean or selfish.”
“No doubt you are right, but those whom I trusted most have proved so.”
“How long have you lived here?”
“Six years.”
“Are you—poor? If so, perhaps I can help you.”
“No, no; poverty is the smallest of my troubles. Look there!” and the
old man drew from his pocket a handful of gold pieces. “I have enough to
see me through the few years I have yet to live.”
“But you have no occupation—no way to fill up your time?”
“I have a few books and my own thoughts. I will tell you what little is
to be told. I came here six years ago, and for a time devoted myself to
gold-digging. I was fortunate, and secured all I needed for my modest
wants. Then I stopped, for I had no object in accumulating more. But you
tell me about yourself. You are young to be in California.”
“Yes, I came to seek my fortune. I was a poor boy, and my mother is
unhappily situated. I came to see if I could not improve her lot and my
own.”
“What are you doing?”
“I am digging for gold.”
“Where?”
“At Howe’s Gulch.”
“Have you succeeded?”
“So poorly that I am thinking of giving it up and going elsewhere. In
Sacramento I worked in a restaurant, and made a good deal more money
than I have made at the mines. I am twenty dollars poorer than when I
came here.”
“Are you alone?”
“No, I have a friend with me—a young man whose acquaintance I made in
crossing the plains.”
“Is he a true friend—a loyal friend?”
“Yes.”
“Then there are such in the world. Those I have met have been of a
different kind. Has he been any more fortunate than yourself?”
“Not since I arrived. He did something before I came, but I must have
brought him bad luck, for he has been running behind ever since. We have
