herself about. On the contrary, she was so calm that her quiet was
positively terrifying. The people--by which term aunt Maggie meant the
undertakers--could do nothing without her. She would hardly let them
touch poor Walter--she wanted to do everything herself. She must
certainly break down, and perhaps lose her reason. People sometimes went
mad in that way, but it would be a pity--especially for such a man as
Crowdie. No. Walter had never endeared himself to Mrs. Bright.
Katharine looked at the kind-hearted, stout, elderly woman, with her
refined face and her air of superiority over the common herd, and
wondered whether she had any real feelings. She hardly made a pretence
of regret for the young life that had been cut short, though she seemed
really anxious for her daughter. She was like the rest of them, thought
Katharine, and she really had no heart. That was clear. She asked
whether Hester would be willing to see her.
“Really,” answered Mrs. Bright, “she’s behaving so strangely, poor
child, that there’s no knowing what she may do. She may be angry if I
don’t tell that you’re here. She’s insisted on having him carried into
the studio. Poor darling! I let her do as she pleases. But I’ll go and
ask her if she’d like to see you. It can’t do any harm, at all events.”
Aunt Maggie left the room, walking on tiptoe and listening before she
actually went out, after opening the door.
“Mother, is everybody as heartless as that?” asked Katharine when she
was gone, in a tone which seemed to expect no answer.
“Heartless?” repeated Mrs. Lauderdale. “I don’t think she’s heartless.
She’s dreadfully anxious about Hester.”
“Yes; but about poor Mr. Crowdie--she doesn’t seem to care in the
least.”
“Oh, no--she never liked him. Why should she? Take care, though!
somebody might hear us talking.”
Katharine sighed and was silent. Her mother did not seem to understand
what she meant any more than any one else. After the first shock they
all appeared to be perfectly indifferent. Crowdie was dead. Bury him!
Doubtless they were already wondering whether Hester would marry again,
and if so, when. Yet Katharine knew that they would all be shocked if
Hester wore mourning less than three years. It was her business to
mourn; it was theirs, in the interest of society, to see that she
mourned long and decently for a man whom they had all disliked.
Before long Mrs. Bright returned, softly as she had gone, shut the door
noiselessly behind her, and looked round the room as though she thought
that some fourth person might be present and listening. Then, with an
air of secrecy, she spoke to Katharine.
“My dear, she’ll see you if you’ll come upstairs.”
“Certainly,” answered Katharine. “I’ll go at once.”
“But you mustn’t be surprised by anything she does,” said Mrs. Bright,
anxiously. “She’ll want you to see him, I think. She’s looking very
quiet, but she’s very strange. Humour her, Katharine--humour her a
little.”
Katharine nodded, but said nothing.
“She’s waiting for you on the landing outside the studio,” added Mrs.
Bright. “I needn’t go up with you, need I? I’ve just been up all those
stairs.”
“Of course not,” Katharine answered.
As she went something oddly like fear got hold of her, and her heart
fluttered unexpectedly. She was conscious that she was pale as she
ascended to the top of the house. Probably, she thought, it was the idea
of seeing the dead man’s face that affected her unpleasantly. She nerved
herself to make an effort and went on, wondering that it should be so
strangely hard to go.
As she began to go up the last flight of stairs she was conscious that
Hester was standing at the top, waiting for her. She wished that she had
not offered to come. Then she looked up and met the deep eyes, and saw
the ghastly face turned towards her. Hester was excessively pale, and
even her lips were colourless. Her slight figure looked taller than
usual in the straight loose gown of black, and her hands, clasped
together upon the banister, had the emaciated, nervous look of some
hands in pictures by the early painters. Exhaustion, in some people,
shows itself in the hands before it appears in the face.
Katharine reached the top of the flight and stood still, looking at her,
wishing to speak but not finding words just then. They had parted
almost, if not quite, as enemies, on the previous day. Katharine went a
step nearer. Her face showed well enough the deep sympathy she felt, but
Hester did not exactly look at her face, but only into her eyes, with a
fixed stare that made the young girl feel uneasy. That stare alone would
have justified Mrs. Bright in saying that her daughter was behaving
strangely. The transparent hands unclasped one another, but they fell
straight to her sides. As Katharine extended her own, Hester drew back,
the stare became more fixed, the eyes opened more, till they were very
wide, the finely pencilled brows were raised haughtily, and the shadowy
figure seemed to grow taller. Then she spoke, slowly and distinctly, in
a voice that did not tremble.
“I wanted to see you. Come with me.”
She turned and opened the door of the studio, leading the way. Katharine
was startled by what she saw. The great room had been darkened as much
as possible by drawing all the thick shades, which had been made to keep
out the sun in summer, and a great number of candles were burning with a
dim, yellow light. The air was thick with the smoke of burning perfumes,
which rose in tall, straight, grey plumes, from two censers placed upon
the hearth before the huge chimney-piece. In the absolutely still
atmosphere the smoke rose to the height of a man before it broke and
opened, hanging then like draped grey curtains in the heavy air. The
strange, cool smell of burning myrrh predominated, but in spite of it
the drowsy, overpowering odour of frankincense reached Katharine’s
nostrils. She stood still and stared through the smoke.
In the middle of the room Crowdie lay dead, clothed in a long garment
of stuff that was soft and dark. The couch was covered with a silken
carpet which hung down to the floor. The pale light of death softened
and beautified the repulsive features, in their solemn calm, to a degree
which Katharine would not have believed possible, had she been capable
of thought just then. But she was taken by surprise; she was a little
frightened, and she was dazed by the glare of the many candles, and
dizzy with the sudden breathing of the perfume-laden air. She stood
still at a little distance from the couch and looked at the dead face,
stretching her head forward with a sort of timid curiosity, holding her
body back with the instinctive dread of death which the young feel in
spite of themselves.
Hester did not stand beside her. With slow steps, as though she were
moving with a solemn procession to the rhythm of a funeral march,
sweeping her long black gown noiselessly behind her, she passed to the
other side, and came up to the couch and stood over her husband’s body,
facing Katharine. In the shadowy smoke of the incense, with the flaring
light of the wax candles upon her, she was like a supernatural being.
She might have been the freed soul of the dead man, come back to look
once more at Katharine’s face.
“Come nearer to me,” she said, in deadly calm, without a tremor.
An older woman might not have obeyed the summons, and might have
realized that Hester Crowdie was to all intents and purposes mad, since
it could not be supposed that she had planned a tragic scene, with a
theatrical instinct nowhere at fault, even in a single detail. But there
was something really terrible and grand in it, as it struck Katharine;
and there was the grim reality of death lying there and vouching for the
widowed woman’s sincerity. To those not familiar with the dead, nothing
can seem like comedy in their silent presence. To those for whom death
has lost all horror, there is scarcely anything but comedy, anywhere.
Katharine obeyed and went nearer, but not as near as Hester herself.
Instinctively she held back her skirts, as though fearing even the
contact of the carpet on which Crowdie lay. Her right hand she still
carried in a scarf.
Hester’s fixed gaze met her again, and she was conscious that her own
eyes were uncertain. There was an irresistible something which drew them
to the dead man’s face. But when Hester spoke again the young girl
looked at her.
“Katharine Lauderdale, this is your doing, and this is what you have
done to me.”
The words came clearly, like those she had spoken before, monotonously
and distinctly, as though she had learned them by rote. Katharine
started at first, and opened her eyes wider, as though doubting whether
she were in her senses. But she found no word to say, though her lips
were parted.
“You have killed my husband. You have destroyed my life. I have brought
you here to see what you have done.”
Katharine did not start this time, but she drew back a little, with an
indescribable horror that was not fear.
“You must be mad,” she said, in a low voice, keeping her eyes on
Hester’s.
A strange, fantastic smile played upon the pale lips, and looked more
than unnatural in the yellow glare of the candles.
“I wish I were mad,” she said.
In the long silence which followed, Katharine glanced at the dead man’s
face. Its set, waxen smile was like Hester’s, and the girl felt a
creeping shudder in her shoulders. She bent her body a little.
“He cannot hurt you,” said Hester, holding her with inexorable eyes. “He
knows that you have killed him, but he cannot hurt you. If he could, he
would--for my sake. Come close to him and look at him.”
Katharine came forward again, more because she was brave and would not
even seem afraid, than for any other reason.
“My dear Hester,” she said, trying to speak naturally, but in a low
voice, “you’re beside yourself with grief. You don’t know what you’re
saying.”
“I know what I am saying,” answered the widowed woman, solemnly. “You
shall listen to all I have to say. Then you shall go, and I will never
see you again until you are dead. Then I will come and look at you, for
his sake. You tried to steal him from me while he was living. He is mine
now, to keep forever. You cannot get him. Look at him, for he is mine.
The last words he ever heard me speak were cruel, unkind words. Then he
fell. He did not speak afterwards. I gave him the morphia. I told you my
story once--but it was not the true story. It killed him. It was my hand
that killed him, through your soul, and your soul shall pay me. I am not
mad. You have done this to me. You know it now. You made me speak those
last words he heard.”
Katharine listened in silence--chilled with a sort of horror of which
she had never dreamt. There was an unnatural terror for her in the
woman’s deadly calm. There was no passion in the voice, no hatred, no
jealousy. It was as though she were possessed by an unseen power that
used her mouth to speak with, and controlled her, and against which she
could do nothing.
“Have you heard? Do you know now?” she asked after a pause.
Still Katharine did not speak. A new sensation of fear crept upon her.
She began to think that the dead man’s lips moved and that the quiet
lids trembled, and she could not take her eyes from the face.
“You have no heart,” said the voice. “You are the worst woman alive
to-day, anywhere in the whole world. You said you were my friend, and
you have done this thing to me. You have done it. No one else has done
it. It is all your fault. You pretended that you loved me like a sister,
and you came often, and he saw you. You are more beautiful than I am,
and he saw that you were. But he did not love you. Oh, no! He loved me.
You pleased his eyes as everything beautiful pleased him. He did not
know how bad you were. But I made him say that he hated you,--he said it
twice before he died,--and you had only pleased his eyes. But now they
are closed, and you cannot please him any more, because he cannot see
you.”
Katharine looked up slowly, realizing that the woman was insane. She had
never seen an insane person, and it had been hard to understand at
first. She did not know what to do. Her blood froze at her throat--she
could feel the cold at her collar. Still the monotonous voice went on
speaking, while the incense and the myrrh sent up their straight plumes
of smoke into the cloudy air, and the heavy perfumes grew more and more
oppressive and stupefying.
“You pleased him so much that he broke his promise to me, and it was
almost the only promise I had ever asked of him. He sang to you, because
you pleased him so much. I will not forgive you. I never will. But he is
