Colson did not reply.
"There's no time to waste here. Stackpole, you and the boys will have to
go with us. Here, you two men, close behind them. We must not let them
escape."
The party started with the captives in the middle. It was decidedly a
bad outlook for our three friends.
CHAPTER XXXII.
OBED IN A TIGHT PLACE.
It must be confessed that the reflections of Obed and the two boys were
far from pleasant. The cup of happiness had been dashed from their lips
just as they had begun to taste it. Then again it was very mortifying to
watch the exultation of Fletcher and Colson, who had finally triumphed
over them after being successfully baffled.
"The worst of it is," said Obed to Harry, who was walking alongside of
him, "that them skunks have got the best of it. It's their time to crow
now."
"That's the way I feel," said Harry soberly. "I believe I would rather
have lost twice as much to anybody else."
"We haven't lost all, that's a comfort. They will take the money we have
with us, but if ever we escape to Melbourne, there is the nugget money
waiting for us."
Just then Colson stepped up with a smile on his face.
"It strikes me I've got about even with you, friend Stackpole," he
said.
"Don't call me friend, Colson; I don't own any man as friend who acts
like you. So you're a bushranger, are you?"
"Certainly not," answered Colson, amazed.
"It looks like it," remarked Obed significantly.
"I am merely in the company of the bushrangers just at present."
"Aiding and abetting them in their scheming. That's so, isn't it?"
"No."
"You haven't any interest in the plunder, then?"
Now, one of the bushrangers was within hearing, and Colson didn't
venture to say "No," or it would be virtually giving up his share of the
money taken from Obed and the boys.
"I don't care to answer any of your questions," he said stiffly.
"I don't wonder--not a mite, Colson. Still I'd like to ask one."
"What is it? I don't promise to answer it, though."
"Didn't you find that nugget rather heavy?" asked Obed slyly.
Colson didn't answer, but frowned, for the subject was a sore one.
"How many miles did you carry it, if I may be so bold?"
"I don't care to discuss the subject."
"I shouldn't if I were you. It makes me laugh when I think how you must
have looked when you found out it was nothing but common rock."
"How much does it weigh?" inquired Colson, in a tone of curiosity.
"Somewhere between fifty and five hundred pounds. Are you thinking of
attacking the guard? I wouldn't if I were you. They are prepared for
gentlemen of your kind. You'd be more likely to carry off lead than
gold."
"Confound the fellow!" thought Colson. "He looks as if he had the best
of me--I must worry him a little."
"Do you know that you are in a very ticklish position?" he asked.
"I can't say it's a position I fancy much. Did you put our friends here
on the track?"
"Yes, I did," answered Colson in a tone of satisfaction.
"I thought so. That identifies you with them, Colson. You may find it
used against you in a court of justice."
"I am no more a bushranger than you are," said Colson uneasily.
"I would respect you more if you was, Colson. They're open and
aboveboard, anyway. You want to profit by the same means, but sneak out
of it and say you're not a bushranger. It'll be hard to persuade the
courts of that."
"I have nothing to do with courts."
"You may have yet. Let me give you a piece of advice."
"What is it?" demanded Colson suspiciously.
"Join the band permanently. You're a man after Fletcher's own heart. You
and he will make a good match."
"Who is that mentioning my name?" asked Fletcher, who happened to be
within hearing.
"I took that liberty, squire. I've been advisin' Colson here to join
your band."
"What is that for?"
"I think it's a business that will suit him. His talents all lie in that
direction. He'll be like a brother to you, Fletcher."
"What did he say?"
"He don't like the idea. He seems to feel above you. He says he is only
keepin' company with you for a short time."
"Is that true?" demanded Fletcher, eying Colson with displeasure.
"I never said any such thing," said Colson eagerly. "He twists my words.
I have the greatest respect for the bushrangers, whom I regard as
gentlemen."
"Perhaps that is the reason you don't feel gratified to join them,
Colson?"
Fletcher laughed at this palpable hit, but Colson looked annoyed.
"I don't expect to remain in this section of the country long," said
Colson deprecatingly, for he was very much afraid of offending Fletcher.
"Of course I can't form any permanent ties."
"It might be better for you to leave, Colson. I've an idee that it isn't
good for your health to stay around here very long. You haven't made a
shinin' success so far. Now, as to that nugget which you stole----"
"Do you mean to insult me? I never took any nugget."
"That's so. You're right there, Colson. But you thought you had, all the
same. Fortunately, it's where you can't get at it."
"I have something to say on that point," said Fletcher. "I understand
the nugget is very valuable."
"I'm glad to hear it. You're a judge. I have an idee of that sort
myself."
"About how much does it weigh?"
"About seventy-five pounds. I don't mind gratifying your innocent
curiosity, Fletcher."
Fletcher's eyes sparkled.
"It must be very valuable," he said.
"I reckon it is."
"At what do you estimate it--twenty thousand dollars?"
"Not as much as that."
"It ought to come pretty near it, though."
Obed did not answer.
"It's a great prize. You were very lucky."
"So I thought at the time. I don't feel so certain, now," said Obed
dryly.
"I think half of it will be enough for you."
"What do you mean, Fletcher?"
"I mean that we shall want half of it."
"How are you going to get it?"
"We mean to hold you prisoner till half the proceeds are brought in from
Melbourne."
Obed's countenance fell. He had not thought of this.
Colson's eyes glistened with pleasure. Till that lucky suggestion was
made he saw no way of securing a share of the great prize.
"That's a nice scheme, Fletcher," said Obed, regaining his composure.
"So I think. You and the boys would still have a good sum of money. What
do you say? Shall we make a little friendly arrangement to that effect?
You could give me an order for half the sum realized, and on my securing
it you would be released."
"I shall have to talk it over with my partners here," returned Obed.
"They're equally interested with me."
"Better do so now."
"I won't till evenin', when we have more time."
Fletcher rode away under the impression that Obed was favorably disposed
to his plan.
"When I get the money," he said to himself, "I can decide whether to let
the fellow go or not. I don't care for the boys, but I'd like to give
this Yankee a good flogging, he's so confoundedly sarcastic. Plague take
it, the fellow doesn't know when he's down, but talks as if he was on
equal terms with me."
Meanwhile, though Fletcher did not know it, the train of bushrangers had
steadily advanced to the neighborhood of the place where the government
escort were encamped.
In fact, he was ignorant that they were so near. But Obed knew it, and
he was watching his opportunity to apprise his friends of his situation.
Harry had noticed the same thing. Lest he should make a premature
revelation, Obed placed his hand to his lips, as a sign of silence.
Harry understood, and seemed indifferent, but his heart was beating fast
with excitement.
CHAPTER XXXIII.
THE TABLES ARE TURNED.
It was certainly an oversight in Fletcher not to have ascertained the
situation of the government encampment. He was under the impression that
it was in a direction opposite to that in which they were moving, and
this determined his course. He was therefore wholly unconscious of
danger, and tranquil in mind, though his situation was critical.
Obed was puzzled to know in what manner to get the necessary
intelligence to his comrades. Chance gave him a suggestion. The man next
him wore round his neck a whistle--designed doubtless to use in case of
emergencies. It was of rather peculiar shape.
"That's an odd whistle you've got there, my friend," he said, "where did
you get it?"
"In Melbourne," answered the fellow unsuspiciously.
"I think I've seen one like it in the States. Let me look at it a
minute."
The bushranger allowed Obed to take it in his hand.
Suddenly Mr. Stackpole put it to his mouth, and gave a sharp, loud
whistle that awakened the echoes in the forest.
Like a flash Fletcher turned from his place at the head of the train and
eyed the bushranger with a frown. Obed had dropped the whistle, and was
walking on with an innocent look.
"What is this foolery, Hogan?" demanded Fletcher sharply. "Don't you
know better than to whistle?"
"I didn't, lieutenant," answered Hogan. "It was this man here."
"The Yankee?"
"Yes."
"How did he get the whistle?"
"He asked to look at it."
"What does this mean, Stackpole?" asked Fletcher angrily.
"Don't get riled, squire," said Obed imperturbably. "I just wanted to
try it, that's all. I had a whistle once a little like it. When I was
workin' for old Deacon Plummer in New Hampshire----"
"Confound old Deacon Plummer!" retorted Fletcher impatiently. "Don't you
know I might have you shot for what you've done?"
"Shot for whistling! Well, that beats all I ever heard of. I say,
squire, your laws are stricter than any I ever came across. I didn't
think I was doin' any harm."
"I will overlook it this time, but if you take any such liberty again,
I'll have you tied to a tree and whipped."
"That's better than bein' shot, anyway. I won't do it again, squire. I
aint particularly anxious to get into trouble."
"These Yankees are about as stupid and presuming as any people I ever
met," Fletcher remarked to the comrade who rode beside him. "That fellow
is a nuisance, but I mean to teach him a lesson before twenty-four hours
are over."
Obed and the two boys awaited with anxiety the result of the summons.
The camp was but an eighth of a mile away, but hidden by the trees.
"Will they hear it?" thought Obed.
It is doubtful whether this would have been the case, but luckily for
our three friends one of the escort--by name Warner--was taking a walk
in the woods, and heard the whistle. His curiosity was excited, and
peering through the trees he saw the bushrangers and their captives.
He was a man of promptness, and returning to the camp with all
expedition made a report to the officer in command.
"How many are there in the band?" inquired Captain Forbush.
