boy above the cruel disappointment he was 
suffering. 
He was recalled to the facts of the day 
by Fay 's asking her brother if she might go 
and see the college library. It was late in 
the afternoon, five o clock at least, and both 
Jamie and Donald expressed some surprise 
at Fay 's request. They were all pretty well 
tired out, to tell the truth. But Fay urged 
her point quietly, and her brother proposed 
that Don should take her wherever she 
wished to go. 
" Father is used up," said Jamie. " We 
can't trot him round libraries to-day. He 
knows every book there by heart. I 'll take 
him up to my room to rest, Don, and you 
look after my sister, will you? I suppose 
she has a right to be so all-fired literary if 
she wants to. She 's got her diploma. You 
and I are nothing but undergraduates." 
 
So Donald, nothing loath, escorted Fay to 
the library alone. It was cooler there ; but 
few visitors were visible, many of them 
having rushed for their return trains, and more 
having gone home to get off their hot, best 
clothes, and cool before tea-time. Donald 
and Fay sat down in one of the shaded al 
coves and rested a minute. Fay was still so 
silent that Don was a little puzzled by her 
manner. 
" Ask the librarian, please," said Fay 
directly, " to get me some books I want, 
will you?" 
" Certainly. And what, Miss Fay ? " 
" Well let me see," hesitated Fay. " I 
think I would like to look over Rufus 
Choate. Has he a good edition of Choate ? 
It will rest us, and give us something else to 
think of, don't you think so ? " 
Don was not very sure about it, but he 
obeyed the young lady without question. 
Bringing two large octavo volumes of Rufus 
Choate 's addresses, he deposited them upon 
Fay 's pretty brown lap, and sat down again, 
watching her in silence while she turned the 
leaves. 
"Are you going to read aloud?" asked 
Don presently. 
"Perhaps so," nodded Fay. "Here! 
There!" 
Her face crimsoned suddenly, from brow to 
chin. She read a page to herself skipped 
read another shut the book, and hold 
ing her finger to keep the place, looked 
with blazing eyes at Don. She had taken 
off her warm glove, like the true book-lover 
that she was, lest perchance a speck of the 
color from the kid should mar the margin of 
the beautifully printed page. 
" It is just as I thought ! " cried Fay. 
" Only I wanted to make sure of it. I didn't 
dare say so, seeing father didn't find it out. 
Father knows everything everybody has 
ever written on every subject, you know. I 
didn't know but I might be mistaken, since 
he didn't get up and shake that fellow by 
the coat-collar and toss him off the stage 
into the middle of the main aisle ! " 
exploded Fay. 
" What in the name of Eufus Choate 
do you mean ? " demanded Donald. 
" I mean," said Fay more quietly, "that 
Thomas Z. Hallowell has no more right to 
the De Courtney prize than than that girl 
with the red parasol ! " 
" I don't understand you in the least," 
 
said Don, blushing in his turn. " Besides, 
she 's nothing to me that girl." 
" Oh, never mind the girl ! " replied Fay 
impatiently. " It 's the boy I'm after. The 
boy is a plagiarist. He has copied a great 
part of one of Rufus Choate 's orations. Mr. 
Don, the De Courtney prize is yours." 
" Let me see," whispered Don. He was 
trembling very much, and all the color had 
left his face. 
Fay handed him the big book, and they 
looked it over together. Donald felt the 
agitated motion of her sweet, young breath. 
He dared not look at her. He pinned his 
eyes to the page which Fay pointed out to 
him. 
"See," said Fay. "Look there. He 
called his piece : American Nationality? 
That is the very subject. Mr. Choate 's 
[ Address on the Fourth of July] delivered 
in Boston on July 5, 1858, Mr. Hallo well 
has copied a half page whole page word 
for word. Just read ! 
" Did not Sparta and Athens hate one 
another, and fight one another habitually, 
and yet when those Lacedcemonian levies 
gazed so steadfastly on the faces of the 
fallen at Marathon, did they not give Greek 
tears to Athens and Greek curses to Persia, 
and in the hour of Platcea did they not 
stand together against the barbarians ? 
" Don't you remember how the audience 
thrilled at that ? And there and here 
and read that! Thrilled ! " cried Fay, " I 
should think they would ! The idea of 
supposing that a fellow with that kind of a 
mustache waxed on the ends could 
write like that ! 
" I hope," added Fay, looking perfectly 
magnificent, " that he hasn't got a sister, 
or a a real nice girl friend anywhere to 
be mortified dead ashamed of him, the 
scoundrel ! " 
" Why, this is dreadful ! " said Don. 
Really, for the moment, he was thinking 
more of Hallo well 's disgrace than of his own 
now well-assured success. 
He and Fay sat and looked at each other 
with bright, sympathetic, young eyes. How 
wonderful it was in that dim alcove ! How 
calm, how set-apart, how sheltered ! Their 
joy seemed to mount from shelf to shelf of 
the dreary old books, like a little climbing 
elf who made himself at home everywhere, 
as human joy has the right to do, and, thank 
Heaven, it will take its rights. 
" How in the world," asked Don 
ald in an awed voice, " did you ever find it 
out ? " 
He felt at that moment as if Fay 's learn 
ing overtopped the world. It was positively 
appalling. How was he ever to keep pace 
with a girl like that? a girl who knew 
more than the faculty of Harle and all the 
De Courtney committee ! So thought Don, 
looking at her with the reverence of a 
janitor at Hypatia. 
" Oh, that 's nothing ! " said Fay care 
lessly. " My first thesis was on Rufus 
Choate. / was crammed, people forget 
the old things, you know. It 's only a 
chance who remembers what, I think, any 
how. It was just good luck for me. I gave 
up Rufus and wrote on Daniel Webster, 
after all. But I got it into my head." 
Donald and Fay passed out of the cool 
library into the hot, summer evening, in a 
kind of solemn agitation. The consciousness 
of the disgrace they were about to expose 
began to come to them with heaviness. To 
hurl a young man down from the top of 
glory (so far as college life could give that 
glittering thing) into the dust of shame, 
of life-long shame ; for a deed like this 
follows a man to the end in the educated world, 
to dash him headlong, at a moment 's no 
tice, by one flash of a girl 's thought, at the 
touch of a girl 's hand, it seemed hard. 
For the moment, to Donald 's highly wrought 
mood, it seemed cruel. 
" I don't want to do it ! " he cried, stop 
ping short. 
" You oucjlit, I think," said Fay firmly. 
" I don't believe it," argued Don. " I'd 
better lose the De Courtney twice over than 
bring all that shame and misery on people. 
I saw his mother in the audience. . . . She 
came way on from the West on purpose. I 
can't ! " cried Don. 
" I didn't like her looks so much," he 
added ruefully. " She was a showy woman, 
one of the kind that wears what do you 
call em? shows her arms, you know, in a 
public hall. But she was his mother. I saw 
her crying when he was speaking, for 
joy, I suppose. Miss Fay, I won't do it! 
I'm sorry to disagree with you, but I won't 
tell of Hallowell." 
" What will you do ? " asked Fay, turning 
a bit pale. She knew when Don set his lips 
together that way, that he meant business. 
What he said, he would perform. Yet she 
felt confident in her own mind that the facts 
 
of the case ought not to be suppressed ; not 
for Don 's sake so much as for the sake of 
that college honor so dear to Harle, and to 
every educated man. Fay was greatly agitated
and perplexed by the position in which 
she found herself. All their happiness of a 
moment ago had drifted away into a swirl of 
doubt and distress. She lifted to Donald, 
