wilt suffer neither pain nor want. I will leave thee and wander forth to
seek mine own sad lot. Farewell, and when they ask thee for thy husband,
tell them thou hast none, and so be happy [turns to go].
Nina. Oh, Adrian, I implore thee stay. I will bear all thy coldness, ay
even thy contempt. I will toil for thee and seek to win the gold for
which thou dost sigh, I will serve thee well and truly, for with all my
heart I love thee still. Leave me not now or I shall die! [Kneels and
clasps his hand.]
Adrian. I am a slave till death shall set me free. We shall not meet
again. Nay, kneel not to me. I do forgive thee, but I cannot love thee
[rushes out].
Nina. This is more than I can bear. Oh, Father, take thy poor child
home, and still the sorrow of this broken heart.
                                CURTAIN.
                             SCENE SECOND.
                     [Home of Hagar, the gypsy.
                     Enter Hagar and Nina.]
Hagar. What brings thee hither, gentle lady, and how can the wanderer
serve the high-born and the fair?
Nina [sadly]. There is often deeper sorrow in the palace than the cot,
good Hagar, and I seek thee for some counsel that will cure the pain of
a lonely heart. I have tried all others' skill in vain, and come to thee
so learned in mystic lore to give me help. I am rich and can repay thee
well.
Hagar. I can read a sad tale in thy pale and gentle face, dear lady.
Thou art young and loving, but the hope of youth is gone; and thou art
sorrowing with no fond heart whereon to lean, no tender voice to comfort
and to cheer. Ah, have I read aright? Then the only charm to still thy
pain is death.
Nina. 'Tis death I long for. That still, dreamless sleep would bring me
peace. But 'tis a fearful thing to take the life God gave, and I dare
not. Canst thou not give me help?
Hagar. Within this tiny casket there is that which brings a quiet sleep
filled with happy dreams, and they who drink the draught lie down and
slumber, and if not awakened it will end in death. But thou, sweet lady,
wouldst not leave this fair world yet. Tell me more, for this old heart
is warm and tender still, and perchance I can help thee.
Nina. 'Tis strange that I can feel such faith in thee, kind friend, but
I am young and lonely and I seek some heart for counsel. Thou art from
my own fair land and I will tell thee of my sorrow. 'Tis a short, sad
tale. I loved, was wed, and then--oh, darksome day--I learned my husband
felt no love, and sought me only for my gold. I was penniless, and thus
he cast me off; and now for long, long weeks I have not seen him, for he
would not dwell with her who loved him more than life itself. Now give
me some sweet charm to win that lost heart back. Ah, Hagar, help me.
Hagar. I can give thee no truer charm than that fair face and noble
soul, dear lady. Be thou but firm and faithful in thy love and it will
win thy husband back. God bless and grant all happiness to one who doth
so truly need it.
Nina. Give me the casket; and when life hath grown too bitter to be
borne then will I gladly lay the burden down, and blessing him I love so
well sleep that calm slumber that knows no awaking. Farewell, Hagar,
thou hast given me comfort and I thank thee.
                                                           [Exit Nina.
                                CURTAIN.
                              SCENE THIRD.
              [One year is supposed to have elapsed. A
              room in the palace of Nina. Enter Adrian
                             disguised.]
Adrian. Here last I saw her one long year ago. How the wild, sweet voice
still rings in my ear imploring me to stay. I can find no rest save
here; and thus do I seek my home, worn out by my long wandering, and
trusting to learn tidings of poor Nina. If she be true and love me still
I will cast away my pride, my coldness, and all vain hopes of wealth,
and let the sunlight of that pure, young life brighten my life
henceforth. I hear a step, and will hide here, perchance I may thus see
her [hides behind curtain].
                                                          [Enter Nina.
Nina. No rest for thee poor heart, ever whispering that dear name, ever
sorrowing for those hard words that gave so deep a wound. All is dark
and lonely, for he is gone. Only these withered flowers, dearer by far
than my most costly gems, for his hand hath touched them, and he smiled
on me when they were given. Oh, Adrian, wilt thou never give one tender
thought to her who still loves and prays for thee? Death will soon free
thee from thy hated wife.
                                                           [Exit Nina.
Adrian [stealing forth]. And this is she, whose pure young love I have
cast away, the fond, trusting bride I left alone and friendless. She
still loves on, and offers up her prayers for one who sought to break
that tender heart so cruelly. I will watch well and guard thee, Nina;
and if thou art truly mine thou shalt find a happy home with him thy
patient love hath won.
                                     [Exit Adrian and re-enter Nina.
Nina [with Adrian's picture]. Ah, these cold eyes smile kindly on me
here, and the lips seem speaking tender words. Other faces are
perchance more fair, but none so dear to me. Oh, husband, thou hast cast
me off; and yet, though lonely and forsaken, I still can cherish loving
thoughts of thee, and round thy image gather all the tender feelings
that a woman's heart can know. Thy cruel words I can forgive, and the
trusting love I gave thee glows as warmly now as when thou didst cast it
by and left me broken-hearted [weeps; enter Don Felix]. My lord,
what seekest thou with me? Thou dost smile. Ah, hast thou tidings of my
husband? Tell me quickly, I beseech thee.
Don Felix. Nay, dear lady--But sit thee down and let me tell thee why I
came. [He leads her to a sofa.] Thou knowest I have been with thee
from a child. I stood beside thee at the altar, and was the first to
cheer and comfort thee when thou wast left deserted and alone. Let me
now ask thee, Wouldst thou not gladly change thy sad lot here for a gay
and joyous life with one who loves thee fondly?
Nina. It were indeed a happy lot to be so loved and cherished; but
where, alas, is he who could thus feel for one so lonely and forsaken?
Don Felix [kneeling]. Here at thy feet, dear Nina. Nay, do not turn
away, but let me tell thee of the love that hath grown within my heart.
[Nina starts up.] Thy wedded lord hath cast thee off. The law can free
thee. Ah, then be mine, and let me win and wear the lovely flower which
he hath cast away.
Nina. Lord Felix, as the wife of him thou dost so wrong, I answer thee.
Dost thou not know the more a woman's heart is crushed and wounded the
more tenderly it clings where first it loved; and though deserted, ay,
though hated, I had rather be the slighted wife of him, than the honored
bride of the false Costella. Now leave me--I would be alone.
Don Felix. A time will come, proud woman, when thou shalt bend the knee
to him whom now thou dost so scorn. Beware, for I will have a fierce
revenge for the proud words thou hast spoken.
Nina. I am strong in mine own heart and fear thee not. Work thy will and
thou shalt find the wife of Adrian de Mortemar needs no protector save
her own fearless hand.
                                                           [Exit Nina.
Don Felix. Now, by my faith, thou shalt bow that haughty head, and sue
to me for mercy, and I will deny it. I'll win her yet, she shall not
idly brave my anger. Now to my work,--revenge.
                                                      [Exit Don Felix.
                                CURTAIN.
                             SCENE FOURTH.
                    [Apartment in palace of Nina.
                             Nina alone.]
Nina. Ever thus alone, mourning for him who loves me not; was ever heart
so sad as mine. Oh, Adrian, couldst thou but return even for one short
hour to thy poor Nina. [Enter Adrian, disguised.] Ha, who art thou
that dares to enter here in such mysterious guise? Thine errand,
quickly,--speak.
Adrian. Forgive me, lady, if I cause thee fear; I would have thee know
me as a friend, one who will watch above thee, and seek to spare thee
every sorrow. Dear lady, think me not too bold, for I have known thee
long and have a right to all thy confidence. Thy husband was my nearest
friend; and, when he left thee friendless and alone, I vowed to guard
and save thee in all peril. Wilt thou trust me? See, I bear his
ring,--thou knowest it?
Nina. 'Tis indeed his ring. Whence came it? Ah, hast thou seen him? Tell
me, and I will give thee all my confidence and thanks [takes the ring
and gazes beseechingly upon Adrian, who turns aside].
Adrian. He is well, lady, and happy as one can be who bears a cold,
proud heart within his breast. He has cast away an angel who could have
cheered and blessed his life, and sought to find in gold the happiness
thy love alone could bring. He has suffered, as he well deserves to do.
Spend not thy pity upon him.
Nina [proudly]. And who art thou to speak thus of him? Thou canst not
judge till thou also hast been tried and like him deceived. He sought
for wealth to bring him fame and honor; and when he found it not, what
wonder that he cast aside the love that could not bring him happiness.
Thou art no true friend to speak thus of one so worthy to be loved. And
think not I reproach him for my lonely lot. Ah, no, I still love on; and
if he wins the wealth he covets I can give my heart's best blessing, and
so pass away that he shall never know whose hand hath crushed the flower
that would have clung about his life and shed its perfume there [turns
away weeping].
Adrian [aside]. She loves me still. I'll try her further [aloud].
Lady, idle tongues have whispered that when thy lord deserted thee thou
didst find a solace for thy grief in a new lover's smiles. Perchance yon
picture may be some gay lord who hath cheered thy solitude and won thy
heart. I fain would ask thee.
Nina. Sir stranger, little dost thou know a woman's heart. I have found
a comfort for my lonely hours in weeping o'er the face whose smiles
could brighten life for me, or dim it by disdain and coldness. The face
is there; my first, last, only love is given to him who thinks it
worthless and hath cast it by.
Adrian [taking the picture]. 'Tis the Count, thy husband. Lady, he is
unworthy such true love; leave him to his fate, and let not thy life be
darkened by his cruelty and hate.
Nina. Thou canst not tempt me to forget. No other love can win me from
the only one who hath a place within my heart. Let me cherish all the
memories of him, and till life shall cease be true unto my husband. Now
leave me, unknown friend; I trust thee for his sake, and will accept thy
friendship and protection. I offer thee my gratitude and thanks for thy
kind service, and will gladly seek how best I may repay it.
Adrian. Thanks, lady. Thou shalt find me true and faithful, and my best
reward will be the joy I labor to restore to thee [kneels and kisses
her hand].
Nina. Farewell, again I thank thee.
                                                           [Exit Nina.
Adrian. So young, so lovely, so forsaken, who would not pity and
protect. I will guard her well, and ere long claim the treasure I so
madly cast away ere I had learned its priceless value. Nina, thou shalt
yet be happy on the bosom of thy erring and repentant husband.
                                                         [Exit Adrian.
                                CURTAIN.
                              SCENE FIFTH.
                     [Hall in the palace of Nina.
                     Enter Nina and Don Felix.]
Nina. I tell thee, my lord, I will not listen, naught thou canst say
will change my firm resolve. I cannot wed thee.
Don Felix. Nay, then listen. Thy cruel husband left thee and for one
long year thou hast sorrowed in thy lonely home, and would not be
comforted. He hath returned.
Nina. Ah--[Rushes forward.]
Don Felix. Thou may'st well start, but think not he will come to thee,
chains hold him fast and--mark ye--'twas I who bound those chains.
Nina. Do I dream, my husband here and in captivity; nay, I believe thee
not. 'Tis a false tale to anger me. I heed thee not [turns away
haughtily].
