Oh--this is what I meant, Jack. Other people won’t believe the story, if
I tell it, you know.”
“Well--but there’s old Routh, after all. People will believe him.”
“Yes--if he takes the trouble to write a letter to the papers, over his
name, degrees and qualifications. Of course they’ll believe him. And the
editors will do something handsome. They won’t apologize, but they’ll
say that a zebra got loose in the office and upset the type while they
were in Albany attending to the affairs of the Empire State--and that’s
just the same as an apology, you know, which is all you care for. You
can’t storm Park Row with the gallant Four Hundred at your back. In the
first place, Park Row’s insured, and secondly, the Four Hundred would
see you--further--before they’d lift one of their four thousand fingers
to help you out of a scrape which doesn’t concern them. You’d have to be
a parson or a pianist, before they’d do anything for you. It’s ‘meat,
drink and pantaloons’ to be one of them, anyhow--and you needn’t expect
anything more.”
“Where do you get your similes from, Frank!” laughed Ralston.
“I don’t know. But they’re good ones, anyway. Why don’t you get Routh to
write a letter, before the thing cools down? It could be in the evening
edition, you know. There have been horrid things this
morning--allusions--that sort of thing.”
“Allusions to what?” asked Ralston, quickly and sharply.
“To you, of course--what did you suppose?”
“Oh--to me! As though I cared! All the same, if old Routh would write,
it would be a good thing. I wish he were going to be at the Van De
Waters’ dinner to-night.”
“Why? Are you going there? So am I.”
“It seems to be a sort of family tea-party,” said Ralston. “Bright’s
going, and cousin Katharine, and you and I. It only needs the Crowdies
and a few others to make it complete.”
“Well--you see, they’re cousins of mine, and so are you, and that sort
of makes us all cousins,” observed Miner, absently. “I say, Jack--tell
the story at table, just as you’ve told it to me. Will you? I’ll set you
on by asking you questions. Stunning effect--especially if we can get
Routh to write the letter. I’ll cut it out of a paper and bring it with
me.”
“You know him, don’t you?” asked Ralston.
“Know him? I should think so. Ever since I was a baby. Why?”
“I wish you’d go to him this morning, Frank, and get him to write the
letter. Then you could take it to one of the evening papers and get them
to put it in. You know all those men in Park Row, don’t you?”
“Much better than some of them want to know me,” sighed the little man.
“However,” he added, his bright smile coming back at once, “I ought not
to complain. I’m getting on, now. Let me see. You want me to go to Routh
and get him to write a formal letter over his name, denying all the
statements made about you this morning. Isn’t that taking too much
notice of the thing, after all, Jack?”
“It’s going to make a good deal of difference to me in the end,”
answered Ralston. “It’s worth taking some trouble for.”
“I’m quite willing,” said Miner. “But--I say! What an extraordinary
story it is!”
“Oh, no. It’s only real life. I told you--I only had one accident, which
was quite an accident--when I tumbled down in that dark street.
Everything else happened just as naturally as unnatural things always
do. As for upsetting Ham Bright at the club, I was awfully sorry about
that. It seemed such a low thing to do. But then--just remember that I’d
been making a point of drinking nothing for several days, just by way of
an experiment, and it was irritating, to say the least of it, to be
grabbed by the arm and told that I was screwed. Wasn’t it, Frank? And
just at that moment, uncle Robert had telephoned for me to come up, and
I was in a tremendous hurry. Just look at in that way, and you’ll
understand why I did it. It doesn’t excuse it--I shall tell Ham that
I’m sorry--but it explains it. Doesn’t it?”
“Rather!” exclaimed Miner, heartily.
“By the bye,” said Ralston, “I wanted to ask you something. Did that
fellow Crowdie hold his tongue? I suppose he was at the Assembly last
night.”
“Well--since you ask me--” Miner hesitated. “No--he didn’t. Bright gave
it to him, though, for telling cousin Emma.”
“Brute! How I hate that man! So he told cousin Emma, did he? And the
rest of the family, too, I suppose.”
“I suppose so,” answered Miner, knowing that Ralston meant Katharine.
“Everybody knew about the row at the club, before the evening was half
over. Teddy Van De Water said he supposed you’d back out of the dinner
to-night and keep quiet till this blew over. I told Teddy that perhaps
he’d better come round and suggest that to you himself this morning, if
he wanted to understand things quickly. He grinned--you know how he
grins--like an organ pipe in a white tie. But he said he’d heard Bright
leathering into Crowdie--that’s one of Teddy’s expressions--so he
supposed that things weren’t as bad as people said--and that Crowdie was
only a ‘painter chap,’ anyhow. I didn’t know what that meant, but feebly
pointed out that Crowdie was a great man, and that his wife was a sort
of cousin of mine, and that she, at least, had a good chance of having
some of cousin Robert’s money one of these days. Not that I wanted to
defend Crowdie, or that I don’t like Teddy much better--but then, you
know what I mean! He’ll be calling me ‘one of those literary chaps,’
next, with just the same air. One’s bound to stand up for art and
literature when one’s a professional, you know, Jack. Wasn’t I right?”
“Oh, perfectly!” answered Ralston, with a smile. “But will you do that
for me, Frank?”
“Of course I will. You’re one of my illusions, as I told you. I’m
willing to do lots of things for my illusions. I’ll go now, and then
I’ll come back and tell you what the old chap says. If by any chance he
gets into a rage, I’ll tell him that I didn’t come so much to talk about
you as to consult him about certain symptoms of nervous prostration I’m
beginning to feel. He’s death on nervous prostration--he’s a perfect
terror at it--he’ll hypnotise me, and put me into a jar of spirits, and
paint my nose with nervine and pickled electricity and things, and sort
of wake me up generally.”
“All right--if you can stand it, I can,” said Ralston. “I’d go
myself--only only--”
“You’re pretty badly used up,” interrupted Miner, completing the
sentence in his own way. “I know. I remember trying to play football
once. Those little games aren’t much in my line. Nature meant me for
higher things. I tried football, though, and then I said, like
Napoleon--you remember?--‘Ces balles ne sont pas pour moi.’ I couldn’t
tell where I began and the football ended--I felt that I was a safe
under-study for a shuttlecock afterwards. That’s just the way you feel,
isn’t it? As though it were Sunday, and you were the frog--and the boys
had gone back to afternoon church? I know! Well--I’ll come back as soon
as I’ve seen Routh. Good-bye, old man--don’t smoke too much. I do--but
that’s no reason.”
The little man nodded cheerfully, knocked the ashes carefully from the
end of his cigar--he was neat in everything he did--and returned it to
his lips as he left the room. Ralston leaned back in his arm-chair again
and rested his feet on the fender. The fire his mother had made so
carefully was burning in broad, smoking flames. He felt cold and
underfed and weary, so that the warmth was very pleasant; and with all
that came to his heart now, as he thought of his mother, there mingled
also a little simple, childlike gratitude to her for having made up such
a good fire.
The time passed, and still no word came from Katharine. He was willing
to find reasons or, at least, excuses, for her silence, but he was
conscious that they were of little value. He knew, now, that there had
really been paragraphs in the papers about him, as he had expected, and
that they had been of a very disagreeable nature. Katharine had probably
seen them, or one of them, besides having heard the stories that had
been circulated by Crowdie and others during the previous evening. He
fancied that he could feel her unbelief, hurting him from a distance, as
it were. Her face, cold and contemptuous, rose before him out of the
fire, and he took up the magazine again, and tried to hide it. But it
could not be hidden.
Surely by this time she must have got his letter. There could be no
reasonable doubt of that. He looked at his watch again, as he had done
once in every quarter of an hour for some time. It was twelve o’clock.
Miner had not stayed long.
John went over the scene on Wednesday evening, at the Thirlwalls’.
Katharine had been very sure of herself, at the last--sure that,
whatever he did, she should always stand by him. Events had put her to
the test soon enough, and this was the result. They had been married
twenty-four hours, and she would not even answer his note, because
appearances were against him.
And the great, strong sense of real innocence rose in him and defied and
despised the woman who could not trust him even a little. If the very
least of the accusations had been true, he would have humbled himself
honestly and said that she was right, and that she had promised too
much, in saying all she had said. At all times he was a man ready to
take the full blame of all he had done, to make himself out worse than
he really was, to assume at once that he was a failure and could do
nothing right. On the slightest ground, he was ready to admit everything
that people brought against him. Katharine, if he had even been living
as usual, would have been at liberty to reproach him as bitterly as she
pleased with his weakness, to turn her back on him and condemn him
unheard, if she chose. He would have been patient and would have
admitted that he deserved it all, and more also. He was melancholy, he
was discouraged with himself, and he was neither vain nor untruthful.
But he had made an effort, and a great one. There was in him something
of the ascetic, with all his faults, and something of the enthusiasm
which is capable of sudden and great self-denial if once roused. He knew
what he had done, for he knew what it had cost him, mentally and
physically. Lean as he had been before, he had grown perceptibly thinner
since Monday. He knew that, so far, he had succeeded. For the first
time, perhaps, he had every point of justice on his side. If he had
been inclined to be merciful and humble and submissive towards those who
doubted him now, he would not have been human. The two beings whom he
loved in the world, his mother and Katharine, were the very two who had
doubted him most. As for his mother, he had not persuaded her, for she
had persuaded herself--by means of such demonstration as no sane being
could have rejected, namely, the authoritative statement of a great
doctor, personally known to her. What had followed had produced a
strange result, for he felt that he was more closely bound to her than
ever before, a fact which showed, at least, that he did not bear malice,
however deeply he had been hurt. But he could not go about everywhere
for a week with Doctor Routh at his heels to swear to his sobriety. He
told himself so with some contempt, and then he thought of Katharine,
and his face grew harder as the minutes went by and no answer came to
his letter.
It was far more cruel of her than it had been in his mother’s case.
Katharine had only heard stories and reports of his doings, and she
should be willing to accept his denial of them on her faith in him. He
had never lied to her. On Wednesday night, he had gratuitously told her
the truth about himself--a truth which she had never suspected--and had
insisted upon making it out to be even worse than it was. His wisdom
told him that he had made a mistake then, in wilfully lowering himself
in her estimation, and that this was the consequence of that; if he had
not forced upon her an unnecessary confession of his weakness, she would
now have believed in his strength. But his sense of honour rose and
shamed his wisdom, and told him that he had done right. It would have
been a cowardly thing to accept what Katharine had then been forcing
upon him, and had actually made him accept, without telling her all the
truth about himself.
He had done wrong to yield at all. That he admitted, and repeated,
readily enough. He made no pretence of having a strong character, and he
had been wretchedly weak in allowing her to persuade him to the secret
marriage. He should have folded his arms and refused, from the first. He
had foreseen trouble, though not of the kind which had actually
overtaken him, and he should have been firm. Unfortunately, he was not
firm, by nature, as he told himself, with a sneer. Not that Katharine
had been to blame, either. She had made her reasons seem good, and he
should not have blamed her had she been ever so much in the wrong. There
