time of festivity, had more occupants than was 
its wont ; abed was in each corner. The shut- 
ters and windows were open, the moonlight 
streamed in, and she saw that all were asleep. 
She crossed the room and looked down upon 
Diego Estenega. His night garment, low 
about the throat, made his head, with its sharply- 
cut profile, look like the heads on old Roman 
medallions. The pallor of night, the extreme 
refinement of his face, the deep repose, gave 
him an unmortal appearance. Chonita bent 
over him fearfully. Was he dead ? His breath- 
ing was regular, but very quiet. She stood 
gazing down upon him, the instinct of seeking 
vapished. What did it mean ? Was this her 
soul ! A man ? How could it be ? Even in 
poetry she had never read of a man being a 
woman's soul, — a man with all his frailties and 
sins, for the most part unrepented. She felt, 
rather than knew, that Estenega had trampled 
many laws, and that he cared too little for any 
law but his own will to repent. And yet, there 
he lay, looking, in the gray light and the im- 
personality of sleep, as sinless as if he had been 
created within the hour. He looked not like a 
man but a spirit, — a soul ; and the soul was hers. 
Again she asked herself, what did it mean ? 
Was the soul but brain ? She and he were so 
alike in rudiments, yet he so immeasurably 
beyond her in experience and knowledge and 
the stronger fiber of a man's mind 
He awoke suddenly and saw her. For a mo- 
ment he stared incredulously, then raised him- 
self on his hand. 
" Chonita I " he whispered. 
But Chonita, with the long glide of the Cali- 
fomian woman, faded from the room. 
When she awoke the next morning she was 
assailed by a distressing fear. Had she been 
to Estenega's room the night before ? The 
memory was too vivid, the details too practical, 
for a sleep-vagary. At breakfast she 
hardly dared to raise her eyes, She felt that 
he was watching her ; but he often watched 
her. After breakfast they were alone at one 
end of the corridor for a moment, and she com- 
pelled herself to raise her eyes and look at him 
steadily. He was regarding her searchingly. 
She was not a woman to endure uncertainty. 
" Tell me,'* she cried, trembling from head 
to foot, the blood rushing over her face, " did 
I go to your room last night ? " 
" Dona Chonita ! " he exclaimed. " What 
an extraordinary question ! You have been 
dreaming." 
XXIIL 
We went to a bull-fight that day, danced that 
night, meriendaed and danced again ; a siesta 
in the afternoon, a few hours' sleep in the night, 
refreshing us all. Chonita, alone, looked pale, 
but I knew that her pallor was not due to 
weariness. And I knew that she was begin- 
ning to fear Estenega ; the time was almost 
come when she would fear herself more. Es- 
tenega had several talks apart with her. He 
managed it without any apparent maneuvering; 
but he always had the devil's methods. Va- 
lencia avenged herself by flirting desperately 
with Reinaldo, and Prudencia's honeymoon 
was seasoned with gall. 
On Saturday night Chonita stole from her 
guests, donned a black gown and reboso, and, 
attended by two Indian servants, went up to the 
Mission to confession. As she left the church 
a half-hour later, and came down the steps, 
Estenega rose from a bench beneath the arches 
of the corridor and joined her. 
" How did you know that I came ? " she 
asked ; and it was not the stars that lit her 
face. 
''You do little that I do not know. Have 
you been to confession ? " 
-Yes." 
They walked slowly down the valley. 
'* And you forgave and were forgiven .?" 
'' Yes. Ay ! but my penance is heavy ! " 
'' But when it is done you will be at rest, I 
suppose." 
''Oh, I hope! I hope! " 
" Have you begun to realize that yourQiurch 
cannot satisfy you ? " 
" No ! I will not say that. " 
"But you know it. Your intelligence "has 
opened a window somewhere and the truth has 
crept in. " 
" Do not take my religion from me, seiior ! " 
Her eyes and voice appealed to him, and he 
accepted her first confession of weakness with 
a throb of exulting tenderness. 
"My love!" he said, "I would give you 
more than I took from you. " 
" No ! never ! — Even if we were not enemies, 
and I had not made that terrible vow, my re- 
ligion has been all in all to me. Just now I 
have many things that torment me ; and I have 
asked so little of religion before — my life has 
been so calm — that now I hardly know how to 
ask for so much more. I shall learn. Leave 
me in peace." 
" Do you want me to go.^ " he asked. " If 
you did, — if I troubled you by staying here, 
— I believe I would go. Only I know it 
would do no good : I should come back. " 
'* No ! no ! I do not want you to go. I 
should feel — I will admit to you — like a house 
without its foundation. And yet sometimes, I 
pray that you will go. Ay ! I do not like life. 
I used to have pride in my intelligence. Where 
is my pride now ? What good has the wisdom 
in my books done me, when I confess my de- 
pendence upon a man, and that man my enemy
— and the acquaintance of a few weeks ? " 
She was speaking incoherently, and Estenega 
chafed at the restraint of the servants so close 
behind them. '*Tell me," she exclaimed, 
''what is it in you that I want ? — that I need  
It is something that belongs to me. Give it to 
me, and go away." 
" Chonita, I give it to you gladly, God 
Knows. But you must take me, too. You 
want in me what is akin to you and what you 
will find nowhere else. But I cannot tear my 
soul out of my body. You must take both or 
neither. " 
'* Ay ! I cannot ! You know that I cannot I 
" I ignore your reasons." 
''But I do not." 
'* You shall, my beloved. Or if you do not 
ignore you shall forget them." 
'* When I am dead — would that I were ! " 
She was excited and trembling. The confes- 
sion had been an ordeal, and Esteneg^ was 
never trari^uillizing. She wished to cling to 
him, but was still mistress of herself. He 
divined her impulse, and drew her arm through 
his and across his breast. He opened her hand 
and pressed his lips to the palm. Then he 
bent his face above hers. She was trembling 
violently ; her face was wild and white. His 
own was ashen, and the heart beneath her 
arm beat rapidly. 
" I love you devotedly," he said. '* You 
believe that, Chonita ? " 
" Ah ! Mother of God ! do not ! I cannot 
listen." 
" But you shall listen. Throw off your su- 
perstitions and come to me. Keep the part of 
your religion that is not superstition ; I would 
be the last to take it from you ; but I will not 
permit its petty dogmas to stand between us. 
As for your traditions, you have not even the 
excuse of filial duty; your father would not 
forbid you to become my wife. And I love 
you very earnestly and passionately. Just 
how much, I might convey to you if we were 
alone. " 
He was obliged to exercise great self-re- 
straint, but there was no mistaking his serious- 
ness. When such scientific triflers do find a 
woman worth loving, they are too deeply sen- 
sible of the fact not to be stirred to their depths ; 
and their depths are apt to be in large dispro- 
portion to the lightness of their ordinary mood. 
" Come to me," he continued. " 1 need you ; 
and I will be as tender and thoughtful a hus- 
band as I will be ardent as a lover. You love 
me : don't blind yourself any longer. Do you 
picture, in a life of solitude and cold devotion 
to phantoms, any happiness equal to what you 
would find here in my arms ? " 
'* Oh, hush ! hush ! You could make me do 
what you wished. I have no will. I feel no 
longer myself. What is this terrible power ? " 
" It is the magnetism of love ; that is all. I 
am not exercising any diabolical power over 
you. Listen : I will not trouble you any more 
now. I am obliged to go to Los Angeles the 
day after to-morrow, and on my way back to 
Monterey — in about two weeks — I shall come 
here again. Then we will talk together ; but 
I warn you, I will accept only one answer. 
You are mine, and I shall have you." 
They reached Casa Grande a moment later, 
and she escaped from him and ran to her room. 
But she dared not remain alone. Hastily 
changing her black gown for the first her hand 
touched, — it happened to be vivid red and 
made her look as white as wax, — she returned 
to the sala ; not to dance even the square con- 
tradanza, but to stand surrounded by worship- 
