saw him at the window with Virginia.
"I suppose that's his young lady," thought Dan. "All right! I guess he's
safe for this evening."
CHAPTER XVIII.
TWO KNIGHTS OF THE HIGHWAY.
Stocks took an upward turn, so that Talbot's brokers were willing to
carry them for him longer without an increase of margin. The market
looked so uncertain, however, that he decided to sell, though he only
made himself whole. To escape loss hardly satisfied him, when it was so
essential to make money.
He was deeply in love with Virginia Conway, but there was no hope of
obtaining her consent to a marriage unless he could raise money enough
to gratify her desires.
How should he do it?
He was returning to his boarding-house at a late hour one night, when,
in an unfrequented street, two figures advanced upon him from the
darkness, and, while one seized him by the throat, the other rifled his
pockets.
Talbot was not a coward, and having only a few dollars in his
pocket-book, while his watch, luckily, was under repair at Tiffany's, he
submitted quietly to the examination.
The pocket-book was opened and its contents eagerly scanned.
An exclamation of disgust mingled with profanity followed.
"Only five dollars, Mike!" muttered one of the ruffians.
"Why don't you carry money, like a gentleman?" demanded the man called
Mike. "Ain't you ashamed to carry such a lean wallet as that there?"
"Really, gentlemen, if I had expected to meet you, I would have provided
myself better," said Talbot, not without a gleam of humor.
"He's chaffing us Bill," said Mike.
"You'd better not, if you know what's best for yourself," growled Bill.
"Where's your ticker?"
"My watch is at Tiffany's."
"That's too thin."
"It's the truth. You ought to have waited till next week, when I'd have
had it for you."
"You're a cool customer."
"Why not?"
"We might hurt you."
"You have already. Don't squeeze my throat so next time."
"Have you any jewelry about you?"
"Only a pair of sleeve buttons."
"Gold?"
"Yes; but they are small, and not worth much."
"You've took us in reg'lar! A gent like you ought to have diamond studs,
or a pin, or something of value."
"I know it, and I'm sorry I haven't, for your sakes."
"No chaffing!" said Bill, with an ominous growl.
"Don't be afraid. I look upon you as gentlemen, and treat you
accordingly. In fact, I'm glad I've met with you."
"Why?" asked Mike, suspiciously.
"I may be able to put something in your way."
"Are you on the square?" asked Bill, rather surprised.
"Yes."
"What is it?"
"I can't tell you in the street. Is there any quiet place, where we
shall not be disturbed or overheard?"
The men looked at each other in doubt.
"This may be a plant," said Mike, suspiciously.
"On my honor, it isn't."
"If it is," growled Bill, "you'd better make your will."
"I know the risk, and am not afraid. In short, I have a job for you."
The men consulted, and finally were led to put confidence in Talbot.
"Is there money in it?" asked Mike.
"Two hundred dollars apiece."
"We'll hear what you have to say. Bill, let's go to your room."
"Is it far away?" asked Talbot.
"No."
"Lead on, then."
The three made their way to a dilapidated building on Houston street,
and ascended to the fourth floor.
Bill kicked open the door of a room with his foot and strode in.
A thin, wretched-looking woman sat in a wooden chair, holding a young
child.
"Is it you, Bill?" she asked.
"Yes, it's me!" growled her husband. "Just clear out into the other
room. Me and these gentlemen have business together."
She meekly obeyed the command of her lord, glancing curiously at Talbot
as she went out. Mike she knew only too well, as one of her husband's
evil companions.
The door was closed, but the wife bent her ear to the keyhole and
listened attentively.
Suspecting nothing, the conspirators spoke in louder tones than they
were aware of, so that she obtained a pretty clear idea of what was
being planned.
"Now go ahead," said Bill, throwing himself on the chair his wife had
vacated. "What's your game?"
"Can you open a safe?" asked Talbot.
"We might, 'specially if we knowed the combination."
"Perhaps I can manage that."
"Where is it?"
Talbot gave the name of his employer and the number of his store.
"What have you got to do with it?"
"I'm the book-keeper."
"You are? What are you going to make out of it?"
"Leave that to me. I'll guarantee that you'll find four hundred dollars
there to pay you for your trouble."
"That isn't enough. The risk is too great."
"It is only one night's work."
"If we're caught, it'll be Sing Sing for seven years."
"That's true. How much do you require, gentlemen?"
The men consulted.
"We might do it for five hundred apiece," said Bill.
There was a little discussion, but finally this was acceded to. Various
details were discussed, and the men separated.
"I'm goin' your way," said Mike. "I'll show you the way out."
"All right, thank you, but we'd better separate at the street door."
"Why? Are you too fine a gentleman to be seen with the likes of me?"
demanded Mike, feeling insulted.
"Not at all, my friend; but if we were seen together by any of the
police, who know me as book-keeper, it would excite suspicion later."
"You're right. Your head's level. You're sure you're on the square?"
"Yes, my friend. I shouldn't dare to tamper with men like you and Bill.
You might find a way to get even with me."
"That's so, stranger. I guess we can trust you."
"You may be sure of that."
"More crime!" said the miserable wife to herself, as she heard through
the keyhole the details of the plan. "Bill is getting worse and worse
every day. Where will it all end?"
"Here, Nancy, get me something to eat," said Bill, when his visitors had
departed.
"Yes, Bill, I will get you all there is."
The wife brought out from a small closet a slice of bread and a segment
of cheese.
"Pah!" said the burly ruffian, turning up his nose. "What are you giving
us?"
"It's all I've got, Bill."
"Where's the meat, I say?"
"There is none."
"You and your brat have eaten it!" said he, irritably.
"God help us, Bill! We have had no meat for a week."
"That's a lie! I can't eat such trash as that. Do you mean to starve
me?"
"I can't make food, Bill. If you will give money, I will provide better.
I can't do anything without money."
"Whining, are you?" said the brute, furiously. "I'll teach you to
complain of me. Take that, and that!" and he struck the woman two brutal
blows with his fist. One, glancing, struck the child, who began to cry.
This further irritated Bill, who, seizing his wife by the shoulders,
thrust her out on the landing.
"There, stay there with the cursed brat!" he growled. "I mean to have
one quiet night."
The wretched wife crept down stairs, and out into the street, scarcely
knowing what she did. She was not wholly destitute of spirit, and
though she might have forgiven personal injury, felt incensed by the
treatment of her innocent child.
"My poor baby!" she said, pitifully, "must you suffer because your
father is a brute? May Heaven avenge our wrongs! Sooner or later it
will."
She sat down on some steps near by; the air was chilly, and she shivered
with the cold, but she tried to shelter her babe as well as she could.
She attracted the attention of a boy who was walking slowly by.
It was Dan, who had at a distance witnessed Talbot's encounter with the
burglars, and his subsequent friendly companionship with them, and was
trying to ascertain the character of the place which he visited.
"What's the matter with you?" asked Dan, in a tone of sympathy.
[Illustration: "What's the matter with you?" asked Dan, in a tone of
sympathy. Page 148]
"My husband has thrust me out of doors with my poor baby."
"He must be a nice husband. Do you want a lodging?"
"I have no money."
"I can let you have enough for that. There's a cheap hotel near by. I'll
take you to it, and pay for your lodging, and pay for it in advance."
"Heaven bless you! You are indeed a friend."
"Take my arm."
Supported by Dan, the poor woman rose and walked to an humble tavern not
far away.
"She may know something about Talbot's visit. I'll question her,"
thought Dan.
CHAPTER XIX.
DAN AS A GOOD SAMARITAN.
"What made your husband treat you so badly?" asked Dan.
"Rum!" answered the woman. "Rum has been sinking him lower and lower,
and it's easy to see the end."
"What will be the end?"
"The prison--perhaps the gallows."
"You are taking too dark a view of your husband," said Dan, soothingly.
"He won't go as far as that."
The woman shook her head.
"I know him only too well," she said. "This very evening he has been
planning a burglary."
Dan started, and a sudden suspicion entered his mind.
"Did you hear him doing it?" he asked.
"Yes."
"Do you know where it is?" he asked, eagerly.
"Yes; it is a store on Pearl street."
Dan felt that he was on the track of a discovery. He was likely to be
repaid at last for the hours he had spent in detective service.
"Who put him up to it?" he asked, fixing his eyes intently on the woman.
"I don't know his name; he is a well-dressed man. I think he is in the
store."
"Was it a man who came to your rooms this evening?"
"Yes."
"Is this the way he looked?" Here Dan gave a rapid description of
Talbot.
"That is the man. Do you know him?"
"Yes, I know him. He is the book-keeper of the firm."
"He is a bad man. He is to pay a thousand dollars for the job. Bill is
to have half of it."
"Bill, I suppose, is your husband?"
"Yes."
