“Katharine always laughs at the idiots, and talks as though they were my
personal property.” His voice was deep and almost musical still--it had
been a very gentle voice in his youth.
“Not a very valuable property,” observed Alexander Junior, fixing his
eye severely on the serving girl, who forthwith sprang at Mrs.
Lauderdale’s empty plate as though her life depended on taking it away
in time.
The Lauderdales had never kept a man-servant. The girl was a handsome
Canadian, very smart in black and white.
“Wouldn’t it be rather an idea to insure all their lives, and make the
insurance pay the expenses of the asylum?” enquired Crowdie, gravely
looking at Alexander Junior.
“Not very practical,” answered the latter, with something like a smile.
“Why not?” asked his father, with sudden interest. “That strikes me as a
very brilliant idea for making charities self-supporting. I suppose,” he
continued, turning to his son, “that the companies could make no
objections to insuring the lives of idiots. The rate ought to be very
reasonable when one considers the care they get, and the medical
attendance, and the immunity from risk of accident.”
“I don’t know about that. When an asylum takes fire, the idiots haven’t
the sense to get out,” observed Alexander Junior, grimly.
“Nonsense! Nonsense, Alexander!” The old man shook his head. “Idiots are
just as--well, not quite as sensible as other people,--that would be an
exaggeration--but they’re not all so stupid, by any means.”
“No--so I’ve heard,” said Crowdie, gravely.
“So stupid as what, Mr. Crowdie?” asked Katharine, turning on him rather
abruptly.
“As others, Miss Lauderdale--as me, for instance,” he answered, without
hesitation. “Probably we both meant--Mr. Lauderdale and I--that all
idiots are not so stupid as the worst cases, which are the ones most
people think of when idiots are mentioned.”
“Exactly. You put it very well.” The old philanthropist looked pleased
at the interruption. “And I repeat that I think Mr. Crowdie’s idea of
insuring them is very good. Every time one dies,--they do die, poor
things,--you get a sum of money. Excellent, very excellent!”
His ideas of business transactions had always been hazy in the extreme,
and his son proceeded to set him right.
“It couldn’t possibly be of any advantage unless you had capital to
invest and insured your own idiots,” said Alexander Junior. “And that
would just amount to making a savings bank on your own account, and
saving so much a year out of your expenses for each idiot. You could
invest the savings, and the interest would be all you could possibly
make. It’s not as though the idiots’ families paid the dues and made
over the policies to you. There would be money in that, I admit. You
might try it. There might be a streak of idiocy in the other members of
the patient’s family which would make them agree to it.”
The old man’s gentle eyes suddenly lighted up with ill temper.
“You’re laughing at me, Alexander,” he said, in a louder voice. “You’re
laughing at me!”
“No, sir; I’m in earnest,” answered the son, in his cool, metallic
tones.
“Don’t the big companies insure their own ships?” asked the
philanthropist. “Of course they do, and they make money by it.”
“I beg your pardon. They make nothing but the interest of what they set
aside for each ship. They simply cover their losses.”
“Well, and if an idiot dies, then the asylum gets the money.”
“Yes, sir. But an idiot has no intrinsic value.”
“Why, then the asylum gets a sum of money for what was worth nothing,
and it must be very profitable--much more so than insuring ships.”
“But it’s the asylum’s own money to begin with--”
“And as for your saying that an idiot has no intrinsic value,
Alexander,” pursued the old man, going off on another tack, “I won’t
have you say such things. I won’t listen to them. An idiot is a human
being, sir, and has an immortal soul, I’d have you to know, as well as
you or I. And you have the assurance to say that he has no intrinsic
value! An immortal soul, made for eternal happiness or eternal
suffering, and no intrinsic value! Upon my word, Alexander, you forget
yourself! I should not have expected such an inhuman speech from you.”
“Is the ‘vital spark of heavenly flame’ a marketable commodity?” asked
Crowdie, speaking to Katharine in a low voice.
“Idiots have souls, Mr. Crowdie,” said the philanthropist, looking
straight across at him, and taking it for granted that he had said
something in opposition.
“I’ve no doubt they have, Mr. Lauderdale,” answered the painter. “I
never thought of questioning the fact.”
“Oh! I thought you did. I understood that you were laughing at the
idea.”
“Not at all. It was the use of the word ‘intrinsic’ as applied to the
value of the soul which struck me as odd.”
“Ah--that is quite another matter, my dear sir,” replied the old
gentleman, who was quickly appeased. “My son first used the word in this
discussion. I’m not responsible for it. The younger generation is not so
careful in its language as we were taught to be. But the important
point, after all, is that idiots have souls.”
“The soul is the only thing anybody really can be said to have as his
own,” said Crowdie, thoughtfully.
Katharine glanced at him. He did not look like the kind of man to make
such a speech with sincerity. She wondered vaguely what his soul would
be like, if she could see it, and it seemed to her that it would be
something strange--white, with red lips, singing an evil song, which she
could not understand, in a velvet voice, and that it would smell of
musk. The side of her that was towards him instinctively shrank a little
from him.
“I am glad to hear you say that, Mr. Crowdie,” said the philanthropist
with approbation. “It closes the discussion very fittingly. I hope we
shall hear no more of idiots not having souls. Poor things! It is almost
the only thing they have that makes them like the rest of us.”
“People are all so different,” replied the artist. “I find that more and
more true every day. And it takes a soul to understand a soul. Otherwise
photography would take the place of portrait painting.”
“I don’t quite see that,” said Alexander Junior, who had employed the
last few minutes in satisfying his first pangs of hunger, having been
interrupted by the passage of arms with his father. “What becomes of
colour in photography?”
“What becomes of colour in a charcoal or pen and ink drawing?” asked
Crowdie. “Yet either, if at all good, is preferable to the best
photograph.”
“I’m not sure of that. I like a good photograph. It is much more
accurate than any drawing can be.”
“Yes--but it has no soul,” objected Crowdie.
“How can an inanimate object have a soul, sir?” asked the
philanthropist, suddenly. “That is as bad as saying that idiots--”
“I mean that a photograph has nothing which suggests the soul of the
original,” said Crowdie, interrupting and speaking in a high, clear
tone. He had a beautiful tenor voice, and sang well; and he possessed
the power of making himself heard easily against many other voices.
“It is the exact representation of the person,” argued Alexander Junior,
whose ideas upon art were limited.
“Excuse me. Even that is not scientifically true. There can only be one
point in the whole photograph which is precisely in focus. But that is
not what I mean. Every face has something besides the lines and the
colour. For want of a better word, we call it the expression--it is the
individuality--the soul--the real person--the something which the hand
can suggest, but which nothing mechanical can ever reproduce. The artist
who can give it has talent, even if he does not know how to draw. The
best draughtsman and painter in the world is only a mechanic if he
cannot give it. Mrs. Lauderdale paints--and paints well--she knows what
I mean.”
“Of course,” said Mrs. Lauderdale. “The fact that there is something
which we can only suggest but never show would alone prove the existence
of the soul to any one who paints.”
“I don’t understand those things,” said Alexander Junior.
“Grandpapa,” said Katharine, suddenly, “if any one asserted that there
was no such a thing as the soul, what should you answer?”
“I should tell him that he was a blasphemer,” answered the old
gentleman, promptly and with energy.
“But that wouldn’t be an argument,” retorted the young girl.
“He would discover the force of it hereafter,” said her father. The
electric smile followed the words.
Crowdie looked at Katharine and smiled also, but she did not see.
“But isn’t a man entitled to an argument?” she asked. “I mean--if any
one really couldn’t believe that he had a soul--there are such people--”
“Lots of them,” observed Crowdie.
“It’s their own fault, then, and they deserve no mercy--and they will
find none,” said Alexander Junior.
“Then believing is a matter of will, like doing right,” argued the young
girl. “And a man has only to say, ‘I believe,’ and he will believe,
because he wills it.”
But neither of the Lauderdales had any intention of being drawn out on
that point. They were good Presbyterians, and were Scotch by direct
descent; and they knew well enough what direction the discussion must
take if it were prolonged. The old gentleman put a stop to it.
“The questions of the nature of belief and free will are pretty deep
ones, my dear,” he said, kindly, “and they are not of the sort to be
discussed idly at dinner.”
Strange to say, that was the species of answer which pleased Katharine
best. She liked the uncompromising force of genuinely prejudiced people
who only allowed argument to proceed when they were sure of a logical
result in their own favour. Alexander Junior nodded approvingly, and
took some more beef. He abhorred bread, vegetables, and sweet things,
and cared only for what produced the greatest amount of energy in the
shortest time. It was astonishing that such iron strength should have
accomplished nothing in nearly fifty years of life.
“Yes,” said Crowdie, “they are rather important things. But I don’t
think that there are so many people who deny the existence of the soul
as people who want to satisfy their curiosity about it, by getting a
glimpse at it. Hester and I dine out a good deal--people are very kind,
and always ask us to dinners because they know I can’t go out to late
parties on account of my work--so we are always dining out; and we were
saying only to-day that at nine-tenths of the dinners we go to the
conversation sooner or later turns on the soul, or psychical research,
or Buddhism, or ghosts, or something of the sort. It’s odd, isn’t it,
that there should be so much talk about those things just now? I think
it shows a kind of general curiosity. Everybody wants to get hold of a
soul and study its habits, as though it were an ornithorynchus or some
queer animal--it is strange, isn’t it?”
“I don’t know,” said Mrs. Lauderdale, suddenly joining in the
conversation. “If you once cut loose from your own form of belief
there’s no particular reason why you should be satisfied with that of
any one else. If a man leaves his house without an object there’s
nothing to make him go in one direction rather than in another.”
“So far as that is concerned, I agree with you,” said Alexander Junior.
“There is truth to direct him,” observed the philanthropist.
“And there is beauty,” said Crowdie, turning his head towards Mrs.
Lauderdale and his eyes towards Katharine.
“Oh, of course!” exclaimed the latter. “If you are going to jumble the
soul, and art, and everything, all together, there are lots of things to
lead one. Where does beauty lead you, Mr. Crowdie?”
“To imagine a vain thing,” answered the painter with a soft laugh. “It
also leads me to try and copy it, with what I imagine it means, and I
don’t always succeed.”
“I hope you’ll succeed if you paint my daughter’s portrait,” remarked
Alexander Junior.
“No,” Crowdie replied thoughtfully, and looking at Katharine quite
directly now. “I shan’t succeed, but if Miss Lauderdale will let me try,
I’ll promise to do my very best. Will you, Miss Lauderdale? Your father
said he thought you would have no objection.”
“I said you would, Katharine, and I said nothing about objections,” said
her father, who loved accurate statements.
Katharine did not like to be ordered to do anything and the short, quick
