from a queer old maiden aunt of her mother's, 
who had given her the name she had not so 
highly honored herself. 
As for the Wendover girls, they adored merry, 
saucy, fun-loving Stacy, and were always drop- 
ping in. Stacy did her Saturday's work on Friday, 
because that last day of the week had grown into ' 
a sort of a holiday. 
She was never quite sure that she liked Sabrina 
Eastwood. All the others were on an equality, 
for Pearl wasn't " rich enough to hurt," she said ; 
but Miss Eastwood seemed high and fine, with a 
princess-like air. Her simplest gowns were ele- 
gant ; she could play and sing exquisitely, and 
she knew about everything. There was a curi- 
ous, intangible distance, and in her secret heart 
Stacy resented it. 
CHAPTER II 
IN THE CROWN OF YOUTH AND HOPE 
" In the King's Country." That was what Sa- 
brina Eastwood said fully five minutes later ; and 
five minutes seem a long time when converged 
on one small focus of four words. Stacy had 
looked in and given another half-invitation. Pearl 
wouldn't have made so much difference, but she 
didn't want Miss Eastwood. It was very nice to 
think of having Miss Eastwood's thousands, arid 
making a good time with it ; but if one had to be 
fussy and "finicky," and always thinking of eti- 
quette and conventionalities, why — let the money 
go and keep the good times. Sabrina Eastwood 
was just as much put of place in Wendover as 
she, Stacy, would be in Windsor Castle. 
"  In the King's Country.' When you think 
of it, the whole earth  is the Lord's ; ' you cannot 
go out of his country," continued Miss Eastwood. 
"Oh, yes, I am afraid we do in the nearer 
sense," said Pearl, in her soft, cool tones. " We 
make countries of our own. We abide in them. 
and fence others out. We train our roses up so 
high that no small wayside hand, aching for the 
smooth, satiny pink, can touch them. The high 
walls of our gardens condense the fragrance and 
send it up to the clouds, without blessing any 
weary souls that may be waiting at the wayside. 
And if it wasn't possible to make countries for 
ourselves, would the invitation ever have been 
given, ' Come unto me ' ? There comes a time, 
to many of us, when we do arise and go into the 
'King's Country,' and the Lor^puts some work in 
our hands. When I have a little leisure, it seems 
to me I ought to spend part of it there. IVe only 
settled it this way for myself," added the girl with 
a deprecating half-smile. " Everybody's life is a 
little different, and its duties not all alike." 
The sun sifted marvellous opalescent and sea- 
like tints through the spaces of green swaying 
vines. Now and then some long, slender ray 
would dart across the room like a living thing. 
Miss Eastwood was watching them. She rarely 
did anything with her hands. They lay idly in 
her lap, as if arranged for some bit of sculpture. 
If she wanted laces or shawls or fascinators, she 
thought it a kind of charity to buy them, thereby 
helping along trade and industry, since there were 
so many who must earn a living. 
But Pearl Disbrowe was always busy. Not in 
the aggressive fashion that puts on virtuous airs 
and makes its neighbors feel as if whirled along 
by machinery, but delicately, leisurely, as if it 
were a pastime. Some of her pretty handiwork 
went for gifts. Sabrina watched the deft fingers ; 
she even let her eyes rove furtively over Pearl. 
She was a very attractive girl ; she could make a 
decided jmpress ion on "society." 
" You are looking at it in a religious light. Fm 
afraid Tm not very religious." Sabrina Eastwood- 
flushed as she uttgfed this, curiously against her 
will. In a certain way she had enrolled herself 
under the banner of religion. A man she admired 
very much had said something while she was 
staying at an English country place that had 
impressed her seriously. It was that a woman's 
character could never attain to its highest and 
best without religion. She had been christened 
in infancy. It was quite in order, therefore, that 
she should be confirmed. She had experienced 
rapt moods during fine singing, and been carried 
along convincingly by impressive reading. She 
looked about for duties, and subscribed to 
"Homes," a day nursery, and a fresh-air fund. 
" Hospital Sunday " found her contribution gen- 
erous. She experienced an admiring satisfaction 
when she read the reports of their good work; 
but she knew in a secret, dissatisfied sort of a 
 
way that she had never been in the " King's Coun- 
try" at all. She was not even sure that she 
wanted to go. The little loitering on the outside 
was as much as the people in her " set " did. 
Pearl had smiled wistfully, but made no reply. 
Sabrina always seemed to her like a beautiful 
picture, and she enjoyed her infrequent meetings 
with the girl ; but just now she thought of the 
work she could do if she had a tithe of Miss East- 
wood's money. 
" I wish you would tell me of some nice things 
to do," Miss Eastwood said presently, in her most 
persuasive tone, as if divining the other's mood. 
There was a curiously uneasy feeling rising to the 
surface. If Pearl had preached or upbraided ever 
so gently she could have defended herself ; but 
she had a suspicion that Pearl stood on a higher 
plane, that she had an unknown security and cer- 
tainty in what she did. 
"I don't know what you would call 'nice 
things.' Do you mean pleasant ones .?" 
"Well, doing some good to some one — who 
needs it, I suppose I ought to add. I did sub- 
scribe to my customary charities. I always do 
that early in the season. They couldn't do 
anything without money ; so it's rather fortu- 
nate there should be some helpless people with 
money." 
"Why 'helpless'?" 
"Well, you see these people on committees 
know just what to do. They're not likely to make 
mistakes. And I have a feeling they would rather 
not be interfered with. I don't blame them, un- 
derstand. If I had learned by long experience 
just how to do any kind of work, I shouldn't like 
an entirely ignorant person to come and insist 
that her way was better. I shouldn't know who 
was deserving. I don't believe I could tell if the 
women drank, or if the children were frauds. 
Only it makes you seem outside of it all. And 
when you get tired of other matters" — She 
made a long pause, and the brown eyes seemed 
to shadow over, as if she were really tired and 
discouraged. 
" The doing good to those who need it is not 
always pleasant work. Yet sometimes there are 
great pleasures that may be given " — 
Pearl thought of Stacy and the little variation 
to her life, — the delight a journey to some 
strange place would be to her. Why couldn't 
Sabrina see that ! 
Just then there was a stir, a rather heavy step 
and panting breath, and Aunt Jane came to the 
door of the room with a letter in her hand. 
"For you. Miss Eastwood. Tom Bevans just 
brought it over." 
" Thank you," said Sabrina. " YouVe tired 
yourself all out coming up-stairs. Sit and rest a 
moment." 
" No ; it was some bits of carpet that Fd been 
shaking that made my breath so short. Dear, dear ! 
The idea of being tired out with a little thing like 
that ! " and she laughed with a mellow voice. 
Sabrina looked idly at her letter. It was from 
her aunt — not a real aunt, for neither father nor 
mother had near ties. But the Vantines were 
cousins, and Mr. Vantine had been appointed her 
guardian. In fact, after her mother had won her 
suit, they were her nearest heirs, since Hollis 
Winchester had been dispossessed. 
Mrs. Herrick went puffing down the stairs 
again, not because she was breathless, but from 
a habit she had fallen into that she thought 
rested her. Pearl went on with her crocheting. 
Sabrina studied the waxen seal, with the fine let- 
tering she could not have deciphered if she had 
not known what it was. Mrs. Vantine adopted 
every style that was a little troublesome. She 
thought a waxen seal indicative of leisure and 
refinement, and was annoyed when Sabrina omit- 
ted it. 
The girl cut across the end of the great square 
envelope of stamped Irish linen. The epistle was 
crossed, and she hated crossed writing. 
"What do you find at Wendover to keep you so 
long ? "was one sentence. Then, after skipping 
some that were almost illegible, " Have .you de- 
cided what to do this summer ? Your uncle has 
business out in New Mexico ; and, if you can't 
settle upon any place, he thinks we might as well 
go along. There will be a certain style to it, but 
whether it would be comfortable is a question. 
If you don't mean to marry " — Sabrina- skipped 
nearly a page. "What do you think has hap- 
pened to Chester House ? Mr. Bedford died sud- 
denly of a heart trouble, and there has been 
a tremendous business collapse. Mrs. Bedford 
wrote to say she couldn't think of keeping the 
place, and drops it back on our hands as coolly 
as you please. Your uncle put it on an agent's 
books at once, but everybody wants modern ap- 
pointments, and it's too late to do the house over. 
If it was a really fashionable resort, but it isn't. 
And we don't want a regiment of children de- 
