matter with the Darche establishment? Let me put the questions. Is old
Simon Darche in his right mind, so as to understand what is going on?
Is John Darche acting honestly by the Company--and by other people? Is
Mrs. Darche happy?"
Miss Maylands paused at the corner of the park, looked through the
railings and smoothed her muff of black Persian sheep with one hand
before she made any reply. Russell Vanbrugh watched her face and
glanced at the muff from time to time.
"Well?"
"I cannot answer your questions," Dolly answered at last, looking into
his eyes. "I do not know the answers to any of them, and yet I have
asked them all of myself. As to the first two, you ought to know the
truth better than I. You understand those things better than I do. And
the last--whether Marion is happy or not--have you any particular
reason for asking it?"
"No." Vanbrugh answered without the slightest hesitation, but an
instant later his eyes fell before hers. She sighed almost inaudibly,
laid her hand upon the railing and with the other raised the big muff
to her face so that it hid her mouth and chin. To her, the lowering of
his glance meant something--something, perhaps, which she had not
expected to find.
"You ask on general--general principles?" she inquired presently, with
a rather nervous smile.
But Vanbrugh did not smile. The expression of his face did not change.
"Yes, on general principles," he answered. "It is the main question,
after all. If Mrs. Darche is not happy, there must be some very good
reason for her unhappiness, and the reason cannot be far to seek. If
the old gentleman is really losing his mind or is going to have
softening of the brain--which is the same thing after all--well, that
might be it. But I do not believe she cares so much for him as all
that. If he were her own father it would be different. But he is John's
father, and John--I do not know what to say. It would depend upon the
answers to the other questions."
"Which I cannot give you," answered Dolly. "I wish I could."
Dolly gave the railings a little parting kick to knock the snow from
the point of her over-shoe, lowered her muff and began to walk again.
Vanbrugh walked beside her in silence.
"It is a very serious question," she began again, when they had gone a
few steps. "Of course you think I spend all my time in frivolous
charities and serious flirtations, and dances, and that sort of thing.
But I have my likes and dislikes, and Marion is my friend. She is older
than I, and when we were girls I had a little girl's admiration for a
big one. That lasted until she got married and I grew up. Of course it
is not the same thing now, but we are very fond of each other. You see
I have never had a sister nor any relations to speak of, and in a
certain way she has taken the place of them all. At first I thought she
was happy, though I could not see how that could be, because--"
Dolly broke off suddenly, as though she expected Vanbrugh to understand
what was passing in her mind. He said nothing, however, and did not
even look at her as he walked silently by her side. Then she glanced at
him once or twice before she spoke again.
"Of course you know what I am thinking of," she said at last. "You must
have thought it all too, then and now, and very often. Of course--you
had reason to."
"What reason?" Vanbrugh looked up quickly, as he asked the question.
"Oh, I cannot go into all that! You understand as well as I do.
Besides, it is not a pleasant subject. John Darche was successful,
young, rich, everything you like--except just what one does like. I
always felt that she had married him by mistake."
"By mistake? What a strange idea. And who should the right man have
been, pray?"
"Oh, no! She thought he was the right man, no doubt. It was the mistake
of fate, or providence, or whatever you call the thing, if it was a
mistake at all."
"After all," said Vanbrugh, "what reason have we, you or I, for saying
that they are not perfectly happy? Perhaps they are. People are happy
in so many different ways. After all, John Darche and his wife do not
seem to quarrel. They only seem to disagree--or rather--"
"Yes," answered Dolly, "that is exactly it. It is not everything one
sees or hears in the house. It is the suspicion that there are
unpleasant things which are neither seen or heard by any of us. And
then, the rest--your questions about the business, which I cannot
answer and which I hardly understand. There are so many people
concerned in an enormous business like that, that I cannot imagine how
anything could be done without being found out."
"However such things are done," answered Vanbrugh, gravely, "and
sometimes they are found out, and sometimes they are not. Let us hope
for the best in this case."
"What would be the best if there were anything to find out?" asked
Dolly, lowering her voice as they paused before Simon Darche's house.
"Would it be better that John Darche should be caught for the sake of
the people who would lose by him, or would it be better for his wife's
sake that he should escape?"
"That is a question altogether beyond my judgment, especially on such
short notice. Shall we go in?"
"We? Are you coming too?"
"Yes, I am going to lunch with the Darches too."
"And you never told me so? That is just like you! You get all you can
out of me and you tell me nothing."
"I have nothing to tell," answered Vanbrugh calmly, "but I apologise
all the same. Shall I ring the bell?"
"Unless you mean to take me round Gramercy Park again and show me more
nurses and perambulators and dirty dogs. Yes, ring the bell please. It
is past one o'clock."
A moment later Miss Dolly Maylands and Mr. Russell Vanbrugh disappeared
behind the extremely well-kept door of Simon Darche's house in
Lexington Avenue.
CHAPTER II.
Simon Darche stood at the window of his study, as Dolly and Vanbrugh
entered the house. He was, at that time, about seventy-five years of
age, and the life he had led had told upon him, as an existence of over
excitement ultimately tells upon all but the very strong. Physically,
he was a fine specimen of the American old gentleman. He was short,
well knit, and still fairly erect; his thick creamy-white hair was
smoothly brushed and parted behind, as his well-trimmed white beard was
carefully combed and parted before. He had bushy eyebrows in which
there were still some black threads. His face was ruddy and polished,
like fine old pink silk that has been much worn. But his blue eyes had
a vacant look in them, and the redness of the lids made them look weak;
the neck was shrunken at the back and just behind the ears, and though
the head was well poised on the shoulders, it occasionally shook a
little, or dropped suddenly out of the perpendicular, forwards or to
one side, not as though nodding, but as though the sinews were gone, so
that it depended altogether upon equilibrium and not at all upon
muscular tension for its stability. This, however, was almost the only
outward sign of physical weakness. Simon Darche still walked with a
firm step, and signed his name in a firm round hand at the foot of the
documents brought to him by his son for signature.
He had perfect confidence in John's judgment, discretion and capacity,
for he and his son had worked together for nearly twenty years, and
John had never during that time contradicted him. Since the business
had continued to prosper through fair and foul financial weather, this
was, in Simon Darche's mind, a sufficient proof of John's great
superiority of intelligence. The Company's bonds and stock had a steady
value on the market, the interest on the bonds was paid regularly and
the Company's dividends were uniformly large. Simon Darche continued to
be President, and John Darche had now been Treasurer during more than
five years. Altogether, the Company had proved itself to be a solid
concern, capable of surviving stormy days and of navigating serenely in
the erratic flood and ebb of the down-town tide. It was, indeed,
apparent that before long a new President must be chosen, and the
choice was likely to fall upon John. In the ordinary course of things a
man of Simon Darche's age could not be expected to bear the weight of
such responsibility much longer; but so far as any one knew, his
faculties were still unimpaired and his strength was still quite equal
to any demands which should be made upon it, in the ordinary course of
events. Of the business done by the Company, it is sufficient to say
that it was an important branch of manufacture, that the controlling
interest was generally in the hands of the Darches themselves and that
its value largely depended upon the possession of certain patents
which, of course, would ultimately expire.
Simon Darche stood at the window of his study and looked out, smoking a
large, mild cigar which he occasionally withdrew from his lips and
contemplated thoughtfully before knocking off the ash, and returning
it to his mouth. It was a very fine cigar indeed, equal in quality to
everything which Simon Darche had consumed during the greater part of
his life, and he intended to enjoy it to the end, as he had enjoyed
most things ever since he had been young. John, he often said, did not
know how to enjoy anything; not that John was in a hurry, or exhibited
flagrantly bad taste, or professed not to care--on the contrary, the
younger man was deliberate, thoughtful and fastidious in his
requirements--but there was an odd strain of asceticism in him, which
his father had never understood. It certainly was not of a religious
nature, but it would have gone well together with a saintly disposition
such as John did not possess. Perhaps indeed, John had the saintly
temperament without the sanctity, and that, after all, may be better
than nothing. He was thinner than his father and of a paler complexion;
his hair was almost red, if not quite, and his eyes were blue--a
well-built man, not ungraceful but a little angular, careful of his
appearance and possessed of perfect taste in regard to dress, if in
nothing else. He bestowed great attention upon his hands, which were
small with slender fingers pointed at the tips, and did not seem to
belong to the same epoch as the rest of him; they were almost
unnaturally white, but to his constant annoyance they had an unlucky
propensity to catch the dust, as one says of some sorts of cloth. If it
be written down that a man has characteristically clean hands, some
critic will be sure to remark that gentlemen are always supposed to
have clean hands, especially gentlemen of the Anglo-Saxon race. It is a
fact, nevertheless, that however purely Anglo-Saxon the possessor may
be, there are hands which are naturally not clean and which neither
ordinary scrubbing nor the care of the manicure can ever keep clean for
more than an hour. People who are in the habit of noticing hands are
well aware of the fact, which depends upon the quality of the skin, as
the reputation for cleanliness itself generally does. John Darche's
hands did not satisfy him as the rest of himself did.
So far as people knew, he had no vices, nor even the small tastes and
preferences which most men have. He did not drink wine, he did not
smoke, and he rarely played cards. He was a fairly good rider and rode
for exercise, but did not know a pastern from a fetlock and trusted to
others to buy his horses for him. He cared nothing for sport of any
kind; he had once owned a yacht for a short time, but he had never been
any further than Newport in her and had sold her before the year was
out. He read a good deal in a desultory way and criticised everything
he read, when he talked, but on the whole he despised literature as a
trifle unworthy of a serious man's attention. His religious convictions
were problematic, to say the least of it, and his outward practice took
the somewhat negative form of never swearing, even when he was alone.
He did not raise his voice in argument, if he ever argued, nor in
anger, though he had a very bad temper. John Darche could probably say
as disagreeable things as any man living, without exhibiting the
slightest apparent emotion. He was not a popular man. His acquaintances
disliked him; his friends feared him; his intimates and the members of
his household felt that he held them at a distance and that they never
really understood him. His father bestowed an almost childish
admiration upon him, for which he received a partial compensation in
John's uniformly respectful manner and unvarying outward deference. In
the last appeal, all matters of real importance were left to the
decision of Simon Darche, who always found it easy to decide, because
the question, as it reached him, was never capable of more than one
solution.
