was a brute to go off at all." 
" But you wanted to come back ?" And there 
was a wistful look in her eyes. 
"Indeed I did," he answered, fervently, as he 
leaned over the hammock to kiss the sweet eyes 
into content ; and he was quite honest in the ex- 
pression of a desire that was nearly forty-eight 
hours old, and by a singular mental reaction seemed 
to have been always present with him. 
" It was so good of you to telegraph me before I 
could see the newspaper." 
" Of course I knew the account would be greatly 
exaggerated ;" and he made light of the whole affair, 
knowing that the facts would still be capable of 
shocking her, giving a comic picture of the Ma- 
jor's seafaring qualities, and Carmen's and Miss 
Tavish's chaff of the gallant old beau. 
Even with this light sketching of the event she 
could not avoid a retrospective pang of apprehen- 
sion, and the tightened grasp of his hand was as if she 
were holding him fast from that and all other peril. 
The days went by in content, on the whole, shad- 
ed a little by anxiety and made grave by a new in- 
terest. It could not well be but that the prospect 
of the near future, with its increase of responsibili- 
ty, should create a little uneasiness in Jack's mind 
as to his own career. Of this future they talked 
much, and in Jack's attitude towards her Edith 
saw, for the first time since her marriage, a lever of 
suggestion, and it came naturally in the contempla- 
tion of their future life that she should encourage 
his discontent at having no occupation. Facing, in 
this waiting-time of quiet, certain responsibilities, 
it was impressed upon him that the collecting of 
bric-a-brac was scarcely an occupation, and that 
idling in clubs and studios and dangling about at 
the beck of society women was scarcely a career 
that could save him from ultimate ennui. To be 
sure, he had plenty of comrades, young fellows of 
fortune, who never intended to do anything except 
to use it for their personal satisfaction ; but they 
did not seem to be of much account except in the 
little circle that they ornamented. Speaking of one 
of them one day, Father Damon had said that it 
seemed a pity a fellow of such family and capacity 
and fortune should go to the devil merely for the 
lack of an object in life. In this closer communion 
with Edith, whose ideas he began to comprehend, 
Jack dimly apprehended this view, and for the mo- 
ment impulsively accepted it. 
"I'm half sorry," he said one day, "that I didn't 
go in for a profession. But it is late now. Law, 
medicine, engineering, architecture, would take 
years of study." 
" There was Armstrong," Edith suggested, " who 
studied law after he was married." 
" But it looks sort of silly for a fellow who has a 
wife to go to school, unless," said Jack, with a laugh, 
" he goes to school to his wife. Then there's poli- 
tics. You wouldn't like to see me in that." 
"I rather think, Jack" she spoke musingly 
" if I were a man I should go into politics." 
" You would have nice company !" 
" But it's the noblest career government, legis- 
lation, trying to do something to make the world 
better. Jack, I don't see how the men of New 
York can stand it to be governed by the very worst 
elements." 
" My dear, you have no idea what practical poli- 
tics is." 
"I've an idea what I'd make it. What is the 
good of young men of leisure if they don't do any- 
thing for the country ? Too fine to do what Ham- 
ilton did and Jay did ! I wish you could have heard 
my father talk about it. Abdicate their birth- 
right for a four-in-hand !" 
" Or a yacht," suggested Jack. 
" Well, I don't see why a man cannot own a 
yacht and still care something about the decent 
management of his city." 
" There's Mavick in politics." 
" Not exactly. Mavick is in office for what he 
can make. 'No, I will not say that. No doubt he 
is a good civil servant, and we can't expect every- 
body to be unselfish. At any rate, he is intelligent. 
Do you remember what Mr. Morgan said last win- 
ter ?" And Edith lifted herself up on her elbow, as 
if to add the weight of her attitude to her words, as 
Jack was still smiling at her earnestness. 
" No ; you said he was a delightful sort of pessi- 
mist." 
" Mr. Morgan said that the trouble with the gov- 
erning and legislation now in the United States is 
that everybody is superficially educated, and that 
the people are putting their superficial knowledge 
into laws, and that we are going to have a nice 
time with all these wild theories and crudities on 
the statute-book. And then educated people say 
that politics is so corrupt and absurd that they can- 
not have anything to do with it." 
" And how far do you think we could get, my 
dear, in the crusade you propose ?" 
"I don't know that you would get anywhere. 
Yet I should think the young men of New York 
could organize its intelligence and do something. 
But you think I'm nothing but a woman." And 
Edith sank back, as if abandoning the field. 
" I had thought that ; but it is hard to tell, these 
days. Never mind, when we go back to town I'll 
stir round ; you'll see." 
This was an unusual sort of talk. Jack had never 
heard Edith break out in this direction before, and 
he wondered if many women were beginning to 
think of men in this way, as cowardly about their 
public duties. Not many in his set, he was sure. 
If Edith had urged him to go into Neighborhood 
Guild work, he could have understood that. Women 
and ethical cranks were interested in that. And 
women were getting queerer every day, beginning, 
as Mavick said, to take notice. However, it was 
odd, when you thought over it, that the city should 
be ruled by the slums. 
It was easy to talk about these things ; in fact, 
Jack talked a great deal about them in the clubs, 
and occasionally with a knot of men after dinner 
in a knowing, pessimistic sort of way. Sometimes 
the discussions were very animated and even noisy 
between these young citizens. It seemed, some- 
times, about midnight, that something might be 
done ; but the resolution vanished next morning 
when another day, to be lived through, confronted 
them. They illustrated the great philosophic ob- 
servation that it is practically impossible for an idle 
man who has nothing to do to begin anything to- 
day. 
To do Jack justice, this enforced detention in the 
country he did not find dull exactly. To be sure it 
was vacation-time, and his whole life was a vaca- 
tion, and summer was rather more difficult to dis- 
pose of than winter, for one had to make more of 
an effort to amuse himself. But Edith was never 
more charming than in this new dependence, and 
all his love and loyalty were evoked in caring for 
her. This was occupation enough, even if he had 
been the busiest man in the world to watch over 
her, to read to her, to anticipate her fancies, to live 
with her in that dream of the future which made 
life seem almost ideal. There came a time when he 
looked back upon this month at the Golden House 
as the happiest in his life. 
The talk about an occupation was not again re- 
ferred to. Edith seemed entirely happy to have 
Jack with her, more entirely her own than he had 
ever been, and to have him just as he was. And yet 
he knew, by a sure instinct, that she saw him as 
she thought he would be, with some aim and pur- 
pose in life. And he made many good resolutions. 
That which was nearest him attracted him most, 
and very feeble now were the allurements of the 
life and the company he had just left. Not that 
he would break with it exactly ; it was not neces- 
sary to do that ; but he would find something to 
do, something worth a man's doing, or, at any rate, 
some occupation that should tax his time and his 
energies. That, he knew, would make Edith hap- 
py, and to make her happy seemed now very much 
like a worthy object in life. She was so magnani- 
mous, so unsuspicious, so full of all nobility. He 
knew she would stand by him whatever happened. 
Down here her attitude to life was no longer a 
rebuke to him nor a restraint upon him. Every- 
thing seemed natural and wholesome. Perhaps his 
vanity was touched, for there must be something in 
him if such a woman could love him. And prob- 
ably there was, though he himself had never yet 
had a chance to find it out. Brought up in the ex- 
pectation of a fortune, bred to idleness as others 
are to industry, his highest ambition having been 
to amuse himself creditably and to take life easily, 
what was to hinder his being one of the multitude 
of "good-for-nothings" in our modern life? If 
there had been war, he had spirit enough to carry 
him into it, and it would have surprised no one to 
hear that Jack had joined an exploring expedition 
to the North Pole or the highlands of Central Asia. 
Something uncommon he might do if opportunity 
offered. 
About his operations with Henderson he had 
never told Edith, and he did not tell her now. 
Perhaps she divined it, and he rather wondered 
that she had never asked him about his increased 
expenditures, his yacht, and all that. He used to 
look at her steadily at times, as if he were trying 
to read the secrets of her heart. 
" "What are you looking at, Jack ?" 
"To see if I can find out how much you know, 
you look so wise." 
" Do I ? I was just thinking about you. I sup- 
pose that made me look so." 
" No ; about life and the world generally." 
