




But I have been mistaken before. Besides, 
does a girl ever know ? " 

"Where a title is concerned she usually 
does. Girls like them, and with reason. A 
title can be divided, a duke makes a duch- 
ess ; whereas a man of brains cannot share 
his intellect with a fool." 

Myrrha looked up ; the twin roses re- 
turned. "Arthur, that is unfair of you. I 
may be a fool, but I am not a snob. You 
know I care nothing for his title." 

"Ah ! Supposing it should appear that he 
has none, would you marry him then, provid- 
ing, I mean, you intend to marry him at 
all ? " 

" And how could such a thing appear ? " 
Myrrha with an assumption of great haughti- 
ness and defiance inquired. 

" From his own account, that botanizing 
tour was a sham ; might not the title be one 
as well ? " 

On the girl's face the roses deepened ; but 
when she spoke, as she instantly did, their 
warmth was not in her tone. 





" Do you mean that you think him an 
impostor ? " 

" I mean that I have seen him before, 
and not at the siege of Troy, either." 

So measured were the words, and so sig- 
nificant too, that autumn must have touched 
the roses they disappeared. 

" So have you," he added. " Now tell 
me where." 

The girl was trembling, her face ashen. 

" Tell me," he insisted ; and projecting 
his teeth, contracting his features, his face 
took on the horror of a Chinese mask. 

" I don't know, I don't know," she cried. 
" You drive me mad. O Arthur, don't " 

The features relaxed. 

" Myrrha, will you promise me that this 
engagement shall remain in abeyance until 
I can learn something about him ? Will 
you ? Will you promise me that ? " 

"Yes," she gasped, "anything." 

Bancroft stood up, crossed the room, unlocked the door and touched a bell. In a 
moment the butler appeared. 





" Harris " 

"Yes, sir." 

" Harris, have you ever seen Lord Cloden 
before this week ? " 

The man stared. 

"Answer me, can't you?" 

" No, sir, I never have. Leastway, not 
that I remember." 

" Have you ever seen any one who at 
all resembled him ? " 

" That I have, sir." 

"Well, where?" 

"At Ascot 'Eath, sir, when I see'd his 
honored pa. I remember it like it was 
yesterday, his lordship stood that near " 

"There, Harris, that will do." 

"Yes, sir; thank you, sir." 

Bancroft turned to the girl again. The 
little interview must have strengthened her, 
for she smiled and pointed a finger at him. 
On the end of it were all sorts of pretty 
gestures ; and in her face, to which some 
trace of color had returned, was the mimic 
of a child saying Fi ! 





"I have your promise, though," he as- 
serted. 

" The ten minutes must be up, aren't they ? " 

" I have your promise, have I not ? " 

But before any reply was possible Harris 
reappeared, and very gravely, with fitting 
rewerence, mumbled : 

" His lordship, the Earl of Cloden." 

As the latter entered Bancroft stepped 
forward, a hand outstretched : 

" Good morning. Miss Attersol and I 
have been having a little chat. Do you 
know, I was telling her I thought I had 
met you before." 

With the arrogance of a young seigneur 
passing indolently between threatening ra- 
piers and beckoning fans, Cloden ignored 
the proffered hand, crossed the room, raised 
the girl's wrist and kissed it. 

" Yes," Bancroft pleasantly repeated, " I 
think I have seen you somewhere." 

" I dare say," Cloden answered, in a tone 
as pleasant as the lawyer's. " I go there 
now and then." 





Bancroft flushed. He wanted to say some- 
thing more, but there seemed to be abso- 
lutely nothing to add. The subject had 
been thoroughly discussed. There was 
nothing for him to do but to go, and he 
went. 

As the door closed Cloden smiled. 

" I say," he murmured, " is he always 
like that?" 

But the lovers were not suffered to re- 
main undisturbed. With a frou-frou of silk 
and a gurgle of greetings Mrs. Smithwick 
buzzed about, pretending to have dozens 
and dozens of things to do, feigning at each 
instant to be about to do them, flitting with 
bird- like ease from one subject to another, 
enervating Myrrha, keeping Cloden on his 
feet, laughing at the fantasies of her own 
imagination, until, seized by some sudden 
idea, she made a bee line for the door, which 
opened, however, before she reached it, and 
Bancroft strode in. 

" Have you seen the morning paper ? " he 
asked abruptly. 





The morning paper, indeed ! What had 
any morning paper to do with her? And 
she would have said as much, but something 
in the lawyer's face deterred. 

" Have you ? " he repeated, and looked 
to where Myrrha sat. " According to the 
Herald, the Earl of Cloden arrived yesterday at Southampton." 

A blow could not have stricken the girl 
