question. But John Travis had not found them, had not come. Six weeks
since that blissful Saturday!
It had been a very hard day for Dil; and heaven seemed far off, as it
does to many of us in times of trouble. The morning was lowering and
chilly. Dil had overslept, and her mother’s morning cup of coffee was
not to her taste. She had given her a box on the ear, I was about to
say; but her mother’s hand covered the whole side of her head, and
filled it with a rush as of many waters, blinding her eyes so that all
looked dark about her. Then Mrs. Kenny’s little Mamie cried for her
mother, and would not be pacified. Mrs. Kenny was a young and deserted
wife who worked in a coat-shop, and Mamie was a Saturday boarder as
well. Dil made the boys’ breakfast with the baby in her arms, and
managed to get Bess’s bread and milk, but had hardly a moment to devote
to her. Only one more baby came in.
Mrs. Quinn suddenly reappeared. Mrs. Watson had been called away by the
illness of her mother, and the washing was to go over to the next week.
“An’ she’ll want two days’ work done in one, an’ no more pay. An’ they
don’t mind about your lost day! How’s a woman to live with a great
raft of young ones to support, I’d like to know? An’ it’s hard times we
hear about a’ready. Goodness knows what I’ll do. An’ you lazy trollop!
you haven’t your dishes washed yet! An’ only two babies! Yer’ not worth
yer salt!”
“Mamie has cried all the time—”
“Shet yer head! Not a word of impidence out of you, or I’ll crack yer
skull! An’ I know—yer’ve been foolin’ over that wretched little brat in
there! I’m a fool fer not sindin’ her up to th’ Island hospital. Fine
work they’d have with her! She’d get nussed.”
Dil uttered a cry of terror.
Her mother caught her by the shoulder, and banged her head sharp against
the wall, until no telescope was needed for her to see stars, even in
the day time. They swirled around like balls of fire, and Dil staggered
to a chair, looking so ghastly that her mother was startled.
Both babies set up a howl.
“Drat the brats!” she cried, shaking her fist at them. “If there can’t
be more than two, you’ll march off to a shop, Dilsey Quinn; an’ if you
don’t earn your bread, you won’t get it, that’s all! As fer you, ye
little weasened-face, broken-backed thing, cumberin’ the ground—”
Bess seemed to shrink into nothing. Mrs. Quinn had taken her glass of
gin too early in the day. What would have happened next—but a rap on the
door averted it.
“O Mrs. Quinn!” cried Mrs. Malone, “I saw ye comin’ back, an’ have ye no
work the day?”
“My folks went off. If I’d known last night”—Mrs. Quinn picked up one
baby to hush it.
“Well, now, Ann come in a moment ago to hunt up a la’ndress. The big
folks where she lives have been lift in the lurch with ivry blissid
thing sprinkled down. An’ can ye go an’ iron fer ’em? It’s a foine
place. Two days in a week, an’ good pay. But the la’ndress has grown
that sassy they had a reg’lar shindy this mornin’. If ye’ll jist go for
wanst, they’ll all be moighty glad, for it’s a fine ironer ye are, Mrs.
Quinn.”
“I’ll go back wid Ann.” Mrs. Quinn dropped the baby, and resumed her
hood and shawl.
Bess shivered, and stretched out her arms to Dil as soon as the door
closed.
“Oh, what should we have done if she had stayed at home! She looked at
me so dreadful. And she would have shaked the very life out of me if she
had taken hold of me. O Dil, don’t let her send me away!”
“If she should—if she did—I’d—I’d kill her!” and a fierce, desperate
look came in the brown eyes. “O Bess dear, don’t cry so, don’t cry.”
“O Dil,” sobbed the child, “then you’d be jugged like daddy, but you
wouldn’t kill her—you couldn’t, she’s so much bigger an’ stronger.”
“But I’d fight awful! And I wouldn’t stay. I’d run away, if I had to
drown myself.”
“They cut people up in hospitals”—and there was an awesome sound in the
frightened voice.
“Don’t, dear, don’t;” and the pleading was that of agony. She held Bess
close—all her life was centred in this poor, maimed body. The babies
might cry, the world might cease to be, but nothing should part them.
“She’ll be cross because there ain’t more babies. And to-day she knows.
But the bank’s most all out. O Dil, s’pose something happened to—to
him!”
They looked at each other in a pathetic fashion through their tears,
each bearing the other’s sorrow, though they knew nothing of the divine
injunction. Dil had fought silent battles with herself for faith in John
Travis, but Bess had never wavered until now.
“It was so beautiful—that afternoon, an’ the talkin’. I’ve thought so
often ’bout his Lord Jesus, who could make my poor little legs well,
an’, Dil, somehow they keep shrinken’ away. An’ the lovely fruit an’
things! An’ all that money! O Dil, we know now how rich folks feel, only
they’re rich all their lives, and we was rich jest that little while.
But it was splendid! Rich folks oughter be happy every minnit, an’—an’
good. ’Twould be so easy when you lived in a big, beautiful house, an’
had flowers an’ nice things to eat an’ to wear, an’ a kerrige to ride
in—”
She stopped exhausted, but her eyes glowed with the vision, and a
rapture illumined her wan face. Ah, Bess, one poor, forlorn creature,
born in the brain of the finest genius of his time, made the same
pathetic outcry in her pitiful plight, brought about by her own
ill-doing. And you both touched the boundary of a broad truth.
Dil gave a long, quivering breath, and it seemed as if her arms could
never unclose again, so tight and fast did they hold their treasure.
“I’m most sure he’ll come.” Bess made a strenuous effort to keep the
doubt out of her tone. “He was ter bring the book, you know, and the
picture; an’ he didn’t look ’s though he was one of the forgettin’ kind.
There’s somethin’—I can’t quite make it out; but Dil, when things is all
still, most towards mornin’, seems if I could hear him talk. Only—it’s
so long to spring. I’m most sorry we didn’t start that day. Why, we
might have been to heaven before real cold weather. I’m so tired. Dil,
dear, lay me down on the lounge, won’t you? It’ll rest me a bit.”
She put her down softly, and tucked the faded quilt about her. Mamie had
fallen asleep on the floor, and she laid her on her own little pallet.
The other baby had found a dropped-out knot in the floor, and was trying
to put his crust of bread down through it.
Dil washed her dishes and tidied up the house. The clothes from the
floor above swung on the pulley-line, and helped to shut out even the
chilly gray light. Then there was dinner to get for the boys, who went
to school quite steadily. Dan wasn’t so bad, though; and Owen had been
threatened with the reform-school, “where you had to sweep floors and
sew on a machine like a gal!” That did not look so inviting as liberty.
What would happen to-night when her mother came home? Would she, could
she, send Bess away?
“’Tain’t no use to pray,” she thought despairingly within her much-tried
soul. “I uster pray about Bess’s poor little legs, an’ they never mended
any. An’ mebbe he thought we’d be a bother, an’ he’d rather go to heaven
alone.”
What had become of John Travis?
V—A SONG IN THE NIGHT
In the twenty-four years of John Travis’s life he had not done much but
please himself. There was never any special pinch in the Travis
household, any choice of two things, with the other to be given up
entirely. His father was an easy-going man, his mother an amiable
society woman, proud, of course, of her good birth. As I said before,
excesses were not to John’s taste. He didn’t look like a fastidious
young fellow, but the Travises were clean, wholesome people. Perhaps
this was where their good blood really showed itself.
Mr. Travis had a little leaning toward the law for his son; the young
fellow fancied he had a little leaning toward medicine. He dallied
somewhat with both; he wrote a few pretty society verses; he etched very
successfully, and he painted a few pictures, which roused an art
ambition within him. He fell in love with a sweet girl in the winter,
and in the late summer they had quarrelled and gone separate ways.
There had been another factor in his life,—his cousin, Austin Travis,
some twelve years older than himself, his father’s eldest brother’s only
child, and the eldest grandson. Travis farm had been his early home; and
there John, the little boy, had fallen in love with the big boy.
Austin was one of the charming society men that women delight in. Every
winter girls tried their best for him; and John was made much of on his
account, for they were almost inseparable. It was Austin who soothed his
uncle’s disappointment in the law business. It was Austin who compelled
the rather dilatory young fellow to paint in earnest.
Austin had planned a September tour. They would spend a few days with
grandmother, and then go to the Adirondacks. He knew a camping-out party
of artists and designers that it would be an advantage for John to meet.
John had packed his traps and sent them down to the boat, that was to go
out at six. There was nothing special to do. He would walk down, and
presently stop in at Brentano’s, then take the car. He was very fond of
seeing people group themselves together and change like a kaleidoscope.
But his heart was sore and indignant, and then his quick eye fell on the
withered rose-buds in the shrunken hand of the child, and after that
adventure he had barely time to catch his boat.
He hardly knew himself as he sat on the deck till past midnight. Two
little poverty-stricken waifs had somehow changed his thoughts, his
life. When he was a little boy at Travis Farm a great many curious ideas
about heaven had floated through his brain. And when his grandmother
sang in her soft, limpid voice,—
    “There is a land of pure delight,
    Where saints immortal reign;
    Infinite day excludes the night,
    And pleasures banish pain,”
he used to see it all as a vision. Perhaps his ideas were not much wiser
than those of poor little ignorant Bess. He had travelled with Pilgrim;
he had known all the people on the way, and they were real enough to him
at that period.
Oh, how long ago that seemed! Everything had changed since then. Science
had uprooted simple faith. One lived by sight now. The old myths were
still beautiful, of course. But long before Christ came, the Greek
philosophers had prayed, and the Indian religions had had their
self-denying saviours.
But he had promised to find the way to heaven for them, and they were so
ignorant. He had promised to go thither himself, and he had dipped into
so many philosophies; he knew so much, and yet he was so ignorant. But
there must be a heaven, that was one fact; and there must be a way to go
thither.
Sunday morning he was in Albany with Austin and two young men he had
known through the winter. One of them was very attentive to a pretty
cousin who would be found at Travis Farm. They had a leisurely elegant
breakfast, they took a carriage and drove about to points of interest,
had a course dinner, smoked and talked in the evening. But the inner
John was a little boy again, and had gone to church with his
grandmother. The sermon was long, and he did not understand it; but he
read the hymns he liked, and chewed a bit of fennel, and went almost
asleep. The singing was delightful, the spirited old “Coronation.”
They went out to Travis Farm the next morning. There was grandmother and
Aunt Maria, the single Miss Travis, Daisy Brockholst and her dear friend
Katharine Lee. Of course the young people had a good time. They always
did at Travis Farm, and they were fond of coming.
“Grandmother,” John said, in a hesitating sort of way, “you used to sing
an old hymn I liked so much,”
    “There is a land of pure delight.”
“Have you forgotten it? I wish you would sing it for me,” and his hand
slipped over hers.
“Why—yes, dear. I go singing about the house for company when no one is
here; but old voices are apt to get thin in places, you know.”
He did not say he had hunted up an old hymn-book, and read the words
over and over. He was ashamed that the children’s talk had taken such
hold of him. But presently he joined in, keeping his really fine tenor
voice down to a low key, and they sang together.
Then there was the soft silence of a country afternoon—the hushed
sweetness of innumerable voices that are always telling of God’s
