those were. He told her, and she declared, de 
lightedly, that she should carry them with 
Rex's roses to the Ball. 
"They shall have the preference, Monsieur," 
she said, teasingly. "Oh, Rex! don't please " 
she entreated. 
"All right, I won t," he said, drawing her 
wrap around her; and Yvonne, replacing the 
mask and gathering up her fluffy skirts, slipped 
one small gloved hand through his arm, and 
danced down the stairs. 
On the corner of the Vaugirard and the Rue 
de Medicis one always finds a line of cabs, and 
presently they were bumping and bouncing away 
down the Rue de Seine to the river. 
"Je fais ce que sa fantaisie 
Veut m ordonner, 
Et je puis,'s il lui faut ma vie 
La lui dormer, " 
sang Yvonne, deftly thrusting tierce and quarte 
with her fan to make Gethryn keep his distance. 
"Do you know it is snowing?" he said pres 
ently, peering out of the window, as the cab 
rattled across the Pont Neuf. 
"Tant mieux!" cried the girl; "I shall make 
a snowball, a she opened her blue eyes 
impressively, "a very, very large one, and 
"And?" 
"Drop it on the head of Mr. Rowden," she 
announced, with cheerful decision. 
"I'll warn poor Rowden of your intention," 
he laughed, as the cab rolled smoothly up the 
Avenue de 1 Opera, across the Boulevard des 
Italiens, and stopped before the glittering pile 
of the great Opera. 
She sprang lightly to the curbstone and stood 
tapping her little feet against the pavement 
while Gethryn fumbled about for his fare. 
The steps of the Opera and the Plaza were 
covered with figures in dominoes, blue, red or 
 
black, many grotesque and bizarre costumes, 
and not a few sober claw-hammers. The great 
flare of yellow light which bathed and flooded 
the shifting, many-colored throng, also lent a 
strangely weird effect to the now heavily falling 
snow-flakes. Carnages and cabs kept arriving 
in countless numbers. It was half past two, and 
nobody who wanted to be considered anybody 
thought of arriving before that hour. The peo 
ple poured in a steady stream through the por 
tals. Groups of English and American students 
in their irreproachable evening attire, groups of 
French students in someone else's doubtful 
evening attire, crowds of rustling silken dominoes, herds of crackling muslin dominoes, 
countless sad faced Pierrots, fewer sad-faced 
Capuchins, now and then a slim Mephistopheles, 
now and then a fat, stolid Turk, Arry, Tom, 
and Billy, redolent of plum pudding and Seven 
Dials, Gontran, Gaston and Achille, savoring of 
brasseries and the Sorbonne. And then, from 
the carriages and nacres; Mademoiselle Patch 
ouli and good old Monsieur Bonvin, Mademoi 
selle Nitouche and bad young Monsieur de 
Sacrebleu, Mademoiselle Moineau and Don Caesar 
Imberbe; and the pink silk domino of "La Pat- 
aude" mais n importe! 
Aliens, Messieurs, Mesdames, to the cloak 
room to the foyer! To the escalier! or you, 
Madame la Comtesse, to your box, and smooth 
out your crumpled domino; as for "LaPataude," 
she is going to dance to-night. 
Gethryn, with Yvonne clinging tightly to his 
arm, entered the great vestibule and passed 
through the railed lanes to the broad inclined 
aisle which led to the floor. 
"Do you want to take a peep before we go to 
our box?" he asked, leading her to the door 
way. 
Yvonne's little heart beat faster as she leaned 
over and glanced at the dazzling spectacle. 
"Come, hurry, let us go to the box!" she 
whispered, dragging Gethryn after her up the 
stairway. 
He followed, laughing at her excitement, and in 
a few minutes they found the door of their lodge 
and slipped in. 
Gethryn lighted a cigarette and began to 
unstrap his field glasses. 
"Take these, Yvonne," he said, handing them 
 
to her while he adjusted her own tiny gold 
ones. 
Yvonne's cheeks flushed and her eyes sparkled 
under the little mask, as she leaned over 
the velvet railing and gazed at the bewildering 
spectacle below. Great puffs of hot, perfumed 
air bore the crash of two orchestras to their 
ears, mixed with the distant clatter and whirl of 
the dancers, and the shouts and cries of ths 
maskers. 
At the end of the floor, screened by banks 
of palms, sat the musicians, and round 
about, rising tier upon tier, the glittering boxes 
were filled with the elite of the demi-monde, 
who ogled and gossiped and sighed, entirely 
content with the material and social barriers 
which separate those who dance for ten francs 
from those who look on for a hundred. 
But there were others there who should not 
by any means be confounded with their sisters 
of the "half-world." 
The Faubourg St. Germain, the Champs 
Elysees, and the Pare Monceau were possibly 
represented among those muffled and disguised 
beauties, who began the evening with their fans 
so handy in case of need. Ah, well, now they 
lay their fans down quite out of reach in case of 
emergency, and who shall say if disappointment 
lurks under these dainty dominoes, that there is 
so little to bring a blush to modest cheeks, 
alas! few emergencies. 
And you over there you of the "American 
Colony," who are tossed like shuttle-cocks in the 
social whirl, you, in your well-appointed masks 
and silks, it is all very new and exciting yes, 
but why should you come? American women, 
brought up to think clean thoughts, and see with 
innocent eyes, to exact a respectful homage 
from men and enjoy a personal dignity and in 
dependence unknown to women anywhere else, 
why do you want to come here? Do you not 
know that the foundations of that liberty which 
makes you envied in the old world are laid in 
the respect and confidence of men? Undermine 
that, become wise and cynical, learn the mean 
ing of doubtful words and gestures whose signif 
icance you never need have suspected, meet 
men on the same ground where they may any 
day meet fast women of the continent, and fix 
at that moment on yo-ur free limbs the same 
 
chains which corrupt society has forged for the 
women of Europe. 
Yvonne leaned back in her box with a little 
gasp. 
"But I can't make out any one at all," she 
said; "it's all a great, sparkling sea of color." 
"Try the field glasses, "replied Gethryn, giving 
them to her again, at the same time opening her 
big plumy fan and waving it to and fro beside 
the flushed cheek. 
Presently she cried out, "Oh, look! There 
is Mr. Elliott and Mr. Rowden, and I think Mr. 
Clifford, but I hope not," 
He leaned forward and swept the floor with 
the field glass. 
"It's Clifford, sure enough," he muttered; 
"what on earth induces him to dance in that set?" 
It was Clifford. 
At that moment, he was addressing Elliott 
in pleading, though hazy, phrases. 
"Come long, Elliott, don't be so so un- 
comft ble n p tic lar! W t's use of be ng 
shnobbish?"he urged, clinging hilariously to his 
partner, a pigeon-toed ballet girl. But Elliott 
only laughed and said; 
"No; waltzes are all I care for. No quadrille 
for me " 
The crash of the orchestra drowned his voice, 
and Clifford, turning and bowing gravely to his 
partner, and then to his vis-a-vis, began to per 
form such antics and cut such pigeon-wings, 
that his pigeon-toed partner glared at him 
through the slits of her mask in envious astonishment. The floor was dotted with numerous 
circles of maskers, tenor fifteen deep, all watch 
ing and applauding the capers of the hilarious 
couples in the middle. 
But Clifford's set soon attracted a large and 
enthusiastic audience, who were connoisseurs 
enough to distinguish a voluntary dancer from a 
hired one; and when the last thundering chords 
of Offenbach's "March into Hell" scattered the 
throng into a delirious waltz, Clifford reeled 
heavily into the side scenes and sat down, rather 
unexpectedly, in the lap of Mademoiselle Ni- 
touche, who had crept in there with the Baron 
Silberstein for a nice, quiet view of a genuine 
can-can. 
Mademoiselle did not think it funny, but 
the Baron did, and when she boxed Clifford's 
ears he thought it funnier still. 
 
Rowden and Elliott, who were laboriously 
waltzing with a twin pair of flat-footed Watteau 
Shepherdesses, immediately ran to his assist 
ance; and later, with a plentiful application of 
cold water and still colder air restored Mr. 
Clifford to his usual spirits. 
"You're not a beauty, you know," said Row- 
