' Don't go so fast I shouted ; ' it makes my head 
swim.' 
He had started like a lightning express. He 
slowed down, and we glided over the sand slower, 
but still in a kind of sickening way, for it is uncom- 
fortable to see things gliding and sliding under you 
like that and not a sound. 
But pretty soon there was plenty of sound, for 
the lion was catching up. His noise fetched others. 
You could see them coming on the lope from every 
direction, and pretty soon there was a couple of 
dozen of them under me skipping up at the ladder 
and snarling and snapping at each other ; and so 
we went skimming along over the sand, and these 
fellers doing what they could to help us to not for- 
git the occasion ; and then some tigers come, with- 
out an invite, and they started a regular riot down 
there. 
We see this plan was a mistake. We couldn't 
ever git away from them at this gait, and I couldn't 
hold on for ever. So Tom took a think and struck 
another idea. That was to kill a lion with the 
pepper-box revolver, and then sail away while the 
others stopped to fight over the carcase. So he 
stopped the balloon still, and done it, and then 
we sailed off while the fuss was going on, and come 
down a quarter of a mile off, and they helped me 
aboard ; but by the time we was out of reach again 
that gang was on hand once more. And when they 
see we was really gone and they couldn't get us, 
they sat down on their hams and looked up at us 
so kind of disappointed that it was as much as a 
person could do not to see their side of the matter. 
CHAPTER VI 
I was so weak that the only thing I wanted was a 
chance to lay down, so I made straight for my 
locker-bunk and stretched myself out there. But 
a body couldn't git back his strength in no such 
oven as that, so Tom give the command to soar, and 
Jim started her aloft. And, mind you, it was a 
considerable strain on that balloon to lift the fleas, 
and reminded Tom of Mary had a little lamb, its 
fleas was white as snow. But these wasn't ; these 
was the dark-complected kind— the kind that's 
always hungry and ain't particular, and will eat pie 
when they can't git Christian. Wherever there's 
sand, you are going to find that bird ; and the more 
sand, the bigger the flock. Here it was all sand, 
and the result was according. I never see such a 
turn-out. 
We had to go up a mile before we struck comfortable 
weather; and we had to go up another 
mile before we got rid of them creturs ; but when 
they begun to freeze they skipped overboard. 
Then we come down a mile again, where it was 
breezy and pleasant and just right, and pretty soon 
I was all straight again. Tom had been setting 
quiet and thinking ; but now he jumps up and 
says : 
' I bet you a thousand to one I know where we 
are. We're in the Great Sahara, as sure as 
guns ! ' 
He was so excited he couldn't hold still. But 
I wasn't ; I says : 
'Well, then, where's the Great Sahara? In 
England, or in Scotland ? ' 
' Tain't in either : it's in Africa.' 
Jim's eyes bugged out, and he begun to stare 
down with no end of interest, because that was 
where his originals come from ; but I didn't more 
than half believe it. I couldn't, you know; it 
seemed too awful far away for us to have 
travelled. 
But Tom was full of his discovery, as he called 
it, and said the lions and the sand meant the Great 
Desert, sure. He said he could 'a' found out, before 
we sighted land, that we was crowding the land 
somewheres, if he had thought of one thing 
and when we asked him what, he said : 
' These clocks. They're chronometers. You 
always read about them in sea-voyages. One of 
them is keeping Grinnage time, and the other one 
is keeping St. Louis time, like my watch. When 
we left St. Louis, it was four in the afternoon by 
my watch and this clock, and it was ten at night 
by this Grinnage clock. Well, at this time of the 
year the sun sets about seven o'clock. Now, I 
noticed the time yesterday evening when the sun 
went down, and it was half past five o'clock by the 
Grinnage clock, and half past eleven a.m. by my 
watch and the other clock. You see, the sun rose 
and set by my watch in St. Louis, and the 
Grinnage clock was six hours fast ; but we've come 
so far east that it comes within less than an hour 
and a half of setting by the Grinnage clock now, 
and I'm away out — more than four hours and a 
half out. You see, that meant that we was closing 
up on the longitude of Ireland, and would strike it 
before long if we was p'inted right — wEich we 
wasn't. No, sir ; we've been a-wandering — wander- 
ing 'way down south of east — and it's my opinion 
we are in Africa. Look at this map. You see how 
the shoulder of Africa sticks out to the west. 
Think how fast we've travelled; if we had gone 
straight east we would be long past England by 
this time. You watch for noon, all of you, and 
we'll stand up, and when we can't cast a shadow 
we'll find that this Grinnage clock is coming mighty 
close to marking twelve. Yes, sir ; I think we're in 
Africa ; and it's just bully.' 
Jim was gazing down with the glass. He shook 
his head and says : 
' Mars Tom, I reckon dey's a mistake somers. I 
hain't seen no niggers yit.' 
' That's nothing— they don't live in the desert. 
What is that, 'way off yonder ? Gimme a glass.' 
He took a long look, and said it was like a 
black string stretched across the sand, but Le 
couldn't guess what it was. 
'Well,' I says, 'I reckon ma} be you've got a 
chance now to find out whereabouts this balloon is, 
because as like as not that is one of these lines here, 
that's on the map, that you call meridians of longi- 
tude, and we can drop down and look at its number, 
and ' 
' Oh, shucks, Huck Finn ! I never see such a 
lunkhead as you. Did you s'pose there's meridians 
of longitude on the earth ? ' 
' Tom Sawyer, they're set down on the map, and 
you know it perfectly well, and here they are, and 
you can see for yourself.' 
' Of course they're on the map, but that's 
nothing ; there ain't any on the ground,' 
' Tom, do you know that to be so ? ' 
'Certainly I do.' 
' Well then, that map's a liar again. I never 
see such a liar as that map.' 
Hi iired up at that, and I was ready for him, 
and Jim was warming up his opinion too, and the 
next minute we'd 'a' broke loose on another argu- 
ment, if Tom hadn't dropped the glass and begun 
to clap his hands like a maniac and sing out : 
' Camels ! — camels ! ' 
So I grabbed a glass, and Jim too, and took a 
look, but I was disappointed, and says : 
 Camels, you granny— they're spiders ! ' 
' Spiders in a desert, you shad ? Spiders walk- 
ing in a procession ? You don't ever reflect, Huck 
Finn, and I reckon you really haven't got anything 
to reflect with. Don't you know we're as much as 
a mile up in the air, and that that string of crawlers 
is two or three miles away '? Spiders — good land ! 
Spiders as big as a cow ? P'raps you'd like to go 
down and milk one of 'em. But they're camels, 
just the same. It's a caravan, that's what it is, 
and it's a mile long.' 
' Well, then, le's go down and look at it. I 
don't believe in it, and ain't going to till I see it 
and know it.' 
'All right,' he says, and give the command: 
 Lower away ! ' 
As we come slanting down into the hot weather, 
we could see that it was camels, sure enough, plod- 
ding along, an everlasting string of them, with 
bales strapped to them, and several hundred men in 
long white robes, and a thing like a shawl bound 
over their heads and hanging down with tassela 
and fringes; and some of the men had long guns 
and some hadn't, and some was riding and some 
was walking. And the weather — well, it was just 
roasting. And how slow they did creep along ! W« 
swooped down, now, all of a sudden, and stopped 
about a hundred yards over their heads. 
The men all set up a yell, and some of them fell 
flat on their stomachs, some begun to fire their 
guns at us, and the rest broke and scampered every 
which way, and so did the camels. 
We see that we was making trouble, so we went 
up again about a mile, to the cool weather, and 
watched them from there. It took them an hour 
to get together and form the procession again ; 
then they started along, but we could see by the 
glasses that they wasn't paying much attention to 
anything but us. We poked along, looking down 
at them with the glasses, and by-and-by we 
big sand mound, and something like people the 
other side of it, and there was something like a man 
laying on top of the mound, that raised his head 
up every now and then, and seemed to be watching 
the caravan or us, we didn't know which. As the 
caravan got nearer, he sneaked down on the other 
side and rushed to the other men and horses — for 
that is what they was — and we see them mount in 
a hurry ; and next, here they come, like a house 
afire, some with lances and some with long guns, 
and all of them yelling the best they could. 
They come a-tearing down on to the caravan, 
and the next minute both sides crashed together 
and was all mixed up, and there was such another 
popping of guns as you never heard, and the ail 
