
At the top Mrs. Lenox's servant was waiting for them. "Oh, where is
signore? Is he not with you? He has not come? Oh, the poor signora--may
the sweet Madonna help her now!" cried the girl, with tears in her
sympathetic Italian eyes. "The poor little boy is dead."

They rushed up the higher stairway and across the hall bridge. But it
was as the woman had said. There, on his little white bed, lay the
child; he would be troublesome no more on this earth; he was quiet at
last. Mrs. Lenox stood in the lighted doorway of her room as they came
towards her. When she saw that her husband was not with them, when they
began hurriedly to explain that he had not come, that he had stayed
behind, that he had sent a note, she swayed over without a word and
fainted away.

It was only over-fatigue, she explained later. The child had lain in her
arms for thirty hours, most of the time in great pain, and she had
suffered with him. She soon recovered consciousness and was quite
calm--more calm than they had feared she would be. They were anxiously
watchful; they tended her with the most devoted care. Blake did what he
could, and then waited. After a while, when Mrs. Lenox had in a measure
recovered, he softly beckoned Mrs. Marcy out.

"You must tell her that her husband will not be back in time for--that
he will not be back for at least six days, and very likely longer. And
as his route was quite uncertain, we cannot reach him; there is no
telegraph, of course, and even if I were to go after him I could only
follow his track from village to village, and probably come back to
Venice behind him."

"How can I tell her!" said the tearful lady. "Perhaps Claudia--"

"No, on no account. You are the one, and you must do it," replied Blake,
and with so much decision that she obeyed him. Thus the wife was told.

What Blake had said was true; it was hopeless to try to reach Lenox
before the time when he would probably be back of his own accord. He had
started on a hunt after some early drawings of Titian's, of which they
had unearthed dim legends. One was said to be in an old monastery, among
others of no importance; two more were vaguely reported as now here, now
there. Lenox had not been certain of his own route, but expected to be
guided from village to village according to indications. It was not even
certain whether he would come back by Conegliano or strike the railway
at another point. "It certainly is an inexorable fate!" exclaimed poor
Mrs. Marcy, in the emergency driven to unusual expressions.

But when Stephen Lenox's wife understood the position in which she was
placed, she at once decided upon all that was to be done, and gave her
directions clearly and calmly--directions which Blake executed with an
attention and thoughtful care as complete as any one could possibly have
bestowed.

The little boy was to be buried at Venice, in the cemetery on the
island opposite, early in the morning of the second day.

"She is so sensible!" Mrs. Marcy commented, admiringly. "Of course,
under all the circumstances, it is the thing to do. But so many women
would have insisted upon--all sorts of plans; and it would have been
so hard."

"I would willingly carry out anything she wished for, no matter how
difficult," replied Blake. "I greatly respect and admire Mrs. Lenox.
But, as you say, the perfect balance of her character, her clear
judgment and beautiful goodness, have at once decided upon the best
course." (The lily had not quite said this; but in her present state of
distressed sympathy she accepted it.)

Claudia, meanwhile, remained through all very silent. She assisted, and
ably, in everything that was done, but said almost nothing.

The evening before the funeral the two ladies went across to Mrs.
Lenox's rooms; they had left her some hours before, as she had promised
to lie down for a while, but they thought that she was now probably
awake again. They found her sitting beside the little white-shrouded
form.

"Now this is not wise, Elizabeth," began Mrs. Marcy, chidingly.

"I think it is; I like to look at him," replied the watcher. "See, the
peaceful expression I have been hoping for has come; it is not often
needed on the face of a child, but it was with my poor little boy.
Look."

And, sure enough, there shone upon the small, still countenance a lovely
sweetness which had never been there in life. The face did not even seem
thin; its lines had all passed away; it looked very fair and young, and
very peacefully at rest.

"His mother would know him now at once; he was a very pretty little
fellow the last time she saw him, when he was about a year old," she
went on. "I was very fond of his mother, and his father, as probably you
know, was my only brother. Their child was very dear to me," she
resumed, after a short silence, which the others did not break. "His
constant suffering made him unlike stronger, happier children, and I
think that was the very reason I loved him the more. I wanted to make it
up to him. But I could not. I suppose he never knew what it was to be
entirely without pain--the doctors have told me so. He did not know
anything else, or any other way, but to suffer more or less, and to be
tired all the time. And he was so used to it, poor little fellow, that I
suppose he thought that every one suffered too--that that was life. He
has found a better now." Leaning forward, she took the small hands in
hers. "All my loving care, dear child, was not enough to keep you here,"
she said, smoothing them tenderly. "But you are with your mother now;
that is far better."

The funeral took place early the next morning. Then Mrs. Lenox came back
to her empty rooms, and entered them alone. She preferred it so.

After the first explanation, the only allusion she had made to her
husband's absence was to Rodney Blake. That gentleman had not expressed
the shadow of a disapprobation. He had not told her that he had objected
to Lenox's lengthened absence, and had done what he could to prevent it;
he had stopped Mrs. Marcy sharply when she spoke of telling.

"Can't you see, Sophy, that that would be the worst of all for her?" he
said; "to know that Lenox would go, in spite of my unconcealed
opposition, just because Clau--just because he wanted those trivial
drawings," he added, changing the termination of his sentence, but quite
sure, meanwhile, that "Sophy" would never discover what he had begun to
say.

Mrs. Lenox's remark was this. Blake had come in to speak to her about
some necessary directions concerning the funeral, and when she had given
them she said: "It will be a grief to Stephen when he comes back that he
could not have seen the little boy, even if but for once more. And I
hoped so that he would see him! I expected you back at eight--you know
that was the first arrangement--and towards seven he seemed easier. Once
he even smiled, and talked a little about that legend of St. Mark and
St. Theodore, of which, you remember, he was so fond. Then it was
half-past seven, and I still hoped. And then it grew towards eight, and
he was in pain again. Still I kept listening for the sound of your
gondola. But it did not come. And at half-past eight he died. But
perhaps it was as well so," she continued, although her voice trembled a
little. "Stephen would have felt his suffering so much. I was more used
to it, you know, than he was."

"Yes," answered Blake.

But she seemed to know that he was not quite in accord with her. "Of
course I feel it very deeply, Mr. Blake, on my own account, that my
husband is not here; I depend upon him for everything, and feel utterly
lonely without him. But his absence is one of those accidents which we
must all encounter sometimes, and as to everything else--the outside
help I needed--you have done all that even he could have done. You have
been very good to me," and she held out her hand.

Blake took it, and thanked her. And in his words this time he put
something that contented her. It was the sacrifice he made to his liking
for Stephen Lenox's wife.

The evening after the funeral Mrs. Marcy, who had been made nervous and
ill by all that had happened, went out at sunset for a change of air,
and Blake accompanied her. Claudia preferred to stay at home. But five
minutes after the departure of their gondola she went up the stairs and
across the hall bridge that led to Mrs. Lenox's apartment. Mrs. Lenox
was there, lying on the sofa. It was the first time since the return
that the two had been alone together. She looked pale and ill, and there
were dark shadows under her eyes; but she smiled and spoke in her usual
voice, asking Claudia to sit beside her in an easy-chair that stood
there. Claudia sat down, and they spoke on one or two unimportant
subjects. But the girl soon paused in this.

"I have come to say," she began again, in a voice that showed the effort
she made to keep it calm, "that I shall never forgive myself, Mrs.
Lenox, for--for a great deal that I have thought about you, but
especially for having had a part in the absence of your husband at such
a time. If it had not been for me he would not have gone off on that
foolish expedition. But I wanted those miserable drawings, or at least
sketches of them, and so I kept talking about it. When I think of what
you have had to go through, alone, in consequence of it, I am
overwhelmed." Here her voice nearly broke down.

"You must not take it all upon yourself, Miss Marcy," answered the wife.
"No doubt Stephen wanted to please you; no doubt he wanted to very
much--to get you the drawings, if it was possible; of that I am quite
sure."

But Claudia was not quieted. "If you knew how I have suffered--how I
suffer now as I see you lying there so pale and ill"--here she stopped
again. "I come to tell you how I feel your suffering, and I spend the
time talking about my own," she added, abruptly. "I am a worthless
creature!" And covering her face with her hands, she burst into tears.

Mrs. Lenox put out her hand and stroked the beautiful bowed head
caressingly. "Do not feel so badly," she said. "You must not; it is not
necessary."

"But it is--it is," said the girl, amid her tears. "If you knew--"

"I do know, Claudia. I know you."

"Oh, if you really do," said Claudia, lifting her head, her wet eyes
turned eagerly upon the wife, "then it is better."

"It is better; it is well. My dear, I think I have understood you all
along."

"But--I have not understood myself," replied Claudia. She had nerved
herself to say it; but after it was spoken a deep blush rose slowly over
her whole face until it was in a flame. Through all its heat, however,
