have you sold many lecture tickets?"
"Quite a few!" answered the Professor, vaguely.
"Are you going to attend the lecture, Miss Blagden?" asked the widow.
"Miss Canby and I have agreed to go together."
Miss Canby was the young woman from Macy's. The Disagreeable Woman
finding that she wished to attend the lecture, offered her a ticket and
her company, both being thankfully accepted. So that after all my
escort was not needed by the young woman, and I lost nothing by my
attention to the widow.
We did not rise from the table till seven o'clock. Mrs. Wyman excused
herself for a short time. She wished to dress for the lecture. The
gentlemen withdrew to the reception room, a small and very narrow room
on one side of the hall, and waited for the ladies to appear. Among
those who seated themselves there was the Disagreeable Woman. She waited
for the appearance of the young woman from Macy's, whom she was to
accompany to the lecture. Somehow she did not seem out of place in the
assemblage of men.
"You did not at first propose to hear Prof. Poppendorf?" I remarked.
"No; I shall not enjoy it. But I found Miss Canby wished to attend."
"We shall probably know a good deal more about the Material and the
Immaterial when we return."
"Possibly we shall know as much as the Professor himself," she answered,
quietly.
"I am afraid you are no hero worshiper, Miss Blagden."
"Do you refer to the Professor as a hero?"
"He is the hero of this evening."
"Perhaps so. We will see."
Prof. Poppendorf looked into the reception room previous to leaving the
house. He wore a long coat, or surtout, as it used to be called--tightly
buttoned around his spare figure. There was a rose in his buttonhole. I
had never seen one there before, but then this was a special occasion.
He seemed in good spirits, as one on the eve of a triumph. He was
content with one comprehensive glance. Then he opened the front door,
and went out.
Just then Mrs. Wyman tripped into the room, closely followed by Ruth
Canby. The widow was quite radiant. I can't undertake to itemize her
splendor. She looked like a social butterfly.
Quite in contrast with her was the young woman from Macy's, whose garb
was almost Quaker-like in its simplicity. Mrs. Wyman surveyed her with a
contemptuous glance, and no doubt mentally contrasted her plainness with
her own showy apparel. But the Disagreeable Woman's eye seemed to rest
approvingly on her young companion. They started out ahead of the rest
of us.
"What a very plain person Miss Canby is!" said the widow, as we emerged
into the street, her arm resting lightly in mine.
"Do you refer to her dress or her face and figure?"
"Well, to both."
"She dresses plainly; but I suspect that is dictated by economy. She has
a pleasant face."
"It is the face of a peasant."
"I didn't know there were any peasants in America."
"Well, you understand what I mean. She looks like a country girl."
"Perhaps so, but is that an objection?"
"Few country girls are stylish."
"I don't myself care so much for style as for good health and a good
heart."
"Really, Dr. Fenwick, your ideas are very old-fashioned. In that respect
you resemble my dear, departed husband."
"Is it permitted to ask whether your husband has long been dead?"
"I have been a widow six years," said Mrs. Wyman, with an ostentatious
sigh. "I was quite a girl when my dear husband died."
According to her own chronology, she was twenty-three. In all
probability she became a widow at twenty-nine or thirty. But of course I
could not insinuate any doubt of a lady's word.
"And you have never been tempted to marry again?" I essayed with great
lack of prudence.
"Oh, Dr. Fenwick, do you think it would be right?" said the widow,
leaning more heavily on my arm.
"If you should meet one who was congenial to you. I don't know why not."
"I have always thought that if I ever married again I would select a
professional gentleman," murmured the widow.
I began to understand my danger and tried a diversion.
"I don't know if you would consider Prof. Poppendorf a 'professional
gentleman'," I said.
"Oh, how horrid! Who would marry such an old fossil?"
"It is well that the Professor does not hear you."
Perhaps this conversation is hardly worth recording, but it throws some
light on the character of the widow. Moreover it satisfied me that
should I desire to marry her there would be no violent opposition on
her part. But, truth to tell, I would have preferred the young woman
from Macy's, despite the criticism of Mrs. Wyman. One was artificial,
the other was natural.
We reached Schiller Hall, after a long walk. It was a small hall,
looking something like a college recitation room.
Prof. Poppendorf took his place behind a desk on the platform and looked
about him. There were scarcely a hundred persons, all told, in the
audience. The men, as a general thing, were shabbily dressed, and
elderly. There were perhaps twenty women, with whom dress was a
secondary consideration.
"Did you ever see such frights, Doctor?" whispered the widow.
"You are the only stylishly dressed woman in the hall."
Mrs. Wyman looked gratified.
The Professor commenced a long and rather incomprehensible talk, in
which the words material and immaterial occurred at frequent intervals.
There may have been some in the audience who understood him, but I was
not one of them.
"Do you understand him?" I asked the widow.
"Not wholly," she answered, guardedly.
I was forced to smile, for she looked quite bewildered.
The Professor closed thus: "Thus you will see, my friends, that much
that we call material is immaterial, while per contra, that which is
usually called immaterial is material."
"A very satisfactory conclusion," I remarked, turning to the widow.
"Quite so," she answered, vaguely.
"I thank you for your attention, my friends," said the Professor, with a
bow.
There was faint applause, in which I assisted.
The Professor looked gratified, and we all rose and quietly left the
hall. I walked out behind Miss Canby and the Disagreeable Woman.
"How did you like the lecture, Miss Blagden?" I inquired.
"Probably as much as you did," she answered, dryly.
"What do you think of the Professor, now?"
"He seems to know a good deal that isn't worth knowing."
CHAPTER V.
A CONVERSATION WITH THE DISAGREEABLE WOMAN.
One afternoon between five and six o'clock I was passing the Star
Theatre, when I overtook the Disagreeable Woman.
I had only exchanged a few remarks with her at the table, and scarcely
felt acquainted. I greeted her, however, and waited with some curiosity
to see what she would have to say to me.
"Dr. Fenwick, I believe?" she said.
"Yes; are you on your way to supper?"
"I am. Have you had a busy day?"
As she said this she looked at me sharply.
"I have had two patients, Miss Blagden. I am a young physician, and not
well known yet. I advance slowly."
"You have practised in the country?"
"Yes."
"Pardon me, but would it not have been better to remain there, where you
were known, than to come to a large city where you are as one of the
sands of the sea?"
"I sometimes ask myself that question, but as yet I am unprepared with
an answer. I am ambitious, and the city offers a much larger field."
"With a plenty of laborers already here."
"Yes."
"I suppose you have confidence in yourself?"
Again she eyed me sharply.
"Yes and no. I have a fair professional training, and this gives me some
confidence. But sometimes, it would be greater if I had an extensive
practise, I feel baffled, and shrink from the responsibility that a
physician always assumes."
"I am glad to hear you say so," she remarked, approvingly. "Modesty is
becoming in any profession. Do you feel encouraged by your success thus
far?"
"I am gaining, but my progress seems slow. I have not yet reached the
point when I am self-supporting."
She looked at me thoughtfully.
"Of course you would not have established yourself here if you had not a
reserve fund to fall back upon? But perhaps I am showing too much
curiosity."
"No, I do not regard it as curiosity, only as a kind interest in my
welfare."
"You judge me right."
"I brought with me a few hundred dollars, Miss Blagden--what was left to
me from the legacy of a good aunt--but I have already used a quarter of
it, and every month it grows less."
"I feel an interest in young men--I am free to say this without any
fear of being misunderstood, being an old woman--"
"An old woman?"
"Well, I am more than twenty-nine."
We both smiled, for this was the age that Mrs. Wyman owned up to.
"At any rate," she resumed, "I am considerably older than you. I will
admit, Dr. Fenwick, that I am not a blind believer in the medical
profession. There are some, even of those who have achieved a certain
measure of success, whom I look upon as solemn pretenders."
"Yet if you were quite ill you would call in a physician?"
"Yes. I am not quite foolish enough to undertake to doctor myself in a
serious illness. But I would repose unquestioning faith in no one,
however eminent."
"I don't think we shall disagree on that point. A physician understands
his own limitations better than any outsider."
"Come, I think you will do," she said, pleasantly. "If I am ill at any
time I shall probably call you in."
"Thank you."
"And I should criticise your treatment. If you gave me any bread pills,
I should probably detect the imposture."
"I should prefer, as a patient, bread pills to many that are
prescribed."
"You seem to be a sensible man, Dr. Fenwick. I shall hope to have other
opportunities of conversing with you. Let me know from time to time how
you are succeeding."
"Thank you. I am glad you are sufficiently interested in me to make the
request."
By this time we had reached the boarding-house. We could see Mrs. Wyman
at the window of the reception room. She was evidently surprised and
amused to see us together. I was sure that I should hear more of it, and
I was not mistaken.
"Oh, Dr. Fenwick," she said playfully, as she took a seat beside me at
the table. "I caught you that time."
"I don't understand you," I said, innocently.
"Oh, yes, you do. Didn't I see you and Miss Blagden coming in together?"
"Yes."
"I thought you would confess. Did you have a pleasant walk?"
"It was only from the Star Theatre."
"I see you are beginning to apologize. You could say a good deal between
Waverley Place and the Star Theatre."
"We did."
"So I thought. I suppose you were discussing your fellow boarders,
including poor me."
"Not at all."
