gotten that he learned everything from its restraint. 
How much more than he had wrought had he left 
undone! How much more than he had given had 
he held back ! How much more than the wildest 
enthusiasm of his maddest mob believed him capa- 
ble of might he have achieved 1 How much more 
might he yet achieve ? . . . Ah, how much ! 
His thoughts moved back to the first conflict in 
the desert near Jericho. Severe and decisive as 
that had been, it was the trial of the theory, not of 
the facts of life. It is one thing to forecast experi- 
ence and adjust it to principle in imagination. It is 
quite another to face the actual crisis which experi- 
ence has slowly and painfully brought. Sore with 
suffering yet throbbing with achievement, the mind 
comes up with a shock in the clutch of the situation 
which it has so long contemplated at a distance with 
all the ease of remoteness and much of the sense of 
unreality. The visions of the desert were now the 
A DECISIVE CRISIS 246 
struggles of the hour, Jesus was not free from the 
strange law by which a soul is often subjected to the 
same kinds of trial all through life. This terrible 
monotony in suffering he knew to the piteous end. 
He had now to front his old questions, and meet 
again the ghosts of the spiritual foes that he had 
laid at the outset of his career. 
Should he take that other, that omitted way? 
Should he pursue his Father's plan, dim, inscruta- 
ble, so f$r above his age and his people that it had 
no more coherence to them than a delusion of the 
demonized whom he healed ? Or should he do the 
thing, the only thing, from his position comprehen- 
sible to his race and his times ? Should he levy his 
mystical powers ? Should he summon invisible co- 
horts to his aid ? Should he carry out the national 
aspirations, not as a man among men, but as a God, 
scorning men and their methods, flinging aside 
human restrictions and assuming divine prerogatives? 
Should he confuse, baffle, smite, slay, triumph, by 
inexplicable means ? Should he work out the mis- 
sion of his life under human laws or above them ? 
The Jews had the primitive idea of royalty, of its 
purpose and its prerogatives. Jesus had quite an- 
other. The words "king," "kingdom," "throne/' 
meant one thing to them, quite a different one to 
him. In his brief, intense public life, wherein the 
energies and fervors of a very long career had been 
crowded into a little over three years, he had never 
been untrue to the dreams of his first youth. His 
exaltation did not desert him in the stress of his 
tremendous experience. He had kept his great 
246 THE STOEY OF JESUS CHKIST 
ideal. He had never deviated from his unapproach- 
able consecration. His belief remained unshaken 
that he knew the purposes of God in his life's his- 
tory, and that these were not the expectations of 
men. He had been selected for a fate as solitary as 
it was sublime. 
His was the kingdom of the soul. He was the 
King of the spirit. His was the realm in which 
the little life of nations, their wars, their revolu- 
tions, their political schemes, their paltry Clangor, 
could not enter. The ambitions of Augustus Irnpe- 
rator were petty beside the aspirations of Jesus. 
Nothing less than the permanent control of the 
world would ever realize these. But this force must 
come from within, not from without. 
His legions were the elements of human charac- 
ter ; his court was in the human heart ; his throne 
was humanity itself. Of its obligations and of its 
possibilities he had a perfectly new conception to 
enforce. 
This he had tried to make his practical, commer- 
cial people understand. He had preached, but they 
were puzzled ; he had lived, but they were perplexed. 
He had suffered, but they did not comprehend why 
or to what end. He had hoped against evidence 
and struggled against fate. They did not, could not, 
would not understand. 
Now ! To sweep over everything like flood or si- 
moom ; to start and surge on like any common revo- 
lutionist, this they could comprehend. The pa- 
tient, humble Kabbi, curing the sick, comforting the 
unhappy, helping the poor, was a mystery* What 
A DECISIVE CRISIS 247 
should be done with him ? With it ? A leader of 
revolts was altogether a simple problem. Add the 
mystical element, to which the Hebrew mind was 
quite accustomed. That was not half as perplexing 
as a modest man of power honoring the claims of 
duty in a plain way, using great gifts for no clearer 
end than to make people well, pure, and happy. 
Suppose he took off the check imposed by his 
subtle sense of spiritual honor? Suppose he gave 
his mysterious nature the rein ? Suppose he brought 
to the situation but a little portion of the forces, of 
the resources, which were his, and which he now 
knew were his ? If he had chosen precisely here to 
add the extra-natural touch to the natural powers ? 
. . . What a dazzling vision ! What success ! 
What glory ! How much more than the prospects 
of a politician! It was the future of a spiritual 
statesman. Jesus Christ was the only man of his 
age who could have hurled Rome from the throne 
of the world. But he could not have done it under 
common laws, and that he was meant to do it under 
the superhuman he did not believe. He would not 
touch it on that basis. What then ? 
The crisis was so profound, he had been so ab- 
sorbed, the night was passing in such emotion and 
exhaustion, that the solitary thinker had not noticed 
the change of weather. Suddenly a breeze fanned 
him in the face from the southerly, and he perceived 
that it had veered and was rising steadily. With 
his quick consciousness of the situation of others, 
always putting it before his own, he perceived in- 
THE STORY OF JESUS CHBIST 
stantiy that his friends were sailing against a head 
wind, and remembered that it was by his particular 
command that they were not ashore. 
He rose at once, and stood looking off over the 
lake, shading his eyes with his hand from the bril- 
liant Oriental moonlight. He could see from the 
point where he stood that the little boat was having 
a hard or even a dangerous time with what was now 
a severe squall, if not a gale. 
The claims of his solemn night's vigil yielded in- 
stantly to the interruption which mercy made upon 
them. He hurried down to the shore of the lake. 
His own trouble could wait. That of his disciples 
could not and should not. 
Six miles by water, but much more than that by 
land, the distance to the western shore spread before 
him. He had no boat. On that coast, now deserted, 
none was accessible. It was far on in the night, and 
no help was likely to reach the party ; they might 
drown before anything could be done for them. 
Overcome with anxiety for his chosen friends, Je- 
sus performed one of the few really impulsive acts 
of his life. He stepped directly into the water. It 
was soon deep, and grew rapidly deeper. The space 
between bfrn and the struggling boat was far too 
large for the strongest swimmer. The wind had 
now become a tempest. The waves ran high, and 
both wind and waves were against him. But he did 
not stop to think of that. Exalted, insistent, he 
trusted himself upon the little sea. His heart was 
so full of distress for those he loved that he could 
not think of himself. His soul was so full of trust 
A DECISIVE CRISIS 249 
i God his high mood vibrated so in harmony with 
he being of his invisible Father that the laws of 
ature seemed to him at that moment like his serfs. 
. . Through them or against them, reach the 
oat ! Defy the waves I Trample the water ! . . . 
Vho can tell? Had he ever done the deed before? 
n those long and lonely nights by the lake, un- 
matched, unseen, had he ever experimented with his 
lysterious faculties, trusting himself by these alone 
pon the waters ? Could he have explained in this 
ray any of his singular appearances or disappear- 
nces which his friends were not always altogether 
ble to follow? Had he ever freed himself from 
tie thrall of the land, from the bondage of the keel, 
i some weary and restless mood which only the 
ceedom of the water could calm ? Was the event 
f this night the movement of an educated or an 
ntried faculty? Or was it rather the overflow 
Dree of that hour of exaltation when five thousand 
len had been nourished by his human vitality and 
is mystical power ? Was his soul still so vibrant 
r'ith the vigor of a greater than human life that the 
xtra-natural was the most natural thing for him at 
t that moment? However that may be, the mo- 
lent bore him on. Ecstatic, he trod the water as 
len do in dreams, while living, or fancy that they 
lay do waking, after death. All lovers of the sea 
rill understand something of this instinct, which 
^es like a sleeping faculty within them. Moving 
wiftly, moving joyously, tall in the moonlight, pale 
nd solemn, he had the look, he seemed to have the 
ualities, of an apparition. 
260 THE STORY OF JESUS CHRIST 
Such the occupants of the little boat took him to 
be when he glided into their range of vision. He 
approached them rapidly. His hands were out- 
stretched as if to gather them. His face melted 
with shining pity. The boat lay over upon her side ; 
she was capsizing fast. But the fishermen cried out 
in superstitious terror. With the impulse of their 
class, in all ages and all lands the same, they were 
more afraid of the supernatural than they were of 
drowning. 
" A spirit ! See ! That is a spirit ! " Then they 
saw the apparition smiling, just as the Rabbi smiled 
any day on land, the sweet, familiar smile which 
had become the sun of their days and the moon of 
their nights, the romance of their prosaic lives. 
"Have courage. Do not be afraid," he said, "it 
