position."
"I congratulate you, Mr. Scott," said Louis, grasping the hand of the new
officer, though he had been duly consulted in regard to the appointment the
day before.
"Permit me to congratulate you also, Mr. Scott," added Miss Blanche, as she
extended to him her delicate little hand.
"Thank you, Miss Woolridge," replied the new third officer, raising the
uniform cap he had already donned, and bowing as gracefully as a
dancing-master. "Thank you with all my heart, Louis. I won't deny that I
was considerably broken up when the Maud was sold; but now I am glad of it,
for it has given me a position that I like better."
"Now, Mr. Scott, what is the run for to-day?" asked Louis, renewing his
first question.
"I don't know," replied the third officer with a mischievous smile.
"You don't know!" exclaimed Louis.
"I do not, Louis."
"I thought all the officers, including the commander, took the observation,
and worked up the reckoning for the longitude. We got eight bells nearly an
hour ago, and the bulletin must have been posted by this time."
"It was posted some time ago. All the officers work up the reckoning; and I
did so with the others. The commander and I agreed to a second."
"What do you mean by saying you do not know the run?" demanded Louis.
"I do know the run; but that was not what you asked me," answered Scott
with the same mischievous smile.
"What did I ask you?"
"The first time you asked me all right, and I should have answered you if I
had not felt obliged to switch off and inform you and Miss Woolridge of my
new appointment. The second time you put it you changed the question."
"I changed it?" queried Louis.
"You remember that when Mrs. Blossom asked Flix where under the sun he had
been, he replied that he had not been anywhere, as it happened to be in the
evening, when the sun was not overhead."
"A quibble!" exclaimed Louis, laughing.
"Granted; but one which was intended to test your information in regard to
a nautical problem. You asked me the second time for the run of to-day for
the last twenty-four hours."
"And that was what I asked you the first time," answered Louis.
"I beg your pardon, but you asked me simply for the run to-day."
"Isn't that the same thing?"
"Will you please to tell me how many hours there are in a sea-day?" asked
Scott, becoming more serious.
"That depends," answered Louis, laughing. "You have me on the run."
"You will find that the bulletin signed by the first officer gives the run
as 330 miles; but the answer to your second question is 337 miles, about,"
added the third officer. "Just here the day is only twenty-three hours and
forty minutes long as we are running; and the faster we go the shorter the
day," continued the speaker, who was ciphering all the time on a card.
"I don't see how that can be," interposed Miss Blanche, with one of her
prettiest smiles.
"There is the lunch-bell; but I shall be very happy to explain the matter
more fully later in the day, Miss Woolridge, unless you prefer that Louis
should do it," suggested Scott.
"I doubt if I could do it, and I should be glad to listen to the
explanation," replied Louis, as they descended to the main cabin; for the
new third officer was permitted to retain his place at the table as well as
his state-room.
The commander had suggested that there was likely to be some change of
cabin arrangements; for it was not in accordance with his ideas of right
that the third officer should be admitted to the table, while the first and
second were excluded; and Louis was very desirous that his friend Scott
should remain in the cabin. The repasts on board the steamer were social
occasions, and the party often sat quite an hour at the table, as at the
present luncheon. But as soon as the company left their places, Louis and
Miss Blanche followed the third officer to the promenade deck, to hear the
desired explanation of sea-time.
"Of course you know how the longitude of the ship is obtained, Miss
Woolridge?" the young officer began.
"Papa explained it to me once, but I could not understand it," replied the
fair maiden.
"Then we will explain that first. One of the great circles extending
through the poles is called the prime meridian; and any one may be
selected, though that of Greenwich has been almost universally adopted.
This place is near London. From this prime meridian longitude is
calculated, which means that any given locality is so many degrees east
or west of it. Sandy Hook is in longitude 74°, or it is that number of
degrees west of Greenwich. Aden is in 45° east longitude."
"Then you find how many miles it is by multiplying the number of degrees
by 69," suggested Miss Blanche.
"You have forgotten about knots, or sea-miles," said Louis.
"So I have! I should have said multiply by 60," added the young lady.
"That would not do it any better," replied Scott.
"Degrees of latitude are always the same for all practical purposes; but
degrees of longitude are as--
    'Variable as the shade
  By the light quivering aspen made,'"
continued the third officer, who was about to say "as a woman's mind;"
but he concluded that it was not quite respectful to the lovely being
before him.
"What a poetical sea-monster you are, Mr. Scott!" exclaimed Miss Blanche
with a silvery laugh.
"I won't do so any more," Scott protested, and then continued his
explanation. "Degrees of longitude vary from nothing at the poles, up to
69.07 statute, or 60 geographical or sea-miles, at the equator. We are
now in about 15° north latitude; and a degree of longitude is 66.65
statute miles, or 57.9855 sea-miles, near enough to call it 58. By the
way, Louis, multiply the number of statute miles by .87, and it gives
you the sea-miles. Divide the knots by the same decimal, and it gives
the statute miles."
"I will try to remember that decimal as you have done," replied Louis.
"Now, Mr. Scott, don't open Bowditch's Navigator to us, or talk about
projection,' 'logarithms,' 'Gunter,' and 'inspection;' for I am not capable
of understanding them, for my trigonometry has gone to the weeping
willows."
"Talk to us in English, Mr. Scott," laughed Miss Blanche.
"Let us go up to Conference Hall, where there is a table," said the third
officer, as he produced a book he had brought up from his state-room. He
led the way to the promenade, where he spread out a chart in the "Orient
Guide," which had twenty-six diagrams of a clock, one at the foot of every
fifteen degrees of longitude. At this point the commander came upon the
promenade.
"Formerly the figures on a timepiece in Italy, and perhaps elsewhere, went
up to twenty-four, instead of repeating the numbers up to twelve; and these
diagrams are constructed on that plan," continued Scott.
"An attempt has been made to re-establish this method in our own country. I
learned once from a folder that a certain steamer would leave Detroit at
half-past twenty-two; meaning half-past ten. But the plan was soon
abandoned," interposed the captain.
"Aden, from which we sailed the other day, is in longitude 45° east. Every
degree by meridians is equal to four minutes of clock-time. Multiply the
longitude by four, and the result in minutes is the difference of time
between Greenwich and Aden, 180 minutes, or three hours. When it is noon at
Greenwich, it is three o'clock at Aden, as you see in the diagram before
you."
"Three o'clock in the morning, Mr. Scott?" queried the commander.
"In the afternoon, I should have added. Going east the time is faster, and
vice versa," continued the young officer. "At our present speed our
clocks must be put about twenty minutes ahead, for a third of an hour has
gone to Davy Jones's locker."
"I understand all that perfectly," said Miss Blanche with an air of
triumph.
"You will be a sea-monster before you get home. The sirens were beautiful,
and sang very sweetly," added Scott jocosely.
"They were wicked, and I don't want to be one. But I do not quite
understand how you found out what time it was at noon to-day," added the
young lady.
"For every degree of longitude sailed there is four minutes' difference of
clock-time," Scott proceeded. "You know that a chronometer is a timepiece
so nicely constructed and cared for, that it practically keeps perfect
time. Meridians are imaginary great circles, and we are always on one of
them. With our sextants we find when the centre of the sun is on the
celestial meridian corresponding to the terrestrial one; and at that
instant it is noon where we are. Then we know what time it is. We compare
the time thus obtained with that indicated by the chronometer, and find a
difference of four hours."
"I see it all!" exclaimed the fair maiden, as triumphantly as though she
had herself reasoned out the problem. "Four hours make 240 minutes, and
four minutes to a degree gives 60° as the longitude.
"Quite correct, Miss Woolridge," added Scott approvingly.
"If I could only take the sun, I could work up the longitude myself," the
little beauty declared.
"You have already taken the son," replied Scott; but he meant the son of
Mrs. Belgrave, and he checked himself before he had "put his foot in it;"
for Louis would have resented such a remark.
"I have seen them do it, but I never took the sun myself," protested the
maiden.
The sea had suddenly begun to make itself felt a few hours before, and a
flood of spray was cast over the promenade, which caused the party to
evacuate it, and move farther aft. It was the time of year for the
north-east monsoons to prevail, and the commander had declared that the
voyage would probably be smooth and pleasant all the way to Bombay. It did
not look much like it when the ship began to roll quite violently.
                                 CHAPTER II
                       THE WRECK IN THE ARABIAN SEA
It was a sharp squall that suddenly struck the Guardian-Mother, heeling her
over so that everything movable on her decks or below went over to the lee
side, and sending no small quantity of salt water over her pilot-house. It
had begun to be what the ladies called rough some hours before; and with
them Captain Ringgold's reputation as a prophet was in peril, for he had
predicted a smooth sea all the way to Bombay.
The Blanche, the steam-yacht of General Noury, which was only a trifle
larger than the Guardian-Mother, rolled even more. She was following the
latter, and seemed to be of about equal speed, though no trial had been
made between them. Miss Blanche and Louis had retreated to a dryer place
than the promenade when the shower of spray broke over the pilot-house upon
them, leaving the commander and Mr. Scott there.
Captain Ringgold frowned as he looked out on the uneasy waves, for the
squall appeared to be a surprise to him; but it proved to be more than a
white squall, which may come out of a clear sky, while with a black one the
sky is wholly or partly covered with dark clouds. It continued to blow very
fresh, and the commotion in the elements amounted to nothing less than a
smart gale.
"This is uncommon in the region of the north-east monsoons," said the
commander, who was planking the promenade deck with Scott. "During January
and February the wind is set down as moderate in these waters. I have made
two runs from Cape of Good Hope to Bombay, and we had quiet seas from the
latitude of Cape Comorin to our destination both times; and I expected the
same thing at this season of the year on this voyage."
The captain was evidently vexed and annoyed at the failure of his
prediction, though squalls were liable to occur in any locality; but the
present rough weather had begun to look like a gale which might continue
for several days. The north-east monsoons were what he had a right to
expect; but the gale came up from the south south-west. The commander
appeared to be so much disturbed, that the young officer did not venture to
say anything for the next half-hour, though he continued to walk at his
side.
At the end of this time the commander descended to his cabin, inviting
Scott to go with him. On the great table was spread out the large chart of
the Indian Ocean. From Aden to Bombay he had drawn a red line, indicating
the course, east by north a quarter north, which was the course on which
the steamer was sailing.
