seconds passed before Clare found that of the new-comer.
"Mr. Brook Johnstone."
Brook was his first name, then. It was uncommon. She looked at it
fixedly. There was no address on the small, neatly engraved card. While
she was looking at it a door opened quietly behind her, in the opposite
side of the corridor. She paid no attention to it for a moment; then,
hearing no footsteps, she instinctively turned. Brook Johnstone was
standing on the threshold watching her. She blushed violently, in her
annoyance, for he could not doubt but that she was looking for his name.
He saw and understood, and came forward naturally, with a smile. He had
a stick in his hand.
"That's me," he said, with a little laugh, tapping his card on the
board with the head of his stick. "If I'd had an ounce of manners I
should have managed to tell you who I was by this time. Won't you excuse
me, and take this for an introduction? Johnstone--with an E at the
end--Scotch, you know."
"Thanks," answered Clare, recovering from her embarrassment. "I'll tell
my mother." She hesitated a moment. "And that's us," she added, laughing
rather nervously and pointing out one of the cards. "How grammatical we
are, aren't we?" she laughed, while he stooped and read the name which
chanced to be at the bottom of the board.
"Well--what should one say? 'That's we.' It sounds just as badly. And
you can't say 'we are that,' can you? Besides, there's no one to hear
us, so it makes no difference. I don't suppose that you--you and Mrs.
Bowring--would care to go for a walk, would you?"
"No," answered Clare, with sudden coldness. "I don't think so, thank
you. We are not great walkers."
They went as far as the door together. Johnstone bowed and walked off,
and Clare went back to her mother.
"He caught me," she said, in a tone of annoyance. "You were quite right.
Then he showed me his name himself, on the board. It's Johnstone--Mr.
Brook Johnstone, with an E--he says that he is Scotch. Why--mother!
Johnstone! How odd! That was the name of--"
She stopped short and looked at her mother, who had grown unnaturally
pale during the last few seconds.
"Yes, dear. That was the name of my first husband."
Mrs. Bowring spoke in a low voice, looking down at her work. But her
hands trembled violently, and she was clearly making a great effort to
control herself. Clare watched her anxiously, not at all understanding.
"Mother dear, what is it?" she asked. "The name is only a
coincidence--it's not such an uncommon name, after all--and besides--"
"Oh, of course," said Mrs. Bowring, in a dull tone. "It's a mere
coincidence--probably no relation. I'm nervous, to-day."
Her manner seemed unaccountable to her daughter, except on the
supposition that she was ill. She very rarely spoke of her first
husband, by whom she had no children. When she did, she mentioned his
name gravely, as one speaks of dead persons who have been dear, but that
was all. She had never shown anything like emotion in connection with
the subject, and the young girl avoided it instinctively, as most
children, of whose parents the one has been twice married, avoid the
mention of the first husband or wife, who was not their father or
mother.
"I wish I understood you!" exclaimed Clare.
"There's nothing to understand, dear," said Mrs. Bowring, still very
pale. "I'm nervous--that's all."
Before long she left Clare by herself and went indoors, and locked
herself into her room. The rooms in the old hotel were once the cells of
the monks, small vaulted chambers in which there is barely space for the
most necessary furniture. During nearly an hour Mrs. Bowring paced up
and down, a beat of fourteen feet between the low window and the locked
door. At last she stopped before the little glass, and looked at
herself, and smoothed her streaked hair.
"Nineteen and six--are twenty-five," she said slowly in a low voice, and
her eyes stared into their own reflection rather wildly.
CHAPTER V
Brook Johnstone's people did not come on the next day, nor on the day
after that, but he expressed no surprise at the delay, and did not again
say that it was a bore to have to wait for them. Meanwhile he spent a
great deal of his time with the Bowrings, and the acquaintance ripened
quickly towards intimacy, without passing near friendship, as such
acquaintance sometimes will, when it springs up suddenly in the shallow
ground of an out-of-the-way hotel on the Continent.
"For Heaven's sake don't let that man fall in love with you, Clare!"
said Mrs. Bowring one morning, with what seemed unnecessary vehemence.
Clare's lip curled scornfully as she thought of poor Lady Fan.
"There isn't the slightest danger of that!" she answered. "Any more than
there is of my falling in love with him," she added.
"Are you sure of that?" asked her mother. "You seem to like him.
Besides, he is very nice, and very good-looking."
"Oh yes--of course he is. But one doesn't necessarily fall in love with
every nice and good-looking man one meets."
Thereupon Clare cut the conversation short by going off to her own room.
She had been expecting for some time that her mother would make some
remark about the growing intimacy with young Johnstone. To tell the
truth, Mrs. Bowring had not the slightest ground for anxiety in any
previous attachment of her daughter. She was beginning to wonder whether
Clare would ever show any preference for any man.
But she did not at all wish to marry her at present, for she felt that
life without the girl would be unbearably lonely. On the other hand,
Clare had a right to marry. They were poor. A part of their little
income was the pension that Mrs. Bowring had been fortunate enough to
get as the widow of an officer killed in action, but that would cease at
her death, as poor Captain Bowring's allowance from his family had
ceased at his death. The family had objected to the marriage from the
first, and refused to do anything for his child after he was gone. It
would go hard with Clare if she were left alone in the world with what
her mother could leave her. On the other hand, that little, or the
prospect of it, was quite safe, and would make a great difference to
her, as a married woman. The two lived on it, with economy. Clare could
certainly dress very well on it if she married a rich man, but she could
as certainly not afford to marry a poor one.
As for this young Johnstone, he had not volunteered much information
about himself, and, though Mrs. Bowring sometimes asked him questions,
she was extremely careful not to ask any which could be taken in the
nature of an inquiry as to his prospects in life, merely because that
might possibly suggest to him that she was thinking of her daughter. And
when an Englishman is reticent in such matters, it is utterly impossible
to guess whether he be a millionaire or a penniless younger son.
Johnstone never spoke of money, in any connection. He never said that he
could afford one thing or could not afford another. He talked a good
deal of shooting and sport, but never hinted that his father had any
land. He never mentioned a family place in the country, nor anything of
the sort. He did not even tell the Bowrings to whom the yacht belonged
in which he had come, though he frequently alluded to things which had
been said and done by the party during a two months' cruise, chiefly in
eastern waters.
The Bowrings were quite as reticent about themselves, and each respected
the other's silence. Nevertheless they grew intimate, scarcely knowing
how the intimacy developed. That is to say, they very quickly became
accustomed, all three, to one another's society. If Johnstone was out of
the hotel first, of an afternoon, he moped about with his pipe in an
objectless way, as though he had lost something, until the Bowrings came
out. If he was writing letters and they appeared first, they talked in
detached phrases and looked often towards the door, until he came and
sat down beside them.
On the third evening, at dinner, he seemed very much amused at
something, and then, as though he could not keep the joke to himself, he
told his companions that he had received a telegram from his father, in
answer to one of his own, informing him that he had made a mistake of a
whole fortnight in the date, and must amuse himself as he pleased in the
interval.
"Just like me!" he observed. "I got the letter in Smyrna or somewhere--I
forget--and I managed to lose it before I had read it through. But I
thought I had the date all right. I'm glad, at all events. I was tired
of those good people, and it's ever so much pleasanter here."
Clare's gentle mouth hardened suddenly as she thought of Lady Fan.
Johnstone had been thoroughly tired of her. That was what he meant when
he spoke of "those good people."
"You get tired of people easily, don't you?" she inquired coldly.
"Oh no--not always," answered Johnstone.
By this time he was growing used to her sudden changes of manner and to
the occasional scornful speeches she made. He could not understand them
in the least, as may be imagined, and having considerable experience he
set them down to the score of a certain girlish shyness, which showed
itself in no other way. He had known women whose shyness manifested
itself in saying disagreeable things for which they were sometimes sorry
afterwards.
"No," he added reflectively. "I don't think I'm a very fickle person."
Clare turned upon him the terrible innocence of her clear blue eyes. She
thought she knew the truth about him too, and that he could not look her
in the face. But she was mistaken. He met her glance fearlessly and
quietly, with a frank smile and a little wonder at its fixed scrutiny.
She would not look away, rude though she might seem, nor be stared out
of countenance by a man whom she believed to be false and untrue. But
his eyes were very bright, and in a few seconds they began to dazzle
her, and she felt her eyelids trembling violently. It was a new
sensation, and a very unpleasant one. It seemed to her that the man had
suddenly got some power over her. She made a strong effort and turned
away her face, and again she blushed with annoyance.
"I beg your pardon," Johnstone said quickly, in a very low voice. "I
didn't mean to be so rude."
Clare said nothing as she sat beside him, but she looked at the opposite
wall, and her hand made an impatient little gesture as the fingers lay
on the edge of the table. Possibly, if her mother had not been on her
other side, she might have answered him. As it was, she felt that she
could not speak just then. She was very much disturbed, as though
something new and totally unknown had got hold of her. It was not only
that she hated the man for his heartlessness, while she felt that he had
some sort of influence over her, which was more than mere attraction.
There was something beyond, deep down in her heart, which was nameless,
and painful, but which she somehow felt that she wanted. And aside from
it all, she was angry with him for having stared her out of countenance,
forgetting that when she had turned upon him she had meant to do the
same by him, feeling quite sure that he could not look her in the face.
They spoke little during the remainder of the meal, for Clare was quite
willing to show that she was angry, though she had little right to be.
After all, she had looked at him, and he had looked at her. After dinner
she disappeared, and was not seen during the remainder of the evening.
When she was alone, however, she went over the whole matter
thoughtfully, and she made up her mind that she had been hasty. For she
was naturally just. She said to herself that she had no claim to the
man's secrets, which she had learned in a way of which she was not at
all proud; and that if he could keep his own counsel, he, on his side,
had a right to do so. The fact that she knew him to be heartless and
faithless by no means implied that he was also indiscreet, though when
an individual has done anything which we think bad we easily suppose
that he may do every other bad thing imaginable. Johnstone's discretion,
at least, was admirable, now that she thought of it. His bright eyes and
frank look would have disarmed any suspicion short of the certainty she
possessed. There had not been the least contraction of the lids, the
smallest change in the expression of his mouth, not the faintest
increase of colour in his young face.
So much the worse, thought the young girl suddenly. He was not only bad.
He was also an accomplished actor. No doubt his eyes had been as steady
and bright and his whole face as truthful when he had made love to Lady
Fan at sunset on the Acropolis. Somehow, the allusion to that scene had
produced a vivid impression on Clare's mind, and she often found herself
wondering what he had said, and how he had looked just then.
Her resentment against him increased as she thought it all over, and
again she felt a longing to be cruel to him, and to make him suffer just
