this an impertinence; but women had been known to allude to it as
"dreamy."
"'Fair vanished ladies of the past,'" quoted the poet in his delightful
voice, "'so charming even in your errors, do you merit the judgment
which the more rigid customs of our modern age would pronounce upon you?
Was that enthusiasm for virtue and for lofty sentiments with which your
delicious old letters and memoirs, written in faded ink and flowing
language, with so much wit and so much bad spelling, are adorned--was it
all declamation merely, because, weighed in our severer balances, your
lives were not always in accordance with it? Are there not other
balances? And were you not, even in your errors, seeking at least an
ideal that was fair? Striving to replace by a sensibility most devoted
and tender a morality which, in the artificial society that surrounded
you, had become well-nigh impossible? Let us not forget how many of you,
when the dread hour came, faced with unfaltering courage the horrors of
the Revolution, sustained by your example the hearts of strong men which
had failed them, and atoned on the red guillotine for the errors and
follies of your whole generation with your delicate lives.'"
He paused. Then, in a lighter tone, added: "Charming vanished dames, in
your powder and brocade, I salute you! I, for one, enroll myself among
your faithful and tender admirers."
Mr. Percival remained two weeks at Miolans. He was much with Mrs.
Winthrop. They seemed to have subjects of their own for conversation,
for on several occasions when Ford came over in the morning they were
said to be "in the library," and Miss Pitcher was obliged to confess
that she did not feel at liberty to disturb them. She remarked, with a
sigh, that it must be "very intellectual," and once she asked her nephew
if he had not noticed the poet's "brow."
"Oh yes; he is one of those tall, slim, long-faced, talking fellows whom
you women are very apt to admire," said Ford.
Miss Pitcher felt as much wrath as her gentle nature allowed. But again
her sentiments were divided, and she sacrificed her personal feelings.
That evening she confided to Katharine, under a pledge of deepest
secrecy, her belief that "John" was "jealous."
Mrs. Winthrop greeted this confidence with laughter. Not discouraged,
the aunt the next day confided to her nephew her conviction that, as
regarded the poet, Katharine had not yet "at all made up her mind."
"That is rather cruel to Percival, isn't it?" said Ford.
"Oh, he too has many, many friends," said Sylvia, veering again.
"Fortunate fellow!"
At last Percival went. Ford was again the only visitor. And if he did
not have long mornings in the library, he had portions not a few of
afternoons in the garden. For if he came up the water-steps and found
the mistress of the house sitting under the trees, with no other
companion than a book, it was but natural that he should join her, and
possibly make some effort to rival the printed page.
"You do not like driving?" she said, one day. They were in the parlor,
and the carriage was coming round; she had invited him to accompany
them, and he had declined.
"Not with a coachman, I confess."
"There is always the phaeton," she said, carelessly.
He glanced at her, but she was examining the border of her lace scarf.
"On the whole, I prefer riding," he answered, as though it were a
question of general preferences.
"And Katharine rides so well!" said Sylvia, looking up from her wax
flowers. Sylvia made charming wax flowers, generally water-lilies,
because they were "so regular."
"There are no good horses about here," observed Ford. "I have tried them
all. I presume at home in America you keep a fine one?"
"Oh, in America! That is too far off. I do not remember what I did in
America," answered Mrs. Winthrop.
A day or two later. "You were mistaken about there being no good
saddle-horses here," she remarked. "My coachman has found two; they are
in the stable now."
"If you are going to be kind enough to offer one of them to me," he
said, rather formally, after a moment's silence, "I shall then have the
pleasure of some rides with you, after all."
"Yes," answered Mrs. Winthrop. "As you say--after all!" She was smiling.
He smiled too, but shook his head. Sylvia did not see this little
by-play. Whatever it meant, however, it did not prevent Ford's riding
with Mrs. Winthrop several times, her groom following. Miss Pitcher
watched these little excursions with much interest.
Meanwhile letters from Lorimer Percival came to Miolans almost daily.
"That is the Percival crest," said Sylvia to her nephew, one of these
epistles, which had just arrived, being on the hall table, seal upward,
as they passed. "So appropriate for a poet, I think--a flame."
"Ah! I took it for steam," said Ford.
Now the elder Percival had been a successful builder of locomotives.
"John," said Miss Pitcher, solemnly, "do you mean that for derision?"
"Derision, my dear aunt! There is nothing in the world so powerful as
steam. If I only had more, I too might be a poet. Or if my father had
had more, I too might have enjoyed a fortune."
"Mr. Percival enjoys no fortune," said Sylvia, still solemnly.
"What has he done with it, then? Enjoyed it all out?"
"He tells me that it dissolved, like a mist, in his grasp."
"Yes; they call it by various names," said Ford.
Mrs. Winthrop, dressed in her habit, now came down the stairway; she
took the letter and put it in her pocket. That day the groom could not
accompany them: the horse he rode was lame. "We are sufficiently brave
to do without him for one afternoon, are we not?" said the lady.
"I confess I am timid; but I will do my best," answered Ford, assisting
her to mount. Sylvia, standing in the doorway, thought this a most
unfortunate reply.
They rode southward. "Shall we stop for a few moments?" said Katharine,
as they came towards Coppet.
"Yes; for ten," he answered.
The old custodian let them in, and threw open the windows as before. The
visitors went out on the little shelf-like balcony which opened from
the drawing-room.
"You notice there is no view, or next to none," said Ford, "although we
are on the shore of Lake Leman, and under the shadow of Mont Blanc. They
did not care for views in the eighteenth century--that is, views of the
earth; they were all for views of the 'soul.' Madame de Staël detested
the country; to the last, Coppet remained to her a dreary exile. She was
the woman who frankly said that she would not cross the room to look at
the Bay of Naples, but would walk twenty miles to talk with an agreeable
man."
"They were as rare then, it seems, as they are now," said Mrs. Winthrop.
"But to-day we go more than twenty miles; we go to Europe."
"She did the same--that is, what was the same in her day; she went to
Germany. There she found two rather agreeable men--Goethe and Schiller.
Having found them, she proceeded to talk to them. They confessed to each
other, long afterwards, the deep relief they felt when that gifted woman
departed."
"Ah, well, all she wanted, all she was seeking, was sympathy."
"She should have waited until it came to her."
"But if it never came?"
"It would--if she had not been so eager and voracious. The truth is,
Corinne was an inordinate egotist. She expected all minds to defer to
her superiority, while at the very moment she was engaged in extracting
from them any poor little knowledge or ideas they might possess which
could serve her own purposes. All her books were talked into existence;
she talked them before she wrote them. It was her custom, at the
dinner-table here at Coppet, to introduce the subject upon which she was
engaged, and all her guests were expected, indeed forced, to discuss it
with her in all its bearings, to listen to all she herself had to say,
and never to depart from the given line by the slightest digression
until she gave the signal. The next morning, closeted in her own room,
she wrote out the results of all this, and it became a chapter."
"She was a woman of genius, all the same," said Mrs. Winthrop, in a
disagreeing tone.
"A woman of genius! And what is the very term but a stigma? No woman is
so proclaimed by the great brazen tongue of the Public unless she has
thrown away her birthright of womanly seclusion for the miserable mess
of pottage called 'fame.'"
"The seclusion of a convent? or a prison?"
"Neither. Of a home."
"You perhaps commend obedience, also?"
"In one way--yes."
"I'm glad to know there are other ways."
"I shall be very obedient to the woman I love in several of those other
ways," replied Ford, gathering some of the ripening grapes near the
balcony rail.
Mrs. Winthrop went back into the faded drawing-room. "It is a pity there
is no portrait here of Madame Récamier," she remarked. "That you might
have admired."
"The 'incomparable Juliette' was at least not literary. But in another
way she was as much before the public as though she had been what you
call a woman of genius. It may be said, indeed, that she had genius--a
genius for attracting admiration."
"You are hard to please."
"Not at all; I ask only the simple and retiring womanly graces. But
anything retiring was hard to find in the eighteenth century."
"You dislike literary women very much," said Mrs. Winthrop. She had
crossed the room to examine an old mirror made of squares of glass,
welded together by little leaden frames, which had once been gilded.
"Hardly. I pity them."
"You did not know, then, that I was one?"
He had crossed the room also, and was now standing behind her; as she
asked the question she looked at his image in the glass.
"I did not know it," he answered, looking at hers.
"I am, anonymously."
"Better anonymously than avowedly."
"Will you read something I have written?"
"Thanks. I am not in the least a critic."
"I know that; you are too prejudiced, too narrow, to be one. All the
same, will you read?"
"If you insist."
"I do insist. What is more, I have it with me. I have had it for several
days, waiting for a good opportunity." She drew from her pocket a small
flat package, and gave it to him.
"Must it be now?"
"Here and now. Where could we find a more appropriate atmosphere?"
He seated himself and opened the parcel; within was a small square book
in flexible covers, in decoration paper and type, a daintily rich little
volume.
"Ah! I know this," he said. "I read it when it first came out."
"So much the better. You can give me your opinion without the trouble of
reading."
"It received a good deal of praise, I remember," he said, turning over
the leaves.
She was silent.
"There was a charming little description somewhere--about going out on
the Campagna to gather the wild narcissus," he went on, after a pause.
And then there was another silence.
"But--" said Mrs. Winthrop.
"But, as you kindly suggest, I am no judge of poetry. I can say nothing
of value."
"Say it, valuable or not. Do you know, Mr. Ford, that you have scarcely
spoken one really truthful word to me since we first met. Yet I feel
sure that it does not come natural to you, and that it has cost you some
trouble to--to--"
"To decorate, as I have, my plain speech. But if that is true, is it not
a compliment?"
"And do I care for your compliments? I have compliments in abundance,
and much finer ones than yours. What I want from you is the truth, your
real opinion of that little volume in your hand. You are the only man I
have met in years who seems to feel no desire to flatter me, to make me
think well of myself. I see no reason why I should not think well of
myself; but, all the same, I am curious. I can see that you judge me
