excuse for my brevity. Mrs. Beever," he rap 
idly pursued, "requests you to regard this hur 
ried inquiry as the sequel to what you were so 
good as to say to her." 
Dennis thought a moment; his face had 
changed as if by the action of Rose's disappear 
ance and the instinctive revival, in a different 
relation, of the long, stiff habit of business, the 
art of treating affairs and meeting men. This 
was the art of not being surprised, and, with 
his emotion now controlled, he was discernibly 
on his guard. "I'm afraid," he replied, "that 
what I said to Mrs. Beever was a very small 
matter." 
"She doesn't think it at all a small matter 
to have said you'd help her. You can do so 
in the cruel demands our catastrophe makes of 
her by considering that I represent her. It's 
in her name, therefore, that I ask you if you're 
engaged to be married to Miss Armiger." 
Dennis Vidal just visibly faltered; but it 
might have been quite as much at the freedom 
of the question as at the difficulty of the an 
swer. "Please say to her that I aw." He 
spoke with a clearness that proved the steel 
surface he had in a few minutes forged for his 
despair. 
The Doctor took the thing as he gave it, 
only drawing from his pocket a key which he 
held straight up. " Then I feel it to be only 
right to say to you that this locks " and he 
indicated the quarter to which Rose had re 
tired "the other door." 
Dennis, with a diffident hand out, looked at 
him hard; but the good man showed, with 
effect, that he was professionally used to that. 
"You mean she's a prisoner?" 
"On Mr. Vidal's honour." 
" But whose prisoner ? " 
"Mrs. Beever's." 
Dennis took the key, which passed into his 
pocket. " Don't you forget," he then asked with 
his conscious coldness, " that we're here, all 
round, on a level " 
" With the garden ? " the Doctor broke in. " I 
forget nothing. We've a friend on the terrace." 
"A friend?" 
 
"Mr. Beever. A friend of Miss Armiger's," 
he promptly added. 
Still showing nothing in his face, Dennis per 
haps showed something in the way, that with 
his eyes bent on the carpet and his hands inter 
twisted behind him, he slowly walked across the 
room. At the end of it he turned round. " If 
I have this key, who has the other?" 
"The other?" 
" The key that confines Mr. Bream." 
The Doctor winced, but he stood his ground. 
"JT have it." Then he said, as if with a due 
recognition of the weight of the circumstance: 
"She has told you?" 
Dennis turned it over. "Mrs. Beever?" 
"Miss Armiger." There was a faint sharp 
ness in the Doctor's tone. 
It had evidently something to do with the 
tone in which Dennis replied. " She has told 
me. But if you've left him " 
"I've not left him. I've brought him over." 
Dennis showed himself at a loss. "To see 
mef" 
The Doctor raised a solemn, reassuring hand; 
then, after an instant, "To see his child," he 
colourlessly said. 
"He desires that?" Dennis asked with an 
accent that emulated this detachment. 
"He desires that." Dennis turned away, and 
in the pause that followed the air seemed 
charged with a consciousness of all that between 
them was represented by the unspoken. It 
lasted indeed long enough to give to an auditor, 
had there been one, a sense of the dominant 
unspeakable. It was as if each were waiting to 
have something from the other first, and it was 
eventually clear that Dennis, who had not looked 
at his watch, was prepared to wait longest. The 
Doctor had moreover to recognise that he him 
self had sought the interview. He impatiently 
summed up his sense of their common attitude. 
"I do full justice to the difficulty created for 
you by your engagement. That's why it was 
important to have it from your own lips." His 
companion said nothing, and he went on : " Mrs. 
Beever, all the same, feels that it mustn't pre 
vent us from putting you another question, or 
rather from reminding you that there's one that 
you led her just now to expect that you'll 
answer." The Doctor paused again, but he per 
ceived he must go all the way. " From the 
bank of the river you saw something that bears 
 
upon this " he hesitated ; then daintily selected 
his words " remarkable performance. We ap 
peal to your sense of propriety to tell us what 
you saw." 
Dennis considered. " My sense of propriety is 
strong ; but so just now is my sense of some 
other things. My word to Mrs. Beever was con 
tingent. There are points I want made clear." 
" I'm here," said the Doctor, " to do what I 
can to satisfy you. Only be so good as to re 
member that time is everything." He added, to 
drive this home, in his neat, brisk way, " Some 
action has to be taken." 
" You mean a declaration made ? " 
" Under penalty," the Doctor assented, " of 
consequences sufficiently tremendous. There has 
been an accident of a gravity " 
Dennis took him up. " That can't be kept 
quiet?" 
The Doctor looked at his watch; then, still 
holding it, he quickly looked up. " You want to 
keep it so ? " 
Vidal's haggard face turned red, but he in 
stantly recovered himself. " Why do you ask, if 
you've a duty ? " 
" I haven't one worse luck. I've fifty." 
Dennis fixed his eyes on the watch. "Does 
that mean you can keep the thing in hand?" 
The Doctor put his talisman away. " Before I 
say, I must know what you'll do for me." 
Dennis stared at the lamp. " Hasn't it gone too 
far?" 
"I know how far. Not so far, by a peculiar 
mercy, as it might have gone. There has been an 
extraordinary coincidence of chances a miracle 
of conditions. Everything appears to serve." He 
hesitated ; then with great gravity : " We'll call it 
a providence and have done with it." 
Dennis turned this over. "Do you allude to 
the absence of witnesses ?" 
" At the moment the child was found. Only the 
blessed three of us. And she had been there " 
Stupefaction left him counting. 
Dennis jerked out a sick protest. " Don't tell 
me how long! What do Iwant ?" What 
he wanted proved, the next moment, to be more 
knowledge. "How do you meet the servants?" 
"Here? By giving a big name to her com 
plaint. None of them have really seen her. She 
was carried in with a success ! " The Doc 
tor threw up triumphant little hands. 
"But the people at the other house?" 
 
" They know nothing but that over here she 
has had an attack which it will be one of the fifty 
duties of mine I mentioned to you to make suffi 
ciently remarkable. She was out of sorts this 
morning ; this afternoon I was summoned. That 
call of Tony's is the providence ! " Dr. Eamage 
declared. 
But still Dennis pressed him. " Hadn't she 
some fond old nurse some devoted dragon ? " 
" The great Gorham ? Yes : she didn't want 
her to come ; she was cruelly overborne. Well," 
the Doctor lucidly pursued, " I must face the 
great Gorham. I'm already keeping her at bay 
doctors are so luckily despots ! She'll be tough 
-but it's all tough!" 
Dennis, pressing his hand to his head, began 
wearily to pace again : it was far too tough for 
him. But he suddenly, dropped upon the sofa, all 
but audibly moaning, falling back in the despair 
that broke through his false pluck. Doctor 
Ramage watched his pain as if he had something 
to hope from it; then, abruptly, the young man 
began : " I don't in the least conceive how " 
He stopped short : even this he couldn't bring out. 
" How was it done ? Small blame to you ! It 
was done in one minute with the aid of a boat 
and the temptation (we'll call it!) of solitude. 
The boat's an old one of Tony's own padlocked, 
but with a long chain. To see the place," said 
the Doctor after an instant, " is to see the deed." 
Dennis threw back his head ; he covered his dis 
torted face with his two hands. " Why in thun 
der should I see it? " 
The Doctor had moved towards him ; at this he 
seated himself beside him and, going on with 
quiet clearness, applied a controlling, soothing 
grasp to his knee. " The child was taken into 
the boat and it was tilted : that was enough 
the trick was played." Dennis remained motion 
less and dumb, and his companion completed the 
picture. " She was immersed she was held un 
der water she was made sure of. Oh, I grant 
you it took a hand and it took a spirit! But 
they were there. Then she was left. A pull of 
the chain brought back the boat ; and the author 
of the crime walked away." 
