the help of a lovely gray-haired " lady from 
Philadelphia " for this was in the days when 
my own hair was still so dark that I liked to 
be mothered a little in difficult positions. We 
went into the saloon the next Sunday and 
opened our short services. Now, my com 
panion had been trained by Phillips Brooks in 
his younger pastorate, and she was far better 
qualified than I to conduct the service. But 
with the pertinacity of gentle women she 
refused. She would read, she would sing, she 
would help, but speak she would not. 
" You will not ? " pleaded I, " but I cannot. 
I never opened my mouth in a public place 
in my life. I shall drop of stage fright and 
think of the scene ! It will be little less 
exciting than the murder. I am a coward born, 
bred, and graduated on this point. It is morally
impossible for me to speak in that or any 
other place." 
But I prevailed nothing against her, and 
speak I had to. 
 
The saloon was of course packed. It over 
flowed to the porch, and into the street, and 
back through the three little rooms within 
rooms, which, according to my limited observation, 
seem to characterize the grog-shops of 
our native land ; an architectural peculiarity 
into whose causes or effects I have never 
penetrated. 
There were a few women there to sing for 
us, and certain of the wives of the men who 
frequented the shop ; but our hearers were 
chiefly men, and precisely the men who were 
the usual customers of this and kindred places. 
A great, red stain in the floor was covered 
from sight by the crowd. 
To say that the audience was respectful is 
to say little enough. If we had been angels 
from the clouds or courts of heaven, we could 
not have been received with more deference, 
more delicacy, or more attention. To say that 
no disturbance of any kind took place is again 
to say too little for the occasion. Not a foot 
stirred, not a lip whispered ; indeed, it is quite 
within bounds to say that not an eye wan 
dered. We read a little not too much 
from the Bible, and we sang a hymn or two, 
and I said a few words, and we came away. 
Those men listened to us as if they had never 
heard a message of mercy before in all their 
 
lives, and never might again. I remember 
that some of them hung their heads upon their 
breasts like guilty children, and that they 
looked ashamed and sorry ; but most of them 
met us in the eye, and drank what we said 
thirstily. Their attention and gravity amounted 
to solemnity, and had the appearance of resolution.
But of that, who can testify ? 
We did not too much blame these men ; 
they had reasons for getting drunk, which life 
had never made apparent to us : nor did we 
berate the rum-seller ; we were his guests. 
We read and spoke to them of better things ; 
that was all. I remember that we read from 
the Revelation about the dead, great and small, 
who stand before God to be judged ; and I can 
never forget how these men looked, as I laid 
down my father's Bible, with those words. 
Life has given and withheld much from me 
that has been or has seemed to be rich and 
valuable. It has never given me another hour 
when I felt that I had found the chief privilege 
of existence, as I felt when I forgot myself and 
pleaded with Heaven for those miserable men ; 
nor has it withheld much that I should have 
treasured more than the power to continue my 
happy work among them. 
It lasted for but three years. Though it 
began, it did not seem to begin with the 
 
murder ; for, after a few Sundays our services 
in the saloon came to an end. The bartender's 
religious character was not prominently developed,
and his hospitality cooled as the 
excitement waned. Not wishing to intrude upon it, 
for, after all, the rum was his, and the legal 
right to sell it, we devoted ourselves for a 
little to the concerns of the fatherless family, 
and returned to the normal course of summer 
existence. Without were drunkards and murderers,
and we thought of them no more. 
I thought of them no more, at least not 
then. But God's lessons are not lost so easily 
as that. The next year, when the Old Maids 
Paradise was opened for the season, a person 
indistinctly known to our domestic world as 
" the vegetable man " one day quietly made 
his way from the back door to the front, and 
boldly demanded that I should visit the 
Reform Club and give a Temperance lecture. If 
he had asked me to discover the North Pole 
in a Gloucester dory, I should have been less 
astounded ; perhaps less shocked. In vain did 
I reason that I did not know what a Reform 
Club was ; that I was not, and never might, 
could, would, or should be a lecturer, and that 
a Temperance lecturer was a being so apart 
from my nature and qualifications that I was 
better fitted to salt fish upon the wharves than 
 
to assume the position which I was desired 
to fill. The petitioner was dogged, obstinate, 
ingenious, and respectful. It seemed the or 
ganization which he represented, having heard 
of the rum-shop services, had appointed a
committee to request my presence in the appalling 
capacity specified, and no for an answer these 
enthusiasts declined to take. 
"I do not lecture," I persisted, "but I will 
come up to your club-room and help you some 
how." 
Thus compromising with my fate, I rode up 
in the vegetable man's carryall to the club- 
room, and I left it that first evening the firm 
friend of those struggling men and women, 
and of all like them, in hard positions and in 
service like theirs forever. 
The little local organization with which I 
was concerned had, in some respects, an 
exceptional history, but it belonged to a great 
class of its kind at that time popular with the 
mass of our people, and unquestionably use 
ful in stimulating a taste for decent ways of 
living among that proportion of our fellow- 
citizens whom the liquor traffic disgraces and 
ruins. Having become once convinced that 
the method however foreign to my taste and 
to my training was sound and sensible ; was, 
in fact, so much wiser and greater than my 
 
ignorance or timidity, that it commanded my 
respect as well as my conscience, of course 
I had no choice but to give myself to the 
principle, and try to improve its practice, if I 
might. As our Methodist friends would say, 
I " followed the leading," and I never
regretted it. 
For three years I had the great happiness 
of serving the people who had needed and 
selected me. There and then, if ever, I be 
came acquainted with life. I learned more 
from my Gloucester people than I ever taught 
them, and I shall hold them gratefully and 
lovingly in my heart as long as I live. 
The pathetic battle of those tempted men 
with themselves ; the hardships of the fisher 
men, shipped for midwinter voyages ; rum 
on the wharves and rum on the vessel, mocking 
the vow of the newly-sobered man ; the distrusts 
and jealousies and obstacles flung in the way 
of " reformed men " by their own mates, or by 
respectable citizens who ought to have sunk 
to their knees with shame for deeds that I 
have known to be done ; and the persistent 
unpopularity of our efforts, an unpopularity 
that is known to all movements everywhere 
in the pursuance of what is called the 
temperance work, such things one remembers 
when the easy side of existence is forgotten. 
 
In the ultimate valuation of life, when soul and 
body are " put to the question," one may no 
longer feel concern about the creation of a 
style, or the verity of a literary school, or the 
importance of a light touch ; one may not re 
call the brilliant conversers of the choicest 
society one has known and valued ; possibly, 
even precious passion of study on sheltered 
winter days by open fires among one's dearest 
books, and with one's highest masters, may 
pass : who can tell ? 
I think there are things that will not pass, 
the look of a manly fellow when he has been 
sober for two years ; the expression in the eyes 
of his wife, and a word or two she said ; the 
sobs of a man who had " broken his pledge," 
and begged for his soul's life to be saved (a 
vulgar incident I grant you ! Did I claim that 
it was " Literature " ?) ; the eyes of the men 
when they stopped in the middle of an oath 
upon the wharves, and came in and finished 
the hymn that we were singing in the club- 
room ; and oh, the way the women looked ! 
these common scenes may last when every 
other brain-cell but those retaining them and 
such as they, has given back its impression to 
the great Engraver. 
