but Jackson could get the truth out of her, if any- 
body could. Sence I b'en up there I b'en figurin' it 
out like this : the broken shaft is the old JefE that 
he's left ofE bein'— " 
Whitwell stopped midway in his suggestion, with 
an inquiring eye on the painter, who asked, " You 
think he's left oflE being the old JefE? " 
" Well, sir, you got me there," the philosopher con- 
fessed. " I didn't see anything to the contrary, but 
come to think of it — •" 
" Why couldn't the broken shaft be his unfulfilled 
 
destiny on the old lines? What reason is there to 
believe he isn't what he's always been? " 
" Well, come to think of it — " 
" People don't change in a day, or a year," West- 
over went on, " or two or three years, even. Some- 
times I doubt if they ever change." 
"Well, all that I thought," Whitwell urged faintly 
against the hard scepticism of a man ordinarily so 
yielding, " is 't there must be a moral government of 
the universe somewheres, and if a bad feller is to get 
along and prosper hand over hand, that way, don't it 
look kind of as if — " 
"There wasn't any moral government of the uni- 
verse ? Not the way I see it," said Westover. " A 
tree brings forth of its kind. As a man sows he 
reaps. It's dead sure, pitilessly sure. JefE Durgin 
sowed success, in a certain way, and he's reaping it. 
He once said to me, when I tried to waken his con- 
science, that he should get where he was trying to go 
if he was strong enough, and being good had nothing 
to do with it. I believe now he was right. But he 
was wrong too, as such a man always is. That kind 
of tree bears Dead Sea apples, after all. He sowed 
evil and he must reap evil. He may never know it, 
but he will reap what he has sown. The dreadful 
thing is that others must share in his harvest. What 
do you think ? " 
Whitwell scratched his head. " Well, sir, there's 
something in what you say, I guess. But here! 
What's the use of thinkin' a man can't change ? 
Wa'n't there ever anything in that old idee of a 
 
change of heart ? What do you s'pose made JeflE let up 
on that feller that Jombateeste see him have down, that 
day, in my Clearin' ? What JeflE would natch'ly done 
would b'en to shate the life out of him ; but he didn't ; 
he let him up, and he let him go. What's the reason 
that wa'n't the beginnin' of a new life for him ? " 
" We don't know all the ins and outs of that busi- 
ness," said Westover after a moment. "I've puzzled 
over it a good deal. The man was the brother of that 
girl that JefE had jilted in Boston. I've found out 
that much. I don't know just the size and shape of 
the trouble between them, but JefE may have felt that 
he had got even with his enemy before that day. Or 
he may have felt that if he was going in for full sat- 
isfaction, there was Jombateeste looking on — " 
" That's true," said Whitwell, greatly daunted. 
After a while he took refuge in the reflection, " Well, 
he's a comical devil." 
Westover said, in a sort of absence : " Perhaps we're 
all broken shafts, here. Perhaps that old hypothesis 
of another life, a world where there is room enough 
and time enough for all the beginnings of this to com- 
plete themselves — " 
" Well, now you're shoutin'," said Whitwell. " And 
if plantchette — " Westover rose. " Why, a'n't you 
goin' to wait and see Cynthy ? I'm expectin' her along 
every minute now ; she's just gone down to Harvard 
Square. She'll be awfully put out when she knows 
you've be'n here." 
" I'll come out again soon," said Westover. " Tell 
her—" 
 
" Well, you must see your picture, anyway. We've 
got it in the parlor. I don't know what she'll say to 
me, keepin' you here in the settin'-room all the time." 
Whitwell led him into the little dark front hall, and 
into the parlor, less dim than it should have been be- 
cause the afternoon sun was burning full upon its 
shutters. The portrait hung over the mantel, in a 
bad light, but the painter could feel everything in it 
that he could not see. 
" Yes, it has that look in it." 
"Well, she ha'n't took wing yet, I'm thankful to 
think," said Whitwell, and he spoke from his own 
large mind to the sympathy of an old friend who he 
felt could almost share his feelings as a father. 
LV. 
When Westover turned out of the baking little 
street where the Whitwells lived into an elm-shaded 
stretch of North Avenue, he took ofi his hat and 
.strolled bareheaded along in the cooler air. He vfas 
disappointed not to have seen Cynthia, and yet he 
found himself hurrying away after his failure, with a 
sense of escape, or at least of respite. 
What he had come to say, to do, was the efEect of 
long experience and much meditation. The time had 
arrived when he could no longer feign to himself that 
his feelings towards the girl were not those of a lov- 
er, but he had his modest fears that she could never 
imagine him in that character, and that if he should 
ask her to do so he should shock and grieve her, and 
inflict upon himself an incurable wound. 
During this last absence of his he had let his fancy 
dwell constantly upon her, until life seemed worth 
having only if she would share it with him. He was 
an artist, and he had always been a bohemian, but at 
heart he was philistine and bourgeois. His ideal was 
a settlement, a fixed habitation, a stated existence, a 
home where he could work constantly in an air of af- 
 
fection, and uuselfisUy do his part to make his home 
happy. It was a very simple-hearted ambition, and 
I do not quite know how to keep it from appearing 
commonplace and almost sordid ; but such as it was, 
I must confess that it was his. He had not married 
his model, because he was mainly a landscapist, per- 
haps; and he had not married any of his pupils, be- 
cause he had not been in love with them, charming 
and good and lovely as he had thought some of them ; 
and of late he had realized more and more why his 
fancy had not turned in their direction. He perceived 
that it was already fixed, and possibly had long been 
fixed. 
He did not blink the fact that there were many dis- 
parities, and that there would be certain disadvantages 
which could never be quite overcome. The fact had 
been brought rather strenuously home to him by his 
interview with Cynthia's father. He perceived, as in- 
deed he had always known, that with a certain im- 
aginative lift in his thinking and feeling, Whitwell 
was irreparably rustic, that he was and always must 
be practically Yankee. Westover was not a Yankee, 
and he did not love or honor the type, though its 
struggles against itself touched and amused him. It 
made him a little sick to hear how Whitwell had prof- 
ited by Durgin's necessity, and had taken advantage 
of him with conscientious and self-applausive rapacity, 
while he admired his prosperity, and tried to account 
for it by doubt of its injustice. For a moment this 
seemed to him worse than Durgin's conscientious 
toughness, which was the antithesis of Whitwell's re- 
 
morseless self-interest. For the moment this claimed 
Cycthia of its kind, and Westover beheld her rustic 
and Yankee -of her father's type. If she was not that 
now, she would grow into that through the lapse from 
the personal to the ancestral which we all undergo in 
the process of the years. 
The sight of her face as he had pictured it, and of 
the soul which he had imagined for it, restored him to 
a better sense of her, but he felt the need of escaping 
from the suggestion of her father's presence, and tak- 
ing further thought. Perhaps he should never again 
reach the point that he was aware of deflecting from 
now ; he filled his lungs with long breaths, which he 
exhaled in sighs of relief. It might have been a mis- 
take on the spiritual as well as the worldly side ; it 
would certainly not have promoted his career ; it might 
have impeded it. These misgivings flitted over the 
surface of thought that more profoundly was occupied 
with a question of other things. In the time since he 
had seen her last it might very well be that a young 
and pretty girl had met some one who had taken her 
fancy ; and he could not be sure that her fancy had 
ever been his, even if this had not happened. He had 
no proof at all that she had ever cared or could care 
for him except gratefully, respectfully, almost rever- 
entially, with that mingling of filial and maternal anx- 
iety which had hitherto been the warmest expression 
of her regard. He tried to reason it out, and could 
not. He suddenly found himself bitterly disappointed 
that he had missed seeing her, for if they had met, he 
would have know a by this time what to think, what to 
hope. He felt old — lie felt fully thirty-six years old — 
as he passed his hand over his crown, whose gossamer 
growth opposed so little resistance to his- touch. He 
had begun to lose his hair early, but till then he had 
not much regretted his baldness. He entered into a 
little question of their comparative ages, which led him 
to the conclusion that Cynthia must now be about 
twenty-five. 
Almost at the same moment he saw her coming up 
the walk towards him from far down the avenue. For 
a reason, or rather a motive, of his own he pretended 
to himself that it was not she, but he knew instantly 
that it was, and he put on his hat. He could see that 
she did not know him, and it was a pretty thing to 
witness the recognition dawn on her. When it had 
its full efEect, he was aware of a flutter, a pause in her 
whole figure before she came on towards him, and he 
hurried his steps for the charm of her blushing, beau- 
tiful face. 
It was the spiritual effect of figure and face that he 
had carried in his thought ever since he had arrived at 
that one-sided intimacy through his study of her for 
the picture he had just seen. He had often had to 
