talking about Joan's great talents, and he said, ''But, 
greatest of all her gifts, she has the seeing eye." I said, 
like an unthinking fool, ''The seeing eye? — I shouldn't 
count that for much ; I suppose we all have it." ''No," 
he said; "very few have it." Then he explained, and 
made his meaning clear. He said the common eye sees 
only the outside of things, and judges by that ; but the 
seeing eye pierces through and reads the heart and the 
soul, finding there capacities which the outside didn't indi- 
cate or promise, and which the other kind of eye couldn't 
detect. He said the mightiest military genius must fail 
and come to nothing if it have not the seeing eye — that is 
to say, if it cannot read men and select its subordinates 
with an infallible judgment. It sees as by intuition that 
this man is good for strategy, that one for dash and dare- 
devil assault, the other for patient bull-dog persistence, 
and it appoints each to his right place and wins ; while 
the commander without the seeing eye would give to each 
the other's place and lose. He was right about Joan, and 
I saw it. When she was a child and the tramp came one 
night, her father and all of us took him for a rascal, but 
she saw the honest man through the rags. When I dined 
with the governor of Vaucouleurs so long ago, I saw 
nothing in our two knights, though I sat with them 
and talked with them two hours ; Joan was there fivej 
minutes, and neither spoke with them nor heard therrij 
speak, yet she marked them for men of worth and fidelity, 
and they have confirmed her judgment. Whom has she! 
sent for to take charge of this thundering rabble of new 
recruits at Blois, made up of old disbanded Armagnac 
raiders, unspeakable hellions, every one? Why, she has 
sent for Satan himself — that is to say, La Hire — that 
military hurricane, that godless swashbuckler, that lurid con-j 
flagration of blasphemy, that Vesuvius of profanity, for
ever in eruption. Does he know how to deal with thai 
mob of roaring" devils ? Better than any man that lives ; 
for he is the head devil of this world his own self, he is the 
match of the whole of them combined, and probably the 
father of most of them. She places him in temporary 
command until she can get to Blois herself — and then ! 
Why, then she will certainly take them in hand personally, 
or I don't know her as well as I ought to, after all these 
years of intimacy. That will be a sight to see — that fair 
spirit in her white armour, delivering her will to that 
muck-heap, that rag-pile, that abandoned refuse of per- 
dition.' 
' La Hire ! ' cried Noel, ' our hero of all these years — I 
do want to see that man ! ' 
' I too. His name stirs me just as it did when I was a 
little boy.' 
' I want to hear him swear.' 
' Of course. I would rather hear him swear than 
another man pray. He is the frankest man there is, and 
the naivest. Once when he was rebuked for pillaging on 
his raids, he said it was nothing. I judge he is the right 
man to take temporary charge there at Blois. Joan has 
cast the seeing eye upon him, you see.' 
' Which brings us back to where we started. I have 
an honest affection for the Paladin, and not merely because 
he is a good fellow, but because he is my child — I made 
him what he is, the windiest blusterer and most catholic 
liar in the kingdom. I'm glad of his luck, but I hadn't the 
seeing" eye. I shouldn't have chosen him for the most 
dangerous post in the army ; I should have placed him in 
the rear to kill the wounded and violate the dead.' 
' Well, we shall see. Joan probably knows what is in 
him better than we do. And I'll give you another idea. 
When a person in Joan of Arc's position tells a man he is 
brave, he believes it, and believing it is enough ; in fact, to 
believe yourself brave is to be brave ; it is the one only 
essential thing.' 
' Now you've hit it ! ' cried Noel. ' She's got the 
creating mouth as well as the seeing eye ! Ah yes, that 
is the thing. France was cowed and a coward ; Joan of 
Arc has spoken, and France is marching, with her head 
up!' 
I was summoned now, to write a letter from Joan's 
dictation. During the next day and night our several 
uniforms were made by the tailors, and our new armour 
provided. We were beautiful to look upon now, whether 
clothed for peace or war. Clothed for peace, in costly 
stuffs and rich colours, the Paladin was a tower dyed with 
the glories of the sunset ; plumed and sashed and iron-clad 
for war, he was a still statelier thing to look at. 
Orders had been issued for the march towards Blois. 
It was a clear, sharp, beautiful morning. As our showy 
great company trotted out in column, riding two and two, 
Joan and the Duke of Alenon in the lead, D'Aulon and the 
big standard-bearer next, and so on, we made a handsome 
spectacle as you may well imagine ; and as we ploughed 
through the cheering crowds, with Joan bowing her plumed 
head to left and right and the sun glinting from her silver 
mail, the spectators realised that the curtain was rolling up 
before their eyes upon the first act of a prodigious drama, 
and their rising hopes were expressed in an enthusiasm 
that increased with each moment, until at last one seemed 
to even physically feel the concussion of the huzzas as well 
as hear them. Far down the street we heard the softened 
strains of wind-blown music, and saw a cloud of lancers 
moving, the sun glowing with a subdued light upon the 
massed armour but striking bright upon the soaring lance- 
heads — a vaguely luminous nebula, so to speak, with a 
constellation twinkling above it — and that was our guard 
of honour. It joined us, the procession was complete, the 
first war-march of Joan of Arc was begun, the curtain was 
up. 
CHAPTER XII 
We were at Blois three days. Oh, that camp, it is one of 
the treasures of my memory ! Order ? There was no more 
order among those brigands than there is among the wolves 
and the hyenas. They went roaring and drinking about, 
whooping, shouting, swearing, and entertaining themselves 
with all manner of rude and riotous horse-play ; and the 
place was full of loud and lewd women, and they were no 
whit behind the men for romps and noise and fantastics. 
It was in the midst of this wild mob that Noel and I 
had our first glimpse of La Hire. He answered to our 
dearest dreams. He was of great size and of martial bear- 
ing, he was cased in mail from head to heel, with a bushel 
of swishing plumes on his helmet, and at his side the vast 
sword of the time. 
He was on his way to pay his respects in state to Joan, 
and as he passed through the camp he was restoring order, 
and proclaiming that the Maid was come, and he would 
have no such spectacle as this exposed to the head of 
the army. His way of creating order was his own, not 
borrowed. He did it with his great fists. As he moved 
along swearing and admonishing, he let drive this way, 
that way, and the other, and wherever his blow landed, a 
man went down. 
' Damn you ! ' he said, ' staggering and cursing around 
like this, and the Commander-in-Chief in the camp ! 
Straighten up ! ' and he laid the man flat. What his idea 
of straightening up was, was his own secret. 
We followed the veteran to headquarters, listening, 
observing, admiring — yes, devouring, you may say, the pet 
hero of the boys of France from our cradles up to that 
happy day, and their idol and ours. I called to mind how 
Joan had once rebuked the Paladin, there in the pastures of 
Domremy, for uttering lightly those mighty names, La Hire 
and the Bastard of Orleans, and how she said that if she 
could but be permitted to stand afar off and let her eyes 
rest once upon those great men, she would hold it a 
privilege. They were to her and the other girls just what 
they were to the boys. Well, here was one of them at last 
— and what was his errand ? It was hard to realise it, and 
yet it was true ; he was coming to uncover his head before 
her and take her orders. 
While he was quieting a considerable group of his 
brigands in his soothing way, near headquarters, we stepped 
on ahead and got a glimpse of Joan's military family, the 
great chiefs of the army, |for they had all arrived now. 
There they were, six officers of wide renown, handsome 
men in beautiful armour, but the Lord High Admiral of 
France was the handsomest of them all and had the most 
gallant bearing. 
When La Hire entered, one could see the surprise in his 
face at Joan's beauty and extreme youth, and one could 
see, too, by Joan's glad smile, that it made her happy to 
get sight of this hero of her childhood at last. La Hire 
bowed low, with his helmet in his gauntleted hand, and 
made a bluff but handsome little speech with hardly an oath 
in it, and one could see that those two took to each other 
on the spot. 
The visit of ceremony was soon over, and the others 
went away ; but La Hire stayed, and he and Joan sat there, 
and he sipped her wine, and they talked and laughed 
together like old friends. And presently she gave him 
some instructions, in his quality as master of the camp, 
which made his breath stand still. For, to begin with, she 
said that all those loose women must pack out of the place 
at once, she wouldn't allow one of them to remain. Next, 
the rough carousing must stop, drinking must be brought 
within proper and strictly defined limits, and discipline must 
take the place of disorder. And finally she climaxed the 
list of surprises with this — which nearly lifted him out of 
his armour : 
' Every man who joins my standard must confess before 
the priest and absolve himself from sin ; and all accepted 
recruits must be present at divine service twice a day.' 
La Hire could not say a word for a good part of a 
minute, then he said, in deep dejection : 
' Oh, sweet child, they were littered in hell, these poor 
darlings of mine I Attend mass ? Why, dear heart, they'll 
see us both damned first ! ' 
And he went on, pouring out a most pathetic stream of 
arguments and blasphemy, which broke Joan all up, and 
made her laugh as she had not laughed since she played in 
the Domremy pastures. It was good to hear. 
But she stuck to her point ; so the soldier yielded, and 
said all right, if such were the orders he must obey, and 
would do the best that was in him ; then he refreshed him- 
self with a lurid explosion of oaths, and said that if any man 
in the camp refused to renounce sin and lead a pious life, 
he would knock his head off. That started Joan off again : 
she was really having a good time, you see. But she would 
not consent to that form of conversions. She said they 
must be voluntary. 
La Hire said that that was all right, he wasn't going to 
kill the voluntary ones, but only the others. 
