brow. He shook with relief. From that moment 
he felt no more concern about the service than if he 
had engaged one of the sons of God to " supply." 
" Are you faint ? " asked his wife in a tone of 
annoyance. She offered him her smelling-salts. 
Had there existed stenographic records of that 
sermon, this narrative, necessarily so defective, 
would have no occasion for its being. One of the 
most interesting things about the whole matter is 
that no such records can to-day be found. Report 
ers certainly were in the gallery. The journals had 
sent their picked men as usual, and no more. 
Where, then, were their columns of verbal record ? 
Why has so important a discourse gone afloat upon 
vague, conflicting rumor? No person knows; the 
reporters least of all. One, it is said, lost his 
position for the default of that report; others 
received the severest rebukes of their experience 
from their managing editors for the same cause. 
None had any satisfactory reason to give for his 
failure. 
" I forgot,' said he who lost his position for his 
boyish excuse. " All I can say, sir, is I forgot. 
The man swept me away. I forgot that such a 
paper as The Daily Gossip existed. Other matters,'
he added with expensive candor, "seemed 
more important at the time." 
"When the Son of Man cometh, shall he find 
faith on the earth ? " 
The stranger announced this not unusual text 
with the simple manner of a man who promised 
nothing eccentric in the sermon to come. Yet 
something in the familiar words arrested attention. 
The phrase, as it was spoken, seemed less a hackneyed
biblical quotation than a pointed personal 
question to which each heart in the audience-room 
was compelled to respond. 
The preacher began quietly. He reminded his 
hearers in a few words of the true nature of the 
Christian religion, whose interests he was there to 
represent. One felt that he spoke with tact, and 
with the kind of dignity belonging to the enthusiast 
of a great moral movement. It occurred to one, 
perhaps for the first time, that it was quite manly 
in a Christian preacher to plead his cause with as 
much ardor as the reformer, the philanthropist, the 
politician, or the devotee of a mystical and fashion 
able cult. One became really interested in the 
character and aims of the Christian faith ; it did 
not fall below the dignity of a Browning society, 
or a study in theosophy or hypnotism. The attention
of the audience from the start definitely 
respectful became reverent, and thus absorbed. 
It was not until he had his hearers thoroughly in 
his power that the preacher's manner underwent the 
remarkable change of which Saint Agatha's talks in 
whispers to this day. He spoke entirely without 
manuscript or note, and he had not left the lectern. 
Suddenly folding his hands upon the great Bible, 
he paused, and, as if the audience had been one 
man, he looked it in the eye. 
Then, like the voice of the living God, his words 
began to smite them. What was the chancel of 
Saint Agatha s? The great white throne? And 
who was he who dared to cry from it, like the 
command of the Eternal? Sin! Sinners! Shame! 
Guilt ! Disgrace ! Punishment ! What words were 
these for the delicate ears of Saint Agatha's? 
What had these silken ladies and gilded men to do 
with such ugly phrases? Smiles stiffened upon 
refined, protesting faces. The haughty under lip 
of the vestryman's wife, and a hundred others like 
it, dropped. A moral dismay seized the exclusive 
people whom the preacher called to account like 
any vulgar audience. But the shabby woman in 
the " poor " seats humbly wept, and the young 
reporter who lost his position cast his eyes upon the 
ground, for the tears that sprang to them. From 
the delicate fingers of the vestryman's wife the 
smelling-salts fell upon the cushioned seat ; she held 
her feathered fan against her face. Her husband 
did not even notice this. He sat with head bowed 
upon the rail before him, as a good man does when 
reconsecrating himself at the communion hour. 
The choir rustled uneasily in their seats. The 
soprano covered her eyes with her well-gloved hand, 
and thought of the follies and regrets (she called 
them by these names) that beset the musical 
temperament. But the tenor turned his face away, 
and thought about his wife. Down the avenue, in 
the room of the " shut-in " woman, where the tele- 
phone carried the preacher's voice, a pathetic cry 
was heard : 
" Forgive ! Forgive ! Oh, if suffering had but 
made me better ! " 
But now the preacher's manner of address had 
changed again. Always remembering that it is now 
impossible to quote his language with any accuracy, 
we may venture to say that it ran in some such way 
as this : 
The Son of God, being of the Father, performed 
his Father's business. What do ye who bear his 
name ? What holy errands are ye about ? What 
miracles of consecration have ye wrought ? What 
marvels of the soul's life have ye achieved upon the 
earth since he left it to your trust ? 
He came to the sinful and the unhappy ; the 
despised and rejected were his friends ; to the poor 
he preached the Gospel ; the sick, and overlooked, 
and cast-out, the unloved and forgotten, the un 
fashionable and unpopular, he selected. These to 
his church on earth he left in charge. These he 
cherished. For such he had lived. For them he 
had suffered. For them he died. People of Saint 
Agatha's, where are they ? What have ye done to 
his beloved? Thou ancient church, honored and 
privileged and blessed among men, where are those 
little ones whom thy Master chose ? Up and down 
these godly aisles a man might look, he said, and 
see them not. Prosperity and complacency he saw 
before him ; poverty and humility he did not see. 
In the day when habit cannot reply for duty, what 
account will ye give of your betrayed trust? Will 
ye say : " Lord, we had a mission chapel. The 
curate is responsible for the lower classes. And, 
Lord, we take up the usual collections ; Saint Agatha's 
has always been called a generous church"? 
In the startled hush that met these preposterous 
words the preacher drew himself to his full height, 
and raised his hand. He had worn the white gown 
throughout the day's services, and the garment 
folded itself about his figure majestically. In the 
name of Christ, then, he commanded them : Where 
were those whom their Lord did love? Go, seek 
them. Go, find the saddest, sickest souls in ah  the 
town. Hasten, for the time is short. Search, for 
the message is of God. Church of Christ, produce 
his people to me, for I speak no more words before 
their substitutes ! 
Thus and there, abruptly, the preacher cast his 
audience from him, and disappeared from the chaneel. 
The service broke in consternation. The 
celebrated choir was not called upon to close the 
morning's worship. The soprano and the tenor 
exchanged glances of neglected dismay. The 
prayer-book remained unopened on the sacred desk. 
The desk itself was empty. The audience was, in 
fact, authoritatively dismissed dismissed without 
a benediction, like some obscure or erring thing that 
did not deserve it. 
The people stared in one another's faces for an 
astounded moment, and then, without words, with 
hanging heads, they moved to the open air and 
melted out of the church. 
The sexton rushed up to the vestryman, pale with 
fear. 
"Sir," he whispered, "he is not in the vestry- 
room. He has taken himself away God knows 
whither. What are we to do ? " 
" Trust him," replied the church officer, with a 
face of peace, " and God who sent him. Who he 
may be, I know no more than you ; but that he is 
a man of God I know. He is about his Father's 
business. Do not meddle with it." 
" Lord forbid ! " cried the sexton. " I d sooner 
meddle with something I can understand." 
Upon the afternoon of that long-remembered 
Sunday there was seen in Saint Agatha's the 
strangest sight that those ancient walls had 
witnessed since the corner-stone was laid with a silver 
trowel in the name of the Father and of the Son 
and of the Holy Ghost "whom we, this people, 
worship." 
Before the chimes rang for the vesper service, 
the house was filled. Before the bronze lips of the 
bells were mute, the pews were packed. Before the 
stranger reappeared, the nave and the transept over 
flowed. The startled sexton was a leaf before the 
wind of the surging crowd. He could not even 
enforce the fire-laws, and the very aisles were 
jammed. Who carried the story? How do such 
wraiths of rumors fly ? 
Every member of that church not absent from 
town or known to be ill in his bed sought his pew 
that afternoon. Many indeed left their sick-rooms 
to be present at that long-remembered service. But 
no man or woman of these came alone. Each 
brought a chosen companion ; many, two or three ; 
some came accompanied by half a dozen worshipers : 
and upon these invited guests Saint Agatha's looked 
with an astonishment that seemed to be half shame ; 
for up those velvet aisles there moved an array of 
human faces at which the very angels and virtues 
in the painted windows seemed to turn their heads 
and stare. 
Such wretchedness, such pallor, hunger, cold, 
envy, sickness, sin, and shame were as unknown to 
those dedicated and decorated walls as the inmates 
of hell. Rags and disease, uncleanliness and woe 
and want, trod the house of God as if they had the 
