the winter."
Ophelia came home, she was Mrs. Davis now, and they had a grand party
with music and dancing and a supper, and Nora wore her pretty new silk
frock. Then Mrs. Davis went down-town to be near her husband's business,
and started housekeeping in three rooms.
The next great event on the block was a children's party. They were
children then until they were at least sixteen. Miss Lily Ludlow and her
sister had ten dollars sent to each of them as a Christmas gift. Chris
went out straightway and bought a new coat. Lily's was new the winter
before. There were a great many things she needed, but most of all she
wanted a party. She had been to two already.
"What a silly idea!" said her father.
But Lily kept tight hold of her idea and her money, and the last of
January, with Chris' help, she brought it about. They took the bedstead
out of the back parlor and changed the furniture around. And though her
mother called it foolishness, she baked some tiny biscuits and made a
batch of crullers and boiled a ham. Lily bought fancy cakes, mottoes,
candies, and nuts, and a few oranges which were very expensive.
The Underhill boys were invited, of course. Benny said "he didn't
believe he would go. He shouldn't know what to do at a party."
"Why, follow your nose," laughed Jim. "Do just as the rest do. Don't be
a gump!"
"And I hate to be fooling round girls."
"You don't seem to mind Dele Whitney. You're just cracked about her."
I don't know how the boys of that day managed without the useful and
pithy word "mashed."
"It's no such thing, Jim Underhill! She's always down-stairs with her
mother. I go in to see Mr. Theodore;" yet Ben's face was scarlet.
"You know you like her," teasingly.
"I do like her. And it's awful mean not to ask her when she's in the
same crowd and lives on the block. But she doesn't care. She wouldn't
go."
"Sour grapes." Jim made a derisive face.
"You shut up about it."
"Don't get wrathy, Benjamin Franklin."
When his mother said "Benny Frank," he thought it the best name in the
whole world. Perhaps part was due to his mother's tone. And Ben was a
splendid boy's name. But his schoolmates did torment him. They asked him
if he had finished his roll, and if he had any to give away. They
pestered him about flying his kite, and inquired what he said to the
King of France when he went abroad--if it was "parley vous de donkey."
If there is anything the average school-boy can turn into ridicule he
does it. When Jim wanted to be exasperating he gave him his whole name.
And then Ben wished he had been called plain John, even if there had
been two in the family.
But the day of the party Jim coaxed him, and Jim could be irresistible.
Then Margaret said: "Oh, yes, I think I would go." She fixed up both of
the boys, and scented their handkerchiefs with her "triple extract," and
hoped they would have a nice time, insisting that one needn't be afraid
of girls.
Of course they did, especially Jim. He was in for all the fun and
frolic, and the kissing didn't worry him a bit when the "forfeits" were
announced. He didn't mind how deep he "stood in the well," nor how high
the tree was from which they "picked cherries." Ben could rise to an
emergency if he was not praying for it every moment.
Chris was a great card. She could not help wishing that she knew enough
young people in her social round to ask to a party. There were enough
young ladies, but a "hen party" wasn't much fun. She made herself very
agreeable to the Underhill boys, and wished in the sweetest of tones
"that she did know their sister Margaret."
There were a good many imperfect lessons the next day, but the party was
the great topic. Hosts of girls were "mad."
"I couldn't ask everybody. The house wouldn't hold them," declared Lily.
But she took great comfort in thinking she had "paid out" several girls
against whom she had a little grudge. And the "left-outs" declared they
wouldn't have gone anyhow. It must be admitted that the party did
advance Lily socially.
The family had hardly recovered from this spasm of gayety when Stephen
insisted that Margaret should go to a Valentine's ball at the Astor
House, to be given to the ladies by a club of bachelors. He was going to
take Dolly. Mrs. Bond would be there, and Dolly came up to coax her
prospective mother-in-law. "Margaret had not gone into any society and
was only a school-girl, altogether too young to have her head filled
with such nonsense," with many more reasons and conjunctions. Dolly was
so sweet and persuasive, and said the simplest white gown would do,
young girls really didn't dress much. Then Margaret would have it ready
for her graduation. They would be sure to send her home early and take
the best of care of her.
Joe said: "Why, of course she must go. It wasn't like being among
strangers with Dolly and her people." So the boys and Dolly carried the
day. All the while Margaret's heart beat with an unaccustomed throb. She
did not really know whether she wanted to go or not.
St. Valentine's Day was held in high repute then. You sent your best
girl the prettiest valentine your purse could afford, and she laid it
away in lavender to show to her children. Bashful young fellows often
asked the momentous question in that manner. There were some lovely
ones, with original verses written in, for there were young bards in
those days who struggled over birthday and valentine verses, and who
would have scorned second-hand protestations.
Though Margaret didn't get any valentines the little girl received three
that were extremely pretty. She asked Steve if he didn't send one.
"Oh, dear," he answered, as if he were amazed at the question, "I had to
spend all my money buying Dolly one." And Joe pretended to be so
surprised. He had spent his money for Margaret's sash and gloves and
bunch of flowers. Even John would not own up to the soft impeachment
and declared, "Your lovers sent them."
"But I haven't any lovers," said the little girl, in all innocence.
She used to read them to her mother, and ask her which she thought came
from Steve, which from Joe and John. It was quite funny, though, that
Nora Whitney had one exactly like one of hers. And even Mr. Theodore
declared he didn't send them.
Margaret looked like an angel, the little girl thought. Her white
cashmere frock was simply made, with a lace frill about the neck and at
the edge of the short sleeves. Her broad blue satin sash was elegant.
Miss Cynthia came and plaited her beautiful hair in a marvellous
openwork sort of braid, and she had two white roses and a silver arrow
in it. Her slippers were white kid, her gloves had just a cream tint,
and Miss Cynthia brought her own opera cloak, which was light brocaded
silk, wadded and edged with swans-down.
Joe looked just splendid, the little girl decided. If she could only
have seen Dolly!
The Beekman coach was sent up for Margaret, who kissed her little sister
and went off like Cinderella!
"Oh, do you suppose she will meet the king's son?" asked Hanny, all
excitement.
"Oh, child, what nonsense!" exclaimed her mother.
It wasn't the king's son; but young Doctor Hoffman was there, and
Margaret danced several times with him. They talked so much about Joe
that Margaret felt very friendly with him.
After that the world ran on in snow, in sunshine, and in rain. The days
grew longer. March was rough and blowy. Mother Underhill had to go up in
the country for a week, for Grandfather Van Kortlandt died. He had been
out of health and paralyzed for a year or two. Aunt Katrina had been
staying there, and they would go on in the old house until spring. She
was grandmother's sister. Of course no one could feel very sorry about
poor old Uncle Nickie, as he was called. He had always been rather
queer, and was no comfort to himself, for he had lost his mind, but
everybody admitted that grandmother had done her duty, and the Van
Kortlandt children, grown men and women, thanked her for all her good
care.
Oh, what fun the children had on the first of April! What rags were
pinned to people--what shrieks of "My cat's got a long tail!" And there
on the sidewalk would lay a tempting half-dollar with a string out of
sight, and when the pedestrian stooped to pick it up--presto! how it
would vanish. When one enterprising wight put his foot on it and picked
it up triumphantly the boys called out:
"April fool! That's an awful sell, mister! It's a bad half-dollar."
They watched and saw him bite it and throw it down. Then they went after
it and had their fun over and over again. Stephen had given the
half-dollar to Jim with strict injunctions not to attempt to pass it or
he'd get a "hiding," which no one ever did in the Underhill family. Mrs.
Underhill declared "'Milyer was as easy as an old shoe, and she didn't
see what had kept the children from going to ruin." Joe always insisted
"it was pure native goodness."
Then they called out to the carters and other wagoners: "Oh, mister,
say! Your wheel's goin' round!" And sometimes without understanding the
driver would look and hear the shout.
They had another trick they played out in the Bowery. Boys had a
reprehensible trick of "cutting behind," as the stages had two steps at
the back, and the boys used to spring on them and steal rides. It was
such a sight of fun to dodge the whip and spring off at the right
moment. Sometimes a cross-grained passenger who had been a very good boy
in his youth would tell.
On this day they didn't steal the ride. They called out with great
apparent honesty: "Cuttin' behind, driver--two boys!"
Then the driver would slash his whip furiously, and even the passers-by
would enjoy the joke. Of course you could only play that once on each
driver.
Altogether it was a day of days. You were fooled, of course; no one was
smart enough to keep quite clear. But almost everybody was good-natured
about it. Martha found some eggs that had been "blown," and a potato
filled with ashes, and there were inventions that would have done credit
to the "pixies."
The little girl would not go out to play in the afternoon, and she
didn't even run when Jim said, "Nora wanted her for something special."
But she really had no conscience about fooling her father several times.
He pretended to be so surprised, and said, "Oh, you little witch!" It
was a day on which you had need to keep your wits about you.
Then with the long days and the sunshine came so many things. Little
girls skipped rope and rolled hoops, their guiding-sticks tied with a
bright ribbon. The boys had iron hoops and an iron guider, and they made
a musical jingle as they went along. There were kites too, but you
didn't catch Benny Frank flying one. And marbles and ball. In the
afternoon the streets seemed alive with children. But what would those
people have said to the five-story tenement-houses with their motley
crew! Then Ludlow and Allen and many another street wore such a clean
and quaint aspect, and the ladies sat at their parlor windows in the
afternoon sewing and watching their little ones.
"Ring-a-round-a-rosy" began again. And dear me, there were so many
signs! You must not step on a crack in the flagging or something
dreadful would happen to you. And you mustn't pick up a pin with the
point toward you or you would surely be disappointed. If the head was
toward you, you could pick it up and make a wish which would be sure to
come to pass. You must cut your finger-nails Monday morning before
breakfast and you would get a present before the week was out. And if
you walked straight to school that morning you were likely to have good
lessons, but if you loitered or stopped to play or were late, bad luck
would follow you all the week. And the little girls used to say:
    "Lesson, lesson, come to me,
    Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, three,
    Thursday, Friday, then you may
    Have a rest on Saturday,"
So you see a little girl's life was quite a weighty matter.
That summer political excitement ran high. Indeed, it had begun in the
winter. A new party had nominated Mr. James Harper for mayor, and in
the spring he had been elected. Mr. Theodore used to pause and discuss
men and measures now that it was getting warm enough to sit out on the
stoop and read your paper. Country habits were not altogether tabooed.
But what impressed his honor the mayor most strongly on the little
girl's mind was something Aunt Nancy Archer, who was now an earnest
