Her shame at the whole thing was not her own secret. That made it worse.
Her father's friends knew very well that Tebaldo often came to the house
and was in love with her, and had not been rebuffed. The lieutenant of
carabineers himself generally came once a week to pay a visit, for he
liked Basili. All the townsfolk knew it. It was a reproach, and a public
one, it was a blot on her good name, and she felt it all the more
painfully because she had never done anything to be ashamed of.
Again and again, through the night and in the morning, the burning
tears of anger at herself ran over and scalded her cheeks, and then
dried as her anger rose against Tebaldo.
This morning she had just been through one of these storms of tears in
the solitude of her room, when Gesualda knocked at the door. Poor, ugly
Gesualda, whose innocent little sin of eating an orange on the stairs
one day had started the avalanche of fate that ended in the destruction
of Mauro's band, the death of Francesco Pagliuca, and the ruin of
Tebaldo, would have died of horror had she known that all these things
were the direct consequences of Basili's broken leg, which had brought
Aliandra to Randazzo, followed by the two brothers.
She entered quietly and stupidly enough.
'Signorina,' she said, 'dry your eyes, for there is one who would speak
with you downstairs.'
'Who is it?' asked Aliandra, impatiently. 'Will they ever let me alone?
What does he want?'
'Do not be angry, signorina,' answered the woman. 'It is a young
gentleman from Messina, who has a parcel for you in his hands and begs
that you will kindly receive it yourself.'
'A parcel from Messina? Well--' Aliandra hesitated, but her curiosity
was roused. 'Tell him that I will come down immediately,' she concluded.
A few minutes later she descended the stairs, having plunged her face
into cold water and done her best to remove the traces of her tears. She
entered the front room and met a girlish-looking youth with close and
curling brown hair, and extremely well dressed in light grey. A rather
delicate hand held out a parcel to her, as he bowed respectfully.
'I was commissioned to hand you this parcel, signorina,' said the
Moscio. 'It is from one of your greatest admirers.'
'From whom is it?' she asked quickly, as she took the heavy little
package.
'That is your friend's secret. He only begs that you will open it when
you are alone. It contains a little surprise for you. I thank you for
your kindness in receiving me, signorina. Good morning.'
He bowed and moved quickly towards the door.
'But you, signore--what is your name? I am infinitely obliged--'
'My name is Angelo Laria, signorina. Good morning.'
Before she could stop him, he had left the room, and she heard the front
door shut immediately afterwards. She looked out through the closed
blinds, and there was no one within sight. It was as though she had
dreamed of the visitor.
Then she felt the package, shook it, weighed it, began to undo it,
changed her mind, and went swiftly up the stairs to her own room. It
might be an ornament or a jewel, she thought, sent to the celebrated
singer by an unknown admirer--possibly the well-dressed young gentleman
who had brought it was himself the giver, in spite of what he said. At
all events she would look at it in private. She bolted the door of her
room, sat down near the window in order to have plenty of light, and
opened the parcel carefully.
It contained a letter sealed, addressed to her, and folded round the
black leathern sheath of Tebaldo's knife. She took the letter in one
hand and the knife in the other, turning over the latter curiously. But
she was too much a Sicilian not to have heard of such messages, and she
guessed that the letter contained either a threat or a warning. She tore
open the envelope and read the contents eagerly. There were two large
sheets, tolerably closely written in excellent handwriting, and
beginning as follows:--
'Signorina,--We, who are beyond laws, do not betray even our enemies to
the law, much less our friends. We have little, but we have honour. The
man to whom this knife belonged has neither, and against him, and such
as he, we warn women like yourself, who are young, beautiful, and
honest. These words are not written to the incomparable artist, the
matchless singer, the wonder of Sicily, and the pride of the nation.
They are addressed to you--simply as Aliandra Basili, an honourable
Sicilian maiden, the daughter of an honest Sicilian notary. It is known
to us all that you have put your faith and trust in Tebaldo Pagliuca.
Consider what is here written, your own honour and your father's name,
and do not marry one who has betrayed his friends to death and
captivity, and who, moreover, murdered his own brother with the weapon I
now place in your hands. Judas was an honourable man compared with your
betrothed husband, Tebaldo Pagliuca.'
Aliandra stopped at this point, read the last sentences again, and
glanced at the knife she still held in one hand. With a movement of
horror and disgust she threw it from her. Then she hesitated, rose,
picked it up, and hid it in a drawer before she continued reading.
The letter went on to tell the story of the last four days in detail,
from the time when Tebaldo had sent for the Moscio to sup with him at
the inn, till Tebaldo's departure from Randazzo. Aliandra did not pause
till she reached the last sentences, but there was the bright red flush
of anger and shame in her cheeks. There is perhaps no such cruel shame
in human nature as that a woman feels at the disgrace of the man she has
accepted as husband or lover. She paused, bit her lips, and then read to
the end.
'This is not an anonymous letter, signorina. I who write to you am known
as the Moscio, but many people call me Angelo Laria. I am he who by a
miracle escaped from the massacre the night before last, when all my
friends were dead or taken and I had not a shot left to fire. When I
leave you I am going to the inn where Tebaldo Pagliuca stayed, for I
will not send such a letter as this and then slink away like a thief. It
is in your power, if you have read this at once, to inform the
authorities and have me taken. I am not even armed. We, who have no law,
do not betray our friends, but we warn our women against such men as
Tebaldo Pagliuca, and we know that they will not betray us treacherously
as he did.'
There was no signature, for none was necessary. There were few in Sicily
who had not heard the name of the Moscio, and many strangely romantic
stories were told of him. Some may think that, considering what the man
was, Aliandra should have delivered him up forthwith to justice. She
would as soon have stabbed her father in the back.
But gradually, as she leaned back in her chair, staring at the wall,
the angry flush subsided from her cheeks and a dreamy look came into her
face.
'This outlaw is at least a man and a brave one,' she said to herself, as
she thought of him.
The Moscio was quite safe, so far as she was concerned. She folded the
letter carefully, returning it to its envelope, and then, taking the
stout paper in which it had been wrapped, she opened the drawer, took
the knife and rolled it up with the letter again, tying it, as she had
received it. After that she took sealing-wax and sealed it with the
little emblem of Sicily which she carried on a thin chain with other
trinkets--the three legs growing out of a human head, for the three
capes of the triangular island.
Tebaldo had disappeared without a word, and she naturally believed that
he had gone to Rome to escape the vengeance of the Moscio and of any
friends the latter might have. Aliandra was sure he must know that she
would never see him again, for though many of the details written by the
outlaw were new to her, besides the main fact of Francesco's murder, the
fact of the betrayal of the band by Tebaldo was public property. He had
gone to Rome without so much as attempting to defend himself.
And now she had in her hands the proofs that Tebaldo had killed his
brother, or what she believed to be proofs, though the law might have
thought differently. She had, at least, the certainty, for it did not
enter her head that the Moscio could be trying to deceive her.
Yet she would not take these proofs to the deputy prefect, nor show them
to her father. She was not a detective. The idea of giving the murderer
up was repugnant to her, though in a less degree than the thought of
informing against the Moscio himself. She wondered what Tebaldo would do
next.
Thinking it over, she came to the rather unexpected conclusion that he
had gone to Rome in order to marry the American heiress at once. At
first this seemed wild, but she grew accustomed to the thought in a few
moments, and it impressed her. There would be much in favour of the
plan, if he could carry it out. Once married to Miss Slayback and her
millions, Tebaldo could leave Italy for ever and spend the rest of his
life as he pleased. The mafia could not pursue him to a foreign country.
Even in Rome he would be comparatively safe, for Rome, she thought, was
a very civilised capital, and one man could not easily wait for another
in the Villa Borghese as he could at the turning of a lonely Sicilian
road.
The more she thought of it, the more certain she felt that he meant to
marry Miss Slayback. All the details of her last interview with
Francesco came back vividly. Knowing, now, that Tebaldo had killed him,
she was more willing than before to believe everything Francesco had
said. Tebaldo had loved her, in a fierce and brutal way, but he had
never meant to marry her at all. He had meant something else. Her cheeks
burned once more, and her eyes flashed dangerously. He should not marry
Miss Slayback, either, she thought.
Then she reflected a little more calmly on her own position, and she
decided to leave Randazzo at once. After what had happened, she could
not stay in her native town, ashamed to show her face in the streets.
Even the outlaw had known that she was engaged to marry Tebaldo
Pagliuca. The very children would point at her.
Her father was much better, and she communicated her decision to him. He
was very grim and silent about it all, but he thought she was wise. He
should soon be on his legs again; at all events, she had helped him to
get over the most tiresome part of his recovery from the accident, and
he now attended to his business regularly with his clerk and received
his clients in his room. Aliandra made her preparations and left on the
following day, in the very carriage which had taken Tebaldo to the
station of Piedimonte. And she, too, had the old carriage closed and
drew down the ragged blinds. The boys in the street did not know who was
inside, but they had heard how Tebaldo had driven away, and seeing the
blinds down, they ran along by the door, yelling in derision.
'Another betrayer! Another Judas! Curses on the souls of his dead!' they
cried.
The coachman lashed at them with his whip, and they fell behind, but
Aliandra had understood, and her eyes flashed and the burning blush came
back.
She had telegraphed to her aunt, and the Signora Barbuzzi met her at the
station in Messina. They reached Rome on the second day, a little less
than a fortnight after they had left, and early in the afternoon.
CHAPTER XXXVIII
Maria Carolina was not exactly insane, but she was entirely unbalanced,
and seemed to have no sane judgment in ordinary matters. Her first
outbursts of grief had subsided into a profound religious melancholy,
and she insisted upon being taken to a convent in which she might end
her days in peace. She seemed utterly regardless of the fact that her
daughter would be left alone until her surviving brother came back, if
he ever returned at all, and that such a man, even as she knew him, was
no fit guardian for a young girl. The doctors said that in all
probability, if she were not allowed to do what she wished, she would
really go mad, in her present state. They suggested that she should
retire to one of the convents where ladies were received who wished to
go into a religious retreat, and that one of the Sisters of the Bon
Secours should obtain permission to live with Vittoria for a few days
until her brother arrived.
Vittoria, worn out with anxiety and sorrow, did not know how to face
this new difficulty. Miss Lizzie Slayback insisted that she should come
and stay with her and her aunt at the hotel. After a little hesitation,
she accepted, for it seemed the only solution of the difficulty. The
American girl had become sincerely attached to her Italian friend, and
felt herself drawn to Vittoria for the sake of having been on the point
of marrying Tebaldo, a state of mind which is natural to some characters
and utterly unnatural to others. It was a generous impulse, at all
