"Ah, yes," she murmured, "beautiful to you, and to me--to me, Jack, who
have never before seen this land of Morbihan."

After a while she said, "And the ocean--oh, how I long to see it! Is it
near us, Jack?"

"The river runs into it twenty kilometres below. We feel the tide at
Quimperlé." I did not add, "Baedeker."

"I wonder," I said presently, "what are the feelings of a little
American who sees this country--the real country--for the first time?"

"I suppose you mean me," she said. "I don't know--I don't think I
understand it yet, but I know I shall love it, and never want to go
back."

"Perhaps we never shall," I said. "The magic second may stretch into
years that end at last as all ends."

Then our hands met in that sudden nervous clasp which seemed to help
and steady us when we were thinking of the real world, so long, so long
forgotten.


IX.

I was awakened next morning by a spongeful of cold water in the face,
which I hate. I started up to wreak vengeance upon Sweetheart, but she
fled to the toilet room and locked herself in. From this retreat she
taunted me until further sleep was out of the question, and I bowed
to the inevitable--indignantly, when I saw my watch pointed to five
o'clock.

Sweetheart was perfectly possessed to row; so when I had bolted my
coffee and sat watching her placidly sip hers, we decided to go down to
the bank of the little stream and hire a boat. The boat was a wretched,
shapeless affair, with two enormous oars and the remnants of rowlocks.
It was the best boat in town, so we took it. I managed to get away
from the bank, and, conscious of Sweetheart's open admiration, pulled
boldly down the stream. It was easy work, for the tide was ebbing. The
river up to the bridge was tidal, but above the bridge it leaped and
flowed, a regular salmon stream. Sweetheart was so impatient to take
the oars that I relinquished them and picked up my rod. The boat swung
down the stream and under the high stone viaduct, where I insisted
on anchoring and whipping the promising-looking water. The water was
likely enough, and the sudden splash of a leaping grilse added to its
likelihood. I was in hopes a grilse might become entangled with one of
the flies, but though a big one shot up out of the water within five
feet of Sweetheart, causing her to utter a suppressed scream, neither
grilse nor trout rose to the beautiful lures I trailed about, and I
only hooked two or three enormous dace, which came up like logs and
covered the bottom of the boat with their coarse scales.

Sweetheart had never seen a French trout uncooked, and scarcely shared
my disappointment.

"They are splendid fish," she repeated; "you are unreasonable."

There was an ancient Breton squatting on the bank; from his sulky
attitude I took him to be a poacher visiting his infernal set lines and
snares; but I hailed him pleasantly with a bonjour, which he returned
civilly enough.

"Are there trout in this stream?"

"About the bridge," he replied cautiously.

"Have you caught any?"

"I ain't fishing," he said, much alarmed.

"What's that?" I demanded, pointing to as plump a trout as ever I saw,
floating on the end of a string under the bank.

"Where?" he asked, looking about him with affected concern.

"There!"

He looked around, everywhere except where I pointed. He examined the
horizon, and the tree tops, as though he expected a fish on every twig.
I poled the boat up to the bank and pointed out the fish.

"Ma doui!" he exclaimed, "there is a fish!"

"Yes, a trout," I said.

"Trout?" He burst into a forced laugh. "Trout! Ha! ha! Why, monsieur,
that is a dace--a poor little dace!" He hastily jerked it up with a
long homemade gaff which lay--of course quite by accident--at his feet.

"A poor little dace!" he mumbled. "Of course, monsieur would not care
to claim such a poor, coarse little fish; but I am only too glad to eat
it--ah, yes, only too glad!"

"You see," said Sweetheart impulsively, "that you are wrong. Give him
our fish; that will make four dace for the poor fellow."

I placed the three dace across the blade of my oar and held it out to
the poacher. He took them as if he were really glad to get them. Then
I said, "These are dace, and they don't have red spots."

He stood as if ready to bolt, but I laughed, and settled back on my
oars, saying: "You're a poacher; but I don't care a continental, and
you can poach all day in this confounded country, where there is about
one trout to the kilometre. Don't look scared. What do I care? Only
don't tell me I'm unable to distinguish a trout when I can see the tip
of his nose."

I then sailed majestically out into the stream.

Sweetheart wanted to know whether that was really a real poacher.
She had read about them. Her ideal poacher was a young, stalwart,
eagle-eyed giant, with a tangle of hair and a disposition toward
assassination. The reality shocked her.

"Anyway," she said, "you frightened the poor old thing. How rough men
are!"

We returned to the landing place with difficulty, for the tide was
still on the ebb, and we got aground more than once. My hands were in
a fine condition when at last I drove that wretched scow into the mud
and lifted Sweetheart out to the firm bank. The evil-eyed old man who
rented us the boat glanced sardonically at my rod and blistered hands,
and I was glad enough to pay him all he asked and break away for the
hotel.

We had an hour to lunch in, pack, and be ready for the trap which
was to bear us to our destination--the distant village of Faöuet, in
Morbihan.


X.

A long drive on a smooth white road, acres of gorse and broom, beech
woods and oak thickets, and the "Heu! heu! Allo! Allons! en route!" of
the Breton driver, these are my recollections of the ride to Faöuet.
There are others, too--the hedges heavy with bloom, the perfume of the
wild honeysuckle, the continual bird chorus from every grove and every
bramble patch--and Sweetheart's veil flying into my face.

We have spoken of it since together, but she has few recollections
of that journey. She only remembers it as her first steps into our
heritage.

And so we entered into our heritage, Sweetheart and I; and our heritage
was very fair, for it lay everywhere about us. It was a world which
we alone inhabited. Men said, "This land is Gloanec's," "This is
Gurnalec's," "This is Kerdec's"; they spoke of "my woods" and "his
meadows" and "their pastures." And how we laughed; for when we passed
together through their lands, around us, far as the eye could reach,
our heritage lay in the sunshine.


XI.

One day, when Sweetheart had been weeping--for we were thinking of the
end to the magic second--I spoke of our heritage which swept far as the
eye could reach across the moors of Faöuet.

She said: "The past is ours, Jack; the present is ours; the future----"

We tried to smile, but our hearts were like lead. Yet we know that the
future will also be ours. I know it as I write.


XII.

The letter from St. Gildas, bringing with it a breath of salt air, lay
on the table before us. Sweetheart clasped her hands and looked at me.

"I'm in favour of going at once," I said for the third time. Over by
the wall were piled my canvases, the result of three months in Faöuet.

The first was a study of Sweetheart under the trees of the ancient
orchard in the convent grounds. What trouble I had had with that
canvas! I remembered the morning that the old gardener came over
and stood behind me as I painted; and when I had replied to his
"Good-morning," I recalled the pang his next words gave me:

"I am so sorry, monsieur, but it is forbidden to enter the convent
grounds."

My canvas was almost finished, and, as the romancers have it, "my
despair was great!" A month's work for nothing--or next to nothing!

Sweetheart rose from her pose on the low bough of the apple tree and
came over to my side. "Never mind, Jack; I shall go and ask the Mother
Superior about it."

I knew that she would win over the Mother Superior; and when, that
evening, she came back radiant, crying, "She is lovely!--she says you
may finish the picture, and I think you ought to go and thank her," I
put on my cap, and stepping across the street, we rang at the gate.

The old gardener let us in, and in a moment I stood before the latticed
windows behind which some one was moving. In a low voice the invisible
nun told us that the Superior granted to us the privilege of working in
the orchard, but we must be careful of the grass, because it was almost
time to cut it.

