ure as Sir Peter Arley, and was not 
 
the rector's erring Peter named for him ? 
And let it be said incidentally that no 
one who visits that churchyard should 
omit reading the epitaph of the Rever- 
end John Swinton, of Nether Knutsford ; 
for it must assuredly have been written 
by Miss Deborah herself, under direct 
inspiration from the .ever admirable Doc- 
tor Johnson. Thus it runs : — 
" He was happy in an excellent natu- 
ral Genius, improved with every Branch 
of polite and useful Learning. His Com- 
positions were correct, elegant, nervous, 
edifying, and delivered with peculiar 
Force and Dignity. His Conversation 
was courteous, entertaining, instructive, 
and animated with a striking Vivacity of 
Spirit. As a Husband a Friend and a 
Neighbor He was affectionate, faithful, 
benevolent, A zealous Assertor and an 
able Defender of religious and civil lib- 
erty. With Talents which would have 
adorn'd the highest Station in the 
Church For reasons to himself unan- 
swerable He declined repeated Offers of 
Preferment from his Friends many Years 
before his Death. He bore his last 
Affliction with a Firmness and Forti- 
tude truly Christian and died lamented 
by the Wise, the Learned and the Good 
Dec. in 1764, in the 70th Year of his 
Age.' 
Surely six-footed eulogy can no fur- 
ther go ! 
Another suggestion of Cranf ord lies in 
the fact that an actual Arley Hall exists 
to this day, the seat of the Warburtons, 
within easy driving distance of Knuts- 
ford. Mrs. Gaskell aimed at no need- 
less portraiture or exact topography ; but 
names doubtless got into her mind, and 
lived there, like an old song, till memory 
shook them forth. The Cranford scare, 
moreover, when an hysteria of panic pre- 
vailed, and blew prudence out of the 
ladies' heads while it coaxed some gob- 
lin in, — what was that but a refluent 
wave of Mrs. Gaskell's. possible shrink- 
ing when, a child, she heard the com- 
mon reminiscences of the highwayman 
Higgins ? This was the Duval of Knuts- 
ford, who lived at the Cann House on 
the Heathside (neighbor to Mrs. Lumb), 
and who made nothing of flying over the 
roads to commit a murder at Bristol and 
returning again, within forty-eight hours, 
to prove his alibi. It was Higgins who, 
living the jolly life of a prosperous gen- 
 
tleman, one night left the ball (held, no 
doubt, in the old Assembly Room) to lie 
in wait for Lady Warburton and reap 
her jewels. But the lady's keen sight 
and innocence of mind proved her sal- 
vation ; for, putting her head out of the 
carriage as the robber approached, she 
called serenely, "Good-night, Mr. Hig- 
gins ! Why did you leave the ball so 
early ? " And Higgins, thus thrust back 
into his role of country gentleman, rode 
on discomfited. He was executed at 
Caermarthen in 1767, only forty-three 
years before Mrs. Gaskell was born. 
This was not too long a period for tra- 
dition to linger, painting him ever more 
gloomily, until he loomed large, like Guy 
of Warwick or Thor the Thunderer. 
What affrighting falsities might have 
garlanded his name in Knutsford similar 
legends all the world over may attest. 
Did the sensitive little child, playing 
in corners, overhear the Cranford ladies 
relating his bold, bad deeds, and trick- 
ing them out with bewildering details of 
their own device ? Did the child her- 
self tremble at the spectre of Darkness 
Lane huddling under the mantle of a 
pitchy night? Such emotions are the 
 
willow twigs of memory ; swept down a 
living stream, they are bound to reach 
roothold, and there bud greenly in the 
vesture of the vernal year. 
One curiously suggestive incident be- 
longs to Mrs. GaskelVs own life, though 
to dwell on it too definitely might serve 
merely to establish a false bond between 
the concrete and the ideal. Her only 
brother, a lieutenant in the merchant 
service, disappeared on his third or fourth 
voyage, about the year 1827, and " never 
was heard of more.'' Might such linger- 
ing tragedy have been the secret of her 
pathos over the heartbreak and sickness 
bom of Peter's absence ? Did she know 
by too near experience what it is to listen 
for the footstep that never falls ? But 
one last proof clinches the argument that 
Knutsford is Cranford, though "some 
volke miscalle it." Turn to the annals of 
Cranford, and you shall read of a certain 
old lady who had "an Alderney cow, 
which she looked upon as a daughter." 
Now, this cherished animal, falling into 
a lime pit, was denuded of all her hair, 
and her adoptive mother, being ironi- 
cally recommended to " get her a flan- 
nel waistcoat and flannel drawers," did 
 
indeed send her thenceforth to pasture 
soberly clad in gray. 
Return now to the chronicles of con- 
crete Knutsford, and listen to the Rever- 
end Henry Green, who, in spite of this 
one concession, never believed in any in- 
tentional literary apotheosis of his cher- 
ished town : — 
" A woman of advanced age, who was 
confined to her house through illness, 
. . . asked me to lend her an amusing 
or cheerful book. I lent her Cranford, 
without telling her to what it was sup- 
posed to relate. She read the tale of 
Life in a Country Town, and when I 
called again, she was full of eagerness 
to say, 'Why, sir, that Cranford is all 
about Knutsford ! My old mistress, Miss 
Harker, is mentioned in it ; and our poor 
cow, she did go to the field in a large 
flannel waistcoat because she had burned 
herself in a lime pit ! ' " 
 
Betake yourself, in these new days, 
to Omar Khayydm ; and what he sings 
of the fleeting joys of life and the con- 
soling grape, say you of summer. For 
the long hours will weave themselves 
into ropes of sand you may not hold, 
and the brown leaf-stems loosen on the 
trees ; the earth will by-and-by lock up 
her treasure-box, now jealously opened, 
and you must shrink back into winter 
hiding, owning that the feast was spread 
and you kept a foolish fast, that summer 
stayed at your hand and you craved no 
guerdon. Throw aside therefore the 
fevered craving to read books and to 
rouse the world's wonder over your 
haste. Set the mind only upon flowing 
water and bountiful trees, and that in 
no studious mood, but the warm languor 
of a midday dream. And note well 
that an upland pasture is good hunting 
for the soul, and so also is the moving 
sea ; but you shall mar the spell of their 
spirit upon you if you creep under roofs 
by night. For that is a sickly fashion, 
born of fear and a crowded life ; and it 
constrains the soul. Form a happy com- 
pany of such as love the earth, and set 
up your tents by sea or lake, or even on 
the hilly pasture slopes at home. And 
this adoption of the outer world shall 
make a reason, not for carousing and re- 
enacting the sports of winter, to offend 
the face of heaven, but it shall serve as 
withdrawal into the sanctuary of true 
repose. There shall be long hours spent 
" in a green shade ; '' still, serene float- 
ing on the lake, while the sunset burns 
to gold, and deep dream-locked sleep 
under canvas or in the open air. I 
would not forbid you to read Stevenson 
and Lanier, but the modern novel shall 
be held afar from your rest. Your mus- 
cles shall ache with tramping and the 
oars ; you shall be bruised from stum- 
bling through the forest when you steal 
out by night to feel the dark among the 
pines ; you shall find the simplest fare 
ambrosial; and you shall be called to 
life, every morning, by a chiming chorus 
and the hoarse logic of the legislating 
crows, and wake to see, oh, matchless 
wonder ! the ferns and raspberry vines 
 
breathing outside your tent and painting 
the shadow of their trembling on the 
