"I'm not an angel I'm an old grand- 
mother," Sir Claude declared; "I like babies; 
I always did. If we go to smash I shall 
look for a place as a ' responsible nurse. ' " 
Maisie, in her charmed mood, drank in an 
imputation on her years which at another 
moment might have been bitter; but the 
charm was sensibly interrupted by Mrs. 
Beale's screwing her round and gazing 
fondly into her eyes. "You're willing to 
leave me, you wretch ? " 
The little girl deliberated ; even her 
attachment to this bright presence had 
become as a cord she must suddenly snap. 
But she snapped it very gently. " Is n't it 
my turn for mamma ? " 
" You 're a horrible little hypocrite ! The 
less, I think, now said about ' turns ' the 
better," Mrs. Beale made answer, " know 
whose turn it is. You 've not such a passion 
for your mother ! " 
"I say, I say: do look out!" Sir Claude 
quite amiably protested. 
"There 's nothing she has n't heard. But 
it does n't matter it has n't spoiled her. If 
you knew what it costs me to part with 
you ! " she went on to Maisie. 
Sir Claude watched her as she charmingly 
clung to the child. "I'm so glad you really 
care for her. That 's so much to the good." 
Mrs. Beale slowly got up, still with her 
hands on Maisie, but emitting a little soft 
exhalation. "Well, if you 're glad, that may 
help us ; for I assure you I shall never give 
up any rights in her I may consider that, 
by my own sacrifices, I 've acquired. I 
shall hold very fast to my interest in her. 
What seems to have happened is that she 
has brought you and me together." 
" She has brought you and me together, " 
said Sir Claude. 
The cheerfulness of his assent to this 
proposition was contagious, and Maisie 
broke out almost with enthusiasm: "I've 
brought you and her together!" 
Her companions, of course, laughed anew, 
and Mrs. Beale gave her an affectionate 
shake. "You little monster take care 
what you do! But that's what she does 
do," she continued to Sir Claude. "She did 
it to me and Beale." 
"Well, then," he said to Maisie, "you 
must try the trick at our place." He held 
out his hand to her again. "Will you come 
now? " 
" Now just as I am ? " She turned with 
an immense appeal to her stepmother, tak- 
ing a leap over the mountain of "mending," 
the abyss of packing, that had loomed and 
yawned before her. " Oh, may I ? " 
Mrs. Beale addressed her assent to Sir 
Claude. "As well so as any other way. 
I'll send on her things to-morrow." Then 
she gave a tug to the child's coat, glancing 
at her up and down with some ruefulness. 
"She's not turned out as I should like; 
her mother will pull her to pieces. But 
what 's one to do with nothing to do it on? 
And she 's better than when she came you 
can tell her mother that. I 'm sorry to have 
to say it to you but the poor child was a 
sight ! " 
" Oh, I 'll turn her out myself ! " the vis- 
itor cordially announced. 
" I shall like to see how ! " Mrs. Beale 
appeared much amused. "You must bring 
her to show me we can manage that. 
Good-bye, little fright." And her last word 
to Sir Claude was that she would keep him 
up to the mark. 
IX 
THE idea of what she was to make up and 
the prodigious total to come were kept well 
before Maisie at her mother's. These things 
were the constant occupation of Mrs. Wix, 
who arrived there by the back-stairs, but in 
tears of joy, the day after her own arrival. 
The process of making up, as to which the 
good lady had an immense deal to say, took, 
through its successive phases, so long that it 
promised to be a period at least equal to the 
child's last period with her father. But this 
was a fuller and richer time; it bounded 
along to the tune of Mrs. Wix's constant 
insistence on the energy they must both put 
forth. There was a fine intensity in the 
way the child agreed with her that under 
Mrs. Beale and Susan Ash she had learned 
nothing whatever the wildness of the 
rescued castaway was one of the forces 
that would henceforth make for her a career 
of conquest. The year therefore rounded 
itself as a receptacle of retarded knowledge, 
a cup brimming over with the sense that 
now, at least, she was learning. Mrs. Wix 
fed this sense from the stores of her conver- 
sation and with the immense bustle of her 
reminder that they 'must cull the fleeting 
hour. They were surrounded with subjects 
they must take at a rush and were perpetu- 
ally getting into the attitude of triumphant 
attack. They had certainly no idle hours, 
and the child went to bed each night as from 
a long day's play. This had begun from 
the moment of their reunion begun with 
all Mrs. Wix had to tell her young friend of 
the reasons of her ladyship's extraordinary 
behavior at the very first. 
It took the form of her ladyship's refusal 
for three days to see her child three days, 
during which Sir Claude made hasty, merry 
dashes into the schoolroom to smooth down 
the odd situation, to say, "She'll come 
round, you know; I assure you, she 'll come 
round," and a little even to make up to 
Maisie for the indignity he had caused her 
to suffer. There had never, in the child's 
life, been, in all ways, such a delightful 
amount of reparation. It came out by his 
sociable admission that her ladyship had not 
known of his visit to her late husband's 
house and of his having made that person's 
daughter a pretext for striking up an ac- 
quaintance with the dreadful creature in- 
stalled there. Heaven knew she wanted 
her child back and had made every plan 
of her own for removing her what she 
could n't, for the present at least, forgive any 
one concerned was the meddling, underhand 
way in which Sir Claude had brought about 
the transfer. Maisie carried more of the 
weight of this resentment than even Mrs. 
Wix's confidential ingenuity could lighten 
for her; especially as Sir Claude himself 
was not at all ingenious, though indeed, on 
the other hand, he was not at all crushed. 
He was amused and intermittent and at 
moments most startling; he brought out to 
his young companion, with a frankness that 
agitated her much more than he seemed to 
guess, that he depended on her not letting 
her mother, when she should see her, get 
anything out of her about anything Mrs. 
Beale might have said to him. He came in 
and out; he professed, in joke, to take tre- 
mendous precautions; he showed a positive 
disposition to romp. He chaffed Mrs. Wix 
till she was purple with the pleasure of it, 
and reminded Maisie of the reticence he 
expected of her till she set her teeth like 
an Indian captive. Her lessons, these first 
days and indeed for long after, seemed to be 
all about Sir Claude; and yet she never 
really mentioned to Mrs. Wix that she was 
prepared, under his inspiring injunction, to 
be vainly tortured. This lady, however, had 
formulated the position of things with an 
acuteness that showed how little she needed 
to be coached. Her explanations of every- 
thing that seemed not quite pleasant and 
if her own footing was perilous it met that 
danger as well was that her ladyship was 
passionately in love. Maisie accepted this 
hint with infinite awe and pressed upon it 
much when she was at last summoned into 
the presence of her mother. 
There she encountered matters in which it 
seemed really to help to give her a clew 
an almost terrifying strangeness, full, none 
the less, after a little, of reverberations of 
Ida's old fierce, demonstrative recoveries of 
possession. They had been some time in 
the house together, and this demonstration 
came late; preoccupied, however, as Maisie 
was with the idea of the sentiment Sir 
Claude had inspired, and familiar, in addi- 
tion, by Mrs. Wix's anecdotes, with the 
ravages that, in general, such a sentiment 
could produce, she was able to make allow- 
ances for her ladyship's remarkable appear- 
ance, her violent splendor, the wonderful 
color of her lips, and even the hard stare, 
like that of some gorgeous idol described in 
a story-book, that had come into her eyes in 
consequence of a curious thickening of their 
already rich circumference. Her professions 
and explanations were mixed with eager 
challenges and sudden drops, in the midst 
of which Maisie recognized, as a memory of 
other years, the rattle of her trinkets and 
