her own he might have agreed with her.
"It would be better if the whole world thought so," she observed with
energy.  "Do you know what divorce means in the end?  It means the
abolition of marriage laws altogether; it means reducing marriage to a
mere experiment which may last a few days, a few weeks, or a few months,
according to the people who try it.  There are men and women, already,
who have been divorced and married again half a dozen times.  Before the
next generation is old that will be the rule and not the exception."
"Dear me!" exclaimed Colonel Wimpole.  "I hope not!"
"I know you agree with me," said Mrs. Harmon, with conviction.  "You
only argue on the other side because--"  She stopped short.
"Why?"  He did not look at her as he asked the question.
"Because you are my best friend," she answered, after a moment’s
hesitation, "and because you have got it into your head that I should be
happier.  I cannot imagine why.  It would make no difference at all in
my life--now."
The last word fell from her lips with a regretful tone and lingered a
little on the air like the sad singing of a bell’s last note, not broken
by a following stroke.  But the colonel was not satisfied.
"It may make all the difference, even now," he said.  "Suppose that
Harmon were to recover."
Helen did not start, for the thought had been long familiar to her, but
she pressed her lips together a little and let her head rest against the
back of her chair, half closing her eyes.
"It is possible," continued the colonel.  "You know as well as I do that
doctors are not always right, and there is nothing about which so little
is really certain as insanity."
"I do not think it is possible."
"But it is, nevertheless.  Imagine what it would be, if you began to
hear that he was better and better, and finally well, and, at last, that
there was no reason for keeping him in confinement."
Mrs. Harmon’s eyes were quite closed now, as she leaned back.  It was
horrible to her to wish that her husband might remain mad till he died,
yet she thought of what her own life must be if he should recover.  She
was silent, fighting it out in her heart.  It was not easy.  It was hard
even to see what she should wish, for every human being has a prime
right of self-preservation, against which no argument avails, save that
of a divinely good and noble cause to be defended.  Yet the moral
wickedness of praying that Harmon might be a madman all the rest of his
life frightened her.  Throughout twenty years and more she had faced
suffering and shame without flinching and without allowing herself one
thought of retaliation or hatred.  She had been hardened to the struggle
and was not a woman to yield, if it should begin again, but she shrank
from it, now, as the best and bravest may shrink at the thought of
torture, though they would not groan in slow fire.
"Just think what it might be," resumed Colonel Wimpole.  "Why not look
the facts in the face while there is time?  If he were let out, he would
come back to you, and you would receive him, for I know what you are.
You would think it right to take him back because you promised long ago
to love, honour, and obey him.  To love, to honour, and to obey--Henry
Harmon!"
The colonel’s steady grey eyes flashed for an instant, and his gentle
voice was suddenly thick and harsh as he pronounced the last words. They
meant terribly much to the woman who heard them, and in her distress she
leaned forward in her seat and put up her hands to her temples, as
though she had pain, gently pushing back the heavy hair she wore so low
on her forehead.  Wimpole had never seen her so much moved, and the
gesture itself was unfamiliar to him.  He did not remember to have ever
seen her touch her hair with her hands, as some women do.  He watched
her now, as he continued to speak.
"You did all three," he said.  "You honoured him, you loved him, and you
obeyed him for a good many years.  But he neither loved, nor honoured,
nor cherished you.  I believe that is the man’s part of the contract, is
it not? And marriage is always called a contract, is it not?  Now, in
any contract, both parties must do what they have promised, so that if
one party fails, the other is not bound.  Is not that true?  And, Heaven
knows, Harmon failed badly enough!"
"Don’t!  Please don’t take it that way!  No, no, no!  Marriage is not a
contract; it is a bond, a vow--something respected by man because it is
sacred before God.  If Henry failed a thousand times more, I should be
just as much bound to keep my promise."
Her head sank still more forward, and her hands pushed her hair straight
back from the temples.
"You will never persuade me of that," answered the colonel.  "You will
never make me believe--"  He stopped short, for as he watched her, he
saw what he had never seen before, a deep and crooked scar high on her
forehead. "What is that?" he asked suddenly, leaning towards her, his
eyes fixed on the ugly mark.
She started, stared at him, dropping her hands, realized what he had
seen, and then instantly turned away.  He could see that her fingers
trembled as she tried to draw her hair down again.  It was not like her
to be vain, and he guessed at once that she had some reason other than
vanity for hiding the old wound.
"What is that scar?" he asked again, determined to have an answer.  "I
never saw it before."
"It is a--I was hurt long ago--"  She hesitated, for she did not know
how to lie.
"Not so very long ago," said the colonel.  "I know something about
scars, and that one is not many years old.  It does not look as though
you had got it in a fall either.  Besides, if you had, you would not
mind telling me, would you?"
"Please don’t ask me about it!  I cannot tell you about it."
The colonel’s face was hardening quickly. The lines came out in it stern
and straight, as when, at evening, a sudden frost falls upon a still
water, and the first ice-needles shoot out, clear and stiff.  Then came
the certainty, and Wimpole looked as he had looked long ago in battle.
"Harmon did that," he said at last, and the wrathful thought that
followed was not the less fierce because it was unspoken.
Helen’s hands shook now, for no one had ever known how she had been
wounded.  But she said nothing, though she knew that her silence meant
her assent.  Wimpole rose suddenly, straight as a rifle, and walked to
the window, turning his back upon her.  He could say things there, under
his breath, which she could not understand, and he said them, earnestly.
"He did not know what he was doing," Helen said, rather unsteadily.
The colonel turned on his heels at the window, facing her, and his lips
still moved slowly, though no words came.  Helen looked at him and knew
that she was glad of his silent anger.  Not realizing what she was
thinking of, she wondered what sort of death Harmon might have died if
Richard Wimpole had seen him strike her to the ground with a cut-glass
decanter.  For a moment the cloak of mercy and forgiveness was rent from
head to heel.  The colonel would have killed the man with those rather
delicate looking hands of his, talking to him all the time in a low
voice. That was what she thought, and perhaps she was not very far
wrong.  Even now, it was well for Harmon that he was safe in his asylum
on the other side of an ocean.
It was some time before Wimpole could speak. Then he came and stood
before Helen.
"You will stay a few days?  You do not mean to go away at once?" he
said, with a question.
"Yes."
"Then I think I shall go away now, and come and see you again later."
He took her hand rather mechanically and left the room.  But she
understood and was grateful.
                              CHAPTER III
When Archie Harmon disappeared and left the colonel and his mother
together, she supposed that he had gone to his room to sleep, for he
slept a great deal, or to amuse himself after his fashion, and she did
not ask him where he was going.  She knew what his favourite amusement
was, though he did his best to keep it a secret from her.
There was a certain mysterious box, which he had always owned, and took
everywhere with him, and of which he always had the key in his pocket.
It took up a good deal of space, but he could never be persuaded to
leave it behind when they went abroad.
To-day he went to his room, as usual, locked the door, took off his
coat, and got the box out of a corner.  Then he sat down on the floor
and opened it.  He took out some child’s building-blocks, some tin
soldiers, much the worse for wear, for he was ashamed to buy new ones,
and a small and gaudily painted tin cart, in which an impossible lady
and gentleman of papier-mâché, dressed in blue, grey, and yellow, sat
leaning back with folded arms and staring, painted eyes.  There were a
few other toys besides, all packed away with considerable neatness, for
Archie was not slovenly.
He sat cross-legged on the floor, a strong grown man of nearly twenty
years, and began to play with his blocks.  His eyes fixed themselves on
his occupation, as he built up a little gateway with an arch and set
red-legged French soldiers on each side of it for sentinels.  He had
played the same game a thousand times already, but the satisfaction had
not diminished. One day in a hotel he had forgotten to lock the door,
and his mother had opened it by mistake, thinking it was that of her own
room.  Before he could look round she had shut it again, but she had
seen, and it had been like a knife-thrust. She kept his secret, but she
lost heart from that day.  He was still a child, and was always to be
one.
Yet there was perhaps something more of intelligence in the childish
play than she had guessed.  He was lacking in mind, but not an idiot; he
sometimes said and did things which were certainly far beyond the age of
toys. Possibly the attraction lay in a sort of companionship which he
felt in the society of the blocks, and the tin soldiers, and the little
papier-mâché lady and gentleman.  He felt that they understood what he
meant and would answer him if they could speak, and would expect no more
of him than he could give.  Grown people always seemed to expect a great
deal more, and looked at him strangely when he called Berlin the capital
of Austria and asked why Brutus and Cassius murdered Alexander the
Great.  The toy lady and gentleman were quite satisfied if their necks
were not broken in the cunningly devised earthquake which always brought
the block house down into a heap when he had looked at it long enough
and was already planning another.
Besides, he did all his best thinking among his toys, and had invented
ways of working out results at which he could not possibly have arrived
by a purely mental process.  He could add and subtract, for instance,
with the bits of wood, and, by a laborious method, he could even do
simple multiplication, quite beyond him with paper and pencil.  Above
all, he could name the tin soldiers after people he had met, and make
them do anything he pleased, by a sort of rudimentary theatrical
instinct that was not altogether childish.
To-day he built a house as usual, and, as usual, after some reflexion as
to the best means of ruining it by taking out a single block, he pulled
it down with a crash.  But he did not at once begin another.  On the
contrary, he sat looking at the ruins for a long time in a rather
disconsolate way, and then all at once began to pack all the toys into
the box again.
"I don’t suppose it matters," he said aloud. "But of course Sylvia would
think me a baby if she saw me playing with blocks."
And he made haste to pack them all away, locking the box and putting the
key into his pocket.  Then he went and looked through the half-closed
blinds into the sunny street, and he could see the new bridge not far
away.
"I don’t care what mother thinks!" he exclaimed.  "I’m going to find her
again."
He opened his door softly, and a moment later he was in the street,
walking rapidly towards the bridge.  At a distance he looked well.  It
was only when quite near to him that one was aware of an undefinable
ungainliness in his face and figure--something blank and meaningless
about him, that suggested a heavy wooden doll dressed in good clothes.
In military countries one often receives that impression.  A
fine-looking infantry soldier, erect, broad shouldered, bright eyed,
spotless, and scrupulously neat, comes marching along and excites one’s
admiration for a moment.  Then, when close to him, one misses something
which ought to go with such manly bearing.  The fellow is only a country
lout, perhaps, hardly able to read or write, and possessed of an
