since I saw you first? I have grown blind to the rest of this little
world. My father's voice sounds far-off and hollow; even his face is
strange, as if half hidden by a mist. I do not see the others at your
camp, even though they and all their ways ought to be deliciously new
to me, like another language. Only when some one touches your hand, or
gives you a flower, or treats you familiarly! Then a sudden passion of
hatred for the whole world shakes me to the centre, and I long to seize
you in my arms, and speed away with you, along the lake and over the
hills. I am, in my own eyes, what I have always supposed savages to be;
perhaps I am a savage. But there is one agony you might spare me: the
story of your life before you came here. Twenty wasted years, and I did
not know you! Spring after spring and snow upon snow, when, like an
earth-born beast, I was living here in content, rowing, skating,
talking with the birds, and you, not fifty miles away, had risen like a
star and were gleaming there in that inaccessible heaven. That this
should be so, that I must accept it, is terrible to me; but to hear the
story of it is like a foretaste of death. It fascinates, it draws me,
and yet it kills. That you should say "we" over and over again, when
you talk of the music you have heard, the books you have read, is more
than I can bear. But I would not have you cease. I must know all, all;
and yet it tortures.
[Sidenote: Zoe Montrose to Francis Hume]
Frankly, I don't at all like the tone of your letter. I like it as
little as I approve your fashion of treating me "before folks." You
glower upon me; half as if I were daughter of the sun and you his
priest, and half Circassian slave. I don't like it! I came here to
these solitudes for rest and mental peace. My mind is lying fallow.
Should it waken to any immediate fertility, I don't want to expend it
on you, either in antiphonal sentiment or in staving off heroics. To
speak brutally, I want it for the publisher and mine own after-glory.
If this plain statement of the case doesn't blight the peach-blossoms
of your fancy, I don't know what will. Write me about your life here,
the life of the woods and lake. You know enough bird-lore never learned
from books to write a thousand St. Francis sermons. Even the fish have
told you secrets. I fancy they think you some strange, fresh-water
whale not to be accounted for. Tell me about them; and drop this
mawkish sentiment caught from books.
[Sidenote: Francis Hume to Zoe Montrose]
I have read your last letter, but I only half understand you, and I
must wholly disobey. For I have learned the meaning of all things
created, the sky and the earth, the stars that are the habitations of
loving angels, and the worm who seeks his mate. I love you! It is that
for which I have lived my twenty years. At last, without warning, my
life has flowered, and the fragrance of the blossom intoxicates me, its
color blinds. At first I only knew the earth was changed, and that I
could never be the same; but I did not translate the knowledge. All the
poets had not told me enough; Shakespeare had not prepared me. But last
night--do I ever sleep now?--when I lay thinking, thinking, and always
of you, my soul spoke and said to me, "So great a thing must be
eternal. This longing is like a Beethoven Sonata; it will live and
live, growing in glory and color, through the ages, even if it live in
your soul alone." And I woke to the sense of it all, and spoke aloud:
"It is love!" It is like having a treasure given me to be all my own;
for now I have a word for happy use, and I can say over and over, "I
love you," and so tell you all. I can whisper "Beloved" in the brief
pauses when the others are with us and I have only the chance of a word
in your ear. But let me see you next alone. Let me look into your eyes,
and demand whether your soul also has had revelation of the truth.
[Sidenote: Zoe Montrose to Francis Hume]
I ask myself whether this had to come to you so soon, and whether I
could have prevented it. I am afraid not. You were bound to fancy the
first woman you met, and that woman chanced to be Zoe Montrose. I know
exactly how it was. I have yellow hair, and the sun shone on it. There
is always a reason, if one could follow it far enough. It might have
been Clara. She was with me in the boat, if you remember; only the sun
struck her hair at a different angle, and you never discovered how red
it is in the hollows, how like leaf mould without. Bismillah! the
gods have selected me for your enlightenment, and their will be done. I
am glad for you in one particular only. I am a worldly woman, filled
from the crown to the toe topful of earthly wisdom; but I am not of
those sentimental sirens who, in the strictest good-breeding, turn men
into beasts by dallying with their worship, and then leaving them high
and dry on the rock of disillusionment. I am honest, and I will sweep
away your cobwebs in the beginning. My dear, there is no such thing as
love as you conceive it. What you and the other poets have seen is a
will-o'-the-wisp, created, heaven knows why, save that we may learn
hard lessons and that the world may be peopled. You feel for me an
ecstasy of devotion. You think it will be eternal; that you were made
for me and I for you, and that our two souls will sail forever on in
each other's company, chanting pretty trifles by the way. God bless and
save you! this is the very hyperbole of the poets, and of poets under
forty at that. What dominates you is a fever of the blood, an attendant
delirium or the mind solely depending on your youth and my passable
prettiness. I wish you might have been saved; but it had to happen. I
wish, too, that the attack might leave you lightly; but that, also,
owing to your unfortunate temperament, is impossible. I can only show
my real liking for you by acting sedately, and sitting by your bedside
until you rise up sane again and put your hand to the world's work. Do
you want this emotion you call love translated to you by a woman who
has studied her kind as you study the birds? You say it is, it must be
(O, most pitiful cry of the finite after infinity!) eternal. It is
nothing of the sort. It is prosaically and sordidly of this earth,
especially in the case of men. I grant you that many women do
subordinate their lives to what they call a great passion (poor Amelia
crying over George's picture! O sad, true travesty of the worship we so
exalt!), but it is because they have fewer interests, and because
tradition has glorified feminine faithfulness and society built its
temples on woman's chastity. But men! I know them. Do not expect me to
own, for a moment, that any man is going to worship any woman all his
life long with the fervor he shows in pursuing the game. Many are kind,
some are tender, even to gray hairs and the grave; but that particular
form of idolatry which you offer me like a jewel in a case,--it turns
to paste in less than ten years, and I will have none of it. But why,
you ask, set myself outside the pale of human kind? It is a joy, though
fleeting, and if others prize it, even briefly, why not I? I know
myself too well. I am, in many ways, a hard woman. My heart is bedded
in a crust of flint, and no daw shall peck at it. But if that armor
were worn away, if I did sink my traditions to become all-womanly, if I
pinned life and soul and faith and breath to a man--O, I shudder to
think of seeing that morning-glow fade into the light of common day. It
is such women as I who break their hearts; not your sentimental miss
who goes puling about, prating love and religion, and confiding in her
pastor. I have laughed long at what I call sentiment, but I am more
sentimental than the sentimentalist. I own the awful power of one soul
over its opposite; but it is a power to which I will not give way. Now,
in plain words, what should be the outcome of love? Marriage. And
marriage; what of that? It is a welding of two souls, say you, before
an altar where a sacred fire is ever after to be kept burning.
According to my idea, gathered from observation, it is a business
partnership gilded by certain pretty fictions which no one pretends to
observe. For six months, a year, five years, the husband worships his
wife with an ideality which ought to turn beggar-maids to queens and
queens to angels. Then, plainly, he gets used to her. She is a very
good woman, but her like has been seen before, and may be again. His
nature has a dozen sides to be satisfied; he is ambitious, he loves
art, or money, or his dirty fellow-men. All very well, you say; without
such bent, souls would be cramped and torpid. Ah, but meantime the
altar-fire dies down! If she loves him truly,--
    "And if, ah woe! she loves alone,"
she tends it with her poor, weak hands; but no longer are the
ministrants two. The little observances of love are forgotten, or they
degenerate into a meaningless form more pitiful than silence. You
grant, I suppose, that there is a higher life to be sought, one of
aspiration, or holy companionship in great deeds and truer speech,--but
as I live by bread, I doubt whether husbands and wives can keep that
track together. You are a young Galahad with Lancelot's heart. I
believe in you, I care mightily for you in a certain way; but you are a
man, and none of the weaknesses of mankind are foreign to you. I am a
woman, and, hard as my heart may be, it is made to be broken. Therefore
say no more to me about this foolish fever of your youth. Believe me,
it is a malady incident to the time. It will pass, in this present
form, sometime to be renewed. You will love other women, and one day
the unexpressive she will appear who has never once peeped into these
worldly text-books. Hand in hand, she and you will learn the lesson
together. It may be bitter, it may not. There are those, I believe,
whom the gods forget; but I have no faith in myself escaping their
thrusts.
[Sidenote: Francis Hume to Zoe Montrose]
Why would you not let me talk to you yesterday, without waiting to
depend on this poverty-stricken expedient? I have not had an instant
alone with you. But I love you! I love you! Who shall prevent me from
saying that! You may refuse to hear it, you may leave my letters
unread; yet all the trees of the forest shall whisper it with gossiping
tongues. But no more of this now. Your letter has made me feel
imperatively that a demand has been made upon me: the demand of proving
myself a man, and worthy, if any man can be, of the inestimable
treasure of your heart. So it becomes me to be calm, and reply to what
you say, not with mad protest, but with just consideration. I am a man,
and no weakness of mankind is foreign to me. I grant it. (Though my
heart throbs within me to swear such fealty as you have never yet
dreamed. But let that pass. My life shall show.) Well, and suppose the
first glow of new acquaintanceship does fade. Let it go. Might not
something finer usurp its place, as the flower is more than leaf or
bud? If it be possible that this great rapture should vanish (O, I know
better than you, with all your worldly lore! It is perennial,
ever-returning like the spring, though snows may intervene), do you
think my tenderness would allow one sweet observance to fade? What
infinite loving must grow of a daily life together, what fine
consideration, what pride in each other's achievement, what mutual joy!
I have talked long enough on paper. Take me, and let me serve you all
my life, guard you, cherish you, and prove the truth.
[Sidenote: Zoe Montrose to Francis Hume]
Tenderness and constancy! that, my child, is friendship--it is not
love. And I can gather a very good article of friendship from many a
wayside bush without going over hot ploughshares to seek it. Listen,
and I will tell you exactly how I learned to interpret the later course
of passion. I lived and breathed it side by side and heart to heart
with a woman once. I will not tell you her name; she is living, and
some time you may know her. I had a friend, and I loved her. She
married a man who worshiped her, who was intoxicated by her as you are
by me. He was her slave, if I may say that of one who took more than he
bestowed; but though he absorbed her life and narrowed it in certain
ways, he made her divinely happy. So it went on for years, until
suddenly, through some new combination of circumstances, they were
separated for a time, and he woke up. O telltale phrase in the life of
a man! You don't know how much it means now, but you will know. She was
dazed, confounded. Not that he was unkind to her; he was a gentleman,
though a gentleman grown indifferent. About that time he drifted into
friendship with another woman, led thereto, he would have said, by
their kindred tastes. Nothing vicious here, nothing to distress the
taste of law-abiding citizens; but a tragedy of the soul. I wonder if I
can paint it for you. Here was a passionately devoted wife, taught by
every act and word and look of years to depend for happiness on one
living creature: to turn to him, as to the sun, for life and
nourishment. Suddenly the sun was withdrawn, the light went out; she
was expected to see by candle. Do not imagine that she betrayed him to
me; we are not like that. I knew because she was so dear to me, and I
had lived beside her and learned her thoughts. I felt the tragedy as it
was enacted, day by day. I saw her poor face sodden with weeping. I
suppose she reproached him at first, wildly, in woman's way. I suppose
