ceremonies performed by the first. At 
last came an unmarried lady (we were 
told she was a countess) and along with 
her a married one, bearing a tasting- 
knife ; the former was dressed in white 
silk, who, when she had prostrated her- 
self three times, in the most graceful 
manner approached the table, and rubbed 
the plates with bread and salt, with as 
much awe as if the Queen had been pres- 
ent. When they had waited there a lit- 
tle while the Yeomen of the Guard en- 
tered, bare-headed^ clothed in scarlet, 
with a golden rose upon their backs, 
bringing in at each turn a course of twen- 
ty-four dishes, served in plate, most of 
it gilt ; these dishes were received by a 
gentleman in the same order they were 
brought, and placed upon the table, while 
the Lady Taster gave to each of the 
guard a mouthful to eat, of the particu- 
lar dish he had brought, for fear of any 
poison. During the time that this guard, 
which consists of the tallest and stout- 
est men that can be found in all Eng- 
land, being carefully selected for this 
service, were bringing dinner, twelve 
trumpets and two kettle-drums made 
the hall ring for half an hour together. 
At the end of all this ceremonial, a num- 
ber of unmarried ladies appeared, who 
with particular solemnity lifted the meat 
of! the table and conveyed it into the 
Queen's inner and more private cham- 
ber, where, after she had chosen for her- 
self, the rest goes to the Ladies of the 
court." 
The queen dined and supped alone, 
with very few attendants. 
 
CHAPTER II 
We now approach perhaps the most 
important matter in this world, namely, 
dress. In nothing were the increasing 
wealth and extravagance of the period 
more shown than in apparel. And in it 
we are able to study the origin of the 
present English taste for the juxtapo- 
sition of striking and uncomplementary 
colors. In Coryat's "Crudities," 1611, 
we have an Englishman's contrast of the 
dress of the Venetians and the English. 
The Venetians adhered, without change, 
to their decent fashion, a thousand years 
old, wearing usually black: the slender 
doublet made close to the body, without 
much quilting ; the long hose plain, the 
jerkin also black — but all of the most 
costly stuffs Christendom can furnish, 
satins and taffetas, garnished with the 
best lace. Gravity and good taste char- 
acterized their apparel. " In both these 
things," says Coryat, " they differ much 
from us Englishmen. For whereas they 
have but one color, we use many more 
than are in the rainbow, all the most 
light, garish, and unseemly colors that 
are in the world. Also for fashion we 
are much inferior to them. For w.e 
wear more fantastical fashions than any 
nation under the sun doth, the French 
only excepted." On festival days, in 
processions, the senators wore crimson 
damask gowns, with flaps of crimson 
velvet cast over their left shoulders ; and 
the Venetian knights differed from the 
other gentlemen, for under their black 
damask gowns, with long sleeves, they 
wore red apparel, red silk stockings, and 
red pantofles. 
 
Andrew Boord, in 1547, attempting to 
describe the fashions of his countrymen, 
gave up the effort in sheer despair over 
the variety and fickleness of costume, 
and drew a naked man with a pair of 
shears in one hand and a piece of cloth 
in the other, to the end that he should 
shape his apparel as he himself liked ; 
and this he called an Englishman. Even 
the gentle Harrison, who gives Boord 
the too harsh character of a lewd popish 
hypocrite and ungracious priest, admits 
that he was not void of judgment in this ; 
and he finds it easier to inveigh against 
the enormity, the fickleness, and the fan- 
tasticality of the English attire than to 
describe it. So unstable is the fashion, 
he says, that to-day the Spanish guise 
is in favor; to-morrow the French toys 
are most fine and delectable ; then the 
high German apparel is the go ; next the 
Turkish manner is best liked, the Mo- 
risco gowns, the Barbary sleeves, and 
the short French breeches ; in a word, 
" except it were a dog in a doublet, you 
shall not see any so disguised as are my 
countrymen in England." 
This fantastical folly was in all de- 
grees, from the courtier down to the 
carter. " It is a world to see the cost- 
liness and the curiosity, the excess and 
the vanity, the pomp and the bravery, 
the change and the variety, and finally 
the fickleness and the folly that is in all 
degrees ; insomuch that nothing is more 
constant in England than inconstancy of 
attire. So much cost upon the body, so 
little upon souls ; how many suits of ap- 
parel hath the one, or how little furni- 
ture hath the other !" And how men 
and women worry the poor tailors, with 
endless fittings and sending back of gar- 
ments, and trying on ! " Then must the 
long seams of our hose be set with a 
plumb line, then we puff, then we blow, 
and finally sweat till we drop, that our 
clothes may stand well upon us." 
The barbers were as cunning in vari- 
ety as the tailors. Sometimes the head 
was polled; sometimes the hair was 
curled, and then suffered to grow long 
like a woman's locks, and many times 
cut off, above or under the ears, round 
as by a wooden dish. And so with the 
beards : some shaved from the chin, like 
the Turks ; some cut short, like the beard 
of the Marquis Otto ; some made round, 
like a rubbing - brush ; some peaked, 
others grown long. If a man have a 
lean face, the Marquis Otto's cut makes 
it broad ; if it be platter-like, the long, 
slender beard makes it seem narrow ; 
"if he be weasel-beaked, then much 
hair left on the cheeks will make the 
owner look big like a bowdled hen, and 
so grim as a goose." Some courageous 
gentlemen wore in their ears rings of 
gold and stones, to improve God's work, 
which was otherwise set off by mon- 
strous quilted and stuffed doublets, that 
puffed out the figure like a barrel. 
There is some consolation, though I 
don't know why, in the knowledge that 
writers have always found fault with 
women's fashions, as they do to-day. 
Harrison says that the women do far 
exceed the lightness of the men ; " such 
staring attire as in time past was sup- 
posed meet for light housewives only is 
now become an habit for chaste and so- 
ber matrons." And he knows not what 
to say of their doublets, with pendant 
pieces on the breast full of jags and cuts ; 
their " galligascons," to make their 
dresses stand out plumb round ; their 
farthingales and divers colored stock- 
ings. " I have met," he says, " with 
some of these trulls in London so disguised 
that it hath passed my skill to 
determine whether they were men or 
women." Of all classes the merchants 
were most to be commended for rich but 
sober attire ; " but the younger sort of 
their wives, both in attire and costly 
housekeeping, cannot tell when and how 
to make an end, as being women in- 
deed in whom all kind of curiosity is to 
be found and seen." Elizabeth's time, 
like our own, was distinguished by new 
fashionable colors, among which are 
mentioned a queer greenish-yellow, a 
pease-porridge-tawny, a popinjay of blue, 
a lusty gallant, and the " devil in the 
hedge." These may be favorites still, 
for aught I know. 
Mr. Furnivall quotes a description of 
a costume of the period, from the man- 
uscript of Orazio Busino's " Anglipo- 
trida." Busino was the chaplain of Piero 
Contarina, the Venetian ambassador to 
 
James I., in 1617. The chaplain was 
one day stunned with grief over the 
death of the butler of the embassy ; and 
as the Italians sleep away grief, the 
French sing, the Germans drink, and 
the English go to plays to be rid of it, 
the Venetians, by advice, sought conso- 
lation at the Fortune Theatre ; and there 
