"It's all true, though, as you will find. Ain't it, mother?" persisted
Nicholas, who was anxious to have the row come off as soon as possible.
Jasper turned his glance upon Mrs. Kent.
"You needn't have introduced the subject, Nicholas," she said, with
slight reproof.
"Why not, mother?"
"It isn't a proper subject to introduce at the supper-table."
"You see, Jasper didn't half believe what I told him."
"He may rely upon your statement," said Mrs. Kent.
"Am I to understand that my allowance is reduced to three dollars a
week?" asked Jasper, who felt that he had been dragged into the
discussion.
"Yes. I consider that three dollars a week is a liberal allowance for a
boy of your age."
"My father gave me five."
"Your father acted according to his judgment," said Mrs. Kent, coldly.
"On some points I differ from him in judgment. I think that he indulged
you too much, probably because you were his only child."
"He was always kind to me," said Jasper. "It was his nature to be kind."
"You will find me kind, too, if you deserve it," said his step-mother.
But her tone belied her words.
"Nicholas tells me that his allowance is to be five dollars," said
Jasper.
"I conceive that the amount of his allowance has nothing to do with
yours," said Mrs. Kent.
"Is it true?" persisted Jasper.
"It is," said Mrs. Kent, with a defiant look, which Jasper interpreted
to mean "What are you going to do about it?"
"Why is he to receive five dollars, if I am only to get three?"
"Because I choose."
"You have answered rightly," said Jasper, scornfully. "Even you are
unable to defend it on the score of fairness or justice."
Mrs. Kent's thin lips compressed.
"Audacious boy!" she exclaimed, "do you dare to speak to me in this
style?"
"I am not aware of any impropriety, madam. I am protesting against your
unjust partiality for Nicholas."
"He is my son."
"I am aware of that; but the money out of which the allowance is paid
came to you from my father."
"Do you dare to continue your impertinent remarks?" exclaimed his
step-mother, pale with rage.
"Madam, I am only stating the truth," said Jasper, sturdily. "You cannot
expect me to submit tamely to such an injustice. Had you reduced my
allowance and given Nicholas no more I would have let it pass."
"I won't submit to this impertinence!" exclaimed Mrs. Kent, furiously.
"Nicholas, will you sit there and see your mother insulted?"
"What do you want me to do, mother?" asked Thorne, not exactly liking
the turn matters had taken.
"Put that unmannerly boy out of the room."
"Oh, there ain't any need of that," said Thorne, who knew by experience
Jasper's strength.
"Do as I say, or I will give you no allowance at all!" said Mrs. Kent,
stamping her foot angrily.
Nicholas unwillingly arose from his seat and approached Jasper.
"You'd better not try it, Thorne," said Jasper, coolly.
"Do you hear that, sir? He has insulted you, too," said Mrs. Kent, in a
furious passion.
It was these words, perhaps, that spurred Nicholas to his task. Jasper
had now risen, and Thorne threw himself upon him.
But Jasper was prepared. In less time than I have required to tell it,
Thorne found himself prostrate on the floor.
"Madam," said Jasper, turning to his step-mother, "I am ready to leave
your presence now, but of my own accord."
He left the room. Mrs. Kent was too astonished to speak. She had felt no
doubt that Nicholas was more than a match for Jasper, as he certainly
was bigger, and weighed twenty pounds more.
"My poor boy!" she said, pitifully, bending over her son; "are you much
hurt?"
"Yes," said Nicholas; "and it's all on account of you!"
"I thought you were stronger than he."
"So I am, but he knows how to wrestle; besides, he's so quick."
"I thought you could have put him out easily."
"Well, don't set me to doing it again," said Thorne, sulkily. "I didn't
want to fight. You made me."
"Don't mind it, my dear boy. It was because I was angry with him."
"Oh, how my head aches!"
"I'll put on some cologne. I'll give you an extra five dollars, too, for
standing by your mother."
"All right, mother," said Thorne, in a more cheerful tone. "That's the
way to talk. Give it to me now."
Jasper did not see either of them again that evening. He called on a
friend, and, entering the house at ten o'clock, went directly to his own
room.
CHAPTER XII.
A SCHEME OF VENGEANCE.
Mrs. Kent had never cared for Jasper. Since the marriage she had
disliked him. Now that he had struck down Nicholas in her presence, she
positively hated him. She did not stop to consider that he was provoked
to it, and only acted in self-defense. She thirsted for revenge--more,
indeed, than Nicholas, who, bully as he was, having been fairly worsted,
was disposed to accept his defeat philosophically. If he could annoy or
thwart Jasper he would have been glad to do it, but he did not desire to
injure him physically.
Not so Mrs. Kent.
Her darling had been assaulted and defeated in her presence. She did not
again wish to put him against Jasper lest he should be again defeated,
but she wished Jasper, her detested step-son, to drink the same cup of
humiliation which had been forced upon Nicholas.
So she sat pondering how to accomplish the object she had in view. She
could not herself beat Jasper, though, had he been younger and smaller,
she would certainly have attempted it. She must do it by deputy.
Under the circumstances she thought of Tom Forbes, a strong and stalwart
hired man, who had been for some months working on the place. Probably
he would not like the task, but she would threaten to discharge him if
he refused to obey her commands, and this, she thought, would bring him
around.
"I wonder where Jasper is?" said Nicholas, about eight o'clock, as he
sat opposite the little table where his mother was sewing.
"Gone out, I suppose," said Mrs. Kent.
"He found the house too hot to hold him," suggested Thorne.
"He certainly will if he conducts himself in the future as he has
already done. He makes a mistake if he thinks I will tolerate such
conduct."
"It's because you're a woman," said her son. "Boys of his age don't make
much account of women."
"Do you speak for yourself as well as for him?" asked Mrs. Kent,
sharply.
"Of course not," said Nicholas, whose interest it was to keep on good
terms with his mother. "Of course not; besides, you are my mother."
"You are much more of a gentleman than Jasper is," said his mother,
appeased.
"I hope so," said Nicholas.
"As for him, I consider him a young ruffian."
"So he is," said Thorne, who was ready to assent to anything that his
mother might say.
"And yet his father thought him a paragon!" continued Mrs. Kent, her lip
curling. "It is strange how parents can be deceived!"
Unconsciously she illustrated the truth of this remark in her own
person. She considered Nicholas handsome, spirited, and amiable--indeed,
as an unusually fascinating and attractive boy. To others he was big,
overgrown, malicious, and stupid. But then mothers are apt to look
through different spectacles from the rest of the world.
"I guess Jasper'll want to change his guardian," said Thorne, laughing.
"You and he won't hitch horses very well."
"Don't use such a common expression, Nicholas. I want you to grow up a
well-bred gentleman."
"Oh, well, I mean to. But I say, if his father liked him so much, what
made him appoint you to take care of him?"
"He didn't know how I felt toward Jasper. I humored his fancies, and
treated him better than I felt toward him."
"Then you wanted to be his guardian?"
"Yes, I wanted to pay off old scores," said Mrs. Kent, again compressing
her lips with unpleasant firmness.
"What made you dislike him?" asked her son, with curiosity.
"He was opposed to my marriage. He would have stopped it if he could,
but there I got the better of him. When he found that he was too late he
treated me with coldness. He never liked me."
"By Jove! I don't think he's had much reason," said Nicholas, laughing
boisterously.
"He'll regret not having treated me with more attention. I can thwart
all his plans and make his life very uncomfortable."
"I'll trust you to do that, mother. You've got spunk enough."
"Don't say 'spunk,' Nicholas."
"What shall I say, then?"
"Resolution--firmness."
"It's all the same."
"There is a choice in words. Remember, my dear boy, I want you to be a
refined and cultivated gentleman."
"Well, I can be, now you're rich. But I say, mother, what are you going
to do? You ain't going to stick down in this dull place all your life,
are you?"
"No, Nicholas. In the summer we'll go travelling."
"Good!" exclaimed Nicholas, with satisfaction. "Where will we go?"
"How would you like to go to Niagara Falls?"
"Bully!"
"Or to Saratoga?"
"I don't know much about that."
"It is a fashionable place."
"Can a fellow have fun there?"
"Of course he can."
"Then I'd like to go. But I say, are you going to take Jasper, too?"
"No," said Mrs. Kent, decidedly. "I certainly shall not give him so much
pleasure."
"I don't know. I might like it better if I had a fellow of my own age to
go around with."
"You will find plenty of companions more agreeable than Jasper."
"All right, mother. I suppose you know best."
"You can trust me to provide for your happiness, Nicholas. It is all I
live for."
The next morning Mrs. Kent arose early, and summoned the hired man, Tom
Forbes.
"Tom," said she, "have you a good whip?"
"Yes, ma'am."
"And a strong arm?"
"Middlin', ma'am," answered the wondering hired man.
"I want you to be in the kitchen, provided with your whip, when
breakfast is over."
"What for?" asked Tom, in surprise.
"Never mind now. I shall inform you at the time."
"All right, ma'am."
Twenty minutes later, Jasper, unaware of his step-mother's benevolent
intentions, took his seat at the breakfast-table.
CHAPTER XIII.
MRS. KENT IS FOILED.
Breakfast was a quiet meal. Mrs. Kent preserved a frigid silence toward
Jasper, interrupted only by necessary questions. Nicholas, who
understood that there was a row in prospect, occasionally smiled as he
looked across the table at Jasper, but he, too, was silent.
When breakfast was over, and the three arose from the table, Mrs. Kent
