Mr. Prodmore’s?”
Captain Yule was not prepared. “You call him beautiful?”
“Hideous.” She settled it; then pursued her investigation.
“What’s the extraordinary interest that he attaches----?”
“To the return of a Tory?” Here the young man was prepared.
“Oh, his desire is born of his fear--his terror on behalf
of Property, which he sees, somehow, with an intensely Personal, with
a quite colossal ‘P.’ He has a great deal of that article, and very
little of anything else.”
Mrs. Gracedew, accepting provisionally his demonstration, had one
of her friendly recalls. “Do you call that nice daughter ‘very
little’?”
The young man looked quite at a loss. “Is she very big? I really
didn’t notice her--and moreover she’s just a part of the
Property. He thinks things are going too far.”
She sat straight down on a stiff chair; on which, with high
distinctness: “Well, they are!”
He stood before her in the discomposure of her again thus appearing to
fail him. “Aren’t you then a lover of justice?”
“A passionate one!” She sat there as upright as if she held the
scales. “Where’s the justice of your losing this house?” Generous
as well as strenuous, all her fairness thrown out by her dark old
high-backed seat, she put it to him as from the judicial bench. “To
keep Covering, you must carry Gossage!”
The odd face he made at it might have betrayed a man dazzled. “As
a renegade?”
“As a genuine Yule. What business have you to be anything
else?” She had already arranged it all. “You must close with
Mr. Prodmore--you must stand in the Tory interest.” She hung fire
a moment; then as she got up: “If you will, I’ll conduct your
canvass!”
He stared at the distracting picture. “That puts the temptation
high!”
But she brushed the mere picture away. “Ah, don’t look at me as if
I were the temptation! Look at this sweet old human home, and feel
all its gathered memories. Do you want to know what they do to me?”
She took the survey herself again, as if to be really sure. “They
speak to me for Mr. Prodmore.”
He followed with a systematic docility the direction of her eyes,
but as if with the result only of its again coming home to him that
there was no accounting for what things might do. “Well, there are
others than these, you know,” he good-naturedly pleaded--“things
for which I’ve spoken, repeatedly and loudly, to others than you.”
The very manner of his speaking on such occasions appeared, for that
matter, now to come back to him. “One’s ‘human home’ is all
very well, but the rest of one’s humanity is better!” She gave,
at this, a droll soft wail; she turned impatiently away. “I see
you’re disgusted with me, and I’m sorry; but one must take one’s
self as circumstances and experience have made one, and it’s not my
fault, don’t you know? if they’ve made me a very modern man. I see
something else in the world than the beauty of old show-houses and the
glory of old show-families. There are thousands of people in England
who can show no houses at all, and I don’t feel it utterly shameful
to share their poor fate!”
She had moved away with impatience, and it was the advantage of this
for her that the back she turned prevented him from seeing how intently
she listened. She seemed to continue to listen even after he had
stopped; but if that gave him a sense of success, he might have been
checked by the way she at last turned round with a sad and beautiful
headshake. “We share the poor fate of humanity whatever we do, and
we do something to help and console when we’ve something precious to
show. What on earth is more precious than what the ages have slowly
wrought? They’ve trusted us, in such a case, to keep it--to do
something, in our turn, for them.” She shone out at him as if
her contention had the evidence of the noonday sun, and yet in her
generosity she superabounded and explained. “It’s such a virtue,
in anything, to have lasted; it’s such an honour, for anything, to
have been spared. To all strugglers from the wreck of time hold out a
pitying hand!”
Yule, on this argument,--of a strain which even a good experience of
debate could scarce have prepared him to meet,--had not a congruous
rejoinder absolutely pat, and his hesitation unfortunately gave him
time to see how soon his companion made out that what had touched
him most in it was her particular air in presenting it. She would
manifestly have preferred he should have been floored by her mere moral
reach; yet he was aware that his own made no great show as he took
refuge in general pleasantry. “What a plea for looking backward, dear
lady, to come from Missoura Top!”
“We’re making a Past at Missoura Top as fast as ever we can, and
I should like to see you lay your hand on an hour of the one we’ve
made! It’s a tight fit, as yet, I grant,” she said, “and that’s
just why I like, in yours, to find room, don’t you see? to turn
round. You’re in it, over here, and you can’t get out; so just
make the best of that and treat the thing as part of the fun!”
“The whole of the fun, to me,” the young man replied, “is in
hearing you defend it! It’s like your defending hereditary gout or
chronic rheumatism and sore throat--the things I feel aching in every
old bone of these walls and groaning in every old draught that, I’m
sure, has for centuries blown through them.”
Mrs. Gracedew looked as if no woman could be shaken who was so prepared
to be just all round. “If there be aches--there may be--you’re here
to soothe them, and if there be draughts--there must be!--you’re
here to stop them up. And do you know what I’m here for? If I’ve
come so far and so straight, I’ve almost wondered myself. I’ve felt
with a kind of passion--but now I see why I’ve felt.” She moved
about the hall with the excitement of this perception, and, separated
from him at last by a distance across which he followed her discovery
with a visible suspense, she brought out the news. “I’m here for an
act of salvation--I’m here to avert a sacrifice!”
So they stood a little, with more, for the minute, passing between them
than either really could say. She might have flung down a glove that
he decided on the whole, passing his hand over his head as the seat of
some confusion, not to pick up. Again, but flushed as well as smiling,
he sought the easiest cover. “You’re here, I think, madam, to be a
memory for all my future!”
Well, she was willing, she showed as she came nearer, to take it,
at the worst, for that. “You’ll be one for mine, if I can see
you by that hearth. Why do you make such a fuss about changing your
politics? If you’d come to Missoura Top, you’d change them quick
enough!” Then, as she saw further and struck harder, her eyes grew
deep, her face even seemed to pale, and she paused, splendid and
serious, with the force of her plea. “What do politics amount to,
compared with religions? Parties and programmes come and go, but a
duty like this abides. There’s nothing you can break with”--she
pressed him closer, ringing out--“that would be like breaking
here. The very words are violent and ugly--as much a sacrilege as
if you had been trusted with the key of the temple. This is the
temple--don’t profane it! Keep up the old altar kindly--you can’t
set up a new one as good. You must have beauty in your life, don’t
you see?--that’s the only way to make sure of it for the lives of
others. Keep leaving it to them, to all the poor others,” she
went on with her bright irony, “and heaven only knows what will
become of it! Does it take one of us to feel that?--to preach you
the truth? Then it’s good, Captain Yule, we come right over--just to
see, you know, what you may happen to be about. We know,” she went on
while her sense of proportion seemed to play into her sense of humour,
“what we haven’t got, worse luck; so that if you’ve happily got
it you’ve got it also for us. You’ve got it in trust, you see,
and oh! we have an eye on you. You’ve had it so for me, all these
dear days that I’ve been drinking it in, that, to be grateful, I’ve
wanted regularly to do something.” With which, as if in the rich
confidence of having convinced him, she came so near as almost to touch
him. “Tell me now I shall have done it--I shall have kept you at your
post!”
If he moved, on this, immediately further, it was with the oddest air
of seeking rather to study her remarks at his ease than to express an
independence of them. He kept, to this end, his face averted--he was
so completely now in intelligent possession of her own. The sacrifice
in question carried him even to the door of the court, where he once
more stood so long engaged that the persistent presentation of his back
might at last have suggested either a confession or a request.
Mrs. Gracedew, meanwhile, a little spent with her sincerity, seated
herself again in the great chair, and if she sought, visibly enough,
to read a meaning into his movement, she had as little triumph for
one possible view of it as she had resentment for the other. The
possibility that he yielded left her after all as vague in respect to
a next step as the possibility that he merely wished to get rid of
her. The moments elapsed without her abdicating; and indeed when he
finally turned round his expression was an equal check to any power to
feel she might have won. “You have,” he queerly smiled at her, “a
standpoint quite your own and a style of eloquence that the few scraps
of parliamentary training I’ve picked up don’t seem at all to fit
me to deal with. Of course I don’t pretend, you know, that I don’t
care for Covering.”
That, at all events, she could be glad to hear, if only perhaps for the
tone in it that was so almost comically ingenuous. But her relief was
reasonable and her exultation temperate. “You haven’t even seen it
yet.” She risked, however, a laugh. “Aren’t you a bit afraid?”
He took a minute to reply, then replied--as if to make it up--with a
grand collapse. “Yes; awfully. But if I am,” he hastened in decency
to add, “it isn’t only Covering that makes me.”
This left his friend apparently at a loss. “What else is it?”
“Everything. But it doesn’t in the least matter,” he loosely
pursued. “You may be quite correct. When we talk of the house your
voice comes to me somehow as the wind in its old chimneys.”
Her amusement distinctly revived. “I hope you don’t mean I roar!”
He blushed again; there was no doubt he was confused. “No--nor yet
perhaps that you whistle! I don’t believe the wind does either,
here. It only whispers,” he sought gracefully to explain; “and it
sighs----”
“And I hope,” she broke in, “that it sometimes laughs!”
The sound she gave only made him, as he looked at her, more
serious. “Whatever it does, it’s all right.”
“All right?”--they were sufficiently together again for her to lay
her hand straight on his arm. “Then you promise?”
“Promise what?”
He had turned as pale as if she hurt him, and she took her hand
away. “To meet Mr. Prodmore.”
“Oh, dear, no; not yet!”--he quite recovered himself. “I must
wait--I must think.”
She looked disappointed, and there was a momentary silence. “When
have you to answer him?”
“Oh, he gives me time!” Clement Yule spoke very much as he might
have said, “Oh, in two minutes!”
“I wouldn’t give you time,” Mrs. Gracedew cried with force--“I’d
give you a shaking! For God’s sake, at any rate”--and she
really tried to push him off--“go upstairs!”
“And literally find the dreadful man?” This was so little his
personal idea that, distinctly dodging her pressure, he had already
reached the safe quarter.
But it befell that at the same moment she saw Cora reappear on
the upper landing--a circumstance that promised her a still better
conclusion. “He’s coming down!”
Cora, in spite of this announcement, came down boldly enough without
him and made directly for Mrs. Gracedew, to whom her eyes had attached
themselves with an undeviating glare. Her plain purpose of treating
this lady as an isolated presence allowed their companion perfect
freedom to consider her arrival with sharp alarm. His disconcerted
stare seemed for a moment to balance; it wandered, gave a wild glance
at the open door, then searched the ascent of the staircase, in which,
