 

acutely conscious of many things. The 
Indians were yelling like demoniacs and 
battering at the gate. In the garden on 
the other side, the old priest was shouting 
Ave Marias in a high quavering voice. A 
breeze had sprung up and Roldan felt the 
chill in it. And he felt the weight of the 
cassock. The heavy woollen garment 
fatigued his arms and impeded his 
progress. Were it not for that he could 
scramble up like a monkey. 

He was within two feet of the top. 
Suddenly he felt a slackening of the rope, 
accompanied by a faint sickening sound. 
The rope was old, it was giving way. 

Roldan made a wild lurch for the project 
ing floor of the belfry. The rope broke. 
He went down. 

He had heard that a drop, however swift, 
might seem to occupy hours to the 
doomed. To his whirling horror-struck 
brain this descent certainly seemed very 
long. It was almost as if he were 
sauntering. Nor was he tumbling over 
and over. He had shut his eyes tight 
when the rope snapped. He opened them, 



 

gave a shuddering glance downward, then 
laughed almost hysterically: his cassock, 
ample even for a man, had caught the 
breeze and spread out on all sides like a 
parachute. 

And although the descent occupied but 
a moment longer, he comprehended the 
situation, with his abnormally sharpened 
senses, as clearly as though he stood on 
high with a spy glass. 

All the inhabitants of the Mission 
proper the priests, brothers, soldiers, and 
house servants were standing before the 
north gate, firearms in hand. Beyond 
were some twenty-five Indians battering 
and yelling, making noise enough to in 
duce the belief that they numbered ten 
times as many more. The rest were not 
to be seen, but it was not difficult for Rol- 
dan to suspect their purpose. 

He lighted on the stone steps of the 
church, tore off his heavy garment, and 
ran toward the north gate. As he did so 
the east gate fell with a crash, and five 
hundred Indians rushed into the plaza. 

They uttered no sound. The guard 



 

at the upper end of the square was not 
aware of their advent until Roldan 
reached them. He was out of breath, but 
he caught the arm of the man nearest him 
and pointed. In a second the word had 
passed, and the handful of defendants 
stared helplessly at the advancing hordes. 
But only for a moment. Padre Flores 
shouted to fall into line, then ordered them 
not to fire in the same breath. Anastacio, 
somewhat ahead of his followers, was 
approaching with a white rag in his 
hand. 

When within a yard of the missionaries 
he paused and saluted respectfully. 

"A word, my fathers," he commanded, 
and in excellent Spanish. 

" Go on," said Padre Flores, sternly. 

" We have not come to kill," said Anns- 
tacio, slowly and with great distinctness : 
the noise beyond the north gate had 
ceased. " You know that we never kill 
the priests, nor do we care for blood. We 
have come for the stores of the Mission 
all your great winter supply, except a 
small quantity which we will leave you 



 

that you may not suffer until you can get 
more. We are tired of this life. We 
belong to the mountains. We cannot see 
that we are any better for your teachings, 
and we certainly are not as strong. Now 
let us do our work in peace, and all will be 
well. But if you fire, we let our arrows 
go, and we are twenty to one." 

All turned anxiously to Padre Flores. 
They were not warlike, and if no bodily 
harm was intended they could see no 
reason for resistance. 

" You have us at disadvantage," said 
Padre Flores, coldly. " I cannot sacrifice 
those in my charge, if you do not mean to 
kill. I agree to your terms on one con 
dition : that we retain our firearms. I 
pass my word that no one shall shoot. 
I cannot take your word nor that of 
any Indian. As you say, our teachings 
are thrown away." 

" I take yours," said Anastacio, undis 
turbed. " All I ask is that you remain 
here under charge of twenty of my 
followers until I call them away." 

He marched off, after planting his 



 

guard ; and for the next two hours he and 
his men looted the Mission and packed 
the trove on horses which had been 
brought up, or on the backs of the bigger 
Indians. At the end of that time he 
shouted to his prisoners to come down 
and enter the Mission. 

Roldan and Adan had been exchanging 
bitter condolences over the humiliating 
change in the warlike programme, but the 
raw air of the morning had chilled their 
enthusiasm, and Roldan, moreover, began 
to feel reaction from the shock to his 
nerves. It was not every day that a boy 
sailed down through forty feet of space and 
lit on his feet, and his nerves were out 
of tune. 

When Anastacio called, he went with 
the rest, but lagged behind. The door of 
the Mission sala was open. The priests 
entered first, their heads scornfully erect; 
then the brethren, the soldiers, and ser 
vants. As Roldan and Adan were about 
to enter, the door was suddenly pulled to, 
coarse hands were clapped over their 
mouths, and, kicking, struggling, biting, 



 

scratching, they were borne swiftly across 
the courtyard and out of the gates. There 
they were set on their feet, and found 
themselves face to face with Anastacio. 

" Don't yell," he said. "There is no 
one to come to the rescue. We shall not 
hurt you unless you try to run away. 
Then I myself will beat you. Get on 
that horse, both of you." 

" I am tired," said Roldan, indifferently. 
" I want to sleep." 

" Sleep ? Very well. Come here." 

He lifted him upon a large horse, then 
mounted behind and encircled him with 
one arm. 

" Go to sleep," he said ; and cantered 
rapidly down the valley, followed by his 
thieving horde. 



