sunlight, and faces set to defend their liege lord and 
sovereign. In an instant the flying Germans were 
forgotten ; and the Emperor and his army, and the 
meaning of the Holy War and of the Cross itself, 
were gone from men's minds in the fury of riot on 
the one side, in the stern determination of defence 
 
on the other. The vast weight of men rolled for- 
ward, pushed by those behind, forcing the King and 
those who stood by him to higher ground. In dire 
distress, and almost hopeless of extricating her gentle 
troop from destruction, the Queen heard the new 
tumult far away, and felt the close press yielding on 
one side. The word ' traitor ' ran along like a quick 
echo from mouth to mouth, repeated again and again, 
sometimes angrily, sometimes in tones of unbelief, 
but always repeated, until there was scarcely one man 
in a hundred thousand whose lips had not formed the 
syllables. Eleanor saw her husband and his com- 
panions with their drawn swords moving in the air, 
on the knoll; she heard the stinging word, and a hard 
and scornful look lingered in her face a moment. 
She knew that the accusation was false, that it was 
too utterly empty to have meaning for honest men ; 
yet she despised her husband merely because a mad- 
man could cast such a word at him; and in the 
security of power and dominions far greater than 
his, as well as of a popularity to which he could 
never attain, she looked upon him in her heart as a 
contemptible kinglet, to marry whom had been her 
most foolish mistake. And it had become the object 
of her life to put him away if she could. 
For a few moments she looked on across the sea 
of heads that had already begun to move away. Her 
mare was quieter now in the larger space, being a 
docile creature, but many of the other ladies' horses 
were still plunging and kicking, though so crowded 
that they could do each other little hurt. She saw 
how the knights were forcing their way to the King's 
side, and how the great herd of footmen resisted them, 
while the word of shame rose louder in their yells ; 
and though she despised the King, the fierce instinct 
of the great noble against the rabble ran through her 
like a painful shock, and her face turned pale as she 
felt her anger in her throat. 
There was room now, for the great throng was 
rushing from her, spreading like a river, and dividing 
at the hillock where it met the knights' swords, and 
flowing to right and left along the edge of the lake. 
The Queen looked behind her, to see what ladies were 
nearest to her, and she saw her standard bearer, 
Anne of Auch, fighting her rearing charger ; and 
next to her, quiet and pale, on a vicious Hungarian 
gelding a great deal too big for her, but which she 
seemed to manage with extraordinary ease, sat Bea- 
trix de Curboil, a small, slim figure in a delicate 
mail that looked no stronger than a silver fishing-net, 
her shape half hidden by her flowing mantle of soft 
olive-green with its scarlet cross on the shoulder, and 
wearing a silver dove's wing on her light steel cap. 
Her eyes met Eleanor's and lightened in sympathy 
of thought, so that the other understood in a flash. 
The Queen's right hand went up, lifting the lance 
high in air; half wheeling to the left, and turning 
her head still farther, she called out to those behind 
her: — 
" Ladies of France ! The rabble is at the King — 
Forward!" 
An instant later, the fleet Arab mare was galloping 
straight for the crowd, and Eleanor did not look be- 
hind her again, but held her lance before her and a 
 
little raised, so that it was just ready to fall into 
rest. Directly behind her rode the Lady Anne, the 
shaft of the standard in the socket of her stirrup, her 
arm run through the thong, so that she had both 
hands free; she sat erect in the saddle, her horse 
already at a racing gallop, neck out, eyes up, red 
nostrils wide, delighting in being free from restraint ; 
and Beatrix was there, too, like a feather on her big 
brown Hungarian, that thundered along like a storm, 
his wicked ears laid straight back, and his yellowish 
young teeth showing under his quivering lip. But 
of all the three hundred ladies none followed them. 
The others had not understood the Queen's command, 
or had not heard, or could not manage their horses, 
or were afraid. And the three women rode at the 
mob, that was now four hundred yards away. 
Straight they rode, heedless and unaware that they 
were alone, nor counting how little three women could 
do against thousands. But the people heard the 
hammering hoofs of the two big horses, and the 
Arab's light footfall resounded quickly and steadily, 
as the fingers of a dancer striking the tambourine. 
Hundreds glanced back to see who rode so fast, and 
thousands turned their heads to know why the others 
looked ; and all, seeing the Queen, pressed back to 
right and left, making way, partly in respect for her 
and much in fear for themselves. Far up the rising 
ground, the riot ceased as suddenly as it had begun ; 
the men-at-arms drew back in shame, and many tried 
to hide their faces, lest they should be known again. 
The tide of human beings divided before the swiftly 
riding women, as the cloud-bank splits before the 
northwest wind in winter, and the white mare sped 
like a ray of light between long wavering lines of 
rough faces and gleaming arms. 
The Queen glanced scornfully to each side as she 
passed in a gale, and the dear sense of power soothed 
her stirred pride. Still the line opened, and still she 
rode on, scarcely rising and sinking with the mare's 
wonderful stride. But the way that was made for her 
was not straight to the King now ; the throng was 
more dense there, and the people parted as they 
could, so that the three ladies had to follow the only 
open passage. Suddenly, before them, there was 
an end, where the rolling ground broke away 
sharply in a fall of forty feet to the edge of the 
lake below. The heads of the last of the crowd 
who stood at the brink were clear and distinct 
against the pale sky. The Queen could not see the 
water, but she felt that there was death in the leap. 
Her two companions looked beyond her and saw 
also. ' 
Eleanor dropped her lance quietly to the right, so 
that it should not make her followers fall, and 
with hands low and weight thrown back in the 
deep saddle she pulled with all her might. Her 
favourite black horse, broken to her own hand, would 
have obeyed her ; she might have been able to stop 
Beatrix's great Hungarian, for her white hands were 
as strong as a man's ; but the Arab mare was trained 
only to the touch of an Arab halter and the deep 
caress of an Arab voice, and at the first strain of the 
cruel French bit she threw up her head, swerved, 
caught the steel in her teeth, and shot forward again 
 
at twice her speed. Eleanor tried in vain to wrench 
the mare's head to one side, into the shrinking crowd. 
The Queen's face turned grey, but her lips were 
set and her eyes steady, as she looked death in the 
face. Behind her, Beatrix's little gloved hands were 
like white moths on her steadily jerking bridle, the 
Hungarian's terrific stride threw up the sods behind 
her, and there was a hopeless, far-away look in her 
face, almost like a death-smile. Only the strong 
dark woman of the South seemed still to have 
control over her horse, and he slowly slackened his 
speed, and fell a little behind the other two. 
In the fearful danger the crowd was silent and 
breathless, and many men turned pale as they saw. 
But none moved. 
One second, two seconds, three seconds, and to 
every second two strides ; the end of three women's 
lives was counted by the wild hoof -strokes. The 
race might last while one could count ten more. 
Gilbert Warde had at first tried to press nearer 
to the King, but he saw that it was useless, because 
the latter was already shoulder to shoulder with the 
nobles and knights. So he had turned back to face 
the crowd with those about him, and with the flat of 
his blade he had beaten down some few swords which 
men had dared to draw ; but he had wounded no one, 
for he knew that it was a madness which must pass 
and must be forgiven. 
Then he found himself with his horse on the very 
edge of the open track made by the dividing people, 
and he looked and saw the Queen, and Beatrix three 
or four lengths behind her, as the matchless Arab 
gained ground in the race. He had been above the 
deep fall and understood. Instantly he was on his 
feet on the turf, a step out in the perilous way; and 
he wished that he had the strength of Lancelot in his 
hands, with the leap of a wild beast in his feet, but 
his heart did not fail him. 
In one second he lived an hour. His life was 
nothing, but he could only give it once, to save 
one woman, and she must be Beatrix, let such chance 
befall Eleanor as might. Yet Eleanor was the 
Queen, and she had been kind to him, and in the 
fateful instant of doom his eyes were on her face ; 
he would try to save the other, but unconsciously he 
made one step forward again and stood waiting in 
midway. One second for a lifetime's thought, one 
for the step he made, and the next was the last. He 
could hear the rush of the wind, and Eleanor was 
looking at him. 
In that supreme moment her face changed, and the 
desperate calm in her eyes became desperate fear for 
him she loved even better than she knew. 
"Back!" she cried, and the cry was a woman's 
agonized scream, not for herself. 
With all her might, but utterly in vain, she 
wrenched sideways at the mare's mouth and she 
closed her eyes lest she should see the man die. He 
had meant to let her pass to her death, for the girl 
was dearer to him, and he had gathered his strength 
like a bent spring to serve him. But he saw her eyes 
and heard her cry, and in the flash of instinct he knew 
she loved him, and that she wished him to save him- 
