"It is a sweet face," he said at last.  "Isn't it?" asked the proud
father.
"Is his mother living?"
"No."
"Was there no difficulty in getting it taken?"
"I suppose you mean on account of my profession. Well, there might be
around here, but this was taken in Minneapolis--about a year ago. It
was one of the few visits that Frank has made with me."
"Are you going to bring him up to your business?"
"Take care, boy," said the outlaw, frowning. "Don't be impertinent."
"I don't mean to be. Do you think the question an improper one?"
"Well, perhaps I have no right to think so. Somehow the business,
though it seems all right for me, I couldn't think of for my boy. No,
I shall soon place him at school where no one will know that he is
related to the celebrated outlaw. I want him brought up to lead an
honest life."
"I am glad you do. I respect you for that."
"My lad, you seem to be one of the right sort. As you will see my son,
I want you to promise me that you won't say a word about the business
I am engaged in."
"I will make that promise. Then the boy doesn't know?"
"No; he has no suspicion. He is too young to think much about that.
Perhaps if he had associated with other boys much he would have found
out."
While this conversation was going on they had entered a wood, and the
road became wilder and rougher. Indeed, it was hardly a road, but
rather a lane, narrow and grass-grown.
Ernest began to wonder in what sort of a home his companion lived. His
evident affection for his son gave Ernest a different feeling towards
him. It was plain that he had a softer side to his nature, bandit
though he was.
Ernest had never read the story of Jekyll and Hyde, but he felt
instinctively that the man beside him had a double nature. On the road
he was an outlaw, with corresponding traits, a rough and unscrupulous
man, but at home, and in the presence of his son, as Ernest judged, he
was a warm-hearted and affectionate father.
In truth, the young bank messenger looked forward with interest to a
meeting with the boy who was so dear to the heart of a man whom the
world generally supposed to be a stranger to the softer emotions.
At length they reached a rocky hillside. Here the outlaw pulled up his
horse and jumped from the buggy. Ernest looked at him in a questioning
way.
"You can get out," he said. "We have arrived."
Ernest alighted and looked about him. He naturally expected to see a
dwelling of some kind, but there was none in sight. If it was at a
distance, why should they not have driven to it?
James Fox looked at him with a smile, enjoying his perplexity.
From his pocket he drew a handkerchief.
"Come here, my boy," he said.
Ernest did not quite understand what he proposed to do, but he felt
better acquainted with the outlaw now, and he knew that there was no
cause for apprehension. He accordingly approached without question.
James Fox bandaged his eyes so that he could see nothing. Then he took
him by the hand and led him forward.
Ernest could not tell what was being done, but he found himself
walking on a rocky path, hand in hand with his guide. How long he
walked he could not tell. It might have been two hundred feet. Then
his guide stopped, and of course he stopped, too.
Next the handkerchief was removed, and he found himself in what seemed
a rocky cavern. At any rate it was a large room, of irregular shape,
but the stone floor had been made smooth, and was covered by a soft
carpet. It was furnished like a sitting-room in a private house. There
were comfortable chairs, including a rocking-chair, and a capacious
arm-chair. On one side of the room was an inviting-looking couch.
Of course there would have been perfect darkness but for artificial
light. On a table was a large student's lamp, and in a niche in the
wall was another. Besides this, there was a lantern hanging from the
roof of the chamber, but this was not lighted.
Ernest looked about him with curiosity and surprise. It was something
new to him, and recalled a story he had once read, in which a
cave-dwelling was described.
"Well, what do you think of it?" asked the outlaw, smiling.
"It is wonderful," said Ernest.
"You did not know where I was bringing you?"
"No. It is a cave, is it not?"
"Well, it looks like it."
"There are other rooms, are there not?"
"Yes, but this is my private apartment; my parlor, you may call it.
This is my sleeping-room."
He drew aside the hangings on the further side and revealed an inner
chamber, of less size.
On a bed Ernest's attention was drawn to the figure of a sleeping boy
evidently the original of the picture which the outlaw had shown him.
"That is your son?" asked Ernest.
"Yes, that is Frank."
The outlaw's stern countenance softened as he regarded the sleeping
boy.
Suddenly the boy stirred; he opened his eyes, and when he recognized
his father a glad smile lighted up his innocent face.
"Papa!" he said, and James Fox bent over and kissed him.
CHAPTER XVII.
IN THE ROBBER'S CAVE.
After kissing his father the young boy looked inquisitively at Ernest.
"Who is that boy, papa?" he asked.
"I have brought him here to stay with you. Shall you like to have his
company?"
"Yes, papa. You know it is very lonely while you are away. What is his
name?"
The outlaw looked at Ernest significantly. He took the hint and
answered, "My name is Ernest Ray."
"How old are you, Ernest?" went on the boy.
"Sixteen."
"I am only ten."
"Are you ready to get up, Frank?" asked his father.
"Yes," answered the young boy briskly. "I got sleepy because I was
alone. Where did papa find you, Ernest?"
"Oh, I met him outside, and he took me to ride."
James Fox looked approval of this answer.
"I am glad you came with him. You seem like a nice boy, Ernest."
"So do you, Frank."
By this time Frank had slid from the bed and put his hand in Ernest's.
"Come here," he said, "and I will show you my books."
Led by his small companion, Ernest went up to a bookcase which he had
not before observed in the main room. About thirty books stood on the
shelves.
"Where did you get your books?" he asked.
"Papa bought them for me in Minneapolis. Were you ever in
Minneapolis?"
"No."
"It is a nice place. Sometimes I think I would like to live there
instead of here."
"You are not getting tired of home, are you, Frank?" asked his father,
half reproach fully.
"No, papa, but it is lonely here sometimes. Am I to live here always?"
"No, Frank. Some time I will send you to school. But you won't see me
every day then."
"Then I don't want to go."
The outlaw stooped over and kissed the boy.
"Now, Frank, I have something to do, so you may amuse yourself with
Ernest."
"Can you play dominos?" asked Frank.
"Yes; have you a set?"
"Yes."
The boy opened a drawer in a bureau and drew out a box of dominos. He
poured them out on the table and they began to play the ordinary game.
When they tired of that, Ernest taught him a new one.
After they grew tired of playing, Ernest read aloud to the boy from
one of his favorite books.
They were sitting together in the arm-chair, when James Fox, who had
left the room, returned. He smiled approvingly at the picture. He was
pleased to think that he had found a companion whom his boy liked.
"What have you been doing, Frank?" he asked.
"He has been reading to me, papa. He reads nicely, and I liked it very
much."
"I am sorry to interrupt you, but are not you young people hungry?"
"I think I could eat something," answered Ernest.
"Frank, you may bring him into the dining-room."
The drapery was lifted, and they passed into a room as large as the
one they were in. On a table in the centre a substantial meal,
consisting principally of roast beef, was set forth. An old colored
woman--intensely black and slightly deformed--hovered near, evidently
the cook.
"Juba," said the outlaw, "this is a new boarder. His name is Ernest,"
"Glad to see you, Massa Ernest," rejoined the old woman, nodding her
turban. "Sit down here next to Massa Frank."
It seemed very strange to Ernest to reflect that he was the guest of
one of the famous outlaws of whom he had heard so much. He was half
inclined to doubt whether it was real. If he had been alone he would
have pinched himself to see whether he was awake or dreaming. Here he
was, in the bowels of the earth, on intimate terms with an outlaw and
his family. How long was he to stay in the cavern? That was a
question impossible to answer. Meanwhile he was hungry, and the
dinner was well cooked.
In spite of his being a prisoner and the loss of the packet, Ernest
was almost ashamed of himself for the appetite which he manifested.
But it seemed to give pleasure to Juba, who regarded it as a
compliment to her cookery.
"Where is Uncle John, papa?" asked Frank, suddenly.
Ernest remembered that one of the Fox brothers was named John, and he
awaited the answer with interest.
James Fox seemed busily thinking, and Frank had to repeat the
question.
"Your Uncle John?" repeated the outlaw. "He went away on business."
"What kind of business, papa?"
It was a natural question, but it startled James Fox. He saw that as
his son became older it might not be easy to evade embarrassing
questions.
"You seem curious, Frank," he answered after a pause. "You wouldn't
understand if I were to tell you."
"Will you teach me your business some day, papa?"
It was on the tip of the outlaw's tongue to say, "Heaven forbid!" but
he only answered, "Wait till you are older, Frank. Then we will talk
about it."
At length they rose from the table.
They went back to the main room, and Ernest read a little more to the
young boy. But Frank's eyes grew heavy, and he finally dropped off to
sleep.
"Shall I lay him on the bed, Mr. Fox?" asked Ernest.
"No, I will do so."
He took the boy tenderly in his arms.
"If I had known he would fall asleep I would have undressed him," he
said.
After placing the boy on the bed he resumed his seat in the arm-chair
and began to smoke. Finally, he looked over at Ernest.
"Do you like my little boy?" he asked abruptly.
"He is a dear little fellow," answered Ernest.
"So he is," said the father in a soft voice. "You have no prejudice
against him because he is my son?"
"No," answered Ernest. "Whatever you are, he is not responsible."
"True, but all might not take that view of it. I don't know why I
