The vigilant Daniells did not fail to note her appearance, and
prepared to serve the interests of his superior in the way which had
been arranged between them.
"So you've finished the vests?" he said, carelessly. "Let me look at
them."
Rose regarded this as a mere formality, knowing that they had been
well made, and never before having had her work objected to.
What was her surprise, therefore, when Daniells went over them one
by one, frowning and shaking his head, disapprovingly.
"Really," he said, "these vests are hardly satisfactory."
"What is amiss with them?" asked Rose, in genuine surprise.
"I can't go into particulars," said Daniells, who would have found
it hard to do so, by the way; "I can only say that they are not as
well made as we expect."
"They are as well made as usual," said Rose, flushing indignantly.
"I cannot understand why you object to them, when all the work I've
done before has passed without objection."
"All I can say, Miss Beaufort, is that I do not feel authorized to
pay you for them. Mr. Parkinson, however, is my superior. You can
refer the matter to him."
"I should like to do so, sir," said Rose, with cold dignity.
"I will accompany you."
The two passed on to the superintendent's desk, and Daniells
explained the matter to his superior.
"I will look over the work myself," said Parkinson. "You may go
back, Mr. Daniells. I will settle the matter."
Rose stood quiet, while the superintendent examined the vests.
"Really, Miss Beaufort," said Hugh, with his fascinating smile, "I
think Mr. Daniells has done you injustice. To my eye, the vests are
very neatly made."
"Thank you, sir," said Rose, gratefully. "I am sure they are as well
made as any I have brought here."
"The fact is," said Parkinson, confidentially, "Daniells is rather
fussy--I might say cranky--I have had more than once to reverse his
decision. You shall certainly be paid promptly, as usual."
"Thank you, sir."
Rose had never admired the superintendent, but he seemed to her
now a just and agreeable man. The money was not now of so much
importance to her, but she strongly objected to being unjustly
treated, and being deprived of the money which she had fairly earned.
Mr. Parkinson himself paid over to Rose the money due for the six
vests.
"Miss Beaufort," he said, "I hope you won't think we men of business
are all hard and disposed to take advantage of the poor. Now, in
your case, I assure you that I feel very kindly toward you."
"Thank you, sir," said Rose, considerably surprised.
Mr. Parkinson's vanity led him to think that she was regarding him
with a look of interest, but he misinterpreted her. She looked upon
him as old enough to be her father, and not a suspicion had ever
entered her mind that he thought of her as a possible wife.
"If you will permit me," said the superintendent, "I am about to go
out to lunch, and will communicate to you a plan I have for your
advantage. It will be better not to take any new work now."
"I did not intend to," said Rose.
Mr. Parkinson looked a little surprised.
They passed through the store together, and out into Broadway. Rose
waited for Mr. Parkinson to say what he appeared to have in his mind.
"I think, Miss Beaufort," he said, as they emerged into the street,
"you could do better than make vests at thirty-five cents each."
"I think so, too," answered Rose. "I wonder what he means?" she
thought.
"Such a beautiful girl as you are----"
"Sir!" exclaimed Rose, haughtily.
"No offense, my dear. Quite the contrary, I assure you. I have had
my eye upon you for some time, and I admire you exceedingly. You are
poor, but I shall overlook that. My dear girl, I am very well off,
as you may suppose, and I offer to make you Mrs. Parkinson."
"Good-evening, sir," said Rose, coldly. "I don't wish to continue
the conversation."
"Don't be foolish, my dear girl. It is a fine chance for a poor
vest-maker to marry a man in my position."
Rose did not deign to answer, but tried to escape. He attempted to
seize her by the arm, when his hat was violently knocked over his
eyes, and he came near measuring his length on the sidewalk.
                           CHAPTER XXII.
                      THE ROMANCE OF A ROSE.
Mr. Parkinson adjusted his hat, and darted a glance of indignation
at a fine-looking young man who had come to the rescue of Rose
Beaufort.
"This is an outrage, sir," he said, angrily.
Clinton Randall paid no attention to the discomfited Parkinson, but
asked Rose:
"Has this man annoyed you?"
"He forced his attentions upon me," answered Rose.
"If he has insulted you, I will take care that he is punished."
"Don't meddle with what is none of your business," said Parkinson,
furiously. "I have a good mind to horsewhip you."
"Make the attempt whenever you please, sir," said Randall,
significantly. "If ever I find you annoying this young lady again, I
shall probably give you a taste of the same medicine."
"Annoying?" sneered Parkinson. "I offered to make her my wife, if
you call that annoyance. Let me tell you that when a gentleman in
my position offers to marry a vest-maker she has reason to feel
complimented."
"She evidently does not," said Randall, not without sarcasm.
"Whether she is a vest-maker or not, she is evidently a young lady
and is entitled to be treated as such."
"She will be sorry for having made such a fuss," said Parkinson,
spitefully. "Miss Beaufort," he continued, turning to Rose, "you
need not trouble yourself to come to the store again for work, as I
shall decline to give you any. You may regret having treated me with
such scant courtesy."
"I had no intention of asking for more work," said Rose, coldly.
"Perhaps you have come into a fortune," sneered Parkinson.
"Enough of this!" said Randall, sternly. "This young lady has no
favors to ask of you. You had better go back to your master and
conduct yourself hereafter in a more becoming manner, or you may
repent it."
Here was a fresh outrage for poor Parkinson. In his own eyes he
was a man of very great importance, and to be told by this young
man, before a common vest-maker, to go back to his master, was very
humiliating. He was trying to think of some scathing retort, when
Randall, with a bow, offered his arm to Rose, and they walked away
together.
"I wonder whether she really doesn't care for any more work,"
thought Parkinson, "or is it only pretense? I dare say she will,
after a while, be coming round again for vests to make. If she does,
I shall have her in my power."
And the superintendent walked slowly back to the store, chafing
inwardly at his ill-success.
"I hope you won't allow yourself to think of this disagreeable
occurrence," said Clinton Randall, "or of this unmannerly cur."
"No, sir, thanks to your kindness, I shall have no occasion."
"He seemed spiteful. I hope it is not in his power to annoy you."
He said this, thinking that Rose might be dependent upon Parkinson
for work.
"Last week he might have done so," answered Rose. "I was engaged in
making vests for the store in which he is employed, and he might
have refused me work. Now, fortunately, thanks to a kind lady, I
have no further occasion to apply to him."
"I am heartily glad to hear it. Any connection with such a cur must
be disagreeable. Has he ever annoyed you before?"
"Never; and I was much surprised to-day when he followed me from the
store and pressed his attentions upon me."
"He is old enough to be your father--the old fool!" said Randall,
resentfully.
It seemed to him profanation that such a man should have thought of
appropriating the fresh beauty of the charming girl at his side.
"He thought I ought to regard myself honored by his proposal,"
said Rose, smiling, as she thought of the unromantic figure of her
elderly lover.
"He has found out by this time that you hold a different opinion.
If he should ever persecute you again, I hope I may be at hand to
rescue you once more."
"I am not likely to meet him, and have no further occasion to make
vests for a living. If you will kindly stop the next up-town car, I
will not longer detain you."
"Certainly," answered Randall; and as a car was just at hand, he
complied with her request.
He stood on the sidewalk, following, with his glances, the Broadway
car into which he had helped Rose.
"I wish I dare follow her, and find out who she is," said Randall
to himself; "but she might misinterpret my motive and class me with
that elderly reprobate with whom I was compelled to interfere. What
a charming girl she is! I never saw a sweeter expression, or a more
beautiful complexion."
He was in a day-dream, from which he was presently roused.
"What are you staring at, Randall?" asked a young man of about his
own age, slapping him on the shoulder. "You seem star-gazing."
"So I am."
"Star-gazing at midday?"
"It is a human star, Tudor. In short, it is a beautiful girl, whom I
have just helped into a car."
"Who is she?"
"I don't know, I'm sure."
"An unknown divinity, eh? Tell me about it, for there is evidently a
story under all this."
"A very short one. I found an elderly scamp annoying her, and
knocked his hat over his eyes."
"And, after having gallantly rescued her, you helped her into a car?"
"Exactly."
"And that is the whole of it?"
"I am afraid so."
"You don't mean to say you are struck at last, Randall--you who have
so long been the despair of manoeuvering mammas? Come, that would be
news, indeed!"
"I am not at all sure but I am. Tudor, I will say one thing, that I
never saw a sweeter face in all my wanderings."
"That's saying a good deal, for you have been all over the world.
And you don't know the young lady's name?"
"Haven't the slightest clew to it."
"Is she rich or poor, a stylish city lady or a rustic beauty?"
"I fancy she is not rich," said Randall, who, for some reason,
did not care to mention that she had been a vest-maker. To him it
mattered little, but his friend Tudor might be more fastidious, and
he was not willing to give him any chance to look down upon Rose.
"Couldn't you manage to ask her name?"
Randall shook his head.
"I tried to think of a pretext, but could not," he answered.
"You may meet her again."
"I hope to do so."
"And if you do?"
Randall smiled.
"Considering that it is not over ten minutes since I first set
eyes upon her, it is, perhaps, a little premature to consider that
question. I shall certainly try to meet her again."
The two young men sauntered up-town, and the conversation fell upon
other themes, but Clinton Randall seemed unusually thoughtful. Do
what he might, he could not help recurring again and again to the
fair face which he had seen for the first time that morning.
