that helped she had arrived, with her rich 
exp rience, at that generalisation ; and there 
was another kind that was fatal. It was 
this time the fatal kind ; it would prevent. 
Well, she saw him the very next day, and 
on this second occasion it was quite differ 
ent; the sense of every syllable he de 
spatched was fiercely distinct; she indeed 
felt her progressive pencil, dabbing as if 
with a quick caress the marks of his own, 
put life into every stroke. He was there a 
long time had not brought his forms filled 
out, but worked them off in a nook on the 
counter; and there were other people as 
well a changing, pushing cluster, with 
every one to mind at once and endless right 
change to make and information to produce. 
But she kept hold of him throughout; she 
continued, for herself, in a relation with 
him as close as that in which, behind the 
hated ground glass, Mr. Buckton luckily con 
tinued with the sounder. This morning 
everything changed, but with a kind of 
dreariness too ; she had to swallow the rebuff 
to her theory about fatal desires, which she 
did without confusion and indeed with abso 
lute levity; yet if it was now flagrant that 
he did live close at hand at Park Cham 
bers and belonged supremely to the class 
that wired everything, even their expensive 
feelings (so that, as he never wrote, his 
correspondence cost him weekly pounds 
and pounds, and he might be in and out five 
times a day,) there was, all the same, 
involved in the prospect, and by reason of 
its positive excess of light, a perverse mel 
ancholy, almost a misery. This was rapidly 
to give it a place in an order of feelings on 
which I shall presently touch. 
Meanwhile, for a month, he was very con 
stant. Cissy, Mary, never reappeared with 
him ; he was always either alone or accom 
panied only by some gentleman who was 
lost in the blaze of his glory. There was 
another sense, however and indeed there 
was more than one in which she mostly 
found herself counting in the splendid 
creature with whom she had originally con 
nected him. He addressed this correspond 
ent neither as Mary nor as Cissy; but the 
girl was sure of whom it was, in Eaton 
Square, that he was perpetually wiring to 
and so irreproachably! as Lady Bradeen. 
Lady Bradeen was Cissy, Lady Bradeen was 
Mary, Lady Bradeen was the friend of Fritz 
and of Gussy, the customer of Marguerite 
and the close ally, in short (as was ideally 
right, only the girl had not yet found a 
descriptive term that was,) of the most mag 
nificent of men. Nothing could equal the 
frequency and variety of his communica 
tions to her ladyship but their extraordinary, 
their abysmal propriety. It was just the 
talk, so profuse sometimes that she wondered 
what was left for their real meetings, of the 
happiest people in the world. Their real 
meetings must have been constant, for half 
of it was appointments and allusions, all 
swimming in a sea of other allusions still, 
tangled in a complexity of questions that 
gave a wondrous image of their life. If 
Lady Bradeen was Juno, it was all certainly 
Olympian. If the girl, missing the answers, 
her ladyship 's own outpourings, sometimes 
wished that Cocker 's had only been one of 
the bigger offices where telegrams arrived 
as well as departed, there were yet ways in 
which, on the whole, she pressed the ro 
mance closer by reason of the very quantity 
of imagination that it demanded. The days 
and hours of this new friend, as she came to 
account him, were at all events unrolled, 
and however much more she might have 
known she would still have wished to go 
beyond. In fact she did go beyond; she 
went quite far enough. 
But she could none the less, even after a 
month, scarce have told if the gentlemen 
who came in with him recurred or changed ; 
and this in spite of the fact that they too 
were always posting and wiring, smoking in 
her face and signing or not signing. The 
gentlemen who came in with him were noth 
ing, at any rate, when he was there. They 
turned up alone at other times then only 
perhaps with a dim richness of reference. 
He himself, absent as well as present, was 
all. He was very tall, very fair, and had, 
in spite of his thick preoccupations, a good- 
humour that was exquisite, particularly as it 
so often had the effect of keeping him on. 
He could have reached over anybody, and 
anybody no matter who would have let 
him ; but he was so extraordinarily kind that 
he quite pathetically waited, never waggling 
things at her out of his turn or saying Here ! 
with horrid sharpness. He waited for pot 
tering old ladies, for gaping slaveys, for the 
perpetual Buttonsesfrom Thrupp s; and the 
thing in all this that she would have liked 
most unspeakably to put to the test was the 
possibility of her having for him a personal 
identity that might in a particular way 
appeal. There were moments when he 
actually struck her as on her side, arranging 
to help, to support, to spare her. 
But such was the singular spirit of our 
young friend that she could remind herself 
with a sort of rage that when people had 
awfully good manners people of that class 
you couldn't tell. These manners were for 
everybody, and it might be drearily unavail 
ing for any poor particular body to be over 
worked and unusual. What he did take for 
granted was all sorts of facility ; and his high 
pleasantness, his relighting of cigarettes 
while he waited, his unconscious bestowal 
of opportunities, of boons, of blessings, were 
all a part of his magnificent security, the 
instinct that told him there was nothing 
such an existence as his could ever lose by. 
He was, somehow, at once very bright and 
very grave, very young and immensely com 
plete ; and whatever he was at any moment, 
it was always as much as all the rest the 
mere bloom of his beatitude. He was some 
times Everard, as he had been at the Hotel 
Brighton, and he was sometimes Captain 
Everard. He was sometimes Philip with 
his surname and sometimes Philip without 
it. In some directions he was merely Phil, 
in others he was merely Captain. There 
were relations in which he was none of these 
things, but a quite different person the 
Count. There were several friends for 
whom he was William. There were several 
for whom, in allusion perhaps to his com 
plexion, he was the Pink Un. Once, 
once only by good luck, he had, coinciding 
comically, quite miraculously, with another 
person also near to her, been Mudge. Yes, 
whatever he was, it was a part of his hap 
piness whatever he was and probably what 
ever he wan' t. And his happiness was a 
part it became so little by little of some 
thing that, almost from the first of her being 
at Cocker's, had been deeply with the girl. 
This was neither more nor less than the 
queer extension of her experience, the double 
life that, in the cage, she grew at last to 
lead. As the weeks went on there she lived 
more and more into the world of whiffs and 
glimpses, and found her divinations work 
faster and stretch further. It was a pro 
digious view as the pressure heightened, a 
panorama fed with facts and figures, flushed 
with a torrent of color and accompanied with 
wondrous world-music. What it mainly 
came to at this period was a picture of how 
London could amuse itself; and that, with 
the running commentary of a witness so 
exclusively a witness, turned for the most 
part to a hardening of the heart. The nose 
of this observer was brushed by the bouquet, 
yet she could never really pluck even a daisy. 
What could still remain fresh in her daily 
grind was the immense disparity, the 
difference and contrast, from class to class, of 
every instant and every motion. There 
were times when all the wires in the country 
seemed to start from the little hole-and- 
corner where she plied for a livelihood, and 
where, in the shuffle of feet, the flutter of 
forms, the straying of stamps and the ring 
of change over the counter, the people she 
had fallen into the habit of remembering 
and fitting together with others, and of 
having her theories and interpretations of, 
kept up before her their long procession and 
rotation. What twisted the knife in her 
vitals was the way the profligate rich scat 
tered about them, in extravagant chatter 
over their extravagant pleasures and sins, 
an amount of money that would have held 
the stricken household of her frightened 
childhood, her poor pinched mother and tor 
mented father and lost brother and starved 
sister, together for a lifetime. During her 
first weeks she had often gasped at the 
sums people were willing to pay for the stuff 
