Is it catching, I wonder? he thought. If some of my English friends
should come out here five years hence, should I patronise them?
Doubtless, for it is like living on another planet. Exclusiveness is the
very scheme of its nature. It is encouraging to think that I have yet
another phase to live through.
Ila claimed his attention and kept it as they rolled down the dusty road
toward the Mark Smith place. Tiny, after a futile attempt to engage
Magdaléna in conversation, devoted herself prettily to Mrs. Yorba and
talked of the plans for the summer.
Magdaléna was acutely miserable. Her exaltation of spirits was a bare
memory. She hated her dowdy frock, her glaring contrast to the vivid
Ila, accentuated by that grotesque similarity of attire. She listened to
Ila's brilliant chatter and recalled her own halting phrases, her narrow
vocabulary, and wondered angrily at the conceit which had prompted her
to hope that she was overcoming her natural deficiencies.
Then she remembered that she was a Yorba, and drew herself up in lonely
pride. It was a privilege for these girls to be intimate with her, to
call her 'Léna, great as might be their social superiority over the many
in San Francisco whose names she had never heard. In her inordinate
pride of birth, in her intimate knowledge of the fact that she was the
daughter of a Californian grandee who still possessed the three hundred
thousand acres granted his fathers by the Spanish crown, she in all
honesty believed no one of these friends of her youth to be her equal,
although she never betrayed herself by so much as a lifting of the
eyebrow. She had questioned, after her loss of religion, if it were not
her duty to train down her pride, but had concluded that it was not; it
injured no one, and it was a tribute she owed her race. She liked
Trennahan the better that he had discovered and approved this pride.
XXI
Magdaléna did not see Trennahan alone again; he did not ask her to ride
with him on the following morning, and left for town immediately after
breakfast. But before taking his seat in the char-à-banc he held her
hand a moment and assured her with such emphasis that he owed the great
pleasure of his visit entirely to her, that her spirits, which had been
in weeds, flaunted into colour and song; and she went at once to her
nook in the woods, feeling that the fire in her mind was nothing less
than creative.
But she did not write for some time. The sun was already intensely hot;
even in those depths the air was heavy, the heat waves shimmered among
the young green of the undergrowth.
Magdaléna stretched herself out lazily and looked up into the green
recesses of the trees. The leaves were rustling in a light hot wind. She
fancied that they sang, and strained her ears to catch the tune. It
looked so cool and green and dark up there; surely the birds, the
squirrels, the very tree-toads,--those polished bits of malachite,--must
be happy and fond in their storeyed palace. What a poem might be written
about them! but they would not raise their voices above that indefinite
murmur, and the straining ears of her soul heard not either.
She sat up and began to write, endeavouring to shake some life into her
heroine, but only succeeding in making her express herself in very
affected old English, with the air of a marionette.
Then mechanically, almost unconsciously, she began the story again. At
the end of an hour she discovered that she had dressed up Trennahan in
velvet and gold, doublet and hose. She laughed with grim merriment.
Ignorant as she was, she was quick to see the incongruity between modern
man in his quintessence and the romantic garments of a buried century.
Also, her hero had addressed his startled friends in this wise:
"I can't stand that rat-hole any longer. I'm going to stay down here
with the rest of you, whether I'm hanged for it or not."
This was undoubtedly what Trennahan would have said; but not the
Cavalier, Lord Hastings of Fairfax. She had a vague prompting that on
the whole it was preferable to,--
"Gadsooks, my bold knights, and prithee should a man rot in a rat-ridden
cupboard while his friends make merry? Rather let him be drawn and
quartered, then fed to ravens, but live while he may."
But she dismissed the thought as treason to letters, and proceeded on
her mistaken way with the Lady Eleanora Templemere. Shakspere and Scott
were her favourite writers; she felt that she must fumble into the
sacred lines of literature by such feeble rays as they cast her. She
liked and admired the great realists whose bones were hardly dust; but
they did not inspire her, taught her nothing.
XXII
The next morning, as she was starting for the woods, rather later than
usual, Dick, the stable-boy, who had just returned from the post-office,
detached a letter from a packet he was handing the butler and ran after
her. As Helena was her only correspondent, she marvelled at the strange
handwriting, but opened the letter more promptly than most women do in
the circumstances. It was from Trennahan and read:
     DEAR MISS YORBA,--I have virtually bought the place. That
     is to say, I shall buy it as soon as the deeds are made out.
     Meanwhile, I am looking for servants and hope to move down on Monday
     next at latest. Mr. Smith has also consented to sell me his stud,
     which, your father tells me, is exceptionally fine. So, you see, I
     am really to be your neighbour, and am hoping you are friendly
     enough not to be displeased. At all events, I shall give myself the
     pleasure of riding over on Monday evening, and hope that you will
     join me in another ride on the following morning. Meanwhile, can I
     do anything for you in town? Is there anything that you would care
     to read? Pray command me.
     Faithfully,
     J. S. TRENNAHAN.
Never was there a more commonplace or business-like note, but it seemed
a miracle of easy grace to Magdaléna: it was the first note of any sort
that she had received from a man not old enough to be her father. She
invested it with all the man's magnetism, and heard it enunciated in his
cultivated voice. She imagined it delivered in the nasal tones of her
uncle, or in the thick voice of the youth that had sat on her left at
the birthday dinner,--she had forgotten his name,--and shuddered.
She recalled that her mother had received an envelope directed by the
same hand the night before; but that, doubtless, had been a mere note of
politeness. He had written this because he wished to do so!
She spent the entire morning answering the note, and discovered that it
was as easy to write a book. After tearing up some twenty epistles, she
concluded that the following, when copied on her best note-paper, and
compared with the dictionary, would do,--
     DEAR MR. TRENNAHAN,--I am glad that you have bought the
     Mark Smith place. There is nothing that I want. Many thanks.
     Yours truly,
     MAGDALÉNA YORBA.
XXIII
On the following Monday Don Roberto had a cold and did not go to town,
but sunned himself on the verandah, alternately sipping whiskey and
eating quinine pills. Magdaléna dutifully kept him company, and the
whiskey having made him unusually amiable, he talked more than was his
wont with the women of his family. In his way he was fond of his
daughter, deeply as she had disappointed him; and, had she known how to
manage him, doubtless her girlish wants would have met with few rebuffs.
But that would have meant another Magdaléna.
"I like this Trennahan," he announced. "He prefer talk with me than with
the young mens, and he know plenty good stories, by Jimminy! He have
call on me at the bank three times, and I have lunch with him one day.
Damn good lunch. He is what Jack call thoroughbred, and have the manners
very fine. I like have him much for the neighbour. He ask myself and
Eeram and Washeengton to have the dinner with him on Thursday and warm
the house. He understand the good wine and the tabac, by Scott! I feel
please si he ask me plenty time, and I have him here often."
Magdaléna was delighted with these unexpected sentiments. She pressed
her lips together twice, then said,--
"He asked me if I could ride again with him to-morrow morning."
"I have not the objection to you ride all you want it with Mr.
Trennahan, si you not go outside the place. Need not take that boy, for
he have the work; and I have trust in Mr. Trennahan."
He would, indeed, have welcomed Trennahan as a son-in-law. Magdaléna
must inherit his wealth as well as the immense fortune of her uncle;
neither of these worthy gentlemen had the least ambition to be
caricatured in bronze and accumulate green mould as public benefactors.
Nor did Don Roberto regret that he had no son, having the most profound
contempt for the sons of rich men, as they circled within his horizon.
It would be one of the terms of his will that Magdaléna's first son
should be named Yorba, and that the name should be perpetuated in this
manner until California should shake herself into the sea.
He had long since determined that Magdaléna should marry no one of the
sons of his moneyed friends, nor yet any of the sprouting lawyers or
unfledged business youths who made up the masculine half of the younger
fashionable set. Nor would he leave his money in trust for trustees to
fatten on. Ever since Magdaléna's sixteenth birthday he had been on the
look-out for a son-in-law to his pattern. The New Yorker suited him. A
wealthy man himself, Trennahan's motives could not be misconstrued. His
birth and breeding were all that could be desired, even of a Yorba. He
understood the value of money and its management. And he was well past
the spendthrift age.
Don Roberto and Mr. Polk had discussed the matter between them; and
these two wily old judges of human nature had agreed that Trennahan must
become the guardian of their joint millions. Magdaléna was her father's
only misgiving. Would a man with an exhaustive experience of beautiful
women be attracted into marriage by this ugly duckling? But Trennahan
had passed his youth. Perhaps, like himself, he would have come to the
conclusion that it was better to have a plain wife and leave beauty to
one's mistresses. He had not the slightest objection to Trennahan having
a separate establishment; in fact, he thought a man a fool who had not.
Little escaped his sharp eyes. He had noted Trennahan's interest in
Magdaléna, the length of the morning ride, his daughter's sparkling eyes
at breakfast. Propinquity would do much; and the bait was dazzling, even
to a man of fortune.
He became aware that Magdaléna was speaking.
"I have no habit; and Ila says that they intend to have riding parties."
"You can get one habit. Go up to-morrow and order one."
Magdaléna felt a little dazed, and wondered if everything in her life
were changing.
"I hear wheels," she said after a moment. They were on the verandah on
the right of the house. She stood up and watched the bend of the drive.
"It is the Montgomery char-à-banc," she said, "and there are Mrs.
Cartright and Tiny and Ila and Rose. Shall you stay?"
"I stay. Bring them here to me. Tiny and Ila beautiful girls. Great
Scott! they know what they are about. Rose very pretty, too."
The char-à-banc drew up; and as its occupants did not alight, Magdaléna
went down and stood beside it, shading her eyes with her hand.
"We have come to take you for a drive to the hills, 'Léna dear," said
Tiny. "Do come."
"Papa has a bad cold. I cannot leave--"
"Poor dear Don Roberto!" exclaimed Mrs. Cartright. "I will get out this
minute and speak to him. I know so many remedies for a cold,--blackberry
brandy, or currant wine, or inhaling burnt linen and drinking hot
water--" But she was halfway down the verandah by this time.
"Do you remember the last time we went to the hills?" asked Ila. "Helena
and Rose shrieked with such hilarity that the horses bolted."
"I can answer for myself," said Rose. "I may say that the memory was
burnt in with a slipper."
"I never was spanked," murmured Tiny. "That is one of the many things I
am grateful for. It must be so humiliating to have been spanked."
"Who can tell what futures may lie in a slipper?" replied Rose, who had
a reputation for being clever. "I am sure that my slipperings, for
instance, generated a tendency for epigram; something swift and sharp.
It destroyed the tendency to bawl continuously,--the equivalent of the
great national habit of monologue."
"Rose, you are quite too frightfully clever," said Tiny, with an
assumption of languor. "You will be writing a book next."
"I will make 'Léna the heroine," retorted Rose, with a keen glance, "and
call it 'The Sphinx of Menlo Park.'"
"Fancy 'Léna being called a sphinx," said Ila, who was looking very
