up, and brushed the dust from her inexpressive visage.
"Poor thing!" purred she. "I hope nothing will ever happen to Rozillah.
Isn't that a love-el-ly? I made it out of my own head from Rosa and
Zillah, two love-el-ly girls I read of in a book."
"I think it is a nasty name," was my deliberate reply.
She recoiled with a fine horror which stung me like a nettle.
"Oh, Molly! what a word for a little lady to use!"
I looked up at her for the first time, my eyes burning in dry sockets.
"I think your doll-baby is nasty, and Rozillah is a nigger name! So
there!"
I could command no worse language, for I knew none.
Mary 'Liza looked shocked and terrified. She glanced right and left and
upward nervously, as fearing the punishment of heaven upon me.
"I am afraid that you are in a very bad humor," she faltered, her
self-possession forsaking her for a moment. "I'd better leave you."
She had gone a dozen paces when she glanced over her shoulder to say, in
her most grown-up and judicial manner:--
"I hope you will not make any noise and wake Rozillah up."
I rose and went straight to the cradle as soon as my cousin was out of
sight. Cold, deadly fury possessed and filled me, casting out fear of
consequences and routing the weakling conscience engendered and
nourished by parental counsel. I plucked Rozillah from her downy bed and
bore her into the air, cuffing her polished red cheeks soundly on the
way. Then I stripped off her gay raiment and knotted the ribbon sash
about her smooth neck. I had never tied a knot before, but this held, as
did the loop I cast over a projecting branch of the sickly
peach-sapling. Naked and forlorn, Rozillah dangled a foot and more from
the ground. I fetched my father's riding-whip from the hall table, and
the last feeble check upon my fury was released.
The next I knew a pair of cool, white arms closed about me and the whip
together, and Cousin Molly Belle's voice, half-laughing, half-horrified,
cried through the roaring in my ears:--
"Dear little Namesake! what has got into you?"
All at once, red mists parted and rolled away from my eyes, and I became
conscious that Mary 'Liza was jumping up and down and screaming
piteously, that everybody was on the spot--my father and mother and all
the dinner company, and Mam' Chloe with the baby in her arms, and a ring
of my small black servitors on the outside of the group; also that all
eyes were focussed on me and what was left of Rozillah.
The lash had drawn sawdust at every blow. One arm and both legs were
torn off and weltered in the scattered stuffing beneath; the crop of
black curls was tangled in the topmost limb of the sapling. The blue
silk gown would never fit the pliant waist again. Rozillah was beyond
the possibility of reconstruction.
I threw my arms around Cousin Molly Belle's neck, and burst into a
torrent of childish tears.
I think I must have been whipped for that afternoon's work. I ought to
have been, and Solomon, as a disciplinarian, was in high repute in the
family connection. I am sure that I was put forthwith to bed and left
alone for an eternity without even Musidora to bear me company. I had an
indefinite impression that they feared the effect of association with
such a wicked child upon her morals and manners.
I recollect that my mother brought me the bread and milk which was all
the supper I was to have, and talked me tenderly into tears.
But most vividly do I recall the apparition which stole into my solitude
after supper--which I had scented longingly from afar. A wraith all in
white--gown and neck and arms and face, the masses of fluffy hair making
this last more wraith-like. It sank to the floor beside my low bed, and
gathered me, miserable culprit, in a cuddling embrace, and bade me "tell
Cousin all about it--the whole truly truth."
I could always talk to her, and I began at the beginning and went
straight and steadfastly through to the nauseous end.
I did not cry while I talked, and when struck by her silence I raised a
timid hand to her dear cheek and found it wet, I was surprised.
"Why, Cousin Molly Belle!" I stammered. "Are you so angry with me as
that?"
"Angry? yes, Namesake, but not with you, poor little sinner! You and I
are always getting into scrapes--aren't we? Maybe that is why I am going
to ask your mother to let you sleep with me to-night."
Which delicious cup of happiness consoled the outgoing of the first
tragical day of my life.
[Illustration]
Chapter II
A Prize Fight and a Race
Cousin Molly and I were spending an afternoon in the Old Orchard. My
mother had a houseful of company, a common circumstance in itself. This
particular houseful was so little to Cousin Molly Belle's liking that
she got away as soon as dinner was over, drawing me, a willing captive,
in her train. Furthermore, she had stolen Bud, my baby brother, from the
chamber floor where Mam' Chloe had deposited him and a string of spools,
while she lent a hand with the dinner dishes to her butler husband.
Bud chuckled and crowed and squealed, as if he were the heart, head, and
front of the joke, while we scampered down the middle garden walk,
hidden by tall althea hedges, and gained the rail fence at the lower end
without being challenged. My accomplice made me climb over first, and
lowered her burden carefully into my arms, before she leaned her weight
upon the two hands laid on the top rail, and whirled over like an
acrobat--or a bird. She could outrun half the boys who had been her
slaves and playfellows in childhood, and outjump three-fourths of them.
We were comparatively safe now, the ground dipping abruptly below the
garden into a level stretch of "old field" where the broom straw came up
to my armpits, the yellowing waves parting before, and closing behind,
with the surge and "swish" of a gentle surf. They smelled sweet and they
felt soft, and Cousin Molly Belle let Bud down from her shoulder, and
making a hammock of her arms, swung him back and forth through the
pliant stems until he choked with ecstasy.
Beyond the old field was the Old Orchard. The new orchard, planted
nearer the house, was in full bearing, and my father made little
account of such fruit--mostly choke-pears and apples from ungrafted
limbs--as was enterprising enough to grow and ripen without tending or
harvesting. The trunks of the neglected trees were studded with knobs
like enormous wens, and the branches had a jaunty earthward cant that
made climbing the easiest sort of work, and swinging an irresistible
temptation. In the higher boughs were cosey crotches where one could
sit, and read, and even sleep, without danger of falling. I and my court
of small darkies had spent one whole July Saturday in and under the "big
sweeting," when the apples were nominally ripe. I was Elijah, and my
attendants were the ravens who plied me with sweetings in all stages of
development until I could not have swallowed another to save the
combined kingdoms of Judah and Israel. I was ill all night after the
surfeit, but I bore the sweetings no grudge for my misplaced confidence
in the human stomach.
We three runaways camped down under the brooding branches. The unshorn
and uncropped turf was thick and dry as a parlor carpet. Bud crept
lawlessly about, picking up twigs and pebbles, and trying his first four
teeth upon them. He was a discreet baby, never swallowing what he could
not bite into. His real names were William Skipwith Burwell. Somebody
had dubbed him "Rosebud," in the first moon of his sublunary existence,
and the abbreviation was inevitable. He would probably remain "Bud"
until he entered Hampton Sidney. The chances were even that the
alliterative temptation of "Bud Burwell" would tack the label upon him
for life. Changes were troublesome, and Powhatan County people were
opposed to taking trouble. The name of their own county usually lost the
second syllable in sliding between their lips.
Cousin Molly Belle threw herself down at full-length on the grass,
pillowed her bright head upon her arms, and stared contentedly into the
apple boughs.
"This is what I call taking one's comfort!" she breathed.
I sat down by her, my short legs tucked under me, Bedouin-wise. That was
one good thing--among many--about being out-of-doors with nobody by but
her or the colored children. I could sit cross-legged. If I forgot my
manners and did it in the house, my mother, or Mam' Chloe, pulled my
legs out straight in front of me, or shook them down, and reminded me
that I was going to be a young lady before long. As if that were my
fault, or as if it could be helped! My heart glowed with gratification
in observing that Cousin Molly Belle had laid one slim ankle over the
other. I hitched myself a little nearer to her and lapsed into the
confidential tone she encouraged in our tête-à-têtes.
"Don't you just love to cross your--feet?"
My modest hesitation was not lost upon her. She laughed.
"I like to cross my legs--and I do it!"
"Mam' Chloe says people ought to think little ladies haven't any
legs,--that their feet are just pinned to the bottom of their
pantalettes."
"Mam' Chloe is an--echo!"
"That wasn't what you began to say,--was it?" asked I, diffidently.
She laughed again, tweaking my ear, affectionately, and telling me that
I was a "monkey, and too sharp to be safe."
Her eyes were full of laughter and laziness; the color in her cheeks was
that of a velvet perpetual rose, shading into peach-blow, then into pure
white that never took freckle or tan from the hottest sun.
Have I said that her hair was auburn, and curled like grape tendrils,
from the nape of the neck to the forehead? The color was singular. In
the shade it was that of a perfectly groomed bay horse. When the sun
struck it, it got all alive, as if there were light under it, as well as
over it, and was, unmistakably, red. She made more fun of it than
anybody else, but at heart she loved her hair, and would not have
exchanged it for paley-gold or ebony tresses. Bud had fastened his
chubby hands in it to steady himself on his perch, as she ran, and
pulled some of it loose from her comb. A thick curl strayed over her
arm, bare almost to the shoulder, as was the warm-weather custom of
young ladies of that time. She drew it around before her eyes, thinning
it into a silky veil, holding it high up and letting it slip, strand by
strand, between her and the light.
A notion--indefinable in words--that a wealth of charms was wasted upon
one observant little girl and a non-observant baby, led me to inquire:--
"Would you, sure enough, rather be out here than in the house, talking
to them all?"
"I am tired of 'them all,' Molly. They tire me to death."
"Some grown people are not tiresome," I essayed. "There's Mr. Frank
Morton, now. I like him!"
"Oh, you do--do you? Why?" still shredding the veil of curls between her
and the sun.
"Well, one thing is, he talks straight. He doesn't talk 'round about,
and sideways, and crossways, to children. Nor make fun of my questions.
He just answers right along and plain."
"I don't think I quite know what you mean, Namesake."
"Why, you see it's this way,--the other day I asked him if he didn't
think you were a heap prettier than any other lady he ever saw, and he
never so much as cracked a smile. He just put his arm 'round me--he
never did that but twice before--and he said up-and-down, as serious as
anything--'Yes, I do, Molly!' And he does make the beautifullest
chinquapin whistles! They go on whistling after they are dry. You see,
the trouble with the whistles other people make for me, is that they
shrivel all up by next day, and there isn't a bit of whistle left in
them."
"That's the way with most of my whistles, too, Namesake. And then I
throw them away and want new ones. Heigh-ho! What's the use of a whistle
when all the whistle has gone out of it? I must ask Mr. Frank Morton how
he makes his."
I gave a jump and a little squeak.
"Oh, Cousin Molly Belle! there's a great, big race-horse on you!"
He had tumbled out of the apple boughs upon the folds of her skirt and
before I could capture him, a second fell after him. I was upon my feet
in a twinkling, seized first one, then the other, by their attenuated
middles, and held them up, all kicking and sprawling, between a thumb
and finger of each hand. I knew the tricks and the manners of what I
learned, many years later, that naturalists describe as the mantis
religiosa, or praying-mantis, because in off-hours,--i.e. when they
are not foraging or fighting--they will sit upon their hind quarters and
