"My purse is gone!" exclaimed the young lady in a state of nervous
excitement.
"When did you last see it?" asked the messenger boy.
"About an hour ago. I bought a copy of MUNSEY'S MAGAZINE of the train
boy, and took out my purse to pay for it."
"An hour ago? You were sitting alone at the time?"
"Yes."
"Did any one sit beside you except the old gentleman who has just left?"
"No."
"You are sure it hasn't fallen on the floor?"
"I will look."
The young lady rose and looked about under the seat, but the lost purse
was not found.
"I--I don't see how I could have lost it. I have been sitting here all
the time."
An idea flashed upon Mark.
"It must have been taken by the man who just left you," he said.
"But that can't be! He was a minister."
"I know he was dressed as a minister, but I don't believe he was one."
"He looked just like one. Besides he was reading a volume of sermons. I
can't believe that he would rob me."
"There was one thing that didn't look very ministerial."
"What was that?"
"His nose. Do you not notice how red it was?"
"Yes, but I thought it might be some humor."
"It was colored by whisky, I think. I know topers in New York who have
noses exactly like his. You may depend upon it that he has your purse.
I hope there wasn't much in it."
"Only about five dollars. Generally the loss would not inconvenience me,
but as it is--" and she looked anxious.
"If--if I can be of any service," stammered Mark, "I hope you won't mind
saying so. I can lend you five dollars."
The young lady looked grateful, but seemed in doubt as to whether she
ought to accept the offer.
"I don't know whether I ought to accept such an offer from a young
gentleman--" she said hesitating.
"I am a very young gentleman," said Mark smiling. "I am only sixteen!"
"That is true, and it does make a difference. Are you sure you can spare
the money for a day or two?"
"Quite so, Miss--"
"Loring," prompted the young lady.
"Are you related to Mrs. Arabella Loring of Cleveland?"
The young lady looked very much surprised.
"She is my mother," she replied. "But how in the world do you know of
her?"
"I will tell you later," answered Mark.
He felt that it wouldn't be wise to mention the commission, or let any
one know that he had a diamond ring in charge.
"Are you going directly to Cleveland, Miss Loring?"
"Yes, but about thirty miles this side I have a young niece at a
boarding school. She will join me on the train, and will expect me to
pay her railroad fare. But for that, the loss of the money would have
entailed no inconvenience."
Mark drew from his pocket book a five-dollar bill and passed it to Miss
Loring.
"But how can I return this to you?" she asked.
"I will call at your house. I am going to Cleveland also."
"Do so. Here is my card."
She took out a small card and tendered it to Mark. On it was inscribed:
    MISS FLORENCE LORING.
       No. 1001½ Euclid Avenue.
"Inquire for me when you call!" she said.
"Thank you."
"It seems so strange that you should know my mother," she continued
evidently feeling curious.
Mark smiled.
"You will know in time," he said. "If we were alone I would tell you
now."
Here there was a stop at some station, and a shabby and dirty-looking
man entered the car.
There was but one seat vacant, the one next to Florence Loring.
Mark hastily rose and sat down in it.
"I thought," he said apologetically, "you might prefer me to the man who
has just entered the car."
"By all means," she answered with a bright smile. "I prefer you also to
the clerical gentleman who rode with me earlier."
"Thank you. When your niece joins you I will vacate the seat in her
favor."
Florence Loring was perhaps nineteen, three years older than Mark. She
looked upon him quite as a boy, and therefore felt under no constraint.
"Do you come from New York?" she asked.
"Yes."
"You seem young to travel alone."
"I don't think you can be much older than I," said Mark.
"Mercy! I feel ever so much older. I feel old enough to be your aunt."
"I shouldn't mind having you for an aunt," returned Mark.
"On the whole, though, it might prove to be too much of a
responsibility. You may be very hard to manage."
"Do you mind my calling you aunt?"
"Well, perhaps it might make me appear too venerable."
"Did you notice, Miss Loring, whether your clerical friend left the cars
when he left the seat?"
"No; I didn't feel any particular interest in him, and did not give him
a second thought."
"Perhaps he may still be on the train. I have a great mind to go and
see."
"I don't think it would do any good. We could not prove that he took my
purse."
"If you will excuse me for five minutes I will make a search."
Mark went through the next car and entered the second one, which was a
smoking car. He looked about him, and in a seat about the middle of the
car he saw the man of whom he was in search. He recognized him by his
white tie and his red nose. He was smoking a cigar and gazing out of the
car window.
The seat beside him being vacant Mark went forward and sat down in it.
The gentleman with the white tie glanced at him carelessly, but did not
appear to think Mark was worthy of attention. He changed his mind when
Mark said in a low voice:
"Please give me the purse which you took from a young lady in the second
car back."
CHAPTER XVI.
MARK AS A DETECTIVE.
THE adventurer turned swiftly when he heard Mark's startling question.
He seemed astounded at the boy's audacity.
"What did you say?" he demanded with hauteur.
"I asked you to return the purse which you took from a young lady in the
second car back," repeated Mark calmly.
"Boy," said the false minister, "you must be insane or drunk."
"I don't think I am either," returned Mark.
"What do you mean by such nonsense, then? Are you aware that I am a
minister of the gospel?"
"Where do you preach?"
"It is of no consequence," said the other loftily. "I am not in habit of
being insulted by whipper-snappers like you."
"Are you in the habit of taking young ladies' purses, Mr.----"
"Rev. Mr. Buffington is my name, young man."
"Then, Mr. Buffington, will you answer my question?"
"I shall be tempted to forget my sacred profession and throw you out of
the car," said the pseudo minister, looking very unclerical as he spoke.
"I have no doubt you would like to do so."
"You ought to be thrashed for your impertinence."
"Suppose you call the conductor and complain of me. You may tell your
story and I will tell mine."
This suggestion seemed fair enough, but it did not appear to strike the
Rev. Mr. Buffington favorably.
"I do not care to notice the foolish insolence of a half grown boy," and
the pseudo clergyman, taking a paper from his lap, half turned away from
Mark, and began to read, or appeared to do so.
Mark, however, did not propose to be bluffed off in this manner.
"Mr. Buffington," he said resolutely, "I am a boy, but I know what I am
about. You took the young lady's purse. Before you sat down beside her
she had it in her pocket. When you left the car it was gone."
"If I ever get you alone," said Buffington in a low tone of concentrated
rage.
"If you do, I hope you won't forget your sacred profession."
"I am a minister, but I am also a gentleman, and I shall resent an
insult."
"Look here," said Mark, getting out of patience, "either you give me
back that purse for the young lady or I will call the conductor and lay
the matter before him."
"Rev." Mr. Buffington tried to turn Mark from his purpose by threats,
but he was evidently alarmed. He was conscious of guilt, and he knew how
such an appeal would end for him.
Mark saw him waver, and followed up his advantage.
"There was only about five dollars in the purse," he said, "and it won't
pay you to keep it. If you give it up without further trouble I won't
expose you. What do you say?"
Mr. Buffington looked in Mark's resolute face and he saw that he was in
serious earnest. He felt that he was in the boy's power, and much as it
galled him, he decided that he must yield.
"It is possible, of course, that the young lady in handling the purse,
may have dropped it into my pocket," he said. "I will search for it, and
if that is the case it shall be returned."
He thrust his hand into his pocket and drew out the purse.
"I wouldn't have believed it," he murmured. "It is a most extraordinary
incident. Is this the young lady's purse?"
Mark took it, and opening it, saw that it contained three dollars in
bills, and a dollar and seventy-five cents in silver.
"Yes, sir," he said; "this answers the description."
"Give it back to the young lady with my compliments," said Buffington
with unabashed assurance. "Express my regrets at the unfortunate
mistake. I now remember how it occurred. I saw the purse on the floor
where she had doubtless dropped it, and supposing it to be my own put it
into my pocket. I was so busily engaged, reading the volume of sermons
which I carry with me that it made little impression on my mind."
"I will tell her what you say, Mr. Buffington," said Mark gravely.
Of course he might have expressed doubt of the accuracy of his
companion's statement, but he had accomplished his purpose, and did not
care to humiliate Buffington farther.
"Good morning, young man," said Buffington with Christian forgetfulness
of Mark's errand.
"Good morning, sir."
When Mark had left the car Buffington's face underwent a change. He
looked absolutely ferocious.
"To think I should have been trapped and worsted by a kid!" he said to
himself. "The boy is about as cool and resolute as any I ever saw. I
hope I shall some day have a chance to get even with him."
Mark returned to his own car and paused at Miss Loring's seat.
"Is this your purse?" he asked, holding it up.
"Yes. Oh, where did you get it?"
"From the party who took it."
"Is he on the smoking car still?"
"Yes he is on the smoking car."
"But--didn't he object to surrendering it?"
"He made a decided objection, but I succeeded in convincing him that it
was for his interest to do so."
"You are a remarkable boy," said Florence Loring admiringly.
"Thank you, Miss Loring. You will make me vain if you flatter me."
"But I am quite in earnest. I am now able to return the money you so
kindly lent me."
