Gregory twitched irascibly. " I don 't want to 
marry them." 



 

" Pretty cheap lot, you mean ? Well, I don 't know." 

" I don 't mean that," retorted the student. " But 
I 've  got other things to think of." 

"Don 't you believe," the clerk modestly .urged, 
" that it is natural for a man well, a young man 
to think about girls ? " 

"I suppose it is." 

" And you don 't consider it wrong ? " 

" How, wrong ? " 

" Well, a waste of time. I don 't know as I always 
think about wanting to marry em, or be in love, but 
I like to let my mind run on em. There 's something 
about a girl that, well, you don 't know what it is, ex 
actly. Take almost any of em," said the clerk, with 
an air of inductive reasoning. " Take that Claxon 
girl, now for example, I don 't know what it is about 
her. She 's good-looking, I don 't deny that ; and she 's 
got pretty manners, and she 's as graceful as a bird. 
But it ain 't any one of em, and it don 't seem to be 
all of em put together that makes you want to keep 
your eyes on her the whole while. Ever noticed what 
a nice little foot she 's got? Or her hands?" 

" No," said the student. 

" I don 't mean that she ever tries to show them off; 
though I know some girls that would. But she 's not 
that kind. She ain 't much more than a child, and 
yet you got to treat her just like a woman. Noticed 
the kind of way she 's got ? " 

" No," said the student, with impatience. 

The clerk mused with a plaintive air for a moment 
before he spoke. "Well, it 's something as if she'd 



 

been trained to it, so that she knew just the right 
thing to do, every time, and yet I guess it 's nature. 
You know how the chef always calls her the Boss ? 
That explains it about as well as anything, and I pre 
sume that 's what my mind was running on, the other 
day, when I  called her Boss. But, my ! I can 't get 
anywhere near her since ! " 

"It serves you right," said Gregory. "You had 
no business to tease her." 

"Now, do you think it was teasing? I  did, at 
first, and then again it seemed to me that I came out 
with the word because it seemed the right one. I 
presume I couldn 't explain that to her." 

" It wouldn 't be easy." 

" I look upon her," said Fane, with an effect of ar 
gument in the sweetness of his smile, "just as I would 
upon any other young lady in the house. Do you 
spell apology with one p or two ? " 

"One," said the student, and the clerk made a 
minute on a piece of paper. 

" I feel badly for the girl. I don 't want her to 
think I was teasing her or taking any sort of liberty 
with her. Now, would you apologize to her, if you 
was in my place, and would you write a note, or just 
wait your chance and speak to her ? " 

Gregory got down from his stool with a disdainful 
laugh, and went out of the place. " You make me 
sick, Fane," he said. 

The last dance was over, and the young ladies who 
had been waltzing with one another, came out of the 
parlor with gay cries and laughter, like summer girls 



 

who had been at a brilliant hop, and began to stray 
down the piazzas, and storm into the office. Several 
of them fluttered up to the desk, as the clerk had 
foretold, and looked for letters in the boxes bearing 
their initials. They called him out, and asked if he 
had not forgotten something for them. He denied it 
with a sad, wise smile, and then they tried to provoke 
him to a belated flirtation, in lack of other material, 
but he met their overtures discreetly, and they pres 
ently said, Well, they guessed they must go; and 
went. Fane turned to encounter Gregory, who had 
come in by a side door. 

" Fane, I want to beg your pardon. I was rude to 
you just now." 

" Oh, no ! Oh, no ! " the clerk protested. " That 's 
all rio-ht. Sit down a while, can 't you, and talk with 



a fellow. It 's early, yet." 

" No, I can t, I just wanted to say I was sorry I 
spoke in that way. Good-night. Is there anything 
in particular?" 

" No ; good-night. I was just wondering about 

that girl." 
"Oh!" 



VI. 

GREGORY had an habitual severity with his own 
behavior which did not stop there, but was always 
passing on to the behavior of others ; and his days 
went by in alternate offence and reparation to those 
he had to do with. He had to do chiefly with the 
dining-room girls, whose susceptibilities were such 
that they kept about their work bathed in tears or 
suffused with anger much of the time. He was not 
only good-looking but he was a college student, and 
their feelings were ready to bud toward him in tender 
efflorescence, but he kept them cropped and blighted 
by his curt words and impatient manner. Some of 
them loved him for the hurts he did them, and some 
hated him, but all agreed fondly or furiously that he 
was too cross for anything. They were mostly young 
school-mistresses, and whether they were of a soft and 
amorous make, or of a forbidding temper, they knew 
enough in spite of their hurts to value a young fellow 
whose thoughts were not running upon girls all the 
time. Women, even in their spring-time, like men to 
treat them as if they had souls as well as hearts, and 


it was a saving grace in Gregory that lie treated them 
all, the silliest of them, as if they had souls. Very 
likely they responded more with their hearts than with 
their souls, but they were aware that this was not his 
fault. 

The girls that waited at table saw that he did not 
distinguish in manner between them and the girls 
whom they served. The knot between his brows did 
not dissolve in the smiling gratitude of the young la 
dies whom he preceded to their places, and pulled out 
their chairs for, any more than in the blandishments 
of a waitress who thanked him for some correction. 

They owned when he had been harshest that no 
one could be kinder if he saw a girl really trying, or 
more patient with well meaning stupidity, but some 
things fretted him, and he was as apt to correct a girl 
in her grammar as in her table service. Out of work 
hours, if he met any of them, he recognized them 
with deferential politeness ; but he shunned occasions 
of encounter with them as distinctly as he avoided 
the ladies among the hotel guests. Some of the table 
girls pitied his loneliness, and once they proposed 
that he should read to them on the back piazza in the 
leisure of their mid-afternoons. He said that he had 
to keep up with his studies in all the time he could 
get; he treated their request with grave civility, but 
they felt his refusal to be final. 

He was seen very little about the house outside of 
his own place and function, and he was scarcely 
known to consort with anyone but Fane, who cele 
brated his high sense of the honor to the lady-guests ; 



but if any of these would have been willing to show 
Gregory that they considered his work to get an edu 
cation as something that redeemed itself from dis 
credit through the nobility of its object, he gave them 
no chance to do so. 

The afternoon following their talk about Clemen 
