"I wish I had a trade," said Jed thoughtfully.

"You don't feel like going back to your old home?"

"In the Scranton poorhouse? Not much!" answered Jed energetically. "I'll
starve first. Have you got any place engaged?"

"No, but I have worked two summers at Sea Spray, an Atlantic coast
summer resort. I shall go there and see if there is an opening."

"Is it far away?"

"About fifty miles. I'll tell you what, Jed, you had better come with
me. Something may turn up for you."

"What is the fare, Mr. Bertram?"

"About a dollar and a half. You will have some money coming to you. You
haven't been paid anything yet, have you?"

"No; I didn't suppose I was entitled to any."

"You will get something. I will speak to the treasurer and arrange
matters for you."

Accordingly on Saturday evening, after the last performance, Jed was
made happy by receiving twelve dollars, or at the rate of four dollars
per week for the time he had been employed.

"Mr. Mordaunt directs me to say that he would pay you more if the
business would permit," said the treasurer.

"Tell him this is more than I expected," said Jed elated.

"That isn't professional," remarked Bertram smiling. "Actors generally
claim to be worth a good deal more than they are paid."

"I haven't been on the stage long enough to be professional," said Jed.

Early on Monday morning Jed and his friend Bertram took the cars for
Sea Spray. As they neared the coast, the ocean breeze entered cool and
refreshing through the open windows. Presently the cars stopped, only
two hundred feet from the bluff, and Jed for the first time gazed with
delight at the Atlantic billows rolling in on the beach.

"This is beautiful!" he exclaimed. "I hope I can stay here all summer."

"Have you never seen the sea before?"

"No; I have never travelled before. All my life has been spent at
Scranton."

"Take a walk with me along Ocean Avenue, and I will see what chance
there is of my obtaining employment."

Harry Bertram made his way to the principal hotel, where he knew there
was a Western Union office. He told Jed to sit down in the reading-room
while he sought for information.

In ten minutes he came back with a smile of satisfaction on his face.

"I am in great luck," he said. "The operator here has just been summoned
home by the serious illness of his father in Chicago. He was
considering whom he could get to take his place when I presented myself.
The result is that I am engaged to take charge of the telegraph office
at twelve dollars a week and my board."

"Then you are provided for."

"Yes. I can get through the summer very well."

"I should think so. You will have the twelve dollars a week clear."

"No; I must get a room outside. However, my predecessor has recommended
his--in a private house about a quarter of a mile from the shore--at
only four dollars a week."

"Then I suppose we must part," said Jed with a tinge of sadness.

"No, Jed. You shall room with me, and your room will cost you nothing.
As to meals, I can see you through till you secure some work."

"But I don't want to be a burden upon you, Mr. Bertram."

"I don't mean that you shall be, any longer than is necessary. It will
go hard if a boy like you can't find something to do that will buy his
meals at a crowded watering-place."

"Thank you, Mr. Bertram. I have money enough left to buy my meals for
two weeks at least."

"If we were at a regular office I could employ you as messenger, but
most of the messages will come to guests in the hotel."

"I don't know exactly what I can do, but I am ready to do anything."

"Except black boots," said Bertram with a smile.

"I don't think I should like to do that if there is anything else to be
found."

"I couldn't think of allowing a member of our honorable profession to
undertake such menial employment."

Harry Bertram went to work that evening. Jed kept him company in the
office a part of the time, and during the three succeeding days went
from one hotel to another to see if he could obtain anything to do.

But every position had been filled for the season. Jed began to fear
that there was no work for him at Sea Spray.

On the fourth morning, as he was sitting with Bertram, a gentleman whom
he had several times seen--a guest of the house--approached them.

"Is this boy your brother?" he asked of Bertram.

"No, but he is my valued friend. In fact, I may call myself his guardian
for the time being."

"Yes," assented Jed with a smile.

"He does not assist you?"

"No, he knows nothing of telegraphy."

"Would you like employment?" asked the gentleman, turning to Jed.

"I am very anxious to get work," said Jed quickly.

"Then I think I may be able to meet your wishes. How old are you?"

"Sixteen."

"You may have seen a boy of ten walking about with me?"

"Yes, sir."

"He is my son. He and I are here alone, but until yesterday I had a
nurse in my employ whose sole business was to look after Chester. I
felt entire confidence in her, but discovered last evening that she had
purloined some jewelry belonging to me. Of course I discharged her
instantly, and in consequence am obliged to find some one in her place.

"Chester objects to another nurse. It hurts his boyish pride to have a
woman accompanying him everywhere. It appears to me that a boy old
enough to look after him will suit him much better. But perhaps you
would not like being encumbered with a small boy?"

"I should like it very much, sir," said Jed. "I like young boys, and I
am sure I should like your son."

"Come up stairs, then. I will see how he likes you."

Jed followed his new acquaintance up to a suite of two rooms on the
second floor. A young boy was at the window. He looked inquiringly at
his father and Jed.

"Come here, Chester," said the former. "Are you quite sure you don't
want another nurse?"

"Yes," answered the boy. "Some of the boys in the hotel call me 'sissy'
because I have a girl always with me."

"Would you prefer this boy?"

Chester took a long, close look at Jed, who met his glance with a smile.

"Yes," said the little boy confidently. "I shall like him much better
than a girl."

"That settles it," said Mr. Holbrook in a tone of satisfaction. "What is
your name?"

"Jed Gilman."

"What was your last employment?"

"I took the boy's part in 'The Gold King.'"

"Are you an actor?" asked Chester, much interested.

"Not much of one."

"You must have some talent," remarked Mr. Holbrook, "or Mr. Mordaunt,
who is a manager of reputation, would not have employed you. Is your
season over?"

"Yes, sir."

"I think you will suit me. I am obliged to be in New York every day on
business, and this leaves Chester alone. I wish you to act as his
companion, to go with him on the beach and in bathing, and to look
after him while I am away. Are you boarding here?"

"No, sir; I could not afford it."

"I shall arrange to have you take meals here with Chester, but after
eight o'clock in the evenings you will be your own master. Now as to the
matter of compensation. Will ten dollars a week satisfy you?"

