When one has to take in sail to that degree — and for a 
perfectly outside reason — there's nothing strange in one's 
taking a friend sometimes into the confidence of one's 
irritation." 
" Ah," Vanderbank protested, " you do yourself injus- 
tice. Irritation hasn't been, for you, the only conse- 
quence of the affair." 
Mrs. Brook gloomily thought. " No, no — I've had my 
  
calmness : the calmness of deep despair. Tve seemed to 
see everything go." 
 ''Oh, how can you say that," her visitor demanded, 
''when just what we've most been agreed upon so often 
is the practical impossibility of making any change ? 
Hasn't it seemed as if we really can't overcome conversa- 
tional habits so thoroughly formed ?" 
Again Mrs. Brook reflected.    As if our way of look- 
ing at things were too serious to be trifled with. I don't 
know — I think it's only you who have denied our sacri- 
fices, our compromises and concessions. I myself have 
constantly felt smothered in them. But there it is," she 
impatiently went on. " What I don't admit is that you've 
given me ground to take for a proof of your  intentions' 
— to use the odious term — your association with me on 
behalf of the preposterous fiction, as it after all is, of 
Nanda's blankness of mind." 
Vanderbank's head, in his chair, was thrown back ; his 
eyes ranged over the top of the room. "There never 
has been any mystery about my thinking her — all in her 
own way — the nicest girl in London. She ts." 
His companion was silent a little. ''She is, by all 
means. Well," she then added, "so far as I may have 
been alive to the fact of any one's thinking her so, it's 
not out of place I should mention to you the difference 
made in my appreciation of it by our delightful little 
stay at Mertle. My views of Nanda," said Mrs. Brook, 
"have somehow gone up." 
Vanderbank was prompt to show how he could under- 
stand it. " So that you wouldn't consider even Mitchy 
now ?" 
But his friend took no notice of the question. " The 
way Mr. Longdon distinguishes her is quite the sort of 
thing that gives a girl, as Harold says, a 'leg up.' It's 
awfully curious and has made me think : he isn't any- 
thing whatever, as London estimates go, in himself — so 
 
that what is it, pray, that makes him, when 'added on' 
to her, so double Nanda's value ? I somehow or other 
see, through his being known to back her, and through 
the pretty story of his loyalty to mamma and all the rest 
of it (oh, if one chose to luork that!) ever so much more 
of a chance for her." 
Vanderbank's eyes were on the ceiling.  ''It is curi- 
ous, isn't it ? — though I think he's rather more 'in him- 
self,' even for the London estimate, than you quite un- 
derstand." He appeared to give her time to take this 
up, but as she said nothing he pursued : ''I dare say that 
if even I now luere to enter myself it would, strike you as 
too late." 
Her attention to this was but indirect. ''It's awfully 
vulgar to be talking about it, but I can't help feeling that 
something possibly rather big will come of Mr. Longdon." 
" Ah, we've talked of that before," said Vanderbank, 
"and you know you did think something might come 
even for me." 
She continued, however, as if she scarce heard him, to 
work out her own vision. " It's very true that up to 
now — " 
" Well, up to now ?" he asked as she faltered. 
She faltered still a little. "I do say the most hideous 
things. But we have said worse, haven't we ? Up to 
now, I mean, he hasn't given her anything. Unless in- 
deed," she mused, " she may have had something with- 
out telling me." 
Vanderbank went much straighter. "What sort of 
thing have you in mind ? Are you thinking of money?" 
" Yes. Isn't it awful ?" 
" That you should think of it ?" 
" That I should talk this way." Her friend was appar- 
ently not prepared with an assent, and she quickly enough 
pursued : " If he had given her any it would come out 
somehow in her expenditure. She has tremendous 
  
liberty and is very secretive, but still it would come 
out.' 
" He wouldn't give her any without letting you know. 
Nor would she, without doing so," Vanderbank added, 
 nakeit." 
" Ah," Mrs. Brook quietly said, '  she hates me enough 
for anything." 
 ' That's only your romantic theory." 
Once more she appeared not to hear him ; she came 
up suddenly in another place. '  Has he given you any- 
thing ?" 
Her visitor smiled. " Not so much as a cigarette. 
I've always my pockets full of them, and he never ; so he 
only takes mine. Oh, Mrs. Brook," he continued, " with 
me too — though I've also tremendous liberty ! — it would 
come out." 
'' I think you'd let me know," she returned. 
'' Yes, I'd let you know." 
Silence, upon this, fell between them a little ; which 
Mrs. Brook was the first to break. " She has gone with 
him this afternoon — by solemn appointment — to the 
South Kensington Museum." 
There was something in Mrs. Brook's dolorous drop 
that yet presented the news as a portent so great that he 
was moved again to mirth.  '  Ah, that's where she is ? 
Then I confess she has scored. He has never taken me 
to the South Kensington Museum." 
'' You were asking what we're going to do," she went 
on. ''What I meant was — about Baireuth — that the 
question for Nanda is simplified. He has pressed her so 
to pay him a visit." 
Vanderbank's assent was marked.  '' I see : so that if 
you do go abroad she'll be provided for by that engage- 
ment." 
"And by lots of other invitations." 
These were such things as, for the most part, the young 
 
man could turn over. '  Do you mean you'd let her go 
alone— r 
 ' To wherever she's asked ?" said Mrs. Brook. " Why 
not ? Don't talk like the Duchess." 
Vanderbank seemed for a moment to try not to. 
'' Couldn't Mr. Longdon take her ? Why not ?" 
His friend looked really struck with it. '  That would 
be working him. But to a beautiful end !" she medi- 
tated. '' The only thing would be to get him also asked." 
"Ah, but there you are, don't you see ? Fancy 'get- 
ting ' Mr. Longdon anything or anywhere whatever ! 
Don't you feel," Vanderbank threw out, " how the im- 
possibility of exerting that sort of patronage for him 
immediately places him ?" 
Mrs. Brook gave her companion one of those fitful 
glances of almost grateful appreciation with which their 
intercourse was even at its darkest hours frequently illu- 
mined. "As if he were the Primate or the French Am- 
bassador ? Yes, you're right — one couldn't do it ; though 
it's very odd and one doesn't quite see why. It does 
place him. But he becomes thereby, exactly, the very 
sort of person with whom it would be most of an advan- 
tage for her to go about. What a pity," Mrs. Brook 
sighed, "he doesn't know more people !" 
"Ah well, we are, in our way, bringing that to pass. 
Only we mustn't rush it. Leave it to Nanda herself," 
Vanderbank presently added ; on which his companion 
so manifestly left it that she touched, after a moment's 
silence, on quite a different matter. 
" I dare say he'd tell yoio — wouldn't he ? — if he were 
to give her any considerable sum." 
She had only obeyed his injunction, but he stared at 
the length of her jump. " He might attempt to do so, 
but I shouldn't at all like it." He was moved immedi- 
ately to drop this branch of the subject and, apparently 
to help himself, take up another. "Do you mean she 
understands he has asked her down for a regular long 
stay ?"  
Mrs. Brook barely hesitated.    She understands, D 
think, that what I expect of her is to make it as long as 
possible." 
Vanderbank laughed out — as it was even after ten 
years still possible to laugh — at the childlike innocence 
with which her voice could invest the hardest teachings 
of life, then with something a trifle nervous in the whole 
sound and manner he sprang up from his chair.  '' What 
a blessing he is to us all V 
'  Yes, but think what we must be to Mm.'' 
''Am immense interest, no doubt." He took a few 
aimless steps and, stooping over a basket of flowers, in- 
haled it with violence, almost buried his face. " I dare 
say we are interesting." 
He had spoken rather vaguely, but Mrs. Brook knew 
exactly why. " We render him no end of a service. We 
keep him in touch with old memories." 
Vanderbank had reached one of the windows, shaded, 
from without, by a great striped sun-blind, beneath which 
and between the flower-pots of the balcony he could see a 
stretch of hot, relaxed street. He looked a minute at 
these things. "I do so like your phrases !" 
She had a pause that challenged his tone. '' Do you 
call mamma a  ' phrase'?" 
He went off again, quite with extravagance, but quick- 
ly, leaving the window, pulled himself up.   I dare say 
we must put things for him — he does it, cares or is able 
to do it, so little himself." 
" Precisely. He just quietly acts. That's his nature, 
dear thing. We must let him act." 
Vanderbank seemed to stifle again too vivid a sense of 
her particular emphasis. " Yes, yes — Ave must let him." 
"Though it won't prevent Nanda, I imagine," his 
hostess pursued, ' from finding the fun of a whole month 
 
at Beccles — or whatever she pnts in — not exactly fast 
and furious." 
Vanderbank had the look of measuring what the girl 
might "put in." "The place will be quiet, of course, 
but when a person's so fond of a person — " 
"As she is of him, you mean ?" 
He hesitated. " Yes. Then it's all right." 
