bring me on to where he lives? Giles was always good-hearted, and I am
sure he will do it."
"It won't be necessary to wait. I will buy you another ticket, and take
you on with me."
John Plympton's face lighted up with joy.
"How kind you are," he said, grasping Rupert's hand. "I hope when you
are old you will find some one who will be as kind to you. You are not
related to me in any way, you only saw me within the hour, yet you are
going to do me a great kindness. May heaven bless you."
"Thank you, but don't give me too much credit. I am sure Mr. Packard
will approve what I am doing, and will consider it a favor done to
himself."
"I hope so, but my niece's treatment has made me uncertain how far the
ties of relationship will be regarded. Yet I will accept your offer
thankfully."
Rupert lost no time in purchasing another ticket, and secured Pullman
accommodations for himself and his new acquaintance.
"You used to live in Buffalo," he said.
"Yes, I worked in one place there for fifteen years."
"Did you ever hear of the firm of Rollins & Lorimer?"
"Certainly. They were dry-goods merchants."
"I am Rupert Rollins, son of the senior partner."
"Is it possible? I knew your father well. He was a fine man."
"I am glad to hear you say so."
"But I didn't like Mr. Lorimer as well."
"I have little reason to like him, for he ruined my poor father, and
indirectly caused his death."
"I am not surprised to hear it. I never had any dealings with Mr.
Lorimer, but I knew his reputation. Is your mother living?"
"Yes, thank God, she is living, and my sister Grace as well."
"Did your father lose all his property?"
"All."
"How, then, is your mother getting along?"
Rupert explained.
"And yourself? Are you in any employment?"
"I have been a bell-boy in a New York hotel for the last year and a
half."
"You could hardly be very well paid."
"Yes, I received larger pay than I would have received in a mercantile
house. But I have finally given up the business."
"What do you propose to do?"
"I shall ask the advice of your nephew. He is a very good friend of
mine--the best I have outside my own family with one exception--and I
shall be guided by what he says."
"I wish I had been able to go to him instead of to my niece and her
husband."
"I don't see how they could have treated you so meanly."
"Mary would have treated me better, but she is under the thumb of her
husband, and he is as mean a man as I ever encountered."
"Excepting Mr. Lorimer."
"There isn't much choice between them."
"Did he give you a note for the three thousand dollars you lent him?"
"Yes, I have his note--but what is it worth?"
"Keep it and show it to Mr. Packard. He may be able to advise you how to
secure it."
"Do you know if Giles has been successful? Has he bettered himself in
Colorado?"
"I have reason to think that he is a rich man. He has been very kind to
me, who am a recent acquaintance, and I am sure he will not turn his
back upon his uncle."
This assurance brightened up the old man, who rapidly recovered his
cheerfulness, and looked forward to a meeting with the nephew whom he
had not seen for twenty years.
Rupert had telegraphed to Mr. Packard when he would reach Denver, and
received a return telegram directing him to go to the St. James Hotel.
Thither he repaired, taking his companion with him.
Mr. Plympton displayed some anxiety as they were approaching Denver.
"Perhaps my nephew will receive me coldly," he said. "If he does, there
will be nothing left me but destitution and the poorhouse."
"Don't be alarmed, Mr. Plympton," rejoined Rupert. "You have not seen
your nephew for twenty years. I have met him more recently, and I
probably know him better than you. Leave all in my hands. I will speak
to him about you."
They reached the St. James, and Rupert engaged rooms for both. On
examining the hotel register he found that Giles Packard had already
arrived. He had been in the hotel hardly half an hour when Mr. Packard
entered.
His face lighted up with pleasure when he saw Rupert.
"I am delighted to see you, Rupert," he said. "Somehow you seem very
near to me. I shall take you, after a day or two in Denver, to my cattle
ranch near Red Gulch, and I think I can promise you a good time and a
comfortable home for as long as you are willing to stay."
"Have you room for another, Mr. Packard? I have brought a companion with
me."
"Why, certainly. Any friend of yours shall have a cordial welcome."
"But he is nearer to you than to me."
Mr. Packard's face expressed surprise.
"I don't understand you."
"I found a relative of yours in Chicago. He was in hard luck, and I
thought you would be willing to help him. Here he is."
He led Giles Packard up to his uncle, who anxiously scanned the face of
his nephew.
"Don't you know me, Giles?" he asked, in a tremulous tone.
"Surely you are not my Uncle John?"
"The same. I hope you will forgive me for seeking you out."
"Don't speak like that, Uncle John. I have not forgotten that I am your
nephew."
"But, Giles, I come to you as a pauper."
"I have enough for us both. Did you save nothing, then, by your long
years of business?"
"I saved three thousand dollars."
Then he explained how he had been defrauded of it by Eben Jackson.
Giles Packard's face became stern.
"The scoundrel!" he exclaimed. "And after he got your money he had no
further use for you?"
"No, he turned me out to starve."
"You were very imprudent in trusting him with the money."
"So I was, but he promised, if I lent it to him, that he would give me a
position in his store."
"And he broke his promise?"
"No; he employed me for about two months, but in the end he would only
give me my board, and refused to let me have money enough to buy a suit
of clothes. Then I became indignant and left the house."
"Did you make an effort to recover the money?"
"Yes, but it was of no use. He refused to give it back."
"He must have given you a note?"
"Yes, I have his note."
"I will give you the money, and you will transfer the note to me. He
will find me a different customer to deal with."
"Keep the money yourself, Giles, and pay me interest on it. I shall not
be afraid to trust you."
"I will. If I treat you as Eben Jackson did, may I lose my property and
become a pauper."
"You are sure you can afford to do this, Giles? You have accumulated
some property?"
"Well," answered Giles, smiling, "I am not a millionaire, but I think
perhaps I might realize seventy-five thousand dollars if I should take
account of stock. I have been very successful in gathering property, but
I have had a great many lonely hours."
"Don't you need a bookkeeper?" asked the old man, eagerly.
"Yes, I can find you something to do in your own line, Uncle John. My
business isn't very complicated, but I find it necessary to keep some
accounts. I will give you a home and you shall want for nothing. Has
Eben Jackson got any children?"
"Yes, he has two, a boy and a girl. They are fourteen and eleven."
"What sort of children are they?"
"The boy is like his father. He never treated me with respect, but
looked upon me as a poor relation. The girl is of a better disposition."
"And they would be among my heirs. I will look them up some day, and
shape my will accordingly. Shall you be ready to go back with me on
Monday, Rupert?"
"I will be ready whenever you are, Mr. Packard."
CHAPTER XXX.
PACKARD'S HOME AT RED GULCH.
Mr. Packard's cattle ranch was located in one of the extensive parks for
which Colorado is noted. It included several square miles of territory.
The cattleman had erected a dwelling, covering a good deal of ground,
but only one story high. While it was comfortable, it was easy to see
that it was the home of a bachelor.
He had as housekeeper the widow of a herdsman, or perhaps I may say,
cowboy, who had died a year before. She cooked and took care of the
house.
"Well, Rupert," he said, "this is my home. Mrs. Jones, get ready two
rooms for my friends here. Uncle John, you are the oldest and shall have
the choice."
"Any room will do for me, Giles," said the old man modestly.
"You shall have as good a one as the house affords."
"You treat me differently from Eben Jackson. He gave me a small room in
the attic."
"And did his wife allow that?"
"She had very little to say. Her husband's will is law in that
household."
"I am sorry for her. She deserved a better fate. As a girl she was
good-hearted and had a cheerful disposition."
"She is greatly changed. I am afraid her husband has taught her to be
selfish. She seemed to have little more consideration for me than Eben."
Rupert found that Mr. Packard was a cattle owner on a large scale. He
had a great number of cowboys in his employ, over whom he exercised
supervision.
"Is all your property in cattle, Giles?" asked his uncle.
"No. I have mining interests. The money I have made in the cattle
business I have invested, at least partially, in mines and mining
claims. I don't believe in having all my eggs in one basket."
"You seem to have done well in coming out West."
"Yes, when I came out here I probably was not worth over two thousand
dollars all told. Now I am worth somewhere from seventy-five to one
hundred thousand."
"I should think you would marry."
Giles Packard shook his head.
"When a man reaches the age of forty-five unmarried," he said, "he had
better remain so. After that, marriage is a lottery."
Mr. Packard's guests found that he lived in a generous style. His
housekeeper was an excellent cook, and his table was well supplied. But
the days seemed long without employment. Rupert was supplied with a
saddle-horse, and rode far and wide with his host, but John Plympton had
reached an age when a man enjoys home comforts better than out-of-door
exercise.
"Giles," he said, on the third day, "I am tired of doing nothing.
Suppose you bring out your books and give me something to do."
"I will, Uncle John. When I was in Denver I bought some new books, and I
will commission you to transfer my accounts from the old ones. I never
was much of a bookkeeper, and I am not sure whether you can understand
my entries. However, you will be able to refer to me when you get
puzzled."
The old man felt quite happy when set to work in his old business. As
Mr. Packard's books covered a period of over fifteen years he found the
task by no means a short one, but this pleased him all the more.
"I like to feel that I am earning my living," he said.
"What do you think of me as a bookkeeper, Uncle John?"
"I think you would find it hard to obtain a position in any first-class
