seemed to awake him into a peaceful world. 
Through the open window came in the scents 
of summer, the freshness of a new day. How 
sweet and light was the air ! It was indeed the 
height of summer. The coi'n, not yet tasselled, 
stood in green flexible ranks, moved by the early 
breeze. In the river-meadows haying had just 
begun. Fields of timothy and clover, yellowing 
to ripeness, took on a fresh bloom from the dew, 
and there was an odor of new-mown grass from 
the sections where the scythes had been. He 
heard the call of the crow from the hill, the mel- 
ody of the bobolink along the meadow-brook ; 
indeed, the birds of all sorts were astir, skimming 
along the ground or rising to the sky, keeping 
watch especially over the garden and the fruit- 
trees, carrying food to their nests, or teaching 
their young broods to fly and to chirp the songs 
of summer. And from the wood-shed the shrill 
note of the scythe under the action of the grind- 
stone. No such vivid realization of summer as 
that. 
Philip stole out the unused front door without 
disturbing the family. Whither? Where would 
a boy be likely to go the first thing? To the 
barn, the great cavernous barn, its huge doors 
 
now wide open, the stalls vacant, the mows 
empty, the sunlight sifting in through the high 
shadowy spaces. How much his life had been 
in that barn ! How he had stifled and scrambled 
mowing hay in those lofts ! On the floor he had 
hulled heaps of corn, thrashed oats with a flail — 
a noble occupation — and many a rainy day had 
played there with girls and boys who could not 
now exactly describe the games or well recall 
what exciting fun they were. There were the 
racks where he put the fodder for cattle and 
horses, and there was the cutting-machine for 
the hay and straw and for slicing the frozen tur- 
nips on cold winter mornings. 
In the barn-yard were the hens, just as usual, 
walking with measured step, scratching and pick- 
ing in the muck, darting suddenly to one side 
with an elevated wing, clucking, chattering, jab- 
bering endlessly about nothing. They did not 
seem to mind him as he stood in the open door. 
But the rooster, in his oriental iridescent plu- 
mage, jumped upon a fence-post and crowed de- 
fiantly, in warning that this was his preserve. 
They seemed like the same hens, yet Philip knew 
they were all strangers ; all the hens and flaunt- 
ing roosters he knew had long ago gone to 
Thanksgiving. The hen is, or should be, an 
annual. It is never made a pet. It forms no 
attachments. Man is no better acquainted with 
 
tlie hen, as a being, than he was when the first 
chicken was hatched. Its business is to live a 
brief chicken life, lay, and be eaten. And this 
reminded Philip that his real occupation was 
hunting hens' eggs. And this he did, in the 
mows, in the stalls, under the floor -planks, in 
every hidden nook. The hen's instinct is to be 
orderly, and have a secluded nest of her own, and 
bring up a family. But in such a communistic 
body it is a wise hen who knows her own chicken. 
Nobody denies to the hen maternal instincts or 
domestic proclivities, but what an ill example is 
a hen community! 
And then Philip climbed up the hill, through 
the old grass-plot and the orchard, to the rocks 
and the forest edge, and the great view. It had 
more meaning to him than when he was a boy, 
and it was more beautiful. In a certain peace- 
ful charm, he had seen nothing anywhere in the 
world like it. Partly this was because his boyish 
impressions, the first fresh impressions of the 
visible world, came back to him ; but surely it 
was very beautiful. More experienced travellers 
than Philip felt its unique charm. 
When he descended, Alice was waiting to 
breakfast with him. Mrs. Maitland declared, 
with an approving smile on her placid, aging 
face, that he was the same good-for-nothing boy. 
But Alice said, as she sat down to the little table 
 
with Philip, " It is different, mother, with us 
city folks." They were in the middle room, and 
the windows opened to the west upon the river- 
meadows and the wooded hills beyond, and 
through one a tall rose-bush was trying to thrust 
its fragrant bloom. 
What a dainty breakfast ! Alice flushed with 
pleasure. It was so good of him to come to 
them. Had he slept well ? Did it seem like 
home at all? Philip's face showed that it was 
home without the need of saying so. Such cof- 
fee — yes, a real aroma of the berr^' ! Just a little 
more, would he have ? And as Alice raised the 
silver pitcher, there was a deep dimple in her 
sweet cheek. How happy she was ! And then 
the butter, so fresh and cool, and the delicious 
eggs — by the way, he had left a hatful in the 
kitchen as he came in. Alice explained that she 
did not make the eggs. And then there was the 
journey, the heat in the city, the grateful sight 
of the Deerfield, the splendid morning, the old 
barn, the watering -trough, the view from the 
hill — everything just as it used to be. 
"Dear Phil, it is so nice to have you here," 
and there were tears in Alice's eyes, she was so 
happy. 
After breakfast Philip strolled down the coun- 
try road through the village. How familiar was 
every step of the way ! — the old houses jutting 
 
out at the turns in the road ; the glimpse of the 
river beyond the little meadow where Captain 
Eice was killed ; the spring under the ledge over 
which the snap-dragon grew ; the dilapidated 
ranks of fence smothered in vines and fire- weeds ; 
the cottages, with flower-pots in front ; the stores, 
with low verandas ornamented with boxes and 
barrels ; the academy in its green on the hill ; the 
old bridge over which the circus elephant dared 
not walk ; the new and the old churches, with 
rival steeples ; and, not familiar, the new inn. 
And he knew everybody, young and old, at 
doorways, in the fields or gardens, and had for 
every one a hail and a greeting. How he enjoyed 
it all, and his self-consciousness added to his pleas- 
ure, as he swung along in his well-fitting city 
clothes, broad-shouldered and erect — it is aston- 
ishing how much a tailor can do for a man who 
responds to his efforts. It is a pleasure to come 
across such a hero as this in real life, and not 
have to invent him, as the saying is, out of the 
whole cloth. Philip enjoyed the world, and he 
enjoyed himself, because it was not quite his old 
self, the farmer's boy going on an errand. There 
must be knowledge all along the street that he 
was in the great law office of Hunt, Sharp & 
Tweedle. And, besides, Philip's name must be 
known to all the readers of magazines in the 
town as a writer, a name in more than one list 
I 
 
of " contributors." That was fame. Translated, 
however, into country comprehension it was 
something like this, if he could have heard the 
comments after he had passed by : 
" Yes, that's Phil Burnett, sure enough; but I'd 
hardly know him ; spruced up mightily. I won- 
der what he's at ?" 
" I heard he was down in 'New York trying to 
law it. I heard he's been writin' some for news- 
papers. Accordin' to his looks, must pay a durn 
sight better'n farmin'." 
" "Well, I always said that boy wa'n't no skee- 
zics." 
Almost the first question Philip asked Alice 
on his return was about the new inn, the Pea- 
cock Inn. 
" There seemed a good deal of stir about it as 
I passed." 
" "Why, I forgot to tell you about it. It's the 
great excitement. Eivervale is getting known. 
The Mavicks are there. I hear they've taken 
pretty much the whole of it." 
"The Mavicks?" 
" Yes, the New York Mavicks, that you wrote 
us about, that were in the paper." 
" How long have they been there ?" 
"A week. There is Mrs. Mavick and her 
daughter, and the governess, and two maids, and 
a young fellow in uniform — yes, livery — and a 
 
coachman in the same, and a stableful of horses 
and carriages. It upset the village like a circus. 
And they say there's a French clief in white cap 
and apron, who comes to the side-door and jab- 
bers to the small boys like fireworks." 
" How did it come about ?" 
" Naturally, I guess; a city family wanting a 
quiet place for summer in the country. But you 
will laugh. Patience first discovered it. One 
day, sitting at the window, she saw a two-horse 
buggy driven by the landlord of the Peacock, 
and a gentleman by his side. 'Well, I wonder 
who that is — city man certainly. And wherever 
is he going ? May be a railroad man. But there 
is nothing the matter with the railroad. Shouldn't 
wonder if he is going to see the tunnel. If it 
was just that, the landlord wouldn't drive him ; 
he'd send a man. And they keep stopping and 
pointing and looking round. No, it isn't the rail- 
road, it's scenery. And what can a man like that 
want with scenery ? He does look like a railroad 
man. It may be tunnel, but it isn't all tun- 
