deal of fag about this sort of life to you, but it has all 
the charm of the undiscovered country for me." 
" Oh, I am deeply interested," said Lady Mary. 
 
The two women were alone now, and the hostess, released after three hours of stereotyped amenities, surrendered herself to the charm of natural intercourse 
with one of her own sort, and rang for tea. " I al- 
ways liked politics, and I feel quite sure that my 
husband will achieve his high ambitions. It interests 
me greatly to help him." 
" Of course he'll be President ! " cried Betty, enthusiastic in the warmth of her new friendship and its 
possibilities. She was surprised by a tilt of the nose 
and an emphatic shake of the head. 
" No, indeed ! " exclaimed Lady Mary, " Presidents 
are politicians only. My husband aspires higher than 
that. To be a Senator of the first rank requires very 
different qualities." 
" Ah ! I shall quote that to Mol my mother. She 
is not predisposed in their favor." 
" Of course there are Senators and Senators, " said 
Lady Mary, hastily. "You can't get ninety men of 
equal ability together, anywhere. There are the six 
who are admittedly the first, North, Maxwell, Ward, 
March, Howard, and Eustis, and about ten who are 
close behind them. Then there is the venerable group 
to which Senator Maxwell also belongs; and the 
younger men of forty-five or so who are not quite 
broken in yet, and whose enthusiasm is apt to take the 
wrong direction ; and the fire-eaters, Populists usually ; 
and the hard-working second-rate men, many of them 
millionaires (Western, as a rule) who are accused of having bought their legislatures to get in, but who do good 
work on Committee, whether or not they came under 
the delusion that they had bought an honor with nothing beneath it : a man who presumed on his wealth in 
 
the Senate would fare as badly as a boy at Eton who 
presumed on his title. Beyond all, are the nonentities 
that are in every body. So, you see, it is worth while 
to aim for the first place and to keep it." 
" There are certainly all sorts to choose from ! I'll 
never mistrust my instincts again. I am glad I shall 
meet Senator North to-morrow. I suppose he is a 
courtly person of the old school with a Websterian 
intellect." 
" I don't know anything about Webster ; I can't 
read your history and live in it, too; but certainly 
there is nothing of the old school about Senator North. 
He is very modern and has a truly Republican or 
shall I say aristocratic ? simplicity although no one 
could dress better combined with a cold manner to 
most men and a warm manner to most women." 
" Tell me all about him ! " exclaimed Betty, sipping 
her tea. " I never was so happy and excited in my 
life. I feel as if I were Theodosia Burr, or Nelly 
Custis, or Dolly Madison come to life. And now I 'm 
going to know an American statesman before his coat 
has turned to calf-skin. Quick ! How old is he? " 
" Just sixty, and looks much younger, as most of the 
Senators do. He is a hard worker he is Chairman 
of one Committee and a member of five others ; a 
brilliant debater, the most accomplished legislator in 
the Senate, unyielding in his convictions, and absolutely independent. He is not popular, as it has 
never occurred to him to conciliate anybody. He is 
very kind and attentive to his invalid wife and proud 
of his sons, and he adored a daughter who died four 
years ago. Rumor has it that more than one charming woman has consoled him for domestic afflictions 
 
and political trials, but I do not pay much attention 
to rumors of that sort. How odd that I, an alien, 
should be instructing a Washingtonian in politics and 
the personalities of her Senators ; but I quite understand. I do hope Mrs. Madison will not object to 
your coming to-morrow night." 
"I shall come. And go now. I feel a brute to 
have let you talk so much, but I never have been so 
interested ! " 
The two women kissed and parted ; and Lady Mary's 
dreams that night were undisturbed by any vision of 
herself in the ranks of the Fates. 
IV 
BETTY returned home much elated with the success 
of her visit. She heard the voice of her cousin Jack 
Emory in the parlor and went at once to her room 
to dress. The voice sounded solemn, and so did her 
mother's ; they doubtless were sitting in conference 
upon her. She selected her evening gown with some 
care ; her cousin was an old story, but he was a very 
attractive man, and coquetry would hold its own in 
her, become she never so intellectual. 
Jack Emory had been her undeclared lover since 
his middle teens. Somewhere in the same immature 
interval, just after her first return from Europe, she 
had imagined herself passionately in love with him. 
But she had a large fortune left her by her maternal 
grandfather, besides a hundred thousand her father had 
died too soon to spend, and Jack was the son of a 
 
Virginian who had been a Rebel to his death, haughtily 
refusing to have his disabilities removed, and threatening to shoot any negro in his employ who dared to go 
to the ballot-box. He had left his son but a few 
thousands out of his large inheritance, and adjured him 
on his death-bed to hold no office under the Federal 
government and to shoot a Yankee rather than shake 
his hand. Jack inherited his father's prejudices without his violent temper. He had a contemptuous 
dislike for the North, a loathing for politics, and a 
distaste for everybody outside his own diminishing 
class. Love for Betty Madison had driven him West 
in the hope of retrieving his fortunes, but he was essentially a gentleman and a scholar ; the hustling quality 
was not in him, and he returned South after two years 
of unpleasant endeavor and started a small produce 
farm adjoining an old house on the outskirts of Washington, left him by his mother. Here he lived with 
his books, and made enough money to support himself decently. He never had asked Betty to marry 
him, although he knew that his aunt would champion 
his cause. During the period of Betty's maiden passion his pride had caused her as much suffering as her 
youth and buoyant nature would permit; but as the 
years slipped by she felt inclined to personify that 
pride and burn a candle beneath it. Even before 
her mind had awakened, the energy and strength of 
her character had cured her of love for a man as 
supine as Jack Emory. He was charming and well- 
read, all that she could desire in a brother, but 
as a husband he would be intolerable. As his love 
cooled she liked him better still, particularly as his 
loyalty would not permit him to acknowledge even to 
 
himself that he could change ; but its passing left him 
with fewer clouds on a rather melancholy spirit, a 
readier tongue, and a complete recovery from the 
habits of sighing and of leaving the house abruptly. 
Betty's maid dressed her in a bright blue taffeta, 
softened with much white lace, and she went slowly 
down to the hall, rustling her skirts that Emory might 
hear and come out for a word before dinner if he 
liked. It was a relief to be able to coquet with him 
without fearing that he would go home and shoot him- 
self; and it helped him to sustain the pleasant fiction 
that he still was in love with her. 
He came out at once and raised her hand to his 
lips, murmuring a compliment as his grandfather might 
have done. He was only thirty-two, but his face was 
sallow and lined from trouble and fever. Otherwise 
he was very handsome, with his golden head and intellectual blue eyes, his haughty profile and tall figure, 
listlessly carried as it was. In spite of the fact that 
he took pride in dressing well, he always looked a little 
old-fashioned. When with Betty, invariably as smart 
as Paris and New York could make her, he almost 
appeared as if wearing his father's old clothes. His 
Southern accent and intonation were nearly as broad 
as a negro's. Betty had almost lost hers ; she retained 
just enough to enrich and individualize without a touch 
of provincialism. She belonged to that small class 
of Americans whose ear-mark is the absence of all 
Americanisms. 
Mr. Emory looked perturbed. 
" There is something I should like to say," he remarked hesitatingly. "There is yet a quarter of an 
hour before dinner. I think this old hall with its 
 
portraits of your grandmothers is a good place to say 
it in " 
" Molly has pressed you into service, I see. Let us 
have it out, by all means. Please straighten your 
necktie before you begin. You cannot possibly be 
impressive while it looks as if it were standing on one 
leg." 
" Please be serious, Betty dear. I am indeed most 
disturbed. It surely cannot be that you meant what 
you told your mother this morning, that you intended 
to change the whole current of your life in such an 
unprecedented manner." 
" Great heavens ! One would think I was about 
to go on the stage or enter a convent." 
" I would rather you did either than soil your mind 
with the politics of this country. I say nothing about 
there being no statesmen, there is not an honest 
man in politics the length and breadth of the Union. 
The country is a sink of corruption, as far as politics 
are concerned. Every Congressman buys his seat or 
is put in as the agent of some disgraceful trust or 
syndicate or railroad corporation." 
Betty drew her eyelids together in a fashion that 
robbed her eyes of their coquetry and fire and made 
them look unpleasantly judicial. 
" Exactly how much do you know about American 
politics?" she asked coldly. "I have known you 
all my life and I never heard you mention them 
before " 
"I never have considered them a fit subject for you 
to listen to " 
" I have been in your library a great many times and 
I do not recall a copy of the Congressional Record. 
 
You have said often that you despise the newspapers 
and only read the telegrams ; that the only paper you 
read through is the London Times. So, I repeat, 
what do you know about the American politics of 
to-day?" 
" What I have told you." 
" Where did you learn it ? Do you ever go to the 
Senate or the House?" 
" God forbid ! But I am a man, and those things 
are in the atmosphere; a man's brain accumulates 
naturally all widely diffused impressions. I've been 
a great deal in the smoking-cars of railroad-trains, and 
