suppose he would if he knew it? And I admire Ralston bearding the lion
in his den. It's a shame that poor Polly should have to suffer, but I
hope she will be spunky and not give in."

"Do you mean to make us marry whoever you like?" Patty edged up to her
father and raised a saucy face with laughing eyes.

"You will find me terrible when you reach that period," declared their
father. "At present there are enough things for you to consider and
learn about without taking up marriage."

"Do you suppose grandpapa is in real earnest? He looked very resolute,
didn't he? I've seen him angry with the slaves, and I shouldn't like to
belong to him, I really shouldn't. And do you think he actually doesn't
want any of us to come up----"

"Not at present. I trust the matter will blow over. Marian will give
in after a while and, no doubt, be very comfortable. Ask your mother if
she is sorry. I know little Annis wants to go back to Kentucky," and he
pinched the child's cheek.

"You'll have to go alone," declared Louis.

"But I can't go alone; I should get lost. And I don't want to go away
from you all."

Mrs. Mason flushed and smiled at the raillery.

"But, you see, we are old enough to appreciate mamma," began Jaqueline.
"And those Greaves children are all little, and they are very plain
too. One of the boys has a squint eye. It looks so queer, as if he
always saw two ways. And poor Marian will have to settle to playing
whist, and she does love so to dance. She had such a good time here,
and in Washington with Jane."

Dixon, the overseer, came up the path. Mr. Mason was wanted to settle
some matter. Patty and Jaqueline sat down on the step by their mother
and Annis leaned against her knee, while Varina hung over Patty's
shoulder, rather to her sister's discomfort. And, in spite of their
father's request, they went on talking of Marian. Their mother said
they were too young to know what was really best in such matters; but
they thought they did, and she could not lead them to other subjects.
They were very happy, and not difficult to get along with, if they
were rather lawless. To be sure, Jaqueline did evince a tendency to
admiration, and often gave dangerous glances out of eyes that could
look languishing as well as laughing.

Louis did not hesitate to express his indignation to both of his
sisters.

"Grandpapa is an old tyrant!" he declared; "and I dare say we'll never
hear. It's like someone taking off your book when you are at the most
interesting part."

"Do you suppose we'll be asked to the wedding?" wondered Patty; "and
what a farce congratulations would be? 'I hope you will be very happy.'
'I wish you much joy.'"

Patty pirouetted round, shaking an imaginary hand and using a most
affected tone, at which they all laughed.

But Marian surprised them all with a letter, written the day her
parents were away. How she sent it was a mystery. It excited them all
beyond measure.

"It was dreadful," she wrote. "Oh, Jaqueline! if I could have known
Lieutenant Ralston was there I should have rushed into the room and
told him that I loved him, and that I should never, never marry anyone
else, if father shut me up in a dungeon and kept me on bread and water!
But I did not know until he was sent away, and I can't know all that
father said to him, but I do know he was very fierce and unreasonable.
And I was so frightened when father went at me that I had to confess
about those two delicious days. He was sure it was a plot on your part,
and he taxed me with having known all about it. I didn't dream of such
a thing at first, but I am afraid it was so.

"I never saw anyone so angry. At first I was dreadfully frightened. But
when he accused me of duplicity and forwardness, and said I had run
after Mr. Ralston, it roused me, and I said I loved him and I never
would marry anyone else. I know he would wait years for me. And when
Mr. Greaves asks me I shall tell him plain out how I feel about it,
and I am quite sure he will not want to marry me. I hate the prosy old
fellow! I wish Mr. Ralston could know how much I care for him. I expect
you are having a terrible time to-day with father. Oh, I wish he could
be like brother Randolph! Oh, Jaqueline, do you know how delightful
it is! And your mother is so sweet, just like another girl. Such old
people as father and mother forget they ever were young."

There was much more youthful and romantic protest and resolve.

"I really didn't think Marian had so much force of character," said
Louis. "I do wonder if it would be wrong to give Ralston an inkling of
how the case stands? It seems as if she almost expected us to do it."

"I think papa ought to see the letter," returned Jaqueline soberly.
"And I almost know he will not want us to stir further in the matter.
Marian must have someone she can trust, or she would not have dared to
write the letter. Oh, I hope she will be true and brave, and some time
it may come out right!"

"Mis' Jettson's come," said Julia. "And your pa and ma have gone over
to Middle Creek."

"Oh, Jane!" They all made a rush to the great front piazza, Jaqueline
with her letter in hand.

"Oh, girls!" cried Jane, "did you have a dreadful time when father
was down here? He wrote me a letter. But Lieutenant Ralston had been
in, and he told me of his call at the Pineries. You see, he thought
they were as good as engaged; only he meant to begin honorably, and
ask father's sanction to his addresses. But father was--yes, really
outrageous--if he is my father! I've always felt he would be a
gentleman under any circumstances, but this was insulting, abusive;
and Lieutenant Ralston is well bred and well connected, and is in the
way of getting a fine position. And, in any event, there was nothing
derogatory to Marian in his falling in love with her. Why, he is
invited almost everywhere, and the girls are pulling straws for him.
Then father writes me a very cross and irritating note, and says for
the present Marian is to hold no communication with me--my own sister,
too!--and that I am not to mention nor in any way refer to Mr. Ralston,
but that any letter of mine will be read by him first. Why, we might as
well go back to the Dark Ages, or be Puritans at once! I believe those
old Puritan fathers compelled their daughters to marry to their liking.
If I could only know how Marian feels! Why do you all look so queer?
Jaqueline, who is your letter from?"

"From Marian," said the girl, with rising color.

"Oh, I must see it." She took it from Jaqueline's hand. "Oh, poor,
dear Marian! If she loves him it will be all right. And she does. I
think father won't have such an easy time persuading her to marry Mr.
Greaves. Why, he could have been her father; he's old enough! And none
of us can write to her. It is too cruel! Now tell me what was said the
day they were down here."

The scene lost nothing by repetition. They all agreed about the
injustice. Then Jane decided she would return at once. The baby was
teething and rather fretful. They were to go to Bladensburg for a
fortnight.

"And, Jaqueline, I wish you could come. It is really quite gay there,
and the water is said to be so good. Arthur is too busy to leave, and
often has to spend his evenings drafting and making plans. Patty might
come too, if she liked."

So the word of encouragement went its way to the lover, and was a great
comfort and delight.

"I hope you will all respect grandfather's wishes," said Mr. Mason,
when he read his young sister's letter. "I shall trust you not to hold
any communication with Marian."

"But if Jane does?" commented Louis.

"That is not strictly our affair. And, Louis, do not be too ready to
give young Ralston the encouragement of this letter, even. Mr. Floyd is
very tenacious and----"

"Oh, you might as well call it obstinate," laughed Louis. "Perhaps
Marian may inherit some of the same characteristics, when it comes to
the point. And I fancy we are all on her side. It is as you once said,
Jack, we do have to take sides!"

"And I'm going to be on Marian's side," said Varina proudly. "I don't
like grandpapa very much. Annis, what will you do?"

"I like Marian," she replied a little timidly.

"Now we must go and see what side Charles will take. The old knights
fought for the ladies."

"I see you are all arrayed in rebellion," and the squire shook his
head. "I am afraid I have not brought you up properly."

Jaqueline and Patty went to Bladensburg, which was quite a resort.
Louis joined a party who were going down the Chesapeake in a sailing
vessel, and the three young ones played and disputed and made up
friends. The elders essayed several duty visits to the Pineries, but
they saw the girls only in the presence of their parents, so Marian
had no opportunity of explaining how matters were going with her; but
she was thinner and heavy-eyed, and had lost her spirits. Mr. and Mrs.
Floyd held their heads high and were rather captious.

What had happened when Mr. Greaves' year of mourning had expired was
that he went over to the Pineries one afternoon dressed in a new suit
and gotten up quite in the style of the day. After Marian entered the
room he made a formal proposal for her hand and asked her father's
consent.

"You have mine, most cordially," said Mr. Floyd in his grandest
manner. "It is my wish that my daughter should accept you as her future
husband. It is natural and womanly that she should have some misgivings
on the subject, as it is a grave one and full of responsibility. But we
have reared her to do her duty in that state of life to which it shall
please God to call her. And her mother and I hope to see her fill this
place in your home and your affections, and become a happy wife at the
proper time. We are in no hurry to part with her, but until that time
you will be a most welcome guest."

Marian shivered, but her tongue clung to the roof of her mouth when
