a lover, and spent his evenings with her.  He talked of another maid to
take care of the children, so that Molly could give her time to the
invalid.  But Mrs. Avery shook her head.  They could not afford that.
"You are so generous to me, Marshall! ... I am sorry it is so expensive
to be sick.  But I 'm getting better, dear--don't you see I am?  I have
n't felt so well for a year," she added.
"Oh, we 'll have you round again pretty soon," he said, with that
hearty optimism which, one could not have told exactly why, seemed just
to miss of the nature of sympathy.  But Jean's drafts on sympathy had
always been scanty.  It was very much as it was about the lace
curtains.  She could get along without what other women demanded.  At
least, she had always thought she could.  It used to be so.  She was
troubled sometimes to find that sickness creates new heavens and a new
earth, and that the very virtues of health may turn again and rend one.
It was as if one had acquired citizenship in a strange planet, where
character and nature change places.
It was with a kind of fear that she received her husband's acceleration
of tenderness.  How was she to forego it, when the time came that it
might--she omitted to acknowledge to herself that it would--overlook
her again?  She tried feverishly to get better in a hurry, as if she
had been in some Southern climate where she was but a transient
tourist.  She tried so hard, in fact, as sometimes to check the real
and remarkable improvement which had now befallen her.
One day Mr. Avery announced that he had the toothache, and if he were
not so driven he would go and see Armstrong; he meant to give Armstrong
all his work after this; Armstrong was a good fellow, and they often
met Saturdays at the club.  But the great Electric case was up just
then, and necessary dentistry was an impossible luxury to the young
lawyer.  Endurance was a novelty, and Avery grew nervous under it.  He
bore pain neither better nor worse than most men; and he was really
suffering.  Any wife but Jean would have called him cross.  Jean called
him her poor boy.  She dragged herself from her lounge--she had been a
little less well the last few days--and lavished herself, as women like
Jean do, pouring out her own tenderness--a rare wine.  After all, there
are not too many tender women; Jean was a genius in sympathy.  She
spent more sweetness and strength on that toothache than the other kind
of woman has to give her husband if he meets a mortal hurt.  Avery
received this calmly.  He was used to it.  To do him justice, he did
not know how cross he was.  He was used to that, too.  And so was she.
The baby was ailing, besides, and things went hard.  The sick woman's
breath began to shorten again; and the coy color which had been so hard
to win to her lips fled from them unobserved.  The doctor was not
called; Helen Thorne was out of town; and so it happened that no one
noticed--for, as we say, Marshall Avery had the toothache.
One night he came home late, and as irritable as better men than he may
be, and be forgiven for it, for the sake of that species of modern
toothache in which your dentist neither extracts nor relieves, but
devotes his highly developed and unhappy ingenuity to the demonic
process which is known as "saving a tooth."
"He calls it killing a nerve," sputtered Avery.  "I should call it
killing a patient.  This performance is the Mauser bullet of up-to-date
dentistry.  It explodes all over you--  Oh, do let me alone, Jean!  You
can't do anything for me.  A man does n't want to be bothered.  Go and
lie down, and look after yourself.  Where is that hot water?  I asked
for alcohol--laudanum--some confounded thing.  Can't anybody in this
house do anything for me?  I don't trouble them very often."
"It's Molly's evening out," said Mrs. Avery patiently.  "I 'll get
everything as fast as I can, dear."  She was up and down stairs a good
deal; she did not notice, herself, how often.  And when she got to bed
at last, she cried--she could not help it.  It was something he had
said.  Oh, no matter what!  But she did not know how to bear it, for
she was so exhausted, and sobs, which were her mortal enemy, overcame
her as soon as she was alone.
He did not hear her, for the door was shut between their rooms, and he
was quite occupied with his Mauser bullet.  He had fallen into the
habit of shutting the door when the second baby was born; he maintained
that the boy was worse than Pink.  Pink cried like a lady, but the boy
bellowed like a megatherium.
A little before half-past ten she heard him get up and dress and stir
about.  He opened the door, and said, without coming in:--
"I 'm going to have this blank thing out.  I 'm going to Armstrong's
house.  I won't stand it another hour.  I 'll be home presently."
She tried to tell him how sorry she was, and to say some one of the
little loving, wifely things with whose warm, sun-penetrated atmosphere
she so enveloped his life that he took them as a matter of course.  It
is doubtful if he heard her altogether, for her voice was fainter than
usual.
"Won't you come in a minute?" she pleaded.  He did hear that.  But he
did not come.
"Oh, I can't stop now," he returned petulantly.  "I 'm in such blank
torment.  I 'll be back; I may go to the club afterwards, and play it
off at something, but I'll be back before midnight."
"Dear?" she called then, in an agitated voice; it was not like hers,
and not like her; if he had perceived this--but he perceived nothing.
"I don't feel quite well"--she tried to say.  But he was halfway
downstairs.  These five words wandered after him like the effort of a
dumb spirit to communicate with deaf life.
He thrust himself savagely into his overcoat, turned up the collar over
his toothache, slammed the front door, and went.
Jean listened to his footfall on the steps, on the sidewalk; the
nervous, irritable, uneven sound softened and ceased.  She was quite
awake, and her mind moved with feverish vitality.  She was usually a
good sleeper for a sick person; but that night she found herself too
ill for any form of rest.  The difficulty that she had in breathing
increased with an insidious slowness which she had learned to fear as
the most obstinate form of her malady.  The room grew empty of air.
The candle burned blue to her eyes.  The shutting of the front door
seemed like the shutting of that to which she would not give a name,
for terror's sake.  As her husband's footsteps passed from the power of
her strained ears to overtake them, she found herself wondering how
they would sound when they passed for the last time from her presence,
she lying under a load of flowers, with the final look of the sky
turned compassionately upon her.  Then she scorned herself--she was the
most healthy-minded invalid who ever surmounted the morbidness of
physical suffering--and thrust out her hands from her face, as if she
were thrusting a camera which was using defective plates away from her
brain.
"If he had only come in a minute!" she said, sobbing a little.  "If he
had only come in and kissed me good-night"--
She did not add: "He would have seen that I was too ill.  He would not
have left me."
The candle burned faintly, and grew more faint.  There seemed to be
smoke in the room.  The baby stirred in his crib, and Pink, from the
nursery, called, "Mummer dee!" in her sleep.  The air grew so dense
that it seemed to Jean to be packed about her like smothering wool.
She rang the electric bell for Molly, or she thought she did.  But
Molly did not answer, and the nursery door was shut.
There was nothing morbid in Jean's thoughts by this time; no more
gruesome vision; no touching situation whatever presented itself; she
did not see herself as a pathetic object; even her husband vanished
from her consciousness.  Kind or harsh--retreating footsteps or
returning arms--light laughter on his lips or true love in his
eyes--she thought of him not at all.  He disappeared from her emergency
like some diminishing figure that had fled from the field of a great
battle.  For the lonely woman knew now, at last, that she was wrestling
with mortal peril.  She had always wondered if she would know it from
its counterfeits when it really came--there were so many counterfeits!
She had asked, as all men ask, what it would be like.  A long
contention?  A short, sharp thrust?  Agony?  Stupor?  Struggle, or
calm?  Now she wondered not at all.  There was nothing dramatic or
exciting, or even solemn, in her condition.  All her being resolved
itself into the simple effort to get her breath.
Suddenly this effort ceased.  She had struggled up against the pillows
to call "Molly!  Molly!" when she found that she could not call Molly.
As if her head had been under water, the function of breathing battled,
and surrendered.  Then there befell her swiftly the most beatific
instant that she had ever known.
"I am tired out," she thought; "and I am going to sleep.  I did not
die, after all."  She was aware of turning her face, as her head
dropped back on her pillows, before she sank into ecstasy.
The night was fair and cool.  There was some wind, and the trees in the
Park winced under a glittering frost.  Avery noticed this as he hurried
to Dr. Armstrong's.  The leaves seemed to curl in a sensitive, womanish
fashion, as if their feelings had been hurt before they received their
death-stroke.
"It is the third of November," he thought.  His feet rang on the
sidewalk sharply, and he ran up the long steps with his gloved hand
held to his cheek.
Physical pain always made him angry.  He was irritable with Armstrong,
who had none too good a temper himself; and the two men sparred a
little before the dentist consented to remove the tooth.
Avery was surprised to find how short and simple an affair this was.
"I believe I 'll run into the Club," he observed as he put on his coat.
"Better go home," replied the dentist.  "No?  Then I 'll go along with
you."
The two men started out in silence.
Avery looked across at the wincing leaves on the trees of the Park.
The tower of the Church of the Happy Saints showed black against the
sky.  The club was only around the corner, and he was glad of it, for
the night felt unpleasantly cold to him; he shivered as he entered the
hot, bright, luxurious place; it was heavy with tobacco; the click of
billiard-balls and the clink of a glass sounded to his ear with a
curious distinctness above the laughter and the chat with which the
house seemed to rock and echo.
Romer was there--Tom Romer; and he was uncommonly glad to see Avery.
The two gentlemen, with Armstrong and another man, grouped upon a game
of billiards.  Romer proposed whist, but Armstrong said it was too late
for whist.  Avery did not say anything, and he played stupidly, and
after a while asked to be excused, and got up to go home.
"You 're looking fagged," observed Tom Romer, knocking the ashes from
his cigar artistically.  "You 're overworked.  Most of you professional
chaps are.  Come yachting with me, on the Dream.  We 're going to the
Sound after ducks.  Back in a week.  Start at seven o'clock to-morrow
morning.  Stay and put up here, and get off with me.  Oh!  I forgot.
You 're one of those married men."
"Yes," replied Avery, with a consciousness of superior virtue.  "I
could n't go without saying good-by to my wife.  I wouldn't think of it
for a moment," he added loftily.  "Give me a minute, Romer, to think it
over, will you?"
He strolled to the window, and looked out at the waters of the black
river which rushed whirling past the rear of the clubhouse.  It
occurred to him that Armstrong watched him anxiously.  But Armstrong
did not speak.
"I 'll go--thanks!" said Avery, coming back, with his hands in his
pockets.  "I 'll get word to the office; they can manage without me,
somehow--that is, if you 'll promise to get me back in a week?"
"I 'll set you ashore at the back yard of this club six days from
to-morrow," answered Romer.  "The Dream 's a dandy," added the
yachtsman, swelling a little.  "She can do it."
Avery replied absently, and hurriedly started for home.  In fact, he
ran most of the way (Dr. Armstrong could not keep up with him), for he
was shocked to find that it was now one o'clock.
"Poor Jean!" he thought; "I stayed too long."  Then he remembered for
the first time that he had got to tell Jean that he was going.  It
occurred to him for a moment that he would rather give up going with
Romer than tell Jean.  But it was now too late to do that.
"You see," he said, stopping for Armstrong to overtake him, "I 've
got to go, now."  But Armstrong did not reply; he turned in at his
own house with a manner which his friend felt to be superfluous.  Avery
experienced a certain resentment against the dentist.  He was relieved
