"No, you don't!" said a cool voice at my elbow; "we want the Weasel,
too, for all his fine clothes!"
The next instant a man in a red neck-cloth had seized my hands in a
grip of iron, and, ere I knew what had happened, he clapped the gyves
on one of my wrists. With a cry of rage and amazement I tore at my
manacled hand, and, partly helpless as I was, I sprang at the fellow.
He struck me a fierce blow with his cudgel, and ran around the edge of
the swaying knot of human figures which was slowly bearing Mount to
the ground.
Then Mount rose, hurling the pack from him, and striking right and
left with his huge arms. I saw the nosegay fly into a shower of
blossoms, and the silken ribbons flutter down under the trampling
feet.
For a moment I caught Mount's eye, as he stood like a deeply breathing
bull at bay, then swinging the steel manacle which was locked on my
right wrist, I beat my way to Mount's side, and faced the thief-taker
and his bailiffs.
They rushed us against the fence of the burying-ground, bruising us
with their heavy cudgels, and knocking the war-hatchet from Mount's
fist. I had my sword out, but could not use it, the manacles on my
wrist clogging the guard and confusing me. In the uproar around us I
heard cries of: "Death to the highwaymen!" "Kill the rogues!" A vast
crowd was surging up on all sides; soldiers drew their hangers and
pushed their way to the side of the baffled bailiffs.
"Give up, Jack Mount!" cried the stout man with the red
neck-cloth--"give up, in the King's name! It's all over with you now!
I've run you from Johnstown on a broad trail, God wot! and I want your
brush and pads, old fox!"
Mount displayed his broad knife coolly. The sunlight played over the
blade of the murderous weapon; the crowd around us broke into a
swelling roar.
Suddenly a soldier struck heavily at Mount with his hanger, but Mount
sent the sword whirling with the broad, short blade in his hand.
"If you'll let this gentleman go, I'll give up," said Mount, sullenly.
"Answer me, Billy Bishop!"
"Come, come," said Bishop, in a bantering voice, "we know all about
this gentleman, Jack. Don't you worry; we'll take care he has a view
of the Roxbury Cross-road as well as you!"
The taunt of the cross-roads gallows transformed Mount into a demon.
He hurled his huge bulk at the solid mass of people; I followed,
making what play I could with my small-sword, but in a moment I was
down in the dust, blood pouring from my face, groping blindly for the
enemies who were already clapping the irons on my other wrist.
Through the roar and tumult of frantic voices I was dragged into a
stony street, crushed into the pit of a crowd, which hurried me on
resistlessly. White, excited faces looked into mine; hundreds of
clinched fists tossed above the dense masses on either side. Again and
again I plunged at those who drove me, but they thrust me onward. Far
ahead in the throng I saw the head and shoulders of Jack Mount
overtopping them all.
The mob halted at a cross-street to allow a cavalcade of horsemen to
pass. Above the heads of the people I could see the cavalry riding,
sabres bared, the riders glancing curiously down at the rabble and its
prisoners. A coach passed, escorted by dragoons; a gentleman looked
out to seek the reason of the uproar. From his coach window his head
leaned so close to me that I could have touched it. The gentleman was
Walter Butler.
"A thief, sir," cried a bailiff; "taken by Bishop on the Mall. Would
your lordship be pleased to see his comrade, the notorious Jack
Mount?"
"Drive on," said Butler, impassively. Then the crowd began to hoot and
jeer as the bailiffs pushed me forward once more through the dust of
Cornhill up Queen Street.
And so, crushed by the awful disgrace which had fallen on me,
writhing, resisting, dishevelled, I was forced into the Court-house on
Queen Street, across the yard, and into the gates of the prison, which
crashed behind me, drowning the roars of the people in my stunned
ears.
CHAPTER XXIV
I was taken, in company with Jack Mount, on Monday morning, the 29th
of October, 1774, without warrant or process, without a shadow of
legal right, without the faintest justification or excuse, save that I
had been seen conversing with Mount on the Mall, and had resisted the
thief-taker Bishop and his filthy gang of bailiffs.
From the 29th of October until the 15th day of December, chained ankle
to ankle, wrist to wrist, and wearing a steel collar from which chains
hung and were riveted to the rings on my legs, I lay in that vile iron
cage known as the "Pirates' Chapel," in company with Mount and eight
sullen, cursing ruffians, taken in piracy off the Virginia capes by
his Majesty's ship Hebe, consort of the frigate Asia.
During those six weeks not a moment passed in which I despaired, not
an hour dragged out its chain of minutes but I believed it must be the
hour for my delivery from this hideous injustice.
From the minute I had entered the "Chapel," the dull amazement which
had fettered mind and body in a strange paralysis gave way to a deadly
patience. My benumbed faculties grew clear; every sense became
abnormally alert. Calmly I faced the terrible dilemma; I probed its
consequences coolly; I understood that while Walter Butler held the
Governor's ear, and while the Governor held the civil power at his own
pleasure, and used it as whim or caprice moved him, I could neither
hope for a hearing before a magistrate nor dare expect a trial by my
countrymen. The soiled hand of England had polluted the ermine of the
judges; the bayonets of England cleared the court-rooms; the mocking
Governor brooded in Province House, watching the structure of civil
rights crumble and collapse, while his judges, his sheriffs, his
bailiffs, and his soldiers prowled through the débris of a structure
which had been reared by my own people's martyrdom.
As for communication with the outside world, with friends, even with
hostile relatives, or with the Governor himself, there was no possible
chance. Our steel cage was set in the centre of a stone chamber, the
barred windows of which opened on a bare stony parade, bounded on the
east by Cornhill, on the west by Treamount Street, and on the south by
School Street and the dead wall enclosing King's Chapel. There was not
a soul to be seen in the prison or outside save the marine sentinels,
the jailers, the warden of the prison, and the eight ruffians who were
caged with us, among whom there was but a single Englishman.
Our cage was bedded with straw like a kennel; our food was brought us
three times a day, in earthen bowls. A wooden spoon went with each
bowl, otherwise the feed differed nothing from the feed of dogs.
Mount, in the beginning, had conducted like a madman, passing swiftly
up and down his cage, pacing to and fro along the ranks of steel bars,
blank fury glaring from his eyes, jaw hanging like the jowl of a
committed panther.
All that first night he stalked the cage, brushing the bars with brow
and thigh, and deep in his blue eyes there burned a terrible light,
like the livid witch-fires which flare in haunted swamps.
At first the manacled ruffians who lay about us in the straw watched
him doggedly, but as the night wore on and his pacing never ceased,
they growled sullen protest. Then he slowly turned on them, baring his
white teeth.
From that moment they gave him room and he ruled the cage as a silent,
powerful beast rules, scarcely conscious of the cringing creatures who
huddle around his legs, and whose presence cannot invade the solitude
of his own fierce misery.
The light in the stone chamber was cool and gray--clear enough, yet
never tinged with sunlight. Night brought thick, troubled shadows
creeping around the single candle which dripped from an iron socket
riveted to the wall. Then the shades of the jailers fell across the
floor as the large lanthorn was set outside in the corridor, and all
night long the shuffling tread of the sentry marked the dead march of
time.
For three days, now, I had not touched the broth which was set on the
straw beside me; I do not know that I should have made the effort to
eat at all, except for an accident. It happened in this manner: one
day, towards the middle of December, I had been lying on my belly,
trying to think out something of that future which I had not yet
despaired of. Musing there, nose buried in my arms, I lay almost on
the verge of slumber, yet with one eye on the corridor beyond, when I
saw distinctly a woman's face peer through the thick grating which
separated the corridor from our stone chamber.
After a while the face disappeared; I lay still a moment, then touched
Mount's arm.
He turned his haggard face to me.
"Bishop's daughter is in the corridor," I whispered.
"Where?" asked Mount, vacantly.
"Out there behind the grating. She may do something for--for you. If
she should, I think we had better try to eat."
"Yes," he said, "we must eat." And he turned with a snarl on one of
the caged wretches behind us who for days had been battening on the
food that neither Jack nor I touched.
The man was in the act of dragging Mount's bowl and spoon towards his
own nest in the straw, but he dropped the food and shrank back as
Mount seized it with an oath.
I also secured my own bowl of bread and broth, and, together, we ate
as animals eat, eying the others malevolently and askance.
That night Mount lay awake, watching the grating. At dawn I awoke to
watch, and Mount rolled himself up into a ball of buckskin and slept
the first peaceful sleep which had come to him since his taking.
The day passed in horrible monotony; our straw had become so foul that
my head swam with the stench. But towards evening came a jailer and
two soldiers, who raked the filthy straw from our cage, mopped the
reeking floor, and when it had partly dried, shook us down a bedding
of sweet rye-straw, into which we burrowed like dogs.
That night we heard the noise of hammers overhead, and at first terror
seized on all in the cage, for we believed that workmen had come to
build gibbets. In the morning, when our jailer arrived to fetch us
water, I spoke to him, scarcely expecting a reply, for he had never
before paid the faintest attention to questions from any of us.
I was surprised, therefore, when he hesitated, glanced up at me, and
finally informed me that the hammering we heard was made by masons and
carpenters who were reconstructing the upper tiers of the prison for
the new warden and his family.
Presuming on his pleasant manner, I continued my questioning, but he
soon silenced me with a shake of his head.
"I know nothing about your case," he said. "Matters move slowly here;
the prison is crowded with rebels who have defied the Governor's edict
against public assemblies. Their cases come before yours, young man."
"And the others here?" I asked.
He paid no attention to my question.
I asked for news of the outside world, but he would give me none.
Mount, whose morbid curiosity had been aroused by the sight of some
workmen digging holes in the yard outside the prison, stood up to
watch them. The other prisoners also huddled to the south side of the
cage, their chains making a great clanking as they moved. At the
moment when their backs were turned the jailer looked at them
significantly, then at me, and, to my horror, passed his withered
fingers over his corded throat.
I stared at him, fascinated, but he shrugged his stooping shoulders,
shuffled off to the wicket, let himself out, and slammed the grating.
That night I sat close to Jack Mount, my hand on his broad shoulder,
crushing back the lump in my throat. I believed he was to die soon;
when, I did not know; but the grim gesture of the jailer had conveyed
a hint that could not be mistaken.
At dawn I stood up to gaze fearfully out into the prison yard. Snow
had fallen; workmen were digging at the holes with pick and crow.
When the jailer brought breakfast to us, he laid two bundles of
sail-cloth on the floor under the windows beyond our cage. Later he
returned and carefully nailed each strip of cloth over the windows,
hiding our view of the prison yard.
Mount asked him why he did that; the other prisoners became restless
