passions renew themselves with new occasions, new opportunities, and
character grows continually. You have loved twice, you have grieved
twice; in battle you hated more than once; in business you must have
coveted many times. Under different conditions, the passions, the
potentiality of experiences, will have a pristine strength. Can't you
see it in that light? Can't you draw some hope from that?"

"Hope!" cried Ransom Hilbrook, lifting his fallen head and staring at
the minister. "Why, man, you don't suppose I want to live hereafter?
Do you think I'm anxious to have it all over again, or any of it? Is
that why you've been trying to convince me of immortality? I know
there's something in what you say,--more than what you realize. I've
argued annihilation up to this point and that, and almost proved it to
my own mind; but there's always some point that I can't quite get over.
If I had the certainty, the absolute certainty, that this was all there
was to be of it, I wouldn't want to live an hour longer, not a minute!
But it's the uncertainty that keeps me. What I'm afraid of is, that if I
get out of it here, I might wake up in my old identity, with the
potentiality of new experiences in new conditions. That's it I'm tired.
I've had enough. I want to be let alone. I don't want to do anything
more, or have anything more done to me. I want to stop."

Ewbert's first impression was that he was shocked; but he was too honest
to remain in this conventional assumption. He was profoundly moved,
however, and intensely interested. He realized that Hilbrook was
perfectly sincere, and he could put himself in the old man's place, and
imagine why he should feel as he did. Ewbert blamed himself for not
having conceived of such a case before; and he saw that if he were to do
anything for this lonely soul, he must begin far back of the point from
which he had started with him. The old man's position had a kind of
dignity which did not admit of the sort of pity Ewbert had been feeling
for him, and the minister had before him the difficult and delicate task
of persuading Hilbrook, not that a man, if he died, should live again,
but that he should live upon terms so kind and just that none of the
fortuities of mortal life should be repeated in that immortality. He
must show the immortal man to be a creature so happily conditioned that
he would be in effect newly created, before Hilbrook would consent to
accept the idea of living again. He might say to him that he would
probably not be consulted in the matter, since he had not been consulted
as to his existence here; but such an answer would brutally ignore the
claim that such a man's developed consciousness could justly urge to
some share in the counsels of omnipotence. Ewbert did not know where to
begin, and in his despair he began with a laugh.

"Upon my word," he said, "you've presented a problem that would give any
casuist pause, and it's beyond my powers without some further thought.
Your doubt, as I now understand it, is not of immortality, but of
mortality; and there I can't meet you in argument without entirely
forsaking my own ground. If it will not seem harsh, I will confess that
your doubt is rather consoling to me; for I have so much faith in the
Love which rules the world that I am perfectly willing to accept
reëxistence on any terms that Love may offer. You may say that this is
because I have not yet exhausted the potentialities of experience, and
am still interested in my own identity; and one half of this, at least,
I can't deny. But even if it were otherwise, I should trust to find
among those Many Mansions which we are told of some chamber where I
should be at rest without being annihilated; and I can even imagine my
being glad to do any sort of work about the House, when I was tired of
resting."


VIII.

"I am glad you said that to him!" cried Ewbert's wife, when he told
her of his interview with old Hilbrook. "That will give him something to
think about. What did he say?"

Ewbert had been less and less satisfied with his reply to Hilbrook, in
which it seemed to him that he had passed from mockery to reproof, with
no great credit to himself; and his wife's applause now set the seal to
his displeasure with it.

"Oh, he said simply that he could understand a younger person feeling
differently, and that he did not wish to set himself up as a censor. But
he could not pretend that he was glad to have been called out of
nonentity into being, and that he could imagine nothing better than
eternal unconsciousness."

"Well?"

"I told him that his very words implied the refusal of his being to
accept nonentity again; that they expressed, or adumbrated, the
conception of an eternal consciousness of the eternal unconsciousness he
imagined himself longing for. I'm not so sure they did, now."

"Of course they did. And then what did he say?"

"He said nothing in direct reply; he sighed, and dropped his poor old
head on his breast, and seemed very tired; so that I tried talking of
other things for a while, and then I came away. Emily, I'm afraid I
wasn't perfectly candid, perfectly kind, with him."

"I don't see how you could have been more so!" she retorted, in tender
indignation with him against himself. "And I think what he said was
terrible. It was bad enough for him to pretend to believe that he was
not going to live again, but for him to tell you that he was afraid he
was!" An image sufficiently monstrous to typify Hilbrook's wickedness
failed to present itself to Mrs. Ewbert, and she went out to give the
maid instructions for something unusually nourishing for Ewbert at their
mid-day dinner. "You look fairly fagged out, Clarence," she said, when
she came back; "and I insist upon your not going up to that dreadful old
man's again,--at least, not till you've got over this shock."

"Oh, I don't think it has affected me seriously," he returned lightly.

"Yes, it has! yes, it has!" she declared. "It's just like your thinking
you hadn't taken cold, the other day when you were caught in the rain;
and the next morning you got up with a sore throat, and it was Sunday
morning, too."

Ewbert could not deny this, and he had no great wish to see Hilbrook
soon again. He consented to wait for Hilbrook to come to him, before
trying to satisfy these scruples of conscience which he had hinted at;
and he reasonably hoped that the painful points would cease to rankle
with the lapse of time, if there should be a long interval before they
met.

That night, before the Ewberts had finished their tea, there came a ring
at the door, from which Mrs. Ewbert disconsolately foreboded a premature
evening call. "And just when I was counting on a long, quiet, restful
time for you, and getting you to bed early!" she lamented in undertone
to her husband; to the maid who passed through the room with an
inquiring glance, to the front door, she sighed, still in undertone, "Oh
yes, of course we're at home."

They both listened for the voice at the door, to make out who was there;
but the voice was so low that they were still in ignorance while the
maid was showing the visitor into the library, and until she came back
to them.

"It's that old gentleman who lives all alone by himself on the hill over
the brook," she explained; and Mrs. Ewbert rose with an air of
authority, waving her husband to keep his seat.

"Now, Clarence, I am simply not going to let you go in. You are sick
enough as it is, and if you are going to let that awful old man spend
the whole evening here, and drain the life out of you! I will see him,
and tell him"--

"No, no, Emily! It won't do. I must see him. It isn't true that I'm
sick. He's old, and he has a right to the best we can do for him. Think
of his loneliness! I shall certainly not let you send him away." Ewbert
was excitedly gulping his second cup of tea; he pushed his chair back,
and flung his napkin down as he added, "You can come in, too, and see
that I get off alive."

"I shall not come near you," she answered resentfully; but Ewbert had
not closed the door behind him, and she felt it her duty to listen.


IX.

Mrs. Ewbert heard old Hilbrook begin at once in a high senile key
without any form of response to her husband's greeting: "There was one
thing you said to-day that I've been thinkin' over, and I've come down
to talk with you about it."

"Yes?" Ewbert queried submissively, though he was aware of being quite
as fagged as his wife accused him of being, after he spoke.

"Yes," Hilbrook returned. "I guess I ha'n't been exactly up and down
with myself. I guess I've been playing fast and loose with myself. I
guess you're right about my wantin' to have enough consciousness to
enjoy my unconsciousness," and the old gentleman gave a laugh of rather
weird enjoyment. "There are things," he resumed seriously, "that are
deeper in us than anything we call ourselves. I supposed I had gone to
the bottom, but I guess I hadn't. All the while there was something down
there that I hadn't got at; but you reached it and touched it, and now I
know it's there. I don't know but it's my Soul that's been havin' its
say all the time, and me not listenin'. I guess you made your point."

Ewbert was still not so sure of that. He had thrown out that hasty
suggestion without much faith in it at the time, and his faith in it had
not grown since.

"I'm glad," he began, but Hilbrook pressed on as if he had not spoken.

"I guess we're built like an onion," he said, with a severity that
forbade Ewbert to feel anything undignified in the homely illustration.
"You can strip away layer after layer till you seem to get to nothing at
all; but when you've got to that nothing you've got to the very thing
that had the life in it, and that would have grown again if you had put
it in the ground."

"Exactly!" said Ewbert.

"You made a point that I can't get round," Hilbrook continued, and it
was here that Ewbert enjoyed a little instant of triumph. "But that
ain't the point with me. I see that I can't prove that we shan't live
again any more than you can prove that we shall. What I want you to do
now is to convince me, or to give me the least reason to believe, that
we shan't live again on exactly the same terms that we live now. I don't
want to argue immortality any more; we'll take that for granted. But how
is it going to be any different from mortality with the hope of death
taken away?"

Hilbrook's apathy was gone, and his gentleness; he had suddenly an air
and tone of fierce challenge. As he spoke he brought a clenched fist
down on the arm of his chair; he pushed his face forward and fixed
Ewbert with the vitreous glitter of his old eyes. Ewbert found him
