Sylvie look amazed. 
“It was my mother’s people. We were Acadians. 
And France had so much of this New World ! It was 
New France; it would have been a splendid world, and 
no barbarous talk but the Indians’. They had no right 
to come and drive us out — send us away from the homes 
we had made.” 
“Oh,” cried Sylvie, “then we are something alike. I 
left the old France. I don’t know why — it was because” 
— her small brow knitted with thought — “we were to be 
taken to a convent, I believe.” 
“Oh, I was not born then. And my mother married 
and died. And my father went away somewhere, and 
has not come back. Mere Richard had me and she beat 
and starved me, and I ran away. Then Nannete took 
me. She is a free woman and keeps a cake shop down 
by the wharf. It was not good for me, and Mere Milhet 
took me. But I think I shall become a nun. I go to 
school at the convent. I like the Sisters.” 
“Then you are a Catholic?” 
“A Catholic of course. What should I be? There is 
only one true Church.” 
“And I am a — a Huguenot.” Sylvie held up her head 
very straight, though she had a faint misgiving as to 
whether she was on the true side. 
The girl shook her head doubtfully. “I will ask at 
the convent ; the Sisters must know. You are too pretty 
to be a — to be an infidel! And French, too, although 
you talk not quite like us, a little more strong — harsh, 
that is it. Now I must finish my flowers. Mere Milhet 
will soon be home from mass, and then breakfast, and I 
go to the convent, where I stay all day.” 
She darted off, but Sylvie followed her. “Oh!” the 
child ejaculated, stopping suddenly as something blue 
and glistening and beautiful rose before her. 
“That is the heron. Oh, he is tame enough. Come, 
Piti. But I have no crumbs for you. Let the little girl 
stroke your neck. Your name is Sylvie?” 
“How did you know ?” with a bright smile. 
“I heard them talking of you this morning. I had 
broken a rule yesterday and I had to say ten pater nostcrs 
by myself in the dark and then go to bed. So I did not 
see you. Stroke his neck, Sylvie. Piti Patty, this is a 
nice little girl.” 
“Oh, what a funny name !” Sylvie put her small hand 
half fearfully on the bird’s beautiful neck that seemed 
to change to every shade of blue. 
“When he was little. Mini found him with a broken 
leg. She set it, and when he began to go about on the 
bare floor he went pit-a-pat in such a queer way. Sylvie 
will give you some crumbs after breakfast. Then he 
will love you and follow you about.” 
“I don’t know your name,” Sylvie said, half bashfully. 
“It is Laure Gorgas. When I become a nun I shall 
have a grand new name. It will be Annunziata, or 
Angelique or Veronique.” 
“Oh, Angelique is my cousin’s name.” 
“And the young man — is he her brother or yours?” 
“No, he is a cousin, too.” 
“He is very handsome. He was walking in the 
garden. I wish I had 2 cousin like that. I have no 
one,” with a longing, regretful intonation. 
“Oh, I am so sorry for you,” cried Sylvie, sympa- 
thetically. 
“And his name — is it a pretty one?” 
“It is Gervaise Aubreton.” 
Laure nodded. “But I think I like Henri better. 
Hortense de Longpre has a brother Henri. He is 
handsome too, and has such a sweet voice. Oh, what 
am I saying? I must not talk about young men. Pere 
Moras will give me a penance.” 
“What is a penance ? Susanne, at Brienne, used to talk 
of them. They are something bad — a punishment. But 
I would not like to be punished for talking of Gervaise. 
And Captain Strong was so good.” 
“That is different when they belong to you.” 
Laure had been snipping off an armful of flowers. 
Sylvie and the heron followed. Just as they passed by 
a waving cypress-tree, Gervaise met them. 
“This is Laure,” said the child, with a graceful turn of 
the hand. “And this is my Cousin Gervaise.” 
Laure turned red and her eyes drooped. Sylvie’s 
cheek was suddenly scarlet as well, and she glanced 
timidly up to Gervaise, who was praising the garden and 
the flowers. Now the girl turned into a wider walk 
that led straight up to the broad sort of porch covered 
with a latticework of vines that made the entrance to the 
breakfast room, where Lucie, who was almost as fair as- 
Laure, but had crispy, waving hair, was arranging the 
table. 
“Laure ! Laure !” said the voice of Mere Milhet, 
sharply. “Where have you been loitering so? The 
flowers should have been done long ago.” 
Mere Milhet had an odd little cap on her head, her 
prayer-book and her beads in her hand. 
“The little girl came out into the garden and I could 
not hurry as usual. She asked me so many things. 
And about Piti. She was afraid at first.” 
Gervaise had fallen back ; Sylvie stood uncertain. 
“Go about your business,” said Madame, peremptorily. 
“Sylvie caught her hand. “Oh, Madame, do not scold 
her,” she pleaded in a soft tone. “It was so nice to find 
her in the beautiful garden. It seems a little like Brienne, 
only smaller and more flowers, I think. And there were 
great woods.” 
“There are great woods all about here too, and further 
north, forests impenetrable. Over to the westward no 
one knows, but it is said to be a land of gold.” 
“I should not like to live always on the ocean,” said 
Sylvie, irrelevantly. “There are no flowers and birds, 
and nothing to walk on but the deck of the ship that rolls 
so it tires one’s feet. I like this strange city. I wonder 
if we cannot live here always?” 
Madame smiled. “Thou art a dear little girl,” she 
said, with emotion. “And I am glad you like our city.” 
“And Piti — could I have a crumb of bread for him ?” 
“Oh, yes. Lucie, bring hither some bread. Why, he 
is already acquainted with you,” smiling in a gratified 
way. 
“There were swans at Dessiers. I used to feed them 
with Philippe. And we had a great peacock, with such a 
beautiful tail ! Only he was cross and would not spread 
it when you bade him; no, not even for bread, which he 
would snatch out of your hand and run away.” 
Lucie brought the bread, and Piti’s manners were 
admirable. He rubbed his neck on the little hand as if 
in acknowledgment. Gervaise came forward and wished 
Madame a polite good-morning, and Dolomine appeared 
to announce that breakfast was waiting and the ladies 
ready. 
“I was detained a little. There was a very poor 
woman, with some children, whose husband went over 
into the colonies, and she had heard nothing from him. 
They know not where to go. Good Father Charlier took 
them in hand. Good-morning ladies/’ as the two guests 
entered the breakfast-room “Excuse me one moment.” 
She laid her beads and her prayer-book in a drawer, 
took off her cap, and put on a lace head-dress. Her hair 
was beginning to be plentifully sprinkled with white, 
and the cordiality in her face was most attractive. It 
seemed very homelike to the travellers after all their 
adventures, and the softened French fell on their ears 
like music. And oh, the fragrance of the flowers every- 
where; the vista of the garden, where the sun seemed to 
make a shower of golden drops and quivers through the 
trees. 
The breakfast was certainly delicious. They asked 
questions of Madame and learned many things about the 
quaint old town — old even then, more than a century ago 
— whose vicissitudes had been many, and which would 
always remain among the most picturesque of cities. 
True, the great fire in 1788 had swept away many of the 
quaint, ancient frame houses and left rubbish heaps and 
poverty behind. Streets had been widened a little, and 
better built. But before that, had been the terrible 
hurricane which had blown down the first Charity Hos- 
pital, endowed by the savings of a noble-hearted dying 
sailor, Jean Louis, who had donated his few thousand 
livres. And then had come to the fore Don Andreas 
Almonaster, who replaced it with a commodious brick 
edifice that later on was to be one of the landmarks of the 
city. And then he had built the chapel for the Ursuline 
Convent and the school, where the Sisters vainly tried to 
establish the Spanish tongue and Spanish methods 
stricter than the French, that had been inaugurated by 
Father Cirilo, who was amazed at the lax methods of 
good Father Dagobert, who was gentle of heart, and who 
went out to marry and christen and bury with great 
love and simplicity, and who joined in their pleasures 
and confessed the women wdth the admonition of the 
Saviour. 
The new dwelling-houses took on a spirit of grandeur 
as well, and the Spanish manner, grandiose and rather 
ponderous, assumed an air of state that was bitterness to 
many of the older French settlers. For the Spaniards 
were obstinate and proud, and owned everything, whether 
for weal or woe; and the French were still dreaming of 
a time when the invader should be driven out and they 
come back to the birthright that DTberville, Bienville, and 
La Salle had given them. For had not the Sieur Le 
Blond de la Tour driven stakes and drawn lines, marked 
off streets and named them Orleans and Chartres, Bour- 
bon and Conde and Toulouse? 
And in spite of grander improvements, there were still 
old streets of foreign and antique aspect, narrow, with 
their overhanging second-story balconies, while the lower 
story looked almost prison-like, except where it opened 
on the secluded garden with its wealth of shrubbery, its 
magnificent trees, its allees bordered with flowers and 
tropical plants. 
“What were they to do?” the travellers asked each 
other. The little luggage saved from the wreck must be 
brought from the Mary Ann, for she expected to load 
and go out again. 
“Why not bring them here?” said Mere Milhet, out of 
her kindly heart. “Then you can look about ” 
“But we shall not remain here,” declared Barbette, 
glancing at Gervaise, who, for the present, was head of 
the family. 
“I must find my way about this great land and learn 
