unhappiness, so that when Helen descended to breakfast she had
received her first lesson in one of the chief tasks of the social
regime:
  “Full many in the silent night
    Have wept their grief away;
  And in the morn you fancy
    Their hearts were ever gay.”
And Helen played her part so well that Mrs. Roberts was much
encouraged, and beamed upon her across the table. As a matter of
fact, because her natural happiness was not all crushed, and because
playing a part was not easy to the girl, she was very soon
interested in the various plans that were being discussed. When Mr.
Harrison called later on and proposed a drive, she accepted with
genuine pleasure.
To be sure, she found it a trifle less thrilling than on the day
before, for the novelty was gone; but that fact did not cause her
much worry. In all her anticipations of the pleasure before her, it
had occurred to her as little as it occurs to others in her
situation to investigate the laws of the senses through which the
pleasure is to be obtained. There is a whole moral philosophy to be
extracted from the little word “ennui” by those who know; but Helen
was not of the knowing. She believed that when she was tired of the
horses she could delight herself with her beautiful house, and that
when she was tired of the house she could have a new one. All her
life she had been deriving ecstasy from beautiful things, from
dresses, and flowers, and books, and music, and pictures; and of
course it was only necessary to have an infinite quantity of such
things in order to be infinitely happy. The way to have the infinite
quantity was to marry Mr. Harrison, or at any rate that was Helen’s
view, and she was becoming more and more irritated because it did
not work well in practice, and more and more convinced that her aunt
must be right in blaming her weakness.
In the meantime, being in the open air and among all the things that
she loved, she was bound to rejoice once more; and rejoice she did,
not even allowing herself to be hindered by Mr. Harrison’s too
obvious failures to comprehend her best remarks. Helen argued that
she was not engaged to the man because of his cleverness, and that
when she had come to the infinite happiness towards which she was
traveling so fast, she would have inspiration enough for two. She
had enough for the present to keep them both happy throughout the
drive, and when she returned she found that some of the neighbors
had driven over to see her, and to increase her excitement by their
congratulations. The Machiavellian Aunt Polly had told the news to
several friends on the day before, knowing full well that it would
spread during the night, and that Helen would have her first taste
of triumph the next day.
And so it continued, and exactly as on the night before, the
feverish excitement swept Helen on until the bedtime hour arrived.
Then she went up into her room alone, to wrestle with the same
dreadful specter as before.
The story of that day was the story of all that followed; Helen was
destined to find that she might sweep herself away upon the wings of
her ambition as often as she chose, and revel all she pleased in the
thought of Mr. Harrison’s wealth; but when the excitement was over,
and she came to be all alone, she could think only of the one
dreadful fact of the necessity of marrying him. She was paying a
Faustus price for her happiness; and in the night time the price
stared at her, and turned all her happiness to misery.
A state of mind such as this was so alien to Helen that it would
have been strange indeed if she had sunk into it without protest and
rebellion; as day after day passed, and the misery continued, her
dissatisfaction with everything about her built itself into a
climax; more and more plainly she was coming to see the widening of
the gulf between the phantom she was pursuing and the place, where
she stood. Finally there came one day, nearly a week after her
engagement, when Helen was so exhausted and so wretched that she had
made up her mind to remain in her room, and had withstood all her
aunt’s attempts to dissuade her. She had passed the morning in bed,
between equally vain attempts to become interested in a book and to
make up for the sleep she had missed during the night, and was just
about giving up both in despair when the maid entered to say that
Elizabeth wished to see her. Helen gave a start, for she knew that
something must be wrong; when the woman entered she asked
breathlessly what it was.
“It’s about Mr. Arthur,” was the hurried reply, and Helen turned
paler than ever, and clutched the bedclothing in her trembling
hands.
“What is it?” she cried.
“Why you know, Miss Helen,” said Elizabeth, “your father wrote me to
go and see him whenever I could, and I’ve just come from there this
morning.”
“And how is he?”
“He looked dreadful, but he had gotten up to-day, and he was sitting
by the window when I came in. He was hardly a shadow of himself.”
Helen was trembling. “You have not been to see him?” asked the
woman.
“No,” said Helen, faintly, “I--” and then she stopped.
“Why not?” Elizabeth inquired anxiously.
“He did not ask for me, did he?” asked the girl, scarcely able to
utter the words.
“No,” said the woman, “but you know, everybody told me you were
engaged to a rich man--”
And Helen started forwrard with a cry. “Elizabeth!” she gasped,
“you--you didn’t---!”
“Yes,” said the other, “I told him.” And then seeing the girl’s look
of terror, she stopped short. Helen stared at her for fully half a
minute without uttering a word; and then the woman went on, slowly,
“It was very dreadful, Miss Helen; he went almost crazy, and I was
so frightened that I didn’t know what I should do. Please tell me
what is the matter.”
Helen was still gazing dumbly at the woman, seeming not to have
heard the last question. “I--I can’t tell you,” she said, when it
was repeated again; “you ought not to have told him, Elizabeth.”
“Miss Helen,” cried the woman, anxiously, “you must do something!
For I am sure that I know what is the matter; he loves you, and you
must know it, too. And it will certainly kill him; weak as he was,
he rushed out of the house, and I could not find him anywhere. Miss
Helen, you must go and see him!”
The girl sat with the same look of helpless fright upon her face,
and with her hands clenched tightly between her knees; the other
went on talking hurriedly, but Helen scarcely heard anything after
that; her mind was too full of its own thoughts. It was several
minutes more before she even noticed that the woman was still
insisting that she must go to see Artheur. “Please leave me now!”
 she cried wildly; “please leave me! I cannot explain anything,--I
want to be alone!” And when the door was shut she became once more
dumb and motionless, staring blankly ahead of her, a helpless victim
of her own wretched thoughts.
“That is the end of it,” she groaned to herself; “oh, that is the
end of it!”
Winkt dir nicht hold die hehre Burg?
CHAPTER VIII
  Thou would’st be happy,
  Endlessly happy,
  Or endlessly wretched.
Helen was quite powerless to do anything whatever after that last
piece of misfortune; it seemed as if she could have remained just
where she was for hours, shuddering at the sight of what was
happening, yet utterly helpless before it. The world was taking a
very serious aspect indeed to the bright and laughing girl, who had
thought of it as the home of birds and flowers; yet she knew not
what to make of the change, or how she was to blame for it, and she
could only sit still and tremble. She was in the same position and
the same state of mind when her aunt entered the room some minutes
later.
Mrs. Roberts stood watching her silently, and then as Helen turned
her gaze of pleading misery upon her, she came forward and sat down
in a chair by the bedside, and fixed her keen eyes upon the girl.
“Oh, Aunt Polly!” cried Helen; “what am I to do? I am so wretched!”
“I have just been talking to Elizabeth,” said Mrs. Roberts, with
some sternness, “and she’s been telling you about Arthur--is that
what is the matter with you, Helen?”
“Yes,” was the trembling response, “what can I do?”
“Tell me, Helen, in the first place,” demanded the other. “When you
saw Arthur that day in the woods, what did you do? Did you make him
any promises?”
“No, Auntie.”
“Did you hold out any hopes to him? Did you say anything to him at
all about love?”
“I--I told him it was impossible,” said Helen, eagerly, clutching at
that little crumb of comfort.
“Then in Heaven’s name, child,” cried the other in amazement, “what
is the matter with you? If Arthur chooses to carry on in this
fashion, why in the world should you punish yourself in this
horrible way? What is the matter with you, Helen? Are you
responsible to him for your marriage? I don’t know which is the most
absurd, the boy’s behavior, or your worrying about it.”
“But, Auntie,” stammered the girl, “he is so ill--he might die!”
“Die, bosh!” exclaimed Mrs. Roberts; “he frightened Elizabeth by his
ravings; it is the most absurd nonsense,--he a penniless
school-teacher, and the Lord only knows what besides! I only wish
I’d been there to talk to him, for I don’t think he’d have
frightened me! What in the world do you suppose he wants, anyway? Is
he mad enough to expect you to marry him?”
“I don’t know, Aunt Polly,” said Helen, weakly.
“I’d never have believed that Arthur could be capable of anything so
preposterous as this behavior,” vowed Mrs. Roberts; “and then to
come up here and find you wearing yourself to a skeleton about it!”
“It isn’t only that, Auntie,” protested Helen, “there is so much
else; I am miserable!”
“Yes,” said the other, grimly; “I see it as well as you, and there’s
just about as much reason in any of it as in the matter of Arthur.”
 Then Mrs. Roberts moved her chair nearer, and after gazing at Helen
for a moment, began again. “I’ve been meaning to say something to
you, and it might just as well be said now. For all this matter is
coming to a climax, Helen; it can’t go on this way very much longer,
for you’ll kill yourself. It’s got to be settled one way or the
other, once and for all.” And Mrs. Roberts stopped and took a deep
breath, preparing for one more struggle; Helen still gazed at her
helplessly.
“I’m not going to say anything more about Arthur,” declared the
woman; “if you choose to torment yourself about such absurdities, I
can’t help it. Arthur’s behavior is not the least your fault, and
you know it; but all the other trouble is your fault, and there’s
nobody else to blame. For the question is just as simple as the day,
Helen, and you must see it and decide it; you’ve got to choose
between one of two things, either to marry Mr. Harrison or to give
him up; and there’s no excuse for your hesitating and tormenting
yourself one day longer.”
Then the indomitable woman set to work at her old task of conjuring
up before the girl’s eyes all the allurements that had so often made
her heart throb; she, pictured Fairview and all its luxuries, and
the admiration and power that must be hers when she was mistress of
it; and she mentioned every other source of pleasure that she knew
would stir Helen’s eager thirst. After having hammered away at that
theme until she saw signs of the effect she desired, she turned to
the other side of the picture.
“Helen,” she demanded, “is it really possible for you to think of
giving up these things and going back to live in that miserable
little house at Oakdale? Can you not see that you would be simply
