sometimes came to see them, that she at regular periods invited them to
her house, and in short, as it now looked, kept them along on the terms
that would best give her sister the perennial luxury of a grievance.
This sister, poor Mrs. Croy, the girl knew, had always judged her
resentfully, and had brought them up, Marian, the boys and herself, to
the idea of a particular attitude, for signs of the practice of which
they watched each other with awe. The attitude was to make plain to
Aunt Maud, with the same regularity as her invitations, that they
sufficed--thanks awfully--to themselves. But the ground of it, Kate
lived to discern, was that this was only because she didn't suffice
to them. The little she offered was to be accepted under protest, yet
not, really, because it was excessive. It wounded them--there was the
rub!--because it fell short.
The number of new things our young lady looked out on from the high
south window that hung over the Park--this number was so great (though
some of the things were only old ones altered and, as the phrase was of
other matters, done up), that life at present turned to her view from
week to week more and more the face of a striking and distinguished
stranger. She had reached a great age--for it quite seemed to her that
at twenty-five it was late to reconsider; and her most general sense
was a shade of regret that she had not known earlier. The world was
different--whether for worse or for better--from her rudimentary
readings, and it gave her the feeling of a wasted past. If she had only
known sooner she might have arranged herself more to meet it. She made,
at all events, discoveries every day, some of which were about herself
and others about other persons. Two of these--one under each head--more
particularly engaged, in alternation, her anxiety. She saw as she had
never seen before how material things spoke to her. She saw, and she
blushed to see, that if, in contrast with some of its old aspects, life
now affected her as a dress successfully "done up," this was exactly by
reason of the trimmings and lace, was a matter of ribbons and silk and
velvet. She had a dire accessibility to pleasure from such sources. She
liked the charming quarters her aunt had assigned her--liked them
literally more than she had in all her other days liked anything; and
nothing could have been more uneasy than her suspicion of her
relative's view of this truth. Her relative was prodigious--she had
never done her relative justice. These larger conditions all tasted of
her, from morning till night; but she was a person in respect to whom
the growth of acquaintance could only--strange as it might seem--keep
your heart in your mouth.
The girl's second great discovery was that, so far from having been for
Mrs. Lowder a subject of superficial consideration, the blighted home
in Lexham Gardens had haunted her nights and her days. Kate had spent,
all winter, hours of observation that were not less pointed for being
spent alone; recent events, which her mourning explained, assured her a
measure of isolation, and it was in the isolation above all that her
neighbour's influence worked. Sitting far downstairs Aunt Maud was yet
a presence from which a sensitive niece could feel herself extremely
under pressure. She knew herself now, the sensitive niece, as having
been marked from far back. She knew more than she could have told you,
by the upstairs fire, in a whole dark December afternoon. She knew so
much that her knowledge was what fairly kept her there, making her at
times more endlessly between the small silk-covered sofa that stood for
her in the firelight and the great grey map of Middlesex spread beneath
her lookout. To go down, to forsake her refuge, was to meet some of her
discoveries half-way, to have to face them or fly before them; whereas
they were at such a height only like the rumble of a far-off siege
heard in the provisioned citadel. She had almost liked, in these weeks,
what had created her suspense and her stress: the loss of her mother,
the submersion of her father, the discomfort of her sister, the
confirmation of their shrunken prospects, the certainty, in especial,
of her having to recognise that, should she behave, as she called it,
decently--that is still do something for others--she would be herself
wholly without supplies. She held that she had a right to sadness and
stillness; she nursed them for their postponing power. What they mainly
postponed was the question of a surrender--though she could not yet
have said exactly of what: a general surrender of everything--that was
at moments the way it presented itself--to Aunt Maud's looming
"personality." It was by her personality that Aunt Maud was prodigious,
and the great mass of it loomed because, in the thick, the foglike air
of her arranged existence, there were parts doubtless magnified and
parts certainly vague. They represented at all events alike, the dim
and the distinct, a strong will and a high hand. It was perfectly
present to Kate that she might be devoured, and she likened herself to
a trembling kid, kept apart a day or two till her turn should come, but
sure sooner or later to be introduced into the cage of the lioness.
The cage was Aunt Maud's own room, her office, her counting-house, her
battlefield, her especial scene, in fine, of action, situated on the
ground-floor, opening from the main hall and figuring rather to our
young woman on exit and entrance as a guard house or a toll-gate. The
lioness waited--the kid had at least that consciousness; was aware of
the neighbourhood of a morsel she had reason to suppose tender. She
would have been meanwhile a wonderful lioness for a show, an
extraordinary figure in a cage or anywhere; majestic, magnificent,
high-coloured, all brilliant gloss, perpetual satin, twinkling bugles
and flashing gems, with a lustre of agate eyes, a sheen of raven hair,
a polish of complexion that was like that of well-kept china and
that--as if the skin were too tight--told especially at curves and
corners. Her niece had a quiet name for her--she kept it quiet;
thinking of her, with a free fancy, as somehow typically insular, she
talked to herself of Britannia of the Market Place--Britannia
unmistakable, but with a pen in her ear, and felt she should not be
happy till she might on some occasion add to the rest of the panoply a
helmet, a shield, a trident and a ledger. It was not in truth, however,
that the forces with which, as Kate felt, she would have to deal were
those most suggested by an image simple and broad; she was learning,
after all, each day, to know her companion, and what she had already
most perceived was the mistake of trusting to easy analogies. There was
a whole side of Britannia, the side of her florid philistinism, her
plumes and her train, her fantastic furniture and heaving bosom, the
false gods of her taste and false notes of her talk, the sole
contemplation of which would be dangerously misleading. She was a
complex and subtle Britannia, as passionate as she was practical, with
a reticule for her prejudices as deep as that other pocket, the pocket
full of coins stamped in her image, that the world best knew her by.
She carried on, in short, behind her aggressive and defensive front,
operations determined by her wisdom. It was in fact, we have hinted, as
a besieger that our young lady, in the provisioned citadel, had for the
present most to think of her, and what made her formidable in this
character was that she was unscrupulous and immoral. So, at all events,
in silent sessions and a youthful off-hand way, Kate conveniently
pictured her: what this sufficiently represented being that her weight
was in the scale of certain dangers--those dangers that, by our
showing, made the younger woman linger and lurk above, while the elder,
below, both militant and diplomatic, covered as much of the ground as
possible. Yet what were the dangers, after all, but just the dangers of
life and of London? Mrs. Lowder was London, was life--the roar of
the siege and the thick of the fray. There were some things, after all,
of which Britannia was afraid; but Aunt Maud was afraid of nothing--not
even, it would appear, of arduous thought. These impressions, none the
less, Kate kept so much to herself that she scarce shared them with
poor Marian, the ostensible purpose of her frequent visits to whom yet
continued to be to talk over everything. One of her reasons for holding
off from the last concession to Aunt Maud was that she might be the
more free to commit herself to this so much nearer and so much less
fortunate relative, with whom Aunt Maud would have, directly, almost
nothing to do. The sharpest pinch of her state, meanwhile, was exactly
that all intercourse with her sister had the effect of casting down her
courage and tying her hands, adding daily to her sense of the part, not
always either uplifting or sweetening, that the bond of blood might
play in one's life. She was face to face with it now, with the bond of
blood; the consciousness of it was what she seemed most clearly to have
"come into" by the death of her mother, much of that consciousness as
her mother had absorbed and carried away. Her haunting, harrassing
father, her menacing, uncompromising aunt, her portionless little
nephews and nieces, were figures that caused the chord of natural piety
superabundantly to vibrate. Her manner of putting it to herself--but
more especially in respect to Marian--was that she saw what you might
be brought to by the cultivation of consanguinity. She had taken, in
the old days, as she supposed, the measure of this liability; those
being the days when, as the second-born, she had thought no one in the
world so pretty as Marian, no one so charming, so clever, so assured,
in advance, of happiness and success. The view was different now, but
her attitude had been obliged, for many reasons, to show as the same.
The subject of this estimate was no longer pretty, as the reason for
thinking her clever was no longer plain; yet, bereaved, disappointed,
demoralised, querulous, she was all the more sharply and insistently
Kate's elder and Kate's own. Kate's most constant feeling about her was
that she would make her, Kate, do things; and always, in comfortless
Chelsea, at the door of the small house the small rent of which she
couldn't help having on her mind, she fatalistically asked herself,
before going in, which thing it would probably be this time. She
noticed with profundity that disappointment made people selfish; she
marvelled at the serenity--it was the poor woman's only one--of what
Marian took for granted: her own state of abasement as the second-born,
her life reduced to mere inexhaustible sisterhood. She existed, in that
view, wholly for the small house in Chelsea; the moral of which
moreover, of course, was that the more one gave oneself the less of one
was left. There were always people to snatch at one, and it would never
occur to them that they were eating one up. They did that without
tasting.
There was no such misfortune, or at any rate no such discomfort, she
further reasoned, as to be formed at once for being and for seeing. You
always saw, in this case, something else than what you were, and you
got, in consequence, none of the peace of your condition. However, as
she never really let Marian see what she was, Marian might well not
have been aware that she herself saw. Kate was accordingly, to her own
vision, not a hypocrite of virtue, for she gave herself up; but she was
a hypocrite of stupidity, for she kept to herself everything that was
not herself. What she most kept was the particular sentiment with which
she watched her sister instinctively neglect nothing that would make
for her submission to their aunt; a state of the spirit that perhaps
marked most sharply how poor you might become when you minded so much
the absence of wealth. It was through Kate that Aunt Maud should be
worked, and nothing mattered less than what might become of Kate in the
process. Kate was to burn her ships, in short, so that Marian should
profit; and Marian's desire to profit was quite oblivious of a dignity
that had, after all, its reasons--if it had only cared for them--for
keeping itself a little stiff. Kate, to be properly stiff for both of
them, would therefore have had to be selfish, have had to prefer an
ideal of behaviour--than which nothing, ever, was more selfish--to the
possibility of stray crumbs for the four small creatures. The tale of
Mrs. Lowder's disgust at her elder niece's marriage to Mr. Condrip had
lost little of its point; the incredibly fatuous behaviour of Mr.
Condrip, the parson of a dull suburban parish, with a saintly profile
which was always in evidence, being so distinctly on record to keep
criticism consistent. He had presented his profile on system, having,
goodness knew, nothing else to present--nothing at all to full-face the
world with, no imagination of the propriety of living and minding his
business. Criticism had remained on Aunt Maud's part consistent enough;
she was not a person to regard such proceedings as less of a mistake
for having acquired more of the privilege of pathos. She had not been
forgiving, and the only approach she made to overlooking them was by
overlooking--with the surviving delinquent--the solid little phalanx
that now represented them. Of the two sinister ceremonies that she
lumped together, the marriage and the interment, she had been present
at the former, just as she had sent Marian, before it, a liberal
cheque; but this had not been for her more than the shadow of an
admitted link with Mrs. Condrip's course. She disapproved of clamorous
children for whom there was no prospect; she disapproved of weeping
