and scorn which none of the rest of his family 
enjoyed. With his father and mother he had a 
bearing of repressed superiority which a strenuous 
conscience kept from unmasking itself in open con 
tempt when they failed to make his sister promise 
to behave herself. Sometimes he had lapses from 
his dignified gloom with his mother, when, for no 
reason that could be given, he fell from his habitual 
majesty to the tender dependence of a little boy, 
just as his voice broke from its nascent bass to its 
earlier treble at moments when he least expected 
or wished such a thing to happen. His stately but 
vague ideal of himself was supported by a stature 
beyond his years, but this rendered it the , more 
difficult for him to bear the humiliation of his sudden
collapses, and made him at other times the 
 
easier prey of Lottie 's ridicule. He got on best, 
or at least most evenly, with his eldest sister. She 
took him seriously, perhaps because she took all life 
so; and she was able to interpret him to his father 
when his intolerable dignity forbade a common 
understanding between them. When he got so far 
beyond his depth that he did not know what he 
meant himself, as sometimes happened, she gently 
found him a safe footing nearer shore. 
Kenton 's theory was that he did not distinguish 
among his children. He said that he did not sup 
pose they were the best children in the world, but 
they suited him ; and he would not have known how 
to change them for the better. He saw no harm in 
the behavior of ^Lottie when it most shocked her 
brother; he liked her to have a good time; but it 
flattered his nerves to have Ellen about him. Lot 
tie was a great deal more accomplished, he allowed 
that; she could play and sing, and she had social 
gifts far beyond her sister; but he easily proved 
to his wife that Nelly knew ten times as much. 
Nelly read a great deal; she kept up with all the 
magazines, and knew all the books in his library. 
He believed that she was a fine German scholar, and 
in fact she had taken up that language after leaving 
school, when, if she had been better advised than 
she could have been in Tuskingum, she would have 
kept on with her French. She started the first 
book club in the place; and she helped her father 
do the intellectual honors of the house to the East 
ern lecturers, who always stayed with the judge 
when they came to Tuskingum. She was faithfully 
present at the moments, which her sister shunned 
in derision, when her father explained to them 're 
spectively his theory of regimental history, and 
would just, as he said, show them a few of the docu 
ments he had collected. He made Ellen show them; 
she knew where to put her hand on the most charac 
teristic and illustrative; and Lottie offered to bet 
what any one dared that Ellen would marry some 
of those lecturers yet; she was literary enough. 
She boasted that she was not literary herself, and 
had no use for any one who was; and it could not 
have been her culture that drew the most culti 
vated young man in Tuskingum to her. Ellen was 
really more beautiful; Lottie was merely very pret 
ty; but she had charm for them, and Ellen, who had 
their honor and friendship, had no charm for them. 
No one seemed drawn to her as they were drawn 
to her sister till a man came who was not one of 
the most cultivated in Tuskingum; and then it was 
doubtful whether she was not first drawn to him. 
She was too transparent to hide her feeling from 
her father and mother, who saw with even more 
grief than shame that she could not hide it from 
the man himself, whom they thought so unworthy 
of it. 
He had suddenly arrived in Tuskingum from one 
of the villages of the county, where he had been 
teaching school, and had found something to do 
as reporter on the Tuskingum Intelligencer, which 
he was instinctively characterizing with the spirit 
 
of the new journalism, and was pushing as hardily 
forward on the lines of personality as if he had 
dropped down to it from the height of a New York 
or Chicago Sunday edition. The judge said, with 
something less than his habitual honesty, that he did 
not mind his being a reporter, but he minded his 
being light and shallow; he minded his being flippant 
and mocking; he minded his bringing his cigarettes 
and banjo into the house at his second visit. He 
did not mind his push; the fellow had his way 
to make and he had to push; but he did mind his 
being all push; and his having come out of the 
country with as little simplicity as if he had passed 
his whole life in the city. He had no modesty and 
he had no reverence; he had no reverence for Ellen 
herself, and the poor girl seemed to like him for 
that. 
He was all the more offensive to the judge be 
cause he was himself to blame for their acquaint 
ance, which began when one day the fellow had 
called after him in the street, and then followed 
down the shady sidewalk beside him to his house, 
wanting to know what this was he had heard about 
his history, and pleading for more light upon his 
plan in it. At the gate he made a flourish of 
opening and shutting it for the judge, and walking 
up the path to his door he kept his hand on the 
judge 's shoulder most offensively; but in spite of 
this Kenton had the weakness to ask him in, and 
to call Ellen to get him the most illustrative docu 
ments of the history. 
 
The interview that resulted in the Intelligencer 
was the least evil that came of this error. Kenton 
was amazed, and then consoled, and then afflicted 
that Ellen was not disgusted with it ; and in his con 
ferences with his wife he fumed and fretted at his 
own culpable folly, and tried to get back of the 
time he had committed it, in that illusion which 
people have with trouble that it could somehow be 
got rid of if it could fairly be got back of; till 
the time came when his wife could no longer share 
his unrest in this futile endeavor. 
She said, one night when they had talked late 
and long, " That can 't be helped now ; and the ques 
tion is what are we going to do to stop it." 
The judge evaded the point in saying, " The devil 
of it is that all the nice fellows are afraid of her; 
they respect her too much, and the very thing which 
ought to disgust her with this chap is what gives 
him his power over her. I don 't know what we 
are going to do, but we must break it off, some 
how." 
"We might take her with us somewhere," Mrs. 
Kenton suggested. 
" Run away from the fellow ? I think I see my 
self ! No, we have got to stay and face the thing 
right here. But I won 't have him about the house 
any more, understand that. He 's not to be let in, 
and Ellen mustn 't see him; you tell her I said 
so. Or, no! I will speak to her myself." His wife 
said that he was welcome to do that; but he did 
not quite do it. He certainly spoke to his daughter 
 
about her lover, and he satisfied himself that there 
was yet nothing explicit between them. But she 
was so much less frank and open with him than she 
had always been before that he was wounded as well 
as baffled by her reserve. He could not get her to 
own that she really cared for the fellow; but man 
as he was, and old man as he was, he could not help 
perceiving that she lived in a fond dream of him. 
He went from her to her mother. "If he was 
only one-half the man she thinks he is!" he ended 
his report in a hopeless sigh. 
" You want to give in to her !" his wife pitilessly 
interpreted. " Well, perhaps that would be the 
best thing, after all." 
"No, no, it wouldn t, Sarah; it would be the 
easiest for both of us, I admit, but it would be the 
worst thing for her. We ve got to let it run along 
for a while yet. If we give him rope enough he 
may hang himself; there 's that chance. We can 't 
go away, and we can 't shut her up, and we can 't 
turn him out of the house. We must trust her to 
find him out for herself." 
" She 'll never do that," said the mother. " Lot 
tie says Ellen thinks he 's just perfect. He cheers 
her up, and takes her out of herself. We ve always 
acted with her as if we thought she was different 
from other girls, and he behaves to her as if she was 
just like all of them, just as silly, and just as weak, 
and it pleases her, and flatters her ; she likes it." 
" Oh, Lord !" groaned the father. " I suppose she 
does." 
 
This was bad enough ; it was a blow to his pride in 
Ellen; but there was something that hurt him still 
worse. When the fellow had made sure of her, he 
apparently felt himself so safe in her fondness that 
he did not urge his suit with her. His content with 
her tacit acceptance gave the bitterness of shame to 
the promise Kenton and his wife had made each 
other never to cross any of their children in love. 
They were ready now to keep that promise for Ellen, 
if he asked it of them, rather than answer for her 
lifelong disappointment, if they denied him. But, 
whatever he meant finally to do, he did not ask it ; he 
used his footing in their house chiefly as a basis for 
flirtations beyond it. He began to share his devotions 
to Ellen with her girl friends, and not with her girl 
friends alone. It did not come to scandal, but it 
certainly came to gossip about him and a silly young 
wife; and Kenton heard of it with a torment of 
doubt whether Ellen knew of it, and what she would 
do; he would wait for her to do herself whatever 
was to be done. He was never certain how much she 
had heard of the gossip when she came to her mother, 
and said with the gentle eagerness she had, " Didn 't 
poppa talk once of going South this winter ?" 
