circumstances. But he can employ Buckhurst to squeeze it dry and then
strike an attitude as its faithful defender in adversity."

"But why does Buckhurst desire to go to Paradise?" I asked.

The boat swung into a dock near the Point du Jour; a few passengers
left, a few came aboard; the boat darted on again under the high
viaduct of masonry, past bastions on which long siege cannon glistened
in the sunshine, past lines of fresh earthworks, past grassy
embankments on which soldiers moved to the rumble of drums.

"I know something about Paradise," said Speed, in a low voice.

I waited; Speed chewed his cigar grimly.

"Look here, Scarlett," he said. "Do you know what has become of the
crown jewels of France?"

"No," I said.

"Well, I'll tell you. You know, of course, that the government is
anxious; you know that Paris is preparing to stand siege if the
Prussians double up Bazaine and the army of Châlons in the north. But
you don't know what a pitiable fright the authorities are in. Why,
Scarlett, they are scared almost to the verge of idiocy."

"They've passed that verge," I observed.

"Yes, they have. They have had a terrible panic over the safety of
the crown jewels--they were nervous enough before the robbery. And
this is what they've done in secret:

"The crown jewels, the bars of gold of the reserve, the great
pictures from the Louvre, the antiques of value, including the Venus
of Milo, have been packed in cases and loaded on trains under heavy
guard.

"Twelve of these trains have already left Paris for the war-port of
Lorient. The others are to follow, one every twenty-four hours at
midnight.

"Whether these treasures are to be locked up in Lorient, or whether
they are to be buried in the sand-dunes along the coast, I don't know.
But I know this: a swift cruiser--the Fer-de-Lance--is lying off
Paradise, between the light-house and the Ile de Groix, with steam up
night and day, ready to receive the treasures of the government at the
first alarm and run for the French possessions in Cochin-China.

"And now, perhaps, you may guess why Buckhurst is so anxious to hang
around Paradise."

Of course I was startled. Speed's muttered information gave me the
keys to many doors. And behind each door were millions and millions
and millions of francs' worth of plunder.

Our eyes met in mute interrogation; Speed smiled.

"Of course," said I, with dry lips, "Buckhurst is devil enough to
attempt anything."

"Especially if backed by Mornac," said Speed.

Suddenly the professional aspect of the case burst on me like a shower
of glorious sunshine.

"Oh, for the chance!" I said, brokenly. "Speed! Think of it! Think
how completely we have the thing in hand!"

"Yes," he said, with a shrug, "only we have just been kicked out of
the service in disgrace, and we are now going to be fully occupied in
running away from the police."

That was true enough; I had scarcely had time to realize our position
as escaped suspects of the department. And with the recognition of my
plight came a rush of hopeless rage, of bitter regret, and
soul-sickening disappointment.

So this was the end of my career--a fugitive, disgraced, probably
already hunted. This was my reward for faithful service--penniless,
almost friendless, liable to arrest and imprisonment with no hope of
justice from Emperor or court-martial--a banned, ruined, proscribed
outcast, in blind flight.

"I've thought of the possibility of this," observed Speed, quietly.
"We've got to make a living somehow. In fact, I'm to let--and so are
you."

I looked at him, too miserable to speak.

"I had an inkling of it," he said. A shrewd twinkle came into his
clear, Yankee eyes; he chewed his wrecked cigar and folded his lank
arms.

"So," he continued, tranquilly, blinking at the sparkling river, "I
drew out all my money--and yours, too."

"Mine!" I stammered. "How could you?"

"Forged an order," he admitted. "Can you forgive me, Scarlett?"

"Forgive you! Bless your generous heart!" I muttered, as he handed me
a sealed packet.

"Not at all," he said, laughing; "a crime in time saves nine--eh,
Scarlett? Pocket it; it's all there. Now listen. I have made
arrangements of another kind. Do you remember an application for
license from the manager of a travelling American show--a Yankee
circus?"

"Byram's Imperial American Circus?" I said.

"That's it. They went through Normandy last summer. Well, Byram's
agent is going to meet us at Saint-Cloud. We're engaged; I'm to do
ballooning--you know I worked one of the military balloons before
Petersburg. You are to do sensational riding. You were riding-master
in the Spahis--were you not?"

I looked at him, almost laughing. Suddenly the instinct of my vagabond
days returned like a sweet wind from the wilds, smiting me full in the
face.

"I tamed three lions for my regiment at Constantine," I said.

"Good lad! Then you can play with Byram's lions, too. Oh, what the
devil!" he cried, recklessly; "it's all in a lifetime. Quand même,
and who cares? We've life before us and an honest living in view, and
Byram has packed two of his men back to England and I've tinkered up
their passports to suit us. So we're reasonably secure."

"Will you tell me, Speed, why you were wise enough to do all this
while I was gone?" I asked, in astonishment.

"Because," said Speed, deliberately, "I distrusted Mornac from the
hour he entered the department."

A splendid officer of police was spoiled when Mornac entered the
department.

Presently the deck guard began to shout: "Saint-Cloud! Saint-Cloud!"
and the little boat glided up alongside the floating pier. Speed rose;
I followed him across the gang-plank; and, side by side, we climbed
the embankment.

"Do you mean to say that Byram is going travelling about with his
circus in spite of the war?" I whispered.

"Yes, indeed. We start south from Chartres to-morrow."

Presently I said: "Do you suppose we will go to Lorient
or--Paradise?"

"We will if I have anything to say about it," replied Speed, throwing
away his ragged cigar.

And I walked silently beside him, thinking of the young Countess and
of Buckhurst.




PART SECOND




IX

THE ROAD TO PARADISE


On the 3d of November Byram's American Circus, travelling slowly
overland toward the Spanish frontier, drew up for an hour's rest at
Quimperlé. I, however, as usual, prepared to ride forward to select a
proper place for our night encampment, and to procure the necessary
license.

The dusty procession halted in the town square, which was crowded, and
as I turned in my saddle I saw Byram stand up on the red-and-gold
band-wagon and toss an armful of circulars and bills into the throng.

The white bits of paper fluttered wide and disappeared in the sea of
white Breton head-dresses; there was a rhythmic clatter of wooden
shoes, an undulation of snowy coiffes, then a low murmur as the people
slowly read the circulars aloud, their musical monotone accompanying
the strident nasal voice of Byram, who stood on the tarnished
band-wagon shouting his crowd around him.

"Mossoors et madams! Ecooty see voo play! J'ai l'honnoor de vous
presenter le ploo magnifique cirque--" And the invariable réclame
continued to the stereotyped finis; the clown bobbed up behind Byram
and made his usual grimaces, and the band played "The Cork Leg."

The Bretons looked on in solemn astonishment: my comrade, Speed,
languidly stood up on the elephant and informed the people that our
circus was travelling to Lorient to fill a pressing engagement, and if
we disappointed the good people of Lorient a riot would doubtless
result, therefore it was not possible to give any performance before
we reached Lorient--and the admission was only ten sous.

Our clown then picked up the tatters of his threadbare comic speech.
