afraid to go off and live with the Indians, because if he was going to be
a cowardy-calf like that, it was all that Jim Leonard wanted to do with
him.
Pony denied that he was afraid, but he said that he did not know how to
talk Indian, and he did not see how he was going to get along without.
Jim Leonard laughed and said if that was all, he need not be anxious. "The
Indians don't talk at all, hardly, even among each other. They just make
signs; didn't you know that? If you want something to eat you point to
your mouth and chew; and if you want a drink, you open your mouth and keep
swallowing. When you want to go to sleep you shut your eyes and lean your
cheek over on your hand, this way. That's all the signs you need to begin
with, and you'll soon learn the rest. Now, say, are you going with the
Indians, or ain't you going? It's your only chance. Why, Pony, what are
you afraid of? Hain't you always wanted to sleep out-doors and not do
anything but hunt?"
Pony had to confess that he had, and then Jim Leonard said: "Well, then,
that's what you'll do if you go with the Indians. I suppose you'll have to
go on the warpath with them when you get out there; and if it's against
the whites you won't like it at first; but you've got to remember what the
whites have done to the Indians ever since they discovered America, and
you'll soon get to feeling like an Indian anyway. One thing is, you've got
to get over being afraid."
That made Pony mad, and he said: "I ain't afraid now."
"I know that," said Jim Leonard. "But what I mean is, that if you get hurt
you mustn't hollo, or cry, or anything; and even when they're scalping
you, you mustn't even make a face, so as to let them know that you feel
it."
By this time some of the other fellows began to come around to hear what
Jim Leonard was saying to Pony. A good many of the Indians had gone off
anyway, for the people had stopped sticking quarters into the ground for
them to shoot at, and they could not shoot at nothing. Jim Leonard saw the
fellows crowding around, but he went on as if he did not notice them.
"You've got to go without eating anything for weeks when the medicine-man
tells you to; and when you come back from the warpath, and they have a
scalp-dance, you've got to keep dancing till you drop in a fit. When they
give a dog feast you must eat dog stew until you can't swallow another
mouthful, and you'll be so full that you'll just have to lay around for
days without moving. But the great thing is to bear any kind of pain
without budging or saying a single word. Maybe you're used to holloing
now when you get hurt?"
Pony confessed that he holloed a little; the others tried to look as if
they never holloed at all, and Jim Leonard went on:
"Well, you've got to stop that. If an arrow was to go through you and
stick out at your back, or anywhere, you must just reach around and pull
it out and not speak. When you're having the sun-dance--I think it's the
sun-dance, but I ain't really certain--you have to stick a hook through
you, right here"--he grabbed Pony by the muscles on his shoulders--"and
let them pull you up on a pole and hang there as long as they please.
They'll let you practise gradually so that you won't mind hardly anything.
Why, I've practised a good deal by myself, and now I've got so that I
believe if you was to stick me with--"
All of a sudden something whizzed along the ground and Jim Leonard stooped
over and caught one of his feet up in his hand, and began to cry and to
hollo: "Oh, oh, oh! Ow, ow, ow! Oh, my foot! Oh, it's broken; I know it
is! Oh, run for the doctor, do, Pony Baker! I know I'm going to die! Oh,
dear, oh dear, oh dear!"
All the boys came crowding around to see what the matter was, and the men
came, too, and pretty soon some one found an arrow in the grass, and then
they knew that it was a stray arrow that had hit Jim Leonard on the side
of the foot, after missing one of the dimes that was stuck in the ground.
It was blunt, and it had not hurt him that anybody could see, except
rubbed the skin off a little on the ankle-bone. But Jim Leonard began to
limp away towards home, and now, as the Indians had all gone back to their
boats, and the fellows had nothing else to do, they went along with him.
Archy Hawkins held him up on one side, and Hen Billard on the other, and
Archy said, "I tell you, when I heard Jim yell, I thought it was a real
Indian," and Hen said:
"I thought it was the scalp-halloo."
Archy said, "The way I came to think it was a real Indian was that a real
Indian never makes any noise when he's hurt," and Hen said:
"I thought it was the scalp-halloo, because Jim was stooping over as if he
was tearing the scalp off of a white man. He's been practising, you know."
"Well, practice makes perfect. I reckon if Jim hasn't got so far that he
would smile when you scalped him, or just laugh if you shot an arrow
through him, or would let you stick a hook into him, and pull him up to
the top of a pole, it's because he's begun at the other end. I'll bet he
could eat himself full of dog stew, and lay around three days without
stirring."
Jim Leonard thought the fellows had come along to pity him and help him;
but when he heard Archy Hawkins say that, and Hen Billard began to
splutter and choke with the laugh he was holding in, he flung them off and
began to fight at them with his fists, and strike right and left blindly.
He broke out crying, and then the fellows made a ring around him and
danced and mocked him.
"Hey, Jim, what'd you do if they pulled your hair out?"
"Jimmy, oh, Jim! Would you hollo much louder if they tomahawked you?"
"Show your uncle how to dance till you drop, Jim."
They kept on till Jim Leonard picked up stones to stone them, and then
they all ran away, jumping and jeering till they got out of sight. It was
about dinner-time, anyway.
No one was left but Pony Baker. He stooped down over Jim when he sat
crying over his foot. "Does it hurt you much, Jimmy?" he asked.
"Yes, it hurts dreadfully, Pony. The skin's all rubbed off. I'm afraid
it's broken my leg."
"Well, let me help you home," said Pony. "Your mother can tie it up,
then."
He made Jim lean on him, and keep trying his foot, and pretty soon they
found he could walk with it nearly the same as the other foot, and before
they got to Jim's house they were talking and laughing together.
After that, Pony Baker gave up running off to the Indians. He about gave
up running off altogether. He had a splendid Fourth of July. His mother
would not let him stay up the whole of the night before, but she let him
get up at four o'clock, and fire off both his packs of shooting-crackers;
and though she had forbidden him to go down to the river-bank where the
men were firing off the cannon, he hardly missed it. He felt sleepy as
soon as his crackers were done, and another fellow who was with him came
into the parlor, and they both lay down on the carpet and went to sleep
there, and slept till breakfast-time. After breakfast he went up to the
court-house yard, with some other fellows, and then, after dinner, when
they all came round and begged, and the big fellows promised to watch out
for Pony, his mother let him go out to the second lock with them, and go
in swimming in the canal. He did not know why this should be such a great
privilege, but it was. He had never been out to the second lock before. It
was outside of the corporation line, and that was a great thing in itself.
After supper, Pony's mother let him fire off his powder-snake, and she
even came out and looked at it, with her fingers in her ears. He promised
her that it wouldn't make any noise, but she could not believe him; and
when the flash came, she gave a little whoop, and ran in-doors. It shamed
him before the boys, for fear they would laugh; and she acted even worse
when his father wished to let him go up to the court-house yard to see the
fireworks.
A lot of the fellows were going, and he was to go with the crowd, but his
father was to come a little behind, so as to see that nothing happened to
him; and when they were just starting off what should she do but hollo to
his father from the door where she was standing, "Do be careful of the
child, Henry!" It did not seem as if she could be a good mother when she
tried, and she was about the afraidest mother in the Boy's Town.
All the way up to the court-house the boys kept snickering and whispering,
"Don't stump your toe, child," and "Be careful of the child, boys," and
things like that till Pony had to fight some of them. Then they stopped.
They were afraid his father would hear, anyway.
But the fireworks were splendid, and the fellows were very good to Pony,
because his father stood in the middle of the crowd and treated them to
lemonade, and they did not plague, any more, going home. It was ten
o'clock when Pony got home; it was the latest he had ever been up.
The very Fourth of July before that one he had been up pretty nearly as
late listening to his cousin, Frank Baker, telling about the fun he had
been having at a place called Pawpaw Bottom; and the strange thing that
happened there, if it did happen, for nobody could exactly find out. So I
think I had better break off again from Pony, and say what it was that
Frank told; and after that I can go on with Pony's running off.
VII
HOW FRANK BAKER SPENT THE FOURTH
AT PAWPAW BOTTOM, AND SAW
THE FOURTH OF JULY BOY
It was the morning of the Fourth, and Frank was so anxious to get through
with his wood-sawing, and begin celebrating with the rest of the boys,
that he hardly knew what to do. He had a levvy (as the old Spanish real
used to be called in southern Ohio) in his pocket, and he was going to buy
a pack of shooting-crackers for ten cents, and spend the other two cents
for powder. He had no pistol, but he knew a fellow that would lend him his
pistol part of the time, and he expected to have about the best Fourth he
ever had. He had been up since three o'clock watching the men fire the old
six-pounder on the river-bank; and he was going to get his mother to let
him go up to the fireworks in the court-house yard after dark.
But now it did not seem as if he could get wood enough sawed. Twice he
asked his mother if she thought he had enough, but she said "Not near,"
and just as Jake Milrace rode up the saw caught in a splinter of the tough
oak log Frank was sawing and bumped back against Frank's nose; and he
would have cried if it had not been for what Jake began to say.
He said he was going to Pawpaw Bottom to spend the Fourth at a fellow's
named Dave Black, and he told Frank he ought to go too; for there were
plenty of mulberries on Dave's father's farm, and the early apples were
getting ripe enough to eat, if you pounded them on a rock; and you could
go in swimming, and everything. Jake said there was the greatest
swimming-hole at Pawpaw Bottom you ever saw, and they had a log in the
water there that you could have lots of fun with. Frank ran into the house
to ask his mother if he might go, and he hardly knew what to do when she
asked him if there was wood enough yet to get dinner and supper. But his
Aunt Manda was spending the summer with his mother, and she said she
reckoned she could pick up chips to do all the cooking they needed, such
a hot day; and Frank ran out to the cow-house, where they kept the pony,
because the Bakers had no stable, and saddled him, and was off with Jake
Milrace in about a minute.
The pony was short and fat and lazy, and he had to be whipped to make him
keep up with Jake's horse. It was not exactly Jake's horse; it was his
sister's husband's horse, and he had let Jake have it because he would not
be using it himself on the Fourth of July. It was tall and lean, and it
held its head so high up that it was no use to pull on the bridle when it
began to jump and turn round and round, which it did every time Frank
whipped his pony to keep even with Jake. It would shy and sidle, and dart
so far ahead that the pony would get discouraged and would lag back, and
have to be whipped up again; and then the whole thing would have to be
gone through with the same as at first. The boys did not have much chance
to talk, but they had a splendid time riding along, and when they came to
a cool, dark place in the woods they pretended there were Indians; and at
the same time they kept a sharp eye out for squirrels. If they had seen
any, and had a gun with them, they could have shot one easily, for
squirrels are not afraid of you when you are on horseback; and, as it was,
Jake Milrace came pretty near killing a quail that they saw in the road by
a wheat-field. He dropped his bridle and took aim with his forefinger, and
pulled back his thumb like a trigger; and if his horse had not jumped, and
his finger had been loaded, he would surely have killed the quail, it was
so close to him. They could hear the bob-whites whistling all through the
stubble and among the shocks of wheat.
Jake did not know just where Dave Black's farm was, but after a while they
came to a blacksmith's shop, and the blacksmith told them to take a lane
that they would come to on the left, and then go through a piece of woods
and across a field till they came to a creek; then ford the creek and keep
straight on, and they would be in sight of the house. It did not seem
