matters of conscience, either stretching or contracting the code of
honour according to their own temper, and especially according to the
traditions of their own most immediate surroundings. Other conditions
being favourable, it seems as if men whose consciences are most alike
should be the best fitted for each other's friendship, no matter what
they may think or believe about religion.
This was certainly the case with Guido d'Este and Lamberto Lamberti, and
they simultaneously dismissed, as detestable, dishonourable, and
unworthy, the mere thought that Guido should try to marry an heiress,
with a view to satisfying the outrageous claims of his ex-royal aunt,
the Princess Anatolie.
"In simpler times," observed Lamberti, who liked to recall the middle
ages, "we should have poisoned the old woman."
Guido did not smile.
"Without meaning to do her an injustice," he answered, "I think it much
more probable that she would have poisoned me."
"With the help of Monsieur Leroy, she might have succeeded."
At the thought of the man whom he so cordially detested, Lamberti's blue
eyes grew hard, and his upper lip tightened a little, just showing his
teeth under his red moustache. Guido looked at him and smiled in his
turn.
"There are your ferocious instincts again," he said; "you wish you could
kill him."
"I do," answered Lamberti, simply.
He rose from his seat and stretched himself a little, as some big dogs
always do after the preliminary growl at an approaching enemy.
"I think Monsieur Leroy is the most repulsive human being I ever saw,"
he said. "I am not exactly a sensitive person, but it makes me very
uncomfortable to be near him. He once gave me his hand, and I had to
take it. It felt like a live toad. How old is that man?"
"He must be forty," said Guido, "but he is wonderfully well preserved.
Any one would take him for five-and-thirty."
"It is disgusting!" Lamberti kicked a pebble away, as he stood.
"He looked just as he does now, when I was seventeen," observed Guido.
"The creature paints his face. I am sure of it."
"No. I have seen him drenched in a shower, when he had no umbrella. The
rain ran down his cheeks, but the colour did not change."
"It is all the more disgusting," retorted Lamberti, illogically, but
with strong emphasis.
Guido rose from his seat rather wearily. As he stood up, he was much
taller than his friend, who had seemed the larger man while both were
seated.
"I am glad that we have talked this over," he said. "Not that talking
can help matters, of course. It never does. But I wanted you to know
just how things stand, in case anything should happen to me."
Lamberti turned rather sharply.
"In case what should happen to you?" he asked, his eyes hardening.
"I am very tired of it all," Guido answered, "I have nothing to live
for, and I am being driven straight to disgrace and ruin without any
fault of my own. I daresay that some day I may--well, you know what I
mean."
"What?"
"I should not care to exile myself to South America. I am not fit for
that sort of life."
"Well?"
"There is the other alternative," said Guido, with a tuneless little
laugh. "When life is intolerable, what can be simpler than to part with
it?"
Lamberti's strong hand was already on his friend's arm, and tightened
energetically.
"Do you believe in God?" he asked abruptly.
"No. At least, I think not."
"I do," said Lamberti, with conviction, "and I shall not let you make
away with yourself if I can help it."
He loosed his hold, thrust his hands into his pockets, and looked as if
he wished he could fight somebody or something.
"A man who kills himself to escape his troubles is a coward," he said.
Guido made a gesture of indifference.
"You know very well that I am not a coward," he said.
"You will be, the day you are afraid to go on living," returned his
friend. "If you kill yourself, I shall think you are an arrant coward,
and I shall be sorry I ever knew you."
Guido looked at him incredulously.
"Are you in earnest?" he asked.
"Yes."
There was no mistaking the look in Lamberti's hard blue eyes. Guido
faced him.
"Do you think that every man who commits suicide is a coward?"
"If it is to escape his own troubles, yes. A man who gives his life for
his country, his mother, or his wife, is not a coward, though he may
kill himself with his own hand."
"The Church would call him a suicide."
"I do not know, in all cases," said Lamberti. "I am not a theologian,
and as the Church means nothing to you, it would be of no use if I
were."
"Why do you say that the Church means nothing to me?" Guido asked.
"Since you are an atheist, what meaning can it possibly have?"
"It means the whole tradition of morality by which we live, and our
fathers lived. Even the code of honour, which is a little out of shape
nowadays, is based on Christianity, and was once the rule of a good
life, the best rule in the days when it grew up."
"I daresay. Even the code of honour, degenerate as it is, and twist it
how you will, cannot give you an excuse for killing yourself when you
have always behaved honourably, or for running away from the enemy
simply because you are tired of fighting and will not take the trouble
to go on."
"Perhaps you are right," Guido answered. "But the whole question is not
worth arguing. What is life, after all, that we should attach any
importance to it?"
"It is all you have, and you only have it once."
"Who knows? Perhaps we may come back to it again, hundreds and hundreds
of times. There are more people in the world who believe that than there
are Christians."
"If that is what you believe," retorted Lamberti, "you must believe that
the sooner you leave life, the sooner you will come back to it."
"Possibly. But there is a chance that it may not be true, and that
everything may end here. That one chance may be worth taking."
"There is a chance that a man who deserts from his ship may not be
caught. That is not an argument in favour of desertion."
Guido laughed carelessly.
"You have a most unpleasant way of naming things," he said. "Shall we
go? It is growing late, and I have promised to see my aunt before
dinner."
"Will there be any one else there?" asked Lamberti.
"Why? Did you think of going with me?"
"I might. It is a long time since I have called. I think I shall be a
little more assiduous in future."
"It is not gay, at my aunt's," observed Guido. "Monsieur Leroy will be
there. You may have to shake hands with him!"
"You do not seem anxious that I should go with you," laughed Lamberti.
Guido said nothing for a moment, and seemed to be weighing the question,
as if it might be of some importance. Lamberti afterwards remembered the
slight hesitation.
"By all means come," Guido said, when he had made up his mind.
He glanced once more at the place, for he liked it, and it was pleasant
to carry away pictures of what one liked, even of a bit of neglected old
garden with a stone-pine in the middle, clearly cut out against the sky.
He wondered idly whether he should ever come again--whether, after all,
it would be cowardly to go to sleep with the certainty of not waking,
and whether he should find anything beyond, or not.
The world looked too familiar to him to be interesting, as if he had
known it too long, and he vaguely wished that he could change it, and
desire to stay in it for its own sake; and just then it occurred to him
that every man carries with him the world in which he must live, the
stage and the scenery for his own play. It would be absurd to pretend,
he thought, that his own material world was the same as Lamberti's, even
when the latter was at home. They knew the same people, heard the same
talk, ate the same things, looked on the same sights, breathed the same
air. There was perhaps no sacrifice worthy of honourable men which
either of them would not make for the other. Yet, to Guido d'Este, life
seemed miserably indifferent where it did not seem a real calamity,
while to Lamberti every second of it was worth fighting for, because it
was worth enjoying.
Guido looked at his friend's tanned neck and sturdy shoulders, following
him to the door, and he realised more clearly than ever before that he
was not of the same race. He felt the satiety bred in many generations
of destiny's spoilt and flattered sons; the absence of anything like a
grasping will, caused by the too easy fulfilment of every careless wish;
the over-critical sense that guesses at hidden imperfection, the cruelly
unerring instinct of a taste too tired to enjoy and yet too fine to be
deceived.
Lamberti turned at the door and saw his face.
"What are you thinking about?"
"I was envying you," Guido murmured. "You are glad to be alive."
Lamberti made rather an impatient gesture, but said nothing. The Sister
who had admitted the two opened the little iron door for them to go out.
She was a small woman, with a worn face and kind brown eyes, one of the
half-dozen who live in the little convent and work among the children of
the very poor in that quarter. Both men had taken out money.
"For the poor children, if you please," said Guido, placing his offering
in the nun's hand.
"And tell them to pray for a man who is in trouble," added Lamberti,
giving her money.
She looked at him curiously, thinking, perhaps, that
he meant himself. Then she gravely bent her head.
"I thank you very much," she said.
The small iron door closed with a rusty clang, and the friends began to
descend the steep way that leads down from the Porta San Pancrazio to
the Via Garibaldi.
"Why did you say that to the nun?" asked Guido.
"Are you past praying for?" enquired Lamberti, with a careless and
good-natured laugh.
"It is not like you," said Guido.
"I do not pretend to be more consistent than other people, you know. Are
you going directly to the Princess's?"
"No. I must go home first. The old lady would never forgive me if I went
to see her without a silk hat in my hand."
"Then I suppose I must dress, too," said Lamberti. "I will leave you at
your door, and drive home, and we can meet at your aunt's."
"Very well."
They walked down the street and found a cab, scarcely speaking again
until they parted at Guido's door.
He lived alone in a quiet apartment of the Palazzo Farnese, overlooking
the Via Giulia and the river beyond. The afternoon sun was still
streaming through the open windows of his sitting room, and the warm
breeze came with it.
"There are two notes, sir," said his servant, who had followed him. "The
one from the Princess is urgent. The man wished to wait for you, but I
sent him away."
"That was right," said Guido, taking the letters from the salver. "Get
my things ready. I have visits to make."
The man went out and shut the door. He was a Venetian, and had been in
the navy, where he had served Lamberti during the affair in China.
Lamberti had recommended him to his friend.
Guido remained standing while he opened the note. The first was an
engraved invitation to a garden party from a lady he scarcely knew. It
was the first he had ever received from her, and he was not aware that
she ever asked people to her house. The second was from his aunt,
begging him to come to tea that afternoon as he had promised, for a very
particular reason, and asking him to let her know beforehand if anything
