without intent.  I have played you an evil turn."  She sank on one of
the benches and fumbled, with the strings of her mask.
"So: the dream vanishes; the fire becomes ashes.  Is it really you,
Gabrielle?  Has not the wine turned the world upside-down, brought you
here only in fancy?  This night is truly some strange dream.  I shall
wake to-morrow in Paris.  I shall receive a note from you, bidding me
bring the latest book.  The Chevalier will dine with his beautiful
unknown . . .  Gabrielle, tell me that you love no one," anger and love
and despair alternately changing his voice, "yes, tell me that!"
"Victor, I love no man.  And God keep me from that folly.  You are
making me very unhappy!"  She bent her head upon her arm.
"Oh, my vanished dream, do not weep on my account!  You are not to
blame.  I love you well.  That is God's blame, not yours, since He
molded you, gave you a beautiful face, a beautiful mind, a beautiful
heart.  Well, I will be silent.  I will go about my affairs, laughing.
I shall write rollicking verses, fight a few duels, and sign a few
papers under which the ax lies hidden! . . .  Do you know how well I
love you?" sinking beside her and taking her hand before she could
place it beyond his reach.  He put a kiss on it.  "Listen.  If it means
anything toward your happiness and content of mind, I will promise to
be silent forever." Suddenly he dropped the hand and rose.  "Your
presence is overpowering: I can not answer for myself.  You were right.
We ought not to have met again."
"I must go," she said, also rising.  She moved blindly across the room,
irresolutely.  Seeing a door, she turned the knob and entered.
It was only after the door closed that Victor recollected.  Paul and
she together in that room?  What irony!  He was about to rush after
madame, when his steps were arrested by a voice coming from the stairs.
The vicomte was descending.
"Ah, Monsieur de Saumaise," said the vicomte, "how fortunate to find
you alone!"
"Fortunate, indeed!" replied Victor.  Here was a man upon whom to wreak
his wrath, disappointment and despair.  Justice or injustice, neither
balanced on the scales of his wrath.  He crossed over to the chimney,
stood with his back to the fire and waited.
The vicomte approached within a yard, stopped; twisted his mustache,
resting his left hand on his hip.  His discerning inspection was soon
completed.  He was fully aware of the desperate and reckless light in
the poet's eyes.
"Monsieur de Saumaise, you have this night offered me four distinct
affronts.  Men have died for less than one."
"Ah!"  Victor clasped his hands behind his back and rocked on his heels.
"At the Hôtel de Périgny you called me a fool when the Chevalier struck
me with his sword.  I shall pass over that.  The Chevalier was mad, and
we all were excited.  But three times in this tavern you have annoyed
me.  Your temperament, being that of a poet, at times gets the better
of you.  My knowledge of this accounts for my patience."
"That is magnanimous, Monsieur," railingly.
"Were I not bound for a far country I might call you to account."
"It is possible, then?"
"Braver men than you find it to their benefit to respect this sword of
mine."
"Then you have a sword?"
The vicomte laughed.  It was real laughter, unfeigned.  He was too keen
a banterer himself not to appreciate this gift in the poet.  "What a
lively lad you are!" he exclaimed.  "But four affronts make a long
account for a single night."
"I am ready now and at all times to close the account."
"Do you love Paris?" asked the vicomte, adding his mite to the
bantering.
"Not so much as I did."
"Has not Rochelle become suddenly attractive?"
"Rochelle?  I do not say so."
"Come; confess that the unexpected advent of Madame de Brissac has
brought this change about."
"Were we not discoursing on affronts?"
"Only as a sign of my displeasure.  By September I dare say I shall
return to France.  I promise to look you up; and if by that time your
manner has not undergone a desirable change I shall take my sword and
trim the rude edges of your courtesy."
"September?  That is a long while to wait.  Why not come to Spain with
me?  We could have it out there.  Quebec?  Do you fear Mazarin, then,
so much as that?"
"Do you doubt my courage, Monsieur?" asked the vicomte, his eyes cold
and brilliant with points of light.
"But September?"
"Come, Monsieur; you are playing the boy.  You will admit that I
possess some courage.  'Twould be a fool's pastime to measure swords
when neither of us is certain that to-morrow will see our heads safe
upon our shoulders.  I am not giving you a challenge.  I am simply
warning you."
"Warning?  You are kind.  However, one would think that you are afraid
to die."
"I am.  There is always something which makes life worth the living.
But it is not the fear of dying by the sword.  My courage has never
been questioned.  Neither has yours.  But there is some doubt as
regards your temper and reason ability.  Brave?  To be sure you are.
At this very moment you would draw against one of the best blades in
France were I to permit you.  But when it comes man to man, Monsieur,
you have to stand on your toes to look into my eyes.  My arm is three
inches longer than yours; my weight is greater.  I have three
considerable advantages over you.  I simply do not desire your life; it
is necessary neither to my honor nor to my happiness."
"To desire and to accomplish are two different things, Monsieur."
"Not to me, Monsieur," grimly.  "When my desire attacks an obstacle it
must give way or result in my death.  I have had many desires and many
obstacles, and I am still living."
"But you may be killed abroad.  That would disappoint me terribly."
"Monsieur de Saumaise, I have seen for some months that you have been
nourishing a secret antipathy to me.  Be frank enough to explain why
our admiration is not mutual."  The vicomte seated himself on a bench,
and threw his scabbard across his knees.
"Since you have put the question frankly I will answer frankly.  For
some time I have distrusted you.  What was to be your gain in joining
the conspiracy?"
"And yours?" quietly.  "I think we both overlooked that part of the
contract.  Proceed."
"Well, I distrust you at this moment, for I know not what your purpose
is to speak of affronts and refuse to let me give satisfaction.  I
distrust and dislike you for the manner in which you approached the
Chevalier tonight.  There was in your words a biting sarcasm and
contempt which, he in his trouble did not grasp.  And let me tell you,
Monsieur, if you ever dare mention publicly the Chevalier's misfortune,
I shall not wait for you to draw your sword."
The vicomte swung about his scabbard and began lightly to tap the floor
with it.  Here and there a cinder rose in dust.  The vicomte's face was
grave and thoughtful.  "You have rendered my simple words into a Greek
chorus.  That is like you poets; you are super-sensitive; you
misconstrue commonplaces; you magnify the simple.  I am truly sorry for
the Chevalier.  Now there's a man.  He is superb with the rapier, light
and quick as a cat; a daredevil, who had not his match in Paris.  Free
with his money, a famous drinker, and never an enemy.  Yes, I will
apologize for my bad taste in approaching him to-night.  I should have
waited till morning."
"You were rude to Mademoiselle de Vaudemont."  Victor suddenly refused
to conciliate.
"Rude?  Well, yes; I admit that.  My word of honor, I could not contain
myself at the sound of her voice."
"Or of madame's?" shrewdly.
"Or of madame's."  The vicomte smoothed his mustache.
Their eyes met, and the flame in the vicomte's disquieted Victor,
courageous though he was.
"It seems to me," said the vicomte, "that you have been needlessly
beating about the bush.  Why did you not say to me, 'Monsieur, you love
Madame de Brissac.  I love her also.  The world is too small for both
of us?'"
"I depended upon your keen sense," replied Victor.
"I am almost tempted to favor you.  I could use a short rapier."
"Good!" said Victor.  "There is plenty of room.  I have not killed a
man since this year Thursday."
"And having killed me," replied the vicomte, rising, and there was a
smile on his lips, "you would be forced to seek out Monsieur le Comte
d'Hérouville, a man of devastated estates and violent temper, the
roughest swordsman since Crillon's time; D'Hérouville, whose greed is
as great and fierce as his love.  Have you thought of him, my poet?  Ah
well, something tells me that the time is not far distant when we shall
be rushing at each other's throats.  For the present, a truce.  You
love madame; so do I.  She is free.  We are all young.  Win her, if you
can, and I will step aside.  But until you win her . . .  I wish you
good night.  I am going for a tramp along the sea-walls.  I beg of you
not to follow."
The echo of the slamming door had scarce died away when Victor, raging
and potent to do the vicomte harm, flung out after him.  With his sword
drawn he looked savagely up and down the street, but the vicomte was
nowhere in sight.  The cold air, however, was grateful to the poet's
feverish cheeks and aching eyes; so he strode on absently, with no
destination in mind.  It was only when the Hôtel de Périgny loomed
before him, with its bleak walls and sinister cheval-de-frise, that his
sense of locality revived.  He raised a hand which cast a silent
malediction on this evil house and its master, swung about and hurried
back to the tavern, recollecting that Gabrielle and Paul were together.
"And all those dreams of her, they vanish like the hours.  That hope,
that joyous hope, of calling her mine shall buoy me up no more.  She
does not love me!  God save me from another such unhappy night.  We
have all been stricken with madness."  He struck at the snow-drifts
with his sword.  The snow, dry and dusty, flew up into his face.
Meanwhile, when madame entered the private assembly-room her eyes,
blurred with tears, saw only the half dead fire.  With her hand she
groped along the mantel, and finding a candle, lit it.  She did not
care where she was, so long as she was alone; alone with her unhappy
thoughts.  She sat with her back toward the Chevalier, who had fallen
into a slight doze.  Presently the silence was destroyed by a
hiccoughing sob.  She had forced the end of her kerchief against her
lips to stifle the sound, but ineffectually.
The Chevalier raised his head. . . .  A woman?  Or was his brain
mocking him?  And masked?  How came she here?  He was confused, and his
sense of emergency lay fallow.  He knew not what to do.  One thing was
certain; he must make known his presence, for he was positive that she
was unaware of it.  He rose, and the noise of his chair sliding back
brought from her an affrighted cry.  She turned.  The light of the
candle played upon his face.
"Madame, pardon me, but I have been asleep.  I did not hear you enter.
It was very careless of them to show you in here."
She rose without speaking and walked toward the door, with no uncertain
step, with a dignity not lacking in majesty.
"She sees I have been drinking," he thought.  "Pray, Madame, do not
leave.  Rather let me do that."
She made a gesture, hurried but final, and left him.
"It seems to me," mused the Chevalier, resuming his seat, "that I have
lost gallantry to-night, among other considerable things.  I might have
opened the door for her.  I wonder why she did not speak?"
CHAPTER XI
MONSIEUR LE COMTE D'HEROUVILLE TAKES THE JOURNEY TO QUEBEC
Victor ran most of the way back to the Corne d'Abondance.  Gabrielle
and Paul were together, unconscious puppets in the booth of Fate, that
master of subtile ironies!  How many times had their paths neared,
always to diverge again, because Fate had yet to prepare the cup of
misery?  How well he had contrived to bring them together: she, her cup
running bitter with disillusion and dread of imprisonment; he, dashed
from the summit of worldly hopes, his birth impugned, stripped of
