      would laugh. Texas says if 'the boys' saw him they'd
      lynch him 'sho'.
      "I told you a lot about Texas the last time I wrote.
      He is the most delightful character I have ever met in
      my life. He is just fresh from the plains, and his
      cowboy ways of looking at things keep me laughing all
      day. But he is just as true as steel, and as fine a
      friend as I ever knew.
      "I believe I told you all about the Banded Seven, the
      secret society we have gotten up to stop hazing. Well,
      we are having high jinks with 'the ole ya'rlin's,' as
      Texas calls them. We have outwitted them at every
      point, and I think they are about ready to give up in
      despair. We plebes even went to the hop the other
      night. I can hear the music of the hop now as it comes
      over the parade ground. It is very alluring, so you
      must appreciate this letter all the more.
      "I shan't tell you about the fight I had, for it would
      worry you. And I haven't time to tell you how I saved
      the life of a girl last week. I inclose a newspaper
      clipping about it, but you mustn't believe it was so
      absurdly heroic. The girl's father is a very rich man
      here, and, mother, she is very sweet and attractive.
      She has joined the Seven to help me fool the
      yearlings.
      "I guess I shall have to stop now. I hear some sounds
      that make me think it is time for tattoo, and besides,
      I am getting very homesick, writing to you way out in
      Colorado. You need not be fearing any rival to my
      affections, mother dear, even if I am fond of Grace
      Fuller. I wish I could see you just once to-night to
      tell you how much I miss you. And I am still
      "Your devoted son,
      "MARK."
Mark laid down his pencil with a sigh. He folded the letter and sealed
it, and then arose slowly to his feet. Outside of his tent he heard
quick steps and voices, and a moment later the rattle of a drum broke
forth.
"Tattoo," he observed. "I thought so."
He turned toward the door as the flap was pushed aside--and a tall,
slender lad entered, a lad with bronzed, sun-tanned features and merry
gray eyes.
"Hello, Texas!" said Mark.
"Hello," growled Texas. "Look a yere! What do you mean by runnin' off
an' hidin' all evenin'? I been a huntin' you everywhere."
"I've been right here," said Mark, "writing a letter home. Did you want
me to go to the hop?"
"No, I didn't. But I wanted you to tell me all 'bout that crazy Mary
Adams last night an' what you did. You ain't had time to tell me all
day."
Mark told him the story then. They were still discussing it when they
turned out and lined up for roll call; and that ceremony being over,
they scattered again, Texas still eagerly asking questions about the
strange affair.
Taps sounded half an hour later--ten o'clock--"lights out and all
quiet." They stopped then.
Sentry No. 3 that night was "Baby" Edwards. His beat lay along the
northern edge of the camp, skirting the tents of Company A. And Baby
Edwards let quite a number pass his beat that night.
For instance, he was on duty from midnight until two. It was bright
moonlight then, and Baby could have seen any one who crossed his post;
but he heard a signaling whistle and faced out in order not to see any
one. The person who entered was a boy clad in a blue uniform, an
"orderly," as they are called.
He ran silently and swiftly in and made straight for one tent. When he
got there he hesitated not a moment, but stepped in and crept up to one
of the sleepers.
It was Mark who awoke at his touch, and Mark sat up in alarm and stared
at him.
"Sh!" said the boy. "Sh! Don't wake any one."
"What do you want?" Mark demanded.
"I've a letter, sir, a letter from her again."
Mark stared at the boy and recognized him at once as a messenger who had
given him a note from Mary Adams about a month ago. And he sprang to his
feet in surprise.
"She writing again!" he whispered. "Quick, give it to me."
He broke the seal, stepped to the tent door, where, in the white
moonlight, he could read every letter plainly. And this was what he
saw:
      "DEAR MR. MALLORY: Oh, once more I have to write you
      to call upon you for aid. You cannot imagine the
      terrible distress I am in. And I have no one to call
      upon but you. If you respect me as a woman, come to my
      aid to-night and at once. And come alone, for I could
      not bear to have any one but you know of my terrible
      affliction. Oh, please do not fail me! You may imagine
      my state of mind when I write you like this. And let
      me call myself
      Your friend,
      "MARY ADAMS."
Mark finished the reading of that letter in amazement, even alarm.
"Did she give you this?" he demanded of the boy.
"Yes, sir, she did, not five minutes ago," replied the lad. "And she
told me to run. She seemed scared to death, sir, and I know she'd been
crying."
Mark stared into his earnest face a moment, and then he turned away in
thought.
"You may go," he said to the boy. "I know my way to her house alone."
The lad disappeared; and Mark, without a moment's hesitation, went over
and woke one of the cadets.
"Wake up, Texas," he whispered. "Wake up and read this."
Texas arose from his couch in surprise and sleepy alarm. He read the
letter, gasping; then he stared at Mark.
"Do you think she wrote it?" he inquired.
That problem was puzzling Mark, too. He had received two letters before
from the girl, under exactly similar circumstances. One had been a trick
of the cadets to lure him out. The other had been genuine, and had
resulted in Mark's saving the girl's brother from disgrace and ruin. But
which was this?
Mark made up his mind quickly.
"I think she wrote it, old man," he said. "The drum boy who gave me this
gave me the other she wrote, too, and he swears she wrote this. He said
she was frightened and crying. Texas, she lives way off there with her
old mother, who's blind and helpless. And there's no telling what may
have happened to her. Just see how urgent that note is. I must go, old
man. I'd be a coward if I didn't. She don't know a soul to call on but
me."
And Mark, generous and noble to a fault, had turned and begun to fling
on his clothing. Texas was doing likewise.
"I'm a-goin' too," he vowed.
"She says not," whispered Mark.
"I know," was the answer. "She ain't a-goin' to know it. I'm a-goin' in
case it's them ole yearlin's. Ef I see it's all right, and she wrote it,
I reckon I kin sneak home."
Nothing could deter the faithful and vigilant Texan from his resolution,
and when Mark stole out of his tent his friend was at his heels. They
passed the sentry, Baby Edwards, with the usual signal, Mark fooled for
once, was chuckling at his deception, thinking Baby thought them
yearlings. But Baby knew who it was, and laughed.
The two, once clear of camp, set out on a dead run. They dashed across
the Cavalry Plain and down the road to Highland Falls. It was nearly a
mile to where Mary Adams lived, but Mark never stopped once, not even
when he came to the dreaded cadet limits, to be found beyond which meant
court-martial and dismissal in disgrace. He took the risk grimly,
however, and ran on. When they finally reached the girl's house the
Texan was panting and exhausted.
"You stay there," whispered Mark, pointing to a clump of bushes nearby.
Texas crouched behind them, and doubled his fists in determination. Mark
just as promptly stepped up to the door and softly rapped.
There was a light in one of the rooms on the ground floor. The curtain
was carefully drawn, but Texas, watching closely, saw a shadow swiftly
flit across. And just after that the door was flung open, and the girl
stood before them.
"I knew you would come!" Texas heard her cry. "Oh, thank fortune!"
Then Mark stepped inside, and the door shut again.
Texas waited in suspense and curiosity. He did not know how long Mark
might be in there, but he was resolved to stick it out. Then suddenly,
to his surprise, the door was opened again, and Mark and the girl
stepped out.
She was leaning upon his arm, and hurrying him forward quickly. She was
evidently in great distress, and from what the hidden listener heard,
Mark was striving his best to comfort her. The two figures hurried
across the clearing and vanished in the woods. Texas arose from his
position.
"I reckon it's all right," he muttered. "It's blamed mysterious, but
there's nothin' mo' fo' me to do."
And suiting the action to the word the faithful Southerner turned and
set out rapidly for camp.
Mark, when he entered Mary Adams' house, found her standing before him,
a picture of misery and fright. He demanded to know what was wrong.
"Come, come!" the girl cried. "Quick. I cannot tell you. Oh! Come and
see."
She flung a shawl about her shoulders, seized Mark by the arm in a
convulsive grip, and together they hurried through the woods.
It was a little footpath they followed. Mark had no idea where they were
going in the deep black darkness. He abandoned himself entirely to the
girl's guidance, trusting that no slight matter could have taken her
there, and he was right.
The girl said not a word during the trip. She kept her face hidden in
the shawl, and only a sob told Mark the state of her feelings. He was
growing more mystified and curious every moment.
On, on they went. They must have been hurrying continually for at least
five minutes, the girl dragging the cadet faster and faster, when
suddenly she turned and left the path.
There was a dense thicket before them; she paused not a moment to
hesitate, but plunged into the midst of it. The briars tore her clothing
and hands, but she forced her way in. And when they were in the very
center, without a word, she stopped and faced about.
She pushed aside her veil and hair and stared wildly at Mark. He gazed
at her blood-red, burning cheeks and saw her black eyes glitter.
"What is the matter?" he cried.
She made not a sound, but suddenly to Mark's infinite horror flung
herself upon him and wrapped her arms about his neck.
"Why, Miss Adams," he gasped. "I----"
His words stuck in his throat. His surprise changed to the wildest
dismay and consternation. For he felt a pair of sinewy arms flung about
his ankles, binding his feet together as in a vise. He had only one
free arm, the other being bound to his chest with the bandages of the
surgeon; the free arm was seized by the wrist with a grip that almost
crushed it. And to his mouth another pair of hands were pressed, making
outcry impossible as it would have been futile anyway.
Mark was as motionless and helpless as if he had been turned to stone!
The swift emotions that surged through his excited brain defy
description. He saw the plot in an instant, apprehended it in all its
fiendish heartlessness; and he knew that he was ruined. He could not see
behind him; he could not identify his assailants; but he was sure they
were cadets, Bull and his crowd leagued with this wretched girl to play
upon his kind-heartedness.
And that girl! Oh, what a figure she was! She made no attempt to hide
herself, however much Bull Harris might. She stood before her helpless
