there nothing hysterical in life, then? And 
would you go through battle and pestilence with 
the same serenity that you sit there at your desk 
all day, you publisher? 
As if a man who was being torn to pieces 
would converse after the manner of Mr. Howells 
and Jane Austen! 
— " Tone it down! " That bit of inanity has 
been haunting my ears. Tone down The Cap- 
tive! Tone down the faith and rapture of my 
whole life, until it is what the reading public will 
find natural! — And tone down the Liebes-Tod 
— and tone down the Choral Symphony — and 
Epipsychidion — and King Lear! 
Swounds, show me what thou'lt do : 
Woo't weep? Woo't fight? Woo't fast? Woo't 
tear thyself ? 
Woo't drink up eisel ? Eat a crocodile ? 
I'll do't. Dost thou come here to whine ? 
To outface me with leaping in her grave ? 
Be buried quick with her, and so will I : 
And, if thou prate of mountains, let them throw 
Millions of acres on us, till our ground. 
Singeing his pate against the burning zone, 
Make Ossa like a wart ! Nay, an thou'lt mouth, 
I'll rant as well as thou ! 
" This is mere madness," observes the queen. 
Tone it down! 
August 12th. 
I sat last night brooding over this thing till 
almost dawn. I could not bring myself to the 
thought of offering my work again to be judged 
by such people. I made up my mind to take a 
different course — I sat and wrote a long letter to 
a certain poet whom I love and honor. He is 
known as a critic — he will know. I told him the 
whole story, and asked him to read the poem. 
It was something that I had never thought 
about, the effect of The Captive upon common- 
place people. I was so full of my own rapture — 
I made my audience out of my own fancy. And 
now these snuffy little men come peering at it! 
My appeal is not to the reading public — my 
appeal is to great minds and heroic hearts — to the 
ages that will come when I have gone. 
— And can it be that I am to repeat the old, 
old story — will every one laugh at me and leave 
me to starve? 
— I will get myself together and prepare for 
a siege. I will find an opening somewhere. You 
can not shut up a volcano. 
August 16th. 
There seems to be little use of struggling. I 
can not control myself. I wander around, rest- 
less, unhappy. That horrible prison that I am 
pent in — God, how I hate it ! Such heart-sicken- 
ing waiting — waiting! — and meanwhile that in- 
tolerable treadmill! It drives me wild! I am so 
full of life, of passion; and to be dragged back — 
and back — and stamped on ! Each day I feel my- 
self weaker; each day my power and my joy are 
going. Let me go — let me go! 
Is my inspiration of no value at all, my ardor, 
my tenderness, my faith, — all nothing? You 
treat me as if I were an ox! 
It is like being chained in the galleys! The 
dust and the heat, the jostling crowds, the bang- 
ing and rattling, the bare, hideous streets — and 
above it all the wild, rampant vulgarity — the 
sordidness, the cheapness, the chaffering! ]My 
eyes stare at advertisements and signs until they 
bum me in my head. 
Oh, the hell of egotism and vulgarity that is 
a city! 
— " A\hy so much trouble? Other men bear 
dust and heat, and do their work without com- 
plaining! " Ah, yes! — but they do not have to 
write poems in the bargain! 
If it were for truth and beauty, such a life 
would be heroism. But the hoards of wealth that 
they heap up — they spend it upon fine houses, 
and silly clothes, and gimcracks, and jewels, and 
rich food to eat, and wines to drink, and cigars to 
smoke! Bah! — 
It is the brutality of it all that drives me wild. 
I see great, hulking, disgusting bodies that live to 
be pampered and fed. And after that, in the 
place of minds, I see little restless centers of van- 
ity — hungering, toiling, plotting, intriguing — to 
be stared at and praised and admired. 
August 2oth. 
I thought that I would surely have heard 
from my poet by now. I am not a good waiter. 
The senior-partner's nephew is a young Ger- 
man, over to learn the language. He is on a fur- 
lough from the army. He has close-cropped 
hair, a low forehead, and two front teeth like a 
squirrel's. When he smiles he makes you think 
of a horse. He has opinions, commercial and 
political, which he enunciates in a loud voice. 
Think of hstening to Prussian opinions ! 
And there is another clerk who was meant for 
a variety-show specialist. He hums comic songs 
and cracks jokes, and conducts witty pantomime 
incessantly. He is very popular. He is never 
quiet. Sometimes he slaps you on the back. 
I wrestle with my soul all day; the rage of it 
is like to burst me. The infinite pettiness of it — 
that is the thing! I am bitten and stung by a 
swarm of poisonous flies! 
August 24th. 
Another twelve dollars yesterday! I gasp 
with relief as if I were hauling a load up succes- 
sive slopes; here is so much gained, so much 
safe. I have gotten along on twelve dollars; I 
have a little over thirty-five. 
I believe these things are more wearing than 
the toil of writing; I know I find it so. Then I 
accomplish something; here I work myself into 
nervous frenzies, and chafe and pant for nothing. 
I can feel how it weakens me; I can feel that I 
have less elasticity, less elan every day. Ah, God, 
let me go! 
August 25th. 
Why doesn't he answer my letter? 
August 27th. 
To-day I took myself off in a comer. I said: 
"Am I not here, have I not this thing to dof 
The power that I have in my soul — it is to be 
used for the doing of this; if I am to save my soul, 
it must be by the doing of this! And I am a fool 
that I do not face the fact. I shall be free some 
day — that I know — I have only to bide my time 
and wait. Meanwhile I am to stay here — or until 
I have money enough; and now I will turn my 
soul to iron, and do it ! I am going to study what 
I can in this place, and at night I am going to 
speed home and get into a book. I will never 
stop again, and never give up — and above all 
never think, and never feel! I will get books of 
fact to read — I will read histories, and no more 
poetry. I will read Motley, and Parkman, and 
Prescott, and Gibbon, and Macaulay. — Macaulay 
will not afflict me with wild yearnings, I guess." 
— Is there any author in the world more vul- 
gar than Macaulay? — unless it be Gibbon. Or 
possibly Chesterfield. 
I have heard Chesterfield's letters referred to 
as a " school for gentlemen." When the world is 
a little bit civilized, men will read them as they 
now read Machiavelli's Prince. 
— All these resolutions while I was selling 
wholesale-paper! I fought quite a battle, and 
heard some of the old-time music. What a task 
for a poet, — to fight not to Hve ! 
August 30th. 
I have still heard nothing from my poet! I 
wrote to him to-day to ask him if he had received 
my letter. Eighteen whole days gone by, and I 
watching every mail, with The Captive lying idle 
in a drawer! I can not stand waiting hke this — 
Why do not people answer my letters promptly? 
August 31st. 
I have been reading George Moore's Evelyn 
Innes for the last two days. He is striving toward 
deeper things; but the mark of the beast is in the 
fiber. 
The spiritual struggles of a young lady with 
two sloppy lovers at once ! Of a young and beau- 
tiful girl whose first walk on the street with a 
baronet is a " temptation." And who turns nun 
at last and worships the Holy Virgin, in order 
to forget her nastiness! A Gallicized novelist 
ought to deal with Gallic characters. While I 
was reading Evelyn Innes, I could never get 
away from the impression that I was reading 
the career of a chambermaid. 
And the whole story hinges upon the fact that 
a woman can not sing the sacred ecstasy of 
Tristan and Isolde without being a harlot! 
I read the Confessions of a Young Man, and 
I felt the vigor of it, and the daring; but it was 
a very cheap kind of daring. The fundamental 
laws of hfe are occasionally enunciated by com- 
monplace people, and that gives an opportunity 
to be startling. But I leave it for small boys to 
gape at such fireworks; my interest is in the stars. 
The last chapter runs into absolute brutality. 
I am accustomed to say that Gautier is a ruffian 
author, but if there is any ruffianism in Gautier 
more savage than that sentiment about the 
" skinful of champagne," I do not know where 
to find it. 
About such stufif as that I would say that it 
makes me sick, but it is not worth that — it simply 
makes me tired. One would not call it impudent, 
because it is so silly — it is the drivehng of a fool. 
He will get me off in a corner now, will he, and 
probe my soul? " Out with it! — Why not con- 
fess that you'd like to live a life of dissipation if 
