there must be flame, and, acting on this rather dubious statement, the
gallant fire brigade hunted high and low, searching in every nook and
corner of the building, and even searching the desk drawers to see if
perchance the cunning fire had run away and hidden there. And still not
a sign of flame.
The mystery got more and more interesting; the whole crowd came in--the
smoke having all gone by this time--to see if, perchance, a little more
diligent search might not aid; and the people kept coming until finally
the place was so packed that there was no room for the fire anyway. And
so finally every one gave it up in disgust and went home, including the
gallant fire brigade. And the three conspirators in the woods went, too,
scarcely able to hide their glee.
"It's jest one on them ole cadets!" vowed Texas.
Of course, the Army Board ordered a strict investigation, which was
made--and told nothing. All that was found was a few bits of broken
glass in one room, and an "examination paper" in another. Indian was
hauled up, terrified, to explain; he described his hazing, but
steadfastly refused names--which was good West Point etiquette--he
vowed he knew nothing about the fire--which was the truth--also West
Point etiquette. And since Indian was mum, and there was no one else to
investigate, the investigation stopped, and the affair remained a West
Point mystery--a mystery to all but three.
CHAPTER X.
MORE TROUBLES.
"No, sir! I wouldn't think of it, not for a moment. The fellow's a
coward, and he don't deserve the chance."
And Cadet Corporal Jasper brought his fist down on the table with a
bang.
"No, sir," he repeated. "I wouldn't think of it!"
"But he wants to fight!" exclaimed the other.
"Well, he had a chance once; why didn't he fight then? That's what I
want to know, and that's what he won't tell us. And as far as I'm
concerned Mallory shall lie in the bed he's made. I wouldn't honor him
with another chance."
It was an afternoon late in June, and the two speakers were discussing
some ice cream at "the Dutchwoman's" and waiting for the call to
quarters before dress parade.
"If that fellow," continued Corporal Jasper, "had any reason on earth
for getting up at midnight, dodging sentry and running out of barracks,
to stay till reveille, except to avoid fighting you that morning, now,
by jingo! I want to know what it is! The class sent me to ask him, and
he simply said he wouldn't tell, that's all. His bluff about wanting
another chance won't work."
"Well, if we don't," protested Williams, the other man, a tall,
finely-built fellow, "if we don't, he'll go right on getting fresh,
won't he?"
"No, sir, he won't! We'll find a way to stop him. In the first place,
he's been sent to Coventry. Not a man in the academy'll speak to him; he
may not mind that for a while, but I think he won't brave it out very
long. Just you watch and see."
"The only trouble with that," said Williams, "is that he's not cut by
all the fellows. I've seen three of the plebes with him."
"What!" cried the other, in amazement. "Who?"
"Well, there's that fellow he seconded in the fight----"
"Texas, you mean?"
"Yes, Texas. Then that long-legged scarecrow Stanard was out walking
with him this very day. And I saw that goose they call the Indian
talking to him at dinner, and before the whole plebe class, too."
"Well, now, by jingo! they'll find it costs something to defy the
corps!" exclaimed Jasper. "It's a pretty state of affairs, indeed, if
three or four beasts can come up here and run this place as they please.
They'll find when an order's given here they'll obey, or else they can
chase themselves home in a hurry. That fellow Mallory must be a fool!
There's never been a plebe at this academy's dared to do half what he's
done."
"That's why I think it would be best to lick him. I'm not sure I can do
it, you know, but I think it would be best to try."
"That fellow started out to be B. J. at the very start," growled the
excitable corporal, after a moment's thought. "Right at the very start!
'Baby' Edwards was telling me the other day how way last year this
fellow met with an accident--fell off the express or something--and
while he was staying down at the Falls Baby and a couple of other
fellows thought he was a candidate, and started in to haze him. He was
sassy as you please then. And after that he went out West, where he
lives, and did some extraordinary thing--saved an express, I believe,
and sent in an account to a paper for a lot of money. Of course that got
him dead stuck on himself, and then he goes and wins a cadetship here
and thinks he can run the earth. He was so deucedly B. J. he had to go
and lock Edwards and Bull Harris in an icehouse down near the Falls!"
"You see what's happened now," he continued, after a moment's pause.
"Your challenge brought him up with a round turn, and he saw his bluff
was stopped. He was afraid to fight, and so he hid, that's all. But, by
jingo, he'll pay for it if I've got anything to say in the matter!"
And the little corporal made the dishes on the table rattle.
Corporal Jasper and Cadet Williams had finished their council and their
ice cream by this time, and arose to go just as the roll of drum was
heard from "Camp McPherson." The two strolled off in the direction of
the summons, Jasper just as positive and vehement as ever.
"You shan't fight him," he declared. "And if sending him to Coventry
doesn't do any good, we'll find some other way, that's all! And we'll
keep at him till he learns how to behave himself if it takes the whole
summer to do it."
This was the young cadet officer's parting vow, as he turned and entered
his tent.
CHAPTER XI.
DISADVANTAGES OF "COVENTRY."
"Sir, the parade is formed!"
Thus spoke the cadet adjutant as he approached the lieutenant in
command, and a moment later, at the word, the battalion swung around and
marched across the campus. It was the evening dress parade of perhaps
the best drilled body of troops in the country, and West Point was out
in holiday attire to see it.
Seated on the benches beneath the trees on the western edge of the
parade ground was a crowd of spectators--visitors at the post and nearly
the whole plebe class besides. For this was Saturday afternoon holiday,
and the "beasts" had turned out in a body to witness the performance of
what they were all hoping some day to be.
It was a "mighty fine" performance, and one that made those same beasts
open their eyes with amazement. Spotless and glittering in their
uniforms were the cadets, and they went through all manner of difficult
evolutions in perfect unison, marching with lines as straight and even
as the eye could wish. It is a pretty sight, a mass of gray in a setting
of deep green--the trees that encircle the spot, and it made the poor
homesick "beasts" take a little interest in life once more.
Among these "beasts" were Mark and Texas. They sat under the trees a
little apart from the crowd and watched the scene with interest. Mark
had seen dress parades before; Texas had not, and he stared with open
eyes and mouth, giving vent to an exclamation of amazement and delight
at intervals.
"Look a' yere, Mark," he cried, "d'you think we'll ever be able do that
a' way. Honest, now? I think I'll stay!"
"Even after you get through fightin?" laughed Mark.
"I don't think I want to fight any more," growled Texas, looking glum.
"Since you an' me fit, somehow fightin' ain't so much fun."
"What's the fun o' fightin' ef you git licked?" he added, after a
moment's thought.
"I never tried it," said the other, laughing. "But I suppose you'll be
real meek now and let them haze you."
"Yaas!" drawled Texas, grinning. "Yes, I will! Them ole cadets git after
me, now, by jingo, I'll go out there an' yank some of 'em out that
parade an' lick them all t'once. But say! look at that chap on a horse."
"That chap's the commandant," said Mark, "and he's going to review the
parade for a change."
"I wish I was in it," exclaimed Texas, "an' I wish I knew all that
rigamarole they're doin' now"--that "rigamarole" being the
manual-at-arms. "I jest believe if I had somebody to teach me 'cept that
'ere yellin' tomcat of a Cadet Spencer I'd learn in a jiffy, dog on his
boots!"
"There he is now," said Mark, "in the second line there. And there on
the outside with his chevrons is Corporal Jasper, 'the committee.' They
look very different when they're in line."
"Nothin' 'd make that red-headed, freckle-faced coyote of a drill-master
look different," growled Texas. "I jes' wish he was bigger'n me so's I
could git up a scrap with him. Jest think o' that little martinet a
yellin' at me an' tellin' me I didn't have any sense. To-day, for
instance, d'you remember, he was tryin' to show Indian how to march an'
move his legs, an' Indian got twisted up into a knot; an' durnation,
jist because I laughed, why he rared round an' bucked fo' an hour!
What's the harm in laughing, anyhow?"
And Texas glared so savagely at his tormentor as the line swept by just
then that Mark concluded there was no harm and laughed.
"You're getting to be very stupid company, Texas," said he. "You never
do anything but growl at the cadets. I wish I had some diversion."
And Mark turned away in mock disgust and glanced down the archway of
trees.
"Here she comes," he said, after a moment's pause. "That's she walking
up the path with a cadet and another girl."
Texas turned as Mark spoke, and looked in the direction of his nod.
"So that's Mary Adams!" he exclaimed. "Well! well! That's the girl you
dodged barracks for, and risked your commission, and missed the fight,
and got called a coward, and sent to Coventry, and lots else. I swear!"
"That's the one," said Mark, smiling.
"She's stunning pretty," added Texas, as the trio drew near. "Gee-whiz!
I don't blame you."
"I liked her right well myself," admitted the other. "That is after I
saw her with that brother of hers. She certainly is a good sister to
him. But the cadets say she's something of a flirt, and Wicks Merritt
advised me to leave her alone, so I guess I shall."
"Sunday school teacher!" said Texas, laughing. "We'll have to call you
Parson, instead of Stanard. But I guess you're right. That's not a very
beautiful looking cadet she's with."
The three were passing then, and Mark arose.
"I guess I'll have to go speak to her," said he. "She's beckoning to me.
Wait a moment."
Texas watched his friend approach the group; he could not hear what was
said, however, and so he turned away to watch the parade. By doing it he
missed an interesting scene.
Mary Adams welcomed Mark with a look of gratitude and admiration that
Mark could not fail to notice. She had not forgotten the magnitude of
the service he had done for her. And then she turned to her two
companions.
"Miss Webb," she said, "let me present Mr. Mallory."
The other girl bowed, and Mary Adams turned to the cadet.
"Mr. Murray, Mr. Mallory," said she.
And then came the thunderclap. Mark put out his hand; the cadet quietly
put his behind his back.
"The cadets of this academy, Miss Adams," said he, "do not speak to Mr.
Mallory. Mr. Mallory is a coward!"
It was a trying moment; Mark felt the blood surge to his head, his
fingers twitched and his lip quivered. He longed to spring at the
fellow's throat and fling him to the ground.
It was a natural impulse. Texas would have done it. But Mark controlled
himself by the effort of his life. He clinched his hands behind him and
bit his tongue, and when he spoke he was calm and emotionless.
"Miss Adams," he said, "Mr. Murray and I will settle that later."
The two girls stared in amazement, "Mr. Murray" gazed into space, and
Mark turned without another word and strode over to where his friend was
sitting.
"Texas!" he muttered, gripping him by the shoulder. "Texas, there's
going to be a fight."
