be off up the river.”
There was considerable smuggling in spite of the watchfulness of the
authorities. Duties were levied on so many things, and some—many,
indeed—closely under government supervision.
Antoine Freneau tugged and swore. The cases of brandy were not light. He
went back and forth, every time peering in the window and listening; but
all was quiet. The cases he hid among the trees. He had drawn some tree
branches, ostensibly for firewood, and covered the cases with this brush
until he could dispose of them more securely.
Once, several years before, his house had been thoroughly ransacked in
his absence. He knew he was suspected of unlawful dealings, and he had a
dim misgiving that Gaspard had one end of the secret. He had more than
once been very overbearing.
He came in wet and tired, and, disrobing himself, crawled into bed. Fine
work, indeed, it would be to have a housekeeper and a prying child! He
laughed to think Gaspard fancied that he would be unwilling to give her
up.
Still he had hated Count de Longueville that he should have extorted so
much dowry. But then it seemed a great thing to have titled grandsons
and a daughter with the entrée of palaces, although he would never have
gone to witness her state and consequence.
Every year money had grown dearer and dearer to him, though, miser like,
he made no spread, never bragged, but pleaded poverty when he paid
church dues at Christmas and Easter.
CHAPTER II
OLD ST. LOUIS
Soon after daylight the strong west wind drove away the rain and clouds.
The air was soft and balmy, full of the indescribable odors of spring.
Birds began their pipings; robin and thrush and meadow-larks and
wood-pigeons went circling about on glistening wings.
Antoine found himself some dry clothes and kindled his fire. He would
bake a few corn cakes; they had demolished the loaf of bread last night.
There was a flitch of dried bacon and some eggs.
The door opened, and Gaspard wished his host good-morning. Renée was
still asleep.
There was a little rivulet that emptied in the mill pond, and near the
house Freneau had hollowed out quite a basin. Gaspard went down here for
his morning ablutions. A tall, well-developed man, just turned of thirty
with a strong, decisive face, clear blue eyes that could flash like
steel in a moment of indignation, yet in the main were rather humorous;
chestnut hair, closely cropped, and a beard trimmed in the same fashion.
He soused his head now in the miniature basin and shook it like a water
dog. Then he drew in long breaths of the divine morning air, and glanced
about with a sort of worship in his heart, took a few steps this way and
that. Antoine watched him with bated breath, he was so near the secret.
But Denys had heard nothing in the night. He was tired and had slept
soundly. Suddenly he bethought himself of the little girl and went into
the house. Antoine was preparing breakfast. Renée was sitting up,
glancing round. She had been in so many strange places this did not
disturb her.
She rose upright now, and stretched out her hands with a half-timid,
half-joyous smile.
“Uncle Gaspard,” she said, “where are we?”
Old Antoine raised his head. The French was so pure, the voice had an
old reminder of the one back of her mother.
“We are at St. Louis, child.”
“And where is the King?”
“Oh, my little girl, back in France. There is no king here. And we are
not French any longer, but Spanish.”
“I am French.” She said it proudly.
“We keep our hearts and our language French. Some day there may be
another overturn. I do not see as it matters much. The Spanish are
pretty good to us.”
“Good! And with these cursed river laws!” grumbled Antoine.
“If report says true, it can’t interfere very much with you.”
“Report is a liar,” the man flung out savagely.
Gaspard Denys laughed.
After a moment he said, “Isn’t there a towel or a cloth of some kind? I
dried myself in the air.”
“I told you I had not any accommodations for womenkind. You should have
left her at the convent. Farther back, it is De Longueville’s business
to care for her.”
“But you see he did not. You and he are her only blood kin, and you both
cast her off. It is well she has found a friend.”
“The convent and the Sisters would have been better.”
“Come, man, some sort of a towel,” exclaimed Denys imperatively.
Antoine rummaged in the old chest, and presently brought forth one.
Denys noted that it was soft and fine and not of home manufacture. Then
he led Renée out to the little basin and, dipping the towel in, washed
her face and hands.
“Oh, how good it feels!” she cried delightedly.
Gaspard had grown quite used to playing lady’s maid. He took a comb out
of its case of Indian work that he carried about in his pocket, and
combed out the tumbled hair. She winced now and then at a bad tangle,
and laughed on the top of it. Then he bent over and kissed her on the
forehead. She caught his head in her small arms and pressed her soft
cheek against his caressingly.
“I love you, Uncle Gaspard,” she exclaimed. “But I don’t love that old
man in there. Are you sure he is my grandfather? I couldn’t live here. I
should run away and live with the birds and the squirrels.”
“And the Indians.”
“But that Light of the Moon was sweet and pretty.”
“Yes. I should like to have brought her with us for your maid.”
“Oh, that would have been nice!” She clapped her hands. “What is over
there?” nodding her head.
“That is St. Louis—the fort, the palisades, the stockade to keep out the
Indians.”
“There are no Indians in France,” she said retrospectively.
“No. And I have wondered a little, Renée, if you would not rather be
back there.”
“And not have you?” She clung to his arm.
He gave a little sigh.
“Oh, are you not glad to have me? Does no one want me?”
The pathos of the young voice pierced his heart.
“Yes, I want you. I had no one to care for, no brothers or sisters or——”
“Men have wives and children.” There was a touch of almost regret in her
tone, as if she were sorry for him.
“And you are my child. We will go in town to-day and find some one to
look after you. And there will be children to play with.”
“Oh, I shall be so glad. Little girls?”
“Yes. I know ever so many.”
“I saw my little brothers in Paris as we came through. They were very
pretty—at least their clothes were. And papa’s wife—well, I think the
Queen couldn’t have had any finer gown. They were just going to the
palace, and papa kissed me farewell. It was very dreary at the old
château. And when the wind blew through the great trees it seemed like
people crying. Old Pierre used to count his beads.”
What a strange, dreary life the little girl had had! It should all be
better now. The child of the woman he had loved!
“If grandfather is rich, as Marie said, why does he live that way?”
She made a motion toward the house.
“No one knows whether he is rich or not. He trades a little with the
Indians and the boats going up and down the river.”
The shrill summons to breakfast reached them.
They went in, the child holding tightly to Gaspard’s hand. It seemed as
if her grandfather looked more forbidding now than he had last night. He
was both sulky and surly, but the viands were appetizing, and this
morning Renée felt hungry. Gaspard was glad to see her eat. The old man
still eyed her furtively.
“Well?” he interrogated, as they rose from the table, looking meaningly
at Gaspard.
“We are going in the town, the child and I,” Gaspard replied briefly.
Antoine nodded.
Oh, what a morning it was! The air seemed fairly drenched with the new
growth of everything; the tints were indescribable. Some shrubs and
flowers had begun to bloom. Renée had seen so much that was cold and
bleak, trees leafless and apparently lifeless amid the almost black
green of hemlocks and firs. Streams and pools frozen over, and a
coldness that seemed to penetrate one’s very soul. At Detroit it had
softened a little and all along the journey since then were heralds of
warmth and beauty. The child, too, expanded in it, and the changes in
her face interested Gaspard intently. He was a great lover of nature
himself.
Early St. Louis was all astir. From the bustle, the sound of voices, the
gesticulation, and running to and fro, it appeared as if there might be
thousands of people instead of six or seven hundred. Everything looked
merry, everybody was busy. There was a line of boats coming, others
already at the primitive landings, Indians and trappers in picturesque
attire, gay feathers and red sashes; fringes down the sides of their
long leggings and the top of their moccasins. Traders were there, too,
sturdy brown-faced Frenchmen, many of whom had taken a tour or two up in
the North Country themselves, and had the weather-beaten look that comes
of much living out of doors. Children ran about, black-eyed,
rosy-cheeked, shrill of voice. Small Indians, with their grave faces and
straight black hair, and here and there a squaw with her papoose
strapped to her back.
Gaspard Denys paused a moment to study them. He really had an artist’s
soul; these pictures always appealed to him.
They came in the old Rue Royale, skirting the river a short distance,
then turned up to the Rue d’Eglise. Here was a low stone house, rather
squat, the roof not having a high peak. A wide garden space, with fruit
trees and young vegetables, some just peeping up from brown beds and a
great space in front where grass might have grown if little feet had not
trodden it so persistently. A broad porch had a straw-thatched roof, and
here already a young girl sat spinning, while several children were
playing about.
“Lisa! Lisa!” called the girl, rising. “Ah, Monsieur Denys, we are very
glad to see you. You have been absent a long while. You missed the
merry-making and—and we missed you,” blushing.
A pretty girl, with dark eyes and hair done up in a great coil of
braids; soft peachy skin with a dainty bloom on the cheek and a dimple
in the broad chin. Her lips had the redness of a ripe red cherry that is
so clear you almost think it filled with wine.
“And I am glad to see you, Barbe,” taking her outstretched hand. “Ought
I to say ’ma’m’selle’ now?” glancing her all over, from the braids done
up to certain indications in the attire of womanhood.
She blushed and laughed. “Oh, I hope I have not grown as much as that. I
should like always to be Barbe to you.”
“But some day you may be married. Then you will be madame to everybody.”
“Lise thinks I have too good a home to give up lightly. I am very
happy.”
Madame Renaud came out of the house. She was taller and larger than her
sister, but with the same dark eyes and hair. Her sleeves were rolled up
above her elbows and showed a plump, pretty arm; her wide, homespun
apron nearly covered her.
“Oh, Gaspard—M’sieu Denys! You are such a stranger and we have missed
you much, much,” with an emphasis. “We were not sure but some Quebec
belle would capture you and keep you there. You will have warm welcomes.
Whose is the child?”
The other children had stopped their play and were edging nearer Renée,
who in turn shrank against Denys.
“I have come to talk about the child. May I not come in? Are you busy?”
“With bread and cakes. We are not so poorly off if we have a bad name,”
smiling with amusement. “Here is a chair, and a stool for the little
one. She looks pale. Is she not well?”
“She has had a long journey. First across the ocean, then from Quebec in
not the pleasantest of weather for such a tramp. But she has not been
ill a day.”
Denys placed his arm over the child’s shoulder, and she leaned her arms
on his knee.
