“Wait a moment. You will want some money. Here is a dollar.”
He drew a dollar bill from his vest pocket and handed it to Bernard, who
returned in five minutes with a small bottle.
The gentleman, removing the cork, applied the bottle to his nose. He
sneezed, but seemed revived.
“I feel better,” he said. “Go and take a room for me and help me up to
it.”
“What name shall I put down on the register?”
“William Penrose.”
“Where from?”
“Buffalo.”
Bernard did as requested. Mr. Penrose was assigned to a room on the
second floor. Then Bernard, taking out some silver, offered it to his
companion.
“The hartshorn only cost ten cents,” he said. “Here is the change.”
“Keep it,” said Mr. Penrose.
“Thank you, sir. It will be very acceptable. Now I will bid you good-by.”
“No, don’t go. Stay with me, unless you have to go home. I may need
you.”
“I have no home, sir. I can stay as well as not.”
“Then go down and put your name on the register. There is another bed in
the room. You can sleep there.”
CHAPTER V.  MR. PENROSE’S SECRET.
|Bernard was by no means loath to accept the invitation he had received.
His stock of ready money was very small, and would soon be exhausted.
While he remained with Mr. Penrose he would be taken care of.
“I shall be glad to accept your invitation, Mr. Penrose,” he said.
“I hope I am not interfering with any of your plans.”
“No, sir. I have not formed any plans yet.”
“That is singular,” observed Mr. Penrose, with a mild curiosity.
“I haven’t had time to form any plans yet,” explained Bernard. “I only
started in for myself this morning.”
“You excite my curiosity. Do you mind throwing light on the mystery?”
“Not at all, sir. I ran away this morning from a boarding school in the
next town.”
“You ran away from school? That doesn’t sound well.”
“I dare say not, but if you knew Mr. Ezekiel Snowdon, you wouldn’t be
surprised at my running away.”
“Ezekiel Snowdon? Why, I once went to school to a teacher of that name.
Describe him.”
Bernard did so.
“It must be the same man.”
“Where was he teaching?”
“He came to Springfield, Illinois, and was engaged to teach. That was my
native town, and I was a lad of thirteen at the time.”
“Did you like him?”
“No; I think he was the most unpopular teacher we ever had. He taught
just six weeks. At the end of that time the bigger boys formed a
combination and rode him on a rail out of town. He was an ignoramus, and
was continually flogging the boys. If he couldn’t find a pretext for
punishment he invented one. But he received his deserts. After his ride
on a rail he never ventured to come back to Springfield.” Bernard
laughed. “I think it must be the same man,” he said.
“I have often wondered what the old fellow was doing,” said Mr. Penrose.
“It seems he has stuck to the business of a pedagogue. Now tell me your
experience with him.”
This Bernard did. He explained that Mr. Snowdon was now at the head of
the Snowdon Institute in the neighboring town of Doncaster.
“Has he many pupils?”
“About eight or ten, but they are boarding pupils.”
“Who placed you there?”
“My guardian, Mr. Cornelius McCracken of New York. I think Mr. Snowdon’s
low terms influenced him in the selection of the school. I soon found
out that he wasn’t much of a scholar. Besides, he is a tyrant, and tried
to bully me.
“He has a son, Septimus, who is a very disagreeable boy, and is
continually instigating his father to punish the boys. They are mostly
small, and unable to resist injustice. Finally he tackled me, and
threatened to horsewhip me.”
“You naturally objected,” said Mr. Penrose, with a smile.
“Yes; I had no idea of allowing myself to be treated in that way.
Yesterday I made up my mind to run away. I stopped over night in the
barn, and meant to get off early this morning, but was surprised by
Septimus, who let his father know where I was. Soon the old man appeared
with a horsewhip, and climbed up to the scaffold where I was sleeping on
the hay. I woke up in time, and managed to escape, carrying off the
ladder, and leaving Mr. Snowdon a prisoner in the hay loft.”
“That was clever in you. And then you took leg bail?”
“Yes, sir. In ten or fifteen minutes I overtook your carriage, and
seeing that you were in trouble, I climbed in and took the reins.”
“Luckily for me. The horse might have run away with me.”
“It was lucky for me, also, that I fell in with you,” added Bernard.
“I have a great mind to tell you a secret,” said Mr. Penrose, after a
pause.
“It will be safe with me, sir.”
He was not surprised to hear that his companion had a secret, and was
curious to learn what it might be.
“I ought to feel considerable sympathy with you,” went on Mr. Penrose,
“for I am placed in a similar position. I, too, am running away.”
Bernard looked startled. Could it be, he asked himself, that his
companion was a fugitive from justice? He could hardly believe it, for
Mr. Penrose’s appearance was very much in his favor.
His companion went on with a smile, “Don’t suppose that I am a defaulter
or a thief on my way to Canada,” he said. “My case is a peculiar one. I
happen to be a rich man.”
“I don’t see why you should run away, then.”
“I have a cousin, an unprincipled man, who is anxious to get possession
of my property.”
“But how can he do it? The law will protect you in your rights.”
“It ought to, certainly, but my cousin is a cunning schemer. He’s trying
to have me adjudged insane, and get an appointment as my guardian. Do
you think I look insane?”
“No, sir.”
“I am as sane as my cousin himself, but I am subject to occasional fits,
such as the one I had just now. If I were seen in one of these I might
be thought to be of unsound mind.”
“Are you often taken that way, Mr. Penrose?”
“Not often, but I have been subject occasionally to fits since I was a
boy. My cousin cunningly waited till I was suffering an attack, when he
hastily summoned two quacks, and got them to certify that I was insane.
I got over the fit before the certificate was made out, but I realized
my danger, and I fled from Buffalo, fearing that I might be taken to an
asylum during the next seizure.”
“What a scoundrel your cousin must be! He must be worse than Mr.
Snowdon.”
“He is a villain of a different type, and certainly quite as bad. In
order to enjoy my property, he would coolly doom me to life imprisonment
in a madhouse.”
“Where are you intending to go, Mr. Penrose?”
“I may take a voyage somewhere. On the sea I should be safe.”
“Do you think your cousin is in pursuit of you?”
“Probably he is.”
“What is his name?”
“Lawrence Atwood.”
“Is the buggy you were driving your own?”
“No, and that reminds me, I ought to return it to the stable from which
I hired it.”
“Where is that, sir?”
“Brooks’ stable, in Doncaster.”
“I suppose you could get a man from the hotel to drive it back--by
paying him, of course.”
“That is a good suggestion. I would ask you to take it back, but it
might lead to your being captured by Mr. Snowdon.”
“Yes, sir; that would be my only objection.”
“Very well! Go down-stairs and see what arrangement you can make.”
Going down-stairs Bernard had the good luck to find a young man from
Doncaster, Freedom Wentworth, who was about to start back.
“Hello, Bernard!” exclaimed the young man, in surprise. “When did you
come here?”
“Half an hour ago. I say, Freed, when do you go back to Doncaster?”
“I am just starting back. I wish I could meet somebody going that way,
as I don’t like the idea of walking.”
“I can fix you out. There is a gentleman up-stairs who wants to send
back a buggy to Brooks’ stable. If you will take charge of it he will
pay you for your trouble.”
“I’m in luck. Tell him I shall be very glad to oblige him.”
Bernard went up-stairs and reported to Mr. Penrose.
“Do you know this young man Wentworth?” asked Penrose.
“Yes, sir. He is a very reliable young man.”
“Then I accept his offer. Take this five-dollar bill, and ask him to pay
Brooks out of it and keep the balance himself.”
“I will, sir.”
Bernard delivered his commission, and Freedom Wentworth started on his
drive.
After he had got off Bernard bethought himself of a mistake he had made.
“I ought to have told Freed not to mention his meeting me. If it gets to
the ears of Mr. Snowdon, he may take it into his head to come after me.”
It was certainly a pity that Bernard had not bethought himself of this
prudent precaution, as it proved.
Septimus Snowdon was standing in front of Brooks’ stable as Wentworth
drove up.
“Where have you come from?” he asked.
“From Poplar Plains.”
“Did you see anything of Bernard Brooks on the way?”
“Yes, he is at the Poplar Plains Hotel. Did your father send him there?”
“Aha!” soliloquized Septimus in exultation. “I’ll tell pa, and we’ll go
after him.”
“I hope I haven’t done Bernard any harm,” thought Freedom. “He’s worth
half a dozen boys like Septimus Snowdon.”
CHAPTER VI. BERNARD’S DANGER.
|By the way,” said Mr. Penrose suddenly, “it has just occurred to me
that I have had no breakfast.”
“It is the same case with me,” returned Bernard, smiling.
“Bless my soul! How hungry you must be!”
“Don’t you feel hungry, Mr. Penrose?”
“Yes, but my appetite isn’t equal to that of a growing boy. What time is
it?”
“I have no watch, Mr. Penrose.”
“Then I will look at my own. It is nine o’clock. Won’t you go down
stairs, Bernard, and ask if breakfast is over.”
Bernard returned with the information that the regular breakfast was
over, but that a special breakfast for the two guests would be ready in
half an hour.
“That will be satisfactory.”
Bernard thought it would be satisfactory to him also, for he felt, to
use an expression of his own, “as hungry as a bear.”
It is needless to say that both enjoyed their breakfast.
“I suppose,” said Mr. Penrose, smiling, “that important business
prevented your breakfasting with my old teacher, Mr. Snowdon.”
“Yes, sir; very important business.”
“Does he provide a liberal table?”
“Very far from it, sir.”
“So I imagined; though when I was his pupil, he had no boarding pupils.
Suppose we take a walk about the town. I have never been in Poplar
Plains before.”
“All right, sir.”
It was two hours before they returned. They had sauntered to the river
and taken a seat on the bank under some old trees that afforded a
grateful shelter. Mr. Penrose found himself more and more attracted by
the frank, open nature of his boy companion.
