the result. Mrs. Aldred is kindness itself, and agreed that private
lessons would be best until I could begin to compete with other girls.
What I have gathered is such desultory knowledge, and I'm like a child
in some things. Oh, can't you see that? And I am afraid of being
laughed at.
"You all seem so bright, so ready with your talk, you know so much that
I envy you. And if I am going to be a rich woman I want to know and to
do some of the best things. I don't believe I could be satisfied with
buying gowns and going to parties. There, it is a long story, and it is
odd to tell it to you, only there is such a look in your eyes at times
that it seemed to me you would understand and not laugh or hold me up
to ridicule."
There was an almost breathless intensity in the face, a half fear as
well, but the telling of her sad story had roused her from her ordinary
apathy.
"I certainly should not ridicule you," Helen began decisively. "Why, I
think it is very brave of you to want to be educated when you could lead
a life of ease and pleasure. And I am beginning to suspect that a love
of knowledge is not universal, but I like it myself. There is so
much in the world that I wonder women do not keep going on as some of
the men do. Only then, I suppose, they wouldn't marry. And you would
have to be quite rich to do it."
CHAPTER XIII
A LITTLE SEED SOWN
The two girls rocked slowly back and forth, stealing side-wise glances
at each other. Helen was very glad there was nothing derogatory in the
story. She seemed to understand the sort of man grandfather Craven was;
there were two or three of them about Hope, if they had no iron mines in
prospect. They did not believe in education in modern methods, nor
anything but saving up money. How did it look to grandfather Craven on
the other side of the river, she wondered?
"I wish I could help you," Helen began presently. All her sympathy went
out to the girl of nineteen who was very little older than herself, who
had lost four or five of the choicest years out of her life. If it had
been because her mother was an invalid all that time, one could see the
use of it. Or if her grandfather had been poorly and needed care.
"Oh, you have helped me by understanding as you do," returned Miss
Craven. "And now when I catch a glance of your eye it will give me
courage."
"I am sure you are right. And if some of the girls knew your story----"
"Oh, no, no!" with quick, pained apprehension, "I shouldn't want them
to. I hope you----"
Juliet Craven felt she could trust this girl without a word, that it
would be almost an insult to doubt her integrity. Why, she did not know.
She was not sufficiently versed in human nature to explain its
intricacies.
"If you mean that I could not betray a confidence, you are just right
there," with a heightened color. "But Miss Grace is wise and judicious
and understands girls."
"Only--I don't know as I can make it clear, but I am afraid of almost
everybody. I have lived alone so much, I think I am like someone who has
been blind for years and whose eyes are suddenly opened, and he cannot
judge accurately of anything. I hear the girls at times mapping out
characters with such a degree of certainty that I envy them. I do not
seem to know how to judge anyone."
"And their judgment isn't right half the time," laughed Helen. "It takes
a great deal of wisdom and experience to do this, and I do not believe
any young schoolgirl has enough. I haven't. I've changed my mind ever so
many times about some of the girls until I almost began to think I
hadn't any mind at all."
Juliet Craven smiled at that. If this bright girl could not judge
correctly--but then she was not fifteen, and she, Juliet, more than four
years older.
"I am glad someone knows it all. I have only told half to Mrs. Aldred,
though I suppose Mrs. Howard explained why I was so backward. Oh, do you
think I shall ever catch up?" and there was a piteous anxiety in her
voice.
"Why, you have done a great deal in music in this brief time."
"But I love music so. And literature enchants me. But analysis of
language, and higher mathematics--I never shall master them I know. I
think no one could trip me up on spelling, however. When I found a
difficult word in a book I spelled it over for days," and the faint
impression of a smile crossed her lips. "But the meanings puzzle me. It
is hard oftentimes to think of the correct word, and that makes me
afraid to talk."
"I have always had a good many to talk to, and that must make a
difference," and the thought of living almost alone on a mountain, out
of the reach of people, crossed Helen's mind and gave her a shudder.
"Oh, I don't see how you lived so alone!" she cried vehemently.
"It was dreadful after mother was gone. If I could have gone down in
town once in awhile, but there was so much to do, and grandfather always
said he didn't want women folks bothering round when he went anywhere.
Then it was so far to church, though I did go once in a great while when
I had anything to wear. But the girls I had known in school forgot me,
and were married, or busy about other things. And I somehow grew used to
talking to the dumb creatures and the denizens of the woods. I always
kept thinking that something would happen and I'd have a chance. And I
resolved that I would go to school and get an education as mother
wished. But I never thought how hard it would be to begin back like a
child a dozen or so years old. You see grandfather was seventy-six when
mother died, and my vague plan was when he had gone, to sell everything
and go away. I couldn't ever have dreamed of so much money. And now I
don't know what to do with it. Mrs. Davis said it would all come right
when I married some nice man, who would take care of it and manage it
for me, but Mrs. Howard said get some education first, and I would be
better able to know what I wanted. Though I am sure I don't want to be
married."
"The education will certainly be best," Helen returned with the gravity
of twenty. "And I think you ought not be discouraged so soon."
"There is so much more to learn than I had any idea of. And when I look
ahead----"
"Oh, don't look ahead," cried Helen laughingly. "Just live day by day,
'Sufficient to the day is the evil thereof,' and I wonder if the good
will not be sufficient also! It is only about a year ago that I cared
anything for education, I was just a country girl too, and suddenly
roused, I didn't know how I could compass it when a way was opened. I
can have two splendid years, and I mean to crowd them full. I don't know
what will happen after that, and I am not going to worry about it. You
can have all the years you are minded to take, and you will succeed, I
know."
The tone was buoyant, inspiriting. To Helen the prospect was enchanting.
Already she had learned what a factor money was, what a blessing to have
enough of it that one need not feel anxious about the future. She would
settle her plans at once. Stay three years here at Aldred House, then go
to college. During the four years there would be plenty of time to
arrange the rest. In her case it would be teaching.
"How comforting you are!" and there was both depth and sincerity in the
tone.
"Doesn't Mrs. Aldred advise you to go on?" Helen asked.
"Oh, yes. And Miss Grace has been very encouraging. But when I look at
the rest of you girls and hear your bright talk, I feel so out of
place."
"I have a belief that school is the help to enable us to find our right
places in the world if we take it up earnestly. I meant it shall help me
to find mine," confidently. "And I do think, yes, I am sure it will
help you."
"I was so discouraged. I wrote to Mrs. Howard and she said stay by all
means. Indeed, I have no place to go to. Mrs. Davis is in Florida now.
Oh, I should like to travel!" and her face was roused almost to
enthusiasm.
"But you wouldn't want to be an ignorant traveler, either." And she
thought how Mrs. Van Dorn enjoyed and understood. She would have felt
still more encouraged for her compeer, had she known what Mrs. Van Dorn
was at nineteen.
They talked until it was dusk, when the bell rang and arm in arm they
went to the dining room. Miss Grace was placing girls together in a more
sociable fashion.
"Suppose you and Miss Beck come over here," she said with a little wave
of the hand to Miss Craven, and giving a nod to Miss Beck. "And Miss
Grant, I think you are put down for the hostess next month. Suppose you
begin now?"
Helen smiled and went to the head of the table. Miss Craven took her
seat next. "Oh," she murmured, deprecatingly, "I hope it will never come
my turn."
"Why, it is not much to do, only to see that everything comes right."
The girls talked of to-morrow. Miss Beck was an Episcopalian, and
described how prettily the little church was trimmed, how beautiful the
morning service had been, and that most of it would be repeated. In the
evening some anthems were to be sung and Phillips Brooks' beautiful
hymn, "Oh, Little Town of Bethlehem." And on Monday at four a Christmas
tree for the children. Perhaps they would like to go?
Miss Craven's eyes kindled a little and she looked at Helen, as if she
might answer for her.
"We shall be very glad to," was Helen's ready reply.
The eyes thanked her timidly.
Afterward they assembled in the drawing room and sang Christmas hymns to
the accompaniment of the grand piano. Two of the young ladies recited.
"I don't believe I've ever had such a nice time in my life," Juliet
Craven said with her good-night. "You don't know how sincerely I thank
you."
To be thanked for a little courtesy like that! Helen stood before the
glass, thinking.
"I wonder," she said to the reflection, "if you could have had that much
courage with the rest of the girls about? It was very easy to-day, and
it is what ought to be done oftener. I wonder why they all took me up
so cordially, and why they should have surmised so many wrong things
about her. I dare say her father and mother were ordinarily nice people,
and I am glad there is nothing disgraceful about them. There are quite a
good many queer old people in the world--I'm sure Roxy tells things
about her old great-aunt and laughs over them, that do not sound kindly,
if they are amusing. I wish old people always were agreeable," and she
sighed. "But young people are not either," and she smiled with a
revulsion of mood. "I am glad, too, that she isn't any older. Nineteen.
There are not more than a half dozen girls in the school as old as that.
What a pity one can't be turned back!"
Helen thought she had never enjoyed a Sunday more. Most of the girls
went with Mrs. Aldred in the morning, and Mr. Danforth was certainly in
a Christmas frame of mind. They had luncheon around the large table
across the end of the dining room, and afterward a talk of the Jews and
Romans at the time of the coming of Christ. Helen had never thought much
of sacred and serious subjects, but her heart seemed to expand and glow
with a fervor she had hitherto known nothing about. If education
widened one's view, should not religion do something for it also?
The evening service moved her still more deeply. And she went to sleep
with the music of four lives floating through her brain:
  "Yet in thy dark street shineth
    The everlasting Light,
  The hopes and fears of all the years,
    Are met in thee to-night."
The children's Christmas tree was another pleasure. And when Helen
returned there was a box that had been sent across the water with some
pretty laces and a fine neck-chain and charm. It seemed to bring Paris
much nearer. Her letter, too, was very enjoyable. Mrs. Van Dorn was glad
to have her feel at home and study with energy. But she wanted her to go
at French just as soon as she possibly could, and pay close attention to
it. She, Mrs. Van Dorn, was going to start for Southern France the
beginning of the year and would have a restful time after the jaunting
about. Helen must write freely of herself and the friends she was
making, as well as her progress in every study.
[Illustration: When Helen returned there was a box that had been sent
