were rich. This did not matter to their friends, but 
was a source of constant anxiety to their creditors, and 
to the good Pompeo Sassi, the steward of the ruined 
estate. He alone knew what the Conti owed, for none 
of them knew much about it themselves, though he had 
done Ms best to make the state of things clear to them. 
The big porter of the palace was sweeping the pave- 
ment of the great entrance, as the cab drove in. He 
wore his working clothes of grey linen with silver but- 
tons bearing the ancient arms of his masters, and his 
third best gold-laced cap. There was nothing surpris- 
ing in this, at such an early hour, and as he was a grave 
man with a long grey beard that made him look yery 
important, the lady who drove up in the open cab did 
not notice that he was even more solemn than usual. 
When she appeared, he gave one more glance at the 
spot he had been sweeping, and then grounded his 
broom like a musket, folded his hands on the end of the 
broomstick an(J looked at her as if he wondered what 
on earth had brought her to the palace at that moment, 
and wished that she would take herself off again as 
soon as possible. 
He did not even lift his cap to her, yet there was 
nothing rude in his manner. He behaved like a man 
upon whom some one intrudes when he is in great 
trouble. 
The Baroness was rather more exigent in requiring 
respect from servants than most princesses of the Holy 
Roman Empire, for her position in the aristocratic scale 
was not very well defined. 
She was not pleased, and spoke with excessive cold- 
ness when she asked if Donna Clementina was at home. 
The porter stood motionless beside the cab, leaning on 
his broom. After a pause he said in a rather strange 
voice that Donna Clementina was certainly in, but that 
he- could not tell whether she were awake or not. 
" Please find out," answered the Baroness, with im- 
patience. "I am waiting," she added with an inde- 
scribable accent of annoyance and surprise, as if she 
had never been kept waiting before, in all the fifty 
years of her more or less fashionable life. 
 
There were speaking-tubes in the porter's lodge, 
communicating with each floor of the great Conti 
palace, but the porter did not move. 
" I cannot go upstairs and leave the door," he said. 
"You can speak to the servant through the tube, I 
suppose ! " 
The porter slowly shook his massive head, and his 
long grey beard wagged from side to side. 
" There are no servants upstairs," he said. " There 
is only the family." 
" No servants ? Are you crazy ? " 
" Oh, no ! " answered the man meditatively. " I do 
not think I am mad. The servants all went away last 
night after dinner, with their belongings. There were 
only sixteen left, men and women, for I counted them." 
" Do you mean to say — " The Baroness stopped in 
the middle of her question, staring in amazement. 
The porter now nodded, as solemnly as he had 
before shaken his head. 
" Yes. This is the end of the house of Conti." 
Then he looked at her as if he wished to be 
questioned, for he knew that she was not really a 
great lady, and guessed that in spite of her magnifi- 
cent superiority and coldness she was not above talking 
to a servant about her friends. 
" But they must have somebody," she said. " They 
must eat, I suppose I Somebody must cook for them. ' 
They cannot starve ! " 
"Who knows? Who knows? Perhaps they will 
starve." 
The porter evidently took a gloomy view of the 
case. 
" But why did the servants go away in a body ? " 
asked the Baroness, descending from her social perch 
by the inviting ladder of curiosity. 
" They never were paid. None of us ever got our 
wages. For some time the family has paid nobody. 
The day before yesterday, the telephone company sent 
a man to take away the instrument. Then the electric 
light was cut off. When that happens, it is all over." 
The man had heard of the phenomenon from a 
colleague. 
" And there is nobody ? They have nobody at all ? " 
The Baroness had always been rich, and was really 
trying to guess what would happen to people who had 
no servants. 
" There is my wife," said the porter. " But she is old," 
he added apologetically, " and the palace is big. Can 
she sweep out three hundred rooms, cook for two fami- 
lies of masters and dress the Princess's hair ? She can- 
not do it." 
This was stated with gloomy gravity. The Baroness 
also shook her head in sympathy. 
" There were sixteen servants in the house yester- 
day," continued the porter. " I remember when there 
were thirty, in the times of the old Prince." 
" There would be still, if the family had been wise," 
said the Baroness severely. " Is your wife upstairs ? " 
" Who knows where she is ? " enquired the porter by 
way of answer, and with the air of a man who fears 
 
that he may never see his wife again. " There are 
three hundred rooms. Who knows where she is?" 
The Baroness was a practical woman by nature and 
by force of circumstances ; she made up her mind to go 
upstairs and see for herself how matters stood. The 
name of Donna, Clementina might not just now carry 
much weight beside those of the patronesses of a com- 
plicated charitable organization ; in fact the poor lady 
must be in a position to need charity herself rather 
than to dispense it to others. But the Baroness had a 
deep-rooted prejudice in favour of the old aristocracy, 
and guessed that it would afterwards be counted to her 
for righteousness if she could be the first to offer bound- 
less sympathy and limited help to the distressed family. 
It would be thought distinctly smart, for instance, if 
she should take the Princess, or even one of the unmar- 
ried daughters, to her own house for a few days, as a 
refuge from the sordid atmosphere of debt and ruin, 
and beyond the reach of vulgar creditors, one of whom, 
by the way, she knew to be her own excellent husband. 
The Princess was probably not aware of that fact, for 
she had always lived in sublime ignorance of every- 
thing connected with money, even since her husband's 
death ; and when good Pompeo Sassi tried to explain 
things, telling her that she was quite ruined, she never 
listened to what he said. If the family had debts, why 
did he not borrow money and pay them ? That was 
what he was paid for doing, after all. It was true that 
he had not been paid for a year or two, but that was a 
wretched detail. Economy? Had not the Princess 
given up her second maid, as an extravagance ? What 
more did the man expect ? 
The Baroness knew all this and reflected upon what 
she knew, as she deliberately got out of her cab at the 
foot of the grand staircase. 
" I will go upstairs myself," she said. 
" Padrona," observed the porter, standing aside with 
his broom. 
He explained in a single word that she was at liberty 
to go upstairs if she chose, that it was not of the least 
use to go, and that he woiild not be responsible for any 
disappointment if she were afterwards not pleased. 
There is no language in the world which can say more 
in one word than the Italian, or less in ten thousand, 
according to the humour of the speaker. 
The Baroness took no notice as she went up the 
stairs. She was not very tall, and was growing slowly 
and surely stout, but she carried her rather large head 
high and had cultivated importance, as a fine art, with 
some success. She moved steadily, with a muffled 
sound as of voluminous invisible sOk bellows that 
opened and shut at each step ; her outer dress was 
sombre, but fashionable, and she wore a long gold 
chain of curious and fine workmanship to carry her 
hand-glass, for she was near-sighted. Her thick hair 
was iron-grey, her small round eyes were vaguely 
dark with greenish lights, her complexion was like 
weak coffee and milk , sallow, but smooth, even and 
healthy. She was a strong woman of fifty years, well 
used to the world and its ways ; acquisitive, inquisitive 
 
and socially progressive ; not knowing how to wish 
back anything from the past, so long as there was 
anything in the future to wish for ; a good wife for an 
ambitious man. 
The magnificent marble staircase already looked 
neglected ; there were deep shadows of dust in corners 
that should have been polished, there was a coat of 
grey dust on the head and shoulders of the colos- 
sal marble statue of Commodus in the niche on the 
first landing ; in the great window over the next, 
the armorial crowned eagle of the Conti, cheeky, argent and sable, had a dejected look, as if he were 
moulting. 
It was in March, and though the sun was shining 
brightly outside, and the old porter wore his linen 
jacket, as if it were already spring, there was a cold 
draught down the staircase, and the Baroness instinc- 
tively made haste up the steps, and was glad when she 
reached the big swinging door covered with red baize 
and studded with smart brass nails, which gave access 
to the grand apartment. 
By force of habit, she opened it and went in. There 
used to be always two men in the outer hall, all day 
long, and sometimes four, ready to announce visitors 
or to answer questions, as the case might be. It was 
deserted now, a great, dismal, paved hall, already dingy 
with dust. One of the box-benches was open, and the 
tall of a footman's livery greatcoat which had been 
thrown in carelessly, hung over the edge and dragged 
on the marble floor. 
The Baroness realized tliat the porter had spoken the 
truth and that all the servants had left the house, as 
the rats leave a sinking ship. One must really have 
seen an old ship sink in harbour to know how the rats 
look, black and grey, fat and thin, old and young, their 
tiny beads of eyes glittering with fright as they scurry 
up the hatches and make for every deck port and 
