nasty? " 
Strether debated. " Well, she was the important thing 
— she was definite. She was — at last — crystalline. And 
I felt no remorse. I saw that they must have come." 
"Oh, I wanted to see them for myself; so that if it 
were only for that ! " — Chad's own remorse was as small. 
This appeared almost all Strether wanted. " Isn't your 
having seen them for yourself then t/ie thing, beyond all 
others, that has come of their visit   " 
Chad looked as if he thought it nice of his old friend to 
put it so. " Don't you count it as anything that you're 
dished — if you are dished? Are you, my dear man, 
dished ? " 
It sounded as if he were asking if he had caught cold or 
hurt his foot, and Strether, for a minute, but smoked and 
smoked. " I want to see her again. I must see her." 
" Of course you must." Then Chad hesitated. " Do 
you mean — a — mother herself?" 
" Oh, your mother — that will depend." 
It was as if Mrs. Newsome had somehow been placed 
by the words very far off. Chad, however, endeavoured in 
spite of this to reach the place. " What do you mean it 
will depend on ? " 
Strether, for all answer, gave him a longish look. " I 
was speaking of Sarah. I must positively — though she 
quite cast me off — see /tcr again. I can't part with her that 
way." 
" Then she was awfully unpleasant ? " 
Again Strether exhaled. " She was what she had to be. 
I mean that from the moment they're not delighted they 
can only be — well, what I admit she was. We gave them," 
he went on, " their chance to be delighted, and they've 
walked up to it, and looked all round it, and not taken 
it." 
"You can bring a horse to water !" Chad suggested. I 
" Precisely. And the tune to which, this morning, Sarah I 
wasn't delighted — the tune to which, to adopt your meta- ; 
phor, she refused to drink — leaves us on that side nothing 
more to hope." 
Chad had a pause, and then as if consolingly : " It was 
never of course really the least on the cards that they 
would be ' delighted.' " ' 
"Well, I don't know, after all," Strether mused. "I've  
had to come as far round. However" — he shook it off —  
" it's doubtless my performance that's absurd." 
" There are certainly moments," said Chad, " when you 
seem to me too good to be true. Yet if you are true," he  
added, " that seems to be all that need concern me." 
"I'm true, but I'm incredible. I'm fantastic and ridicu- ,t 
lous — I don't explain myself even to myself. How can  
they then," Strether asked, " understand me ? So I don't 'i 
quarrel with them." i  
" I see. They quarrel," said Chad rather comfortably,  
" with us." Strether noted once more the comfort, but his   
young friend had already gone on. " I should feel greatly 
ashamed, all the same, if I didn't put it before you again   
that you ought' to think, after all, tremendously well. I 
mean before giving up beyond recall " With which 
his insistence, as from a certain delicacy, dropped. 
Ah, but Strether wanted it. " Say it all, say it all." 
" Well, at your age, and with what — when all's said and 
done — mother might do for you and be for you." 
Chad had said it all, from his natural scruple, only to 
that extent ; so that Strether, after an instant, himself 
took a hand. " My absence of an assured future. The 
little I have to show toward the power to take care of 
myself. The way, the wonderful way, she would certainly 
take care of me. Her fortune, her kindness, and the 
constant miracle of her having been disposed to go even 
so far. Of course, of course," he summed it up. " There 
arc those sharp facts." 
Chad had meanwhile thought of another still. " And 
then isn't there your liking her so ?" 
His friend slowly turned round to him. " Will you 
go? 
" I'll go if you'll say you now consider I should. You 
know," he went on, " I was ready six weeks ago." 
" Ah," said Strether, " that was when you didn't know / 
wasn't ! You're ready at present because you do know it." 
"That may be," Chad returned ; "but, all the same, I'm 
sincere. You talk about taking the whole thing on your 
shoulders, but in what light do you regard me that you 
think me capable of letting you pay?" Strether patted 
his arm, as they stood together against the parapet, re- 
assuringly — seeming to wish to contend that he had the 
wherewithal ; but it was again round this question of 
purchase and price that the young man's sense of fairness 
continued to hover. " What it literally comes to for you, 
if you'll pardon my putting it so, is that you give up 
money. Possibly a good deal of money." 
" Oh," Strether laughed, " if it were only just enough 
you'd still be justified in putting it so ! But I've on my 
side to remind you too that youc give up money ; and more 
than ' possibly ' — quite certainly, as I should suppose — 
a good deal." 
"True enough; but I've got a certain quantity," Chad 
returned after a moment. " Whereas you, my dear man, 
you " 
" I can't be at all said " — Strether took him up — " to 
have a ' quantity,' certain or uncertain ? Very true. Still, 
I shan't starve." 
" Oh, you mustn't starve f" Chad pacifically emphasised ; 
and so, in the pleasant conditions, they continued to talk ; 
though there was, for that matter, a pause in which the 
younger companion might have been taken as weighing 
again the delicacy of his then and there promising the 
elder some provision against the possibility just mentioned. 
This, however, he presumably thought best not to do, for 
at the end of another minute they had moved in quite 
a different direction. Strether had broken in by returning 
to the subject of Chad's passage with Sarah, and inquiring 
if they had arrived, in the event, at anything in the nature 
of a " scene," To this Chad replied that they had, on the 
contrary, kept tremendously polite ; adding, moreover, 
that Sally was after all not the woman to have made the si 
mistake of not being. " Her hands are a good deal tied, ,1 
you see. I got so, from the first," he sagaciously observed, ,i 
" the start of her." , 
" You mean she has taken so much from you ? " 
" Well, I couldn't, of course, in common decency, give 
less ; only she hadn't expected, I think, that I would give 
nearly so much. And she began to take it before she 
knew it." 
" And she began to like it," said Strether, " as soon as 
she began to take it ! " 
"Yes, she has liked it — also more than she expected." 
After which Chad observed : " But she doesn't like me. 
In fact she hates me." 
Strether's interest grew. "Then why does she want 
you at home ? " 
" Because when you hate, you want to triumph ; and if 
she should get me neatly stuck there she rcoiild triumph." 
Strether followed afresh, but looking as he went. " Cer- 
tainly — in a manner. But it would scarce be a triumph 
worth having if, once entangled, feeling her dislike, and 
possibly conscious in time of a certain quantity of your 
own, you should, on the spot, make yourself unpleasant to 
her." 
" Ah," said Chad, " she can bear iiic — could bear me, 
at least, at home. It's my being there that would be her 
triumph. She hates me in Paris."   
" She hates in other words " 
"Yes, that's it!" Chad had quickly understood this 
understanding ; which formed, on the part of each, as near 
an approach as they had yet made to naming Mme. de   
Vionnet. The limitations of their distinctness didn't,   
however, prevent its fairly lingering in the air that it was 
this lady Mrs. Pocock hated. It added one more touch, ! 
moreover, to their established recognition of the rare I 
intimacy of Chad's association with her. He had himself ; 
never yet so twitched away the last veil from this phen- 
omenon as in presenting himself as confounded and sub- 
merged in the sentiment she had engendered at Woollett.   
' And I'll tell you who hates me too," he immediately 
went on. 
Strether knew as immediately whom he meant ; but 
with as prompt a protest. " Ah, no ! Mamie doesn't hate 
— well," he caught himself in time — "anybody at all. 
Mamie's beautiful." 
Chad shook his head. " That's just why I mind it. 
She certainly doesn't like me." 
" How much do you mind it ? What would you do for 
her?" 
" Well, I'd like her if she'd like me. Really, really," 
Chad declared. 
It gave his companion a moment's pause. " You asked 
me just now if I don't ' like,' for herself, a certain person. 
You rather tempt me therefore to put the question in my 
turn. Don't ' like ' a certain other person?" 
Chad looked at him hard in the lamplight of the window. 
" The difference is that I don't want to." 
Strether wondered. " ' Don't want ' to ? " 
" I try not to — that is I have tried. I've done my best. 
You can't be surprised," the young man easily went on, 
"when you yourself set me on it. I was indeed," he added, 
"already on it a little; but you set me harder. It was six 
weeks ago that I thought I had come out." 
Strether took it well in. " But you haven't come out ! " 
" I don't know — it's what I want to know," said Chad. 
" And if I could have sufficiently wanted — by myself, to 
go back, I think I might have found out." 
" Possibly " — Strether considered. " But all you were 
able to achieve was to want to want to ! And even then," 
he pursued, " only till our friends there came. Do you 
want to want to still ? " As with a sound half dolorous, 
half droll, and all vague and equivocal, Chad buried his 
face for a little in his hands, rubbing it in a whimsical way 
that amounted to an evasion, he brought it out more 
sharply. " Do you   " 
Chad kept for a time his attitude ; but at last he looked 
up, and then, abruptly, "Jim ts a damned dose!" he 
declared. 
" Oh, I don't ask you to abuse, or describe, or in any 
way pronounce upon your relatives ; I simply put it to 
you once more whether you're fiow ready. You say you've 
'seen.' Is what you've seen that you can't resist?" 
Chad gave him a strange smile — the nearest approacli 
he had ever shown to a troubled one. " Can't you mak x 
me not resist ? "   
"What it comes to," Strether went on very gravely nov   
