women sat spinning, or some one ran to and fro with 
nimble feet at the big wheel. 
In another house was a loom, the warping bars hung 
with skeins of colored yarns, and the ceiling of the 
homely interior still ornamented with the remnants of 
winter provender, where there had been abundant stor 
ing. Children played around outside, older ones went 
to and from school, raced about in childish games, 
handed down from generation to generation. A 
neighbor woman in a faded blue gown and sunbonnet 
stopped to gossip awhile at some one's door as to who 
was "keepin' stiddy comp'ny," who had been buying a 
cow or putting up a shanty, or "dyein' of ther' yarn." 
Less than three quarters of a century ago they had 
dreams of greatness then, but they would have fainted 
to see this day. 
The Little Girl had learned to spin and had a wheel, 
She had learned many other things as well, and some 
of the older people thought she was "fittin' to keep 
house athought any help." But M'liss was glad to 
come in daily, though now she brought a small 
bundle, rolled in an old shawl, which she generally 
deposited on a bench and stood a chair-back against 
it. 
"I jest useter think it was orful to strap them little 
Injun babies on a board an' hang 'em to a tree, but I 
dunno. They want ter be made straight, an' fraish air 
is good fer 'em. I s'pose people'd think I was orful 
unhuman to do it, but lawsy a' massy me, what does 
 
anything like that want but jest to lay still an' grow 
till it gets some sense." 
Ruth was not enchanted with the baby, though she 
berated herself for a kind of hard-heartedness. It had 
a funny little face screwed up to a point in the centre, 
with a sloping forehead and no chin to speak of, and it 
was a curious red brown. 
" 'Tain't no great beauty," M'liss admitted. "But I 
never see one that was. Ther's a big world fer 'em to 
grow good lookin' in if they hev the gift, an' 
if they hevn't, why, they hevn't, thet's all. I can't say 
I was eszatly hankerin' fer it, but it's here, an' sent 
fer some wise perpose, mebbe." 
M'liss was very glad of the good meal and the chunk 
of pork or loaf of bread she earned. The Little Girl 
only went to school for half a day now, she was learn 
ing so many useful things at home to make her her 
father's housekeeper. He was always very tender to 
her I noticed, and thought her very smart. 
Sometimes when we sat on the doorstep of an even 
ing he would join the talk. His father and grand 
father had been Revolutionary patriots. He had been 
to Boston and sailed from there to New York and 
back, and knew a good deal about the geography of the 
Eastern States. I brought out my store of knowledge, 
gleaned from traders who stopped at the warehouse. 
Some of the stories seemed too marvellous for belief, 
and now they are commonplace history. 
The only thing Ruth was really slow about was 
figures. Mr. Gaynor was very quick and could not 
seem to understand it. 
"You must learn," he would say. "I may get old 
and lose my eyesight, then you'll have to do my 
clerking." 
So we used to labor with her. She knew her tables, 
children learned them perfectly in those days, but there 
was some little knack of applying them in which she 
seemed deficient. And when we were alone she would 
say: 
"Oh, don't bother. Let us read. When I am grown 
up it will all come easy enough," and her winsome 
smile always persuaded me. 
Mr. Harris had loaned me "Pope's Illiad," recom 
mended it to me, in fact. When I had gone about half 
through I was so enchanted that I brought it to 
her, and turned back that we might share it together. 
How wonderful it seemed to us! We took it 
in as every word true. These were the people 
who lived long before America was discovered, 
long before William the Norman crossed over to 
Britain. 
"But I do wonder if men must always fight," she 
said with a sigh. 
We were at peace then except for an occasional 
Indian skirmish, but these glowing descriptions did 
stir my blood. 
Then there was an old copy of the "Morte'd Arthur" 
that we revelled in. And there were outside enjoy 
ments, rambles about on Sunday afternoons that we 
did not keep as strictly as the people to the eastward. 
Mr. Gaynor was full of funny stories about the old 
blue laws, as they were called, of having a hen put to 
 
death because she laid an egg on Sunday. But one 
that amused us very much was the old couplet : 
"The deacon, he whipped the barrel of beer 
Because it worked on Sunday." 
There was some splendid birch and sassafras beer 
made in many families, and though there was a good 
deal of whiskey used, numbers of the best men 
frowned on habitual drinking. 
One of the great amusements on Saturday after 
noon was horse racing. This had to be outside the 
town. It created immense enthusiasm. Several of the 
young Indians owned fine horses and were proud 
enough of them. Dan entered his beautiful Chita, and 
after some training and several attempts she won a 
race, to his great delight. We had gone out, and I must 
say my inmost heart was stirred at the sight, but I had 
not thought the laurel wreath would descend to us. It 
was a perfect ovation. And that night he came home 
much the worse for drinking, and he and father had 
quite a desperate quarrel. 
"I should like to shoot the mare!" declared 
father. 
"He'd move heaven and earth to get another," and 
mother put her arm over father's shoulder. "Dan is 
a pretty good boy in the main, and I'm hoping he will 
get a wife some day to steady him." 
"Polly Morrison !" flung out father scornfully. 
"No," I hope it won't be Polly Morrison." 
Polly was a slim, lithe slip of a girl that no two 
people ever agreed about. Her skin was of lily fair- 
ness no matter what she did. Her eyes were large, and 
although glorious does not seem the proper adjective, 
that is what they were. Brown, with golden lights 
that could flash and laugh and turn so tender, you were 
sure they were in tears. She had a rather wide mouth, 
full of curves and dimples. The one thing that laid 
her open to criticism was her hair. Somehow red hair 
was not in high favor, and though her admirers 
quarrelled about it, red it surely was, the deep rich sort 
of mahogany red, with a gloss as if the sun shone upon 
it. There were great waves from the white parting to 
the coil which covered the back of her head. Occa 
sionally she shook it down, and it was a glistening 
cloud about her, looking like something alive. She was 
a harum-scarum sort of a girl, could row equal to a 
man, ride bareback, run races, dance like a creature 
bewitched, go to church on Sunday and look as demure 
as a saint. 
That summer Chicago was all astir. It didn't matter 
to anybody whether Martin Van Buren was President 
or not. There were processions of grain coming in, 
ox loads, precursors of trains that no one dreamed of 
then, bringing it in sheets and blankets, begged of 
the housewives when bags were filled, and there was 
the crude elevator, the grain hoisted by hand with 
block and tackle, and dumped into the hold of the big 
Osceola. Twenty-nine hundred bushels to be sent to 
Black Rock, New York State, the beginning of the 
mighty contribution that was to enrich not only the 
city, but the east as well, and in future times to stand 
between the world and starvation. 
 
Crowds went to see it. How proud everybody was. 
John Gaynor rubbed his hands in glee. 
"What did I tell you!" he kept saying in triumph. 
"This will sometime be the great city of the world, and 
those blasted fools at Washington can't see that we 
need anything, not even to have the canal finished. 
Well, we will surprise them yet." 
He was not much given to swearing, though pro 
fanity seemed rather in the air. The good parsons 
preached against it, and some of the best men rarely 
used an oath. 
For days nothing was talked of but the exploit. 
The Osceola had gone off with the cheers of the 
crowd. But when the jubilation subsided a little, 
new plans were made for the elevator to use 
horsepower instead of hand, and to enlarge its 
capacity. 
Crops of all kinds had been good. The yield of corn 
was tremendous. Pigs were in demand ; there was 
plenty to fatten them. We were almost as likely to 
have a boom in these products as there had been 
in real estate a few years before. 
Mr. Dole had been slaughtering and packing cattle 
of both kinds down on Dearborn and South Water 
streets. The small log building where he first lived 
stood three doors east of the warehouse, but now he 
had built a more commodious dwelling. Mr. Thomp 
son was in his new office and still busy surveying and 
mapping out lots, and making trades that, as father 
said, kept the log rolling without any money. Mr. 
Thomas Church had enlarged his store, and the women 
had a gala time going to see the pretty things every 
few months when a new stock came in. 
The older inhabitants still kept to weaving linsey 
woolsey and common grades of woollen, as well as 
some of the coarser cotton cloths. Spinning and knit 
ting was much in vogue, but the girls beginning to 
grow up rather protested against the labor. And the 
goods coming from the States and abroad were so 
pretty and tempting. So butter and eggs were bartered 
off, strong sacking stuff, pork and woollen stockings 
for the boatmen and the voyagers. 
Mr. Carpenter was building a fine house over on 
the west side and setting out choice fruits that stirred 
others up to emulation. Then we had a daily paper, 
