was engaged by all laws of honor not to permit a private enmity to
swerve me from my public duty. Therefore, I could neither abandon all
else to hunt him down if he appeared as he promised to appear, nor take
time in record-searching, unless the documents were close at hand.
Perplexed, more than anxious, I went up-stairs and entered my chamber.
The door between our rooms still swung open, and, as I stepped forward
to close it, I saw Elsin there, asleep on her bed, fingers doubled up
in her rosy palms. So young, so pitifully alone she seemed, lying there
sleep-flushed, face upturned, that my eyes dimmed as I gazed. Bitter
doubts assailed me. I knew that I should have asked a flag and sent her
north to Sir Frederick Haldimand--even though it meant a final
separation for us--rather than risk the chances of my living through
the armed encounter, the intrigues, the violence which were so surely
approaching. I could do so still; it was not too late. Colonel Willett
would give me a flag!
Miserable, undecided, overwhelmed with self-reproach, I stood there
looking upon the unconscious sleeper. Sunlight faded from the patterned
wall; that violet tint, which lingers with us in the north after the
sun has set, deepened to a sadder color, then slowly thickened to
obscurity; and from the window I saw the new moon hanging through
tangled branches, dull as a silver-poplar leaf in November.
What if I die here on the frontier? The question persisted, repeating
itself again and again. And my thoughts ran on in somber disorder: If I
die--then we shall never know wedded happiness--never know the sweetest
of intimacies. Our lives, uncompleted, what meaning is there in such
lives? As for me, were my life to end all incomplete, why was I born?
To live on, year after year, escaping the perils all are heir to, and
then, when for the first instant life's true meaning is disclosed, to
die, sterile, blighting, desolating another life, too? And must we put
away offered happiness to wait on custom at our peril?--to sit cowed
before convention, juggling with death and passion?
Darkness around me, darkness in my soul, I stood staring at her where
she lay, arms bent back and small hands doubled up; and an overwhelming
rush of tenderness and apprehension drew me forward to bend above her,
hovering there, awed by the beauty of her--the pure lids, the lashes
resting on the cheeks, the red mouth so exquisitely tranquil, curled
like a scarlet petal of a flower fallen on snow.
Her love and mine! What cared we for laws that barred it?--what
mattered any law that dared attempt to link her destiny with that man
who might, perhaps, wear a title as her husband--and might not. Who
joined them? No God that I feared or worshiped. Then, why should I not
sunder a pact inspired by hell itself; and if the law of the land made
by men of the land permitted us no sanctuary in wedlock, then why did
we not seek that shelter in a happiness the law forbids, inspired by a
passion no law could forbid?
I had but to reach forward, to bend and touch her, and where was
Death's triumph if I fell at last? What vague and terrible justice
could rob us of these hours? Never, never had I loved her as I did
then. She breathed so quietly, lying there, that I could not see her
body stir; her stillness awed me, fascinated me; so still, so inert, so
marvelously motionless, that her very soul seemed asleep within her.
Should I awake her, this child whose calm, closed lids, whose soft
lashes and tinted skin, whose young soul and body were in my keeping
here under a strange roof, in a strange land?
Slowly, very slowly, a fear grew in me that took the shape of horror.
My reasoning was the reasoning of Walter Butler!--my argument his
damning creed! Dazed, shaken, I sank to my knees, overwhelmed by my own
perfidy; and she stirred in her slumber and stretched out one little
hand. All the chivalry, all the manhood in me responded to that appeal
in a passion of loyalty which swept my somber heart clean of
selfishness.
And there in the darkness I learned the lesson that she believed I had
taught to her--a lesson so easily forgotten when the heart's loud clamor
drowns all else, and every pulse throbs reckless response. And it was
cold reasoning and chill logic for cooling hot young blood--but it was
neither reason nor logic which prevailed, I think, but something--I know
not what--something inborn that conquered spite of myself, and a guilty
and rebellious heart that, after all, had only asked for love, at any
price--only love, but all of it, its sweetness unbridled, its mystery
unfathomed--lest the body die, and the soul, unsatisfied, wing upward to
eternal ignorance.
As I crouched there beside her, in the darkness below the tall
hall-clock fell a-striking; and she moved, sighed, and sat
up--languid-eyed and pink from slumber.
"Carus," she murmured, "how long have I slept? How long have you been
here, my darling? Heigho! Why did you wake me? I was in paradise with
you but now. Where are you? I am minded to drowse, and go find you in
paradise again."
She pushed her hair aside and turned, resting her chin on one hand,
regarding me with sweet, sleepy, humorous eyes that glimmered like
amethysts in the moonlight.
"Were ever two lovers so happy?" she asked. "Is there anything on earth
that we lack?--possessing each other so completely. Tell me, Carus."
"Nothing," I said.
"Nothing," she echoed, leaning toward me and resting in my arms for a
moment, then laid her hands on my shoulders, and, raising herself to a
sitting posture, fell a-laughing to herself.
"While you were gone this afternoon," she said, "and I was lying here,
eyes wide open, seeming to feel the bed sway like the ship, I fell to
counting the ticking of the stair-clock below, and thinking how each
second was recording the eternity of my love for you. And as I lay
a-listening and thinking, came one by the window singing 'John O'Bail',
and I heard voices in the tap-room and the clatter of pewter flagons.
On a settle outside the tap-room window, full in the sun, sat the
songster and his companions, drinking new ale and singing 'John
O'Bail'--a song I never chanced to hear before, and I shall not soon
forget it for lack of schooling"--and she sang softly, sitting there,
clasping her knees, and swaying with the quaint rhythm:
    "'Where do you wend your way, John O'Bail,
      Where do you wend your way?'
    'I follow the spotted trail
      Till a maiden bids me stay,'
    'Beware of the trail, John O'Bail,
      Beware of the trail, I say!'
"Thus it runs, Carus, the legend of this John O'Bail, how he sought the
wilderness, shunning his kind, and traveled and trapped and slew the
deer, until one day at sunrise a maid of the People of the Morning
hailed him, bidding him stay:
    "'Turn to the fire of dawn, John O'Bail,
      Turn to the fire of dawn;
    The doe that waits in the vale
      Was a fawn in the year that's gone!'
    And John O'Bail he heeds the hail
      And follows her on and on.
"Oh, Carus, they sang it and sang it, hammering their pewters together,
and roaring the chorus, and that last dreadful verse:
    "'Where is the soul of you, John O'Bail,
      Where is the soul you slew?
    There's Painted Death on the trail,
      And the moccasins point to you.
    Shame on the name of John O'Bail----'"
She hesitated, peering through the shadows at me: "Who was John
O'Bail, Carus? What is the Painted Death, and who are the People of the
Morning?"
"John O'Bail was a wandering fellow who went a-gipsying into the
Delaware country. The Delawares call themselves 'People of the
Morning.' This John O'Bail had a son by an Indian girl--and that's what
they made the ballad about, because this son is that mongrel demon,
Cornplanter, and he's struck the frontier like a catamount gone raving
mad. He is the 'Painted Death.'"
"Oh," she said thoughtfully, "so that is why they curse the name of
John O'Bail."
After a moment she went on again: "Well, you'll never guess who it was
singing away down there! I crept to my windows and peeped out, and
there, Carus, were those two queer forest-running fellows who stopped
us on the hill that morning----"
"Jack Mount!" I exclaimed.
"Yes, dear, and the other--the little wrinkled fellow, who had such
strangely fine manners for a Coureur-de-Bois----"
"The Weasel!"
"Yes, Carus, but very drunk, and boisterous, and cutting most amazing
capers. They went off, finally, arm in arm, shuffling, reeling, and
anon breaking into a solemn sort of dance; and everybody gave them wide
berth on the street, and people paused to look after them, marking them
with sour visages and wagging heads--" She stopped short, finger on
lips, listening.
Far up the street I heard laughter, then a plaintive, sustained
howling, then more laughter, drawing nearer and nearer.
Elsin nodded in silence. I sprang up and descended the stairs. The
tap-room was lighted with candles, and the sober burghers who sat
within, savoring the early ale, scarce noted my entrance, so intent
were they listening to the approaching tumult.
The peculiar howling had recommenced. Stepping to the open door I
looked out, and beheld a half-dozen forest-runners, in all the glory of
deep-fringed buckskin and bright wampum, slowly hopping round and round
in a circle, the center of which was occupied by an angry town
watchman, lanthorn lighted, pike in hand. As they hopped, lifting their
moccasined feet as majestically as turkeys walking in a muddy road,
fetching a yelp at every step, I perceived in their grotesque
evolutions a parody upon a Wyandotte scalp-dance, the while they yapped
and yowled, chanting:
    "Ha-wa-sa-say
        Ha! Ha!
    Ha-wa-sa-say!"
"Dance, watchman, dance!" shouted one of the rangers, whom I knew to be
Jack Mount, poking the enraged officer in the short ribs with the
muzzle of his rifle; and the watchman, with a snarl, picked up his feet
and began to tread a reluctant measure, calling out that he did not
desire to dance, and that they were great villains and rogues and
should pay for it yet.
I saw some shopkeepers putting up the shutters before their lighted
windows, while the townspeople stood about in groups, agape, to see
such doings in the public streets.
"Silence!" shouted Mount, raising his hand. "People of Albany, we have
shown you the famous Wyandotte dance; we will now exhibit a dancing
bear! Houp! Houp! Weasel, take thy tin cup and collect shillings! Ow!
Ow!" And he dropped his great paws so that they dangled at the wrist,
laid his head on one side, and began sidling around in a circle with
the grave, measured tread of a bear, while the Weasel, drinking-cup in
hand, industriously trotted in and out among the groups of scandalized
burghers, thrusting the tin receptacle at them, and talking all the
while: "Something for the bear, gentlemen--a trifle, if you please.
Everybody is permitted to contribute--you, sir, with your bones so
nicely wadded over with fat--a shilling from you. What? How dare you
refuse? Stop him, Tim!"
A huge ranger strode after the amazed burgher, blocking his way; the
thrifty had taken alarm, but the rangers herded them back with
persuasive playfulness, while the little Weasel made the rounds,
talking cheerfully all the time, and Mount, great fists dangling,
minced round and round, with a huge simper on his countenance, as
though shyly aware of his own grace.
"Tim Murphy should go into the shops," he called out. "There are a
dozen fat Dutchmen a-peeking through the shutters at me, and I dance
before no man for less than a shilling. Houp! Houp! How much is in thy
cup, Cade? Lord, what a thirst is mine! Yet I dance--villains, do you
mark me? Oh, Cade, yonder pretty maid who laughs and shows her teeth is
welcome to the show and naught to pay--unless she likes. Tim, I can
dance no more! Elerson, bring the watchman!"
The Weasel trotted up, rattling the coins so unwillingly contributed by
the economical; the runner addressed as Elerson tucked his arm
