asked in a lower voice.
"How long am I to be kept here?" she asked pettishly.
"Until the Yankees come through--and I can't tell you when that will be,
because I don't know myself."
"Are they in the pass?"
"We don't know. Everybody is beginning to be worried. We can't see very
far into that ravine----"
"Then why don't you go where you can see?" she said with a shrug.
"Where?" he asked, surprised.
"Didn't you know that there is a path above the pass?"
"A path!"
"Certainly. I can show you if you wish. You ought to be able to see to
the north end of the pass--if I am not mistaken----"
"Wait a moment!" he said excitedly. "I want you to take me there--just a
second, to speak to those officers--I'm coming back immediately----"
And he started on a run across the ravaged garden, holding his sabre
close, midway, by the scabbard.
That was her chance. Picking up her faded sunbonnet, she stepped from
the threshold, swinging it carelessly by one string. The sentries were
looking after the major; she dropped her sunbonnet, stooped to recover
it, and straightened up, the hidden hand grenade slipping from the crown
of the bonnet into her bodice between her breasts.
A thousand eyes seemed watching her as, a trifle pale, she strolled on
aimlessly, swinging the recovered sunbonnet; she listened, shivering,
for the stern challenge to halt, the breathless shout of accusation, the
pursuing trample of heavy boots. And at last, quaking in every limb, she
ventured to lift her eyes. Nobody seemed to be looking her way; the
artillery pickets were still watching the pass; the group of officers
posted under the trees still focused their glasses in that direction;
the young major was already returning across the garden toward her.
A sharp throb of hope set her pulses bounding--she had, safe in her
bosom, the means of warning her own people now; all she needed was a
safe-conduct from that knoll, and here it was coming, brought by this
eager, boyish officer, hastening so blithely toward her, his long, dark
shadow clinging like death to his spurred heels as he ran.
Would she guide him to some spot where it was possible to see the whole
length of the pass?
She nodded, not trusting herself to speak, and turned, he at her side,
into the woods.
If her map was not betraying her once more the path must follow the
edges of the pass, high up among those rocks and trees somewhere. There
was only one way of finding it--to climb upward to the overhanging
ledges.
Raising her eyes toward the leafy heights, it seemed to her incredible
that any path could lead along that wall of rock, which leaned outward
over the ravine.
But somehow she must mount there; somehow she must manage to remain
there unmolested, ready, the moment a single Union vidette cantered
into the pass, to hurl her explosive messenger into the depths below--a
startling but unmistakable signal to the blue column advancing so
unsuspiciously into that defile of hell.
As they climbed upward together through the holly-scrub she remembered
that she must not slip, for the iron weight in her bosom would endure no
rough caress from rock or earth.
How heavy it was--how hot and rough, chafing her body--this little iron
sphere, with a dozen deaths sealed up inside!
Toiling upward, planting her roughly shod feet with fearful precision,
she tried to imagine what it would be like if the tiny bomb in her bosom
exploded--tried to picture her terrified soul tearing skyward out of
bodily annihilation.
"It is curious," she thought with a slight shudder, "how afraid I always
am--how deeply, deeply afraid of death. God knows why I go on."
The boy beside her found the ascent difficult; spur and sabre impeded
him; once he lurched heavily against her, and his quick, stammered
apology was cut short by the dreadful pallor of her face, for she was
deadly afraid of the bomb.
"Did I hurt you?" he faltered, impulsively laying his hand on her arm.
She shivered and shook off his hand, forcing a gay smile. And they went
on together, upward, always upward, her pretty, provocative eyes meeting
his at intervals, her heart beating faster, death at her breast.
He was a few yards ahead when he called back to her in a low, warning
voice that he had found a path, and she hastened up the rocks to where
he stood.
Surely here was a trail winding along the very edge of the ledges, under
masses of overhanging rock--some dizzy runway of prehistoric man,
perhaps trodden, too, by wolf and panther, and later by the lank
mountaineer hunter or smuggler creeping to some eerie unsuspected by any
living creature save, perhaps, the silver-headed eagles soaring through
the fathomless azure vault above.
Below, the pass lay; but they could see no farther into it at first.
However, as they advanced cautiously, clinging to the outjutting cliff,
which seemed maliciously striving to push them out into space, by
degrees crag and trail turned westward and more of the pass came into
view--a wide, smooth cleft in the mountain, curving away toward the
north.
A few steps more and the trail ended abruptly in a wide, grassy space
set with trees, sloping away gently to the west, chopped off sheer to
the east, where it terminated in a mossy shelf overlooking the ravine.
Only a few rods away the dusk of the pass was cut by a glimmer of
sunlight; it was the northern entrance.
Something else was glimmering there, too; dozens of dancing points of
white fire--sunshine on buckle, button, bit and sabre. And the officer
beside her uttered a low, fierce cry and jerked his field glasses free
from the case.
"Their cavalry!" he breathed. "The Yankees are entering the pass, so
help me God!" And he drew his revolver.
So help him God! Something dark and round flew across his line of
vision, curving out into space, dropping, dropping into the depths
below. A clattering report, a louder racket as the rocky echoes,
crossing and recrossing, struck back at the clamoring cliffs.
[Illustration: "White-faced, desperate, she clung to him with the
tenacity of a lynx."]
So help him God! Half stunned, he stumbled to his feet, his dazed eyes
still blurred with a vision of horsemen, vaguely seen through vapors,
stampeding northward; and, at the same instant, she sprang at him,
striking the drawn revolver from his hand, tearing the sabre free and
flinging it into the gulf. White-faced, desperate, she clung to him with
the tenacity of a lynx, winding her lithe limbs around and under his,
tripping him to his knees.
Over and over they rolled, struggling in the grass, twisting, straining,
slipping down the westward slope.
"You--devil!" he panted, as her dark eyes flashed level with his. "I've
got--you--anyhow----"
Her up-flung elbow, flexed like a steel wedge, caught him in the throat;
they fell over the low ridge, writhing in each other's embrace, down the
slope, over and over, faster, faster--crack!--his head struck a ledge,
and he straightened out, quivering, then lay very, very still and heavy
in her arms.
Fiercely excited, she tore strips from her skirt, twisted them, forced
him over on his face, and tied his wrists fast.
Then, leaving him inert there on the moss, she ran back for his
revolver, found it, opened it, made certain that the cylinder was full,
and, flinging one last glance down the pass, hastened to her prisoner.
Her prisoner opened his eyes; the dark bruise on his forehead was
growing redder and wetter.
"Stand up!" she said, cocking her weapon.
The boy, half stupefied, struggled to his knees, then managed to rise.
"Go forward along that path!"
For a full minute he stood erect, motionless, eyes fixed on her; then
shame stained him to the temples; he turned, head bent, and walked
forward, wrists tightly tied behind him.
And behind him, weapon swinging, followed the Special Messenger in her
rags, pallid, disheveled, her dark eyes dim with pity.
VIII
EVER AFTER
             --And they married, and had many children, and
             lived happy ever after.--Old Tales
For two days the signal flags had been talking to each other; for two
nights the fiery torches had been conversing about that beleaguered city
in the South.
Division after division, corps after corps, were moving forward; miles
of wagons, miles of cavalry in sinuous columns unending, blackened every
valley road. Later, the heavy Parrots and big Dahlgrens of the siege
train stirred in their parked lethargy, and, enormous muzzles tilted,
began to roll out through the valley in heavy majesty, shaking the
ground as they passed, guarded by masses of red artillerymen.
Day after day crossed cannon flapped on red and white guidons; day after
day the teams of powerful horses, harnessed in twenties, trampled
through the valley, headed south.
Off the sandy headland a Federal gunboat lay at anchor, steam up--a
blackened, chunky, grimy thing of timber and iron plates, streaked with
rust, smoke blowing horizontally from her funnels. And day after day she
consulted hill and headland with her kaleidoscopic strings of flags; and
headland and hill talked back with fluttering bunting by day and with
torches of fire by night.
From her window in the emergency hospital the Special Messenger could
see those flags as she sat pensively sewing. Sometimes she mended the
remnants of her silken stockings and the last relics of the fine under
linen left her; sometimes she scraped lint or sewed poultice bandages,
or fashioned havelocks for regiments southward bound.
She had grown slimmer, paler, of late; her beautiful hair had been
sheared close; her head, covered with thick, clustering curls, was like
the shapely head of a boy. Limbs and throat were still smooth and round,
but had become delicate almost to leanness.
The furlough she had applied for had not yet arrived; she seemed to
remain as hopelessly entangled in the web of war as ever, watching,
without emotion, the old spider. Death, busy all around her, tireless,
sinister, absorbed in his own occult affairs.
The routine varied but little: at dawn surgeons' call chorused by the
bugles; files of haggard, limping, clay-faced men, headed by sergeants,
all converging toward the hospital; later, in every camp, drums awaking;
distant strains of regimental bands at parade; and all day and all night
the far rumble of railroad trains, the whistle of locomotives, and, if
the wind veered, the faint, melancholy cadence of the bells swinging for
a clear track and right of way.
Sometimes, sewing by the open window, she thought of her brother, now
almost thirteen--thought, trembling, of his restless letters from his
Northern school, demanding of her that he be permitted to take his part
in war for the Union, begging to be enlisted at least as drummer in a
nine-months' regiment which was recruiting within sight of the dormitory
where he fretted over Cæsar and the happy warriors of the Tenth Legion.
Sometimes, mending the last shreds of her cambric finery, she thought of
her girlhood, of the white porches at Sandy River; and always, always,
the current of her waking dream swung imperceptibly back to that swift
crisis in her life--a flash of love--love at the first glance--a word!
and his regiment, sabres glittering, galloping pell-mell into the
thundering inferno between the hills.... And sunset; and the wounded
passing by wagon loads, piled in the blood-soaked hay; and the glimpse
of his limp gold-and-yellow sleeve--and her own white bed, and her lover
of a day lying there--dead----
At this point in the dream-tale her eyes usually became too dim to see
the stitches, and there was nothing to do except to wait until the tired
eyes were dry again.
The sentry on duty knocked, opened the door, and admitted a
weather-stained aide-de-camp, warning her respectfully:
"Orders for you, ma'am."
The Special Messenger cleared her eyes, breathing unevenly, and unsealed
the dispatch which the officer handed her.
When she read it she opened a door and called sharply to a hospital
orderly, who came running:
