and moved away. 
Now Dr. Steele was more astonished than 
gratified to see Philip Surbridge, who had 
been teaching a little boy to ride a bicycle, 
catch up the three little girls and put them, 
with his ringing, boyish laugh, in three little 
 
swings which he personally conducted. Per- 
ceiving the doctor, he called out : 
" Ah, Steele ! We are having a beautiful 
time. You are just in season to enjoy your- 
self ! " 
Miriam turned to the doctor with a sweet 
shyness. 
" I never was so happy in my life ! " she 
said. " Most of these people haven't got into 
the country all summer ; some of them have 
never seen it. I cannot explain to you how it 
makes me feel. Everybody is here — every- 
body I asked ! " She spoke with the flattered 
gratification of a hostess whose salon is filled. 
" And Dan — and Dan, too," she added, " and 
Trixy ! " 
The crippled lad was lying in a hammock 
luxuriously reading a book on trained dogs. 
His crutch fell to the grass, and Miriam im- 
pulsively sprang and picked it up for him. 
Dan's eyes leaped to hers with the worship 
that deformity gives to beauty, and weakness 
to sympathetic strength. Dr. Steele watched 
this little episode with a puzzled expression. 
" I don't see Trixy." His gaze wandered 
about the lawn. "But then, I shouldn't know 
 
her if I did see her. Is that she ? " He pointed 
to the melancholy mongrel who was regarding 
the scene without enthusiasm. 
" I am ashamed of you ! " cried Miss Lau- 
riat, laughing, "not to recognize so famous 
an actress ! Trixy is in the coach house with 
Matthew. That poor, old, plebeian thing is not 
very clean, and Dan wouldn't let her asso- 
ciate with him. Trixy, you know, is an aristo- 
crat. The ice cream will be sent in to her on 
a cut-glass plate." 
"Is that gray dog one of the invited 
guests ? " 
" Why, of course. He came out on the 
steamer with the rest. He has a cough — 
that poor woman's dogs always do — and it 
was expected to do him good. He belongs to 
the little girls Mr. Surbridge is swinging. 
Come, Dr. Steele ! There are two boys who 
don't seem to be having a very good time. 
Would you mind playing Bear with them? 
Or perhaps Puss in the Corner. Or Wolf and 
Red Riding Hood ; or — something ! " 
"I can try," said Steele grimly. "But I 
am not sure how far I am to be flattered by 
your choice of roles." 
 
" You don't care for it," said Miriam under 
her breath. " You don't care for it at all. 
And it makes me so happy ! " 
" I care for anything that makes you happy ; 
you know I do." 
" Go, then," commanded Miriam, " and dis- 
cuss the tariff with Cady's Molly's father. It 
needs a man to entertain him. He has views 
about protection and free trade. The subject 
is beyond my depth, and I have never been 
able to keep up with it. It requires a mascu- 
line intellect." 
Steele laughed and obeyed her, awkwardly 
enough. His personal comfort was not en- 
hanced, nor the subject of the tariff advanced, 
by the reception which he met. 
" Oh, it 's you ! " said Cady's Molly's father. 
" You are the fellow that quarantined us, ain't 
you ? We fired you once. I never expected 
to see you again." 
Thus forced to feel his lack of position in 
slum society, conscious that he was unjustly 
made to suffer for a plain performance of 
duty, and therefore not in the best of hu- 
mors, Dr. Steele retreated from the lawn 
party and made his way to the piazza, where 
 
for an hour to come he solemnly discussed 
with Mrs. Jeffries the first arrest made by the 
Society for the Prevention of Docking and 
Cropping. The tail of a two weeks' puppy 
had been cut off, and the society had appealed 
to the humane sentiments of the state, and 
the majesty of the law. Dr. Steele did not 
return to the lawn party, which broke up 
directly after supper. 
In the little stir consequent on the de- 
parture of Miss Lauriat's guests, he stood 
embarrassed and apart. None of the people 
addressed him, and he was glad of it. Philip 
Surbridge went down the avenue with the 
consumptive woman on his arm ; in his other 
he carried the baby, and the three little girls 
clung to his coat-tails. 
" You 're coming back, aren't you ? " 
pleaded Mrs. Jeffries. " If you don't, there 
won't be anybody to talk to me." 
" I 'll come out to see you next week," an- 
swered Surbridge, with his tender smile. He 
did not meet Miriam's eye. " I will say good- 
night now. I think I 'll see them all safely 
back to town. They are a pretty helpless 
lot." 
 
This was in an undertone, but Miriam heard 
it, and warmly held out her hand. Dr. Steele 
watched her with compressed lips. She went 
part way down the avenue with Surbridge 
and the children. Dan Badger limped beside 
her with Trixy on his neck. The sea wind 
was shrewish, and Trixy wore her little over- 
coat with its hood. Miss Lauriat's poor people 
clung to her wistfully ; some of them kissed 
her, all blessed her, and then the turn in the 
avenue hid them. 
She came back walking rather fast, breath- 
less and beautiful. Steele went down to meet 
her. He had a paper in his hand ; it was a 
printer's proof-sheet. 
" It fell from your pocket," he began, " as 
you went down the steps. Will you pardon 
me? It was print, and I did look at it. I 
didn't read it, though. I didn't know that 
you wrote." 
Miriam flushed and held out her hand for 
the proof-sheet. 
" Let me read it, won't you ? " he entreated. 
" As long as you have seen it — well — 
yes. I do not know that I mind — that is — 
not very much." 
 
" I did not know that you were an au- 
thoress," observed Steele. 
" I am not an authoress/' flashed Miriam, 
"and no reading man ever uses that word, 
Dr. Steele. Let me have my proof-sheet, if 
you please." 
" Oh, forgive me ! " cried Steele. " I am 
always saying or doing the wrong thing." 
" And I am always forgiving you," she 
answered in an unsteady voice. 
Steele read the verses. There were but two, 
and they ran like this : 
SONG 
To the spaces between the stars 
We went, my love and I, 
Among the uttermost things. 
For my love hath wings; 
With twain he covers his face, 
With twain his feet, 
With twain he doth fly. 
To the earth and our rose-red door, 
We came, my love and I. 
Among the dear, daily things, 
He folded his wings. 
But the winged watch their time. 
And when he starts, 
Ah, how shall I fly ? 
 
He returned the proof-sheet to her. " I 
don't understand it," he said perplexedly. 
" It is graceful, but I don't think I know 
what you mean." 
Miriam put the verses back in her pocket. 
" Now your taste for painting," began Dr. 
Steele, " that appeals to me. I have never 
lost my interest in art. There are so many 
things that a man does lose, you know. I 
hope you have not given up whatever you 
were doing at the school? I like to think of 
you in that peaceful and aesthetic place." 
" I have not been there this summer," said 
Miriam, in a constrained tone. 
" Why not ? " 
Miriam made no reply. Her attraction for 
Dr. Steele had now reached a stage where she 
was conscious of wishing to harmonize with 
him in everything, and uncomfortable when 
she might not. She could not have explained 
to herself why it was that she often found it 
impossible to give him a confidence which she 
longed to offer. His presence brought her 
pleasure, but not peace. He came often ; the 
summer passed dreamily ; and she slowly be- 
gan to admit to herself — but not as yet to 
 
him — that he was becoming necessary to her. 
As the doctor's visits increased in frequency, 
those of the lawyer diminished. Miriam, who 
