believed! Your dear mother's daughter too! You'll end in a harem,
Margaret, mark my word.'
'And be sewn up in a sack and thrown into the Bosphorus,' laughed
Margaret, trying to get away.
'Such things have happened before now,' said Mrs. Rushmore gloomily.
'Greeks don't have harems,' Margaret objected.
'Don't catch cold,' said Mrs. Rushmore, by way of refuting Margaret's
argument. 'It looks as if it might rain.'
The morning was still and soft and overcast, and the air was full of
the scent of the flowers and leaves, and fresh-clipped grass. The small
birds chirped rather plaintively from the trees on the lawn, or stood
about the edge of the little pond apparently expecting something to
happen, hopping down to the water occasionally, looking down at the
reflections in it and then hopping back again with a dissatisfied air;
and they muffled themselves up in their feathers as if they meant to go
to sleep, and then suddenly spread their wings out, without flying, and
scraped the grass with them. The elms were quite green already, and the
oaks were pushing out thousands of bright emerald leaves. There is a
day in every spring when the maiden year reaches full girlhood, and
pauses on the verge of woman's estate, to wonder at the mysterious
longings that disquiet all her being, and at the unknown music that
sings through her waking dreams.
Margaret sat in the motor car wrapped in a wide thin cloak and covering
her mouth lest the rush of air should affect her voice; but the quick
motion was pleasant, and she felt all the illusion of accomplishing
something worth doing, merely because she was spinning along at
breakneck speed. Somehow, too, the still air and the smell of the
flowers had made her restless that morning before starting, and the
rapid movement soothed her. If she had been offered her choice just
then, she would perhaps have been on horseback for a gallop across
country, but the motor car was certainly the next best thing to that.
For some minutes the chauffeur kept his eyes on the road ahead and both
hands on the steering-gear. Then one hand moved, the speed of the car
slackened suddenly, and the man turned and spoke over the back of his
seat.
'I hope you'll forgive me,' he said in English.
Margaret started and sat up straight, for the voice was Logotheti's.
The huge goggles, the protecting curtain over half the face, the
wide-visored cap and the turned-up coat collar, had disguised him
beyond all recognition. Even his usually smooth black moustache was
ruffled out of shape, and hid his characteristic mouth.
Margaret uttered an exclamation of surprise, not quite sure whether she
ought to smile or frown.
'I thought Mrs. Rushmore would not like it, if I came for you myself,'
he continued, looking at her through his goggles.
'I'm sure she wouldn't,' Margaret assented readily.
'In point of fact,' Logotheti continued, with a grin, 'she expressed
her opinion of me with extraordinary directness. Suspicious Greek!
Worse than a foreigner! As bad as a Turk! The unprincipled owner of a
harem! It's really true that eavesdroppers never hear any good of
themselves! I never tried it before, and it served me right.'
'You cannot say that I said anything against you,' laughed Margaret. 'I
took your defence.'
'Not with enthusiasm.' Logotheti joined in her laugh.
'You thought there might be just a little prejudice in her opinion and
you told her that Greeks don't have harems. Yes--yes--I suppose that
might be called defending an absent friend.'
The car was moving very slowly now.
'If I had known it was you, I would have called you all sorts of
names,' Margaret answered. 'Should you mind taking that thing off your
face for a moment? I don't like talking to a mask, and you may be some
one else after all.'
'No,' said Logotheti, 'I'm not "some one else".' He emphasised the
words that had become familiar to them both. 'I wish I were! But if I
take off my glasses and cap, you will be frightened, for my hair is not
smooth and I'm sure I look like a Greek pirate!'
'I should like to see one, and I shall not be frightened.'
He pulled off his cap and glasses, and faced her. She stared at him in
surprise, for she was not sure that she should have recognised him. His
thick black hair stuck up all over his head like a crest, his heavy
eyebrows were as bushy as an animal's fur and his rough and bristling
moustache lent his large mouth and massive jaws a look approaching to
ferocity. The whole effect was rather startling, and Margaret opened
her eyes wide in astonishment. Logotheti smiled.
'Now you understand why I smooth my hair and dress like a tailor's
manikin,' he said quietly. 'It's enough to cow a mob, isn't it?'
'Do you know, I'm not sure that I don't like you better so. You're more
natural!'
'You're evidently not timid,' he answered, amused. 'But you can fancy
the effect on Mrs. Rushmore's nerves, if she had seen me.'
'I should not have dared to come with you. As it is----' She hesitated.
'Oh, as it is, you cannot help yourself,' Logotheti said. 'You can't
get out and walk.'
'I could get out when you have to stop at the petrol station; and I
assure you that I can refuse to come with you again!'
'Of course you can. But you won't.'
'Why not?'
'Because you're much too sensible. Have I offended you, or frightened
you? What have I done to displease you?'
'Nothing--but----' She laughed and shook her head as she broke off.
'I haven't even asked you to marry me to-day! I should think that I was
taking an unfair advantage, if I did, since I could easily carry you
off just now. The car will run sixty miles at a stretch without any
trouble at all, and I don't suppose you would risk your neck to jump,
merely for the sake of getting away from me, would you?'
'Not if you behaved properly,' Margaret answered.
'And then,' Logotheti continued, 'I could put her at full speed and
say, "If you won't swear to marry me, I'll give myself the satisfaction
of being killed with you at the very next bridge we come to!" Most
women would rather marry a man than be smashed to atoms with him, even
if he looks like a pirate.'
'Possibly!'
'But that would be unfair. Besides, an oath taken under compulsion is
not binding. I should have to find some other way.'
'Shall we go on?' Margaret asked. 'I shall be late for the rehearsal.'
'Give it up,' suggested Logotheti calmly. 'We'll spend the morning at
St. Cloud. Much pleasanter than tiring yourself out in that wretched
theatre! I want to talk to you.'
'You can talk to me when I am not singing.'
'No. Singing will distract your attention, and you won't listen to what
I tell you. You have no idea what delightful things I can say when I
try!'
'I wonder!' Margaret laughed lightly. 'You might begin trying while you
take me to Paris. We haven't run a mile in the last ten minutes, and
it's getting late.'
'Unless you are always a little late nobody will respect you. I'll go a
little faster, just to prove to you that you can do anything you like
with me, even against my judgment. Let me put on my glasses first.'
At that moment a man met them on a bicycle, and passed at a leisurely
pace. There was not much traffic on the Versailles road at that hour,
and Margaret let her eyes rest idly on the man, who merely glanced at
her and looked ahead again. Logotheti had taken off his cap in order to
adjust his goggles and shield. When the bicycle had gone by he laughed.
'There goes a typical French bookworm, bicycling to get an appetite,'
he observed. 'I wonder why a certain type of Frenchman always wears kid
boots with square patent leather toes, and a Lavallière tie, and
spectacles with tortoise-shell rims!'
'If he could see you as you generally are,' answered Margaret, 'he
would probably wonder why a certain type of foreigner plasters his hair
down and covers himself with diamonds and rubies! Do go a little
faster, it's getting later every moment.'
'It always does.'
'Especially when one doesn't wish it to! Please go on!'
'Say at once that I've bored you to death.' He put the car at
half-speed.
'No. You don't bore me at all, but I want to get to the theatre.'
'To please you, I am going there--for no other reason. I'll do anything
in the world to give you pleasure. I only wish you would do the
smallest thing for me!'
'What, for instance? Perhaps I may do some very little thing. You'll
get nothing if you don't ask for it!'
'Some people take without asking. Greek pirates always do, you know!
But I can't drive at this rate and talk over my shoulder.'
The way was clear and for several minutes he ran at full speed, keeping
his eyes on the road. Margaret turned sideways and kept behind him as
much as possible, shielding her face and mouth from the tremendous
draught.
She had told the truth when she had said that he did not bore her. The
whole thing had a savour of adventure in it, and it amused her to think
how shocked Mrs. Rushmore would have been if she had guessed that the
chauffeur was Logotheti himself. There was something in the man's
coolness that attracted her very much, for though there was no danger
on the present occasion, she felt that if there had been any, he would
have been just as indifferent to it if it stood in the way of his
seeing her alone. Poor Lushington had always been so intensely proper,
so morbidly afraid of compromising her, and above all, so deadly in
earnest!
She did not quite like to admit that the Greek was altogether in
earnest, too, and that she was just a little afraid of him; still less
that her unacknowledged fear gave her rather a pleasant sensation. But
it was quite true that she had liked him better than before, from the
moment when he had pulled off his cap and glasses and shown his face as
nature had made it. However he might appear hereafter when she met him,
she would always think of him as she had seen him then.
Most women are much more influenced by strength in a man than by
anything which can reasonably be called beauty. Actually and
metaphorically every woman would rather be roughly carried off her feet
by something she cannot resist than be abjectly worshipped and
flattered; yet worship and flattery, though second-best, are much
better than the terribly superior and instructive affection which the
born prig bestows upon his idol with the air of granting a favour on
moral grounds.
Men, on the other hand, detest being carried away, almost as much as
being led. The woman who lets a man guess that she is trying to
influence him is lost, and generally forfeits for ever any real
influence she may have had. The only sort of cleverness which is
distinctly womanly is that which leads a man to do with energy,
enthusiasm and devotion the very thing which he has always assured
everybody that he will not think of doing. The old-fashioned way of
making a pig go to market is to pull his tail steadily in the opposite
direction. If you do that, nothing can save him from his fate; for he
will drag you off your feet in his effort to do what he does not want
to do at all; and there is more 'psychology' in that plain fact than in
volumes of subtle analysis.
CHAPTER XIV
Lushington's first discovery was not calculated to soothe his feelings.
It had come about simply enough. He had bicycled in the Boulevard
Péreire, keeping an eye on Logotheti's house from a distance, and had
seen the motor car waiting before the door, in charge of the chauffeur.
A man had come out, dressed precisely like the latter, had got in and
had gone off, apparently in no hurry, while the original chauffeur went
into the house, presumably to wait. It had been easy enough to keep the
machine in sight till it was fairly out on the road to Versailles,
after which Lushington had felt tolerably sure that by going slowly he
should meet it coming back and probably bringing Margaret. As has been
seen, this was what happened, and, as chance favoured him, he passed
the motor before Logotheti had covered his face again. He was not
likely to forget that face either, and it had done more to reveal to
him his adversary's true character than any number of meetings in
society. For once he had seen the real Logotheti, as Margaret had. He
