them, playing, the harmless rivalry of studying together. When it
comes to that, I could have a small school. You see she will be
growing older all the time."

"Frankly, which would be best? You are more capable of deciding, since
you have had a wider experience in this matter."

"Oh, the school. You see she must take a place with other people. She
has no relatives, and friends must stand in their stead."

He turned back to his paper, but he was not reading. The little girl
was all his. He had a feeling when they left Maine that nothing and no
one should come between them. Every thought, every desire should
cluster about her. He would make a fortune for her. His first plan in
going to California was to start to the gold fields for the sake of
adventures. He would cut loose from all old recollections. He would
leave Laverne Westbury a comfortable and satisfied wife and mother. He
had no bitterness against his rival now. It had all been so different.
Many a night on shipboard he lived over those few sad weeks and hugged
to his heart the consolation that she had loved him, and that fate had
been cruel to both. And then, conscious of the finer strain of
fatherhood that had so long lain fallow in his soul, the child slipped
into the place, and aims were changed for him. There would be enough
for him to do in the new town where everything was needed, and he
could turn his hand to almost anything. But he must keep to her, she
was the apple of his eye, and he would go groping in sorrowful
darkness without her.

He had a curious feeling at first that he must hide her away lest her
father should start up from somewhere and claim her, and was glad to
light on that out-of-the-way place. The long voyage had been like
living in the same village with these people. The New England
reticence of Miss Holmes appealed to him in a peculiar manner, he was
reticent himself. Then the child took the greatest fancy to her. She
was rather timid about this new world while the others were ready for
adventures. And when he offered her a home for the care of the child
she was very willing to accept it for the present. Her belief was that
when she was rested and in her usual health she should teach school
again.

Her two friends had teased her a little about finding a possible
lover in Jason Chadsey. She had the fine feminine delicacy that shrank
from the faintest suspicion of putting herself in the way of such a
possibility. He was a sturdy, upright, plain-spoken fellow, not at all
her ideal, and she still had the romance of girlhood. She came to know
presently by her womanly intuition that marriage had no place in his
thoughts, that were centred in the little girl. Perhaps, her mother
was his only sister, a deserted wife, she gathered from childish
prattle of Laverne's. She knew so little about her past. Uncle Jason
had come when they were in great want, and her mother had died. And
now, Jason Chadsey knew it would be best for this idea to gain
credence. He would always be her uncle.

But he had some duties toward her. She could not always remain a
child, a plaything. That was the sorrow of it. There must be a rich,
delightful life before her. She must have the joys her mother had
missed, the prosperity that had not come to her.

He looked up from the paper presently.

"About the school," he began. "Yes, I have been considering it. And
you will have quite enough to do to keep the house and have the
oversight of her; I will make it an object for you to stay. We get
along comfortably together, though sometimes I feel I am a queer
unsocial Dick, much occupied now with business. But it is all for her.
She is the only thing out of a life that has been all ups and downs,
but, please God, there'll be some clear sailing now. I like San
Francisco. I like the rush and bustle and newness, the effort for a
finer civilization that has strength and purpose in it. Heaven knows
there is enough of the other sort, but the dross does get sifted out
and the gold is left. It will be so here, and these earnest men ten
years hence will be proud of the city they are rearing."

He glanced at her steadily, forgetting he had wandered from the main
question.

"You will not leave us----"

"I? Oh, no;" yet she colored a little.

"There will be enough to do if the child does go to school. And you
can walk down for her in the afternoon, wherever it is, and have
little outings. I am glad you are so fond of her, and she loves you.
She isn't the kind to strew her love broadcast."

"Yes, I am very fond of her," was the reply.




CHAPTER VIII

GIRLS AND GIRLS


They rambled over the hills on Sunday, for Miss Holmes had given her
ankle a little wrench and was applying hot fomentations. Up there was
the Presidio, and over here the beautiful ocean, blue as the sky
to-day, except where the swells drove up on the rocks and, catching
the sun, made spray of all colors. The ground squirrels ran about,
scudding at the slightest sound of human beings, which they seemed to
distinguish from the rustling and whispering of the trees, or the
tinkle of a little stream over the stones. It ran under a crevice in
the rock that was splitting apart now by some of Nature's handiwork
and came out over west of their house where it dropped into a little
basin. Here was a blasted pine that had been struck by some freak of
rare lightning, then piles of sand over which cactus crept. And here
was a deer-trail, though civilization had pretty well scared them
away.

But the birds! Here was the jay with his scolding tongue, the swallows
darting to and fro in a swift dazzle, the martins in bluish purple,
the tanager in his brilliant red, the robin, thrush, meadowlark, the
oriole, and the mocking birds that filled the air with melody this May
Sunday. And nearly every foot of ground was covered with bloom. Now
and then the little girl hopped over a tuft that she might not crush
the beautiful things. Great clouds of syringas and clusters of white
lilies filled the air with a delicious fragrance. And the wild lilac
with its spikes of bloom nodding to the faintest breeze. Wild barley
and wild oats, and a curious kind of clover, and further down the
coarse salt grass with its spear-like blades.

They sat down on some stones and glanced over the ocean. There were
two vessels coming up the coast and some seamews were screaming. It
was all wild and strange, almost weird, and no little girl could have
dreamed that in a few years streets would be stretching out here. As
for trolleys going to and fro, even grown people would have laughed at
such a thing.

They talked of the great procession that was to be the next day. And
then Uncle Jason wondered how she would like going to school
regularly.

"I shall like girls," she said. "There are no boys where Olive goes.
She thinks boys are more fun."

"But you don't go to school for the mere fun."

"They make so much noise in the street. And some times they sing such
funny songs. But they were nice about sledding back home, only there's
no snow here."

"Are you ever homesick?"

"You know I was sick sometimes on the ship."

"But to go back, I mean."

"There wouldn't be any one--I've almost forgotten who were there.
Mother, you know----" with a pitiful sort of retrospection.

"Yes, yes," hurriedly.

"Would you want to go?"

"Oh, no, no!" with some vehemence.

She came and leaned against his knee, put her arms about his neck, and
her soft cheek against his weather-beaten one.

"I should never want to go anywhere without you," she replied, with
grave sweetness.

"You are all I have, my little darling."

"And I haven't any one else. Olive has such a lot of cousins. She goes
over to Oaklands to see them."

There was a long pause and the wind rushed by laden with perfumes.
They heard the lapping of the surf against the rocks. The strange
beauty penetrated both souls that were not so far apart after all.

"Uncle Jason, did you ever have a wife?" she asked, with a child's
innocence.

"No, dear." Sometime he would tell her the story of his love for her
mother.

"Then you won't want to marry any one?"

"Marry! I?" Had that Personette girl put some nonsense into her head
about Miss Holmes? He colored under the weather-browned skin.

"You see, Mr. Personette's wife had died, and I suppose he had to
marry some one again to look after the children."

"Would you like me to marry some one to look after you?" in a half
humorous tone.

"Why, Miss Holmes can do that," she returned, in surprise.

"She seems to do it very well." There was a lurking smile about the
corners of his mouth.

"I like her. No, I shouldn't like any one else coming in. Perhaps she
would not stay. No, Uncle Jason, I don't want you to marry any one,"
she said, simply. "And when I get old I shall not marry, though Carmen
means to. And we will live together always. Oh," with a bright little
laugh, "let's promise. Put your little finger--so." She hooked hers in
it. "Now, you must say: Honest and true, I love but you!"
