again, along the Via Appia Nuova. Any one might have supposed that he
would have struck across to that highroad some time before reaching the
city, but it was very long since Ercole had gone in that direction;
many new roads had been opened and some old ones had been closed, and he
was simply afraid of losing his way in a part of the Campagna no longer
familiar to him.
A short distance from the gate, where the inn stands that goes by the
name of Baldinotti, he took the turning to the left, which is the
Frascati road; and after that he walked more slowly, often stopping and
peering into the gloom to right and left, as if he were trying to
recognise objects in the Campagna.
CHAPTER XII
Corbario was not pleased with the account given by Settimia in the
letter she wrote him after reaching Pontresina with Regina and Marcello,
who had chosen the Engadine as the coolest place he could think of in
which to spend the hot months, and had preferred Pontresina to Saint
Moritz as being quieter and less fashionable. Settimia wrote that the
dear patient had looked better the very day after arriving; that the
admirable companion was making him drink milk and go to bed at ten
o'clock; that the two spent most of the day in the pine-woods, and that
Marcello already talked of an excursion up the glacier and of climbing
some of the smaller peaks. If the improvement continued, Settimia wrote,
it was extremely likely that the dear patient would soon be better than
he had ever been in his life.
Folco destroyed the letter, lit a cigarette, and thought the matter
over. He had deemed it wise to pretend assent when the Contessa had
urged him to join Marcello at once, but he had not had the least
intention of doing so, and had come back to Paris as soon as he was sure
that the Contessa was gone. But he had made a mistake in his
calculations. He had counted on Regina for the love of excitement,
display, and inane dissipation which women in her position very often
develop when they find that a man will give them anything they like; and
he had counted very little on her love for Marcello. Folco was still
young enough to fall into one of the most common errors of youth, which
is to believe most people worse than they are. Villains, as they grow
older, learn that unselfish devotion is more common than they had
thought, and that many persons habitually speak the truth, for
conscience' sake; finding this out, villains have been known to turn
into good men in their riper years, and have sometimes been almost
saints in their old age. Corbario smoked his cigarette and mentally
registered his mistake, and it is to be feared that the humiliation he
felt at having made it was much more painful than the recollection of
having dropped one deadly tablet into a little bottle that contained
many harmless ones. He compared it in his mind to the keen
disappointment he had felt when he had gone down to hide Marcello's
body, and had discovered that he had failed to kill him. It is true that
what he had felt then had been accompanied by the most awful terror he
could imagine, but he distinguished clearly between the one sensation
and the other. There was nothing to fear now; he had simply lost time,
but that was bad enough, since it was due to his own stupidity.
He thought over the situation carefully and considered how much it would
be wise to risk. Another year of the life Marcello had been leading in
Paris would have killed him to a certainty; perhaps six months would
have done it. But a summer spent at Pontresina, living as it was clear
that Regina meant him to live, would give the boy strength enough to
last much longer, and might perhaps bring him out of all danger.
Corbario considered what might be done, went over many plans in his
mind, compared many schemes, for the execution of some of which he might
have paid dearly; and in the end he was dissatisfied with all, and began
over again. Still he reached no conclusion, and he attributed the fault
to his own dulness, and his dulness to the life he had been leading of
late, which was very much that which he wished Marcello to lead. But he
had always trusted his nerves, his ingenuity, and his constitution; if
one of the three were to fail him, now that he was rich, it was better
that it should be his ingenuity.
He made up his mind to go to the Engadine and see for himself how
matters looked. He could stay at Saint Moritz, or even Samaden, so as
not to disturb Marcello's idyl, and Marcello could come down alone to
see him. He should probably meet acquaintances, and would give them to
understand that he had come in order to get rid of Regina and save his
stepson from certain destruction. Society was very lenient to young men
as rich as Marcello, he reflected, but was inclined to lay all the blame
of their doings on their natural guardians. There was no reason why
Corbario should expose himself to such criticism, and he was sure that
the Contessa had only said what many people clearly thought, namely,
that he was allowing Marcello far too much liberty. The world should see
that he was doing his duty by the boy.
He left Paris with regret, as he always did, after writing to Marcello
twenty-four hours beforehand. He wrote at the same time to Settimia.
"Folco will be here to-morrow," Marcello said, as he and Regina sat
under the pine-trees beyond the stream, a little way above the town.
Regina sat leaning against the trunk of a tree, and Marcello lay on his
side, resting on his elbow and looking up to her. He saw her face
change.
"Why should he come here?" she asked. "We are so happy!"
"He will not disturb us," Marcello answered. "He will stop at Saint
Moritz. I shall go down to see him there. I am very fond of him, you
know, and we have not seen each other for at least two months. I shall
be very glad to see him."
The colour was sinking in Regina's face, and her eyelids were almost
closed.
"You are the master," she said quietly enough. "You will do as you
will."
He was surprised, and he felt a little resentment at her tone. He liked
her better when she dominated him, as on that night in Paris when she
had made him promise to come away, and had refused to let him drink more
wine, and had sent him to bed like a child. Now she spoke as her
forefathers, serfs born to the plough and bound to the soil, must have
spoken to their lords and owners. There was no ancient aristocratic
blood in his own veins; he was simply a middle-class Italian gentleman
who chanced to be counted with the higher class because he had been born
very rich, had been brought up by a lady, and had been more or less well
educated. That was all. It did not seem natural to him that she should
call him "the master" in that tone. He knew that she was not his equal,
but somehow it was a little humiliating to have to own it, and he often
wished that she were. Often, not always; for he had never been sure that
he should have cared to make her his wife, had she been ever so well
born. He scarcely knew what he really wanted now, for he had lost his
hold on himself, and was content with mere enjoyment from day to day. He
could no longer imagine living without her, and while he was conscious
that the present state of things could not last very long, he could not
face the problem of the future.
He did not answer at once, and she sat quite still, almost closing her
eyes.
"Why should you be displeased because I am going to see Folco?" he asked
after a while.
"He comes to take you away from me," she answered, without moving.
"That is absurd!" cried Marcello, annoyed by her tone.
"No. It is true. I know it."
"You are unreasonable. He is the best friend I have in the world. Do you
expect me to promise that I will never see him again?"
"You are the master."
She repeated the words in the same dull tone, and her expression did not
change in the least. Marcello moved and sat up opposite to her, clasping
his hands round his knees. He was very thin, but the colour was already
coming back to his face, and his eyes did not look tired.
"Listen to me," he said. "You must put this idea out of your head. It
was Folco who found the little house in Trastevere for you. He arranged
everything. It was he who got you Settimia. He did everything to make
you comfortable, and he has never disturbed us once when we have been
together. He never so much as asked where I was going when I used to go
down to see you every afternoon. No friend could have done more."
"I know it," Regina answered; but still there was something in her tone
which he could not understand.
"Then why do you say that he means to separate us?"
Regina did not reply, but she opened her eyes and looked into Marcello's
long and lovingly. She knew something that he did not know, and which
had haunted her long. When Folco had come to the bedside in the
hospital, she had seen the abject terror in his face, the paralysing
fear in his attitude, the trembling limbs and the cramped fingers. It
had only lasted a moment, but she could never forget it. A child would
have remembered how Folco looked then, and Regina knew that there was a
mystery there which she could not understand, but which frightened her
when she thought of it. Folco had not looked as men do who see one they
love called back from almost certain death.
"What are you thinking?" Marcello asked, for her deep look stirred his
blood, and he forgot Folco and everything in the world except the
beautiful creature that sat there, within his reach, in the lonely
pine-woods.
She understood, and turned her eyes to the distance; and she saw the
quiet room in the hospital, the iron bedstead painted white, the smooth
pillow, Marcello's emaciated head, and Corbario's face.
"I was thinking how you looked when you were ill," she answered simply.
The words and the tone broke the soft little spell that had been weaving
itself out of her dark eyes. Marcello drew a short, impatient breath and
threw himself on his side again, supporting his head on his hand and
looking down at the brown pine-needles.
"You do not know Folco," he said discontentedly. "I don't know why you
should dislike him."
"I will tell you something," Regina answered. "When you are tired of me,
you shall send me away. You shall throw me away like an old coat."
"You are always saying that!" returned Marcello, displeased. "You know
very well that I shall never be tired of you. Why do you say it?"
"Because I shall not complain. I shall not cry, and throw myself on my
knees, and say, 'For the love of heaven, take me back!' I am not made
like that. I shall go, without any noise, and what must be will be.
That is all. Because I want nothing of you but love, I shall go when you
have no more love. Why should I ask you for what you have not? That
would be like asking charity of the poor. It would be foolish. But I
shall tell you something else."
"What?" asked Marcello, looking up to her face again, when she had
finished her long speech.
"If any one tries to make me go before you are tired of me, it shall be
an evil day for him. He shall wish that he had not been born into this
world."
"You need not fear," Marcello said. "No one shall come between us."
"Well, I have spoken. It does not matter whether I fear Signor Corbario
or not, but if you like I will tell him what I have told you, when he
comes. In that way he will know."
She spoke quietly, and there was no murderous light in her eyes, nor any
dramatic gesture with the words; but she was a little paler than before,
and there was an odd fixedness in her expression, and Marcello knew that
she was deeply moved, by the way she fell back into her primitive
peasant's speech, not ungrammatical, but oddly rough and forcible
compared with the language of educated society which she had now learned
tolerably well from him.
After that she was silent for a while, and then they talked as usual,
and the day went by as other days had gone.
On the next afternoon Folco Corbario reached Saint Moritz and sent a
note up to Marcello asking him to come down on the following morning.
Regina was left alone for a few hours, and she went out with the idea of
taking a long walk by herself. It would be a relief and almost a
pleasure to walk ten miles in the clear air, breathing the perfume of
the pines and listening to the roar of the torrent. Marcello could not
walk far without being tired, and she never thought of herself when he
was with her; but when she was alone a great longing sometimes came over
her to feel the weight of a conca full of water on her head, to roll up
her sleeves and scrub the floors, to carry burdens and work with her
hands all day long, as she had done ever since she was a child, with the
certainty of being tired and hungry and sleepy afterwards. Her hands had
