times when he tried to hide from view. It was a curious example of the
biter bit.
"That's all," said Orr with tigerish cheerfulness at last.
He had done him. He had given him the medicine. He had more in
reserve. Peacock meanwhile had once jumped at Orr, his fist raised.
Once he gave him the lie direct. Once he accused him of suborning. But
Orr in sandbagging the witness with one hand, had another free for the
prosecution. He was gluttonish, giving as good as was sent, very often
better.
The Recorder, dismayed at the slugging, protested. "A human being is
on trial for his life. I cannot try a case where only counsel are
heard."
Immediately Orr supplied him with a diversion. One after another
witness for the defense scaled the stand, sleuths from over seas,
experts and servants.
In his corner before them Orr prowled. At the witnesses for the
prosecution he had roared, sometimes he had bounded at the Bar,
sometimes when a move of his succeeded he raised his right hand and
looked at it as though surprised that it was not blood red. But now
with his own witnesses he was serene, entirely calm, refreshingly
civil.
That civility awoke in Peacock the hyena. The first witness Orr
produced, a man who, as it afterward appeared, had had a rough and
tumble with Harris that morning in the corridor, he partly devoured.
What was left of him he sent to the Tombs. As fast as witnesses could
be produced he ate them up. It was terrific. You could not help
feeling that there are safer places than the witness stand in a murder
trial, that you ran the risk of being killed yourself, talked to death
if nothing worse.
"Don't go at him like a common scold," Orr engagingly pleaded at one
stage of the game. "Why browbeat and bully a witness as you do?" he
expostulated at another. "That's all, my friend," he said to one
witness, "and let me apologize for the District Attorney's remarks."
From his tone and manner never in the world would you have thought him
the man who, but a little before, had so thoroughly sandbagged Harris.
Meanwhile questions coarse as oaths, answers frank as sword thrusts,
clashed and resounded. One and all Orr's charges were substantiated.
The testimony was damning to Harris, infecting everything he had said.
From behind the rail Peacock volleyed and thundered. But truth when
you get at it is a stubborn thing. So far as Harris was concerned
there it stood and there too, during the production of it, Orr stood,
quite like an Angora lapping milk. You could hear him purr. The eyes
of Sylvia glistened like mica. Now and again Annandale laughed
outright.
It is always insufficient to be innocent of a given charge. You must
appear so. Annandale did not. Alternately he was bored and buoyant.
But not dejected, never depressed. He did not seem to feel that his
life was at stake. That is the attitude of the habitual ruffian. But
sentiment was veering. Public opinion is a wave that thinks, thinks
again, changes its mind, volatile as a woman. At the opening everybody
knew that Annandale was guilty. Now nobody was quite so sure.
The Recorder caressed his beard. "I think," he announced, "that I will
give the jury a recess."
CHAPTER IX
THE TWELFTH JUROR
Tumultuously the session was resumed. At the door was a riot. There a
squad of police fought back surging nondescripts clamoring for
admission, fighting for entrance to the continuous show. A woman
fainted. Another had her gown torn off. One man retired with a
blackened eye.
During the recess Orr got for a moment with Sylvia and Mrs. Waldron.
"Aren't you hungry?" he asked.
Sylvia took his hand and pressed it. In her eyes was victory, in her
face delight. "I never knew before how Protean you are. You have won."
Orr tossed his head. "Not by a long shot. Besides, there is the jury.
Eleven look imbecile and the twelfth looks ill. There is no telling at
all what they will do or will not. But aren't you to eat anything?" He
turned to Mrs. Waldron. "Aren't you hungry?"
"Very," said the lady, "but I can't do a thing with Sylvia. I----"
She would have said more, but the jury had filed in. The judge was
entering, preceded by the cry "Hats off!"
Orr slipped back to his corner, to which Annandale, with his matinee
air and the keeper for usher, had already returned. For a moment Orr
bent to him, then to his associates but briefly. Bending again to
Annandale he told him to take the stand.
The move, wholly unexpected, unusual, almost exceptional in murder
cases, created an impression that was excellent, a sense of admiration
for the fearlessness of the defense. From the prosecution came low
growls of content. They were to be fed at last. In anticipation they
licked their chops.
But the excellence of the impression dwindled. In the direct,
Annandale denied, of course, that he had committed the murder, denied
that he had ever contemplated it, swearing that to the best of his
recollection he had made no threat at all.
"To the best of your recollection," Orr repeated after him. "Now
please tell me, had anything occurred that night to impair your memory
in any way?"
"Well--er--yes. Yes. I had been drinking."
"Had you any animosity toward the deceased?"
"Toward Loftus? None whatever. On the contrary, he was my best
friend."
Peacock jumped. "I ask that that be stricken out."
Quietly Orr continued: "Had you known Loftus long?"
"All my life."
"Was he a friend of yours?"
"An intimate friend."
Orr turned to Peacock. "Your witness."
Peacock jumped again. "You say that on the night of the murder you had
been drinking. Were you drunk?"
Paternally the Recorder looked over and down. "The witness need not
answer that unless----"
Annandale interrupted him. "I am much obliged to Your Honor, but
really I have nothing to conceal. I was drunk, deplorably so."
"Habit of yours, is it?" Peacock snapped.
Annandale took a monocle from a pocket, screwed it in his eye, looked
through it at Peacock, smiled at him, with an air of fathomless good
fellowship, answered: "Dear me, no. Is it one of yours?"
"Oho!" cried Peacock, pocketing the insult but pouncing at the point,
"you were drunk on this occasion only. Got drunk for it, did you?"
"No," Annandale blandly and confidentially replied. "You see, don't
you know, it was the day of the panic. I had dropped a good lot of
money--a good lot, I mean, for me--and, as the saying is, I tried to
drown my sorrows."
"But you found that they could swim, didn't you? Now, tell me, among
these sorrows was not the greatest the one to which your former butler
has testified, your late wife's desire for a divorce in order that she
might marry Loftus? Is it not a fact that she told you so, and that
you then said, 'I'll kill him, I'll kill Royal Loftus like the dog
that he is'?"
"I recall no such conversation."
"What, then, was the nature of the conversation that passed between
you and your wife on this particular evening?"
"I don't remember."
"The conversation and the threat to which your butler has sworn may
therefore have occurred without your now recalling it. Is that not
so?"
"Everything is possible, you know," Annandale answered with a phrase
unconsciously borrowed of Orr. "But I doubt it very much for the
reason----"
"Here," interrupted Peacock. "I don't want your doubts or your reasons
or your haha airs. I want answers from you, direct answers. Where did
you go and what did you do after your threat?"
To this Orr objected. A wrangle ensued. Orr was sustained. Peacock
reconstructed his question. Annandale answered that he had gone to
Miss Waldron's, but that he remembered nothing else.
"Is this yours?" Peacock suddenly asked, producing the pistol marked
exhibit A.
"Probably," said Annandale, looking, not at it, but at the ceiling.
"That's all."
Annandale got from the stand. Others succeeded him there, experts for
the defense, men who recited their qualities and degrees as though
they were eating truffles to the sound of trumpets. One after another
they testified that liquor can ablate memory partially, wholly; can
ablate it regarding events antecedent and subsequent to a rememorated
point between; can, moreover, leave the subject in a condition
apparently normal yet actually in a state of trance.
"Do you really regard these people as experts?" Peacock with pitying
contempt asked of Orr. Then at once in rebuttal were other experts,
equally pleased with themselves, humorously disposing of psychical
epilepsy, affecting to regard it as a medicolegal myth. Among the
spectators the usual jest circulated. The mendacious were subdivided
into liars, damned liars, expert witnesses. Yet there you were. But
not Orr. Tortuously he involved the deponents in helpful
contradictions, smiling at them, at Peacock and the jury, smiling
with an air of saying "You see what confounded idiots these imbeciles
are."
But the session was closing. One more witness remained to be called.
"Miss Waldron, will you take the stand?"
With the charming manner of the thoroughbred New York girl Sylvia
circled the room. It was refreshing to see her, refreshing to hear the
way in which she corroborated what Annandale had said.
"But," objected Peacock, "you had just gone from his house; what did
he go to yours for?"
"To restore a string of pearls."
"Did he repeat to you anything that he had said to his wife?"
"Had he attempted to I should have refused to listen."
"Was he drunk?"
"I cannot say. I have never seen anyone in that condition."
"Did he make any threats regarding Loftus?"
"A gentleman does not make threats."
"Miss Waldron, I will thank you to answer me directly. Did he or did
he not?"
"He did not."
"You swear to that?"
"I do."
It was perjury, of course. Yet if a girl may not perjure herself like
a lady for the man she loves things have come to a pretty pass. That
idea apparently struck Peacock.
"Prior to the defendant's marriage you were engaged to him, were you
not?"
"I was."
"Are you engaged to him now?"
Very prettily and gracefully, without embarrassment, rather with
pride, Sylvia answered: "I am."
"That's all," said Peacock. "The State rests." But as he said it he
looked at the jury and sighed, sighed audibly, much as were he adding,
"You may judge the value of her testimony from that."
The resting, however, was but figurative. In a moment the summing up
began, a summing which, at first passionless as algebra, dealt with
technical points.
"Gentlemen," said Peacock turning again to the jury, "the evidence in
this case is of the kind known to you perhaps as circumstantial.
Evidence of this nature can lead and often does lead to a conclusion
more satisfactory than direct evidence can produce. Circumstances
cannot lie any more than facts can. Unless we resort to them it is in
vain that we attempt to detect and to punish crime. Crime shuns the
light of day. It seeks darkness. It courts secrecy. The assassin
moves stealthily. He calls no witness to see him shoot his victim
down. If you wait for an eye-witness you grant impunity to crime. It
is true, and probably you will be so told by counsel for the defense,
