that she was glad that he had no sweetheart.  Ah, well, nobody could
rob her of her right to dream, and this was a very pleasant dream.
"The train is slowing down," he said suddenly.
"We are approaching the frontier."  She shaded her eyes and searched
the speeding blackness outside.
"How far is it to the capital?" he asked.
"It lies two miles beyond the frontier."
Silence fell upon them, and at length the train stopped with a jerk.
In what seemed to them an incredibly short time a guard unlocked the
door.
He peered in.
"Here they are, sure enough, your Excellency!" addressing some one in
the dark beyond.
An officer from the military household of the Prince of Doppelkinn was
instantly framed in the doorway.  The girl tried to lower her veil; too
late.
"I am sorry to annoy your Highness," he began, "but the grand duke's
orders are that you shall follow me to the castle.  Lieutenant, bring
two men to tie this fellow's hands,"--nodding toward Scharfenstein.
Max stared dumbly at the girl.  All the world seemed to have slipped
from under his feet.
"Forgive me!" she said, low but impulsively.
"What does it mean?"  His heart was very heavy.
"I am the Princess Hildegarde of Barscheit, and your entering this
carriage has proved the greatest possible misfortune to you."
He stared helplessly--And everything had been going along so
nicely--the dinner he had planned in Dresden, and all that!
"And they believe," the girl went on, "that I have eloped with you to
avoid marrying the prince."  She turned to the officer in the doorway.
"Colonel, on the word of a princess, this gentleman is in no wise
concerned.  I ran away alone."
Max breathed easier.
"I should be most happy to believe your Highness, but you will honor my
strict observance of orders."  He passed a telegram to her.
Search train for Doppelkinn.  Princess has eloped.  Arrest and hold
pair till I arrive on special engine.
Barscheit.
The telegraph is the true arm of the police.  The princess sighed
pathetically.  It was all over.
"Your passports," said the colonel to Max.
Max surrendered his papers.  "You need not tie my hands," he said
calmly.  "I will come peaceably."
The colonel looked inquiringly at the princess.
"He will do as he says."
"Very good.  I should regret to shoot him upon so short an
acquaintance."  The colonel beckoned for them to step forth.
"Everything is prepared.  There is a carriage for the convenience of
your Highness; Herr Ellis shall ride horseback with the troop."
Max often wondered why he did not make a dash for it, or a running
fight.  What he had gone through that night was worth a good fight.
"Good-by," said the princess, holding out her hand.
Scharfenstein gravely bent his head and kissed it.
"Good-by, Prince Charming!" she whispered, so softly that Max scarcely
heard her.
Then she entered the closed carriage and was driven up the dark,
tree-enshrouded road that led to the Castle of Doppelkinn.
"What are you going to do with me?" Max asked, as he gathered up the
reins of his mount.
"That we shall discuss later.  Like as not something very unpleasant.
For one thing you are passing under a forged passport.  You are not
an American, no matter how well you may speak that language.  You are a
German."
"There are Germans in the United States, born and bred there, who speak
German tolerably well," replied Max easily.  He was wondering if it
would not be a good scheme to tell a straightforward story and ask to
be returned to Barscheit.  But that would probably appeal to the
officer that he was a coward and was trying to lay the blame on the
princess.
"I do not say that I can prove it," went on the colonel; "I simply
affirm that you are a German, even to the marrow."
"You have the advantage of the discussion."  No; he would confess
nothing.  If he did he might never see the princess again. . . .  The
princess!  As far away as yonder stars!  It was truly a very
disappointing world to live in.
"Now, then, forward!" cried the colonel to his men, and they set off at
a sharp trot.
From time to time, as a sudden twist in the road broke the straight
line, Max could see the careening lights of the princess' carriage.  A
princess!  And he was a man without a country or a name!
X
The castle of the prince of Doppelkinn rested in the very heart of the
celebrated vineyards.  Like all German castles I ever saw or heard of,
it was a relic of the Middle Ages, with many a crumbling, useless tower
and battlement.  It stood on the south side of a rugged hill which was
gashed by a narrow but turbulent stream, in which lurked the rainbow
trout that lured the lazy man from his labors afield.  (And who among
us shall cast a stone at the lazy man?  Not I!)  If you are fortunate
enough to run about Europe next year, as like as not you will be
mailing home the "Doppelkinn" post-card.
More than once I have wandered about the castle's interior, cavernous
and musty, strolled through its galleries of ancient armor, searched
its dungeon-keeps, or loitered to soliloquize in the gloomy judgment
chamber.  How time wars upon custom!  In olden times they created pain;
now they strive to subdue it.
I might go into a detailed history of the Doppelkinns, only it would be
absurd and unnecessary, since it would be inappreciable under the name
of Doppelkinn, which happens to be, as doubtless you have already
surmised, a name of mine own invention.  I could likewise tell you how
the ancient dukes of Barscheit fought off the insidious flattery of
Napoleon, only it is a far interest, and Barscheit is simply a
characteristic, not a name.  Some day I may again seek a diplomatic
mission, and what government would have for its representative a teller
of tales out of school?
It was, then, to continue the fortunes and misfortunes of Max
Scharfenstein, close to midnight when the cavalcade crossed the old
moat-bridge, which hadn't moved on its hinges within a hundred years.
They were not entering by the formal way, which was a flower-bedded,
terraced road.  It was the rear entrance.  The iron doors swung outward
with a plaintive moaning, like that of a man roused out of his sleep,
and Max found himself in an ancient guard-room, now used as a kind of
secondary stable.  The men dismounted.
"This way, Herr Ellis," said the colonel, with a mocking bow.  He
pointed toward a broad stone staircase.
"All I ask," said Max, "is a fair chance to explain my presence here."
"All in due time.  Forward!  The prince is waiting, and his temper may
not be as smooth as usual."
With two troopers in front of him and two behind, Max climbed the steps
readily enough.  They wouldn't dare kill him, whatever they did.  He
tried to imagine himself the hero of some Scott or Dumas tale, with a
grim cardinal somewhere above, and oubliettes and torture chambers
besetting his path.  But the absurdity of his imagination, so
thoroughly Americanized, evoked a ringing laughter.  The troopers eyed
him curiously.  He might laugh later, but it was scarcely probable.  A
tramp through a dark corridor and they came to the west wing of the
castle.  It was here that the old prince lived, comfortably and
luxuriously enough, you may take my word for it.
A door opened, flooding the corridor with light.  Max felt himself
gently pushed over the threshold.  He stood in the great living-room of
the modern Doppelkinns.  The first person he saw was the princess.  She
sat on an oriental divan.  Her hands were folded; she sat very erect;
her chin was tilted ominously; there was so little expression on her
pale face that she might have been an incomplete statue.  But Max was
almost certain that there was just the faintest flicker of a smile in
her eyes as she saw him enter.  Glorious eyes!  (It is a bad sign when
a man begins to use the superlative adjectives!)
The other occupant of the room was an old man, fat and bald, with a
nose like a russet pear.  He was stalking--if it is possible for a
short man to stalk--up and down the length of the room, and, judging
from the sonorous, rumbling sound, was communing half-aloud.
Betweenwhiles he was rubbing his tender nose, carefully and lovingly.
When a man's nose resembles a russet pear it generally is tender.
Whoever he was, Max saw that he was vastly agitated about something.
This old gentleman was (or supposed he was) the last of his line, the
Prince of Doppelkinn, famous for his wines and his love of them.  There
was, so his subjects said, but one tender spot in the heart of this old
man, and that was the memory of the wife of his youth.  (How the years,
the good and bad, crowd behind us, pressing us on and on!) However,
there was always surcease in the cellars--that is, the Doppelkinn
cellars.
"Ha!" he roared as he saw the blinking Max.  "So this is the fellow!"
He made an eloquent gesture.  "Your Highness must be complimented upon
your good taste.  The fellow isn't bad-looking."
"When you listen to reason, Prince," replied the girl calmly, "you will
apologize to the gentleman and give him his liberty."
"Oh, he is a gentleman, is he?"
"You might learn from him many of the common rules of
courtesy,"--tranquilly.
"Who the devil are you?" the prince demanded of Max.
"I should be afraid to tell you.  I hold that I am Max Scharfenstein,
but the colonel here declares that my name is Ellis.  Who are you?"
Max wasn't the least bit frightened.  These were not feudal times.
The prince stared at him.  The insolent puppy!
"I am the prince."
"Ah, your serene Highness,"--began Max, bowing.
"I am not called 'serene'"--rudely.  "The grand duke is 'serene.'"
"Permit me to doubt that," interposed the girl, smiling.
Max laughed aloud, which didn't improve his difficulties any.
"I have asked you who you are!" bawled the prince, his nose turning
purple.
"My name is Max Scharfenstein.  I am an American.  If you will wire the
American consulate at Barscheit, you will learn that I have spoken the
truth.  All this is a mistake.  The princess did not elope with me."
"His papers give the name of Ellis," said the colonel, touching his cap.
"Humph!  We'll soon find out who he is and what may be done with him.
I'll wait for the duke.  Take him into the library and lock the door.
It's a hundred feet out of the window, and if he wants to break his
neck, he may do so.  It will save us so much trouble.  Take him away;
take him away!" his rage boiling to the surface.
The princess shrugged.
"I can't talk to you either," said the prince, turning his glowering
eyes upon the girl.  "I can't trust myself."
"Oh, do not mind me.  I understand that your command of expletives is
rather original.  Go on; it will be my only opportunity."  The princess
rocked backward and forward on the divan.  Wasn't it funny!
"Lord help me, and I was perfectly willing to marry this girl!"  The
prince suddenly calmed down.  "What have I ever done to offend you?"
"Nothing," she was forced to admit.
"I was lonely.  I wanted youth about.  I wanted to hear laughter that
came from the heart and not from the mind.  I do not see where I am to
be blamed.  The duke suggested you to me; I believed you to be willing.
Why did you not say to me that I was not agreeable?  It would have
simplified everything."
"I am sorry," she said contritely.  When he spoke like this he wasn't
so unlovable.
"People say," he went on, "that I spend most of my time in my
wine-cellars.  Well,"--defiantly,--"what else is there for me to do?  I
am alone."  Max came within his range of vision.  "Take him away, I
tell you!"
And the colonel hustled Max into the library.
"Don't try the window," he warned, but with rather a pleasant smile.
