interest another for so long a time without the exterior aids of travel.
The man had always looked as engrossed as the girl, and Catalina was
forced to conclude that the mysterious arts were effective, and wished
it were not forbidden to listen behind a curtain, but only that
curiosity might be satisfied—she scorned arts herself. Now she wondered
distractedly what this ashen-haired houri was talking about to make Over
forget his very manners; but none of the long, desultory conversations,
followed by the longer silences peculiar to her experience with him,
threw light on the weapons of this accomplished ruler of hearts;
although the bare idea that they might be leaning over the parapet side
by side in a familiar silence brought Catalina to her feet and turned
her sharply towards the arcade. But at that moment she saw them coming.

Over was a little ahead of his companion, who was smiling with her lips,
and he came forward with some anxiety in his eyes.

“I only just missed you,” he said. “I thought you were there in the room
lost in one of your silent moods. When did you come down?”

“Only a little while ago,” said Catalina, sweetly, and she saw the eyes
of the other girl flash with something like fear. She also noted that
her cheeks were flushed.

“You have got a little sunburned,” she said, with concern for a fine
complexion in her voice. “It is much cooler down here. Have we time to
go into the Sala de los Embajadores?”

And Over was made subtly aware of the second-rate quality of Miss
Holmes’s accent.

They entered the immense room, whose dome is like a mighty jewel
hollowed and carved within, where Boabdil drew his last breath as king
of Granada; and before Miss Holmes could open her lips, Catalina, with
all the picturesqueness of vocabulary she could command at will,
described several of the scenes of which this most historical room in
the Alhambra was the theatre; not only throwing into low relief the
academic meagreness of the other girl’s knowledge, but insinuating its
supererogation. Meanwhile she missed nothing. She saw the girl’s color
fade, her expression of almost supercilious self-confidence give place
to anxiety, and as she turned away and stared out of one of the deep
windows, it rushed over Catalina sickeningly that Over, in the span of
an hour, had captivated her heart as well as her fancy. He must have
made himself very fascinating! Catalina bungled her centuries; Miss
Holmes in love would make a formidable rival.

The girl turned suddenly with mouth wholly supercilious and the light of
war in her eyes. Catalina’s face was as impassive as a mask. Miss Holmes
walked deliberately towards Over, her mouth relaxing and humor in her
eye, but Catalina was too quick for her. She might be an infant in the
eyes of this accomplished flirt, but she had imagination and a brain
capable under stress of abnormal rapidity of action. She had pulled out
her watch and was facing Over.

“The palace closes at twelve—for the morning.” she said, without a
quiver of nervousness in her voice. “It wants but a few minutes of
twelve, and we never care for luncheon until one. Would you care to go
down and make the usual futile attempt at the poste restante—or are you
tired?”

“Tired? Let us go, by all means. I have had exactly one letter since I
arrived in Spain. There surely is a batch here.”

“I expect rather important ones.” She turned to Miss Holmes.
“Good-morning,” she said, gayly. “And thank you so much. We are the
hungriest people in the world for knowledge.” And she marshalled the
unconscious Over out, he lifting his hat mechanically to Miss Holmes,
while admiring the sparkle in Catalina’s eyes and the unusual color in
her cheeks.




                                  XXII


As they walked down the Empedrada, the most shadowy of the avenues in
the park, Catalina’s ungloved hand came in contact with Over’s and was
instantly imprisoned. For a moment she lost herself in the warm
magnetism of that contact, wondering somewhat, but filled with a new
sense of pleasure. But as she turned her head and met his steady gaze,
half humorous, half tender, she made her obedient eyes dance with
mischief.

“Beware of the Alhambra,” she said, lightly.

“I am not afraid of the Alhambra,” and although she turned her hand he
held it fast.

“Aren’t you?”

“You are very provocative.”

She longed for the mantilla which had given her such confidence in
Toledo, but swept him a glance from the veiled splendor of her eyes.

“I don’t know whether I mind having my hand held or not.”

But if this were diplomacy it failed; he tightened his clasp.

“I am not sure that I know you.”

“I have heard you say that a good many times. You are not very
original.”

“I was thinking of to-day, particularly.”

“Why to-day?” The wondering expression held her eyes. “I have never felt
more natural, nor happy. I feel as if the mere blood in my veins had
turned to that golden mist we saw on the vega this morning. I adore
Spain!”

She spoke the last words in such a passion of relief that he brought his
face closer to hers.

“I believe I’d give my soul to kiss you,” he whispered. There was no
humor in his eyes, and he looked the born lover; and the glades of the
“sacred grove” looked the very bower of lovers. But Catalina’s moment of
response was over. Humiliated and furious with herself, she vowed on the
spot that she would never again lift an eyelash to fascinate him. Love
seemed lying in the dust, rocked back and forth by her experimental
foot. He should come to her of his own free will, or go whence he
came—with Miss Holmes, if he chose. She would be loved and wooed
ideally, or die an old maid. But to bait—to man[oe]uvre—to cross swords
with a rival! For the moment she hated Over, and he might have departed
on the instant with her blessing.

She had snatched away her hand and was almost running down the hill. He
made no effort to recover her until they reached the Gate of Granada,
and then they walked sedately down the white hot street together.

“Miss Holmes, it seems, has arranged rather a jolly affair for
to-night,” he said. “A dance in the Alhambra—in the Court of Lions. She
has permission from the authorities, and has engaged some musicians. The
moon rises at ten, and we will dance for two or three hours. How do you
like the idea?”

“Well enough. I am not overfond of dancing.”

“I am sorry. I hoped you would give me the first waltz.”

“Well, I will if I dance. But dancing is not my forte, and I hate doing
anything I don’t do well. I suppose you don’t dance any better yourself,
though. Englishmen never do.”

“Indeed! How many Englishmen have you danced with?”

“Well, I have heard they don’t.”

“I flatter myself I dance rather well. It would be more like you to
judge for yourself.”

“I’ll see.”

They reached the post-office after a hot walk through the town, there to
meet with the usual official stupidity, or indifference, at the window
of the poste restante. In vain Catalina adjured the somnolent person
leaning on his elbows to look carefully through the R’s and S’s and O’s.
He replied that there was nothing, but that there might be on the
morrow; the manager of the pension had already spoken to him.

They left the post-office with bristling tempers.

“It is a relief to hate something in Spain,” cried Catalina. “And I hate
the post, the telegraph, and the banks. There is a cab. I have had
enough of walking for one day.”




                                 XXIII


After luncheon Miss Holmes put her arm through Catalina’s. “Come into my
room and talk to me a little while,” she murmured. “I am so tired of all
these men.”

Catalina had stiffened at the contact, but pride made her yield at once.
She turned with a smile in her eyes, and the other girl exclaimed,
impulsively, “You are the most beautiful thing I ever saw in my life!”

“Oh!” said Catalina, melting; but it was characteristic that she merely
accepted the tribute as her due and did not return it in kind.

The two girls presented an edifying spectacle for the eyes of puzzled
man as they walked off, arm in arm; moreover, at the finish of an hour’s
chat in Miss Holmes’s cool little room they were very good friends, for
women may hate each other as rivals but like each other as human
creatures of the same sex. They have so many feminine interests in
common, that man often dips over the horizon of memory while the mind is
alive with the small and normal, only to resume his sway when it is
vacant again.

Miss Holmes, sitting on the floor, her hands clasped about her knees,
proved to be much like any other girl, and entertained Catalina with
lively anecdotes of her experience in Europe. Unconsciously she revealed
much that evoked Catalina’s sympathies. She made her own clothes, and it
was evident that her life was harried by small economies whose names
Catalina barely knew. She was a piece of respectable driftwood in Europe
anchored to a still more respectable sister, and the more remarkable
that she still was able to suggest a young woman of the leisure class.
