Mrs. Ballinger was well informed and really 
attractive with the sort of magnetism that drew 
one gently, and was not in the least insistent. 
She spoke of some of the neighbors in a very 
 
pleasant manner far removed from invidious gos- 
sip. In the newer houses the owners never spent 
the winter. Only the old inhabitants whose busi- 
ness was here or who had been here for genera- 
tions had the courage to remain. 
"And you?" inquired Mrs. Wilmarth sugges- 
tively. 
"Oh, I generally take a short holiday, run up 
to the city to hear a little good music and see my 
friends, and have various amusements. Though 
last winter I had three patients who stayed nearly 
all January. There are some splendid views in 
winter, only the evenings are apt to grow monot- 
onous. I see you have provided music for your 
young people. There are some delightful girls 
in that large pale green house just above here, 
and they give one or two musicales or entertain- 
ments for the benefit of the chapel. That is 
Rolfe avenue, and Squire Rolfe, as he is called, 
once owned it from the woods down to the chapel. 
And he has a keen eye for the future of the 
place, for he will only allow really fine houses to 
be erected on it." 
"About the girls?" inquired Helen with a smile. 
"There are seven Travis children, little and 
big ; two daughters and one son grown up. Elsie 
Travis is engaged this summer. Jim, as they 
call him, is in college, Annie comes next, then two 
big boys, and lastly two little girls. They are 
really pleasant and unassuming. And they nearly 
always have some cousins staying with them. 
Large families find so much entertainment." 
Then they discussed the bathing. There was 
also some boating. Parties often went over on 
the opposite beach and had picnics in the after- 
noons. Or they went yachting to Fire Island 
Light and took real ocean trips. 
"The young folks will find enough to keep 
them from getting homesick then," said Mr. Wil- 
marth. "And if you will keep a little oversight 
of my wife when I am away, as I shall not be able 
to spend all the time here, I shall feel much easier 
in mind." 
Mrs. Ballinger promised cordially. 
The very next day the young people came over 
from Rolfe avenue, two Travis girls, a Miss 
Grenfell, and two young men. Mrs. Wilmarth 
was much pleased with them, and Helen affiliated 
with them at once. They had a lawn tennis 
court, and about half a mile away there were 
golf links, but Jim was the only one who pat- 
ronized them. 
"There are so many things to do," said Miss 
Elsie, "and it seems as if you came to the country 
 
in the summer to rest a little, to swing in ham- 
mocks and ready and not dissipate all the time. 
I'm fond of talking over books and pictures and 
getting other people's ideas, and I paint a little 
and practice my music and embroider. Which 
is the musician here, or are you both?" 
Helen disclaimed any great proficiency. Miss 
Travis went over to Juliet, and they soon found 
they had similar tastes. She was charming, too, 
to Mrs. Wilmarth, and invited them all up to 
afternoon tea, which they often had on the large 
piazza. They were fond of living out-of-doors. 
"I am delighted," Mrs. Wilmarth said after 
they were gone. "I was afraid we might find 
ourselves a little lonesome." 
"If I felt any such malady threatening me I 
should go and have a chat or a race with old 
Neptune," laughed Helen. 
Indeed, the fortnight Mr. Wilmarth spent they 
were really very gay. One picnic over on the 
beach, and several sails and drives seemed to fill 
up every available moment. Mrs. Wilmarth soon 
became accustomed to the bathing, and Helen 
reveled in it, but Juliet could not be persuaded to 
venture. The Travis girls were quite expert 
swimmers, and the younger boys were very 
daring. 
One of the guests at Mrs. Ballinger's proved 
extremely interesting. She was slowly recover- 
ing from a severe accident, and was a young 
widow with moderate means. Indeed, Helen 
found herself relieved from much of the devotion 
she had set for herself. Mrs. Gilbert was fond 
of reading aloud, and she had moved in rather 
intellectual society. She took a great fancy to 
Juliet Craven, and thus for once Helen did not 
come first, and in her generous heart was de- 
lighted. 
Mrs. Wilmarth improved every day. It was 
quite like the olden times of health. 
There were many things to amuse as welL 
Helen found some people queerer than those at 
Hope. They seemed to have the flavor of the 
salt air which was different from inland towns. 
Their weather-beaten look left them sharp and 
shrewd, and full of subtle speeches that you had 
to think a moment or two about to discern the 
real meaning. There was something in the laugh 
as well, a sort of inner astuteness that sometimes 
puzzled her. Country people were not all alike. 
Environment stood for a good deal after all. She 
felt that her experiences were broadening. 
Chie day at the post office she found among her 
letters one from Daisy Bell. Why had she almost 
 
forgotten her in this rush of new experiences ? It 
had gone to Hope and been re-mailed. It was a 
full month since they had parted. She could 
not have written for she did not know Daisy's 
address. Yet, with her earnest nature she felt 
ar little conscience-smitten that she had not 
thought more about her. 
Daisy was having a splendid time. They had 
gone to Portland, then up among the islands, and 
to the Gulf of St. Lawrence, Quebec, and Mon- 
treal and the splendid Falls, where they would 
spend a week or more. Mr. Lawrence Hollis 
had joined them, and now he was really Marjo- 
rie's accepted lover. Annis and her husband were 
coming. Then they would go on to Detroit and 
Chicago. Traveling about was the most fascinat- 
ing thing in the world. You met so many charm- 
ing people. "I've made up my mind that I shall 
marry a very rich man who loves to travel. Ill 
go to Europe on my wedding tour and stay two 
years. Then there is that wonderful California 
and Japan, and I just feel as if I could keep 
going all my life. I envy the money that dull, 
queer Craven girl has, and she didn't want to go 
to Europe! She'd be just as well content with 
half of it. If I were you I'd strike her for some 
nice journeys. What will she ever do with all 
the money unless some man marries her for it? 
And where is the sense of her going to college !" 
gossiped Daisy. 
"What are you doing? Did you go off with 
that invalid friend to some poky place where there 
are no young men? I've had some gay times 
and been a good deal admired, but mamma is 
quite a duenna. Still, there are odds and ends 
you can pick up. Of course Margie's rather 
serious as befits a prospective clergyman's wife, 
so I can't go to her with my bits of fun. When 
we get home I shall want you to come at once. 
I had a touch of sentiment about going to college, 
I was such a pet with two girls who graduated 
with that high purpose in view, but I'm so glad 
I do not care about it. I think men, the nice 
young men, wouldn't raise up their little finger 
for much learning in a woman, and they have an 
idea that most college girls are or will be old 
maids. Of course you want to graduate some- 
where and have a diploma. 
"There, I can't write another word, but I want 
a good long letter from you. Now that I really 
have renewed my hold on you I shall not let you 
go, and mamma thinks there is no girl quite like 
you for a nice, steady friend. Oh, I must tell 
you about Willard. A dear friend of papa's 
 
oifered him a position in his law office, but he 
had to go at once as they needed some help while 
the other two partners were away — one in Eu- 
rope. It was very fine and complimentary, I 
believe, and papa quite insisted on his taking it, 
so the poor boy won't have any vacation until 
September. Good-bye, with oceans of love, 
"Daisy." 
Helen felt disappointed with the flippancy. 
And yet Daisy had a sweet and charming side to 
her nature. 
The letter was easily answered. The Travis 
girls had introduced them to some nice acquaint- 
ances, and they had met others at the chapel. 
The clergyman was attractive and had a charm- 
ing young wife who was a college graduate and 
who exhorted all girls who had any desire to 
go for the excellent training. It gave life a much 
wider outlook. 
Then there had been one tremendous storm 
when it seemed as if the house would be blown 
farther inland or toppled over. They didn't 
wonder that trees grew awry. The rain was 
like a deluge. A night and a day, then another 
night and a dull gray morning with a cold wind. 
No bathing, and Mrs. Ballinger's "boy" brought 
up the mail. 
Katy had cleared the asparagus branches and 
the fern leaves out of the dining room fire-place 
and built a splendid log fire that diffused a de- 
