
“Mammy was afraid he was froze, so I 
brought in some snow and rubbed his ears, 
and nose, and his hands. Then Mammy 
washed him and set him by the stove to warm 
and dry, and give him a little broth first. My 
eyes! was n’t the kid hungry! If he ’d staid 
out in the cold all night I guess he ’d found a 
short road to heaven sure. 

“ ‘Maybe ’t would a’ been better,’ said 
Mammy. ‘Poor little lambs! I like to think 
God is glad to have them. But we ’ll do the 
best we can, now. Y ou must run out and buy 
us a little dinner for to-morrow, Ben. A bit 
of beef to stew, I guess, and a few potatoes.’ 

“I went down to the butcher’s. He was hard 
run just then, and asked me to take out a 
basket to a customer, and afterward another. 
I picked out what I wanted and he weighed it. 




‘Thirty-five cents/ says he, ‘but if you ’d like 
to change, Ben, I ’ll let you have this chicken. 
The skin ’s broken and it does n’t look quite so 
fair; but it ’s fresh, and a nice plump fellow. 
Call it square for the errands.’ 

“ ‘Thank ’ee,’ says I, ‘and a merry Christ- 
mas in the bargain.’ 

“ ‘Lots of ’em to you, Ben.’ 

“I run off home glad enough, I tell you, 
feeling like a morning star. 

“ ‘Hooray,’ says I, opening the door. ‘Christ- 
mas is begun and no mistake. What do you 
think of that.’ 

“The gov’ner was as pleased as a baby, and 
Mammy laughed with tears in her eyes. Then 
Kitty and I sung some rousing carols. The 
little chap was sound asleep. 

“The baker sent Kitty a cake next day ; and 
altogether it was n’t so bad a Christmas, only 
the little kid, he grew sicker ’n sicker. Gov- 
’ner said we ought to send him to the hospital ; 
but somehow Kitty she took a wonderful fancy 






to him, and Mammy was a master hand at 
nursing. Then, too, during the next week I 
had a streak of luck, and made five dollars, and 
Mammy had a pile of sewing to do for a 
neighbor. 

‘‘ ‘Seems as though the little thing had 
brought us good fortune,’ Kitty said, with a 
bright smile. ‘O, Ben, you ought to hear the 
wonderful things he talks of when the fever ’s 
on him. Gardens, and flowers, and birds, and 
a beautiful house and a papa. Was Betty Amo 
his grandmother, really?’ 

“ T s’pose so,’ I said. ‘He was always a nice 
little chap and did n’t play much with the 
street cubs. P’raps he will tell us all about it 
when he gets well.’ 

“Mammy managed to get the fever broke in 
about two weeks, but he was as weak as a 
baby. He ’d lie there on two chairs, listening to 
Kitty as she sung, and begging her to tell him 
stories. Gov’ner took a queer liking to him as 
well. We did n’t call him anything but Santa 




Claus. One day Kitty told him what he talked 
about when he was sick. 

‘‘ ‘It ’s all true," he said. ‘I used to live in 
the house, my Mammy and I, and she had 
pretty light curls like Kitty, and oh, such beau- 



tiful blue eyes. She used to wear silk dresses 
and had a gold watch and rings, and papa used 
to come and give her heaps of money. But one 
day Mammy took me and went away, and we 
never went back to the splendid house, and 

 


papa did not come any more. She just grew 
whiter and whiter, and when old Betty come 
she went to heaven and left me with granny. 
And that ’s a long, long while ago, when I was 
a little boy.’ 

‘‘Mammy shook her head. ‘I dare say 
there ’s been some sorry work about it. 
There ’s a many sad things in this world.’ 

“ ‘Don’t you believe it ’s true?’ 

“ ‘It ’s true enough,’ said Mammy, with a 
sigh. 

“Times began to get pretty hard with us 
again. Feb’uary was cornin’ on and no rent. 
’T was always paid in advance, you see, or 
else you had to march. Old McCann came in 
and made a row. ‘If you don’t have it to-mor- 
row at twelve, out you go,’ says he. ‘Y ou can 
borrow it of some friend, I know.’ 

“We had a little bread and ’lasses for sup- 
per that night. I made believe I was n’t a bit 
hungry, and kept feeding the little kid, ’cause 
I did n’t know what would happen to him or 




any of us to-morrow. You see, not being 
brought up in the city, I was n’t used to all 
the dodges and ways of getting along. 

‘‘ ‘Well, you took him in and give him a 
good Christmas,’ says Kitty, ‘and we won’t be 
sorry, for he did bring us a little luck. Only 
I can’t bear to think of turning him out again.’ 

“Just then there was a knock at the door. 
I opened it, and two men stood there. 

“‘Is little Jemmy Arno here?’ says one of 
’em. 

“With that he run and hid his head in 
Mammy’s lap. 

“ ‘Oh,’ he screamed, ‘it ’s a peeler; don’t let 
him take me! I won’t go to the Island; I ’ll 
run away and drown.’ 

“ ‘We don’t want anybody to go to the 
Island,’ said the p’liceman. ‘Tell the truth, for 
it ’s all good news, little cove. You ’re about 
the luckiest chap I ever heard tell of.’ 

“ ‘Is this the boy?’ and the other man picked 
Jem up in his arms and turned him to the light. 




‘Oh,’ he says in a kind o’ cryin’ tone, ‘I should 
know them eyes anywhere. My good woman, 
I never can repay you for shelterin’ this little 
boy. He ’s my grandson.’ 

“With that the gov’ner came out and 
dropped in a chair. 

“ ‘Somehow,’ says he, ‘he never seemed like 
a common child. But we must know the truth 
and your claim before you take him away from 
here.’ 

“I declare I was so proud of the gov’ner for 
that speech that I could have cheered. 

“They sat down and talked. I don’t know ’s 
I 've got that story straight in my head to this 
day, but ’t was something like this: The old 
gent’s son married a pretty actress, who was 
Betty Arno’s daughter, but he kept mighty 
still about it to his folks. Somehow after 
awhile they quarrelled, and he told her she 
was n’t his wife. With that she run away, 
taking her little kid, and when she was ’most a 
dying she sent for her mother, old Betty, and 




