the river on the craft to please her little girl.
"I am sorry for this, Mrs. Shalley," said the tug owner. "I must say, I
don't know what to do."
"I must get dry clothing on Helen pretty soon."
"The tug is wet from end to end from the escaped steam."
"If I was down at Riverport I could go to the hotel," went on Mrs.
Shalley.
"We can take you down in our rowboat," said Jack. "It won't take very
long."
"Can I trust myself in the boat?"
"Certainly, if you'll only sit still."
The matter was talked over, and it was decided that the lady and her
little girl should be taken down to Riverport by Randy and Jack. The
party was soon on the way.
"My name is Mrs. Andrew Shalley," said the lady. "My husband is a
steamboat owner. May I ask your names?"
"Mine is Jack Bartlett. I live in Riverport, but I am going to move to
Albany."
"And my name is Randy Thompson," added our hero. "I live over there--in
the little cottage by that clump of trees."
"I am pleased to know you," said the lady. "It was more than kind of
both of you to come to the assistance of myself and my daughter."
"It wasn't so much to do," answered Randy. "We were close by."
"You are soaking wet."
"It's an old working suit and I don't mind the water," laughed our
hero.
"What a nice lot of fish," said little Helen, who had now completely
recovered.
"I feel I should reward you both," went on Mrs. Shalley.
"I don't want anything," said Jack, promptly.
"And neither do I," added our hero.
The hotel at which the lady was stopping was built close to the river
bank. Mother and child landed at the dock and Randy and Jack bade them
good-by.
"I shall try to see you again," said Mrs. Shalley, as she started for
the hotel.
"Evidently a very nice lady," remarked Jack, as he and Randy rowed
away.
"Yes."
"I think she wanted to reward us, Randy."
"I think so myself, but I don't want any reward."
"Neither do I, although I shouldn't mind, say ten thousand dollars,"
went on Jack, by way of a joke.
"Or the Presidency of the United States," added Randy, in an equally
light tone.
The boys had caught so many fish Randy decided to sell some from his
share. He found a purchaser on the dock where they landed and started
home richer by fifty cents.
"If I can't get anything else to do, I can do some fishing later on,"
he mused. "I can get at least two or three dollars' worth of fish a
week, and that would be better than nothing--and I could keep right on
with the farm, too."
When Randy returned home he had quite a story to tell, to which both
his father and his mother listened with interest.
"Randy, you must be careful in the water," said Mrs. Thompson, with an
anxious look in her eyes. "Supposing that girl had dragged you down?"
"I was on my guard, mother."
"Randy is a good swimmer," said his father. "I was a good swimmer
myself, in my younger days."
The fish proved acceptable, and Randy readily got Jerry Borden to trade
him some bacon for a mess, and also give him some fresh vegetables.
"Gosh! Wish I'd gone fishing," said Sammy. "I like to catch big fish."
"Well, I am not going to stop you," said our hero.
"Sammy never has no luck," put in Mrs. Borden. "Once he went fishing
all day and all he got was three little fish."
"Didn't nuther!" cried Sammy. "I got twelve big bites, but they got
away."
"It's the big fish that always get away," said Randy, with a smile.
"Never mind, Sammy, maybe we can go together some day."
"I'd like that," answered the overgrown country boy.
"Did that Bartlett boy get any fish?" asked Mrs. Borden.
"Just as many as I did."
"I understand they are going to move away."
"Yes, to Albany."
"They say down to the iron works that Mr. Bangs is glad to have Mr.
Bartlett out of the place."
"I guess that is true."
"It's too bad! All of the men liked Mr. Bartlett."
"Don't they like Mr. Bangs?"
"Not a bit--so Mr. Reilly was telling my husband. They say Mr. Bangs is
mean to everybody."
Two days slipped by, and Randy was at work in the garden one afternoon
when he saw a buggy stop at the front of the cottage and a portly man
alighted. Knowing his mother was busy, our hero went to meet the
newcomer.
"Is this where Randy Thompson lives?" asked the portly gentleman.
"Yes, sir, I am Randy Thompson."
"Oh!" The gentleman held out his hand. "I am glad to know you. My name
is Andrew Shalley. You did my wife and little girl a great service the
other day."
"I only did what seemed necessary," answered Randy, modestly. "Will you
come into the house, Mr. Shalley?"
"Thanks, I'll sit down on your porch." The gentleman did so. "What are
you doing, farming?"
"A little. We got this place so late this season I cannot do a great
deal. Next year I hope to have the farm in much better shape."
"Do you like it?"
"I try to like it."
"Then you are not naturally a farmer?"
"No, sir."
"Is your father living?"
"Yes, sir; but he is laid up with rheumatism, so he cannot work at
present. He is a carpenter."
"Indeed! I was a carpenter when I was a young man."
"I thought Mrs. Shalley said you were a steamboat owner."
"I am, now. I gave up carpentering to go into the freight business. I
made money, and then bought a small freight boat. Then I branched out,
and now own a steamboat running up and down the Hudson River, and I
also own several steam tugs."
"Do you own the one that got into trouble the other day?"
"No, a friend of mine owns that--that is how my wife and little girl
happened to be on board. I am----" Mr. Shalley stopped short as a form
appeared in the doorway behind him.
"This is my mother. Mother, this is Mr. Shalley, the steamboat owner."
"I am glad to meet you," said Mrs. Thompson, politely. "Will you come
in?"
"Thank you, but it is very pleasant on the porch. Madam, you have a
good son," went on the steamboat owner.
"I know that."
"He did my wife and little girl a great service the other day."
"Yes, he told me what he did."
"I think--er--that is, I'd like to reward you," stammered Andrew
Shalley. He saw that Randy was no common boy with whom to deal.
"Thank you, but I don't wish any reward, sir."
"I felt you would say that," answered Andrew Shalley. "The other lad
said the same."
"Then you have seen Jack Bartlett?"
"Yes, I just came from there. I wanted to reward him, but he would not
have it. But I fixed him," and the steamboat owner smiled broadly.
"Yes?" said Mrs. Thompson, curiously.
"I found out he was going to move to Albany, so I gave him a free pass
on my steamboat, the Helen Shalley--named after my wife. Now he can
go up and down the river as much as he pleases and it won't cost him a
cent. I told him I'd depend upon him to haul folks out of the water if
they fell overboard," and the steamboat owner laughed broadly.
"That ought to suit Jack--he loves the water so," said Randy.
"Do you like the water, too?"
"Yes, sir."
"Then maybe you'd like a pass also."
"I couldn't use it, Mr. Shalley."
"I was only joking. But really, Randy, I'd like to do something for
you, to show I appreciate what you did for my wife and for Helen."
"I do not want anything, Mr. Shalley, excepting work."
"Work? I should imagine you had enough of that right here."
"I mean work that would pay me regular wages. We must have money. My
father needs the doctor, and medicine, and we have to buy groceries,
and such, and we can't make the farm pay the bills."
"I understand, my lad. Where is your father?"
"I am here, sir," came from the couch in the sitting room.
"May I come in, Mr. Thompson?"
"Certainly," answered the sick man, and a moment later Andrew Shalley
entered the cottage and was shaking hands with Randy's father.
CHAPTER XIII
MR. SHALLEY MAKES AN OFFER
The two men conversed together for fully half an hour, and during that
time Andrew Shalley learned much concerning the Thompson family and
their struggle to make both ends meet.
"I live at Nyack," said Andrew Shalley. "And my headquarters for boats
is there also. But the passenger steamer runs from New York City to
Albany. The tugs run anywhere on the river, and on New York Bay."
"It must be a nice business," said Randy. "I like boats of any kind."
"If I had a boat on the river here I might give you a job," went on the
gentleman. "But all of my craft are on the Hudson."
"They tell me that the Hudson is a grand stream."
"Nothing finer in this country, my boy, nothing finer. I have traveled
all over the United States and I know. I think it is fully equal to the
German Rhine and the St. Lawrence."
"Maybe you could give me a situation on one of your Hudson River
boats," went on Randy, struck by a sudden idea.
"Would you care to leave home?"
"Oh, Randy, you wouldn't want to go away!" cried Mrs. Thompson.
"I would if it paid to do so," answered Randy, quickly. "There isn't
much chance for work in Riverport."
"And I can keep an eye on the garden," said Mr. Thompson. "I know I am
going to feel some better now this spell is passing."
"If you cared to leave home I might give you some sort of a job on one
of my boats," went on Andrew Shalley, thoughtfully.
"What kind of a job?"
"I'd have to see about it first. I'll tell you what I'll do, I'll send
you a letter next week."
"Thank you."
"That will be best. But now I am going to do something else." The
steamboat man drew out his wallet. "I want you to accept this." And he
held out five crisp ten-dollar bills.
Randy did not wish to take the money, but the steamboat man urged it
and finally laid the bills on the table.
"I am sure you are more than kind, Mr. Shalley," said Mrs. Thompson. "I
shall remember you."
"Let us call it a loan," said Mr. Thompson, "to be paid back when I am
at work once more."
"Yes, call it a loan," said Randy, "otherwise I, for one, don't want
it."
"Have your way," laughed Mr. Shalley. "But don't worry about the
payment."
Before he left he walked around the little farm and praised what Randy
had done.
"Evidently not a lazy boy," he told himself, "and one who is willing to
aid his parents. That is the sort I like."
"He is a very nice man," said Mrs. Thompson, when the visitor had
departed. "Randy, you were fortunate to make such a friend."
