




only hints, smiling silences, innuendoes on the verge 
of matters rather unfit; and I had nothing definite to 
refute. I could not even appear to understand or no- 
tice — it was all done in such a horridly vague way. 
But it only made me like him ; and no doubt that actress 
he took to the Patroons is better company than he finds 
in nine places out of ten among his own sort." 

" Oh," said Grace Ferrall slowly, " if that is the 
way you feel, I don't see why you shouldn't play with 
Mr. Siward whenever you like." 

" Nor I. I've been a perfect fool not to. . . . How- 
ard hates him." 

" How do you know ? " 

" What a question ! A woman knows such things. 
Then, you remember that caricature — so dreadfully like 
Howard? Howard has no sense of humour; he detests 
such things. It was the most dreadful thing that Mr. 
Siward could have done to him." 

" Meddled again ! " groaned Grace. " Doesn't 
Howard know that  did that.'' " 

" Yes, but nothing I can say alters his conviction 
that the likeness was intended. You know it was a 
likeness! And if Mr. Siward had not told me tliat it 
was not intended, I should never have believed it to be 
an accident." 

After a prolonged silence Sylvia said, overcare- 
lessly : " I don't quite understand Howard. With me 
anger lasts but a moment, and then I'm open to overtures 
for peace ... I think Howard's anger lasts." 

" It does," said Grace. " He was a muff as a boy 
— a prig with a prig's memory under all his shallow, 
showy surface. I'm frank with you ; I never could take 
my cousin either respectfully or seriously, but I've 
known him to take his own anger so seriously that years 





 

after he has visited it upon those who had really wronged 
him. And he is equipped for retahation if he chooses. 
That fortune of his reaches far. . . . Not that I 
think him capable of using such a power to satisfy a 
mere personal dislike. Howard has principles, loads of 
them. But — the weapon is there." 

" Is it true that Mr. Siward is interested in building 
electric roads.'' " asked Sylvia curiously. 

" I don't know, child. Why? " 

" Nothing. I wondered." 

"Why.?" 

" Mr. Mortimer said so." 

" Then I suppose he is. I'll ask Kemp if you like. 
Why.? Isn't it all right to build them.? " 

" I suppose so. Howard is in it somehow. In fact 
Howard's company is behind Mr. Siward's, I believe." 

Grace Ferrall turned and looked at the girl beside 
her, laughing outright. 

" Oh, Howard doesn't do mysterious financial things 
to nice young men because they draw impudent pictures 
of him running after his dog — or for any other reason. 
That, dear, is one of those skilfully developed portions 
of an artistic plot ; and plots exist only in romance. So 
do villains ; and besides, my cousin isn't one. Besides 
that, if Howard is in that thing, no doubt Kemp and I 
are too. So your nice young man is in very safe com- 
pany." 

" You draw such silly inferences," said Sylvia coolly ; 
but there was a good deal of colour in her cheeks ; and 
she knew it and pulled her big motor veil across her face, 
fastening it under her chin. All of which amused Grace 
Ferrall infinitely until the subtler significance of the 
girl's mental processes struck her, sobering her own 
thoughts. Sylvia, too, had grown serious in her preoc- 



cupation ; and the partie-a-deux terminated a few min- 
utes later in a duet of silence over the tea-cups in the 
gun-room. 

The weather had turned warm and misty ; one of 
those sudden sea-coast changes had greyed the blue in 
the sky, spreading a fine haze over land and water, 
effacing the crisp sparkle of the sea, dulling the wester- 
ing sun. 

A few moments later Sylvia, glancing over her 
shoulder, noticed that a fine misty drizzle had clouded 
the casements. That meant that her usual evening stroll 
on the cliffs with Quarrier, before dressing for dinner, 
was off. And she drew a little breath of unconscious 
relief as Marion Page walked in, her light woollen shoot- 
ing-jacket, her hat, shoes, and the barrels of the fowl- 
ing-piece tucked under her left arm-pit, all glimmering 
frostily with powdered rain drops. 

She said something to Grace Ferrall about the mist 
promising good point-shooting in the morning, took the 
order book from a servant, jotted down her request to 
be called an hour before sunrise, filled in the gun-room 
records with her score — the species and number bagged, 
and the number of shells used — and accepting the tea 
offered, drew out a tiny cigarette-case of sweet-bay w ood 
heavily crusted with rose-gold. 

" With whom were you shooting.'' " asked Grace, as 
Marion dropped one well-shaped leg over the other and 
wreathed her delicately tanned features in smoke. 

" Stephen Siward and Blinky. They're at it yet, 
but I had some letters to write." She glanced leisurely 
at Sylvia and touched the ash-tray with the whitening 
end of her cigarette. " That dog you let Mr. Siward 
have is a good one. I'm taking him to Jersey next week 
for the cock-shooting." 





 

Sylvia returned her calm gaze blankly. 

An unreasonable and disagreeable shock had passed 
through her. 

" My North Carolina pointers are useless for close 
work," observed Marion indifferently ; and she leaned 
back, watching the blue smoke curling upward from her 
cigarette. 

Sylvia, distrait, but with downcast eyes on fire under 
the fringed lids, was thinking of the cheque Siward 
had given her for Sagamore. The transaction, for 
her, had been a business one on the surface only. 
She had never meant to use the cheque. She had laid 
it away among a few letters, relics, pleasant souvenirs 
of the summer. To her the affair had been softened by 
a delicate hint of intimacy, — the delight he was to take 
in something that had once been hers had given her a 
faint taste of the pleasure of according pleasure to a 
man. And this is what he had done ! 

The drizzle had turned to fog, through which rain 
was now pelting the cliffs; people were returning from 
the open ; a motor-car came whizzing into the drive, and 
out of it tumbled Rena and Eileen and the faithful 
Pages, the girls irritable and ready for tea, and the 
boys like a pair of eager, wagging, setter puppies, 
pleased with everything and everybody, utterly oblivious 
to the sombre repose brooding above the tea-table. 

Their sister calmly refused them the use of her cigarettes. Eileen presented her pretty shoulder, Rena 
nearly yawned at them, but, nothing dampened, they 
recounted a number of incidents with reciprocal enthusiasm to Sylvia, who was too inattentive to smile, and to 
Grace Fcrrall, who smiled the more sweetly through sheer 
inattention. 

Then Alderdene came in, blinking a greeting through 








his foggy goggles, sloppy, baggy, heavy shoes wheez- 
ing, lingered in the vicinity long enough to swallow his 
" PS " "d acquire a disdainful opinion of his shooting 
from Marion, and then took himself off, leaving the room 
noisy with his laugh, which resembled the rattle of a 
startled kingfisher. 

