'' Then I shall get over the wall " 
" Madre de Dios! You would leave your fine 
clothes and njore on the thorns. My cousin 
planted those roses not for ornament, but to let 
the blood of defiant lovers. Not one has come 
twice " 
" Do you think I came here to talk to you 
 
througH a grating? I am no serenading Spaniard. ' ' 
His eyes were blazing. Adobe is not stone. 
Eezanov took the light bars in both, hands and 
wrenched them ont; then, as Concha, divided between laughter and a sudden timidity, would have 
retreated, he dexterously clasped her neck and 
drew her head through the embrasure. As Santiago, who had watched Eezanov from a distance 
with some curiosity, saw his sister's beautiful face 
emerge from the wall to disappear at once behind another rampart, he turned abruptly on his 
heel and could have wept as he thought of Pilar 
Ortego of Santa Barbara. But there was a hope 
that he would be a cadet of the Southern 
Company before the year was out, and his 
parents and hers were indulgent. Even as 
he sighed, his own impending happiness infused him with an almost patronizing sympathy 
for the twain with the wall between, and 
he concealed himself among the willows that 
they might feel to the full the blessed isolation of 
lovers. His Pilar presented him with twenty-two 
hostages, and he lived to enjoy an honorable and a 
prosperous career, but he never forgot that night 
and the part he had played in one of the poignant and happy hours of his sister 's life. 
Day and night a great silence reigned in the 
Mission valley, broken only by the hoot of the 
owl, the singing of birds, the flight of horses across 
the plain. Even the low hnddle of Mission buildings and the few homes beyond looked an anomaly 
in that vast quiet valley asleep and unknown for 
so many centuries in the wide embrace of the hills. 
Its jewel oasis alone made it acceptable to the 
Spaniard, but to Eezanov the sandy desert, with 
its close companionable silences, its cool night air 
sweet with the light chaste fragrance of the roses, 
the simple, almost primitive, conditions environ- 
ing the girl, possessed a power to stir the depths 
of his emotions as no artful reinforcement to pas- 
sion had ever done. He forgot the wall. His ego 
melted in a sense of complete union and happiness. Even when they returned to earth and discussed the dubious future, he was conscious of 
an odd resignation, very alien in his nature, not 
only to the barrier but to all the strange condi- 
tions of his wooing. He had felt something of 
this before, although less definitely, and to-night 
he concluded that she had the gift of clothing the 
inevitable with the semblance and the sweetness 
of choice; and wondered how long it would be 
able to skirt the arid steppes of philosophy. 
She told liim that she had talked daily with 
'Father Abella. ' ' He will say nothing to admit he 
is weakening, but I feel sure he has realized not 
only that our marriage will be for the best interest 
of California, but that to forbid it would wreck my 
life; and from this responsibility he shrinks. I 
can see it in his kind, shrewd, perplexed eyes, in 
the hesitating inflections of his voice, to say nothing of the poor arguments he advances to mine. 
What of my father and mother! " 
" They look troubled, almost ill, but nothing 
could exceed their kindness to me, although they 
have pointedly given me no opportunity to intro- 
duce the subject of our marriage again. The Gov- 
ernor makes no sign that he knows of any 
aspiration of mine above corn, but he informed me 
to-day that California is doomed to abandonment, 
that the Indians are hopeless, that Spain will withdraw troops before she will send others, and that 
the country will either revert to savagery or fall 
a prey to the first enterprising outsider. As he 
was in comparison cheerful before, I fancy he apprehends the irresistible appeal of your father's 
surrender. ' ' 
Concha nodded. " If my father yields he will 
see that you have everything else that you wish. 
He may have advocated meeting your wishes in 
other respects in order to leave you without excuse 
to linger, but that argument is not strong enough 
for the Governor, whereas if he made up his mind 
to accept you as a son he would throw the whole 
force of his character and will into the scale ; and 
when he reaches that pitch he wins — with men. I 
must, must bring you good fortune," she added 
anxiously. " Marriage with a little California 
girl — are you sure it will not ruin your career? " 
" I can think of nothing that would advantage 
it more. What are you going to call me! " 
" I cannot say Petrovich or Nicolai — my Spanish tongue rebels. I shall call you Pedro. That is 
a very pretty name with us. ' ' 
" My own harsh names suit my battered self 
rather better, but the more Califomian you are 
and remain the happier I shall be. When am I 
to see your ears? Are they deformed, pointed and 
furry like a fawn's? Do they stand out? Were 
all the women of California tattooed in some Indian raid '' 
Concha glanced about apprehensively, but not 
even Santiago was there to see the dreadful deed. 
With a defiant sweep of her hands she lifted both 
loops of hair, and two little ears, rosy even in the 
moonliglit, commanded amends and more from 
penitent lips. 
" No man has ever seen them before — since I 
was a baby; not even my father and brothers," 
said Concha, trembling between horror and rapture at the tremendous surrender. " You will 
never remind me of it. Ay yi! promise — Pedro 
mio! " 
" On condition that you promise not to confess 
it. I should like to be sure that your mind belonged as much to me and as little to others as possible. I do not object to confession — we have 
it in our church; but remember that there are 
other things as sacred as your religion." 
She nodded. " I understand— better than you 
understand Komanism. I must confess that 
I met you to-night, but Father Abella is too discreet to ask for more. It is such blessed memories 
that feed the soul, and they would fly away on a 
whisper. ' ' 
XX 
The next morning Father Abella rode over to 
the Presidio and was closeted for an hour with 
the Comandante and the Governor. Then the 
three rode down to the beach, entered a canoe, 
and paddled out to the Juno. Eezanov met them 
on deck with a gravity as significant as their own, 
but led them at once to the cabin where wine, and 
the cigarettes for which alone they would have 
counselled the treaty, awaited them. 
The quartette pledged each other in an embarrassed silence, disposed of a moment more with 
obdurate matches. Don Jose inhaled audibly, 
then lifted his eyes and met the veiled and steady 
gaze of the Russian. 
" Sehor,'' he said, " I have come to tell you 
that I consent to your marriage with my daughter." 
" Thank you, ' ' said Eezanov. And their hands 
clasped across the table. 
But this was far too simple for the taste of a 
Governor. So important an occasion demanded 
' official dignity and many words. 
" Your excellency," he said severely, sitting 
very erect, with one white hand on the table and 
the other on the hilt of his sword (yet full of 
courtesy and longing to enjoy the cheer and conversation of his host); " the peaceful monotony 
of our lives has been rudely shaken by a demand 
upon three fallible human beings to alter the 
course of history in two great nations. That is a 
sufficient excuse for the suspense to which we 
have been forced to subject you. The marriage 
of a Eussian and a Spaniard is of no great 
moment in itself, but the marriage of the Plenipotentiary of the Tsar himself with the daughter 
of Jose Dario Argiiello, not only one of the most 
eminent, respected, and distinguished of His Most 
Catholic Majesty's subjects in New Spain, but 
a man so beloved and influential that he could 
create a revolution were he so minded — indeed 
Jose, no one knows better than I how incapable 
you are of treason '' — as the Comandante gave 
a loud exclamation of horror — " I merely illustrate and emphasize. My sands are nearly run, 
Excellency ; it is to the estimable mind and strong 
paternal hand of my friend that this miserable 
colony must look before long, would she continue 
even this hand to mouth existence — a fact well 
known to our king and natural lord. When he 
hears of this projected alliance " 
" Projected! '' exclaimed Eezanov. " I wish 
to marry at once.'' 
Father Abella shook his head vigorously, but 
he spoke with great kindness. " That, Excellency, alas, is the one point upon which we are 
forced to disappoint you. Indeed, our own sub- 
mission to your wishes is contingent. This marriage cannot take place without a dispensation 
from Rome and the consent of the King. ' ' 
Eezanov looked at Don Jose. " You too! '' he 
asked curtly. 
The Comandante stirred uneasily, heaved a 
deep sigh; he thought of the long impatience of 
his Concha. " It is true,'' he said. '' Not only, 
would it be impossible for my conscience to resign itself to the marriage of my daughter with a 
heretic — pardon. Excellency — without the blessing of the Pope ; not only would no priest in Cali- 
fornia perform the ceremony until it arrived, but 
it would mean the degradation of Governor 
Arrillaga and myself, and the ruin of all your 
other hopes. We should be ordered summarily 
to Mexico, perhaps worse, and no Eussian would 
ever be permitted to set foot in the Californias 
again. I would it were otherwise. I know — I 
know — but it is inevitable. Your excellency must 
see it. Even were you a Catholic, Governor 
Arrillaga and the President of the Missions, at 
least, would not dare to countenance this mar- 
riage without the consent of the King." 
Eezanov was silent for a few minutes. In spite 
of the emotions of the past few days he was astonished at the depth and keenness of his disappointment. But never yet had he failed to realize when 
he was beaten, nor to trim his sails without loss 
of precious time. 
"Very well,'' he said. " I will go to St. 
Petersburg at the earliest possible moment, obtain personal letters from the Tsar and proceed 
post haste to Eome and Madrid. At the same 
time I shall arrange for the treaty with full authority from the Tsar. Then I shall sail from 
Spain to Mexico and reach here as soon as may 
be. It will take a long while, the best part of 
two years; but I have your word '' 
" You have," the three asserted with solemn 
emphasis. 
