stifling it. There were moments when she felt that open alienation would
be easier, because it would be nearer the truth. And at such moments
she longed to speak, to beg him to utter his mind, to go with her once
for all into the depths of the subject they continued to avoid. But at
the last her heart always failed her: she could not face the thought of
losing him, of hearing him speak estranging words to her.
They had been at Hanaford for about ten days when, one morning at
breakfast, Amherst uttered a sudden exclamation over a letter he was
reading.
"What is it?" she asked in a tremor.
He had grown very pale, and was pushing the hair from his forehead with
the gesture habitual to him in moments of painful indecision.
"What is it?" Justine repeated, her fear growing.
"Nothing----" he began, thrusting the letter under the pile of envelopes
by his plate; but she continued to look at him anxiously, till she drew
his eyes to hers.
"Mr. Langhope writes that they've appointed Wyant to Saint
Christopher's," he said abruptly.
"Oh, the letter--we forgot the letter!" she cried.
"Yes--we forgot the letter."
"But how dare he----?"
Amherst said nothing, but the long silence between them seemed full of
ironic answers, till she brought out, hardly above her breath: "What
shall you do?"
"Write at once--tell Mr. Langhope he's not fit for the place."
"Of course----" she murmured.
He went on tearing open his other letters, and glancing at their
contents. She leaned back in her chair, her cup of coffee untasted,
listening to the recurrent crackle of torn paper as he tossed aside one
letter after another.
Presently he rose from his seat, and as she followed him from the
dining-room she noticed that his breakfast had also remained untasted.
He gathered up his letters and walked toward the smoking-room; and after
a moment's hesitation she joined him.
"John," she said from the threshold.
He was just seating himself at his desk, but he turned to her with an
obvious effort at kindness which made the set look of his face the more
marked.
She closed the door and went up to him.
"If you write that to Mr. Langhope--Dr. Wyant will--will tell him," she
said.
"Yes--we must be prepared for that."
She was silent, and Amherst flung himself down on the leather ottoman
against the wall. She stood before him, clasping and unclasping her
hands in speechless distress.
"What would you have me do?" he asked at length, almost irritably.
"I only thought...he told me he would keep straight...if he only had a
chance," she faltered out.
Amherst lifted his head slowly, and looked at her. "You mean--I am to do
nothing? Is that it?"
She moved nearer to him with beseeching eyes. "I can't bear it.... I
can't bear that others should come between us," she broke out
passionately.
He made no answer, but she could see a look of suffering cross his face,
and coming still closer, she sank down on the ottoman, laying her hand
on his. "John...oh, John, spare me," she whispered.
For a moment his hand lay quiet under hers; then he drew it out, and
enclosed her trembling fingers.
"Very well--I'll give him a chance--I'll do nothing," he said, suddenly
putting his other arm about her.
The reaction caught her by the throat, forcing out a dry sob or two; and
as she pressed her face against him he raised it up and gently kissed
her.
But even as their lips met she felt that they were sealing a treaty with
dishonour. That his kiss should come to mean that to her! It was
unbearable--worse than any personal pain--the thought of dragging him
down to falsehood through her weakness.
She drew back and rose to her feet, putting aside his detaining hand.
"No--no! What am I saying? It can't be--you must tell the truth." Her
voice gathered strength as she spoke. "Oh, forget what I said--I didn't
mean it!"
But again he seemed sunk in inaction, like a man over whom some baneful
lethargy is stealing.
"John--John--forget!" she repeated urgently.
He looked up at her. "You realize what it will mean?"
"Yes--I realize.... But it must be.... And it will make no difference
between us...will it?"
"No--no. Why should it?" he answered apathetically.
"Then write--tell Mr. Langhope not to give him the place. I want it
over."
He rose slowly to his feet, without looking at her again, and walked
over to the desk. She sank down on the ottoman and watched him with
burning eyes while he drew forth a sheet of note-paper and began to
write.
But after he had written a few words he laid down his pen, and swung his
chair about so that he faced her.
"I can't do it in this way," he exclaimed.
"How then? What do you mean?" she said, starting up.
He looked at her. "Do you want the story to come from Wyant?"
"Oh----" She looked back at him with sudden insight. "You mean to tell
Mr. Langhope yourself?"
"Yes. I mean to take the next train to town and tell him."
Her trembling increased so much that she had to rest her hands against
the edge of the ottoman to steady herself. "But if...if after
all...Wyant should not speak?"
"Well--if he shouldn't? Could you bear to owe our safety to him?"
"Safety!"
"It comes to that, doesn't it, if we're afraid to speak?"
She sat silent, letting the bitter truth of this sink into her till it
poured courage into her veins.
"Yes--it comes to that," she confessed.
"Then you feel as I do?"
"That you must go----?"
"That this is intolerable!"
The words struck down her last illusion, and she rose and went over to
the writing-table. "Yes--go," she said.
He stood up also, and took both her hands, not in a caress, but gravely,
almost severely.
"Listen, Justine. You must understand exactly what this means--may mean.
I am willing to go on as we are now...as long as we can...because I
love you...because I would do anything to spare you pain. But if I speak
I must say everything--I must follow this thing up to its uttermost
consequences. That's what I want to make clear to you."
Her heart sank with a foreboding of new peril. "What consequences?"
"Can't you see for yourself--when you look about this house?"
"This house----?"
He dropped her hands and took an abrupt turn across the room.
"I owe everything to her," he broke out, "all I am, all I have, all I
have been able to give you--and I must go and tell her father that
you...."
"Stop--stop!" she cried, lifting her hands as if to keep off a blow.
"No--don't make me stop. We must face it," he said doggedly.
"But this--this isn't the truth! You put it as if--almost as if----"
"Yes--don't finish.--Has it occurred to you that he may think that?"
Amherst asked with a terrible laugh. But at that she recovered her
courage, as she always did when an extreme call was made on it.
"No--I don't believe it! If he does, it will be because you think it
yourself...." Her voice sank, and she lifted her hands and pressed them
to her temples. "And if you think it, nothing matters...one way or the
other...." She paused, and her voice regained its strength. "That is
what I must face before you go: what you think, what you believe of
me. You've never told me that."
Amherst, at the challenge, remained silent, while a slow red crept to
his cheek-bones.
"Haven't I told you by--by what I've done?" he said slowly.
"No--what you've done has covered up what you thought; and I've helped
you cover it--I'm to blame too! But it was not for this that we...that
we had that half-year together...not to sink into connivance and
evasion! I don't want another hour of sham happiness. I want the truth
from you, whatever it is."
He stood motionless, staring moodily at the floor. "Don't you see that's
my misery--that I don't know myself?"
"You don't know...what you think of me?"
"Good God, Justine, why do you try to strip life naked? I don't know
what's been going on in me these last weeks----"
"You must know what you think of my motive...for doing what I did."
She saw in his face how he shrank from the least allusion to the act
about which their torment revolved. But he forced himself to raise his
head and look at her. "I have never--for one moment--questioned your
motive--or failed to see that it was justified...under the
circumstances...."
"Oh, John--John!" she broke out in the wild joy of hearing herself
absolved; but the next instant her subtle perceptions felt the
unconscious reserve behind his admission.
"Your mind justifies me--not your heart; isn't that your misery?" she
said.
He looked at her almost piteously, as if, in the last resort, it was
from her that light must come to him. "On my soul, I don't know...I
can't tell...it's all dark in me. I know you did what you thought
best...if I had been there, I believe I should have asked you to do
it...but I wish to God----"
She interrupted him sobbingly. "Oh, I ought never to have let you love
me! I ought to have seen that I was cut off from you forever. I have
brought you wretchedness when I would have given my life for you! I
don't deserve that you should forgive me for that."
Her sudden outbreak seemed to restore his self-possession. He went up to
her and took her hand with a quieting touch.
"There is no question of forgiveness, Justine. Don't let us torture each
other with vain repinings. Our business is to face the thing, and we
shall be better for having talked it out. I shall be better, for my
part, for having told Mr. Langhope. But before I go I want to be sure
that you understand the view he may take...and the effect it will
probably have on our future."
"Our future?" She started. "No, I don't understand."
Amherst paused a moment, as if trying to choose the words least likely
to pain her. "Mr. Langhope knows that my marriage was...unhappy; through
my fault, he no doubt thinks. And if he chooses to infer that...that you
and I may have cared for each other...before...and that it was because
there was a chance of recovery that you----"
"Oh----"
"We must face it," he repeated inflexibly. "And you must understand
that, if there is the faintest hint of this kind, I shall give up
everything here, as soon as it can be settled legally--God, how Tredegar
will like the job!--and you and I will have to go and begin life over
again...somewhere else."
For an instant a mad hope swelled in her--the vision of escaping with
him into new scenes, a new life, away from the coil of memories that
bound them down as in a net. But the reaction of reason came at
once--she saw him cut off from his chosen work, his career destroyed,
his honour clouded, above all--ah, this was what wrung them both!--his
task undone, his people flung back into the depths from which he had
lifted them. And all through her doing--all because she had clutched at
happiness with too rash a hand! The thought stung her to passionate
activity of mind--made her resolve to risk anything, dare anything,
before she involved him farther in her own ruin. She felt her brain
clear gradually, and the thickness dissolve in her throat.
"I understand," she said in a low voice, raising her eyes to his.
"And you're ready to accept the consequences? Think again before it's
too late."
She paused. "That is what I should like...what I wanted to ask you...the
