into all Truth. Such a desire has little need of audible expression. It
is best expressed in thought and life.




APPENDIX E

Reverend Heber Newton on Christian Science:

To begin, then, at the beginning, Christian Science accepts the work
of healing sickness as an integral part of the discipleship of Jesus
Christ. In Christ it finds, what the Church has always recognized,
theoretically, though it has practically ignored the fact--the Great
Physician. That Christ healed the sick, we none of us question. It
stands plainly upon the record. This ministry of healing was too large
a part of His work to be left out from any picture of that life. Such
service was not an incident of His career--it was an essential
element of that career. It was an integral factor in His mission. The
Evangelists leave us no possibility of confusion on this point. Co-equal
with his work of instruction and inspiration was His work of healing.

The records make it equally clear that the Master laid His charge upon
His disciples to do as He had done. “When He had called unto Him His
twelve disciples, He gave them power over unclean spirits, to cast them
out, and to heal all manner of sickness and all manner of disease.” In
sending them forth, “He commanded them, saying,... As ye go, preach,
saying, The kingdom of heaven is at hand. Heal the sick, cleanse the
lepers, raise the dead, cast out demons.”

That the twelve disciples undertook to do the Master’s work of healing,
and that they, in their measure, succeeded, seems beyond question. They
found in themselves the same power that the Master found in Himself,
and they used it as He had used His power. The record of The Acts of the
Apostles, if at all trustworthy history, shows that they, too, healed
the sick.

Beyond the circle of the original twelve, it is equally clear that the
early disciples believed themselves charged with the same mission, and
that they sought to fulfil it. The records of the early Church make it
indisputable that powers of healing were recognized as among the gifts
of the Spirit. St. Paul’s letters render it certain that these gifts
were not a privilege of the original twelve, merely, but that they were
the heritage into which all the disciples entered.

Beyond the era of the primitive Church, through several generations, the
early Christians felt themselves called to the same ministry of healing,
and enabled with the same secret of power. Through wellnigh three
centuries, the gifts of healing appear to have been, more or less,
recognized and exercised in the Church. Through those generations,
however, there was a gradual disuse of this power, following upon a
failing recognition of its possession. That which was originally the
rule became the exception. By degrees, the sense of authority and power
to heal passed out from the consciousness of the Church. It ceased to be
a sign of the indwelling Spirit. For fifteen centuries, the recognition
of this authority and power has been altogether exceptional. Here and
there, through the history of these centuries, there have been those who
have entered into this belief of their own privilege and duty, and have
used the gift which they recognized. The Church has never been left
without a line of witnesses to this aspect of the discipleship of
Christ. But she has come to accept it as the normal order of things that
what was once the rule in the Christian Church should be now only
the exception. Orthodoxy has framed a theory of the words of Jesus to
account for this strange departure of His Church from them. It teaches
us to believe that His example was not meant to be followed, in this
respect, by all His disciples. The power of healing which was in Him
was a purely exceptional power. It was used as an evidence of His divine
mission. It was a miraculous gift. The gift of working miracles was not
bestowed upon His Church at large. His original disciples, the twelve
apostles, received this gift, as a necessity of the critical epoch of
Christianity--the founding of the Church. Traces of the power lingered
on, in weakening activity, until they gradually ceased, and the normal
condition of the Church was entered upon, in which miracles are no
longer possible.


We accept this, unconsciously, as the true state of things in
Christianity. But it is a conception which will not bear a moment’s
examination. There is not the slightest suggestion upon record that
Christ set any limit to this charge which He gave His disciples. On the
contrary, there are not lacking hints that He looked for the possession
and exercise of this power wherever His spirit breathed in men.

Even if the concluding paragraph of St. Mark’s Gospel were a later
appendix, it may none the less have been a faithful echo of words of
the Master, as it certainly is a trustworthy record of the belief of the
early Christians as to the thought of Jesus concerning His followers.
In that interesting passage, Jesus, after His death, appeared to the
eleven, and formally commissioned them, again, to take up His work in
the world; bidding them, “Go ye into all the world and preach the gospel
to every creature.” “And these signs,” He tells them, “shall follow them
that believe”--not the apostles only, but “them that believe,” without
limit of time; “in My name they shall cast out devils... they shall lay
hands on the sick and they shall recover.” The concluding discourse to
the disciples, recorded in the Gospel according to St. John, affirms the
same expectation on the part of Jesus; emphasizing it in His solemn way:
“Verily, verily, I say unto you, He that believeth on Me, the works that
I do shall he do also; and greater works than these shall he do.”




APPENDIX F

Few will deny that an intelligence apart from man formed and governs the
spiritual universe and man; and this intelligence is the eternal
Mind, and neither matter nor man created this intelligence and divine
Principle; nor can this Principle produce aught unlike itself. All that
we term sin, sickness, and death is comprised in the belief of matter.
The realm of the real is spiritual; the opposite of Spirit is matter;
and the opposite of the real is unreal or material. Matter is an error
of statement, for there is no matter. This error of premises leads to
error of conclusion in every statement of matter as a basis. Nothing
we can say or believe regarding matter is true, except that matter is
unreal, simply a belief that has its beginning and ending.

The conservative firm called matter and mind God never formed. The
unerring and eternal Mind destroys this imaginary copartnership,
formed only to be dissolved in a manner and at a period unknown. This
copartnership is obsolete. Placed under the microscope of metaphysics
matter disappears. Only by understanding there are not two, matter
and mind, is a logical and correct conclusion obtained by either one.
Science gathers not grapes of thorns or figs of thistles. Intelligence
never produced non-intelligence, such as matter: the immortal never
produced mortality, good never resulted in evil. The science of Mind
shows conclusively that matter is a myth. Metaphysics are above physics,
and drag not matter, or what is termed that, into one of its premises
or conclusions. Metaphysics resolves things into thoughts, and exchanges
the objects of sense for the ideas of Soul. These ideas are perfectly
tangible and real to consciousness, and they have this advantage--they
are eternal. Mind and its thoughts comprise the whole of God, the
universe, and of man. Reason and revelation coincide with this
statement, and support its proof every hour, for nothing is harmonious
or eternal that is not spiritual: the realization of this will bring
out objects from a higher source of thought; hence more beautiful and
immortal.

The fact of spiritualization produces results in striking contrast to
the farce of materialization: the one produces the results of chastity
and purity, the other the downward tendencies and earthward gravitation
of sensualism and impurity.

The exalting and healing effects of metaphysics show their fountain.
Nothing in pathology has exceeded the application of metaphysics.
Through mind alone we have prevented disease and preserved health. In
cases of chronic and acute diseases, in their severest forms, we have
changed the secretions, renewed structure, and restored health; have
elongated shortened limbs, relaxed rigid muscles, made cicatrized joints
supple; restored carious bones to healthy conditions, renewed that
which is termed the lost substance of the lungs; and restored healthy
organizations where disease was organic instead of functional.




MRS. EDDY IN ERROR

I feel almost sure that Mrs. Eddy’s inspiration--works are getting out
of repair. I think so because they made some errors in a statement which
she uttered through the press on the 17th of January. Not large ones,
perhaps, still it is a friend’s duty to straighten such things out and
get them right when he can. Therefore I will put my other duties aside
for a moment and undertake this helpful service. She said as follows:

“In view of the circulation of certain criticisms from the pen of Mark
Twain, I submit the following statement:

“It is a fact, well understood, that I begged the students who first
gave me the endearing appellative ‘mother’ not to name me thus. But,
without my consent, that word spread like wildfire. I still must think
the name is not applicable to me. I stand in relation to this century as
a Christian discoverer, founder, and leader. I regard self-deification
as blasphemous; I may be more loved, but I am less lauded, pampered,
provided for, and cheered than others before me--and wherefore? Because
Christian Science is not yet popular, and I refuse adulation.

“My visit to the Mother-Church after it was built and dedicated pleased
me, and the situation was satisfactory. The dear members wanted to greet
me with escort and the ringing of bells, but I declined, and went alone
in my carriage to the church, entered it, and knelt in thanks upon the
steps of its altar. There the foresplendor of the beginnings of truth
fell mysteriously upon my spirit. I believe in one Christ, teach one
Christ, know of but one Christ. I believe in but one incarnation, one
Mother Mary, and know I am not that one, and never claimed to be. It
suffices me to learn the Science of the Scriptures relative to this
subject.

“Christian Scientists have no quarrel with Protestants, Catholics,
or any other sect. They need to be understood as following the divine
Principle God, Love and not imagined to be unscientific worshippers of a
human being.

“In the aforesaid article, of which I have seen only extracts, Mark
Twain’s wit was not wasted In certain directions. Christian Science
eschews divine rights in human beings. If the individual governed human
consciousness, my statement of Christian Science would be disproved, but
to understand the spiritual idea is essential to demonstrate Science
and its pure monotheism--one God, one Christ, no idolatry, no human
propaganda. Jesus taught and proved that what feeds a few feeds all. His
life-work subordinated the material to the spiritual, and He left
