married?"

"I think so," he said.

"Why?" she demanded, astonished. Evidently she had expected another
answer.

He made no reply; and she lay back among the cushions considering what
he had said, the flush of surprise still lingering in her cheeks.

"How can I marry you," she asked, "when I would--would not care to
endure a--a caress from any man--even from you? It--such things--would
spoil it all. I don't love you--that way. . . . Oh! Don't look at me
that way! Have I hurt you?--dear Captain Selwyn? . . . I did not mean
to. . . . Oh, what has become of our happiness! What has become of it!"
And she turned, full length in the swing, and hid her face in the silken
pillows.

For a long while she lay there, the western sun turning her crown of
hair to fire above the white nape of her slender neck; and he saw her
hands clasping, unclasping, or crushing the tiny handkerchief deep into
one palm.

There was a chair near; he drew it toward her, and sat down, steadying
the swing with one hand on the chain.

"Dearest," he said under his breath, "I am very selfish to have done
this; but I--I thought--perhaps--you might have cared enough to--to
venture--"

"I do care; you are very cruel to me." The voice was childishly broken
and muffled. He looked down at her, slowly realising that it was a child
he still was dealing with--a child with a child's innocence, repelled by
the graver phase of love, unresponsive to the deeper emotions,
bewildered by the glimpse of the mature rôle his attitude had compelled
her to accept. That she already had reached that mile-stone and, for a
moment, had turned involuntarily to look back and find her childhood
already behind her, frightened her.

Thinking, perhaps, of his own years, and of what lay behind him, he
sighed and looked out over the waste of moorland where the Atlantic was
battering the sands of Surf Point. Then his patient gaze shifted to the
east, and he saw the surface of Sky Pond, blue as the eyes of the girl
who lay crouching in the cushioned corner of the swinging seat, small
hands clinched over the handkerchief--a limp bit of stuff damp with her
tears.

"There is one thing," he said, "that we mustn't do--cry about it--must
we, Eileen?"

"No-o."

"Certainly not. Because there is nothing to make either of us unhappy;
is there?"

"Oh-h, no."

"Exactly. So we're not going to be unhappy; not one bit. First because
we love each other, anyway; don't we?"

"Y-yes."

"Of course we do. And now, just because I happen to love you in that way
and also in a different sort of way, in addition to that way, why, it's
nothing for anybody to cry about it; is it, Eileen?"

"No. . . . No, it is not. . . . But I c-can't help it."

"Oh, but you're going to help it, aren't you?"

"I--I hope so."

He was silent; and presently she said: "I--the reason of it--my
crying--is b-b-because I don't wish you to be unhappy."

"But, dear, dear little girl, I am not!"

"Really?"

"No, indeed! Why should I be? You do love me; don't you?"

"You know I do."

"But not in that way."

"N-no; not in that way. . . . I w-wish I did."

A thrill passed through him; after a moment he relaxed and leaned
forward, his chin resting on his clinched hands: "Then let us go back to
the old footing, Eileen."

"Can we?"

"Yes, we can; and we will--back to the old footing--when nothing of
deeper sentiment disturbed us. . . . It was my fault, little girl. Some
day you will understand that it was not a wholly selfish fault--because
I believed--perhaps only dreamed--that I could make you happier by
loving you in--both ways. That is all; it is your happiness--our
happiness that we must consider; and if it is to last and endure, we
must be very, very careful that nothing really disturbs it again. And
that means that the love, which is sometimes called friendship, must be
recognised as sufficient. . . . You know how it is; a man who is locked
up in Paradise is never satisfied until he can climb the wall and look
over! Now I have climbed and looked; and now I climb back into the
garden of your dear friendship, very glad to be there again with
you--very, very thankful, dear. . . . Will you welcome me back?"

She lay quite still a minute, then sat up straight, stretching out both
hands to him, her beautiful, fearless eyes brilliant as rain-washed
stars.

"Don't go away," she said--"don't ever go away from our garden again."

"No, Eileen."

"Is it a promise . . . Philip?"

Her voice fell exquisitely low.

"Yes, a promise. Do you take me back, Eileen?"

"Yes; I take you. . . . Take me back, too, Philip." Her hands tightened
in his; she looked up at him, faltered, waited; then in a fainter voice:
"And--and be of g-good courage. . . . I--I am not very old yet."

She withdrew her hands and bent her head, sitting there, still as a
white-browed novice, listlessly considering the lengthening shadows at
her feet. But, as he rose and looked out across the waste with enchanted
eyes that saw nothing, his heart suddenly leaped up quivering, as though
his very soul had been drenched in immortal sunshine.

An hour later, when Nina discovered them there together, Eileen, curled
up among the cushions in the swinging seat, was reading aloud "Evidences
of Asiatic Influence on the Symbolism of Ancient Yucatan"; and Selwyn,
astride a chair, chin on his folded arms, was listening with evident
rapture.

"Heavens!" exclaimed Nina, "the blue-stocking and the fogy!--and yours
are pale blue, Eileen!--you're about as self-conscious as
Drina--slumping there with your hair tumbling à la Mérode! Oh, it's
very picturesque, of course, but a straight spine and good grooming is
better. Get up, little blue-stockings and we'll have our hair done--if
you expect to appear at Hitherwood House with me!"

Eileen laughed, calmly smoothing out her skirt over her slim ankles;
then she closed the book, sat up, and looked happily at Selwyn.

"Fogy and Bas-bleu," she repeated. "But it is fascinating, isn't
it?--even if my hair is across my ears and you sit that chair like a
polo player! Nina, dearest, what is your mature opinion concerning the
tomoya and the Buddhist cross?"

"I know more about a tomboy-a than a tomoya, my saucy friend," observed
Nina, surveying her with disapproval--"and I can be as cross about it as
any Buddhist, too. You are, to express it as pleasantly as possible, a
sight! Child, what on earth have you been doing? There are two smears
on your cheeks!"

"I've been crying," said the girl, with an amused sidelong flutter of
her lids toward Selwyn.

"Crying!" repeated Nina incredulously. Then, disarmed by the serene
frankness of the girl, she added: "A blue-stocking is bad enough, but a
grimy one is impossible. Allons! Vite!" she insisted, driving Eileen
before her; "the country is demoralising you. Philip, we're dining
early, so please make your arrangements to conform. Come, Eileen; have
you never before seen Philip Selwyn?"

"I am not sure that I ever have," she replied, with a curious little
smile at Selwyn. Nina had her by the hand, but she dragged back like a
mischievously reluctant child hustled bedward:

"Good-bye," she said, stretching out her hand to Selwyn--"good-bye, my
unfortunate fellow fogy! I go, slumpy, besmudged, but happy; I return,
superficially immaculate--but my stockings will still be blue! . . .
Nina, dear, if you don't stop dragging me I'll pick you up in my
arms!--indeed I will--"

There was a laugh, a smothered cry of protest; and Selwyn was the amused
spectator of his sister suddenly seized and lifted into a pair of
vigorous young arms, and carried into the house by this tall, laughing
girl who, an hour before, had lain there among the cushions, frightened,
unconvinced, clinging instinctively to the last gay rags and tatters of
the childhood which she feared were to be stripped from her for ever.

It was clear starlight when they were ready to depart. Austin had
arrived unexpectedly, and he, Nina, Eileen, and Selwyn were to drive to
Hitherwood House, Lansing and Gerald going in the motor-boat.

There was a brief scene between Drina and Boots--the former fiercely
pointing out the impropriety of a boy like Gerald being invited where
she, Drina, was ignored. But there was no use in Boots offering to
remain and comfort her as Drina had to go to bed, anyway; so she kissed
him good-bye very tearfully, and generously forgave Gerald; and
comforted herself before she retired by putting on one of her mother's
gowns and pinning up her hair and parading before a pier-glass until her
nurse announced that her bath was waiting.

       

