appointed four executors; and had not Judge Leslie been one of them the
other three might have delayed the settling of the estate beyond the
legal term. But at the end of a year Isabel was absolute mistress of her
property and herself.
One of the happiest moments of her life was when she sat before her
lawyer's table in San Francisco and watched the pen strokes that
cancelled the mortgage of the house on Russian Hill. The house and its
acre, encumbered by the inevitable mortgage, had been all that remained
of Mrs. Otis's personal inheritance when she left San Francisco for
ever. James Otis had promised his dying wife that he would never sell
the place, which she bequeathed to Isabel; and when his last client left
him and he could no longer pay the interest, Hiram, who was morosely
devoted to his niece, met the yearly obligation: he would not redeem the
mortgage unless he were permitted to buy the property. But to this James
Otis, clinging to his solitary virtue, would not consent; and Hiram,
although he intended to leave all he possessed to Isabel, could not
bring himself to part with any sum in four figures.
Before leaving for Europe Isabel had leased the house to a young
newspaper man whose wife had an income of her own, and not only an
artistic appreciation of the view, but a more practical esteem for a
site so far removed from the "all-night life" below. Immediately after
Isabel's return Mrs. Glait had asked permission to sublet the house,
remarking cynically that time had inured her to the desultory phenomena
of journalism, but never to the stable prospect of her husband's death
struggle with foot-pads, or her children falling down the cliff of this
wild bit of nature in the heart of a city.
Isabel took back her old home with another spasm of delight, and vowed
that not until she was a pauper would she part with it again. Five or
six days of every week must be spent on the chicken-ranch, which had
grown to such proportions that she was now one of the persons that
counted in her flourishing community. But in time she would live more
and more in her lofty home, become a notable figure in San Francisco,
drawing with both hands from its varied best; and meanwhile, once a
week, she could sit for hours and look down upon the city, which, even
in rainy weather, was a wild and beautiful sight from her eyrie.
Mrs. Otis had been a niece of the Mrs. Montgomery who had reigned on
Rincon Hill twenty years ago, and a cousin of the Helena Belmont who had
been the greatest belle the city had seen since that earlier time when
Nina Randolph, Guadalupe Hathaway, Mrs. Hunt McLane, and "The Three
Macs" had made history for themselves in spite of the momentous era of
which they were so unheeding a part. Mary Belmont would have been no
mean heiress herself had not her father been too adventurous a spirit
on the stock-market during the Belcher Bonanza excitement of 1872. For a
time it looked as if Gordon Belmont would be a far richer man than his
famous brother, Colonel Jack, always contented with a modest million;
but in ten mad days there was a decline of sixty million dollars in the
aggregate value of stocks on the San Francisco market; and six months
later, when he died of sheer exhaustion, he had nothing to leave his
only child but the house on Russian Hill, and a small income generously
supplemented by her uncle and guardian until her marriage. She was
thirteen at her father's death, and as her mother had preceded him, she
spent the following five years in a New York boarding-school. Then she
returned home, and, after a year's gayety, married James Otis. Colonel
Belmont surrendered her small property. Skilfully "turned over" it would
have multiplied indefinitely. But James Otis and his wife knew far more
about spending money than making it, and to-day nothing was left to
commemorate the meteoric and eminently typical career of Gordon Belmont
but the ancient structure whose nucleus he had taken over just after his
marriage as a "bad debt." His wife, too, had insisted upon living in it,
for reasons subsequently understood by her daughter and Mrs. Glait, and
complacently enlarged it with all the hideous improvements of the day.
That part of Russian Hill conspicuous from the city is little more than
a great cliff rising abruptly from the extreme north end of the graded
ledge on the summit of Nob Hill, which, in its turn, almost overhangs
the steep and populous ascent from the valley. In "early days" none but
the goat could cling to those rough hills that all but stood on end, and
the brush was so thick and the titles so uncertain that their future
distinction was undreamed of. Then came a determined period of grading
which embraced the heights in due course, titles were settled, and many
that foresaw the ultimate possession of that great valley now known as
"South of Market Street"--but which in its haughty youth embraced South
Park and Rincon Hill--by the tenacious sons of Erin and Germania, moved
to the uplands while lots could still be bought for a song. The Jack
Belmonts, the Yorbas, the Polks, and others of the first aristocracy to
follow the Spanish, made Nob Hill fashionable before a new class of
millionaires sprang up in a night, and indulged its fresh young fancy
with monstrous wooden structures holding a large portion of converted
capital. Mrs. Yorba, who led society in the Eighties, when it was as
exclusive as a small German principality, was disposed to snub all
parvenus. But the young people made their way. When Mary Belmont
returned from school, and, chaperoned by a widowed relative, gave at
least a dance a month until she married, and many a one after, the heirs
of all grades thought nothing of leaving their carriages at the foot of
the cliff to climb the precarious stair; groping blindly more often than
not through the rains of winter or the fogs of summer. To-day Isabel's
neighbors wisely made no such demands upon the pampered, but in that
incomparably older time the young people would have climbed to the stars
for the sake of the lavish hospitality of the gay indulgent young
hostess; and if some of the youths rolled down the hill when the lights
went out, that was hardly a matter to excite indignant comment in a city
where drink was so admittedly the curse that it was philosophically
accepted with such other standing evils as fogs, trade-winds,
small-pox, mud-holes, dust-storms, and unmentionable politics.
When Mary Belmont became the wife of James Otis, one of the greatest
ranchers in California--in which State, unlike other fervent patriots of
that era, he had been born--and a brilliant figure in one of the most
notable legal groups of any time, she long held her position as a social
favorite. But children came and died too quickly for her health and
fragile beauty, and the storms of life beset her. She continued to live
in her inconvenient eyrie, not only in the waning hope of ultimately
separating her husband from the convivial beings on the lower plain, but
because she felt an intense pride in owning a home two generations old
in that young community. She was determined that it should remain in the
family and be occupied by at least one of her children. So the ugly
brown wooden structure with its bay-windows, its central tower, its
Mansard-roof--added for the servants--had, contrary to all tradition,
actually joined three generations of San Franciscans in one unbroken
chain. It owed its proud position, no doubt, to the fact that when the
Otis fortunes collapsed there was but one child left to inherit it and
to be supported meanwhile.
Isabel intended in time to give the house a new façade, and had gloated
over such of the Burnham plans as had been reproduced by the city press.
These lovely plans were designed to make the city as classic and
imposing as Nature had dreamed of when she piled up that rugged
amphitheatre out of chaos; and Isabel had long since resolved that, if
she could not be the first to plant a bit of ancient Athens upon a brown
and ragged bluff, the high tide of her fortunes should coincide with the
awakening of the city to the sense of its architectural guilt. She
banished much of the tasteless furniture of the old time, and refitted
with a stately comfort that expressed one side of her nature. She too
clung to traditions--and to the long mirrors in their tarnished gilt
frames, with the little shelf below; the multitude of family portraits
engraved on wood, and surrounded by a wide white margin and tiny gilt
frame. That they might strike no discordant note, she made use of a
lesson learned in London, where she had spent a month with Lady
Victoria, and had the walls and wood of the living-room painted white,
covered the windows and furniture with a plain stuff of a dark but
neutral blue. In the dining-room were a few paintings of her New England
and Spanish ancestors, and she disturbed them only to replace the
wall-paper with leather; at the same time sending the black walnut
furniture to the auction-room.
Being the one practical member of her family, and the product of an
earthquake country, she repaired the uncertain foundations of her house
before removing the walls that had cut up the lower floor into the
conventional number of rooms and hallways. The house, of no great depth,
was so close to the hill-side, still rising above it, that more than one
enterprising cook had made use of the natural ledges before the windows.
Besides the kitchen department and pantries, there were now but three
rooms on the lower floor: the dining-room, a small reception-room in the
tower, and an immense living-room, broken by the white pillars that
supported the storys above.
Mrs. Belmont and Mrs. Otis, in the time-honored American fashion, had
made a day nest of their bedroom, but Isabel was far too modern for that
lingering provincialism, and lived luxuriously in the big room
down-stairs when she was not in the porch. She had reserved her mother's
old alcoved bedroom with its mahogany four-poster for her own use, but
the rest of the second-story rooms she had fitted for her English
cousins, that they too might have headquarters in town.
Neither appeared to be in any haste to visit the city of their
ancestors. Gwynne had left England in October, now nearly a year ago,
but, having discovered from his solicitor that he could apply for
letters of citizenship as late as the end of the third year after
landing, had announced to Isabel his intention to travel slowly about
the country "before settling down in its remotest part, which, from all
accounts, was sufficiently unlike the rest to provincialize his point of
view unless he saw something first of the East, South, and Middle West."
He had written to her several times, but only on business. She had
returned in January, after a round of visits in England, and had put his
house in order at once. The lease had expired, and Mr. Colton had
engaged a temporary superintendent, but Gwynne sent Isabel his power of
attorney and she was temporarily in possession. She wrote to him from
time to time that all was well, or to send him an account of her
expenditures; but felt no promptings towards a friendly correspondence
with one who showed as little disposition to encourage it.
From Victoria she had not heard directly since she bade her good-bye in
Curzon Street, but Flora Thangue had written that her ladyship's superb
health had (to her ill-concealed fury) given way, following an attack of
influenza, and she would not be able to leave her doctor for an
indefinite time. A few months later she wrote that "dear Vicky" was
outwardly herself again, but in reality very nervous, the result, no
doubt, of her illness, and of the prolonged stress of business. However,
she had finally succeeded in letting the Abbey and Capheaton to
advantage, and it was on the cards that she would reach California
before the end of the year. Isabel hoped that, unfed by her son's
exacting presence the maternal fires burned low; she had a clearly
defined intention to be a factor in the new career of Elton Gwynne, and
no desire for the capricious interference of his mother.
II
As Isabel stood in her little porch that brilliant September morning,
she dismissed her occasional regret that she had not remained in England
for a London season. Not only had she put the time to better use on her
ranch, but no doubt her agent would have relet this house, and delayed
the fulfilment of one of those dreams upon which she unconsciously fed
her soul. The shrieking trade-winds and the dense white fogs were
hibernating somewhere out in the Pacific. All the city, in the great
irregular amphitheatre below, was sharply outlined in the yellow light;
Isabel wondered if the sun renewed its stores from the golden veins to
north and south. On the wide broken ledge just beneath her pinnacle was
the concrete evidence of an architectural orgy to be seen nowhere else
on earth: wooden mansions with the pure outlines of the Renaissance; a
Gothic palace with bow-windows, also of wood; a big brown-stone house in
the style of New York; piles of shingles and stones; here and there a
touch of Romanesque, later French, and Italian; the majority of those
plutocratic and perishable masses, of no style in particular, unless it
were that of Mansard combined with the criminalities of him who invented
the bow-window and the irrelevant tower. On the slopes were a few old
houses in gardens, some with cottage roofs, others square, brown, dusty,
melancholy. But the majority were of the "house in a row" type,
radiating in all directions from the "boarding-house blocks" on the
lower slopes. Then, down on the plain, came the big compact masses of
