cold, inflexible, passionless as a sword and quite as effective, Rome
brandished at philosophy. It is said that the intellectual gymnastics
of Greece were displeasing to her traditions. It is more probable that
augurs had foreseen or oracles had foretold that philosophy would
divest her of the sword, and with it of her sceptre and her might.
Ideas cannot be decapitated. Only ridicule can demolish them.
Philosophy, mistress of irony, resisted while nations fell. It was
philosophy that first undermined established creeds and then led to
the pursuit of new ones. Yet it may be that a contributing cause was a
curious theory that the world was to end. Foretold in the Brahmanas,
in the Avesta and in the Eddas, probably it was in the Sibylline
Books. If not, the subsequent Church may have so assumed.
  Dies iræ, dies illa,
  Solvet sæclum in favilla,
  Teste David cum Sibylla.
Not alone David and the Sibyl but Etruscan seers had seen in the skies
that the tenth and last astronomical cycle had begun.[42] Plutarch, in
his life of Sylla, testified to the general belief in an approaching
cataclysm. Lucretius announced that at any moment it might occur.[43]
That was in the latter days of the republic. In the early days of the
empire the theory persisting may have induced the hope of a saviour.
Suetonius said that nature in her parturitions was elaborating a
king.[44] Afterward he added that such was Asia's archaic belief.[45]
Recent discoveries have verified the assertion. In the Akkadian Epic
of Dibbara a messiah was foretold.[46] That epic, anterior to a cognate
Egyptian prophecy,[47] anterior also to the Sibylline Books, was
anterior too to the Hebrew prophets and necessarily to those of Rome.
[Footnote 42: Censorinus: De die nat. 17.]
[Footnote 43: De rerum nat., v. 105.]
[Footnote 44: In Augusto, 74.]
[Footnote 45: In Vesp. 4.]
[Footnote 46: Jastrow: op. cit.]
[Footnote 47: See back, Chapter III.]
Among these was Vergil. In the fourth Eclogue he beheld an age of
gold, preceded by the advent on earth of a son of Jove, under whose
auspices the last traces of sin and sorrow were to disappear and a new
race descend from heaven. "The serpent shall die," he declared,
adding: "The time is at hand."
The Eclogue was written 40 B.C., during the consulate of Pallio, whom
the poet wished perhaps to flatter. Then presently Ovid sang the
deathless soul and Tibullus gave rendezvous hereafter. The atmosphere
dripped with wonders. The air became charged with the miraculous. At
stated intervals the doors of temples opened of themselves. Statues
perspired visibly. There was a book that explained the mechanism of
these marvels. It interested nobody. Prodigies were matters of course.
The people had a heaven, also a hell, both of them Greek, a purgatory
that may have been Asiatic, and, pending the advent of the son of
Jove, in Mithra they could have had a redeemer. Had it been desired,
Buddhism could have supplied gospels, India the trinity, Persia the
resurrection, Egypt the life. From Iran could have been obtained an
Intelligence, sovereign, unimaged, and just. That was unnecessary.
Long since Socrates had displayed it. In addition, Epicurus had told
of an ascension of heavens, skies beyond the sky, worlds without
number, the many mansions of a later faith.
Meanwhile, austerity was an appanage of the stoics, in whose faultless
code the dominant note was contempt for whatever is base, respect for
all that is noble. A doctrine of great beauty, purely Greek, as was
everything else in Rome that was beautiful, its heights were too lofty
for the vulgar. It appealed only to the lettered, that is to the few,
to the infrequent disciples of Zeno and of Cicero, his prophet, who,
Erasmus said, was inspired by God.
It may be that Cicero inspired a few of God's preachers. The latter
were not yet in Rome. Christ had not come. At that period, unique in
history, man alone existed. The temples were thronged, but the skies
were bare. Cicero knew that. Elysium and Hades were as chimerical to
him as the Epicurean heavens. "People," he said, "talk of these places
as though they had been there." But that which was superstition to him
he regarded as beneficial for others, who had to have something and
who got it, in temples where a sin was a prayer.
There was once a play of which there has survived but the title: The
Last Will and Testament of Defunct Jupiter. It appeared in the days
of Diocletian, but it might have appealed when Cicero taught. Faith
then had fainted. Fright had ceased to build. Worship remained, but
religion had gone. The gods themselves were departing. The epoch
itself was apoplectic. The tramp of legions was continuous. Not alone
the skies but the world was in a ferment. It was not until a diadem,
falling from Cleopatra's golden bed, rolled to the feet of Augustus,
that the gods were stayed and faith revived.
In the interim, prisoners had been deported from Judea. At first they
were slaves. Subsequently manumitted, they formed a colony that in the
high-viced city resembled Esther in the seraglio of Ahasuerus. Rome,
amateur of cults, always curious of foreign faiths, might have been
interested in Judaism. It had many analogies with local beliefs. Its
adherents awaited, as Rome did, a messiah. They awaited too a golden
age. For those who were weary of philosophy, they had a religion in
which there was none. For those to whom the marvellous appealed, they
had a history in which miracles were a string of pearls. For those who
were sceptic concerning the post-mortem, they offered blankness. In
addition, their god, the enemy of all others, was adapted to an empire
that recognized no sovereignty but its own. Readily might Rome have
become Hebrew. But then, with equal ease, she might have become
Egyptian.
For those who were perhaps afraid of going to hell and yet may have
been equally afraid of not going anywhere, Egypt held passports to a
land of light. Then too, the gods of Egypt were friendly and
accessible. They mingled familiarly with those of Rome, complaisantly
with the deified Cæsars, as already they had with the pharaohs, a
condescension, parenthetically, that did not protect them from
Tiberius, who, for reasons with which religion had nothing whatever to
do, persecuted the Egyptians, as he persecuted also the Jews. None the
less, Rome, weary of local fictions, might have become converted to
foreign ideas. In default of Syrian or Copt, she might have become
Persian as already she was Greek.
Augustus had other views. Divinities, made not merely after the image
of man but in symbols of sin, he saluted. With a hand usually small,
but in this instance tolerably large, he re-established them on their
pedestals. A relapse to spiritual infancy resulted. It was what he
sought. He wanted to be a god himself and he became one. His power
and, after him, that of his successors, had no earthly limit, no
restraint human or divine. It was the same omnipotence here that
elsewhere Jupiter wielded.
Jupiter had flamens who told him the time of day. He had others that
read to him. For his amusement there were mimes. For his delectation,
matrons established themselves in the Capitol and affected to be his
loves. But then he was superb. Made of ivory, painted vermillion,
seated colossally on a colossal throne, a sceptre in one hand, a
thunderbolt in the other, a radiating gold crown on his august head,
and, about his limbs, a shawl of Tyrian purple, he looked every inch
the god.
The Cæsars, if less imposing, were more potent. Their hands, in which
there was nothing symbolic, held life and death, absolute dominion
over everything, over every one. Jupiter was but a statue. They alone
were real, alone divine. To them incense ascended. At their feet
libations poured. The nectar fumes confused. Rome, mad as they, built
them temples, raised them shrines, creating for them a worship that
they accepted, as only their due perhaps, but in which their reason
fled. In accounts of the epoch there is much mention of citizens,
senators, patricians. Nominally there were such people. Actually there
were but slaves. The slaves had a succession of masters. Among them
was a lunatic, Caligula, and an imbecile, Claud. There were others.
There was Terror, there was Hatred, there was Crime. These last,
though several, were yet but one. Collectively, they were Nero.
If philosophy ever were needed it was in his monstrous day. To anyone,
at any moment, there might be brought the laconic message: Die. In
republican Rome, philosophy separated man from sin. At that period it
was perhaps a luxury. In the imperial epoch it was a necessity. It
separated man from life. The philosophy of the republic Cicero
expounded. That of the empire Seneca produced.
The neo-stoicism of the latter sustained the weak, consoled the just.
It was a support and a guide. It preached poverty. It condemned
wealth. It deprecated honours and pleasure. It inculcated chastity,
humility, and resignation. It detached man from earth. It inspired, or
attempted to inspire, a desire for the ideal which it represented as
the goal of the sage, who, true child of God,[48] prepared for any
torture, even for the cross,[49] yet, essentially meek,[50] sorrowed for
mankind,[51] happy if he might die for it.[52]
[Footnote 48: De Provid. i.]
[Footnote 49: Cf. Lactantius vi. 17.]
[Footnote 50: Epit. cxx. 13.]
[Footnote 51: Lucanus ii. 378.]
[Footnote 52: Ibidem.]
In iambics that caressed the ear like flutes, poets had told of
Jupiter clothed in purple and glory. They had told of his celestial
amours, of his human and of his inhuman vices. Seneca believed in
Jupiter. But not in the Jove of the poets. That god dwelled in ivory
and anapests. Seneca's deity, nowhere visible, was everywhere
present.[53] Creator of heaven and earth,[54] without whom there is
nothing,[55] from whom nothing is hidden,[56] and to whom all
belongs,[57] our Father,[58] whose will shall be done.[59]
[Footnote 53: Nemo novit Deum. Epit. xxxi. Ubique Deus. Epit. xli.]
[Footnote 54: Mundum hujus operis dominum et artificem. Quæst. nat. i.]
[Footnote 55: Sine quo nihil est. Quæst. nat. vii. 31.]
[Footnote 56: Nil Deo Clausam. Ep. lxxxx.]
[Footnote 57: Omnia habentem. Ep. xcv.]
[Footnote 58: Parens noster. Ep. cx.]
[Footnote 59: Placeat homini quidquid Deo placuit. Ep. lxxv.]
"Life," said Seneca, "is a tribulation, death a release. In order not
to fear death," he added, "think of it always. The day on which it
comes judges all others."[60] Meanwhile comfort those that sorrow.[61]
Share your bread with them that hunger.[62] Wherever there is a human
being there is place for a good deed.[63] Sin is an ulcer. Deliverance
from it is the beginning of health--salvation, salutem."[64]
[Footnote 60: Ep. xxvi. 4.]
[Footnote 61: De Clem. ii. 6.]
[Footnote 62: Ep. xcv. 51.]
[Footnote 63: De Vita Beata, 14.]
[Footnote 64: Ep. xxviii. 9.]
Words such as these suggest others. They are anterior to those which
they recall. The latter are more beautiful, they are more ample, there
is in them a poetry and a profundity that has rarely been excelled.
Yet, it may be, that a germ of them is in Seneca, or, more exactly, in
theories which, beginning in India, prophets, seers, and stoics
variously interpreted and recalled.
However since they have charmed the world, their effect on Nero was
curious. Seneca was his preceptor. But so too was Art. The lessons of
these teachers, fusing in the demented mind of the monster, produced
transcendental depravity, the apogee of the abnormal and the
epileptically obscene. What is more important, they produced
Christianity.
Christianity already existed in Rome, but obscurely, subterraneanly,
among a class of poor people generally detested, particularly by the
Jews. Christianity was not as yet a religion, it was but the belief of
a sect that announced that the world was to be consumed. Presently
Rome was. The conflagration, which was due to Nero, swept everything
sacred away.
Even for a prince that, perhaps, was excessive. Nero may have felt
that he had gone too far. An emperor was omnipotent, he was not
inviolable. Tiberius was suffocated, Caligula was stabbed, Claud was
poisoned. Nero, it may be, in feeling that he had gone too far, felt
also that he needed a scapegoat. Christian pyromania suggested itself.
