wanted was to be alone, and stay alone until he 
could clarify his thoughts. Up to this moment it 
could be scarcely said that he thought at all. His 
feeling mastered him like a storm of wind. 
His professional success in last night's emergency — 
the evident impression it had made on 
his eminent city colleague — absorbed the smallest 
possible measure of his attention. 
A girl in a long, gray, hooded cloak seemed to 
float in the morning air before him. She kept a 
 
little way ahead all the time, like those allegorical 
figures that one sees in old pictures which set 
forth the battle of life or the pursuit of fortune. 
The white fur fringe on her throat and breast 
stirred with her gentle breath. Her eyes, gray blue 
and candid, lifted themselves to him timidly. Her 
hand, a marvel of perfume and velvet, lay in his. 
For him, he held his young head like one of 
the gods ; his eyes, seeing nothing, looked straight 
before him ; and his lithe figure swung across the 
meadow with a vibrant, beautiful buoyancy. He 
trod on the morning clouds. 
Seeing nothing, and coming up against the 
stone wall bounding a little side road which led to 
a wharf, a stable, and a boathouse, he had all but 
stumbled over the prostrate figure of a man. 
Uttering no exclamation, for he was poised in some 
star where a man did not find it natural to swear, 
Dane stopped and turned the figure over, so that 
the day fell fully on its face. 
It was Timothy George, the caterer. His men 
were feeding the horses in the stable. A boy was 
washing the team, from which the signs of Mrs. 
Marriot's entertainment were not yet entirely removed. 
George himself was quite drunk. Nobody 
seemed to think it necessary to pay any attention 
to him, and Dane, on reflection, concluded that 
he was not called upon to trouble himself about 
 
the fellow. But he did say, " Poor Nannie ! " impulsively, 
aloud. 
" Hey ? " muttered George, rousing stupidly at 
the word. "What the blank — Doncher tell 
Nan," he muttered, and relapsed into a comfort- 
able stupor. 
Dane walked away, touched with merciless dis- 
gust. It seemed to him almost a profanation of 
his own sublimated experience that he should 
have happened upon so vulgar and debased a scene. 
He hurried as fast as possible from the caterer, 
got himself into his office without seeing any one, 
and locked the door upon his ecstasy. 
CHAPTER VI 
June blossomed into July, and July blazed into 
August. It was a severe summer, but Balsam Groves 
knew little or nothing about that. To a shielded 
class, fortunate with most of the other privileges of 
life, was given the elect of luxuries, that of being 
able to keep cool in hot weather. Even the re- 
flected discomfort of those who couldn't was spared 
one. The cooks were downstairs. And nobody 
else on the East Shore looked too warm. 
Life touched these pleasant people lightly; on 
its surface, at all events. With the exception of one 
or two stragglers, — it was remembered that Tracie 
Benton had unexpectedly sailed for England, and 
that Dr. Frost had engagements in Bar Harbor, 
— the usual groups were quite unbroken, and 
their familiar faces appeared at the usual round of 
things. The Country Club fell headlong into a gulf 
of golf and polo. Society in the artfully artless 
water-front houses plunged into a series of 
entertainments but recently favored in Balsam Groves, 
whose earlier summers had been more simply 
passed. The late dinners, the later dances, the 
elaborate ceremonies and toilettes of town, replaced the 
 
inadequate aspirations of years when guests, and 
not too many of them, were expected to take their 
hall candles by ten o'clock, when ladies found it 
the correct thing to affect plain wash gowns and 
broad shade hats, to cultivate the acquaintance of 
one's children, to spend the evenings with one's 
husband, — in extreme cases, even alone with him, 
— and to contemplate life without a kitchen maid, 
or a footman. 
Douce Marriot did not call her villa a cottage, 
and her personal amusements were cast on the 
scale of an establishment luxurious even in Balsam 
Groves. These diversions were as elaborate as 
her decorations, and as lavish as her check book ; 
while she guided them within the geometry of the 
respectable, her standards of decorum were her 
own. She had no summer, but a " season." Men 
who knew her were divided into three kinds, — 
those who shunned, those who followed, and those 
who cursed. Women did not love, yet they did 
not remove her ; she was far from declassee. 
"Do you know her?" asked Dane one day, 
when he had driven over from a professional visit 
on a picturesque neuralgia of Mrs. Marriot's to 
see the chronic patient whose case had added to 
the young physician's practice in Balsam Groves. 
" She seems a kind-hearted, light-headed woman." 
Cara was struck with Dane's definition, and its 
tone. Both belonged to a man more accustomed 
to a complicated social life than she had allowed 
herself to suppose that Dane's had been. 
" Oh, I know her as we all do," said Cara,
hesitating. " Mamma did not like to have me go there. 
And Papa does not like to have her come here." 
In truth, Miss Sterling belonged to a class of 
people who did not discuss Mrs. Marriot. 
" I am not to the manner born with this Northern 
society," said Dane, frankly. " It puzzles me 
sometimes. I was brought up anyhow," he added almost 
roughly, " not like you." 
He leaned towards her, with the unmistakable 
look. Hers dropped before it. 
" I am going to tell you about it — about myself," 
he persisted. " I am going to tell you 
everything before long." 
Cara did not answer, and his peremptory tone 
melted to entreaty. 
" May I ? " he asked, humbly. 
" I have sometimes wished you would," said 
Cara, lifting her clear eyes. 
" You may not find the sketch available," 
protested Dane, with a forced smile. " That is what 
the editors say when they return your manuscript." 
" Do you write ? " asked Cara, with unconcealed 
astonishment. Her friends did not; except her 
 
cousin Sterling, when he published sermons and 
addresses. The idea was not without the interest 
of novelty to her. If she had been a daughter of 
the literary or professional ranks, she would have 
thought : " Oh, here 's another ! " 
"Sometimes," answered Dane, lightly. "When 
anybody will print, that is ; it 's a sort of rest to 
me. I hate medicine. I always did." 
" Why? " demanded Cara, gravely. 
" I don't know." Dane shook his head. " I was 
made that way." 
" And yet," urged Cara, " you are so successful. 
My father thinks — Papa says you have a brilliant 
future." 
" Does he ? " asked Dane, rising restlessly. " I 
happen to have helped him. That's quite a different 
thing. But I think I could go on. I could peg 
away at it; I could amount to something. But I 
should have to choose my conditions. And it 
wouldn't be because I loved what I was doing. It 
would be for another reason." 
His eyes met the gentle perplexity in hers 
frankly. He had known for weeks that his time 
for disguise was whirling by. There was but a 
mask of golden tissue now interposed between 
his feeling and his fate. 
That night he wrote a letter ; the first that he 
had ever sent her. It ran, — 
 
My dear Miss Sterling, — 
Thirty-eight years ago a South Carolina girl 
ran away and married an Illinois ranchman. She 
was of spotless character, gentle breeding, and 
gentle birth; she was young, beautiful, and courageous.
She carried herself through her mismated 
marriage like a queen ; never complained of her 
lot, at its worst — and the worst was bad enough 
— and died the sooner for her silence and disdain. 
She was the mother of two children. I am the 
elder of those boys, and I am thirty-six. 
When my brother (his name was Clay) — when 
my brother and I were little fellows we found her 
one morning lying dead upon her bed. I went in 
first, and tried to make her speak to me. Our 
father was away ; he usually was. He came home 
and buried her, and left us with the cook, — this 
was in Ohio, — and when he came back again 
he brought us a stepmother. I think she was a 
Mexican, but I did not undergo the pleasure of 
her society long enough to find out. My little 
brother and I ran away, — it was in the blood, you 
see, — and tumbled about the state for a while, 
starving on our own responsibility. He sold news- 
papers, and I blacked boots. One day I was scrub- 
bing a man's shoes (I never took to the profession; 
not much more than I do to medicine), and I hurt 
him — he had the gout — and he boxed my ear. 
 
There was something so familiar about this 
personal attention that I looked up in his face; and 
it was my father's face. 
" Why, Chance, you little devil ! " he said. " And 
there 's Clay, upon my soul ! Poor - — little — Clay ! 
Why, you poor little devils ! Come along and have 
some breakfast." 
He tucked us under his arms, one on each side, 
