
Mrs. Cavenaugh was gently weeping. The dread moment had come, come when
she had been lulled into the belief that it would never come. Kate
understood, and longed to go to her and comfort her; and she trembled
for her father, who knew nothing of the pit that lay at his feet.
Carrington dallied with his fork; he wished he was anywhere in the world
but at the Cavenaugh table. The desire to laugh recurred to him, but he
realized that the inclination was only hysterical.

Cavenaugh was already heading for the study. He was in a fine rage.
Grandpa was close on his heels. At the threshold he turned once more to
Carrington.

"You know your Tempest, young man, I'm sure," he said. "Well, this is
the revolt of Caliban--Caliban uplifted, as it were."

The door closed behind them, and father and son faced each other.

"I'll trouble you for those papers you took from the safe last night,"
said the son heavily.

"Ah, indeed!" said grandpa.

"At once; I have reached the limit of my patience."

"So have I," returned grandpa. "Perhaps you know what these papers are
about?"

"I know nothing whatever, save that they belong to Mr. Carrington. Hand
them over."

Grandpa helped himself to a cigar and sat down. He puffed two or three
times, eyed the lighted end, and sighed with satisfaction.

"If you but knew what they were about, these papers, you would pay a
cool million for their possession. My word, it is a droll situation;
reads like the fourth act in a play. If you have a duke picked out for
Kate, forget him."

"She will never marry Carrington!" Cavenaugh's voice rose in spite of
his effort to control it.

"My son, they will hear you," the pariah warned. He blew a cloud of
smoke into the air and sniffed it. "You never offered me this particular
brand," reproachfully.

"Enjoy it," snapped the other, "for it is the last you will ever smoke
in any house of mine."

"You don't tell me!"

"Those papers, instantly!"

"'Be it known by these presents, et cetera, et cetera,'" said the old
man. He rose suddenly, the banter leaving his lips and eyes, and his jaw
setting hard. "You had better get your check-book handy, my son, for
when I'm through with you, you'll be only too glad to fill out a blank
for fifty thousand. I consider myself quite moderate. This young
Carrington is a mighty shrewd fellow; and I'd rather have him as a
friend than an enemy. He has made out his case so strongly that it will
cost you a pretty penny to escape with a whole skin."

"What are you talking about?"

"The case of the people versus Cavenaugh et al. It concerns the clever
way in which you and your partners slid under the seven per cent.
dividend due your investors; which caused a slump in the price of the
shares, forcing thousands to sell their stock; which you bought back at
a handsome profit. Moloch! The millions you have are not enough; you
must have more. There are about twelve of you in all, not one of you
worth less than three millions. What a beautiful chance for blackmail!"

Cavenaugh stepped back, and his legs, striking a chair, toppled him into
it. His father had become Medusa's head!

"Aha! That jars you some," chuckled grandpa.

It took Cavenaugh some time to recover his voice, and when he did it was
faint and unnatural.

"Is this true?" he gasped.

"It is so true that I'll trouble you for the check now."

"Come, father, this is no time for nonsense." Cavenaugh waved his hand
impatiently. "Let me see the document."

"Hardly. But the moment you place the check in my hands, I shall be
pleased to do so. But there must be no reservation to have payment
stopped."

"I will not give you a single penny!" The mere suggestion of giving up
so large a sum without a struggle seemed preposterous. "Not a penny! And
furthermore, I am through with you for good and all. Shift for yourself
hereafter. Fifty thousand! You make me laugh!"

"I shall make you laugh, my son; but not on the humorous side." The old
man reached out his hand and struck the bell.

"What do you want?" asked Cavenaugh, mystified.

"I want the author of the document. I propose to take the family
skeleton out of the closet and dangle it up and down before the young
man's eyes. You will laugh, I dare say."

Cavenaugh fell back in his chair again. The door opened and William
looked in.

"You rang, sir?" to Cavenaugh fils.

"No, William," said Cavenaugh père affably; "I rang. Call Mr.
Carrington." The butler disappeared. "It is my turn, Henry, and I have
waited a long time, as you very well know. Ha! Sit down, Mr. Carrington,
sit down."

Carrington, who had entered, obeyed readily.

"You left some papers in the dining-room safe last night," began
grandpa.

"I was about to ask you to return them," replied Carrington, with
assumed pleasantry.

The two Cavenaughs looked at each other blankly. Finally grandpa
laughed.

                             [Illustration]

"I told you he was clever!"

"It is true, then," snarled the millionaire, "that you have been
meddling with affairs that in no wise concern you. I warn you that your
case in court will not have a leg to stand on."

"I prefer not to discuss the merits of the case," said Carrington
quietly.

"I have been your host, sir; you have eaten at my table." Cavenaugh, as
he spoke, was not without a certain dignity.

"All of which, recognizing the present situation, I profoundly regret."

"Good!" said grandpa. "Henry, if you had been the general they give you
credit for, you would have offered Mr. Carrington that seventeen
thousand two or three years ago. There is nothing so menacing to
dishonesty as the free lance. Now, listen to me for a space. We'll come
to the documentary evidence all in good time. I spoke of Caliban
uplifted," ironically. "For years I have been treated as a pariah, as a
beast of burden, as a messenger boy, as a go-between to take tricks that
might have soiled my son's delicate hands. Father and son, yes; but in
name only. Blood is thicker than water only when riches and ambition are
not touched in the quick. This dutiful son of mine could easily have
elevated me along with himself; but he would not do so. He was afraid
that people might learn something of my past, which would greatly hinder
his advancement. He prospered, he grew rich and arrogant; he put his
heel on my neck, and I dared not revolt. You wouldn't believe it, would
you, Mr. Carrington, that I was graduated with honors from Oxford
University. I speak three tongues fluently, and have a smattering of a
dozen others; am a doctor of philosophy, an Egyptologist. But I was
indolent and loved good times, and so, you see, it came about that I
fell into evil ways. Formerly, I was a burglar by profession."

He stopped, eying Carrington's stupefaction. The son gnawed his lips
impotently.

"I was a master, after a fashion," resumed the old man, satisfied with
his dénouement. "I committed a dozen splendid burglaries. I never left a
trail behind. The police sought for me, but did not know me either by
name or by sight. This was the sword my son kept over my neck. The
slightest rebellion, and he threatened to expose me. Oh, I know the boy
well enough; he would have done it in those days. Once extradited to
England, thirty years ago, no one would have connected our names. Yet he
was afraid of me; he wasn't sure that at any time the old desire would
spring up renewed. I robbed to gratify my craving for excitement rather
than to fill my purse. I made an unhappy marriage; something Kate nor
Norah shall do while I live. Henry was clever. He made me an allowance
of two hundred a month. And how do you suppose he arranged the payment?
On the first day of the month he placed the cash in a safe in the house,
and changed the combination. If I got the money without being caught it
was mine; otherwise I went hungry. Ingenious idea, wasn't it? For I had
all the excitement, and none of the peril of a real burglary. Henry
forgot, yesterday, that it was the first of the month."

The millionaire found it impossible to remain seated. He rose and paced
the floor, his brows knit, his hands clenched. He was at bay. Carrington
felt as if he were in the midst of some mad dream.

"Sometimes I succeeded in opening the safe; and sometimes, when luck
went against me for two or three months, Norah tipped me the
combination. She dared not do it too often. So the months went on. Once
a month I was permitted to visit my grandchildren. My son grew richer
and richer; for myself, I remained in the valley of humiliation. I had
no chance. I had never met any of my son's friends; he took good care
that I did not; so they were in total darkness as to my existence. But
the ball and chain were knocked off last night. Your papers are, after
all, only an incident. Caliban revolts. Mr. Carrington, my son! Oh, I am
proud of him. I believed the genius for robbery was mine. I am a
veritable tyro beside Henry. Half a dozen millions from the pockets of
the poor at one fell swoop! Where's your Robin Hood and his ilk? But it
isn't called robbery; it is called high finance."
