"Pain?" he repeated anxiously.
"No; only apprehension. You know, don't you? Well, then, it is nothing;
don't ask me." And, noting the quick change in his face--"No, no; it is
not what you think. How quickly you are hurt! My apprehension is not
about you; it concerns myself. And it is quite groundless. I know what I
must do; I know!" she repeated bitterly. "And there will always be a
straight path to the end; clear and straight, until I go out as nameless
as I came in to all this.... Don't touch my hand, please.... I'm trying
to think.... I can't, if we are in contact.... And you don't know who
you are touching; and I can't tell you. Only two in all the world, if
they are alive, could tell you. And they never will tell you--or tell
me--why they left me here alone."
With a little shiver she released her hand, looking straight ahead of
her for a few moments, then, unconsciously up into the blue overhead.
"I shall love you always," he said. "Right or wrong, always. Remember
that, too, when you think of these things."
She turned as though slowly aroused from abstraction, then shook her
head.
"It's very brave and boyish of you to be loyal--"
"You speak to me as though I were not years older than you!"
"I can't help it; I am old, old, sometimes, and tired of an isolation no
one can break for me."
"If you loved me--"
"How can I? You know I cannot!"
"Are you afraid to love me?"
She blushed crimson, saying: "If I--if such a misfortune--"
"Such a misfortune as your loving me?"
"Yes; if it came, I would never, never admit it! Why do you say these
things to me? Won't you understand? I've tried so hard--so hard to warn
you!" The colour flamed in her cheeks; a sort of sweet anger possessed
her.
"Must I tell you more than I have told before you can comprehend the
utter impossibility of any--love--between us?"
His hand fell over hers and held it crushed.
"Tell me no more," he said, "until you can tell me that you dare to
love!"
"What do you mean? Do you mean that a girl does not do a dishonourable
thing because she dares not?--a sinful thing because she's afraid? If it
were only that--" She smiled, breathless. "It is not fear. It is that a
girl can not love where love is forbidden."
"And you believe that?"
"Believe it!"--in astonishment.
"Yes; do you believe it?"
She had never before questioned it. Dazed by his impatience, dismayed,
she affirmed it again, mechanically. And the first doubt entered as she
spoke, confusing her, awakening a swarm of little latent ideas and
misgivings, stirring memories of half-uttered sentences checked at her
entrance into a room, veiled allusions, words, nods, that she remembered
but had never understood. And, somehow, his question seemed a key to
this cipher, innocently retained in the unseen brain-cells, stored up
without suspicion--almost without curiosity.
For all her recent eloquence upon unhappiness and divorce, it came to
her now in some still subtle manner, that she had been speaking
concerning things in the world of which she knew nothing. And one of
them, perhaps, was love.
Then every instinct within her revolted, all her innate delicacy, all
the fastidious purity recoiled before the menace of his question. Love!
Was it possible? Was this that she already felt, love? Could such
treachery to herself, such treason to training and instinct arise within
her and she not know it?
Panic-stricken she raised her head; and at sight of him a blind impulse
to finish with him possessed her--to crush out that menace--end it for
ever--open his eyes to the inexorable truth.
"Lean nearer," she said quietly. Every vestige of blood had left her
face.
"Listen to me. Two years ago I was told that I am a common foundling.
Under the shock of that--disclosure--I ruined my life for ever.... Don't
speak! I mean to check that ruin where it ended--lest it spread
to--others. Do you understand?"
"No," he said doggedly.
She drew a steady breath. "Then I'll tell you more if I must. I ruined
my life for ever two years ago!... I must have been quite out of my
senses--they had told me that morning, very tenderly and pitifully--what
you already know. I--it was--unbearable. The world crashed down around
me--horror, agonized false pride, sheer terror for the future--"
She choked slightly, but went on:
"I was only eighteen. I wanted to die. I meant to leave my home at any
rate. Oh, I know my reasoning was madness, the thought of their
charity--the very word itself as my mind formed it--drove me almost
insane. I might have known it was love, not charity, that held me so
safely in their hearts. But when a blow falls and reason goes--how can
a girl reason?"
She looked down at her bridle hand.
"There was a man," she said in a low voice; "he was only a boy then."
Hamil's face hardened.
"Until he asked me I never supposed any man could ever want to marry me.
I took it for granted.... He was Gray's friend; I had always known
him.... He had been silly sometimes. He asked me to marry him. Then he
asked me again.
"I was a débutante that winter, and we were rehearsing some theatricals
for charity which I had to go through with.... And he asked me to marry
him. I told him what I was and he still wished it."
Hamil bent nearer from his saddle, face tense and colourless.
"I don't know exactly what I thought; I had a dim notion of escaping
from the disgrace of being nameless. It was the mad clutch of the
engulfed at anything.... Not with any definite view--partly from fright,
partly I think for the sake of those who had been kind to a--a
foundling; some senseless idea that it was my duty to relieve them of a
squalid burden--" She shook her head vaguely: "I don't know exactly--I
don't know."
"You married him."
"Yes--I believe so."
"Don't you know?"
"Oh, yes," she said wearily, "I know what I did. It was that."
And after he had waited for her in silence for fully a minute she said
in a low voice:
"I was very lonely, very, very tired; he urged me; I had been crying. I
have seldom cried since. It is curious, isn't it? I can feel the tears
in my eyes at night sometimes. But they never fall."
She passed her gloved hand slowly across her forehead and eyes.
"I--married him. At first I did not know what to do; did not realise,
understand. I scarcely do yet. I had supposed I was to go to mother and
dad and tell them that I had a name in the world--that all was well with
me at last. But I could not credit it myself; the boy--I had known him
always--went and came in our house as freely as Gray. And I could not
convince myself that the thing that had happened was serious--had really
occurred."
"How did it occur?"
"I will tell you exactly. We were walking home, all of us, along Fifth
Avenue, that winter afternoon. The avenue was gay and densely crowded;
and I remember the furs I wore and the western sunset crimsoning the
cross-streets, and the early dusk--and Jessie ahead with Cecile and the
dogs. And then he said that now was the time, for he was going back to
college that same day, and would not return before Easter--and he urged
it, and hurried me--and--I couldn't think; and I went with him, west, I
believe--yes, the sky was red over the river--west, two blocks, or
more.... There was a parsonage. It lasted only a few minutes.... We took
the elevated to Fifty-ninth Street and hurried east, almost running.
They had just reached the Park and had not yet missed us.... And that is
all."
"All?"
"Yes," she said, raising her pale face to his. "What more is there?"
"The--man."
"He was as frightened as I," she said simply, "and he went back to
college that same evening. And when I had become still more frightened
and a little saner I wrote asking him if it was really true. It was.
There seemed to be nothing to do; I had no money, nor had he. And there
was no love--because I could not endure even his touch or suffer the
least sentiment from him when he came back at Easter. He was a boy and
silly. He annoyed me. I don't know why he persisted so; and finally I
became thoroughly exasperated.... We did not part on very friendly
terms; and I think that was why he did not return to us from college
when he graduated. A man offered him a position, and he went away to try
to make a place for himself in the world. And after he had gone, somehow
the very mention of his name began to chill me. You see nobody knew. The
deception became a shame to me, then a dull horror. But, little by
little, not seeing him, and being young, after a year the unreality of
it all grew stronger, and it seemed as though I were awaking from a
nightmare, among familiar things once more.... And for a year it has
been so, though at night, sometimes, I still lie awake. But I have been
contented--until--you came.... Now you know it all."
"All?"
"Every word. And now you understand why I cannot care for you, or you
for me."
He said in a deadened voice: "There is a law that deals with that sort
of man--"
"What are you saying?" she faltered.
"That you cannot remain bound! Its monstrous. There is a law--"
"I cannot disgrace dad!" she said. "There is no chance that way! I'd
rather die than have him know--have mother know--and Jessie and Cecile
and Gray! Didn't you understand that?"
"You must tell them nevertheless, and they must help you."
"Help me?"
"To free yourself--"
Flushed with anger and disdain she drew bridle and faced him.
"If this is the sort of friendship you bring me, what is your love
worth?" she asked almost fiercely. "And--I cared for you--cared for the
man I believed you to be; bared my heart to you--wrung every secret from
it--thinking you understood! And you turn on me counselling the law,
divorce, horrors unthinkable!--because you say you love me!... And I
tell you that if I loved you--dearly--blindly--I could not endure to
free myself at the expense of pain--to them--even for your sake! They
took me, nameless, as I was--a--a foundling. If they ever learn what I
have done I shall ask their pardon on my knees, and accept life with the
man I married. But if they never learn I shall remain with them--always.
You have asked me what chance you have. Now you know! It is useless to
love me. I cared enough for you to try to kill what you call love last
night. I cared enough to-day to strip my heart naked for you--to show
you there was no chance. If I have done right or wrong I do not
know--but I did it for your sake."
His face reddened painfully, but as he offered no reply she put her
horse in motion and rode on, proud little head averted. For a few
minutes neither he nor she spoke, their horses pacing neck and neck
through the forest. At last he said: "You are right, Shiela; I am not
worth it. Forgive me."
She turned, eyes level and fearless. Suddenly her mouth quivered.
"Forgive me," she said impulsively; "you are worth more than I dare
give you. Love me in your own fashion. I wish it. And I will care for
you very faithfully in mine."
They were very young, very hopeless, deeply impressed with one another,
and quite inexperienced enough to trust each other. She leaned from her
saddle and laid her slim bare hands in both of his, lifting her gaze
bravely to his--a little dim of eye and still tremulous of lip. And he
looked back, love's tragedy dawning in his gaze, yet forcing the smile
that the very young employ as a defiance to destiny and an artistic
insult in the face of Fate; that Fate which looks back so placid and
unmoved.
"Can you forgive me, Shiela?"
"Look at me?" she whispered.
       *       *       *       *       *
