drooping sentiment in its favor, and then, flown with his 
success, he went from group to group and couple to 
couple, and animated all with his zeal, which came, he 
hardly knew whence ; what he pretended to the others 
was that they were rather bound not to let Mrs. West- 
angle's scheme fall through. Their doubts vanished 
before him, and the terms of the battle were quickly 
arranged. He said he had read of one of those mediaeval 
flower-fights, and he could tell them how that was done. 
Where it would not fit into the snow-fight, they could 
trust to inspiration ; every real battle was the effect of 
inspiration. 
He came out, and some of the young women and most 
of the young men, who had dimly known of him as 
a sort of celebrity, and suspected him of being a prig, 
were reconciled, and accepted him for a nice fellow, and 
became of his opinion as to the details of the amusement 
before them. 
It was not very Homeric, when it came off, or very 
mediaeval, but it was really lots of fun, or far more 
fun than one would have thought. The storming of the 
castle was very sincere, and the fortress was honestly 
defended. Miss Macroyd was made umpire, as she 
wished, and provided with a large snowball to sit on 
at a safe distance; as she was chosen by the men, the 
girls wanted to have an umpire of their own, who would 
be really fair, and they voted Verrian into the office. 
But he refused, partly because he did not care about 
being paired off with Miss Macroyd so conspicuous- 
ly, and partly because he wished to help the fight 
along. 
Attacks were made and repelled, and there were feats 
of individual and collective daring on the side of the 
defenders which were none the less daring because the 
assailants stopped to cheer them, and to disable them- 
selves by laughing at the fury of the foe. A detachment 
of the young men at last stormed the castle and so 
weakened its walls that they toppled inward; then the 
defenders, to save themselves from being buried under 
 
the avalanche, swarmed out into the open and made the 
entire force of the enemy prisoners. 
The men pretended that this was what might have 
been expected" from the beginning, but by this time the 
Berserker madness had possessed Miss Macroyd, too; 
she left her throne of snow and came forward shouting 
that it had been perfectly fair, and that the men had 
been really beaten, and they had no right to pretend 
that they had given themselves up purposely. The sex- 
partisanship, which is such a droll fact in women when 
there is any question of their general opposition to men, 
possessed them all, and they stood as one girl for the 
reality of their triumph. This did not prevent them 
from declaring that the men had behaved with out- 
rageous unfairness, and that the only one who fought 
with absolute sincerity from first to last was Mr. 
Verrian. 
Neither their unity of conviction concerning the gen- 
eral fact nor the surprising deduction from it in Ver- 
rian's case operated to make them refuse the help of 
their captives in getting home. When they had bound 
up their tumbled hair, in some cases, and repaired the 
ravages of war among their feathers and furs and 
draperies, in other cases, they accepted the hands of the 
late enemy at difficult points of the path. But they ran 
forward when they neared the house, and they were 
prompt to scream upon Mrs. Westangle that there never 
had been such a success or such fun, and that they were 
almost dead, and soon as they had something to eat they 
were going to bed and never going to get up again. 
In the details which they were able to give at lunch- 
eon, they did justice to Verrian's noble part in the 
whole affair, which had saved the day, not only in 
keeping them up to the work when they had got think- 
ing it couldn't be carried through, but in giving the 
 
combat a validity which it would not have had without 
him. They had to thank him, next to Mrs. Westangle 
herself, whom they praised beyond any articulate ex- 
pression, for thinking up such a delightful thing. They 
wondered how she could ever have thought of it — such 
a simple thing too ; and they were sure that when peo- 
ple heard of it they would all be wanting to have snow 
battles. 
Mrs. Westangle took her praises as passively, if not 
as modestly, as Verrian received his. She made no 
show of disclaiming them, but she had the art, invalu- 
able in a woman who meant to go far in the line she had 
chosen, of not seeming to have done anything, or of 
not caring whether people liked it or not. Verrian 
asked himself, as he watched her twittering back at 
those girls, and shedding equally their thanks and 
praises from her impermeable plumage, how she would 
have behaved if Miss Shirley's attempt had been an 
entire failure. He decided that she would have ignored 
the failure with the same impersonality as that with 
which she now ignored the success. It appeared that in 
one point he did her injustice, for when he went up to 
dress for dinner after the long stroll he took towards 
night he found a note under his door, by which he must 
infer that Mrs. Westangle had not kept the real facts 
of her triumph from the mistress of the revels. 
"Dbae Me. Veeeiait, — I am not likely to see you, 
but I must thank you. M. Shieley. 
" P. S. Don't try to answer, please." 
Verrian liked the note, he even liked the impulse 
which had dictated it, and he understood the impulse; 
but he did not like getting the note. If Miss Shirley 
meant business in taking up the line of life she had 
professed to have entered upon seriously, she had better, 
in the case of a young man whose acquaintance she had 
chanced to make, let her gratitude wait. But when 
did a woman ever mean business, except in the one great 
business ? 
XIV 
To have got that sillily superfluous note to Verrian 
without any one's knowing besides, Miss Shirley 
must have stolen to his door herself and slipped it 
under. In order to do this unsuspected and unseen, 
she must have found out in some sort that would not 
give her away which his room was, and then watched 
her chance. It all argued a pervasiveness in her, after 
such a brief sojourn in the house, and a mastery of 
finesse that he did not like, though, he reflected, he was 
not authorized to like or dislike anything about her. 
He was thirty-seven years old, and he had not lived 
through that time, with his mother at his elbow to 
suggest inferences from facts, without being versed in 
wiles which, even when they were honest, were always 
wiles, and in lures which, when they were of the most 
gossamer tenuity, were yet of texture close enough to 
make the man who blundered through them aware that 
they had been thrown across his path. He understood, 
of course, that they were sometimes helplessly thrown 
across it, and were mere expressions of abstract woman 
with relation to abstract man, but that did not change 
their nature. He did not abhor them, but he believed 
he knew them, and he believed now that he detected 
one of them in Miss Shirley's note. Of course, one 
could take another view of it. One could say to one's 
self that she was really so fervently grateful that she 
could not trust some accident to bring them together in 
a place where she was merely a part of the catering, 
 
as she said, and he was a guest, and that she was ex- 
cusable, or at least mercifully explicable, in her wish 
to have him know that she appreciated his goodness. 
Verrian had been very good, he knew that; he had 
saved the day for the poor thing when it was in danger 
of the dreariest kind of slump. She was a poor thing, 
as any woman was who had to make her own way, and 
she had been sick and was charming. Besides, she 
had found out his name and had probably recognized 
a quality of celebrity in it, unknown to the other young 
people with whom he found himself so strangely as- 
sorted under Mrs. Westangle's roof. 
In the end, and upon the whole, Verrian would rather 
have liked, if the thing could have been made to happen, 
meeting Miss Shirley long enough to disclaim meriting 
her thanks, and to ascribe to the intrinsic value of her 
scheme the brilliant success it had achieved. This 
would not have been true, but it would have been en- 
couraging to her; and in the revery which followed 
upon his conditional desire he had a long imaginary 
conversation with her, and discussed all her other 
plans for the revels of the week. These had not the 
trouble of defining themselves very distinctly in the 
conversation in order to win his applause, and their 
consideration did not carry him with Miss Shirley be- 
yond the strictly professional ground on which they met. 
She had apparently invented nothing for that even- 
ing, and the house party was left to its own resources 
in dancing and sitting out dances, which apparently 
fully sufficed it. They were all tired, and broke up 
early. The women took their candles and went off to 
bed, and the men went to the billiard-room to smoke. 
On the way down from his room, where he had gone to 
put on his smoking-jacket, Verrian met Miss Macroyd 
coming up, candle in hand, and received from her a 
 
tacit intimation that he might stop her for a joking 
good-night. 
" I hope you'll sleep well on your laurels as umpire," 
he said. 
" Oh, thank you," she returned, " and I hope your 
laurels won't keep you awake. It must seem to you as 
if it was blowing a perfect gale in them." 
" What do you mean ? I did nothing." 
" Oh, I don't mean your promotion of the snow bat- 
tle. But haven't you heard ?" He stared. " You've 
been found out!" 
" Found out ?" Verrian's soul was filled with the joy 
of literary fame. 
" Yes. You can't conceal yourself now. You're 
Verrian the actor." 
" The actor ?" Verrian frowned blackly in his dis- 
gust, so blackly that Miss Macroyd laughed aloud. 
" Yes, the coming matinee idol. One of the girls 
recognized you as soon as you came into the house, and 
the name settled it, though, of course, you're supposed 
