Montague caught his breath. “Papers out of my scrap basket!” he
gasped.
“Yes, sir,” said the woman. “It is done now and then, sir,--we learn
of such things, you know. And we are poor women,--they don’t pay us
very well. But you are a gentleman, sir, and I told him I would have
nothing to do with it.”
“What sort of a looking man was he?” Montague demanded.
“He was a dark chap, sir,” said the other, “a sort of Jew like. He
will maybe come back again.”
Montague took out his purse and gave the woman a bill; and she
stammered her thanks and went off with her pail and broom.
He shut the door and went and sat down at his desk, and stared in
front of him, gasping, “My God!”
Then suddenly he struck his knee with an exclamation of rage. “I
told him everything that I knew! Everything! He hardly had to ask me
a question!”
But then again, wonder drowned every other emotion in him. “What in
the world can he have wanted to know? And who sent him? What can it
mean?”
He went back over his talk with the old gentleman from Seattle,
trying to recall exactly what he had told, and what use the other
could have made of the information. But he could not think very
steadily, for his mind kept jumping back to the thought of Jim
Hegan.
There could be but one explanation of all this. Jim Hegan had set
detectives upon him! Nobody else knew anything about the Northern
Mississippi Railroad, or wanted to know about it.
Jim Hegan! And Montague had met him socially at an entertainment--at
Mrs. de Graffenried’s! He had met him as one gentleman meets
another, had shaken hands with him, had gone and talked with him
freely and frankly! And then Hegan had sent a detective to worm his
secrets from him, and had even tried to get at the contents of his
trash basket!
There was only one resort that Montague could think of, in a case so
perplexing. He sat down and wrote a note to his friend Major
Venable, at the Millionaires’ Club, saying that he was coming there
to dinner, and would like to have the Major’s company. And two or
three hours later, when sufficient time had elapsed for the Major to
have had his shave and his coffee and his morning newspaper, he rang
for a messenger and sent the note.
The Major’s reply was prompt. He had no engagement, and his stores
of information and advice were at Montague’s service. But his gout
was bad, and his temper atrocious, and Montague must be warned in
advance that his doctors permitted him neither mushrooms nor meat.
It always seemed to Montague that it could not be possible for a
human face to wear a brighter shade of purple than the Major’s; yet
every time he met him, it seemed to him that the purple was a shade
brighter. And it spread farther with every step the Major took. He
growled and grumbled, and swore tremendous oaths under his breath,
and the way the headwaiter and all his assistants scurried about the
dining-room of the Club was a joy to the beholder.
Montague waited until the old gentleman had obtained his usual dry
Martini, and until he had solved the problem of satisfying his
appetite and his doctor. And then he told of his extraordinary
experience.
“I felt sure that you could explain it, if anybody could,” said he.
“But what is there to explain?” asked the other. “It simply means
that Jim Hegan is interested in your railroad. What more could you
want?”
“But he sent a detective after me!” gasped Montague.
“But that’s all right,” said the Major. “It is done every day. There
are a half dozen big agencies that do nothing else. You are lucky if
he hasn’t had your telephone tapped, and read your telegrams and
mail before you saw them.”
Montague stared at him aghast. “A man like Jim Hegan!” he exclaimed.
“And to a friend.”
“A friend?” said the Major. “Pshaw! A man doesn’t do business with
friends. And, besides, Jim Hegan probably never knew anything about
it. He turned the whole matter over to some subordinate, and told
him to look it up, and he’ll never give another thought to it until
the facts are laid upon his desk. Some one of his men set to work,
and he was a little clumsy about it--that’s all.”
“But why did he want to know about all my family affairs?”
“Why, he wanted to know how you were situated,” said the other--“how
badly you wanted to sell the stock. So when he came to do business
with you, he’d have you where he wanted you, and he’d probably get
fifty per cent off the price because of it. You’ll be lucky if he
doesn’t have a few loans called on you at your bank.”
The Major sat watching Montague, smiling at his naivete. “Where did
you say this road was?” he asked. “In Mississippi?”
“Yes,” said Montague.
“I was wondering about it,” said the other. “It is not likely that
it’s Jim Hegan at all. I don’t believe anybody could get him to take
an interest in Southern railroads. He has probably mentioned it to
someone else. What’s your road good for, anyway?”
“We had a plan to extend it,” said Montague.
“It would take but one or two millions to carry it to the main works
of the Mississippi Steel Company.”
The Major gave a start. “The Mississippi Steel Company!” he
exclaimed.
“Yes,” said Montague.
“Oh, my God!” cried the other.
“What is the matter?”
“Why in the world did you take a matter like that to Jim Hegan?”
 demanded Major Venable.
“I took it to him because I knew him,” said Montague.
“But one doesn’t take things to people because one knows them,” said
the Major. “One takes them to the right people. If Jim Hegan could
have his way, he would wipe the Mississippi Steel Company off the
map of the United States.”
“What do you mean?”
“Don’t you know,” said the Major, “that Mississippi Steel is the
chief competitor of the Trust? And old Dan Waterman organised the
Steel Trust, and watches it all the time.”
“But what’s that got to do with Hegan?”
“Simply that Jim Hegan works with Waterman in everything.”
Montague stared in dismay. “I see,” he said.
“Of course!” said the Major. “My dear fellow, why don’t you come to
me before you do things like that? You should have gone to the
Mississippi Steel people; and you should have gone quietly, and to
the men at the top. For all you can tell, you may have a really big
proposition that’s been overlooked in the shuffle. What was that you
said about the survey?”
And Montague told in detail the story of the aborted plan for an
extension, and of his hunting trip, and what he had learned on it.
“Of course,” said the Major, “you are in the heart of the thing
right now. The Steel people balked your plan.”
“How do you mean?” asked the other.
“They bought up the survey. And they’ve probably controlled your
railroad ever since, and kept it down.”
“But that’s impossible! They’ve had nothing to do with it.”
“Bah!” said the Major. “How could you know?”
“I know the president,” said Montague. “He’s an old friend of the
family’s.”
“Yes,” was the reply. “But suppose they have a mortgage on his
business?”
“But why not buy the road and be done with it?” added Montague, in
perplexity.
The other laughed. “I am reminded of a famous saying of
Wyman’s,--‘Why should I buy stock when I can buy directors?’”
“It’s those same people who are watching you now,” he continued,
after a pause. “Probably they think it is some move of the other
side, and they are trying to run the thing down.”
“Who owns the Mississippi Steel Company?” asked Montague.
“I don’t know,” said the Major. “I fancy that Wyman must have come
into it somehow. Didn’t you notice in the papers the other day that
the contracts for furnishing rails for all his three transcontinental
railroads had gone to the Mississippi Steel Company?”
“Sure enough!” exclaimed Montague.
“You see!” said the Major, with a chuckle. “You have jumped right
into the middle of the frog pond, and the Lord only knows what a
ruction you have stirred up! Just think of the situation for a
moment. The Steel Trust is over-capitalised two hundred per cent.
Because of the tariff it is able to sell its product at home for
fifty per cent more than it charges abroad; and even so, it has to
keep cutting its dividends! Its common stock is down to ten. It is
cutting expenses on every hand, and of course it’s turning out a
rotten product. And now along comes Wyman, the one man in Wall
Street who dares to shake his fist at old Dan Waterman; and he gives
the newspapers all the facts about the bad steel rails that are
causing smash-ups on his roads; and he turns all his contracts over
to the Mississippi Steel Company, which is under-selling the Trust.
The company is swamped with orders, and its plants are running day
and night. And then along comes a guileless young fool with a little
dinky railroad which he wants to run into the Company’s back
door-yard; and he takes the proposition to Jim Hegan!”
The Major arrived at his climax in a state of suppressed emotion,
which culminated in a chuckle, which shook his rubicund visage and
brought a series of twitches to his aching toe. As for Montague, he
was duly humbled.
“What would you do now?” he asked, after a pause.
“I don’t see that there’s anything to do,” said the Major, “except
to hold on tight to your stock. Perhaps if you go on talking out
loud about your extension, some of the Steel people will buy you out
at your own price.”
“I gave them a scare, anyhow,” said Montague, laughing.
“I can wager one thing,” said the other. “There has been a fine
shaking up in somebody’s office down town! There’s a man who comes
here every night, who’s probably heard of it. That’s Will Roberts.”
And the Major looked about the dining-room. “Here he comes now,” he
said.
At the farther end of the room there had entered a tall, dark-haired
man, with a keen expression and a brisk step. “Roberts the Silent,”
 said the Major. “Let’s have a try at him.” And as the man passed
near, he hailed him. “Hello! Roberts, where are you going? Let me
introduce my friend, Mr. Allan Montague.”
The man looked at Montague. “Good evening, sir,” he said. “How are
you, Venable?”
“Couldn’t be worse, thank you,” said the Major. “How are things with
you on the Street?”
“Dull, very dull,” said Roberts, as he passed on. “Matters look bad,
I’m afraid. Too many people making money rapidly.”
The Major chuckled. “A fine sentiment,” he said, when Roberts had
passed out of hearing--“from a man who has made sixty millions in
the last ten years!”
“It did not appear that he had ever heard of me,” said Montague.
“Oh, trust him for that!” said the Major. “He might have been
planning to have your throat cut to-night, but you wouldn’t have
seen him turn an eyelid. He is that sort; he’s made of steel
himself, I believe.”
He paused, and then went on, in a reminiscent mood, “You’ve read of
the great strike, I suppose? It was Roberts put that job through. He
made himself the worst-hated man in the country--Gad! how the
newspapers and the politicians used to rage at him! But he stood his
ground--he would win that strike or die in the attempt. And he very
nearly did both, you know. An Anarchist came to his office and shot
him twice; but he got the fellow down and nearly choked the life out
of him, and he ran the strike on his sick-bed, and two weeks later
he was back in his office again.”
And now the Major’s store-rooms of gossip were unlocked. He told
