turned away. He sprang to his feet, and there was a flash of light in
his eyes, and his hands trembled; for he was behind her, and the
temptation to catch her in his arms was almost too strong for him. At
that moment the door opened without any warning knock.
'The master is coming up the stairs,' said Pina quietly, and instantly
she disappeared again.
Don Alberto started, but Ortensia was calm.
'Stay here and say you have come to see him,' she said, and before he
could answer she was in her own room and the door was shut.
Don Alberto was himself again in a moment, for no experienced woman of
the world could have done the right thing with more instant decision
than Ortensia had shown. He understood, too, that he had so thoroughly
frightened the wretched Pina that she was henceforth his slave, on whom
he could count as safely as Stradella had depended on her in Venice.
With the instinct of an old hand he glanced quickly round the room to
see that no object had been displaced in a way to excite suspicion, and
he then sat down in a straight chair, folded one knee over the other,
and waited for Stradella's coming.
The musician entered a few moments later and stared in surprise as Don
Alberto rose to meet him with outstretched hand and a friendly smile.
'Your servant told me that you would not be back for some time,' said
Altieri, 'but I insisted on coming in. Pray forgive the intrusion, for
the matter is very urgent.'
Stradella had taken his hand rather coolly, but he did not mean his
visitor to see that he was displeased, and he now politely pushed a
chair forward, and took another himself.
'I am glad to find you here,' he said, 'for I also wished to see you in
order to thank you once more for the use of this apartment.'
'But you are not going away?' cried Don Alberto in astonishment.
'Not from Rome. But I have at last found a dwelling which will just suit
us, and we mean to move on Saint John's Day.'
'On Saint John's Day!' repeated Don Alberto, with still more evident
surprise. 'Really! Indeed! I assure you that I did not expect this, my
dear Maestro, and I am almost inclined to think it a breach of
friendship. Are you not well lodged here? Are the rooms too small for
you and your lady? Or do you find them hot, or noisy? I do not
understand.'
'Pray put it down to an artist's foolish love of independence,'
Stradella answered with suavity. 'It is one thing for you rich nobles to
accept favours from each other; you can return them; but we poor
musicians cannot, and so we set a limit to what we think we may fairly
receive.'
'You give what we never can,' objected Don Alberto, 'for you give us
your genius and its works, and I suspect you have some reason hidden
away of which you do not care to speak. I can only tell you how sorry I
am that you should leave this house, where I had hoped you would live
whenever you came to Rome, and where you will always be welcome if you
wish to return.'
'It is impossible to be more courteous, and I wish I could express my
gratitude as well as you have worded your most kind invitation.'
The musician bowed rather formally from his chair as he spoke, but Don
Alberto was not pleased.
'Come, come, my dear Stradella,' he said familiarly, 'one would take us
for a couple of courtiers making compliments at each other. We used to
be good friends and comrades a year ago. Have you forgotten that
carnival season, and how we supped together on ten consecutive nights in
ten different eating-houses, with those two charming ladies from Genoa?
Ah, my dear fellow, how you have changed! But you were not married
then!'
'And never thought I should be! But I am not as much changed as you
think, and I dare say you will soon come to find it out. You spoke of
some urgent business that brings you here----'
'Yes. It is an important affair for you. His Holiness wishes you to
compose a high mass for Saint Peter's Day, for the united choirs of the
Sistine Chapel and Saint Peter's.'
'But the feast is on the twenty-ninth of this month!' cried Stradella in
surprise. 'The time is much too short! Less than three weeks for
composing such a work! I cannot possibly undertake to turn out anything
worthy in that time!'
'I give you the message as my uncle the Cardinal gave it to me,' Don
Alberto answered with assurance, though he had invented the commission
on the spur of the moment, quite sure that he could easily make it a
genuine order, though it would never be executed if his own plans for
carrying off Ortensia on Saint John's Eve succeeded.
'May I have a day in which to consider my answer?' asked the musician.
'If you like. But you will only lose twenty-four hours, since you will
have to do what the Pope asks! A commission from the Sovereign is a
command, you know. Besides, you must have a great many scraps of
compositions and odds and ends of masses among your papers, a part of a
Credo here, an Agnus Dei there--things you can string together and
finish in a few days. The only part that must be new will be the
Offertory for the day, unless you happen to have that too.'
'But the whole can never be harmonious if I do it in that way----'
'What has that to do with it, my dear friend?' asked Don Alberto. 'What
has conscience to do with art, pray? If you do the work the Pope will be
pleased, and you will be several hundred crowns the richer; but if you
refuse to do it, His Holiness will be angry with you and the Cardinal,
and the Cardinal will make you and me pay for the reproof he will
receive! As for the music, nothing you write can be bad, because you
have real genius, and the worst that any one may say will be that your
mass for Saint Peter's Day is not your very best work. Therefore, in my
opinion, you have no choice, and it is quite useless for you to take a
whole day to consider the matter.'
'I suppose you are right,' Stradella answered.
He was not suspicious enough to guess that it was all an invention of
Don Alberto's, and the latter had a very persuasive way with him.
'And now that it is all settled,' Altieri said pleasantly, 'I will take
my leave. For during the next three weeks your own time will be more
valuable than my company! My duty and homage to the Lady Ortensia, and
good-bye; and if you will change your mind and stay here, I shall be
much more in your debt than you in mine.'
'Thank you,' answered Stradella, rising to show him out.
When Ortensia had hurriedly left the room her intention had been to
prevent any immediate trouble, but not to hide what had happened from
her husband for more than a day or two. She was even more angry with
Pina than with Don Alberto himself, for she could not but believe that
the nurse had taken a bribe to admit him, and had then acted as if her
mistress were in love with him, or at least willing to receive him alone
in a toilet that could only imply great intimacy. The woman's sudden
appearance and her face at the door recalled too well how she had come
back suddenly, on the day of the last lesson in Venice, to warn the pair
that Pignaver was near, and Ortensia could not bear to think that she
could ever have been caught with young Altieri in such a situation as to
make the warning positively necessary for her own safety. Indeed, she
was so much ashamed of it now that she blushed scarlet, though she was
alone, and wondered how she could possibly tell Stradella what had
happened.
He found her sitting before her mirror near the window, and from her
chair she could see the reflection of the door through which she had
entered. When the handle turned she put up her hands and pretended to be
arranging her hair, and in the mirror she saw her husband's face and
understood that he was not angry, though he was by no means pleased. He
came behind her, kissed her hair and then her forehead, as she bent her
head backwards to look up into his face.
'Don Alberto has been here,' he said.
'Yes?' The interrogation in her tone might mean anything, and denied
nothing.
'He came to tell me that the Pope wishes me to write a solemn mass for
the feast of Saint Peter, on the twenty-ninth, and of course I was
obliged to agree to do it. But Pina should not have let him in. Do you
think she would take money? After what he told you about her I cannot
help trusting her less.'
'Do you believe that what he told me is true?'
'It agrees well enough with what she said when she came to see me in
Venice,' Stradella answered. 'Do you remember? Or did I never tell you?
She made it a condition of our flight that we should take her with us,
because, if she were left behind, your uncle would have her tortured,
and she said she could bear anything but that. She said it in a way that
made me sure she had already suffered the question, as Don Alberto has
now told you is really the case.'
'It all agrees very well together,' Ortensia announced, shaking her
head. 'Poor Pina! Perhaps Don Alberto threatened her, for I suppose he
has power to do anything he pleases here in Rome.'
'I will go and ask her,' Stradella said. 'That is the simplest way.'
'No! Please----' Ortensia showed such signs of distress that her husband
was surprised.
'Why not? Do you think it would be unfair, or would hurt her feelings?
Then call her here, and ask her yourself before me. She will probably
confess the truth.'
'She would be more likely to conceal it, since you have not the power to
use threats!'
'Possibly, but I doubt it. The woman is a coward, and if you speak
sharply she will be frightened. I do not like to think that when I am
out of the house and my man is out too, anybody may get in. You are not
safe in such conditions. Any ruffian who knew her story could force his
way to you! No, no, love--we must speak to her at once!'
He was already going towards the door, but Ortensia rose quickly and
overtook him before he could go out, catching him by the hand and
holding him back.
'You must hear me first,' she cried in great anxiety, leading him to a
seat beside her.
He had followed her without resistance, too much surprised to object. If
any reason for her action suggested itself it was that she wished to
spare Pina's feelings, probably out of affection for the nurse. But
Ortensia took one of his hands and pressed it against her eyes as she
began to speak, for she thought she had done something very wicked in
concealing from him that she had really seen Don Alberto.
'I do not know why Pina let him in,' she said in a low voice, as if
making a confession, 'but he found me there, in the next room, and he
had come on purpose to see me, and not you.'
She went on and told Stradella everything she could remember, which,
indeed, was most of the conversation, including Don Alberto's jesting
pretence that he had been acting.
'I did not want to make trouble,' Ortensia concluded tearfully. 'I meant
to tell you to-morrow--are you very angry? You can call Pina now, if you
like----'
Stradella had risen and was pacing the room, evidently in no very gentle
temper, though he was far too just to blame his wife for what had
happened. After a few moments Ortensia rose and went to him, and as he
stopped she laid her hands upon his shoulders, looking up into his eyes.
'You are angry with me,' she said very sorrowfully. 'I did the best I
could. He would not go away.'
Instantly he took her in his arms, lifted her clear of the floor, and
kissed her passionately, again and again; and at the very first touch of
his lips she understood, though she could almost feel his anger against
Altieri throbbing in the hands that held her.
'I have borne enough from that man,' he said, letting her stand on her
feet again, and he slipped his right arm round her waist, and made her
walk up and down with him. 'He will take no answer from you, he forces
himself upon you when you are alone, he thinks that because he is the
Pope's nephew no one dares to face him and say him nay!'
He was very angry, and at each phrase his hand unconsciously tightened
its hold on Ortensia's waist, as if to emphasise what he was saying; and
though he said little enough, she felt that his blood was up, and that
it would be ill for Don Alberto to meet him in his present mood. A
Tuscan would have dissolved his temper in a torrent of useless
blasphemy, as Tuscans generally do, a Roman would have roared out
fearful threats, a Neapolitan would have talked of the knife with many
gestures; the Sicilian did not raise his voice, though it shook a
little, and he only said he had borne enough, but if his enemy had
