
The day was divine, and we had worn our best walking-dresses, in
anticipation of the shopping frolic. Three of the girls had commented
upon our smart attire, one remarking that we “really looked like
folks.” The vocabulary of school-girls usually harmonizes with their
deportment. The tall girl I have spoken of as “Miss Blank,” added to
her patronizing notice of the country girls, the encouraging assurance
that “if we only had bonnets less than a century old, we would be quite
presentable.”

We held our peace, hugging to our souls the knowledge that we were
that day to try on two velvet bonnets—real velvet—the like of which
had never graced our heads before. We could afford to smile superior
to contempt and to patronage—the lowest device of the mean mind, the
favorite tool of the consciously underbred.

I forgot heat and bitterness, and misanthropy died a natural death in
the milliner’s shop. The new hat was a dream of beauty and becomingness
in my unlearned eyes. It was a soft plum-color, and had a tiny marabou
feather on the side. I had never worn a feather. Mea’s was dark-blue
and of uncut velvet. It, too, was adorned with a white feather. I
could have touched the tender blue heavens with one finger when it was
decided that we might wear the new bonnets home, and have the old ones
sent up instead.

“You know I never like to have new clothes worn for the first time to
church,” our mother remarked, aside, to us.

We walked up-town, meeting my father at the foot of Capitol Street.
He was in a prodigious hurry, forging along at a rate that made it
difficult for me to overtake him when my mother told me to “run after
him, and we would all go home together.”

He drew out his watch when I told my errand breathlessly. His eyes were
bright with excitement; as he hurried back to offer his arm to his
wife, he said:

“I must be on Broad Street when the Northern train comes in. We have
just time if you don’t mind walking briskly.”

Mind it! I could have run every step of the way if that would bring
the news to us more quickly. My heart smote me remorsefully. For in
the engrossing event of the new bonnet I had forgotten, for the time,
that decisive news of the election would certainly be received by
the mail-train which ran into Richmond at two o’clock. It must be
remembered that the period of which I write antedated the electric
telegraph. We had but one through mail daily. Election news had
been pouring in heavily, but slowly. We were not quite sure, even
yet, how our own State had gone. The returns from New York and
Pennsylvania would establish the fact of the great Whig victory
beyond a doubt. We said “the Clay victory,” and were confident that
it was an accomplished, established fact. True, my father and Uncle
Carus had spoken rather gravely than apprehensively last night of the
unprecedentedly large Irish vote that had been polled.

We were at the corner of Broad and Tenth Streets, and still at racing
speed, when the train drew slowly into the station. The track lay
in the centre of Broad Street, and the terminus was flush with the
sidewalk. I was on one side of my father; my mother had his other
arm. Mea, never a rapid walker, was some paces in the rear. I felt my
father’s step falter and slacken suddenly. Looking into his face, I saw
it darken and harden. The mobile mouth was a straight, tense line. I
thought that a groan escaped him. Before I could exclaim, a man strode
toward us from the train. He grasped my father’s arm and said something
in his ear. I caught five words of one sentence:

“The Irish vote did it!”

At the same instant the ludicrous touch, never lacking from the supreme
moments of life, was supplied to this by a boy walking down the street,
his young face disfigured by the wrathful disappointment stamped upon
the visages of most of the men thronging the sidewalk. Some ardent
Democrat had nailed a vigorous poke-stalk against the fence, and the
lad stopped to kick it viciously. Even my father smiled at the impotent
fury of the action.

“That’s right, my boy!” he said, and struck the weed into the gutter
with a blow of his cane.

“I wish other evils were as easily disposed of!” was all that escaped
the tightly-closed lips for the next half-hour.

The gloom rested upon face and spirits for twenty-four hours. Richmond
was a Whig city, and the very air seemed oppressed by what we reckoned
as a National woe. It is not easy to appreciate in this century that
the defeat of a Presidential candidate imported so much to the best men
in the country.

“How did you know what had happened, father?” I ventured to ask that
night when the silent meal was over. We had moved and spoken as if the
beloved dead lay under our roof. I stole out to the long back porch
as we arose from table, and stood there, leaning over the railing
and listening to the dirge chanted by the river. The stars twinkled
murkily through the city fogs; a sallow moon hung low in the west. It
was a dolorous world. I wondered how soon the United States Government
would collapse into anarchy. Could—would my father continue to live
here under the rule of Polk? How I loathed the name and the party that
had made it historic! So quietly had my father approached that I was
made aware of his proximity by the scent of his cigar. I was vaguely
conscious of a gleam of gratitude that he had this slight solace. His
cigar meant much to him. I laid my hand on that resting on the railing.
Such strong, capable hands as his were! His fingers were closed
silently upon mine, and I gathered courage to put my question. The blow
had fallen before we met the man who had hissed at “the Irish vote.”

“How did you know what had happened, father?”

No need to speak more definitely. Our minds had room for but one
thought.

“It was arranged with the engineer and conductor that a flag should be
made fast to the locomotive if there were good news. It was to be a
large and handsome flag. Hundreds were on the lookout for it. As soon
as I caught sight of the train I saw that the flag was not there.”

He smoked hard and fast. A choking in my throat held me silent.
For, in a lightning flash of fancy, I had before me the glorious
might-have-been that would have driven the waiting hundreds mad
with joy. I pictured how proudly the “large, handsome flag” would
have floated in the sunshine, and the wild enthusiasm of the crowds
collected upon the sidewalks—the gladness that would have flooded our
hearts and our home.

It was, perhaps, five minutes before I could manage my voice to say:

“How do you suppose Mr. Clay will bear it?”

I was a woman-child, and my whole soul went out in the longing to
comfort the defeated demigod.

“Like the hero that he is, my daughter. This”—still not naming the
disaster—“means more to the nation than to him.”

He raised his hat involuntarily, as I had seen him do that bright,
happy May morning when we walked down to Jordan’s Creek to be amused by
the Democratic barbecue.

He removed it entirely a week later, and bowed his bared head silently,
when a fellow-Whig told him, with moist eyes, that the decisive tidings
were brought to the hero as he stood in a social gathering of friends.
Mr. Clay—so ran the tale I have never heard contradicted—was called out
of the room by the messenger, returning in a few minutes to resume the
conversation the summons had interrupted, with unruffled mien and the
perfect courtesy that never failed him in public and in private. It was
said then that he repeated on that evening, in reply to the expressed
sorrow of his companions—if, indeed, it was not said then for the first
time—the immortal utterance:

“I would rather be right than President!”

The inevitable dash of the ludicrous struck across the calamity in the
form of my father’s disapproval of the velvet bonnet I would not have
exchanged on Saturday for a ducal tiara. I had meant to reserve the
appearance of it as a pleasant surprise, and to call his attention to
it when I was dressed for church next day. I did not blame him for not
noticing it in our rapid tramp up Capitol Street on Saturday. He had
weightier matters on his mind. With the honest desire of diverting him
from the train of ideas that had darkened his visage for twenty-four
hours, I donned the precious head-piece ten minutes before it was time
to set out for church, and danced into my mother’s room where he sat
reading. Walking up to him, I swept a marvellous courtesy and bolted
the query full at him:

“How do you like my new bonnet?”

He lowered the book and surveyed me with lack-lustre eyes.

“Not at all, I am sorry to say.”

I fairly staggered back, casting a look of anguished appeal at my
mother. Being of my sex, she comprehended it.

“Why, father! we think it very pretty,” laying her hand on his
shoulder. “And she never had a velvet bonnet before.”

I saw the significant tightening of the small fingers, and he must have
felt it. But the dull eyes did not lighten, the corners of the mouth
did not lift.

“As I said, I do not admire it. Nor do I think it becoming.”

I turned on my heel, as he might have done, and went to my room. When
Mea and I joined our parents in the lower hall, the splendors of the
new bonnets were extinguished by thick barege veils. We had not meant
to wear them in November. They were indispensable for summer noons.
After I had confided my tale of woe to my sister, we hastened to exhume
the veils from our trunks and to bind them over our hats. We walked,
slow and taciturn, behind our elders for five squares. Then my father
turned and beckoned to us. He was actually smiling—a whimsical gleam
that had in it something of shame, and much of humor.

“Take off those veils!” he said, positively, yet kindly. And, as we
hesitated visibly: “I mean what I say! I want to take a good look at
those bonnets.”

It was in a quiet corner of a secluded street, lined with what was once
a favorite shade-tree in Richmond—the Otaheite mulberry. The night had
been cold, and the last russet leaves were ankle-deep on the sidewalk.
They rustled as I moved uneasily in loosening my veil.

