ing all afternoon on the beach, or sitting beside it in 
canopied penny chairs, there was more active diversion 
for all ages and sexes in the circus prevailing some- 
where in the background, and advertising itself every 
afternoon by a procession of six young elephants neat- 
ly carrying each in his trunk the tail of the elephant 
before him. There were also the delightful shows 
of the amusement pier where one could go and see 
Pierrots to one's heart's content, if one can ever get 
enough of Pierrots; I never can. 
Besides all these daytime things there were two very 
good theatres, at one of which I saw Mr. Barrie's Lit- 
tle Mary given better than in ISTew York (that was 
easy), and at the other a comic opera, with a bit of 
comedy or tragedy in a stage-box, not announced in the 
bills. The audience was otherwise decorous enough to 
be composed of Welsh Baptist elders and their visiting 
friends, but in this box there were two young men in 
evening dress, scuffling with a young woman in dinner 
decolletee, and what appeared to be diamonds in her 
ears. They were trying, after what seems the conven- 
tion of English seaside flirtation, to get something out 
of her hand, and allowing her successfully to resist 
them; and their playful contest went on through a 
whole act to the distraction of the spectators, who did 
not seem greatly scandalized. It suggested the mis- 
giving that perhaps bad people came to Llandudno for 
their summer outing as well as good; but there was 
no interference by the police or the management with 
this robust side-show. Were the actors in the scene, all 
or any of them, too high in rank to be lightly molested 
in their lively event; or were they too low? Perhaps 
they were merely tipsy, but all the same their interlude 
was a contribution to the evening's entertainment which 
would not have been so placidly accepted in, say, At- 
lantic City, or Coney Island, or even Newport, where 
people are said to be more accustomed to the caprices 
of society persons, and more indulgent of their whims. 
A more improving, and on the whole more pleasing, 
phase of the indigenous life, and also more like a phase 
of our own, showed itself the day of our visit to Con- 
 
way, a little way from Llandudno. There, on our of- 
fering to see the ruins of the wonderful and beautiful 
old castle, we were met at the entrance with a demand 
for an exceptional shilling gate money, because of the 
fair for the local Wesleyan Chapel which was holding 
in the interior. What seemed at first a hardship turned 
out a chance which we would not have missed on any 
account. There was a large tent set up in the old castle 
court, and a table spread with home-made dainties of 
many sorts, and waited upon by gentle maids and 
matrons who served one with tea or whatever else 
one liked, all for that generously inclusive shilling. 
They were Welsh, they told us, and they were speak- 
ing their language to right and left of us, while 
they were so courteous to us in English. It was 
quite like a church fair in some American village, 
where, however, it could not have had the advantage 
of a ruined Norman castle for its scene, and where 
it would not have provided a range for target prac- 
tice with air-guns, or grounds for running and 
jumping. 
The place was filled with people young and old who 
were quietly amusing themselves and were more taken 
up with the fair than with the castle. I must myself 
comparatively slight the castle in the present study of 
people rather than places, though I may note that if 
there is any more interesting ruin in the world, I am 
satisfied with this which it surpasses. Besides its 
beauty, what strikes one most is its perfect adapta- 
tion to the original purpose of palace and fortress 
for which the Normans planned their strongholds in 
Wales. The architect built not only with a constant 
instinct of beauty, but with unsurpassable science and 
skill. The skill and the science have gone the way of 
the need of them, but the beauty remains indelible 
 
and as eternal as the hunger for it in the human soul. 
Conway castle is not all a ruin, even as a fortress, how- 
ever. Great part of it still challenges decay, and is 
so entire in its outward shape that it has inspired the 
railway running under its shoulder to attempt a con- 
formity of style in the bridge approaching it, but with- 
out enabling it to an equal effect of grandeur. One 
would as soon the bridge had not tried. 
All Conway is worthy, within its ancient walls, of 
as much devotion as one can render it in the rain, 
which begins as soon as you leave the castle. The 
walls climb from the waters to the hills, and the streets 
wander up and down and seem to the stranger mainly 
to seek that beautiful old Tudor house, Plas Mawr, 
which like the castle is without rival in its kind. It 
was full of reeking and streaming sight-seers, among 
whom one could easily find one's self incommoded 
without feeling one's self a part of the incommoda- 
tion, but in spite of them there was the assurance of 
comfort as well as splendor in the noble old mansion, 
such as the Elizabethan houses so successfully studied. 
In the dining-room a corner of the mantel has its sand- 
stone deeply worn away, and a much-elbowed architect, 
who was taking measurements of the chimney, agreed 
that this carf was the effect of the host or the butler 
flying to the place and sharpening his knife for 
whatever haunch of venison or round of beef was 
toward. It was a fine memento of the domestic past, 
and there was a secret chamber where the refugees of 
this cause or that in other times were lodged in great 
discomfort. Besides, there was a ghost which was 
fairly crowded out of its accustomed quarters, where 
so far from being able to walk, it would have had 
much ado to stand upright by flattening itself against 
the wall. 
 
VI 
In fact, there was not much more room that day 
in the PI as Mawr, than in the Smallest House in the 
World, which is the next chiefest attraction of Con- 
way. This, too, was crammed with damp enthusiasts, 
passionately eager to sign their names in the guest-book. 
They scarcely left space in the sitting-room of ten by 
twelve feet for the merry old hostess selling photo- 
graphs and ironically inviting her visitors' guests to a 
glimpse of the chamber overhead, or so much of it as 
the bed allowed to be seen. She seemed not to be- 
lieve in her abode as a practicable tenement, and could 
not be got to say that she actually lived in it; as to 
why it was built so small she was equally vague. But 
there it was, to like or to leave, and there, not far off, 
was the " briny beach " where the Walrus and the 
Carpenter walked together, 
" And wept like anything to see 
Such quantities of sand." 
For it was in Conway, as history or tradition is, that 
Through the Looking-Glass was written. 
There are very few places in those storied British 
Isles which are not hallowed by some association with 
literature; but I suppose that Llandudno is as exempt 
as any can be, and I will not try to invoke any dear 
and honored shade from its doubtful obscurity. We 
once varied the even tenor of our days there by driv- 
ing to Penmaenmawr, and wreaking our love of literary 
associations so far as we might by connecting the place 
with the memory of Gladstone, who was literary as well 
as political. We thought with him that Penmaenmawr 
was " the most charming watering-place in Wales," and 
as you drive into the place, the eye of faith will detect 
the house, on the right, in which he spent many happy 
summers. We contented ourselves with driving direct 
to the principal hotel, where I know not what kept us 
from placing ourselves for life. We had tea and jam 
on the pretty lawn, and the society of a large company 
of wasps of the yellow- jacket variety, which must have 
been true Welsh wasps, as peaceful as they were musi- 
cal, and no interloping Scotch or Irish, for they did 
not offer to attack us, but confined themselves alto- 
gether to our jam : to be sure, we thought best to leave 
it to them. 
It is said that the- purple year is not purpler at any 
point on the southernmost shores of England than it 
is at Llandudno. In proof of the mildness of its win- 
ter climate, the presence of many sorts of tender ever- 
greens is alleged, and the persistence of flowers in 
blooming from Christmas to Easter. But those who 
have known the deceitful habits of flowers on the 
Riviera, where they bloom in any but an arctic de- 
gree of cold, will not perhaps hurry to Llandudno 
much later than November. All the way to Penmaen- 
mawr the flowers showed us what they could do in 
summer, whether in field or garden, and there was one 
beautiful hill on which immense sweeps and slopes of 
yellow gorse and purple heather boldly stretched sepa- 
rately, or mingled their dyes in the fearlessness of na- 
ture when she spurns the canons of art. I suppose 
there is no upholsterer or paperhanger who would advise 
mixing or matching yellow and purple in the decora- 
tion of a room, but here the outdoor effect rapt the 
eye in a transport of delight. It was indeed a day 
when almost any arrangement of colors would have 
pleased. 
 
VII 
It is not easy in that much summer-resorted region 
to get at the country in other than its wilder moods; 
it is either town or mountain; but now and then one 
found one's self among harvest-fields, where the yield 
of wheat and oats was far heavier than with us, either 
because the soil was richer or the tilth thorougher. 
The farms indeed looked very fertile, and the farm- 
houses very alluringly clean and neat, at least on the 
outside. They were not gray, as in the West of Eng- 
land, or brick as in the Southeast, but were of stone 
whitewashed, and the roofs were of slate, and not 
thatch or tile. As I have noted, they were not so 
much gathered into villages as in England, and again, 
as I have noted, it is out of such houses that the 
farmers' boys and girls go to the co-educational col- 
leges of the Welsh University. It is still the prefer- 
ence of the farmers that their sons should be educated 
for the ministry, which in that country of multiplied 
