entirely free from suspicion, were his contributions to the festivities.
Later Kelter's nicely modulated voice and almost affectionate manner
restrained Quest from hurling his glass at the inflamed countenance of
Mr. Dumont. But it did not prevent him from leaving the room in a
vicious temper, and, ultimately, the Cataract Club.
The early winter night had turned cold and clear; sidewalks glittered,
sheeted with ice. He inhaled a deep breath and expelled a reeking one,
hailed a cab, and drove to the railroad station.
Here he bought his tickets, choosing a midnight train; for the journey
to Mulqueen's was not a very long one; he could sleep till seven in the
car; and, besides, he had his luggage to collect from the hotel he had
been casually inhabiting. Also he had not yet dined.
Bodily he felt better, now that the vichy had been "killed"; mentally
his temper became more vicious than ever as he thought of Dumont's
blunted wit at his expense--a wit with edge enough left to make a
ragged, nasty wound.
"He'll get what's coming to him some day," snarled Quest, returning to
his cab; and he bade the driver take him to the Amphitheatre, a
restaurant resort, wonderful in terra-cotta rocks, papier-maché grottos,
and Croton waterfalls--haunted of certain semi-distinguished pushers of
polite professions, among whom he had been known for years.
The place was one vast eruption of tiny electric lights, and the lights
of "the profession," and the demi-monde. Virtue and its antithesis
disguised alike in silk attire and pearl collars, rubbed elbows
unconcernedly among the papier-maché grottos; the cascades foamed with
municipal water, waiters sweated and scurried, lights winked and
glimmered, and the music and electric fans annoyed nobody.
In its usual grotto Quest found the usual group, was welcomed
automatically, sat down at one of the tables, and gave his order.
Artists, newspaper men, critics, and writers predominated. There was
also a "journalist" doing "brilliant" space work on the Sun. He had
been doing it nearly a month and he was only twenty-one. It was his
first job. Ambition tickled his ribs; Fame leaned familiarly over his
shoulder; Destiny made eyes at him. His name was Bunn.
There was also a smooth-shaven, tired-eyed, little man who had written a
volume on Welsh-rarebits and now drew cartoons. His function was to
torment Bunn; and Bunn never knew it.
A critic rose from the busy company and departed, to add lustre to his
paper and a nail in the coffin of the only really clever play in town.
"Kismet," observed little Dill, who did the daily cartoon for the
Post, "no critic would be a critic if he could be a fifth-rate anybody
else--or," he added, looking at Bunn, "even a journalist."
"Is that supposed to be funny?" asked Bunn complacently. "I intend to
do art criticism for the Herald."
"What's the objection to my getting a job on it, too?" inquired Quest,
setting his empty glass aside and signalling the waiter for a re-order.
He expected surprise and congratulation.
Somebody said, "You take a job!" so impudently that Quest reddened and
turned, showing his narrow, defective teeth.
"It's my choice that I haven't taken one," he snarled. "Did you think
otherwise?"
"Don't get huffy, Stuyve," said a large, placid, fat novelist, whose
financial success with mediocre fiction had made him no warmer favourite
among his brothers.
A row of artists glanced up and coldly continued their salad, their
Vandyck beards all wagging in unison.
"I want you to understand," said Quest, leaning both elbows offensively
on Dill's table, "that the job I ask for I expect to get."
"You might have expected that once," said the cool young man who had
spoken before.
"And I do now!" retorted Quest, raising his voice. "Why not?"
Somebody said: "You can furnish good copy, all right, Quest; you do it
every day that you're not working."
Quest, astonished and taken aback at such a universal revelation of the
contempt in which he seemed to be held, found no reply ready--nothing at
hand except another glass of whiskey and soda.
Minute after minute he sat there among them, sullen, silent, wincing,
nursing his chagrin in deepening wrath and bitterness; and his clouding
mind perceived in the rebuke nothing that he had ever done to deserve
it.
Who the devil were these rag-tags and bob-tails of the world who
presumed to snub him--these restaurant-haunting outsiders, among whom he
condescended to sit, feeling always the subtle flattery they ought to
accord him by virtue of a social position hopeless of attainment by any
of them?
Who were they to turn on him like this when he had every reason to
suppose they were not only aware of the great talent he had carelessly
neglected to cultivate through all these years, but must, in the secret
recesses of their grubby souls, reluctantly admire his disdain of the
only distinctions they scrambled for and could ever hope for?
His black looks seemed to disturb nobody; Bunn, self-centred, cropped
his salad complacently; the Vandyck beards wagged; another critic or
two left, stern slaves to duty and paid ads.
       *       *       *       *       *
The lights bothered him; tremors crawled over and over his skin; within
him a dull rage was burning--a rage directed at no one thing, but which
could at any moment be focussed.
Men rose and left the table singly, by twos, in groups. He sat,
glowering, head partly averted, scowlingly aware of their going, aware
of their human interest in one another but not in him, aware at last
that he counted for nothing whatever among them.
Some spoke to him as they passed out; he made them no answer. And at
last he was alone.
Reaching for his empty glass, he miscalculated the distance between it
and his quivering fingers; it fell and broke to pieces. When the waiter
came he cursed him, flung a bill at him, got up, demanded his coat and
hat, swore at the pallid, little, button-covered page who brought it,
and lurched out into the street.
A cab stood there; he entered it, fell heavily into a corner of the
seat, bade the driver, "Keep going, damn you!" and sat swaying,
muttering, brooding on the wrongs that the world had done him.
Wrongs! Yes, by God! Every hand was against him, every tongue slandered
him. Who was he that he should endure it any longer in patience! Had he
not been patient? Had he not submitted to the insults of a fool of a
doctor?--had he not stayed his hand from punishing Dumont's red and
distended face?--had he not silently accepted the insolent retorts of
these Grub Street literati who turned on him and flouted the talent that
lay dormant in him--dead, perhaps--but dead or dormant, it still
matched theirs! And they knew it, damn them!
Had he not stood enough from the rotten world?--from his own sister, who
had flung his honour into his face with impunity!--from Dysart, whose
maddening and continual ignoring of his letters demanding an
explanation----
There seemed to come a sudden flash in his brain; he leaned from the
window and shouted an address to the cabman. His hat had fallen beside
him, but he did not notice its absence on his fevered head.
"I'll begin with him!" he repeated with a thick laugh; "I'll settle
with him first. Now we're going to see! Now we'll find out about several
matters--or I'll break his neck off!--or I'll twist it off--wring it
off!"
And he beat on his knees with his fists, railing, raging, talking
incoherently, laughing sometimes, sometimes listening, as though,
suddenly, near him, a voice was mocking him.
He had a pocket full of bills, crushed up; some he gave to the cabman,
some he dropped as he stuffed the others into his pockets, stumbled
toward a bronze-and-glass grille, and rang. The cabman brought him his
hat, put it on him, gathered up the dropped money, and drove off with
his tongue in his cheek.
Quest rang again; the door opened; he gave his card to the servant, and
stealthily followed him upstairs over the velvet carpet.
Dysart, in a velvet dressing-gown knotted in close about his waist,
looked over the servant's shoulders and saw Quest standing there in the
hall, leering at him.
For a moment nobody spoke; Dysart took the offered card mechanically,
glanced at it, looked at Quest, and nodded dismissal to the servant.
When he and the other man stood alone, he said in a low, uncertain
voice:
"Get out of here!"
But Quest pushed past him into the lighted room beyond, and Dysart
followed, very pale.
"What are you doing here?" he demanded.
"I've asked you questions, too," retorted Quest. "Answer mine first."
"Will you get out of here?"
"Not until I take my answer with me."
"You're drunk!"
"I know it. Look out!"
Dysart moistened his bloodless lips.
"What do you want to know?" And, as Quest shouted a question at him:
"Keep quiet! Speak lower, I tell you. My father is in the next room."
"What in hell do I care for your father? Answer me or I'll choke it out
of you! Answer me now, you dancing blackguard! I've got you; I want my
answer, and you've got to give it to me!"
"If you don't lower your voice," said Dysart between his teeth, "I'll
throw you out of that window!"
"Lower my voice? Why? Because the old fox might hear the young one yap!
What do I care for you or your doddering family----"
He went down with a sharp crash; Dysart struck him again as he rose;
then, beside himself, rained blows on him, drove him from corner to
corner, out of the room, into the hall, striking him in the face till
the young fellow reeled and fell against the bath-room door. It gave; he
stumbled into darkness; and after him sprang Dysart, teeth set--sprang
into the darkness which split before him with a roar into a million
splinters of fire.
He stood for a second swaying, reaching out to grasp at nothing in a
patient, persistent, meaningless way; then he fell backward, striking a
terrified servant, who shrank away and screamed as the light fell on her
apron and cuffs all streaked with blood.
She screamed again as a young man's white and battered face appeared in
the dark doorway before her.
"Is he hurt?" he asked. His dilated eyes were fixed upon the thing on
the floor. "What are you howling for? Is he--dead?" whispered Quest.
Suddenly terror overwhelmed him.
"Get out of my way!" he yelled, hurling the shrieking maid aside,
striking the frightened butler who tried to seize him on the stairs.
There was another manservant at the door, who stood his ground swinging
a bronze statuette. Quest darted into the drawing-room, ran through the
music-room and dining-room beyond, and slammed the door of the butler's
pantry.
He stood there panting, glaring, his shoulder set against the door; then
he saw a bolt, and shot it, and backed away, pistol swinging in his
bleeding fist.
Servants were screaming somewhere in the house; doors slammed, a man was
shouting through a telephone amid a confusion of voices that swelled
continually until the four walls rang with the uproar. A little later a
policeman ran through the basement into the yard beyond; another pushed
his way to the pantry door and struck it heavily with his night-stick,
demanding admittance.
For a second he waited; then the reply came, abrupt, deafening; and he
hurled himself at the bolted door, and it flew wide open.
But Quest remained uninterested. Nothing concerned him now, lying there
on his back, his bruised young face toward the ceiling, and every
earthly question answered for him as long as time shall last.
       *       *       *       *       *
Up-stairs a very old and shrunken man sat shivering in bed, staring
vacantly at some policemen and making feeble efforts to reach a wig
hanging from a chair beside him--a very glossy, expensive wig, nicely
curled where it was intended to fall above the ears.
"I don't know," he quavered, smirking at everybody with crackled,
painted lips, "I know nothing whatever about this affair. You must ask
my son Jack, gentlemen--my son Jack--te-he!--oh, yes, he knows; he can
