produced it. Now, in the same tone, looking him still in the face, she said: 
"Come below with me." 
As she spoke she stooped, gathered the 
 
train of her dress and together they descended the stair. 
In the hall a footman stood. Sally left 
Welden and went to the table. Above it in 
a rack was a letter which she avidly took 
and put in her corsage. Then, turning, she 
spoke to the servant. 
Welden, meanwhile, was still absorbed by 
her statement. But happiness was yet so 
recent that the ineluctable truth had not fully permeated all the cerebral convolu 
tions, and the fact that it had not, manifested 
itself in the melodramatic phrase which all 
have uttered, all at least whom the unfore 
seen has felled. 
"It is impossible; I am dreaming!" 
At that, instantly, there surged before 
him the vision of the pillowed head, but now, 
through some miracle of hell, he could see 
the body, the fair ivory of it blotched with 
postules. 
Again hgematomania would have claimed 
him. For a moment it was not only the vision that he saw but zigzags of black and 
scarlet. Determinedly he reacted. Almost 
immediately the natural poise of the man returned, with it as quickly came the realisa 
tion that since already he had done nothing, 
there was nothing that he or any other civilised being could do, except indeed to leave 
the house. 
At the sure cognition of that he looked 
about for Sally. She was speaking to a 
maid. 
"I am going," he told her. 
Sally, from over her shoulder, nodded at 
him. 
"So am I," she answered and went on with 
her orders. 
"Perkins," she was saying, "M. de Malakoff is in number ten. Tell Harris to have 
two of the men remain near by until they 
see him leave it." 
Welden wondered absently at her reply. 
 
It was odd, he thought, that she also should 
be going. Then, as absently, he remembered 
that she was Malakoff's wife and he contemplated the fact gravely, without pity, It 
seemed to him just that besides himself some 
one else should suffer. 
"And Perkins," Sally called at the now 
retreating woman. "Bring my jewel case 
and some things, enough for to-night." 
"Come," she added to Welden, moving 
as she spoke to the door. "I am going to 
Mrs. Cawtree's. You had better go to the 
hotel, to the Roches Crises." 
The weather, like themselves, had become 
dramatic. The high wind that swept the 
frivolity of the land, came from the sea, perhaps from the Pole. It was strong and rude 
and, as they issued from the house, it 
pounced on them, howling and gay as a pack 
of foxhounds. 
Sally's clothes were lifted and tossed, the 
fichu was nearly torn from her head. She 
dominated her dress however, maintained 
the bit of lace, and, as they went down the 
path, she called at Welden: "What shall 
you do to-morrow?" 
The "to-morrow" was all he caught. The 
rest of the question the gale scattered before 
it reached him. But it was enough. It 
prompted. As yet he had not thought. 
Then at once he knew, and he determined to 
wire to Le Hillel and dispatch him, with 
some local acquaintance, to Malakoff. 
Sally, fancying that he had not heard at 
all, cried at him again, repeating the question. 
Welden, holding his hat on with one hand 
and pointing back at the house with the 
other, shouted: "I shall have friends of 
mine call there." 
That was very satisfactory. Sally, her 
head bent, considered it gleefully. It was 
what she had hoped, an additional arrow 
for her quiver, in which already was divorce. 
Presently she spoke again, but what she said 
Welden did not hear, did not care. 
The sea, pounding on the shore, was 
creating a thunder deafening and confused. It was as though a gigantic 
machine were hastening terribly to some 
enormous task. 
Sally, in despair of making Welden hear 
otherwise, caught at his arm and motioned 
him to lower his head. 
When he had she shrieked in his ear: "I 
want you to do me a great favour, a very 
great favour, will you?" 
"Will I what?" 
He had heard but half of what she said, 
not because of the roar but because of his 
thoughts which she, with her questions, entangled. 
Now, however, again she was shrieking: 
"I want you to kill him." 
But though she shrieked, she smiled and, 
in spite of the tossing gale, in spite too of her 
ballooning dress, she looked sweet and simple. 
Welden nodded. For the first time since 
they had known each other, what she wanted 
he wanted also. 
Sally nodded too. Clutching at her dress 
she shouted: "Don't let anyone know why; 
promise that you will not." 
They had reached the gate of a little park 
in which the Cawtree villa stood. In the 
shelter of the wall there was a respite from 
the gale. The sea too sounded less thun 
derous. 
"Promise you won't," she repeated more 
normally. 
Welden cried at her: "That reminds me, 
will you do something for me?" 
"Anything," Sally cried back. "I will do 
anything in the world for you." 
The fervour of the protestation Welden 
let pass unnoticed. 
"Is Prince Saraguine in there?" 
 
"He is leading the cotillon." 
Welden got at his card case and from it 
took a cheque already made out. 
"Give him this with my thanks." He 
turned. "Good night," he added. 
"Good night," she replied and, as he 
moved into the gale, she made a trumpet of 
her hands and screamed through them: 
"Good luck." 
Welden, holding his hat to his head, 
passed on to the village. The wind that blew 
through his flannels, bent the trees, swept the 
narrow streets, dispersed their germs, refreshing whatever it touched, leaving the 
quivering air pure and delicious. 
The hall of the Roches Grises, saturated 
with tobacco and electricity, full of people, 
of hurrying waiters, of parties returning 
from the Casino at Trouville and of tour 
ists eyeing one another hostilely or with in 
difference, resounded with calls of the 
telephone, with slamming doors and the 
noise of lifts that ceaselessly rose and de 
scended. 
At the bureau, Welden secured a room, 
sent a chasseur for his things to the villa and, 
these recovered, at last was alone. 
The room, though quiet, was as peo 
pled as the hall. There were visions 
in it, very many, that gradually, with 
out effort, fused into a picture of a girl's 
pillowed head. 
The girl herself was a stranger. It was 
not she he had loved, it was another, totally 
different, one whom his imagination had cre 
ated, a girl who had never lived and who 
now was dead. The past alone was real. It 
surged phantasmagorically, like a great de 
ceit, a lie enormous and cruel, inexplicable 
from sheer monstrosity. The crime he 
had witnessed permeated that past, smearing it with the odiousness of a coarse 
vulgarity. 
In the chair in which he sat, he moved. 
 
From the wall at which he stared, he turned. 
Wherever he looked the picture appeared. 
To escape it he hid his face in his hands. He 
saw it there the clearer. At that, an agony 
made of a thousand wounds, each distinct, 
each more lancinant than the other, caught 
and enveloped him. The torture of it thrust 
into being memories long ablated. Fragments of recollections multiplied in his mind. 
There came to him the day he had first seen 
her, the hour he had first loved her, the mo 
ment he had first thought she might care 
for him, and, traversing these memories were 
tempests of others; shaded interiors, chairs 
under the trees, the ball-rooms of Newport, 
Long Island lawns; sudden tableaux of 
wherever a new delight had been experienced, of wherever a fresh sensation had 
been born, of wherever she had exhaled her 
invincible charm. 
Within him the sea of these things 
mounted, adding their bitterness to the sear 
of his wounds. There was no myrrh for 
them. There is none for a death rattle, 
and as the obsessing vision returned, it 
brought with it a lassitude so large, so 
empty and desolate, that it resembled ex 
tinction itself. 
VII 
THE DOOR 
On the morrow the gale had gone, flown 
afar, to die perhaps on some shore of the 
Mediterranean. In Welden too a tempest 
