though it is a fine old place, and we have no 
real company parlor yet. Then the business 
had to be recast, new machinery put in and all 
that. But we think we shall like the town very 
much. Mrs. Henderson will send you a 
special invitation, — I’m not much of a society 
man, so I don’t know all the nice little points. 
But you will surely come?” 


“ Oh, please do,” appended Mark in en- 
treaty. 

“ I surely will, with the greatest of pleas- 
ure,” and her smile was a cordial assent. 

When the two were out in the street Mark 
seized his father’s hand boyishly. 

“ Isn’t she a daisy! ” he cried exultingly. 




Mr. Henderson laughed as he replied, “ I’m 
not a boy. They didn’t call them daisies in 
my time.” 

“ Well, she’s splendid! And I can’t see why 
the boys don’t like her.” 

“ Don’t like her! ” echoed his father in sur- 
prise. “ I thought most boys were given to 
falling in love with a fascinating teacher. 
What cause have they? I think she might be 
decided. And so thorough a scholar would 
be likely to demand careful work.” 

“ I do not believe they know themselves. 
Eastman sort of leads. He does things — well, 
they are kind of insolent, ill-bred. I feel as if I 
could kick him sometimes. He will pretend to 
misunderstand, he will ask a question when he 
must know the answer. And he will draw his 
face in a grotesque manner that will make 
some of the class laugh, or sneeze in the middle 
of a word. She takes no notice of these things, 
but it really does vex me when the boys, 
and some of the girls, too, talk as if she 
was only fit to teach little children. I do be- 
lieve she is ahead of Mr. Underwood in mathe- 
matics. I’m glad you didn’t like the plan of 


 

the whist club. I didn’t care to join and give 
up the Greek, but it seems to carry more 
weight when a fellow’s father doesn’t con- 
sent.” 

“ I’m glad to have you think that way, my 
boy. I shall always consent to whatever is for 
your good. Miss Grant is a lady. And the 
boys ought to respect her as a teacher.” 

The invitation came a few days later and it 
was for Saturday afternoon. Helen was 
greeted with a warm wecome. She had only 
met Mrs. Henderson once before, but she was 
a charming well-bred woman, used to society 
ways in spite of the household of children. 
After the three large girls came one smaller, 
then two boys and a pretty little girl again, 
under school age. The big house was none too 
big for the merry crowd. 

Even V esta Coursen seemed to lose her shy- 
ness here. The sitting-room suggested a school 
itself when they were all in it. Then Miss 
Grant must see their rooms. All the larger 
children had a bookcase of their own books, 
some pictures, and the furnishing though sim- 
ple was very pretty. There was a big play 




and study room; a conservatory, in disuse 
now, but Mrs. Henderson had a plan for next 
winter. 

It puzzled Helen a little that Vesta’s room 
should be handsomer than that of the twins. 
There were a beautiful brass bedstead, a 
bureau, dressing-table, and bookcase in curly 
birch, some really fine paintings and pretty ar- 
ticles in silver, a dainty willow rocker, and two 
other rather expensive rattan chairs. Helen 
had heard the surmise that she was poor and 
dependent, but this didn’t look quite like it. 

Mark’s was a boy’s room pure and simple, 
with a narrow bed, a writing and study table, 
sundry boy’s traps spread around, photo- 
graphs, college colors, curiosities, a small cabi- 
net of shells and minerals, and quite a fine 
array of books, beside portfolios of engrav- 
ings. 

“ Some of the things came from uncle,” he 
explained, “ Vesta’s father. He died abroad 
last year, you know. Her mother was our 
mother’s sister, but she died when Vesta was a 
little thing. Mother wanted to take her be- 
fore, but Mr. Coursen would not consent. She 


 

was very seldom with him, though. She’s so 
unlike our girls, don’t you think so? I felt at 
first as if we should never get acquainted. Her 
father was quite an artist. There are some 
pictures of his in Paris to be sold. I believe he 
was rather queer,” and Mark gave an em- 
barrassed laugh. “ But she’s all right and 
sweet, and my ! what a lot of some things she 
knows! French and Italian, and about all the 
painters. She has been in Rome, and was at 
school in Belgium. She seemed almost for- 
eign when she first came to us.” 

Helen felt quite drawn to the orphaned girl, 
and was really glad to hear the explanation. 
The Hendersons were no boasters, surely. 

The big parlor, on one side of the hall, was 
to be decorated and furnished when pleasant 
weather came in. At present it contained the 
grand piano and various boxes of bric-a-brac 
and pictures not unpacked. 

“ There has been so much to do,” Mrs. Hen- 
derson explained. “ And we are very com- 
fortable. I fancy I shall like the town ex- 
tremely. Mr. Henderson thinks the school ex- 
cellent, which is a great desideratum with such 




a household as ours. I like to have them all 
at home. Growing children need a mother’s 
care.” 

“ They seem a happy household,” and Helen 
gave a bright smile. 

“ We want them to be healthy and happy. I 
am glad you take such an interest in Mark, and 
like big boys.” 

Helen was not quite sure that she did, but 
she had found Mark interesting. His boyish 
manliness was very pleasing to her and his 
charming little enthusiasms suggested some of 
the girls at college. She did not wonder at 
their refined way when she had seen the 
mother and father in the household. They 
were as polite to each other and the children as 
they were to the visitor. Not that they were 
stilted, or that there was any straining after 
effect. It seemed the charm of simple life at 
once refined and cordial. 

With the exception of the Deans and the 
Millards she had found no one she could be so 
perfectly at home with. She had learned in 
early girlhood that one could give freely of 
one’s inner hopes and beliefs and acquirements 


 

without trenching on their neighbors. She had 
seen much offence given by incautious remarks 
when they were true, and the half-truths so of- 
ten making trouble. She did, after a little, 
discuss both scholars and parents with Mr. 
Underwood, when she found he had a great 
deal of discretion. But she was a little wary 
of the wife, though Mrs. Underwood was in 
no sense a gossip, and caught the amusing side 
of everything. 

Helen soon saw the influence that was shap- 
ing Richard Eastman : his mother’s foolish 
criticisms and her ruinous indulgence. He was 
a great favorite with the girls. His Christmas 
