    Good friend for Iesus sake forbeare
    To digg the dust encloased heare:
    Blest be ye man yt spares thes stones
    And curst be he yt moves my bones.
Ben Jonson says of Bacon, as orator:
    His language,  where he could spare and pass by a jest, was nobly
    censorious.  No man ever spoke more neatly, more pressly, more
    weightily, or suffered less emptiness, less idleness, in what he
    uttered.  No member of his speech but consisted of his (its) own
    graces . . . The fear of every man that heard him was lest he should
    make an end.
From Macaulay:
    He continued to distinguish himself in Parliament, particularly by
    his exertions in favor of one excellent measure on which the King's
    heart was set--the union of England and Scotland.  It was not
    difficult for such an intellect to discover many irresistible
    arguments in favor of such a scheme.  He conducted the great case of
    the  Post Nati  in the Exchequer Chamber; and the decision of the
    judges--a decision the legality of which may be questioned, but the
    beneficial effect of which must be acknowledged--was in a great
    measure attributed to his dexterous management.
Again:
    While actively engaged in the House of Commons and in the courts of
    law, he still found leisure for letters and philosophy.  The noble
    treatise on the  Advancement of Learning, which at a later period
    was expanded into the  De Augmentis, appeared in 1605.
    The  Wisdom of the Ancients, a work which if it had proceeded from
    any other writer would have been considered as a masterpiece of wit
    and learning, was printed in 1609.
    In the meantime the  Novum Organum  was slowly proceeding.  Several
    distinguished men of learning had been permitted to see portions of
    that extraordinary book, and they spoke with the greatest admiration
    of his genius.
    Even Sir Thomas Bodley, after perusing the  Cogitata et Visa, one of
    the most precious of those scattered leaves out of which the great
    oracular volume was afterward made up, acknowledged that "in all
    proposals and plots in that book, Bacon showed himself a master
    workman"; and that "it could not be gainsaid but all the treatise
    over did abound with choice conceits of the present state of
    learning, and with worthy contemplations of the means to procure it."
    In 1612 a new edition of the  Essays  appeared, with additions
    surpassing the original collection both in bulk and quality.
    Nor did these pursuits distract Bacon's attention from a work the
    most arduous, the most glorious, and the most useful that even his
    mighty powers could have achieved, "the reducing and recompiling," to
    use his own phrase, "of the laws of England."
To serve the exacting and laborious offices of Attorney General and
Solicitor General would have satisfied the appetite of any other man for
hard work, but Bacon had to add the vast literary industries just
described, to satisfy his.  He was a born worker.
    The service which he rendered to letters during the last five years
    of his life, amid ten thousand distractions and vexations, increase
    the regret with which we think on the many years which he had wasted,
    to use the words of Sir Thomas Bodley, "on such study as was not
    worthy such a student."
    He commenced a digest of the laws of England, a History of England
    under the Princes of the House of Tudor, a body of National History,
    a Philosophical Romance.  He made extensive and valuable additions to
    his Essays.  He published the inestimable  Treatise De Argumentis
    Scientiarum .
Did these labors of Hercules fill up his time to his contentment, and
quiet his appetite for work?  Not entirely:
    The trifles with which he amused himself in hours of pain and languor
    bore the mark of his mind.   The best jestbook in the world  is that
    which he dictated from memory, without referring to any book, on a
    day on which illness had rendered him incapable of serious study.
Here are some scattered remarks (from Macaulay) which throw light upon
Bacon, and seem to indicate--and maybe demonstrate--that he was competent
to write the Plays and Poems:
    With great minuteness of observation he had an amplitude of
    comprehension such as has never yet been vouchsafed to any other
    human being.
    The "Essays" contain abundant proofs that no nice feature of
    character, no peculiarity in the ordering of a house, a garden or a
    court-masque, could escape the notice of one whose mind was capable
    of taking in the whole world of knowledge.
    His understanding resembled the tent which the fairy Paribanou gave
    to Prince Ahmed: fold it, and it seemed a toy for the hand of a lady;
    spread it, and the armies of powerful Sultans might repose beneath
    its shade.
    The knowledge in which Bacon excelled all men was a knowledge of the
    mutual relations of all departments of knowledge.
    In a letter written when he was only thirty-one, to his uncle, Lord
    Burleigh, he said, "I have taken all knowledge to be my province."
    Though Bacon did not arm his philosophy with the weapons of logic, he
    adorned her profusely with all the richest decorations of rhetoric.
    The practical faculty was powerful in Bacon; but not, like his wit,
    so powerful as occasionally to usurp the place of his reason, and to
    tyrannize over the whole man.
There are too many places in the Plays where this happens.  Poor old
dying John of Gaunt volleying second-rate puns at his own name, is a
pathetic instance of it.  "We may assume" that it is Bacon's fault, but
the Stratford Shakespeare has to bear the blame.
    No imagination was ever at once so strong and so thoroughly
    subjugated.  It stopped at the first check from good sense.
    In truth much of Bacon's life was passed in a visionary world--amid
    things as strange as any that are described in the "Arabian Tales" .
    . . amid buildings more sumptuous than the palace of Aladdin,
    fountains more wonderful than the golden water of Parizade,
    conveyances more rapid than the hippogryph of Ruggiero, arms more
    formidable than the lance of Astolfo, remedies more efficacious than
    the balsam of Fierabras.  Yet in his magnificent day-dreams there was
    nothing wild--nothing but what sober reason sanctioned.
    Bacon's greatest performance is the first book of the  Novum Organum 
    . . . Every part of it blazes with wit, but with wit which is
    employed only to illustrate and decorate truth.  No book ever made so
    great a revolution in the mode of thinking, overthrew so many
    prejudices, introduced so many new opinions.
    But what we most admire is the vast capacity of that intellect which,
    without effort, takes in at once all the domains of science--all the
    past, the present and the future, all the errors of two thousand
    years, all the encouraging signs of the passing times, all the bright
    hopes of the coming age.
    He had a wonderful talent for packing thought close and rendering it
    portable.
    His eloquence would alone have entitled him to a high rank in
    literature.
It is evident that he had each and every one of the mental gifts and each
and every one of the acquirements that are so prodigally displayed in the
Plays and Poems, and in much higher and richer degree than any other man
of his time or of any previous time.  He was a genius without a mate, a
prodigy not matable.  There was only one of him; the planet could not
produce two of him at one birth, nor in one age.  He could have written
anything that is in the Plays and Poems.  He could have written this:
    The cloud-cap'd towers, the gorgeous palaces,
    The solemn temples, the great globe itself,
    Yea, all which it inherit, shall dissolve,
    And, like an insubstantial pageant faded,
    Leave not a rack behind.  We are such stuff
    As dreams are made on, and our little life
    Is rounded with a sleep.
Also, he could have written this, but he refrained:
    Good friend for Iesus sake forbeare
    To digg the dust encloased heare:
    Blest be ye man yt spares thes stones
    And curst be ye yt moves my bones.
When a person reads the noble verses about the cloud-cap'd towers, he
ought not to follow it immediately with Good friend for Iesus sake
forbeare, because he will find the transition from great poetry to poor
prose too violent for comfort.  It will give him a shock.  You never
notice how commonplace and unpoetic gravel is, until you bite into a
layer of it in a pie.
CHAPTER XI
Am I trying to convince anybody that Shakespeare did not write
Shakespeare's Works?  Ah, now, what do you take me for?  Would I be so
soft as that, after having known the human race familiarly for nearly
seventy-four years?  It would grieve me to know that any one could think
so injuriously of me, so uncomplimentarily, so unadmiringly of me.
No-no, I am aware that when even the brightest mind in our world has been
trained up from childhood in a superstition of any kind, it will never be
possible for that mind, in its maturity, to examine sincerely,
dispassionately, and conscientiously any evidence or any circumstance
which shall seem to cast a doubt upon the validity of that superstition.
I doubt if I could do it myself.  We always get at second hand our
notions about systems of government; and high-tariff and low-tariff; and
prohibition and anti-prohibition; and the holiness of peace and the
glories of war; and codes of honor and codes of morals; and approval of
the duel and disapproval of it; and our beliefs concerning the nature of
cats; and our ideas as to whether the murder of helpless wild animals is
base or is heroic; and our preferences in the matter of religious and
political parties; and our acceptance or rejection of the Shakespeares
and the Arthur Ortons and the Mrs. Eddys.  We get them all at
second-hand, we reason none of them out for ourselves.  It is the way we
are made.  It is the way we are all made, and we can't help it, we can't
change it.  And whenever we have been furnished a fetish, and have been
taught to believe in it, and love it and worship it, and refrain from
examining it, there is no evidence, howsoever clear and strong, that can
persuade us to withdraw from it our loyalty and our devotion.  In morals,
conduct, and beliefs we take the color of our environment and
associations, and it is a color that can safely be warranted to wash.
Whenever we have been furnished with a tar baby ostensibly stuffed with
jewels, and warned that it will be dishonorable and irreverent to
disembowel it and test the jewels, we keep our sacrilegious hands off it.
We submit, not reluctantly, but rather gladly, for we are privately
afraid we should find, upon examination, that the jewels are of the sort
that are manufactured at North Adams, Mass.
I haven't any idea that Shakespeare will have to vacate his pedestal this
side of the year 2209.  Disbelief in him cannot come swiftly, disbelief
in a healthy and deeply-loved tar baby has never been known to
disintegrate swiftly, it is a very slow process.  It took several
thousand years to convince our fine race--including every splendid
intellect in it--that there is no such thing as a witch; it has taken
several thousand years to convince that same fine race--including every
splendid intellect in it--that there is no such person as Satan; it has
taken several centuries to remove perdition from the Protestant Church's
program of postmortem entertainments; it has taken a weary long time to
persuade American Presbyterians to give up infant damnation and try to
bear it the best they can; and it looks as if their Scotch brethren will
still be burning babies in the everlasting fires when Shakespeare comes
down from his perch.
We are The Reasoning Race.  We can't prove it by the above examples, and
we can't prove it by the miraculous "histories" built by those
Stratfordolaters out of a hatful of rags and a barrel of sawdust, but
there is a plenty of other things we can prove it by, if I could think of
them.  We are The Reasoning Race, and when we find a vague file of
chipmunk-tracks stringing through the dust of Stratford village, we know
by our reasoning powers that Hercules has been along there.  I feel that
our fetish is safe for three centuries yet.  The bust, too--there in the
Stratford Church.  The precious bust, the priceless bust, the calm bust,
the serene bust, the emotionless bust, with the dandy moustache, and the
