destiny. 
The boy took his departure and went home, 
almost running in his excitement. He was trans- 
ported into a distant heaven of bliss; he had been 
seated among the gods — he was to dwell there 
forever after! 
His new patron had given him a five-dollar 
bill; and before he reached the Stedman home he 
stopped in a grocery store and loaded up his 
arms with bundles. And then, seized by a sud- 
den thought, he went into a notion store and set 
down his bundles and purchased a clean, white 
linen collar, and a necktie of royal purple and 
brilliant green — already tied, so that it would al- 
ways be perfect in shape. 
Then he went into the Stedmans, and the 
widow and the youngest children sat round and 
listened open-eyed to his tale. And then came 
Sophie, and he had to tell it all over again. 
The girl's eyes opened wide with excitement 
when he came to the end of his recital. " Miss 
Wygant!" she exclaimed. "Miss Gladys Wy- 
gant? " 
" Yes," said Samuel. " You've heard of her? " 
"I've seen herl" exclaimed Sophie eagerly. 
"Twice!" 
" You don't mean it," he said. 
" Yes. Once she came to our church festival 
at Christmas." 
" Does she belong to your church? " 
" It's the mission. Great folks like her wouldn't 
want us in the church with them. She goes to 
St. Matthew's, you know — up there on the hill. 
But she came to the festival at the mission and 
helped to give out the presents. And she was 
dressed all in red — something filmy and soft, like 
you'd see in a dream. And, oh, Samuel — she was 
so beautiful! She had a rose in her hair — and 
such a sweet perfvmie — you could hardly bear it! 
And she stood there and smiled at all the children 
and gave them the presents. She gave me mine, 
and it was like seeing a princess. I wanted to 
fall down and kiss her feet." 
" Yes," said Samuel understandingly. 
" And to think that you've met her! " cried So- 
phie in ecstasy. " And talked with her ! Oh, how 
could you do it? " 
" I— I don't think I did it very well," said 
Samuel. 
" What did you say to her? " 
" I don't remember much of it." 
" I never heard her voice," said Sophie. " She 
was talking, the other time I saw her, but the 
machinery drowned it out. That was in the mill 
— she came there with some other people and 
walked about, looking at everything. We were 
all so excited. You know, her father owns the 
mill." 
" No, I didn't know it," replied Samuel. 
" He owns all sorts of things in Lockmanville. 
They're very, very rich. And she's his only 
daughter, and so beautiful — everybody worships 
her. I've got two pictures of her that were in 
the newspapers once. Come — you must see them." 
And so the two rushed upstairs; and over the 
bed were two faded newspaper clippings, one 
showing Miss Gladys in an evening gown, and 
the other in dimity en princesse, with a bunch of 
roses in her arms. 
" Did you ever see anything so lovely? " asked 
the girl. " I made her my fairy godmother. 
And she used to say such lovely things to me. 
She must be very kind, you know — no one could 
be so beautiful who wasn't very, very good and 
kind." 
" No," said Samuel. " She must be, I'm sure." 
And then a sudden idea came to him. " So- 
phie!" he exclaimed — "she said I was good 
looking! I wonder if I am." 
And Sophie shot a quick glance at him. " Why, 
of course you are!" she cried. "You stupid 
boy!" 
Samuel went to the cracked mirror which hung 
upon the wall and looked at himself with new 
and wondering interest. 
" Don't you see how fine and strong you are? " 
said Sophie. " And what a bright color you've 
got?" 
" I never thought of it," said he, and recollected 
the green and purple necktie. 
" And to think that you've talked with her! " 
exclaimed Sophie, turning back to the pictures; 
and she added in a sudden burst of generosity, 
" I tell you what I'll do, Samuel — I'll give you 
these, and you can put them in your room! " 
" You mustn't do that ! " he protested. 
But the girl insisted. "No, no I I know them 
by heart, so it won't make any diflFerence. And 
they'll mean so much more to you, because you've 
really met her !" 
CHAPTER X 
SAMUEL' presented himself the next morn- 
ing and was turned over to the head gar- 
dener and duly installed as an assistant. " Let 
me know how you're getting along," was young 
Lockman's last word to him. " And if there's 
anything else I can do for you come and tell me." 
" Thank you very much, sir," said the boy 
gratefully; but without realizing how these magic 
words, pronounced in the gardener's hearing, 
would make him a privileged character about the 
place — an object of mingled deference and envy 
to the other servants. 
It was a little world all in itself, the " Fair- 
view " menage. Without counting the stable 
hands, and the employees of the different farms, 
it took no less than twenty-three people to min- 
ister to the personal wants of Bertie Lockman. 
And they were divided into ranks and classes, 
with a rigid code of etiquette, upon which they 
insisted with vehemence. A housekeeper's as- 
sistant looked with infinite scorn upon a kitchen 
maid, and there had to be no less than four din- 
ing rooms for the various classes of servants who 
would not eat at the same table. All this was 
very puzzling to the stranger; but after a while 
he came to see how the system had grown up. It 
was just like a court; and the privileged beings 
who waited upon the sovereign necessarily were 
esteemed according to the importance of the ser- 
vice they performed for him and the access which 
they attained to his person. 
A good many of these servants were foreign- 
ers, and Samuel was pained to discover that they 
were for the most part without any ennobling 
conception of their calling. They were much 
given to gluttony and drinking; and there was an 
imthinkable amovmt of scandal and backbiting 
and jealousy. But it was only by degrees that 
he realized this, for he had one great motive in 
common with them — they were all possessed with 
a sense of the greatness of the Lockmans, and 
none of them wanted anything better than to talk 
for hours about the family and its wealth and 
power, and the habits and tastes of its members 
and their friends. 
It was Katie Reilly, a bright little Irish dam- 
sel, the housekeeper's sewing girl, who first cap- 
tured Samuel with her smile ; she carried him off 
for a walk, in spite of the efforts of the second 
parlor maid, and Samuel drank up eagerly the 
stream of gossip which poured from her lips. 
Master Albert — that was what they all called him 
— was said to have an income of over seven him- 
dred thousand dollars a year. What he did with 
such a sum no one could imagine; he had lived 
quite alone since his father's death. The house 
had always been run by Miss Aiu-elia, old Mr. 
Lockman's sister, a lady with the lumbago and a 
terrible temper; but she had died a couple of years 
ago. Mr. Lockman had taken great interest in 
his stock farm, but very little in his house; and 
Master Albert took even less, spending most of 
his time in New York. Consequently everything 
was at sixes and sevens, and he was being robbed 
most terribly. But in spite of all his relatives' 
suggestions, he would not have anyone to come 
and live with him. 
Master Albert was still a minor, and his affairs 
were managed by Mr. Hickman, the family law- 
yer, and also by his uncle, Mr. Wygant. The 
latter was a manufacturer and capitalist — also 
a great scholar, so Katie said. It was he Samuel 
had seen that afternoon in the automobile, a tall 
and very proud-looking man with an iron-gray 
mustache. He lived in the big white house just 
after you climbed the ridge ; and Miss Gladys was 
his only daughter. She had been old Mr. Lock- 
man's favorite niece, and he had left her a great 
deal of money. People were always planning 
a match between her and Master Albert, but that 
always made Miss Gladys very angry. They 
both declared they were not in love with each 
other, and Katie was inclined to think this was 
true. Miss Gladys had been away to a rich board- 
ing school, and she wanted to visit some friends 
at Newport; but her father wanted her to stay 
with him, and that made her discontented. She 
was very beautiful, and everybody was her slave. 
"But oh, I tell you, when she's angry I" said 
Katie with a shake of her head. 
This little Irish girl was a rare find for Sam- 
uel, because her brother was the "fellow " to Miss 
Gladys's maid, and so there was nothing she could 
not tell Samuel about his divinity. He learned 
about Miss Gladys's beautiful party dresses, and 
about her wonderful riding horse, and about her 
skill at tennis, and even her fondness for chocolate 
fudge. Miss Gladys had been to Paris the sum- 
mer before; and her family had a camp in the 
