now the accepted authority on Pellerin, not only in the land which had
given birth to his genius but in the Europe which had first acclaimed
it; and it was the central point of pain in Bernald’s sense of the
situation that a man who had so yearned for silence as Pellerin should
have his grave piped over by such a voice as Wade’s.
Bernald’s talk with the Interpreter had revived this ache to the
momentary exclusion of other sensations; and he was still sore with
it when, the next afternoon, he arrived at Portchester for his second
Sunday with the Wades.
At the station he had the surprise of seeing Winterman’s face on the
platform, and of hearing from him that Doctor Bob had been called away
to assist at an operation in a distant town.
“Mrs. Wade wanted to put you off, but I believe the message came too
late; so she sent me down to break the news to you,” said Winterman,
holding out his hand.
Perhaps because they were the first conventional words that Bernald had
heard him speak, the young man was struck by the relief his intonation
gave them.
“She wanted to send a carriage,” Winterman added, “but I told her
we’d walk back through the woods.” He looked at Bernald with a sudden
kindness that flushed the young man with pleasure.
“Are you strong enough? It’s not too far?”
“Oh, no. I’m pulling myself together. Getting back to work is the
slowest part of the business: not on account of my eyes--I can use them
now, though not for reading; but some of the links between things are
missing. It’s a kind of broken spectrum ... here, that boy will look
after your bag.”
The walk through the woods remained in Bernald’s memory as an enchanted
hour. He used the word literally, as descriptive of the way in which
Winterman’s contact changed the face of things, or perhaps restored them
to their primitive meanings. And the scene they traversed--one of those
little untended woods that still, in America, fringe the tawdry skirts
of civilization--acquired, as a background to Winterman, the hush of
a spot aware of transcendent visitings. Did he talk, or did he make
Bernald talk? The young man never knew. He recalled only a sense of
lightness and liberation, as if the hard walls of individuality had
melted, and he were merged in the poet’s deeper interfusion, yet without
losing the least sharp edge of self. This general impression resolved
itself afterward into the sense of Winterman’s wide elemental range.
His thought encircled things like the horizon at sea. He didn’t, as it
happened, touch on lofty themes--Bernald was gleefully aware that,
to Howland Wade, their talk would hardly have been Talk at all--but
Winterman’s mind, applied to lowly topics, was like a powerful lens that
brought out microscopic delicacies and differences.
The lack of Sunday trains kept Doctor Bob for two days on the scene
of his surgical duties, and during those two days Bernald seized every
moment of communion with his friend’s guest. Winterman, as Wade had
said, was reticent as to his personal affairs, or rather as to the
practical and material conditions to which the term is generally
applied. But it was evident that, in Winterman’s case, the usual
classification must be reversed, and that the discussion of ideas
carried one much farther into his intimacy than any specific
acquaintance with the incidents of his life.
“That’s exactly what Howland Wade and his tribe have never understood
about Pellerin: that it’s much less important to know how, or even why,
he disapp--”
Bernald pulled himself up with a jerk, and turned to look full at his
companion. It was late on the Monday evening, and the two men, after an
hour’s chat on the verandah to the tune of Mrs. Wade’s knitting-needles,
had bidden their hostess good-night and strolled back to the bungalow
together.
“Come and have a pipe before you turn in,” Winterman had said; and they
had sat on together till midnight, with the door of the bungalow open on
a heaving moonlit bay, and summer insects bumping against the chimney of
the lamp. Winterman had just bent down to re-fill his pipe from the
jar on the table, and Bernald, jerking about to catch him in the yellow
circle of lamplight, sat speechless, staring at a fact that seemed
suddenly to have substituted itself for Winterman’s face, or rather to
have taken on its features.
“No, they never saw that Pellerin’s ideas were Pellerin. ...” He
continued to stare at Winterman. “Just as this man’s ideas are--why,
are Pellerin!”
The thought uttered itself in a kind of inner shout, and Bernald started
upright with the violent impact of his conclusion. Again and again in
the last forty-eight hours he had exclaimed to himself: “This is as good
as Pellerin.” Why hadn’t he said till now: “This is Pellerin”? ...
Surprising as the answer was, he had no choice but to take it. He hadn’t
said so simply because Winterman was better than Pellerin--that there
was so much more of him, so to speak. Yes; but--it came to Bernald in
a flash--wouldn’t there by this time have been any amount more of
Pellerin? ... The young man felt actually dizzy with the thought. That
was it--there was the solution of the haunting problem! This man
was Pellerin, and more than Pellerin! It was so fantastic and yet so
unanswerable that he burst into a sudden startled laugh.
Winterman, at the same moment, brought his palm down with a sudden crash
on the pile of manuscript covering the desk.
“What’s the matter?” Bernald gasped.
“My match wasn’t out. In another minute the destruction of the library
of Alexandria would have been a trifle compared to what you’d have
seen.” Winterman, with his large deep laugh, shook out the smouldering
sheets. “And I should have been a pensioner on Doctor Bob the Lord knows
how much longer!”
Bernald pulled himself together. “You’ve really got going again? The
thing’s actually getting into shape?”
“This particular thing is in shape. I drove at it hard all last week,
thinking our friend’s brother would be down on Sunday, and might look it
over.”
Bernald had to repress the tendency to another wild laugh.
“Howland--you meant to show Howland what you’ve done?”
Winterman, looming against the moonlight, slowly turned a dusky shaggy
head toward him.
“Isn’t it a good thing to do?”
Bernald wavered, torn between loyalty to his friends and the
grotesqueness of answering in the affirmative. After all, it was none of
his business to furnish Winterman with an estimate of Howland Wade.
“Well, you see, you’ve never told me what your line is,” he answered,
temporizing.
“No, because nobody’s ever told me. It’s exactly what I want to find
out,” said the other genially.
“And you expect Wade--?”
“Why, I gathered from our good Doctor that it’s his trade. Doesn’t he
explain--interpret?”
“In his own domain--which is Pellerinism.”
Winterman gazed out musingly upon the moon-touched dusk of waters. “And
what is Pellerinism?” he asked.
Bernald sprang to his feet with a cry. “Ah, I don’t know--but you’re
Pellerin!”
They stood for a minute facing each other, among the uncertain swaying
shadows of the room, with the sea breathing through it as something
immense and inarticulate breathed through young Bernald’s thoughts; then
Winterman threw up his arms with a humorous gesture.
“Don’t shoot!” he said.
IV
DAWN found them there, and the risen sun laid its beams on the rough
floor of the bungalow, before either of the men was conscious of the
passage of time. Bernald, vaguely trying to define his own state in
retrospect, could only phrase it: “I floated ... floated. ...”
The gist of fact at the core of the extraordinary experience was
simply that John Pellerin, twenty-five years earlier, had voluntarily
disappeared, causing the rumour of his death to be reported to an
inattentive world; and that now he had come back to see what that world
had made of him.
“You’ll hardly believe it of me; I hardly believe it of myself; but I
went away in a rage of disappointment, of wounded pride--no, vanity!
I don’t know which cut deepest--the sneers or the silence--but between
them, there wasn’t an inch of me that wasn’t raw. I had just the one
thing in me: the message, the cry, the revelation. But nobody saw and
nobody listened. Nobody wanted what I had to give. I was like a poor
devil of a tramp looking for shelter on a bitter night, in a town with
every door bolted and all the windows dark. And suddenly I felt that the
easiest thing would be to lie down and go to sleep in the snow. Perhaps
I’d a vague notion that if they found me there at daylight, frozen
stiff, the pathetic spectacle might produce a reaction, a feeling of
remorse. ... So I took care to be found! Well, a good many thousand
people die every day on the face of the globe; and I soon discovered
that I was simply one of the thousands; and when I made that discovery
I really died--and stayed dead a year or two. ... When I came to life
again I was off on the under side of the world, in regions unaware of
what we know as ‘the public.’ Have you any notion how it shifts the
point of view to wake under new constellations? I advise any who’s been
in love with a woman under Cassiopeia to go and think about her under
the Southern Cross. ... It’s the only way to tell the pivotal truths
from the others. ... I didn’t believe in my theory any less--there was
my triumph and my vindication! It held out, resisted, measured itself
with the stars. But I didn’t care a snap of my finger whether anybody
else believed in it, or even knew it had been formulated. It escaped out
of my books--my poor still-born books--like Psyche from the chrysalis
and soared away into the blue, and lived there. I knew then how it frees
an idea to be ignored; how apprehension circumscribes and deforms it.
... Once I’d learned that, it was easy enough to turn to and shift
for myself. I was sure now that my idea would live: the good ones are
self-supporting. I had to learn to be so; and I tried my hand at a
number of things ... adventurous, menial, commercial. ... It’s not a bad
thing for a man to have to live his life--and we nearly all manage to
dodge it. Our first round with the Sphinx may strike something out of
us--a book or a picture or a symphony; and we’re amazed at our feat,
and go on letting that first work breed others, as some animal forms
reproduce each other without renewed fertilization. So there we are,
committed to our first guess at the riddle; and our works look as like
as successive impressions of the same plate, each with the lines a
little fainter; whereas they ought to be--if we touch earth between
times--as different from each other as those other creatures--jellyfish,
aren’t they, of a kind?--where successive generations produce new forms,
and it takes a zoologist to see the hidden likeness. ...
“Well, I proved my first guess, off there in the wilds, and it lived,
and grew, and took care of itself. And I said ‘Some day it will make
itself heard; but by that time my atoms will have waltzed into a new
pattern.’ Then, in Cashmere one day, I met a fellow in a caravan, with
a dog-eared book in his pocket. He said he never stirred without
it--wanted to know where I’d been, never to have heard of it. It was my
guess--in its twentieth edition! ... The globe spun round at that, and
all of a sudden I was under the old stars. That’s the way it happens
when the ballast of vanity shifts! I’d lived a third of a life
out there, unconscious of human opinion--because I supposed it was
unconscious of me. But now--now! Oh, it was different. I wanted to
know what they said. ... Not exactly that, either: I wanted to know
what I’d made them say. There’s a difference. ... And here I am,” said
John Pellerin, with a pull at his pipe.
So much Bernald retained of his companion’s actual narrative; the rest
was swept away under the tide of wonder that rose and submerged him as
Pellerin--at some indefinitely later stage of their talk--picked up his
manuscript and began to read. Bernald sat opposite, his elbows propped
on the table, his eyes fixed on the swaying waters outside, from which
the moon gradually faded, leaving them to make a denser blackness in the
night. As Pellerin read, this density of blackness--which never for a
moment seemed inert or unalive--was attenuated by imperceptible degrees,
till a greyish pallour replaced it; then the pallour breathed and
brightened, and suddenly dawn was on the sea.
Something of the same nature went on in the young man’s mind while he
watched and listened. He was conscious of a gradually withdrawing light,
