XXVII 
WINTERBOURNE was wandering in the early 
evening, as he loved to do. The question of his 
complex family would not down. Back and forth 
in the country road he walked, with a look now and then 
at the stars. He had his favorites among the constellations. 
Orion was the boy, he was wont to say, that kept you spe- 
cial company, he flashed there so steadfastly in that brave 
line of belt and sword. But there was nothing illuminative 
in him to-night. Wintcrbourne thought of Lovell, and 
their broken companionship, and started off toward the 
little house to find him. It had not been by intention that 
their common interests had failed. Events had been too 
fussy and insistent, and come between them. He scarcely 
saw Lovell now, from day's end to day's end. He had a 
confused and scornful feeling that the chap was following 
some girl's petticoat, Celia's, he believed, though Celia was 
so far out of his scheme of things compelling that he could 
hardly conceive of her luring with any direct light. A moment 
he stopped outside Lovell's window and watched the light 
burning steadily there. A peace, the memory of old beloved 
occupations, fell upon him with the unconscious signal of 
the lamp. He knew what Lovell was doing, bending over 
his Greek, laboriously putting it into very good English. 
Lovell had not his own long-continued practice ; he waded 
heavily at times, but when he got to the English transcript 
he was. sometimes winged. Winterbourne opened the door 
and walked in. 
The picture was somewhat as he had conceived. Lovell 
 
sat at the table, forehead upon his hand and the other hand 
stationary, its pencil upon a doubtful point on a sheet of 
drawing-paper. Winterbourne glowed a little at the thought 
that he had come upon the dot. Lovell needed him to clear 
the way. He threw down his hat, set his stick in the corner 
and drew up his chair. 
" Hard at it?" he inquired. 
Lovell had glanced at him at the opening of the door, and 
given him a nod of greeting. 
" I 'm glad you 've come, Winterbourne." He said it ab- 
sently. 
" Ay," returned Winterbourne, in a queer old-fashioned 
way he had sometimes, of speaking out of books. Perhaps 
he remembered, in some secret corner of him, that his mother 
had been Scotch. " What is it, lad ? " 
" It's this confounded chimney." 
"Chimney, lad?" Winterbourne had expected to hear 
some purist's question over readings. 
" Yes, this chimney. The furnace-pipe goes into this flue, 
and of course that cuts us out of a fire in the dining-room. 
Well, you want a fire in the dining-room more than you 
want it in any other room in the house." 
" The dining-room ? " Winterbourne repeated. "Jim, what 
have ye there?" 
Lovell explained, with some impatience. It appeared to 
his submerged mind that anybody would have known why 
he was working on chimneys. 
" The east chimney," he repeated. His hair hung over 
his forehead and clung dankly. He looked harassed and yet 
most happily alert. "At the house." 
" Oh, your big house. Going to let it ? " 
" No, I 'm not going to let it. I 'm going — " He stopped 
there and laughed a little. Celia was not ready, he had 
 
remembered. So far, it was the secret of her maiden diffi- 
dence. 
But Winterbourne had lost even the perfunctory inter- 
est that had prompted him to question. He drew back his 
chair to the cold hearth and stretched out his legs for 
thought. He saw no reason why Lovell should not occupy 
his outer mind with chimneys, the while the inner one con- 
cerned itself with questions that arc of the only real import 
to breathing man. 
" Lovell," said he, " I 've been thinking to-day that the 
things our brains set themselves upon will be swept away. 
When the brain dies, the records we 've been graving on her 
will crumble with her.'' 
" Undoubtedly," said Lovell. But while he said it he was 
making marks. 
Winterbourne, if he had not become entirely absorbed in 
his own thought, would have known he dreamed of chimneys. 
" So what do we want to love our dear pursuits so much 
for ? " he inquired of Lovell and the world of atoms in the 
listening room. " We want to read Greek because it gives 
us the keenest pleasure we've yet known. We want to 
escape the man or woman that keeps us from our book, 
because we love our book. But when our brain dies, the 
memory of our book will be 'dead, too. Won't it ? Or do 
ye think it won't ? Is the brain the tool ? Does it make some- 
thing the soul can keep ? " 
Lovell said nothing, but Winterbourne had ceased to need 
response. He had embarked. 
" So what lives, man ? It 's what 's been kind. It 's what 
has helped some other heart to live. And we do want to 
live." 
"Yes," said Lovell, out of his consideration of a niche for 
a sideboard, " we want to live." 
 
"We want to see other planets. We want to spin across 
the void and find worlds making. Yet I 'm blest if I 'd choose 
to be any nearer the stars than I am now. I don't like my 
coat-tails singed; but that's not it. I want them to be far 
enough away to keep that trumpery jewelled look of being 
put up for us to think they 're there for us, and feed our con- 
ceit on it. But we want to live, Jim. I didn't use to know 
we did. I 've even thought within a year, I could die, grate- 
ful for it all, and be glad of nothingness. But I can't. And 
if I mean to live, I 'm bound to feed the only part of me 
that 's got any show at all. Not my brain, Jim. That 's not 
got a show. Not a sign of it." 
" No," said Lovell,from his housebuilding study. "That 's 
a fact." 
" I don't despise the man that tries to live so he won't 
go to hell," mused Winterbourne. " My old Scotch uncle 
used to say the only body that wasn't afraid of hell was 
the one that hadn't been there. So I think, Jim, my boy, 
if it 's my brain that 's my stumbling-block, if it 's because 
I want to read my book in peace that I 'm tempted to get 
rid of whatever stands in my way, why, then — " and a 
familiar phrase came to him, and he never paused to see 
the grotesqueness of it here — " why, then, I must cut it 
off and cast it from me." 
After that he sat in silence and smoked, and Lovell made 
calculations, and neither had a word more for the other 
until the moment of parting, when Winterbourne, with a 
" Good-night to ye," took his hat and stick and went forth. 
Yet they had had excellent communion in the way of silent 
folk who like the presence of their kind. Lovell breathed 
a little faster for a moment after he had gone, sitting there, 
with pencil poised, weighing his new destiny. He would 
have said there were rhapsodies in him to pour out to Win- 
 
terbourne alone, who knew the sound of the song of life in 
books or from the lips of man. But the poet had " no 
speech nor language." He had gone back into the "glory 
and the dream " where all things are made new, all of them 
inevitable, all taking their orbits with a rush. And the only 
thing he could make articulate even to himself was that he 
must have a clear dining-room flue. 
Winterbourne strode oflF up the road; but when he reached 
his own house, he could not enter. Houses constrained 
him. In the night, outside walls, he felt himself wild and 
glad, and a nature that got no full chance to speak in the 
prescribed intercourse of men, talked freely with unseen 
presences. Winterbourne had always, even through his 
youth and the hard work of his business life, held to that 
sense of the larger quest which poets only keep alive in us. 
He had no defined religion. A creed made him blasphemous 
with the childishness of vain repetition. But the core of 
him was a passionate belief. He knew there was a reality 
that answered to these shows of things, and in the night it 
almost spoke to him. " Thou wilt call and I shall answer 
Thee," his soul said then. He almost heard the call. It 
seemed to be telling him now that there was a thing to do 
touching the muddle he had made of his own life, — not a 
way out of it but a way to answer the call while he stayed 
in it. It said beyond question, the voice, that he could 
never go back to his care-free existence in a slipshod house 
that he hardly saw with his bodily eyes because the Greeks 
were all about him. The house was swept and garnished, 
and old ladies of Clyde were daily filing through it. He 
had his own sufficient solitude; but that was not it. The 
atmosphere of calm outside him had been invaded. Before 
he had felt the stillness and forgetfiilness of his kind to ex- 
tend through the town — because, as soon as the event of 
 
his homecoming was over Clyde had ceased to think of 
him — to the sea it extended, and the confines of the world. 
And now he was in it again, life as busy as a hive, and 
Catherine looked to him as her own special god, and he 
was really the special god of Bess, he knew, and bound to 
save her before her youth and bloom were gone. 
He walked on over the bridge, pausing there as one 
always has to at dark water for a searching of its mystery, — 
for by night the shallowest of it may be any depth and rich 
in glints of stars, — and then on to Hunter's where, late 
though it was, there was a light in the barn as there had 
been on the night Bess went there, and Hunter, the color 
in his face, was at work like a young artisan who has his 
bread to win. He looked up as Winterbourne's foot struck 
the bam run, and threw down his tool. More red ran 
into his skin and he started forward. Did he think because 
she had come there once that she would come again i But 
Winterbourne's bulk approached, and Dwight took up his 
tool. 
" Oh, it 's you," he said, in man's tone to man. Who 
could say, while he worked, what graces had been circling 
round him, calling him to take hands for the lovely dance 
of life? 
" What are you doing ? " Winterbourne queried. " What 
do you do it for ? " 
It seemed to him that Dwight, being jfrce, might sit at 
this moment at a table with a book. 
" It 's the prettiest bit of inlaying I 've come across," said 
Dwight. He held his lamp to the curving edge. "Aside- 
board, don't you see ? 1 1 's going between the two windows." 
"Where?" asked Winterbourne, to show a decent in- 
terest. 
" Why, in the dining-room, man, of course." He fell to 
 
