sober man. This friend, much older than Thyrsis, was 
the son of an evangelical clergyman, and was headed 
for the ministry himself. His name was Warner, and 
Thyrsis had helped him in arranging for some religious 
meetings at the college. Warner had been shocked by 
his theological irregularities ; but they were still friends, 
and now Thyrsis sought a chance to exchange confi- 
dences with him. 
The opportunity came while they were strolling down 
an avenue near the college, and a woman passed them, 
a woman with bold and hard features, and obviously- 
painted cheeks. She smiled at a group of students just 
ahead, and one of them turned and walked off arm in 
arm with her. 
"Good heavens !" exclaimed Warner. "Did you see 
that?" 
"Yes," said Thyrsis. "Who is she?" 
"She comes from a house just around the corner." 
"But who is she?" 
"Why she's a street-walker." 
"A street-walker !" 
This brought to Thyrsis' mind a problem that had 
been haunting him for a year or two. Always when 
he walked about the streets at night there were women 
who smiled at him and whispered. And he knew that 
these were bad women, and shrunk from them. But 
just what did they mean? 
"What does she do ?" he asked again. 
"Why, don't you know what a street-walker is?" 
"Not very well," said Thyrsis. 
It took some time for him to get the desired informa- 
tion, because the other could not realize the depths of 
his ignorance. "They sell themselves to men," he said. 
"But what for?" asked Thyrsis. "You don't mean 
that they they let them- -" 
"They have intercourse together. Of course." 
Thyrsis was almost dumb with dismay. "But I 
should think they would have children !" he exclaimed. 
"Good Lord, man!" laughed the other. "Where do 
you keep yourself, anyway?" 
But Thyrsis was too much shaken to think of being 
ashamed. This was a most appalling revelation to 
him it opened quite a new vista of life's possibilities. 
 
"But why should they do such things?" he cried. 
"They earn their living that way," said the other. 
"But why that way?" 
"I don't know. They are that kind of women, I 
suppose." 
And so Warner went on to expound to him the facts 
of prostitution, and all the abysses of human depravity 
that lie thereabouts. And incidentally the boy got a 
chance to ask his questions, and to get a common-sense 
view of his perplexities. Also he got some understand- 
ing of human nature, and of the world in which he 
lived. 
Here was Warner, a man of twenty-four, and of a 
devout, if somewhat dull and plodding conscientious- 
ness ; and the last eight or nine years of his life had 
been one torment because of the cravings of lust. He 
had never committed an act of unchastity or at least 
he told Thyrsis that he had not. But he was never free 
from the impulse, and he had no conception of the possi- 
bility of being free. His desire was a purely brute 
one untouched by any intellectual or spiritual, or even 
any sentimental color. He desired woman, as woman 
it mattered not what woman. How low his impulses 
took him Thyrsis realized with a shudder from one re- 
mark that he made that his poverty did not help him 
to live virtuously, for about the docks and in the 
workingmen's quarters there were women who would sell 
themselves for fifty cents a night. 
This man's whole life was determined by that crav- 
ing ; in fact it seemed to Thyrsis that his God had made 
the universe with relation to it a heaven to reward him 
if he abstained, and a hell to punish him if he yielded. 
It was because of this that he clung to the church, and 
shrunk from any dallying with "rationalism". He dis- 
 
approved of the theatre, because it appealed to these 
cravings ; he disapproved of all pictures and statues of 
the nude human form, because the sight of them over- 
mastered him. For the same reason he shrunk from all 
impassioned poetry, and from dancing, and even from 
non-religious music. Pie was rigid in his conformance 
to all the social conventions, because they served the 
purpose of saving him and his young women-friends 
from temptation ; and he looked forward to the com- 
pletion of a divinity-course as his goal, because then 
he would be able to settle down and marry, and so at 
last to gratify his desires. He stated this quite baldly, 
quoting the authority of St. Paul, that it was "better 
to marry than to burn." 
This conversation brought Thyrsis to a realization 
that there was a great deal in the world that was not 
found in the poetry of Tennyson and Longfellow; and 
so he began to pry into the souls of others of his fel- 
low-students. 
8. WAIINER had given him the religious attitude; 
ind now he went after the scientific. There was a tall, 
eager-faced young man, who proclaimed himself a 
disciple of Haeckel and Herbert Spencer, and even went 
so far as to quote Schopenhauer in class. Walking 
home together one day, these two fell to arguing the 
freedom of the will, and the nature of motives and de- 
sires, and what power one has over them; and so 
Thyrsis made the startling discovery that this young 
man, having accepted the doctrine of "determinism," 
had drawn therefrom the corollary that he had to do 
what he wanted to do, and so was powerless to resist 
his sex-impulses. For the past year this youth, a fine, 
intellectual and honest student, had gone at regular 
 
intervals to visit a prostitute; and with entirely scien- 
tific and cold-blooded precision he outlined to Thyrsis 
the means he took to avoid contracting disease. Thyrsis 
listened, feeling as he might have felt in a slaughter- 
house ; and when, returning to the deterministic hy- 
pothesis, he asked how it was that he had managed to 
escape this "necessity", he was told that it must be be- 
cause he was of a weaker and less manly constitution. 
And there was yet another type: a man with whom 
there was no difficulty in bringing up the subject, for 
the reason that he was always bringing it up himself. 
Thyrsis sat next to him in a class in Latin, and noticed 
that whenever the text contained any hint at matters of 
sex which was not infrequent in Juvenal and Horace 
this man would look at him with a grin and a sly wink. 
And sometimes Thyrsis would make a casual remark in 
conversation, and the man would twist it out of its 
meaning, or make a pun out of it to find some excuse 
for his satyr's leer. So at last Thyrsis was moved to 
say to him "Don't you ever realize what a state you've 
got your mind into?" 
"How do you mean?" asked the man. 
"Why, everything in the world seems to suggest 
obscenity to you. You're always looking for it and 
always finding it you don't seem to care about any- 
thing else." 
The other was interested in that view of it, and he 
acknowledged with mild amusement that it was true ; 
apparently it was a novelty to him to discuss such 
matters seriously. He told Thyrsis that he could not 
remember having ever restrained a sexual impulse in 
his life. He thought of lust in connection with every 
woman he met, and his mind was a storehouse of smut. 
And yet he was not a bad fellow, in other ways ; he 
 
was handsome, and a good deal of an athlete, and was 
planning to be a physician. "You'll find most all the 
fellows are the same," he said. 
Not long after this, Thyrsis was selected to repre- 
sent his college on a debating-team, and he went away 
to another city and was invited to a fraternity-house ; 
and here, suddenly, he discovered how much of "college- 
life" he had been missing. This was a fashionable 
university, and he met the sons of wealthy parents. 
About a score of them lived in this fraternity-house, 
without any sort of supervision or restraint. They ate 
in a beautiful oak-panelled dining-room adorned with 
drinking-steins ; and throughout the meal they treated 
their visitor to such an orgy of obscenity as he had 
never dreamed of in his life before. Thyrsis was 
trapped and could not get away ; and it seemed to him 
when he rose from the table that there was nothing 
left clean in all God's universe. These boys appeared 
to vie with each other in blasphemous abandonment; 
and it was not simply wantonness it was sprawling and 
disgusting filthiness. 
One of this group took Thyrsis driving, and was 
led to talk. Here was a youth whose father was the 
president of a great manufacturing-enterprise, and 
supplied him with unlimited funds ; which money the boy 
used to divert himself in the pursuit of young women. 
Sometimes he had stooped so low as manicure-girls and 
shop-clerks and stenographers ; but for the most part 
he sought actresses and chorus-girls they had more 
intelligence and spirit, he explained, they were harder 
to win. He had his way with them, partly because he 
was handsome and clever, but mainly because he was 
the keeper of the keys of opportunity. It was his 
to dispense auto-rides and champagne-suppers, and 
 
flowers and jewels, and all 'things else that were desir- 
able in life. 
Thyrsis was appalled at the hardness and the utter 
ruthlessness of this man he saw him as a young 
savage turned loose to prey in a civilized community. 
He had the most supreme contempt for his victims 
that was what they were made for, and he paid them 
their price. Nor was this just because they were 
women, it was a matter of class ; the young man had 
a mother and sisters, to whom he applied quite other 
standards. But Thyrsis found himself wondering how 
long, with this contagion raging among the fathers 
and the sons, it would be possible to keep the mothers 
and the daughters sterilized. 
9. THESE discoveries came one by one ; but Thyrsis 
saw enough at the outset to make it clear that the time 
had come for him to gird up his loins. The choice 
