She forced herself away from him, but, somehow, held his hands clasped
convulsively in hers.

"You—shouldn’t have kissed me," she managed to say.  "You mustn’t do it
again—ever."

He laid his face against their clasped hands; her own tightened.

"Nevertheless," he said, "I love you."

"You mustn’t speak that way—"  She dropped her flushed face; he lifted
it, and kissed her again.

When he released her, she leaned back against the silver birch, head
lowered, silent and did not move her hands from the moss as he bent and
kissed them, too.

When at last she found her voice, she spoke so low that he bent his head
closer to listen.

"That is the one imprudence I have never before committed—contact with
any man. You must not do it to me again....  I don’t know how to take
it.  I can’t love you.  You know that."  She looked up at him.  "Don’t
you know it?"

"Yes," he said stubbornly.

"You do know that I can’t; don’t you? And that you cannot really love
me?"

"I suppose it ought to be that way; but it isn’t."

And now the moment had come to make her desire a certainty—and finish
what she had set herself to do—for this man’s sake.  She said:

"You can’t care for me, Jim!  What am I anyway?  A shallow,
pleasure-loving nobody, who sells her frivolous social gifts because it
is pleasanter and easier to make a living that way than to exercise a
decent profession.  How can such a man as you really fall in love with
such a woman?"

She rose to her feet and stood leaning against the tree; and he rose,
too, releasing her fingers.

She touched her hair, passed her hands slowly over her eyes, let them
fall idly by her side; then, after a moment, looked up at him, faintly
smiling.

"Melodrama is no use, is it?" she said. "You are not impressed by it; I
can’t act it. Life is less serious than the stage.  Shall we come back
together along the road to yesterday, and find our old, safe footing?
... And—shall I forgive you what you’ve done this summer day?"

"I want you to marry me," he said between compressed lips.  "I’ll make
good, yet."

"What!" she exclaimed in apparent amazement.  "You!"

"Will you marry me?"

How she forced the light laughter she never understood; and she saw her
gayety bring the blood to his face like a whip lash.

"Marry!  No, I won’t marry you," she laughed.  "Mercy on the man!  Does
he suppose I wish to marry a professional entertainer?—a generally
useful gentleman—a big, strong, healthy, well-built, intelligent fellow,
too indolent to rouse himself and make a respectable living?—too
self-indulgent to start in a manly career and fight the world—take it by
the throat and shake a decent living out of its sinful old pockets?"

A deeper flush of astonishment and mortification swept his face,
settling to the roots of his hair.

She did not seem to notice it or his silence.

"Nonsense," she laughed; "a girl, with any humor, simply couldn’t love
such a man, even if she wanted to, Jim.  Because, how can she respect
him? ... You’re a dear, generous fellow—nice to everybody, perfectly
sweet to Silvette and to me, and I do like you—even love you, in a
certain sense—and I didn’t really mind being kissed any more than as
though Silvette had done it.  But I’m simply not fashioned to lose my
head over a man who is hired by the month to be socially pleasant."  She
laughed again, and laid her hand carelessly on his arm; and under her
touch she felt it was rigid and hard as iron.

"You see, don’t you?" she said sweetly. "You’re not grown up yet, Jim.
It takes more than you yet are to satisfy me."

He managed to force his voice out of his quivering throat.

"You’re right," he said.  "I didn’t know what I was talking about.  You
are worth trying for."

They turned away together; she slipped one hand confidently through his
arm, leaning on him lightly as they walked.

"You’re not hopelessly offended, are you, Jim?"

"No—good God, no."

"I’d love you if I could," she said soothingly, "but the instincts of
mating with anything resembling servitude are wanting in me. Besides,
two slaves are enough for one family—Silvette and I....  You are not
hurt or angry at my very horrid frankness?"

"No....  What you said is all right."  He lifted his eyes and looked his
punishment squarely in the face; and her heart failed her, so that she
turned her head swiftly, the tears stinging her throat.

They walked soberly on through the meadow up to the house.  She gave him
her hand at parting; then went leisurely to her room to dress for
dinner.

And Silvette found her there alone on her knees beside the window,
partly undressed, her head buried in her arms, the brown locks
clustering against her pale and tear-stained face.

"Diana!" she exclaimed softly.  "What is the matter, child?"



The girl got up wearily, keeping her face out of the flood of light from
the electric brackets.

"Nothing much," she said; "I’ve only been very horrid to Jim."

"I thought you were going to be kinder," said Silvette, astonished.

"I have been; but he doesn’t know it."

Her sister stood silent, looking at her with sorrowful eyes.

"Don’t sympathize with me; I—I can’t bear it, Silvie."

"No—if you don’t wish it, dear....  Shall I fix your bath? ... And—who
do you suppose is downstairs?"

Diana looked up inquiringly.

"The man you flirted with so outrageously at Keno!"

"Which?" asked Diana naïvely.

"Billy Inwood!"

Diana brightened a little.

"At least," she said with sad satisfaction, "I can occupy my mind with
him for a while. He got away before he was thoroughly disciplined.  I
believe there was another girl somewhere....  I think I’ll obliterate
her—unless I approve of her.  There’s the making of a man in that boy,
Silvette."

But she decided otherwise a few moments before dinner was announced,
when Inwood made his appearance in the drawing-room and greeted his
hostess.  Then, catching sight of her, he came hastily toward her with
both hands outstretched.

"Diana!" he exclaimed; "isn’t this jolly! I’m terribly glad to see you
again...  And Silvette!  Oh, this is simply too delightful! I——"

Speech stopped, perhaps froze on his lips; then he turned fiery red as
he stepped forward to greet Mrs. Wemyss.  A year ago she had been a
comparatively slim and pretty divorcée; to-day even the embarrassing
opulence and prodigality of her charms had not altered the doll-like
perfection of her features. He knew her instantly, and, in his brain,
chaos menaced him.

"How do you do," he said; "this is most delightful and surprising.
Lilly——"

"Charming," murmured Mrs. Wemyss; and, under her smile, she lowered her
voice: "I’m Lilly Wemyss; I’ve taken my maiden name.  Don’t forget, and
call me Mrs. Atherstane."

He nodded, the fixed smile imprinted on his features; and it remained
there as they stood in conversation until dinner was announced.

He took in Christine.  The girl’s arm rested lightly as a feather on his
sleeve.  During dinner she talked to him pleasantly, but without
animation; and, somehow, all seemed to go wrong with him, for he found
scarcely anything to say to Christine—anything that was not trite and
banal.  And his haunted eyes reverted again and again to Mrs. Wemyss.

"Oh, Lord!" he thought, "what a horrible mess; and is Lilly going to
expect me to—to——"

But his scared wits could speculate no farther, and he sat beside
Christine, worried, unhappy, penitent, too miserable to enjoy the moment
to which he had looked forward so impetuously all day long—a moment
which, two days ago, he dared not believe would ever again come into his
life.




                             *CHAPTER VIII*

                          *MILLE MODI VENERIS*

