"Valerie!" he said in astonishment, "I have plenty of friends. Do you
mean to say I care nothing for them?"
"How much do you care, Louis?"
"Why, I--" He fell silent, troubled gaze searching hers.
She smiled: "Take Sam, for example. The boy adores you. He's a rotten
painter, I know--and you don't even pretend to an interest in what he
does because you are too honest to praise it. But, Louis, he's a lovable
fellow--and he does the best that's in him. You needn't pretend to care
for what he does--but if you could show that you do care for and respect
the effort--"
"I do, Valerie--when I think about it!"
"Then think about it; and let Sam know that you think about his efforts
and himself. And do the same for Harry Annan. He's a worse painter than
Sam--but do you think he doesn't know it? Don't you realise what a lot
of heartache the monkey-shines of those two boys conceal?"
"I am fond of them," he said, slowly. "I like people, even if I don't
show it--"
"Ah, Louis! Louis! That is the world's incurable hurt--the silence that
replies to its perplexity--the wistful appeal that remains
unanswered.... And many, many vex God with the desolation of their
endless importunities and complaints when a look, a word, a touch from a
human being would relieve them of the heaviest of all burdens--a sad
heart's solitude."
He put his arm around her, impulsively:
"You little angel," he said, tenderly.
"No--only a human girl who has learned what solitude can mean."
"I shall make you forget the past," he said.
"No, dear--for that might make me less kind." She put her lips against
his cheek, thoughtfully: "And--I think--that you are going to need all
the tenderness in me--some day, Louis--as I need all of yours.... We
shall have much to learn--after the great change.... And much to endure.
And I think we will need all the kindness that we can give each
other--and all that the world can spare us."
CHAPTER X
It was slowly becoming evident to Neville that Valerie's was the
stronger character--not through any genius for tenacity nor on account
of any domineering instinct--but because, mistaken or otherwise in her
ethical reasoning, she was consistent, true to her belief, and had the
courage to live up to it. And this made her convictions almost
unassailable.
Slavery to established custom of any kind she smilingly disdained,
refusing to submit to restrictions which centuries of social usage had
established, when such social restrictions and limitations hampered or
annoyed her.
Made conscious by the very conventions designed to safeguard
unconsciousness; made wise by the unwisdom of a civilisation which
required ignorance of innocence, she had as yet lost none of her
sweetness and confidence in herself and in a world which she considered
a friendly one at best and, at worst, more silly than vicious.
Her life, the experience of a lonely girlhood in the world, wide and
varied reading, unwise and otherwise, and an intelligence which needed
only experience and training, had hastened to a premature maturity her
impatience with the faults of civilisation. And in the honest revolt of
youth, she forgot that what she rejected was, after all, civilisation
itself, and that as yet there had been offered no acceptable substitute
for its faulty codification.
To do one's best was to be fearlessly true to one's convictions and let
God judge; that was her only creed. And from her point of view humanity
needed no other.
So she went about the pleasure and happiness of living with a light
heart and a healthy interest, not doubting that all was right between
her and the world, and that the status quo must endure.
And endless misunderstandings ensued between her and the man she loved.
She was a very busy business girl and he objected. She went about to
theatres and parties and dinners and concerts with other men; and
Neville didn't like it. Penrhyn Cardemon met her at a theatrical supper
and asked her to be one of his guests on his big yacht, the Mohave,
fitted out for the Azores. There were twenty in the party, and she would
have gone had not Neville objected angrily.
It was not his objection but his irritation that confused her. She could
discover no reason for it.
"It can't be that you don't trust me," she said to him, "so it must be
that you're lonely without me, even when you go to spend two weeks with
your parents. I don't mind not going if you don't wish me to, Louis, and
I'll stay here in town while you visit your father and mother, but it
seems a little bit odd of you not to let me go when I can be of no
earthly use to you."
Her gentleness with him, and her sweet way of reasoning made him
ashamed.
"It's the crowd that's going, Valerie--Cardemon, Querida, Marianne
Valdez--where did you meet her, anyway?"
"In her dressing room at the Opera. She's perfectly sweet. Isn't she all
right?"
"She's Cardemon's mistress," he said, bluntly.
A painful colour flushed her face and neck; and at the same instant he
realised what he had said.
Neither spoke for a while; he went on with his painting; she, standing
once more for the full-length portrait, resumed her pose in silence.
After a while she heard his brushes clatter to the floor, saw him leave
his easel, was aware that he was coming toward her. And the next moment
he had dropped at her feet, kneeling there, one arm tightening around
her knees, his head pressed close.
Listlessly she looked down at him, dropped one slim hand on his
shoulder, considering him.
"The curious part of it is," she said, "that all the scorn in your voice
was for Marianne Valdez and none for Penrhyn Cardemon."
He said nothing.
"Such a queer, topsy-turvy world," she sighed, letting her hand wander
from his shoulder to his thick, short hair. She caressed his forehead
thoughtfully.
"I suppose some man will say that of me some day.... But that is a
little matter--compared to making life happy for you.... To be your
mistress could never make me unhappy."
"To be your husband--and to put an end to all these damnable doubts and
misgivings and cross-purposes would make me happy all my life!" he burst
out with a violence that startled her.
"Hush, Louis. We must not begin that hopeless argument again."
"Valerie! Valerie! You are breaking my heart!"
"Hush, dear. You know I am not."
She looked down at him; her lip was trembling.
Suddenly she slid down to the floor and knelt there confronting him,
her arms around him.
"Dearer than all the world and heaven!--do you think that I am breaking
your heart? You know I am not. You know what I am doing for your sake,
for your family's sake, for my own. I am only giving you a love that can
cause them no pain, bring no regret to you. Take it, then, and kiss me."
But the days were full of little scenes like this--of earnest, fiery
discussions, of passionate arguments, of flashes of temper ending in
tears and heavenly reconciliation.
He had gone for two weeks to visit his father and mother at their summer
home near Portsmouth, and before he went he took her in his arms and
told her how ashamed he was of his bad temper at the idea of her going
on the Mohave, and said that she might go; that he did trust her
anywhere, and that he was trying to learn to concede to her the same
liberty of action and of choice that any man enjoyed.
But she convinced him very sweetly that she really had no desire to go,
and sent him off to Spindrift House happy, and madly in love; which
resulted in two letters a day from him, and in her passing long evenings
in confidential duets with Rita Tevis.
Rita had taken the bedroom next to Valerie's, and together they had
added the luxury of a tiny living room to the suite.
It was the first time that either had ever had any place in which to
receive anybody; and now, delighted to be able to ask people, they let
it be known that their friends could have tea with them.
Ogilvy and Annan had promptly availed themselves.
"This is exceedingly grand," said Ogilvy, examining everything in a tour
around the pretty little sitting room. "We can have all kinds of a rough
house now." And he got down on his hands and knees in the middle of the
rug and very gravely turned a somersault.
"Sam! Behave! Or I'll set my parrot on you!" exclaimed Valerie.
Ogilvy sat up and inspected the parrot.
"You know," he said, "I believe I've seen that parrot somewhere."
"Impossible, my dear friend--unless you've been in my bedroom."
Ogilvy got up, dusted his trowsers, and walked over to the parrot.
"Well it looks like a bird I used to know--I--it certainly resembles--"
He hesitated, then addressing the bird:
"Hello, Leparello--you old scoundrel!" he said, cautiously.
"Forget it!" muttered the bird, cocking his head and lifting first one
slate-coloured claw from his perch, then the other;--"forget it! Help!
Oh, very well. God bless the ladies!"
"Where on earth did you ever before see my parrot?" asked Valerie,
astonished. Ogilvy appeared to be a little out of countenance, too.
"Oh, I really don't remember exactly where I did see him," he tried to
explain; and nobody believed him.
"Sam! Answer me!"
"Well, where did you get him?"
"José Querida gave Leparello to me."
Annan and Ogilvy exchanged the briefest glance--a perfectly blank
glance.
"It probably isn't the same bird," said Ogilvy, carelessly. "There are
plenty of parrots that talk--plenty of 'em named Leparello, probably."
"Sam, how can you be so untruthful! Rita, hold him tightly while I
pull his ears!"
It was a form of admonition peculiarly distasteful to Ogilvy, and he
made a vain effort to escape.
"Now, Sam, the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth! Quick,
or I'll tweak!"
"All right, then," he said, maliciously, "Querida's got relatives in
Oporto who send him these kind of parrots occasionally. He names 'em all
Leparello, teaches 'em all the same jargon, and--gives 'em to girls!"
"How funny," said Valerie. She looked at Sam, aware of something else in
his grin, and gave an uncertain little laugh.
He sat down, rubbing his ear-lobes, the malicious grin still lingering
on his countenance. What he had not told her was that Querida's
volcanically irregular affairs of the heart always ended with the gift
of an Oporto parrot. Marianne Valdez owned one. So did Mazie Gray.
His cynical gaze rested on Valerie reflectively. He had heard plenty of
rumours and whispers concerning her; and never believed any of them. He
could not believe now that the gift of this crimson, green and sky-blue
creature signified anything. Yet Querida had known her as long as
anybody except Neville.
"When did he give you this parrot?" he asked, carelessly.
"Oh, one day just before I was going to Atlantic City. He was coming
down, too, to stay a fortnight while I was there, and come back with me;
and he said that He had intended to give the parrot to me after our
return, but that he might as well give it to me before I went."
"I see," said Ogilvy, thoughtfully. A few moments later, as he and Annan
were leaving the house, he said:
"It looks to me as though our friend, José, had taken too much for
granted."
"It looks like it," nodded Annan, smiling unpleasantly.
"Too sure of conquest," added Ogilvy. "Got the frozen mitt, didn't he?"
"And the Grand Cordon of the double cross."
"And the hot end of the poker; yes?"
"Sure; and it's still sizzling." Ogilvy cast a gleeful glance back at
the house:
"Fine little girl. All white. Yes? No?"
"All white," nodded Annan.... "And Neville isn't that kind of a man,
anyway."
Ogilvy said: "So you think so, too?"
