reconciled. She is different from any other woman; ours was and is a
high type of friendship.... Sometimes, lately, I have wondered whether
it ever could have been any more than that to either of us."
Mrs. Sprowl looked up at him, her face so altered and softened that his
own grew graver.
"You are like your father," she said unsteadily. "It was my privilege to
share his friendship.... And his friendship was of that
kind--high-minded, generous, pure--asking no more than it gave--no more
than it gave----"
She laid her cheek against Sir Charles's hands, let it rest there an
instant, then averting her face motioned his dismissal.
He went with a pleasant and gentle word or two; she sat bolt upright
among her silken pillows, lips grimly compressed, but on her tightly
closed eyelids tears trembled.
Sir Charles drew a long deep breath in the outer sunshine, filling his
lungs with the fragrant morning air. Hedges still glistened with
spiders' tapestry; the birds which sulked all day in their early
moulting-fever still sang a little in the cool of the morning, and he
listened to them as he walked while his quiet, impartial eye ranged
over the lovely rolling country, dew-washed and exquisite under a
cloudless sky.
Far away he saw the chimneys of Langly Sprowl's sprawling country-seat,
smoke rising from two, but he saw nothing of the angry horseman of the
day before. Once, in the distance on the edge of a copse, he saw a man
creeping about on all-fours, evidently searching for some lost object in
the thicket. Looking back from a long way off he saw him still searching
on his hands and knees, and wondered at his patience, half inclined to
go back and aid him.
But about that time one of Sprowl's young bulls came walking over toward
him with such menacing observations and deportment that Sir Charles
promptly looked about him for an advance to the rear-front--a manœuvre
he had been obliged to learn in the late Transvaal unpleasantness.
And at the same moment he saw Chrysos Lacy.
There was no time for explanations; clearly she was too frightened to
stir; so he quietly picked her up on his advance to the rear-front,
carrying her in the first-aid style approved by the H. B. M. medical
staff, and scaled the five-bar fence as no barrier had ever been scaled
at Aldershot or Olympia by any warrior in khaki or scarlet tunic.
"Th-thank you," said Chrysos, unwinding her arms from the baronet's neck
as the bull came trotting up on the other side of the fence and bellowed
at them. Not the slightest atom of fright remained, only a wild-rose
tint in her cheeks. She considered the bull, absently, patted a tendril
of hair into symmetry; but the breeze loosened it again, and she let it
blow across her cheek.
"We should have been in South Africa together," said Sir Charles.
"We manœuvre beautifully as a unit."
The girl laughed, then spying more wild strawberries--the quest of which
had beguiled her into hostile territory--dropped on her knees and began
to explore.
The berries were big and ripe--huge drops of crimson honey hanging
heavily, five to a stalk. The meadow-grass was red with them, and Sir
Charles, without more ado, got down on all-fours and started to gather
them with all the serious and thorough determination characteristic of
that warrior.
"You're not to eat any, yet," said Chrysos.
"Of course not; they're for your breakfast I take it," he said.
"For yours."
He straightened up on his knees: "For mine?"
"Certainly."
"You didn't go wandering afield at this hour to pick wild strawberries
for my breakfast!" he said incredulously.
"Yes, I did," said the girl; and continued exploring, parting the high
grass-stems to feel for and detach some berry-loaded stem.
"Do you know," he said, returning to his labours, "that I am quite
overcome by your thought of me?"
"Why? We are friends.... And it is to be your last breakfast."
There was not the slightest tremor in her voice, but her pretty face was
carefully turned away so that if there was to be anything to notice in
the features he could not notice it.
"I'll miss you a lot," he said.
"And I you, Sir Charles."
"You'll be over, I suppose."
"I suppose so."
"That will be jolly," he said, sitting back on his heels to rest, and to
watch her--to find pleasure in her youth and beauty as she moved
gracefully amid the fragrant grasses, one little sun-tanned hand
clasping a great bouquet of the crimson fruit which nodded heavily amid
tufts of trefoil leaves.
In the barred shadow of the pasture-fence they rested from their
exertions, she rearranging their bouquets of berries and tying them fast
with grass-stems.
"It has been a pleasant comradeship," he said.
"Yes."
"You have found it so, too?"
"Yes."
She appeared to be so intent, so absorbed on her bouquet tying that he
involuntarily leaned nearer to watch her. A fragrance faintly fresh
seemed to grow in the air around him as the hill-breeze stirred her
hair. If it came from the waving grass-tops, or the honeyed fruit or
from her hair, or perhaps from those small, smooth hands, he did not
know.
For a long while they sat there without speaking, she steadily intent on
her tying. Then, while still busy with a cluster, her slim fingers
hesitated, wavered, relaxed; her hands fell to her lap, and she remained
so, head bent, motionless.
After a moment he spoke, but she made no answer.
Through and through him shot the thrilling comprehension of that
exquisite avowal, childlike in its silent directness, charming in its
surprise. A wave of tenderness and awe mounted within him, touching his
bronzed cheeks with a deeper colour.
"If you will, Chrysos," he said in a still voice.
She lifted her head and looked directly at him, and in her questioning
gaze there was nothing of fear--merely the question.
"I can't bear to have you go," she said.
"I can't go--alone."
"Could you--care for me?"
"I love you, Chrysos."
Her eyes widened in wonder:
"You--you don't love me--do you?"
"Yes," he said, "I do. Will you marry me, Chrysos?"
Her fascinated gaze met his in silence. He drew her close to his
shoulder; she laid her cheek against it.
CHAPTER XV
Toward the end of the first week in August Strelsa wrote to Quarren:
     "Sometimes I wonder whether you realise how my attitude toward
     everything is altering. Things which seemed important no longer
     appear so in the sunlit tranquillity of this lovely place. Whatever
     it is that seems to be changing me in various ways is doing it so
     subtly, yet so inexorably, that I scarcely notice any difference in
     myself until some morning I awake with such a delicious sense of
     physical well-being and such a mental happiness apropos of nothing
     at all except the mere awaking into the world again, that, thinking
     it over, I cannot logically account for it.
     "Because, Rix, my worldly affairs seem to be going from bad to
     worse. I know it perfectly well, yet where is that deadly
     fear?--where is the dismay, the alternate hours of panic and dull
     lethargy--the shrinking from a future which only yesterday seemed
     to threaten me with more than I had strength to endure--menace me
     with what I had neither the will nor the desire to resist?
     "Gone, my friend! And I am either a fool or a philosopher, but
     whichever I am, I am a happy one.
     "I wish to tell you something. Last winter when they fished me out
     of my morbid seclusion, I thought that the life I then entered upon
     was the only panacea for the past, the only oblivion, the only
     guarantee for the future.
     "Now I suppose I have gone to the other extreme, because, let me
     tell you what I've done. Will you laugh? I can't help it if you do;
     I've bought a house! What do you think of that?
     "The owner took back a mortgage, but I don't care. I paid so very
     little for it, and thirty acres of woods and fields--and it is a
     darling house!--built in the eighteenth century and not in good
     repair, but it's mine! mine! mine!--and it may need paint and
     plumbing and all sorts of things which perhaps make for human
     happiness and perhaps do not. But I tell you I really don't care.
     "And how I did it was this: I took what they offered for my laces
     and jewels--about a third of their value--but it paid every debt
     and left me with enough to buy my sweet old house up here.
     "But that's not all! I've rented my town house furnished for a term
     of five years at seven thousand dollars a year! Isn't it wonderful?
     "And that is not all, either. I am going into business, Rix!
     Don't dare laugh. Jim has made an arrangement with an independent
     New York florist, and I'm going to grow flowers under glass for the
     Metropolitan market.
     "And, if I succeed, I may try fruits outdoors and in. My small
     brain is humming with schemes, millions of them. Isn't it heavenly?
     "Besides, from my second-story windows I shall be able to see
     Molly's chimneys above the elms. And Molly is going to remain here
     all winter, because, Rix--and this is a close secret--a little heir
     or heiress is coming to make this House of Wycherly 'an
     habitation enforced'--and a happier habitation than it has been
     since they bought it.
     "So you see I shall have neighbours all winter--two neighbours, for
     Mrs. Ledwith is wretchedly ill and her physicians have advised her
     to remain here all winter. Poor child--for she is nothing else,
     Rix--I met her for the first time when I went to call on Mrs.
     Sprowl. She's so young and so empty-headed, just a shallow,
     hare-brained, little thing who had no more moral idea of sin than a
     humming-bird--nor perhaps has she any now except that the world has
     hurt her and broken her wings and damaged her plumage; and the
     sunlight in which she sparkled for a summer has faded to a chill
     gray twilight!--Oh, Rix, it is really pitiful; and somehow I can't
     seem to remember whether she was guilty or not, because she's so
     ill, so broken--lying here amid the splendour of her huge house----
     "You know Mrs. Sprowl is on her way to Carlsbad. You haven't
     written me what took place in your last interview with her; and
     I've asked you, twice. Won't you tell me?
     "Langly, thank goodness, never disturbs us. And, Rix, do you know
     that he has never been to call on Mary Ledwith? He keeps to his own
     estate and nobody even sees him. Which is all I ask at any rate.
     "So Sir Charles called on you and told you about Chrysos? Isn't Sir
     Charles the most darling man you ever knew? I never knew such a
     man. There is not one atom of anything small or unworthy in his
     character. And I tell you very frankly that, thinking about him at
     times, I am amazed at myself for not falling in love with him.
     "Which is proof sufficient that if I couldn't care for him I cannot
     ever care for any man. Don't you think so?
     "Now all this letter has been devoted to matters concerning myself
     and not one line to you and the exciting success you and Lord
     Dankmere are making of your new business.
     "Oh, Rix, I am not indifferent; all the time I have been writing to
     you, that has been surging and laughing in my heart--like some
     delicious aria that charmingly occupies your mind while you go
     happily about other matters--happy because the ceaseless melody
     that enchants you makes you so.
     "I have read your letter so many times, over and over; and always
     the same thrill of excitement begins when I come to the part where
     you begin to suspect that under the daubed surface of that canvas
     there may be something worth while.
     "Is it really and truly a Van Dyck? Is there any chance that it is
     not? Is it possible that all these years none of Dankmere's people
