gastronomics such an order was unworthy.
“These gentlemen?” he added, his eyes moving from Verplank to
Silverstairs. “Some coffee? A liqueur?”
But now, in fluent French, Verplank was addressing de Fresnoy.
“Silverstairs and I have been having an argument. In your quality of
Parisian, will you tell us whether a man can have another out for
looking impertinently at him?”
De Fresnoy adjusted his collar, patted his neck-cloth. “But certainly,
most assuredly. To look impertinently at a man constitutes an attack
on his self esteem, which in itself is an integral part of his moral
wealth. To omit to return a man’s bow, to neglect to take his proffered
hand, to regard him in an offensive manner, are one and all so many
assaults on his dignity.”
Verplank, pleased with this view of things, smiled. “Thanks. Mine has
been assailed and I was in doubt how to rebuke the aggressor.”
“It is simple as Good day. You have only to select two representatives
and get them to put themselves in communication with him. If then he
refuses to have friends of his meet yours, or if, afterward, he will
neither apologise or fight, he is outlawed.”
De Fresnoy, as he spoke, made a gesture, a wide movement of the arm
which indicated, or was intended to indicate, the uttermost limits of
the world.
“It is Barouffski,” Silverstairs, with some idea that de Fresnoy might
be aware of the anterior complication, threw out.
“Barouffski!” de Fresnoy repeated, his head held appreciatively a
little to one side. “In a bout he is very clever. Barring d’Arcy,
Helley-Quetgen”--and myself he was about to add, but throwing the
veil he desisted--“I don’t know his equal. How he is on the field,
personally I cannot say. But there, the absence of buttons, the
absence of masks, the inevitable emotion, the sight of the other
man, the consciousness of an injury to be maintained or avenged, the
consciousness too of the definite character of any thrust you may give
and particularly of any thrust you may receive, these things have such
an effect that often the cleverest acts like a fool. On the boards,
fencing is an exercise, it is an amusement. On the field, it is another
man’s blood--or yours. Though, after all, one is rarely killed except
by one’s seconds.”
He turned to Verplank. “You fence? Or is it that you shoot?”
Verplank leaned back in his chair. “Oh, I suppose I can fire a gun.”
Silverstairs laughed. “I say now! You are too modest by half.” He
looked at de Fresnoy. “Verplank is one of the crack shots of America.”
De Fresnoy turned again to Verplank. “You should demand pistols then.
Barouffski draws well, but at twenty paces he is less sure of himself.
Have you selected your seconds?”
“I suppose I may count on Silverstairs for one----”
The young earl nodded. “That’s of course, and perhaps you, de Fresnoy,
will act with me.”
The Parisian smoothed his moustache. “I shall be much honoured. In that
case, however, as necessary preliminary, I shall have to ask to be made
acquainted with all the circumstances.”
But now Léopold, bearing a dish on which were oysters green as stagnant
scum, approached and with an air of infinite tenderness, much as though
it were a baby, placed it before de Fresnoy.
Leisurely he began to eat.
Verplank, who had been looking out of the window, leaned forward. “The
circumstances are evangelical in their simplicity. Last evening I was
about to speak to Madame Barouffska when he put himself between us and
eyed me in the manner which I have described.”
De Fresnoy, considering him over an oyster, said:
“You were at the Joyeuses then?”
Verplank nodded.
“And there Barouffski objected to your speaking to his wife?”
“Yes.”
De Fresnoy swallowed the oyster. “In that case he was guilty not only
of a grave offense to you, but to Madame de Joyeuse as well. The duke
would be the first to resent it.”
With an idea of making it all very clear, Silverstairs put an oar in:
“Madame Barouffska, you know, was formerly Madame Verplank.”
De Fresnoy bent a little. It may be that because of Silverstairs’ ultra
English accent he had not understood. “Pardon?”
But here Verplank intervened. “This lady had been divorced from me
before she married Barouffski.”
De Fresnoy, over another oyster, turned to him again. Yet any surprise
he may have experienced he was too civil to display.
“Ah, indeed!” he replied. He looked as though he were about to add
something, but refraining, he paused.
Verplank helped him out. “You are thinking perhaps that there may
have been circumstances that rendered further acquaintance between us
inadmissible. I may assure you that there are none and, without wishing
to intrude my private affairs, I may assure you also that to this hour
I am unaware why the divorce was obtained. This lady had no grievance
of any kind against me and I had none whatever against her.”
Pontifically, in his deepest note, Silverstairs threw out: “In the
States they give you a divorce for a Yes or a No.”
“For married people,” de Fresnoy remarked, yet so pleasantly that the
sarcasm was lost, “America is the coming country.”
As he spoke, the fat waiter, after supervising the removal of the
first dish, produced, with the air of a conjurer, another. It was an
omelette, golden without, frothy within.
De Fresnoy glanced up. “Countermand the pear. Instead, bring me paper
and ink.”
“Perfectly, monsieur le baron.”
Slowly de Fresnoy attacked the food. After a mouthful he said to
Silverstairs:
“When the writing materials come we can get off a note to Barouffski.
If he has any explanation he can advance it. Otherwise--on guard!”
After another mouthful he said to Verplank:
“You have fought before?”
“I have not had the occasion.”
“Nor I,” interjected Silverstairs. “It is against the law in England.”
Gravely, as though he were receiving valuable information de Fresnoy
bowed. “So it is here. But with us it is custom that rules, not law.
No jury would convict an honourable man for fighting a fair fight.
Besides, dueling is in our blood. It will not disappear as chivalry
has. It will last as long as there are French men--and French women.
And yet, in saying that chivalry has disappeared, I am in error. Not
later than the week before last a cousin of mine, a young man truly
charming, married a monster.”
He pushed aside his plate. “Well, then, Léopold, am I to sit here the
entire day?”
Serviceably, a buvard in his hand, the waiter approached. “I have
subventioned a new pen for the use of monsieur le baron.”
“There, Léopold, your sins are remitted. See at once if the chasseur is
free.”
De Fresnoy looked at Silverstairs. “With your permission, in our joint
names, I write.”
He looked at Verplank. “Will you pardon me if I ask how your name is
spelled?”
Verplank, getting at his case, extracted a card.
De Fresnoy glanced at it. Then, taking that new pen, he read, as he
wrote, aloud.
    M. le Comte Barouffski.
    Monsieur: M. Verplank has requested the Earl of Silverstairs
    and myself to arrive at an understanding with two of your
    friends concerning an incident which occurred last evening in
    the Avenue Cours la Reine.
    Lord Silverstairs and I will be obliged if, as soon as
    possible, you will ask one of your friends to appoint a meeting
    at which we may deliberate.
    Receive, Monsieur, the expression of my distinguished
    sentiments.
    Baron de Fresnoy
He looked over at Silverstairs. “Is that to your liking? Good! We will
send it to the Little Club where the answer is to be left and we will
have a reply to-day. En attendant, there are matters that claim me.”
With a movement of the chin he summoned the waiter.
A little byplay followed; the presentation of the bill, the click of
gold on porcelain, the carelessly gathered change, the meagre tip, the
reappearance of the hat, the bowing waiters, the craning necks, and the
departure of de Fresnoy, an umbrella under his arm, a cigar between his
teeth.
Verplank, emptying a glass of Chablis, looked out of the window. A
panorama was forming. He saw the room at Coronado, Leilah as she told
him of her love, his brief absence, his harrowing return, the hunt for
her that had extended over half the globe, a hunt that divorce had not
terminated, which her re-marriage had not stopped and which, had he
not at last discovered her, nothing could have stayed save his death
or hers or the reason of the implacable Why. An obstacle to the Why
or, it might be, the incarnation of it, was Barouffski, and Verplank
saw himself standing somewhere with Barouffski before him. There was a
command, the call of numbers, a detonation and the sight of Barouffski
turning, swaying, falling down.
The panorama faded. A picture had appeared. Before the window, arrested
by a congestion of traffic, a motor was stopping. In it and the mist
was Leilah.
Verplank sprang to his feet. With the idea of going out to her there
and forcing an explanation, he looked about for his hat.
Silverstairs also got up. He had not seen. He too was looking for his
hat. Placidly he remarked:
“I have an appointment with a chap named Tempest. Will you come with
me?”
But now, the congestion relieved, the motor shot on. Verplank had the
spectacle of a face fading instantly in the fog and the future.
“Will you?” Silverstairs repeated.
“Will I what?”
“I have to see a man about a horse. He lives just off the Bois de
Boulogne, in the rue de la Pompe. Will you come up there with me?”
“Yes, if you will go on foot. In that case I’ll leave you there and
walk back. I need the exercise. I feel like what you described as a
fidgety Frenchman.”
Silverstairs pulled at his moustache. “It’s no end of a walk. But no
matter, I’ll go with you.”
VI
That morning Leilah had two appointments, one with a modiste, the other
with Violet Silverstairs. She did not feel equal to either. The episode
of the previous evening had been to her like the supreme torture which
medieval legislation devised. It was all she could bear--and more!
When, abruptly, she found herself face to face with Verplank, it was
as though she were confronted by the dead. The sense of it numbed her,
and the numbness was heightened by a horror that has no name. Into the
seats of thought there entered the realisation that, in spite of all,
she still loved him, that in spite of all he still loved her. In the
core of these convictions fear entered, fear of him, fear of herself,
a sensation of common peril and mutual perdition so blinding that
Barouffski’s rudeness she barely noticed, and it was with a look the
damned may have that she saw Verplank turn with Violet Silverstairs,
and go.
As they passed, Barouffski, with the air of one commenting on a
triviality, remarked:
“How odd it is that the Joyeuses should care to hobnob with demi-castors.
Shall we go?”
That demi-castors meant bounders generally, and, in this instance,
specifically, she would, ordinarily, have been insufficiently familiar
with the slang of the boulevards to know. But she did not hear.
Moreover, the remark required no reply. Even otherwise she was unable
to speak, and it was not until Barouffski reiterated his suggestion
that mechanically she acceded to it with a movement of the head.
Her demeanor then in traversing the salons, her leave-taking of the
duchess, her bearing in descending the stairs, were as mechanical as
her reply to Barouffski, and it was not until after the motor had
