ing the builder, a Mr. Jones, at his shop, employ- 
ing his leisure time in fashioning a cabinet of 
rather intricate design. But he was all attention 
to the visitor, who unfolded his plan and showed 
him the sketch with the dimensions plainly marked. 
How soon could he undertake it ? 
I have nothing special on hand for the next 
two weeks ; after that for a month I shall be quite 
busy. Could I come over this afternoon and make 
an estimate ? ” 
“ Suppose you return with me — I shall be away 
early in the afternoon. The sooner it is com- 
pleted the better I shall be pleased.” 
Very well, I have only to shut up shop and put 
on my overcoat.” But he paused to answer some 
of Linn’s questions. 
They were not long in reaching Linden Avenue. 
The children had snowballed their man a little, and 
found him good and solid. Dan said he would 
drench him every night with the hose. Then they 
gathered up the eggs and paid a visit to General 
Peacock, as Prim called him, who grumbled out a 
few unsocial protests. Then they found the two 
men in earnest consultation. 
You were not funning a bit,” said Prim, as she 
caught Mr. Mann’s hand. “ The playroom will be 
a true fact, as the children say at school.” 
“ I rather think it will be. If it wasn’t for the 
dimple I suppose you would take me more seri- 
ously,” in a teasing tone. 
Why, I feel as if I were in an enchanted land, 
and that the things might fade away, they are so 
wonderful,” she returned. 
Linn had been listening with evident delight. 
There would be but two sides to inclose. The 
south would be nearly all sashes; toward the west, 
a door and a small stoop; a door would open 
from the kitchen, and on either side would be a 
capacious closet; on the side opening from the 
library, a set of shelves for books. 
Mr. Jones would be over the next morning with 
a load of lumber, and he knew where he could get 
some sashes cheap if Mr. Mann would not mind 
small panes of glass. So all the plans were 
settled. 
Marigold ran upstairs to smooth her tousled 
head, and stopped at Chan’s door, finding him in 
an easy-chair, reading. 
It’s going to be just magnif’,” she declared, 
with shelves for flowers. Think of that, Chan ! 
We can begin our greenhouse! Maybe we can 
have some flowers this winter, for Mr. Jones 
thinks it will be done in a fortnight.” 
“Oh, that will be just royal!” He closed his 
book and went down to imagine how it would 
look. 
They discussed it eagerly through luncheon- 
time in spite of their mother’s efforts to temper 
their enthusiasm. Since their new father was do- 
ing it for them, of course it was theirs. 
How delightful it was to announce the visit of 
Mr. Evans and make no commotion! Had he 
ever before been master of his own house? 
“ There needn’t be anything extra,” he said. 
“ Mr. Evans would be uncomfortable if he thought 
he put us out. He will begin on the sociable side.” 
Tide would stay until they came back from 
Denby, and Dan could take her home. 
“ Don’t let the children run over you, Mrs. 
Alden,” Bessy counseled. “ They grow wilder 
every hour. And, Rilla, you see that they are in 
order before five o’clock. I wouldn’t play out 
in the snow any more.” 
“ But we must do something,” returned Prim- 
rose. 
“ Study the dictionary and make up some new 
verses,” laughed Mr. Mann. 
Yes, that will be good and improving,” said 
the girl demurely. 
He drove down by the new road, as it was 
called, which was more direct. They paused at 
the Grau cottage, which had a tidy, cleared-up 
look. Mrs. Grau was Mr. Bachman’s sister, and 
they had been in America a dozen years or more, 
putting their money into a bit of land where liv- 
ing was cheap. The Bachmans had two rooms 
in a sort of ell, and a corner of the garret. They 
had belonged to German Poland. 
The living-room was clean and neat, and Mrs. 
Bachman had a tidy, cheerful aspect. There was 
a rather clumsy, home-made lounge, and an old 
bureau, besides the chairs and table. The adjoin- 
ing room had two beds and a kind of counter, 
where work was piled up. There were two chil- 
dren, a boy of ten and a girl of eight. 
Yes, Mrs. Beers had spoken about the house. 
They were too much crowded here, but they had 
been poor on their arrival, and it was most kind 
of the Graus to take them in. It was hard to find 
a place, and they would like a bit of ground. 
They were not able to buy, but they hoped to some 
day. They had been used to a garden at home, 
and chickens and geese. She had made her own 
beds and the spreads, but they could not bring 
their furniture; it cost so much. But they were 
on their feet now, and work was good, so they 
could afford to have a real home some time, and a 
garden. It seemed as if the good God sent this 
to them, and they would be so thankful. 
Then Mrs. Bachman colored rosily and said 
with some hesitation : 
“ And we heard you had such a nice man and 
beautiful home and a good father for your chil- 
dren. We wish you a great deal of joy, and hope 
you will have long life and happiness.” 
“ Thank you,” responded Mr. Mann, with a 
cordial smile. 
“ And we are very glad to find such a good ten- 
ant,” said Bessy. We were very happy in the 
little old house, and Mr. Firth knew all about rais- 
ing nice fruit and poultry. I did not understand 
the management, and had my hands full caring for 
the children.” 
Yes, yes. To think of eight, with no father! 
But in the old country the women do so much out- 
door work. The men have to serve their time for 
soldiers. Oh, we shall be glad to have your house. 
You see, we have to go anyhow; we are too 
crowded here.” 
Then they talked over terms. Mr. Mann took 
the lead here. 
“ All my things are there,” said Mrs. Mann. 
“ I will go over to-morrow and pack up what I 
want. And if you could come? There are some 
old things that might be useful to you. Could you 
come in the morning?” 
Oh, yes, we would,” replied Mr. Bachman. 
They belong to the nice thrifty class of for- 
eigners,” said Mr. Mann, when he had packed his 
wife into the sleigh. “ They make good citizens 
for us. All they need is a helping hand. If these 
people had had no real friends to advise them, he 
might be doing sweatshop work, and the family 
living in a crowded tenement. I wonder charitable 
societies do not take out colonies of them; there 
is so much waste land all around. Think what a 
thrifty town this might be made! The farmers 
might raise a great deal more with better cultiva- 
tion. And poultry and a pig or two would help 
along in the living and fertilize the garden. Shall 
I turn farmer? ” laughing. 
“ Mr. Firth used to talk that way. And his 
fruit always brought high prices. He used to 
graft for the farmers, but, after all, they seemed 
not to care. He wondered that farmers were not 
wiser. Denby has scarcely changed since I was a 
little girl, only we have a nice new school-building, 
and once the church was repaired and cleaned up.’’ 
“ I wonder Mr. Burnham is not discouraged. 
Would it be out of order to call at the parson- 
age?” studying his wife’s face. 
Why, no. I should like to ; they were al- 
ways so good and friendly to us.” 
The minister was at home with the remnant of 
yesterday’s headache from an overheated room. 
Katy had a dreadful cold again; her eyes were red 
and swollen. 
I can’t understand how you manage to keep 
your crowd so well,” Mrs. Burnham said rather 
complainingly. “ Martha declared they looked so 
bright and rosy yesterday they were like a garden 
of flowers.” 
“Are we going to lose them, Mr. Mann?” in- 
quired the minister. “ I’m afraid Mr. Evans will 
want to gather them in.” 
“ Yes, he has spoken for them. You see, it is 
only a short walk to the chapel, and it might not 
always be convenient to send them over here.” 
“ Well, I’m sorry enough, though they will 
keep in the right way. And we shall miss them in 
the singing.” 
‘‘We shall miss you in many ways/’ said Mrs. 
Burnham to her guest in a heartsome tone. “ But 
we cannot grudge your good fortune. You were 
always so ready and helpful, and had so many 
ideas. I suppose it came largely from teaching.” 
Bessy wondered how much had come from the 
desire to make the best of everything. 
“ Martha returned home with a bit of business 
even if it was Sunday,” interposed Mr. Burnham. 
“ John Dale from the creamery wanted to know 
if he couldn’t rent the cottage. He’s a steady 
man, and has only four children. There are so 
few places to rent.” 
“ We have just given the Bachmans the refusal 
of it,” said Mr. Mann. 
“ Oh, I’m sorry. The Dales are nice American 
people, and the Bachmans are foreigners, and 
when they once get a foothold they are always 
sending for their relatives.” 
