this would be the woman to nurse his own 
child, in case Henriette herself should not 
be able to do it. 
They came back to the city, and there 
the baby was born. As George paced the 
floor, waiting for the news, the memory 
of his evil dreams came back to him. 
 
He remembered all the dreadful mon- 
strosities of which he had read — infants 
that were bom of syphilitic parents. His 
heart stood still when the nurse came into 
the room to tell him the tidings. 
But it was all right; of course it was all 
right! He had been a fool, he told him- 
self, as he stood in the darkened room and 
gazed at the wonderful little mite of life 
which was the fruit of his love. It was a 
perfect child, the doctor said — a Httle 
small, to be sure, but that was a defect 
which would soon be remedied. George 
kneeled by the bedside and kissed the 
hand of his wife, and went out of the room 
feeling as if he had escaped from a tomb. 
All went well, and after a couple of 
weeks Henriette was about the house again, 
laughing all day and singing with joy. 
But the baby did not gain quite as rapidly 
as the doctor had hoped, and it was de- 
cided that the country air would be better 
for her. So George and his mother paid a 
visit to the farm in the country, and ar- 
ranged that the country woman should 
put her own child to nurse elsewhere and 
 
should become the foster-mother of little 
Gervaise. 
George paid a good price for the service, 
far more than would have been necessary, 
for the simple country woman was de- 
lighted with the idea of taking care of the 
grandchild of the deputy of her district. 
George came home and told his wife about 
this and had a merry time as he pictured 
the woman boasting about it to the travelers 
who stopped at her door. ''Yes, ma'am, 
a great piece of luck IVe got, ma'am. 
IVe got the daughter of the daughter of 
our deputy — at your service, ma'am. My! 
but she is as fat as our little caK — and so 
clever! She understands everything. A 
great piece of luck for me, ma'am. She's 
the daughter of the daughter of our deputy!" 
Henriette was vastly entertained, discover- 
ing in her husband a new talent, that of 
an actor. 
As for George's mother, she was hardly 
to be persuaded from staying in the country 
with the child. She went once a week, 
and sometimes twice a week, to make sure 
that all went well. Henriette and she 
[  
lived with the child's picture before them; 
they spent their time sewing on caps and 
underwear — all covered with laces and 
frills and pink and blue ribbons. Every 
day, when George came home from his 
work, he found some new article completed, 
and was ravished by the scent of some new 
kind of sachet powder. What a lucky man 
he was! 
You would think he must have been 
the happiest man in the whole city of Paris. 
But George, alas, had to pay the penalty 
for his early sins. There was, for instance, 
the deception he had practiced upon his 
friend, away back in the early days. Now 
he had friends of his own, and he could 
not keep these friends from visiting him; 
and so he was unquiet with the fear that 
some one of them might play upon him the 
same vile trick. Even in the midst of his 
radiant happiness, when he knew that 
Henriette was hanging upon his every word, 
trembling with deHght when she heard his 
latchkey in the door — still he could not 
drive away the horrible thought that per- 
haps all this might be deception. 
 
There was his friend, Gustave, for exam- 
ple. He had been a friend of Henriette's 
before her marriage; he had even been in 
love with her at one time. And now he 
came sometimes to the house — once or 
twice when George was away! What did 
that mean? George wondered. He brooded 
over it all day, but dared not drop any 
hint to Henriette. But he took to setting 
little traps to catch her; for instance, he 
would call her up on the telephone, dis- 
guising his voice. '' Hello! hello! Is that 
you, Madame Dupont?'' And when she 
answered, ''It is I, sir," all unsuspecting, 
he would inquire, ''Is George there?" 
"No, sir," she replied. "Who is this 
speaking?" 
He answered, "It is I, Gustave. How 
are you this morning?" He wanted to see 
what she would answer. Would she per- 
haps say, "Very well, Gustave. How are 
you?" — in a tone which would betray too 
great intimacy! 
But Henriette was a sharp young person. 
The tone did not sound like Gustave's. 
She asked in bewilderment, "What?" And 
then again, "What?" 
 
So, at last, George, afraid that his trick 
might be suspected, had to burst out 
laughing, and turn it into a joke. But 
when he came home and teased his wife 
about it, the laugh was not all on his side. 
Henriette had guessed the real meaning of 
his joke! She did not really mind — she 
took his jealousy as a sign of his love, and 
was pleased with it. It is not until a third 
party comes upon the scene that jealousy 
begins to be annoying. 
So she had a merry time teasing George. 
''You are a great fellow! You have no 
idea how well I understand you — and after 
only a year of marriage!" 
''You know me?" said the husband, 
curiously. (It is always so fascinating 
when anybody thinks she know us better 
than we know ourselves!) ''Tell me, 
what do you think about me?" 
'' You are restless," said Henriette. ''You 
are suspicious. You pass your time putting 
flies in your milk, and inventing wise 
schemes to get them out." 
''Oh, you think that, do you?" said 
George, pleased to be talked about. 
 
''I am not annoyed.' she answered. 
''You have always been that way — and I 
know that it's because at bottom you are 
timid and disposed to suffer. And then, 
too, perhaps you have reasons for not 
having confidence in a wife's intimate 
friends — 'lady-killer that you are!" 
George found this rather embarrassing; 
but he dared not show it, so he laughed 
gayly. ''I don't know what you mean," 
he said — ''upon my word I don't. But 
it is a trick I would not advise every- 
body to try." 
There were other embarrassing moments, 
caused by George's having things to con- 
ceal. There was, for instance, the matter 
of the six months' delay in the marriage — 
about which Henriette would never stop 
talking. She begrudged the time, because 
she had got the idea that Httle Gervaise 
was six months younger than she otherwise 
would have been. ''That shows your 
timidity again," she would say. ''The 
idea of your having imagined yourself a 
consumptive!" 
Poor George had to defend himself. ''I 
 
didn't tell you half the truth, because I 
was afraid of upsetting you. It seemed 
I had the beginning of chronic bronchitis. 
I felt it quite keenly whenever I took a 
breath, a deep breath — 'look, like this. 
Yes — 'I felt — 'here and there, on each side 
of the chest, a heaviness — a difficulty — '' 
''The idea of taking six months to cure 
you of a thing like that!'' exclaimed 
Henriette. ''And making our baby six 
months younger than she ought to be!" 
"But," laughed George, "that means 
that we shall have her so much the longer! 
She will get married six months later!" 
"Oh, dear me," responded the other, 
"let us not talk about such things! I 
am already worried, thinking she will get 
married some day." 
"For my part," said George, "I see my- 
self mounting with her on my arm the 
staircase of the Madeleine." 
"Why the Madeleine?" exclaimed his 
wife. "Such a very magnificent church!" 
"I don't know — 'I see her under her 
white veil, and myself all dressed up, and 
with an order." 
I 
 
''With an order !'' laughed Henriette. 
