hope that he had been hit and would ultimately perish there, as wild
things perish in solitude and silence.
Then the Mohican said in my ear:
"Unless we can stir him to move and expose himself, we must lose him.
For his fellows will surely track us to this place."
"Good God! By what unfortunate accident should such a hiding place
exist so near!" I said miserably.
The Sagamore's stern visage slightly relaxed.
"It is no accident, Loskiel. Do you not suppose he knew it was here?
Else he had never dared attempt what he did."
"The vile Witch-cat has been here many a time," said the Grey-Feather,
his ferocious gaze fixed on the cliff.
"Is the Mole dead?" I asked.
"He is with his God--Tharon or Christ, whichever it may be, Loskiel."
"The Mole must not be scalped," said Tahoontowhee softly. "If the
Senecas pass that way they will have at last one thing to boast of."
I said to the Mohican:
"Hold the Erie. The Night-Hawk and I will go back and bury our dead
against Seneca profanation."
"Let the Grey-Feather go, Loskiel."
"No. The Mole was Christian. Does a Christian fail his own kind at the
last?"
"Loskiel has spoken," said the Mohican gravely. "The Grey-Feather and I
will hold the filthy cat."
So we went back together across the river, the young Oneida and I; and
we hid the Mole deep in the bed of a rotting log, and laid his
Testament on his breast over the painted cross, and his weapons beside
him. Then, working cautiously, we rolled back the log, replaced the
dead leaves, brushed up the deep green pile of the moss, and smoothed
all as craftily us we might, so that no Seneca prowling might suspect
that a grave was here, and disinter the dead to take his scalp.
Over the blood-wet leaves where he had fallen, we made a fire of dry
twigs, letting it burn enough to deceive. Then we covered it as hunters
cover their ashes; the Oneida took the Erie's hatchet; and we hastened
back to the others.
They were still lying exactly where we left them. Neither the Erie nor
they had stirred or spoken. And, as I settled down in my ambush beside
the Mohican, I asked him again whether there was any possible way to
provoke the Erie so that he might stir and expose some portion of his
limbs or body.
The Night-Hawk, who carried strapped to his back the quiver of an
Oneida adolescent containing a boy's short bow and a dozen game arrows,
consulted with the Grey-Feather in a low voice.
Presently he wriggled off to where some sun-dried birch-bark fluttered
in the river breeze, returned with it, shredded it with care, strung
his bow, tipped an arrow with the bark, and held it out to me.
I struck flint to steel, lighted my tinder, and set the shred of bark
afire.
Then the Night-Hawk knelt, bent his bow, and the blazing arrow soared
whistling with flame, and fell behind the rock on the shelf.
Arrow after arrow followed, whizzing upward and dropping accurately;
but the wet mosses of the cliff extinguished the flashes.
As the last arrow fell, flared a moment, then merely smoked, an
insulting laugh came from aloft, and my Indians uttered fierce
exclamations and cuddled their rifle-stocks close to their cheeks,
fairly trembling for a shot.
"Dogs of Oneidas!" called the Erie. "Go howl for your dead pig of a
Stockbridge slave."
"The Mole wears his scalp with Tharon!" retorted the Grey-Feather,
choking with fury. "But Tahoontowhee's hatchet is still sticking in the
Senecas' heads!"
"For which the Night-Hawk shall burn at the Seneca stake, sobbing his
death-song!" shouted the Erie, so fiercely that for a moment we lay
silent, hoping that by some ungovernable movement he might expose
himself.
"Taunt him!" I whispered; and the Mohican said with a derisive laugh:
"Four scalp-tufts from the mangy Cats of Amochol trim my
hatchet-sheath. When the young men ask me what this sparse and sickly
fur may be, I shall strip it off and cast it at their feet, saying it
is but Erie filth to spit upon."
"Liar of a conquered nation!" roared the Erie, "for every priest of
Amochol who fell by Otsego under your cowardly butcher's knife, a
Siwanois Sagamore shall burn three days, and yet live to die the
fourth! The day that August dies, so shall the Sagamore die at the
Festival of Dreams in Catharines-town!"
"I shall remember," said I in a low voice to the Sagamore, "that the
Onon-hou-aroria is to be celebrated in Catharines-town on the last day
of August."
He nodded, then:
"A Mohican Sagamore insults a dirty priest of Amochol! I do you honour
by offering you battle, with knife, with hatchet, with rifle, with
naked hands! Choose, spawn of Atensi--still-born kitten of Iuskeha,
choose! Not one soul except myself will raise hand against you. By
Tharon, I swear it! Choose! And the victor passes freely and whither he
wills!"
The Erie mocked him from his high perch:
"Squirrels talk! Long since has your Tharon been hurled headlong into
Biskoonah by Atensi and her flaming grandson!"
At this awful blasphemy, the Mohican fairly blanched so that under his
paint his skin grew ashy for a moment.
The Grey-Feather shouted:
"Lying and degraded priest! Mowawak Cannibal of a Sinako Cat! It is
Atensi herself who burns with Iuskeha in Biskoonah; and the
sacrilegious fires lick your altars!"
The Erie laughed horribly:
"Where is your fool of a stripling called Loskiel? Is he there with
you? Or did my hatchet fetch him such a clip that he died of fright and
a bullet in his belly?"
"He is unharmed," replied the Mohican, tauntingly. "A squaw shoots
better than a Cat!"
"A lie! I saw my rifle blow a hole in his body!"
"Hatchet and rifle failed. The Ensign, Loskiel, laughed, asking what
forest-flies were buzzing at his ear. Loskiel spits on Cats, and
brushes their flying hatchets from his ears as others brush mosquitos!"
"Let him speak, then, to prove it!" shouted the Erie, incredulously.
But I remained silent.
Then the Erie's ferocious laugh rang out from the cliff.
"Now, you Mohican slave and you Oneida dogs, you shall know the power
of Amochol. For what was done to Loskiel and to the Praying Mole, will
be done to you all on the last day of this month, when the Dream Feast
is held at Catharines-town! You shall die. And others shall die--not as
you, but on the red altar of the Great Sachem Amochol! Strangled,
disemboweled, sacrificed to clothe Atensi!"
The Grey-Feather, unable any longer to retain his self-control, was
getting to his feet, staring wildly up at the cliff; but the Mohican
drew him back into his form and held him there with powerful grip.
"Listen," he hissed, "to what this warlock blabbs."
The Erie laughed, evidently awaiting a retort. None came, and he
laughed again triumphantly.
"Amochol's arm is long, O you Oneida dogs who howl outside the Long
House gates! Amochol's eyes are like the white-crested eagle's eyes,
seeing everything, and his ears are like the red buck's ears, so that
nothing stirs unheard by him.
"Phantoms arise and walk at night; Amochol sees. Under earth and water,
demons are breathing; Amochol hears. Then we Eries listen, too, and
make the altar fires burn hotter. For the ghosts of the night and the
demons that stir must be fed."
He waited again, doubtless expecting some exclamation of protest
against his monstrous profession. After a moment he went on:
"Spectres and demons must be fed--but not on the foul flesh of dogs
like you! We cut your throats to feed the Flying Heads."
He paused; and as no reply was forthcoming, the sorcerer laughed
scornfully.
"Your blood becomes water! You cringe at the power of Amochol. But the
red altar is not for you. Listen, dogs! Had I not found it necessary to
slay your stripling, Loskiel, he had been burned and strangled an that
altar!... And there is another at Otsego who shall die strangled on the
altar of Amochol--the maiden called Lois! Long have we followed her.
Long is the arm of the Red Priest--when his White Sorceress dreams for
him!
"And now you know, you Mohican mongrel, why Amochol was at Otsego. His
arm reaches even into the barracks of Clinton! Because to Atensi the
sacrifice of these two would be grateful--the maiden Lois and your
Loskiel. Only the pure and guarded pleasure her. And these two are
Hidden Children. One has died. The other shall not escape us. She shall
die strangled by Amochol upon his own altar!"
I sat up, sick with horror and surprise, and stared at the Mohican for
an explanation. He and the Oneidas were now looking at me very gravely
and in silence. And after a moment my head dropped.
I knew well enough what the brutal Erie meant by "Hidden Children." But
that I was one I never dreamed, nor had it occurred to me that Lois was
one, in spite of her strange history. For among the Iroquois and their
adopted captives there are both girls and boys who are spoken of as
"Hidden Persons" or "Hidden Children." They are called
Ta-neh-u-weh-too, which means, "hidden in the husks," like ears of corn.
And the reason is this: a mother, for one cause or another, or perhaps
for none at all, decides to make of her unborn baby a Hidden Child. And
so, when born, the child is instantly given to distant foster-parents,
and by them hidden; and remains so concealed until adolescence. And,
being considered from birth pure and unpolluted, a girl and a boy thus
hidden are expected to marry, return to their people when informed by
their foster-parents of the truth, and bring a fresh, innocent, and
uncontaminated strain into their clan and tribe.
What the Erie said seemed to stun me. What did this foul creature know
of me? What knowledge had this murdering beast of Lois? And
Amochol--what in God's name did the Red Sorcerer know of us, or of our
history?
Even the horrid threat against Lois seemed so fantastic, so unreal, so
meaningless, that at the moment, it did not impress me even with its
unspeakable wickedness.
The Sagamore touched my arm as though with awe and pity, and I lifted
my head.
"Is this true, brother?" he asked gently.
"I do not know if it is," I said, dazed.
"Then--it is the truth."
"Why do you say that, Mayaro?"
"I know it, now. I suspected it when your eyes first fell on the
Ghost-bear rearing on my breast. I thought I knew you, there at Major
Lockwood's house in Poundridge. It was your name, Loskiel, and your
knowledge of your red brothers, that stirred my suspicions. And when I
learned that Guy Johnson had sheltered you, then I was surer still."
"Who, then, am I?" I asked, bewildered.
The three Indians were staring at me as though that murderer aloft on
his eyrie did not exist. I, too, had forgotten him for the moment; and
it was only the loud explosion of his smooth-bore that shocked us to
the instant necessity of the situation.
The bullet screamed through the leaves above us; we clapped our rifles
to our cheeks, striving to glimpse him. Nothing moved on the rocky
shelf.
"He fired to signal his friends," whispered the Mohican. "He must
believe them to be within hearing distance."
I set my teeth and stared savagely at the cliff.
"If that is so," said I, "we must leave him here and pull foot."
There was a tense silence, then, as we rose, an infuriated yell burst
from the Oneidas, and in their impotence they fired blindly at the
cliff, awaking a very hell of echo.
Through the clattering confusion of the double discharge, the demoniac
laughter of the Erie rang, and my Oneidas, retreating, hurled back
insult and anathema, promising to return and annihilate every living
sorcerer in the Dark Empire, including Amochol himself.
