they do the others are older. My two boys 
are in boarding school. I’ve wished one was a 
girl, they are so much more company for the 
mother. But I’d wanted her to be pretty,” 
she cast a sidelong glance at the twins. 'It's 
a pity Jack should have taken all the beauty.” 
The twins felt so comfortable over the candy 
that they went to playing with their blocks. 
Miss Armitage gave her patient the second 
dose of her medicine and she closed her eyes. 
There was almost a shriek as Bridget opened 
the hall door with — "the merciful saints 
preserve us! Has Jack been run over by one 
of them fury things?” 
Jack was crying and the blood was stream- 
ing from his nose all over his blouse. 
"He's been fighting, the bad boy, with a 
nasty, dirty tramp 
Bridget in her inmost heart hoped he had 
the worst of it. Whist!’’ she exclaimed, 
''there’s two sick folks in the house, the doc- 
tor’s been an’ he’s coming again!” 
"Sick! Oh, what has happened?” 
'"Well, the old lady’s had a stroke, an’ 
Marilla had a bad faint again. I thought sure 
she was dead.” 
Mrs. Borden dropped into the hall chair and 
began to cry hysterically. 
"Jack, go straight up to the bath room” said 
his aunt. 
"And the neighbors came in, Mrs. Seymour 
to talk through that funnel, and then Miss 
Armitage and the doctor,” went on Bridget. 
"It’s a pity one can’t stir out of the house 
without something happening,” sobbed the 
mistress. "And we’re both so tired.” 
' There dear, come up stairs.” Florence 
took Mrs. Borden by the arm, and they as- 
cended together. Now I’ll go and look after 
Jack.” 
She put a big apron over her dress. Jack 
sat on the bath room floor crying. 
 
"Get up and take off those dirty things. 
Come, your father will soon be home and I 
don't know what hedl do to you,'’ said his 
aunt. 
"He may strap me if he likes, but I ain't 
going to be called a snotnosed scabby sneak of 
a devil — 
"Hush! hush! I won’t listen to such a 
talk—” 
— 'And he slapped me in the face, and I 
kicked his shins good, and then we fit and I 
give him a punch in the belly and a good 
bunk in the eye — ” 
"Stop Jack, I won’t hear another word. 
Let me get you washed up. There comes your 
father.” 
Jack’s nose had stopped bleeding and he was 
washed and put in some clean clothes. Mrs. 
Borden laid aside her wrap and hat and went 
through to the nursery. The peppermint must 
have been a sedative to nerves and stomach 
for the twins looked up with an angelic smile 
and went on house building. Mrs. Seymour 
made the explanations. 
"What could Marilla have been doing? 
She was well enough when we went out.” 
Miss Armitage gave the hand she held a 
gentle squeeze and she saw the eyelids quiver. 
sure I am very much obliged to you 
both. I was sorry to miss you that day you 
called, Miss Armitage. Oh dear, how you 
must have been frightened! And poor Aunt 
Hetty! Is it really true — 
‘The doctor couldn't tell the absolute 
danger so soon — 
‘Oh, I think it has been coming on some 
time. She's dragged her feet and she had a 
quick, almost spiteful way of walking, if one 
may call it that. She protested against 
people slouching round without animation 
enough to lift their feet. And some days she 
wouldn’t come down to any meal. Well, 
she’s a pretty old lady; we’ve always let her 
have her way.” 
Jack came into the room rather meek but 
a handsome little fellow in spite of a lump on 
his forehead. He had run out of doors without 
waiting to hear the result of Manila’s fall. 
'‘Well, Captain!” said his father, holding out 
his hand. 
Mrs. Seymour went home after proffering 
her services if she should be needed through 
the night. The dinner bell rang and Miss 
Borden insisted the guest must go down to 
dinner and she would stay with the children. 
 We're having our dinner a little late this 
evening on account of a guest; otherwise I 
would accept. I can stay half an hour longer. 
Then if you won't mind my coming around 
about nine to hear the doctor’s verdict.” 
"Oh, you are very sympathetic. Thank 
you. I only hope Marilla won’t have a bad 
time as she did last summer. Why she’s 
never fainted since.” 
Jack behaved beautifully at the table. No 
one spoke of the fight. But he kept up a 
shivery thought of wondering if the ball he had 
thrown at Marilla had really hurt her. It 
wasn’t a hard ball, at least not as hard as they 
had sometimes in the street. 
No one appeared very hungr" Mrs. Bor- 
den went up to look after Aunt Hetty who 
seemed disinclined to talk and only wanted a 
cup of tea. Mr. Borden looked at Marilla 
who had fallen asleep. Then he went through 
to the other room and took Jack on his knee. 
“Now let’s hear about the fight,” he said, 
but his voice didn’t seem very stem. 
Jack really wanted to cry. He felt sort of 
bruised and beaten though he had knocked 
down his adversary and would have stamped 
on him if his mother had not appeared at that 
moment and carried him off. 
"Well, you see" — and the boy winked very 
hard. 
"Who begun it?" 
"Why, that Patsy's a regular bum! He's 
called me names — he plays hookey too, and 
he tried to trip me up and I give him a left- 
hander, and he called me a stinking pup and 
ever so many nasty names and then we went 
at it. Papa, you may strap me if you want 
to, but if I hadn't fit the boys would have 
made fun of me and called me sissy, and we 
went at it like fury. He made my nose bleed, 
and I guess I gave him a black eye; and I 
kicked his shins — he's got fat legs. He's just 
a bounder and teacher said he'd wind up in 
the reform school. I just wish he would!" with 
an angry zest. 
"How do boys learn such shocking talk?" 
asked Aunt Florence, "When they never hear 
it at home, and as for fighting — " 
"It is in the outside air and perhaps like 
measles runs through boyhood. Jack, I want 
you to stand up for yourseK though I don’t 
admire street fights.” 
"But I won’t be called nasty names, and he 
said I was a sneak of a devil — ” 
"Try and keep out of the way of such boys. 
But if you must fight stand up to it boldly. 
I think you didn’t get the worst of it, but I 
guess it’s good your mother came along just 
then, and now little boy you had better go to 
bed.” 
Jack was very glad nothing had been asked 
him about Marilla. He was tired and drowsy. 
But Aunt Florence said, "Jack I think you 
were a very bad boy.” 
Dr. Baker came in and took another look at 
Marilla whose pulse was still very fluttering. 
"What do you suppose it is?” asked Mrs. 
Borden, anxiously. 
"The child has a weak heart. Perhaps no 
organic disease at present, and if she gets 
through the next two or three years safely all 
may go well with her. But she ought not 
have any severe strain. Do you know any- 
thing about her family?” 
"She hasn’t any, I took her from that 
Bethany Home. She’s a nice, willing, pleas- 
ant girl and a splendid hand with babies. But 
she was with Miss Armitage all through that 
awful time we had with the children teething, 
and the babies are good. I resolved I’d never 
make children so troublesome as Jack was, 
waiting on them hand and foot. I’ve had a 
different system with them.” 
"The system seems to have worked well, 
but I think you need a stronger nursemaid.” 
"I’ve never let her lift them, I knew it was 
not safe for them,” laughing. Though think 
how poor children carry babies about ; but now 
tell me about Aunt Hetty.” 
think it is the beginning of the end. You 
can’t quite tell, but she’s pretty well worn out 
with the years, and she must have a steady 
nurse. A hospital would be best.” 
"Yes, we will talk that over.” 
"Have you any one for tonight?” 
"No. Is it as bad as that?” and Mrs. Bor- 
den turned pale. 
should advise an emergency nurse for a 
week or so; by that time you can make some 
plans.” 
Mrs. Vanderveer was comfortable, but she 
did not want to be left alone. 
