
As for Umballa, he cared not what became of the other prisoners.

They were being held captive in one of the village huts.  The chief had
pleaded in vain.  He was dishonored, for they had made him break his
word to the white people.  So be it.  Sooner or later the glitter of
gold would leave their eyes and they would come to him and beg for
pardon.

Moonlight.  The village slept.  Two fishermen sat before the hut
confining the prisoners, on guard.  An elephant squealed in the
distance.  Out of the shadow a sleek leopard, then another.  The guards
jumped to their feet and scrambled away for dear life to the nearest
hut, crying the alarm.  Bruce opened the door, which had no lock, and
peered forth.  It was natural that the leopards should give their
immediate attention to the two men in flight.  Bruce, realizing what
had happened, called softly to Ramabai and Pundita; and the three of
them stole out into the night, toward the camp.  Bruce did not expect
to find any one there.  What he wanted was to arm himself and to
examine the boulder.

Meantime, Ahmed returned with the truant elephant to find nothing but
disorder and evidence of a struggle.  A tent was overturned, the long
grass trampled, and the colonel's sola-topee hat lay crumpled near
Kathlyn's tent.

"Ai, ai!" he wailed.  But, being a philosopher, his wailing was of
short duration.  He ran to the boulder and examined it carefully.  It
had not been touched.  That was well.  At least that meant that his
Sahib and Mem-sahib lived.  Treasure!  He spat out a curse . . . and
threw his rifle to his shoulder.  But his rage turned to joy as he
discovered who the arrivals were.

"Bruce Sahib!"

"Yes, Ahmed.  Umballa got the best of us.  We were tricked by the
truant elephant.  He has taken Kathlyn back toward Allaha."

"And so shall we return!"

Ahmed called his weary men.  His idea was to fill the elephant
saddle-bags with gold and stones, leave it in trust with Bala Khan, who
should in truth this time take his tulwar down from the wall.  He
divided his men, one company to guard and the other to labor.  It took
half an hour to push back the boulder and dig up the basket.  After
this was done Bruce and Ramabai and Ahmed the indefatigable carried the
gold and precious stones to the especially made saddle-bags.  All told,
it took fully an hour to complete the work.

With water and food, and well armed, they began the journey back to
Allaha, a formidable cortege and in no tender mood.  They proceeded in
forced marches, snatching what sleep they could during the preparation
of the meals.

Many a time the impulse came to Bruce to pluck the shining metal and
sparkling stones from the saddle-bags and toss them out into the
jungle, to be lost till the crack of doom.  There were also moments
when he felt nothing but hatred toward the father of the girl he loved.
For these trinkets Kathlyn had gone through tortures as frightful
almost as those in the days of the Inquisition.  Upon one thing he and
Ahmed had agreed, despite Ramabai's wild protest; they would leave the
treasure with Bala Khan and follow his army to the walls of Allaha.  If
harm befell any of their loved ones not one stone should remain upon
another.  And Bruce declared that he would seek Umballa to the ends of
the earth for the infinite pleasure of taking his black throat in his
two hands and squeezing the life out of it.

Eventually and without mishap they came to the walled city of the
desert, Bala Khan's stronghold.  Bala Khan of necessity was always
ready, always prepared.  Before night of the day of their arrival an
army was gathered within the city.

Ramabai sat in his howdah, sad and dispirited.

"Bala Khan, we have been friends, and my father was your good friend."

"It is true."

"Will you do a favor for the son?"

"Yes.  If the Colonel Sahib and his daughter live, ask what you will."

Ramabai bowed.

"I will set my camp five miles beyond your walls and wait.  When I see
the Mem-sahib I will salaam, turn right about face, and go home.  Now,
to you, Bruce Sahib: Leave not your treasure within my walls when I
shall be absent, for I can not guarantee protection.  Leave it where it
is and bring it with you.  Save myself, no one of my men knows what
your saddle-bags contain.  Let us proceed upon our junket--or our war!"

      *      *      *      *      *      *

Umballa reached the ancient gate of Allaha at the same time Bruce
stopped before the walls of Bala Khan's city.  He determined to wring
the secret from either the colonel or his daughter, return for the
treasure and depart for Egypt down the Persian Gulf.

He made a wide detour and came out at the rear of his house.  No one
was in sight.  He dismounted and entered, found three or four of his
whilom slaves, who, when he revealed his identity, felt the old terror
and fear of the man.  His prisoners were brought in.  A slave took the
elephants to the stables.  He wanted to run away and declare Umballa's
presence, but fear was too strong.

Ironically Umballa bade the fishermen to enter to eat and drink what
they liked.  Later he found them in a drunken stupor in the kitchen.
That was where they belonged.

He ordered his prisoners to be brought into the Court of Death and left
there.

"You see?" said Umballa.  "Now, where have you hidden the treasure?"

Kathlyn walked over to one of the cages and peered into it.  A sleek
tiger trotted up to the bar; and purred and invited her to scratch his
head.

"I am not answered," said Umballa.

A click resounded from the four sides, and a bar disappeared from each
of the cages.

"That will be all for the present," said Umballa.  "Food and water you
will not require.  To-morrow morning another bar will be removed."

And he left them.

Early the next morning the town began to seethe in the squares.  Bala
Khan's army lay encamped outside the city!

When Bruce, Ramabai, Pundita and Ahmed halted their elephants before
the temple they were greeted by the now terrified priests who begged to
be informed what Bala Khan proposed to do.

"Deliver to us the Mem-sahib."

The priests swore by all their gods that they knew nothing of her.

"Let us enter the temple," said Ramabai.  "Ahmed, bring the treasure
and leave it in the care of the priests."  A few moments later Ramabai
addressed the assemblage.  "Bala Khan is hostile, but only for the sake
of his friends.  He lays down this law, however--obey it or disobey it.
The Colonel Sahib and his daughters are to go free, to do what they
please with the treasure.  Pundita, according to the will of the late
king, shall be crowned."

The high priest held up his hand for silence.  "We obey, on one
condition--that the new queen shall in no manner interfere with her old
religion nor attempt to force her new religion into the temple."

To this Pundita agreed.

"Ramabai, soldiers!  To the house of Umballa!  We shall find him
there," cried Ahmed.

Umballa squatted upon his cushions on the terrace.  The second bar had
been removed.  The beasts were pressing their wet nozzles to the
openings and growling deep challenges.

"Once more, and for the last time, will you reveal the hiding-place of
the treasure?"

Not a word from the prisoners.

"The third bar!"

But it did not stir.

"The third bar; remove it!"

The slave who had charge of the mechanism which operated the bars
refused to act.

The events which followed were of breathless rapidity.  Ramabai and
Umballa met upon the parapet in a struggle which promised death or the
treadmill to the weaker.  At the same time Bruce opened the door to the
Court of Death as the final bar dropped in the cage.  At the sight of
him the colonel and his daughters rushed to the door.  Roughly he
hurled them outside, slamming the iron door, upon which the infuriated
tigers flung themselves.

     

The young newspaper man to whom Winnie was engaged and the grizzled
Ahmed sat on the steps of the bungalow in California one pleasant
afternoon.  The pipe was cold in the hand of the reporter and Ahmed's
cigar was dead, which always happens when one recounts an exciting tale
and another listens.  Among the flower beds beyond two young women
wandered, followed by a young man in pongee, a Panama set carelessly
upon his handsome head, his face brown, his build slender but round and
muscular.

"And that, Sahib, is the story," sighed Ahmed.

"And Kathlyn gave the treasures to the poor of Allaha?  That was fine."

"You have said."

"They should have hanged this Umballa."
