to light them both, and she found herself smiling:
"A girl must go on living until she is dead, Clive. Even if you went
away I'd continue to exist until something ended me. Other men are
merely other men. You are you."
"You darling!"
But she turned shy instantly, conscious now of his embrace, confused
by it and the whispered endearment.
"Please let me go, Clive."
"But I love you, dear--"
"Yes--but please--"
Again he released her and she stepped back, retreating before him,
until the lounge offered itself as refuge. But it was no refuge; she
found herself, presently, drawn close to his shoulder; her flushed
cheek rested there once more, and her lowered eyes were fixed on his
strong, firm hand which had imprisoned both of hers.
"If you can stand it I can," he said in a low voice.
"What?"
"Marrying me."
"Oh, Clive! They'd tear us to pieces! You couldn't stand it. Neither
could I."
"But if we--"
"Oh, no, no, no!" she protested, "it would utterly ruin you! There was
one woman there to-night--very handsome--I knew she was your mother.
And I saw the way she looked at me.... It's no use, Clive. Those
people are different. They'd never forgive you, and it would ruin
you or you'd have to go back to them."
"But if we were once married, there are friends of mine who--"
"How many? One in a thousand! Oh, Clive, Clive, I know you so
well--your family and your pride in them, your position and your
security in it, your wide circle of friends, without which circle you
would wander like a lost soul--yes, Clive, lost, forlorn, unhappy,
even with me!"
She lifted her head from his shoulder and sat up, gazing intently
straight ahead of her. In her eyes was a lovely azure light; her lips
were scarcely parted; and so intent and fixed was her gaze that for a
moment he thought she had caught sight of some concrete thing which
held her fascinated.
But it was only that she "saw clearly" at that moment--something that
had come into her field of vision--a passing shape, perhaps, which
looked at her with curious, friendly, inquiring eyes,--and went its
way between the fire and the young girl who watched it pass with
fearless and clairvoyant gaze.
"Athalie?"
"Yes," she answered as in a dream.
"Athalie! What is the matter?"
She turned, looked at him almost blindly as her remoter vision
cleared.
"Clive," she said under her breath, "go home."
"What?"
"Go home. You are wanted."
"What!!!"
She rose and he stood up, his fascinated eyes never leaving hers.
"What were you staring at a moment ago?" he demanded. "What did
you--think--you saw?"
Her eyes looked straight into his. She went to him and put both arms
around his neck.
"Dearest," she said "--dearest." And kissed him on the mouth. But he
dared not lay one finger on her.
The next moment she had his coat, was holding it for him. He took his
hat and stick from her, turned and walked to the door, wheeled in his
tracks, shivering.
And saw her crouched on the sofa, her head buried in her arms. And
dared not speak.
       
There was an automobile standing in the street before his own house as
he turned out of Fifth Avenue; lighted windows everywhere in the
house, and the iron grille ajar.
He could scarcely fit the latch-key his hands were so unsteady.
There were people in the hall, partly clad. He heard his own name in
frightened exclamation.
"What is it?" he managed to ask.
A servant stammered: "Mr. Clive--it's all over, sir. Mrs. Bailey is
asking for you, sir."
"Is my father--" but he could not go on.
"Yes, sir. His man heard him call--once--like he was dreamin' bad. But
when he got to him Mr. Bailey was gone.... The doctor has just
arrived, sir."
For one instant hope gleamed athwart the stunning crash of his senses:
he steadied himself on the newel post. Then, in his ear a faint voice
echoed: "Dearest--dearest!" And, knowing that hope also lay dead, he
lifted his young head, straightened up, and set his foot heavily on
the first step upward into a new and terrible world of grief.
CHAPTER XII
Athalie ventured to send some Madonna lilies with no card attached;
but even the thought of her white flowers crossing the threshold of
Clive's world--although it was because of her devotion to him alone
that she dared salute his dead--left her sensitively concerned,
wondering whether it had been a proper thing for her to do.
However, the day following she wrote him.
   "CLIVE DEAR,
   "I do not mean to intrude on your grief at such a time. This
   is merely a line to say that you are never absent from my
   mind.
   "And Clive, nothing really dies. This is quite true. I am not
   speaking of what faith teaches us. Faith is faith. But those
   who 'see clearly' know. Nothing dies, Clive. Nothing.
   That is even more than faith teaches us. Yet it, also, is
   true.
   "Dear little boy of my childhood, dear lad of my girlhood,
   and, of my womanhood, dearest of men, I pray that God will
   comfort you and yours.
   "I was twelve years old the only time I ever saw your father.
   He spoke so sweetly to me--put his arm around my
   shoulders--asked me if I were Red Riding Hood or the Princess
   Far Away.
   "And, to obey him, I went to find my father. And found him
   dead. Or what the world calls dead.
   "Later, as I stood there outside the door, stunned by what
   had happened, back through the doorway came running a boy.
   Clive, if you have forgotten what you said to that child
   there by the darkened doorway of life, the girl who writes
   this has never forgotten.
   "And now, since sorrow has come to you, in my turn I seek you
   where you stand by a darkened door alone, and I send to you
   my very soul in this poor, inky letter,--all I can
   offer--Clive--all that I believe--all that I am.
                                                    "ATHALIE."
So much for tribute and condolence as far as she could be concerned
where she remained among the other millions outside the sacred
threshold across which her letter and her flowers had gone, across
which the girl herself might never go.
After a few days he wrote and thanked her for her letter, not of
course knowing about the lilies:
   "It is the first time death has ever come very near me. I had
   been told and had always thought that we were a long-lived
   race.
   "I am still dazed by it. I suppose the sharper grief will
   come when this dull, unreal sense of stupefaction wears away.
   "We were very close together, my father and I. Oh, but we
   might have been closer, Athalie!--I might have been with him
   oftener, seen more of him, spent less time away from him.
   "I did try to be a good son. I could have been far better.
   It's a bitter thing to realise at such a time.
   "And I had so much to say to him. I cannot understand that I
   can never say it now.... Athalie dear, my mother wishes me to
   take her abroad. I made arrangements yesterday at the Cunard
   office. We sail Saturday. Could I see you for a moment before
   I go?
                                                    "CLIVE."
To which she replied:
   "I shall be here every evening."
He came Friday night looking very sallow and thin in his black
clothes. Catharine, who was sewing by the centre table, rose to shake
hands with him in sympathetic silence, then went away to her bedroom,
where, once or twice she caught herself whistling some gay refrain of
the moment, and was obliged to check herself.
He had taken Athalie's slender hands and was standing by the sofa,
looking intently at her.
"That night," he said with an effort, "you sent me home--saying that I
was needed."
"Yes, Clive."
"How did you know?"
"I knew."
"Did you see--anything?"
"Yes, dear," she said under her breath.
"Did you see him?"
"Yes."
"Tell me," he said, but his lips scarcely moved to form the words he
uttered.
"I recognised him at once. I had never forgotten him.... It is
difficult to explain how I knew that he was not--what we call living."
"But you knew?"
"Yes," she said gently.
"He--did he speak?" The young fellow turned away with a brusque,
hopeless gesture.
"God," he muttered--"and I couldn't either see or hear him!"
"He did not speak, Clive." The boy looked up at her, his haggard
features working.
She said: "When I first noticed him he was looking at you. Then he
caught my eye. Clive--it was this time as it had been before--when I
was twelve years old--his expression became so sweet and winning--like
yours when I amuse you--and you laugh at me but--like me--"
"Oh, Athalie--I can't seem to endure it! I--I can't be reconciled--"
His head fell forward; she put her arms around him and drew his face
against her breast.
"I know," she whispered. "I also have passed that way."
After a few moments he lifted his head, looked around, almost
fearfully.
"Where was it that he stood, Athalie?"
She hesitated, then took one of his hands in hers and he followed her
until she stopped between the sofa and the fireplace.
"Here?"
"Yes, Clive."
"So near!" he said aloud to himself. "Couldn't he have spoken to
me?--just one word--"
"Dearest--dearest!"
"God knows why you should see him and I shouldn't! I don't
understand--when I was his son--"
"I do not understand either, Clive."
He seemed not to hear her, standing there with blank gaze shifting
from object to object in the room. "I don't understand," he kept
repeating in a dull, almost querulous voice,--"I don't understand
why." And her heart responded in a passion of tenderness and grief.
But she found no further words to say to him, no explanation that
might comfort him.
"Will he ever come here--anywhere--again?" he asked suddenly.
"Oh, Clive, I don't know."
"Don't you know? Couldn't you find out?"
"How? I don't know how to find out. I never try to inquire."
"Isn't there some way?"
