I WENT back to the house, and because we feared 
the soimds of the infant's crying might carry, we 
hung blankets before the doors and windows of the 
room, and sat in the hot enclosure, shuddering, 
silent, grey with fear. After an hour or two, 
Mrs. Tuis rejoined us, stealing in and seating 
herself at one side of the room, staring from one to 
another of us with wide eyes of fright. 
By the time the first signs of dawn appeared, 
the infant had cried itself into a state of exhaustion. 
The faint Ught that got into the room revealed 
the three of us, listening to the pitiful whimpering. 
I was faint with weakness, but I had to make an 
effort and face the worst ordeal of all. There 
came a tapping at the door — the maid, to say that 
Sylvia was awake, and had heard of my arrival, 
and wished to see me. I might have put off our 
meeting for a while, on the plea of exhaustion; 
but I preferred to have it over with, and braced 
myself and went slowly to her room. 
In the doorway I paused for an instant, to 
gaze at her. She was exquisite, lying there 
with the flush of sleep still upon her, and the 
ecstasy of her great achievement in her face. 
I fled to her, and we caught each other in our arms. 
"Oh, Mary, Mary! I'm so glad you've come!" 
And then, "Oh, Mary, isn't it the loveliest baby !" 
"Perfectly glorious!" I exclaimed. 
 
"Oh, I'm so happy — so happy as I never 
dreamed! I've no words to tell you about it." 
"You don't need any words — I've been through 
it," I said. 
"Oh, but she's so beautiful! Tell me — honestly 
— isn't that really so?" 
"My dear," I said, "she is like you." 
"Mary," she went on, half whispering, "I 
think it solves all my problems — all that I wrote 
you about. I don't believe I shall ever be unhappy 
again. I can't believe that such a thing has really 
happened — that I've been given such a treasure. 
And she's my own! I can watch her little body 
grow, and help to make it strong and beautiful! 
I can help mould her little mind — see it opening 
up, one chamber of wonder after another! I can 
teach her all the things I have had to grope so to 
get!" 
"Yes," I said, trying to speak with conviction. 
I added, hastily, "I'm glad you don't find mother- 
hood disappointing." 
"Oh, it's a miracle!" she exclaimed. "A woman 
who could be dissatisfied with anything afterwards 
would be an ingrate!" She paused, then added, 
"Mary, now she's here in the flesh, I feel she'll 
be a bond between Douglas and me. He must 
see her rights, her claim upon life, as he couldn't 
see mine." 
I assented gravely. So that was the thing she 
was thinking most about — a bond between her 
husband and herself! A moment later the 
niue appeared in the door-way, and Sylvia set 
 
up a cry, "My baby I Where's my baby? I want 
to see my baby I" 
"Sylvia, dear," I said, "there's something about 
the baby that has to be explained." 
Instantly she was alert. "What is the matter?" 
I laughed. "Nothing, dear, that amounts to 
anything. But the little one's eyes are inflamed — 
that is to say, the lids. It's something that 
happens to newly-bom infants." 
"Well, then?" she said. 
"Nothing, only the doctor's had to put some 
salve on them, and they don't look very pretty." 
"I don't mind that, if it's all right." 
"But we've had to put a bandage over them, 
and it looks forbidding. Also, the child is apt to 
cry." 
"I must see her at once!" she exclaimed. 
"Just now she's asleep, so don't make us disturb 
her." 
"But how long will this last?" 
"Not very long. Meantime you must be sen- 
sible and not mind It's something I made the 
doctor do, and you mustn't blame me, or I'll be 
sorry I came to you." 
"You dear thing," she said, and put her hand 
in mine. And then, suddenly, 'Why did you take 
it into your head to come, all of a sudden?" 
"Don't ask me," I smiled. "I have no excuse. 
I just got homesick, and had to see you." 
"It's perfectly wonderful that you should be 
here now," she declared. "But you look badly. 
Are you tired?" 
 
"Yes, dear," I said. (Such a difficult person 
to deceive!) "To tell the truth, I'm pretty 
nearly done up. You see I was caught in the 
storm, and I was desperately sea-sick." 
"Why, you poor dear! Why didn't you go to 
sleep?" 
"I didn't want to sleep. I was too much 
excited by everything. I came to see one Sylvia, 
and I found two!" 
"Isn't it absurd," she cried, "how she looks 
like me? Oh, I want to see her again. How long 
will it be before I can have her?" 
"My dear," I said, "you mustn't worry " 
"Oh, don't mind me, I'm just playing. I'm 
so happy, I want to squeeze her in my arms all 
the time. Just think, Mary, they won't let me 
nurse her yet — a whole day now! Can that be 
right?" 
"Nature will take care of that," I said. 
"Yes, but how can you be sure what Nature 
means? Maybe it's what the child is crying 
about; and it's the crying that makes its eyes 
red." 
I felt a sudden spasm grip my heart. "No, 
dear, no," I said, hastily. "You must let Dr. 
Perrin attend to these things, for I've just had to 
interfere with his arrangements, and he'll be get- 
ting cross pretty soon." 
"Oh," she cried, with laughter in her eyes. 
"You've had a scene with him? I knew you 
would! He's so quaint and old-fashioned!" 
"Yes," I said, "and he talks exactly like yoiu* 
aunt." 
"Oh! You've met her too! I'm missing all 
the fim!" 
I had a sudden inspiration — one that I was 
proud of. "My dear girl," I said, "maybe you 
call it fun!" And I looked really agitated. 
"Why, what's the matter?" she cried. 
"What could you expect?" I asked. "I fear, 
my dear Sylvia, I've shocked your aunt beyond 
all hope." 
"What have you done?" 
"I've talked about things I'd no business to — 
I've bossed the learned doctor — and I'm sure 
Aunt Varina has guessed I'm not a lady." 
"Oh, tell me about it!" cried Sylvia, full of 
deUght. 
But I could not keep up the game any longer. 
"Not now, dear," I said. "It's a long story, and 
I really am exhaiisted. I must go and get some 
rest." 
I rose; and she caught my hand, whispering, 
" I shall be happy, Mary! I shall be really happy 
now!" And then I turned and fled, and when I 
was out of sight of the doorway, I literally ran. 
At the other end of the veranda I sank down upon 
the steps, and wept softly to myself. 
 
 
Thde launch arrived, bringing the nitrate of 
silver. A solution was dropped into the baby's 
eyes, and then we could do nothing but wait. 
I might have lain down and really tried to rest; 
but the maid came again, with the announcement 
that Sylvia was asking for her aunt. Excuses 
woxild have tended to excite her suspicions; so 
poor Mrs. Tuis had to take her turn at facing the 
ordeal, and I had to drill and coach her for it. 
I had a vision of the poor lady going in to her 
niece, and suddenly collapsing. Then there would 
begin a cross-examination, and Sylvia would worm 
out the truth, and we might have a case of puer- 
peral fever on our hands. 
This I explained afresh to Mrs. Tuis, having 
taken her into her own room and closed the door 
for that purpose. She clutched me with her shak- 
ing hands and whispered, "Oh, Mrs. Abbott, you 
will never let Sylvia find out what caused this 
trouble?" 
I drew on my reserve-supply of patience and 
answered, "What I shall let her find out in the 
end, I don't know. We shall be guided by circum- 
stances, and this is no time to discuss the matter. 
The point is now to make sm-e that you can go in 
and stay with her, and not let her get an idea 
there's anything wrong." 
"Oh, but you know how Sylvia reads people!" 
she cried, in sudden dismay. 
 
"I've fixed it for you," I said. "I've provided 
something you can be agitated about." 
"What is that?" 
"It's me." Then, seeing her look of bewilder- 
ment, "You must tell her that I've affronted you, 
Mrs. Tuis; I've outraged your sense of propriety. 
You're indignant with me and you don't see how 
you can remain in the house with me " 
"Why, Mrs. Abbott!" she exclaimed, in horror. 
"You know it's true to some extent," I said. 
The good lady drew herself up. "Mrs. Abbott, 
don't tell me that I have been so rude " 
"Dear Mrs. Tuis," I laughed, "don't stop to 
apologize just now. You have not been lacking 
in courtesy, but I know how I must seem to you. 
