"Did you do business with Duck?" inquired 
Pick-em-up, curiously. 
"Not so he noticed it. Joe, can't you and 
Heinie rise to your opportunities? This is 
the first time in your lives you've ever been 
decent, ever done a respectable thing. Can't 
you start in and live straight think straight? 
You're wearing the uniform of God's own 
soldiers; you're standing shoulder to shoulder 
with men who are fighting God's own battle. The fate of every woman, every child, 
every unborn baby in Europe and in Amer- 
ica, too depends on your bravery. If you 
don't win out, it will be our turn next If 
you don't stop the Huns if you don't come 
back at them and wipe them out, the world 
will not be worth inhabiting." 
I stepped nearer: "Heinie," I said, "you 
know what your trade has been, and what it is 
called. Here's your chance to clean yourself. 
Joe you've dealt out misery, insanity, death, 
to women and children. You're called the 
Coke King of the East Side. Joe, we'll get 
you sooner or later. Don't take the trouble 
to doubt it. Why not order a new pack and 
a fresh deal? Why not resolve to live straight 
from this moment here where you have taken 
your place in the ranks among real men here 
where this army stands for liberty, for the 
right to live! You've got your chance to 
become a real man; so has Heinie. And 
when you come back, we'll stand by you 
"An gimme a job choppin tickets in the 
subway !" snarled Heinie. "Expect me to squeal 
like that? Eeeform, hey? Show me a livin in 
it an I carry a banner. But there ain't 
nothing into it. How's a guy to live if there 
ain't no graft into nothin ?" 
Joe touched his gas-mask with a sneer: 
"He's pushin the yellow stuff at us, Heinie," 
he said; and to me: "You get yours all right. 
I don't know what it is, but you get it, same 
as me an Heinie an* Duck. I don't know 
what it is," he repeated impatiently; "maybe 
it's dough; maybe it's them suffragettes with 
their silk feet an white gloves what clap 
their hands at you. I ain't saying nothin 
to you, am I? Then lemme alone an go an 
talk business with Duck over there : 
Officers passed rapidly between the speaker 
and me and continued east and west along 
the ranks of riflemen, repeating in calm, steady 
voices : 
"Fix bayonets, mes en f ants; make as little 
noise as possible. Everybody ready in ten 
minutes. Ladders will be distributed. Take 
them with you. The bomb-throwers will leave 
the trench first. Put on goggles and respirators. Fix bayonets and set one foot on the 
pegs and ladders ... all ready in seven min 
utes. Three mines will be exploded. Take 
and hold the craters. . . . Five minutes! . . . 
When the mines explode that is your signal. 
Bombers lead. Give them a leg up and follow. . . . Three minutes. . . ." 
From a communication trench a long file of 
masked bomb-throwers appeared, loaded sacks 
slung under their left arms, bombs clutched 
in their right hands; and took stations at 
every ladder and row of freshly driven pegs. 
"One minute!" repeated the officers, selecting their own ladders and drawing their long 
knives and automatics. 
As I finished adjusting my respirator and 
goggles a muffled voice at my elbow began: 
"Be a sport, Doc! Gimme a chanst! Make 
it fifty-fifty " 
"Allez!" shouted an officer through his respirator. 
Against the sky all along the parapet's edge 
hundreds of bayonets wavered for a second; 
then dark figures leaped up, scrambled, 
crawled forward, rose, ran out into the Bunless, pallid light. 
Like surf bursting along a coast a curtain 
of exploding shells stretched straight across the 
debris of what had been a meadow a long 
line of livid obscurity split with flame and 
storms of driving sand and gravel. Shrapnel 
leisurely unfolded its cottony coils overhead 
and the iron helmets rang under the hail. 
Men fell forward, backward, sideways, remaining motionless, or rolling about, or rising 
to limp on again. There was smoke, now, and 
mire, and the unbroken rattle of machine guns. 
Ahead, men were fishing in their sacks and 
throwing bombs like a pack of boys stoning 
a snake; I caught glimpses of them furiously 
at work from where I knelt beside one fallen 
man after another, desperately busy with my 
own business. 
Bearers ran out where I was at work, not 
my own company but some French ambulance 
sections who served me as well as their own 
surgeons where, in a shell crater partly full 
of water, we found some shelter for the 
wounded. 
Over us black smoke from the Jack Johneons rolled as it rolls out of the stacks of soft- 
coal burning locomotives; the outrageous din 
never slackened, but our deafened ears had 
become insensible under the repeated blows of 
sound, yet not paralyzed. For I remember, 
squatting there in that shell crater, hearing 
a cricket tranquilly tuning up between the 
thunderclaps which shook earth and sods down 
on us and wrinkled the pool of water at our 
feet. 
The Legion had taken the trench; but the 
place was a rabbit warren where hundreds of 
holes and burrows and ditches and communicating runways made a bewildering maze. 
And everywhere in the dull, flame-shot obscurity, the Legionaries ran about like ghouls 
in their hoods and round, hollow eye-holes; 
masked faces, indistinct in the smoke, loomed 
grotesque and horrible as Ku-Klux where the 
bayonets were at work digging out the enemy 
from blind burrows, turning them up from 
their bloody forms. 
Rifles blazed down into bomb-proofs, cracked 
steadily over the heads of comrades who piled 
up sandbags to block communication trenches; 
grenade-bombs rained down through the smoke 
into trenches, blowing bloody gaps in huddling 
masses of struggling Teutons until they flattened back against the parados and lifted 
arms and gun-butts stammering out, "Com 
rades! Comrades!" in the ghastly irony of 
surrender. 
A man whose entire helmet, gas-mask, and 
face had been blown off, and who was still 
alive and trying to speak, stiffened, relaxed, 
and died in my arms. As I rolled him aside 
and turned to the next man whom the bear 
ers were lowering into the crater, his respirator and goggles fell apart, and I found myself looking into the ashy face of Duck Werner. 
As we laid him out and stripped away iron 
helmet and tunic, he said in a natural and 
distinct voice. 
"Through the belly, Doc. Gimme a drink." 
There was no more water or stimulant at 
the moment and the puddle in the crater was 
bloody. He said, patiently, "All right; I can 
wait. . . . It's in the belly. ... It ain't nothin , is it?" 
I said something reassuring, something about 
the percentage of recovery I believe, for I 
was exceedingly busy with Duck's anatomy. 
"Pull ine through, Doc?" he inquired calmly. 
"Sure. . . ." 
"Aw, listen, Doc. Don't hand me no cones 
of hokey-pokey. Gimme a deck of the stuff. 
Dope out the coke. Do I get mine this trip?" 
I looked at him, hesitating. 
"Listen, Doc, am I hurted bad? Gimme a 
hones deal. Do I croak?" 
"Don't talk, Duck " 
"Dope it straight Do I?" 
"Yes." 
"I thought you'd say that," he returned serenely. "Now I'm goin to fool you, same as 
I fooled them guys at Bellevue the night that 
Mike the Kike shot me up in the subway." 
A pallid sneer stretched his thin and burning lips; in his ratty eyes triumph gleamed. 
"I've went through worse than this. I ain't 
hurted bad. I ain't got mine just yet, old 
scout! Would I leave meself croak an that 
bum, Mike the Kike, handin me fren's the 
ha-ha! Gawd," he muttered hazily, as though 
his mind was beginning to cloud, "just for that 
I'll get up an an go home " His voice 
flattened out and he lay silent. 
Working over the next man beyond him 
and glancing around now and then to discover a brancardier who might take Duck to 
the rear, I presently caught his eyes fixed 
on me. 
"Say, Doc, will you talk business?" he asked 
in a dull voice. 
"Be quiet, Duck, the bearers will be here 
in a minute or two " 
"T hell wit them guys! I'm askin you will 
you make it fifty-fifty V somethin " Again 
his voice trailed away, but his bright ratty 
eyes were indomitable. 
I was bloodily occupied with another pa 
tient when something struck me on the shoulder a human hand, clutching it. Duck was 
sitting upright, eyes a-glitter. the other hand 
pressed heavily over his abdomen. 
"Fifty-fifty!" he cried in a shrill voice. 
"F r Christ's sake, Doc, talk business " And 
life went out inside him like the flame of a 
suddenly snuffed candle while he still sat 
there. . . . 
I heard the air escaping from iis lungs 
before he toppled over. ... I swear to you it 
sounded like a whispered word "business." 
"Then came their gas a great, thick, yellow 
billow of it pouring into our shell hole. . . . 
I couldn't get my mask on fast enough . . . 
and here I am, Gray, wondering, but really 
knowing. . . . Are you stopping at the Club 
tonight?" 
"Yes." 
