engines were sternward and not amidship.  She carried two masts and a
half-dozen hoist booms, and the only visible sign of anything new on
her was her bowsprit.  This was new doubtless because she had poked her
nose too far into her last slip.
Her crew was orderly and tractable.  There were shore drunks, to be
sure, because they were sailors; but they were at work.  They moved
about briskly, for they were on the point of sailing for the
Bahamas--perhaps for more onions.  Presently the windlass creaked and
shrilled, and the blobby links, much in need of tar paint, red as fish
gills, clattered down into the bow.  Sometimes they painted the chain
as it came over; but paint was costly, and this was done only when the
anchor threatened to stay on the bottom.
There was a sailor among this crew, and he went by the name of Steve
Blossom; and he was one of his kind.  A grimy dime novel protruded
rakishly from his hip pocket, and his right cheek was swollen as with
the toothache, due, probably, to a generous "chaw" of Seaman's Delight.
He was a real tobacco chewer, for he rarely spat.  He was as peaceful
as a backwater bay in summer; non-argumentative and passive, he stood
his watch in fair weather and foul.
No one gave the anchor any more attention after it came to rest.  The
great city over the way was fairy-like in its haziness and softened
lines.  It was the poetry of angles, of shafts and spars of stone; and
Steve Blossom, having a moment to himself, leaned against the rail and
stared regretfully.  He had been generously drunk the night before, and
it was a pleasant recollection.  Chance led his glance to trail down
the cutwater.  His neck stretched from his collar like a turtle's from
its shell.
"Well, I'll be hornswoggled!" he murmured, shifting his cud from
starboard to port.
Caught on the fluke of the anchor was the strangest looking box he had
ever laid eyes on.  There were leather and steel bands and
diamond-shaped ivory and mother of pearl, and it hung jauntily on the
point of the rusty fluke.  Anybody would be hornswoggled to glimpse
such a droll jest of fate.  On the fluke of the old mudhook, by a hair,
you might say.  In all the wild sea yarns he had ever read or heard
there was nothing to match this.
Treasure!
And Steve was destined never to be passive again.  His first impulse
was to call his companions; his second impulse was to say nothing at
all, and wait for an opportunity to get the box to his bunk without
being detected.  Treasure!  Diamonds and rubies and pearls and old
Spanish gold; and all hanging to the fluke of the anchor.
"Hornswoggled!" in a kind of awesome whisper this time.  "An' we
a-headin' for th' Bahamas!"  For under his feet he could hear the
rhythm of engines.  "What'll I do?  If I leave it, some one else'll see
it."  He scratched his chin perplexedly; and the cud went back to
starboard.  "I got it!"
He took off his coat and carefully dropped it down over the mysterious
box.  It was growing darker and darker all the time, and shortly
neither coat nor anchor would be visible without close scrutiny.
Treasure: greed, cupidity, crime.  Steve saw only the treasure and not
its camp followers.  What did they call them?--doubloons and
pieces-of-eight?
He ate his supper with his messmates, and he ate heartily as usual.  It
would have taken something more vital than mere treasure to disturb
Steve Blossom's appetite.  He was one of those enviable individuals
whose imagination and gastric juices work at the same time.  And while
he ate he planned.  In the first place, he would buy that home at
Bedford; then he would take over the Gilson House and live like a lord.
If he wanted a drink, all he would have to do would be to turn the
spigot or tip a bottle; and more than that, he'd have a bartender to do
it.  Onions!  He swore he would not have an onion within a mile of the
Gilson House.  "Onions!"  Quite unconsciously he spoke the words aloud.
"Huh?  Well, if ye don't like onions, find a hooker that packs violets
in her hold," was the cheerful advice of the man at Steve's elbow.
"Who's talkin' t' you?" grunted Steve.  "Wha' did I say?"
"Onions, ye lubber!  Don't we know whut onions is?  Ain't we smelt 'em
so long that ye could stick yer nose in th' starboard light an' never
smell no kerosene?  Onions!  Pass th' cawffy."
Steve helped himself first.  The man who spoke bunked over him, and
they were not on the best of terms.  There was no real reason for this
frank antagonism; simply, they did not splice any more effectually than
cotton rope and hemp splice.  Sailors are moody and superstitious; at
least they generally are on hookers of the Captain Manners breed.
Steve was superstitious and Jim Dunkers was moody and had no thumb on
his left hand.  Steve hated the sight of that red nubbin.  He was quite
certain that it had been a whole thumb once, on the way to gouge out
somebody's eye, and had inadvertently connected with somebody's teeth.
Spanish doubloons and pearls and diamonds and rubies!  It was mighty
hard not to say these words out loud, too; blare them into the sullen
faces grouped around the table.  He was off watch till midnight; and he
was wondering if he could get the box without attracting the attention
of the lookout, who had a devilish keen eye for everything that stirred
on deck or on water.  Well, he would have to risk it; but he would wait
till full darkness had fallen over the sea and the lookout would be
compelled to keep his eyes off the deck.  The boys wanted him to play
cards.
"Not for me.  Busted.  How long d' y' think forty dollars 'll last in
New York, anyhow?"  And he stalked out of the forecastle and went down
into the waist to enjoy his evening pipe, all the while keeping a
weather eye forward, at the ratty old pilot house.
It was ten o'clock, land time, when he rammed his cutty into a pocket
and resolutely walked forward.  If any one watched him they would think
he was only looking down the cutwater.  The thought of money and the
pleasures it will buy makes cunning the stupidest of dolts; and Steve
was ordinarily a dolt.  But to-night his brain was keen enough for all
purposes.  It was a hazardous job to get the box off the fluke without
letting it slip back into the sea.  Steve, however, accomplished the
feat, climbed back on the rail and sat down, waiting.  A quarter of an
hour passed.  No one had seen him.  With his coat securely wrapped
about his precious find he made for the forecastle.  His mates, save
those who were doing their watch, were all in their bunks.  An oil lamp
dimly illuminated the forward partition.  Steve's bunk was almost in
darkness.  Very deftly he rolled back the bedding and secreted the box
under his pillows, and then stretched himself out with the pretense of
snoozing till the bell called him to duty.
He was rich; and the moment a man has money he has troubles; there is
always some one who wants to take it away from you.  His bunk was on
the port side, and there was plenty of hiding space between the iron
plates and the wooden partition.  He intended to loosen three or four
planks, and then when the time came, slip the box behind them.  Some
time during the morning the forecastle would be empty, and then would
be his time.
But he suffered the agonies of damnation during the four-hours' watch.
Supposing some fool should go rummaging about his bunk and discover the
box?  Suppose ... But he dared not suppose.  There was nothing to do
but wait.  If he created any curiosity on the part of his mates he was
lost.  He would have to divide with them all, from the captain down to
the cook's boy.  It was a heart-rending thought.  From being the most
open and frank man aboard, he became the most cunning.  From being a
man without enemies, he saw an enemy even in his shadow.
At four o'clock he turned in and slept like a log.
In the morning he found his opportunity.  For half an hour the
forecastle was empty of all save himself.  Feverishly he pried back the
boards, found the brace beam, and gently laid the box there.  It was a
mighty curious-looking box.  Once he had stoked up the Chinese coast
from the Philippines, and he judged it to be Chinese in origin.  He
tried to pry open the cover and feast his eyes upon the treasure; but
under the leather and ivory and mother of pearl was impervious steel.
It would take an ax or a crowbar to stir that lid.  He sighed.  He
replaced the boards, and became to all appearances his stolid self
again.
But all the way down to the Bahamas he was moody, and when he answered
any questions it was with words spoken testily and jerkily.
"I know whut's th' matter," said Dunkers.  "He's in love."
"Shut your mouth!"
"Didn't I tell yuh?" laughed the tantalizer, dancing toward the
companion way.  "Steve's in love, 'r he didn't git drunk enough on
shore t' satisfy his whale's belly!"
A boot thudded spitefully against the door jamb.
"You fellahs let me alone, 'r I'll bash in a couple o' heads!"
"Oh, yuh will, will yuh?" cried Dunkers from the deck.  "If yuh want a
little exercise, yuh can begin on me, yuh moonsick swab!  Whut's th'
matter with yuh, anyhow?  Where'd yuh git this grouch?  Whut've we done
t' yuh?  Huh?"
"You keep out o' my way, that's all.  I'm mindin' my watches, an' don't
ask no odds of you duffers.  What if I have a grouch?  Is it any o'
your business?  All right.  When we step ashore at th' Bahamas, Mister
Jim Dunkers, I'll tear the ropes out o' your pulley blocks.  But till
we git there, you t' th' upper bunk an' me t' mine."
"Leave th' ol' grouch alone, Jim.  Th' mate won't stand for no
scrappin' aboard.  We'll have th' thing done right in th' custom sheds.
We'll have a finish fight, Queensberry rules, an' may th' best man win."
"I'm willin'," said Jim.
"So'm I," agreed Steve.  But his intentions were not honorable.  He
proposed to desert before any fight took place.  Not that he was
physically afraid; no; he wanted to dig his hands deep into those
doubloons and pieces-of-eight.
So the four days down passed otherwise uneventfully, amid paint pots
and iron rust and three meals a day of pork, onion soup, potatoes, and
strong, bitter coffee.  The winds became light and balmy and the sea
blue and gentle.  The men went about in their undershirts and
dungarees, barefooted.  Of course the coming fight was the main topic
of conversation.  It promised to be a rattling good scrap, for both men
were evenly matched, and both had a "kick" in either hand.  Even the
captain took a mild interest in the affair.  He was an old sailor.  He
knew that there was no such word as arbitration in a sailor's
vocabulary; his disputes could be settled only in one manner, by his
calloused fists.
When the old mudhook (and some day Steve was going to buy it and hang
it over the entrance to the Gilson House) slithered down into the
smiling waters of the bay, Steve concluded that discretion was the
better part of valor.  He would steal ashore on the quarantine tug
which lay alongside.  He was willing to fight under ordinary
circumstances, but he must get his treasure in safety first.  They
could call him a welcher if they wanted to; devil a bit did he care.
So he pried back the boards of his bunk wall, took out the box, eyed it
fondly, and noted for the first time the lettering on it:
  STANLEY HARGREAVE.
He wrinkled his brow in the effort to recall a pirate by this name, but
was unsuccessful.  No matter.  He hugged the box under his coat and
made for the gangway, and inadvertently ran into his enemy.
Dunkers caught a bit of the box peeping from under the coat.
"What 'a' yuh got there?" he demanded truculently.
"None o' your dam business!  You lemme by; hear me?"
"Ain't none o' my business, huh?  Where'd yuh git a box like that?
Steal it?  By cripes, I'm goin' t' have a look at that box, my hearty.
It don't smell like honest onions."
"You lemme by!" breathed Steve, with murder in his heart.
Suddenly the two men closed, surged back and forth, one determined to
take and the other to hold this mysterious box.  Dunkers struggled to
uphold his word: not that he really wanted the box but to prove that he
was strong enough to take it if he wanted to.  The name on the box
flashed and disappeared.  It was a kind of shock to him.  He and
Blossom went battering against the rail.  Dunker's grip slipped and so
did Blossom's.  The result was that the box was catapulted into the
sea.  With an agonizing cry, Blossom leaned far over.  He saw the box
oscillate for a moment, then sink gracefully in a zigzag course, down
through the blue waters.  Fainter and fainter it grew, and at last
vanished.
