    Good-bye for a while--or indefinitely. Good luck to you.
                                                       KERVYN GUILD.
"Is that quite acceptable to you?" asked Guild of the young Death's Head
hussar beside him.
"Quite acceptable," replied the officer politely. "But what is there
remarkable in anybody drinking six quarts of beer?"
Guild laughed: "Here is the note that I desire to enclose with it, if I
may do so." And he wrote:
    DEAREST:
    You must not grieve too much. You have George. It could not be
    avoided, honourably. He and I are good Americans; we are,
    perhaps, something else, too. But what the Book of Gold holds it
    never releases; what is written there is never expunged. George
    must do what I did when the time comes. I would have done
    more--was meaning to--was on my way. Destiny has ordered it
    otherwise.
    While I live I think always of you. And it shall be so until the
    last.
    This letter is to be sent to you by Harry Darrel only in the
    event of my death.
    There's a good chance for me. But if things go wrong, then,
    good-bye, dearest.
                                                             KERVYN.
    P. S.
    Tell George that it's up to him, now.
                                                            K.
He held out the letter cheerfully to the hussar, but the latter had read
it, and he merely nodded in respectful silence. So Guild folded it,
sealed it in an envelope, wrote on it, "For my Mother in case of my
death," and inclosed it in his letter to Darrel.
"Any time you are ready now," he said, rising from the little enameled
iron table under the arbour.
The hussar rose, clanking, and set a whistle to his lips. Then, turning:
"I shall have yet one more glass of beer," he said blandly, but his eyes
twinkled.
The grey car rolled up in a few moments. Over it at a vast height
something soared in hawk-like circles. It may have been a hawk. There
was no telling at such a height.
So they drove off again amid the world-shaking din of the guns
paralleling the allied lines toward the west. Ostend lay somewhere in
that direction, the channel flowed beyond; beyond that crouched
England--where bands were playing "Tipperary"--and where, perhaps, a
young girl was listening to that new battle song of which the young
hussar beside him had never even heard.
As the grey car hummed westward over the Belgian road, Guild thought of
these things while the whole world about him was shaking with the
earthquake of the guns.
"Karen," he repeated under his breath, "Karen Girard."
After a while sentinels began to halt them every few rods. The chauffeur
unrolled two white flags and set them in sockets on either side of the
hood. The hussar beside him produced a letter from his grey
despatch-pouch.
"General von Reiter's orders," he said briefly. "You are to read them
now and return the letter to me before the enemies' parlementaire
answers our flag."
Guild took the envelope, tore it open, and read:
    Orders received since our interview make it impossible for me to
    tell you where to find me on your return.
    My country place in Silesia is apparently out of the question at
    present as a residence for the person you are expected to bring
    back with you. The inclosed clipping from a Danish newspaper
    will explain why. Therefore you will sail from London on
    Wednesday or Sunday, taking a Holland liner. You will land at
    Amsterdam, go by rail through Utrecht, Helmond, Halen,
    Maastricht. You will be expected there. If I am not there you
    will remain over night.
    If you return from your journey alone and unsuccessful you
    will surrender yourself as prisoner to the nearest German post
    and ask the officer in charge to telegraph me.
    If you return successful you shall be permitted at Eijsden to
    continue your journey with the person you bring with you, across
    the Luxembourg border to Trois Fontaines, which is just beyond
    the Grand Duchy frontier; and you shall then deliver the person
    in question to the housekeeper of the hunting lodge, Marie
    Bergner. The lodge is called Quellenheim, and it belongs to me.
    If I am not there you must remain there over night. In the
    morning if you do not hear from me, you are at liberty to go
    where you please, and your engagements vis-à-vis to me are
    cancelled.
                                              VON REITER, Maj-Gen'l.
The inclosed newspaper clipping had been translated into French and
written out in long-hand. The translation read as follows:
    Russia's invasion of East Prussia, Posen and Silesia has sent a
    wave of panic over the eastern provinces of the German Empire,
    if reports from Copenhagen and Stockholm are to be credited.
    These reports are chiefly significant as indicating that the
    Russian advance is progressing more rapidly than has been
    asserted even by despatches from Petrograd.
    A correspondent of the Daily Telegraph reports from Stockholm
    that the whole of eastern Germany is upset by the menace of
    Cossack raids. He hears that a diplomatic despatch from Vienna
    contains information that the civilian inhabitants of
    Koenigsberg, East Prussia, and Breslau, in Silesia, are
    abandoning their homes and that only the military will remain in
    these strongholds.
    From Copenhagen it is reported, allegedly from German sources,
    that Silesia expects devastation by fire and sword and that the
    wealthy Prussian landholders, whose immense estates cover
    Silesia, are leading the exodus toward the west. The military
    authorities have done everything possible to check the panic,
    fearing its hurtful influence on Germany's prospects, but have
    been unable to reassure the inhabitants. Many of these have seen
    bands of Cossacks who have penetrated a few miles over the
    border and their warnings have spread like a forest fire.
For a long while the young man studied the letter, reading and
re-reading it, until, closing his eyes, he could repeat it word for
word.
And when he was letter perfect he nodded and handed back the letter to
the hussar, who pouched it.
A moment later the car ran in among a horde of mounted Uhlans, and one
of their officers came galloping up alongside of the machine.
He and the hussar whispered together for a few minutes, then an Uhlan
was summoned, a white cloth tied to his lance-shaft, and away he went on
his powerful horse, the white flag snapping in the wind. Behind him
cantered an Uhlan trumpeter.
Toward sunset the grey automobile rolled west out into open country. A
vast flat plain stretched to the horizon, where the sunset flamed
scarlet and rose.
But it was almost dusk before from somewhere across the plain came the
faint strains of military music.
The hussar's immature mustache bristled. "British!" he remarked. "Gott
in Himmel, what barbarous music!"
Guild said nothing. They were playing "Tipperary."
And now, through the late rays of the afterglow, an Uhlan trumpeter,
sitting his horse on the road ahead, set his trumpet to his lips and
sounded the parley again. Far, silvery, from the misty southwest, a
British bugle answered.
Guild strained his eyes. Nothing moved on the plain. But, at a nod to
the chauffeur from the hussar, the great grey automobile rolled forward,
the two Uhlans walking their horses on either side.
Suddenly, east and west as far as the eye could see, trenches in endless
parallels cut the plain, swarming with myriads and myriads of men in
misty grey.
The next moment the hussar had passed a black silk handkerchief over
Guild's eyes and was tying it rather tightly.
                               CHAPTER IV
                               BAD DREAMS
His first night in London was like a bad dream to him. Lying half awake
on his bed, doggedly, tenaciously awaiting the sleep he needed, at
intervals even on its vision-haunted borderland, but never drifting
across it, he remained always darkly conscious of his errand and of his
sinister predicament.
The ineffaceable scenes of the last three days obsessed him; his mind
seemed to be unable to free itself. The quieter he lay, the more grimly
determined he became that sleep should blot out these tragic memories
for a few hours at least, the more bewildering grew the confusion in his
haunted mind. Continually new details were evoked by his treacherous and
insurgent memory--trifles terrible in their minor significance--the
frightened boy against the wall snivelling against his ragged
shirt-sleeve--the sprawling attitudes of the dead men in the dusty
grass--and how, after a few moments, a mangled arm moved, blindly
groping--and what quieted it.
Incidents, the petty details of sounds, of odours, of things irrelevant,
multiplied and possessed him--the thin gold-rimmed spectacles on the
Burgomaster's nose and the honest, incredulous eyes which gazed through
them at him when he announced checkmate in three moves.
Did that tranquil episode happen years ago in another and calmer
life?--or a few hours ago in this?
He heard again the startling and ominous sounds of raiding cavalry even
before they had become visible in the misty street--the flat slapping
gallop of the Uhlan's horses on the paved way, the tinkling clash of
broken glass. Again the thick, sour, animal-like stench of the unwashed
infantry seemed to assail and sicken him to the verge of faintness; and,
half awake, he saw a world of fog set thick with human faces utterly
detached from limbs and bodies--thousands and thousands of faces
watching him out of thousands and thousands of little pig-like eyes.
His nerves finally drove him into motion and he swung himself out of bed
and walked to the window.
His hotel was the Berkeley, and he looked out across Piccadilly into a
silent, sad, unlighted city of shadows. Only a single line of lighted
lamps outlined the broad thoroughfare. Crimson sparks twinkled here and
there--the lights of cabs.
The great darkened Ritz towered opposite, Devonshire House squatted
behind its grilles and shadowy walls on the right, and beyond the great
dark thoroughfare stretched away into the night, melancholy, deserted
save for the slight stirring of a policeman here and there or the
passage of an automobile running in silence without lights.
He had been standing by the window for ten minutes or so, a lighted
cigarette between his lips, both hands dropped into the pocket of his
pyjamas, when he became aware of a slight sound--a very slight
one--behind him.
He turned around and his eyes fell upon the knob of the door. Whether or
not it was turning he could not determine in the dusk of the room. The
only light in it came through his windows from the starry August
night-sky.
After a moment he walked toward the door, bare-footed across the velvet
carpet, halted, fixed his eyes on the door knob.
After a moment it began to turn again, almost imperceptibly. And, in
him, every over-wrought nerve tightened to its full tension till he
quivered. Slowly, discreetly, noiselessly the knob continued to turn.
The door was not locked. Presently it began to open, the merest fraction
of an inch at a time; then, abruptly but stealthily, it began to close
again, as though the unseen intruder had caught sight of him, and Guild
stepped forward swiftly and jerked the door wide open.
There was only the darkened hallway there, and a servant with a tray who
said very coolly, "Thanky, sir," and entered the room.
"What-do-you-want?" asked Guild unsteadily.
"You ordered whiskey and soda for eleven o'clock, sir."
"I did not. Why do you try to enter my room without knocking?"
"I understood your orders were not to disturb you but to place the tray
