“Well, it brings money, anyway.”
Ursula looked disappointed. “Money? A cat bring money? The idea! You
could never sell it here; people do not buy cats here; one can’t even
give them away.” She turned to go.
“I don’t mean sell it. I mean have an income from it. This kind is
called the Lucky Cat. Its owner finds four silver groschen in his
pocket every morning.”
I saw the indignation rising in the old woman’s face. She was insulted.
This boy was making fun of her. That was her thought. She thrust her
hands into her pockets and straightened up to give him a piece of her
mind. Her temper was all up, and hot. Her mouth came open and let out
three words of a bitter sentence, ... then it fell silent, and the
anger in her face turned to surprise or wonder or fear, or something,
and she slowly brought out her hands from her pockets and opened them
and held them so. In one was my piece of money, in the other lay four
silver groschen. She gazed a little while, perhaps to see if the
groschen would vanish away; then she said, fervently:
“It’s true--it’s true--and I’m ashamed and beg forgiveness, O dear
master and benefactor!” And she ran to Satan and kissed his hand, over
and over again, according to the Austrian custom.
In her heart she probably believed it was a witch-cat and an agent of
the Devil; but no matter, it was all the more certain to be able to
keep its contract and furnish a daily good living for the family, for
in matters of finance even the piousest of our peasants would have more
confidence in an arrangement with the Devil than with an archangel.
Ursula started homeward, with Agnes in her arms, and I said I wished I
had her privilege of seeing Marget.
Then I caught my breath, for we were there. There in the parlor, and
Marget standing looking at us, astonished. She was feeble and pale,
but I knew that those conditions would not last in Satan’s atmosphere,
and it turned out so. I introduced Satan--that is, Philip Traum--and
we sat down and talked. There was no constraint. We were simple folk,
in our village, and when a stranger was a pleasant person we were
soon friends. Marget wondered how we got in without her hearing us.
Traum said the door was open, and we walked in and waited until she
should turn around and greet us. This was not true; no door was open;
we entered through the walls or the roof or down the chimney, or
somehow; but no matter, what Satan wished a person to believe, the
person was sure to believe, and so Marget was quite satisfied with that
explanation. And then the main part of her mind was on Traum, anyway;
she couldn’t keep her eyes off him, he was so beautiful. That gratified
me, and made me proud. I hoped he would show off some, but he didn’t.
He seemed only interested in being friendly and telling lies. He said
he was an orphan. That made Marget pity him. The water came into her
eyes. He said he had never known his mamma; she passed away while he
was a young thing; and said his papa was in shattered health, and had
no property to speak of--in fact, none of any earthly value--but he had
an uncle in business down in the tropics, and he was very well off and
had a monopoly, and it was from this uncle that he drew his support.
The very mention of a kind uncle was enough to remind Marget of her
own, and her eyes filled again. She said she hoped their two uncles
would meet, some day. It made me shudder. Philip said he hoped so, too;
and that made me shudder again.
“Maybe they will,” said Marget. “Does your uncle travel much?”
“Oh yes, he goes all about; he has business everywhere.”
And so they went on chatting, and poor Marget forgot her sorrows for
one little while, anyway. It was probably the only really bright and
cheery hour she had known lately. I saw she liked Philip, and I knew
she would. And when he told her he was studying for the ministry I
could see that she liked him better than ever. And then, when he
promised to get her admitted to the jail so that she could see her
uncle, that was the capstone. He said he would give the guards a little
present, and she must always go in the evening after dark, and say
nothing, “but just show this paper and pass in, and show it again when
you come out”--and he scribbled some queer marks on the paper and gave
it to her, and she was ever so thankful, and right away was in a fever
for the sun to go down; for in that old, cruel time prisoners were not
allowed to see their friends, and sometimes they spent years in the
jails without ever seeing a friendly face. I judged that the marks on
the paper were an enchantment, and that the guards would not know what
they were doing, nor have any memory of it afterward; and that was
indeed the way of it. Ursula put her head in at the door now and said:
“Supper’s ready, miss.” Then she saw us and looked frightened, and
motioned me to come to her, which I did, and she asked if we had told
about the cat. I said no, and she was relieved, and said please don’t;
for if Miss Marget knew, she would think it was an unholy cat and would
send for a priest and have its gifts all purified out of it, and then
there wouldn’t be any more dividends. So I said we wouldn’t tell, and
she was satisfied. Then I was beginning to say good-by to Marget, but
Satan interrupted and said, ever so politely--well, I don’t remember
just the words, but anyway he as good as invited himself to supper, and
me, too. Of course Marget was miserably embarrassed, for she had no
reason to suppose there would be half enough for a sick bird. Ursula
heard him, and she came straight into the room, not a bit pleased. At
first she was astonished to see Marget looking so fresh and rosy, and
said so; then she spoke up in her native tongue, which was Bohemian,
and said--as I learned afterward--“Send him away, Miss Marget; there’s
not victuals enough.”
Before Marget could speak, Satan had the word, and was talking back at
Ursula in her own language--which was a surprise to her, and for her
mistress, too. He said, “Didn’t I see you down the road awhile ago?”
“Yes, sir.”
“Ah, that pleases me; I see you remember me.” He stepped to her and
whispered: “I told you it is a Lucky Cat. Don’t be troubled; it will
provide.”
That sponged the slate of Ursula’s feelings clean of its anxieties,
and a deep, financial joy shone in her eyes. The cat’s value was
augmenting. It was getting full time for Marget to take some sort of
notice of Satan’s invitation, and she did it in the best way, the
honest way that was natural to her. She said she had little to offer,
but that we were welcome if we would share it with her.
We had supper in the kitchen, and Ursula waited at table. A small fish
was in the frying-pan, crisp and brown and tempting, and one could see
that Marget was not expecting such respectable food as this. Ursula
brought it, and Marget divided it between Satan and me, declining to
take any of it herself; and was beginning to say she did not care
for fish to-day, but she did not finish the remark. It was because
she noticed that another fish had appeared in the pan. She looked
surprised, but did not say anything. She probably meant to inquire of
Ursula about this later. There were other surprises: flesh and game and
wines and fruits--things which had been strangers in that house lately;
but Marget made no exclamations, and now even looked unsurprised,
which was Satan’s influence, of course. Satan talked right along, and
was entertaining, and made the time pass pleasantly and cheerfully;
and although he told a good many lies, it was no harm in him, for he
was only an angel and did not know any better. They do not know right
from wrong; I knew this, because I remembered what he had said about
it. He got on the good side of Ursula. He praised her to Marget,
confidentially, but speaking just loud enough for Ursula to hear. He
said she was a fine woman, and he hoped some day to bring her and his
uncle together. Very soon Ursula was mincing and simpering around in
a ridiculous, girly way, and smoothing out her gown and prinking at
herself like a foolish old hen, and all the time pretending she was
not hearing what Satan was saying. I was ashamed, for it showed us to
be what Satan considered us, a silly race and trivial. Satan said his
uncle entertained a great deal, and to have a clever woman presiding
over the festivities would double the attractions of the place.
“But your uncle is a gentleman, isn’t he?” asked Marget.
“Yes,” said Satan, indifferently; “some even call him a Prince, out of
compliment, but he is not bigoted; to him personal merit is everything,
rank nothing.”
My hand was hanging down by my chair; Agnes came along and licked it;
by this act a secret was revealed. I started to say, “It is all a
mistake; this is just a common, ordinary cat; the hair-needles on her
tongue point inward, not outward.” But the words did not come, because
they couldn’t. Satan smiled upon me, and I understood.
When it was dark Marget took food and wine and fruit, in a basket,
and hurried away to the jail, and Satan and I walked toward my home.
I was thinking to myself that I should like to see what the inside of
the jail was like; Satan overheard the thought, and the next moment we
were in the jail. We were in the torture-chamber, Satan said. The rack
was there, and the other instruments, and there was a smoky lantern
or two hanging on the walls and helping to make the place look dim
and dreadful. There were people there--and executioners--but as they
took no notice of us, it meant that we were invisible. A young man
lay bound, and Satan said he was suspected of being a heretic, and
the executioners were about to inquire into it. They asked the man
to confess to the charge, and he said he could not, for it was not
true. Then they drove splinter after splinter under his nails, and
he shrieked with the pain. Satan was not disturbed, but I could not
endure it, and had to be whisked out of there. I was faint and sick,
but the fresh air revived me, and we walked toward my home. I said it
was a brutal thing.
“No, it was a human thing. You should not insult the brutes by such a
misuse of that word; they have not deserved it,” and he went on talking
like that. “It is like your paltry race--always lying, always claiming
virtues which it hasn’t got, always denying them to the higher animals,
which alone possess them. No brute ever does a cruel thing--that is
the monopoly of those with the Moral Sense. When a brute inflicts pain
he does it innocently; it is not wrong; for him there is no such thing
as wrong. And he does not inflict pain for the pleasure of inflicting
it--only man does that. Inspired by that mongrel Moral Sense of his! A
sense whose function is to distinguish between right and wrong, with
liberty to choose which of them he will do. Now what advantage can he
get out of that? He is always choosing, and in nine cases out of ten he
prefers the wrong. There shouldn’t be any wrong; and without the Moral
Sense there couldn’t be any. And yet he is such an unreasoning creature
that he is not able to perceive that the Moral Sense degrades him to
the bottom layer of animated beings and is a shameful possession. Are
you feeling better? Let me show you something.”
CHAPTER VI
In a moment we were in a French village. We walked through a great
factory of some sort, where men and women and little children were
toiling in heat and dirt and a fog of dust; and they were clothed in
rags, and drooped at their work, for they were worn and half starved,
and weak and drowsy. Satan said:
“It is some more Moral Sense. The proprietors are rich, and very holy;
but the wage they pay to these poor brothers and sisters of theirs is
only enough to keep them from dropping dead with hunger. The work-hours
are fourteen per day, winter and summer--from six in the morning till
eight at night--little children and all. And they walk to and from
the pigsties which they inhabit--four miles each way, through mud and
slush, rain, snow, sleet, and storm, daily, year in and year out. They
get four hours of sleep. They kennel together, three families in a
room, in unimaginable filth and stench; and disease comes, and they die
off like flies. Have they committed a crime, these mangy things? No.
What have they done, that they are punished so? Nothing at all, except
getting themselves born into your foolish race. You have seen how
they treat a misdoer there in the jail; now you see how they treat the
innocent and the worthy. Is your race logical? Are these ill-smelling
innocents better off than that heretic? Indeed, no; his punishment is
trivial compared with theirs. They broke him on the wheel and smashed
him to rags and pulp after we left, and he is dead now, and free of
your precious race; but these poor slaves here--why, they have been
dying for years, and some of them will not escape from life for years
to come. It is the Moral Sense which teaches the factory proprietors
the difference between right and wrong--you perceive the result. They
think themselves better than dogs. Ah, you are such an illogical,
unreasoning race! And paltry--oh, unspeakably!”
Then he dropped all seriousness and just overstrained himself
