I never understood it all, because I was too young. Now, here is the
curious thing about it all. The first time you spoke to me of the
Princess Naïa Mistchenka, I had a hazy idea that her name seemed
familiar to me. And ever since I have known her, now and then I found
myself trying to recollect where I had heard that name, even before I
heard it from you.
Suddenly, one evening about a week ago, it came to me that I had heard
both the names, Naïa and Mistchenka, when I was a child. Also the name
Erlik. The two former names occur in Herr Wilner's diary; the latter
I heard from the Chinese missionary years ago; and that is why they
seemed so familiar to me.
It is so long since I have read the diary that I can't remember the
story in which the names Naïa and Mistchenka are concerned. As I
recollect, it was a tragic story that used to thrill me.
At any rate, I didn't speak of this to Princess Naïa; but about a week
ago there were a few people dining here with us--among others an old
Turkish Admiral, Murad Pasha, who took me out. And as soon as I heard
his name I thought of that diary; and I am sure it was mentioned in
it.
Anyway, he happened to speak of Trebizond; and, naturally, I said that
my father had been a missionary there many years ago.
As this seemed to interest him, and because he questioned me, I told
him my father's name and all that I knew in regard to his career as a
missionary in the Trebizond district. And, somehow--I don't exactly
recollect how it came about--I spoke of Herr Wilner, and his death at
Gallipoli, and how his effects came into my father's possession.
And because the old, sleepy-eyed Admiral seemed so interested and
amused, I told him about Herr Wilner's box and his diary and the plans
and maps and photographs with which I used to play as a little child.
After dinner, Princess Naïa asked me what it was I had been telling
Murad Pasha to wake him up so completely and to keep him so amused. So
I merely said that I had been telling the Admiral about my childhood
in Brookhollow.
Naturally neither she nor I thought about the incident any further.
Murad did not come again; but a few days later the Turkish Chargé
d'Affaires was present at a very large dinner given by Princess Naïa.
And two curious conversations occurred at that dinner:
The Turkish Chargé suddenly turned to me and asked me in English
whether I were not the daughter of the Reverend Wilbour Carew who once
was in charge of the American Mission near Trebizond. I was so
surprised at the question; but I answered yes, remembering that Murad
must have mentioned me to him.
He continued to ask me about my father, and spoke of his efforts to
establish a girls' school, first at Brusa, then at Tchardak, and
finally near Gallipoli. I told him I had often heard my father speak
of these matters with my mother, but that I was too young to remember
anything about my own life in Turkey.
All the while we were conversing, I noticed that the Princess kept
looking across the table at us as though some chance word had
attracted her attention.
After dinner, when the gentlemen had retired to the smoking room, the
Princess took me aside and made me repeat everything that Ahmed Mirka
had asked me.
I told her. She said that the Turkish Chargé was an old busybody,
always sniffing about for all sorts of information; that it was safer
to be reticent and let him do the talking; and that almost every scrap
of conversation with him was mentally noted and later transcribed for
the edification of the Turkish Secret Service.
I thought this very humorous; but going into the little salon where
the piano was and where the music was kept, while I was looking for an
old song by Messager, from "La Basoche," called "Je suis aimé de la
plus belle--" Ahmed Mirka's handsome attaché, Colonel Izzet Bey, came
up to where I was rummaging in the music cabinet.
He talked nonsense in French and in English for a while, but somehow
the conversation led again toward my father and the girls' school at
Gallipoli which had been attacked and burned by a mob during the first
month after it had been opened, and where the German, Herr Wilner, had
been killed.
"Monsieur, your reverend father, must surely have told you stories
about the destruction of the Gallipoli school, mademoiselle," he
insisted.
"Yes. It happened a year before the mission at Trebizond was destroyed
by the Turks." I said maliciously.
"So I have heard. What a pity! Our Osmanli--our peasantry are so
stupid! And it was such a fine school. A German engineer was killed
there, I believe."
"Yes, my father said so."
"A certain Herr Conrad Wilner, was it not?"
"Yes. How did you hear of him, Colonel Izzet?"
"It was known in Stamboul. He perished by mistake, I believe--at
Gallipoli."
"Yes; my father said that Herr Wilner was the only man hurt. He went
out all alone into the mob and began to cut them with his riding whip.
My father tried to save him, but they killed Herr Wilner with
stones."
"Exactly." He spread his beautifully jewelled hands deprecatingly and
seemed greatly grieved.
"And Herr Wilner's--property?" he inquired. "Did you ever hear what
became of it?"
"Oh, yes," I said. "My father took charge of it."
"Oh! It was supposed at the time that all of Herr Wilner's personal
property was destroyed when the school and compound burned. Do you
happen to know just what was saved, mademoiselle?"
Of course I immediately thought of the bronze demon, the box of
instruments, and the photographs and papers at home with which I used
to play as a child. I remembered my father had said that these things
were taken on board the Oneida when he, my mother, and I were
rescued by marines and sailors from our guard vessel which came
through the Bosporus to the Black Sea, and which escorted us to the
Oneida. And I was just going to tell this to Izzet Bey when I also
remembered what the Princess had just told me about giving any
information to Ahmed Pasha. So I merely opened my eyes very innocently
and gazed at Colonel Izzet and shook my head as though I did not
understand his question.
The next instant the Princess came in to see what I was about so long,
and she looked at Izzet Bey with a funny sort of smile, as though she
had surprised him in mischief and was not angry, only amused. And when
Colonel Izzet bowed, I saw how red his face had grown--as red as his
fez.
The Princess laughed and said in French: "That is the difference
between professional and amateur--between Nizam and Redif--between
Ahmed Pasha and our esteemed but very youthful attaché--who has much
yet to learn about that endless war called Peace!"
I didn't know what she meant, but Izzet Bey turned a bright scarlet,
bowed again, and returned to the smoking room.
And that night, while Suzanne was unhooking me, Princess Naïa came
into my bedroom and asked me some questions, and I told her about the
box of instruments and the diary, and the slippery linen papers
covered with drawings and German writing, with which I used to play.
She said never to mention them to anybody, and that I should never
permit anybody to examine those military papers, because it might be
harmful to America.
How odd and how thrilling! I am most curious to know what all this
means. It seems like an exciting story just beginning, and I wonder
what such a girl as I has to do with secrets which concern the Turkish
Chargé in Paris.
Don't you think it promises to be romantic? Do you suppose it has
anything to do with spies and diplomacy and kings and thrones, and
terrible military secrets? One hears a great deal about the embassies
here being hotbeds of political intrigue. And of course France is
always thinking of Alsace and Lorraine, and there is an ever-present
danger of war in Europe.
Mr. Neeland, it thrills me to pretend to myself that I am actually
living in the plot of a romance full of mystery and diplomacy and
dangerous possibilities. I hope something will develop, as something
always does in novels.
And alas, my imagination, which always has been vivid, needed almost
nothing to blaze into flame. It is on fire now; I dream of courts and
armies, and ambassadors, and spies; I construct stories in which I am
the heroine always--sometimes the interesting and temporary victim of
wicked plots; sometimes the all-powerful, dauntless, and adroit
champion of honour and righteousness against treachery and evil!
Did you ever suppose that I still could remain such a very little
girl? But I fear that I shall never outgrow my imagination. And it
needs almost nothing to set me dreaming out stories or drawing
pictures of castles and princes and swans and fairies. And even this
letter seems a part of some breathlessly interesting plot which I am
not only creating but actually a living part of and destined to act
in.
Do you want a part in it? Shall I include you? Rather late to ask your
permission, for I have already included you. And, somehow, I think the
Yellow Devil ought to be included, too.
Please write to me, just once. But don't speak of the papers which
father had, and don't mention Herr Conrad Wilner's box if you write.
The Princess says your letter might be stolen.
I am very happy. It is rather cold tonight, and presently Suzanne will
unhook me and I shall put on such a pretty negligée, and then curl up
in bed, turn on my reading light with the pink shade, and continue to
read the new novel recommended to me by Princess Naïa, called "Le
Crime de Sylvestre Bonnard." It is a perfectly darling story, and
Anatole France, who wrote it, must be a darling, too. The Princess
knows him and promises that he shall dine with us some day. I expect
to fall in love with him immediately.
Good night, dear Mr. Neeland. I hope you will write to me.
                           Your little Gayfield friend grown up,
                                                       Ruhannah Carew.
This letter he finally did answer, not voluminously, but with all
cordiality. And, in a few days, forgot about it and about the girl to
whom it was written. And there was nothing more from her until early
summer.
Then came the last of her letters--an entirely mature missive, firm in
writing, decisive, concise, self-possessed, eloquent with an
indefinite something which betrayed a calmly ordered mind already
being moulded by discipline mondaine:
                 
My dear Mr. Neeland:
I had your very kind and charming letter in reply to mine written last
January. My neglect to answer it, during all these months, involves
me in explanations which, if you like, are perhaps due you. But if you
require them at all, I had rather surrender them to you personally
when we meet.
Possibly that encounter, so happily anticipated on my part, may occur
sooner than you believe likely. I permit myself to hope so. The note
which I enclose to you from the lady whom I love very dearly should
explain why I venture to entertain a hope that you and I are to see
each other again in the near future.
As you were kind enough to inquire about myself and what you describe
so flatteringly as my "amazing progress in artistic and worldly
wisdom," I venture to reply to your questions in order:
They seem to be pleased with me at the school. I have a life-drawing
"on the wall," a composition sketch, and a "concours" study in oil.
That I have not burst to atoms with pride is a miracle inexplicable.
I have been told that my progress at the piano is fair. But I am very
certain I shall do no more with vocal and instrumental music than to
play and sing acceptably for such kind and uncritical friends as do
not demand much of an amateur. Without any unusual gifts, with a
rather sensitive ear, and with a very slightly cultivated and
perfectly childish voice--please do not expect anything from me to
please you.
In French I am already becoming fluent. You see, except for certain
