XIV 
ONE OF THE MOTHERLESS 
VERSAILLES frames in my memory the most 
tragic of the war-time pictures I collected during my visit to France. That romantic and lovely city 
which has framed in turn the pomp and glory of 
France, the iconic simplicities of Marie Antoinette, the 
odious passions of a French mob, screeching for bread 
and blood, and the creation of a German Empire, will 
for long be associated in my mind with a sad and 
isolated little picture that will find no niche in history, 
but, as a symbol, is as diagnostic as the storming of 
the palace gates in 1789. 
There is a small but powerful ceuvre in Paris, com- 
posed with one exception of Americans devoted to the 
cause of France. It was founded by its treasurer, Mr. 
Frederic Coudert. Mr. August Jaccaci, of New York, 
is President; Mrs. Cooper Hewett, Honorary President; Mrs. Robert Bliss, Vice-President; and the 
Committee consists of the Comtesse de Viel Castel, 
Mrs. Francis G. Shaw, and Mrs. William H. Hill, of 
Boston. It is called "The Franco-American Commit- 
tee for the Protection of the Children of the Frontier." 
This Committee, which in May, 1916, had already 
rescued twelve hundred children, was born of one of 
 
those imperative needs of the moment when the 
French civilians and their American friends, working 
behind the lines, responded to the needs of the unfortunate, with no time for foresight and prospective 
organization. 
In August, 1914, M. Cruppi, a former Minister of 
State, told Mr. Coudert that in the neighborhood of 
Belfort there were about eighty homeless children, 
driven before the first great wind of the war, the battle 
of Metz; separated from their mothers (their fathers 
and big brothers were fighting) they had wandered, 
with other refugees, down below the area of battle 
and were huddled homeless and almost starving in 
and near the distracted town of Belfort. 
Mr. Coudert immediately asked his friends in Paris 
to collect funds, and started with M. Cruppi for Bel- 
fort. There they found not eighty but two hundred 
and five children, shelterless, hungry, some of them 
half imbecile from shock, and all physically disordered. 
To leave any of these wretched waifs behind, when 
Belfort itself might fall at any moment, was out of 
the question, and M. Cruppi and Mr. Coudert crowded 
them all into the military cars allotted by the Govern- 
ment and took them to Paris. Some money had been 
raised. Mr. Coudert cabled to friends in America, 
Mrs. Bliss (wife of the First Secretary of the Amer- 
ican Embassy) and Mrs. Cooper Hewett contributed 
generously, Valentine Thompson gave her help and 
advice for a time, and Madame Pietre, wife of the 
 
sous-prefet of Yvetot, installed the children in an 
old seminary near her home and gave them her personal attention. Later, one hundred were returned to 
their parents and the rest placed in a beautiful chateau 
surrounded by a park. 
Every day of those first terrible weeks of the war 
proved that more and more children must be cared 
for by those whom fortune had so far spared. It was 
then that Mr. Jaccaci renounced all private work and 
interests, and that Mrs. Hill, Mrs. Shaw and the 
Comtesse de Viel Castel volunteered. The organiza- 
tion was formed and christened, Mrs. Bliss provided 
Relief Depots in Paris, and Mr. Coudert returned to 
New York for a brief visit in search of funds. 
During the bombardment of the Belgian and French 
towns these children came into Paris on every train. 
They were tagged like post-office packages, and it was 
as well they were, not only because some were too 
little to know or to pronounce their names correctly, 
but even the older ones were often too dazed to give 
a coherent account of themselves; although the more 
robust quickly recovered. The first thing to do with 
this human flotsam was to wash and disinfect and 
feed it, clip its hair to the skull, and then, having 
burned the rags of arrival, dress it in clean substantial 
clothes. While I was in Paris Mr. Jaccaci and Mrs. 
Hill were meeting these trains ; and, when the smaller 
children arrived frightened and tearful they took 
them in their arms and consoled them all the way to 
 
the Relief Depots. The result was that they needed 
the same treatment as the children. 
It was generally the Cure or the Mayor of the 
bombarded towns that had rounded up each little parentless army and headed it toward Paris. When the 
larger children were themselves again they all told the 
same bitter monotonous stories. Suddenly a rain .of 
shrapnel fell on their village or town. They fled to 
the cellars, perhaps to the one Cave Voutee (a stone 
cellar with vaulted roof) and there herded in inde- 
scribable filth, darkness, fear, hunger for weeks and 
even months at a time. The shelling of a village soon 
stopped, but in the larger towns, strategic points desired of the enemy, the bombarding would be incessant. Mothers, or older children, would venture out 
for food, returning perhaps with enough to keep the 
pale flame of life alive, as often as not falling a 
huddled mass a few feet from the exit of the cellar. 
Mothers died of typhoid, pneumonia, in childbirth; 
others never had reached the cellar with their own 
children in the panic; one way or another these children arrived in Paris in a state of orphanhood, al- 
though later investigations proved them to have been 
hiding close to their mother (and sometimes father; 
for all men are not physically fit for war) by the 
width of a street, in a town where the long roar of 
guns dulled the senses and the affections, and the constant hail of shrapnel precluded all search for anything 
but food. 
Moreover, many families had fled from villages 
 
lying in the path of the advancing hordes to the 
neighboring towns, and there separated, crowding into 
the nearest Caves Voutees. Most of these poor women 
carried a baby and were distraught with fear besides ; 
the older children must cling to the mother's skirts 
or become lost in the melee. 
When one considers that many of these children, in 
Rheims or Verdun, for instance, were in cellars not 
for weeks but for months, without seeing the light 
of day, with their hunger never satisfied, with corpses 
unburied for days until a momentary lull encouraged 
the elders to remove the sand bags at the exit and 
thrust them out, with their refuge rocking constantly 
and their ear-drums splitting with raucous sounds, 
where the stenches were enough to poison what red 
blood they had left and there were no medicines to 
care for the afflicted little bodies, one pities anew those 
mentally afflicted people who assert at automatic 
intervals, "I can't see any difference between the 
cruelty of the British blockade and the German sub- 
marines." The resistant powers of the human body, 
given the bare chance of remaining alive, are little 
short of phenomenal. But then, when Nature com- 
pounded the human frame it was to fling it into a new- 
born world far more difficult to survive than even the 
awful conditions of modern warfare. 
Some of these children were wounded before they 
reached the cellars. In many cases the families remained in their homes until the walls, at first pierced 
by the shrapnel, began to tumble about their ears. 
Then they would run to the homes of friends on 
the other side of. the town, staying there until the 
guns, aided by the air scouts, raked such houses as 
had escaped the first assault. Often there were no 
Caves Voutees in the villages. The mothers cowered 
with their children under the tottering walls or lay 
flat on the ground until the German guns turned elsewhere; then they ran for the nearest town. But during these distracted transfers many received wounds 
whose scars they are likely to carry through life. The 
most seriously wounded were taken to the military 
hospitals, where they either died, or, if merely in need 
of bandages, were quickly turned out to make room 
for some poilu arriving in the everlasting procession 
of stretchers. 
Sometimes, flat on their stomachs, the more curious 
and intelligent of the children watched the shells sailing overhead to drop upon some beautiful villa or 
chateau and transpose it into a heap of stones. Where 
there were English or Americans in these bombarded 
towns, or where the Cures or the Mayors of those 
invaded had not been shot or imprisoned, the children 
were sent as quickly as possible to Paris, the mothers, 
when there were any, only too content to let them go 
and to remain behind and take their chances with the 
shells. 
One little Belgian named Bonduelle, who, with two 
brothers, reached Paris in safety, is very graphic: 
"We are three orphans," he replied in answer to the 
usual questions. "Our uncle and aunt took the place 
 
of our dear parents, so soon taken from us. . . . It 
was towards the evening of Wednesday, 6th Septem- 
ber, 1 9 14, that I was coming back to my uncle's house 
from Ypres, when all at once I heard shrieks and 
yells in the distance. I stopped, for I was like one 
stunned. On hearing behind me, on the highway, German cavalry, I ran into a house where I spent the 
night. I could not close my eyes when I thought of 
the anxiety of my uncle and aunt and of the fate of 
my two small brothers, Michael and Roger. Early 
the following day I rushed to our house. Everybody 
was in the cellar. We shed tears on meeting again. 
I found two of my cousins wounded by a shell which 
had exploded outside our door. Soon another shell 
comes and smashes our house. I was wounded. Dazed 
with fear, my cousin and myself got out through a 
window from the cellar, we ran across fields and 
meadows to another uncle, where the rest of the 
family followed us soon. We remained there the 
whole winter, but what a sad winter! We have not 
taken off our clothes, for at every moment we feared 
to have to run away again. 
"The big guns rumbled very much and the shells 
whistled over our heads. Every one heard : 'So-and- 
so is killed' or 'wounded, by a shell.' 'Such-and-such- 
a-house is ruined by a shell.' 
"After having spent more than seven months in 
incredible fear, my brothers and myself have left the 
village, at the order of the gendarmes, and the Eng- 
 
lish took us to Hazebrouck, from where we went to 
Paris." 
In some cases the parents, or, as was most generally 
the case, the mother, after many terrifying experiences in her village, passed and repassed by the Ger- 
mans, having heard of the relief stations in Paris, sent 
their children, properly tagged, to be cared for in a 
