Gray's mother, on whom she more or less throws 
herself for comfort and support, and Gray and 
Rosanna, Rosanna with a governess and all the 
facilities and accessories natural to wealth, while 
the boy's conditions are much leaner and plainer 
— the two, I say, fraternise and are good friends; 
he figuring to Rosanna (say he is about 13, while 
she is 16) as a tremendously initiated and in- 
formed little polyglot European, knowing France, 
Germany, Italy etc. from the first. It is at this 
juncture that Mrs. Fielder's second marriage has 
come into view, or the question and the appear- 
ance of it; and that, very simultaneously, the 
proposal has come over from her half-brother on 
some rumour of it reaching him. As already 
mentioned, Betterman proposes to her that if she 
will come back to America with her boy, and not 
enter upon the union that threatens, and which 
 
must have particular elements in it of a nature 
to displease and irritate him, he will look after 
them both, educate the boy at home, do some- 
thing substantial for them. Mrs. Fielder takes 
her American friend into her confidence in every 
way, introduces to her the man who desires to 
marry her, whom Rosanna sees and with whom 
the boy himself has made great friends, so that 
the dilemma of the poor lady becomes a great and 
lively interest to them all; the pretendant himself 
forming also a very good relation with the Ameri- 
can mother and daughter, the friends of his friend, 
and putting to Mrs. Gaw very eagerly the possi- 
bility of her throwing her weight into the scale in 
his favour. Her meeting, that is Mrs. Fielder's 
meeting, the proposition from New York involves 
absolutely her breaking off with him; and he is 
very much in love with her, likes the boy, and, 
though he doesn't want to stand in the latter's 
light, has hopes that he won't be quite thrown 
over. The engagement in fact, with the marriage 
near at hand, must be an existing reality. It is 
for Mrs. Fielder something of a dilemma; but she 
is very fond of her honourable suitor, and her in- 
clinations go strongly to sticking to him. She 
takes the boy himself into her confidence, young 
as he is, — perhaps I can afford him a year or two 
more — make him 15, say; in which case Rosanna 
becomes 18, and the subsequent chronology is 
thereby affected. It isn't, I must remember, as 
 
a young man in his very first youth, at all, that I 
want Gray, or see him, with the opening of the 
story at Newport. On the contrary all the pro- 
prieties, elements of interest, convenience etc., 
are promoted by his being not less than 30. I 
don't see why I shouldn't make him 33, with 
Rosanna thus two years older, not three. If he 
is17, it will be old enough 
for each, without being too old, I think, for Gray. 
18 years will thus have elapsed from the crisis at 
Florence or wherever to the arrival at Newport. 
I want that time, I think, I can do with it very 
well for what I see of elements operative for him; 
and a period of some length moreover is required 
for bringing the two old men at Newport to a 
proper pitch of antiquity. Mr. Betterman dies 
very much in the fulness of years, and as Rosan- 
na's parent is to pass away soon after Iwant him 
to have come to the end. If Gray is 15, however, 
I mustn't make his mother too mature to inspire 
the devotion of her friend; at the same time that 
there must have been years enough for her to 
have lived awhile with her first husband and lost 
him. Of course this first episode may have been 
very brief — there is nothing to prevent that. If 
she had married at 20 she will then be, say, about 
36 or so at the time of the crisis, and this will be 
quite all right for the question of her second mar- 
riage. Say she lives a considerable number of 
years after this, in great happiness, her marriage 
 
having taken place; I in fact require her to do so, 
for I want Gray to have had reasons fairly strong 
for his not having been back to America in the 
interval. I may put it that he has, even, been 
back for a very short time, on some matter con- 
nected with his mother's interests, or his own, or 
whatever; but I complicate the case thereby and 
have to deal somehow with the question of whether 
or no he has then seen Mr. Betterman. No, I 
don't want him to have been back, and can't do 
with it; keep this simple and workable. All I am 
doing here is just to fix a little his chronology. 
Say he has been intending to go over at about 
25, when his mother's death takes place, about 10 
years after her second marriage. Say then, as is 
very conceivable, that his- stepfather, with whom 
he , has become great friends, then requires and 
appeals to his care and interest in a way that 
keeps him on arid on till the latter's death takes 
place just previous to Mr. Betterman's sending 
for him. This gives me quite sufficiently what I 
want of the previous order of things; but doesn't 
give me yet the fact about Rosanna's connec- 
tion in her young history which I require. I see 
accordingly what has happened in Florence or 
Dresden as something of this kind: that Mrs. 
Fielder, having put it to her boy that he shall 
decide, if he can, about what they shall do, she 
lets Mrs. Gaw, who was at this juncture in con- 
stant intercourse with her, know that she has 
 
done so — Mrs. Gaw and Rosanna being, together, 
exceedingly interested about her, and Rosanna 
extremely interested, in a young dim friendly 
way, about Gray; very much as if he were the 
younger brother she hasn't got, and whom, or 
an older, she would have given anything to have. 
Rosanna hates Mr. Betterman, who has, as she 
understands and believes, in some iniquitous 
business way, wronged or swindled her father; 
and isn't at all for what he has proposed to the 
Fielders. In addition she is infatuated with 
Europe, makes everything of being there, dreams, 
or would dream, of staying on if she could, and 
has already in germ, in her mind, those feelings 
about the dreadful American money-world of 
which she figures as the embodiment or expres- 
sion in the eventual situation. She knows thus 
that 'the boy has had, practically, the decision 
laid upon him, and with the whole case with all 
its elements and possibilities before her she takes 
upon herself to act upon him, influence and de- 
termine him. She wouldn't have him accept 
Mr. Betterman's cruel proposition, as she de- 
clares she sees it, for the world. She proceeds 
with him as she would in fact with a younger 
brother: there is a passage to be alluded to with 
a later actuality, which figures for her in memory 
as her creation of a responsibility; her very con- 
siderably passionate, and thereby meddlesome, in- 
tervention. I see some long beautiful walk or 
 
stroll, some visit to some charming old place or 
things — and Florence is here indicated — during 
which she puts it all to him, and from which he, 
much inspired and affected by her, comes back 
to say to his mother that he doesn't want what is 
offered — at any such price as she will have to 
pay. I see this occasion as really having settled 
it — and Rosanna's having always felt and known 
that it did. She and her mother separate then 
from the others; Mrs. Fielder communicates her 
refusal, sticks to her friend, marries him shortly 
afterwards, and her subsequent years take the 
form I have noted. The American mother and 
daughter go back across the sea; the mother in 
time dies etc. I see also how much better it is 
to have sufficient time for these various deaths 
to happen. But the point is that the sense of 
responsibility, begetting gradually a considerable, 
a deepening force of reflection, and even somewhat 
of remorse, as to all that it has meant, is what 
has taken place for Rosanna in proportion as, 
by the sequence of events and the happening of 
many things, Mr. Betterman has grown into an 
apparently very rich old man with no natural 
heir. His losses, his bereavements, I have al- 
ready alluded to, and a considerable relaxation 
of her original feeling about him in the light of 
more knowledge and of other things that have 
happened. In the light, for instance, of her now 
mature sense of what her father's career has been 
 
and of all that his great ferocious fortune, as she 
believes it to be, represents of rapacity, of finan- 
cial cruelty, of consummate special ability etc. 
She has kept to some extent in touch with Gray, 
so far that is as knowing about his life and gen- 
eral situation are concerned; but the element of 
compunction in her itself, and the sense of what 
she may perhaps have deprived him of in the 
way of a great material advantage, may be very 
well seen, I think, as keeping her shy and back- 
ward in respect to following him up or remaining 
in intercourse. It isn't likely, for the American 
truth of things, that she hasn't been back to Eu- 
rope again, more than once, whether before or 
after her mother's death; but what I can easily 
and even interestingly see is that on whatever 
occasion of being there she has yet not tried to 
meet him again. She knows that neither he nor 
his stepfather are at all well off, she has a good 
many general impressions and has tried to get 
knowledge of them, without directly appealing 
for it to themselves, whenever she can. Thus it 
is, to state things very simply, that, on hearing 
of the stepfather's death, during the Newport 
summer, she has got at Mr. Betterman and spoken 
to him about Gray; she has found him accessible 
