sonality. She saw farther, she felt more deeply than the 
average of these wage-slaves. Her problem was the same 
as theirs, yet more complex. When he had wanted to help 
her and had offered to get her a job, she had made clear 
that what she craved was not merely relief from drudgery, 
but a life with intellectual interest. So then the idea had 
come to him that Mary should become a teacher, a leader 
of her people. She loved them, she suffered for them 
and with them, and at the same time she had a mind that 
was capable of seeking out the causes of their misery. But 
when he had gone to her with plans of leadership, he had 
been met by her corroding despair; her pessimism had 
 
seemed to mock his dreams, her contempt for these mine- 
slaves had belittled his efforts in their behalf and in hers. 
And now, here she was taking up the role he had planned 
for her! Her very soul was in this shouting throng, he 
thought. She had lived the lives of these people, shared 
their every wrong, been driven to rebellion with them. 
Being a mere man, Hal missed one important point about 
this startling development ; he did not realise that Mary's 
eloquence was addressed, not merely to the Rafferties and 
the Wauchopes, and the rest of the North Valley mine- 
slaves, but to a certain magazine-cover girl, clad in a mack- 
intosh and a pale green hat and a soft and filmy and hor- 
ribly expensive motoring veil ! 
 Mary's speech^was brought to a sudden end. A 
group of the men had moved down the street, and there 
arose a disturbance there. The noise of it swelled louder, 
and more people began to move in that direction. Mary 
turned to look, and all at once the whole throng surged 
down the street. 
The trouble was at the hospital. In front of this build- 
ing was a porch, and on it Cartwright and Alec Stone were 
standing, with a group of the clerks and office-employes, 
among whom Hal saw Predovich, Johnson, the postmaster, 
and Si Adams. At the foot of the steps stood Tim Raf- 
ferty, with a swarm of determined men at his back. He 
was shouting, " We want them lawyers out of there ! " 
The superintendent himself had undertaken to parley 
with him. " There are no lawyers in here, Rafferty." 
" We don't trust you ! " And the crowd took up the 
cry : " We'll see for ourselves ! " 
" You can't go into this building," declared Cartwright. 
" I'm goin' to see my father ! " shouted Tim. " I've 
got a right to see my father, ain't I ? " 
" You can see him in the morning. You can take him 
 
away, if you want to. We've no desire to keep him. But 
he's asleep now, and you can't disturb the others." 
" You weren't afraid to disturb them with your damned 
lawyers ! " And there was a roar of approval — so loud 
that Cartwright's denial could hardly be heard. 
" There have been no lawyers near him, I tell you." 
" It's a lie ! " shouted Wauchope. " They been in there 
all day, and you know it. We mean to have them out." 
" Go on, Tim ! " cried Andy, the Greek boy, pushing his 
way to the front. " Go on ! " cried the others ; and thus 
encouraged, Kafferty started up the steps. 
" I mean to see my father ! " As Cartwright caught 
him by the shoulder, he yelled, " Let me go, I say ! " 
It was evident that the superintendent was trying his 
best not to use violence ; he was ordering his own followers 
back at the same time that he was holding the boy. But 
Tim's blood was up ; he shoved forward, and the superin- 
tendent, either striking him or trying to ward off a blow, 
threw him backwards down the steps. There was an up- 
roar of rage from the throng ; they surged forward, and at 
the same time some of the men on the porch drew re- 
volvers. 
The meaning of that situation was plain enough. In a 
moment more the mob would be up the steps, and there 
would be shooting. And if once that happened, who could 
guess the end ? Wrought up as the crowd was, it might 
not stop till it had fired every company building, perhaps 
not until it had murdered every company representative. 
Hal had resolved to keep in the back-ground, but he saw 
that to keep in the back-ground at that moment would be 
an act of cowardice, almost a crime. He sprang forward, 
his cry rising above the clamour. " Stop, men ! Stop ! " 
There was probably no other man in North Valley who 
could have got himself heeded at that moment. But Hal 
had their confidence, he had earned the right to be heard. 
Had he not been to prison for them, had they not seen him 
 
behind the bars ? " Joe Smith ! " The cry ran from, one 
end of the excited throng to the other. 
Hal was fighting his way forward, shoving men to one 
side, imploring, commanding silence. " Tim Eafferty ! 
Wait ! " And Tim, recognising the voice, obeyed. 
Once clear of the press, Hal sprang upon the porch, 
where Cartwright did not attempt to interfere with him. 
" Men ! " he cried. " Hold on a moment ! This isn't 
what you want ! You don't want a fight ! " He paused 
for an instant ; but he knew that no mere negative would 
hold them at that moment. They must be told what they 
did want. Just now he had learned the particular words 
that would carry, and he proclaimed them at the top of his 
voice : " What you want is a union ! A strike I " 
He was answered by a roar from the crowd, the loudest 
yet. Yes, that was what they wanted ! A strike ! And 
they wanted Joe Smith to organise it, to lead it. He had 
been their leader once, he had been thrown out of camp for 
it. How he had got back they were not quite clear — but 
here he was, and he was their darling. Hurrah for him ! 
They would follow him to hell and back ! 
Ajid wasn't he the boy with the nerve ! Standing there 
on the porch of the hospital, right under the very noses of 
the bosses, making a union speech to them, and the bosses 
never daring to touch him ! The crowd, realising this situ- 
ation, went wild with delight. The English-speaking men 
shouted assent to his words ; and those who could not un- 
derstand, shouted because the others did. 
They did not want fighting — of course not! Fight- 
ing would not help them I What would help them was to 
get together, and stand a solid body of free men. There 
would be a union committee, able to speak for all of them, 
to say that no man would go to work any more until justice 
was secured! They would have an end to the business 
of discharging men because thev asked for their rights, of 
blacklisting men and driving them out of the district be- 
 
cause they presumed to want what the laws of the state 
awarded them ! 
 How long could a man expect to stand on the steps 
of a company buDding, with a super and a pit-boss at his 
back, and organise a union of mine-workers ? Hal realised 
that he must move the crowd from that perilous place. 
" You'll do what I say, now ? " he demanded ; and when 
they agreed in chorus, he added the warning : " There'll 
be no fighting ! And no drinking ! If you see any man 
drunk to-night, sit on him and hold him down ! " 
They laughed and cheered. Yes, they would keep 
straight. Here was a job for sober men, you bet ! 
" And now," Hal continued, " the people in the hos- 
pital. We'll have a committee go in and see about them. 
No noise — we don't want to disturb the sick men. We 
only want to make sure nobody else is disturbing them. 
Some one will go in and stay with them. Does that suit 
you ? " 
Yes, that suited them. 
" All right," said Hal. " Keep quiet for a moment." 
And he turned to the superintendent. " Cartwright," 
said he, " we want a committee to go in and stay with our 
people." Then, as the superintendent started to expostu- 
late, he added, in a low voice, " Don't be a fool, man ! 
Don't you see I'm trying to save your life ? " 
The superintendent knew how bad it would be for disci- 
pline to let Hal carry his point with the crowd ; but also 
he saw the immediate danger — and he was not sure of the 
courage and shooting ability of book-keepers and stenog- 
raphers. 
" Be quick, man ! " exclaimed Hal. " I can't hold these 
people long. If you don't want hell breaking loose, come 
to your senses." 
"All right," said Cartwright, swallowing his dignity. 
 
And Hal turned to the men and announced the concession. 
There was a shout of triumph. 
" Now, who's to go ? " said Hal, when he could be heard 
again ; and he looked about at the upturned faces. There 
were Tim and Wauchope, the most obvious ones ; but Hal 
decided to keep them under his eye. He thought of Jerry 
Minetti and of Mrs. David — but remembered his agree- 
ment with " Big Jack," to keep their own little group in 
the back-ground. Then he thought of Mary Burke; she 
had already done herself all the harm she could do, and she 
was a person the crowd would trust. He called her, and 
called Mrs. Ferris, an American woman in the crowd. ' 
The two came up the steps, and Hal turned to Cart- 
wright. 
" Now, let's have an understanding ' he said. " These 
people are going in to stay with the sick men, and to talk 
to them if they want to, and nobody's going to give them 
any orders but the doctors and nurses. Is that right ? " 
" All right," said the superintendent, sullenly. 
" Good ! " said Hal. " And for God's sake have a little 
sense and stand by your word ; this crowd has had all it 
can endure, and if you do any more to provoke it, the con- 
sequences will be on you. And while you're about it, see 
that the saloons are closed and kept closed until this trouble 
is settled. And keep your people out of the way — don't 
let them go about showing their guns and making faces." 
Without waiting to hear the superintendent's reply, Hal 
turned to the throng, and held up his hand for silence. 
" Men," he said, " we have a big job to do — we're going 
to organise a union. And we can't do it here in front of 
the hospital. We've made too much noise already. Let's 
go off quietly, and have our meeting on the dump in back 
of the power-house. Does that suit you ? " 
They answered that it suited them; and Hal, having 
seen the two women passed safely into the hospital, sprang 
down from the porch to lead the way. Jerry Minetti came 
to his side, trembling with delight ; and Hal clutched him 
by the arm and whispered, excitedly, " Sing, Jerry ! Sing 
them some Dago song! " 
 They got to the place appointed without any fight- 
ing. And meantime Hal had worked out in his mind a 
plan for communicating with this polyglot horde. He 
knew that half the men could not understand a word of 
