once asked himself, carried off his intellectual 
feet to such a point by an accident that would 
have had for most people a mere relation to their 
income ? He was conscious enough that what 
had thus caught him up to flights of fancy was 
an object of a class more definable than almost 
any other as of the reverse of extraordinary^ a 
London house of the elder, larger, finer type, of 
an age long anterior to the age of jerry-building, 
but still after all a mere grey square section of a 
street, passed and repassed by cabs and coster- 
mongers, called at by the milkman, numbered 
by the vestryman, and marked by the solicitude 
of this last functionary to the extent exactly of 
an unimpressive street-lamp placed straight, or 
rather in fact placed considerably crooked, before 
the door. The street-lamp was a disfavour to 
the dark backward into which Ralph loved to 
look, and yet he was perhaps a little glad of its 
presence on the two or three occasions just men 
tioned occasions of his patrolling the opposite 
side in covert contemplation. The dusky front 
at these times showed its eyes admirable many- 
paned windows, at once markedly numerous and 
  
markedly interspaced in a manner more re 
sponsive to his own. He had moments of stopping 
when the coast was clear for a longer stare and 
then of going on in pronounced detachment at 
the approach of observation. There was still a 
want of ease in his ecstasy, if it were not rather 
that the very essence of the ecstasy was a cer 
tain depth of apprehension. 
If as he paced he sought to avoid suspicion, 
of what was it at bottom that he was to have 
been suspected ? He would have confessed, had 
the question been put to him, that it was only 
of his thoughts, which he was himself moreover 
the only person to know anything about. If he 
desired so extremely to hide them was it then 
that his conscience was bad about them ? An 
examination of the state of his conscience would 
perhaps in truth have shown him as entertaining 
a hope scarce seriously to be confessed. If he 
had an underhand dream that his house might 
prove "haunted" the result of an inordinate 
conception, in his previous time, of old and doubt 
less foolish tales the thing might after all have 
been forgiven to his so belated freedom. Ex 
perience had lagged with him behind interpre 
tation, and the worst that could have been said 
was that his gift for the latter might do well to 
pause awhile till an increase of the former could 
catch up. By the time it did catch up he might 
perhaps have come to make out for himself that, 
  
as is perfectly known to biases millions, despair 
seldom fails to settle on any surmise that the 
common forces of solicitation in respectable neigh 
bourhoods may be in a given case much tran 
scended. He was sufficiently a man of the world, 
further, not to care to face the smile that would 
greet his having had that lesson to learn. He 
had disembarked with an immense provision of 
prepared sensibility, but had packed into its in 
terstices various fine precautions against his 
passing for a fool. He was slightly ashamed, if 
he truth be told, of the bounds he had honestly 
to set to his reach of reminiscence, and he under 
stood that he should most please himself by 
making his pretensions few. It would be simple 
enough, he seemed to see, to betray on occasion 
his ignorance, but he might find it in general 
awkward to betray some sides of his knowledge. 
He knew too much for a man who had seen so 
little, and nothing could be more fatuous than 
to go about apologising. Of course he exaggerated 
the danger of the perception of either excess in 
so preoccupied a world. He was at any rate 
careful to keep to himself his real reason for 
disgustedly flushing in hours of privacy at the 
thought of the figure his acquisition would make 
at the hands, or at least under the pen, of auc 
tioneers and agents eager to invite him to regard 
it as a source of income. The reason was simply 
that the language of advertisement, the inimitable 
  
catchpenny flourish, depressed him by the per 
fection of its missing of the whole point. The 
whole point, that of the exceptional eligibility 
they panted to express in their terms, was the 
ineffable genius itself of the place, which while 
he kept indirectly raking it, grew upon him day 
by day. He couldn't go so far as to tell anyone 
that he had never seen anything so old so old 
at once and so elaborate as a structure dating 
only from the earlier years of the previous cen 
tury. He couldn't decently cry it on the house 
tops that he had never yet so wetted his lips at 
the founts of romance. It was indeed without 
doubt, as he reflected, in favour of one's not find 
ing people laugh in one's face that he happened 
to be in general little addicted to crying from 
the housetops. 
Just these high considerations were in all prob 
ability the influence most active in his attitude 
toward the only approach to an adverse interest 
with which he was to perceive himself confronted. 
It had been at their first interview made known 
to him by his kinsman's main representative that 
the house stood, for the time, subject to a short 
lease a lease for the "season" given by its late 
proprietor, apparently in one of his rare fits of 
response to the economic motive, the previous 
year; which arrangement constituted in fact but 
the renewal of an understanding arrived at, on 
more than one other occasion, in the same con- 
  
ditions. The tenant bequeathed by Mr. Pendrel 
to his successor had in other words already three 
times enjoyed the tenancy, and though it was 
not impossible the agreement might be amicably 
rescinded it was for this successor to judge whether 
he preferred to sacrifice so substantial a gain. 
The gain, Ralph understood, was of a round 
weekly sum, as to the weight of which in the 
scale he reserved his decision. He had a general 
wish not to begin by a failure to oblige, as well, 
positively quite at first, as an imperfect, almost 
a deprecatory, sense of possession. It pulled 
him up a little on the other hand, after he had 
seen the place, to think of prior possession, so 
far as he was concerned, insisted on and enjoyed 
by a parcel of people whose very name was new 
to him. Mrs. Midmore of Drydown in Hamp 
shire embodied the claim with which he had to 
reckon, but he knew little of Mrs. Midmore, save 
that she had, with her address, as his firm of 
friends called it, rather an old-time imaging 
sound. It was judiciously remarked by the firm 
that she was of a family with which Mr. Pendrel's 
relations appeared, so far as they were traceable, 
to have been close; and moreover that some 
such tradition was needed to account for his 
departure from a custom of indifference to the 
pecuniary argument so patent in other connec 
tions. Except in these instances the house had 
practically never been let within, as might be 
  
said, the modern era. It might be even now, as 
was hinted to Ralph, offered at a much higher 
figure than the rental subscribed to by Mrs.  
Midmore. This last little fact it really was that 
had in its perverse operation most weight with 
our young man. Full of scruples and refinements 
and of the clash of cross-lights in which he saw 
things, he knew the arrangement would have 
troubled him more had a handsomer bargain 
been made for him. If he accepted at all the 
necessity of trafficking in his treasure it was a 
salve to discomfort that the traffic was poor. 
By the time he solemnly entered it had been 
further mentioned to him that the lady's ap 
preciation of the place unless its appeal were 
more especially to her son, or to one or other, if 
not both, of her two daughters had been noted 
as almost extravagant. Signs in short had not 
been wanting of the length to which such an at 
tachment could go. Poor Ralph at the end of 
an hour indeed would have understood any length; 
but it was under this impression precisely that 
he fell into a train of delays. The immediate 
effect of his first visit had been the wish to "move 
in" that afternoon; the next had been a gather 
ing doubt as to whether he had better do so at 
all. The inner scene spoke to him with a hundred 
voices, yet not one of these phrased to him quite 
happily the terms of the single life there. The 
strangest part of this moreover was that his 
  
hesitation which fairly partook of the nature of 
a sort of sacred terror rested not in the least 
on any vision of what was wanting, but wholly 
on the consciousness, almost as strong as a shock, 
of what was impressively, what was tremen 
dously, involved. He tried to put it to himself 
simply, yet was not sure he put it sincerely, in 
pronouncing it impossible he should fill out so 
many rooms. He apprehended at bottom what 
might be going to happen his making up his 
mind on some uncandid basis that temporary 
lodgings elsewhere were his indicated course. 
The want of candour would lie in the plea of 
absurdity the absurdity of his organising, with 
so much else to do, such an establishment as would 
consort with such a setting. It would be swagger, 
it would be vulgar precipitate eagerness, he on 
the one side reasoned, to waste time in the pre 
tence of really "running" such a place; and 
there would be on the other a distinct offence in 
