" Hugh ! " she said, in a mild surprise. " Queenstown. 
Think of his being there." 
She read it and passed it to Larry to read. It was 
even barer in detail than his own. Hugh had had a pleas- 
ant voyage and was well and hoped Ellen was well. He 
hoped she would write to him and tell him everything that 
happened. That was all, except that after the signature 
there was one word, the eternally significant word burnt 
into human history by the fire of despairing passion: 
" Remember." It was scrawled in a dash with pencil, as 
if he had not meant to put it in but at the last moment his 
heart constrained him. It looked to Larry so significant 
that he was not going to betray his knowledge of it : but 
 
when he had given the letter back to her she gazed at it 
for a moment and then turned the open page to him. 
" What does he mean," she said, " by that last — " Re- 
member '? " 
Larry hesitated. He was taken aback. Could she be 
so much a child, so locked into her garden and impervious 
to the passions singing about her, that she did not know ? 
"What do you think?'' he temporized. "I should 
expect you to tell." 
" No," said Ellen, knitting her brows above it, " I can't 
think. It looks as if he wanted me to do something ; but 
he didn't say so." 
" I suppose," said Larry, *• he'd want us all to remem- 
ber how we felt about him, and not change toward him — 
you know — be just the same when he comes back." 
" Maybe," said Ellen. She tore the letter into four 
pieces, and Larry instinctively put out a hand. " Oh," 
said she, "you want it? I didn't think." 
Larry smiled a wry smile. There was pity in it for 
Hugh with his pathetic word. 
" No," said he, " I don't want it." 
So Ellen lifted the stove cover and dropped the letter in. 
" You'll write to him, won't you? " asked Larry. 
" Oh, yes, I'll write," she said, at once, and he saw 
what a free mind she had. " There's lots of things to tell 
him. I'm doing shorthand with Ben. We meet every 
night down at Hemlock Ride, and we're getting on like a 
house-afire." 
Larry looked at her and shook his head. She was be- 
yond him. Had she none of the instincts or the trained 
anticipation of her sex? 
« Ellen," said he, " don't you tell him that." 
"Why?" asked Ellen, looking at him with an un* 
troubled brow. 
 
" It'll make him homesick as the devil. You wouldn't 
Hke it, if you were miles and miles away, to have anybody 
talk about Hemlock Ridge and know you couldn't get 
there." 
"Not when he's got so many better things?" said 
Ellen. " What's Hemlock Ridge to be homesick for? " 
" Wait till you've tried it. No, you just tell him what 
you do and what your mother does, and when you've seen 
his mother and me. But don't you talk about Ben and 
make him think Ben's in clover." 
" All right," said Ellen. It evidently mattered neither 
one way nor the other. 
And Larry opened his paper and began to read. The 
gray-green hordes of Germany were marching across Bel- 
gium with their horrible singing, and as he read he shud- 
dered in his inmost soul. Where the last intimate self of 
him lived, he was afraid. The great fear came upon him 
that fell at that time upon all Americans whose hearts 
and eyes were not holden from the compassion and the 
honor of life. He still knew the war would be over in 
three months, but he was aghast at the choice of deliberate 
evil. Perhaps, having no task of his own to do for the 
struggle, he was the calmer to use his perspective in bal- 
ancing the forces of it, and the world suddenly seemed to 
him an evil place. He had believed, like the rest of his 
kind, in what it called civilization; but the gray-green 
hordes marching convinced him that there was no such 
thing — only a word. There could really live and fatten 
and exercise itself, to give itself strength, a monster like 
Prussia, which had planned the evil and rushed singing to 
accomplish it. There must be then, he thought, definitely
and conclusively, hell. We had laughed at the devil. 
We had said sin was only ignorance and wrong choices. 
But all the time evil had been battening in fair places, 
 
and now it was so sure of its colossal power that it could 
sing. Ellen, at her task, was singing a little, low, under 
her breath, not to disturb him, and the sound of it hurt 
his torn nerves, thinking of that other gigantic chorus 
of the willful murdering of life. 
" Don't ! " he said irritably, and she looked at him and, 
at the sight of his face, ran to him and begged him to tell 
her what had happened. 
" The Germans," he told her, " are marching across 
France. They may be in Paris now." 
"Oh!" said Ellen. She did not understand. He 
looked at her absently. She filled his vision as a fig- 
ure dear to him but not significant in this world- 
crisis. For a moment it seemed to him it was idle talk- 
ing to her. Paris was a city on the map. Then a hot 
wave of feeling took him, and he knew she had got to be 
dragged in. Everybody had got to be dragged in. She 
could not be saved from being frightened, like him, by 
the plain fact that the devil had, in the old phrase, broken 
loose. She must not be saved. Nobody must be saved. 
We were all part and parcel of grotesque and colossal ill. 
" Ellen," said he, " sit down here. No, no, — leave 
the dishes. Throw them out of the window, if you can't 
leave them." 
Ellen, with a scared look, wiped her hands and sat down 
by him and waited. She was near enough to the sofa to 
put her hand on Smilie's satin head, and the touch gave 
her a homely comfort. Larry looked at her a moment, 
and the tears came intoJHs eyes. What had he to tell her? 
What did he know except that the devil had broken loose? 
But he had to speak. He had, indeed, to prepare for 
himself a protagonist, an understanding mind to whom 
he could unfold the great terror. 
" Ellen," he said, " Germany has been preparing for 
 
it for years and years. England has known it, but she's 
been stuck in her bog and she wouldn't believe her 
prophets. France knew it. And now it's come, and the 
devils are falling on Paris, and while I sit here and cry 
it's happened maybe — it's over, and they are marching 
through the streets singing their barbarian songs." 
He was making as deep an effect as he could have 
wished. 
" Have they taken Paris? " she asked, in awe. But the 
awe was for tiie bigness of it, as he was showing it to her, 
and not yet any conception of her own. 
" Not so far as we know. But maybe, yes. Maybe 
the news has come since this paper was printed. But 
what's knocked me down and what's got to knock every 
American between the eyes, if he's got a drop of the old 
blood in him, is that the devil's broken loose. It isn't 
that it's a quarrel; it's that the black side has shifted to 
the top — and who's going to put it under? " 
•* Will Hugh come home? " she asked. 
He had not thought of Hugh. 
" God knows," he said. " At least, he won't go into 
Germany. They're organized, every man of them, for 
their big play. They won't be taking little American 
boys in to study fiddling. Can you see his mother? Can 
you give her this letter from him? I oughtn't to have 
delayed it a minute, but this devil of a war's got hold of 
me." 
Yes, Ellen said, she could slip over across the orchard, 
though she never liked to do it when Mr. Neale was 
there. So Larry gave her the letter and she went away, 
her heart full of trouble. And excitement, too. Youth 
is not dizzy when the world is upside down. She 
did get the letter to Mary Neale, after she had seen 
Thomas go by to the lower pasture, and Mary, a great 
 
excited wave creeping over her, snatched it and stood 
there trembling all through her majestic height. Ellen 
had never seen her or any woman look so. It came to 
her, like a fiery baptism, what it is to be so loved. And 
then Mary's face broke divinely into a sweet smiling, and 
she kissed Ellen, all a rapture of gratitude for her bring- 
ing it, Ellen went away trembling with a little bliss of 
her own from the touch of those soft lips. Mary Neale al- 
ways seemed far removed from the intercourse of neigh- 
borly life. Ellen felt she herself was different because 
Mary had bent to her : she must, it seemed then, be differ- 
ent always. Nobody in the neighborhood was like Mary 
Neale, remote and yet so gracious. Everybody felt 
that. 
Mary sat down and read her letter. It was a darling 
letter, a child's letter almost, full of little details of what 
he thought she would want to hear, about the ship, about 
the look of the sea. Mary had been bom near the coast, 
and she felt he was remembering that. She knew, too, 
that all the careful pictures of the strange life he was 
living were exquisite flowering of his thought of her, 
the unspoken acknowledgment of the love he knew she 
had for him, something bloomed out of that last night. 
And at the end there was a little awkward postscript 
for Aunt Tab. He couldn't tell, he said, how much he 
knew he owed to her. Mary took the letter upstairs at 
once and laid it in Aunt Tab's hand. Tabitha was sit- 
ting by the window in her strange negligee, waving a 
palm-leaf fan and looking far away over the maple tops 
to an invisible sea; and she too laid hold of the letter in 
wonder and delight and Mary left it with her. That night 
Tabitha gave it back to her, and neither spoke of it. But 
their faces glowed. 
 
When Ellen went home, she looked at Ardelia, rocking 
by the window and sewing a white seam, with a wonder 
proportioned to her delight over Mary Neale's kiss. She 
had never in her life consciously compared Ardelia with 
other women ; but now as she saw her in the pathetic trap- 
pings of her middle-aged frivolity, her hair waved tightly 
and her face lighted by that smile of fatuous anticipation, 
she had a hurt feeling that was not wholly scorn. She 
longed to cover her with some mantle that should hide 
Ardelia's foolishness, not only from her own offended eyes, 
but most from other people. 
That night she woke in her little bed under the eaves, 
