invention of meddlesome and superstitious imbeciles.  He says that the
impulse toward procreation is mechanical and involuntary, and ought to
be considered so without further personal responsibility; and that the
State should nourish and educate whatever children were worth saving to
replenish the waste, and put the others out of the way."
"Harry," remarked Helen, "talks for talking’s sake very often."
"He’s quite serious.  His ideas are revolting.  Never have I known a man
who is so savagely an iconoclast as Harry Belter."
Helen smiled.
"Harry is a talker, dear.  He doesn’t believe a word of it.  Harry
Belter is, by nature, a fat, happy, witty, clever and very sentimental
young man who also is so overwhelmingly selfish that anything which
happens to annoy him he considers a cataclysmic catastrophe involving
the entire civilized world in ruin!"
"What!"
"Do you wish to know what really is the matter with Harry Belter?  Shall
I tell you what actually has inspired this noisy iconoclast and moral
anarchist with the urge for talking?"
"I’d like to know."
"I’ll tell you.  Three years ago he married a child of seventeen and
started to mould her to suit himself. The only trouble was that she had
a mind.  She knew what she wanted to do and to be.  She could not
understand why this was incompatible with being his wife, especially as
he had won her by his loudly reiterated advocation of personal liberty
and the fundamental necessity for the development of individualism."
"How do you know this?"
"She told me."
"When?"
"Three years ago."
"Who is she, Helen?"
Helen answered pleasantly, looking into the curious grey eyes:
"Her name, on the stage, is Marie Cliff.  I have known her a long while
and I am very fond of her."
Stephanie, scarlet, winced under her faintly humourous smile.
"They are divorced, then," she managed to say.
"No."
"Why not?"
"She has never given him any cause," said Helen, slowly.  "No woman, of
her own knowledge, can truly say one word against her character; nor can
any man. She merely revolted at the tyranny he attempted, in the guise
of affection, of course.  She refused to be deprived of the liberty to
think and act as she chose. She rejected the worn-out conventions with
which he attempted to chain her—this apostle of personal freedom.  She
cared for her profession—he married her when she was on the stage—and
she resolutely insisted on her liberty to continue it.
"The result was a family smash—her return to the stage.  And since then
she has refused to accept a penny from him and has supported herself by
her profession, and, sometimes, by posing for artists.
"And that is the real story of Harry Belter and Marie Cliff.  So you can
believe as much as you choose of his views on matrimony."
After a flushed and painful silence, Stephanie said:
"Do you believe this to be true?"
"If one woman can judge and understand another, what I have told you is
true, Steve.  Long ago I won the child’s confidence.  She told me this
quite frankly, and in a manner which makes the truth of it
unmistakable....  We have become great friends, this little dancer and
I.  I don’t think I ever knew a simpler nature or a more transparently
honest one....  And that is why I was not worried at any little
ephemeral romance that might amuse the child with Jim Cleland.... I was
too certain of them—both," she added, looking calmly into the grey
eyes that winced again and fell under her serene gaze.
"I’m a rotten little beast," said Stephanie.
"You’re very feminine."
"Oh, Helen, I’m not.  I’m a rotter.  I didn’t know it was in me.  I
thought I was above such things——"
"Nobody is, Steve, until they make the effort.  High thinking requires
more than a natural generosity and sympathy—more than innate sentiment.
It is an attainment; and there is none without effort.  And effort
sometimes hurts."
"I want to speak to that girl when she comes in," said Stephanie.  "I
never have; I’ve never noticed her at all.  I shall ask her to tea."
Helen laughed:
"She’ll be here pretty soon.  Of course you’re not supposed to know
about Harry."
"Of course not.  But I’ll make amends for my incivility.  I was a
beast!  But—it’s confusing—and hard for a girl to understand when a girl
like that is so unconventional with one’s—one’s——"
"Brother?" suggested Helen drily.
"Yes....  I’m terribly ashamed....  Does Jim know?"
"About Harry Belter?  No.  I don’t think anybody does."
"What a sham that man is!" exclaimed Stephanie hotly.
"No.  He’s a typical man, dear.  Some women yield, some resist; that’s
all.  And the man never has the slightest idea that he is tyrannizing.
If you tell him that he’ll be amazed and furious.  He’ll point out to
you all the love and affection and solicitude and money he’s lavished on
the object of his adoration; he’ll portray for you her obstinacy, her
coldness, her shocking ingratitude for benefits received.  He really
believes himself a martyr.
"Steve, man’s idea is still that to the victor belong the spoils.  We
are the spoils of the chase, dear.  His conventions were made to contain
us in a sort of game-preserve before capture; cage us after we are made
prisoner.  His laws fetter us; a misstep ruins us; irregularities never
impair him.  That is the ancient view; that, still, is the secret view
of man; that is his inborn conviction regarding us and himself....  And,
very slowly, we are beginning his education."
"I didn’t know you felt that way," said Stephanie.
"I do....  But if I were in love"—she laughed gaily—"I’d be inclined to
take my chances with this monster I have painted for you."
"You do believe in marriage?"
"What else is there, dear?  Harry’s piffle means nothing except that a
plucky girl has begun his education, and it hurts.  I don’t know what
else there is to take the place of marriage.  It’s the parties to the
contract who don’t understand its essence."
"What would you suggest?" inquired Stephanie curiously.
"Education.  A girl should be brought up to master some trade or
profession.  She should support herself by it.  She should never go to
her husband empty-handed and unable to support herself.
"If, then, under the mutual marriage contract, her earning capacity be
necessarily checked by child-birth, and by the later and natural demands
of progeny, these alone should temporarily but only in part interrupt
her in the exercise of her trade or profession. And he should pay for
them.
"But she should have a life work to do; and so should he, no matter how
ample their means.  Domestic drudgery must be done by others hired for
the purpose, or else by themselves, sharing alike.  In no other way that
I see can marriage remain endurable."
After a silence Stephanie said naïvely:
"I haven’t any trade or profession."
"You are a graduate nurse."
"Oh.  I forgot.  That is comforting!"
"Also you are already married."
The girl looked up in a startled way, as though hearing this information
for the first time.  Helen gazed gravely into the troubled grey eyes:
"Do you regret it, Steve?"
"I don’t know.  I haven’t had time to think about it."
"It’s high time, isn’t it?"
"Y-yes....  I’ve got to do a—a lot of thinking some day, I suppose."
She gazed absently into space for a few moments; then again the faintest
of smiles curved her lips and she bent her head and remained very still,
deep in reflection.
... "Did you wish to speak to Marie Cliff?" asked Helen, breaking the
prolonged silence.
The girl looked up, dim-eyed, confused:
"Yes."
"I think she just went into the court-yard."
Stephanie’s wool-gathering wits returned; she sprang up and walked
swiftly out to the court, where the white horse was just being led in
and the pretty dancer stood unpinning her hat.
She turned when Stephanie entered, and the girl went up to her,
smilingly, and offered her hand.
"Miss Davis will be here in a few moments," she said.  "I thought I’d
come and tell you."
"Thank you," said Marie Cliff, curiously.
"Also," said Stephanie, "I wanted to tell you how very lovely you are on
that horse.  I had a glimpse of you last week, and you were too
enchanting!  No wonder Helen’s study is so exquisite."
The little dancer flushed brightly.  Her gloved hand still lay
lifelessly in Stephanie’s, who had retained it; her childish eyes asked
for the reason of this kindness from a girl who had never noticed her.
Then, reading the unuttered question, Stephanie blushed too:
"I’m not much older than you are," she said, "and I’m not nearly as
sensible.  I’ve been rude enough to ignore you.  Could you forgive me
and be friends?"
"Yes," said Marie Cliff.
That was all the explanation offered or asked.
"Will you come to tea at five?"
"I should like to."
"I’d love to have you.  And if it doesn’t bore you, would you tell me
something about your very beautiful profession?  You see, stage dancing
fascinates me, and I’m taking lessons and I’ve an inclination to become
a professional."
"I’d love to talk about it with you!" said Marie Cliff impulsively.
"I’ll tell you everything I know about it.... And I do know a little,
because I have been on the stage since I was a child."
"You’re one now," said Stephanie, laughing, "—an adorable one!"  And she
bent and kissed the little dancer on the lips.
"I’m glad we’re friends," she said.  "Don’t forget five o’clock."
"N-no," said Marie Cliff unsteadily.
                            *CHAPTER XXVII*
At five o’clock that afternoon Cleland, working fiercely on his
manuscript toward a climax he had not planned for but which, suddenly
but logically developing, threatened with disaster his leading lady and
the young gentleman playing opposite, heard a step on the threshold of
his open door.
"Hello, Harry!" he said with a friendly but vague wave of his pencil—for
he had not stepped quite clear of the story in which he had been living
among people never born—"I’d rather given you up.  Come in and close the
door."
"I couldn’t keep away," said Belter hoarsely. He came in and closed the
door.  He looked even more grey and haggard than he had the night
before.
"I expected you this morning," said Cleland, stepping clear of his story
now, and looking very soberly at his old school-friend.
"I didn’t intend to come at all."  He seated himself in the chair
indicated.  "But I couldn’t keep away."
"You look about all in."
"I didn’t sleep."
Cleland got up, walked to the ice-box, knocked off a bit of ice with a
tack-hammer, and leisurely constructed a highball.
"Here you are, Harry.  I can’t; I’m working. There are cigars by your
elbow, cigarettes, too."
Belter looked vacantly at the iced bracer, then he dropped both elbows
on the edge of the desk and took, his drawn face between his hands.
Cleland began to pace the studio.  Presently he halted by Belter’s
chair.
"Hell," he said pleasantly, "cut out the tragedy! It’s good enough for
my novel, where the poor devils I write about have to do what I make
’em.  But you and I are free to do what we choose."
"Yes....  And I’ve done it....  I’ve done what I chose.  Where has it
landed me, Cleland?"
