He had grasped the back of his chair with both hands, and stood looking
hard at her. At length he said: “Charity, for once let’s you and me talk
together like friends.”
Instantly she felt that something had happened, and that he held her in
his hand.
“Where is Mr. Harney? Why hasn’t he come back? Have you sent him away?”
 she broke out, without knowing what she was saying.
The change in Mr. Royall frightened her. All the blood seemed to leave
his veins and against his swarthy pallor the deep lines in his face
looked black.
“Didn’t he have time to answer some of those questions last night? You
was with him long enough!” he said.
Charity stood speechless. The taunt was so unrelated to what had been
happening in her soul that she hardly understood it. But the instinct of
self-defense awoke in her.
“Who says I was with him last night?”
“The whole place is saying it by now.”
“Then it was you that put the lie into their mouths.--Oh, how I’ve
always hated you!” she cried.
She had expected a retort in kind, and it startled her to hear her
exclamation sounding on through silence.
“Yes, I know,” Mr. Royall said slowly. “But that ain’t going to help us
much now.”
“It helps me not to care a straw what lies you tell about me!”
“If they’re lies, they’re not my lies: my Bible oath on that, Charity. I
didn’t know where you were: I wasn’t out of this house last night.”
She made no answer and he went on: “Is it a lie that you were seen
coming out of Miss Hatchard’s nigh onto midnight?”
She straightened herself with a laugh, all her reckless insolence
recovered. “I didn’t look to see what time it was.”
“You lost girl... you... you.... Oh, my God, why did you tell me?” he
broke out, dropping into his chair, his head bowed down like an old
man’s.
Charity’s self-possession had returned with the sense of her danger. “Do
you suppose I’d take the trouble to lie to YOU? Who are you, anyhow, to
ask me where I go to when I go out at night?”
Mr. Royall lifted his head and looked at her. His face had grown quiet
and almost gentle, as she remembered seeing it sometimes when she was a
little girl, before Mrs. Royall died.
“Don’t let’s go on like this, Charity. It can’t do any good to either of
us. You were seen going into that fellow’s house... you were seen coming
out of it.... I’ve watched this thing coming, and I’ve tried to stop it.
As God sees me, I have....”
“Ah, it WAS you, then? I knew it was you that sent him away!”
He looked at her in surprise. “Didn’t he tell you so? I thought he
understood.” He spoke slowly, with difficult pauses, “I didn’t name
you to him: I’d have cut my hand off sooner. I just told him I couldn’t
spare the horse any longer; and that the cooking was getting too heavy
for Verena. I guess he’s the kind that’s heard the same thing before.
Anyhow, he took it quietly enough. He said his job here was about done,
anyhow; and there didn’t another word pass between us.... If he told you
otherwise he told you an untruth.”
Charity listened in a cold trance of anger. It was nothing to her what
the village said... but all this fingering of her dreams!
“I’ve told you he didn’t tell me anything. I didn’t speak with him last
night.”
“You didn’t speak with him?”
“No.... It’s not that I care what any of you say... but you may as well
know. Things ain’t between us the way you think... and the other people
in this place. He was kind to me; he was my friend; and all of a sudden
he stopped coming, and I knew it was you that done it--YOU!” All her
unreconciled memory of the past flamed out at him. “So I went there last
night to find out what you’d said to him: that’s all.”
Mr. Royall drew a heavy breath. “But, then--if he wasn’t there, what
were you doing there all that time?--Charity, for pity’s sake, tell me.
I’ve got to know, to stop their talking.”
This pathetic abdication of all authority over her did not move her: she
could feel only the outrage of his interference.
“Can’t you see that I don’t care what anybody says? It’s true I went
there to see him; and he was in his room, and I stood outside for ever
so long and watched him; but I dursn’t go in for fear he’d think I’d
come after him....” She felt her voice breaking, and gathered it up in a
last defiance. “As long as I live I’ll never forgive you!” she cried.
Mr. Royall made no answer. He sat and pondered with sunken head, his
veined hands clasped about the arms of his chair. Age seemed to have
come down on him as winter comes on the hills after a storm. At length
he looked up.
“Charity, you say you don’t care; but you’re the proudest girl I know,
and the last to want people to talk against you. You know there’s always
eyes watching you: you’re handsomer and smarter than the rest, and
that’s enough. But till lately you’ve never given them a chance. Now
they’ve got it, and they’re going to use it. I believe what you say, but
they won’t.... It was Mrs. Tom Fry seen you going in... and two or three
of them watched for you to come out again.... You’ve been with the fellow
all day long every day since he come here... and I’m a lawyer, and I know
how hard slander dies.” He paused, but she stood motionless, without
giving him any sign of acquiescence or even of attention. “He’s a
pleasant fellow to talk to--I liked having him here myself. The young
men up here ain’t had his chances. But there’s one thing as old as the
hills and as plain as daylight: if he’d wanted you the right way he’d
have said so.”
Charity did not speak. It seemed to her that nothing could exceed the
bitterness of hearing such words from such lips.
Mr. Royall rose from his seat. “See here, Charity Royall: I had a
shameful thought once, and you’ve made me pay for it. Isn’t that score
pretty near wiped out?... There’s a streak in me I ain’t always master
of; but I’ve always acted straight to you but that once. And you’ve
known I would--you’ve trusted me. For all your sneers and your mockery
you’ve always known I loved you the way a man loves a decent woman. I’m
a good many years older than you, but I’m head and shoulders above this
place and everybody in it, and you know that too. I slipped up once, but
that’s no reason for not starting again. If you’ll come with me I’ll
do it. If you’ll marry me we’ll leave here and settle in some big town,
where there’s men, and business, and things doing. It’s not too late for
me to find an opening.... I can see it by the way folks treat me when I
go down to Hepburn or Nettleton....”
Charity made no movement. Nothing in his appeal reached her heart, and
she thought only of words to wound and wither. But a growing lassitude
restrained her. What did anything matter that he was saying? She saw the
old life closing in on her, and hardly heeded his fanciful picture of
renewal.
“Charity--Charity--say you’ll do it,” she heard him urge, all his lost
years and wasted passion in his voice.
“Oh, what’s the use of all this? When I leave here it won’t be with
you.”
She moved toward the door as she spoke, and he stood up and placed
himself between her and the threshold. He seemed suddenly tall and
strong, as though the extremity of his humiliation had given him new
vigour.
“That’s all, is it? It’s not much.” He leaned against the door, so
towering and powerful that he seemed to fill the narrow room. “Well,
then look here.... You’re right: I’ve no claim on you--why should you
look at a broken man like me? You want the other fellow... and I don’t
blame you. You picked out the best when you seen it... well, that was
always my way.” He fixed his stern eyes on her, and she had the sense
that the struggle within him was at its highest. “Do you want him to
marry you?” he asked.
They stood and looked at each other for a long moment, eye to eye, with
the terrible equality of courage that sometimes made her feel as if she
had his blood in her veins.
“Do you want him to--say? I’ll have him here in an hour if you do. I
ain’t been in the law thirty years for nothing. He’s hired Carrick Fry’s
team to take him to Hepburn, but he ain’t going to start for another
hour. And I can put things to him so he won’t be long deciding.... He’s
soft: I could see that. I don’t say you won’t be sorry afterward--but,
by God, I’ll give you the chance to be, if you say so.”
She heard him out in silence, too remote from all he was feeling and
saying for any sally of scorn to relieve her. As she listened, there
flitted through her mind the vision of Liff Hyatt’s muddy boot coming
down on the white bramble-flowers. The same thing had happened now;
something transient and exquisite had flowered in her, and she had stood
by and seen it trampled to earth. While the thought passed through
her she was aware of Mr. Royall, still leaning against the door, but
crestfallen, diminished, as though her silence were the answer he most
dreaded.
“I don’t want any chance you can give me: I’m glad he’s going away,” she
said.
He kept his place a moment longer, his hand on the door-knob. “Charity!”
 he pleaded. She made no answer, and he turned the knob and went out. She
heard him fumble with the latch of the front door, and saw him walk
down the steps. He passed out of the gate, and his figure, stooping and
heavy, receded slowly up the street.
For a while she remained where he had left her. She was still trembling
with the humiliation of his last words, which rang so loud in her ears
that it seemed as though they must echo through the village, proclaiming
her a creature to lend herself to such vile suggestions. Her shame
weighed on her like a physical oppression: the roof and walls seemed
to be closing in on her, and she was seized by the impulse to get away,
under the open sky, where there would be room to breathe. She went to
the front door, and as she did so Lucius Harney opened it.
He looked graver and less confident than usual, and for a moment or two
neither of them spoke. Then he held out his hand. “Are you going out?”
 he asked. “May I come in?”
Her heart was beating so violently that she was afraid to speak, and
stood looking at him with tear-dilated eyes; then she became aware of
what her silence must betray, and said quickly: “Yes: come in.”
She led the way into the dining-room, and they sat down on opposite
sides of the table, the cruet-stand and japanned bread-basket between
them. Harney had laid his straw hat on the table, and as he sat there,
in his easy-looking summer clothes, a brown tie knotted under his
flannel collar, and his smooth brown hair brushed back from his
forehead, she pictured him, as she had seen him the night before, lying
on his bed, with the tossed locks falling into his eyes, and his bare
throat rising out of his unbuttoned shirt. He had never seemed so remote
as at the moment when that vision flashed through her mind.
“I’m so sorry it’s good-bye: I suppose you know I’m leaving,” he began,
abruptly and awkwardly; she guessed that he was wondering how much she
knew of his reasons for going.
“I presume you found your work was over quicker than what you expected,”
 she said.
“Well, yes--that is, no: there are plenty of things I should have liked
to do. But my holiday’s limited; and now that Mr. Royall needs the horse
for himself it’s rather difficult to find means of getting about.”
“There ain’t any too many teams for hire around here,” she acquiesced;
and there was another silence.
“These days here have been--awfully pleasant: I wanted to thank you for
making them so,” he continued, his colour rising.
She could not think of any reply, and he went on: “You’ve been
wonderfully kind to me, and I wanted to tell you.... I wish I could think
of you as happier, less lonely.... Things are sure to change for you by
and by....”
“Things don’t change at North Dormer: people just get used to them.”
The answer seemed to break up the order of his prearranged consolations,
and he sat looking at her uncertainly. Then he said, with his sweet
smile: “That’s not true of you. It can’t be.”
The smile was like a knife-thrust through her heart: everything in her
began to tremble and break loose. She felt her tears run over, and stood
up.
“Well, good-bye,” she said.
She was aware of his taking her hand, and of feeling that his touch was
