 
Mary Allen. The Quaker lady was almost beside herself; she, 
more even than the Germans, saw in what was transpiring the 
violation of her most sacred convictions. America, her own 
country, was giving itself to war, making ready to turn its 
resources to the wholesale mutilation of men ! Comrade Mary's 
thin face was white; her lips were tight with resolve, but her 
feelings betrayed themselves by the quivering of her nostrils. 
And oh, what a speech she made ! Such torrents of furious 
hatred in the cause of universal love! Comrade Mary quoted 
a Socialist writer who had said that just as gladiatorial com- 
bats had continued until Christian monks were willing to throw 
themselves into the arena, so war would continue until Social- 
ists were willing to throw themselves beneath the hoofs of the 
cavalry. And in this Quaker spinster you saw one Socialist 
who was ready to go out that very night and throw herself 
beneath the hoofs of cavalry, infantry, or artillery, or even of 
a police-automobile. 
And that was the sentiment of the meeting as a whole. 
If America entered the European strife, it would be because 
the Socialist organisation had exhausted its means of protest 
in vain. They would call meetings, they would distribute 
literature, they would voice their convictions on the streets and 
in the shops and wherever the people might be reached. They 
would have no part in this wicked strife, either now or later; 
they would continue in the future, as in the past, to denounce 
and to expose the capitalist politicians and the capitalist news- 
papers who caused war and thrived upon war. And in pro- 
portion to the intensity of their feelings would be their bitter- 
ness and contempt for the few renegades who in this hour of 
crisis, this test of manhood and integrity, were deserting the 
movement and going to enrol themselves in officers' training- 
camps ! 
And so when Jimmie went home that night he carried with 
him an armful of revolutionary literature, which during- the 
noon-hour he proceeded to distribute among the workers on the 
construct ion- job, which was now inside the preserves of the 
explosives company. So naturally in the course of the after- 
noon he was summoned before the boss and fired ; they escorted 
him to the limits of the property, and told him that if he ever 
returned he would be shot on sight. And then at night he 
went up to the cross-roads store and tried to give out his litera- 
ture there, and got into a controversy with some of the cracker- 
box loungers, one of whom jumped up and shook his fist in 
Jimmie's face, shouting, "Get out of here, you dirty little louse ! 
If you don't stop talking your treason round here, we'll come 
down some night and ride you out of the country on a rail!" 
HPHE country, it seemed, was hell-bent for war; and Jimmie 
 Higgins was hell-bent for martyrdom. If the great mad- 
ness were to take possession of America, it would not be without 
his having done what he could to prevent. He would stand in 
the path of the war-chariot; he would throw himself beneath 
the hoofs of the cavalry, and block the road with his dead body. 
To which vivid programme there was only one obstacle or, to be 
precise, four obstacles, one large and three small, the large one 
being Eleeza Betooser. 
Poor Lizzie of course had no real comprehension of the 
world-forces against which her husband was contending; to 
Lizzie, life consisted of three babies, whom it was her duty 
to feed and protect, and a husband, who was her instrument 
for carrying out this duty. The world outside of these was 
to her a vague and shadowy place, full of vague and shadowy 
terrors. Somewhere up in the sky was a holy virgin who would 
help when properly appealed to, but Lizzie was handicapped 
in appealing to this virgin by the fact that her husband despised 
the holy one, and would cast insulting doubts upon her virtue. 
Now the shadowy terrors of this vast outside world were 
moving to ends of their own, and her poor, puny husband per- 
sisted in putting himself in their way. He had got turned 
out of his job, for the fourth or fifth time since Lizzie had 
known him, and he was in imminent danger of getting into- 
jail, or into a coat of tar and feathers. As the controversy 
grew hotter and the peril greater, Lizzie came to a condition 
which might have been diagnosed as chronic impending hysteria. 
Her eyes were red from secret weeping, and at the slightest 
provocation she would burst into floods of tears and throw her- 
self into her husband's arms. This would start off Jimmie 
Junior, and the little ones, who always took their cue from him. 
And Jimmie Senior would stand perplexed and helpless. Here 
was a new aspect of the heroic life, not dealt with in the books. 
He wondered had there ever in history been such a thing as a 
married martyr? If so, what had this martyr done with his 
family ? 
Jimmie would try to explain to his distressed spouse. It 
was a question of saving a hundred million people from the 
horrors of war; what did one man matter, in comparison with 
that? But alas, the argument did not carry at all, the simple 
truth being that the one man mattered more to Lizzie than all 
the other ninety-nine million, nine hundred and ninety-nine 
thousand, nine hundred and ninety-nine. And besides, what 
could the one man do ? One poor, obscure, helpless workingman 
out of a job 
"But it's the organisation!" he cried. "It's all of us to- 
gether it's the party! We promised to stand together, so we 
got to do it ! If I drop out, I'm a coward, a traitor ! We must 
make the workers understand " 
"But you can't!" cried Lizzie. 
"But we're doin' it ! Come see !" 
"And what can they do ?" 
Which of course started Jimmie off on a propaganda speech. 
What could the workers do? Say rather, what could they not 
do I How could any war be fought without the workers ? If 
only they would stand together, if they would rise against their 
capitalist oppressors 
"But they won't!" sobbed the woman. "They got no use 
for you at all! You go an' get fired or you get your face 
beat in, like poor Bill Murray " 
"But is that any worse than goin' to war?" 
"You ain't got to go to war!" 
"Who says I ain't ? I got to go, if the country goes. They'll 
drag me off an' make me ! If I refuse they'll shoot me ! Ain't 
they doin' that in England an' France an' Eoosia an' all them 
countries ?" 
"But will they do it here?" cried Lizzie, aghast. 
"Sure they will! That's exactly what they're gettin' ready 
for what we're fightin' to stop them from! You don't know 
what's goin' on in this country listen here !" 
And Jimmie hauled out the last issue of the "Worker," 
which quoted speeches made in Congress, calling for conscrip- 
 
tion, declaring that such a measure was an essential war-step. 
"Don't you see what they're up to ? An' if we're goin' to stop 
them, we gotta act now, before it's too late. Hadn't I just as 
good go to jail here in Leesville as be shipped over to Europe to 
be shot or maybe drowned by a submarine on the way?" 
And thus a new terror was introduced into Lizzie's life 
robbing her of sleep for many a night thereafter, planting in 
her mother-heart for the first time the idea that she might be 
concerned in the world-war. "What'd become of the babies?" 
she wailed; and Jimmie answered: Whose business was it to 
bother about working-class babies, under the hellish capitalist 
system ? 
So Jimmie had his way for a bit he went into Leesville 
and helped distribute literature, and held the torch at street- 
meetings, where some people hooted at them and others defended 
them, and the police had to interfere to prevent a riot. It was at 
this time that a militant majority was trying to drive through 
the Senate a declaration of war against Germany, and a hand- 
ful of pacifists blocked the way in the closing hours of the 
session, thus causing a delay of several weeks. How you re- 
garded this action depended upon your point of view. The 
President denounced them as "wilful men," and the Wall Street 
newspapers apparently wanted them lynched; whereas Jimmie 
and his fellows in the local hailed them as heroes and friends 
of mankind. The Socialists argued that the President had 
been re-elected, only four months before, by pacifist votes, and 
upon a pacifist platform ; and now he was sweeping the country 
into war, and denouncing those who stood upon his former 
convictions ! 
On top of this came another event which set Jimmie almost 
beside himself with excitement. For three days all news from 
Petrograd was cut off; and then came a report, electrifying 
the world the Tsar had been overthrown, the Russian people 
were free ! Jimmie could hardly believe his eyes ; he went in 
to the meeting of the local three nights later, to find the com- 
rades celebrating as if the world were theirs. Here was the 
thing they had been preaching, day in and day out, all these 
weary years, amid ridicule, hatred and persecution; here waa 
the Social Revolution, knocking at the gates of the world! It 
would spread to Austria and Germany, to Italy, France, Eng- 
land and so to Leesville ! Everywhere the people would come 
into their own, and war and tyranny would vanish like a hate- 
ful nightmare! 
Speaker after speaker got up to proclaim this glorious future ; 
they sang the Marseillaise and the Internationale, and the 
Russians who were present clasped one another in their arms, 
with tears running down their cheeks. It was voted that they 
must hold a mass-meeting immediately, to explain this epoch- 
making event to the people of the city; also they must stand 
more firmly than ever by their programme of opposition to 
war. Now, with Social Revolution knocking at the gates of 
the world, what was the use of America's going in for militarism ? 
So Jimmie set to work with redoubled fervour, giving all 
his time to agitation. He had apparently no chance of getting 
a job, and for the moment he gave up trying. The keeper of 
the cross-roads store, being down on Him because of his ideas, 
refused him any more credit; and so poor Lizzie was driven to 
do what she had vowed never to do take off the stocking from 
her right leg, and unsew the bandage from her ankle, and 
extract one of the ten precious twenty dollar bills. Their 
bright yellow was considerably faded now, their beautiful crisp- 
ness gone entirely; but the store-keeper made no kick on that 
account he returned the change, and incidentally took occasion 
to give her a friendly warning concerning her husband's reck- 
less talk. There was trouble coming to him, and his wife had 
better shut him up before it was too late. So poor Lizzie ceased 
being a pacifist, and went home to have more hysterics on her 
husband's bosom. 
Being unable to hold him back, she sent word by the mail- 
carrier to old Peter Drew to come up and help ; the old farmer 
hitched up his bony mare and drove to see them, and for a 
couple of hours talked America while Jimmie talked Rus- 
sia. Was America to lie down before the Kaiser? Jimmie 
would answer that they were going to bring down the Kaiser 
in the same way they had brought down the Tsar. The 
workers of Russia having shown the way, nevermore would the 
workers of any nation bow to the yoke of slavery. Yes, even 
 
in the so-called republics, such as France, which was ruled by 
bankers, and America, which was ruled by Wall Street even 
