At Epernay they stopped for lunch, and found the place swarming with
troops. Troy's soul was bursting within him: he wanted to talk and
remember and compare. But his companion was unimaginative, and perhaps a
little jealous of his greater experience. "He doesn't want to show that
he's new at the job," Troy decided.
They lunched together in a corner of the packed restaurant, and while
they were taking coffee some French officers came up and chatted with
Troy. To all of them he felt the desperate need of explaining that he
was driving an ambulance only because he was still too young to be
among the combatants.
"But I shan't be--soon!" he always added, in the tone of one who
affirms. "It's merely a matter of a few weeks now."
"Oh, you all look like babies--but you all fight like devils," said a
young French lieutenant seasoned by four years at the front; and another
officer added gravely: "Make haste to be old enough, cher monsieur. We
need you all--every one of you...."
"Oh, we're coming--we're all coming!" Troy cried.
That evening, after a hard and harrowing day's work between postes de
secours and a base hospital, they found themselves in a darkened
village, where, after a summary meal under flying shells, some one
suggested ending up at the Y.M.C.A. hut.
The shelling had ceased, and there seemed nothing better to do than to
wander down the dark street to the underground shelter packed with
American soldiers. Troy was sleepy and tired, and would have preferred
to crawl into his bed at the inn; he felt, more keenly than ever, the
humiliation (the word was stupid, but he could find no other) of being
among all these young men, only a year or two his seniors, and none, he
was sure, more passionately eager than himself for the work that lay
ahead, and yet so hopelessly divided from him by that stupid difference
in age. But Hubert Jacks was seemingly unconscious of this, and only
desirous of ending his night cheerfully. It would have looked unfriendly
not to accompany him, so they pushed their way together through the
cellar door surmounted by the sociable red triangle.
It was a big cellar, but brown uniforms and ruddy faces crowded it from
wall to wall. In one corner the men were sitting on packing-boxes at a
long table made of boards laid across barrels, the smoky light of little
oil lamps reddening their cheeks and deepening the furrows in their
white foreheads as they laboured over their correspondence. Others were
playing checkers, or looking at the illustrated papers, and everybody
was smoking and talking--not in large groups, but quietly, by twos or
threes. Young women in trig uniforms, with fresh innocent faces, moved
among the barrels and boxes, distributing stamps or books, chatting with
the soldiers, and being generally homelike and sisterly. The men gave
them back glances as honest, and almost as innocent, and an air of
simple daylight friendliness pervaded the Avernian cave.
It was the first time that Troy had ever seen a large group of his
compatriots so close to the fighting front, and in an hour of ease, and
he was struck by the gravity of the young faces, and the low tones of
their talk. Everything was in a minor key. No one was laughing or
singing or larking: the note was that which might have prevailed in a
club of quiet elderly men, or in a drawing-room where the guests did not
know each other well. Troy was all the more surprised because he
remembered the jolly calls of the young soldiers in the motor-trucks,
and the songs and horse-play of the gangs of trench-diggers and
hut-builders he had passed on the way. Was it that his compatriots did
not know how to laugh when they were at leisure, or was it rather that,
in the intervals of work, the awe of the unknown laid its hand on these
untried hearts?
Troy and Jacks perched on a packing-box, and talked a little with their
neighbours; but presently they were interrupted by the noise of a motor
stopping outside. There was a stir at the mouth of the cavern, and a
girl said eagerly: "Here she comes!"
Instantly the cellar woke up. The soldiers' faces grew young again, they
flattened themselves laughingly against the walls near the entrance, the
door above was cautiously opened, and a girl in a long blue cloak
appeared at the head of the stairs.
"Well, boys--you see I managed it!" she cried; and Troy recognized the
piercing accents and azure gaze of Miss Hinda Warlick.
"She managed it!" the whole cellar roared as one man, drowning her
answer in a cheer. And, "Of course I did!" she continued, laughing and
nodding right and left as she made her triumphant way down the lane of
khaki, to what, at her appearance, had somehow promptly become the stage
at the farther end of a packed theatre. The elderly Y.M.C.A. official
who accompanied her puffed out his chest like a general and blinked
knowingly behind his gold eye-glasses.
Troy's first movement had been one of impatience. He hated all that Miss
Warlick personified, and hated it most of all on this sacred soil, and
at this fateful moment, with the iron wings of doom clanging so close
above their heads. But it would have been almost impossible to fight his
way out through the crowd that had closed in behind her--and he stayed.
The cheering subsided, she gained her improvised platform--a door laid
on some biscuit-boxes--and the recitation began.
She gave them all sorts of things, ranging from grave to gay, and
extracting from the sentimental numbers a peculiarly piercing effect
that hurt Troy like the twinge of a dental instrument. And her audience
loved it all, indiscriminately and voraciously, with souls hungry for
the home-flavour and long nurtured on what Troy called "cereal-fiction."
One had to admit that Miss Warlick knew her public, and could play on
every chord.
It might have been funny if it had not been so infinitely touching. They
were all so young, so serious, so far from home, and bound on a quest so
glorious! And there overhead, just above them, brooded and clanged the
black wings of their doom.... Troy's mockery was softened to tenderness,
and he felt, under the hard shell of his youthful omniscience, the stir
of all the things to which the others were unconsciously responding.
"And now, by special request, Miss Warlick is going to say a few words,"
the elderly eye-glassed officer importantly announced.
Ah, what a pity! If only she had ended on that last jolly chorus, so
full of artless laughter and tears! Troy remembered her dissertations on
the steamer, and winced at a fresh display of such fatuity in such a
scene.
She had let the cloak slip from her shoulders, and stepped to the edge
of her unsteady stage. Her eyes burned large in a face grown suddenly
grave.... For a moment she reminded him again of Sophy Wicks.
"Only a few words, really," she began apologetically; and the cellar
started a cheer of protest.
"No--not that kind. Something different...." She paused long enough to
let the silence prepare them: sharp little artist that she was! Then
she leaned forward. "This is what I want to say. I've come from the
French front--pretty near the edge. They're dying there, boys--dying by
thousands, now, this minute.... But that's not it--I know: you want me
to cut it out--and I'm going to.... But this is why I began that way;
because it was my first sight of--things of that sort. And I had to tell
you----"
She stopped, pale, her pretty mouth twitching.
"What I really wanted to say is this. Since I came to Europe, nearly a
year ago, I've got to know the country they're dying for--and I
understand why they mean to go on and on dying--if they have to--till
there isn't one of them left.
"Boys--I know France now--and she's worth it! Don't you make any
mistake!
"I have to laugh now when I remember what I thought of France when I
landed. My! How d'you suppose she'd got on so long without us? Done a
few things too--poor little toddler! Well--it was time we took her by
the hand, and showed her how to behave. And I wasn't the only one
either; I guess most of us thought we'd have to teach her her letters.
Maybe some of you boys right here felt that way too?"
A guilty laugh, and loud applause.
"Thought so," said Miss Warlick, smiling.
"Well," she continued, "there wasn't hardly anything I wasn't ready to
teach them. On the steamer coming out with us there was a lot of those
Amb'lance boys. My! How I gassed to them. I said the French had got to
be taught how to love their mothers--I said they hadn't any
home-feeling--and didn't love children the way we do. I've been round
among them some since then, in the hospitals, and I've seen fellows
lying there shot 'most to death, and their little old mothers in white
caps arriving from 'way off at the other end of France. Well, those
fellows know how to see their mothers coming even if they're blind, and
how to hug 'em even if their arms are off.... And the children--the way
they go on about the children! Ever seen a French soldier yet that
didn't have a photograph of a baby stowed away somewhere in his dirty
uniform? I never have. I tell you, they're white! And they're fighting
as only people can who feel that way about mothers and babies. The way
we're going to fight; and maybe we'll prove it to 'em sooner than any of
us think....
"Anyhow, I wanted to get this off my chest to-night; not for you, only
for myself. I didn't want to have a shell get me before I'd said
'Veever la France!' before all of you.
"See here, boys--the Marcellaze!"
She snatched a flag from the wall, drawing herself up to heroic height;
and the whole cellar joined her in a roar.
X
The next morning Jacks dragged Troy out of bed by the feet. The room was
still dark, and through the square of the low window glittered a bunch
of stars.
"Hurry call to Montmirail--step lively!" Jacks ordered, his voice thick
with sleep.
All the old names; with every turn of the wheel they seemed to be
drawing nearer and nearer to the ravaged spot of earth where Paul
Gantier slept his faithful sleep. Strange if, to-day of all days, Troy
should again stand by his friend's grave.
They pushed along eastward under the last stars, the roll of the cannon
crashing through the quiet dawn. The birds flew up with frightened cries
from the trees along the roadside; rooks cawed their warning from clump
to clump, and gathered in the sky in dark triangles flying before the
danger.
The east began to redden through the dust-haze of the cloudless air. As
they advanced the road became more and more crowded, and the ambulance
was caught in the usual dense traffic of the front: artillery,
field-kitchens, motor-trucks, horse-wagons, hay-carts packed with
refugees, and popping motor-cycles zigzagging through the tangle of
vehicles. The movement seemed more feverish and uncertain than usual,
and now and then the road was jammed, and curses, shouts and the crack
of heavy whips sounded against the incessant cannonade that hung its
iron curtain above the hills to the north-east. The faces of soldiers
and officers were unshaved sallow drawn with fatigue and anxiety. Women
crouched sobbing on their piled-up baggage, and here and there, by the
roadside, a little country cart had broken down, and the occupants sat
on the bank watching the confusion like impassive lookers-on.
Suddenly, in the thickest of the struggle, a heavy lorry smashed into
Troy's ambulance, and he felt the unmistakable wrench of the
steering-gear. The car shook like a careening boat, and then righted
herself and stopped.
"Oh, hell!" shouted Jacks in a fury. The two lads jumped down, and in a
few minutes they saw that they were stranded beyond remedy. Tears of
anger rushed into Troy's eyes. On this day of days he was not even to
accomplish his own humble job!
Another ambulance of their own formation overtook them, and it was
agreed that Jacks, who was the sharper of the two, was to get a lift to
the nearest town, and try to bring back a spare part, or, failing that,
pick up some sort of a car in which they could continue their work.
Troy was left by the roadside. Hour after hour he sat there waiting and
cursing his fate. When would Jacks be back again? Not at all, most
likely; it was ten to one he would be caught on the way and turned on to
some more pressing job. He knew, and Troy knew, that their ambulance was
for the time being a hopeless wreck, and would probably have to stick
ignominiously in its ditch till some one could go and fetch a spare part
from Paris. And meanwhile, what might not be happening nearer by?
The rumble and thump of the cannonade grew more intense; a violent
engagement was evidently going on not far off. Troy pulled out his map
