job and avoid scandal?"
Recklow's cold eyes rested on him: "If you like," he said, "I'll assume
your various kinds of personal responsibility toward Miss Norne."
Cleve's visage burned. "I'll shoulder my own burdens," he retorted.
"Sure. I knew you would." And Recklow smiled and held out his hand.
Cleves took it without cordiality. Standing so, Recklow, still smiling,
said: "What a rotten deal that child has had--is having. Her father and
mother were fine people. Did you ever hear of Dr. Norne?"
"She mentioned him once."
"They were up-State people of most excellent antecedents and no money.
"Dr. Norne was our Vice-Consul at Yarkand in the province of Sin Kiang.
All he had was his salary, and he lost that and his post when the
administration changed. Then he went into the spice trade.
"Some Jew syndicate here sent him up the Yarkand River to see what could
be done about jade and gold concessions. He was on that business when
the tragedy happened. The Kalmuks and Khirghiz were responsible, under
Yezidee instigation. And there you are:--and here is his child,
Cleves--back, by some miracle, from that flowering hell called Yian,
believing in her heart that she really lost her soul there in the
temple. And now, here in her own native land, she is exposed to actual
and hourly danger of assassination.... Poor kid!... Did you ever hear of
a rottener deal, Cleves?"
Their hands had remained clasped while Recklow was speaking. He spoke
again, clearly, amiably:
"To lay down one's life for a friend is fine. I'm not sure that it's
finer to offer one's honour in behalf of a girl whose honour is at
stake."
After a moment Cleves's grip tightened.
"All right," he said.
Recklow went downstairs.
CHAPTER VI
IN BATTLE
Cleves went back into the apartment; he noticed that Miss Norne's door
was ajar.
To get to his own room he had to pass that way; and he saw her, seated
before the mirror, partly undressed, her dark, lustrous hair being
combed out and twisted up for the night.
Whether this carelessness was born of innocence or of indifference
mattered little; he suddenly realised that these conditions wouldn't do.
And his first feeling was of anger.
"If you'll put on your robe and slippers," he said in an unpleasant
voice, "I'd like to talk to you for a few moments."
She turned her head on its charming neck and looked around and up at him
over one naked shoulder.
"Shall I come into your room?" she inquired.
"No!... when you've got some clothes on, call me."
"I'm quite ready now," she said calmly, and drew the Chinese slippers
over her bare feet and passed a silken loop over the silver bell buttons
on her right shoulder. Then, undisturbed, she continued to twist up her
hair, following his movements in the mirror with unconcerned blue eyes.
He entered and seated himself, the impatient expression still creasing
his forehead and altering his rather agreeable features.
"Miss Norne," he said, "you're absolutely convinced that these people
mean to do you harm. Isn't that true?"
"Of course," she said simply.
"Then, until we get them, you're running a serious risk. In fact, you
live in hourly peril. That is your belief, isn't it?"
She put the last peg into her thick, curly hair, lowered her arms,
turned, dropped one knee over the other, and let her candid gaze rest on
him in silence.
"What I mean to explain," he said coldly, "is that as long as I induced
you to go into this affair I'm responsible for you. If I let you out of
my sight here in New York and if anything happens to you, I'll be as
guilty as the dirty beast who takes your life. What is your opinion?
It's up to me to stand by you now, isn't it?"
"I had rather be near you--for a while," she said timidly.
"Certainly. But, Miss Norne, our living here together, in my
apartment--or living together anywhere else--is never going to be
understood by other people. You know that, don't you?"
After a silence, still looking at him out of clear unembarrassed eyes:
"I know.... But ... I don't want to die."
"I told you," he said sharply, "they'll have to kill me first. So that's
all right. But how about what I am doing to your reputation?"
"I understand."
"I suppose you do. You're very young. Once out of this blooming mess,
you will have all your life before you. But if I kill your reputation
for you while saving your body from death, you'll find no happiness in
living. Do you realise that?"
"Yes."
"Well, then? Have you any solution for this problem that confronts you?"
"No."
"Haven't you any idea to suggest?"
"I don't--don't want to die," she repeated in an unsteady voice.
He bit his lip; and after a moment's scowling silence under the
merciless scrutiny of her eyes: "Then you had better marry me," he said.
It was some time before she spoke. For a second or two he sustained the
searching quality of her gaze, but it became unendurable.
Presently she said: "I don't ask it of you. I can shoulder my own
burdens." And he remembered what he had just said to Recklow.
"You've shouldered more than your share," he blurted out. "You are
deliberately risking death to serve your country. I enlisted you. The
least I can do is to say my affections are not engaged; so naturally the
idea of--of marrying anybody never entered my head."
"Then you do not care for anybody else?"
Her candour amazed and disconcerted him.
"No." He looked at her, curiously. "Do you care for anybody in that
way?"
A light blush tinted her face. She said gravely: "If we really are going
to marry each other I had better tell you that I did care for Prince
Sanang."
"What!" he cried, astounded.
"It seems incredible, doesn't it? Yet it is quite true. I fought him; I
fought myself; I stood guard over my mind and senses there in the
temple; I knew what he was and I detested him and I mocked him there in
the temple.... And I loved him."
"Sanang!" he repeated, not only amazed but also oddly incensed at the
naïve confession.
"Yes, Sanang.... If we are to marry, I thought I ought to tell you.
Don't you think so?"
"Certainly," he replied in an absent-minded way, his mind still grasping
at the thing. Then, looking up: "Do you still care for this fellow?"
She shook her head.
"Are you perfectly sure, Miss Norne?"
"As sure as that I am alive when I awake from a nightmare. My hatred for
Sanang is very bitter," she added frankly, "and yet somehow it is not my
wish to see him harmed."
"You still care for him a little?"
"Oh, no. But--can't you understand that it is not in me to wish him
harm?... No girl feels that way--once having cared. To become
indifferent to a familiar thing is perhaps natural; but to desire to
harm it is not in my character."
"You have plenty of character," he said, staring; at her.
"You don't think so. Do you?"
"Why not?"
"Because of what I said to you on the roof-garden that night. It was
shameful, wasn't it?"
"You behaved like many a thoroughbred," he returned bluntly; "you were
scared, bewildered, ready to bolt to any shelter offered."
"It's quite true I didn't know what to do to keep alive. And that was
all that interested me--to keep on living--having lost my soul and being
afraid to die and find myself in hell with Erlik."
He said: "Isn't that absurd notion out of your head yet?"
"I don't know ... I can't suddenly believe myself safe after all those
years. It is not easy to root out what was planted in childhood and what
grew to be part of one during the tender and formative period.... You
can't understand, Mr. Cleves--you can't ever feel or visualise what
became my daily life in a region which was half paradise and half
hell----"
She bent her head and took her face between her fingers, and sat so,
brooding.
After a little while: "Well," he said, "there's only one way to manage
this affair--if you are willing, Miss Norne."
She merely lifted her eyes.
"I think," he said, "there's only that one way out of it. But you
understand"--he turned pink--"it will be quite all right--your
liberty--privacy--I shan't bother you--annoy----"
She merely looked at him.
"After this Bolshevistic flurry is settled--in a year or two--or
three--then you can very easily get your freedom; and you'll have all
life before you" ... he rose: "--and a jolly good friend in me--a good
comrade, Miss Norne. And that means you can count on me when you go into
business--or whatever you decide to do."
She also had risen, standing slim and calm in her exquisite Chinese
robe, the sleeves of which covered her finger tips.
"Are you going to marry me?" she asked.
"If you'll let me."
"Yes--I will ... it's so generous and considerate of you. I--I don't ask
it; I really don't----"
"But I do."
"--And I never dreamed of such a thing."
He forced a smile. "Nor I. It's rather a crazy thing to do. But I know
of no saner alternative.... So we had better get our license
to-morrow.... And that settles it."
He turned to go; and, on her threshold, his feet caught in something on
the floor and he stumbled, trying to free his feet from a roll of soft
white cloth lying there on the carpet. And when he picked it up, it
unrolled, and a knife fell out of the folds of cloth and struck his
foot.
Still perplexed, not comprehending, he stooped to recover the knife.
Then, straightening up, he found himself looking into the colourless
face of Tressa Norne.
"What's all this?" he asked--"this sheet and knife here on the floor
outside your door?"
She answered with difficulty: "They have sent you your shroud, I think."
"Are not those things yours? Were they not already here in your
baggage?" he demanded incredulously. Then, realising that they had not
been there on the door-sill when he entered her room a few moments
since, a rough chill passed over him--the icy caress of fear.
"Where did that thing come from?" he said hoarsely. "How could it get
here when my door is locked and bolted? Unless there's somebody hidden
here!"
Hot anger suddenly flooded him; he drew his pistol and sprang into the
passageway.
"What the devil is all this!" he repeated furiously, flinging open his
bedroom door and switching on the light.
He searched his room in a rage, went on and searched the dining-room,
smoking-room, and kitchen, and every clothes-press and closet, always
aware of Tressa's presence close behind him. And when there remained no
tiniest nook or cranny in the place unsearched, he stood in the centre
of the carpet glaring at the locked and bolted door.
He heard her say under her breath: "This is going to be a sleepless
night. And a dangerous one." And, turning to stare at her, saw no fear
in her face, only excitement.
He still held clutched in his left hand the sheet and the knife. Now he
thrust these toward her.
"What's this damned foolery, anyway?" he demanded harshly. She took the
knife with a slight shudder. "There is something engraved on the silver
hilt," she said.
He bent over her shoulder.
"Eighur," she added calmly, "not Arabic. The Mongols had no written
