"But you just said----"
"I don't mean socially. And still, as far as that goes, she seems to
care nothing whatever for position or social duties or obligations."
"That's not so unusual in these days," he remarked. "Lots of nice
girls are fed up on the social aspects of life."
"Well, for example, she has not made the slightest effort to know
anybody worth knowing. Janet Speedwell left cards and then asked her
to dinner, and received an amiable regret for her pains. No girl can
afford to decline invitations from Janet, even if her excuse is a club
meeting.
"And two or three other women at the Red Cross have asked her to lunch
at the Colony Club, and have made advances to her on Leila Vance's
account, but she hasn't responded. Now, you know a girl isn't going to
get on by politely ignoring the advances of such women. But she
doesn't even appear to be aware of their importance."
"Why don't you ask her to something?" suggested her husband.
"I did," she said, a little sharply. "I asked her and Leila Vance to
dine with us. I intended to ask Elorn, too, and let Jim realise the
difference if he isn't already too blind to see."
"Did she decline?"
"She did," said Helen curtly.
"Why?"
"It happened that she had asked somebody to dine with her that
evening. And I have a horrid suspicion it was Jim. If it was, she
could have postponed it. Of course it was a valid excuse, but it
annoyed me to have her decline. That's what I tell you, James, she has
a most disturbing habit of declining overtures from everybody--even
from----"
Helen checked herself, looked at her husband with an odd smile, in
which there was no mirth; then:
"You probably are not aware of it, dear, but that girl has also
declined Jim's overtures."
"Jim's what?"
"Invitation."
"Invitation to do what?"
"Marry him."
Shotwell Senior turned very red.
"The devil she did! How do you know?"
"Jim told me."
"That she turned him down?"
"She declined to marry him."
Her husband seemed unable to grasp such a fact. Never had it occurred
to Shotwell Senior that any living, human girl could decline such an
invitation from his only son.
After a painful silence: "Well," he said in a perplexed and mortified
voice, "she certainly seems to be, as you say, a most unusual girl....
But--if it's settled--why do you continue to worry, Helen?"
"Because Jim is very deeply in love with her.... And I'm sore at
heart."
"Hard hit, is he?"
"Very unhappy."
Shotwell Senior reddened again: "He'll have to face it," he said....
"But that girl seems to be a fool!"
"I--wonder."
"What do you mean?"
"A girl may change her mind." She lifted her head and looked with sad
humour at her husband, whom she also had kept dangling for a while.
Then:
"James, dear, our son is as fine as we think him. But he's just a
splendid, wholesome, everyday, unimaginative New York business man.
And he's fallen in love with his absolute antithesis. Because this
girl is all ardent imagination, full of extravagant impulses, very
lovely to look at, but a perfectly illogical fanatic!
"Mrs. Vance has told me all about her. She really belongs in some
exotic romance, not in New York. She's entirely irresponsible,
perfectly unstable. There is in her a generous sort of recklessness
which is quite likely to drive her headlong into any extreme. And what
sort of mate would such a girl be for a young man whose ambition is to
make good in the real estate business, marry a nice girl, have a
pleasant home and agreeable children, and otherwise conform to the
ordinary conventions of civilisation?"
"I think," remarked her husband grimly, "that she'd keep him
guessing."
"She would indeed! And that's not all, James. For I've got to tell you
that the girl entertains some rather weird and dreadful socialistic
notions. She talks socialism--a mild variety--from public platforms.
She admits very frankly that she entertains no respect for accepted
conventions. And while I have no reason to doubt her purity of mind
and personal chastity, the unpleasant and startling fact remains that
she proposes that humanity should dispense with the marriage ceremony
and discard it and any orthodox religion as obsolete superstitions."
Her husband stared at her.
"For heaven's sake," he began, then got frightfully red in the face
once more. "What that girl needs is a plain spanking!" he said
bluntly. "I'd like to see her or any other girl try to come into this
family on any such ridiculous terms!"
"She doesn't seem to want to come in on any terms," said Helen.
"Then what are you worrying about?"
"I am worrying about what might happen if she ever changed her mind."
"But you say she doesn't believe in marriage!"
"She doesn't."
"Well, that boy of ours isn't crazy," insisted Shotwell Senior.
But his mother remained silent in her deep misgiving concerning the
sanity of the simpler sex, when mentally upset by love. For it seemed
very difficult to understand what to do--if, indeed, there was
anything for her to do in the matter.
To express disapproval of Palla to Jim or to the girl herself--to show
any opposition at all--would, she feared, merely defeat its own
purpose and alienate her son's confidence.
The situation was certainly a most disturbing one, though not at
present perilous.
And Helen would not permit herself to believe that it could ever
really become an impossible situation--that this young girl would
deliberately slap civilisation in the face; or that her only son would
add a kick to the silly assault and take the ruinous consequences of
social ostracism.
                  *       *       *       *       *
The young girl in question was at that moment seated before her piano,
her charming head uplifted, singing in the silvery voice of an
immaculate angel, to her own accompaniment, the heavenly Mass of Saint
Hildé:
                        "Love me,
                      Adorable Mother!
                        Mary,
                      I worship no other.
                        Save me,
                      O, graciously save me
                        I pray!
                  Let my Darkness be turned into Day
                  By the Light of Thy Grace
                      And Thy Face,
                        I pray!"
She continued the exquisite refrain on the keys for a while, then
slowly turned to the man beside her.
"The one Mass I still love," she murmured absently, "--memories of
childhood, I suppose--when the Sisters made me sing the solo--I was
only ten years old." ... She shrugged her shoulders: "You know, in
those days, I was a little devil," she said seriously.
He smiled.
"I really was, Jim,--all over everything and wild as a swallow. I led
the pack; Shadow Hill held us in horror. I remember I fought our
butcher's boy once--right in the middle of the street----"
"Why?"
"He did something to a cat which I couldn't stand."
"Did you whip him?"
"Oh, Jim, it was horrid. We both were dreadfully battered. And the
constable caught us both, and I shall never, never forget my mother's
face!----"
She gazed down at the keys of the piano, touched them pensively.
"The very deuce was in me," she sighed. "Even now, unless I'm occupied
with all my might, something begins--to simmer in me----"
She turned and looked at him: "--A sort of enchanted madness that
makes me wild to seize the whole world and set it right!--take it into
my arms and defend it--die for it--or slay it and end its pain."
"Too much of an armful," he said with great gravity. "The thing to do
is to select an individual and take him to your heart."
"And slay him?" she inquired gaily.
"Certainly--like the feminine mantis--if you find you don't like him.
Individual suitors must take their chances of being either eaten or
adored."
"Jim, you're so funny."
She swung her stool, rested her elbow on the piano, and gazed at him
interrogatively, the odd, half-smile edging her lips and eyes. And,
after a little duetto of silence:
"Do you suppose I shall ever come to care for you--imprudently?" she
asked.
"I wouldn't let you."
"How could you help it? And, as far as that goes, how could I, if it
happened?"
"If you ever come to care at all," he said, "you'll care enough."
"That is the trouble with you," she retorted, "you don't care
enough."
A slight flush stained his cheek-bones: "Sometimes," he said, "I
almost wish I cared less. And that would be what you call enough."
Colour came into her face, too:
"Do you know, Jim, I really don't know how much I do care for you? It
sounds rather silly, doesn't it?"
"Do you care more than you did at first?"
"Yes."
"Much more?"
"I told you I don't know how much."
"Not enough to marry me?"
"Must we discuss that again?"
He got up, went out to the hall, pulled a book from his overcoat
pocket, and returned.
"Would you care to hear what the greatest American says on the
subject, Palla?"
"On the subject of marriage?"
"No; he takes the marriage for granted. It's what he has to say
concerning the obligations involved."
"Proceed, dear," she said, laughingly.
He read, eliminating what was not necessary to make his point:
"'A race is worthless and contemptible if its men cease to work hard
and, at need, to fight hard; and if its women cease to breed freely.
If the best classes do not reproduce themselves the nation will, of
course, go down.
"'When the ordinary decent man does not understand that to marry the
woman he loves, as early as he can, is the most desirable of all
goals; when the ordinary woman does not understand that all other
forms of life are but makeshift substitutes for the life of the wife,
the mother of healthy children; then the State is rotten at heart.
"'The woman who shrinks from motherhood is as low a creature as a man
of the professional pacifist, or poltroon, type, who shirks his duty
as a soldier.
"'The only full life for man or woman is led by those men and women
who together, with hearts both gentle and valiant, face lives of love
and duty, who see their children rise up to call them blessed, and who
leave behind them their seed to inherit the earth.
"'No celibate life approaches such a life in usefulness. The mother
comes ahead of the nun.
