Beyond, through the high-arched entrance, a man was limping. He had the
battered face of an old bulldog and the rumpled clothes of a young
ruffian.
"There's Dunwoodie!"
Verelst, a hand on Jones' elbow, propelled him toward the lawyer, who
gratified them with the look, very baleful and equally famous, with
which he was said to reverse the Bench.
But Verelst, afraid of nothing except damp sheets, stretched a hand.
"You know Ten Eyck Jones. He has something very important to tell you."
"Yes," said Jones. "In March, on the eighth or ninth, I have forgotten
which, but it must be in the 'Law Journal,' a decision was rendered----"
He got no farther. Other members, crowding about, were questioning,
surmising, eager for a detail, a prediction, an obiter dictum, for
anything they could take away and repeat concerning the murder, in which
all knew that the great man was to appear.
But Dunwoodie was making himself heard, and not gently either. It was as
though already he was at the district attorney's throat.
"Where is the evidence? Where is it? Where is the evidence? There is not
a shred, not a scintilla. On the absence of facts adduced, I shall
maintain what I assert until the last armed Court of Appeals expires.
Hum! Ha!"
Fiercely he turned on Jones. "What were you saying, sir?"
Before Jones could reply, Verelst cut in. "The stiletto is his. He has
the opera-ticket. He----"
"Imbeciles tell each other that great men think alike," Jones,
interrupting, remarked at Dunwoodie. "I merely happened to be
forestalling your views, when a recent decision occurred to me and----"
Jones' remarks were lost, drowned by others, by questions, exclamations,
the drivel that amazement creates.
"But, I say----" "Tell me this----" "No evidence!" "The stiletto his!"
"How did Lennox get it?" "Then what about----"
Dunwoodie, fastening on Jones, roared at him. "You tell me the
instrument is yours?"
Jones patted his chin. "I did not, but I will."
"How do you know, sir?"
"It has a little love message on it."
"Hum! Ha!" Dunwoodie barked. "Come to my office to-morrow. Come before
ten."
Dreamily Jones tilted his hat. "I am not up before ten. Where do you
live? In the Roaring Forties?"
But, in the mounting clamour, the answer, if answer there were, was
submerged. Jones went out to the street, entered a taxi, gave an address
and sailed away, up and across the Park, along the Riverside and into
the longest thoroughfare--caravan routes excepted--on the planet.
On a corner was a drug-shop, where anything was to be had, even to
umbrellas and, from a sign that hung there, apparently a notary public
also. Opposite was a saloon, the Ladies Entrance horribly hospitable.
Jones' trained eye--the eye of a novelist--gathered these things which
it dropped in that bag which the subconscious is. Meanwhile the car,
scattering children, tooted, turned and stopped before a leprous door.
In the hall, a girl of twelve, with the face of a seraph, and the voice
of a fiend, was shrieking at a switchboard. Jones fearing, if he
addressed her, that she might curse him, went on and up, higher, still
higher, and began to feel quite birdlike. On the successive landings
were doors and he wondered what tragedies, what comedies, what aims,
lofty, mean or merely diabolic, they concealed. They were all labelled
with names, Hun or Hebrew, usually both. But one name differed. It
caressed.
There he rang.
When it opened, a strawberry mouth opened also. "Oh!" Cassy's blue eyes
were red. There was fright in them. "It is horrible! Tell me, do you
think it was he?"
Jones removed his hat. "I know it was not."
That mouth opened again, opened for breath, opened with relief. Gasping,
she stared. "Thank God! I was afraid----But are you sure? It was I who
told him--I thought it my fault. It was killing me. Tell me. Are you
really sure?"
Jones motioned. "His lawyer is. I have just seen him."
"He is! Thank God then! Thank God! And my father! It has made him ill.
He liked him so! I am going for medicine now. Will you go in and speak
to him?"
She turned and called. "It is Mr. Jones--a friend of Mr. Lennox." She
turned again. "I will be back in a minute."
Beyond, in the room with the piano and the painted warrior, the musician
lay on a sofa, bundled in a rug. There was not much space on the sofa,
yet, as Jones entered, he seemed to recede. Then, cavernously, he spoke.
"Forgive me for not rising. This business has been too much for me. Sit
down."
Jones put his hat on the table and drew a chair. "I am sorry it has
upset you. It amounts to nothing."
Perplexedly the musician repeated it. "Nothing?"
"I was referring to our friend Lennox."
"You call his arrest nothing?"
"Well, everything is relative. It may seem unusual to be held without
bail and yet, if we all were, it would be commonplace."
The musician plucked at the rug. "I suppose everybody thinks he did it?"
"Everybody, no. I don't think so and I am sure your daughter doesn't."
"I wish she would hurry."
"Nor do you."
"No, I don't think so."
"I doubt if the police do either."
"After jailing him!"
Jones, who had been taking in the room, the piano, the portrait, the
table, sketched a gesture.
"We are all in jail. The opinion of the world is a prison, our own ideas
are another. We are doubly jailed, and very justly. We are depraved
animals. We think, or think we think, and what we think others have
thought for us and, as a rule, erroneously."
From a phonograph somewhere, in some adjacent den, there floated a tenor
aria, the Bella figlia del amore, pierced suddenly and beautifully by
a contralto's rich voice.
Jones turned. "That's Caruso. I don't know who the Maddelena is. Do you
remember Campanini?"
"Yes, I remember him. He was a better actor than Caruso."
"And so ugly that he was good-looking. Caruso is becoming uneven."
Vaguely the musician considered the novelist. "You think so?"
"It rather looked that way last night."
Angelo Cara plucked again at the rug.
"But," Jones continued, "in the 'Terra addio' he made up for it. What an
enchantment that duo is!"
The musician's hand moved from the rug to his face. "You were there
then?"
I was this morning, thought Jones, but he said: "How sinful Rigoletto is
by comparison to Aïda--by comparison I mean to the last act."
The other duo now had become a quartette. The voices of Gilda and
Rigoletto were fusing with those of the figlia and the duke.
The musician appeared to be listening. His sunken eyes were lifted.
Slowly he turned them on Jones.
"You didn't see anything, did you?"
"Last night? I did not see Lennox, if that is what you mean, or
Paliser--except for a moment, during the crypt scene."
Chokingly the musician drew breath. In the effort he gasped. "Then you
know."
"Yes, I know."
The rug rose and fell. It was as though there were a wave beneath it.
With an air of detachment, Jones added: "Paliser turned to see who was
there. A sword-cane told him."
The musician's lips twitched, his face had contracted, his hand now was
on his breast. "I wish Cassy would hurry. She's gone for amyl."
"Is it far?"
"The corner. Are you going to do anything?"
Jones shook his head. "I don't need to."
The sunken eyes were upon him. "Why do you say that?"
"You are an honest man."
The sunken eyes wavered. "At least I never supposed they would arrest
Lennox. How could I?"
"No one could have supposed it. Besides, in your own conscience you were
justified, were you not?"
"You know about that, too?"
"Yes, I know about that."
The Rigoletto disc now had been replaced by another, one from which a
voice brayed, a voice nasal, jocular, felonious.
"That beast ought to be shot," Jones added.
The musician raised himself a little. "You don't misjudge her, do you?"
Jones, annoyed at the swill tossed about, had turned from him. He turned
back. "Believe me, Mr. Cara, there is no one for whom I have a higher
respect."
A spasm seized the musician. For a moment, save for the effort at
breath, he was silent. Then feebly he said: "I wish she would hurry."
"Can I do anything?"
"Yes, tell me. Do you condemn me?"
The novelist hesitated. "There are no human scales for any soul. Though,
to be sure----"
"What?"
"It might have been avoided. As it is, they will suspect her."
"Cassy?"
"Naturally. They can't hold Lennox on a paper-cutter--that belongs to
me, and a few empty words said in my presence and which, if necessary, I
did not hear. They can't hold him on that. But when they learn, as they
will, the circumstances of your daughter's misadventure, they will
arrest her."
"Merciful God!"
The jeopardy to her, a jeopardy previously undiscerned, but which then
shaken at him, instantly took shape, twisted his mouth into the
appalling grimace that mediæval art gave to the damned.
"And you don't want that," Jones remotely resumed.
"Want it!" Galvanised by the shock, the musician sat suddenly up. "Last
night, after I got back, I slept like a log. This morning, I felt if I
had not done it, I would still have it to do and that satisfied me. But
afterwards, when I learned about Lennox, it threw me here. Now----My
God!"
He fell back.
The poor devil is done for, thought Jones, who, wondering whether he
could get it over in time, leaned forward.
"Mr. Cara, don't you think you had best make it plain sailing for
everybody, and let me draw up a declaration?"
The disc now had run out. The grunt of the beast was stilled. From
beyond came the quick click of a key. Almost at once Cassy appeared.
She hurried to her father. "There were people ahead of me. They took
forever. Has Mr. Jones told you? Mr. Lennox did not do it."
Breaking a tube in a handkerchief, she was administering the amyl and
Jones wondered whether she could then suspect. But her face was turned
from him, he could not read it, and realising that, in any event, she
must be spared the next act, he cast about for an excuse to get her
away. At once, remembering the notary, he produced him.
"Your father wants me to draw a paper on which his signature should be
attested. If I am not asking too much, would you mind going back to the
druggist for the notary whose sign I saw there?"
Cassy turned from her father. "A paper? What paper?"
Bravely Jones lied. "A will."
Cassy looked from one to the other. "The poor dear often has these
attacks. He will be better soon--now that he knows. Won't you, daddy?"
Angelo Cara's eyes had in them an expression infinitely tender, equally
vacant. It was as though, in thinking of her, he was thinking too of
something else. Though, as Jones afterward decided, he probably was not
thinking at all.
Cassy exclaimed at him. "Besides, what have you--except me?"
"Everybody has to make a will," Jones, lying again, put in. "There has
been a new law passed. The eternal revenue collector requires it."
Cassy smoothed the rug, put the handkerchief on the table, opened a
