"Watched hens never lay," said I. "Let them come with us. While they
remain under our eyes the stale old plan they brood will addle like a
cluck-egg."
Salisbury nodded meaningly:
"So that I can see my enemy," growled he, "I have no care concerning
him. But let him out o' sight and I fret like a chained beagle."
As he finished speaking we came into Stoner's clearing, which was but a
thicket of dead weed-stalks in a fallow field fenced by split rails.
Fallow, indeed, lay all the Stoner clearing, save for a patch o'
hen-scratched garden at the log-cabin's dooryard; for old Henry Stoner
and his forest-running sons were none too fond of dallying with plow and
hoe while rifle and fish-pole rested across the stag-horn's crotch above
the chimney-piece.
And if ever they fed upon anything other than fish and flesh, I do not
know; for I never saw aught growing in their garden, save a dozen
potato-vines and a stray corn-stalk full o' worms.
Around the log house in the clearing already were gathered a dozen or
sixteen men, the greater number wearing the tow-cloth rifle-frock of the
district militia.
Other men began to arrive as we came up. Everywhere great, sinewy hands
were extended to greet us; old Henry Stoner, sprawling under an apple
tree, saluted us with a harsh pleasantry; and I saw the gold rings
shining in his ears.
Nick came over to where I stood, full of that devil's humour which so
often urged him into--and led him safely out of--endless scrapes betwixt
sun-up and moon-set every day in the year.
"It's Sir John we're to take, I hear," he said to me with a grin. "They
say the lying louse of a Baronet has been secretly plotting with Guy
Johnson and the Butlers in Canada. What wonder, then, that our
Provincial Congress has its belly full of these same Johnstown Tories
and must presently spew them up. And they say we are to march on the
Hall at noon and hustle our merry Baronet into Johnstown jail."
I felt myself turning red.
"Is it not decent to give Sir John the benefit of doubt until we learn
why that bell is ringing?" said I.
"There we go!" cried Nick Stoner. "Just because your father loved Sir
William and you may wear gold lace on your hat, you feel an attachment
to all quality. Hearken to me, John Drogue: Sir William is dead and the
others are as honourable as a pack of Canada wolves." He climbed to the
top of the rickety rail fence and squatted there. "The landed gentry of
Tryon County are a pack of bloody wolves," said he, lighting his cob
pipe;--"Guy Johnson, Colonel Claus, Walter Butler, every one of
them--every one!--only excepting you, John Drogue! Look, now, where
they're gathering in the Canadas--Johnsons, Butlers, McDonalds,--the
whole Tory pack--with Brant and his Mohawks stole away, and Little
Abraham like to follow with every warrior from the Lower Castle!
"And do you suppose that Sir John has no interest in all this Tory
treachery? Do you suppose that this poisonous Baronet is not in constant
and secret communication with Canada?"
I looked elsewhere sullenly. Nick took me by the arm and drew me up to a
seat beside him on the rail fence.
"Let's view it soberly and fairly, Jack," says he, tapping his palm with
the stem of his pipe, through which smoke oozed. "Let's view it from the
start. Begin from the Boston business. Now, then! George the Virginian
got the Red-coats cooped up in Boston. That's the Yankee answer to too
much British tyranny.
"We, in the Northland, looked to our landed gentry to stand by us, lead
us, and face the British King who aims to turn us into slaves.
"We called on our own governing class to protect us in our ancient
liberties,--to arm us, lead us in our own defense! We begged Guy Johnson
to hold back his savages so that the Iroquois Confederacy should remain
passive and take neither the one side nor t'other.
"I grant you that Sir William in his day did loyally his uttermost to
quiet the Iroquois and hold his own Mohawks tranquil when Cresap was
betrayed by Dunmore, and the first breeze from this storm which is now
upon us was already stirring the Six Nations into restlessness."
"Sir William," said I, "was the greatest and the best of all Americans."
He said gravely: "Sir William is dead. May God rest his soul. But this
is the situation that confronts us here this day on the frontier: We
appealed to the landed gentry of Tryon. They sneered at us, and spoke of
us as rebels, and have used us very scornfully--all excepting yourself,
John!
"They forced Alec White on us as Sheriff, and he broke up our meetings.
They strove by colour of law and by illegal force to stamp out in Tryon
County the last spark of liberty, of manhood among us. God knows what we
have endured these last few years from the landed gentry of Tryon!--what
we have put up with and stomached since the first shot was fired at
Lexington!
"And what has become of our natural protectors and leaders! Where is the
landed gentry of County Tryon at this very hour? Except you, John
Drogue, where are our gentlemen of the Northland?"
"Gone," said I soberly.
"Gone to Canada with the murderous Indians they were supposed to hold
neutral! Guy Park stands empty and locked. It is an accursed place! Guy
Johnson is fled with every Tory desperado and every Indian he could
muster! May God damn him!
"Old John Butler followed; and is brigading malcontents in Canada.
Butlersbury stands deserted. May every devil in hell haunt that house!
Young Walter Butler is gone with many of our old neighbors of Tryon; and
at Niagara he is forming a merciless legion to return and cut our
throats.
"And Colonel Claus is gone, and McDonald, the bloody thief!--with his
kilted lunatics and all his Scotch banditti----"
"But Sir John remains," said I quietly.
"Jack! Are you truly so blinded by your caste! Did not you yourself
answer the militia call last winter and march with our good General to
disarm Sir John's popish Highlanders! And even then they lied--and Sir
John lied--for they hid their broad-swords and pikes! and delivered them
not when they paraded to ground their muskets!"
"Sir John has given his parole," I repeated stubbornly.
"Sir John breaks it every hour of the day!" cried Nick. "And he will
break it again when we march to take him. Do you think he won't learn of
our coming? Do you suppose he will stay at the Hall, which he has
pledged his honour to do?"
"His lady is still there."
"With his lady I have no quarrel," rejoined Nick. "I know her to be a
very young, very wilful, very bitter, and very unhappy Tory; and she
treats us plain folk like dirt under her satin shoon. But for that I
care nothing. I pity her because she is the wife of that cold, sleek
beast, Sir John. I pity her because she is gently bred and frail and
lonely and stuffed with childish pride o' race. I pity her lot there in
the great Hall, with her girl companions and her servants and her
slaves. And I pity her because everybody in County Tryon, excepting only
herself, knows that Sir John cares nothing for her, and that Claire
Putnam of Tribes Hill is Sir John's doxy!--and be damned to him! And you
think such a man will not break his word?
"He broke his vows to wife and mistress alike. Why should he keep his
vows to men?" He slid to the ground as he spoke, and I followed, for our
three drummers had formed rank and were drawing their sticks from their
cross-belts. Our fifers, also, lined up behind them; and Nick and his
young brother, John, took places with them.
"Fall in! Fall in!" cried Joe Scott, our captain; and everybody ran with
their packs and rifles to form in double ranks of sixteen files front
while the drums rolled like spring thunder, filling the woods with their
hollow sound, and the fifes shrilled like the swish of rain through
trees.
Standing at ease between Dries Bowman and Baltus Weed, I answered to the
roll call. Some among us lighted pipes and leaned on our long rifles,
chatting with neighbors; others tightened belts and straps, buttoned
spatter-dashes, or placed a sprig of hemlock above the black and white
cockades on their felt hats.
Balty Weed, who lived east of me, a thin fellow with red rims to his
eyes and dry, sparse hair tied in a queue with a knot of buckskin, asked
me in his stealthy way what I thought about our present business, and if
our Provincial Congress had not, perhaps, unjustly misjudged Sir John.
I replied cautiously. I had never trusted Balty because he frequented
taverns where few friends to liberty cared to assemble; and he was far
too thick with Philip and John Helmer and with Charlie Cady to suit my
taste.
We, in the little hamlet of Fonda's Bush, were scarce thirty families,
all counted; and yet, even here in this trackless wilderness, out of
which each man had hewed for himself a patch of garden and a stump
pasture along the little river Kennyetto, the bitter quarrel had long
smouldered betwixt Tory and Patriot--King's man and so-called Rebel.
And this was the Mohawk country. And the Mohawks stood for the King of
England.
The road, I say, ended here; but there was a Mohawk path through twenty
odd miles of untouched forest to those healing springs called Saratoga.
Except for this path and a deep worn war-trail north to the Sacandaga,
which was the Iroquois road to Canada, and except for the wood road to
Sir William's Mayfield and Fish House settlements, we of Fonda's Bush
were utterly cut off. Also, save for the new Block House at Mayfield, we
were unprotected in a vast wilderness which embodied the very centre of
the Mohawk country.
True, north of us stood that little pleasure house built for his hour of
leisure by Sir William, and called "The Summer House."
Painted white and green, it stood on a hard ridge jutting out into those
dismal, drowned lands which we call the Great Vlaie. But it was not
fortified.
Also, to the north, lay the Fish House, a hunting lodge of Sir William.
But these places were no protection for us. On the other hand, they
seemed a menace; for Tories, it had been rumoured, were ever skulking
along the Vlaie and the Sacandaga; and for aught we knew, these
buildings were already designed to be made into block-houses and to be
garrisoned by our enemies as soon as the first rifle-shot cracked out in
the cause of liberty.
       
Our company of the Mohawk Regiment numbered thirty-six rifles--all that
now remained of the old company, three-fourths of which had already
deserted to the Canadas with Butler. All our officers had fled; Joe
Scott of Maxon, formerly a sergeant, now commanded us; Benjamin de
Luysnes was our lieutenant; Dries Bowman and Phil Helmer our
sergeants--both already suspected.
Well, we got away from Stoner's, marching in double file, and only the
little creatures of the forest to hear our drums and fifes.
But the old discipline which had obtained in all our Tryon regiments
when Sir William was our Major General and the landed gentry our
officers seemed gone; a dull sense of bewilderment reigned, confusing
many among us, as when leaderless men begin to realize how they had
depended upon a sturdy staff now broken forever.
We marched with neither advanced guard nor flankers for the first half
mile; then Joe Scott halted us and made Nick Stoner put away his beloved
fife and sent him out on our right flank where the forest was heavy.
Me he selected to scout forward on the left--a dirty job where alders
and willows grew thick above the bogs.
But why in God's name our music played to advertise our coming I can not
guess, for our men needed no heartening, having courage and resolution,
only the lack of officers causing them any anxiety at all.
On the left flank of the little column I kept very easily in touch
because of this same silly drumming and fifing. And I was glad when we
came to high ground and breasted the hills which lead to that higher
plateau, over which runs the road to Johnstown.
Plodding along in the bush, keeping a keen watch for any enemy who might
come in paint or in scarlet coat, and the far rhythm of our drums
thumping dully in my ears, I wondered whether other companies of my
regiment were marching on Johnstown, and if other Tryon regiments--or
what was left of them--were also afoot that day.
Was this, then, the beginning of the war in the Northland? And, when we
made a prisoner of Sir John, would all the dusky forests glow with
scarlet war-paint and scarlet coats?
