did he do--murder someone, rob the office safe, or marry Tottie Lightfoot?
And Lord, how you both love me! And how much more you'll love me when I
become the dear departed!"

Cleigh, understanding that the situation was a creation of pure malice on
Cunningham's part--Cleigh wheeled and resumed his tramp round the deck.

Cunningham plowed his fingers through his hair, gripped and pulled it in a
kind of ecstasy. Cleigh's phiz. The memory of it would keep him in good
humour all day. After all, there was a lot of good sport in the world. The
days were all right. It was only in the quiet vigils of the night that the
uninvited thought intruded. On board the old Dutch tramp he would sleep
o'nights, and the past would present only a dull edge.

If the atoll had cocoanut palms, hang it, he would build a shack and make
it his winter home! Dolce far niente! Maybe he might take up the brush
again and do a little amateur painting. Yes, in the daytime the old top
wasn't so bad. He hoped he would have no more nonsense from Flint. A surly
beggar, but a necessary pawn in the game.

Pearls! Some to sell and some to play with. Lovely, tenderly beautiful
pearls--a rope of them round Jane Norman's throat. He slid off the chair.
As a fool, he hung in the same gallery as the Cleighs.

Cleigh ate his breakfast alone. Upon inquiry he learned that Jane was
indisposed and that Dennison had gone into the pantry and picked up his
breakfast there. Cleigh found the day unspeakably dull. He read, played
the phonograph, and tried all the solitaires he knew; but a hundred times
he sensed the want of the pleasant voice of the girl in his ears.

What would she be demanding of him as a reparation? He was always sifting
this query about, now on this side, now on that, without getting anywhere.
Not money. What then?

That night both Jane and Dennison came in to dinner. Cleigh saw instantly
that something was amiss. The boy's face was gloomy and his lips locked,
and the girl's mouth was set and cheerless. Cleigh was fired by curiosity
to ascertain the trouble, but here again was an impasse.

"I'm sorry I spoke so roughly last night," said Dennison, unexpectedly.

"And I am sorry that I answered you so sharply. But all this worry and
fuss over me is getting on my nerves. You've written down Cunningham as a
despicable rogue, when he is only an interesting one. If only you would
give banter for banter, you might take some of the wind out of his sails.
But instead you go about as if the next hour was to be our last!"

"Who knows?"

"There you go! In a minute we'll be digging up the hatchet again."

But she softened the reproach by smiling. At this moment Cunningham came
in briskly and cheerfully. He sat down, threw the napkin across his knees,
and sent an ingratiating smile round the table.

"Cleigh"--he was always talking to Cleigh, and apparently not minding in
the least that he was totally ignored--"Cleigh, they are doing a good job
in the Santa Maria delle Grazie, so I am told. Milan, of course. They are
restoring Da Vinci's Cenacolo. What called it to mind is the fact that
this is also the last supper. To-morrow at this hour you will be in
possession and I'll be off for my pearls."

The recipients of this remarkable news appeared petrified for a space.
Cunningham enjoyed the astonishment.

"Sounds almost too good to be true, doesn't it? Still, it's a fact."

"That's tiptop news, Cunningham," said Dennison. "I hope when you go down
the ladder you break your infernal neck. But the luck is on your side."

"Let us hope that it stays there," replied Cunningham, unruffled. He
turned to Cleigh again: "I say, we've always been bewailing that job of Da
Vinci's. But the old boy was a seer. He knew that some day there would be
American millionaires and that I'd become a force in art. So he put his
subject on a plaster wall so I couldn't lug it off. A canvas the same
size, I don't say; but the side of a church!"

"A ship is going to pick you up to-morrow?" asked Jane.

"Yes. The crew of the Wanderer goes to the Haarlem and the Haarlem
crew transships to the Wanderer. You see, Cleigh, I'm one of those
efficiency sharks. In this game I have left nothing to chance. Nothing
except an act of God--as they say on the back of your steamer ticket--can
derange my plans. Not the least bit of inconvenience to you beyond going
out of your course for a few days. The new crew was signed on in
Singapore--able seamen wanting to return to the States. Hired them in your
name. Clever idea of me, eh?"

"Very," said Cleigh, speaking directly to Cunningham for the first time
since the act of piracy.

"And this will give you enough coal to turn and make Manila, where you can
rob the bunkers of one of your freighters. Now, then, early last winter in
New York a company was formed, the most original company in all this rocky
old world--the Great Adventure Company, of which I am president and
general adviser. Pearls! Each member of the crew is a shareholder,
undersigned at fifteen hundred shares, par value one dollar. These shares
are redeemable October first in New York City if the company fails, or are
convertible into pearls of equal value if we succeed. No widows and
orphans need apply. Fair enough."

"Fair enough, indeed," admitted Cleigh.

Dennison stared at his father. He did not quite understand this
willingness to hold converse with the rogue after all this rigorously
maintained silence.

"Of course the Great Adventure Company had to be financed," went on
Cunningham with a deprecating gesture.

"Naturally," assented Cleigh. "And that, I suppose, will be my job?"

"Indirectly. You see, Eisenfeldt told me he had a client ready to pay
eighty thousand for the rug, and that put the whole idea into my noodle."

"Ah! Well, you will find the crates and frames and casings in the forward
hold," said Cleigh in a tone which conveyed nothing of his thoughts. "It
would be a pity to spoil the rug and the oils for the want of a little
careful packing."

Cunningham rose and bowed.

"Cleigh, you are a thoroughbred!"

Cleigh shook his head.

"I'll have your hide, Cunningham, if it takes all I have and all I am!"




CHAPTER XIX


Cunningham sat down. "The spirit is willing, Cleigh, but the flesh is
weak. You'll never get my hide. How will you go about it? Stop a moment
and mull it over. How are you going to prove that I've borrowed the rug
and the paintings? These are your choicest possessions. You have many at
home worth more, but these things you love. Out of spite, will you inform
the British, the French, the Italian governments that you had these
objects and that I relieved you of them? In that event you'll have my
hide, but you'll never set eyes upon the oils again except upon their
lawful walls--the rug, never! On the other hand, there is every chance in
the world of my returning them to you."

"Your word?" interrupted Jane, ironically.

So Cleigh was right? A quarter of a million in art treasures!

"My word! I never before realized," continued Cunningham, "what a fine
thing it is to possess something to stand on firmly--a moral plank."

Dennison's laughter was sardonic.

"Moral plank is good," was his comment.

"Miss Norman," said Cunningham, maliciously, "I slept beside the captain
this morning, and he snores outrageously." The rogue tilted his chin and
the opal fire leaped into his eyes. "Do you want me to tell you all about
the Great Adventure Company, or do you want me to shut up and merely
proceed with the company's business without further ado? Why the devil
should I care what you think of me? Still, I do care. I want you to get my
point of view--a rollicking adventure, in which nobody loses anything and
I have a great desire fulfilled. Hang it, it's a colossal joke, and in the
end the laugh will be on nobody! Even Eisenfeldt will laugh," he added,
enigmatically.

"Do you intend to take the oils and the rug and later return them?"
demanded Jane.

"Absolutely! That's the whole story. Only Cleigh here will not believe it
until the rug and oils are dumped on the door-step of his New York home. I
needed money. Nobody would offer to finance a chart with a red cross on
it. So I had to work it out in my own fashion. The moment Eisenfeldt sees
these oils and the rug he becomes my financier, but he'll never put his
claw on them except for one thing--that act of God they mention on the
back of your ticket. Some raider may have poked into this lagoon of mine.
In that case Eisenfeldt wins."

Cleigh smiled.

"A pretty case, Cunningham, but it won't hold water. It is inevitable that
Eisenfeldt gets the rug and the paintings, and you are made comfortable
for the rest of your days. A shabby business, and you shall rue it."

"My word?"

"I don't believe in it any longer," returned Cleigh.

Cunningham appealed to Jane.

"Give me the whole story, then I'll tell you what I believe," she said.
"You may be telling the truth."

What a queer idea--wanting his word believed! Why should it matter to him
whether they believed in the honour of his word or not, when he held the
whip hand and could act as he pleased? The poor thing! And as that phrase
was uttered in thought, the glamour of him was dissipated; she saw
Cunningham as he was, a poor benighted thing, half boy, half demon, a
thing desperately running away from his hurt and lashing out at friends
