prolific in this fine breed of young men as she still was 
in opportunities for the exceptional of every class. 
And it was possible that Mortimer was not one of 
them. 
Once more she put a fact into bald words. She knew 
that her butterfly youth had come to an end with her 
mother's death, and for a year she should be very much 
alone, to say nothing of her new burden of responsibilities. Thinking during that period was inevitable. She 
might as well begin now. 
Mortimer had some of those gifts. He worked like a 
dog, he was ambitious and temperate and he was the 
soul of honor. But although his brain was clear enough, 
the blindest love would perceive in time that it lacked 
originality. 
Did it also lack inithative, resource, that peculiar alertness and quick pouncing quality of which she had heard ? 
She wished she knew, but she had never discussed her 
husband with any one. Certainly he had stood stUl. Or 
was that merely the fault of the hard times? She had 
heard other men complain as bitterly. 
' ' Fate handed you a lemon, old girl. ' ' 
Alexina could almost hear AUeen's mocking voice. 
She even gave a startled glance down the quiet avenue. 
 
"Well, she would never discuss him with Aileen or any 
one else. 
Did she love him any longer? Had she ever loved 
him ? What was love ? She had been quite happy with 
him in her own little way. What did girls of eighteen 
know of love? Deliberately in her youthful arrogance 
and unlicensed imagination she had manufactured a 
fool's paradise; and, a hero being indispensable, had 
dragged him in after her. 
Perhaps she still loved him. She had read and seen 
enough to know that love changed its character as the 
years went on. She respected his many admirable qualities and she would never forget his devotion to her 
mother. 
She certainly liked him. And the family attitude 
roused her obstinate championship as much as ever. At 
least she would always remain his good friend, helping 
him as far as lay in her power. She had deliberately 
selected her life partner and she would keep her part of 
the contract. He filled his to the letter, or as far as in 
him lay. If he were not the masterful superman of her 
dreams, at least he was quite obstinate enough to have 
his own way in many things, in spite of his unswerving 
devotion to her charming self. He was whitely angry 
when she received Bob Cheever one afternoon when she 
was alone, and had forbidden her ever to receive a man 
in the daytime again. If men wanted to call on a married woman they could do so in the evening. She no 
longer danced more than twice with any man at a party, 
and he refused to read her favorite books, new or old, 
and chilled any attempt to discuss them in his presence. 
vri 
Well, after all, what did it matter? She had dreamed 
her dream and he was better than most. She sprang to 
her feet and ran down the hill and across the street to 
the house of Judge Lawton. 
 
CHAPTER III 
GORA waited until her brother had finished his bath 
and returned to his room. When she was admitted 
he had a brush in either hand polishing his pale brown 
immaculately cut hair. He turned to her, startled, his 
good American gray eyes showing no trace of sleep. He 
always awoke with alert mind and refreshed body. 
"What is it? Not " 
Gora nodded. "At two this morning. Alexina 
wouldn't let me call you " 
His wide masculine eyebrows met. It was correct to 
be angry and he was. "I never heard of such a 
thing " 
' ' She was not a bit overcome and wrote letters to her 
brothers and friends for at least two hours. It really 
wouldn't have been worth while to disturb you — I must 
say I was astonished; thought she'd go to pieces — but 
you never know. ' ' 
" I'll go to her at once. ' ' 
"I'd dress first. Aileen Lawton is with her." 
Gora knew that Alexina had gone out at four in the 
morning and returned half an hour since, but the cat in 
her was of the tiger variety and never descended to small 
game. 
"Oh, of course!" Mortimer gave a groan of resignation as he hunted out a pair of black socks. "I like 
Aileen well enough, but she has altogether too much 
influence over Alexina. She'd have more than myself 
if I didn 't keep a close watch. ' ' 
"I have an idea that no one will have much influence 
over Alexina as time goes on. She hasn't that jaw and 
chin for nothing. They mean things ia some people." 
He gave her a quick suspicious glance, but her pale 
gray eyes were fixed on the windmill beyond the window, 
that odd old landmark in a now fashionable quarter of 
San Francisco. 
 
" I shall always control her, ' ' he said, setting his large 
finely cut lips. ' ' I wish her to remain a child as long as 
possible, for she is quite perfect as she is. She is bright 
and all that, bnt of course she has no intellect " 
Gora forgot her message of death and laughed out- 
right. 
"Men — American men, anyhow — are really the funniest things in the world. Even intellectual men are 
absurd in their patronizing attitude toward the cleverest 
of women; but when it comes to mere njasculine arrogance . . . don't you really respect any woman's 
brains?" 
"I never denied that some women were clever and all 
that, but the best of them cannot compare with men. 
You must admit that." 
"I admit nothing of the sort, but I know your type 
too well to waste any time in argument " 
"My type?" 
She longed to reply: "The smaller a man's brain the 
more enveloping his mere male arrogance. Instinct of 
self-defense like the turtle's shell or the porcupine's 
quills or the mephitic weasel's extravasations." But she 
never quarreled with Morty, and to have shared with 
him her opinion of his endowments would have been to 
deprive herself of a good deal of secret amusement. 
"Oh, you're all alike," she said lightly, and added: 
"Don't be too sure that Alexina hasn't intellect — the 
real thing. "When she emerges from this beatific dream 
of youth she has almost hugged to death for fear it 
might escape her, and begins to think " 
"I'll do her thinking." 
"All right, dear. You have my best wishes. But keep 
on the job. . . . I'll clear out; you want to dress " 
"Wait a moment."' He sat down to draw on his socks. 
" I 'm really cut up over Mrs. Groome 's death. She was 
my only friend in this damn family, and I coveted her 
money so little that I wish she could have lived on for 
twenty years. ' ' 
"I wondered how you liked them as time went on." 
He brought his teeth together and thrust out his jaw. 
"I hate the whole pack of superior patronizing condescending snobs, and it is all I can do to keep it from 
Alexina, who thinks her tribe perfection. But, by God ! ' ' 
— he brought down his fist on his knee — "I'll beat them, 
at their own game yet. I simply live to make a million 
and build a house at Burlingame. They really respect 
money as much as they think they don't; I've got on to 
that. When I'm a rich man they'll think of me as their 
equal and forget I was ever anything else." 
"Well, don't speculate," said Gora uneasily. "Remember that luck was left out of our famUy." 
"My luck changed with that legacy. I am certain of 
it. I have only to wait until this period of dry rot 
passes " 
"But you're not speculating?" 
He looked at her with eyes as cold as her own. 
"I answer questions about my private affairs to no 
one. ' ' 
"They are my affairs to the extent of half your 
capital. ' ' 
"You have received your interest regularly, have you 
not?" 
"Yes." 
"Then you have nothing to worry about. I understand business, as well as the man's opportunities, and 
you do not." 
' ' I did not ask out of curiosity, but because I shall be 
glad when you are doing well enough to let me have my 
eight thousand " 
"What do you want of it? Where could you get more 
interest?" 
"Nowhere, possibly. But some day I shall want to 
take a vacation, a fling. I shall want to go to New York 
and Europe." 
"And you would throw away your capital?" 
"Why not? I have other capital in my profession; 
and, although you will find this difficult to grasp, in my 
head. I have practiced fiction writing for years. It is 
just ten months since I tried to get anything published, 
and I have recently had three stories accepted by New 
York magazines: one of the old group and two of the 
best of the popular magazines." 
 
He looked at her with cold distaste, which deepened 
in a moment to alarm. "I hope you will not use your 
own name. These people who think themselves so much 
above us anyhow, look upon authors and artists and all 
that as about on a level with the working class " 
"I shall use my own name and ram it down their 
throats. They worship success like all the rest of the 
world. Their fancied distaste for people engaged in any 
of the art careers — with whom they practically never 
come in contact, by the way — is partly an instinctive 
distrust of anything they cannot do themselves and 
partly because they have an Elizabethan idea that all 
artists are common and have offensive manners." 
"I don't like the idea of your using your own name. 
Ladies may unfortunately be obliged to earn their own 
living — and that you shall never do when I am rich — 
but they have no business putting their names up before 
the public like men. ' ' 
Grora looked at his rigid indomitable face ; the face of 
the Pilgrim fathers, of the revolutionary statesmen, 
which he had inherited intact from old John Dwight 
who had sat in the first congress; the American classic 
face that is passing but still crops out as nuexpectedly 
as the last drop from a long forgotten "tar brush," or 
the sly recurrent Biblical profile. 
"We will make a bargain," she said calmly. "I will 
ask you no more questions about your business for a 
year — when, if convenient, I should like my money — 
