A stoutish woman out of a Paris fashion-plate came trotting across
the room, smiling in welcome: “Meester Rosythe!” She had black
earrings flapping from each ear, and her face was white, with a
streak of scarlet for lips. She took the critic by his two hands,
and the critic, laughing, said: “Respondez, Madame! Does God bring
the ladies to this place?”
“Ah, surely, Meester Rosythe! The god of beautee, he breengs them to
us! And the leetle god with the golden arrow, the rosy cheeks and
the leetle dimple--the dimple that we make heem for two hundred
dollars a piece--eh, Meester Rosythe? He breengs the ladies to us!”
The critic turned. “Madame Planchet, permit me to introduce Mr.
Carpenter. He is a man of wonder, he heals pain, and does it by
means of love.”
“Oh, how eenteresting! But what eef love heemself ees pain--who
shall heal that, eh, Meester Carpentair?”
“O-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-h!” came the moan.
Said Rosythe: “Mr. Carpenter thinks you make the ladies suffer too
much. It worries him.”
“Ah, but the ladies do not mind! Pain? What ees eet? The lady who
makes the groans, she cannot move, and so she ees unhappy. Also, she
likes to have her own way, she ees a leetle--what you say?--spoilt.
But her troubles weel pass; she weel be beautiful, and her husband
weel love her more, and she weel be happy.”
“O-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-oh!” from the other room; and Madame Planchet
prattled away: “I say to them, Make plenty of noises! Eet helps! No
one weel be afraid, for all here are worshippers of the god of
beautee--all weel bear the pains that he requires. Eh, Meester
Carpentair?”
Carpenter was staring at her. I had not before seen such intensity
of concentration on his face. He was trying to understand this
situation, so beyond all believing.
“I weel tell you something,” said Madame Planchet, lowering her
voice confidentially. “The lady what you hear--that ees Meeses T-S.
You know Meester T-S, the magnate of the peectures?”
Carpenter did not say whether he knew or not.
“They come to me always, the peecture people; to me. The magician,
the deputee of the god of beautee. Polly Pretty, she comes, and
Dolly Dimple, she comes, and Lucy Love, she comes, and Betty Belle
Bird. They come to me for the hair, and for the eyes, and for the
complexion. You are a workair of miracles yourself--but can you do
what I do? Can you make the skeen all new? Can you make the old
young?”
“O-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-oh!”
“Mary Magna, she comes to me, and she breengs me her old
grandmother, and she says, ‘Madame,’ she says, ‘make her new from
the waist up, for you can nevair tell how the fashions weel change,
and what she weel need to show.’ Ha, ha, ha, she ees wittee, ees the
lovely Mary! And I take the old lady, and her wrinkles weel be gone,
and her skeen weel be soft like a leetle baby’s, and in her cheeks
weel be two lovely dimples, and she weel dance with the young boys,
and they weel not know her from her grandchild--ha, ha, ha!--ees eet
not the wondair?”
I knew by now where I was. I had heard many times of Madame
Planchet’s beauty-parlors. I sat, wondering; should I take Carpenter
by the arm, and lead him gently out? Or should I leave him to fight
his own fight with modern civilization?
“O-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-oh!”
Madame turned suddenly upon me. “I know you, Meester Billee,” she
said. “I have seen you with Mees Magna! Ah, naughtee boy! You have
the soft, fine hair--you should let it grow--eight inches we have to
have, and then you can come to me for the permanent wave. So many
young men come to me for the permanent wave! You know eet? Meester
Carpentair, you see, he has let hees hair grow, and he has the
permanent wave--eet could not be bettair eef I had done eet myself.
I say always, ‘My work ees bettair than nature, I tell nature by the
eemperfections.’ Eh, voila?”
I am not sure whether it was for the benefit of me or of Carpenter.
The deputee of the god of beautee was moved to volunteer a great
revelation. “Would you like to see how we make eet--the permanent
wave? I weel show you Messes T-S. But you must not speak--she would
not like eet if I showed her to gentlemen. But her back ees turned
and she cannot move. We do not let them see the apparatus, because
eet ees rather frightful, eet would make them seek. You will be very
steel, eh?”
“Mum’s the word, Madame,” said Rosythe, speaking for the three of
us.
“O-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-oh!” moaned the voice.
“First, I weel tell you,” said Madame. “For the complete wave we wind
the hair in tight leetle coils on many rods. Eet ees very delicate
operations--every hair must be just so, not one crooked, not one
must we skeep. Eet takes a long time--two hours for the long hair;
and eet hurts, because we must pull eet so tight. We wrap each coil
een damp cloths, and we put them een the contacts, and we turn on
the eelectreeceetee--and then eet ees many hours that the hair ees
baked, ees cooked een the proper curves, eh? Now, very steel, eef
you please!”
And softly she opened the door.
X
Before us loomed what I can only describe as a mountain of red
female flesh. This flesh-mountain had once apparently been slightly
covered by embroidered silk lingerie, but this was now soaked in
moisture and reduced to the texture of wet tissue paper. The top of
the flesh-mountain ended in an amazing spectacle. It appeared as if
the head had no hair whatever; but starting from the bare scalp was
an extraordinary number of thin rods, six inches or so in length.
These rods stood out in every direction, and being of gleaming
metal, they gave to the head the aspect of some bright Phoebus
Apollo, known as the “far-darter;” or shall I say some fierce Maenad
with electric snakes having nickel-plated skins; or shall I say some
terrific modern war-god, pouring poison gases from a forest of
chemical tubes? Over the top of the flesh-mountain was a big metal
object, a shining concave dome with which all the tubes connected;
so that a stranger to the procedure could not have felt sure whether
the mountain was holding up the dome, or was dangling from it. A
piece of symbolism done by a maniac artist, whose meaning no one
could fathom!
From the dome there was given heat; so from the pores of the
flesh-mountain came perspiration. I could not say that I actually
saw perspiration flowing from any particular pore; it is my
understanding that pores are small, and do not squirt visible jets.
What I could say is that I saw little trickles uniting to form
brooks, and brooks to form rivers, which ran down the sides of the
flesh-mountain, and mingled in an ocean on the floor.
Also I observed that flesh-mountains when exposed to heat do not
stand up of their own consistency, but have a tendency to melt and
flatten; it was necessary that this bulk should be supported, so
there were three attendants, one securely braced under each armpit,
and the third with a more precarious grip under the mountain’s chin.
Every thirty seconds or so the heaving, sliding mass would emit one
of those explosive groans: “O-o-o-o-o-oh!” Then it would collapse,
an avalanche would threaten to slide, and the living caryatids would
shove and struggle.
Said Madame Planchet, in her stage-whisper: “The serveece of the
young god of beautee!” And my fancy took flight. I saw proud vestals
tending sacred flames on temple-clad islands in blue Grecian seas; I
saw acolytes waving censers, and grave, bearded priests walking in
processions crowned with myrtle-wreaths. I wondered if ever since
the world began, the young god of beautee looking down from his
crystal throne had beheld a stranger ritual of adoration!
Silently we drew back from the door-way, and Madame closed the door,
reducing the promethean groans and the strong ammoniacal odors. I
did not see the face of Carpenter, because he had turned it from us.
Rosythe favored me with a smile, and whispered, “Your friend doesn’t
care for beautee!” Then he added, “What do you suppose he meant by
that stuff about ‘the price of life’ and ‘the choice of God?’”
“Didn’t you really get it?” I asked.
“I’m damned if I did.”
“My dear fellow,” I said, “you didn’t tell us what sort of place
this was; and Carpenter thought it must be a maternity-ward.”
The moving picture critic of the Western City “Times” gave me one
wild look; then from his throat there came a sound like the sudden
bleat of a young sheep in pain. It caused Carpenter to start, and
Madame Planchet to start, and for the first time since we entered
the place, the birds of paradise gave signs of life elsewhere than
in the eye-muscles. The sheep gave a second bleat, and then a third,
and Rosythe, red in the face and apparently choking, turned and fled
to the corridor.
Madame Planchet drew me apart and said: “Meester Billee, tell me
something. Ees eet true that thees gentleman ees a healer? He takes
away the pains?”
“He did it for me,” I answered.
“He ees vairy handsome, eh, Meester Billee?”
“Yes, that is true.”
“I have an idea; eet ees a wondair.” She turned to my friend.
“Meester Carpentair, they tell me that you heal the pains. I think
eet would be a vairy fine thing eef you would come to my parlor and
attend the ladies while I give them the permanent wave, and while I
skeen them, and make them the dimples and the sweet smiles. They
suffer so, the poor dears, and eef you would seet and hold their
hands, they would love eet, they would come every day for eet, and
you would be famous, and you would be reech. You would meet--oh,
such lovely ladies! The best people in the ceety come to my beauty
parlors, and they would adore you, Meester Carpentair--what do you
say to eet?”
It struck me as curious, as I looked back upon it; Madame Planchet
so far had not heard the sound of Carpenter’s voice. Now she forced
him to speak, but she did not force him to look at her. His gaze
went over her head, as if he were seeing a vision; he recited:
“Because the daughters of Zion are haughty, and walk with stretched
forth necks and wanton eyes, walking and mincing as they go, and
making a tinkling with their feet; therefore the Lord will smite
with a scab the crown of the head of the daughters of Zion, and the
Lord will discover their secret parts.”
“Oh, mon Dieu!” cried Madame Planchet.
“In that day the Lord will take away the bravery of their twinkling
ornaments about their feet, and their cauls, and their round tires
like the moon, the chains, and the bracelets, and the mufflers, the
bonnets, and the ornaments of the legs, and the headbands, and the
tablets, and the earrings, the rings and nose jewels, the changeable
suits of apparel, and the mantles, and the wimples, and the crisping
pins, the glasses, and the fine linen, and the hoods, and the veils.
And it shall come to pass that instead of sweet smell there shall be
stink; and instead of a girdle a rent; and instead of well set hair,
baldness; and instead of a stomacher a girding of sackcloth: and
burning instead of beauty.”
And at that moment the door from the corridor was flung open, and
Mary Magna came in.
XI
“My God, will you look who’s here! Billy, wretched creature, I
haven’t laid eyes on you for two months! Do you have to desert me
entirely, just because you’ve fallen in love with a society girl
with the face of a Japanese doll-baby? What’s the matter with me,
that I lose my lovers faster than I get them? Edgerton Rosythe, come
in here--you’ve got a good excuse, I admit--I’m almost as much
scared of your wife as you are yourself. But still, I’d like a
chance to get tired of some man first. Hello, Planchet, how’s my old
grannie making out in your scalping-shop? Say, would you think it
would take three days labor for half a dozen Sioux squaws to pull
the skin off one old lady’s back? And a week to tie up the corners
of her mouth and give her a permanent smile! ‘Why, grannie,’ I said,
