Wait a moment." 
He disappeared into his bedroom and Madeleine followed. He had not noticed the books 
and Masters' first impulse was to gather them 
up and replace them in the chest. But he sat 
down to his proofs instead. The Doctor 
returned in a few moments. 
" Madeleine will finish. She's a wonder at 
packing. Hello! What's this?'' He had 
caught sight of the books, 
" Some of mine. Mrs. Talbot expressed a 
wish — " 
" Why in thunder don't you call her Madeleine? You're as much her friend as mine. . . . 
Well, I don't mind as much as I did, for I 
find women are all reading more than they 
used to, and I'm bound to say they don't have 
the blues while a good novel lasts. CXiida's a 
pretty good dose and lasts about a week. But 
don't give her too much serious stuff. It will 
only addle her brains." 
" Oh, she has very good brains. Mrs. 
Abbott was here just now, and although she is 
not what I should call literary — or too lit- 
erate — she seemed to think your wife was just 
the sort of woman who should read." 
"Mrs. Abbott's a danmed old nuisance. 
You must have been overjoyed at the interruption. But if Madeleine has to put on pince- 
nez — " 
" Oh, never fear! " Madeleine was smiling 
radiantly as she entered. Her volatile spirits 
were soaring. " My eyes are the strongest part 
of me. What did you have to tell Mr. Masters ? " 
 
" Jove ! I'd almost forgotten, and it's great 
news, too. What would you say. Masters, to 
editing a paper of your own ? " 
" What ? " 
" There's a conspiracy abroad — I won't 
deny I had a hand in it — no light under the 
bushel for me — to raise the Tiecessary capital 
and have a really first-class newspaper in this 
town. San Francisco deserves the best, and if 
we've had nothing but rags, so far — barring 
poor James King of William's Bulletin — it's 
because we've never had a man before big 
enough to edit a great one." 
" I have no words ! It is almost too good 
to be true ! " 
Madeleine watched him curiously. His voice 
was trembling and his eyes were flashing. He 
was tall but had drawn himself up in his excitement and seemed quite an inch taller. He 
looked about to wave a sword and lead a charge. 
Establishing a newspaper meant a hard fight 
and he was eager for the fray. 
She had had but few opportunities to study 
him in detail unobserved. She had never 
thought him handsome, for he was clean 
shaven, with deep vertical lines, and he wore 
 
his black hair very short. Her preference was 
for fair men with drooping moustaches and 
locks sweeping the collar j although her admiration for this somewhat standardized type had 
so far been wholly impersonal. Even the doctor clipped his moustache as it interfered with 
his soup, and his rusty brown hair was straight, 
although of the orthodox length. But she had 
not married Howard for his looks ! 
She noted the hard line of jaw and sharp 
incisive profile. His face had power as well as 
intellect, yet there was a hint of weakness somewhere. Possibly the lips of his well-cut mouth 
were a trifle too firmly set to be unselfconscious. And his broad forehead lacked serenity. There was a furrow between the eyes. 
It was with the eyes she was most familiar. 
They were gray, brilHant, piercing, wide apart 
and deeply set. She had noted more than once 
something alert, watchful, in their expression, 
as if they were the guardians of the intellect 
above and defied the weakness the lower part 
of his face barely hinted to clash for a moment 
with his ambitions. 
She heard little of his rapid fire of questions 
and Howard's answers} but when the doctor 
 
had pulled out his watch, kissed her hurriedly, 
snatched his bag and dashed from the room, 
Masters to<^ her hands in his, his eyes glowing. 
" Did you hear? " he cried. " Did you 
hear ? I am to have my own newspaper. My 
dream has come true ! A hundred thousand 
dollars are promised. I shall have as good a 
news service as any in New York." 
Madeleine withdrew her hands but smiled 
brightly and made him a pretty speech of 
congratulation. She knew little of news- 
papers and cared less, but there must be something extraordinary about owning one to excite 
a man like Langdon Masters. She had never 
seen him excited before. 
" Won't it mean a great deal harder work ?" 
" Oh, work ! I thrive on work. I've never 
had enough. Come and sit down. Let me talk 
to you. Let me be egotistical and talk about 
myself. Let me tell you all my pent-up ambitions and hopes and desires — you wonderful little Egeria! " 
And he poured himself out to her as he 
had never unbosomed himself before. He 
stayed on to dinner — she had no engagement 
— and left her only for the office. He had 
 
evidently forgotten the earlier episode, and he 
swept it from her own mind. That mind, 
subtle, feminine, yielding, melted into his. 
She shared those ambitions and hopes and de- 
sires. His brilliant and useful future was as 
real and imperative to her as to himself. It 
was a new, a wonderful, a thrilling experience. 
When she went to bed, smiling and happy, 
she slammed a little door in her mind and shot 
the bolt. A terrible fear had shaken her three 
hoiu-s before, but she refused to recall it. Once 
more the present sufficed. 
XVIII 
MADELEINE went to Mrs. Abbott's 
reception, but there was nothing conciliatory nor apologetic in her mien. She had intended to be merely natural, but when she met 
that battery of eyes, amused, mocking, sympathetic, encouraging, and realized that Mrs. 
Abbott's tongue had been wagging, she was 
filled with an anger and resentment that ex- 
pressed itself in a cold pride of bearing and a 
militant sparkle of the eye. She was gracious 
and aloof and Mrs. McLane approved her 
audibly. 
" Exactly as I should feel and look myself,'' 
she said to Mrs. Ballinger and Guadalupe 
Hathaway. " She's a royal creature and she 
has moved in the great world. No wonder she 
resents the petty gossip of this village." 
" Well, PU acquit her," said Mrs. Ballinger 
tartly. " A more cold-blooded and unattractive 
man I've never met." 
"Langdon Masters is by no means unattractive," announced Miss Hathaway out of 
her ten years' experience as a belle and an unconscionable flirt. " I have sat in the conservatory with him several times. It may be that 
Mrs. Abbott stepped in before it was too late. 
And it may be that she did not." 
" Oh, call no woman virtuous until she is 
dead," said Mrs. McLane lightly. "But I 
won't hear another insinuation against Madeleine Talbot." 
Mrs. Abbott kissed the singed brand it had 
been her mission to snatch in the nick of time 
and detained her in conversation with unusual 
empressement. Madeleine responded with an 
excessive politeness, and Mrs. Abbott learned 
for the first time that sweet brown eyes could 
glitter as coldly as her own protuberant orbs 
when pronouncing judgment. 
Madeleine remained for two hours, bored 
and disgusted, the more as Masters' name was 
ostentatiously avoided. Even Sally Ballinger, 
who kissed her warmly, told her that she 
looked as if she hadn't a care in the world and 
that it was because she had too much sense to 
bother about men! 
She had never been treated with more 
 
friendly intimaqr, and if she went home with a 
headache it was at least a satisfaction to know 
that her proud position was still scandal-proof. 
She wisely modified her first program and 
drifted back into afternoon society by degrees; 
a plan of defensive campaign highly approved 
by Mrs. McLane, who detested lack of finesse. 
The winter was an unsatisfactory one for 
Madeleine altogether. Society would not have 
bored her so much perhaps if that secret en- 
chanting background had remained intact. But 
her intercourse with Masters was necessarily 
sporadic. Her conscience had never troubled 
her for receiving his visits, for her husband 
not only had expressed his approval, but had 
always urged her to amuse herself with men. 
But she felt like an intriguante when she discussed her engagement lists with Masters, and 
she knew that he liked it as little. His dsits 
were now a matter for " sandwiching,'' to be 
schemed and planned for, and she dared not 
ask herself whether the persistent sense of fear 
that haunted her was that they both must be- 
tray self -consciousness in time, or that the more 
difficult order would bore him: their earlier intimacy had coincided with his hours of leisure. 
After all, he was not her lover, to delight in 
intrigue J and in time, it might be, he would not 
think the game worth th» candle. She dreaded 
that revived gossip might drive him from the 
hotel, and that would be the miserable begin- 
ning of an unthinkable end. 
There were other interruptions. He paid 
a flying visit to Richmond to visit the death-bed 
of his mother, and he took a trip to the Sand- 
wich Islands to recover from a severe cold on 
the chest. Moreover, his former placidity had 
left him, for one thing and another delayed the 
financing of his newspaper. One of its 
founders was temporarily embarrassed for 
ready money, another awaited an opportune 
moment to realize on some valuable stock. 
There was no doubt that the entire amoimt 
would be forthcoming in time, but meanwhile 
