he knew what mental suffering was! But Enschede 
was right: Ruth must never know. To find the 
true father at the expense of the beautiful fairy tale 
Ruth had woven around the woman in the locket 
was an intolerable thought. But the father, to go 
 
his way forever alone! The iron in the man! —  the 
iron in this child of his! 
Wanting a little love, a caress now and then. 
Spurlock bent his head to his knees. He took into 
his soul some of the father's misery, some of the 
daughter's, to mingle with his own. Enschede, to 
have starved his heart as well as Ruth's because, 
having laid a curse, he knew not how to turn aside 
from it ! How easily he might have forgotten the un- 
worthy mother in the love of the child! And this day 
to hear her voice lifted in a quality of anathema. Poor 
Ruth : for a father, a madman ; for a husband —  a thi  ! 
Spurlock rocked his body slightly. He knew that 
at this moment Ruth lay upon her bed in torment, 
for she was by nature tender; and the reaction of her 
scathing words, no matter how justifiable, would be 
putting scars on her soul. And he, her lawful hus- 
band, dared not go to her and console her ! Accursed 
— all of them —  Enschede, Ruth, and himself. 
"What's the matter, lad, after all the wonderful 
fireworks at lunch?" 
Spurlodc beheld McClintodc istanding beside him. 
He waved a hand toward the sea. 
"A sail?" said McClintock. "What about it?" 
"Enschede." 
"Enschede? — her father? What's happened?" 
McClintock sat down. " Do you mean to tell me he's 
come and gone in an hour? What the devil kind 
if a father is he?" 
 
Spurlock shook his head. 
"What's become of Ruth?" 
"Gone to her room." 
Come, lad; let's have it," said McClintoek. 
'' Anything that concerns Ruth is of interest to me. 
l at happened between Ruth and her father that 
made him hurry off without passing ordinary 
courtesies with me?" 
"I suppose I ought to tell you," said Spurlock; 
"but it is understood that Ruth shall never know 
the truth." 
"Not if it will hurt her." 
"Hurt her? It would tear her to pieces; 
God knows she has had enough. Her mother .   . 
Do you recall the night she showed you the face in 
the locket? Do you remember how she said — 'If 
only my mother had lived'? Did you ever see any- 
thing more tender or beautiful?" 
"I remember. Go on and tell me." 
When Spurlodc had finished the tale, touched here 
and there by his own imagination, McClintoek 
made a negative sign. 
"So that was it? And what the devil are you 
doing here, moping alone on the beach? Why aren't 
you with her in this hour of bitterness?" 
"What can I do?" 
"You can go to her and take her in your arms." 
"I might have been able to do that if you hadn't 
told me . . . she cared." 
''Man, she's your wife!" 
"And I am a thief," 
"You're a damn fool, too!" exploded the trader. 
"I am as God made me." 
"No. God gives us an equal chance; but we 
make ourselves. You are captain of your soul; 
don't forget your Henley. But I see now. That 
poor child, trying to escape, and not knowing how. 
Her father for fifteen years, and you now for the 
rest of her life! Tell her you're a thief. Get it off 
your soul." 
"Add that to what she is now suffering? It's too 
late. She would not forgive me." 
"And why should you care whether she forgave 
you or not?" 
Spurlock jumped to his feet, the look of the 
damned upon his face. "Why? Because I love 
her! Because I loved her at the start, but was too 
big a fool to know it!" 
His own astonishment was quite equal to McClin- 
tock's. The latter began to heave himself up from 
the sand. 
Did I hear you. . . ." began McClintock. 
Yes!" interrupted Spurlock, savagely. "You 
heard me say it! It was inevitable. I might have 
known it. Another labyrinth in hell!" 
A smile broke over the trader's face. It began in 
the eyes and spread to the lips: warm, embracing, 
even fatherly. 
 'Man, man! You're coming to life. There's 
something human about you now. Go to her and 
tell her. Put your arms around her and tell her 
you love her. Dear God, what a beautiful moment ! " 
The fire went out of Spurlodc's eyes and the 
sliadow of hopeless weariness feH upon him.   I 
can't make you understand; I can't make you see 
things as I see them. As matters now stand, I'm 
only a thief, not a blackguard. What ! —  add another 
drop to her cup? Who knows? Any day they 
may find me. So long as matters remain as they 
are, and they found me, there would be no shame 
for Ruth. Can't I make you see?" 
"But I'm telling you Ruth loves you. And her 
kind of love forgives everything and anything but 
infidelity." 
"You did not hear her when she spoke to her 
father; I did." 
"But she would understand you; whereas she 
will never understand her father. Spurlodc: 'tis 
Roundhead, sure enough. Go to her, I say, and 
take her in your arms, you poor benighted Iron- 
sides ! I can't make you see. Man, if you tell her 
you love her, and later they took you away to prison, 
who would sit at the prison gate until your term was 
up? Ruth. Why am I here — thirty years of 
loneliness? Because I know women, the good and the 
bad; and because I could not have the good, I would 
not take the bad. The woman I wanted was another 
man's wife. So here I am, king of all I survey, with 
a predilection for poker, a scorched liver, and a 
piano-player. But you! Ruth is your lawful wife. 
Not to go to her is wickeder than if I had run away 
with my friend's wife. You're a queer lad. With 
your pencil you see into the hearts of all; and without 
your pencil you are dumb and blind. Ruth is not 
another man's wife; she is all your own, for better 
or for worse. Have you thought of the monstrous 
lie you are adding to your theft? " 
''Lie?" said Spurlodc, astounded. 
"Aye — to pretend to her that you don't care. 
That's a most damnable lie; and when she finds 
out, 'tis then she will not forgive. She'll have this 
hour always with her; and you failed her. Gro to 
her." 
"I can't." 
"Afraid?" 
"Yes." 
This shnple admission disarmed McClintock. 
"Well, well; I have given out of my wisdom. I'd 
like to shake you imtil your bones rattled; but the 
bones of a Roundhead wouldn't rattle to any pur- 
pose. Lad, I admire you even in your folly. Mount- 
ains out of molehills and armies out of windmills; 
and you'll tire yourself in one direction and shatter 
yourself in the other. There is strength in you — 
misguided. You will torture yourself and torture 
her all through life; but in the end she will pour the 
  i ine of her faith into a sound chalice. I would 
tlaat you were my own ' 
"I, a thief?" 
 'Aye; thief. Roundhead and all. If a certain 
Isink in your sense of honour will not permit you to 
gjo to her as a lover, go to her as a comrade. Talk 
to her of the new story; divert her; for this day her 
lieart has been twisted sorely." 
McClintock without further speech strode toward 
liis bimgalow; and half an hour later Spurlock, pass-' 
ing, heard the piano-tuning key at work. 
Spurlock plodded through the heavy sand, leaden 
in the heart and mind as well as in the feet. But 
recently he had asked God to pile it all on him; and 
€rod had added this, with a fresh portion for Ruth. 
One thing —  he could be thankful for that —  the peak 
of his misfortunes had been reached; the world might 
come to an end now and not matter in the least. 
Love       to take her in his arms and to 
comfort her: and then to add to her cup of bitterness 
the knowledge that her husband was a thief! For 
himself he did not care; God could continue to 
grind and pulverize him; but to add another grain 
to the evil he had already wrought upon Ruth was 
imthinkable' The future? He dared not speculate 
upon that. 
He paused at the bamboo curtain of her room, 
which was in semi-darkness. He heard Rollo's 
stump beat a gentle tattoo on the floor. 
Silence for a moment. ''Yes. What is it?'' 
"Is there anything I can do?" The idiocy of the 
question filled him with the craving of laughter. 
Was there anything he could do! 
"No, Hoddy; nothing." 
"Would you like to have me come in and talk?" 
How tender that sounded! —  talk! 
"K you want to." 
Bamboo and bead tinkled and slithered behind 
him. The dusky obscurity of the room was twice 
welcome. He did not want Ruth to see his own 
stricken coimtenance; nor did he care to see hers, 
ravaged by tears. He knew she had been weepings 
He drew a chair to the side of the bed and sat down, 
terrified by the utter fallowness of his mind. Filled 
as he was with conflicting emotions, any stretch of 
silence would be dangerous. The fascination of 
the idea of throwing himself upon his knees and 
crying out all that was in his heart! As his eyes 
