    "Furthermore, dear Captain Darragh, we are hastening to follow
    your instructions. We are leaving to-day for your château in the
    wonderful forest, of which you told us that
    never-to-be-forgotten day in Riga.
    "Your agent is politeness, consideration and kindness itself. We
    have our accommodations. We leave New York at midnight.
    "Ricca is so excited that it is difficult for her to restrain
    her happiness. God knows the child has seen enough unhappiness
    to quench the gaiety of anybody!
    "Well, all things end. Even tears. Even the Red Terror shall
    pass from our beloved Russia. For, after all, Monsieur, God
    still lives.
            "VALENTINE."
    "P. S. Ricca has written to you. I have read the letter. I have
    let it go uncensored."
Darragh went to the door of his room:
"Ralph! Ralph!" he called. And, when Wier hurriedly appeared:
"What time does the midnight train from New York get into Five Lakes?"
"A little before nine----"
"You can make it in the flivver, can't you?"
"Yes, if I start now."
"All right. Two ladies. You're to bring them to the house, not
here. Mrs. Ray knows about them. And--get back here as soon as you
can."
He closed his door again, sat down on the bed and opened the other
letter. His hand shook as he unfolded it. He was so scared and excited
that he could scarcely decipher the angular, girlish penmanship:
    "To dear Captain Darragh, our champion and friend--
    "It is difficult for me, Monsieur, to express my happiness and
    my deep gratitude in the so cold formality of the written page.
    "Alas, sir, it will be still more difficult to find words for it
    when again I have the happiness of greeting you in proper
    person.
    "Valentine has told you everything, she warns me, and I am,
    therefore, somewhat at a loss to know what I should write to
    you.
    "Yet, I know very well what I would write if I dare. It is this:
    that I wish you to know--although it may not pass the
    censor--that I am most impatient to see you, Monsieur. Not
    because of kindness past, nor with an unworthy expectation of
    benefits to come. But because of friendship,--the deepest,
    sincerest of my WHOLE LIFE.
    "Is it not modest of a young girl to say this? Yes, surely all
    the world which was once en régle, formal, artificial, has
    been burnt out of our hearts by this so frightful calamity which
    has overwhelmed the world with fire and blood.
    "If ever on earth there was a time when we might venture to
    express with candour what is hidden within our minds and hearts,
    it would seem, Monsieur, that the time is now.
    "True, I have known you only for one day and one evening. Yet,
    what happened to the world in that brief space of time--and to
    us, Monsieur--brought us together as though our meeting were
    but a blessed reunion after the happy intimacy of many years....
    I speak, Monsieur, for myself. May I hope that I speak, also,
    for you?
    "With a heart too full to thank you, and with expectations
    indescribable--but with courage, always, for any event,--I take
    my leave of you at the foot of this page. Like death--I
    trust--my adieu is not the end, but the beginning. It is not
    farewell; it is a greeting to him whom I most honour in all the
    world.... And would willingly obey if he shall command. And
    otherwise--all else that in his mind--and heart--he might
    desire.
            "THEODORICA."
It was the most beautiful love-letter any man ever received in all the
history of love.
And it had passed the censor.
III
It was afternoon when Darragh awoke in his bunk, stiff, sore, confused
in mind and battered in body.
However, when he recollected where he was he got out of bed in a hurry
and jerked aside the window curtains.
The day was magnificent; a sky of royal azure overhead, and everywhere
the silver pillars of the birches supporting their splendid canopy of
ochre, orange, and burnt-gold.
Wier, hearing him astir, came in.
"How long have you been back! Did you meet the ladies with your
flivver?" demanded Darragh, impatiently.
"I got to Five Lakes station just as the train came in. The young ladies
were the only passengers who got out. I waited to get their two steamer
trunks and then I drove them to Harrod Place----"
"How did they seem, Ralph--worn-out--worried--ill?"
Wier laughed: "No, sir, they looked very pretty and lively to me. They
seemed delighted to get here. They talked to each other in some foreign
tongue--Russian, I should say--at least, it sounded like what we heard
over in Siberia, Captain----"
"It was Russian.... You go on and tell me while I take another hot
bath!----"
Wier followed him into the bath-room and vaulted to a seat on the deep
set window-sill:
"--When they weren't talking Russian and laughing they talked to me and
admired the woods and mountains. I had to tell them everything--they
wanted to see buffalo and Indians. And when I told them there weren't
any, enquired for bears and panthers.
"We saw two deer on the Scaur, and a woodchuck near the house; I thought
they'd jump out of the flivver----"
He began to laugh at the recollection: "No, sir, they didn't act tired
and sad; they said they were crazy to get into their knickerbockers and
go to look for you----"
"Where did you say I was?" asked Darragh, drying himself vigorously.
"Out in the woods, somewhere. The last I saw of them, Mrs. Ray had their
hand-bags and Jerry and Tom were shouldering their trunks."
"I'm going up there right away," interrupted Darragh excitedly. "--Good
heavens, Ralph, I haven't any clothes here, have I?"
"No, sir. But those you wore last night are dry----"
"Confound it! I meant to send some decent clothes here---- All right;
get me those duds I wore yesterday--and a bite to eat! I'm in a hurry,
Ralph----"
He ate while dressing, disgustedly arraying himself in the grey shirt,
breeches, and laced boots which weather, water, rock, and brier had not
improved.
In a pathetic attempt to spruce up, he knotted the red bandanna around
his neck and pinched Salzar's slouch hat into a peak.
"I look like a hootch-running Wop," he said. "Maybe I can get into the
house before I meet the ladies----"
"You look like one of Clinch's bums," remarked Wier with native honesty.
Darragh, chagrined, went to his bunk, pulled the morocco case from under
the pillow, and shoved it into the bosom of his flannel shirt.
"That's the main thing anyway," he thought. Then, turning to Wier, he
asked whether Eve and Stormont had awakened.
It appeared that Trooper Stormont had saddled up and cantered away
shortly after sunrise, leaving word that he must hunt up his comrade,
Trooper Lannis, at Ghost Lake.
"They're coming back this evening," added Wier. "He asked you to look
out for Clinch's step-daughter."
"She's all right here. Can't you keep an eye on her, Ralph?"
"I'm stripping trout, sir. I'll be around here to cook dinner for her
when she wakes up."
Darragh glanced across the brook at the hatchery. It was only a few
yards away. He nodded and started for the veranda:
"That'll be all right," he said. "Nobody is coming here to bother
her.... And don't let her leave, Ralph, till I get back----"
"Very well, sir. But suppose she takes it into her head to leave----"
Darragh called back, gaily: "She can't: she hasn't any clothes!" And
away he strode in the gorgeous sunshine of a magnificent autumn day, all
the clean and vigorous youth of him afire in anticipation of a reunion
which the letter from his lady-love had transfigured into a tryst.
For, in that amazing courtship of a single day, he never dreamed that he
had won the heart of that sad, white-faced, hungry child in rags--silken
tatters still stained with the blood of massacre,--the very soles of her
shoes still charred by the embers of her own home.
Yet, that is what must have happened in a single day and evening. Life
passes swiftly during such periods. Minutes lengthen into days; hours
into years. The soul finds itself.
Then mind and heart become twin prophets,--clairvoyant concerning what
hides behind the veil; comprehending with divine clair-audience what the
Three Sisters whisper there--hearing even the whirr of the spindle--the
very snipping of the Eternal Shears!
       
The soul finds itself; the mind knows itself; the heart perfectly
understands.
He had not spoken to this young girl of love. The blood of friends and
servants was still rusty on her skirt's ragged hem.
Yet, that night, when at last in safety she had said good-bye to the man
who had secured it for her, he knew that he was in love with her. And,
at such crises, the veil that hides hearts becomes transparent.
At that instant he had seen and known. Afterward he had dared not
believe that he had known.
But hers had been a purer courage.
       
As he strode on, the comprehension of her candour, her honesty, the
sweet bravery that had conceived, created, and sent that letter,
thrilled this young man until his heavy boots sprouted wings, and the
trail he followed was but a path of rosy clouds over which he floated
heavenward.
       
About half an hour later he came to his senses with a distinct shock.
Straight ahead of him on the trail, and coming directly toward him,
moved a figure in knickers and belted tweed.
Flecked sunlight slanted on the stranger's cheek and burnished hair,
dappling face and figure with moving, golden spots.
Instantly Darragh knew and trembled.
But Theodorica of Esthonia had known him only in his uniform.
As she came toward him, lovely in her lithe and rounded grace, only
friendly curiosity gazed at him from her blue eyes.
Suddenly she knew him, went scarlet to her yellow hair, then white: and
tried to speak--but had no control of the short, rosy upper lip which
only quivered as he took her hands.
The forest was dead still around them save for the whisper of painted
leaves sifting down from a sunlit vault above.
Finally she said in a ghost of a voice: "My--friend...."
"If you accept his friendship...."
"Friendship is to be shared.... Ours mingled--on that day.... Your
share is--as much as pleases you."
"All you have to give me, then."
"Take it ... all I have...." Her blue eyes met his with a little
effort. All courage is an effort.
Then that young man dropped on both knees at her feet and laid his lips
to her soft hands.
In trembling silence she stood for a moment, then slowly sank on both
knees to face him across their clasped hands.
So, in the gilded cathedral of the woods, pillared with silver, and
azure-domed, the betrothal of these two was sealed with clasp and lip.
Awed, a little fearful, she looked into her lover's eyes with a gaze so
chaste, so oblivious to all things earthly, that the still purity of her
face seemed a sacrament, and he scarcely dared touch the childish lips
she offered.
But when the sacrament of the kiss had been accomplished, she rested one
hand on his shoulder and rose, and drew him with her.
Then his moment came: he drew the emblazoned case from his breast,
