Mrs. Lander was never more completely out-generalled in her life. The
lady who had corrected her error was one in whose good opinion she had
every reason for desiring to stand high. She could grind the face of
the poor without pity or shame, but for the world she would not be
thought mean by Mrs. Brandon.
"I am very much obliged to you, indeed," she said with a bland smile.
"It was altogether a mistake on my part, and I blame the woman
exceedingly for not having mentioned it at the time. Heaven knows I am
the last person in the world to grind the faces of the poor! Yes, the
very last person. Here is the money you paid for me, and I must repeat
my thanks for your prompt correction of the error. But I cannot help
feeling vexed at the woman."
"We must make many allowances for the poor, Mrs. Lander. They often
bear a great deal of wrong without a word of complaint. Some people
take advantage of their need, and, because they are poor, make them
work for the merest pittance in the world. I know some persons, and
they well off in the world, who always employ the poorest class of
people, and this under the pretence of favouring them, but, in reality,
that they may get their work done at a cheaper rate than it can be made
by people who expect to derive from their labour a comfortable support."
Mrs. Lander was stung to the quick by these words; but she dared not
show the least sign of feeling.
"Surely no one professing to be a Christian can do so," said she.
"Yes, people professing to be Christians do these things," was replied;
"but of course their profession needs a better practice to prove it of
any worth."
When her visitor retired, after having expressed her opinion on the
subject under consideration still more unequivocally, Mrs. Lander did
not feel very comfortable, nor was her good opinion of herself quite so
firm as it had been earlier in the day. But she took good care, in the
future, not to give any more work to Mrs. Walton, and was exceedingly
particular afterwards, in employing poor people, to know whether they
sewed for Mrs. Brandon. There are a good many people in the world who
encourage the poor on Mrs. Lander's principle.
JESSIE HAMPTON.
"WHAT are you doing here, miss?"
The young girl thus addressed was sitting by a centre-table, upon which
stood a lamp, in a handsomely furnished drawing-room. She laid aside
the book she was reading, and, without making any reply, rose up
quickly and retired. Two or three persons, members of the family, were
