in his ears; and, often, when he looked into her face he would see
only the fading countenance of her who had passed away. This was the
first state, and it was exceedingly painful while it lasted. But, it
gradually changed into one more pleasant, yet not entirely free from
the unwelcome intrusion of the past.
The oftener Florence and Miss Weldon met, the more strongly were
their hearts drawn toward each other; and, at length, the former was
encouraged to make an offer of his hand. In coming to this
resolutions, it was not without passing through a painful conflict.
As his mind dwelt upon the subject, there was a reproduction of old
states. Most vividly did he recall the time when he breathed into
the ears of Edith vows to which he had proved faithless. He had, it
is true, returned to his first allegiance. He had laid his heart
again at her feet; but, to how little purpose! While in this state
of agitation, the young man resolved, more than once, to abandon his
suit for the hand of Miss Weldon, and shrink back again into the
seclusion from which he had come forth. But, his affection for the
lovely girl was too genuine to admit of this. When he thought of
giving her up, his mind was still more deeply disturbed.
"Oh, that I could forget!" he exclaimed, while this struggle was in
progress. "Of what avail is this turning over of the leaves of a
long passed history? I erred--sadly erred! But repentance is now too
late. Why, then should my whole existence be cursed for a single
error? Ah, me! thou not satisfied, departed one? Is it, indeed, from
the presence of thy spirit that I am troubled? My heart sinks at the
thought. But no, no! Thou wert too good to visit pain upon any; much
less upon one who, thou false to thee, thou didst so tenderly love."
But, upon this state there came a natural re-action. A peaceful calm
succeeded the storm. Memory deposited her records in the mind's
dimly lighted chambers. To the present was restored its better
influences.
"I am free again," was the almost audible utterance, of the young
man, so strong was his sense of relief.
An offer of marriage was then made to Miss Weldon. Her heart
trembled with joy when she received it. But confiding implicitly in
her uncle, who had been for the space of ten years her friend and
guardian, she could not give an affirmative reply until his approval
was gained. She, therefore, asked time for reflection and
consultation with her friend.
Far different from what Florence had expected, was the reception of
