been all the week before spurring up the legislature of his 
native state to pass more stringent resolutions against 
escaping fugitives, their harbourers and abettors ! 
Our good senator in his native state had not been exceeded by any of his brethren at Washington, in the sort of 
eloquence which has won for them immortal renown ! How 
sublimely he had sat with his hands in his pockets, and 
scouted all sentimental weakness of those who would put 
the welfare of a few miserable fugitives before great state 
interests ! 
He was as bold as a lion about it, and "mightily con- 
vinced" not only himself, but everybody that heard him; 
but then his idea of a fugitive was only an idea of the letters 
that spell the word ; or, at the most, the image of a little 
newspaper picture of a man with a stick and bundle, with 
" Ean away from the subscriber" under it. The magic of 
the real presence of distress, the imploring human eye, the 
frail, trembling human hand, the despairing appeal of helpless agony, these he had never tried. He had never thought 
that a fugitive might be a hapless mother, a defenceless 
child, like that one which was now wearing his lost boy's 
little well-known cap ; and so, as our poor senator was not 
stone or steel, as he was a man, and a downright noble- 
hearted one, too, he was, as everybody must see, in a sad 
case for his patriotism. And you need not exult over him, 
good brother of the Southern States, for we have some 
inklings that many of you, under similar circumstances, 
would not do much better. We have reason to know, in 
Kentucky, as in Mississippi, are noble and generous hearts, 
to whom never was tale of suffering told in vain. Ah, 
good brother! is it fair for you to expect of us services 
which your own brave, honourable heart, would not allow 
you to render, were you in our place ? 
Be that as it may, if our good senator was a political 
sinner, he was in a fair way to expiate it by his night's 
penance. There had been a long continuous period of rainy 
weather, and the soft rich earth of Ohio, as every one knows, 
is admirably suited to the manufacture of mud, and the road 
was an Ohio railroad of the good old times. 
" And pray what sort of a road may that be ?" says some 
eastern traveller, who has been accustomed to connect no 
ideas with a railroad but those of smoothness or speed. 
