But the worst kind of despotism has been said to be that which extends
alike over the body and over the soul; which can bind the liberty of the
conscience, and deprive a man of all right of choice in respect to the
manner in which he shall learn the will of God, and worship Him. In
other days, kings on their thrones, and cottagers by their firesides,
alike trembled before a despotism which declared itself able to bind and
to loose, to open and to shut the kingdom of heaven.
Yet this power to control the conscience, to control the religious
privileges, and all the opportunities which man has of acquaintanceship
with his Maker, and of learning to do his will, is, under the flag of
every slave state, and under the flag of the United States, placed in
the hands of any men, of any character, who can afford to pay for it.
It is a most awful and most solemn truth that the greatest republic in
the world does sustain under her national flag the worst system of
despotism which can possibly exist.
With regard to one point to which we have adverted,—the power of the
master to deprive the slave of a legal trial while accusing him of
crime,—a very striking instance has occurred in the District of
Columbia, within a year or two. The particulars of the case, as stated,
at the time, in several papers, were briefly these: A gentleman in
Washington, our national capital,—an elder in the Presbyterian
church,—held a female slave, who had, for some years, supported a good
character in a Baptist church of that city. He accused her of an attempt
to poison his family, and immediately placed her in the hands of a
slave-dealer, who took her over and imprisoned her in the slave-pen at
Alexandria, to await the departure of a coffle. The poor girl had a
mother, who felt as any mother would naturally feel.
When apprized of the situation of her daughter, she flew to the pen,
and, with tears, besought an interview with her only child; but she was
cruelly repulsed, and told to be gone! She then tried to see the elder,
but failed. She had the promise of money sufficient to purchase her
daughter, but the owner would listen to no terms of compromise.
In her distress, the mother repaired to a lawyer in the city, and begged
him to give form to her petition in writing. She stated to him what she
wished to have said, and he arranged it for her in such a form as she
herself might have presented it in, had not the benefits of education
been denied her. The following is the letter:
                                          Washington, July 25, 1851.
  MR. ——.
  SIR: I address you as a rich Christian freeman and father, while I
