"Give me a girl who is not too proud to relish a joke," said Ellen
Morris. "Ida Ross is above such buffoonery. She would not have demeaned
her dignity before the school."
"But Carry spoke for her too," said Emma Glenn, a meek, charitable
creature: "Perhaps modesty, not pride, kept her silent."
"Fiddlesticks!" was the school-girlish rejoinder.
Ida had missed a chance for making herself popular. The girls were
moved to admiration by her manner of resenting Alboni's rudeness, and
their joy at getting rid of him, assumed the shape of gratitude to
their champion. She was for the hour a heroine, and might have retained
her stand, but for her cool treatment of their advances. She saw,
without understanding the reason of the change, that there was now a
mingling of dislike in their neglect; and as she sank in their esteem,
Carry mounted. Mr. Purcell never noticed her out of the recitation
room--Mr. Read was more lofty--Josephine more contemptuous than ever.
Inmates of one house--occupying adjacent chambers--sitting at the same
board at home, and within speaking distance at school, the two girls
had not one feeling in common--a spark of affection one for the other.
Open ruptures were infrequent now, although they were innumerable
during the first months of their companionship. They appeared together
in public--this Mr. Read enjoined "It was due to his reputation, people
should not say that his daughter's privileges exceeded his ward's."
Further than this he did not interfere. He saw them only at meal-times,
and in the evening; then Josephine presided over the tea-tray with
skill and grace, and amused him, if he wished it, by reading, singing
or talking. Ida did as she pleased. There were no requirements, no
privations. In the eyes of the world her situation was unexceptionable.
They knew nothing of the covert sneers which smiled down any tendency
to what the torpid minds of the father and daughter considered undue
enthusiasm; their sarcastic notice of her "singularities," their
studied variance with her views;--but to her, bondage and cruelty would
have been more tolerable. Yet this mocking surveillance--this certainty
of ridicule, could not always check the earnest expression of a
grasping intellect and ardent temperament; and there were not a few who
frequented the house, who preferred the piquancy of her conversation,
when they could draw her out of the snow-caverns of her reserve, to the
trite common-places and artificial spirits of Miss Read.
Among these was Mr. Dermott, an Irish gentleman of considerable
scientific renown, and a traveller of some note; hard upon forty years
of age, but enjoying life with the zest of twenty. Ida's intelligent
