up a child's dress. And can we suppose that this Being can 
take delight in dwellings and modes of life or forms of wor- 
ship where every thing is reduced to cold, naked utility ? I 
think not. The instinct to adorn and beautify is from him ; 
it likens us to him, and if rightly understood, instead of being 
a siren to beguile our hearts away, it will be the closest affiliating band. 
If this power of producing the beautiful has been always so 
fascinating that the human race for its sake have bowed down 
at the feet even of men deficient in moral worth, if we cannot 
forbear loving the painter, poet, and sculptor, how much more 
shall we love God, who, with all goodness, has also all beauty ! 
But all this while we have been riding on till we have 
passed the meadows, and the fields, and are coming into the 
dark and awful pass of the Tete Noir, which C. has described 
to you. 
One thing I noticed which he did not. When we were 
winding along the narrow path, bearing no more proportion to 
the dizzy heights above and below than the smallest insect 
creeping on the wall, I looked across the chasm, and saw a 
row of shepherds' cottages perched midway on a narrow shelf, 
that seemed in the distance not an inch wide. By a very 
natural impulse, I exclaimed, " What does become of the little 
children there ? I should think they would all fall over the 
precipice ! " 
My guide looked up benevolently at me, as if he felt it his 
duty to quiet my fears, and said in a soothing tone, " O, no, 
no, no I " 
Of course, I might have known that little children have their 
angels there, as well as every where else. " When they have 
funerals there," said he, " they are obliged to carry the dead 
 
along that road," pointing to a road that resembled a thread 
drawn on the rocky wall. 
What -a strange idea — such a life and death! It seemed 
to me, that I could see a funeral train creeping along ; the 
monks, with their black cloaks, carrying tapers, and singing 
psalms ; the whole procession together not larger in proportion 
than a swarm of black gnats ; and yet, perhaps, hearts there 
wrung with an infinite sorrow. In that black, moving point, 
may be a soul, whose convulsions and agonies cannot be 
