contradiction in terms," said Fanny.
"There must be a substance before there can be a permanent
impression. The mind receives and retains the most lasting
impressions; therefore, it must be an organized substance--but
spiritual, not material. You will see this clearer, if you think of
the endurance of habit. 'As the twig is bent, the tree's inclined,'
is a trite saying that aptly illustrates the subject about which we
are now conversing. If the mind were not a substance and a form, how
could it receive and retain impressions?"
"True."
"And to advance a step further--if the mind have form, what is that
form?"
"The human form, if any," was the answer.
"Yes. And of this truth the minds of all men have a vague
perception. A cruel man is called a human monster. In thus speaking,
no one thinks of the mere physical body, but of the inward man.
About a good man, we say there is something truly human. And believe
me, my dear young friend, that our spirits are as really organized
substances as our bodies--the difference being, that one is an
immaterial and the other a material substance; that we have a
spiritual body, with spiritual senses, and all the organs and
functions that appertain to the material body, which is only a
visible and material outbirth from the spiritual body, and void of
any life but what is thence derived."
"I see, vaguely, the truth of what you say," remarked Fanny, "and am
bewildered by the light that falls into my mind."
"My purpose in all this," said Mr. Allison, "is to lead you to the
perception of a most important fact. Still let your thoughts rest
intently on what I am saying. You are aware of the fact, that
material substances, as well inorganic as organic, are constantly
giving off into the atmosphere minute particles, which we call
odors, and which reveal to us their quality. The rose and
nightshade, the hawthorn and cicuta fill the air around them with
odors which our bodily senses instantly perceive. And it is the same
with animals and men. Each has a surrounding material sphere, which
is perceived on a near approach, and which indicates the material
quality. Now, all things in nature are but effects from interior
causes, and correspond to them in every minute particular. What is
true of the body will be found true of the mind. Bodily form and
sense are but the manifestation, in this outer world, of the body
