land upon which it stood. He offered seven hundred and fifty dollars for
it; but it was now worth nine hundred, and Mr. Munroe refused the offer.
The 'Squire was angry at the refusal, and from that time used all the
means in his power to persecute his poor neighbor.
Then sickness paralyzed the arm of Mr. Munroe, and he could no longer
work. The money he had saved to pay the note when it should become due
was expended in supporting his family. With utter ruin staring him full
in the face, he sent for 'Squire Chase, and consented to his offer; but
the malicious wretch would not give even that now; and the land was so
situated as to be of but little value except to the owner of the Chase
estate. The 'Squire was a bad neighbor, and no one wanted to get near
him; so that Mr. Munroe could not sell to any other person.
The crafty lawyer knew that the poor man was fully in his power, and he
determined to punish him, even to his ruin. He hated him because he was
an honest, good man; because his life, even in his humbler sphere, was a
constant reproach to him. The note would be due on the first of May,
and he had determined to take possession in virtue of the mortgage.
Poor Paul shed many bitter tears upon his pillow that night; and from
the depths of his gentle heart he prayed that God would be very near to
his father and mother in the trials and sorrows that were before them.
CHAPTER X.
A UNANIMOUS VOTE.
On the following day Little Paul was missed at school, and some anxiety
was felt by his companions concerning him. It was feared that the
exertion of the race had proved too great for him, and that he was too
ill to come out. All the other boys appeared as usual, and none of them
seemed to be the worse for the violent exercise they had taken.
Before night, however, they learned that Little Paul was quite well, and
had been detained at home to assist his mother. This intelligence
removed their anxiety, and their fears lest boat racing should be deemed
an improper recreation, and dangerous to the health of the boys. Friday
and Saturday passed, and he did not appear at school; but it was said
that his mother was very busy, and nothing was thought of the
circumstance.
On Saturday afternoon the Butterfly club had assembled in their hall,
and were talking over the affairs of the association until the time
appointed for the excursion to Center Island. Little Paul had not come
yet, and the boys began to fear that they should be obliged to make the
excursion with only five oars on one side.
"What do you suppose is the reason?" asked Dick Chester.
