where the water came from, and whether there was at any time more there
than belonged to his share. So, when all other subject matters of
dispute failed, Uncle Jaw recreated himself with getting up a lawsuit
about his "medder land;" and one of these cases was in pendency when, by
the death of the squire, the estate was left to Susan and Silence, his
daughters. When, therefore, the report reached him that Deacon Enos had
been cheated out of his dues, Uncle Jaw prepared forthwith to go and
compare notes. Therefore, one evening, as Deacon Enos was sitting
quietly by the fire, musing and reading with his big Bible open before
him, he heard the premonitory symptoms of a visitation from Uncle Jaw on
his door scraper; and soon the man made his appearance. After seating
himself directly in front of the fire, with his elbows on his knees, and
his hands spread out over the coals, he looked up in Deacon Enos's mild
face with his little inquisitive gray eyes, and remarked, by way of
opening the subject, "Well, deacon, old 'Squire Jones is gone at last. I
wonder how much good all his land will do him now?"
"Yes," replied Deacon Enos, "it just shows how all these things are not
worth striving after. We brought nothing into the world, and it is
certain we can carry nothing out."
"Why, yes," replied Uncle Jaw, "that's all very right, deacon; but it
was strange how that old 'Squire Jones did hang on to things. Now, that
mill of his, that was always soaking off water into these medders of
mine--I took and tell'd 'Squire Jones just how it was, pretty nigh
twenty times, and yet he would keep it just so; and now he's dead and
gone, there is that old gal Silence is full as bad, and makes more
noise; and she and Suke have got the land; but, you see, I mean to work
it yet."
Here Uncle Jaw paused to see whether he had produced any sympathetic
excitement in Deacon Enos; but the old man sat without the least
emotion, quietly contemplating the top of the long kitchen shovel. Uncle
Jaw fidgeted in his chair, and changed his mode of attack for one more
direct. "I heard 'em tell, Deacon Enos, that the squire served you
something of an unhandy sort of trick about that 'ere lot of land."
Still Deacon Enos made no reply; but Uncle Jaw's perseverance was not so
to be put off, and he recommenced. "'Squire Abel, you see, he tell'd me
how the matter was, and he said he did not see as it could be mended;
but I took and tell'd him, ''Squire Abel,' says I, 'I'd bet pretty nigh
'most any thing, if Deacon Enos would tell the matter to me, that I
could find a hole for him to creep out at; for,' says I, 'I've seen
daylight through more twistical cases than that afore now.'"
