paupers, but with the keeper and his family; and 
this circumstance undoubtedly softened the asperitiet 
of his lot. As soon as he was old enough, he was 
required to work as much as the keeper thought his 
strength would hear. He was very handy about the 
house and barn, more so than boys usually are ; and 
Mr. Nason declared that, for the three years before 
it was proposed to send him away, he had more thau 
earned his board and clothes. 
He had been at school four winters, and the school- 
masters were unanimous in their praise. He was a 
smart scholar, but a little disposed to be roguish. 
The moral discipline of the poorhouse was not of 
the most salutary character. Mr. Nason, though a 
generous and kind-hearted man, was not as exempla 
ry in his daily life as might have been desired. Be- 
sides, one or two of the old paupers were rather cor- 
rupt in their manners and morals, and were not fit 
companions for a young immortal, whose mind, like 
plastic clay, was impressible to the forming power. 
The pooi ho use was not a good place for the boy, 
and the wonder is that Harry, at twelve years of age, 
was not worse than we find him. He had learned to 
love Mr. Nason, as he had learned to fear and to hate 
Squire "Walker. The latter seemed to have absolute 
power at the p< jrhouse, and to be lord and mantel 
in Redfield. But when the overseer proposed to 
place the boy in the family of a man whom even the 
paupers looked down upon and despised, his soul 
rebelled even against the mandate of the powerful 
magnate of the town. 
Harry turned the matter over and over in his mind 
as he sat upon the rock at Fine Plegsant. At first 
he tried to reconcile the idea of living with Jacob 
Wire ; but it was a fruitless effort. The poorhouse 
seemed like a paradise to such a fate. 
Then he considered the possibility and the practi- 
cability of resisting the commands of Squire Walker. 
He could not obtain much satisfaction from either 
view of the difficult problem, and as a happy resort 
