At this moment Mrs. Scudder came into the boudoir with a face
expressive of some anxiety.
‘I suppose Miss Prissy has told you,’ she said, ‘the news about the
Browns. That’ll make a great falling off in the Doctor’s salary; and I
feel for him, because I know it will come hard to him not to be able
to help and do, especially for these poor negroes, just when he will.
But then we must put everything on the most economical scale we can,
and just try, all of us, to make it up to him. I was speaking to
Cousin Zebedee about it, when he was down here, on Monday, and he is
all clear;—he has made out three papers for Candace and Cato and Dinah,
and they couldn’t, one of ’em, be hired to leave him; and he says, from
what he’s seen already, he has no doubt but they’ll do enough more to
pay for their wages.’
‘Well,’ said Miss Prissy, ‘I haven’t got anybody to care for but
myself. I was telling sister Elizabeth, one time (she’s married and
got four children), that I could take a storm a good deal easier than
she could, ’cause I hadn’t near so many sails to pull down; and now,
you just look to me for the Doctor’s shirts, ’cause, after this,
they shall all come in ready to put on, if I have to sit up till
morning. And I hope, Miss Scudder, you can trust me to make them; for
if I do say it myself, I a’n’t afraid to do fine stitching ’longside
of anybody,—and hemstitching ruffles, too; and I haven’t shown you
yet that French stitch I learned of the nuns;—but you just set your
heart at rest about the Doctor’s shirts. I always thought,’ continued
Miss Prissy, laughing, ‘that I should have made a famous hand about
getting up that tabernacle in the wilderness, with the blue and the
purple and fine-twined linen; it’s one of my favourite passages, that
is;—different things, you know, are useful to different people.’
‘Well,’ said Mrs. Scudder, ‘I see that it’s our call to be a remnant
small and despised, but I hope we sha’n’t shrink from it. I thought,
when I saw all those fashionable people go out Sunday, tossing their
heads and looking so scornful, that I hoped grace would be given me to
be faithful.’
‘And what does the Doctor say?’ said Miss Prissy.
‘He hasn’t said a word; his mind seems to be very much lifted above all
these things.’
‘La, yes,’ said Miss Prissy, ‘that’s one comfort; he’ll never know
where his shirts come from; and besides that, Miss Scudder,’ she said,
sinking her voice to a whisper, ‘as you know, I haven’t any children
to provide for,—though I was telling Elizabeth t’other day, when I was
