               The Cross, the Crucified!
As the monk sung, his soul seemed to fuse itself into the sentiment
with that natural grace peculiar to his nation. He walked up and down
the little garden, apparently forgetful of Agnes or of any earthly
presence, and in the last verses stretched his hands towards heaven
with streaming tears and a fervor of utterance indescribable.
The soft and passionate tenderness of the Italian words must exhale
in an English translation, but enough may remain to show that the
hymns with which Savonarola at this time sowed the mind of Italy often
mingled the Moravian quaintness and energy with the Wesleyan purity and
tenderness. One of the great means of popular reform which he proposed
was the supplanting of the obscene and licentious songs, which at
that time so generally defiled the minds of the young, by religious
words and melodies. The children and young people brought up under his
influence were sedulously stored with treasures of sacred melody, as
the safest companions of leisure hours, and the surest guard against
temptation.
"Come now, my little one," said the monk, after they had ceased
singing, as he laid his hand on Agnes's head. "I am strong now; I know
where I stand. And you, my little one, you are one of my master's
'Children of the Cross.' You must sing the hymns of our dear master,
that I taught you, when I am far away. A hymn is a singing angel,
and goes walking through the earth, scattering the devils before
it. Therefore he who creates hymns imitates the most excellent and
lovely works of our Lord God, who made the angels. These hymns watch
our chamber-door, they sit upon our pillow, they sing to us when we
awake; and therefore our master was resolved to sow the minds of his
young people with them, as our lovely Italy is sown with the seeds
of all colored flowers. How lovely has it often been to me, as I sat
at my work in Florence, to hear the little children go by, chanting
of Jesus and Mary,--and young men singing to young maidens, not vain
flatteries of their beauty, but the praises of the One only Beautiful,
whose smile sows heaven with stars like flowers! Ah, in my day I have
seen blessed times in Florence! Truly was she worthy to be called the
Lily City!--for all her care seemed to be to make white her garments
to receive her Lord and Bridegroom. Yes, though she had sinned like
the Magdalen, yet she loved much, like her. She washed His feet with
her tears, and wiped them with the hair of her head. Oh, my beautiful
Florence, be true to thy vows, be true to thy Lord and Governor, Jesus
Christ, and all shall be well!"
