compressed his lips and ground his teeth. "I'll be revenged upon him if
it costs me my life."
"I'm with you there, Dick."
"It shall be the worst night's work for Old Batterbones that ever he
did."
"What are you going to do, Dick?"
"Will you stand by me, Sandy?" demanded Richard, earnestly.
"Certainly; to be sure I will. But, Dick, we mustn't burn our own
fingers," said his prudent companion. "What are you going to do?"
In low tones, Richard detailed the scheme into which his outline of a
purpose had grown, and when they parted at noon, the arrangements were
all completed.
CHAPTER VI.
RICHARD GIVES ANOTHER ILLUSTRATION OF SLEEP-WALKING.
For six or seven nights following the expedition to the watermelon
patch of Mr. Batterman, Richard Grant did not "walk in his sleep." The
parental solicitude of his father prompted him to set a watch for
several nights; and Mr. Presby, who was still anxious to pursue his
scientific investigations, slept with one eye open, that he might be in
readiness to avail himself of the reappearance of the phenomenon.
The philosopher's hint that sleep-walkers are sensitive to any allusion
to their infirmity, had prevented him and Mr. Grant from informing the
subject of their precautions of the steps they had taken to observe his
movements, and Richard was entirely unconscious that vigilant eyes were
upon him while he slept, or while he ought to sleep.
But Richard was too lame and sore from the effects of his flogging to
indulge again so soon in the luxury of "sleep-walking." He had not been
questioned in regard to the blood upon the seats of the Greyhound, for,
being asleep when the stains were made, of course he would know nothing
about them. Mr. Presby explained his inactivity and want of energy upon
philosophical principles, and every body seemed to be satisfied.
The salve which the sufferer applied to his wounded members healed the
bruises in a few days, and he was again in condition to pursue his
wonted sports and pleasures. After the lapse of a week, as the patient
exhibited no further signs of the malady, the watch was discontinued;
but Mr. Presby was too enthusiastic in the cause of science to abandon
the case so soon. He sat up in his chamber till midnight, with his ears
wide open, to catch the slightest indication of a movement on the part
of his interesting subject.
Every day, Richard and Sandy met; and they never failed to renew the
