and stylish in apparel. He could tell more ; for chancing, on 
the day after the purchase, to enter the office of a certain 
fashionable hotel, he had seen the same person sitting there, 
smoking in company with a party of acquaintances had in 
quired his name, and learned that it was Floyd. 
With the watch safe in his pocket, Aleck thanked the 
obliging salesman, and hurried off to follow up another clue 
to the truth of the dark surmise he yet entertained vaguely 
almost blindly. This was an inspection of the hotel register 
of January 20th. He found upon the record of the 18th 
Colonel Floyd's name, written in his dashing hand. He had 
been in the city at that date then, although Aleck had never 
heard of the visit until now. He it was, beyond a question, 
who had presented the false checks, if false they were, and 
sold the watch. Could he be acting as Robert's agent ? accredited, yet secret ? If this were so, there was deep villany 
somewhere ; if not, imagination recoiled at the black abyss 
of crime unveiled by the doubt. Still undergoing the torments of indecision and never-still suspicions, he set out 
upon his return journey. 
The nearest depot to Maple Hill was Hock's Tavern, to 
which place Robert's farewell letter to his brother had directed him to send for his horse. Hero had been found ! 
there, securely stabled, and had now occupied his old stall 
at Greenfield for many weeks ; but motives of delicacy, that 
principal of which was to shield Robert from public remark, 
had deterred" Aleck from making any inquiries as to who 
had left the animal in the hostler's care. Dismissing these 
now as absurd, where issues so momentous were involved, 
he, upon his arrival at the tavern, made it his business to 
search out the negro who had charge of the stables, and 
recalling to his mind the circumstance and the time of its 
occurrence, asked whether he had himself seen Mr. Robert 
Lay while he waited at the house for the afternoon train. 
The fellow professed to recollect every thing connected with 
the matter, and was positive in declaring that the horse had 
not been brought to the stable until two hours after the cars 
had passed, and when it was already dark ; that his rider 
was a negro of gruif speech and few words, who represent 
ed that he had been ordered to leave the horse in his, the 
hostler's, keeping, until Mr. Alexander Lay, of Maple Hill, 
should send for him, and forthwith departed upon foot. He 
would be loath, he subjoined, hesitatingly, to get an inno 
