and at your feet is the deep valley of Hinnom, turning round 
Mount Zion to join the valley of Jehoshaphat beyond. You 
look rather down upon the city from this point. But the old 
road crossed a ridge on the right of the plain; and from 
that, a mile and a half away, the whole ground of Jerusalem 
 
lay in view. There perhaps it was that Abraham first knew 
he was within sight of the place which the Lord had said He 
would tell him of. On the third day he ' lifted up his eyes 
and saw the place afar off' " 
" But if it lay lower than the hill where he was, he would 
not have needed to lift up his eyes to see it," liph said. 
"You foolish boy, you cannot see anything without lifting 
up your eyes, unless it is something on the ground. It is 
very likely that is where Abraham's eyes were ; but in any 
case, you do not raise your eyes so much to look at a hill a 
mile and a half away, as you do to see me if I stand before 
you. Abraham looked up or looked out, that is all the words 
mean ; roused from his musings perhaps ; and then knew, 
for the Lord made him know, that he saw the spot he bad 
come seeking. From the edge of the height, where it breaks 
down into the valley of-Hinnom, it was all before hina. 
Then he said to his young men that they should stay where 
they were ; it was not needful for them to go down into the 
valley and climb the steep hill on the other side; they 
should wait there with the ass ; ' and I and the lad will go 
yonder and worship, and come again to you,' Abraham said, 
in the very faith of a good child." 
" But how could he say they would come again, when he 
thought Isaac was to be sacrificed ?" 
"That is faith," said uncle Sam. 
" But if Isaac was to be killed, they coiUd not both come 
back," said Liph. "The two things were not both possibla" 
" God had promised. That is enough for faith. Faith is 
not faith if it goes only as far as it can see. It takes two 
impossible things, and if God has said they are, or they shall 
be, faith lays them together and believes it. So here. God 
had promised that in Isaac the blessing should come. Now 
it signified nothing that Abraham was commanded to sacrifice Isaac. The word of the Lord would be true, all the 
same. ' By faith Abraham, when he was tried, offered up 
