house, that he was completely deceived in regard to her real character.
The presence of so important a person as the wealthy broker, who had
been represented to her as a person hardly less dignified than the
President of the United States, had overawed her, and put her on her
best behavior. Her kind friend, therefore, was unable to realize that
the orphan girl was half so bad as she was described to be by her aunt.

Edward Grant, while in the employ of the broker, had often visited
Woodville, and being especially pleased with the person and the manners
of Miss Fanny, had named his own daughter after her. On the arrival of
the orphan at her new home, it was deemed fitting that Miss Fanny
should have the especial care of her namesake, then only ten years of
age. Fanny Jane, amid the novelties of the great house, and the
beautiful grounds, was so much occupied for a few weeks that she
behaved very well; but when she grew weary of horses and boats, house
and grounds, she astonished her young mistress by conduct so outrageous
that Miss Fanny wept in despair over the miserable failure she made in
governing her charge.

Miss Bertha was called in to assist in taming the refractory subject;
but it was soon found that Fanny Jane had none of the chivalrous
reverence which had rendered the wild Noddy Newman tolerably tractable,
and her failure was as complete and ignominious as that of her sister.
Mr. Grant was finally appealed to; and the sternness and severity to
which he was compelled to resort were, for a time, effectual. But even
these measures began to be impotent, and the broker realized that the
uncle and aunt had understood the case better than himself.

As a last resort, he threatened to send the wayward girl back to her
uncle, who had now removed to Minnesota; for it would be better for
such a child to put her down to hard work, and to keep her constantly
under the eye of her guardians. This threat was more efficient than all
the other means which had been used to keep the child within the bounds
of common decency; but even this had grown stale upon her.

Miss Fanny, finding that her failure involved no disgrace, renewed her
exertions to reform her pupil and charge. With the utmost diligence she
instructed her in her moral and religious duties, and endeavored by
love and gentleness to win her from the error of her ways. Sometimes
she felt that there was much to encourage her, at other times she
