
grily. " You know she never 'tended shop ; and you waa 
crazy about her you needn't deny it ! Well, they was mar- 
ried, and he used to stay to my house a good deal. Mar- 
g'ret and he was happy as birds. After a while, 'long in the 
summer, he begun to slack up comin' ; but the gal believed 
his excuses, and as he took care of her, and wasn't ugly, I 
thought I wouldn't find fault. But when he staid away a 
week or two at a time, I see she grieved about it, and asked 
him what he meant. He was pretty lordly, and wouldn't give 
me much satisfaction, but finally said, if I'd wait until he was 
of age, I'd see what he meant to do. He didn't come near 
Marg'ret after that ; so Monday I marched down to his office, 
and asked him if he wanted to break his wife's heart by neg- 
lect. He jest give a little laugh, and asked me to prove he 
had a wife, and he'd promise to be devoted to her. I was 
awful mad, I tell you ; but I kept quiet. When I got home, 
I found he'd taken away Marg'ret's certificate. So I come 
over to Jersey, to find the Mr. Fields who married 'em. 
He wasn't the man at all, and he said he could swear he'd 
never married any such persons. Then I knew we'd been 
tricked ; and when I found he'd left his office, I put Mr. 
Garrick on the scent, and he soon -learned my gentleman was 
makin' off for Californy. He's got a warrant in his pocket, 
and can take the rascal off to the Tombs ; but I'll give you 
both a chance to act fair. I can make him marry the gal, or 
send him to State Prison ! " and she gave an exultant chuckle. 

" Will you walk in the adjoining room a moment ? " Rich- 
ard said to the woman and her companion. 

" Look here now," she said, turning on him ; " there's 
to be no conniving between you two. I won't be hard on 
the young scamp, nuther ; I'll give him off, if he'll provide 
for the gal and her child. She'll do better without him, if 
he don't care for her." 

Richard motioned them peremptorily away, and closed the 
door. A deathly silence ensued. It was broken at length 
by his saying, hoarsely, 
