have the money?” suggested Helen, uneasily.
“There is no fear on that score. He desires to assist me with my
invention, and suggested, very properly, that with improved materials my
progress would become more rapid. Once let me succeed, and I shall be
able to repay the loan, if it were twice as large. He will never think
of asking me for it before. He is a very generous-hearted man, Helen,
and he only called it a loan because he knew that I should be unwilling
to accept a gift.”
Helen could not gainsay her father’s words. She could not conceive of
any evil purpose on the part of Mr. Sharp; yet, somehow, an
unaccountable sense of anxiety and apprehension of coming evil, in
connection with this loan, would force itself upon her mind.
“Perhaps,” said Mr. Ford, with a sudden thought, “you may need something
that I can buy you,—some article of dress, or perhaps you may require an
additional sum for the purchase of our daily necessaries. I am so much
occupied in other ways that I do not always think of these things.”
“No, papa,” said Helen, hurriedly. “I do not need anything.”
Then, yielding to an uncontrollable impulse, she exclaimed, “Dear papa,
do not use any of this money. Pray, return it to this man, and tell him
you do not need it.”
“But it will be very useful to me, Helen. Besides, it would be a very
uncivil way of meeting such a generous offer. You are a foolish child.
What has put this fancy into your head?”
“I don’t know,” said Helen, slowly; “but I feel as if this money may do
us some harm.”
“What possible harm can come of it?” asked Mr. Ford, surprised at the
child’s earnestness.
“I do not like to think that you are in anybody’s power, papa.”
“We are all in the power of God, my child.”
“I did not mean that, papa.”
“And He is abundantly able to shield us from evil. Is it not so, Helen?”
Helen was silenced, but not wholly convinced. This was the more
remarkable, since nothing was more foreign to her nature than to cherish
distrust of any living thing. Even now, her feeling was rather an
instinctive foreboding than any clearly-defined suspicion. The presence
of Mr. Sharp, polite and affable as he appeared, had not impressed her
pleasantly,—why, she could not tell. Oftentimes children are truer in
their instinctive perception of character than their elders. It is
fortunate that, in the absence of that knowledge which experience alone
can give, they should be provided with this safeguard against the evil
