"All you have to do, is to go for our ticket."
"What do you mean by your ticket?" demanded Kendall, who was rather
confused by the technical terms of the wire-puller.
Wilton explained that his little party had selected a candidate for each
of the offices; and if all the fellows agreed to it, there would be
fifteen votes for their ticket, to begin with.
"Well, what is your ticket?" demanded Kendall, impatiently. "If they are
all good fellows, I will go for them. Of course you mean to vote for
Carnes for captain."
"Not exactly," replied Wilton, with evident disgust. "We shall put up a
better fellow than he is for captain."
"Why, all the boys are going for him," added Kendall, astonished to find
there were any who did not believe in Carnes.
"No, they are not."
"I thought they were."
"He will not be elected, and you need not throw your vote away upon him,
because, if you don't want a place in the after cabin, there are plenty
of fellows who do," added the wire-puller, with apparent indifference.
"But I do want it."
"Then all you have to do, is to go for our ticket."
"I think Carnes will make the best captain."
"Very well; if you think so, you have a right to your own opinion. I
haven't any mortgage on it."
"Whom are you going to run for captain?"
"It's no use to talk any more about it, if you are going for Carnes,"
replied Wilton, as he turned to move away.
The wire-puller was playing a part. Paul Kendall was a noble little
fellow, and was already a great favorite on board, not only with the
boys, but with the principal and the professors. Wilton knew that he had
a great deal of influence, and it was important to secure him for their
ticket. If he could tell others that Kendall was going for their men, it
would induce many to join their party. The "favorite," though he was an
honest, noble-hearted fellow, was still human, and a berth in the after
cabin was a strong temptation to him.
"I'm not going to say I'll vote for a fellow till I know who he is,"
added Kendall. "If he's the right person, perhaps I'll go for him,
though I wanted to see Carnes captain."
"Carnes can't be elected, I tell you. We are going against him."
"Whom are you going for, then?"
"For Bob Shuffles," replied Wilton, desperately, for he did not wish to
