Maurice smiled, and glanced from one to the other, saying significantly,
“Well for me that my little nurse loves her labor, and finds no
sacrifice in it. I am fortunate in my choice.”
“I trust it may prove so--” Mrs. Snowdon got no further, for at that
moment dinner was announced, and Sir Jasper took her away. Annon
approached with him and offered his arm to Miss Treherne, but with an
air of surprise, and a little gesture of refusal, she said coldly:
“My cousin always takes me in to dinner. Be good enough to escort the
major.” And with her hand on the arm of the chair, she walked away with
a mischievous glitter in her eyes.
Annon frowned and fell back, saying sharply, “Come, Major, what are you
doing there?”
“Making discoveries.”
Chapter II
BYPLAY
A right splendid old dowager was Lady Treherne, in her black velvet and
point lace, as she sat erect and stately on a couch by the drawing-room
fire, a couch which no one dare occupy in her absence, or share
uninvited. The gentlemen were still over their wine, and the three
ladies were alone. My lady never dozed in public, Mrs. Snowdon never
gossiped, and Octavia never troubled herself to entertain any guests but
those of her own age, so long pauses fell, and conversation languished,
till Mrs. Snowdon roamed away into the library. As she disappeared, Lady
Treherne beckoned to her daughter, who was idly making chords at the
grand piano. Seating herself on the ottoman at her mother’s feet, the
girl took the still handsome hand in her own and amused herself with
examining the old-fashioned jewels that covered it, a pretext for
occupying her telltale eyes, as she suspected what was coming.
“My dear, I’m not pleased with you, and I tell you so at once, that you
may amend your fault,” began Madame Mère in a tender tone, for though a
haughty, imperious woman, she idolized her children.
“What have I done, Mamma?” asked the girl.
“Say rather, what have you left undone. You have been very rude to Mr.
Annon. It must not occur again; not only because he is a guest, but
because he is your--brother’s friend.”
My lady hesitated over the word “lover,” and changed it, for to her
Octavia still seemed a child, and though anxious for the alliance, she
forbore to speak openly, lest the girl should turn willful, as she
inherited her mother’s high spirit.
“I’m sorry, Mamma. But how can I help it, when he teases me so that I
