"I am ready to face the music, sir."
"No slang to me!"
"Will you land on Cleaver Island, or will you get into that boat?"
"I will get into the boat, but only that I may the sooner bring you to
justice," said he, desperately.
I came about again, and ran alongside of Pearl's boat. Mr. Parasyte,
still dripping from his bath, embarked with his toadies.
"The end is not yet," said he, shaking his head, as the Splash filled
away once more. "You will soon hear from me again."
We made no reply; and I was profoundly grateful that his life had been
saved. My high hopes that what we had done for him might enable him to
yield with better grace, and thus end the "breaking away," were dashed
to the ground. With the wind on the beam, we ran by Cannondale, and
stood down the lake near the shore, in search of the flat-boat,
though it would be impossible for us to work her over to the island
with the wind from the north-west.
"It is no use of talking any more," said Bob Hale, after a silence of
several minutes. "I can never go back to the Parkville Institute while
Mr. Parasyte is the principal of it. He is too mean a man for me to
sit under."
"My sentiments exactly," replied Tom Rush.
"I suppose I shall not go back, whoever is principal," I added.
"Why not?"
"I must take care of myself after this; and I can't afford to go to
school."
"Perhaps your uncle will think better about it," suggested Tom.
"He may, but I don't believe he will."
"There's the flat-boat!" exclaimed one of our party forward.
"I see her; when the wind hauls round to the southward or eastward, we
will come over, and work her back to the island," I replied. "She
looks comfortable where she is, and we will return to our party."
In a short time the Splash reached the cove, where we found all our
company assembled to learn the news, for they had observed our
movements on the water. Vallington was much surprised when he learned
that Mr. Parasyte was the person who had fallen overboard, and been
rescued by the Splash. We told him what our persecutor intended to do
with the steamer, and a council was immediately called to decide upon
our proper course.
"What shall we do?" asked our general. "That's the question."
"I don't see that we can do anything," answered Bob Hale.
