"She's a sweet girl. She's a very intimate friend of mine. Who is that
boy that came into the room with you?"
"His name is Henry Fosdick."
"He's going to dance with Ida. Come, let us hurry and get in the same
set."
Dick offered his arm, and, as the sets were already being formed, led
his partner to the upper end of the room, where they were just in time
to get into the same set with Ida.
Theodore, with a girl about his own age, had already taken his position
opposite Dick. Fosdick and Ida were the first couple, and opposite them
Isaac and Isabella Selden, cousins of Theodore and Alice.
They had scarcely taken their places when the music struck up. Dick felt
a little flustered, but determined to do his best. Being very quick in
learning figures, and naturally gracefully in his movements, he got
through very creditably, and without a mistake.
"I thought you expected to make mistakes," said Alice Selden, as Dick
led her back to her seat. "I think you dance very well."
"It was because I had such a good partner," said Dick.
"Thank you for the compliment," said Alice, courtesying profoundly.
"Seems to me you're very polite, Alice," said Theodore, coming up.
"Mr. Hunter was paying me a compliment," said Alice.
"I wish you'd tell me how," said Theodore to Dick.
"I wish he would," interrupted Alice. "All your compliments are of the
wrong kind."
"It isn't expected that brothers should compliment their sisters," said
Theodore.
Mrs. Greyson came into the room during the dancing, and was pleased to
see that Dick and Henry Fosdick, instead of sitting awkwardly in the
corner, were taking their part in the evening's amusement. Dick made an
engagement with Alice for another dance later in the evening, but danced
the second with Ida Greyson, with whom, by this time, he felt very well
acquainted.
[Illustration]
"I didn't know you knew Alice Selden," said Ida. "Where did you meet
her?"
"Her brother Theodore introduced me this evening. I did not know her
before."
"You haven't been here lately, Dick," said Ida, familiarly.
"No," said he. "It's because I've been very busy."
"You don't work in the evening,--do you?"
