Flag, Sr., was politely invited to take the stand. He appeared in his
best clothes, and his name, quality, and position on board of the yacht
were duly elicited by the magistrate.
"What do you know about the money or the bag?" asked Squire Saunders.
"I know all about it, your honor," replied the witness, with a radiant
smile.
"Who put them in the locker, where they were found?"
"I did, your honor."
"That nigger's been bribed to say that," interposed Dock, savagely.
"Who do you call a nigger?" demanded Mr. Cæsar Augustus Ebénier,
stepping briskly up to Dock, with his fists doubled up for use. "I
never was convicted of crime and sent to the state prison."
"Order!" called the justice.
Dock was the more disturbed of the two; but the constable quieted him,
while Mr. Watson patched up the wounded dignity of the cabin steward,
who was doubtless a much better man than Dock. He had formerly been the
body servant of a French gentleman in Louisiana, and he could read and
write, and spoke French fluently. He wrote his name "C. Augustus
Ebénier," and he insisted that his surname should be pronounced
A-ba-ne-a. He was a person of no little importance in his own
estimation, and had a southern negro's contempt for mean whites, of
whom Dock Vincent seemed to be the meanest specimen he had yet seen.
"Now, Mr. Ebony, we will proceed with this examination."
"A-ba-ne-a, if you please, your honor," suggested the witness, with the
politest of bows.
"I beg your pardon, Mr. Ebénier," said the justice, with a smile. "You
placed the bag and the money in the locker--did you?"
"I did, your honor; in the captain's locker: but I didn't comprehend
what was in the bag at the particular moment when it was in my
possession."
"Exactly so."
"I was not precisely informed in regard to the nature of the contents
of the bag, which was agglomerated in a mass, and exceedingly heavy for
the bulk of the parcel, appearing to consist only of a portion of tow
cloth."
"Just so, Mr. Ebénier; we are fortunate in being able to understand
you."
"I beg your honor's pardon, but the initial E in my surname should be
pronounced like long a."
"Excuse me, monsieur," laughed the justice; "but my French is rather
