"You won't hear the last of this very soon, I can tell you!"
"What are you going to do about it, Ham?"
"I'll pay you off for it yet!"
"Will you!" I continued, startling his sensibilities again with the
noise of the snapper.
"Yes, I will!" snarled he, passionately.
If the calf of his left leg had been a maple leaf at that moment, I
should have taken a piece out of it as big as a dime.
"Mind out, Buck Bradford!"
"Have you had enough?" I demanded.
"Yes, I have!"
"O, well, if you are satisfied, I am, though you are not very
good-natured about it. Next time you want to hit me over the head with
the mail-bag, just remember that when I am awake I keep my eyes open," I
replied, coiling up the lash of my whip. "When I told you I had stood
this thing long enough, I got myself ready for anything that might come.
I'm ready for anything more, and I shall be ready the next time you want
to try it on."
"You had better go along with the mail," snapped he, in a tone so like
his mother's that I could not have told who spoke if I had not seen Ham
before me.
"I made this stop to accommodate you, not myself. After what has
happened, I want to tell you once more, that I am ready to do my work
like a man, and to treat you and everybody else like gentlemen, if you
use me decently. If you know how to behave like a gentleman, I'd like to
have you try it on for a few days, just to see how it would seem. If you
will only do that, I promise you shall have no reason to complain of me.
That's all I've got to say."
"You've said enough, and you had better go along with the mail," growled
he.
I turned Darky again, very much to that knowing animal's
dissatisfaction apparently, for my singular proceedings had doubtless
impressed him with the idea that he was to escape his regular trip to
Riverport.
"Aren't you going along to Crofton's?" I called to Ham, as I got into
the wagon.
"A pretty fix I'm in to go to a party," replied he, as he glanced in
disgust at his soiled garments.
"Well, you ought to have thought of that before you began the sport," I
added, consolingly.
