single day for you, Daisy; but after all, it is best so. You
can be ready just as well, and the sooner you are off now the
better. I shall miss you dreadfully, though."
I felt my cheeks turn cold, and I busied myself with my cup of
tea.
"You are not so eager to be off, Miss Randolph, as my good
sister is to have you," I heard the doctor say.
"No, not quite. I would like better to go if all this trouble
in the country were ended."
"That would be to wait some time, I am afraid, said the
doctor, helping himself to a piece of toast. And I do not know
what in his motion and his manner of speech conveyed to me the
notion that he was glad I could not wait. And, my mother's
child though I was, I could not thwart him this time.
"It is a good time to be away, I think," said Mrs. Sandford.
"I'd keep the news from her, Grant, if I were you. She sits
and studies the papers as if her life were in them."
"There will be no news on board the steamer," said the doctor.
Yes, I knew that. The very beginning of my journey was to cut
me off from tidings. How should I get them in Switzerland? And
I must go too without seeing Miss Cardigan. Well, I thought,
nothing can take my best Friend from me.
CHAPTER VIII.
DAISY'S POST
Dr. Sandford and I stood together on the deck of the steamer,
looking at the lessening shore. I was afraid the doctor should
see how I looked, yet I could not turn my eyes from it. I had
given up the care of myself; I could bear to see America
fading out of my sight; yet it seemed to me as if I left Daisy
and her life there, and as if I must be like a wandering
spirit from another world till I should come back to those
shores again. I would minister to my father and mother, but
nobody would minister to me. And I thought it was very likely
very good for me. Maybe I was in danger of growing selfish and
of forgetting my work and all happiness except my own and
Thorold's. I could do nothing for either of those now; nothing
actively. But I called myself up as soon as that thought
passed through me. I could always pray; and I could be quiet
and trust; and I could be full of faith, hope and love; and
anybody with those is not unhappy. And God is with his people;
