seamanship. I don't know that he has any superior as a teacher of the
classics."
Mr. Hamblin did not like this answer. The principal had no business to
think that any one was his equal in the department of Greek and Latin,
especially the former. Mr. Fluxion had never written a Greek Grammar,
compiled a Greek Reader, and edited the Anabasis. The remark of the
principal was very injudicious.
"Having been displaced from my position in the consort, I am rather
desirous of knowing what is to be done with me," added the professor,
choking down his disgust.
"I hope we shall be able to make an arrangement that will be
satisfactory to you, at least for the present," replied the principal.
"I have had some consultation with the instructors; and Mr. Paradyme has
obligingly consented to take the department of mathematics in the ship
for a time, and the Greek and Latin will be assigned to you."
"This arrangement is entirely satisfactory to me, Mr. Lowington,"
answered the professor, who was really delighted to obtain what was
regarded as the senior professorship in the squadron; and it seemed
quite fitting that the place should be given to him.
"This is only a temporary arrangement," added the principal, desirous to
prevent any misunderstanding in the future.
This was not entirely satisfactory to Mr. Hamblin, who thought a thing
so fitly done ought to be permanent.
"It is not pleasant for me to feel unsettled, and to be liable to a
change at any time," said the professor. "I think I should prefer my
place in the Josephine."
"Since you and the captain of the Josephine cannot agree, it does not
appear to be practicable for you to remain there."
"Do you expect me to submit when insulted by a pupil, Mr. Lowington?"
asked Mr. Hamblin, solemnly. "Will you allow a student to insult me?"
"I will neither allow a student to insult you, nor you to insult a
student," replied the principal, with the most refreshing frankness.
"You will not allow me to insult a pupil!" exclaimed Mr. Hamblin.
"Certainly not."
"Do you think me capable of doing such a thing?"
"I am sorry to say you have proved that you are. You called one of them
a puppy."
"But not until--"
"Excuse me, Mr. Hamblin. I do not purpose to discuss this matter again."
"May I ask if you sustain Mr. Kendall in his conduct towards me?"
