"Why I don't get but twelve and a half cents an hour when I work out
hayin'," said the young man in a tone expressive of his sense of the
unfairness of the comparative compensation.
"Maybe you don't have to pay a big license," said Ben.
"A license for blackin' boots?" ejaculated the countryman, in surprise.
"In course. I have to deposit five hundred dollars, more or less, in
the city treasury, before I can black boots."
"Five--hundred--dollars!" repeated the customer, opening his eyes wide
at the information.
"In course," said Ben. "If I didn't they'd put me in jail for a year."
"And does he pay a license too?" asked the countryman, pointing to
Mark, who had just come up.
"He only has to pay two hundred and fifty dollars," said Ben. "They
aint so hard on him as on us."
The young man drew out his wallet reluctantly, and managed to raise
twenty-three cents, which he handed to Ben.
"I wouldn't have had my boots blacked, if I'd known the price," he
said. "I could have blacked 'em myself at home. They didn't cost but
three dollars, and it don't pay to give twenty-five cents to have 'em
blacked."
"It'll make 'em last twice as long," said Ben. "My blackin' is the
superiorest kind, and keeps boots from wearin' out."
"I havn't got the other two cents," said the young man. "Aint that near
enough?"
"It'll do," said Ben, magnanimously, "seein' you didn't know the price."
The victimized customer walked away, gratified to have saved the two
cents, but hardly reconciled to have expended almost quarter of a
dollar on a piece of work which he might have done himself before
leaving home.
"Well, what luck, Mark?" said Ben. "I took in that chap neat, didn't I?"
"But you didn't tell the truth," said Mark. "You don't have to buy a
license."
"Oh, what's the odds?" said Ben, whose ideas on the subject of truth
were far from being strict. "It's all fair in business. Didn't that
chap open his eyes when I told him about payin' five hundred dollars?"
"I don't think it's right, Ben," said Mark, seriously.
"Don't you go to preachin', Mark," said Ben, not altogether pleased.
"You've been tied to an old woman's apron-string too long,--that's
what's the matter with you."
"Mother Watson didn't teach me the truth," said Mark. "She don't care
