whether he is a dangerous madman or a determined villain.
Such was this young wife's situation.
With a heart at times wrung with compassion for her husband as a
helpless maniac, and fearful that all may end in suicide, yet compelled
to leave him, she writes on the road the much-quoted letter, beginning
'Dear Duck.' This is an exaggerated and unnatural letter, it is
true, but of precisely the character that might be expected from an
inexperienced young wife when dealing with a husband supposed to be
insane.
The next day, she addressed to Augusta this letter:--
 'MY DEAREST A.,--It is my great comfort that you are still
 in Piccadilly.'
And again, on the 23rd:--
 'DEAREST A.,--I know you feel for me, as 1 do for you; and
 perhaps I am better understood than I think. You have been, ever since
 I knew you, my best comforter; and will so remain, unless you grow
 tired of the office,--which may well be.'
We can see here how self-denying and heroic appears to Lady Byron the
conduct of the sister, who patiently remains to soothe and guide and
restrain the moody madman, whose madness takes a form, at times, so
repulsive to every womanly feeling. She intimates that she should not
wonder should Augusta grow weary of the office.
Lady Byron continues her statement thus:--
 'When I arrived at Kirkby Mallory, my parents were unacquainted
 with the existence of any causes likely to destroy my prospects of
 happiness; and, when I communicated to them the opinion that had been
 formed concerning Lord Byron's state of mind, they were most anxious
 to promote his restoration by every means in their power. They assured
 those relations that were with him in London that "they would devote
 their whole care and attention to the alleviation of his malady."'
Here we have a quotation[41] from a letter written by Lady Milbanke
to the anxious 'relations' who are taking counsel about Lord Byron in
town. Lady Byron also adds, in justification of her mother from Lord
Byron's slanders, 'She had always treated him with an affectionate
consideration and indulgence, which extended to every little
peculiarity of his feelings. Never did an irritating word escape her
lips in her whole intercourse with him.'
[Footnote 41: This little incident shows the characteristic carefulness
and accuracy of Lady Byron's habits. This statement was written
fourteen years after the events spoken of; but Lady Byron carefully
