as is a prime Havana to their lords.”

“And what is the latest morceau?” inquired Mr Aylett, indulgently, when
Mabel had gone.

He was standing by his wife’s chair, and she leaned her head against
him, her bright eyes uplifted to his, her hair falling in a long,
burnished fringe over his arm--a fond, sparkling siren, whom no man,
with living blood in his veins, could help stooping to kiss before her
lips had shaped a reply.

“You wouldn’t think it an appetizing morsel! But I listened with
interest to our unsophisticated Mabel’s account of her Quixotic
expedition to what will, I foresee, be the haunted chamber of Ridgeley
in the next generation. Her penchant for adventure has, I suspect,
embellished her portrait of the hapless house-breaker.”

“A common-looking tramp!” returned Winston, disdainfully. “As villanous
a dog in physiognomy and dress as I ever saw! Such an one as generally
draws his last breath where he drew the first--in a ditch or jail;
and too seldom, for the peace and safety of society, finds his noblest
earthly elevation upon a gallows. It is a nuisance, though, having him
pay this trifling debt of Nature--nobody but Nature would trust him--in
my house. There must be an inquest and a commotion. The whole thing is
an insufferable bore. Ritchie has given him up, and gone to bed, leaving
old Phillis on the watch, with unlimited rations of whiskey, and a pile
of fire-wood higher than herself. But I did not mean that you should
hear anything about this dirty business. It is not fit for my darling’s
ears. Mabel showed even less than her usual discretion in detailing the
incidents of her adventure to you.”

Flattery of his sister had never been a failing with him, but, since his
marriage, the occasions were manifold in which her inferiority to his
wife was so glaring as to elicit a verbal expression of disapproval. It
was remarkable that Clara’s advocacy of Mabel’s cause, at these times,
so frequently failed to alter his purpose of censure or to mitigate it,
since, in all other respects, her influence over him was more firmly
established each day and hour.

Old Phillis, Mabel’s nurse and the doctress of the plantation--albeit
