drying clothes. At every house I found a scuttle, and some of them
were not fastened; but I did not like the idea of being captured as a
burglar, and sent to the station-house to remain over Sunday. I walked
to the end of the block, where a cross-street interrupted my further
progress in that direction.

Between the several tenements which composed the block there were brick
walls rising about a foot above the flat roof. They were the dividing
lines between the houses. I observed that the house at the corner of
the cross-street occupied as much space as three of the others, and
was planked all over, with stanchions for clothes-lines. I concluded
that the building was used for a purpose different from the others. I
went to the front, and looked down into the street. There were a couple
of gas-lamps before the door, and people were constantly arriving and
departing. I satisfied myself that the house was a hotel.

In the rear of the roof there was a kind of crane, with a couple of
ropes reaching to the ground. I reasoned that the apparatus was used
for hoisting up baskets of clothes. I also found a scuttle door, which
was not fastened, and I began to consider whether I should go down by
the rope or by the stairs. I did not like the idea of dangling in the
air fifty feet from the ground on the one hand, or of being captured
as a thief on the other. If I went down the rope, it might drop me in
some back yard, where I might be liable to suspicion if discovered. On
the whole, I concluded that the stairs were the safer expedient, and I
carefully opened the scuttle door.

The steps led down to a well-lighted entry; and, having satisfied
myself that no one was there, I descended, taking the precaution to
hook the door behind me, which some careless servant had neglected to
do, though I was not disposed to blame her for the neglect. Passing
down the steps, I came to a long entry, from which opened on each side
the sleeping-rooms. The stairs were at the other end, and I walked
as lightly as my thick boots would permit through the hall. At the
stairs I heard the sound of voices on the floor below, and I paused. I
concluded that the upper floors were used for sleeping-rooms, and that
no one would remain long in the entry. Presently I heard a door open,
and then the sound of footsteps on the stairs below. As all was still
again, I ventured to descend the steps to the next hall.

