that sweep the street, at that rate."
Opportunities? were all her opportunities gone from her at once? That
could not be; and yet Matilda did not see her way out of the question.
So the carriage rolled along with her, and she by and by got tired of
thinking and began to examine more carefully into what there was to
see. She was coming into a quarter of the city unlike those where she
had been before. The house of Mme. Fournissons was in a very quiet
street certainly; but what she was passing now was far below that in
pretension. These streets were very uncomfortable, she thought, even
to ride through. Yet the houses themselves were as good and as large as
many houses in Shadywalk. But nothing in Shadywalk, no, not Lilac lane
itself, was so repelling. Nothing in Shadywalk was so dingy and dark.
Lilac lane was dirty, and poor; yet it was broad enough and the
cottages stood far
enough apart to let the sky look in. Here, in these streets, houses and
people seemed to be packed. There was a bare look of want; a forlorn
abandonment of every sort of pleasantness; what must it be to go in at
one of those doors? Matilda thought; and to live there?--the idea was
too disagreeable to dwell upon. Yet people lived there. What sort?
Dingy people, as far as Matilda could see; dirty people, and as
hopeless looking as the houses. It was not however a region of the
wretchedly poor through which her course lay; the windows were whole
and the roofs were decent; but it made the little girl's heart sick to
look at it all, and read the signs she could not read. Through street
after street of this general character the carriage went; narrow
streets, very full of mud and dirt; where the horses stepped round an
overturned basket of garbage in one place, and in another stopped for a
dray to get out of their path; where children looked as if their heads
were never brushed, and often the women looked as if their clothes were
never clean. Matilda could never walk to see her sisters, that was
plain; she was glad nobody was in the carriage with her; and she was
much disappointed to see even a part of New York look like this.
In a street a little wider, a little cleaner, a shade or two more
respectable, the carriage stopped at last. It stopped, and Matilda got
out. Was this Bolivar street? But she looked and saw that 316 was the
number of the house. So she rang the bell.
It was the right place; and she was shewn into a parlour, where she had
to wait a little. It was respectable, and yet it oppressed all
Matilda's senses. The room was full of buckwheat cake smoke, to begin
with, which had filled it that morning and probably every morning of
