“Yes, Mrs. Merton. I remember distinctly having counted the money this
morning, before laying it on the bureau. It must have been taken by some
one in the house. Now, who was likely to enter the room? Which of your
servants makes the bed?”
“It was Jenny,” said Mrs. Merton, with a sudden conviction that Tom was
the guilty party.
“What, that bright little girl that I have seen about the house?”
“Yes, Mr. Holland, I am afraid it is she,” said Mrs. Merton, shaking her
head. “She is not exactly a servant, but a child whom my brother took
out of the streets, and induced me to take charge of while he is away.
She has been very ill-trained, and I am not surprised to find her
dishonest. More than once I have regretted taking charge of her.”
“I am sorry,” said Mr. Holland. “I have noticed that she is rather
different from most girls. I wish I had not exposed her to the
temptation.”
“She must give up the money, or I won’t keep her in the house,” said
Mrs. Merton, who had become indignant at Tom’s ingratitude, as she
considered it. “My brother can’t expect me to harbor a thief in the
house, even for his sake. It would ruin the reputation of my house if
such a thing happened again.”
“She will probably give it back when she finds herself detected,” said
Mr. Holland.
“I will tax her with it at once,” said the landlady. “Stay here, Mr.
Holland, and I will call her.”
Tom was called in. She looked from one to the other, and something in
the expression of each led her to see that she was to be blamed for
something, though what she could not conceive.
“Jane,” said Mrs. Merton, sternly, “my brother will be very much grieved
when he learns how badly you have behaved to-day.”
“What have I been doing?” asked Tom, looking up with a fearless glance,
not by any means like a girl conscious of theft.
“You have taken twenty dollars belonging to Mr. Holland.”
“Who says I did it?” demanded Tom.
“It is useless to deny it. You cleared up his room this morning. His
pocket-book was on the bureau.”
“I know it was,” said Tom. “I saw it there.”
“You opened it, and took out twenty dollars.”
“No, I didn’t,” said Tom. “I didn’t touch it.”
“Do not add falsehood to theft. You must have done it. There was no one
else likely to do it.”
