be seen grazing in herds on the gentle slopes. There is nothing very
attractive in the park, though it is much frequented by the people
from the city. Neither the roads nor the grounds are well kept, and
the government "turns an honest penny" by the letting of it out for
the pasturage of horses. On some rising ground, which Denmarkers
call a hill, is a large, square, barn-like building, known as the
"Hermitage," which was built by Christian VI. for a hunting lodge.
This park and that at Charlottelund contain thousands of acres of
excellent land, which is almost useless, and which the government
cannot afford to keep in condition as pleasure-grounds. They would
make thousands of farms, and thus increase the productive industry and
the revenues of the nation, if they could be cut up and sold. Royalty
is an expensive luxury, which a small kingdom like Denmark cannot
afford to support.

Near the entrance to the park is the garden proper of Klampenborg,
where music is provided on summer evenings, and refreshments sold.
What is called a Norwegian house is erected in the middle of the
grounds, which contains a bar and private rooms, and is surrounded
by tables and chairs, where the pleasure-seekers may sit and enjoy
their beer and the music. A small fee for admission is paid at the
gate, where the ticket-seller is kept honest by the aid of the
"control-mark." Near this garden is a hotel built for a water-cure
establishment, though it is now mainly used as a summer
boarding-house. Close by it is a village of small cottages, devoted to
the same use, with concert-rooms and bathing-houses in abundance. This
place is a favorite resort of the Copenhageners in summer,--in fact,
their Newport or Long Branch. For a couple of hours the students
wandered through the park and gardens. The railroad station is very
near the entrance, where, indeed, the whole beauty of the place is
concentrated.

The railway to Klampenborg is a branch of the one which extends from
Copenhagen to Elsinore, and in another hour the entire party were
transported to the latter place. This town has nine or ten thousand
inhabitants, and is located on a basin of the Sound, nearly
land-locked by natural and artificial dikes. The Danish name of the
place is Helsingör, and is the scene of Shakespeare's tragedy of
Hamlet. The excursionists visited the cathedral, which is the
principal object of interest in Elsinore, and contains several very
