They were coming up the avenue, and saw Uncle Robert standing on the
broad porch. She might never have another opportunity to speak, and he
had been so peculiarly serious this afternoon.
"O Mr. Meredith, you won't forget--when you are out there--that there is
another service, and another Captain--"
"Pray for me, Kathie, that I may be one of His faithful soldiers to my
life's end."
She ran up stairs afterward, and the two gentlemen had a long talk in
the library. After supper Mr. Meredith said good by, as he expected to
leave the Darrells' to take the early morning train.
"I do believe everybody is going to war!" exclaimed Rob, rather
ruefully. "I wonder if we shall ever have such good times again."
Rob spent the next forenoon in packing.
"How all these things are to be gotten into one trunk I cannot imagine!"
he exclaimed, in despair.
"I fancy that you had better put the clothes in first, and leave the
'things,' as you call them, until the last," said Aunt Ruth, with a
quiet smile.
"But I shall want them all, I'm sure."
"Not your whole tool-chest!"
"Some of the articles would come in so handy."
"To assist you in learning your lessons?" asked his mother.
"O, you know what I mean. Now, mother, you won't let Freddy meddle with
them while I am gone,--will you? He always does manage to get into
everything."
"The best way will be to put all that you can in the closet of your
play-room, and give Uncle Robert the key. Lock all your drawers as
well."
One would have fancied that Rob was going to Europe, to say the very
least. After he had tumbled the articles in and out about twenty times,
he concluded that he would go down to the stable to see about some
trifle.
So his mother soon had the trunk in order, though she quietly restored
half the "traps" to their place in the play-room, and I doubt if Rob
ever missed them.
Saturday was another very busy time with him. He had to take a farewell
glimpse of Camp Schuyler, to visit hosts of the boys, to take a last
row, a last ride, a last game of ball, and one might have imagined from
all these preparations that he was about to enter a dungeon and leave
the cheerful ways of life behind.
