"Studies?"
"No, sir; my studies have been a good deal broken off by my being sick."
"What then? Can you tell me?"
Matilda gave briefly the history of her connexion with Sarah Staples.
She meant to give it briefly; but the story was too sweet in the
telling; it rather grew long. Yet she did by no means put herself or
her own doings in the foreground; that place was given as much as
possible to Mr. Wharncliffe and David and the poor family themselves.
The minister and the housekeeper were both very much interested.
"Yes," said the former, in conclusion, "I understand, and am satisfied.
I see that now boots are boots; and nothing more."
Matilda laughed, for the boys looked mystified.
"Will you tell me, sir," inquired Norton, "how deep questions could
spring out of my bread and butter?"
The minister could have smiled at the boy's air, which had much the
effect of seeming to put a "poser" to him; but he controlled himself
and answered quite gravely.
"Shall we consider them together? or apart?"
"Apart, if you please."
"Well--Bread, you know, daily bread, stands for the matters which
support life, in all variety. This question arises.--Who gives this
daily bread to you, and gives you power to eat it? And what use does He
wish to make of you, that he should give you both?"
Norton was silent.
"You are not prepared with an answer?" said the minister.
"I never thought of the questions before, sir. The second one sounds to
me very strange."
"Does it? Do you think the Lord had no purpose to serve, in putting you
here and nourishing you up to strength and power?"
"That's for the bread," said Norton after a pause, but not rudely;
lifting his eyes to the minister as he spoke. "You were going to
consider the bread and butter."
"I think you do not seem disposed to 'consider' anything," said Mr.
Richmond smiling; "but, however, I will hope the time of consideration
may come. Now for deep question Number three, or Number four,--You have
butter to your bread, and plenty of it; what is your duty towards
others who have no butter, and others still who have no bread?"
"There's the omnibus, Mr. Richmond," said the housekeeper. And there
was no more talk. Only a hurried putting on of hats and seizing of hand
bags; eager, warm, hearty grasping of hands in good bye; and then the
