
During eight months of the year, straight along, the skies 
are bright and cloudless, and never a drop of rain falls. But 
when the other four months come along, you will need to go 
and steal an umbrella. Because you will require it. Not just 
one day, but one hundred and twenty days in hardly varying 
succession. When you want to go visiting, or attend church, 
or the theatre, you never look up at the clouds to see whether 
it is likely to rain or not — you look at the almanac. If it is 
Winter, it will 7'ain — and if it is Summer, it oonH rain, and 
you cannot help it. You never need a lightning-rod, because 
it never thunders and it never lightens. And after you have 
listened for six or eight weeks, every night, to the dismal 
monotony of those quiet rains, you will wish in your heart the 
thunder would leap and crash and roar along those drowsy 
skies once, and make everything alive — you will wish the 
prisoned lightnings would cleave the dull firmament asunder 
and light it with a blinding glare for one little instant. You 
would give anything to hear the old familiar thunder again 
and see the liohtnino- strike somebodv. And alono; in the 
Summer, when you have suffered about four months of 
lustrous, pitiless sunshine, you are ready to go down on your 
knees and plead for rain — hail — snow — thunder and lightning 
— anything to break the monotony — you will take an earth- 
quake, if you cannot do any better. And the chances are 
that you'll get it, too. 

San Francisco is built on sand hills, but they are prolific 
sand hills. They yield a generous vegetation. All the rare 
flowers which people in " the States " rear with such patient 
care in parlor flower-pots and green-houses, flourish luxu- 
riantly in the open air there all the year round. Calla lilies, all 
sorts of geraniums, passion flowers, moss roses — I do not know ' 
the names of a tenth part of them. I only know that while 

New Yorkers are burdened with banks and drifts of snow, 
Californians are burdened with banks and drifts of flowers, if 
they only keep their hands off and let them grow. And I 
have heard that they have also that rarest and most curious of 
all the flowers, the beautiful Espivitu Santo, as the Spaniards 
