“Then we shall be beaten,” said the little boy, with a sigh.
“I am afraid so.”
“And get no supper.”
“Yes,” said Phil; “unless,” he added, “we get some supper now.”
“With this money?” asked Giacomo, startled at the boldness of the
suggestion.
“Yes; we shall be beaten at any rate. It will be no worse for us if we
get some supper.”
“Will you buy some bread?”
“No,” said Phil, daringly. “I am going to buy some meat.”
“What will the padrone say?”
“I shall not tell the padrone.”
“Do you think he will find out?”
“No. Besides, we ought to have some supper after walking about all day.”
Evidently Phil had begun to think, and the essential injustice of
laboring without proper compensation had impressed his youthful mind.
Giacomo was more timid. He had not advanced as far as Phil, nor was he
as daring. But I have already said that he was guided in a great measure
by Phil, and so it proved in this case.
Phil, having made up his mind, set about carrying his plan into
execution. Only a block distant was a cheap restaurant, where plates of
meat were supplied to a poor class of customers at ten cents per plate.
“Let us go in here,” he said.
Giacomo followed, but not without trepidation. He knew that what they
were about to do would be a heinous crime in the eyes of the padrone.
Even Phil had never ventured upon such direct rebellion before. But Mr.
Pomeroy’s suggestion that he should run away was beginning to bear fruit
in his mind. He had not come to that yet, but he might. Why should he
not earn money for his own benefit, as well as for the padrone? True, he
was bound to the latter by a legal contract entered into by his father,
but Phil, without knowing much about law, had an indistinct idea that
the contract was a one-sided one, and was wholly for the advantage of
the other party. The tyrant is always in danger of losing his hold upon
the victim when the latter begins to think.
They entered the restaurant, and sat down at a table.
The tables were greasy. The floor was strewed with sawdust. The waiters
were dirty, and the entire establishment was neither neat nor inviting.
But it was democratic. No customers were sent away because they were
unfashionably attired. The only requisite was money enough to defray
their bills. Nevertheless Giacomo felt a little in awe even of the dirty
