the last seven years."
"You bring that boy of yourn up to steal. If he'll take my property,
he'll take other folks' property."
"It's no use to talk any more about that matter," said Mrs. Taylor,
impatiently.
"I believe the boy stole the letter and took the money out on't,"
muttered Ezekiel.
"A little while ago you believed I had money hid away, and took the five
hundred dollars from that."
"It was one way or t'other, and one ain't no wus 'n t'other. I hain't
been consulted in this business at all."
"You refused to be bail for me, and that's enough for one day," answered
Mrs. Taylor.
"I ain't a goin' to resk my property for a woman that keeps money hid
away from me, and won't tell no thin' about this business."
"Your property would have been all taken away from you long ago if I
hadn't paid the interest, and paid the mortgage, too."
"But where did you get the money to pay the mortgage with?"
"That will all be explained in due time."
Ezekiel went over the same ground again and again. He was angry, and
finally left the house. He felt that he was an abused man, because he
was ignored. He objected to giving bail for his wife simply to increase
his own importance, and a little importunity would have won his
consent. He was vexed because he had not even been asked a second time
to yield the point.
"Now, mother, we are alone," said Bobtail. "Can't you tell me where you
got that bill?"
"I can't tell anybody, Robert," replied his mother. "I am sure that all
will be explained in time."
"The case looks bad against me, mother."
"I know it does;" and the tears began to flow from her eyes again.
"I don't like to be accused of stealing, and have it proved, as it seems
to be in this case. I don't blame anybody for thinking I'm guilty, when
the very bill that was in the letter was handed to the squire by you,
and you won't tell where you got it. I shall be sent to the state prison
for two or three years."
"O, Robert, I shall be crazy! Do you think I stole the bill?"
"No, mother; nothing of that kind. I know you wouldn't steal. You know I
didn't give you that bill, and you are the only one that does know it
positively. I wonder that Squire Simonton don't give me the cold
