play a trump : in case of doubt, they always put in 
anise-seed. It is sprinkled profusely in the blackest rye 
bread, it gets into all the vegetables, and even into the 
holiday cakes. 
The extensive Maximilian Platz has suddenly grown 
up into booths and shanties, and looks very much like a 
temporary Western village. There are shops for the 
sale of Christmas articles, toys, cakes, and gimcracks; 
and there are, besides, places of amusement, if one of the 
sorry menageries of sick beasts with their hair half worn 
off can be so classed. One portion of the platz is now 
a lively and picturesque forest of evergreens, an exten- 
sive thicket of large and small trees, many of them 
trimmed with colored and gilt strips of paper. I meet 
in every street persons lugging home their little trees ; 
for it must be a very poor household that cannot have its 
Christmas-tree, on which are hung the scanty store of 
candy, nuts, and fruit, and the simple toys that the 
needy people will pinch themselves otherwise to obtain. 
At this season, usually, the churches get up some 
representations for the children, — the stable at Bethle- 
hem, with the figures of the Virgin and Child, the wise 
men, and the oxen standing by. At least, the churches 
must be put in spic-and-spah order. I confess that I 
like to stray into these edifices, some of them gaudy 
enough when they are, so to speak, off duty, when the 
choir is deserted, and there is only here and there a 
solitary worshipper at his prayers ; unless, indeed, as it 
sometimes happens, when I fancy myself quite alone, I 
come by chance upon a hundred people, in some remote 
corner before a side chapel, where mass is going on, but 
so quietly that the sense of solitude in the church is not 
disturbed. Sometimes, when the place is left entirely to 
myself, and the servants who are putting it to rights, 
and, as it were, shifting the scenes, I get a glimpse of 
the reality of all the pomp and parade of the services. 
At first I may be a little shocked with the familiar man- 
ner in which the images and statues and the gilded para- 
phernalia are treated, very different from the stately 
ceremony of the morning, when the priests are at the 
