influence, to the most childlike habit of slumber.
For debility, and the complaints that spring from debility, Florida is
not so good a refuge, perhaps, as some more northern point, like Aiken.
The air here is soothing, but not particularly bracing. It builds up and
strengthens, not by any tonic effect in itself so much as by the
opportunity for constant open-air life and exercise which it affords.
For children, the climate cannot be too much praised. In our little
neighborhood are seven about as lively youngsters as could often be met
with; and the winter has been one long out-door play-spell. There has
not been a cough, nor a cold, nor an ailment of any kind, and scarce an
anxiety. All day long we hear their running and racing,--down to the
boat-wharves; in the boats, which they manage as dexterously as little
Sandwich-Islanders; fishing; catching crabs, or off after flowers in the
woods, with no trouble of hail, sleet, or wet feet. Truly it is a
child's Eden; and they grow and thrive accordingly.
Now as to malaria. That is a word requiring consideration to those who
expect to make Florida a permanent home, but having no terrors for
those who come to spend winters merely. There is no malaria in winter;
and Dr. C---- may be consoled in reflecting that frost always destroys
it: so that, when the thermometer is, as he says, at thirty-two degrees,
there is no danger, even though one be in the same State with forty
swamps. In fact, for ourselves, we prefer a cool winter such as this has
been. An October-like winter, when it is warm in the middle of the day,
and one can enjoy a bright fire on the hearth morning and night, is the
most favorable to out-door exercise and to health.
But merely to come to Florida, and idle away time at the St. James or
the St. Augustine Hotel, taking no regular exercise, and having no
employment for mind or body, is no way to improve by being here. It is
because the climate gives opportunity of open-air exercise that it is so
favorable; but, if one neglects all these opportunities, he may gain
very little.
It cannot be too often impressed on strangers coming here, that what
cold there is will be more keenly felt than in a Northern climate.
Persons should vary their clothing carefully to the varying temperature,
and be quite as careful to go warmly clad as in colder States. In our
furnace-heated houses at the North we generally wear thick woollen
dresses and under-flannels, and keep up a temperature of from seventy to
eighty degrees. In the South we move in a much lower temperature, and
have only the open fire upon the hearth. It is therefore important to go
warmly clad, and particularly to keep on flannels until the warm weather
