accent of chagrin. "I call him positively homely! Don't you?"
Orrin should have moved--assured as he was that he was the subject
of unflattering remark. In his code, this was a reason why he should
remain acquiescent and hearken for more. Perhaps others who make
higher pretensions to the minor moralities would have done likewise.
"He is not handsome, certainly," returned Miss Kirke.
"You are disposed to be unreasonable because your expectations were
unduly raised."
"By his cousin who told me he was the most popular man in
Hamilton--one of the glass-of-fashion and mould-of-form kind, you
know," continued Jessie, in increasing vexation. "Am I to be blamed
if I lose at least the outposts of my temper when, having expected
an Adonis, I behold--"
"A gentleman!" Her sister finished the sentence. "Since he is that,
dear, and Mr. Fordham's cousin, he should be safe from our
criticism. At least, while he is our guest."
There was a pause before Jessie spoke again.
"Darling Euna! are you displeased with me?" she said coaxingly. "I
was cross and unladylike, I acknowledge. I ought not to--I did not
expect that he would be Roy's equal in appearance or manner, but I
am grievously disappointed."
"Not to be outdone in generous candor, I own that I am, also," was
the reply.
The elder sister approached the window as she said it; and Mr.
Wyllys effected a skilful retreat.
The labyrinth had its terminus in a matted arbor near the
church-yard fence. Sitting down in this, the subject of the recent
discussion indulged himself in a hearty but noiseless fit of
laughter.
CHAPTER III.
Orrin Wyllys could afford to laugh at criticism that would have
provoked a thin-skinned, or moderately-vain man to anger, if not to
hatred. For he was aware that his cousin had spoken the bare truth
when he represented him as the admired Crichton of the town which
was their home. His features and form were as I have portrayed them.
He had neither beauty nor absolute symmetry to recommend these. He
was not wealthy, nor yet eminent in his profession. A lawyer in fair
practice, gained principally by the exercise of other gifts than
legal acumen, he was yet a person of mark in the community. The
reason assigned for this would have been the same, in effect, by
