" It is one of those matters that cannot be settled with 
an hour's talk," said Mrs. Ashburton. " If you still loved 
him!" 
" Ah, mamma, that is one of the bitterest dregs in this 
hopeless cup. I cannot shut my eyes to what I have 
known. I cannot put the false for the true. I have had 
a glimpse of blessedness such as I hardly dreamed of in 
my girlhood. Jessie's happy marriage, and intimate con- 
tact with two such men as Mr. Graham and Mr. Wyverne, 
have opened my blind eyes. I should be ashamed now to 
bring Gerald Copeland in our midst, to ask Clement or 
Philip to receive him as a brother." 
" With these feelings it is hardly right to attempt life 
with him. There is a limit to human endurance." 
" I have tried in vain to think that I could love him 
once more. I cannot!" and Eleanor shuddered with 
aversion. 
 
After a few days she resumed her wonted duties. By 
day and by night she seemed as if girt by fire. To see on 
the one hand the sweet and ennobling life, the richness of 
love and truth that she had but just touched, like the hem 
of a garment, and been made whole ; yet to understand 
that the healing in its most joyous and comprehensive 
sense was not for her ; to be thrust back to the wilderness 
of doubt and perplexity, her whole future irrevocably shad- 
owed, appeared at times more than she could endure. 
But she was not to be left in peace. Gerald's friends 
and relatives, who had paid her no attention beyond their 
first visit of condolence, became aware pf her existence. 
One cousin, who had been very attentive during the mar- 
riage, visited her now on Gerald's behalf, and insisted that 
his conduct had been really noble. 
"That he should have been content to live in silence 
and obscurity while he could do nothing for you, and come 
to you the instant he had anything to share, is to me a 
proof of the utmost devotion. Perhaps his remaining 
abroad was the best thing he could do after that fatal 
misunderstanding." 
" It might appear so to some women," Eleanor respond- 
