“Be seated, madam,” said Mr. Dinneford.
She sat down, seeming very ill at ease. He took a chair in front of her.
“You wish to see me?”
“Yes, sir, and on a matter that deeply concerns you. I was your
daughter’s nurse when her baby was born.”
She paused at this. Mr. Dinneford had caught his breath. She saw the
almost wild interest that flushed his face.
After waiting a moment for some response, she added, in a low, steady
voice,
“That baby is still alive, and I am the only person who can clearly
identify him.”
Mr. Dinneford did not reply immediately. He saw by the woman’s face
that she was not to be trusted, and that in coming to him she had only
sinister ends in view. Her story might be true or false. He thought
hurriedly, and tried to regain exterior calmness. As soon as he felt
that he could speak without betraying too much eagerness, he said, with
an appearance of having recognized her,
“You are Mrs.----?”
He paused, but she did not supply the name.
“Mrs.----? Mrs.----? what is it?”
“No matter, Mr. Dinneford,” answered Mrs. Bray, with the coolness and
self-possession she had now regained. “What I have just told you is
true. If you wish to follow up the matter--wish to get possession of
your daughter’s child--you have the opportunity; if not, our interview
ends, of course;” and she made a feint, as if going to rise.
“Is it the child a woman named Pinky Swett stole away from Briar street
on Christmas day?” asked Mr. Dinneford, speaking from a thought that
flashed into his mind, and so without premeditation. He fixed his eyes
intently on Mrs. Bray’s face, and saw by its quick changes and blank
surprise that he had put the right question. Before she could recover
herself and reply, he added,
“And you are, doubtless, this same Pinky Swett.”
The half smile, half sneer, that curved the woman’s lips, told Mr.
Dinneford that he was mistaken.
“No, sir,” was returned, with regained coolness. “I am not ‘this same
Pinky Swett.’ You are out there.”
“But you know her?”
“I don’t know anything just now, sir,” answered the woman, with a chill
in her tones. She closed her lips tightly, and shrunk back in her chair.
“What, then, are your here for?” asked Mr. Dinneford, showing
