"Everything. You know he's stayed on our account, and I never heard of
anything so impolite, so inhospitable, as offering to read without him.
Go and call him, Richard, do."
"O, no," pleaded Kitty, "he won't care about it. Don't call him, Dick."
"Why, Kitty, I'm surprised at you! When you read so beautifully! Yon
needn't be ashamed, I'm sure."
"I'm not ashamed; but, at the same time, I don't want to read to him."
"Well, call him any way, colonel. He's in his room."
"If you do," said Kitty, with superfluous dignity, "I must go away."
"Very well, Kitty, just as you please. Only I want Richard to witness
that I'm not to blame if Mr. Arbuton thinks us unfeeling or neglectful."
"O, if he doesn't say what he thinks, it'll make no difference."
"It seems to me that this is a good deal of fuss to make about one human
being, a mere passing man and brother of a day, isn't it?" said the
colonel. "Go on with Donnacona, do."
There came a knock at the door. Kitty leaped nervously to her feet, and
fled out of the room. But it was only the little French serving-maid
upon some errand which she quickly despatched.
"Well, now what do you think?" asked Mrs. Ellison.
"Why, I think you've a surprising knowledge of French for one who
studied it at school. Do you suppose she understood you?"
"O, nonsense! You know I mean Kitty and her very queer behavior.
Richard, if you moon at me in that stupid way," she continued, "I shall
certainly end in an insane asylum. Can't you see what's under your very
nose?"
"Yes, I can, Fanny," answered the colonel, "if anything's there. But I
give you my word, I don't know any more than millions yet unborn what
you're driving at." The colonel took up the book which Kitty had thrown
down, and went to his room to try to read up Donnacona for himself,
while his wife penitently turned to a pamphlet in French, which he had
bought with the others. "After all," she thought, "men will be men"; and
seemed not to find the fact wholly wanting in consolation.
A few minutes after there was a murmur of voices in the entry without,
at a window looking upon the convent garden, where it happened to Mr.
Arbuton, descending from his attic chamber, to find Kitty standing, a
pretty shape against the reflected light of the convent roofs, and
amidst a little greenery of house-plants, tall geraniums, an overarching
ivy, some delicate roses. She had paused there, on her way from Fanny's
to her own room, and was looking into the garden, where a pair of silent
nuns were pacing up and down the paths, turning now their backs with the
