your father would."
"Sam, can't I do this job for you?" said Donald.
"You?"
"Yes, I. You know I used to work with my father, and I understand his
way of doing things."
"Well, I hadn't thought that you could do it; but I will talk with my
father about it," answered Samuel, who appeared to have some doubts
about the ability of his friend to do so large a job.
"I don't mean to do it all myself, Sam. I will hire one or two
first-rate ship carpenters," added Donald. "She shall be just like the
Sea Foam, except a little alteration, which my father explained to me,
in the bow and run."
"Do you think you could do the job, Don John?" asked Samuel, with an
incredulous smile.
"I know I could," said Donald, earnestly. "If I had time enough I could
build her all alone."
"We want her as soon as we can get her."
"She shall be finished as quick as my father could have done her."
"I will see my father about it to-night, Don John, and let you know
to-morrow. I came down to see about the model."
Samuel Rodman left the shop and walked down the beach to the sail-boat
in which he had come. Donald was almost inspired by the idea which had
taken possession of him. If he could only carry on his father's
business, he could make money enough to support the family; and knowing
every stick in the hull of a vessel, he felt competent to do so. Full of
enthusiasm, he hastened into the cottage to unfold his brilliant scheme
to his mother. He stated his plan to her, but at first she shook her
head.
"Do you think you could build a yacht, Donald?" she asked.
"I am certain I could. Didn't you hear father say that my brig contained
every timber and plank that belongs to a vessel?"
"Yes, and that the work was done as well as he could do it himself; but
that does not prove that you can carry on the business."
"I want one or two men, if we build the Maud, because it would take too
long for me to do all the work alone."
"The Maud?"
"That was the yacht that father was to build next. I asked Sam Rodman to
give me the job, and he is going to talk with his father about it
to-night."
Mrs. Ramsay was rather startled at this announcement, which indicated
