
About nine o’clock a lady deliberately shot a man dead in the public
parlor of the Southern Hotel, coolly remarking, as she threw down her
revolver and permitted herself to be taken into custody, “He brought it
on himself.” Our reporters were immediately dispatched to the scene of
the tragedy, and gathered the following particulars.

Yesterday afternoon arrived at the hotel from Washington, Col. George
Selby and family, who had taken passage and were to sail at noon to-day
in the steamer Scotia for England. The Colonel was a handsome man about
forty, a gentleman of wealth and high social position, a resident of
New Orleans. He served with distinction in the confederate army, and
received a wound in the leg from which he has never entirely recovered,
being obliged to use a cane in locomotion.

This morning at about nine o’clock, a lady, accompanied by a gentleman,
called at the office of the hotel and asked for Col. Selby. The Colonel
was at breakfast. Would the clerk tell him that a lady and gentleman
wished to see him for a moment in the parlor? The clerk says that the
gentleman asked her, “What do you want to see him for?” and that she
replied, “He is going to Europe, and I ought to just say good by.”

Col. Selby was informed; and the lady and gentleman were shown to the
parlor, in which were at the time three or four other persons. Five
minutes after two shots were fired in quick succession, and there was a
rush to the parlor from which the reports came.

Col. Selby was found lying on the floor, bleeding, but not dead. Two
gentlemen, who had just come in, had seized the lady, who made no
resistance, and she was at once given in charge of a police officer who
arrived. The persons who were in the parlor agree substantially as to
what occurred. They had happened to be looking towards the door when the
man--Col. Selby--entered with his cane, and they looked at him, because
he stopped as if surprised and frightened, and made a backward movement.
At the same moment the lady in the bonnet advanced towards him and said
something like, “George, will you go with me?” He replied, throwing
up his hand and retreating, “My God I can’t, don’t fire,” and the next
instants two shots were heard and he fell. The lady appeared to be
beside herself with rage or excitement, and trembled very much when the
gentlemen took hold of her; it was to them she said, “He brought it on
