prettiest courtesy. Mrs. Van Wyck was very well off indeed, and lived
in quite a pretentious cottage,--villa she called it; but, as she had a
habit of confusing her V's and W's, Joe re-christened it the Van Wyck
Willow.
"Good-afternoon, Mrs. Kenneth. How d'y do, Florence?"
Florence brought out a chair, and, with the most polite air possible,
invited her to be seated.
Mrs. Van Wyck eyed her sharply.
"'Pears to me you look quite fine," she said.
Florence wore a white dress that was pretty well outgrown, and had
been made from one of her mother's in the beginning. It had a good many
little darns here and there, and she was wearing it for the last time.
She had tied a blue ribbon in her curls, and pinned a tiny bouquet on
her bosom. She looked very much dressed, but that was pretty Flossy's
misfortune.
Mrs. Van Wyck gathered up her silk gown,--a great staring brocade in
blue and gold, that might have been her grandmother's, it looked so
ancient in style.
"I've come over on some business," she began, with an important air and
a mysterious shake of the head.
Granny sat down, and took Dot upon her lap. Kit and Charlie peered out
of their hiding-places, and Joe perched himself upon the window-sill.
"How do you ever manage with all this tribe?" And Mrs. Van Wyck gave
each of them a scowl.
"There's a houseful," returned Granny, "but we do get along."
"Tough scratching, I should say."
"And poor pickings the chickens might add, if they had such an old
hen," commented Joe soto voce. "There'd be something worse than
clucking."
Hal couldn't help laughing. Mrs. Van Wyck was so ruffled and frilled,
so full of ends of ribbon about the head and neck, that she did look
like a setting hen disturbed in the midst of her devotions.
"Them children haven't a bit of manners," declared Mrs. Van Wyck, in
sublime disregard of syntax. "Trot off, all of you but Florence: I have
something to say to your grandmother."
Joe made a somerset out of the window, and placed himself in a good
listening position; Hal went out and sat on the doorstep; and Charlie
crawled under the table.
"I don't see how you manage to get along with such a houseful. I always
did wonder at your taking 'em."
