meets your case better than if I had not found the heirs so soon."
"I declare, I feel as if a ten-ton weight had been lifted from the top
of my head!" exclaimed the landlord.
"I feel better about it now than I should if I had stolen the hidden
treasure," added Leopold.
"So do I. But I will take only twelve hundred dollars of this money; and
I am satisfied that I shall be able to pay it at the end of the season."
The next day the Orion made her excursion to Rockland, and Leopold and
Stumpy were invited to join the party. Rosabel and Isabel were in
excellent spirits, and, as the bay was tolerably smooth, so was Charley
Redmond. Stumpy, dressed in his Sunday clothes, looked more like a
gentleman than usual. Mr. Redmond tried to make fun of him before the
girls, but Stumpy was too much for him, and retorted so smartly that he
turned the laugh upon the fop.
Rosabel's long auburn tresses floated on the breeze, and Leopold could
not help looking at her all the time, thinking that she was the
prettiest girl in the whole world. He was very attentive to her, and
when the yacht anchored in the harbor of Rockland, she permitted him to
hand her into the boat.
Stumpy, by his assiduous devotion to Miss Belle, and especially by his
sharp and witty retorts upon Mr. Redmond, had won her regard, and the
coxcomb had to step one side. Charley was disgusted and had to seek his
companions among the older people of the party, to whom he had much to
say about these "country swells."
Mr. Hamilton did his financial business in the city, disposing of the
gold at two hundred and nine, as the telegraph reported the rate to be
in New York.
In the afternoon the breeze freshened, and, with Leopold for a pilot,
the yacht sailed up the bay, and the party enjoyed the trip till the
last moment, when they landed in Rockhaven. In the evening the merchant
went to Mrs. Wormbury's house, and paid her the balance of the eighteen
hundred and eight dollars, which the gold had produced. With so much
money in the house, the widow and her eldest son could not sleep; but
early the next morning Mr. Bennington received, and gave his note for,
twelve hundred dollars of it, leaving Stumpy, who was the financier on
this occasion, embarrassed with six hundred more. He did not know what
to do with it, and Leopold advised him to put it in Herr Schlager's
safe. They went to the watch-maker's for this purpose. In front of the
shop they saw Deacon Bowman engaged in an earnest conversation with
Squire Moses Wormbury. Stumpy heard his grandfather say something about
