By and by they passed the mouth of the Ohio ; they 
passed canebrakes ; they fought mosquitoes ; they 
floated along, day after day, through the deep silence 
and loneliness of the river, drowsing in the scant shad* 
of make-shift awnings, and broiling with the heat; they 
encountered and exchanged civilities with another party 
of Indians ; and at last they reached the mouth of the
Arkansas (about a month out from their starting-point), 
where a tribe of war-whooping savages swarmed out to 
meet and murder them ; but they appealed to the Virgin 
for help ; so in place of a fight there was a feast, and 
plenty of pleasant palaver and fol-de-rol. 
They had proved to their satisfaction that the 
Mississippi did not empty into the Gulf of California, 
or into the Atlantic. They believed it emptied into the 
Gulf of Mexico. They turned back now, and carried 
their great news to Canada. 
But belief is not proof. It was reserved for La Salle 
to furnish the proof. He was provokingly delayed by 
one misfortune after another, but at last got his ex- 
pedition under way at the end of the year 1681. In 
the dead of winter he and Henri de Tonty, son of 
Lorenzo Tonto, who invented the tontine, his lieuten- 
ant, started 8own the Illinois, with a following of 
eighteen Indians brought from New England, and 
twenty-three Frenchmen. They moved in procession 
down the surface of the frozen river, on foot, and drag- 
ging their canoes after them on sledges. 
At Peoria Lake they struck open water, and paddled 
thence to the Mississippi and turned their prows south- 
ward. They plowed through the fields of floating ice, 
past the mouth of the Missouri; past the mouth of 
the Ohio, by and by; “ and, gliding by the wastes of 
bordering swamp, landed on the 24th of February near 
the Third Chickasaw Bluffs,” where they halted and 
built Fort Prudhomme. 
“Again,” says Mr. Parkman, “they embarked; and 
with every stage of their adventurous progress, the 
mystery of this vast new world was more and more 
unveiled. More and more they entered the realms of 
