“On the whole you are right, Niece Martha,” she said, coming to surface
again; “but we shall, of course, keep together as much as possible. For
this morning I have planned a visit to the old Spanish fort; Captain
Carlyle will accompany us.”
“And who is Captain Carlyle?”
“A young officer stationed here; he introduced himself to the Professor
last evening, and afterward mistook me for Mrs. Van Auden, of
Thirty-fourth Street. It seems he knows her very well,” continued Aunt
Di, with a swallow of satisfaction. (Ah, wise young Captain! Mrs. Van
Auden’s handsome face was at least ten years younger than Aunt Diana’s.)
“I saw Iris glancing after a uniform last night as we came around the
Plaza,” I said, smiling.
But Aunt Di was true to her colors, and never saw or heard any thing
detrimental to her cause.
It was a lovely February morning; the telegraph reported zero weather in
New York, but here the thermometer stood at seventy, with a fresh
sea-breeze. We stepped up on to the sea-wall at the Basin, where the
sail-boats were starting out with pleasure parties for the North Beach.
Iris had her Captain; Aunt Diana followed closely arm in arm with Mokes;
Miss Sharp, jubilant, had captured the Professor; Sara and I were
together as usual, leaving John Hoffman to bring up the rear with his
morning cigar.
“The material of this wall,” began the Professor, rapping it with his
cane, “is that singular conglomerate called coquina, which is quarried
yonder on Anastasia Island; but the coping is, as you will perceive,
granite.”
“How delightful to meet the dear old New England stone down here!”
exclaimed Miss Sharp, tapping the granite with an enthusiastic gaiter.
“The wall was completed in 1842 at a cost of one hundred thousand
dollars, having been built by the United States government,” continued
the Professor.
“And why, nobody knows,” added John, from behind.
“To keep the town from washing away, I suppose,” said Sara.
“Of course; but why should the United States government concern itself
over the washing away of this ancient little village with its eighteen
hundred inhabitants, when it leaves cities with their thousands unaided?
The one dock has, as you see, fallen down; a coasting schooner once a
month or so is all the commerce, and yet here is a wall nearly a mile in
length, stretching across the whole eastern front of the town, as though
vast wealth lay behind.”
