I have, I confess, at times, been bitterly impatient of this long
reserve, knowing, as I did, that you had not ceased to feel what you
once felt. I saw, in our brief interviews in New York, that you loved
me still. A woman is never blind to that fact, with whatever care it
is sought to be hidden. I saw that you felt all you once professed,
and yet were determined to conceal it, and treat with me on the calm
basis of ordinary friendship, and sometimes I was indignant: forgive
me the injustice.
You see that such a course is of no use, as a means of making one
forget. To know one's self passionately beloved by another who never
avows it, is something dangerous to the imagination. It gives rise
to a thousand restless conjectures, and is fatal to peace. We can
reconcile ourselves in time to any certainty; it is only when we are
called upon to accommodate ourselves to possibilities, uncertain as
vaporous clouds, that we weary ourselves in fruitless efforts.
Your letter avows what I knew before; what you often told me in our
happy days: and I now say in return that I, like you, have never
forgotten; that your image and presence have been to me as mine
to you, ever a part of my consciousness through all these years of
separation. And now you ask me to change all this into a cool and
prudent friendship, after the manner of the world; that is to say,
to take all from you, to accept the entire devotion of your heart
and life, but be careful to risk nothing in return, to keep at a safe
distance from your possible troubles, lest I be involved.
Do you think me capable of this? Is it like me? and what would you
think and say to a friend who should make the same proposition to you?
Put it to yourself: what would you think of yourself, if you could be
so coldly wary and prudent with regard to a friend who was giving to
you the whole devotion of heart and life?
No, dear friend, this is all idle talk. Away with it! I feel that I am
capable of as entire devotion to you as I know you are to me; never
doubt it. The sad fatality which clouds your life makes this feeling
only the more intense; as we feel for those who are a part of our
own hearts, when in suffering and danger. In one respect, my medical
studies are an advantage to me. They have placed me at a stand-point
where my judgment on these questions and subjects is different from
those of ordinary women. An understanding of the laws of physical
being, of the conditions of brain and nerve forces, may possibly at
some future day bring a remedy for such sufferings as yours. I look
for this among the possible triumphs of science,--it adds interest to
