“I will! Little mistress, I’ve got to go away, sooner even than we
planned.”
“Why, Phebe?”
“Because Archie loves me.”
“That’s the very reason you should stay and make him happy.”
“Not if it caused dissension in the family, and you know it would.”
Rose opened her lips to deny this impetuously, but checked herself and
answered honestly: “Uncle and I would be heartily glad, and I’m sure
Aunt Jessie never could object if you loved Archie as he does you.”
“She has other hopes, I think, and kind as she is, it would be a
disappointment if he brought me home. She is right, they all are, and I
alone am to blame. I should have gone long ago I knew I should, but it
was so pleasant, I couldn’t bear to go away alone.”
“I kept you, and I am to blame if anyone, but indeed, dear Phebe, I
cannot see why you should care even if Aunt Myra croaks and Aunt Clara
exclaims or Aunt Jane makes disagreeable remarks. Be happy, and never
mind them,” cried Rose, so much excited by all this that she felt the
spirit of revolt rise up within her and was ready to defy even that
awe-inspiring institution “the family” for her friend’s sake.
But Phebe shook her head with a sad smile and answered, still with the
hard tone in her voice as if forcing back all emotion that she might see
her duty clearly: “You could do that, but I never can. Answer me this,
Rose, and answer truly as you love me. If you had been taken into a
house, a friendless, penniless, forlorn girl, and for years been heaped
with benefits, trusted, taught, loved, and made, oh, so happy! could
you think it right to steal away something that these good people valued
very much? To have them feel that you had been ungrateful, had deceived
them, and meant to thrust yourself into a high place not fit for you
when they had been generously helping you in other ways, far more than
you deserved. Could you then say as you do now, ‘Be happy, and never
mind them’?”
Phebe held Rose by the shoulders now and searched her face so keenly
that the other shrank a little, for the black eyes were full of fire and
there was something almost grand about this girl who seemed suddenly to
have become a woman. There was no need for words to answer the question
so swiftly asked, for Rose put herself in Phebe’s place in the drawing
of a breath, and her own pride made her truthfully reply: “No I could
not!”
“I knew you’d say that, and help me do my duty.” And all the coldness
melted out of Phebe’s manner as she hugged her little mistress close,
