'I suspect I did it for myself then,' said Hazel; and "for herself' was 
the way she liked best to sing. But if he wished it So without 
more ado the song came. Not one of her gay little carols this time, 
but a wild Border lament; inimitably sweet, tender, and true. As 
effortless in the giving, as forgetful of auditors, as if she had been 
a veritable bird among the branches; for Wych Hazel always lost 
herself in her music.
Then more was called for, with a general soft shout. And then, by 
and by, as Wych Hazel sang, a soft rich accompaniment began to 
chime in with her notes. Those two had never sung together 
before; doubtless that was forgotten by neither; and it is not too 
much to say that the one voice came caressingly attending upon 
the other; playing around her notes with delicious skill, 
accompanying, supporting, contrasting, with a harmony as 
gracious as it was wilful; till at the close of a somewhat longer 
piece than usual there was a universal burst of applause. Small 
audiences are not generally wrought up to such a pitch; and when 
they had done they all sat and laughed at each other.
'Ah!' said Dr. Arthur, 'I asked for a noise, and after all had to make 
it myself!'
They had got intoxicated with melody. They went on singing, of 
course. Various and diverse things, but for the most part of the 
deeper and thoughtful styles of music; sometimes together, 
sometimes alone. At last Gyda asked for a hymn. Rollo looked at 
Wych Hazel. The two spots of colour which had been burning in 
her cheeks, changed suddenly to a grave flush.
'That is for you,' she said softly.
He waited a moment, and then sang,
"Ein' feste Burg ist unser Gott"
To hear Rollo sing a hymn, or any other song, was to have the 
meaning given with not less but more than speaking expression, 
and Wych Hazel's winter studies had enabled her to follow the 
words. The listeners were all very still, and no applause followed. 
But when the last line was ended, Rollo rose and announced that it 
was time to go. And soon as he and Arthur had left the cottage, 
Hazel sprang up.
'Mrs. Boërresen, which window best commands the Hollow?'
'You can't see into the Hollow from any of 'em, my lady.'
'Where then?'
'You know there's a bend in the Hollow, Hazel,' Prim remarked. 
