other travellers,—“It is a pity you did not see Ba’albek by
moonlight.” And it must be confessed that these ruins stand the dim
light of the moon better than most ruins; they are so broad and distinct
that they show themselves even in this disadvantage, which those of
Karnak do not. The six isolated columns seemed to float in the sky;
between them snowy Lebanon showed itself.
The next morning was clear and sparkling; the sky was almost as blue as
it is in Nubia. We were awakened by the drumming of a Moslem procession.
It was the great annual fête day, upon which was to be performed the
miracle of riding over the bodies of the devout. The ceremony took
place a couple of miles away upon the hill, and we saw on all the paths
leading thither files of men and women in white garments. The sheykh,
mounted on horseback, rides over the prostrate bodies of all who throw
themselves before him, and the number includes young men as well as
darwishes. As they lie packed close together and the horse treads upon
their spinal columns, their escape from death is called miraculous. The
Christians tried the experiment here a year or two ago, several young
fellows submitting to let a horseman trample over them, in order to
show the Moslems that they also possessed a religion which could stand
horses’ hoofs.
The ruins, under the intense blue sky, and in the splendid sunlight,
were more impressive than in the dull gray of the day before, or even in
the rosy sunset; their imperial dignity is not impaired by the excessive
wealth of ornamentation. When upon this platform there stood fifty-eight
of these noble columns, instead of six, conspicuous from afar, and the
sunlight poured into this superb court, adorned by the genius of Athens
and the wealth of Rome, this must have been one of the most resplendent
temples in existence, rivalling the group upon the Acropolis itself!
Nothing more marks the contrast between the religions of the Greeks and
Romans and of the Egyptians, or rather between the genius of the two
civilizations, than their treatment of sacred edifices. And it is all
the more to be noted, because the more modern nations accepted without
reserve any god or object of veneration or mystery in the Egyptian
pantheon. The Roman occupants of the temple of Philæ sacrificed without
scruple upon the altars of Osiris, and the voluptuous Græco-Romans of
Pompeii built a temple to Isis. Yet always and everywhere the Grecians
and the Romans sought conspicuous situations for the temples of
the gods; they felt, as did our Pilgrim Fathers, who planted their
meeting-houses on the windiest hills of New England, that the deity was
most honored when the house of his worship was most visible to men; but
