
“Yes; well, he says Captain Halliard had a long talk with Mr.
Bristlebach this forenoon. I have no doubt he made a strong personal
appeal for you, and that settled the case.”

I should very gladly have believed that I owed my good luck to the
personal influence of my uncle, but I was confident that he had used
that old slander to procure my appointment. Tom left me after I had
promised to meet him at Mr. Oliphant’s in the evening. I was sad, and
I felt mean. I was tempted to go to Mr. Bristlebach and undo what
my uncle had done. I could even procure a letter from Mr. Gorham
testifying to the integrity of Tom. Alas! I had not the courage to
do justice to my friend. A salary of twelve hundred dollars was too
glittering a prize to be thrown away; and after all it was possible
that Tom had been guilty—possible, but not at all probable.

Before the store closed I received official notice of my appointment,
and informed my employers of my intention to leave them. They did not
say much, and I am not sure that they were very sorry to have me go. I
went to my boarding-house, and dressed myself with the utmost care for
the occasion in the evening. Miss Lilian Oliphant was a bright vision
before my eyes. I wondered that she had been condescending enough to
notice a person so insignificant as I was. I was thinking only of her,
and as the happy moment drew near when I was to see her again, I even
forgot my own infamy towards Tom.

Twelve hundred a year! It was an immense sum for a young fellow like
me, and with such a foundation for an air-castle, I pictured to myself
a pleasant home with Lilian as the presiding genius of the place,
shedding unutterable bliss upon my existence. Twelve hundred dollars
would hire a house, furnish it, and enables me to live like a lord. If
Lilian did dress well, if she was rather extravagant, I could stand the
pressure with the magnificent income which would be mine.

I was admitted to the parlor in which the family were seated. Tom and
two other gentlemen were there, conversing with the young ladies, all
of whom were dressed elegantly, and were evidently “got up” for the
purpose of making an impression. Miss Lilian gave me a cordial welcome,
and introduced me to the rest of the party. Mr. Oliphant had heard of
my good fortune. He congratulated me, and did me the honor to say that
