to the place where the Aller flows into the Weser, he quitted the Weser
and went up the Aller, that he might look at the spot where those 4500
Saxons were cut to pieces by Charlemagne, and on the ground pray for the
murdered men. For at that time it was believed that even the dead could
be helped by prayer, as is still the erroneous teaching of the
Catholics. Leaving that place, he wished to visit the "stone-houses,"
that he might pray there too, where the captive Franks had been
slaughtered by the Saxons; and so he went on up the Aller and from the
Aller into the Oerze, all the while living upon the fish which he
caught.'"
"Had he no bread?" said Maggie.
"How should he?--going through wild woods and countries lone in his
boat? He would come to no bakers' shops, Maggie."
"Just living on fish! Well, go on, Ditto."
"'But all along on this journey he had not only caught fish, but also
everywhere preached the Gospel. And then must have been the first time
that the sweet name of Jesus was ever heard in our region. Perhaps when
you look at the map you will ask, why Landolf went this difficult way by
water, which was a very roundabout way besides, to get to the
"stone-houses," when he could have come across from Verden by a much
nearer and straighter route? Our chronicle gives two reasons: first, the
whole interior of the country at that time was almost nothing but thick
forest and deep morasses, through which there was no going on foot; and
secondly, he had been told in Verden, that if he wanted to visit the
"stone-houses," he must first go to the Billing of the long-legged
Horz-Saxons, who lived on the river Horz in Harm's "ouden dorp." Now
this river Horz is the Oerze; and the name, the chronicle announces,
comes from the fact that this river runs and leaps like a Horz--that
is, a horse; and because a great many horses were pastured on its banks.
For the chief wealth of our Saxon ancestors consisted in cattle,
especially in horses, which they used not only for riding and in war
expeditions, but reckoned their flesh a favourite food. And were a horse
but entirely spotless and white, it was even held to be sacred. Such
white horses were kept in the sacred forests of oak, where they were
used for nothing but soothsaying; for by the neighing of these white
horses the heathen priests prophesied whether a business, or a campaign,
that was in hand, would turn out happily or unhappily. For this reason
also our Lüneburg country since the earliest times has borne the free,
bounding horse in its escutcheon; and for the same reason most of the
houses in the country of Lüneburg down to the present times have their
