is one thing and to carry it through is another ; and Diana 
did not immediately see light. In the meanwhile, the pressure of the bonds of her new existence was only to be 
borne by forgetting it in intense occupation. Her husband 
wanted her to study many things ; for her own sake and for 
his own sake he wished it, knowing that her education 
had been exceedingly orie-sided and imperfect ; he wanted 
all sources of growth and pleasure to be open to her, and 
he wanted full communion with his wife in his own life 
and life-work. So he took her hands from the frying-pan 
and the preserving kettle, and put dictionaries and philosophies into them. On her part, besides the negative incitement of losing herself and her troubles in books, Di- 
ana's mental nature was too sound and rich- not to take 
kindly the new seeds dropped into the soil. She had gone 
just far enough in her own private reading and thinking to 
be all ready to spring forward in the wider sphere to which 
she was invited, and in which a hand took hers to help her 
along. The consciousness of awakening power, too, and of 
enlarging the bounds of her world, drew her on. Sometimes in Basil's study, where he had arranged a place for her, 
 
sometimes down stairs in her own little parlour, Diana pored 
over books and turned the leaves of dictionaries ; and felt 
her way along the mazes of Latin stateliness, or wondered 
and thrilled at the beauty of the Greek words of the New 
Testament as her husband explained them to her. Or she 
wrought out problems ; or she wrote abstracts ; or she dived 
into depths of philosophical speculation. Then Diana began 
to learn French, and very soon was delighting herself in 
one or other of a fine collection of French classics which 
filled certain shelves in the library. There was, besides all 
the motives above-mentioned which quickened and stimulated her zeal for learning, another very subtle underlying 
cause which had not a little to do with her unflagging energy in pursuit of her objects. Nay, there were two. Diana did earnestly wish to please her husband, and for his sake to become, so far as cultivation would do it, a fit com- 
panion for him. That she knew. But she scarcely knew, 
how beneath all that and mightier than all that, was the 
impulse to make herself worthy of the other man whose 
companion now she would never be. Subtle, as so many 
of our springs of action are, unrecognized, it drove her 
with an incessant impulse. To be such a woman as Evan 
would have been proud of ; such a one as he would have liked 
to stand by his side anywhere ; one that he need not have 
feared to present in any society. Diana strove for it, and 
that although Evan would never know it and it did not in the 
