pot. Set aside half this flesh, with a few pieces of beef, to get cold.
Chop the rest fine, and make up with pepper, salt, and a raw egg, into
small force-meat balls. Roll them in flour, lay upon a greased plate,
and set within the oven to “crust.” When quite firm, take out and cool.
Cut the reserved meat into small, square bits. When the soup has cooked
half an hour after the meat was taken out, strain and season it. Divide
into two portions. Into that designed for Sunday drop the dice of
meat, from the pig’s feet as well as the beef, and set away, covered,
in an earthenware vessel. Return the rest to the fire; thicken with
the butter, melted and worked up into the rice-flour; add the sauce,
lemon-juice, and a glass of claret. Put the force-meat balls into the
heated tureen; pour on the soup, cover five minutes, and serve.


BOILED BLUE FISH.

Sew up the fish neatly in a thin cloth, put on in scalding water with
a little salt, half a small cup of vinegar, a quarter of an onion, six
whole black peppers, and a blade of mace. Let it stand, just below
boiling heat, half an hour; then increase the heat and boil thirty
minutes more. Take out, unwrap, lay upon a hot dish and pour over it a
cupful of drawn butter, with a little lemon-juice stirred in it.


BAKED CALF’S HEAD.

Put on, having removed the brains, in four quarts of cold water, and
boil gently one hour. Take out the head; salt and pepper the liquor and
set by as the foundation of Monday’s soup, keeping out a cupful for
gravy. Put the calf’s head in a dripping-pan, rub over with butter,
pour the gravy into the pan, and bake, covered—basting four times—for
half an hour. Uncover, wash over with a mixture of melted butter,
pepper, and salt, and a teaspoonful of catsup. Dredge with browned
flour, baste again, and when the surface is of a fine froth, dish the
head. Strain and thicken the gravy, and serve in a boat. The brains
should be washed well, boiled quickly, then cooled; mashed to a smooth
paste with pepper, salt, a dust of flour, and a raw egg, and fried, by
the spoonful, in hot lard. Drain, and lay about the head.


