life in the narrow house that stood end to the street, squeezed in
between two stores, looking as out of place as the good spinsters would
have done among the merry lads opposite. Sitting at the front windows
day after day, the old ladies had learned to enjoy watching the boys,
who came and went, like bees to a hive, month by month. They had their
favorites, and beguiled many a long hour speculating on the looks,
manners, and probable station of the lads. One lame boy was Miss
Jerusha's pet, though she never spoke to him, and a tall bright-faced
fellow, who rather lorded it over the rest, quite won Miss Hetty's old
heart by helping her across the street on a slippery day. They longed to
mend some of the shabby clothes, to cheer up the dull discouraged ones,
advise the sickly, reprove the rude, and, most of all, feed those who
persisted in buying lunch at the dirty bake-shop over the way.
The good souls were famous cooks, and had many books full of all manner
of nice receipts, which they seldom used, as they lived simply and saw
little company. A certain kind of molasses cookie made by their honored
mother,--a renowned housewife in her time,--and eaten by the sisters as
children, had a peculiar charm for them. A tin box was always kept full,
though they only now and then nibbled one, and preferred to give them
away to poor children, as they trotted to market each day. Many a time
had Miss Hetty felt sorely tempted to treat the boys, but was a little
timid, for they were rough fellows, and she regarded them much as a
benevolent tabby would a party of frisky puppies.
To-day the box was full of fresh cookies, crisp, brown, and sweet; their
spicy odor pervaded the room, and the china-closet door stood
suggestively open. Miss Hetty's spectacles turned that way, then went
back to the busy scene in the street, as if trying to get courage for
the deed. Something happened just then which decided her, and sealed
the doom of the bilious tarts and their maker.
Several of the younger lads were playing marbles on the sidewalk, for
Hop Scotch, Leap Frog, and friendly scuffles were going on in the yard,
and no quiet spot could be found. The fat boy sat on a post near by,
and, having eaten his last turnover, fell to teasing the small fellows
peacefully playing at his feet. One was the shabby lame boy, who hopped
to and fro with his crutch, munching a dry cracker, with now and then a
trip to the pump to wash it down. He seldom brought any lunch, and
seemed to enjoy this poor treat so much that the big bright-faced chap
tossed him a red apple as he came out of the yard to get his hat, thrown
there by the mate he had been playfully thrashing.
The lame child eyed the pretty apple lovingly, and was preparing to take
