and I fancy Tom will find a use for all the money he earns."
"You don't know him, Squire Hudson. He is a very conscientious boy, and
understands very well the sacrifice I made in raising money to send him
to California. He is not very likely to forget that."
"It seems to me that the sacrifice was mine," said the squire, with a
half sneer. "If I remember rightly, I advanced the money which he took
away with him."
Mark Nelson flushed, and he answered warmly, "You did advance the money,
Squire Hudson, but I gave you security for it."
"And the very first interest that has come due you are not prepared to
meet. You can't blame me for feeling a little doubt as to the wisdom of
my advance."
"Are you very much in need of the thirty dollars?" asked Mr. Nelson,
nettled at the squire's tone.
"What do you mean, sir?"
"Is it subjecting you to any great inconvenience to wait a couple of
months for it? That is what I mean."
"My circumstances are not such," returned the squire, haughtily, "as to
make me feel even the loss of thirty dollars."
"I wish I could say the same, but I cannot. Since, then, it will
occasion you no inconvenience, I ask you as a favor that you will let
the balance rest for two months."
Squire Hudson saw that he was cornered; but none the less was he
disposed to yield the point. He even felt provoked with the farmer for
having forced from him an acknowledgment that he did not need the money
he so persistently demanded.
"I told you before," he said, "that it was not the amount of money, but
the principle, that I care for. You cannot have forgotten this."
"I don't see how any principle is involved, Squire Hudson."
"You look at the matter solely from a debtor's point of view. If you
held the mortgage, instead of myself, you would change your view very
quickly."
"I don't think I should," said the farmer, slowly. "I would be
considerate to a poor neighbor, even if it did inconvenience me a
little."
"The poor neighbor should not have borrowed money on which he was unable
to pay interest," said Squire Hudson, severely.
"How could I anticipate the drought that has diminished my crops?" said
Mark Nelson, with spirit.
"That is neither here nor there. You knew that the interest must be
