"It has stopped raining," said Sylvie, going to the window. "A few soft,
melancholy stars have come out."
"You have been very obliging, Sylvie," said Miss Lawrence. "Miss Barry,
I shall send the carriage over to-morrow. Good-night."
Jack Darcy handed her out, pushing aside a trailing rose that it might
not catch her shawl. Then she half turned, and said "Good-night" in a
softer tone.
Sylvie was standing on the porch. "It has been as good as a play, Jack,"
she said with her gay-humored laugh. "I don't believe she ever
thought"--
"That I worked in her father's mill!" and Jack laughed; but it was a
rather pained, jarring sound.
"Jack--why do you? You are a puzzle to me!" and Sylvie's voice sharpened
unconsciously. "You do not like it. Why did you not go on at the
academy, or"--
"Raise myself in the social scale? That's what you mean, Sylvie;
although we pass just as pleasant hours as if I were a prince, and you
the lady of high degree. Well, we have gone over the ground a good many
times, and it is always the same thing. I have no fancy for a
profession; I have no genius for art, though Miss Lawrence suggests that
I might become a man-milliner--is that what you call it? You know, I am
staying here because mother and grandmother will not go anywhere else.
And I dare say I make as much money as young Dr. Romer or Ned Remington.
And somehow, now that I'm in it, I go on with a stubborn, plucky
feeling. Some day I'll be a great manufacturer."
This time his laugh was cheerful and ringing.
"You see, Sylvie, your good-nature places you on the debatable ground.
You and your aunt could be hand-in-glove with all these great people,
and yet you open your generous heart to take in everybody."
"No, not everybody, Jack. And what a little coward I am just this
minute! No, it is not that either. Jack, you do know that I should
never be a bit ashamed of you before any one. I feel vexed when I think
that you could take the high places, and yet you let people put you
down,--people not half as worthy or half as good as you. There's Horace
Eastman. He came here a comparatively poor man; and now he owns half
Yerbury, and talks of the mill-hands as if they were--well, a flock of
sheep."
"An apt comparison, Sylvie. To my mind, they are shorn pretty close to
make broadcloth for their masters."
"And there is Fred--have you seen him since his return?"
