through his mind.
He acquitted himself very creditably, however, and certainly displayed
an excellent appetite, much to the satisfaction of his hospitable host.
After dinner was over, Mr. Bowen detained him and began to talk of his
dead son, telling anecdotes of his boyhood, to which Frank listened with
respectful attention, for the father's devotion was touching.
"I think my boy looked a little like you," said the old gentleman. "What
do you think, Susan?"
"Not a mite, sir," answered Susan, promptly.
"When he was a boy, I mean."
"I didn't know him when he was a boy, Mr. Bowen."
"No, to be sure not."
"But Mr. John was dark-complected, and this boy is light, and Mr. John's
hair was black, and his is brown."
"I suppose I am mistaken," sighed the old man; "but there was something
in the boy's face that reminded me of John."
"A little more, and he'll want to adopt him," thought Susan. "That
wouldn't do nohow, though he does really seem like a decent sort of a
boy."
At eight o'clock Frank rose, and wished Mr. Bowen good-night.
"Come and see me again, my boy," said the old gentleman, kindly. "You
have been a good deal of company for me to-night."
"I am glad of it, sir."
"I think you might find something better to do than selling papers."
"I wish I could, sir."
"Come and dine with me again this day week, and I may have something to
tell you."
"Thank you, sir."
Feeling in his pocket to see that his dollar was safe, Frank set out to
walk down-town, repairing to the lodging-house, where he met Dick, and
astonished that young man by the recital of his adventures.
"It takes you to get round, Frank," he said. "I wonder I don't get
invited to dine on Madison avenue."
"I give it up," said Frank.
CHAPTER VIII.
A NEWSBOY'S EXPERIENCES.
Frank slept that night at the lodging-house, and found a much better bed
than he had been provided with by his late employer. He was up bright
and early the next morning, and purchased a stock of morning papers.
These he succeeded in selling during the forenoon, netting a profit of
