dignity; helped her father solve the reckoning, 
paid for the glass, and at last got hold of his arm 
and drew him away; after a gentle, grave salutation to the attendant which he answered profoundly and which brought everybody in the little shop to his feet in involuntary admiration and respect. 
Dolly looked at nobody, yet with sweet courtesy 
made a distant sign of acknowledgment to their 
homage, and the next minute stood outside the 
shop in the dark little street and the rnild still air. 
I think, even at that minute, with the strange, startling inappropriateness of license which thoughts 
give themselves, there flashed across her a sense 
of the ironical contrast of things without and within her; without, Venice and her historical past and 
her monumental glory; within, a trembling little 
heart and present danger and a burden of dishonour. But that was only a flash ; the needs of the 
minute banished all thinking that was not connected with action; and the moment's business 
was to get her father home. She had no thought 




now for the picturesque revealings of the moonlight and obscurings of the shadow. Yet she was 
conscious of them, in that sharp flash of contrast. 

At getting upon his feet and out into the air and 
gloom of the little street, Mr. Copley's head was 
very contused; or else he had taken more wine 
than his daughter guessed. He was not fit to 
guide himself, or to take care of her. As he 
seemed utterly at a standstill, Dolly naturally and 
unconsciously set her face to go the way she had 
come; for one or two turnings at least she was 
sure of it. Before those one or two turnings were 
made, however, she was shocked and scared to find 
that her father's walk was wavering; he swayed a 
little on his feet. The street was empty ; and if it 
had not been, what help could Dolly ask for ? A 
pang of great terror shot through her. She took 
her father's arm, to endeavour to hold him fast; a 
task rather too much for her little hands and slight 
frame; and feeling that in spite of her he still 
moved unsteadily and that she was an insufficient 
help, Dolly's anguish broke forth in a cry; natural 
