The discriminating reader who has been so good as 
to interest himself in this little nan-ative will perhaps at this point exclaim with a pardonable consciousness of shrewdness : " Of course he went the 
next day to the Rue de Provence ! " Of course, yes ; 
only as it happens Bernard did nothing of the kind. 
He did one of the most singular things he ever did 
in his life — a thing that puzzled him even at the 
time, and with regard to which he often afterward 
wondered whence he had drawn the ability for so 
remarkable a feat — he simply spent a fortnight at 
Blanquais-les-Galets. It was a very quiet fortnight ; 
he spoke to no one, he formed no relations, he was 
company to himself. It may be added that he had 
never found his own company half so good. He 
struck himself as a reasonable, delicate fellow, who 
looked at things in such a way as to make him refrain — refrain successfully, that was the point — 
from concerning himself practically about Angela 
Vivian. His saying that he would find out the 
banker in the Rue de Provence had been for the 
benefit of the femme de chambre, whom he thought 
rather impertinent ; he had really no intention what- 
ever of entering that classic thoroughfare. He took 
long walks, rambled on the beach, along the base of 
the cliffs and among the brown sea-caves, and he 
thought a good deal of certain incidents which have 
figured at an earlier stage of this narrative. He had 
forbidden himself the future, as an object of contem- 
plation, and it was therefore a matter of necessity 
that his imagination should take refuge among the 
warm and familiar episodes of the past. He wondered why Mrs. Vivian should have left the place so 
suddenly, and was of course struck with the analogy 
between this incident and her abrupt departure from 
Baden. It annoyed him, it troubled him, but it by 
no means rekindled the alarm he had felt on first 
perceiving the injured Angela on the beach. That 
alarm had been quenched by Angela's manner during 
the hour that followed and during their short talk in 
the evening. This evening was to be forever memorable, for it had brought with it the revelation which 
still, at moments, suddenly made Bernard tremble ; 
but it had also brought him the assurance that Angela 
cared as little as possible for anything that a chance 
