Deep mourning makes a fright of nearly every one," she 
declared to Titania, "When spring fairly opens I shall 
take to lilac. I wonder if it would do for me to wear my 
diamonds ? They are not exactly color, like rubies, you 
know, and I hate all this black jewelry." 
Titania stared a little. Kate was used to asking advice 
on subjects quite beyond the child's comprehension. So 
much black was not cheerful, most assuredly. It would be 
pleasant to go to the theatre again, to be asked out to 
dainty suppers, and have the stir of active life. 
Titania enjoyed it ; how could she help when it had been 
daily food. Yet she indulged in moments of passionate 
weeping for Dick, when Kate was out of sight. Though 
too young to discriminate, she felt, and vaguely understood, 
the shallowness of Kate's nature. Already Titania had 
grown prematurely wise in some respects. 
" I may as well tell you," began Kate, as they were sun- 
ning themselves in the Park one brilliant morning, late in 
May, " that I am engaged ; " and a conscious smirk over 
spread her face. " Mr. Chippenham asked me last night." 
"Oh ! " Titania cried, and it was like a sound of pain. 
Could Dick be so soon forgotten ? 
Kate looked surprised. 
"You don't seem to like him very much, and yet it is 
really ungrateful in you, Titania. I am sure he does a 
great many nice things for you ; and he adores me. I sup- 
pose I did love Dick when I first married him, but he was 
always very masterful, and thought I did not know 
anything. Now dear Gilbert is so different. He always 
consults me, and calls me an angel instead of a fool. And 
he wants to be married very soon. He doesn't consider it 
worth while to wait a whole year." 
" And you are going to put him in Dick's place give 
him all Dick's money, love him, and kiss him ; " and 
Titania's eyes dilated with something like horror, as well 
as disgust. 
" How you do talk ! You forget that I love him," said 
Kate, much aggrieved. 
" It is very strange," faltered Titania, turning away to 
hide her tears. 
