every direction for ages. Even on high peaks where the eagles sit, men
have piled stones and made shelters, perhaps lookouts for enemies,
it may be five hundred, it may be three thousand years ago. There is
nowhere in Egypt a virgin spot.
By moonlight we are creeping under the frowning cliffs of Aboofeyda,
and voyage on all night in a buccaneerish fashion; and next day sail by
Hadji Kandeel, where travelers disembark for Tel el Amarna. The remains
of a once vast city strew the plain, but we only survey it through a
field-glass. What, we sometimes say in our more modern moments, is
one spot more than another? The whole valley is a sepulchre of dead
civilizations; its inhabitants were stowed away, tier on tier, shelf on
shelf, in these ledges.
However, respect for age sent us in the afternoon to the grottoes on the
north side of the cliff of Sheykh Said. This whole curved range, away
round to the remains of Antinoë, is full of tombs. Some that we visited
are large and would be very comfortable dwellings; they had been used
for Christian churches, having been plastered and painted. Traces of one
painting remain—trees and a comical donkey, probably part of the story
of the flight of the Holy Family into Egypt. We found in one the ovals
of Cheops, the builder of the great pyramid, and much good sculpture in
the best old manner—agricultural scenes, musicians, dancers, beautifully
cut, with careful details and also with spirit. This is very old work,
and, even abused as it has been, it is as good as any the traveler will
find in Egypt. This tomb no doubt goes back to the fourth dynasty, and
its drawing of animals, cows, birds, and fish is better than we usually
see later. In a net in which fish are taken, many kinds are represented,
and so faithfully that the species are recognizable; in a marsh is
seen a hippopotamus, full of life and viciousness, drawn with his mouth
stretched asunder wide enough to serve for a menagerie show-bill. There
are some curious false doors and architectural ornaments, like those of
the same epoch in the tombs at the pyramids.
At night we were at Rhoda, where is one of the largest of the Khedive’s
sugar-factories; and the next morning at Beni Hassan, famed, next to
Thebes, for its grottoes, which have preserved to us, in painted scenes,
so much of the old Egyptian life. Whoever has seen pictures of these
old paintings and read the vast amount of description and inferences
concerning the old Egyptian life, based upon them, must be disappointed
when he sees them to-day. In the first place they are only painted, not
cut, and in this respect are inferior to those in the grottoes of Sheykh
Saïd; in the second place, they are so defaced, as to be with difficulty
