in itself was not discreditable to the poor lady. It 
was a romantic interest in this attractive and unfort- 
unate young man, and yet it was not such an inter- 
est as Catherine might have been jealous of. Mrs. 
Penniman had not a particle of jealousy of her niece. 
For herself, she felt as if she were Morris's mother 
or sister a mother or sister of an emotional tem- 
perament and she had an absorbing desire to make 
him comfortable and happy. She had striven to do 
so during the year that her brother left her an open 
field, and her efforts had been attended with the 
success that has been pointed out. She had never 
had a child of her own, and Catherine, whom she 
had done her best to invest with the importance that 
would naturally belong to a youthful Penniman, had 
only partly rewarded her zeal. Catherine, as an ob- 
ject of affection and solicitude, had never had that 
picturesque charm which (as it seemed to her) would 
have been a natural attribute of her own progeny. 
Even the maternal passion in Mrs. Penniman would 
have been romantic and factitious, and Catherine 
was not constituted to inspire a romantic passion. 
Mrs. Penniman was as fond of her as ever, but she 
had grown to feel that with Catherine she lacked 
opportunity. Sentimentally speaking, therefore, she 
had (though she had not disinherited her niece) 
adopted Morris Townsend, who gave her opportuni- 
ty in abundance. She would have been very happy 
to have a handsome and tyrannical son, and would 
have taken an extreme interest in his love affairs. 
This was the light in which she had come to regard 
Morris, who had conciliated her at first, and made 
his impression by his delicate and calculated defer- 
ence a sort of exhibition to which Mrs. Penniman 
was particularly sensitive. He had largely abated 
his deference afterward, for he economized his re- 
sources, but the impression was made, and the young 
man's very brutality came to have a sort of filial 
value. If Mrs. Penniman had had a son, she would 
probably have been afraid of him, and at this stage 
