anything to displease you," replied the captain, struggling to keep his
temper.
"What have you been doing with this steamer? What induced you to run
away with her? Why have you taken so great pains to keep away from the
Sylvania?" asked Colonel Shepard, in a severe tone.
"I have tried to obey my instructions in every particular," replied
Captain Blastblow, apparently more in astonishment than in anger.
"Have you had any instruction to run away with my steam-yacht?"
"I certainly had no instructions to run away with her; and I am not
aware that I have done anything of that kind," answered the captain.
"There has been some mistake, Colonel Shepard," I interposed. "I think
we had better go into the pilot-house and talk it over."
Without making any reply, both of the belligerents followed me forward.
I was quite as anxious to ascertain what had become of Cornwood and
Nick Boomsby as I was to have Captain Blastblow explain his singular
conduct. I found Captain Cayo on the forecastle, holding his prisoner
by the collar of his coat, while Nick was in the care of Buck, on the
port side of the house on deck. The former seemed disposed to resist,
though he was not willing to risk a conflict with his swarthy captor.
"What do you mean by laying hands upon me, you rascal?" demanded
Cornwood.
"Don't use any hard words, Cornwood," added the pilot, coolly. "I obey
my orders, and don't answer any questions."
"I don't know anything about your orders; and no one had any right to
give you any orders to lay hands on me," foamed Cornwood.
The prisoner began to demonstrate rather violently; he made a spring at
the throat of the pilot; but the latter was too quick and too strong
for him. They clinched together, and then Cornwood went down upon the
deck. Captain Cayo put his foot on the chest of the prostrate
Floridian, and held him down.
"I think we had better put a rope around this man's arms," said the
pilot, without taking his eyes from his prisoner. "That would keep him
quiet and well-behaved."
I picked up a piece of line, and handed it to him. He tipped Cornwood
as carelessly as though he had been a shark, and proceeded to bind his
arms behind him. The Floridian attempted to resist again; but the foot
of the pilot pressed more heavily upon him as he did so, and he found
it impossible to get upon his feet again.
Captain Cayo drew the arms of the captive up behind him, and quickly
fastened them. Then he took him by the collar, and stood him up on his
