floor. " What I wish to say to you," he went on at last, looking 
up, " is that I find I am in love with you." 
Isabel instantly rose from her chair. 
" Ah, keep that till I am tired ! " she murmured. 
" Tired of hearing it from others ? " And Osmond sat there, 
looking up at her. " No, you may heed it now, or never, as 
you please. But, after all, I must say it now." 
She had turned away, but in the movement she had stopped 
herself and dropped her gaze upon him. The two remained a 
moment in this situation, exchanging a long look the large, 
'onscious look of the critical hours of life. Then he got up and 
came near her, deeply respectful, as if he were afraid he had 
been too familiar. 
" I am thoroughly in love with you." 
He repeated the announcement in a tone of almost impersonal 
discretion ; like a man who expected very little from it, but 
spoke for his own relief. 
The tears came into Isabel's eyes they were caused by an 
intenser throb of that pleasant pain I spoke of a moment ago. 
There was an immense sweetness in the words he had uttered ; 
but, morally speaking, she retreated before them facing him 
still as she had retreated in two or three cases that we know of 
in which the same words had been spoken. 
" Oh, don't say that, please," she answered at last, in a tone 
of entreaty which had nothing of conventional modesty, but 
 
which expressed the dread of having, in this case too, to choose 
and decide. What made her dread great was precisely the force 
which, as it would seem, ought to have banished all dread the 
consciousness of what was in her own heart. It was terrible to 
have to surrender herself to that. 
" I haven't the idea that it will matter much to you," said 
Osmond. "I have too little to offer you. What I have it's 
enough for me ; but it's not enough for you. I have neither 
fortune, nor fame, nor extrinsic advantages of any kind. So I 
offer nothing. I only tell you because I think it can't offend 
you, and some day or other it may give you pleasure. It gives 
me pleasure, I assure you," he went on, standing there before 
her, bending forward a little, turning his hat, which he had 
taken up, slowly round, with a movement which had all the 
