actually be dual,--be two, in fact. Hereafter, I have no doubt we shall
always call a physician of each sex. But it’s wonderful how you could
ever bring it about, though you can do anything! Has n’t it worn upon
you?” Miss Gleason darted out her sentences in quick, short breaths,
fixing Grace with her eyes, and at each clause nervously tapping her
chest with her reopened fan.
“If you suppose,” said Grace, “that Dr. Mulbridge and I are acting
professionally in unison, as you call it, you are mistaken. He has
entire charge of the case; I gave it up to him, and I am merely nursing
Mrs. Maynard under his direction.”
“How splendid!” Miss Gleason exclaimed. “Do you know that I admire you
for giving up,--for knowing when to give up? So few women do that! Is
n’t he magnificent?”
“Magnificent?”
“I mean psychically. He is what I should call a strong soul You must
have felt his masterfulness; you must have enjoyed it! Don’t you like to
be dominated?”
“No,” said Grace, “I should n’t at all like it.”
“Oh, I do! I like to meet one of those forceful masculine natures that
simply bid you obey. It’s delicious. Such a sense of self-surrender,”
 Miss Gleason explained. “It is n’t because they are men,” she added. “I
have felt the same influence from some women. I felt it, in a certain
degree, on first meeting you.”
“I am very sorry,” said Grace coldly. “I should dislike being controlled
myself, and I should dislike still more to control others.”
“You’re doing it now!” cried Miss Gleason, with delight. “I could not
do a thing to resist your putting me down! Of course you don’t know that
you’re doing it; it’s purely involuntary. And you wouldn’t know that he
was dominating you. And he would n’t.”
Very probably Dr. Mulbridge would not have recognized himself in the
character of all-compelling lady’s-novel hero, which Miss Gleason
imagined for him. Life presented itself rather simply to him, as it does
to most men, and he easily dismissed its subtler problems from a mind
preoccupied with active cares. As far as Grace was concerned, she had
certainly roused in him an unusual curiosity; nothing less than her
homoeopathy would have made him withdraw his consent to a consultation
with her, and his fear had been that in his refusal she should escape
from his desire to know more about her, her motives, her purposes. He
had accepted without scruple the sacrifice of pride she had made to him;
but he had known how to appreciate her scientific training, which
