was carefully observed, with sermons by Mr. Buck, the chaplain, an
Oxford man, who was assisted in the services by Stephen Hopkins, one of
the Puritans who were in the company. A marriage was celebrated between
Thomas Powell, the cook of Sir George Somers, and Elizabeth Persons,
the servant of Mrs. Horlow. Two children were also born, a boy who was
christened Bermudas and a girl Bermuda. The girl was the child of Mr.
John Rolfe and wife, the Rolfe who was shortly afterward to become
famous by another marriage. In order that nothing should be wanting to
the ordinary course of a civilized community, a murder was committed. In
the company were two Indians, Machumps and Namontack, whose acquaintance
we have before made, returning from England, whither they had been sent
by Captain Smith. Falling out about something, Machumps slew Namontack,
and having made a hole to bury him, because it was too short he cut off
his legs and laid them by him. This proceeding Machumps concealed till
he was in Virginia.
Somers and Gates were busy building two cedar ships, the Deliverer,
of eighty tons, and a pinnace called the Patience. When these were
completed, the whole company, except two scamps who remained behind and
had adventures enough for a three-volume novel, embarked, and on the
16th of May sailed for Jamestown, where they arrived on the 23d or 24th,
and found the colony in the pitiable condition before described. A few
famished settlers watched their coming. The church bell was rung in
the shaky edifice, and the emaciated colonists assembled and heard the
“zealous and sorrowful prayer” of Chaplain Buck. The commission of Sir
Thomas Gates was read, and Mr. Percy retired from the governorship.
The town was empty and unfurnished, and seemed like the ruin of some
ancient fortification rather than the habitation of living men. The
palisades were down; the ports open; the gates unhinged; the church
ruined and unfrequented; the houses empty, torn to pieces or burnt;
the people not able to step into the woods to gather fire-wood; and the
Indians killing as fast without as famine and pestilence within.
William Strachey was among the new-comers, and this is the story that he
despatched as Lord Delaware’s report to England in July. On taking stock
of provisions there was found only scant rations for sixteen days, and
Gates and Somers determined to abandon the plantation, and, taking all
on board their own ships, to make their way to Newfoundland, in the hope
of falling in with English vessels. Accordingly, on the 7th of June they
got on board and dropped down the James.
Meantime the news of the disasters to the colony, and the supposed loss
of the Sea Venture, had created a great excitement in London, and a
