schooner away a few points; for she would no longer lie up to the wind
as closely as before. In this way he succeeded in getting the boat
within about a hundred feet of the shore, and then the Goldwing grounded
on her bottom.
The water was not more than three feet deep at the stem of the boat, and
it was impossible to get her any nearer to the dry land on the beach.
Pearl bit his lip; for both of the boats of the Sylph were pulling
towards the schooner, and Peppers would soon have an audience to whom
he could tell his story.
"I can't get any nearer the shore, Dory," said Pearl, not a little
agitated. "You must jump into the water, and wade ashore."
Dory leaped upon the forward deck, and Pearl probably thought he
intended to adopt his suggestion, and wade to the beach. But the owner
of the Goldwing had no intention of "giving up the ship" in any such
manner. The sails hid Dory from the skipper, so that he could not see
what he was doing; and, while Pearl was waiting to hear the splash when
he went overboard, Dory grasped one of the stays, and climbed half way
to the mast-head before his persecutor discovered what he was about.
"What are you doing up there?" demanded Pearl fiercely. "What are you
about?"
"I want to see how far off the shore is," replied Dory, for the want of
something more sensible to say.
"Come down this instant, you young villain!" yelled Pearl, whose hope of
saving himself was thus endangered by the unexpected freak of the owner
of the boat.
"I think I can make myself very comfortable up here for a while,"
replied Dory, as he placed his feet on the foresail gaff, and passed his
arm around the topmast.
"If you don't come down, I will shoot you!" stormed Pearl angrily, as he
saw the two boats of the steamer coming nearer to him every moment.
Dory had the average aversion to being shot, and he did not like the
sound of the threat. He did not know whether or not Pearl had a pistol,
though it was not improbable that he had one. He looked at the
approaching boats. One of them was not thirty yards from the schooner,
and the officer could hardly have helped hearing the threat of the
skipper. The port boat had come near enough by this time to enable Dory
to see that his uncle was in the stern-sheets.
"Give way, my lads, with all your might!" said the officer of the nearer
boat, speaking with great energy, as though he meant to take a hand in
the business on board of the Goldwing.
