you will say that hell is really so antiquated that it 
should be put in the museum at the University of 
Rome, for a curious old piece of theological furniture. 
Truth ! it is a wonder it is not worn out with digesting the tough morsels it gets, when people like you 
are finally got rid of from this world! But it is 
made of good material, and will last, never fear! 
This is not the gospel of peace, but it is the gospel of 
truth. 
Loving hearts and gentle souls shall rule the world 
some day, for all your pestiferous fashions ; and old 
as I am, I do not mean aged, but well on in years, 
I believe in love still, and I always shall. It is 
true it was not given to me to love as Nino loves Hedwig, for Nino is even now a stronger, sterner man 
than I. His is the nature that can never do enough ; 
his the hands that never tire for her ; his the art that 
would surpass, for her, the stubborn bounds of possibility. He is never weary of striving to increase 
her joy of him. His philosophy is but that. No quibbles of " being " and " not being," nor any wretched 
speculations concerning the object of existence ; he 
has found the true unity of unities, and he holds it 
fast. 
Meanwhile, you object that I am not proceeding 
with my task, and telling you more facts, recounting 
 
more conversations, and painting more descriptions. 
Believe me, this one fact, that to love well is to be all 
man can be, is greater than all the things men have 
ever learned and classified in the dictionaries. It is, 
moreover, the only fact that has consistently with 
stood the ravages of time and social revolution ; it is 
the wisdom that has opened, as by magic, the treasures of genius, of goodness, and of all greatness, for 
every one to see ; it is the vital elixir that has made 
men of striplings, and giants of cripples, and heroes 
of the poor in heart, though great in spirit. Nino is 
an example : for he was but a boy, yet he acted like 
a man ; a gifted artist in a great city, and courted by 
the noblest, yet he kept his faith. 
But when I have taken breath I will tell you what 
he and Hedwig said to each other at the gate, and 
whether at the last she went with him, or stayed in 
dismal Fillettino for her father's sake. 
