his cigar through and through, and clasped his hands together till the
veins stood out like ropes. He slept a little at last, and dreamed
savage dreams of hand-to-hand combat, and woke with the roar of cannon
in his ears. For he was a man of exaggerated fancies when his brain
worked unconsciously, like many men who have ended in celebrity or in
insane asylums.
The roar of the guns was only a servant knocking at his door, with hot
water and a note. He saw Diana's handwriting, and suspected a new move,
so that he was not altogether astonished by the contents. He understood
that she had made Marcantonio sign her writing--by what means he could
not tell--in order to force the position. There was evidently nothing to
be done but to go. He would not have left the villa for anything Diana
could have said, in his present humour, but it was impossible to bid
defiance to the master of the house. Besides, he supposed that since
Carantoni had invited him to leave, Diana had said something which would
lead to a challenge from her brother, which could naturally not be
delivered under his own roof.
He read the note through twice, and he went about his toilet with his
usual care, looking angrily at himself in the glass as he shaved, but
gradually composing his features to an appearance of calmness. Then he
put his things together, rang the bell, told the servant he was going to
Sorrento on business, and gave him a very handsome fee, requesting him
to bring the things to the hotel in the course of the day. Julius took
his hat and stick, and strolled out of the house toward the town.
Donna Diana and Marcantonio met in the morning. They saluted each other
with the quiet, mournful understanding of people who have a common
trouble, which they know must be spoken of, though they desire to put
off the evil moment. They were both pale, and Diana's eyes were shaded
by great dark rings that spoke of a sleepless night.
"Have you seen Leonora? How is she?" was her first question.
"Dio mio! She is very poorly. Poverina! It has made a terrible
impression on her. Of course I did not speak of the subject."
"Of course." Diana sighed and looked drearily at the window, as though
she wished she were outside, away, and beyond this trouble. She could
not know what Leonora would say or do if Marcantonio ever broached the
subject. "I do not think," said she, "that it will ever be necessary to
say anything about it. She will understand that you sent him out of the
house,--she will never see him again."
"Is he gone?" asked Marcantonio.
"Yes--early this morning. I sent to find out."
