will name them to you. Next to the captain will be the first and
second officers, sometimes called mates, and, in men-of-war,
lieutenants.”
“But none of our crowd know any thing about steamers or boats, and are
not fit for officers.”
“The officers will learn their duties; and after a while, when you
have all had a chance to know what is required of you, these positions
will be given to those who are the most competent to fill them. The
next in rank will be the first and second pilot. As Dory is the only
one of you who is fitted to pilot a steamer, I shall appoint him first
pilot. This is the only one I shall select for any place. All the
others will be drawn by lot as soon as we leave Burlington.”
A few of the pupils were disposed to applaud the appointment; but
others hushed them up, and there was no demonstration.
“The third in rank are the engineers. As I am captain, Mr. Jepson will
be the chief-engineer. We shall have a first and second
assistant-engineer. Next come the first and second cook. Following
this department is the steward’s. The first, or chief, steward, the
second, third, and fourth stewards, are the names of the places. Then
come the firemen, of whom there will be four, and lastly the crew, or
deck-hands as they are sometimes called. When we have twenty-four
scholars, there will be eight of them.”
The boys then asked a score of questions, which the captain answered
with great good-nature, though some of them were trivial.
“Now, my lads, you wear the clothes in which you came from your homes.
I have provided uniforms for you, which you will put on before we get
under way.”
Mr. Sheers, a tailor from the town, was in attendance to assist the
boys in fitting themselves to the uniforms. This dress consisted of
woollen shirts, blue sailor-pants, and short jackets. A white cap was
given to each, and in half an hour all hands were on deck in their new
rig. They looked very salt for a fresh-water lake, but the uniform was
very neat and appropriate.
While the captain was talking to the pupils, Bates had brought on
board a quantity of provisions and stores, which he had put in their
proper places. The ice-house had received a supply, and every thing
was ready for a start. Dory was directed to get under way, and he went
to the pilot-house. Bates was on duty, and cast off the fasts when the
signal was given. The bells rang, and the Sylph was soon moving out of
the lake. In an hour and forty minutes she touched the wharf at
