not having asked her advice. 
" What would you have said if I had ?" he demanded. 
" I should have said in the first place, Oh, for pity 's 
sake, don't carry off the person in all Northampton who 
amuses me most ! I should have said in the second 
place, Nonsense ! the boy is doing very well. Let well 
alone! " 
"That in the first five minutes. What would you 
have said later ? " 
" That for a man who is generally averse to meddling, 
you were suddenly rather officious." 
Rowland 's countenance fell ; he frowned in silence. 
Cecilia looked at him askance ; gradually the spark of 
irritation faded from her eye. 
"Excuse my sharpness," she resumed at last. "But 
I am literally in despair at losing Roderick Hudson. 
His visits in the evening, for the past year, have kept me 
alive. They have given a point to a very dull life a 
kind of silver -tip to days that seemed made of a baser 
metal. I don't say he is a phoenix but I liked to see 
him. Of course, however, that I shall miss him sadly is 
not a reason for his not going to seek his fortune. Men 
must work and women must weep ! " 
Decidedly not ! " said Rowland, with a good deal of 
emphasis. He had suspected from the first hour of his 
stay that Cecilia had a private satisfaction, and he discovered that she found it in Hudson 's lounging visits and 
boyish chatter. Now he wondered whether, judiciously 
viewed, her gain in the matter were not her young friend 's 
loss. It was evident that Cecilia was not judicious, and 
that her good sense, habitually rigid under the demands 
of domestic economy, indulged itself with a certain agree 
able laxity on this particular point. She liked her young 
friend just as he was ; she humoured him, flattered him, 
 
laughed at him, caressed him did everything but advise 
him. It was a flirtation without the benefits of a flirta 
tion. She was too old to let him fall in love with her, 
which might have done him good ; and her inclination 
was to keep him young, so that the nonsense he talked 
might never transgress a certain line. It was quite con 
