nervously, but his smooth brow was a little contracted. He anticipated
mischief.
"There is something the matter, Ronald," she said at last, resolved to
make short work of the revelation of her feelings. "There is something
very much the matter."
"Well?" said Surbiton, beginning to be alarmed.
"You know, Ronald dear, somehow I think you have thought--honestly, I know
you have thought for a long time that you were to marry me."
"Yes," said Ronald with a forced laugh, for he was frightened. "I have
always thought so; I think so now."
"It is of no use to think it, Ronald dear," said Joe, turning very pale.
"I have thought of it too--thought it all over. I cannot possibly marry
you, dear boy. Honestly, I cannot." Her voice trembled violently. However
firmly she had decided within herself, it was a very bitter thing to say;
she was so fond of him.
"What?" asked Ronald hoarsely. But he turned red instead of pale. It was
rather disappointment and anger that he felt at the first shock than
sorrow or deep pain.
"Do not make me say it again," said Joe, entreatingly. She was not used to
entreating so much as to commanding, and her voice quavered uncertainly.
"Do you mean to say," said Ronald, speaking loudly in his anger, and then
dropping his voice as he remembered the passers-by,--"do you mean to tell
me, Joe, after all this, when I have come to America just because you told
me to, that you will not marry me? I do not believe it. You are making fun
of me."
"No, Ronald," Joe answered sorrowfully, but regaining her equanimity in
the face of Surbiton's wrath, "I am in earnest. I am very, very fond of
you, but I do not love you at all, and I never can marry you."
Ronald was red in the face, and he trod fast and angrily, tapping the
pavement with his stick. He was very angry, but he said nothing.
"It is much better to be honest about it," said Joe, still very pale; and
when she had spoken, her little mouth closed tightly.
"Oh, yes," said Ronald, who was serious by this time; "it is much better
to be honest, now that you have brought me three thousand miles to hear
what you have to say--much better. By all means."
"I am very sorry, Ronald," Joe answered. "I really did not mean you to
come, and I am very sorry,--oh, more sorry than I can tell you,--but I
cannot do it, you know."
"If you won't, of course you can't," he said. "Will you please tell me who
he is?"
