Matt wanted to know more about the affair, and Dory told all that had
happened since he first saw the Topovers. By the time his fellow
coxswain had heard the story, the rest of the two crews began to arrive.
They could see for themselves why they had been summoned so soon. Tom
had taken possession of the stern-sheets of the Winooski, and sent Kidd
to one of the vacant thwarts to row. The ruffians were struggling with
the oars, for, though they had the strength, they were utterly lacking
in discipline and knowledge. But they pulled with some degree of
unanimity, and the Winooski went ahead at a very moderate rate. The
Gildrock was doing better than her consort, for Nim Splugger did not
confuse his crew with too many orders, and each one got the hang of the
oar in his own way.
Both boats were moving, and were headed towards the outlet of the lake.
Their regular crews at the grove could only look on, for they were
powerless to raise a finger to recover the boats at present. One after
another suggested various experiments for demolishing the Topovers, but
their schemes were either foolish or impracticable. Oscar Chester wanted
to run down to the narrowest place on the outlet, and make an attack on
the marauders; but both Matt and Dory were not in favor of such a plan.
"If we get desperate, and try to break things, those villains will smash
the boats rather than let us get them. That Tom Topover is as mad as a
March hare at the rap Dory gave him," said Matt.
"I think we had better report to Captain Gildrock, for I don't see that
we can do anything here," suggested Dory, as he gazed sadly at the
retreating barges.
"We can't even get over to Beech Hill," added Luke Bennington, as he
glanced across the lake at the school grounds.
"We must go around by the road, and it is over a mile," added Pemberton
Millweed.
"It seems to me that somebody on the other side must have seen what was
going on," said Matt.
"I don't think anyone has seen what was going on," replied Dory. "Bates
is on duty in the dormitory, the teachers are attending to their own
affairs, and probably Captain Gildrock is in the house. If any of them
saw the boats going down the lake, they were too far off to know who
were in them. If my uncle knew anything about this business, he would
have sent a boat over before this time."
"If we had been in any mischief, half a dozen of them would have seen
us," said Thad Glovering, with a laugh.
"It's no use to stay here, and we may as well walk around by the road
