opinion."
But Margaret continued to think Garda's free acceptance the sign of a
generous nature; the girl judged her benefactress by herself; if she had
been the one to bestow the kindness, she would not have liked effusive
thanks; Margaret therefore would not like them either.
But if Garda did not turn the conversation towards Margaret's material
gifts, she did turn it, and warmly, upon the delight it was to her that
her friend was to be at East Angels; upon that point she was effusive
enough. "Now I can live," she said.
"There's something so tiresome in being with Aunt Betty Carew day after
day," she added, meditatively. "Don't you think so?"
"She has been extremely kind to you," Margaret answered.
"Yes, she's very kind, there's nobody kinder. That doesn't make her any
the less wandering in her conversation, does it? or any the less
flushed. Do you remember how pretty my dear little mother was? She had
such a nice straight little nose it was a pleasure to look at her. You
have a lovely nose too, Margaret; I wonder if I should have liked you so
well without it? Oh, won't you stay at East Angels until it is time to
go north? In that way, as I am to go with you, we shouldn't be separated
at all."
"Aunt Katrina may tire of East Angels in two days," Margaret answered.
"We won't allow it We'll amuse her!" Garda declared, with soft energy.
But something else was to amuse poor Aunt Katrina. She made the little
journey comfortably, one beautiful morning, on the Emperadora,
surrounded by her retinue, of which Betty was one; she enjoyed her
installation, and the novelty of the new rooms; she enjoyed the
congratulations of Dr. Kirby, when, later in the day, he came down for
his week's visit; and she played cribbage with him for a little while in
the evening. Her nephew too was there; she had required his presence.
"You must come, of course, Evert," she said; "I couldn't possibly stay
way down in that lonely place without you." So Evert had been obliged to
install himself as well as his aunt; he took up his abode not
unwillingly in the old house which he expected some day to own.
After the cribbage, Aunt Katrina went to bed, and passed a night of
blessed oblivion, unteased by the whining water: that had been her
latest term for it--that it whined. But after a few days of this
delightful rest, a fresh assortment of pains lifted their heads. The
Doctor at first alluded to them as rheumatic. But Aunt Katrina would not
accept that suggestion. He then called them "suppressed gout." This was
better; Aunt Katrina had always had a certain esteem for gout. Besides,
