by one another, and be true to the motto of our house till death."

"We will!" answered the girl, and both kept the promise loyally, as we
shall see.

Just at that moment the sound of hoofs made the young enthusiasts start
and look toward the road that wound through the valley to the hill. An
old man on a slowly pacing mule was all they saw, but the change that
came over both was comical in its suddenness; for the gallant knight
turned to a truant school-boy, daunted by the sight of his tutor, while
the rival of the Maid of Orleans grew pale with dismay.

"I am lost if he spy me, for my father vowed I should not hunt again
unless I did my task. He will see me if I run, and where can I hide till
he has past?" whispered Gaston, ashamed of his panic, yet unwilling to
pay the penalty of his prank.

But quick-witted Yvonne saved him; for lifting one end of the long web
of linen, she showed a hollow whence some great stone had been removed,
and Gaston slipped into the green nest, over which the linen lay
smoothly when replaced.

On came the chaplain, glancing sharply about him, being of an austere
and suspicious nature. He saw nothing, however, but the peasant girl in
her quaint cap and wooden sabots, singing to herself as she leaned
against a tree, with her earthen jug in her hand. The mule paused in the
light shadow of the willows, to crop a mouthful of grass before climbing
the hill, and the chaplain seemed glad to rest a moment, for the day was
warm and the road dusty.

"Come hither, child, and give me a draught of water," he called, and the
girl ran to fill her pitcher, offering it with a low reverence.

"Thanks, daughter! A fine day for the bleaching, but over warm for much
travel. Go to your work, child; I will tarry a moment in the shade
before I return to my hard task of sharpening a dull youth's wit," said
the old man when he had drunk; and with a frowning glance at the room
where he had left his prisoner, he drew a breviary from his pocket and
began to read, while the mule browsed along the road-side.

