' We called to talk over a little matter o' doctrine, 
Mr. Kewe. I don't suppose you'd feel behindhand 
in statin' your convictions, should you ? " 
Cyrus was a thin man of a uniform color, having 
sandy hair and a face ash-like rather than pale. He 
was wiry animation beside the Deacon, who simply 
represented so many pounds avoirdupois. His large 
frame, heavy face surmounted by black hair, large 
hands, and slow utterance, made up a vast whole. 
' Convictions ? " said Felix. " Certainly, if I have 
formed any. On what subject ? " 
There had been no doubt in the mind of Cyrus that 
his meaning would be caught at once. To be asked 
for more explicit explanation was embarrassing. He 
fidgeted in his chair for a moment, and then turned 
to the Deacon, saying feebly, " I b'lieve it's your turn 
to speak now." 
The Deacon had been slowly drawing up the heavy 
artillery, which was as slowly bent upon the opposing 
ranks. ' We've heerd it said you was goin' to be a 
minister o' the Gospel, an' nobody's ever mentioned 
your denomination." 
;< Oh, I see," said Felix, settling himself gravely to 
the subject. ' No, I don't at all mind telling you that 
I'm of no denomination. I do not belong to any one 
church, though my belief inclines towards Unitarianism.' 
" A Unitarian, an' not quite that, nuther ! ' broke 
out Cyrus, treading on the heels of Felix's speech with 
startling promptitude. ' Then what do you believe ? " 
' It will not take very long to tell you. I believe in 
doing right for the sake of one another and the con- 
science that is within us. If you ask me if I believe 
in God, I cannot answer yes, because I know you 
think of Him as a person. I have not yet been able 
to decide whether I consider this wonderful something 
to be personal Deity, principle, or a mystery animating 
the universe. After all, the name makes little differ- 
ence. You call him God, and a great philosopher calls 
him the Unknowable. You mean the same thing." 
' Do you believe in the savin' blood o' Christ ? ' 
