of the new mental pasture ground in which she 
found herself. She changed her dress in a kind 
of breathless mood ; noticing as she did so the old- 
fashioned and aged furniture of her room. Aged, 
not infirm; the manufacture solid and strong as 
ever; the wood darkened by time, the patterns 
quaint, but to Betty's eye the more picturesque. 
Her apartment was a corner room, with one deep 
window on each of two sides; the look-out over 
a sunny landscape of grass, trees, and scattered 
buildings. On another side was a deep chimney 
place, with curious wrought iron fire dogs. What 
a delightful adventure, or what a terrible adventure, was it, which had brought her to this house! 
She would not think of that; she dressed and went 
down. 
The rest of the party were gathered in the library, and this room finished Betty's enchantment. 
It was a well sized room, the largest in the house, 
on the second floor; and all the properties that 
made the house generally interesting were gathered 
and culminated here. Darkwainscotting, dark book 
cases, and dark books, gave it an aspect that might 
have been gloomy, yet was not so. Perhaps be 
cause of the many other objects in the room which 
gave points of light or bits of colour. What they 
were, Betty could only find out by degrees; she 
saw at once, in general, that this must have been 
a favourite place of the late owner, and that here 
he had collected a special assemblage of the things 
that pleased him best. A table at one side must 
have been made, she thought, about the same time 
with her chamber furniture and by the same hand. 
The floor was dark and polished, and on it lay here 
and there bits of soft carpeting which were well 
worn. Betty advanced slowly to the corner where 
the party were sitting, taking in the effect of all 
this; then almost started as Pitt gave her a chair, 
to see in the corner just beyond the group a stuffed 
bear shewing his teeth at her. 
The father and mother had been talking about 
various matters at home, and the talk went on. 
