his little daughter was about to destroy the garden and bury herself
under the ruins of the wall.  This report, delivered with groans and
wringing of the hands, roused the artist and sent him to the rescue, as
he well knew that his angel was a very energetic one, and capable of
great destruction.
When he arrived, he beheld a cloud of dust, a pile of bricks among the
lilies, and the feet of his child sticking out of a large hole in the
wall, while her head and shoulders were on the other side.  Much amused,
yet fearful that the stone coping might come down on her, he pulled her
back with the assurance that he would listen and help her now
immediately, if there was such need of haste.
But he grew sober when he saw Fay’s face; for it was bathed in tears,
her hands were bleeding, and dust covered her from head to foot.
"My darling, what afflicts you?  Tell papa, and he will do anything you
wish."
"No, you will forget, you will say ’Wait;’ and now that I have seen it
all, I cannot stop till I get him out of that dreadful place.  Look,
look, and see if it is not sad to live there all in pain and darkness,
and so poor."
As she spoke, Fay urged her father toward the hole; and to please her he
looked, seeing the dull court, the noisy street beyond, and close by the
low room, where Johnny’s mother worked all day, while the poor boy’s
pale face was dimly seen as he lay on his bed waiting for deliverance.
"Well, well, it is a pitiful case; and easily mended, since Fay is so
eager about it.  Hope the lad is all she says, and nothing catching
about his illness.  Nanna can tell me."
Then he drew back his head, and leading Fay to the seat, took her on his
knee, all flushed, dirty, and tearful as she was, soothing her by saying
tenderly,--
"Now let me hear all about it, and be sure I ’ll not forget.  What shall
I do to please you, dear, before you pull down the house about my ears?"
Then Fay told her tale all over again; and being no longer busy, her
father found it very touching, with the dear, grimy little face looking
into his, and the wounded hands clasped beseechingly as she pleaded for
poor Johnny.
"God bless your tender heart, child; you shall have him in here
to-morrow, and we will see what can be done for those pathetic legs of
his.  But listen, Fay, I have an easier way to do it than yours, and a
grand surprise for the boy.  Time is short, but it can be done; and to
show you that I am in earnest, I will go this instant and begin the
