heed that you be indeed my servant." Then, as she 
gathered her mantle about her and put one foot upon 
the stairs, she touched his shoulder gently with the 
tips of her fingers and added with a sudden smile, 
" And I will be your friend." So she passed down 
the stairs out of sight, leaving Zoroaster alone. 
Slowly he paced the terrace again, reflecting profoundly upon his situation. Indeed he had no small 
cause for anxiety ; it was evident that the queen suspected his love for Nehushta, and he was more than 
half convinced that there were reasons why such an 
affection would inevitably meet with her disapproval. 
In former days, before she was married to Cambyses, 
and afterwards, before Zoroaster had been sent into 
Media, Atossa had shown so marked a liking for him, 
that a man more acquainted with the world, would 
have guessed that she loved him. He had not sus- 
pected such a thing, but with a keen perception of 
character, he had understood that beneath the beautiful features and the frank gentleness of the young 
princess, there lurked a profound intelligence, an 
unbending ambition and a cold selfishness without 
equal ; he had mistrusted her, but he had humoured 
her caprices and been in truth a good friend to her, 
without in the least wishing to accept her friendship 
for himself in return. He was but a young captain 
of five hundred then, although he was the favourite 
of the court ; but his strong arm was dreaded as well 
as the cutting force of his replies when questioned, 
and no word of the court gossip had therefore reached 
his ears concerning Atossa's admiration for him. It 
 
was, moreover, so evident that lie cared nothing for 
her beyond the most unaffected friendliness, that her 
disappointment in not moving his heart was a con- 
stant source of satisfaction to her enemies. There 
had reigned in those days a great and unbridled 
license in the court, and the fact of the daughter of 
Cyrus loving and being loved by the handsomest of 
the king's guards, would not of itself have attracted 
overmuch notice. But the evident innocence of 
Zoroaster in the whole affair, and the masterly 
fashion in which Atossa concealed her anger, if she 
