anger. "I shall punish the young rascal myself! I shall do it here at
Sandy Point, where the outrage was committed. I have taken steps to have
him brought here for that purpose."
"Then you expect Paul to be brought here, do you?" asked Captain
Gildrock, astonished at the remarks of the magnate, for he had not a
doubt that he had seen what had transpired while the sailboat was
alongside the Sylph.
"I do expect him here very soon; and I shall tie him up to a tree and
give him such a thrashing that he won't get off his bed for one month
after it!" exclaimed Major Billcord, flourishing a rawhide in the air as
he spoke.
"This strikes me as rather brutal," added the principal.
"Brutal? Look in Walker's face! Look in my face! Were the blows that
made these marks brutal, or were they not? I shall have satisfaction for
them!"
Captain Gildrock was trying to explain to himself how it happened that
the magnate knew nothing of what had taken place alongside the steam
yacht. As he thought the matter over he understood it better. The Sylph
had been between the Silver Moon and the Chesterfield barges, so that
they could not see what took place on the lee side of her.
While Paul was telling his story in the pilot-house, the Chesterfields,
finding the Beech Hill boats gathering around the steamer, had pulled
close up to the shore, and continued on their way to Sandy Point.
Neither Major Billcord nor the students with him had been troubled with
a doubt in regard to the fidelity of Bissell to their interests. Even if
he was faithless, he had the six ruffians with him, and they would be
more than a match for a single man.
However it had happened, it appeared that the magnate and the crews with
him knew nothing at all about the capture of the ruffians. They had
waited off the point till the Beech Hill fleet came up, and they
concluded that the sloop was standing off towards Westport to avoid a
meeting with the "tinkers."
The magnate wished the visitors from the other side to see the
destruction of the cottage, and he had invited them to be spectators of
the expected frolic. He had decided to attend of the cottage first, so
that the Beech Hillers might see the fun, and to administer the
punishment to Paul Bristol after they had gone, for he did not care to
have them witness that spectacle.
"I am afraid you are laboring under a mistake, Major Billcord,"
continued Captain Gildrock. "Did I understand you to say that you
