was splendid and picturesque, a reflection of the splendor still glitters in the current of the Loire. Some of 
the most striking events of French history have occurred 
on the banks of that river, and the soil it waters 
bloomed for a while with the flowering of the Renais 
sance. The Loire gives a great "style" to a landscape 
of which the features are not, as the phrase is, prominent, and carries the eye to distances even more poetic 
than the green horizons of Touraine. It is a very fitful stream, and is sometimes observed to rim thin and 
expose all the crudities of its channel, a great defect 
certainly in a river which is so much depended upon 
to give an air to the places it waters. But I speak of 
it as I saw it last; full, tranquil, powerful, bending in 
large slow curves, and sending back half the light of 
the sky. Nothing can be finer than the view of its 
course which you get from the battlements and ter 
races of Amboise. As I looked down on it from that 
elevation one lovely Sunday morning, through a mild 
glitter of autumn sunshine, it seemed the very model
of a generous, beneficent stream. The most charming 
part of Tours is naturally the shaded quay that over 
looks it, and looks across too at the friendly faubourg 
of Saint Symphorien and at the terraced heights which 
rise above this. Indeed, throughout Touraine, it is 
half the charm of the Loire that you can travel beside 
it. The great dike which protects it, or protects the 
country from it, fromJBlois to Angers, is an admirable 
road; and on the other side, as well, the highway con 
stantly keeps it company. A wide river, as you follow 
a wide road, is excellent company; it heightens and 
shortens the way. 

The inns at Tours are in another quarter, and one 
of them, which is midway between the town and the 
station, is very good. It is worth mentioning for the 
fact that every one belonging to it is extraordinarily 
polite, so unnaturally polite as at first to excite your 
suspicion that the hotel has some hidden vice, so that 
the waiters and chambermaids are trying to pacify 
you in advance. There was one waiter in especial who 
was the most accomplished social being I have ever 
encountered; from morning till night he kept up an 
