with coast guards in it, coming towards you as though the men wanted to
speak to you, cast off the end of the rope and let it run into the sea.
Then run up the ledge there, and climb the rock, the faster the better.
There is a way up. But keep out of sight when it is day, by lying flat
in the hollow there. If anybody else comes in a boat, and says nothing,
but just takes the rope, do not hinder him. Let him take it, and he will
take you too, and give you a couple of biscuits."
Don Antonino pushed off a little, letting the rope run out. Then he
made his end of it fast to the two ends of the black bundles, and
backing out as far as he could, he let them both down gently into the
water, and pulled away, leaving the Children of the King alone on the
ledge. He had managed to bring the rope down through the cleft, so that
it could not easily be seen from the sea. The boys waited some time
before either of them spoke, although the old fellow was deaf.
"Those things looked like dead men," said Sebastiano at last.
"But they are not," answered Ruggiero confidently. "Now I know why Don
Antonino is so rich. He smuggles tobacco."
"If we could smuggle tobacco, too, it would be a fortune," remarked the
younger boy. "He would give us bread every day, with cheese, and wine to
drink."
"We shall see."
They sat a long time, waiting for something to happen, and then fell
asleep, curling themselves up in the hollow as they had been told to do.
At dawn they awoke and began to look out for the revenue boat. But she
did not appear in sight. The hours were very long and it was very hot,
and they had nothing to eat or drink. Then all at once they saw what
seemed to them the most beautiful vision they could remember. A big
felucca shot round the rocks, still under way from the breeze she had
found in the little bay. Her full white sails still shivered in the sun,
and the boys could see the blue light that passed up under her keel and
was reflected upon her snow-white side as she ceased to move just in
front of them.
A big man with a red beard and a white shirt stood at the helm and fixed
his eyes on the point where the lads were hiding. He evidently saw them,
for he nodded to a man near him and gave an order. In a moment the dingy
was launched and a sailor came ashore. He jumped nimbly out, holding the
painter of his boat in one hand, glanced at the boys, who stood up as
soon as they saw that they were discovered, and cast off the end of the
rope, keeping hold of it lest it should run. Then without paying any
more attention to the boys, he went on board again taking the end with
