that aspect of the case his readers will readily agree to. But there is
a good deal more, even of the imperfect notices that remain after the
abstraction and destruction of the records in the shame and anguish that
ensued, which we, in our new dawn of science, can perceive to be an
affair of the bodily organization. We are, therefore, obliged to him for
rescuing this tremendous chapter of history from oblivion, and for the
security in which he has placed the materials of evidence. In another
generation the science of the human frame may have advanced far enough
to elucidate some of the Salem mysteries, together with some obscure
facts in all countries, which can not be denied, while as yet they can
not be understood. When that time comes, a fearful weight of imputation
will be removed from the name and fame of many agents and sufferers who
have been the subjects of strange maladies and strange faculties, in all
times and countries. As we are now taught the new discoveries of the
several nerve-centers, and the powers which are appropriated to them;
and when we observe what a severance may exist between the so-called
organ of any sense or faculty and the operation of the sense or faculty;
and how infallibly ideas and emotion may be generated, and even beliefs
created in minds sane and insane, by certain manipulations of the nerves
and brain, we see how innocently this phenomenon may be presented in
natural somnambulism. Sleepwalkers have been known in many countries,
and treated of in medical records by their physicians, who could not
only walk, and perform all ordinary acts in the dark as well as in the
light, but who went on writing or reading without interruption though an
opaque substance--a book or a slate--was interposed, and would dot the
i's and cross the t's with unconscious correctness without any use
of their eyes. There is a wide field of inquiry open in this direction,
now that the study of the nervous system has been begun, however minute
is the advance as yet.
IMPORTANCE OF THE SUBJECT.
It is needless to dwell on the objection made to the rising hopefulness
in regard to the study of Man, and the mysteries of his nature. Between
the multitude who have still no notion of any alternative supposition to
that of possession or inspiration by spirits, or, at least, intercourse
with such beings, and others who fear "Materialism" if too close an
attention is paid to the interaction of the mind and the nerves, and
those who always shrink from new notions in matters so interesting, and
those who fear that religion may be implicated in any slight shown to
angel or devil, and those who will not see or hear any evidence whatever
which lies in a direction opposite to their prejudices, we are not
