earlier she had reasserted her vows, given her word, with 
every show of fidelity and enthusiasm. There were hours 
when it seemed to Verena that she must really push her 
inquiry no further, but content herself with the conclusion 
that she loved as deeply as a woman could love and that 
it didn't make any difference. She felt Olive's grasp too 
clinching, too terrible. She said to herself that she should 
never dare, that she might as well give up early as late ; 
that the scene, at the end, would be something she couldn't 
face ; that she had no right to blast the poor creature's 
whole future. She had a vision of those dreadful years ; 
she knew that Olive would never get over the disappoint- 
ment. It would touch her in the point where she felt 
everything most keenly; she would be incurably lonely 
and eternally humiliated. It was a very peculiar thing, 
their friendship ; it had elements which made it probably 
as complete as any (between women) that had ever existed. 
Of course it had been more on Olive's side than on hers, 
she had always known that ; but that, again, didn't make 



any difference. It was of no use for her to tell herself that 
Olive had begun it entirely and she had only responded 
out of a kind of charmed politeness, at first, to a tremendous 
appeal. She had lent herself, given herself, utterly, and she 
ought to have known better if she didn't mean to abide by 
it. At the end of three weeks she felt that her inquiry was 
complete, but that after all nothing was gained except an 
immense interest in Basil Ransom's views and the prospect 
of an eternal heartache. He had told her he wanted her 
to know him, and now she knew him pretty thoroughly. 
She knew him and she adored him, but it didn't make any 
difference. To give him up or to give Olive up this 
effort would be the greater of the two. 

If Basil Ransom had the advantage, as far back as that 
day in New York, of having struck a note which was to 
reverberate, it may easily be imagined that he did not fail 
to follow it up. If he had projected a new light into 
