was further in his eyes (they had an expression considerably 
different from any he had hitherto seen in them), defined 
itself to our hero only little by little. 
' Don't you think you might have written me a word ? ' 
 
said Hyacinth, at last. His anger at having been left in 
ignorance had quitted him, but he thought the question 
fair. None the less, he expected a sarcastic answer, and 
was surprised at the mild reasonableness with which Mr. 
Vetch replied 
' I assure you, no responsibility, in the course of my 
life, ever did more to distress me. There were obvious 
reasons for calling you back, and yet I couldn't help wish- 
ing you might finish your visit. I balanced one thing 
against the other ; it was very difficult.' 
' I can imagine nothing more simple. When people's 
nearest and dearest are dying, they are usually sent 
for.' 
The fiddler gave a strange, argumentative smile. If 
Lomax Place and Miss Pynsent's select lodging-house wore 
a new face of vulgarity to Hyacinth, it may be imagined 
whether the renunciation of the niceties of the toilet, the 
resigned seediness, which marked Mr. Vetch's old age was 
unlikely to lend itself to comparison. The glossy butler at 
Medley had had a hundred more of the signs of success 
in life. ' My dear boy, this case was exceptional,' said 
the old man. ' Your visit had a character of importance. ' 
' I don't know what you know about it. I don't remem- 
ber that I told you anything.' 
' No, certainly, you have never told me much. But if, 
as is probable, you have seen that kind lady who is now 
upstairs, you will have learned that Finnic made a tre- 
mendous point of your not being disturbed. She threat- 
ened us with her displeasure if we should hurry you back. 
You know what Pinnie's displeasure is ! ' As, at this, 
Hyacinth turned away with a gesture of irritation, Mr. 
Vetch went on, ' No doubt she is absurdly fanciful, poor 
dear thing ; but don't, now, cast any disrespect upon it. I 
assure you, if she had been here alone, suffering, sinking, 
without a creature to tend her, and nothing before her but 
