courteously, "but I cannot see the boy deprived.  He must be made
comfortable as speedily as possible.  I shall be obliged to you for
some suggestion in the matter."
"Come hither," replied the stranger, laconically.  Forthwith, he led
me, saying nothing further, and I followed, asking nothing more.
This embarrassed me somewhat, and it was with some discomfort that I
entered the house of entertainment to which I was directed, and asked
for those things which were needful for my child.  These were at once
and lavishly provided.  It soon proved that I had come to a luxurious
and hospitable place.  The people were most sympathetic in their
manner.  Boy especially excited the kindest of attention; some women
fondled him, and all the inmates of the house interested themselves in
the little motherless spirit.
In spite of myself this touched me, and my heart warmed toward my
entertainers.
"Tell me," I said, turning toward him who had brought me thither, "how
shall I make compensation for my entertainment?  What is the custom of
the country?  I--what we used to call property--you will understand
that I necessarily left behind me.  I am accustomed to the use of it.
I hardly know what to do without it.  I am accustomed to--some
abundance.  I wish to remunerate the people of this house."
"What did you bring with you?" asked my new acquaintance, with a
half-sorrowful look, as if he would have helped me out of an unpleasant
position if he could.
"Nothing," I replied, after some thought, "nothing but my misery.  That
does not seem to be a marketable commodity in this happy place.  I
could spare some, if it were."
"What had you?" pursued my questioner, without noticing my ill-timed
satire.  "What were your possessions in the life yonder?"
"Health.  Love.  Happiness.  Home.  Prosperity.  Work.  Fame.  Wealth.
Ambition."  I numbered these things slowly and bitterly.  "None of them
did I bring with me.  I have lost them all upon the way.  They do not
serve me in this differing civilization."
"Was there by chance nothing more?"
"Nothing more.  Unless you count a little incidental usefulness."
"And that?" he queried eagerly.
I therefore explained to him that I had been a very busy doctor; that I
used to think I took pleasure in relieving the misery of the sick, but
that it seemed a mixed matter now, as I looked back upon it,--so much
love of fame, love of power, love of love itself,--and that I did not
