cool and quiet, longing for some one to caress her; for the little
heart was homesick and the little head ached badly.
The “button-hole” had been made, the alley swept out, to the great
dismay of the spiders, earwigs, and toads, who had fled to quieter
quarters, and Rosy had leave to go and come when she liked if Mr.
Dover did not object. He never did; and it was her greatest delight
to walk in the pretty garden at her own sweet will, always with the
hope of meeting its kindly owner, for now they were firm friends.
She had been too busy for a run there that day; and now, as she
peeped in, it looked so shady and inviting, and it seemed so natural
to turn to her dear “missionary man” for entertainment, that she
went straight up to his study window and peeped in.
He too seemed out of sorts that hot afternoon, for he sat leaning
his head on both hands at the desk strewn with piles of old letters.
Button-Rose’s tender heart yearned over him at once, and stepping
quietly in at the long open window she went to him, saying in her
tenderest tone,--
“Does your head ache, sir? Let me soft it as I do Papa’s; he says
that always makes it more better. Please let me? I’d love to
dearly.”
“Ah, my darling, I wish you could. But the pain is in my heart, and
nothing will ever cure it,” sighed Mr. Thomas, as he drew her close
and put his wrinkled yellow cheek to her soft one, which looked more
like a damask rose than usual.
“You have trials too, I s’pose. Mine trouble me to-day, so I came
over to see you. Shall I go away?” asked Rosy with a sigh and the
wistful look again.
“No, stay, and we will comfort each other. Tell me your troubles,
Button, and perhaps I can help them,” the kind old gentleman said as
he took her on his knee and stroked the curly head with a paternal
touch.
So Rosy told her latest grief, and never saw the smile that crept
about the lips that asked in a tone of deep interest,--
“Well, what do you mean to do to that unkind Cicely?”
“For a minute I wanted to slap her back when she tried to spat my
hands. Then I ‘membered that Mamma said a kiss for a blow was a good
thing, so I picked up the beads and planned to do it; but Cis looked
SO cross I couldn’t. If I had a pretty necklace I’d go and give it
to her, and then maybe she’d love me better.”
“My dear little missionary, you SHALL have beads to win the heart of
