has written a letter to his old chief, Lord Mavourneen, who always liked
him so much, begging to be sent to Constantinople. The ambassador had a
secretary out there of the same standing who wanted to go to Paris, so
the matter was arranged at the Foreign Office, and Macaulay is going out
at once. Naturally the female establishment set up a howl that they must
spend the summer on the Bosphorus; that I had taken them everywhere
else, and that no one of them could die happy without having seen
Constantinople. The howl lasted a week. Then I went the way of all
flesh, and gave in. Mrs. Carvel wanted to see Macaulay, Madame Patoff
wanted to see the place where poor Alexander disappeared, Hermione
wanted to see Paul, and Chrysophrasia wanted to see the Golden Horn and
dance upon the glad waters of the joyous Bosphorus in the light caïque
of commerce. I am rather glad I have submitted. I think that Hermione's
affection is serious,--she looks ill, poor child,--and I want to see
more of Paul before deciding. Of course, with Macaulay in one embassy
and Paul in another, we shall see everything; and Mary says I am growing
crusty over my books. You understand now how all this has occurred.
Now I want your advice, for you not only know Constantinople, but you
are living there. Do you advise us to come at once and spend the spring,
or to come later and stay all summer? Is there anything to eat? Must I
bring a cook? Can I get a house, or must we encamp in a hotel? What
clothes does one wear? In short, tell me everything you know, on a
series of post cards or by telegraph,--for you hate writing letters more
than I do. I await your answer with anxiety, as we shall regulate our
movements by what you say. All send affectionate messages to you and to
Paul, to whom please read this letter.
Yours ever, JOHN CARVEL.
* * *
I had not recovered from my astonishment in reading this long epistle,
when Gregorios came in and sat down by the fire. His entrance reminded
me of the watch, and for the moment banished John Carvel and his family
from my thoughts. I showed him the thing, and told him what Marchetto
had said.
"We have him now!" he exclaimed, examining the name and date with
interest, though he could not read the Russian characters.
"It is not so sure," I said. "He will never tell the name of the negro."
"No; but we can see the fellow easily enough, I fancy," returned
Balsamides. "You do not know how these things are done. It is most
probable that Marchetto has not paid him for the watch. Things of that
sort are generally not paid for until they have been sold out of the
