But with this Jack sprang upon him, and the wife 
cried out between them, for the love of mercy, that 
murder would be done. 
"Leave us be!" she pleaded, sobbing. " Nothin' 
else won't pacify him. Go, Jim, go, and shut the door, 
and thank her, for the cranberry sarse was very kind 
of her, and for my husband's sake don't tell nobody he 
wasn't kind to me. There. That 's right. There." 
She sank back into the rocking-chair, for she was 
feeble still, and looked gently up into her husband's 
face. All the tones of her agitated voice had changed. 
She spoke very low and calmly, as if she gathered her 
breath for the first stage of a struggle whose nature she 
solemnly understood. She had grown exceedingly pale. 
"Jack, dear?" softly. 
" I 'll give ye time," he answered with an ominous 
quiet. "Tell yer story first. Out with it ! " 
"I haven't got nothin' to tell, Jack. He brought 
the cranberry sarse, for his wife took care of me, and 
she was very kind. And he set a little, and we was 
talkin' about the club, just as he says we was. It's 
Mother Mary's club, Jack. She 's made Jim secretary, 
and she wanted you to join, for I told her you 'd 
reformed. Oh, Jack, I told her you 'd reformed ! — Jack, 
Jack ! Oh, Jack ! What are you goin' to do to me ' 
What makes you look like that ? — Jack, Jack, Jack. " 
:and up here ! " he raved. He was past reason, 
and she saw it ; he tore off his coat and pushed up his 
sleeves from his tattooed arms. 
You've plaved me false, I say! I trusted ye. and 
you've tricked me. I 'll teach ye to be the talk upon 
the wharves another time when I get in from George - 
She stood as he bade her, tottered and sank back ; 
crawled up again, holding by the wooden arm of the 
rocking-chair, and stretched one hand out to him, feebly. 
She did not dare to touch him ; if she had clung to him, 
he would have throttled her. When she saw him rolling 
up his sleeves, her heart stood still. But 
thought : "I will not show him I'm afraid of him. It's 
the only chance I 've got.'' 
