"Now you're talking! If you are on the square, you'll find us gentlemen.
We are ready to hear what you have to say."
"Good! But I expect you to earn the money."
"How?" inquired the first gentleman, suspiciously. The word earn might
mean work, and that was not in his line.
"I'll tell you."
There was an amiable conference for twenty minutes, but this is not the
place to reveal what was said. Enough that it nearly concerned Bob
Burton, and involved a new plot against the success of his enterprise.
CHAPTER XX.
AN UNEXPECTED PASSENGER.
The next morning the boys were up bright and early. It was a glorious
morning, and Bob accepted it as auspicious of a pleasant and prosperous
trip.
Clip was in wild spirits. He was naturally vivacious and fond of change,
and the prospect of the river trip made him very happy. Bob, as a
practical joke, put on a grave face and said: "Clip, I don't know but I
shall have to leave you at home."
"What fo', Massa Bob?" inquired Clip, his face assuming a look of
dismay.
"I am afraid my mother won't be able to get along without you. There are
so many things to attend to on the ranch."
"I can't do no good on the ranch," said Clip, eagerly. "I'm only a lazy,
good-for-nothing nigger."
"Then I don't see how you can help me, Clip," returned Bob, his eyes
twinkling as he listened to this candid confession.
"Dat's different, Massa Bob. I ain't no good on the ranch, but I'm
powerful help on the river. Please take me along, Massa Bob," pleaded
Clip.
"Just as likely as not you'll get lost, Clip. Besides, you might meet
your old master from Arkansas."
"He won't catch dis nigger," said Clip, shaking his head, resolutely.
"Please let me go, Massa Bob."
"Your arguments are so cogent, Clip, that I suppose I shall have to give
in."
Instantly Clip's face was radiant. He didn't know what cogent arguments
were, but as long as they had accomplished his desire he was content to
remain in ignorance.
"But if you give me any trouble, Clip," Bob added, seriously, "I may
have to put you ashore, and let you walk home."
