was trivial perhaps in comparison to what her mother had suffered, and
yet surely her father had repented. As she entered the house had she not
told herself that for twenty years he had been faithful to a memory. So
far back as she could remember, she had seen him compassionate of
others, striving, it may be, through the exercise of indulgence to earn
some little of it for himself. And should she refuse it now? He had
grieved; the stamp of it was on his face. She needed no one to remind
her of that, and that grief perhaps had effaced the fault. And if his
fault was effaceable, might not her husband's be effaceable as well? If
he would but come to her and let her feel that this misstep was one that
he regretted, she might yet forgive. It was as good to forgive as it was
to forget; and how beautiful the future still might be!
The indignation which had glowed so fiercely subsided; one by one the
sparks turned grey; the last one wavered a little and then disappeared.
She turned, her sultry eyes still wet, to where her father had sat. And
as she turned Mr. Menemon reëntered the room. She made no effort to
account for his absence; she was all in all in her present idea, and
she went forward to him at once.
"Did she forgive you?" she asked.
"Who?"
"My mother."
Mr. Menemon made no answer, but his face spoke for him.
"Then I will," she cried, and wound her arms about his neck. "I will
forgive you for her."
"There is another whom you must forgive as well," he answered, gently.
"But you assured me he had done no wrong."
"Nor has he, I think." He hesitated a second. "Come down-stairs," he
added; "we can discuss it better there." And taking her hand in his he
led her from the room.
On reaching the parlor below, he drew the portière aside that she might
pass, and then, as they say in France, he eclipsed himself. Eden entered
unattended. Her father, she supposed, was following her, and she was
about to address some remark to him, when before her, in the dim light
of twin candelabras, she perceived her husband.
Usselex was standing bolt upright, in the position of one who has come
not to render accounts, but to demand them. In his attitude there was
nothing of the repentant sinner, and at sight of him Eden felt herself
tricked. She turned in search of her father, but he had gone. Then,
seeing herself deserted, and yet disdaining retreat, she summoned the
princess air which was ever at her bidding, and crossed the room.
