During the day as we lay concealed in a thicket, we prepared every
thing that was necessary for the success of our anticipated flight. We
sewed two of our shirts together for a sail, and made all the
necessary rigging of some ropes, which we had brought with us. From
one of our hiding-places we remarked at one time, that a large
Japanese vessel, which was sailing along the coast, had cast anchor
near to a neighboring village, and we determined to surprise and
capture it during the night. By good fortune we passed through the
village undiscovered, and were close to the vessel, when suddenly it
weighed anchor and sailed away. We gazed after it for a while, and
then sorrowfully pursued our way along the shore.
After having ventured into the village for several nights without
accomplishing our purpose, we were at last discovered on the morning
of the first of May, as we were returning rather late, by a woman who
was standing on one of the surrounding heights. She immediately
beckoned in every direction to give notice of the discovery she had
made. We saw immediately that no time was to be lost, and fled into a
ravine that we might hide ourselves among the bushes. Unluckily,
before we could reach a place of concealment, we found ourselves
surrounded by a crowd of people who raised a loud cry. I and Makarov,
my inseparable attendant, took refuge in a thicket, but soon being
unable to go farther, we lay down and waited the result of the affair.
To our great astonishment, instead of our pursuers being the country
people, as we imagined, we perceived several well-armed soldiers, and
an officer on horseback.
Our companions were immediately surrounded and forced to surrender,
and from our hiding-place we could plainly see how the Japanese bound
their hands behind their backs, inquired from them where we were, and
led them towards the shore, whilst some of them commenced an active
search after us.
"What shall we do now?" asked Makarov, trembling with fear.
"Perhaps," replied I, "the Japanese will not find us to-day, in which
case, as soon as it grows dark, we will steal along the coast, capture
a boat, and sail from island to island, until we reach the nearest
Russian port."
Makarov agreed to my proposition, but we did not reflect that every
thing necessary for such an undertaking, which we had prepared with so
much trouble, had fallen into the hands of the Japanese, with our
companions.
Whilst we were yet discussing the possibility of flight, four of our
