country in which the instinct of beauty is paramount to the desire of
profit. Here for a series of years experiments have been going on with
clays and glazing, in regard to form and color, and in decoration purely
for effect, which have resulted in pieces of marvellous interest and
beauty. The effort has always been to satisfy a refined sense rather
than to cater to a vicious taste, or one for startling effects already
formed. I mean that the effort has not been to suit the taste of
the market, but to raise that taste. The result is some of the most
exquisite work in texture and color anywhere to be found, and I was glad
to learn that it is gaining an appreciation which will not in this case
leave virtue to be its own reward.
The various private attempts at art expression have been consolidated in
a public Museum and an Art School, which are among the best planned and
equipped in the country. The Museum Building in Eden Park, of which the
centre pavilion and west wing are completed (having a total length of
214 feet from east to west), is in Romanesque style, solid and pleasing,
with exceedingly well-planned exhibition-rooms and picture-galleries,
and its collections are already choice and interesting. The fund was
raised by the subscriptions of 455 persons, and amounts to $310,501,
of which Mr. Charles R. West led off with the contribution of $150,000,
invested as a permanent fund. Near this is the Art School, also a noble
building, the gift of Mr. David Sinton, who in 1855 gave the Museum
Association $75,000 for this purpose. It should be said that the
original and liberal endowment of the Art School was made by Mr.
Nicholas Longworth, in accordance with the wish of his father, and
that the association also received a legacy of $40,000 from Mr. R. R.
Springer. Altogether the association has received considerably over a
million of dollars, and has in addition, by gift and purchase, property
gained at nearly $200,000. The Museum is the fortunate possessor of one
of the three Russian Reproductions, the other two being in the South
Kensington Museum of London and the Metropolitan of New York. Thus, by
private enterprise, in the true American way, the city is graced and
honored by art buildings which give it distinction, and has a school of
art so well equipped and conducted that it attracts students from far
and near, filling its departments of drawing, painting, sculpture,
and wood-carving with eager learners. It has over 400 scholars in the
various departments. The ample endowment fund makes the school really
free, there being only a nominal charge of about $5 a year.
In the collection of paintings, which has several of merit, is one with
a history, which has a unique importance. This is B. R. Haydon’s “Public
