he had counted faded and grew blank. Where it had been brilliant it was
obscure, and that obscurity, increasing, walled back the horizon and
reached up and extended from earth to sky. The papers fell from his
nerveless hand, fright had visited him, and he wheeled like a rat
surprised. Surely, he reflected, if safety there were or could be, that
safety was with Justine.
In a moment he was at her door. He tried it. It was locked. He beat upon
it and called aloud, "Justine."
No answer came. He bent his head and listened. Through the woodwork he
could hear but the faintest rustle, and he called again, "Justine."
Then from within came the melody of her voice: "Who is it?"
"It is I," he answered, and straightened himself. It seemed odd to him
she did not open the door at once. "I want a word with you," he added,
after a pause. But still the door was locked.
"Justine," he called again, "do you not hear me? I want to speak to
you."
Then through the slender woodwork at his side a whisper filtered, the
dumb voice of one whom madness may have in charge.
"It is not to speak you come, it is to kill."
"Justine!" he cried. All the agony of his life he distilled into her
name, "Justine!"
"You killed your child before, you shall not kill another now."
VI.
"City Hall!"
The brakemen were shouting the station through the emptiness of the
"Elevated."
In the car in which Mistrial sat a drunken sailor lolled, and a pretty
girl of the Sixth Avenue type was eating a confection. Above her, on a
panel opposite, the advertisement of a cough remedy shone in blue;
beyond was a particolored notice of tennis blazers: and, between them, a
text from Mark, in black letters, jumped out from a background of white:
"What shall it profit a man, if he shall gain the whole world, and lose
his own soul?"
During the journey from his home Mistrial had contemplated that text.
Not continuously, however. For a little space his eyes had grazed the
retreating throngs over which the train was hurrying, and had rested on
the insufferable ugliness of the Bowery. Once, too, he had found himself
staring at the girl who sat opposite, and once he had detected within
him some envy of the sailor sprawling at her side. But, all the while,
that text was with him, and to the jar of the car he repeated for
