Buxom Teresa received him kindly, put him straight to bed in her own
boy’s little room, laid a cool cloth on his hot head, a warm one on his
aching chest, and left him to sleep, much comforted by her motherly
care.  It was well the good soul befriended him, for he needed help
sorely, and would have fared ill if those humble folk had not taken him
in.
For a week or two he lay in Beppo’s bed burning with fever, and when he
could sit up again was too feeble to do anything but smile gratefully
and try to help Manuela mend nets. Marco would hear of no thanks,
saying, "Good deeds bring good luck.  Behold my haul of fish each day
thou hast been here, poverino! I am well paid, and Saint Peter will
bless my boat for thy sake."
Tino was very happy in the little dark, shabby house that smelt of
onions, fish, and tar, was full of brown children, and the constant
clack of Teresa’s lively tongue as she gossiped with her neighbors, or
fried polenta for the hungry mouths that never seemed filled.
But the time came when Tino could go about, and then he begged for work,
anxious to be independent and earn a little so that in the spring he
could go home without empty pockets.
"I have taken thought for thee, my son, and work warm and easy is ready
if thou wilt do it. My friend Tommaso Neri, makes the good macaroni near
by.  He needs a boy to mind the fire and see to the donkey who grinds
below there.  Food, shelter, and such wages as thou art able to earn, he
will give thee.  Shall it be?"
Tino gratefully accepted, and with hearty embraces all round went off
one day to see his new place.  It was in the old part of Nice, a narrow,
dirty street, a little shop with one window full of the cheaper sorts of
this favorite food of all Italians, and behind the shop a room where an
old woman sat spinning while two little boys played with pine cones and
pretty bits of marble at her feet.
A fat jolly man, with a shining face and loud voice, greeted Marco and
the lad, saying he "was worn to a thread with much work, since that bad
imp of a donkey-boy had run away leaving the blessed macaroni to spoil,
and poor Carmelita to perish for want of care. Come below at once, and
behold the desolation of the place."
With that he led the way to the cellar, where a small furnace-fire
burned, and an old gray donkey went round and round, turning a wheel
which set some unseen machinery in motion with a dismal creaking sound.
Down through many holes in one part of the wooden floor overhead came
long pipes of macaroni, hardening as they hung quivering in the hot air
