When she went to Rex she found him reading, and he did not relin- 
quish his occupation during the whole day, so far as she could 
ascertain. Whether he understood what he read, or not, was 
more than she could determine. The volume contained a part of 
Goethe's works, and when she glanced at the page she saw that 
the student had selected the second part of Wilhelm Meister for 
his reading. He always looked up quietly when she entered, 
thanked her, and said that he needed nothing. 
Frau von Sigmundskron could not rest. The sense of re- 
sponsibility which she felt might alone have sufficed to sustain 
her energy, but her mind was disturbed by a matter even weightier 
in her eyes. The tremendous difficulties of the future presented 
themselves very clearly to her mental view, and she knew that 
before long they would not be mere shadows of things to come, 
but actual problems with which she must grapple, and upon the 
solution of which she must concentrate all her strength. To- 
morrow, or the next day at the latest, the earth would close for 
ever over what remained of those poor beings whose departure 
from life had saddened her own and made it seem so hard to 
understand. But when the three were buried, she could no 
longer remain at Greifenstein. There would be no reason for 
prolonging her stay, even had she wished to do so, and indeed 
her wishes would lead her homewards as soon as her duties were all 
fulfilled. She had never before been separated even for a day from 
her child, and though she was strong and sensible in mind and 
knew that Hilda was safe with old Berbel, she was conscious that 
it was painful to be away from her. She would therefore return 
to Sigmundskron. From that moment her trouble would begin. 
It was not conceivable that Greif should go away without seeing 
 
Hilda, and yet there were many reasons why it would be better 
that the two should not meet. 
She had foreseen the struggle during the hours of the night, 
but it had not then appeared so formidable as now. She had 
then thought more of Greif, and it had not seemed impossible to 
tell him frankly what she felt. As she reflected upon what must 
be done, she saw that Hilda was the principal figure in the 
situation, and she realised that Hilda's happiness was infinitely 
more dear, to her than anything else in the world. She hesitated, 
and for some time she told herself that the marriage must take 
