next morning, for which hour a dress-rehearsal of the revived 
play had been hurriedly determined upon, the first night being 
now definitely fixed for the impending Saturday. She counted 
upon his attendance at both ceremonies, but she had particular 
reasons for wishing to see him at the rehearsal. " I want 
you to see and judge and tell me," she said, " for my mind's 
like a flogged horse it won't give another kick." It was for 
the Saturday he had made Lady Agnes his promise ; he had 
thought of the possibility of the play in doing so, but had 
rested in the faith that, from valid symptoms, this complication 
would not occur till the following week. He decided nothing 
on the spot in relation to the conflict it was enough to dash 
off three words to Miriam to the effect that he would sooner 
perish than fail her on the morrow. 
He went to the theatre in the morning, and the episode 
proved curious and instructive. Though there were twenty 
people in the stalls it bore little resemblance to those repeti- 
tions generales to which, in Paris, his love of the drama had 
often attracted him and which, taking place at night in the 
theatre closed to the public, are virtually first performances 
with invited spectators. They were, to his sense, always 
settled and stately and were rehearsals of the premiere even 
more than rehearsals of the play. The present occasion was 
less august ; it was not so much a concert as a confusion of 
sounds, and it took audible and at times disputatious counsel 
with itself. It was rough and frank and spasmodic, but it 
was vivid and strong and, in spite of the serious character of 
the piece, often exceedingly droll ; while it gave Sherringham, 
oddly enough, a livelier sense than he had ever had of bending 
over the hissing, smoking, sputtering caldron in which a 
palatable performance is stewed. He looked into the gross 
darkness that may result from excess of light ; that is he 
understood how knocked up, on the eve of production, every 
one concerned in the preparation of a play might be, with 
nerves overstretched and glasses blurred, awaiting the test and 
the response, the echo to be given back by the big, receptive, 
artless, stupid, delightful public. Sherringham's interest had 
been great in advance, and as Miriam, since his arrival, had 
taken him much into her confidence he knew what she in- 
tended to do and had discussed a hundred points with her. 
