was preaching. I had heard prophets before; they were as torches in the
night: he was the Day. I listened and forgot you. He called me; I
followed. Until Sunday I had not thought of you again. But when you
appeared in the synagogue I started; and when you fainted, when I held you
in my arms and your eyes opened as flowers do, I looked into them and it
all returned. Mary, kiss me and kill me, but kiss me first.”
“Yes, he is the Day.”
Of the entire speech she had heard but that. It had entered perhaps into
thoughts of her own with which it was in unison, and she repeated the
phrase mechanically, as a child might do. But now as he ceased to speak,
perplexed, annoyed too at the inappositeness of her reply, she came back
from the infinite in which she had roamed, and for a moment both were
silent.
At the turning of the road a man appeared. At the sight of Judas he
halted, then called him excitedly by name.
“It is Mathias,” Judas muttered, and got to his feet. The man hurried to
them. He was broad of shoulder and of girth, the jaw lank and earnest. His
eyes were small, and the lids twitched nervously. He was out of breath,
and his garments were dust-covered.
“Where is the Master?” he asked; and at once, without waiting a reply, he
added: “I have just seen Johanna. Her husband told her that the tetrarch
is seeking him; he thinks him John, and would do him harm. We must go from
here.”
Judas assented. “Yes, we must all go. Mary, it may be a penance, but it is
his will.”
Mathias gazed inquiringly at them both.
“It is his will,” Judas repeated, authoritatively.
Mary turned away and caught her forehead in her hands. “If this is a
penance,” she murmured, “what then are his rewards?”
                               CHAPTER VII.
                                   VII.
On the floor of a little room Mary lay, her face to the ground. In her
ears was the hideousness of a threat that had fastened on her abruptly
like a cheetah in the dark. From below came the sound of banqueting.
Beyond was the Bitter Sea, the stars dancing in its ripples; and there in
the shadow of the evergreens was the hut in which that Sephôrah lived to
whom long ago Martha had forbidden her to speak. Through the lattice came
the scent of olive-trees, and with it the irresistible breath of spring.
In its caress the threat which had made her its own presently was lifted,
and mingling with other things fused into them. The kaleidoscope of time
