when they were married. Gracious ! to think the youngest 
would be about eighty ! What a long time ago ! " 
"Their signing or not would make no difference now. 
The only trouble will be to find them. I hope there will 
be some old letters to throw a little light on the subject. 
Shall we go now ? " 
They wrapped themselves in shawls and took two lamps. 
On the lower side of this large room was a kitchen and 
shed, on the other, two rooms that opened again on the hall 
to the south. They hiid been used as sleeping chambers by 
the old people. Everything was in perfect order. Tliere 
was an old-fashioned, high-post bedstead, a bureau, a toilet . 
table with a white valance around it, and a white quilted 
cover ; and an old-time chest of drawers with a desk top. 
The most rigorous search failed to exhume anything but 
two small packages of letters. Then they passed to Mr. 
Bradley's room that had much the same furnishing, except 
the escritoire. This contained two tin cases, locked se- 
curely, and almost hidden in a back compartment, and 
several packages of papers. Mr. Sayre took possession of 
them all, and the keys that he found fitted them. 
Then they made a tour of the rest of the house. Much 
of the furniture was merely standing about with no attempt 
at order. The floors were uncarpeted, but here and there 
were rolls fresh from the airing. Stacks of beds and 
bedding with the quaint old scent of lavender and dried rose- 
leaves, bed and table linen, some in the very pieces in 
which they had been woven. 
"There will have to be an inventory," he said with a 
grave half-smile, " and it will be no light task. But I have 
what I most need, and I will not trouble you farther. Are 
you likely to stay, Mrs. Cosgrove ? I wish you could until 
something is decided upon." 
" Why, yes — I would," hesitatingly. 
" Well, I will be in to-morrow." Then he took up his 
budgets, fastened them securely together, and wished the 
ladies good-night. 
Mr. Upham was waiting in his office for his confrere. 
They went carefully over the papers, but found not the 
slightest draft or suggestion of a will. There were some ' 
