Fred knew that this would secure extra care, and he did not care to
name the real worth lest it might tempt some employee to dishonesty.
"Now," he said, as they left the office, "I feel easy in my mind."
But when the boys were half way home, they overtook another buggy,
containing two occupants. One of them was the landlord of the Lion Inn,
the other was Paul Bowman.
CHAPTER XXXIV.
BOWMAN'S PANIC.
Paul Bowman, who was driving, the landlord having given up the reins to
him, checked the horse and hailed Fred in evident surprise.
"Where have you been?" he inquired abruptly.
"I have been to ride," answered Fred, with an appearance of unconcern.
"I thought you were going to call on Sinclair."
"So I was, but after you left I decided to take a walk in another
direction. I met John, and engaged him to take me to drive."
"Are you going home now?"
"Yes, I think so. Can you take me to the hotel, John?"
"Yes," answered his companion readily.
"Then we will follow along behind Mr. Bowman."
Of course there could be no private conversation, so John and he spoke
on indifferent topics. When they reached the hotel Fred jumped from the
buggy.
"Good-by, John," he said. "You will hear from me soon," he added in a
significant tone.
Then he joined Bowman, who was wholly unsuspicious of the disaster that
had befallen him.
"I should like to go over to Sinclair's," thought Fred, "but I suppose
Bowman will expect me to keep him company."
But in this he was agreeably disappointed.
At seven o'clock the landlord drove round, and Bowman sprang into the
buggy.
"Sorry to leave you, Fred," he said, "but we are going to Vaudry on a
little business. Hope you won't be lonely."
"Never mind me, Mr. Bowman. I think I will go over to see Mr. Sinclair.
He will probably expect me. Have you any message?"
Bowman looked significantly at the landlord.
"Tell him I will call to-morrow or next day," he said. "At present I am
very busy."
The two drove away, leaving Fred and a stable boy named Jack looking
after them.
