the decision of the Sheikh of the beggars he was filled with shame and
rolled himself from side to side upon the floor, as though trying to
escape from the bonds that held him. Almasta, for her part, lay quietly
where they had put her, for she saw that all chance of success was gone
and was pondering how she might take advantage of what happened, to save
herself.
Then the beggars laid hold of Abdullah and held him, while others took
the sack from his head. He was indeed half smothered with dust, so that
at first he could not speak aloud, but coughed and sneezed like a dog
that has thrust its nose into a dust-heap to find the bone which is
hidden underneath. But presently he recovered his breath and began to
rail at them and curse them. To this they paid no attention, but brought
the oil lamp near him, and one began to rub soap upon his face and head
while another got the razor with which the beggars shaved their heads
and began to whet it upon his leathern girdle.
'Do not waste the precious stones of your eloquence upon a barber,'
said the Sheikh of the beggars, 'but reserve your breath and the rich
treasures of your speech until you are brought as a plucked bird before
the people of Riad. Moreover we only wish to shave off your beard, but
if you are restless some of your hide will certainly be removed also,
whereby you will be hurt and it will be still harder for your friends to
recognise you to-morrow. It is also useless to shout and scream as
though you were driving camels, for you are in the cellar of my house
which is at a good distance from other habitations, on the borders of
the city.'
So Abdullah saw that there was no escape, and that his fate was about
his neck, and he sat still as they had placed him, while the one-eyed
hunchback shaved off his beard and the hair on his upper lip and his
eyebrows, and the lock at the back of his head.
When this was done the blind man put out his hand and felt Abdullah's
face.
'Surely,' he said, 'this is not a man's head, but the round end of a
walking-staff, rubbed smooth by much use.'
They also tied his hands under his arm-pits and put upon him a ragged
shirt with sleeves so that he seemed to have lost both arms at the
elbow.
'This is very well done,' said the hunchback turning his head from side
to side in order to see all with his one eye. 'But what shall we do
with the woman? Let us cast lots for her, and he who wins her shall
marry her, and we will hold the feast immediately, for we have not yet
