unlike you, I fancy--to murder the architecture of Rome and prepare the
triumph of the hideous."
Orsino did not answer the remark, although he was not altogether
displeased with the idea it conveyed. Maria Consuelo looked at him.
"Why do you stand aloof and let things go from bad to worse when you
might really do good by joining in the affairs of the day?" she asked.
"I could not join in them, if I would," answered Orsino.
"Why not?"
"Because I have not command of a hundred francs in the world, Madame.
That is the simplest and best of all reasons."
Del Ferice laughed incredulously.
"The eldest son of Casa Saracinesca would not find that a practical
obstacle," he said, taking his hat and rising to go. "Besides, what is
needed in these transactions is not so much ready money as courage,
decision and judgment. There is a rich firm of contractors now doing a
large business, who began with three thousand francs as their whole
capital--what you might lose at cards in an evening without missing it,
though you say that you have no money at your command."
"Is that possible?" asked Orsino with some interest.
"It is a fact. There were three men, a tobacconist, a carpenter and a
mason, and they each had a thousand francs of savings. They took over a
contract last week for a million and a half, on which they will clear
twenty per cent. But they had the qualities--the daring and the prudence
combined. They succeeded."
"And if they had failed, what would have happened?"
"They would have lost their three thousand francs. They had nothing else
to lose, and there was nothing in the least irregular about their
transactions. Good evening, Madame--I have a private meeting of
directors at my house. Good evening, Don Orsino."
He went out, leaving behind him an impression which was not by any means
disagreeable. His appearance was against him, Orsino thought. His fat
white face and dull eyes were not pleasant to look at. But he had shown
tact in a difficult situation, and there was a quiet energy about him, a
settled purpose which could not fail to please a young man who hated his
own idleness.
Orsino found that his mood had changed. He was less angry than he had
meant to be, and he saw extenuating circumstances where he had at first
only seen a wilful mistake. He sat down again.
"Confess that he is not the impossible creature you supposed," said
Maria Consuelo with a laugh.
