on board to drop the accommodation ladder over the side; and for so mild
a gentleman he did it in a very imperative tone. The order was obeyed,
though it appeared to be done very reluctantly. The first lieutenant was
the first to mount the ladder, and was closely followed by his
passenger.
"Where is the captain?" demanded Mr. Birdwing, as the six men detailed
for the purpose were coming over the side.
"I am the captain," replied an ill-favored looking man, stepping forward
with very ill grace.
"What steamer is this?"
"The Ionian, of New York, bound to St. George's, Bermuda," replied the
captain in a crusty tone.
"The captain's name?" demanded the officer, becoming more imperative as
the commander of the Ionian manifested more of his crabbed disposition.
"Captain Sawlock," growled the ill-favored master of the steamer, who
was a rather short man, thick-set, with a face badly pitted by the
small-pox, but nearly covered with a grizzly and tangled beard.
"You will oblige me by producing your papers, Captain Sawlock,"
continued Mr. Birdwing.
"For a good reason, my papers are not regular," answered the captain of
the Ionian, with an attempt to be more affable, though it did not seem
to be in his nature to be anything but a brute in his manners.
"Regular or not, you will oblige me by exhibiting them," the officer
insisted.
"It is not my fault that a change was made in my orders after I got
under way," pleaded Captain Sawlock.
"Will you produce your clearance and other papers?" demanded the
lieutenant very decidedly.
"This is an American vessel, and you have no right to overhaul me in
this manner," growled the captain of the steamer.
"You are in command of a steamer, and you cannot be so ignorant as to
believe that an officer of a man-of-war has not the right to require you
to show your papers," added Mr. Birdwing with a palpable sneer.
"This is an American vessel," repeated Captain Sawlock.
"Then why did you hoist the British flag?"
"That's my business!"
"But it is mine also. Do you decline to show your papers? You are
trifling with me," said Mr. Birdwing impatiently.
At this moment there was a scuffle in the waist of the steamer, which
attracted the attention of all on the deck. Mr. Gilfleur had suddenly
