doing now; and if my sister was all against it, I should wish to do it
all the same."
Matt Hilary learned from his father the result of the conference with
the State's attorney, and he came up to Hatboro' the next day, to see
Putney on his father's behalf, and to express the wish of his family
that Mr. Putney would let them do anything he could think of for his
clients. He got his message out bunglingly, with embarrassed
circumlocution and repetition; but this was what it came to in the end.
Putney listened with sarcastic patience, shifting the tobacco in his
mouth from one thin cheek to the other, and letting his fierce blue eyes
burn on Matt's kindly face.
"Well, sir," he said, "what do you think can be done for two women,
brought up as ladies, who choose to beggar themselves?"
"Is it so bad as that?" Matt asked.
"Why, you can judge for yourself. My present instructions are to make
their whole estate over to the Ponkwasset Mills Company--"
"But I thought--I thought they might have something
besides--something--"
"There was a little money in the bank that Northwick placed there to
their credit when he went away; but I've had their instructions to pay
that over to your company, too. I suppose they will accept it?"
"It isn't my company," said Matt. "I've nothing whatever to do with
it--or any company. But I've no doubt they'll accept it."
"They can't do otherwise," said the lawyer, with a humorous sense of the
predicament twinkling in his eyes. "And that will leave my clients just
nothing in the world until Mr. Northwick comes home with that fortune he
proposes to make. In the meantime they have their chance of starving to
death, or living on charity. And I don't believe," said Putney, breaking
down with a laugh, "they've the slightest notion of doing either."
Matt stood appalled at the prospect which the brute terms brought before
him. He realized that after all there is no misery like that of want,
and that yonder poor girl had chosen something harder to bear than her
father's shame.
"Of course," he said, "they mustn't be allowed to suffer. We shall count
upon you to see that nothing of that kind happens. You can contrive
somehow not to let them know that they are destitute."
"Why," said Putney, putting his leg over the back of a chair into its
seat, for his greater ease in conversation, "I could, if I were a lawyer
in a novel. But what do you think I can do with two women like these,
who follow me up every inch of the way, and want to know just what I
