mice, and that if she could persuade my father to knock holes in the
walls at Castel Savello, that was the affair of the Savelli, but that so
long as he lived she should not make any experiments in excavation under
his roof. If you will believe me, she had a fit of anger which brought
on an attack of the nerves, and she never went out of her room for three
days in consequence. Do you wonder that I am anxious?"

"Certainly not. It would be amazing if you were indifferent. The story
gives one the idea that she is subject to delusions. I am very sorry she
is no better. Pray remember me to her."

Thereupon Ghisleri passed on, inwardly wondering how long it would be
before Adele became quite mad. Two days later he received a note from
her. She had heard from her husband that he was in Rome, she said, and
wrote to ask a great favour of him. He was doubtless aware of her
father's passion for manuscripts, which was well known in Rome. It was
reported that a certain dealer had bought Prince Montevarchi's library
after the crash, and she very much wished to buy a very interesting
manuscript of which she had often heard her father speak, and which
contained an account of the famous, or infamous, Isabella Montevarchi's
life, written with her own hand--a sort of confession, in fact. As she
did not know the exact title of the document, if it had any, she would
call it a confession, though, of course, in a strictly lay sense. Now,
she inquired, would Ghisleri, for old friendship's sake, try to obtain
it for her at a reasonable price? She knew, of course, that such an
original would be expensive, but she was prepared to discuss the terms
if not wholly beyond her means. She sent her note by the carrier, as
that was generally quicker than writing by the post, she said. Would
Ghisleri kindly answer by the same means? The man would call again on
the next day but one. That would perhaps give time to make preliminary
inquiries. With which observation, and with best thanks in anticipation
of the service he was about to render, Adele called herself most
sincerely his.

Ghisleri was not an extremely suspicious man, but he would have given
evidence of almost infantine simplicity if he had not seen that there
was something wrong about Adele's note. It was certainly very well
planned, and if Laura had never shown him the letters Adele had sent
her, it might very possibly have succeeded. On ascertaining the price
set by the dealer on the manuscript, he would probably have written a
