Mr. Fox renewed his suggestion that Harry select him as a "guardeen,"
but Harry politely but firmly declined to entertain the proposal.
Nevertheless, when he left the house, he was warmly urged to come again
and often. He understood the reason of the cordiality, and knew very
well that if he had come back poor his reception would have been very
different.
Before going back to New York he made a visit of a couple of days to his
old friend and employer, Professor Hemmenway, the prestidigitateur, who
was delighted with the success of his young friend. He offered Harry a
new engagement, but of course it was declined.
In New York he met Jack, and inquired how he had fared.
"I found my step-father dying," answered Jack. "In fact he drank himself
to death after wasting all mother's property. But I have bought her a
small house, and insured her an income sufficient to keep her
comfortable. The last will require some of my principal, but I shall be
earning good wages, and can make it up when I return home."
"When do you sail, Jack?"
"Next week, on one of Mr. Woolson's ships. I am to go to China."
"I hope you'll steer clear of the island we were wrecked on, Jack."
"I never want to see it again, Harry; still it brought us luck."
"I shall be sorry to part with you, Jack. I wish you could be content to
stay in New York."
"No, Harry, I can't give up the sea yet. It is my great ambition to
command a ship myself some time."
"I think you will accomplish it, Jack, for you stand well with the
owners."
Five years have passed. Harry and Jack are each twenty-one. Harry
occupies a confidential position with the firm, and is likely to be a
partner before he is much older. Jack is first mate, and will be a
captain before he is twenty-five. His mother is living, and happy in his
success, and enjoying the comfortable home he has provided for her.
Harry obtained a position for Joel in the city, but he proved
unsatisfactory to his employer and was soon discharged. Another
situation he held as brief a time. At last he was obliged to go home and
assist his father, who treats him almost as penuriously as he would have
done Harry. Joel is dissatisfied and unhappy, and his mother thinks he
was born to bad luck, but those who know Joel think his want of success
springs from a different source. Harry and Jack obtained success because
they deserved it. If Joel were more like them he too might succeed. And
I am sorry to say he is looking forward impatiently to the time when he
