of my hand and smash it--ask him the first time you see him, if any of
you doubt it.”
“Oh, nobody doubts you, Jack,” said Teddy Van De Water, vehemently.
“Don’t be an idiot!”
“Thank you, Teddy,” laughed Ralston. “Well, the next thing was that I
bolted out of the house with a smashed hat, and forgot my overcoat in my
rage. It’s there still, hanging in uncle Robert’s hall. And, of course,
being so angry, I never thought of my hat. It must have looked oddly
enough. I went down Fifth Avenue, past the reservoir--nearly a mile in
that state.”
“I met you,” observed Russell Vanbrugh. “I was just coming home--been
late down town. I thought you looked rather seedy, but you walked
straight enough.”
“Of course I did--being perfectly sober, and only angry. I must have
turned into East Fortieth or Thirty-ninth, when I stopped to light a
cigar. The waxlight dazzled me, I suppose, for when I went on I fell
over something--that street is awfully dark after the avenue--and I hurt
my head and my hand. This finger--”
He held up his right hand of which one finger was encased in black silk.
Katharine remembered the spot of blood on the letter.
“Then I don’t know what happened to me. Doctor Routh said I had a
concussion of the brain and lost the sense of direction, but I lost my
senses, anyhow. Have any of you fellows ever had that happen to you?
It’s awfully queer?”
“I have,” said Bright. “I know--you’re all right, but you can’t tell
where you’re going.”
“Exactly--you can’t tell which is right and which is left. You recognize
houses, but don’t know which way to turn to get to your own. I lost
myself in New York. I’m glad I’ve had the experience, but I don’t want
it again. Do you know where I found myself and got my direction again?
Away down in Tompkins Square. It was ten o’clock, and I’d missed a
dinner-party, and thought I should just have time to get home and dress,
and go to the Assembly. But I wasn’t meant to. I was dazed and queer
still, and it had been snowing for hours and I had no overcoat. I found
a horse-car going up town and got on. There was nobody else on it but
that prize-fighter chap, who turns out to have been Tom Shelton. It was
nice and warm in the car, and I must have been pretty well fagged out,
for I sat down at the upper end and dropped asleep without telling the
conductor to wake me at my street. I never fell asleep in a horse-car
before in my life, and didn’t expect to then. I don’t know what happened
