new one was likely to be a change for the worse. The denial was general.
None had stolen anything--not money, anyway--a little sugar, or cake, or
honey, or something like that, that "Marse Percy wouldn't mind or miss,"
but not money--never a cent of money. They were eloquent in their
protestations, but Mr. Driscoll was not moved by them. He answered each
in turn with a stern "Name the thief!"
The truth was, all were guilty but Roxana; she suspected that the others
were guilty, but she did not know them to be so. She was horrified to
think how near she had come to being guilty herself; she had been saved
in the nick of time by a revival in the colored Methodist Church, a
fortnight before, at which time and place she "got religion." The very
next day after that gracious experience, while her change of style was
fresh upon her and she was vain of her purified condition, her master
left a couple dollars lying unprotected on his desk, and she happened
upon that temptation when she was polishing around with a dust-rag. She
looked at the money awhile with a steady rising resentment, then she
burst out with--
"Dad blame dat revival, I wisht it had 'a' be'n put off till to-morrow!"
Then she covered the tempter with a book, and another member of the
kitchen cabinet got it. She made this sacrifice as a matter of religious
etiquette; as a thing necessary just now, but by no means to be wrested
into a precedent; no, a week or two would limber up her piety, then she
would be rational again, and the next two dollars that got left out in
the cold would find a comforter--and she could name the comforter.
Was she bad? Was she worse than the general run of her race? No. They
had an unfair show in the battle of life, and they held it no sin to
take military advantage of the enemy--in a small way; in a small way,
but not in a large one. They would smouch provisions from the pantry
whenever they got a chance; or a brass thimble, or a cake of wax, or an
emery-bag, or a paper of needles, or a silver spoon, or a dollar bill,
or small articles of clothing, or any other property of light value; and
so far were they from considering such reprisals sinful, that they would
go to church and shout and pray the loudest and sincerest with their
plunder in their pockets. A farm smoke-house had to be kept heavily
padlocked, for even the colored deacon himself could not resist a ham
when Providence showed him in a dream, or otherwise, where such a thing
hung lonesome and longed for some one to love. But with a hundred
hanging before him the deacon would not take two--that is, on the same
night. On frosty nights the humane negro prowler would warm the end of a
plank and put it up under the cold claws of chickens roosting in a tree;
