But it was improbable, as Robert knew, that his brother should outlive
him, and he contributed liberally to the support and education of the
idiots, and his brother was mentioned in the will in connection with a
large annuity which, however, he had little chance of surviving to
enjoy.
There were plenty of others to divide the vast inheritance when the time
should come. There were Mrs. Lauderdale and her two daughters, and her
baby grandson, Charlotte’s little boy. And there was Katharine Ralston
and there was John. And then there were the two Brights and their
mother, whose mother had been a Lauderdale, so that they were direct
relations. And there were the Miners--the three old-maid sisters and
little Frank Miner, who really seemed to be struggling hard to make a
living by literature--not near connections, these Miners, but certainly
included in the tribe of the Lauderdales on account of their uncle’s
marriage with the millionaire’s first cousin--whom he remembered as
‘little cousin Meg’ fifty years ago. Robert the Rich always smiled--a
little sadly--when he reached this point in the enumeration of the
family, and was glad that the Miners were in his will.
The Miners would really have been the poorest of the whole connection,
for their father had been successively a spendthrift bankrupt, a
drunkard and a lunatic,--which caused Alexander Junior to say severely
that Livingston Miner had an unnatural thirst for emotions; but a
certain very small investment which Frank Miner had made out of the
remnants of the estate had turned out wonderfully well. Miner had never
known that old Lauderdale had mentioned the investment to old Beman, and
that the two great men had found the time to make it roll over and over
and grow into a little fortune at a rate which would have astonished
persons ignorant of business--after which they had been occupied with
other things, each in his own way, and had thought nothing more about
the matter. So that the Miners were comparatively comfortable, and the
three old maids stayed at home and ‘took care’ of their extremely
healthy brother instead of going out as governesses--and when they were
well stricken in old-maidhood they had a queer little love story all to
themselves, which perhaps will be told some day by itself.
The rich man made few presents, for he had few wants, and did not
understand them in others. He was none the less on that account a
generous man, and would often have given, had he known what to give; but
those who expressed their wishes were apt to offend him by expressing
them too clearly. The relations all lived in good houses and had an
abundance of bread and a sufficient allowance of butter, and John
