weren’t--well, that would rather simplify things. But of course, if you
can’t, or won’t, I’ve just got to be satisfied, that’s all. You’ve got a
doubt, anyhow. And Jack’s my friend. He had the first right, and he has
it until you say ‘no’ and send him off. I don’t want you to think that
I’m not acting squarely by him.”
For a moment Katharine hesitated. She was much tempted to tell him of
her marriage, seeing how he spoke, but again her natural impulse kept
her silent on that point.
“There’ll never be any chance for any one else, Ham,” she said gently.
“Put it out of your mind--and I’m grateful, indeed I am!”
“Never?” he asked, looking at her--and a nervous smile that meant
nothing came into his face.
She shook her head in answer.
“There’ll never be any chance for any one else,” she repeated gravely.
He looked at her a moment longer, his face growing rather pale. Once
more he jingled his keys in his pocket, as he turned his head away.
“Well--I’m sorry,” he said. “Excuse me if I spoke--you see I didn’t
know.”
There was a tone with the commonplace words that took them straight to
Katharine’s heart. She saw how the strong, simple, uneloquent man was
suffering, and she knew that she should never have come to the house.
“I’m more sorry--and more ashamed--than you can guess,” she said, and
with bent head she left him standing by the fireplace, and went to her
room.
He did not move for a long time after she had gone, but stood still, his
face changing, though little, from time to time, with his thoughts. He
jingled his keys meditatively in his pocket every now and then. At last
he sighed and uttered one monosyllable, solemnly and without undue
emphasis.
“Damn.”
Then he shook his big shoulders, and got his hat and went for a solitary
stroll, eastwards in the direction of the river.
But Katharine had not such powerful monosyllables at her command, and
she suddenly felt very much ashamed of herself, as she shut the door of
her room and looked about, with a vague idea that she ought to go away
at once. It was not as though she had not been warned of what might
happen, nor as though she had been forced into the situation against her
will. She had deliberately chosen to come to the Brights’ rather than to
go anywhere else, and had obliged John Ralston to let her do so when she
had been with him in the carriage. If she ever told him what had just
