"I do not wish to be indiscreet, of course."
"No, I daresay not. I believe I am to be Darnley."
"Thank you." Here Mr. Wood made another note. "Miss Maylands as Queen
Mary Stuart? Is the report correct?"
"I believe so," answered Brett, coldly.
"Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Brett. If you could oblige me with one or
two more names I could fix it nicely."
"I suppose, Mr. Wood, that you mean to say something about it whether I
tell you or not?"
"Well, now, Mr. Brett," replied the reporter, assuming a more
confidential manner, "to be quite frank, that is just what happens. We
do not like to tire people out with questions they do not care to
answer, but the social column has to be filled somehow, and if we do
not get the news for it, it is sometimes made up in the office."
"So I have often been led to believe from reading it," said Brett.
"There are to be three tableaux, from well-known pictures, in which
Miss Maylands, Mr. Russell Vanbrugh, myself, and a few others are to
take part. The affair is to take place, I think, at Mrs. Trehearne's
house."
"Thank you, Mr. Brett. Dancing afterwards?"
"I do not know."
"Pardon me. Supper furnished by Delmonico, I suppose?"
"Well I really have not asked. I daresay."
"Thank you, Mr. Brett. Delmonico." Mr. Wood's pencil noted the fact.
Brett began to think that he had had enough of the interview, and
deliberately lighting a cigarette looked at the reporter. "Anything
else you would like to know, Mr. Wood?"
"Well, since you have been so very obliging, Mr. Brett, I would like to
ask you a question."
"All right," said Brett, resignedly. "Go ahead."
"Mrs. Darche is a widow, I understand."
"Yes."
"Mr. Darche was the unfortunate victim of an accident several months
ago, I believe?"
"Yes."
"Then of course there can be no truth in the story that he arrived in
New York yesterday?"
"What story?" Brett asked, turning sharply upon the young man.
"I thought perhaps you might have seen it in this morning's paper,"
answered Wood quietly. "But perhaps you would not have noticed it, as
