Always tall, she had grown more womanly, and she could therefore bear
the splendor. To-night, in addition, her own face was striking, for her
color had returned, and her extraordinarily beautiful eyes were at their
best--lustrous and profound. It had always been said of Ruth that her
beauty came and went. To-night it had certainly come, and to such a
degree that it spurred Etheridge to the exclamation, in an undertone:
"Too many diamonds. But, by George, she shines them down!"
After the presentation was over Chase stepped aside, and, with his wife,
joined Dolly. Dolly had a very good place; draped in her opera-cloak,
which was made of a rich Oriental fabric, she looked odd, ugly, and
distinguished.
"Everybody is here except the Barclays," Etheridge announced. "There
can't be a soul left in any of the hotels. And all the negroes in town
are on the sea-wall outside, ready to hurrah when the great man drives
away."
"Here's Walter. He is coming this way--he is looking for us," said
Chase. "How are you, Walter?"
"Mrs. Chase! Delighted to meet you again," said Willoughby, shaking
hands with Ruth with the utmost cordiality.
"My sister is here also," Ruth answered, moving aside so that he could
see Dolly. And then Walter greeted Miss Franklin with the same extreme
heartiness.
"Bless my soul, what enthusiasm!" commented Etheridge. "One would
suppose that you had not met for years."
"And we haven't," said Ruth, surveying Walter, coolly. "Mr. Willoughby
has changed. He has a sort of Chinese air."
"Willoughby has been living in California for two years, commodore;
didn't you know that?" Chase explained, inwardly enjoying his wife's
sally. "I've been to California four times since then. But as he
hasn't been east, the ladies have lost sight of him."
"Are you returning to the Pacific?" Etheridge inquired of the younger
man, "so as to look more Chinese still?"
"The Celestial air I have already caught will have to do," Walter
answered, laughing. "California is a wonderfully fascinating country.
But I am not going back; the business which took me there is concluded."
Horace Chase smiled, detecting the triumph under these words. For his
Pacific-coast enterprise had been highly successful, and Walter had
carried out his part of it with great energy and intelligence, and had
profited accordingly. That particular partnership was now dissolved.
When the dancing began, Ruth declined her invitations. "It isn't
