Texan Rangers, as they called them, as though they were somewhere in
this vicinity," the planter proceeded.
"That captain spoke of them since we took him," said Knox.
"I was just coming up to headquarters to report some information
obtained by Sergeant Decker at the road," interposed Deck. "He stopped
a negro on horse-back, who was going for a doctor. He said there was a
company of cavalry, or more of them, camped about three miles on the
road to Greensburg. He knew nothing at all about them."
"It looks as though there was a considerable force in this vicinity,"
added the major.
"I have given you all the information in my power, Major Lyon, and I
will return to my house. If I can be of any service to you, call upon
me," said Mr. Barkland, as he took the hand of the commander.
He left the tent, and Deck soon followed him, leaving the major and
Captain Gordon alone. On the table in the centre of the tent was a map,
which these two officers had been consulting when the guardsman was
brought in. On it the major had made several crosses with a red pencil,
indicating the location of the railroad bridge, which was believed to be
the objective point of Captain Titus's company, the camp of this force,
the mansion of the planter; and now he made another at the supposed
location of the cavalry camp of the enemy.
"There is a prospect of some fighting in this vicinity by to-morrow,"
said Captain Gordon, as he looked at the crosses on the map.
"Colonel Cosgrove rode over to Riverlawn yesterday to inform me that
Captain Titus's company had left the day before, at an early hour in the
morning, marching on the railroad. He had just obtained some news, which
he considered reliable, to the effect that an order had come up for the
destruction of the railroad bridges," added Major Lyon, as he put his
pencil point on the road. "It was understood in Bowling Green that
General Buell was about to send troops to the southward, and this is an
attempt to break up the means of transportation by rail."
"If there are any Texan Rangers about here, they must have been sent
from some other point," said Captain Gordon. "But we know where the
enemy are, and that is half the battle under present circumstances. The
cavalry and the infantry of the enemy are at least five miles apart."
"Captain Truman has the infantry where he can put his hands on them in
the morning. His orders are to send Lieutenant Gadbury to the farther
side of the railroad, with half his company, and station the other half
behind this knoll, so that neither of them can be seen from the main
road, and to have both forces in position before daylight in the
