their nourishment, crying for their exercise, would 
bestir themselves ? 
He felt it in his thrilling consciousness that he 
could have floated over that parapet, and descended 
among the gaping crowd withoxit a bruise. So great 
was his exaltation, so mighty his sense of untried, 
undeveloped faculties, at this moment, that the mar- 
vel seemed even small to him. It meant but the 
ordering of a purpose ; it meant but a turn of the 
will. It meant that the allegiance, the adoration of 
his race, were his, and his forever. It meant that 
precious thing, of all the ambitious of earth or 
heaven most bewitching to a Jewish mind, abso- 
lixte recognition as their Messiah. It meant none 
the less a devout life than this starvation in the 
dcsort, nay, rather, meant it all the more. It meant 
the most godlike, the holiest career of which the 
Hebrew imagination could conceive. It meant the 
uao of a marvelous power. How? Not as God 
directed ; that was all. Simply uot as the Author 
of all Powers did ordain. It meant putting a great 
gift to a doubtful exorcise ; superseding known laws 
by the unknown, to gratify paltry curiosity and the 
92 THE STOET OF JESUS CHRIST 
lowest form of superstition. It meant doing as he 
chose, not as God had chosen. Searching- in him- 
self passionately for light and law, he found but 
this : that, if a man wished to do the will of God, to 
him it should be made known. Was it The Will 
that he should capture Jerusalem by a great, dra- 
matic exhibition of arts such as an Indian occultist 
might claim to practise ? To become the King of 
the Jews, should he suffer himself to be thought the 
king of sorcerers ? God was mystery, but He was 
not magic. The dignity in Christ's own nature re- 
volted from this view of his position. In his reac- 
tion from his momentary moral confusion, so near 
did he come to the Invisible that it seemed to him 
as if Jehovah himself had been assaulted in his own 
being ; and, rising to his full height, and crushing 
