it out," said Lieutenant Ripley. "I had forty-two men under my command,
and every one of them could split a rifle-ball on a knife. About every
one of them dropped his man in the road. When half the Confederates
were sent into the woods dismounted to clean us out, I drew them as far
away from the road as possible. I believed I could do the best thing
for the captain's plan by leading half the enemy as far as possible
from any support. If I was wrong, I am willing to be forgiven, for I
had only my general orders."
"You did exactly the right thing, Lieutenant Ripley," added the
captain. "I waited until you had led them at least half a mile, and
then I ordered my two platoons to advance. They charged into the
remainder of the company in the road. The enemy were tangled up with
the loose horses; and when the officers had all fallen, the force out
of the forest surrendered."
"What were our losses, Captain?" asked the major.
"Three men killed, and seven wounded; only one of the riflemen had a
wound of any consequence."
"We fought behind the trees, and at long range," interposed Lieutenant
Ripley. "I was ordered to do so."
"Do you know the enemy's loss, Captain Gordon?" inquired his superior
officer.
"Fifteen killed, or reported as missing, with no doubt that most of
them were killed in the woods, and twenty-one wounded. They fought at a
very great disadvantage, and the sharp-shooters probably caused the
greater portion of their loss."
"I think I understand what the first company have been doing since we
parted company at Columbia," said the major. "As soon as you are ready
we shall march back to Jamestown. I left Harrison very early this
morning. As I did not find you there, as I expected, day before
yesterday, and you did not arrive the following day, I became
considerably concerned, for your company had the shortest route from
Columbia to Harrison, Captain Gordon. The enemy were foraging in all
directions west of the hills, and I was afraid you had been overmatched
by some of them, and I concluded to march in search of you.
"When I reached Jamestown about eight, I learned that a company of
Tennessee cavalry had camped there over night, and had left at an early
hour this morning; but I have found you, and your delay is fully
explained."
"Have you met the enemy on your way, Major Lyon?" asked the senior
captain.
