strange to find me gone."
Instead of obeying her, he crossed the room and stood beside her; and
then he saw in the twilight that her eyes were full of tears and her
lips quivering, in spite of her effort to prevent it.
"Margaret," he said, suddenly, and with a good deal of feeling in his
voice, "I am not worth it! Indeed I am not!" And again he touched her
hand.
But she drew it from him. "Are you by any chance imagining that my tears
are for you?" she said, in a low tone, but facing him like a creature
at bay. "Have you interpreted me in that way? I have a right to know;
speak!"
"I am at a loss to interpret you," he said, after a moment's silence.
"I will tell you the whole, then--I must tell you; your mistake forces
it from me." She paused, drew a quick breath, and then went on, rapidly:
"I love some one else. I have been very unhappy. Just after you came I
received a letter which told me that he was soon to be married; he is
married now. I had an illness in consequence. You may remember my
illness? I made up my mind then that I would root out the feeling if
possible, no matter at what cost of pain and effort and long patience.
You came in my way. I knew you were deeply attached elsewhere--"
"How did you know it?" he said. He was leaning against the piano
watching her; she stood with her hands folded, and pressed so tightly
together that he could see the force of the pressure.
"Never mind how; but quite simply and naturally. I said to myself that I
would try to become interested in you, even if only to a small degree; I
would do everything in my power to forward it. It would be an acquired
interest; still, acquired interests can be deep. People can become
interested in music, in pictures, in sports, in that way; why not, then,
in persons also, since they are more human?"
"That is the very reason--because they are too human," he answered.
But she did not heed. "I have studied you; I have tried to find the good
in you; I have tried to believe in you, to idealize you. I have given
every thought that I could control to you, and to you alone, for two
long months," she said, passionately, unlocking her hands, reddened with
their pressure against each other, and turning away.
"It has been a failure?"
"Complete."
"And if you had succeeded?" he asked, folding his arms as he leaned
against the piano.
"I should have been glad and happy. I should never have seen you
