"I was in Paris on that day a few years ago, when I was a smaller boy
than I am now, and I wondered that no fire-crackers were let off,"
replied Louis.

"They are not permitted in Paris. France had her hands full after the
Revolution began, and was unable to keep her agreement in full with
Annam; but missionaries were sent there, and some commercial relations
in a very small way were continued until 1831. Then the king died, and
was succeeded by one who did not believe in the missionaries, French and
Spanish, settled in Annam, as the whole country east of Siam was then
called. The new king wanted to drive away the bearers of the gospel to
the natives, and killed or persecuted them.

"Twenty years later, France found it necessary to interfere, which she
did by sending a small army to subdue the country. The fortifications
which had been built by French engineers held the soldiers back to some
extent. When the persecutions of the Christians were believed to be
ended, the French soldiers returned home. They were again renewed; and
France and Spain sent out a fleet and army, which captured the principal
seaport, and continued the war for about four years, when a treaty of
peace was concluded. Annam was compelled to pay 25,000,000 francs for
the expense of the war, and permit every person to enjoy his own
religious belief. The missionaries were to be protected, commercial
relations were established, and in 1886 a treaty was ratified at Hué, by
which the country was placed under the protection of France, though the
native princes were nominally continued in power. This was the beginning
of the French dominion in this region."

"If it is not one now, it will eventually become a French colony,"
suggested Louis.

"Probably it will, for it is largely so now," replied Mr. Frôler.

Captain Ringgold, who had waited for Mrs. Belgrave, finished breakfast
about the same time; for they had not listened to a historical talk
while they were eating, and they left the room together. At the time
appointed for the ride, all the party were in the parlor, and they were
loaded into the vehicles. They rode through the principal streets, and
to the botanical garden, where all the party walked through the grounds.
Then they rode along the banks of the river.
