parson might develop for lack of an overcoat, 
or a fire in his bedroom. Without undue delay or 
reluctance, the rector of Saint Agatha's took ship 
for the south of France; and in the comfortable 
way in which such things are done in such quarters, 
the church was set trundling upon the wheels of a 
two-months " supply." This was managed so grace 
fully by the experienced vestry of Saint Agatha's 
that hardly a visible jar occurred in the parish 
machinery. Many of the people did not know that 
their rector had gone until a canon from London 
sonorously filled the pulpit one Sunday morning. 
A distinguished Middle State clergyman followed 
the next week; the West sent her brightest and 
best the succeeding Sunday ; and so it went. 
Eminent variety easily occupied that sacred desk. 
The wardens of St. Agatha's have but to say, Come, 
and he cometh who weigheth the honor of minister 
ing in this aristocratic pulpit. In brief, the most 
distinguished men in the denomination cordially 
supplied. On the whole, perhaps the parish enjoyed 
their rector's vacation as much as he did. 
Now, upon the vestry there chanced at that time 
to be one man who was "different." One does find 
such people even among the officers of fashionable 
churches. This man (he was, by the way, a grand- 
nephew of the old lady who built the church when 
Saint Agatha's was an unendowed experiment) had 
occasional views not wholly in harmony with the 
policy of his brother officers ; and, being himself 
a heavy rate-payer, was allowed, sometimes, by the 
courtesy of the majority, when his notion was not 
really in bad form, you know, to have his way. 
He did not get it so often but that he was glad to 
make the most of it when he did; and when his 
turn came to control the supply for that Sunday 
with which this narrative has to do, he asked the 
privilege of being intrusted with the details of the 
business. This request, as from a useful man of 
certain eccentricities, was indulgently granted ; and 
