his arm, while, as one of the writers of the day said, "he ambled along
daintily."
Then you might meet the Hammersley carriage with its footman and livery
that had made quite a talk. Young and handsome Mrs. Little, whose
marriage to an old man had been the gossip of the season, sat in elegant
state with her coachman in dark blue. Now one hardly notes the handsome
equipages, or the livery either.
But the "Bowery boy" was as great a feature of the time as the Broadway
swell. He, too, wore a silk hat, and it generally had a three-inch
mourning band. His hair was worn in long, well-oiled locks in front,
combed up with a peculiar twist. He wore a broad collar turned over, and
a sailor tie, a flashy vest with a large amount of seal and chain, and
wide trousers turned up. His coat he carried on his arm when the weather
permitted, and he always had a cigar in the lower corner of his mouth.
He walked with a swagger and a swing that took half the sidewalk. He ran
"wid de machine," and a fire was his delight; to get into a fight his
supreme happiness. He really did not frequent the Bowery so much as the
side streets. There were little stores where cigars and beer were sold,
something stronger perhaps, and they were generally kept by some old
lady who could also get up a meal on a short notice after a fire. On
summer nights they had chairs out in front of the door, and tilting back
on two legs would smoke and take their comfort. For diversion they went
to Vauxhall Garden or the pit of the Bowery Theatre. Yet they were quite
a picturesque feature of old New York.
Bowery and Grand Street were the East Side's shopping marts. Stewart was
building a marble palace at the corner of Broadway and Chambers Street.
You went to Division and Canal streets for your bonnets. There were a
few private milliners who made to order and imported.
There were sails and short journeys to take even then. Elysian Fields
had not lost all its glory. And yet the little girl was quite
disappointed in her visit to it. She had lived in the country, you know,
she had looked off the Sound at Rye Beach and seen the Hudson from
Tarrytown and Sleepy Hollow, and really there were lovely spots up the
old Bloomingdale road. And she had pictured this as beyond all.
Aunt Eunice was very much struck with the changes. Her surprise really
delighted the little girl. They took her over in Hammersley Street. Old
Mr. Bounett seemed quite feeble, and though he was not in his court
attire, he had a ruffled shirt-front and small-clothes. Aunt Eunice
thought him delightful. It seemed queer to think of a French quarter in
New York in the old part of the last century where people met and read
