the little time and trouble expended to produce the agreeable result?
I have said that every additional mouth counts in the sum of family
expenses, and for this reason many housekeepers of moderate means
neglect the duty of hospitality. Pardon me if I say that I think this
is one of the economies which, if carried too far, is more honored in
the breach than in the observance. I do not advocate, indeed I
reprehend, pretentious entertaining, such as dances, parties, etc. But
it impresses me that it is, to a certain extent, a mean spirit that
counts the cost in asking a friend to stay to a repast, to spend a
night or a week. It is your duty to have things so nice every day, and
always, that you cannot be too much "put out" by an occasional guest.
When you invite your friend to make you a visit, explain that you live
quietly, and that he will find a warm welcome. Then give him just what
you give John, and make no apologies. Above all, do not let him feel
that any additional labor caused by his presence throws the whole
course of the household machinery out of gear. Do not invite to your
home those for whom you have to make so great a change in your daily
life. If you keep house as a lady should, you need not fear to
entertain anyone who is worthy to be your friend. It is no disgrace if
your circumstances are such that you cannot afford to keep a staff of
servants at your beck and call.
These suggestions are but hints as to daily management. First and
foremost, Mary must learn to systematize her work. Method and
management do wonders toward saving time and money. Some housewives
are always in a hurry and their work is never done, while others with
twice as much to do never seem flurried, and have time for writing,
sewing and reading. The secret of the success of the latter class lies
in that one golden word--METHOD.
I hope the young housekeepers to whom this talk is addressed will not
consider such trifles as I have mentioned, degrading. It is the work
laid before them and consequently cannot be mean. Such labor, when
sweetened by the thought of what it all means, is ennobling. I know
that Keats tells us that:
"Love in a hut with water and a crust,
Is--Love forgive us!--cinders, ashes, dust!"
If Love were really there, "cinders, ashes, dust" could not be, and the
water and crust may, by our Mary's skillful treatment, be transformed
into a refreshing beverage and an appetizing entrée. My faith in the
powers of John's wife is great, and if John be satisfied, and tells her
that he has the best little love-mate and housekeeper in the world, can
