which had given the place its more ancient name, before the monks had
built their white plastered building against it and the rampart, with
the little church in the inner court. The village of Santa Vittoria was
about three-quarters of a mile distant, hidden by the spur of the hill,
and separated from Camaldoli by a barren stretch of burnt lava and
scoriæ, which had descended long ago from some lower crater of the
volcano.
Far above all, Etna's enormous cone rose against the dark blue eastern
sky like a monstrous, streaked sugar loaf. On each side of the great
burnt strip between Santa Vittoria and Camaldoli, the woods and fields
stretched north and south towards Messina and Catania, and westwards
beyond the valley rose a great range of mountains covered high with
forests of chestnut trees. No houses were visible from Camaldoli, nor
any shed nor hut which could have served for a human habitation, for it
was a wild and lonely country.
The three brothers lived with their mother at Camaldoli, and were served
in a rough fashion by three men and four women, almost all of whom were
expected to do almost anything, from stable work to cooking and waiting
at table. There was a sort of slovenly abundance of coarse food and
drink, but there was little else, and many a well-to-do peasant lived
better than the sister-in-law and the nephews of Prince Corleone. Donna
Maria Carolina scarcely ever left the house in winter or summer. She had
been married from a convent, a mere child, had enjoyed a brief taste of
luxury and something of happiness at the beginning of life, and had
spent the years of subsequent poverty between spasmodic attempts to make
gentlemen of her wild sons, bitter outbursts of regret for her marriage,
and an apathetic indifference such as only comes upon women of southern
races when placed in such hopeless situations as hers. She was a thin,
dark woman, with traces of beauty, dressed generally in shabby black,
but strangely fond of cheap and tasteless ornaments, which contrasted
horribly with her worn-out mourning. As her sons grew up they acquired
the habit of contradicting everything she said. Sometimes she argued her
point, whatever it might be, and generally in total ignorance of the
subject. Her arguments frequently ended in a passionate appeal to the
justice of Heaven, and the right feeling of the saints, though the
matter under discussion might not be more important than the planting of
a cabbage, or the dressing of a dish of greens. Or else, as sometimes
happened, she silently bent her brows, while her once handsome mouth
curled scornfully, and from her scarcely parted lips one word came in an
injured and dramatic tone.
