Owen Gereth.
III
They went at last, the wiseheads, down to Poynton, where the palpitating
girl had the full revelation. "Now do you know how I feel?" Mrs.
Gereth asked when in the wonderful hall, three minutes after their
arrival, her pretty associate dropped on a seat with a soft gasp and a
roll of dilated eyes. The answer came clearly enough, and in the rapture
of that first walk through the house Fleda took a prodigious span. She
perfectly understood how Mrs. Gereth felt--she had understood but
meagrely before; and the two women embraced with tears over the
tightening of their bond--tears which on the younger one's part were the
natural and usual sign of her submission to perfect beauty. It was not
the first time she had cried for the joy of admiration, but it was the
first time the mistress of Poynton, often as she had shown her house,
had been present at such an exhibition. She exulted in it; it quickened
her own tears; she assured her companion that such an occasion made the
poor old place fresh to her again and more precious than ever. Yes,
nobody had ever, that way, felt what she had achieved: people were so
grossly ignorant, and everybody, even the knowing ones, as they thought
themselves, more or less dense. What Mrs. Gereth had achieved was indeed
an exquisite work; and in such an art of the treasure-hunter, in
selection and comparison refined to that point, there was an element of
creation, of personality. She had commended Fleda's flair, and Fleda
now gave herself up to satiety. Preoccupations and scruples fell away
from her; she had never known a greater happiness than the week she
passed in this initiation.
Wandering through clear chambers where the general effect made
preferences almost as impossible as if they had been shocks, pausing at
open doors where vistas were long and bland, she would, even if she had
not already known, have discovered for herself that Poynton was the
record of a life. It was written in great syllables of color and form,
the tongues of other countries and the hands of rare artists. It was all
France and Italy, with their ages composed to rest. For England you
looked out of old windows--it was England that was the wide embrace.
While outside, on the low terraces, she contradicted gardeners and
refined on nature, Mrs. Gereth left her guest to finger fondly the
brasses that Louis Quinze might have thumbed, to sit with Venetian
velvets just held in a loving palm, to hang over cases of enamels and
pass and repass before cabinets. There were not many pictures--the
panels and the stuffs were themselves the picture; and in all the great
