woman of no beauty but much distinction. Her prematurely white hair was
curled and tied at the base of her head with a black ribbon, realising
an eighteenth century effect. Her face was dark and brilliant. She sat
forward, her slim figure full of suppressed energy. She had been talking
with much animation, but as Patience approached she paused abruptly. The
pretty woman burst into a merry laugh.
“Mrs. Lafarge was just remarking what hideous bores garden parties are,”
she said audaciously.
“Oh, you needn’t mind me,” said Patience, sitting down on the grass, as
there was no other seat. “I quite agree with you.”
“Oh, that’s awfully good of you, Mrs. Peele,” said Mrs. Lafarge, “and
awfully mean of you, Mary Gallatin. Of course this is one of the
loveliest places on the Hudson, and I love to come here; but there are
not enough men. That’s the whole trouble.”
“That always seems to be the cry with you American women,” said she of
the teeth. “You have no resources. You should be independent of men.
They seem to be of you.”
“Perhaps you are driven to resources in Russia,” said Mrs. Gallatin,
sweetly, “but your observation is faulty. We are spoiled over here, and
that is the reason we grumble occasionally.”
“You see we haven’t a large leisure class, as you have,” said Mrs.
Gibbs, hastily.
“I really think the reason men avoid garden parties is that they are
afraid they might be betrayed into sentiment,” broke in Mrs. Lafarge.
“They do protect themselves so fiercely. How did you ever make Tom
Gallatin propose, Mary dear? He had the most ideal bachelor apartment in
New York, and entrenched himself as in a fortress.”
“Oh, one or two fall by the wayside every year, you know, and this time
Gally happened to stumble over me. Poor Gally, he told me yesterday that
he hadn’t seen me to speak to for a month. The idea of the lower classes
grumbling. I should like to know who works as hard as we do. How do you
manage to do the society and the charity, both?” she asked of Mrs.
Gibbs. “Does Mr. Gibbs ever see you?”
“I never neglect my husband,” said Mrs. Gibbs, sternly. “When I must
neglect anything it is society. I came to-day because I longed for a
glimpse of the country, and I have not been able to go to Woody Cliffs
yet—the poverty is so terrible this year. I wish you would come with me
sometime and see for yourself—”
“God forbid! I never could stand the smells. I give my pastor so much a
year, and I really think that’s doing one’s share. Of course if you like
