such torture."
"Joe said she was very brave, though she fainted several times. And
she's growing straight and tall, and her hair curls lovely again. I have
always wished my hair curled naturally. It just twists a little at the
ends, but won't make ringlets."
People in those days curled their hair a great deal; but they had to put
it in papers. Patent curlers, like a great many other things, had not
been invented. When you wanted to be very fine, you went to the
hair-dresser's. The real society ladies had some one come to the house
to "do" their hair; and sometimes it was very elaborate.
Mrs. French thought curly hair would not improve the little girl. There
was something charming in her very simplicity, and her hair was like
floss silk.
As she told about Daisy she detailed bits of neighbourhood life, and
descriptions of the other children. Mrs. French heard about John Robert
Charles and his mother.
"But she's so different now. She is not real strong any more; and then
Charles is such a big boy, and goes out with his father. It's queer, but
Jim and he are great friends, and Jim goes over there to study with
Charles. Mrs. Reed did not use to like boys; and Jim is so full of fun
and pranks, mother calls them, and he knows so many funny stories!
Mother tries very hard not to laugh at them; but she can't always help
it."
The evening passed so quickly that it was bed-time before either of them
realised it. Mrs. French took the large square pillows off the bed, and
laid one of the silken spreads over the footboard. How beautiful and
soft they were, with great flowers so natural it seemed as if you could
pick them up! And the fragrance was so delicate and puzzling: one moment
you thought it violets, then it suggested roses and lilies and the smell
of newly cut grass.
Mrs. French kissed her, and said if she felt strange in the night to
call her; but she was asleep in five minutes, and never woke until quite
in the morning, it was so much more quiet than in First Street.
When she did sit up in the bed and glance around, she had a queer
feeling that she was a part of a fairy story, like the white cat in her
enchanted palace, waiting for the Prince, or perhaps Psyche, blown from
the hill-top to her beautiful place of refuge, where she found and lost
Love, and had to do many hard tasks before she could regain him.
She was quite sure, an hour or two later, that she was in some
enchanted realm. There were such queer things,--some beautiful, and some
