long at him, as though she were not to see him again.
He pressed her hand hard and dropped it. Once more she looked at him and
then turned slowly and left him standing there.
The porter of the hotel was facing her on the steps.  Neither she nor
Wimpole had noticed that he had come back and was waiting for them to
part.  He held a telegram in his hand, and Helen started slightly as she
saw it, for she knew that it must be Harmon’s answer to her word of
forgiveness.
"Already!" she exclaimed faintly, as she took it.
She turned back to Wimpole, and met his eyes again, for he had not
moved.
"It is Henry’s answer," she said.
She opened the envelope, standing with her back to the light and to the
porter.  Wimpole breathed hard, and watched her face, and knew that
nothing was to be spared to either of them on that day.  As she read the
words, he thought she swayed a little on her feet, and her eyes opened
very wide, and her lips were white. Wimpole watched them and saw how
strangely they moved, as if she were trying to speak and could not.  He
set his teeth, for he believed that even the short message had in it
some fresh insult or injury for her.
She reeled visibly, and steadied herself against one of the pillars of
the porch, but she was able to hold out the thin scrap of paper to
Wimpole as he moved forwards to catch her.  He read it.  It was a cable
notice through the telegraph office from Brest.
"Your message number 731 Henry Harmon New York not delivered owing to
death of the person addressed."
Wimpole read the words twice before their meaning stunned him.  When he
knew where he was, his eyes were still on the paper, and he was grasping
Helen’s wrist, while she stood stark and straight against the pillar of
the porch.  She lifted her free hand and passed it slowly across her
forehead, opening and shutting her eyes as if waking.  The porter stared
at her from the steps.
"Come," said Wimpole.  "Let us go out again.  We can’t stay here."
Helen looked at him, only half comprehending. Even in the uncertain
light he could see the colour returning to her face, and he felt it in
his own.  Then her senses came back all at once with her own clear
judgment and decision, and the longing to be alone, which he could not
understand, as he tried to draw her away with him.
"No, no!" she cried, resisting.  "Let me go, please let me go!  Please!"
He had already dropped her wrist.
