confidently.
"If it be so, it is all I ask. But tell me, father, did you marry for
love?"
Mr. Kent hesitated.
"I am too old for that, Jasper," he answered, pleasantly. "The fact is,
I need a nurse and Miss Thorne needed a home; and, in fact, without
pretending to any sentimental reason, we concluded that it would be the
best thing under the circumstances."
"Was she very much surprised when you made the proposal, father?" asked
Jasper, significantly.
"No, I can't say she was," answered his father, embarrassed.
"It is as I thought," Jasper said to himself; "she inveigled my father
into the marriage."
He said aloud:
"Well, father, I heartily hope it will be for your happiness; and now
let us talk about something else. Shall I tell you about the school?"
"Yes, Jasper."
So Jasper gossiped about school matters in a way that interested his
father, and the two forgot for a time that a new tie had been formed
that might possibly make a difference between them.
Meanwhile Mrs. Kent, instead of giving directions about Jasper's room,
opened her writing-desk and wrote a hurried note to Nicholas. In this
she said:
    "Remember, Nicholas, you are to pass for my nephew. Why were you
    so imprudent as to tell Jasper I was your mother? I have explained
    that you regard me as a mother, though really my nephew. You must
    give the same explanation. Jasper is at home now, not very well
    pleased to find that he has a step-mother. But it is done, and he
    will find it can't be undone. Be prudent, follow my directions
    implicitly, and you will find it to your account.
    "Your devoted aunt,
    "Matilda Thorne Kent.
    "P.S.--I have told Mr. Kent about you, and he authorizes me to
    invite you here to spend the next vacation."
CHAPTER VII.
NEW RELATIONS.
Jasper remained till the next afternoon. His father urged him to stay
longer, and his step-mother, with apparent cordiality, seconded the
invitation; but Jasper felt that the charm of home was gone. The new
wife had stepped in between his father and himself. He felt sure that
