He had come to the city in the morning, a poor country boy. In the
evening he had attended a performance at a fashionable theatre as
elegantly dressed as any of his own age in the audience.
Mr. Grafton's room contained two beds, a large and a small one. The
latter was appropriated to Ben.
Our hero was very tired, and Mr. Grafton was obliged to call him
the next morning.
"Wake up, my boy," he said; "it is half-past eight."
"Half-past eight! Why, I got up at half-past six in the country."
"Dress yourself and we will go down to breakfast. Afterward I have
to make a business call, and you must go with me."
                            CHAPTER X.
                   AT THE OFFICE OF MR. CODICIL.
In one of the large business buildings appropriated chiefly to
offices, within a stone's throw of Printing-House Square, were the
commodious offices of Nathan Codicil, a prominent lawyer, whose
business related chiefly to the estates of wealthy clients.
Mr. Codicil himself was a dignified-looking gentleman, of grave
aspect, whose whitening locks seemed to indicate that he had reached
the age of threescore. He was a cautious, careful, trustworthy man,
whose reputation was deservedly high.
Mr. Grafton and Ben, stepping out of the elevator, paused before the
door of Mr. Codicil's office for a moment, when the former opened
the door and entered.
"You may sit down here, Philip, while I go in and speak to Mr.
Codicil," said Mr. Grafton, indicating a chair near the door.
"I wish he wouldn't call me Philip," thought Ben. "I like my own
name much better."
He did not complain aloud, however, for he felt that his salary
was liberal enough to compensate him for some slight sacrifice of
feeling.
"Good morning, Mr. Grafton," said the lawyer, advancing to meet his
visitor.
"Good morning, Mr. Codicil; I am glad to find you in, for I've made
quite an effort to reach your office at an early hour. You observe I
have brought the boy with me."
The sharp eyes of the lawyer had not failed to note the presence of
Ben.
"You observe that he is in excellent health, despite all reports to
the contrary."
