When they signified at last that they were ready for me to lead them on
to the dance, I would so much rather have gone to bed that there are no
words for the comparison.  Then, when we got to the place, which I should
never have been able to reach in the world if it had not been for the
young energy and inspiration of Kendricks, and they had put me in a
certain seat with Miss Gage’s wraps beside me where they could find me,
they went off and danced for hours and hours.  For hours and hours?  For
ages and ages! while I withered away amid mouldering mothers, and saw my
charges through the dreadful half-dreams of such a state whirling in the
waltz, hopping in the polka, sliding in the galop, and then endlessly
walking up and down between the dances, and eating and drinking the chill
refreshments that it made my teeth chatter to think of.  I suppose they
decently came to me from time to time, though they seemed to be always
dancing, for I could afterward remember Miss Gage taking a wrap from me
now and then, and quickly coming back to shed it upon my lap again.  I
got so chilled that if they had not been unmistakably women’s wraps I
should have bundled them all about my shoulders, which I could almost
hear creak with rheumatism.  I must have fallen into a sort of drowse at
last; for I was having a dispute with some sort of authority, which
turned out to be Mrs. March, and upbraiding her with the fact that there
were no women’s wraps which would also do for a man, when the young
people stood arm in arm before me, and Miss Gage said that she was tired
to death now, and they were going.
But it appeared that they were only going as far as the parlours for the
present; for when they re-entered the hotel, they turned into them, and
sat down there quite as if that had been the understanding.  When I
arrived with the wraps, I was reminded of something, and I said, “Have
you two been dancing together the whole evening?”
They looked at each other as if for the first time they now realised the
fact, and Kendricks said, “Why, of course we have!  We didn’t know
anybody.”
“Very well, then,” I said; “you have got me into a scrape.”
“Oh, poor Mr. March!” cried the girl.  “How have we done it?”
“Why, Mrs. March said that Mr. Kendricks would be sure to know numbers of
people, and I must get you other partners, for it wouldn’t do for you to
dance the whole evening together.”
She threw herself back in the chair she had taken, and laughed as if this
were the best joke in the world.
He said hardily, “You see it has done.”
“And if it wouldn’t do,” she gasped, “why didn’t you bring me the other
