child. Don't, please, flutter out of the whole question 
by a premature scare. I never supposed it's he who 
wants to keep her. He's not in love with her — be com- 
forted ! But she's amusing — highly amusing. I do her 
perfect justice. As your women go, she's rare. If she 
were French she'd be a femme d'esprit. She has in- 
vented a nuance of her own, and she has done it all by 
herself, for Edward figures in her drawing-room only as 
one of those queer extinguishers of fire in the corridors 
of hotels. He's just a bucket on a peg. The men, the 
young and the clever ones, find it a house — and Heaven 
knows they're right — with intellectual elbow-room, with 
freedom of talk. Most English talk is like a quadrille in 
a sentry-box. You'll tell me we go further in Italy, and 
I won't deny it, but in Italy we have the common-sense 
not to have little girls in the room. The young men 
hang about Mrs. Brook and the clever ones ply her with 
the uproarious appreciation that keeps her up to the 
mark. She's in a prodigious fix — she must sacrifice 
either her daughter or what she once called to me her 
intellectual habits. Mr. Vanderbank, you've seen for 
yourself, is one of the most cherished, the most con- 
  
firmed, of these. Three months ago — it couldn't be any 
longer kept off — Nanda began definitely to  ' sit ' — to be 
there and look, by the tea-table, modestly and conven- 
iently abstracted." 
 ''I beg your pardon — I don't think she looks that, 
Duchess," Mr. Longdon lucidly broke in. How much 
she had carried him with her in spite of himself was be- 
trayed by the very terms of his dissent.  ''I don't think 
it would strike any one that she looks 'convenient.'" 
His companion, laughing, gave a shrug. ''Try her 
and perhaps you'll find her so !" But his objection had 
none the less pulled her up a little. " I don't say she's a 
hypocrite, for it would certainly be less decent for her to 
giggle and wink. It's Mrs. Brook's theory moreover, isn't 
it ? that she has, from five to seven at least, lowered the 
pitch. Doesn't she pretend that she bears in mind every 
moment the tiresome difference made by the presence of 
