“That--that is nothing to the purpose. Once more, Mrs. O’Connor, will
you pay me my rent?”
“How can I when I have no money?”
“Then you must borrow it. I’ll give you till tomorrow, and not a day
longer. Remember that, Mrs. O’Connor, will you not?”
Next Jerry visited the other tenant with rather better success, for he
collected one dollar on account.
He waited eagerly for Paul to come home. He had made up his mind to
explore Paul’s pockets after he was asleep and get possession of his
bank book. With that, as he thought, he would go to the bank and draw
the money that stood in Paul’s name. It would be a theft, but Jerry
did not look at it in that light. He persuaded himself that he had a
perfect right to take the property of the boy who was living under his
guardianship, though, to speak properly, it was rather Paul that took
care of him.
It was rather late in the evening when Paul got home, for every other
evening he was employed. The old man was awake, but pretended to be
asleep. Paul took off his coat and vest, and threw himself on the
lounge, covering himself up with a quilt. His clothes he put on a chair
alongside.
It was not long before he was sound asleep, being much fatigued with
the labors of the day.
Old Jerry got up cautiously from the bed. He, too, was dressed, for
he seldom took the trouble to undress, and cautiously drew near the
lounge. He took up Paul’s coat, and threw his claw-like fingers into
an inside pocket. His eyes sparkled with delight as he drew out the
telegraph boy’s bank book.
“I’ve got it!” he muttered, gleefully. “Paul isn’t any match for the
old man! I--I wonder how much money he has saved up!”
Paul slept on, unaware of the cunning old man’s treachery, and of the
danger to which his little treasure was exposed.
CHAPTER XI. AT THE SAVINGS BANK.
Old Jerry laid down Paul’s coat, and opened the bank book, of which he
had just obtained possession. He was eager to ascertain how much Paul
had saved up.
“Forty dollars!”
He could hardly believe his eyes.
How in the world could Paul have managed to save up forty dollars?
“Forty dollars!” exclaimed old Jerry, gleefully. “I’m in luck for once.
Of course it belongs to me. I am Paul’s guardian, and have a right to
