"Didn't you wake me some time ago?" he asked. "What was it all about?"
"There was a rattlesnake lying beside me."
"Where is it now?"
"It's gone."
"Then there's no harm done."
Ben Boone was not only the guide, but the cook of the little party. They
had brought with them materials for camping-out meals, and it was his
work to make a fire and prepare their simple repasts. Sometimes they
caught a fish or two in the river, and it made a pleasant addition to
their fare.
Rupert found that in this new life he always had a good appetite for
breakfast--more, even, than for their other meals. He had never had so
good an appetite at the Somerset House, though the cook at that
establishment was probably superior to Ben Boone in his chosen line.
CHAPTER XXXIII.
BEN BOONE'S TEMPTATION.
The reader may naturally expect to hear something of Rupert's experience
as a hunter. But so far as this story is concerned, this is not called
for. He had other experiences which will speedily be set forth.
For, after all, it was not so much the hunting that Rupert cared about.
He thoroughly enjoyed his opportunity to travel through the wild scenery
of Middle Colorado. It was camping out in a much more interesting way
than when, as a boy, he went but a little way from home, and knew that
only a few miles intervened between him and his ordinary life.
Then he was interested in his guide. At the East he had never met such a
man as Ben Boone. He seemed a product of the country. As for Ben, he
carried out his contract, and served as a guide, philosopher and--I was
about to say friend, but on the whole we'll substitute companion.
Though Ben was a skillful hunter and mountaineer he did not particularly
enjoy his work. He was a thoroughly lazy man, and would prefer to have
remained at home in the rude cabin which passed for such, and, lying on
his back with a pipe in his mouth, have drowsed and dreamed away his
time. He did not understand, for his part, why city people who could
live comfortably should want to rough it, incurring the fatigue of
hunting just for the sake of amusement.
"I am tired," he said, on the night after Rupert's adventure with the
snake.
"Yes," said Rupert, "I am tired, too. We have come a good many miles."
"Do you like it?"
"Oh, yes," said Rupert enthusiastically; "it is grand."
