"My dear boy," rejoined Roper kindly, "I want your appearance to do me
credit. That you will do me credit I feel confident."
It was about this time that Jed met an old acquaintance--one whom he had
no reason to remember with kindly feelings. He had occasion to go across
Cortlandt Street ferry, when on board the boat he saw in front of him a
figure that seemed familiar. He walked forward till he could see the
face of the young man to whom it belonged. Then it flashed upon him that
it was Maurice Graham, the young man who had invited him to his room on
Twenty-Seventh Street and robbed him of his small stock of money.
Now that the tide had turned, Jed did not feel so incensed against the
fellow as at first. Still he determined to let him understand that he
knew exactly how he had been swindled.
He touched Graham on the shoulder, and the young man wheeled round with
an apprehensive look, which he did not lose when he saw and recognized
Jed.
"Did you touch me?" he asked, with an evident intention of ignoring
Jed's acquaintance.
"Yes, Mr. Graham. We parted rather suddenly, you remember," said Jed
significantly.
"Oh, I see. You are----"
"Jed Gilman."
"I was wondering what became of you. I was called up town to the house
of a sick friend that evening, and when I went back the next day Mrs.
Gately told me you had gone away."
"Indeed! Did she tell you that I was robbed of thirty-five dollars
during the night, and that I awoke penniless?"
"No," answered Graham faintly. "I am surprised."
"I thought you might be. Are you in the habit of borrowing money from
people who are asleep?"
"What do you mean? You don't think I took the money?"
"Yes, I think you did."
"Why, didn't I tell you that I spent the night with a sick friend
in--in Eighty-Seventh Street. How could I rob you?"
"You came back during the evening and found me asleep."
"That's a mistake!" said Graham quickly.
"It is true. Mrs. Gately let you in, as she informed me the next
morning."
Maurice Graham looked very much disconcerted, and looked eagerly to the
Jersey shore, which they were fast approaching.
"Do you know that I would have had no breakfast if Mrs. Gately had not
