and Chorazin, I may have known then. I have no idea now why this was
done, or the derivation of the inclusive curse.
Van Diemen's Land, thus damned, fell naturally into line with the "Come
and see!" of the "living creatures," and the "Death and Hell," and the
prophecy of killing with sword and with famine and the wild beasts of
the field. I was in a quiver of excitement that made my head and heart
hot, and my feet and hands cold, as I fairly shouted my text:--
"For oh! Van Diemen's Land shall be no more!"
Mariposa's rhythmic hum was broken into irregular bars by groans and
gruntings and sighings--all, I was gratified to note, modulated to the
standard of civility I had indicated. I had made a hortatory hit, and it
was encored. I spread wide my hands, in one of which was the New
Testament, and reiterated the text with greater unction and volume:--
"For, oh, my brethren! Van Diemen's Land shall be no more!"
The chair careened under my ill-advised energy; the barrel toppled
forward, and I shot, like a rocket, clear over Mariposa's head, breaking
my fall somewhat upon another girl and baby, and landing in the middle
of the congregation, with my nose against one of the swathed bricks.
I seldom cried when hurt, Cousin Molly Belle having told me long ago
that a brave soldier made no noise when his head was shot off. But I
screamed lustily now in the belief that my nose was broken and I
bleeding to death. The deluge of gore was frightful to inexperienced
eyes.
My father's voice, kindly authoritative, bidding me "be still!" hushed
my roaring. As tears and blood were stanched, I saw his face bending
over me, full of concern that yet fought with amusement I did not
comprehend. I could not doubt that he pitied me, when he carried me,
bloody and dirty as I was, into the chamber, and stood by while my
mother and Mam' Chloe set me to rights. The shock of the fall and the
fright left me sick and trembling. The trundle-bed was drawn out to half
its width and I was laid upon it, wrapped in my little dressing-gown, a
bottle of camphor in my nerveless hand.
"I am afraid you were playing on Sunday," said my mother, more in sorrow
than in anger.
"Indeed, and indeed, mother, I was not playing!" I broke forth,
earnestly, my swollen nose making the pious twang involuntary and full
of unction. "I was preaching!"
My father walked to the fireplace to hide the laugh he could no longer
suppress.
"It is true, my dear!" my over-quick ears caught his remark as she
