
"I am sorry enough to leave you," he said with deep emotion. "I feel
like becoming an out-and-out American, but I shall never be a soldier."

"Not in case of necessity?" said Patty with charming archness.

"Of course if I had a home here I should defend it to the last drop of
blood in my veins--yes, even against my own kindred," and he blushed
with a feeling akin to ardent patriotism that surprised himself. "I
think we only need to understand each other's governments better to be
good friends. There is something grand here. It may be the largeness of
everything, and the aspirations, the sense of freedom, and--well, that
certain equality. You are not bound about by rigid limits."

Mr. Carrington said Stafford must go to one levee, though that there
were such throngs now that it was hardly comfortable. Ralston insisted
that he also must pay his respects to Mrs. Madison, for now he could
get about on crutches, but it was not considered safe to bear any great
weight upon his injured limb as yet.

It was quite a fine scene, Stafford admitted. There was a great variety
in dress, the older men keeping to the Continental style largely, with
flowing frills to their shirt fronts and lace ruffles at their wrists,
velvet smallclothes and silk stockings, and hair tied with a black
ribbon or fastened in a small silk bag.

Some of the younger men wore their hair curling over their shoulders.
There were gorgeous waistcoats, the upper part flowered satin, and
then a finishing of scarlet that came halfway to the knee, the coats
turned back and faced with bright colors. Mrs. Madison was resplendent
in her red turban, with nodding ostrich plumes, and the row of short
black curls across her white forehead, and her gown of cream satin, of
so deep a tint as to be almost yellow, with its abundant trimming of
scarlet velvet.

Ralston was quite a hero for his misfortunes and his counsels, which
had averted some disaster and would have saved much more if they had
been followed. Everybody could see the blunders and the supineness that
had really invited such a catastrophe. But peace had softened many of
the animadversions, and the charming sweetness of the first lady of
