She had husbanded her savings as a governess as closely as she could,
but in spite of all her economy it dwindled till she had none left.
Henceforth, she must depend on twenty-five cents a day, and this
seemed well-nigh impossible.
In this emergency the pawnbroker occurred to her.
She had a variety of nice dresses, and she had also a handsome ring,
given her by her uncle on her last birthday.
This she felt sure must have cost fifty dollars.
It was a trial to part with it, but there seemed to be no alternative.
"If my uncle has withdrawn his affection from me," she said to
herself, "why should I scruple to pawn the ring? It is the symbol of a
love that no longer exists."
So she entered the pawnbrowker's--the first that attracted her
attention--and held out the ring.
"How much will you lend me on this?" she asked, half frightened at
finding herself in such a place.
The pawnbroker examined it carefully. His practiced eye at once
detected its value, but it was not professional to admit this.
"Rings is a drug in the market, young lady," he said. "I've got more
than I know what to do with. I'll give you four--four dollars."
"Four dollars!" repeated Florence, in dismay. "Why, it must have cost
fifty. It was bought in Tiffany's."
"You are mistaken, my dear. Did you buy it yourself there?"
"No, my uncle gave it to me."
"He may have said he paid fifty dollars for it," said the pawnbroker,
wagging his head, "but we know better."
"But what will you give?" asked Florence, desperately.
"I'll give you five dollars, and not a penny more," said the broker,
surveying her distressed face, shrewdly. "You can take it or not."
What could Florence do?
She must have money, and feared that no other pawnbroker would give
her more.
"Make out the ticket, then," she said, wearily, with a sigh.
This was done, and she left the place, half timid, half ashamed, and
wholly discouraged.
But the darkest hour is sometimes nearest the dawn. A great
overwhelming surprise awaited her. She had scarcely left the shop when
a glad voice cried:
"I have found you at last, Florence!"
She looked up and saw--Dodger.
