Host and hostess glared at their flushed and defiant relative, who tried
to look saucy, but only looked scared. "He doesn't know he's made a
mistake," she faltered; "and there's no need to tell him yet--is
there?... I put my name down on his card; he'll take me in.... Jim,
don't, for Heaven's sake, say anything if he calls Betty Mrs. Austin.
Oh, Jim, be decent, please! I was a fool to do it; I don't know what
possessed me! Wait until to-morrow before you say anything! Besides, he
may be furious! Please wait until I'm out of the house. He'll breakfast
late, I hope; and I promise you I'll be up early and off by the seven
o'clock train----"
"In Heaven's name, who is he?" broke in the amiable man so fiercely
that Cecil jumped.
"He's only Lily Seabury's brother," she said, meekly, "and he thinks
he's at the Austins'--and he might as well be, because he knows half the
people here, and I've simply got to keep him out of their way so that
nobody can tell him where he is. Oh, Betty--I've spoiled my own
Christmas fun, and his, too! Is there any way to get him to the
Austins' now?'
"The Jack Austins' of Beverly!" exclaimed her sister, incredulously. "Of
course not!"
"And you let him think he was on his way there?" demanded her
brother-in-law. "Well--you--are--the--limit!"
"So is he," murmured the abashed maid, slinking back to give place to
a new and last arrival. Then she turned her guilty face in a sort of
panic of premonition. She was a true prophetess; Seabury had seen his
chance and was coming. And that's what comes of mocking the Mystic
Three and cutting capers before High Heaven.
[Illustration]
CHAPTER XI
DESTINY
He had taken her in and was apparently climbing rapidly through the
seven Heavens of rapture--having arrived as far as the third unchecked
and without mishap. It is not probable that she kept pace with him: she
had other things to think of.
Dinner was served at small tables; and it required all her will, all her
limited experience, every atom of her intelligence, to keep him from
talking about things that meant exposure for her. Never apparently had
he been so flattered by any individual girl's attention; she was gay,
witty, audacious, charming, leading and carrying every theme to a
scintillating conclusion.
