prefer to be alone." 
Miss Trumbull retired with evident reluctance. 
Betty heard a door close ostentatiously, and inferred 
that her housekeeper was returning to a point of vantage. But she did not care. She felt steeped in 
horror and disgust. She wished that she never had 
felt a throb of love. All love seemed vulgar and 
abominable, a thing to be shunned for ever by any 
woman who cared to retain her distinction of mind. 
She would not meet Senator North to-morrow. She 
did not care if she never saw him again. She would 
like to go into a convent and not see any man again. 
She never ceased to be grateful that she was spared 
hours of musing that might have burnt permanently 
into her memory. She had not walked up and down 
the hall for fifteen minutes before the door at the end 
of the side corridor opened and Emory came out. 
Betty did not hesitate. She advanced at once 
toward him. He did not recoil, he stood rigid for 
a moment. Then he said distinctly, 
"We have been married three months. Will you 
come downstairs for a few moments ? " 
She followed him down the stair, trembling so 
violently that she could not clutch the banisters, and 
fearing she should fall forward upon him. But before she had reached the living-room she had made 
a desperate effort to control herself. She realized the 
danger of betraying Harriet's secret before she had 
made up her mind what course was best, but she was 
not capable of grappling with any question until the 
shock was over. Her brain felt stunned. 
Emory lit one of the lamps, and Betty turned her 
back to it. He was very white, and she conceived a 
sudden and violent dislike to him. She never before 
had appreciated fully the weakness in that beautiful 
high-bred intellectual face. It was old-fashioned and 
dreamy. It had not a suggestion of modern grip and 
keenness and determination. 
" I have deceived you, Betty," he began mournfully; 
but she interrupted him. 
" I am neither your mother nor your sister," she 
said cuttingly. "I am only your cousin. You were 
