can write to Monsieur Leroy that you have done so. I even believe that
he would pay a considerable sum for them."
It was as he said, and the lawyer was soon convinced that he had been
imposed upon, and had narrowly escaped being laughed at as a dupe, or
prosecuted as a party accessory to a fraud. He was glad to be out of the
whole affair so easily. Therefore, when Lamberti reached his friend's
door, he had the receipts in his pocket and he now meant to tell Guido
what had happened, after first giving them back to him. Guido would
laugh at Monsieur Leroy's stupid attempt to hurt him. But some one had
been before Lamberti.
"He is very ill," said the servant, gravely, as he admitted him. "The
doctor is there and has sent for a nurse. I telephoned for him."
Lamberti asked him what had happened, fearing the truth. Guido had felt
a little better in the afternoon and had asked for his letters and
papers. Half an hour later his servant had gone in with his tea and had
found him raving in delirium. That was all, but Lamberti knew what it
meant. Guido did not take the Figaro, but some one had sent the
article to him and he had read it. He had brain fever, and Lamberti was
not surprised, for he had suffered as much on that day as would have
killed some men, and might have driven some men mad.
Lamberti did not wish to frighten Cecilia or her mother, but he sent
them word that he would not leave Guido that night, nor till he was
better, and that he had seen the lawyer and had recovered a number of
forged papers.
After that there was nothing to be done but to watch and wait, and hear
the broken phrases that fell from the sick man's lips, now high, now
low, now laughing, now despairing, as if a host of mad spirits were
sporting with his helpless brain and body and mocking each other with
his voice.
So it went on, hour after hour, and all the next day, till his strength
seemed almost spent. Lamberti listened, because he could not help it
when he was in the room, and again and again Cecilia's name rang out,
and the first passionate words of speeches that ran into incoherent
sounds and were drowned in a groan.
Lamberti had nursed men who were ill and had seen them die in several
ways, but he had never taken care of one who was very near to him. It
was bad enough, but it was worse to know that he had an unwilling share
in causing his friend's suffering, and to feel that if Guido lived he
must some day be told that Lamberti had taken his place. It was
strangest of all to hear the name of the woman he loved so constantly on
