extraordinary conversations!" he exclaimed.
Yes, she had bethought herself. "We have extraordinary conversations."
His look, while their eyes met, marked him as disposed to hear more
about them; but there was something in her own, apparently, that
defeated the opportunity. He questioned her in a moment on a different
matter, which had been in his mind a week, yet in respect to which he
had had no chance so good as this. "Do you happen to know then, as such
wonderful things pass between you, what she makes of the incident, the
other day, of Lord Mark's so very superficial visit?--his having spent
here, as I gather, but the two or three hours necessary for seeing our
friend and yet taken no time at all, since he went off by the same
night's train, for seeing any one else. What can she make of his not
having waited to see you, or to see herself--with all he owes her?"
"Oh of course," said Kate, "she understands. He came to make Milly his
offer of marriage--he came for nothing but that. As Milly wholly
declined it his business was for the time at an end. He couldn't quite
on the spot turn round to make up to us."
Kate had looked surprised that, as a matter of taste on such an
adventurer's part, Densher shouldn't see it. But Densher was lost in
another thought. "Do you mean that when, turning up myself, I found him
leaving her, that was what had been taking place between them?"
"Didn't you make it out, my dear?" Kate enquired.
"What sort of a blundering weathercock then is he?" the young man
went on in his wonder.
"Oh don't make too little of him!" Kate smiled. "Do you pretend that
Milly didn't tell you?"
"How great an ass he had made of himself?"
Kate continued to smile. "You are in love with her, you know."
He gave her another long look. "Why, since she has refused him, should
my opinion of Lord Mark show it? I'm not obliged, however, to think
well of him for such treatment of the other persons I've mentioned, and
I feel I don't understand from you why Mrs. Lowder should."
"She doesn't--but she doesn't care," Kate explained. "You know
perfectly the terms on which lots of London people live together even
when they're supposed to live very well. He's not committed to us--he
was having his try. Mayn't an unsatisfied man," she asked, "always have
his try?"
"And come back afterwards, with confidence in a welcome, to the victim
of his inconstancy?"
Kate consented, as for argument, to be thought of as a victim. "Oh but
