through his eyes.
"Luck be with you!" he said, abruptly, extending his hand. Once more
that bony, fervid clasp, and he was gone.
A moment later the ground vibrated; a dark, massed column of troops
appeared in the moonlight, marching swiftly without drum-tap or spoken
command; the dim forms of mounted officers rode past like shadows
against the stars; vague shapes of wagons creaked after, rolling on
muffled wheels; more troops followed quickly; then the shadowy pageant
ended; and there was nothing before me but the moon in the sky above a
world of ghostly wilderness.
One camp lantern had been left for my use; by its nickering light I
untied the documents left me by Arnold; and, sorting the papers, chose
first my orders, reading the formal notice of my transfer from Morgan's
Rifles to the militia; then the order detailing me to the Mohawk
district, with headquarters at Varick Manor; and, finally, my commission
on parchment, signed by Governor Clinton and by Philip Schuyler,
Major-General Commanding the Department of the North.
It was, perhaps, the last official act as chief of department of this
generous man.
The next letter was in his own handwriting. I broke the heavy seal and
read:
     "ALBANY,
     "August 10, 1777.
     "Colonel George Ormond"
     "MY DEAR YOUNG FRIEND,--As you have perhaps heard rumors that
     General Gates has superseded me in command of the army now
     operating against General Burgoyne, I desire to confirm these
     rumors for your benefit.
     "My orders I now take from General Gates, without the
     slightest rancor, I assure you, or the least unworthy
     sentiment of envy or chagrin. Congress, in its wisdom, has
     ordered it; and I count him unspeakably base who shall serve
     his country the less ardently because of a petty and personal
     disappointment in ambitions unfulfilled.
     "I remain loyal in heart and deed to my country and to
     General Gates, who may command my poor talents in any manner
     he sees fitting.
     "I say this to you because I am an older man, and I know
     something of younger men, and I have liked you from the
     first. I say it particularly because, now that you also owe
