their faces showed him his mistake, his air, which was 
striking, was all good confidence. The curtain had just 
again risen, and, in the hush of the general attention, 
Strether's challenge was tacit, as was also the greeting, 
with a quick, deprecating hand and smile, of the un- 
announced visitor. He signed, discreetly, that he would 
wait, would stand, and these things and his face, one look 
from which she had caught, had suddenly worked for 
Miss Gostrey, She fitted to them all an answer for Strether's 
last question. The solid stranger was simply the answer 
— as she now, turning to her friend, indicated. She brought 
loi 
it straight out for him — it presented the intruder. " Why, 
through this gentleman ! " The gentleman indeed, at the 
same time, though sounding for Strether a very short name, 
did practically as much to explain. Strether gasped the 
name back — then only had he seen. Miss Gostrey had 
said more than she knew. They were in presence of Chad 
himself. 
Our friend was to go over it afterwards again and again 
— he was going over it much of the time that they were 
together, and they were together, constantly, for three or 
four days : the note had been so strongly struck during 
that first half-hour that everything happening since was 
comparatively a minor development. The fact was that 
his perception of the young man's identity — so absolutely 
checked for a minute — had been quite one of the sensa- 
tions that count in life ; he certainly had never known one 
that had acted, as he might have said, with more of a 
crowded rush. And the rush, though both vague and 
multitudinous, had lasted a long time, protected, as it 
were, yet at the same time aggravated, by the circumstance 
of its coinciding with a stretch of decorous silence. They 
couldn't talk without disturbing the spectators in the part 
of the balcony just below them ; and it, for that matter, 
came to Strether — being a thing of the sort that did come 
to him — that these were the accidents of a high civilisa- 
tion ; the imposed tribute to propriety, the frequent ex- 
posure to conditions, usually brilliant, in which relief has 
to await its time. Relief was never quite near at hand for 
