"Elderly. There may be old men and old peasant women in pictures, but
the living women are simply elderly. Well, one wouldn't mind growing
old if one could look like that. Have you ever been away at school
before?"
"No," returned Helen.
"North, South, East or West? Brevity is the soul of wit. I sometimes set
up for a wit when I can do it on a small capital."
"Rather southerly from here," laughed Helen. "A little country place
called Hope Center."
"Hope Center. Helen Grant. Well that has a sound! You will do. What else
are you going to put up?"
"I haven't anything else."
"That's delightful. Most girls bring so much from home, to cry over. You
don't really look like the crying kind. And school girl treasures
accumulate fearfully. It's nice to have a place to put the new ones."
She had a small photograph of Mrs. Dayton in her writing desk. There had
not been any keepsakes to bring.
"Won't you come and be introduced to some of the girls? They are in
Daisy Bell's room."
"Wouldn't I----" she hesitated.
"Be an intruder? Oh dear no. The sooner you get over these things the
better. Come!"
She took Helen's hand and led her to a room two or three doors down. The
screens had been pushed aside. On one bed sat two girls, two others were
hanging pictures and spreading bric-a-brac on brackets and shelves. One
of the girls was still in short skirts, and Helen felt secretly glad.
This was Daisy Bell.
"Oh, thank goodness you're not grown up," cried Daisy, eyeing her from
head to toe. "I wept, I prayed, I entreated for long skirts, and I
couldn't move my mother, any more than the rock of Gibraltar."
"Well, you're not a senior. Why should you care?"
"How old are you, Miss Grant?"
"Past fourteen the last of June."
"Oh, how tall for that! I'm fifteen. But I have two older sisters, and
they are always saying 'That child, Daisy,' as if I was about seven. How
many sisters have you?"
"None. And no father or mother."
"You poor wretched orphan!"
[Illustration: Helen's first day at Aldred House.--Page 192.]
"She doesn't look a bit wretched, Roxy Mays," said a girl who had been
