"'Jack sends us every new book you write,' she observed. 'I do not
approve of some things you write.'
"'Modern school,' I mumbled.
"'That is no excuse,' she said, severely; 'Anthony Trollope didn't do
it.'
"The foam spume from the breakers was drifting across the dunes, and
the little tip-up snipe ran along the beach and teetered and whistled
and spread their white-barred wings for a low, straight flight across
the shingle, only to tip and run and sail on again. The salt sea-wind
whistled and curled through the crested waves, blowing in perfumed
puffs across thickets of sweet bay and cedar. As we passed through the
crackling juicy-stemmed marsh-weed myriads of fiddler crabs raised
their fore-claws in warning and backed away, rustling, through the
reeds, aggressive, protesting.
"'Like millions of pygmy Ajaxes defying the lightning,' I said.
"Miss Holroyd laughed.
"'Now I never imagined that authors were clever except in print,' she
said.
"She was a most extraordinary girl.
"'I suppose,' she observed, after a moment's silence--'I suppose I am
taking you to my father.'
"'Delighted!' I mumbled. 'H'm! I had the honor of meeting Professor
Holroyd in Paris.'
"'Yes; he bailed you and Jack out,' said Miss Holroyd, serenely.
"The silence was too painful to last.
"'Captain McPeek is an interesting man,' I said. I spoke more loudly
than I intended. I may have been nervous.
"'Yes,' said Daisy Holroyd, 'but he has a most singular hotel clerk.'
"'You mean Mr. Frisby?'
"'I do.'
"'Yes,' I admitted, 'Mr. Frisby is queer. He was once a bill-poster.'
"'I know it!' exclaimed Daisy Holroyd, with some heat. 'He ruins
landscapes whenever he has an opportunity. Do you know that he has a
passion for bill-posting? He has; he posts bills for the pure pleasure
of it, just as you play golf, or tennis, or squash.'
"'But he's a hotel clerk now,' I said; 'nobody employs him to post
bills.'
"'I know it! He does it all by himself for the pure pleasure of it.
Papa has engaged him to come down here for two weeks, and I dread it,'
said the girl.
