pale star blinked at her, and the day, flushed like the cheek of a
waking infant, began drowsily to creep over the rolling mountains.
How silent all the city was!  Only here and there above the chimneys
rose a languid film of smoke.  The gates of the park shut behind her
with a clang, and so for a time she was alone and free.  She touched
Artemis with a spur, and the filly broke into a canter toward the lake
road.  The girl's nostrils dilated.  Every flower, the thousand
resinous saps of the forest, the earth itself, yielded up a cool sweet
perfume that was to the mind what a glass of wine is to the blood,
exhilaration.
Mottled with pink, and gray, and blue, and gold, the ever-changing hues
of the morning, the surface of the lake was as smooth as her mirror
and, like it, always reflecting beauty.  Fish leaped forth and fell
with a sounding splash, and the circles would widen and gradually
vanish.  A blackbird dipped among the silent rushes; a young fox barked
importantly; a hawk flashed by.  The mists swam hither and thither
mysteriously, growing thinner and fainter as the gold of day grew
brighter and clearer.  Suddenly--in the words of the old
tent-maker--the false morning died, and it was day.
I'm afraid that somewhere among the princess' ancestors there was a
troubadour; for she was something of a poet.  Indeed, I have already
remarked that she wrote verses.  The atmospheric change of the morning
turned her mind into sentimental channels.  How she envied the peasant
woman, who might come and go at will, sleep in the open or in the hut,
loving or hating with perfect freedom!  Ah, Prince Charming, Prince
Charming! where were you?  Why did you loiter?  Perhaps for her there
was no Prince Charming.  It might be so.  She sighed.
She would never marry Doppelkinn--never.  That horrible Steinbock!  She
was glad, glad that she had struck him, again and again, across his
lying eyes and evil mouth.  She had believed that she knew the world;
it was all yet a mystery; the older she grew the less she understood.
Wasn't anybody good?  Was everybody to be distrusted?  Which way should
she turn now?  The world was beautiful enough; it was the people in it.
Poor Betty!  She had her troubles, too; but somehow she refused to
confide them.  She acted very much as if she were in love.
She gazed at the hawk enviously.  How proud and free he was, so high up
there, circling and circling.  Even the fox was freer than she; the
forests were his, and he might go whither he listed.  And the fish that
leaped in frolic from the water, and the blackbird in the rushes!  She
could not understand.
