the groom a proud and handsome young fellow. Lord Wrexford bestowed
upon her a handsome necklace of pearls and gave her the best of
wishes. Mrs. Westbury parted with some jewels she cared little about,
but to enhance their value she said with well-assumed emotion:
"They may be dear to you, Laverne, as mementoes of your father. He was
a good judge of such articles, and would have the best or none. And in
times of prosperity he was most generous. Of course, he had not always
been as successful as during these last few years."
The parting was very amicable, tender, indeed, with the hope that
Laverne and her husband would find their way abroad again. It was
hardly likely she would ever visit America.
They began their new life as lovers indeed, but the hopes of both were
centred in the old place where they had first met. Dozens of fresh
recollections came to light every day. His memory went back farther
than hers, and now they said "Old San Francisco." He wondered how much
it had changed in the four years, and she supposed Telegraph Hill had
been cut down still more. Probably the old house was no more. Pelajo
had been sent over to Oaklands--would he be alive? And had the
squirrels all been driven to other wilds by the march of improvement?
A long, long journey it proved. All her life she was to be a great
traveller, but she thought then these two journeys were enough to
satisfy any one.
And at last the Golden Gate came in view. Oh, had it ever been so
grand and imposing before! Here was the rocky frowning coast line with
its few breaks. The sun was not shining, but the soft, low clouds
floating in silvery gray, turning to mauve with here and there a high
light just edging them, gave the gray brown rocks all manner of
indescribable tints that blended with the gray green lapping waves.
There was no stormy aspect about it, but a splendid, serene peace.
Even the gulls seemed to float in the mysterious ether, the under side
of their wings matching the prevailing tint. And nothing screamed, or
cried, or disputed. Clusters were settled sleepily in the recesses of
the rocks. And way up above they could see Mount Tamalpais with vales
and woods and great sandheaps between, and here was Sausalito, Point
Bonito, Point Lobos, as they entered in. They had reached the Promised
Land. Laverne glanced up with eyes full of tears. The joy was too deep
for words.
Here were streets running out to the newly begun sea wall. Here were
new piers, the Old Fisherman's Pier made over. Why, Telegraph Hill had
stepped from its lofty estate, though there were still some terraces
