reseating himself joined in the laughter of the 
little man who was rocking back and forth on his 
bench, his weazened leg clasped against his 
shrunken chest. 
" How on earth was I to know all your domestic arrangements ! "he said testily. " God knows 
I found them limited enough last winter, but it 
never occurred to me there was any mysterious 
process involved in converting corn into meal. Is 
it quite useless, then! " 
" Oh, no, we can boil or roast it. It will dispose 
of what teeth we have left, but that will serve the 
good purpose of reminding us always of your excellency's interest in our welfare." 
Eezanov shrugged his shoulders. " Give the 
corn to the natives. It is farinaceous at all events. 
And you can have nothing to say against the flour 
I have brought, and the peas, beans, tallow, butter, 
barley, salt, and salted meats — in all to the value 
of twenty-four thousand Spanish dollars." 
The Chief-Manager's head nodded with the 
vigor and rapidity of a mechanical toy. " It is a 
God-send, a God-send. If you did no more than 
that you would have earned our everlasting gratitude. It will make us over, give us renewed courage in this cursed existence. Are you not going 
to get me out of it ! " 
Eezanov shook his head with a smile. " Literally you are the whole Company. As long as I 
live here you stay — although when I reach St. 
Petersburg I shall see that you receive every possible reward and honor. ' ' 
Baranhov lifted his shoulders to his ears in 
quizzical resignation. " I suppose it matters little where the last few years left me are spent, 
and I can hang the medals on the walls to console 
me when I have rheumatism, and shout my titles 
from the top of the fort when the Kolosh are 
yelling at the barricades. ' ' 
'' You must make yourself more comfortable,' 
said Kezanov emphatically. '' You are wrong to 
carry your honesty and enthusiasm to the point 
of living like the promuschleniki. Take enough of 
their time to build you a comfortable dwelling, and 
I will send you, on my own account, far more substantial rewards than orders and titles. Build a 
big house, for that matter. I shall be here more 
or less — when I am not in California." And he 
