a more eligible husband; but she was not very rich, and he was
distinctly poor. She often saw him in the summer, and it had not
occurred to her till his return to Rome that he would refuse her if
she suggested that he might marry her. That was the way she put it,
for a lack of practical directness was not among her defects. She
had supposed that he had really quite forgotten Maria by this time,
although her pretty tale about them was founded on the undying and
perfectly innocent affection of both.
Now before she overtook Castiglione, as she inevitably must if
he did not mend his pace, she hesitated whether she should turn
back quietly and take another street. For she had not been to
confession. Then it seemed to her that it would be dangerous to
avoid him, for he was walking slowly, as if he himself were only
keeping out of the way in the side street for a while, and might
turn back at any moment; and if he did, he would recognise her. So
she decided to overtake him and ask him to walk with her till they
could find a closed cab, which was what she wanted.
Having reached this decision a further consideration presented
itself to her mind. He would hardly believe that she could be
coming up behind him without having met Maria, who had certainly
been with him and whom she had just left. He would not like to feel
that this had happened, and that she might even have seen them
together. It would be more tactful to be frank.
She spoke as soon as she was close to him.
‘Good evening, Balduccio,’ she said pleasantly. ‘Will you help me
to find a closed cab?’
He took off his hat without showing any surprise, and smiled as if
not at all disturbed by the meeting. But then, thought Teresa, he
always had good nerves and was a man of the world.
‘We can get one at the Piazza Barberini,’ he said, lengthening his
stride to keep up with her, for he saw that she was in a hurry.
‘Can we? I feel one of my chills coming on, and I must either
run to keep warm or get a closed carriage somewhere. Do you mind
walking fast?’
‘Not at all.’
‘Because you were walking very slowly when I saw you.’
‘Was I?’ He seemed very vague about it.
‘Yes!’ she laughed. ‘Dear old Balduccio! You are just the same
reserved, formal silly old thing you were when we went to the
dancing-class at Campodonico’s, ever so long ago!’
