vaulted roof, in which Zeno guessed that there was no longer any
visible opening to the outer air. Yet air there was, in abundance, for
it entered by the narrow entrance through which Zeno had been carried
in, and probably found its way out through the disused aqueduct which
had once supplied the water, and which still communicated with some
distant exit. Zeno could only guess at this from his experience of
fortresses, which always contained some similar cistern; every one he
had seen was provided with openings, almost always both at the top; a
few had staircases in order that men might more conveniently go down
to clean them when they were empty.
His captors left him reluctantly at the bidding of their chief. They
set one lantern against a pillar and filed out, carrying away the
other. Zeno listened to their departing footsteps for a moment, when
the last man had gone out, and then he went quickly to the entrance
and listened again. In two or three minutes he heard what he expected;
a heavy door creaked and was shut with a loud noise that boomed down
the inclined passage. Then came another sound, which was not that of
bolt or bar, and was worse to hear. The men were rolling big loose
stones against the door to keep it shut--two, three, more, a dozen at
least, a weight no one man could push outward. Then there was no more
noise, and Zeno was alone.
His situation was serious, and his face was very thoughtful as he
went back to the lantern and picked up one of the two cloaks
Tocktamish had left him. He put it on and drew it closely round him,
for he was beginning to feel cold in spite of the heavy guardsman's
tunic he wore over his own clothes.
He thought of Arethusa, as he called Zoë; she had been in his mind
constantly, and most of all in each of the moments of danger through
which he had passed since he had left her. He thought of her lying
awake on her divan in the soft light of the small lamps, waiting to
hear his footsteps on the landing below her window, then falling
gently asleep out of sheer weariness, to dream of him; starting in her
rest, perhaps, as she dreamt that he was in peril, but smiling again,
without opening her eyes, when the vision changed, and he held her in
his arms once more. He little guessed what that yielding something
beneath the canvas had been, on which he had pressed his foot so
heavily when he had stepped ashore. She was happily ignorant, he
fancied, of the succession of hairbreadth escapes through which he had
passed unhurt so far. What weighed most on his mind, after all, was
the thought that when he met her he should have to tell her that he
