supposed to dabble in local politics.
"Everything is agreeable to Mr. Williard," the senator answered in reply
to the questioning look of his subordinates. "He vows, however, that he
will shake Matthews as soon as he can get the chance."
The new arrivals laughed.
"We'll put you through, young man," said the ex-consul; "and one of
these fine days we shall send you to France. That's the place for a man
of your wit and wealth."
Williard smiled and lighted a fresh cigar. He did possess the reputation
of being a clever wit, and in his secret heart he would much prefer a
consulate or a secretaryship at the French embassy. He thoroughly
detested this indiscriminate hand-shaking which went with local
politics.
But Matthews stuck in his gorge, and he wondered if Newcomb was going
through any like ordeal, and if Newcomb would submit so readily.... Why
the deuce didn't Betty return? It was almost nine o'clock.
Presently her sunny countenance appeared in the doorway, and Williard
dropped his cigar joyfully and rose. It was worth all the politics in
the world!
"Gentlemen, you will excuse me," he said.
"Go along!" the senator cried jovially. "We can spare you."
As indeed they very well could!
In a minute Williard was in the music-room.
"I really do not know that I ought to shake hands with you, Dick," began
Betty, tossing her hat on the piano. "You have deceived me for years."
"Deceived you! What do you mean?" mightily disturbed.
"Wait a moment." She brought forth a paper. "Sit down in front of me.
This is going to be a court of inquiry, and your sins shall be passed in
review." He obeyed meekly. "Now listen," the girl went on, mischief in
her eyes; "this paper says horrid things about you. It claims that you
have given riotous dinners to actresses and comic-opera singers. I
classify them because I do not think comic-opera singers are actresses."
"Rot!" said Williard, crossing his legs and eying with pleasure the
contours of her face. "Jolly rot!"
"You mustn't say 'jolly' in this country; it's English, and they'll be
accusing you of it."
"Well, bally rot; how will that go?"
"That isn't very pretty, but it will pass. Now, to proceed. They say
that your private life is profligate."
"Oh, come now, Betty!" laughing diffidently.
