stock, but you’ve still got control of the corporation. The public
is helpless and unorganised, and your men are in. Then the Street
begins to hear disturbing rumours about the soap trust, and your
board of directors meet and declare that it is impossible to pay any
dividends. There is great indignation among the stockholders, and an
opposition is organised, but you set the clock an hour ahead, and
elect your ticket before the other fellow comes around. Or perhaps
the troubles have already knocked the stock down sufficiently low to
satisfy you, and you buy a majority of it back. Then the public
hears that a new interest has purchased the soap trust, and that a
new and honest administration is to be elected; and once more there
is hope for soap. You buy a few more plants, and issue more stocks
and bonds, and soap begins to boom, and you sell once more. You can
work that regularly every two or three years, for there is always a
new crop of investors, and nobody but a few people in Wall Street
can possibly keep track of what you are doing.”
The Major paused for a while, and sat with a happy smile on his
countenance. “You see,” he said, “there are floods and floods of
wealth, pouring into Wall Street from all over the country. It comes
to me like a vision. The crops are growing, the mines and the mills
and the factories are working, and here is all the money. People
don’t like to take it and hide it up their chimneys--few people have
chimneys nowadays. They want to invest it; and so you prepare
investments for them. Take the street railroads here in New York,
for instance. What could be a safer investment than the street
railroads of the Metropolis? An absolute monopoly, and traffic
growing so fast that construction can’t keep up with it. Profits are
sure. So people buy street railway stocks and bonds. In this case
it’s the politicians who organise the construction companies; that’s
their share, in return for the franchises. The insiders have a new
scheme--the best yet; it’s like a Gatling gun against bows and
arrows. They organise a syndicate, and get the franchises for
nothing, and then sell them to the company for millions. They’ve
even sold franchises they didn’t own, and railroad lines that hadn’t
been built. You’ll find some improvements charged for four or five
times over, and the improvements haven’t yet been made. First and
last they have paid themselves about thirty million dollars. And, in
the meantime, the poor stockholder wonders why he doesn’t get his
dividends!”
“That’s the investment market,” the Major continued after a pause;
