be so down-hearted! I will have a good meal cooked for you, and if you
need a little ready money for your journey, it is at your disposal. A
clever fellow like you will soon find another place.'
By way of laying in a stock of luck for the day, he patted the deformed
man's hump as he spoke, but he awaited the answer with evident concern,
for it was fortunate to have a hunch-backed man eat and drink in one's
house; a hunch-backed woman, on the contrary, always brought evil with
her, and should be driven from the door.
Cucurullo's reply was not only of favourable omen, but announced a piece
of unexpected good-fortune.
'You are very obliging,' he said, 'and I shall be glad of a mouthful at
noon. As for your kind offer to lend me money, I thank you heartily, but
I am well provided, and wish to pay my master's bill here before
accepting your friendly offer of a dinner. My master always trusts me
with a few ducats to pay his small expenses.'
The innkeeper congratulated himself on having patted the man's hump, for
it was clear that the good luck which at once befell him could be traced
to no other source. He now inwardly cursed his haste in turning
Ortensia and Pina out of the house, since Cucurullo was perhaps in a
position to have paid their score for some time. Of this, however, the
host could not be quite sure, for the serving-man did not show his
purse, but only produced some loose silver from the pocket of his wide
brown breeches.
'I shall charge nothing for the lady's use of the room,' said the
innkeeper magnanimously. 'You came with three horses from Rovigo, I
believe; there is their feed, and the supper of the postillion, who left
in an hour. That is all. Three pauls will pay for everything.'
'You are very obliging,' Cucurullo said again, as he paid the money.
'Your charges are very moderate. Since you act in such a friendly
manner, I will tell you something.'
Thereupon Cucurullo laid one of his large hands gently on the
innkeeper's sleeve, and looked up earnestly into the latter's face; and
when he was very much in earnest, his large blue eyes had a peculiar
expression, which lent great weight to what he said.
'A friendly act deserves a friendly return,' he said, 'for, as we say in
the South, "one hand washes the other and both wash the face." My master
has been arrested by mistake. He is really and truly the famous Maestro
Stradella, and is a great favourite with the Roman Court, for he has
sung to His Holiness himself and often to His Eminence Cardinal Altieri.
Therefore, if any harm comes to him in Ferrara through the ignorance of
