deeply blue, and the orange-tinted sails grew drab and lonely. And with
the sun the brightness of her dream went out. Would she never cast out
the life which was false, though colorful and fantastic? Would she never
accept real life, dull and sober? Romance? She was always seeking it,
knowing right well that it was never to be found. Romance! Had it not
led her into this very pit from which only death could release her? This
impossible vein was surely the legacy of some far ancestor, some knight
of the windmills, not of her father and mother, both so practical, so
wise, so ambitious. Ah, she thought in her heart, had they but lived to
see the folly of what they believed to be wisdom!
No, they must go their separate ways till the end. When she was old she
would re-read his letters. With a sigh she rose and went into the room.
Kitty was busy with the finishing touches of her toilet. Kitty was not
vain; she was only pretty. The older woman kissed her fondly.
"Pretty Kitty Killigrew!" she said. "It is positively lyrical."
"And do you realize that you are the most beautiful woman in the world?"
"Little flatterer!"
"And if I were a man--" Kitty paused.
"Well, and if you were a man?"
"I'd fall in love with you and marry you." La Signorina looked into the
mirror.
CHAPTER XIV
GREY VEILS
The fascination of Monte Carlo is not to be described; it must be seen.
Vice shall be attractive, says the Mother of Satan. At Monte Carlo it is
more than attractive; it is compelling. A subtle hypnotism prevails. One
scarce realizes that this lovely spot is at the same time the basest.
What passions have stormed this cliff! What rage and despair have beaten
their hands against these bastions of pleasure! How few who plunge into
this maelstrom of chance ever rise again! The lure of gold, there is
nothing stronger save death. Fool and rogue, saint and sinner, here they
meet and mingle and change. To those who give Monte Carlo but a trifling
glance, toss a coin or two on the tables, and leave by the morrow's
train, it has no real significance; it is simply one of the sights of
Europe.
To this latter class belonged the two young men. They had no fortunes to
retrieve, no dishonesty to hide, no restitutions to make, no dancers to
clothe and house. It was but a mild flirtation. They saw the silken gown
outside rather than the rags beneath; they saw the smile rather than the
tortured mind behind it.
