pulsively across the goat-skin, and gave his, with which 
he took it in some surprise, a quick clasp. Then they 
were both silent, and they got out of the carryall un- 
der Mrs. Westangle's porte-cochere without having ex- 
changed another word. Miss Shirley did not bow to 
him or look at him in parting. 
Vebbian kept seeing before his inner eyes the thin 
face of the girl, dimmed rather than lighted with her 
sick eyes. When she should he stronger, there might 
be a pale flush in it, like sunset on snow, but Verrian 
had to imagine that. He did not find it difficult to im- 
agine many things about the girl, whom, in another 
mood, a more judicial mood, he might have accused of 
provoking him to imagine them. As it was, he could 
not help noting to that second self which we all have 
about us, that her confidences, such as they were, had 
perhaps been too voluntary ; certainly they had not been 
quite obligatory, and they could not be quite accounted 
for, except upon the theory of nerves not yet perfectly 
under her control. To be sure, girls said all sorts of 
things to one, ignorantly and innocently; but she did 
not seem the kind of girl who, in different circum- 
stances, would have said anything that she did not 
choose or that she did not mean to say. She had been 
surprisingly frank, and yet, at heart, Verrian would 
have thought she was a very reticent person or a secret 
person — that is, mentally frank and sentimentally se- 
cret ; possibly she was like most women in that. What 
he was sure of was that the visual impression of her 
which he had received must have been very vivid to 
last so long in his consciousness ; all through his prepa- 
rations for going down to afternoon tea her face re- 
mained subjectively before him, and when he went 
down and found himself part of a laughing and chat- 
 
tering company in the library he still found it, in his 
inner sense, here, there, and yonder. 
He was aware of suffering a little disappointment in 
Mrs. Westangle's entire failure to mention Miss Shir- 
ley, though he was aware that his disappointment was 
