was sure of it. The rest was confused and uncertain and she took no
thought what she should say; she only knew she must make him
understand, though it would be hard, and when that was done, she would
not see him again while she lived.
She meant to make that final parting a certainty by going to Rangoon
with the next mission; nothing should change her determination now.
Her feet were heavy that day, and her voice was dull and muffled when
she gave her orders; but she made no mistakes. Many a man has fought
more stubbornly and bravely after a wound and a fall than at the
outset, and few men could tell themselves that they were braver than
Sister Giovanna was when she recovered control of her actions after
the first stunning shock.
She stayed in her office as much of the time as possible. In due
course the assistant head-nurse came to report that Pieri had finished
his work and that Captain Ugo had recovered well from the ether; his
brother was with him and would stay till eight o'clock, the hour at
which all visitors were required to leave the hospital except in cases
of extreme danger. Sister Giovanna nodded and wrote a few lines in the
day-book.
It was then half-past three. Clearly Giovanni's plan was to spend as
many hours as possible under the roof, in the hope of seeing her; for
though the operation had been a long one, requiring the skill of a
great surgeon to perform it well, Ugo was in no danger from it, and it
might be supposed that a man who had just come back from such an
experience as Giovanni had lived through would wish to see a few old
friends on the first day of his return, or would be obliged, at the
very least, to attend to some necessary business. Sister Giovanna did
not know that his return was being purposely kept a secret from the
public press, and that he was far safer from reporters while he stayed
in the Convent hospital than he could be in his lodging.
At five o'clock the door of her office opened, and to her surprise she
saw Monsignor Saracinesca standing before her, hat in hand. She could
not remember that she had ever seen him there before, but it was an
office, after all, and there was no reason why he should not come to
it if he had business with her. She rose to receive him. He shut the
door, which was the only one, bowed gravely, and took one of the two
spare rush-bottomed chairs and seated himself, before he spoke.
'The Mother Superior sent for me,' he said, 'and I have been with her
an hour. She has asked me to come to you. Are you at leisure?'
'Unless I am called. I am on duty.'
