    was expanded into the  De Augmentis, appeared in 1605.
    The  Wisdom of the Ancients, a work which if it had proceeded from
    any other writer would have been considered as a masterpiece of wit
    and learning, was printed in 1609.
    In the meantime the  Novum Organum  was slowly proceeding.  Several
    distinguished men of learning had been permitted to see portions of
    that extraordinary book, and they spoke with the greatest admiration
    of his genius.
    Even Sir Thomas Bodley, after perusing the  Cogitata et Visa, one of
    the most precious of those scattered leaves out of which the great
    oracular volume was afterward made up, acknowledged that "in all
    proposals and plots in that book, Bacon showed himself a master
    workman"; and that "it could not be gainsaid but all the treatise
    over did abound with choice conceits of the present state of
    learning, and with worthy contemplations of the means to procure it."
    In 1612 a new edition of the  Essays  appeared, with additions
    surpassing the original collection both in bulk and quality.
    Nor did these pursuits distract Bacon's attention from a work the
    most arduous, the most glorious, and the most useful that even his
    mighty powers could have achieved, "the reducing and recompiling," to
    use his own phrase, "of the laws of England."
To serve the exacting and laborious offices of Attorney General and
Solicitor General would have satisfied the appetite of any other man for
hard work, but Bacon had to add the vast literary industries just
described, to satisfy his.  He was a born worker.
    The service which he rendered to letters during the last five years
    of his life, amid ten thousand distractions and vexations, increase
    the regret with which we think on the many years which he had wasted,
    to use the words of Sir Thomas Bodley, "on such study as was not
    worthy such a student."
    He commenced a digest of the laws of England, a History of England
    under the Princes of the House of Tudor, a body of National History,
    a Philosophical Romance.  He made extensive and valuable additions to
    his Essays.  He published the inestimable  Treatise De Argumentis
    Scientiarum .
Did these labors of Hercules fill up his time to his contentment, and
quiet his appetite for work?  Not entirely:
    The trifles with which he amused himself in hours of pain and languor
    bore the mark of his mind.   The best jestbook in the world  is that
    which he dictated from memory, without referring to any book, on a
