
“If you will sit here for a few minutes,” leading the way into the room
behind us, “I’ll step over and talk to my wife.”

From that moment I had no apprehension of further misadventures.

If I had indulged a fleeting misgiving, it would have been dissipated
by the sight of the woman to whom I was introduced when I had accepted
the invitation to “step over” to the neat cottage a few rods down the
road.

It was a veritable cottage—low-browed and cosey, vine-draped, and
simply but comfortably furnished. The mistress met me in the door with
a cordial welcome, and took me into her bedroom to wash away the dust
of travel and lay off my hat. For I was to breakfast with them, after
which her husband would get up the horse and buggy, and she would drive
me over to the Assembly grounds. She looked, moved, and spoke like a
gentlewoman. Against the background of my late predicament, she wore
the guise of a ministering angel. The breakfast was just what she
had prepared for her husband. She proved the quality of her breeding
there, too, in not lisping a syllable of apology. None was required
for a meal so well-cooked and served, but few women would have let the
occasion pass of informing the stranger within their gates how much
better they might have done had they been notified of the coming of
“company.” On the road she told me that she had a season-ticket for
the Summer School, and that she had attended the sessions regularly
during the week that had passed since it opened. She was a pretty
little body, becomingly attired, and intelligent beyond her apparent
station. I was to learn more in time of the minds and manners of the
average Ohio woman and man, and to be moved to wondering admiration
thereby. The road, level as a floor for most of the way, lay between
fields, orchards and vineyards so well cultivated that they recalled
the husbandry of older lands. My companion was au fait to the
agricultural interests of her native State, and descanted upon the
resources of the region with modest complacency. The weather was
delicious, the drive a pleasure. Not until we were in sight of the
lake, on the shores of which the camp was located, did she suggest
the possible difficulty of gaining admission to the grounds. She had
her ticket, which would pass her on Sunday, as on week-days. Perhaps
I had one? I said, “No,” frankly. Were the rules very strict? She was
