had been brief and they were much amused at some of the descriptions
of the earlier days the little girl could recall, the memories of the
French great-grandfather, who had lived almost a hundred years, and
grandad, who in his earlier years had been what we should call an
athlete and was a master hand at games of all sorts. They were much in
vogue yet, since there were no play-houses to draw people together for
social enjoyment.
Mr. Bartram used to watch her with growing interest. Yes, she would be
invaluable to M. de Ronville, and a great relief to him this winter.
How had she so easily overlived the great blow of her wedding day! She
was a very child then, and truly knew nothing about love.
"We shall be in Philadelphia sometime before Christmas," explained
Mrs. Danvers, who was a widow. "We are thinking of settling ourselves
there, or in New York, and we shall be glad to take up the
acquaintance again. We have enjoyed your society very much, and truly
we are indebted to Mr. Bartram for many favors that a maid is apt to
blunder over. Women never get quite used to the rougher ways of the
world."
"And I shall be glad to see you again," the girl said with unaffected
pleasure. "I have enjoyed the journey with you very much."
How did she know just what to say without awkwardness, Mr. Bartram
wondered.
The quiet street and the old house seemed to give her a cordial and
familiar greeting. Mrs. Jarvis herself came to the door.
"Oh, my dear, we are so glad to have you back again," she cried with
emotion. "But how tall you are! You are no longer a little girl."
"I have the same heart after all that has happened;" and though she
smiled there were tears in her eyes.
A slow step came through the hall, and then she was held close to the
heart of her guardian, who had longed for her as one longs for a
child.
Yes, he was quite an old man. Pale now, with snowy hair and beard, and
a complexion full of fine wrinkles, but his eyes were soft and tender,
and had the glow of life in them.
"Oh," he exclaimed, "you still have the golden hair, and the peachy
cheeks, and smiling mouth. I was almost afraid you had changed and
grown grave. And your voice has the same ring. I am so thankful to
your parents for sparing you again. And, Aldis, you must not mind me,
for the business has fallen so behind that I shall not feel neglected
if you go to the office at once. We will devote the evening to talk.
