realized, for the first time, what a barbican was; I 
doubt if the reader knows, now. Otherwise, I should 
have preferred Monk Bar or Micklegate Bar, as being 
more like those I was used to in the theatre. But we 
came back gladly to Bootham Bar, holding that a port- 
cullis was equal any day to a barbican, and feeling as 
if we had got home in the more familiar neighborhood. 
There were small shops in the Bootham, thread-and- 
needle stores, newspaper stores, and provision stores 
mainly, which I affected, and there was one united 
florist's and fruiterer's which I particularly liked be- 
cause of the conversability of the proprietor. He was 
a stout man, of a vinous complexion, with what I 
should call here, where our speech is mostly uncouth, 
an educated accent, though with few and wandering 
aspirates in it. Him I visited every morning to buy 
for my breakfast one of those Spanish melons which 
they have everywhere in England, and which put our 
native cantaloupes to shame; and we always fell into 
a little talk over our transaction of fourpence or six- 
pence, as the case might be. After I had confided that 
I was an American, he said one day, " Ah, the Amer- 
icans are clever people." Then he added, " I hope you 
won't mind my saying it, sir, but I think their ladies 
are rather harder than our English ladies, sir." 
" Yes," I eagerly assented. " How do you mean ? 
Sharper ? Keener ?" 
" Well, not just that, sir." 
" More practical ? More business-like ?" I pursued. 
" Well, I shouldn't like to say that, sir. But they 
seem rather harder, sir ; at least, judging from what I 
see of them in York, sir. Bather harder, sir." 
 
We remained not the less friends with that mystery 
between us ; and I bought my last melon of him. on 
my last morning, when the early September had turned 
somewhat sharply chill. That turn made me ask what 
the winter was in York, and he boasted it very cold, 
with ice and snow aplenty, and degrees of frost much 
like our own. But apparently those York women re- 
