in sole possession; she had become there, with time, quite the prime
representative of those private amenities which the Anglo-Saxon abroad
is apt to miss just in proportion as the place visited is publicly
wonderful, and in which he therefore finds a value twice as great as at
home. Mrs. Bronson really earned in this way the gratitude of mingled
generations and races. She sat for twenty years at the wide mouth, as
it were, of the Grand Canal, holding out her hand, with endless
good-nature, patience, charity, to all decently accredited petitioners,
the incessant troop of those either bewilderedly making or fondly
renewing acquaintance with the dazzling city.
{Illustration: CASA ALVISI, VENICE}
Casa Alvisi is directly opposite the high, broad-based florid church
of S. Maria della Salute--so directly that from the balcony over the
water-entrance your eye, crossing the canal, seems to find the key-hole
of the great door right in a line with it; and there was something in
this position that for the time made all Venice-lovers think of the
genial padrona as thus levying in the most convenient way the toll of
curiosity and sympathy. Every one passed, every one was seen to pass,
and few were those not seen to stop and to return. The most generous of
hostesses died a year ago at Florence; her house knows her no more--it
had ceased to do so for some time before her death; and the long,
pleased procession--the charmed arrivals, the happy sojourns at anchor,
the reluctant departures that made Ca’ Alvisi, as was currently said,
a social porto di mare--is, for remembrance and regret, already a
possession of ghosts; so that, on the spot, at present, the attention
ruefully averts itself from the dear little old faded but once
familiarly bright façade, overtaken at last by the comparatively vulgar
uses that are doing their best to “paint out” in Venice, right and
left, by staring signs and other vulgarities, the immemorial note of
distinction. The house, in a city of palaces, was small, but the tenant
clung to her perfect, her inclusive position--the one right place that
gave her a better command, as it were, than a better house obtained by
a harder compromise; not being fond, moreover, of spacious halls and
massive treasures, but of compact and familiar rooms, in which her
remarkable accumulation of minute and delicate Venetian objects could
show. She adored--in the way of the Venetian, to which all her taste
addressed itself--the small, the domestic and the exquisite; so that she
would have given a Tintoretto or two, I think, without difficulty, for
a cabinet of tiny gilded glasses or a dinner-service of the right old
silver.
