yourself necessary to me. I think that in that last 
phrase I put the whole matter in its essence you have 
not bound yourself to me ; I am always struggling 
to keep my love firm and right, to hold myself to you. 
The result is that there is no food for my soul in the 
thought of our love, in my thought of you ; and there- 
fore, I am continually dissatisfied and doubting, con- 
tinually feeling the difference between the love I have 
dreamed and our love. 
I tried to think the matter out, and get to the very 
bottom of it. The first thing that came to me on the 
other side was your absolute truth; your absolute de- 
votion to what was right and noble in our ideal. So 
that, as I was thinking, I suddenly stopped short with 
this statement "If you cannot find right love with that 
girl, it must be because you do not honor love, or care 
for it." And then I thought of your helplessness, of 
your lack of training and opportunity for growth; 
and I told myself how absurd it was of me to expect 
satisfying love from you when all that I knew about 
in life, and thought of, was entirely unknown to you. 
I realized that I was a man who had tasted more or 
less of all knowledge, and had an infinite vision of 
knowledge yet before him, and an infinite hunger for 
it; and that you were a school-girl, with all of a 
school-girl's tasks on your hands. So I said to myself 
that the reason for the dissatisfaction was a fault of 
my own, that it had come from my own blindness. I 
had gone wrong in my attitude to you ; I had failed in 
my sternness and my high devotion to perfection ; I had 
contented myself with lesser things, had come down from 
my best self, and had failed to make you see what a 
 
task was before you, if you ever meant to know my best 
self. You perceive that this is a return to my old-time 
attitude; I am sorry if it makes you wretched, but I 
cannot help it. It is a surgical operation that must 
be borne. I shall not make it necessary again, I hope. 
Now, dear Corydon, I am not trying to choose 
pleasant words in this letter, this is the way I talk 
