mother turned him out and closed the door behind him he stood stupidly
about until his sister, who had gone into the room, opened the door and
bade him telephone for Dr. Ogilvy.
"What has happened to her?" he asked, as though dazed.
"I don't know. I think you'd better tell Quinn to bring around the car
and go for Dr. Ogilvy yourself."
It was a swift rush to Dartford through the night; bareheaded he bent
forward beside the chauffeur, teeth set, every nerve tense and straining
as though his very will power was driving the machine forward. Then
there came a maddening slowing down through Dartford streets, a
nerve-racking delay until Sam Ogilvy's giant brother had stowed away
himself and his satchel in the tonneau; then slow speed to the town
limits; a swift hurling forward into space that whirled blackly around
them as the great acetylenes split the darkness and chaos roared in
their ears.
Under the lighted windows the big doctor scrambled out and stamped
upstairs; and Neville waited on the landing.
His father appeared below, looking up at him, and started to say
something; but apparently changed his mind and went back into the living
room, rattling his evening paper and coughing.
Cameron passed through the hallway, looked at him, but let him alone.
After a while the door opened and Lily came out.
"I'm not needed," she said; "your mother and Stephanie have taken
charge."
"Is she going to be very ill?"
"Billy Ogilvy hasn't said anything yet."
"Is she conscious?"
"Yes, she is now."
"Has she said anything more?"
"No."
Lily stood silent a moment, gazing absently down at the lighted hall
below, then she looked at her brother as though she, too, were about to
speak, but, like her father, she reconsidered the impulse, and went away
toward the nursery.
Later his mother opened the door very softly, let herself and Stephanie
out, and stood looking at him, one finger across her lips, while
Stephanie hurried away downstairs.
"She's asleep, Louis. Don't raise your voice--" as he stepped quickly
toward her.
"Is it anything serious?" he asked in a low voice.
