forgot.
And, conscious of his good intentions, feeling tranquil, complacent, and
slightly noble, he composed himself to slumber, thinking how much
happier this world would be if men invariably behaved with the
self-control that occasionally characterised himself.
       *       *       *       *       *
In the city, Jacqueline lay awake on her pillow, unable to find a refuge
in sleep from the doubts, questions, misgivings assailing her.
Wearied, impatient, vexed, by turns, that her impulse and decision
should keep her sleepless--that the thought of going back to Silverwood
should so excite her, she turned restlessly in her bed, unwilling to
understand, humiliated in heart, ashamed, vaguely afraid.
Why should she have responded to an appeal from such a man as Desboro?
Her own calm judgment had been that they had seen enough of each
other--for the present, anyway. Because she knew, in her scared soul,
that she had not meant it to be final--that some obscure idea remained
of seeing him again, somewhere.
Yet, something in his voice over the wire--and something more disturbing
still when he spoke so coolly about going South--had swayed her in her
purpose to remain aloof for a while. But there was no reason, after all,
for her to take it so absurdly. She would go once more, and then permit
a long interval to elapse before she saw him again. If she actually had,
as she began to believe, an inclination for his society, she would show
herself that she could control that inclination perfectly.
Why should any man venture to summon her--for it was a virtual summons
over the wire--and there had been arrogance in it, too. His curt
acquiescence in her decision, and his own arbitrary decision to go South
had startled her out of her calmly prepared rôle of business woman. She
was trying to recall exactly what she had said to him afterward to make
his voice change once more, and her own respond so happily.
Why should seeing him be any unusual happiness to her--knowing who and
what he had been and was--a man of the out-world with which she had not
one thing in common--a man who could mean nothing to her--could not even
remain a friend because their two lives would never even run within
sight of each other.
She would never know anybody he knew. They would never meet anywhere
except at Silverwood. How could they, once the business between them was
transacted? She couldn't go to Silverwood except on business; he would
never think of coming here to see her. Could she ask him--venture,
perhaps, to invite him to dinner with some of her friends? Which
