means well, but there's no conversation possible between a man who has
just dined rather heavily, and a man who has no chance of dining at
all."
"Like preaching Christ to the poor from a Fifth Avenue pulpit," said
Dankmere, vaguely.
"How do you mean?"
"A church on a side street would seem to serve the purpose. And the poor
need the difference."
"I don't know about those matters."
"No; I don't either. It's easy, cheap, and popular to knock the
clergy.... Still, somehow or other, I can't seem to forget that the
disciples were poor--and it bothers me a lot, Quarren."
Quarren said: "Haven't you and I enough to worry us concerning our own
morals?"
Dankmere, who had been closing up and piling together the Undertaker's
camp-chairs, looked around at the younger man.
"What did you say?" he asked.
"I said that probably you and I would find no time left to criticise
either De Groot or the clergy, if we used our leisure in
self-examination."
His lordship went on piling up chairs. When he finished he started
wandering around, hands in his pockets. Then he turned out all the
electric lamps, drew the bay-window curtains wide so that the silvery
radiance from the arc-light opposite made the darkness dimly lustrous.
A little breeze stirred the hair on Quarren's forehead; Dankmere dropped
into the depths of an armchair near him. For a while they sat together
in darkness and silence, then the Englishman said abruptly:
"You've been very kind to me."
Quarren glanced up surprised.
"Why not?"
"Because nobody else has any decent words to say to me or of me."
Quarren, amused, said: "How do you know that I have, Dankmere?"
"A man knows some things. For example, most people take me for an
ass--they don't tell me so but I know it. And if they don't take me for
an ass they assume that I'm something worse--because I have a title of
sorts, no money, an inclination for the stage and the people who make a
living out of it."
"Also," Quarren reminded him, "you are looking for a wealthy wife."
"God bless my soul! Am I the only chap in America who happens to be
doing that?"
