but was to remain as a protection to Tryon County. But now Colonel
Lamb's remaining section of artillery was to march to the lake; and
whether this indicated that our army at last was fairly in motion,
nobody knew. Yet, it seemed scarcely likely, because Lieutenant Boyd
had been ordered out with a scout of twenty men toward the West branch
of the Delaware, and he told me that he expected to be absent for
several days. Besides, it was no secret that arms had not yet been
issued and distributed to all the recruits in the foot regiments; that
Schott's riflemen had not yet drawn their equipment, and that as yet we
had not collected half the provisions required for an extensive
campaign, although nearly every day the batteaux came up the river with
stores from Schenectady and posts below.
Strolling up from the river that afternoon, very fine in my best, and,
I confess, content with myself except for the lack of hair powder,
queue, and ribbon, which ever disconcerted me, I saw already the two
guns of the battalion of artillery moving out of their cantonment, the
limbers, chests, and the forge well horsed and bright with polish and
paint, the men somewhat patched and ragged, but with queues smartly
tied and heads well floured.
Had our cannoneers been properly and newly uniformed, it had been a
fine and stirring sight, with the artillery bugle-horn sounding the
march, and the camp trumpets answering, and Colonel Lamb riding ahead
with his mounted officers, very fine and nobly horsed, the flag flying
smartly and most beautiful against the foliage of the terraced woods.
A motley assembly had gathered to see them march out; our General
Clinton and his staff, in the blue and buff of the New York Line, had
come over, and all the officers and soldiers off duty, too, as well as
the people of the vicinity, and a horde of workmen, batteaux-men, and
forest runners, including a dozen Oneida Indians of the guides.
Poor Alden's 6th Massachusetts foot regiment, which was just leaving
for the lake on its usual road-mending detail, stood in spiritless
silence to see the artillery pass; their Major, Whiting, as well as the
sullen rank and file, seeming still to feel the disgrace of Cherry
Valley, where their former colonel lost his silly life, and Major
Stacia was taken, and still remained a prisoner.
As for us of Morgan's, we were very sorry for the mortified New
Englanders, yet not at all forgetful of their carping and insolent
attitude toward the ragged New York Line--where at least the majority
of our officers were gentlemen and where proper and military regard for
rank was most decently maintained. Gad! To hear your New Englander
