play from either of these men was not to be entertained for a moment.
One was naturally a brute and the other was a coward.  They would not
hesitate at any means to defeat him.  And he knew what defeat would
mean at their hands: disfigurement, probably.

"Will you take a shilling for your fifty quid?" jeered Craig.  He was
going to enjoy this, for he had not the least doubt as to the outcome.
Mallow was without superior in a rough and tumble fight.

Warrington did not reply.  He walked cautiously toward Mallow.  This
maneuver brought Craig within reach.  It was not a fair blow, but
Warrington delivered it without the least compunction.  It struck Craig
squarely on the jaw.  Lightly as a cat Warrington jumped back.  Craig's
knees doubled under him and he toppled forward on his face.

"Now, Mallow, you and I alone, with no one to jump on my back when I'm
looking elsewhere!"

Mallow, appreciating the trick, swore foully, and rushed.  Warrington
jabbed with his left and side-stepped.  One thing he must do and that
was to keep Mallow from getting into close quarters.  The copra-grower
was more than his match in the knowledge of those Oriental devices that
usually cripple a man for life.  He must wear him down scientifically;
he must depend upon his ring-generalship.  In his youth Warrington had
been a skilful boxer.  He could now back this skill with rugged health
and a blow that had a hundred and eighty pounds behind it.

From ordinary rage, Mallow fell into a frenzy; and frenzy never won a
ring-battle.  Time after time he endeavored to grapple, but always that
left stopped him.  Warrington played for his face, and to each jab he
added a taunt.  "That for the little Cingalese!"  "Count that one for
Wheedon's broken knees!"  "And wouldn't San admire that?  Remember her?
The little Japanese girl whose thumbs you broke?"  "Here's one for me!"
It was not dignified; but Warrington stubbornly refused to look back
upon this day either with shame or regret.  Jab-jab, cut and slash!
went the left.  There was no more mercy in the mind back of it than
might be found in the sleek felines who stalked the jungles north.
Doggedly Mallow fought on, hoping for his chance.  He tried every trick
he knew, but he could only get so near.  The ring was as wide as the
world; there were no corners to make grappling a possibility.
