and the numbness was heightened by a horror that has no name. Into the
seats of thought there entered the realisation that, in spite of all,
she still loved him, that in spite of all he still loved her. In the
core of these convictions fear entered, fear of him, fear of herself,
a sensation of common peril and mutual perdition so blinding that
Barouffski’s rudeness she barely noticed, and it was with a look the
damned may have that she saw Verplank turn with Violet Silverstairs,
and go.
As they passed, Barouffski, with the air of one commenting on a
triviality, remarked:
“How odd it is that the Joyeuses should care to hobnob with demi-castors.
Shall we go?”
That demi-castors meant bounders generally, and, in this instance,
specifically, she would, ordinarily, have been insufficiently familiar
with the slang of the boulevards to know. But she did not hear.
Moreover, the remark required no reply. Even otherwise she was unable
to speak, and it was not until Barouffski reiterated his suggestion
that mechanically she acceded to it with a movement of the head.
Her demeanor then in traversing the salons, her leave-taking of the
duchess, her bearing in descending the stairs, were as mechanical as
her reply to Barouffski, and it was not until after the motor had
dropped him, as he had asked that it should, at the door of the Little
Club, that, at last alone, the mental anchylosis fell by.
At once in a sort of retrograde vision, she relived the past. There
had been the flight from Coronado, the halt at Salt Lake, the descent
into Nevada, the divorce, the journey abroad, the platonic marriage
to Barouffski. These--the succeeding episodes in the drama of her
life--were so many hostages to joy, barricades thrown one after another
between Verplank and herself, and unavailingly thrown, since, with but
a look, they were almost destroyed.
They had seemed wholly impregnable, but she knew then that unless
reinforced by surer bars, they would one and all collapse. At the
foreknowledge of that she appreciated what the heroines in the old
tragedies endured, when circled by the seven-times-twisted coil of
fate. Yet, though they had yielded, she would not yield, and it was
with this determination that she alighted in the rue de la Pompe.
The house there had a church for neighbour, and stood between a court
and a garden. Before the court was a high, white wall. The garden
extended back to the parallel street, where, also, was a wall. The
entrance to the court was a double doorway, the entrance to the garden
