overreached himself once more.
CHAPTER XIX
Florence was a fortnight in recovering from the shock of her experience
at the masked ball of the Princess Parlova, who, by the way,
disappeared from New York shortly after the fire, no doubt because of
her fear of the Black Hundred.  The fire did not destroy the house, but
most of the furnishings were so thoroughly drenched by water that they
were practically ruined.  Her coming and going were a nine-days'
wonder, and then the public found something else to talk about.
Norton was a constant visitor at the Hargreave place.  There was to him
a new interest in that mysterious house, with its hidden panels, its
false floors, its secret tunnels; but he treated Jones upon the same
basis as hitherto.  One thing, however: He felt a sense of security in
regard to Florence such as he had not felt before.  So, between
assignments, he ran out to Riverdale and did what he could to amuse his
sweetheart.  Later they took short rides in the runabout, and at length
she became as lively as she had ever been.
But often she would catch Norton brooding.
"What makes you frown like that?"
"Was I frowning?" innocently enough.
"I find you this way a dozen times in an afternoon.  What is the
matter?  Are they after you again?"
"Heavens, no!  I'm only a vague issue.  They will not bother me so long
as I do not bother them.  It has dwindled into a game of truce."
"Do you think so?" eying him curiously.
"Why, yes."
"What's the use of trying to fool me, Jim?  If they haven't been after
you, you are sensing a presage of evil.  I'm not a child any longer.
Haven't I been through enough to make me a woman?  Sometimes I feel
very old."
"To me you are the most charming in all this wide world.  No, you're
not a child any longer.  You are a woman, brave and patient; and I know
that I could trust you with any secret I have or own.  But sometimes a
person may have a secret which is not his and which he hasn't any right
to disclose."
She became silent for a while.  "I hate money," she said.  "I hate it,
hate it!"
"It's mighty comfortable to have it around sometimes," he countered.
"As in my case, for instance.  If I were poor and had to work no one
would bother me."
