Then, after a while there chanced to fall a silence; and the young wife
knew that the moment belonged to her.
"I think," she said in a distinct but still little voice, "that we ought
to go home.  If you are ready, Harry——"
                            *CHAPTER XXVIII*
By the end of the first week in June Cleland was in a highly excited
state of mind in regard to his infant novel, in which all the principals
were now on the edge of catastrophe.
"I don’t know how they got there," he said nervously to Badger Spink,
who had dropped in to suggest himself as illustrator in case any
magazine took the story for serial publication.
Spink’s clever, saturnine features remained noncommittal.  If Cleland
turned out to be a coming man, he wished to participate and benefit; if
he proved a failure he desired to remain pleasantly aloof.
For the only thing in the world that interested Badger Spink was his own
success in life; and he had a horror of contaminating it by any
professional association with mediocrity or failure.
"What’s your story about?" he inquired with that bluntness that usually
passed for the disinterested frankness of good comradeship.
"Oh, it’s about a writer of stories," said Cleland, vaguely.
"He’s the hero?"
"If you’d call him that.  What is a hero, Spink? I never saw one in real
life."
Spink squinted.  It was his way of grinning.
"Well, a literary hero," he said, "is one who puts it over big on his
first novel.  The country goes crazy about his book, the girls go crazy
over him, publishers go panting after him waving wads; editors flag
him with fluttering cheques.  That’s one sort of hero, Cleland.  But
he’s a myth.  The real thing is a Charlie Chaplin.  All the same, you’d
better let your hero make a hit with his novel.  If you don’t, good
night!"
Cleland’s features became troubled:
"I suppose his book ought to make a hit to make my book popular," he
said.  "But as a matter of fact it doesn’t.  I’m afraid the character
I’ve drawn is no hero.  He’s like us all, Spink; he writes a book;
friends flatter; critics slam; the public buys a number of copies, and
it’s all over in a few weeks.  A punk hero—what?"
"Very.  He won’t get over with the young person," said Spink.  "In these
days of the movie and the tango nobody becomes very much excited over
novels anyway; and if you don’t startle the country with your hero’s
