buried yesterday. To ask her to sell the place." 
He stood considering her, in a perfect obtuseness to 
another point of view. He was not even meeting her won- 
derful flush and entreating charm with any recognizing 
warmth of his own. " Yes," he might have said, " I see, 
Mary. I know how much you feel it. But — " Then 
they would have gone on discussing it, he as implacable 
and she as reluctant as before ; but there would have been 
between them that consonant note, modulating their differ- 
ences to another key. 
" Well," he said, " she don't have to sell it unless she 
wants to. There's no harm findin' out whether she wants 
to, is there? " 
 
"But, Thomas, so soon. It's just as if" she hesitated, and then the tide of her emotion rose again. 
" What if it had been you and me, and somebody came to 
me and asked me to sell — " She stopped. His face had 
darkened in a threatening way. She remembered too late 
that a hint of his own departure from the world where 
he held so tight a rein always mysteriously offended him. 
" You go over there to-night," he said, " an' have a talk 
with her. I happen to know there's one or two thinkin' 
of that place. She needn't come to any conclusions now. 
Only get me the refusal. She needn't sign anything, tell 
her — not for a day or two." 
He turned away, not waiting for consent, it was so 
inevitable to him, and Mary's gaze followed him out of the 
room. But hearing his steps through the shed to the 
stable and his quick call to one of her sons, she went on 
into the sitting-room and sat down by the front window 
where she could just see the comer of Ardelia Brock's 
house. Mary's little sewing table was in front of her, and 
on it a billowing pile of unfinished work. She liked the 
nearness of the table, even when she had no mind to sew- 
ing. She knew then, if her husband came in, she could 
draw the soft, absorbing stuff toward her and, her eyes 
bent on it, talk to him, whatever topic he introduced, 
the more at ease. He never proposed light subjects that 
needed no consideration, either of her concurrence or soft 
preambles of almost incredible retreat. But now, her 
