ing that the law should be enforced in North Valley ! 
Hal stood watching this perfervid little man, a study 
in the possibilities of gesture. He drew back his shoul- 
ders and puffed out his chest, almost throwing himself 
backwards off the barrel-head; he was saying that the 
miners would be able to live like men. He crouched down 
and bowed his head, moaning; he was telling them what 
would happen if they gave up. He fastened his fingers in 
his long black hair and began tugging desperately; he 
pulled, and then stretched out his empty hands ; he pulled 
again, so hard that it almost made one cry out with pain to 
watch him. Hal asked what that was for ; and the answer 
was, " He say, l Stand by union ! Pull one hair, he come 
out ; pull all hairs, no come out ' ! " It carried one back to 
the days of iEsop and his fables! 
Tom Olson had told Hal something about the technique 
of an organiser, who wished to drill these ignorant hordes. 
He had to repeat and repeat, until the dullest in his audi- 
ence had grasped his meaning, had got into his head the 
all-saving idea of solidarity. When the various orators 
had talked themselves out, and the audiences had come 
back to the cinder-heap, Hal made his speech all over 
again, in words of one syllable, in the kind of pidgin- 
 
English which does duty in the camps. Sometimes he 
would stop to reinforce it with Greek or Italian or Slavish 
words he had picked up. Or perhaps his eloquence would 
inflame some one of the interpreters afresh, and he would 
wait while the man shouted a few sentences to his com- 
patriots. It was not necessary to consider the possi- 
bility of boring any one, for these were patient and long- 
suffering men, and now desperately in earnest. 
They were going to have a union ; they were going to do 
the thing in regular form, with membership cards and of- 
ficials chosen by ballot. So Hal explained to them, step 
by step. There was no use organising unless they meant 
to stay organised. They would choose leaders, one from 
each of the principal language groups; and these leaders 
would meet and draw up a set of demands, which would be 
submitted in mass-meeting, and ratified, and then pre- 
