Western town for taking part in a bar-room fight, and the judge 
didn't happen to know his record, and accepted his tearful plea, 
agreeing to suspend sentence provided the prisoner would enlist 
to fight for his country. 
The other man was named Grady, and had left a wife and 
three children in a tenement in "Hell's Kitchen," New York> 
to come to fight the Kaiser. He was a kind-hearted and decent 
Irishman, who had earned a hard living carrying bricks and 
mortar up a ladder ten hours a day ; but he was absolutely con- 
vinced that there existed, somewhere under his feet, a hell of 
brimstone and sulphur in which he would roast forever if he 
disobeyed the orders of those who were set in authority over him. 
Grady knew that there were certain wicked men, hating and 
slandering religion, and luring millions of souls into hell; they 
were called Socialists, or Anarchists, and must obviously be 
emissaries of Satan, so it was God's work to root them out and 
destroy them. Thus the Gradys have reasoned for a thousand 
years ; and thus in black dungeons underground they have turned 
the thumb-screws and pulled the levers of the rack. They do it 
still in many of the large cities of America, where superstition 
runs the police-force, in combination with liquor interests and 
public service corporations. 
VI 
"Now, you little son-of-a-bitch' said Perkins, "listen to me. 
"I been lookin' into this business of yours, and I got the names 
of most of them Bolsheviks you been dealing with. But I want 
to know them all, and I'm going to know see?" 
In spite of all his terror, Jimmie's heart leaped with exulta- 
tion. Perkins was lying ! He hadn't found out a thing ! He 
was just trying to bluff his prisoner, and to make his superior 
officer think he was a real "sleuth". He was doing what the 
police everywhere do trying to obtain by brutality what they 
cannot obtain by skill and intelligence. 
"Now, you're goin' to tell," continued the man. "You may 
think you can hold out, but you'll find it's no go. I'll tear you 
limb from limb if you make me I'll do just whatever I have 
to do to make you come through. You get me?" 
Jimmie nodded his head in a sort of spasm, but his effort 
to make a sound resulted only in a gulp in his throat. 
"You'll only make yourself a lot of pain if you delay, so 
