river, but from my rags I fished out my filthy papers and thrust them at
him. He was kind enough to ask me to sit; I nodded a like permission to
my Oneidas and dropped onto a settle; a sergeant fetched new-baked
bread, meat, buttermilk, and pipes for my Indians; and for me a draught
of summer cider, which presently I swallowed to the dregs when I found
strength to do it.
This refreshed me. I asked permission to lodge my Oneidas in some
convenient barn and to draw for them food, pay, tobacco, and clothing;
and very soon a corporal of Continentals arrived with a lantern and led
the Oneidas out into the night.
Then, at the Commandant's request, I gave a verbal account of my scout,
and reminded him of my instructions, which were to report at Saratoga.
But he merely shuffled my papers together and smiled, saying that he
would attend to that matter, and that there were new orders lately
arrived for me, and a sheaf of letters, among which two had been sent in
with a flag, and seals broken.
"Sir," he said, still smiling in kindly fashion, "I have every reason to
believe that patriotic service faithfully performed is not to remain too
long unrecognized at Albany. And this business of yours amounts to that,
Mr. Drogue."
He laughed and rubbed his powerful hands together, peering
good-humouredly at me out of a pair of small and piercing eyes.
"However," he added, "all this is for you to learn from others in higher
places than I occupy. Here are your letters, Mr. Drogue."
He laid his hand on a sheaf which lay near his elbow on the table and
handed them to me. They were tied together with tape which had been
sealed.
"Sir," said he, "you are in a woeful plight for lack of sleep; and I
should not detain you. You lodge, I think, at Burke's Tavern. Pray, sir,
retire to your quarters at your convenience, and dispose of well-earned
leisure as best suits you."
He rose, and I got stiffly to my feet.
"Your Indians shall have every consideration," said he. "And I dare
guess, sir, that you are destined to discover at the Tavern news that
should pleasure you."
We saluted; I thanked him for his kind usage, and took my leave, so
weary that I scarce knew what I was about.
How I arrived at the Tavern without falling asleep on my two legs as I
walked, I do not know. Jimmy Burke, who had come out with a light to
greet me, lifted his hands to heaven at sight of me.
