exploding--if he didn’t drop it! But Peter wasn’t much consoled. He
had had no idea that Nell would go so far, or that he would actually
have to handle dynamite. He wondered where and how she had got it,
and wished to God he was out of this thing.
But it was too late now, of course. Said Nell: “You’ve got to get
this suit-case into the headquarters, and you’ve got to get it there
without anybody seeing you. They’ll be shut up pretty soon, won’t
they?”
“We locked up when we left,” said Peter.
“And who has the key?”
“Grady, the secretary.”
“There’s no way you can get it?”
“I can get into the room,” said Peter, quickly. “There’s a fire
escape, and the window isn’t tight. Some of us that know about it
have got in that way when the place was locked.”
“All right,” said Nell. “We’ll wait a bit; we mustn’t take chances
of anyone coming back.”
They started to stroll along the street, Nell still carrying the
suit-case, as if distrusting the state of Peter’s nerves, Meantime
she explained, “I’ve got two pieces of paper that we’ve got to plant
in the room. One’s to be torn up and thrown into the trash-basket.
It’s supposed to be part of a letter about some big plan that’s to
be pulled off, and it’s signed `Mac.’ That’s for McCormick, of
course. I had to type it, not having any sample of his handwriting.
The other piece is a drawing; there’s no marks to show what it is,
but of course the police’ll soon find out. It’s a plan of
old Ackerman’s home, and there’s a cross mark showing his
sleeping-porch. Now, what we want to do is to fix this on McCormick.
Is there anything in the room that belongs to him?”
Peter thought, and at last remembered that in the bookshelves were
some books which had been donated by McCormick, and which had his
name written in. That was the trick! exclaimed Nell. They would hide
the paper in one of these books, and when the police made a thorough
search they would find it. Nell asked what was in these books, and
Peter thought, and remembered that one was a book on sabotage. “Put
the paper in that,” said Nell. “When the police find it, the
newspapers’ll print the whole book.”
Peter’s knees were trembling so that he could hardly walk, but he
kept reminding himself that he was a “he-man,” a 100% American, and
that in these times of war every patriot must do his part. His part
