therefore it will mean fifty or a hundred dollars a year in your pocket.
If you do not own a home, it will take millions of idle acres out of the
hands of the speculators, and break the price of real estate, so that
you can have either a lot in the city or a farm in the country with
ease."
Furthermore, you could say, "This measure will have the effect of
drawing the unemployed from the cities at once, and so stopping the
downward course of wages. At the same time that wages hold firm, the
cost of food will go down, because there will be millions more men
working on the land. In addition to that, the state will have an
enormous income, many millions of dollars a year, taken exclusively from
those who are owning and not producing. This money will be expended in
saving from suffering and humiliation the old people of the country, who
have worked hard all their lives and have been thrown on the scrap-heap;
also in making certain that every child in the country has food enough
and care enough to make him into a normal and healthy human being, so
that he can do his share of work in the world and pay his own way
through life."
I submit the above measure to those who believe that the road to social
freedom lies by some sort of land tax. But before you take it up I
invite you to consider whether there may not be some other way, even
easier. There is a homely old saying to the effect that "molasses
catches more flies than vinegar"; and I am always looking for some way
that will get the poor what they want, without frightening the rich any
more than necessary.
I know a certain type of radical whom this question always exasperates.
He answers that the opposition will be equally strong to any plan; the
rich will do anything for the poor except get off their backs--and so
on. In reply I mention that among the most ardent radicals I know are
half a dozen millionaires; I know one woman who is worth a million, who
pleads day and night for social revolution, while the people who work
for her are devoted and respectful wage slaves. Herbert Spencer said
that his idea of a tragedy was a generalization killed by a fact. I
shall not say that the existence of millionaire Socialists and parlor
Bolsheviks kills the theory of the class struggle, but I certainly say
it compels us to take thought of the rich as well as of the poor in
planning the strategy of our campaign.
And manifestly, if we want to consider the rich, the very last device we
shall use is that of a tax. Nobody likes to pay taxes; everybody agrees
in classifying taxes with death. Each feels that he is paying more than
