Three kings and two trays is better than three chickens and two eggs. If
you don't like it, g'wan home."
He went out in his shirt sleeves to see how the knock-outs were
reviving, and met Hal Smith returning from the pond, who reported
progress toward consciousness. They walked back to the "hotel" together.
"Say, young fella," said Clinch in his soft, agreeable way, "you want to
keep your eye peeled to-night."
"Why?" inquired Smith.
"Well, there'll be a lot o' folks here. There'll be strangers, too....
Don't forget the State Troopers are looking for you."
"Do the State Troopers ever play detective?" asked Smith, smiling.
"Sure. They've been in here rigged out like peddlers and lumber-jacks
and timber lookers."
"Did they ever get anything on you?"
"Not a thing."
"Can you always spot them, Mike?"
"No. But when a stranger shows up here who don't know nobody, he never
sees nothing and he don't never learn nothing. He gets no hootch outa
me. No, nor no craps and no cards. He gets his supper; that's what he
gets ... and a dance, if there's ladies--and if any girl favours him.
That's all the change any stranger gets out of Mike Clinch."
They had paused on the rough veranda in the hot October sunshine.
"Mike," suggested Smith carelessly, "wouldn't it pay you better to go
straight?"
Clinch's small grey eyes, which had been roaming over the prospect of
lake and forest, focussed on Smith's smiling features.
"What's that to you?" he asked.
"I'll be out of a job," remarked Smith, laughing, "if they ever land
you."
Clinch's level gaze measured him; his mind was busy measuring him, too.
"Who the hell are you, anyway?" he asked. "I don't know. You stick up
a man on the Ghost Lake Road and hide out here when the State Troopers
come after you. And now you ask me if it pays better to go straight. Why
didn't you go straight if you think it pays?"
"I haven't got a daughter to worry about," explained Smith. "If they get
me it won't hurt anybody else."
A dull red tinge came out under Clinch's tan:
"Who asked you to worry about Eve?"
"She's a fine girl: that's all."
Clinch's steely glare measured the young man:
