No man, then or since, has brought so rare an 
assortment of talents to the erratic journalism 
of San Francisco; not even James King of 
William, the murdered editor of the Evening 
Bulletin. Perhaps he too would have been 
murdered had he remained long enough to 
own and edit the newspaper of his dreams, for 
he had a merciless irony, a fearless spirit, and 
an utter contempt for the prejudices of small 
men. But for a time at least it looked as if the 
history of journalism in San Francisco was to 
be one of California's proudest boasts. 
Masters was a practical visionary, a dreamer 
whose dreams never confused his metallic intellect, a stylist who fascinated even the poor 
mind forced to express itself in colloquialisms, 
a man of immense erudition for his years (he 
was only thirty) and he was insatiably interested in the affairs of the world and in every 
phase of life. He was a poet by natvire, and a 
journalist by profession because he believed the 
press was destined to become the greatest 
power in the country, and he craved not only 
power but the utmost opportunity for self- 
expression. 
His character possessed as many antitheses. 
He was a natural lover of women and avoided 
them not only because he feared entanglements 
and enervations but because he had little respect ' 
for their 'braing.' He was, by his Virginian 
inheritance, if for no simpler reason, a bon vivant, but the preoccupations and ordinary conversational subjects of men irritated him, and 
he cultivated their society and that of women 
only in so far as they were essential to his 
deeper imderstanding of life. His code was 
noblesse oblige and he privately damned it as a 
superstition foisted upon him by his ancestors. 
He was sentimental and ironic, passionate and 
indifferent, frank and subtle, proud and democratic, with a warm capacity for friendship and 
none whatever for intimacy, a hard worker 
with a strong taste for loafing — in the open 
country, book in hand. He prided himself 
upon his iron will and turned uneasily from the 
