“You can have no idea what you have done. You are too ignorant.”
I bowed my head, prepared to take my punishment. But at once
Carpenter’s voice softened. “You are a part of Mobland,” he said;
“you cannot help yourself. In Mobland it is not possible for even a
martyrdom to proceed in an orderly way.”
I gazed at him a moment, bewildered. “What’s the good of a
martyrdom?” I cried.
“The good is, that men can be moved in no other way; they are in
that childish stage of being, where they require blood sacrifice.”
“But what kind of martyrdom!” I argued. “So undignified and
unimpressive! To have hot tar smeared over your body, and be hanged
by the neck like a common criminal!”
I realized that this last phrase was unfortunate. Said Carpenter: “I
am used to being treated as a common criminal.”
“Well,” said I, in a voice of despair, “of course, if you’re
absolutely bent on being hanged--if you can’t think of anything you
would prefer--”
I stopped, for I saw that he had covered his face with his hands. In
the silence I heard him whisper: “I prayed last night that this cup
might pass from me; and apparently my prayer has been answered.”
“Well,” I said, deciding to cheer up, “you see, I have only been
playing the part of Providence. Let me play it just a few days
longer, until this mob of crazy soldier-boys has got out of town
again. I am truly ashamed for them, but I am one of them myself, so
I understand them. They really fought and won a war, you see, and
they are full of the madness of it, the blind, intense passions--”
Carpenter was on his feet. “I know!” he exclaimed. “I know! You need
not tell me about that! I do not blame your soldier-boys. I blame
the men who incite them--the old men, the soft-handed men, who sit
back in office-chairs and plan madness for the world! What shall be
the punishment of these men?”
“They’re a hard crowd--” I admitted.
“I have seen them! They are stone-faced men! They are wolves with
machinery! They are savages with polished fingernails! And they have
made of the land a place of fools! They have made it Mobland!”
I did not try to answer him, but waited until the storm of his
emotion passed. “You are right, Mr. Carpenter. But that is the fact
about our world, and you cannot change it--”
Carpenter flung out his arm at me. “Let no man utter in my presence
the supreme blasphemy against life!”
