“You speak whereof you do know, I suppose, Miss St. John!”
“Precisely; I have tried the life, Mr. Hoffman.”
The Professor joined us at the gate, radiant and communicative. “All
this soil, you will observe, is mingled with oyster shells to the depth
of several feet,” he began. “This was done by the Spaniards for the
purpose of enriching the ground. Ah! Miss Iris, I did not at first
perceive you in the shadow. You have a rose, I see. Although--ahem--not
given to the quotation of poetry, nevertheless there is one verse which,
with your permission, I will now repeat as applicable to the present
occasion:
    “‘Fair Phillis walks the dewy green;
        A happy rose lies in her hair;
      But, ah! the roses in her cheeks
              Are yet more fair!’”
“Pray, Miss Sharp, can you not dispense with that horrible bone?” said
Aunt Diana, in an under-tone. “Really, it makes me quite nervous to see
it dangling.”
“Oh, certainly,” replied the governess, affably, dropping the relic into
her pocket. “I myself, however, am never nervous where science is
concerned.”
“Over there on the left,” began the Professor again, “is the site of a
little mission church built as long ago as 1592 on the banks of a
tide-water creek. A young Indian chieftain, a convert, conceiving
himself aggrieved by the rules of the new religion, incited his
followers to attack the missionary. They rushed in upon him, and
informed him of his fate. He reasoned with them, but in vain; and at
last, as a final request, he obtained permission to celebrate mass
before he died. The Indians sat down on the floor of the little chapel,
the father put on his robes and began. No doubt he hoped to soften their
hearts by the holy service, but in vain; the last word spoken, they fell
upon him and--”
“Massacred him,” concluded Sara. “You need not go on, Sir. I know all
about it. I was there.”
“You were there, Miss St. John!”
“Certainly,” replied Sara, calmly. “I am now convinced that in some
anterior state of existence I have assisted, as the French say, at all
the Florida massacres. Indian, Spanish, or Huguenot, it makes no
difference to me. I was there!”
“I trust our young friend is not tinged with Swedenborgianism,” said the
Professor aside to John Hoffman. “The errors of those doctrines have
been fully exposed. I trust she is orthodox.”
“Really, I do not know what she is,” replied John.
“Oh yes, you do,” said Sara, overhearing. “She is heterodox, you know;
decidedly heterodox.”
In the mean while Aunt Diana kept firmly by the side of the Captain. It
is safe to say that the young man was never before called upon to answer
so many questions in a given space of time. The entire history of the
late war, the organization of the army, the military condition of
Europe, and, indeed, of the whole world, were only a portion of the
subjects with which Aunt Di tackled him on the way home. Iris stood it a
while, and then, with the happy facility of youth, she slipped aside,
and joined John Hoffman. Iris was a charming little creature, but, so
far, for “staying” qualities she was not remarkable.
A second time we passed the cemetery. “I have not as yet investigated
the subject,” said the Professor, “but I suppose this to be the Huguenot
burying-ground.”
“Oh yes,” exclaimed Miss Sharp; “mentioned in my guide-book as a spot of
much interest. How thrilling to think that those early Huguenots, those
historical victims of Menendez, lie here--here in this quiet spot, so
near, you know, and yet--and yet so far!” she concluded, vaguely
conscious that she had heard that before somewhere, although she could
not place it. She had forgotten that eye which, mixed in some poetic way
with a star, has figured so often in the musical performances of the
female seminaries of our land.
“Very thrilling; especially when we remember that they must have
gathered up their own bones, swum up all the way from Matanzas, and
buried each other one by one,” said Sara.
“And even that don’t account for the last man,” added John.
Miss Sharp drew off her forces, and retired in good order.
“Iris,” I said, the next morning, “come here and give an account of
yourself. What do you mean, you gypsy, by such performances as that of
last night?”
“I only meant a moonlight walk, Cousin Martha. I knew I never could
persuade Aunt Di, so I took Miss Sharp.”
“I am surprised that she consented.”
“At first she did refuse; but when I told her that the Professor was
going, she said that under those circumstances, as we might expect much
valuable information on the way, she would give her consent.”
“And the Professor?”
“Oh, I asked him, of course; he is the most good-natured old gentleman
in the world; I can always make him do any thing I please. But poor Miss
Sharp--how Aunt Di has been talking to her this morning! ‘How you, at
your age,’ was part of it.”
A week later we were taken to see the old Buckingham Smith place, now
the property of a Northern gentleman, who has built a modern winter
residence on the site of the old house.
“This is her creek, Aunt Di,” I said, as the avenue leading to the house
crossed a small muddy ditch.
“Whose, Niece Martha?”
“Maria Sanchez, of course. Don’t you remember the mysterious watery
heroine who navigated these marshes several centuries ago? She perfectly
haunts me! Talk about Huguenots arising and glaring at you, Sara; they
are nothing to this Maria. The question is, Who was she?”
“I know,” answered Iris. “She is my old friend of the Dismal Swamp.
‘They made her a grave too cold and damp,’ you know, and she refused to
stay in it. ‘Her fire-fly lamp I soon shall see, her paddle I soon shall
hear--’”
“Well, if you do, let me know,” I said. “She must be a very muddy sort
of a ghost; there isn’t more than a spoonful of water in her creek as
far down as I can see.”
