sion of him. that a drama in which he, though cut off, was 
 
an actor, had been going on for some time in the apart- 
ment he was prevented from entering, that the situation was 
extraordinarily strained there, and that it could not come to 
an end without an appeal to him this transcendental 
assumption acquired an infinitely greater force the instant 
he perceived that Verena was even now keeping her audi- 
ence waiting. Why didn't she go on ? Why, except that 
she knew he was there, and was gaining time ? 
'Well, I guess she has shown herself,' said the door- 
keeper, whose discussion with Ransom now appeared to 
have passed, on his own part, and without the slightest 
prejudice to his firmness, into a sociable, gossiping phase. 
' If she had shown herself, we should hear the reception, 
the applause.' 
'  Well, there they air ; they are going to give it to her,' 
the policeman announced. 
He had an odious appearance of being in the right, for 
there indeed they seemed to be they were giving it to her. 
A general hubbub rose from the floor and the galleries of 
the hall the sound of several thousand people stamping 
with their feet and rapping with their umbrellas and sticks. 
Ransom felt faint, and for a little while he stood with his 
gaze interlocked with that of the policeman. Then sud- 
denly a wave of coolness seemed to break over him, and he 
exclaimed : ' My dear fellow, that isn't applause it's 
impatience. It isn't a reception, it's a call !' 
The policeman neither assented to this proposition nor 
denied it; he only transferred the protuberance in his 
cheek to the other side, and observed : 
' I guess she's sick.' 
'Oh, I hope not!' said Ransom, very gently. The 
stamping and rapping swelled and swelled for a minute, 
and then it subsided ; but before it had done so Ransom's 
definition of it had plainly become the true one. The tone 
of the manifestation was good-humoured, but it was not 
gratulatory. He looked at his watch again, and saw that 
five minutes more had elapsed, and he remembered what 
the newspaper-man in Charles Street had said about Olive's 
guaranteeing Verena's punctuality. Oddly enough, at the 
moment the image of this gentleman recurred to him, the 
 
gentleman himself burst through the other door, in a state 
of the liveliest agitation. 
' Why in the name of goodness don't she go on ? If she 
wants to make them call her, they've done it about enough ! ' 
Mr. Pardon turned, pressingly, from Ransom to the police- 
man and back again, and in his preoccupation gave no sign 
of having met the Mississippian before. 
'  I guess she's sick,' said the policeman. 
' The public 'll be sick ! ' cried the distressed reporter. 
' If she's sick, why doesn't she send for a doctor ? All 
Boston is packed into this house, and she has got to talk 
to it. I want to go in and see.' 
' You can't go in,' said the policeman, drily. 
' Why can't I go in, I should like to know ? I want to 
go in for the "Vesper"!' 
' You can't go in for anything. I'm keeping this man 
out, too,' the policeman added genially, as if to make Mr. 
Pardon's exclusion appear less invidious. 
. ' Why, they'd ought to let you in,' said Matthias, staring 
a moment at Ransom. 
'  May be they'd ought, but they won't,' the policeman 
remarked. 
' Gracious me ! ' panted Mr. Pardon ; ' I knew from the 
first Miss Chancellor would make a mess of it ! Where's 
Mr. Filer?' he went on, eagerly, addressing himself ap- 
parently to either of the others, or to both. 
' I guess he's at the door, counting the money,' said the 
policeman. 
'Well, he'll have to give it back if he don't look 
out!' 
' Maybe he will. I'll let him in if he comes, but he's 
the only one. She is on now,' the policeman added, with- 
out emotion. 
His ear had caught the first faint murmur of another 
explosion of sound. This time, unmistakably, it was 
applause the clapping of multitudinous hands, mingled 
with the noise of many throats. The demonstration, how- 
ever, though considerable, was not what might have been 
expected, and it died away quickly. Mr. Pardon stood 
listening, with an expression of some alarm. 'Merciful 
 
fathers! can't they give her more than that?' he cried. 
' I'll just fly round and see !' 
When he had hurried away again, Ransom said to the 
policeman 'Who is Mr. Filer?' 
'  Oh, he's an old friend of mine. He's the man that 
runs Miss Chancellor.' 
'That runs her?' 
' Just the same as she runs Miss Tarrant. He runs the 
pair, as you might say. He's in the lecture-business.' 
'Then he had better talk to the public himself.' 
' Oh, he can't talk ; he can only boss ! ' 
The opposite door at this moment was pushed open 
again, and a large, heated-looking man, with a little stiff 
beard on the end of his chin and his overcoat flying behind 
him, strode forward with an imprecation. ' What the h 
are they doing in the parlour? This sort of thing's about 
