pretend to have it, and yet in such a case as this 
you try to be stupid. Give that up ; you might 
as well first as last, for the girl s an irresistible fact 
and it will be better to accept her than to let her 
accept you." 
Gaston s sister asked him if Miss Dosson had 
a fortune, and he said he knew nothing about 
that. Her father apparently was rich, but he 
didn 't mean to ask for a penny with her. 
American fortunes moreover were the last things 
to count upon ; they had seen too many ex 
amples of that. "Papa will never listen to 
that," Mme. de Brecourt replied. 
" Listen to what ? " 
" To your not finding out to your not asking 
for settlements comme cela se fait" 
" Excuse me, papa will find out for himself; and 
he will know perfectly whether to ask or whether 
to leave it alone. That s the sort of thing he does 
know. And he also knows perfectly that I am 
very difficult to place." 
" To place ? " 
" To find a wife for. I'm neither fish nor flesh, 
I have no country, no career, no future; I offer 
nothing ; I bring nothing. What position under 
the sun do I confer ? There s a fatuity in our 
talking as if we could make grand terms. You 
and the others are well enough : qui prend mari 
prend pays, and you have names which (at least so 
your husbands say) are tremendously illustrious. 
But papa and I I ask you ! " 
"As a family nous sommes tr&s-lien," said Mme. 
de Brecourt. " You know what we are it doesn 't 
need any explanation. We are as good as anything 
there is and have always been thought so. You 
might do anything you like." 
" Well, I shall never take to marry a French 
woman." 
"Thank you, my dear!" Mme. de Brecourt 
exclaimed. 
" No sister of mine is really French," returned 
the young man. 
" No brother of mine is really mad. Marry 
whomever you like," Susan went on ; " only let her 
be the best of her kind. Let her be a lady. Trust me, 
I've  studied life. That s the only thing that s safe." 
"Francie is the equal of the first lady in the land." 
"With that sister with that hat? Never- 
never ! " 
" What s the matter with her hat ? " 
" The sister s told a story. It was a document 
it described them, it classed them. And such a 
dialect as they speak ! " 
" My dear, her English is quite as good as yours. 
You don 't even know how bad yours is," said 
Gaston Probert. 
" Well, I don 't say Parus and I never asked 
an Englishman to marry me. You know what our 
feelings are," his companion pursued ; " our con 
victions, our susceptibilities. We may be wrong 
we may be hollow we may be pretentious ; we 
may not be able to say on what it all rests ; but 
there we are, and the fact is insurmountable. It 
is simply impossible for us to live with vulgar 
people. It s a defect, no doubt ; it s an immense 
inconvenience, and in the days we live in it s sadly 
against one s interest. But we are made like that 
and we must understand ourselves. It s of the 
very essence of our nature, and of yours exactly as 
much as of mine or of that of the others. Don 't 
make a mistake about it you 'll prepare for 
yourself a bitter future. I know what becomes of 
us. We suffer, we go through tortures, we die ! " 
The accent of passionate prophecy was in Mme. 
de Brecourt s voice, but her brother made her no 
immediate answer, only indulging restlessly in 
several turns about the room. At last he observed, 
taking up his hat: "I shall come to an under 
standing with her to-morrow, and the next day, 
about this hour, I shall bring her to see you. 
Meanwhile please say nothing to any one." 
Mme. de Brecourt looked at him a moment; 
he had his hand on the knob of the door. " What 
do you mean by her father s appearing rich ? 
That s such a vague term. What do you suppose 
his means to be ? " 
" Ah, that s a question she would never ask ! " 
cried the young man, passing out. 
VI. 
THE next morning he found himself sitting on 
one of the red satin sofas beside Mr. Dosson, in 
this gentleman s private room at the Hotel de 
I llnivers et de Cheltenham. Delia and Francie 
had established their father in the old quarters ; 
they expected to spend the winter in Paris but 
they had not taken independent apartments, for 
they had an idea that when you lived that way it 
was grand but lonely you didn 't meet people on 
the staircase. The temperature was now such as 
to deprive the good gentleman of his usual resource of sitting in the court, and he had not yet 
