was then good and cheap, and made 
even in England, had generally taken the 
place of the lattices and of the horn, and 
c 
 
of the beryl which noblemen formerly 
used in windows. Gentlemen were be- 
ginning to build their houses of brick and 
stone, in stately and magnificent fashion. 
The furniture of the houses had also 
grown in a manner " passing delicacy," 
and not of the nobility and gentry only, 
but of the lowest sort. In noblemen's 
houses there was abundance of arras, 
rich hangings of tapestry, and silver ves- 
sels, plate often to the value of one 
thousand and two thousand pounds. 
The knights, gentlemen, and merchants 
had great provision of tapestry, Turkie 
work, pewter, brass, fine linen, and cup- 
boards of plate worth perhaps a thou- 
sand pounds. Even the inferior ar- 
tificers and many farmers had learned 
also to garnish their cupboards with 
plate, their joined beds with silk hang- 
ings, and their tables with fine linen — 
evidences of wealth for which Harrison 
 
thanks God and reproaches no man, 
though he cannot see how it is brought 
about, when all things are grown to such 
excessive prices. 
Old men of Radwinter noted three 
things marvellously altered in England 
within their remembrance. The first 
was the multitude of chimneys lately 
erected ; whereas in their young days 
there were not, always except those in 
the religious and manor houses, above 
two or three chimneys in most upland 
towns of the realm ; each one made his 
'fire against a reredos in the hall, where 
he dined and dressed his meat. The 
second was the amendment in lodging. 
In their youth they lay upon hard straw 
pallets covered only with a sheet, and 
mayhap a dogswain coverlet over them, 
and a good round log for pillow. If in 
seven years after marriage a man could 
buy a mattress and a sack of chaff to 
 
rest his head on, he thought himself as 
well lodged as a lord. Pillows were 
thought meet only for sick women. As 
for servants, they were lucky if they 
had a sheet over them, for there was 
nothing under them to keep the straw 
from pricking their hardened hides. 
The third notable thing was the ex- 
change of treene (wooden) platters into 
pewter, and wooden spoons into silver 
or tin. Wooden stuff was plenty, but a 
good farmer would not have above four 
pieces of pewter in his house ; with all 
his frugality, he was unable to pay his 
rent of four pounds without selling a 
cow or horse. It was a time of idleness, 
and if a farmer at an ale-house, in a 
bravery to show what he had, slapped 
down his purse with six shillings in it, 
all the rest together could not match it. 
But now, says Harrison, though the rent 
of four pounds has improved to forty, 
the farmer has six or seven years' rent 
lying by him, to purchase a new term, 
garnish his cupboard with pewter, buy 
three or four feather-beds, coverlets, 
carpets of tapestry, a silver salt, a nest 
of bowls for wine, and a dozen spoons. 
All these things speak of the growing 
wealth and luxury of the age. Only a 
little before this date, in 1568, Lord 
Buckhurst, who had been ordered to 
entertain the Cardinal de Chatillon in 
Queen Elizabeth's palace at Sheen, 
complains of the meanness of the furni- 
ture of his rooms. He showed the offi- 
cers who preceded the cardinal such 
furniture and stuff as he had, but it did 
not please them. They wanted plate, he 
had none ; such glass vessels as he had 
they thought too base. They wanted 
damask for long tables, and he had only 
linen for a square table, and they re- 
fused his square table. He gave the 
cardinal his only unoccupied tester and 
bedstead, and assigned to the bishop the 
bedstead upon which his wife's waiting- 
women did lie, and laid them on the 
ground. He lent the cardinal his own 
