It would have been so much easier to go on loving the man in the dream
to the end of her life, meeting him again and again in the old
surroundings that were more familiar to her than those in which she
lived. It would have been so much better to be always her fancied self,
to be the faithful Vestal, leading the man she loved by sure degrees to
heights of immaterial blessedness in that cool outer firmament where
sight and hearing and feeling, and thinking and loving, were all merged
in a universal consciousness. It would have been so much easier not to
love a real man, above all not to love one who never could love her,
come what might. And besides, if all that had gone on, she would never
have brought disappointment and suffering upon Guido d'Este.
She decided that it would have been preferable, by far, to have gone on
with her life of dreams, and when awake to have been as she had always
known herself, in love with everything that made her think and with
nothing that made her feel.
But in the very moment when the matter seemed decided, she remembered
how she had looked into Lamberti's eyes three nights ago, and had felt
something more delicious than all thinking while she told him how she
loved that other man, who was himself. That one moment had seemed worth
an age of dreams and a lifetime of visions, and for it she knew that she
would give them all, again and again.
The point of the parasol did not move now, but lay against the little
stone, just where she was looking, for she was no longer weighing
anything in her mind nor answering reasons with reasons. With the
realisation of fact, came quickly the infinite regret and longing she
knew so well, yet which always consoled her a little. She had a right to
love as she did, since she was to suffer by it all her life. If she had
thrown over Guido d'Este to marry Lamberti, there would have been
something guilty in loving him. But there was not. She was perfectly
disinterested, absolutely without one thought for her own happiness, and
if she had done wrong she had done it unconsciously and was going to pay
the penalty with the fullest consciousness of its keenness.
The tourists trooped back, grinding the path with their heavy shoes,
hot, dusty, tired, and persevering, as all good tourists are. They
stared at her when they thought she was not watching them, for they were
simple and discreet souls, bent on improving themselves, and though they
despised her a little for not toiling like themselves, they saw that she
was beautiful and cool and quiet, sitting there in the shade, in her
light summer frock, and her white gloves, and her Paris hat, and the men
admired her as a superior being, who might be an angel or a demon, while
all the women envied her to the verge of hatred; and because she was
accompanied by such an evidently respectable person as Peterson was,
they could not even say that she was probably an actress. This
distressed them very much.
Kant says somewhere that when a man turns from argument and appeals to
mankind's common sense, it is a sure sign that his reasoning is
worthless. Similarly, when women can find nothing reasonable to say
against a fellow-woman who is pretty and well dressed, they generally
say that she looks like an actress; and this means according to the
customs of a hundred years ago, which women seem to remember though most
men have forgotten them, that she is an excommunicated person not fit to
be buried like a Christian. Really, they could hardly say more in a
single word.
When the tourists were at a safe distance Cecilia rose, bidding Petersen
sit still, and she went slowly on towards the House of the Vestals, and
up the little inclined wooden bridge which at that time led up to it,
till she stood within the court, her hand resting almost on the very
spot where it had been when Lamberti had come upon her in the spring
morning.
Her memories rose and her thoughts flashed back with them through ages,
giving the ruined house its early beauty again, out of her own youth.
She was not dreaming now, but she knew instinctively how it had been in
those last days of the Vestals' existence, and wished every pillar, and
angle, and cornice, and ornament back, each into its own place and
unchanged, and herself, where she was, in full consciousness of life and
thought, at the very moment when she had first seen the man's face and
had understood that one may vow away the dying body but not the
deathless soul. That had been the beginning of her being alive. Before
that, she had been as a flower, growing by the universal will, one of
those things that are created pure and beautiful and fragrant from the
first without thought or merit of their own; and then, as a young bird
in the nest, high in air, in a deep forest, in early summer, looking out
and wondering, but not knowing yet, its little heart beating fast with
only one instinct, to be out and alone on the wing. But afterwards all
had changed instantly and knowledge had come without learning, because
what was to make it was already present in subtle elements that needed
only the first breath of understanding to unite themselves in an ordered
and perfect meaning; as the electric spark, striking through invisible
mingled gases, makes perfect union of them in crystal drops of water.
That had been the beginning, since conscious life begins in the very
instant when the soul is first knowingly answerable for the whole
being's actions, in the light of good and evil, and first asks the only
three questions which human reason has never wholly answered, which are
as to knowledge, and duty, and hope.
Who shall say that life, in that sense, may not begin in a dream, as
well as in what we call reality? What is a dream? Sometimes a wandering
through a maze of absurdities, in which we feel as madmen must,
believing ourselves to be other beings than ourselves, conceiving the
laws of nature to be reversed for our advantage or our ruin, seeing
right as wrong and wrong as right, in the pathetic innocence of the
idiot or the senseless rage of the maniac, convinced beyond all argument
that the absolutely impossible is happening before our eyes, yet never
in the least astonished by any wonders, though subject to terrors we
never feel when we are awake. Has no one ever understood that confused
dreaming must be exactly like the mental state of the insane, and that
if we dreamed such dreams with open eyes, we should be raving mad, or
hopelessly idiotic? It is true, whether any one has ever said so or not.
Inanimate things turn into living creatures, the chair we sit on becomes
a horse, the arm-chair is turned into a wild beast; and we ride
a-hunting through endless drawing-rooms which are full of trees and
