grief, now two years old, and yet forever fresh, creep in between words
and threaten the silences between them with sudden tears.
But two years is a long, long time in the life of the young—in the life
of a fourteen-year-old boy; and yet, the delicate shadow of his mother
still often dimmed for him the sunny sparkle of the winter’s holiday.
It fell across his clear young eyes now, where he sat thinking, and made
them sombre and a deeper brown.
For he was going back to boarding school; and old memories were uneasily
astir again; and Cleland Senior saw the shadow on the boy’s face;
understood; but now chose to remain silent, not intervening.
So memory gently enveloped them both, leaving them very still together,
there in the library.
For the boy’s mother had been so intimately associated with preparations
for returning to school in those blessed days which already had begun to
seem distant and a little unreal to Cleland Junior—so tenderly and
vitally a part of them—that now, when the old pain, the loneliness, the
eternal desire for her was again possessing father and son in the
imminence of familiar departure, Cleland Senior let it come to the boy,
not caring to avert it.
Thinking of the same thing, both sat gazing into the back yard.  There
was a cat on the whitewashed fence. Lizzie, the laundress—probably the
last of the race of old-time family laundresses—stood bare-armed in the
cold, pinning damp clothing to the lines, her Irish mouth full of wooden
clothes-pins, her parboiled arms steaming.
At length Cleland Senior’s glance fell again upon the tall clock.  He
swallowed nothing, stared grimly at the painted dial where a ship
circumnavigated the sun, then squaring his big shoulders he rose with
decision.
The boy got up too.
In the front hall they assisted each other with overcoats; the little,
withered butler took the boy’s luggage down the brown-stone steps to the
car.  A moment later father and son were spinning along Fifth Avenue
toward Forty-second Street.
As usual, this ordeal of departure forced John Cleland to an unnatural,
off-hand gaiety at the crisis, as though the parting amounted to
nothing.
"Going to be a good kid in school, Jim?" he asked, casually humorous.
The boy nodded and smiled.
"That’s right.  And, Jim, stick to your Algebra, no matter how you hate
it.  I hated it too.... Going to get on your class hockey team?"
"I’ll do my best."
"Right.  Try for the ball team, too.  And, Jim?"
"Yes, father?"
"You’re all right so far.  You know what’s good and what’s bad."
"Yes, sir."
"No matter what happens, you can always come to me.  You thoroughly
understand that."
"Yes, father."
"You’ve never known what it is to be afraid of me, have you?"
The boy smiled broadly; said no.
"Never be afraid of me, Jim.  That’s one thing I couldn’t stand.  I’m
always here.  All I’m here on earth for is you!  Do you really
understand me?"
"Yes, father."
Red-capped porter, father and son halted near the crowded train gate
inside the vast railroad station.
Cleland Senior said briskly:
"Good-bye, old chap.  See you at Easter.  Good luck!  Send me anything
you write in the way of verses and stories."
Their clasped hands fell apart; the boy went through the gate, followed
by his porter and by numerous respectable and negligible travelling
citizens, male and female, bound for destinations doubtless interesting
to them.  To John Cleland they were merely mechanically moving
impedimenta which obscured the retreating figure of his only son and
irritated him to that extent. And when the schoolboy cap of that only
son disappeared, engulfed in the crowd, John Cleland went back to his
car, back to his empty, old-fashioned brownstone house, seated himself
in the library that his wife had made lovely, and picked up the Times,
which he had not read aloud at breakfast.
He had been sitting there more than an hour before he thought of reading
the paper so rigidly spread across his knees.  But he was not interested
in what he read.  The battle fleet, it seemed, was preparing to sail
from Port-of-Spain; Mr. Taft was preparing to launch his ponderous
candidacy at the fat head of the Republican party; a woman had been
murdered in the Newark marshes; the subway muddle threatened to become
more muddled; somebody desired to motor from New York to Paris;
President Roosevelt and Mr. Cortelyou had been in consultation about
something or other; German newspapers accused the United States of
wasting its natural resources; Scotti was singing Scarpia in "Tosca";
a new music hall had been built in the Bronx——
Cleland Senior laid the paper aside, stared at the pale winter sunshine
on the back fence till things suddenly blurred, then he resumed his
paper, sharply, and gazed hard at the print until his dead wife’s
smiling eyes faded from the page.
But in the paper there seemed nothing to hold his attention.  He turned
to the editorials, then to the last page.  This, he noticed, was still
entirely devoted to the "Hundred Neediest Cases"—the yearly
Christmastide appeal in behalf of specific examples of extreme distress.
The United Charities Organization of the Metropolitan district always
made this appeal every year.
Now, Cleland Senior had already sent various sums to that particular
charity; and his eyes followed rather listlessly the paragraphs
describing certain cases which still were totally unrelieved or only
partially aided by charitable subscriptions.  He read on as a man reads
whose heart is still sore within him—not without a certain half
irritable sense of sympathy, perhaps, but with an interest still dulled
by the oppression which separation from his son always brought.
And still his preoccupied mind plodded on as he glanced over the several
paragraphs of appeal, and after a while he yawned, wondering listlessly
that such pitiable cases of need had not been relieved by somebody among
