If the fire is good, in a few minutes a nice brown froth will encrust
the surface of the cooked meat. Lift the pan to the side table, take
up the beef by slipping a strong cake-turner or broad knife under it,
holding it firmly with a fork, and transfer to a heated platter.
Set in the plate-warmer, or over boiling water, while you make the
gravy.
Gravy (brown).
Set the pan in which the meat was roasted, on the range when the beef
has been removed to a dish. Scrape toward the centre the browned flour
from sides and bottom and dust in a little more from your dredger as
you stir. If the water has boiled away until the bottom of the pan is
exposed, add a little, boiling hot, directly from the teakettle and
stir until the gravy is of the consistency of rich cream.
Pepper to taste and pour into a gravy boat.
While I give these directions, I may remark that few people of nice
taste like made thickened gravy with roast beef. Many prefer,
instead, the red essence which follows the carver’s knife and settles
in the dish. The carver should give each person helped his or her
choice in this matter.
I am thus explicit with regard to roasting beef because the process is
substantially the same with all meats. Dash scalding water over the
piece put down for cooking in this way: heat rather slowly at first,
increasing the heat as you go on; baste faithfully; keep the oven open
as little as may be and dredge, then baste, alternately, for twenty
minutes, or so, before dishing the meat.
Roast Mutton.
Cook exactly as you would beef: but if you wish a made gravy, pour
it first from the baking-pan into a bowl and set in cold water five
minutes, or until the fat has risen to the top.
Skim off all of this that you can remove without disturbing the dregs.
It is “mutton-tallow”—very good for chapped hands, but not for human
stomachs. Return the gravy to the fire, thicken, add boiling water, if
needed, and stir until smooth.
Always send currant, or grape jelly, around with mutton and lamb.
Roast Lamb.
Cook two minutes less in the pound than you would mutton. Instead of
gravy, you can send in with it, if you choose
Mint Sauce.
To two tablespoonfuls of chopped mint, add a tablespoonful of white
sugar and nearly two thirds of a cup of vinegar. Let them stand
together ten minutes in a cool place before sending to table.
Roast Veal
Must be cooked twice as long as beef or mutton, and very well basted,
the flesh being fibrous and dry. To the made gravy add two teaspoonfuls
of stewed and strained tomato, or one tablespoonful of tomato catsup,
and cook one minute before pouring into the gravy-boat.
Roast Turkey, Chicken or Duck.
It would not be possible for me to write such directions as would
enable you to prepare a fowl for cooking. Yet I advise you to learn
how to draw and dress poultry. Watch the process closely, if you have
opportunity, or else ask some experienced friend to instruct you.
For the present we will suppose that our fowl is ready for the
roasting pan. Lay it in tenderly, breast uppermost, pour a bountiful
cup of boiling water, slightly salted, over it, if it be a chicken
or duck, two cupfuls, if a turkey, and roast, basting often, about
twelve minutes for each pound. When the breastbone browns, turn the
fowl on one side, and as this colors, on the other, that all may be
done evenly. Dredge once with flour fifteen minutes before taking up
the roast and when this browns, rub all over with a tablespoonful of
butter. Shut up ten minutes longer and it is ready for dishing.
Chop the liver and soft parts of the gizzard—which have been roasted
with the fowl—fine, and stir into the gravy while you are making it.
Fricasseed Chicken.
Cut up a full-grown fowl into joints, dividing the back and breast into
two pieces each. Lay these in cold water, slightly salted, for half
an hour. Wipe dry with a clean cloth. In the bottom of a pot scatter
a handful of chopped fat salt pork, with half a teaspoonful of minced
onion. On this lay the pieces of chicken. Sprinkle a double handful
of pork on the top with another half teaspoonful of onion, pour in
carefully, enough cold water to cover all, fit on a close top, and set
the pot where it will heat slowly. It should not boil under one hour
at least. Increase the heat, then, but keep at a very gentle boil
for another hour, or until the chicken is tender. The time needed for
cooking will depend on the age of the fowl. Fast stewing will harden
and toughen it.
When done, take out the chicken with a fork and arrange on a warm dish,
covering and keeping it hot in the plate warmer or over boiling water.
Add to the gravy left in the pot two tablespoonfuls of chopped parsley,
a heaping tablespoonful of butter cut up in the same quantity of flour,
half a teaspoonful of salt, and a quarter of a teaspoonful of pepper.
Stir to a boil. Meanwhile, beat up an egg in a bowl, add a teaspoonful
of cornstarch, and a small cupful of milk, and when these are mixed, a
cupful of the boiling gravy. Beat hard and pour into the pot where is
the rest of the gravy. Bring to a quick boil, take at once from the
fire and pour over the chicken. Cover and let it stand over hot water
three minutes before sending to table.
Smothered Chicken.
The chicken must be split down the back as for broiling, washed well
and wiped dry. Lay it, breast upward, in a baking pan; pour in two cups
of boiling water, in which has been dissolved a heaping tablespoonful
of butter, and cover with another pan turned upside down and fitting
exactly the edges of the lower one. Cook slowly half an hour, lift the
cover and baste plentifully with the butter water in the pan; cover
again and leave for twenty minutes more. Baste again, and yet once more
in another quarter of an hour. Try the chicken with a fork to see if it
is done.
An hour and ten minutes should be enough for a young fowl. Baste the
last time with a tablespoonful of butter; cover and leave in the oven
ten minutes longer before transferring to a hot dish. It should be of a
fine yellow brown all over, but crisped nowhere.
