want to marry anybody. The very idea makes me shudder.”
“I am not in the least anxious that you should,” was the answer.
“You are young, and you may choose your own time. All I am anxious
for is that you should realize the future that is before you. It is
dreadful to me to think that you might throw your precious chance
away by some ridiculous folly.”
Helen looked at her aunt for a moment, and then the irrepressible
smile broke out.
“What is the matter, child?” asked the other.
“Nothing, except that I was thinking about how these thoughts were
brought up.”
“How do you mean?”
“Apropos of my woodland walk with poor Arthur. Auntie, I do believe
you’re afraid I’m going to fall in love with the dear fellow.”
“No,” said Aunt Polly; “it is not exactly that, for I’d never be
able to sleep at night if I thought you capable of anything quite so
ghastly. But we must have some care of what people will think, my
dear Helen.”
As a matter of fact, Aunt Polly did have some very serious fears
about the matter, as has been hinted before; it was, perhaps, a kind
of tribute to the divine fire which even society’s leaders pay. If
it had been a question of a person of her own sense and experience,
the word “genius” would have suggested no danger to Mrs. Roberts,
but it was different with a young and probably sentimental person
like Helen, with her inflaming beauty.
“As a matter of fact, Aunt Polly,” said Helen, “everybody
understands my intimacy with Arthur.”
“Tell me, Helen dear,” said the other, turning her keen glance upon
her; “tell me the honest truth.”
“About what?”
“You are not in love with Arthur?”
And Helen answered her with her eyes very wide open: “No, I
certainly am not in the least.”
And the other drew secretly a great breath of relief. “Is he in love
with you, Helen?” she asked.
As Helen thought of Arthur’s departure, the question could not but
bring a smile. “I--I’m afraid he is,” she said.--“a very little.”
“What a ridiculous impertinence!” exclaimed the other, indignantly.
“Oh, that’s all right, Auntie,” said Helen; “he really can’t help
it, you know.” She paused for a moment, and then she went on: “Such
things used to puzzle me when I was very young, and I used to think
them quite exciting; but I’m getting used to them now. All the men
seem to fall in love with me,--they do, honestly, and I don’t know
how in the world to help it. They all will make themselves wretched,
and I’m sure it isn’t my fault. I haven’t told you anything about my
German lovers, have I, Auntie?”
“Gracious, no!” said the other; “were there any?”
“Any?” laughed the girl. “I might have robbed the Emperor of a whole
colonel’s staff, and the colonel at the head of it. But I’ll tell
you about Johann, the funniest one of all; I think he really loved
me more than all the rest.”
“Pray, who was Johann?” asked Aunt Polly, thinking how fortunate it
was that she learned of these things only after the danger was over.
“I never will forget the first time I met him,” laughed the girl,
“the first day I went to the school. Johann was a little boy who
opened the door for me, and he stared at me as if he were in a
trance; he had the most wonderful round eyes, and puffy red cheeks
that made me always think I’d happened to ring the bell while he was
eating; and every time after that he saw me for three years he used
to gaze at me in the same helpless wonder, with all lingers of his
fat little hands wide apart.”
“What a disagreeable wretch!” said the other.
“Not in the least,” laughed Helen; “I liked him. But the funniest
part came afterwards, for when I came away Johann had grown a whole
foot, and was quite a man. I sent for him to put the straps on my
trunks, and guess what he did! He stared at me for a minute, just
the same as ever, and then he ran out of the room, blubbering like a
baby; and that’s the last I ever saw of him.”
Helen was laughing as she told the story, but then she stopped and
looked a little conscience-stricken. “Do you know, Aunt Polly,” she
said, “it is really a dreadful thing to make people unhappy like
that; I suppose poor Johann had spent three whole years dreaming
about the enchanted castle in which I was to be fairy princess.”
“It was a good chance for a romantic marriage,” said the other.
“Yes,” said the girl, laughing again; “I tried to fancy it. He’d
have kept a Wirthshaus, I suppose, and I’d have served the guests;
and Arthur might have come, and I’d have cut Butterbrod for him and
he could have been my Werther! Wouldn’t Arthur have made a fine
Werther, though, Aunt Polly?”
“And blown his brains out afterwards,” added the other.
“No,” said Helen, “brains are too scarce; I’d rather have him follow
Goethe’s example and write a book about it instead. You know I don’t
believe half the things these poets tell you, for I think they put
themselves through their dreadful experiences just to tell about
them and make themselves famous. Don’t you believe that, Auntie?”
“I don’t know,” said the other (a statement which she seldom made).
“I don’t know much about such things. Nobody reads poetry any more,
you know, Helen, and it doesn’t really help one along very much.”
“It doesn’t do any harm, does it?” inquired the girl, smiling to
herself, “just a little, once in a while?”
“Oh, no, of course not,” said the other; “I believe that a woman
ought to have a broad education, for she never knows what may be the
whims of the men she meets, or what turn a conversation may take.
All I’m afraid of, Helen, is that if you fill your mind with
sentimental ideas you might be so silly as to fancy that you were
doing something romantic in throwing your one great chance away upon
some worthless nobody. I want you to realize what you are, Helen,
and that you owe something to yourself, and to your family, too; for
the Roberts have always had wealth and position until your mother
chose to marry a poor man. What I warn you of now is exactly what I
