means hidden; Amon-Râ, the hidden light.
In the infinite, time is not. In heaven there is no chronology. The
date of any god's accession to supremacy there is, consequently, apart
from mortal ken. None the less that of Amon-Râ is known. At the
beginning of the earthly reign of Amonhoteph III., an edict,
scrupulously executed throughout Egypt, determined, on monument and
wall, the substitution of Amon-Râ's name for that of previously
superior gods.
The pharaohnate of Amonhoteph began about 1500 B.C. It is from that
period, therefore, that dates the divinity's accession to the
pharaohnate of the skies. There is, or should be, a reason for all
things. There is one for that. Amonhoteph regarded himself as Amon's
son. It was one of the traits of the pharaohs, as it was also of the
Incas, to believe, or at least to assert, that their fathers,
therefore themselves, were divine. As a consequence of the idea they
prayed to their own images and likened their palaces to inns.
Originally foreigners, invaders from Akkad or Sumer, the pharaohs
first conquered, then surprised. It was they that embanked the Nile,
turned morasses into meadows and piled the pyramids. More exactly, it
was by their commands that these miracles were contrived. To the
neolithic people whom they subjugated their divinity was clear. So
elsewhere was that of the kings of Akkad. Like them, like the Incas,
the pharaohs were of the solar race and so remained from the first
dynasty to the Greek conquest, when Alexander, to legitimatize his
sovereignty, had himself acknowledged as Amon's son.
The ceremony had its precedents. An inscription in eulogy of the great
Rameses states that Amon, when possessing the pharaohs august mother,
engendered him as a god. On a wall of the Temple of Luxor an earlier
inscription sets forth that the god of Thebes, incarnating himself in
the person of Thotmes IV., appeared in his divine form to the
pharaoh's queen, who, at sight of his beauty, conceived.
It was therefore not in the beast alone, but in man, that divinity
revealed itself in Egypt. That in Judea a similar revelation should
have been withheld until after the Roman occupation is hardly
explicable on the theory, general among scholars, that Moses is not a
historical character, for an identical revelation had been received in
Babylonia where Israel twice loitered. Moreover, a curious parallelism
exists between post-Mosaic prophecy and Egyptian clairvoyance. In a
papyrus of the Thotmes III. epoch--about 1600 B.C.--it is written:
"The people of the age of the son of man shall rejoice and establish
his name forever. They shall be removed from evil and the wicked shall
humble their mouths." In commenting the passage an Egyptologist noted
that the words son of man are a literal translation of the original
si-n-sa.[15] But already in Akkad a similar prophecy had been
uttered.[16] It may be, therefore, that it was in Babylon that Israel
first heard it.
[Footnote 15: Sayce: Guifford Lectures.]
[Footnote 16: Jastrow: The Dibbara Epic.]
The doctrine of a trinity, common to almost all antique beliefs, was a
blasphemy to the Jews. The belief in immortality, also prevalent,
though less general, was to them an abomination. The miracle of divine
descent they were perhaps too practical to accept. There was no room
in their creed for the dogma of future rewards and punishments, and
that, together with other articles of the Christian faith, Egypt's
elect professed.
The slaves and mongrels that constituted the bulk of the population
were not instructed in these things and would not have understood them
if they had been. In Babylonia education was compulsory. In Egypt it
was an art, a gift, mysterious in itself, reserved to the few. To the
Egyptian, religion consisted in paraded symbols, in avenues of
sphinxes, in forests of obelisks, in pharaohs seated colossally before
the temple doors, in inscriptions that told indistinguishably of
theomorphic men and anthropomorphic gods, and in a belief in the
divinity of bulls and hawks.
These latter had their uses. In transformations elsewhere effected,
the sacred bull may have become a golden calf, the golden hawk a
sacred dove. In Egypt they were otherwise serviceable. The worship of
them, of other birds and beasts, of insects and vipers as well,
ecclesiastically indorsed, hid the myth of metempsychosis.
Of that the people knew nothing. When they died they ceased to be.
Even mummification, usually supposed to have been general, was not for
them. Down to an epoch relatively late it was a privilege reserved to
priests and princes. When the commonalty were embalmed it was with the
opulent design that, in a future existence, they should serve their
masters as they had in this. Embalming was a preparation for the
Judgment Day. Of that the people knew nothing either. It was even
unlawful that concerning it they should be apprised.
In the Louvre is a statue of Ptah-meh, high priest of Memphis. On it
are the significant words: "Nothing was hidden from him." A passage of
Zosimus states that what was hidden it was illicit to reveal, except,
Jamblicus explained, to those whose discretion a long novitiate had
assured. To such only was disclosed the secret that life is death in a
land of darkness, and death is life in a land of light.
It was because of this that the pharaohs seated themselves colossally
before the temple doors. It was because of it that their palaces were
inns and their tombs were homes. It was because of it that their
sepulchres were built for eternity and the tenements of their souls
placed there embalmed. It was because of this that the triumphs of men
were inscribed in the halls of the gods. Instead of seeking to be
absorbed, it was their own inextinguishable individuality that they
endeavoured to assert. Tombs, tenements, triumphs, these all were
preparations for the Land of Light.
The land was Alu, the asphodel meadows of the celestial Nile that
wound through the Milky Way. To reach it a passport, visé'd by Osiris,
sufficed. The first draft of that passport was held to have been
written on tablets of alabaster, in letters of lapis lazuli, by an
eidolon of Râ, who, known in Egypt as Thoth, elsewhere was Hermes
Thrice the Greatest.
At Memphis, Hermes was regarded as representing the personification of
divine wisdom, or, more exactly perhaps, the inventive power of the
