"Will one moment be enough?"
"Certainly."
"One second--or half a one?"
"Plenty."
"Very well--if you promise not to expect or ask for more than that----"
"That is terribly nice of you!"
"It is, overwhelmingly. But really I don't know whether I am nice or
merely weak-minded. Because I've lingered here gossiping so long with
you that I've simply got to fly like a mad creature about my dressing.
Good-bye----"
"Shall I come up immediately?"
"Of course not! I expect to be dressing for hours and
hours--figuratively speaking.... Perhaps you might start in ten minutes
if you are coming in a taxi."
"You are an angel----"
"That is not telephone vernacular.... And perhaps you had better be
prompt, because Mrs. Lannis is coming for me--that is, if you have
anything to--to say--that----"
She flushed up, annoyed at her own stupidity, then felt grateful to him
as he answered lightly:
"Of course; she might misunderstand our informality. Shall I see you in
half an hour?"
"If I can manage it," she said.
She managed it, somehow. At first, really indifferent, and not very
much amused, the talk with him had gradually aroused in her the same
interest and pleasurable curiosity that she had experienced in
exchanging badinage with him the night before. Now she really wanted to
see him, and she took enough trouble about it to set her deft maid
flying about her offices.
First a fragrant precursor of his advent arrived in the shape of a great
bunch of winter violets; and her maid fastened them to her black fox
muff. Then the distant door-bell sounded; and in an extraordinarily
short space of time, wearing her pretty fur hat, her boa, and carrying a
muff that matched both, with his violets pinned to it, she entered the
dim drawing-room, halting just beyond the threshold.
"Are you not ashamed," she said, severely, "to come battering at my door
at this hour of the day?"
"Abjectly."
They exchanged a brief handshake; she seated herself on the arm of a
sofa; he stood before the unlighted fireplace, looking at her with a
half smiling half curious air which made her laugh outright.
"Bien! C'est moi, monsieur," she said. "Me voici! C'est moi-même!"
"I believe you are real after all," he admitted.
"Do I seem different?"
"Yes--and no."
"How am I different?"
"Well, somehow, last night, I got the notion that you were younger,
thinner--and not very real----"
"Are you presuming to criticise my appearance last night?" she asked
with mock indignation. "Because if you are, I proudly refer you to the
enlightened metropolitan morning press."
"I read all about you," he said, smiling.
"I am glad you did. You will doubtless now be inclined to treat me with
the respect due to my years and experience."
"I believe," he said, "that your gown and hat and furs make a charming
difference----"
"How perfectly horrid of you! I thought you admired my costume last
night!"
"Oh, Lord," he said--"you were sufficiently charming last night. But
now, in your fluffy furs, you seem rather taller--less slender
perhaps--and tremendously fetching----"
"Say that my clothes improve me, and that in reality I'm a horrid, thin
little beast!" she exclaimed, laughing. "I know I am, but I haven't
finished growing yet. Really that's the truth, Mr. Quarren. Would you
believe that I have grown an inch since last spring?"
"I believe it," he said, "but would you mind stopping now? You are
exactly right."
"You know I'm thin and flat as a board!"
"You're perfect!"
"It's too late to say that to me----"
"It is too early to say more."
"Let's don't talk about myself, please."
"It has become the only subject in the world that interests me----"
"Please, Mr. Quarren! Are you actually attempting to be silly at this
hour of the day? The wise inanities of midnight sound perilously flat in
the sunshine--flatter than the flattest champagne, which no
bread-crumbs can galvanise into a single bubble. Tell me, why did you
wish to see me this morning. I mean the real reason? Was it merely to
find out whether I was weak-minded enough to receive you?"
He looked at her, smiling:
"I wanted to see whether you were as real and genuine and wholesome and
unspoiled and--and friendly as I thought you were last night."
"Am I?"
"More so."
"Are you so sure about my friendliness?"
"I want to believe in it," he said. "It means a lot to me already."
"Believe in it then, you very badly spoiled young man," she said,
stretching out her hand to him impulsively. "I do like you.... And now I
think you had better go--unless you want to see Mrs. Lannis."
Retaining her hand for a second he said:
"Before you leave town will you let me ask you a question?"
"I am leaving to-morrow. You'll have to ask it now."
Their hands fell apart; he seemed doubtful, and she awaited his
question, smilingly. And as he made no sign of asking she said:
"You have my permission to ask it. Is it a very impertinent question?"
"Very."
"How impertinent is it?" she inquired curiously.
"Unpardonably personal."
After a silence she laughed.
"Last night," she said, "you told me that I would probably forget you
