was, with no more evidence of the conflict than might be discerned in
the manliness of his face and the breadth and depth of his shoulders.
He dropped the cutting, impatiently.
"Don't you believe it?"
"Believe it?  Oh, this?  Yes," answered the consul-general.  "What I
can not believe is that I am awake.  I can not quite make two and two
equal four."
"Which infers?"
"That I can not . . .  Well, you do not look like a man who would rob
his employer of eight thousand dollars."
"Much obliged."
"Parrot & Co.  It's odd, but I recollect that title.  You were at
Udaipur during the plague."
Warrington brightened.  "So that's got about?  I happened to be there,
working on the prince's railway."
"I will send the cable at once.  You will doubtless hear from New York
in the morning.  But you must not see Miss Chetwood again."
"You will let me bid her good-by?  I admire and respect her more than
any other woman.  She does not know it, for as yet her soul is asleep;
but she is one of those few women God puts on earth for the courage and
comfort of man.  Only to say good-by to her.  Here in this office, if
you wish."
"I agree to that."
"Thank you again."  Warrington rose.
"I am genuinely sorry for you.  If they say no, what will you do?"
"Go back just the same.  I have another debt to cancel."
"Call in the morning.  I'll let you know what the charges are."
"I forgot.  Here are twenty pounds.  You can return the balance when I
call.  I am very grateful."
"By the way, there is a man here by the name of Mallow," began the
consul-general.
"Yes," interrupted Warrington, with a smile which was grim and cruel.
"I expect to call upon him.  He owes me something like fifty pounds,
and I am going to collect it."  Then he went out.
The consul-general dropped Mallow's perfecto into the waste-basket and
lighted his pipe.  Once more he read the cablegram.  The Andes
Construction Company.  What a twist, what an absurd kink in the skein!
Nearly all of Elsa's wealth lay bound up in this enormous business
which General Chetwood had founded thirty odd years before.  And
neither of them knew!
"I am not a bad man at heart," he mused, "but I liked the young man's
expression when I mentioned that bully Mallow."
He joined his family at five.  He waved aside tea, and called for a
lemon-squash.
"Elsa, I am going to give you a lecture."
"Didn't I tell you?" cried Elsa to the wife.  "I felt in my bones that
he was going to say this very thing."  She turned to her old-time
friend.  "Go on; lecture me."
"In the first place, you are too kind-hearted."
"That will be news to my friends.  They say I have a heart of ice."
"And what you think is independence of spirit is sometimes
indiscretion."
"Oh," said Elsa, becoming serious.
"A man came into my office to-day.  He is a rich copra-grower from
Penang.  He spoke of you.  You passed him on going out.  If I had been
twenty years younger I'd have punched his ugly head.  His name is
Mallow, and he's not a savory chap."
Elsa's cheeks burned.  She never would forget the look in that man's
eyes.  The look might have been in other men's eyes, but
conventionality had always veiled it; she had never seen it before.
"Go on;" but her voice was unsteady.
"Somewhere along the Irrawaddy you made the acquaintance of a young man
who calls himself Warrington, familiarly known as Parrot & Co.  I'll be
generous.  Not one woman in a thousand would have declined to accept
the attentions of such a man.  He is cultivated, undeniably
good-looking, a strong man, mentally and physically."
Elsa's expression was now enigmatical.
"There's not much veneer to him.  He fooled me unintentionally.  He was
quite evidently born a gentleman, of a race of gentlemen.  His is not
an isolated case.  One misstep, and the road to the devil."
The consul-general's wife sent a startled glance at Elsa, who spun her
sunshade to lighten the tension of her nerves.
"He confessed frankly to me this morning that he is a fugitive from
justice.  He wishes to return to America.  He recounted the
circumstances of your meeting.  To me the story appeared truthful
enough.  He said that you sought the introduction because of his
amazing likeness to the man you are going home to marry."
"That is true," replied Elsa.  "Uncle Jim, I have traveled pretty much
over this world, and I never met a gentleman if Warrington is not one."
There was unconscious belligerency in her tone.
"Ah, there's the difficulty which women will never be made to
understand.  Every man can, at one time or another, put himself upon
his good behavior.  Underneath he may be a fine rascal."
"Not this one," smiling.  "He warned me against himself a dozen times,
but that served to make me stubborn.  The fault of my conduct," acidly,
"was not in making this pariah's acquaintance.  It lies in the fact
that I had nothing to do with the other passengers, from choice.  That
is where I was indiscreet.  But why should I put myself out to gain the
good wishes of people for whom I have no liking; people I shall
probably never see again when I leave this port?"
"You forget that some of them will be your fellow passengers all the
way to San Francisco.  My child, you know as well as I do that there
are some laws which the Archangel Michael would have to obey, did he
wish to inhabit this earth for a while."
"Poor Michael!  And if you do not obey these laws, people talk."
"Exactly.  There are two sets of man-made laws.  One governs the
conduct of men and the other the conduct of women."
"And a man may break any one of these laws, twist it, rearrange it to
suit his immediate needs.  On the other hand, the woman is always
manacled."
