competitors to the market--and often there was no market.
He did not call the white people foreign devils; he called them customers.
That they worshipped a bearded Buddha was no concern of his. Born in the
modern town, having spent twelve years in San Francisco, he was not
heavily barnacled with tradition. He was shrewd, a suave bargainer, and
as honest as the day is long. His English was fluent.
To-night he was angry with the fates. The ship was hours late. Moreover,
it was a British transport, dropping down from Vladivostok. He would be
wasting his time to wait for such passengers as came ashore. They would be
tired and hungry and uncomfortable. So at seven o'clock he lit a piece of
punk, dropped it into his hand warmer, threw his pack over his shoulders,
and left the cheery lobby of the hotel where he had been waiting since
five in the afternoon. He would be cold and wet and hungry when he reached
his shop.
Outside he called to a disconsolate 'ricksha boy, and a moment later
rattled across the bridge that spans the Soochow Creek. Even the Sikh
policeman had taken to cover. When he finally arrived home he was drenched
from his cap button to the wooden soles of his shoes. He unlocked the shop
door, entered, flung the pack on the floor, and turned on the electric
light. Twenty minutes later he was in dry clothes; hot rice, bean curd,
and tea were warming him; and he sat cross-legged in a little alcove
behind his till, smoking his metal pipe. Two or three puffs, then he would
empty the ash in a brass bowl. He repeated this action half a dozen times.
He was emptying the ash for the last time when the door opened violently
and a man lurched in, hatless and apparently drunk--a white man.
But instantly Ling Foo saw that the man was not drunk. Blood was streaming
down his face, which was gray with terror and agony. The man made a
desperate effort to save himself from falling, and dragged a pile of
embroidered jackets to the floor as he went down.
Ling Foo did not stir. It was not possible for him to move. The suddenness
of the spectacle had disconnected thought from action. He saw all this,
memorized it, even speculated upon it; but he could not move.
The door was still open. The rain slanted across the black oblong space.
He saw it strike the windows, pause, then trickle down. He could not see
what had become of the man; the counter intervened. A tingle ran through
Ling Foo's body, and he knew that his brain had gained control of his body
again. But before this brain could telegraph to his legs three men rushed
into the shop. A bubble of sound came into Ling Foo's throat--one of those
calls for help that fear smothers.
The three men disappeared instantly below the counter rim. Silence, except
for the voices of the rain and the wind. Ling Foo, tensely, even
painfully alive now, waited. He was afraid, and it was perfectly logical
fear. Perhaps they had not noticed him in the alcove. So he waited for
this fantastic drama to end.
The three men rose in unison. Ling Foo saw that they were carrying the
fourth between them. The man who carried the head and shoulders of the
victim--for Ling Foo was now certain that murder was abroad--limped oddly,
with a heave and a sluing twist. Ling Foo slid off his cushion and stepped
round the counter in time to see the night absorb the back of the man who
limped. He tried to recall the face of the man, but could not. His initial
terror had drawn for him three white patches where faces should have
been.
For several minutes Ling Foo stared at the oblong blackness; then with a
hysterical gurgle he ran to the door, slammed and bolted it, and leaned
against the jamb, sick and faint, yet oddly relieved. He would not now
have to account to the police for the body of an unknown white man.
A queer business. Nothing exciting ever happened along this part of
Woosung Road. What he had witnessed--it still wasn't quite
believable--belonged to the water front. Things happened there, for these
white sailors were a wild lot.
When the vertigo went out of his legs, Ling Foo cat-stepped over to the
scattered embroidered jackets and began mechanically to replace them on
the counter--all but two, for these were speckled with blood. He
contemplated them for a space, and at last picked them up daintily and
tossed them into a far corner. When the blood dried he would wash them out
himself.
But there was that darkening stain on the floor. That would have to be
washed out at once or it would be crying up to him eternally and recasting
the tragic picture. So he entered the rear of the shop and summoned his
wife. Meekly she obeyed his order and scrubbed the stain. Her beady little
black eyes were so tightly lodged in her head that it was not possible for
her to elevate her brows in surprise. But she knew that this stain was
blood.
Ling Foo solemnly waved her aside when the task was done, and she
slip-slapped into the household dungeon out of which she had emerged.
Her lord and master returned to his alcove. Ah, but the pipe was good! He
rocked slightly as he smoked. Three pipefuls were reduced to ashes; then
he wriggled off the cushion, picked up his cash counter and began
slithering the buttons back and forth; not because there were any profits
or losses that day, but because it gave a welcome turn to his thoughts.
The storm raged outside. Occasionally he felt the floor shudder. The
windows ran thickly with rain. The door rattled. It was as if all objects
inanimate were demanding freedom from bolts and nails. With the tip of his
long, slender finger Ling Foo moved the buttons. He counted what his
profits would be in Manchurian sables; in the two Ming vases that had come
in mysteriously from Kiao-chau--German loot from Peking; counted his
former profits in snuff bottles, and so on.
The door rattled furiously.
Ling Foo could consider himself as tolerably wealthy. Some day, when this
great turmoil among the whites subsided, he would move to South China and
grow little red oranges and melons, and there would be a nook in the
gardens where he could sit with the perfume of jasmine swimming over and
about his head and the goodly Book of Confucius on his knees.
A thudding sound--that wasn't the wind. Ling Foo looked over his buttons.
He saw a human face outside the door; a beautiful boy's face--white. That
was the first impression. But as he stared he saw a man's fury destroy the
boyish stamp--gestures that demanded admission.
But Ling Foo shook his head with equal emphasis. He would not go near that
door again this night.
The man outside shook his fists threateningly, wheeled, and strode off.
