"Where do they all come from? Do they live in trees like dryads?" asked
Smith.
"There are always squatters in the woods," she replied indifferently.
"Some of these girls come from Ghost Lake, I suppose."
"Yes; waitresses at the Inn."
"What music is there?"
"Jim Hastings plays a fiddle. I play the melodeon if they need me."
"What do you do when there's a fight?" he asked, with a side glance at
her pure profile.
"What do you suppose I do? Fight, too?"
He laughed--mirthlessly--conscious always of his secret pity for this
girl.
"Well," he said, "when your father makes enough to quit, he'll take you
out of this. It's a vile hole for a young girl----"
"See here," she said, flushing; "you're rather particular for a young
man who stuck up a tourist and robbed him of four thousand dollars."
"I'm not complaining on my own account," returned Smith, laughing;
"Clinch's suits me."
"Well, don't concern yourself on my account, Hal Smith. And you'd better
keep out of the dance, too, if there are any strangers there."
"You think a State Trooper may happen in?"
"It's likely. A lot of people come and go. We don't always know them."
She opened a sliding wooden shutter and looked into the bar room. After
a moment she beckoned him to her side.
"There are strangers there now," she said, "--that thin, dark man who
looks like a Kanuk. And those two men shaking dice. I don't know who
they are. I never before saw them."
But Smith had seen them at Ghost Lake Inn. One of them was Sard.
Quintana's gang had arrived at Clinch's dump.
A moment later Clinch came through the pantry and kitchen and out onto
the rear porch where Smith was washing glasses in a tub filled from an
ever-flowing spring.
"I'm a-going to get supper," he said to Eve. "There'll be twenty-three
plates." And to Smith: "Hal--you help Eve wait on the table. And if
anybody acts up rough you slam him on the jaw--don't argue, don't
wait--just slam him good, and I'll come on the hop."
"Who are the strangers, dad?" asked Eve.
"Don't nobody know 'em none, girlie. But they ain't State Troopers. They
talk like they was foreign. One of 'em's English--the big, bony one with
yellow hair and mustache."
"Did they give any names?" asked Smith.
"You bet. The stout, dark man calls himself Hongri Picket. French, I
guess. The fat beak is a fella named Sard. Sanchez is the guy with a
face like a Canada priest--José Sanchez--or something on that style. And
then the yellow skinned young man is Nicole Salzar; the Britisher, Harry
Beck; and that good lookin' dark gent with a little black Charlie
Chaplin, he's Victor Georgiades."
"What are those foreigners doing in the North Woods, Clinch?" enquired
Smith.
"Oh, they all give the same spiel--hire out in a lumber camp. But they
ain't no lumberjacks," added Clinch contemptuously. "I don't know what
they be--hootch runners maybe--or booze bandits--or they done something
crooked som'ers r'other. It's safe to serve 'em drinks."
Clinch himself had been drinking. He always drank when preparing to
cook.
He turned and went into the kitchen now, rolling up his shirt sleeves
and relighting his clay pipe.
IV
By nine o'clock the noisy chicken supper had ended; the table had been
cleared; Jim Hastings was tuning his fiddle in the big room; Eve had
seated herself before the battered melodeon.
"Ladies and gents," said Clinch in his clear, pleasant voice, which
carried through the hubbub, "we're a-going to have a dance--thanks and
beholden to Jim Hastings and my daughter Eve. Eve, she don't drink and
she don't dance, so no use askin' and no hard feelin' toward nobody.
"So act up pleasant to one and all and have a good time and no rough
stuff in no form, shape or manner, but behave like gents all and swell
dames, like you was to a swarry on Fifth Avenue. Let's go!"
He went back to the pantry, taking no notice of the cheering. The
fiddler scraped a fox trot, and Eve's melodeon joined in. A vast
scuffling of heavily shod feet filled the momentary silence, accented by
the shrill giggle of young girls.
"They're off," remarked Clinch to Smith, who stood at the pantry shelf
prepared to serve whiskey or beer upon previous receipt of payment.
In the event of a sudden raid, the arrangements at Clinch's were quite
simple. Two large drain pipes emerged from the kitchen floor beside
Smith, and ended in Star Pond. In case of alarm the tub of beer was
poured down one pipe; the whiskey down the other.
Only the trout in Star Pond would ever sample that hootch again.
Clinch, now slightly intoxicated, leaned heavily on the pantry shelf
beside Smith, adjusting his pistol under his suspenders.
"Young fella," he said in his agreeable voice, "you're dead right. You
sure said a face-full when you says to me, 'Eve's a lady, by God!' You
oughta know. You was a gentleman yourself once. Even if you take to
stickin' up tourists you know a lady when you see one. And you called
the turn. She is a lady. All I'm livin' for is to get her down to the
city and give her money to live like a lady. I'll do it yet.... Soon!...
I'd do it to-morrow--to-night--if I dared.... If I thought it sure
fire.... If I was dead certain I could get away with it.... I've got
the money. Now! ... Only it ain't in money.... Smith?"
"Yes, Mike."
"You know me?"
"Sure."
"You size me up?"
"I do."
"All right. If you ever tell anyone I got money that ain't money I'll
shoot you through the head."
"Don't worry, Clinch."
"I ain't. You're a crook; you won't talk. You're a gentleman, too.
They don't sell out a pal. Say, Hal, there's only one fella I don't
