partner. “Why, you see, although my business is, as I said, very
driving, I do not at present think of taking a partner. The fact is, I
never enjoy myself more than when I am hard at work. It is an
idiosyncrasy of mine, if I may so express myself.”
And Mr. Sharp looked up, thinking he had made a very clever evasion.
“When I do conclude to take a partner, which the increase of my business
may at some time render absolutely necessary,” he added, graciously
inclining his head, “I will certainly think of your friend. Your
recommendation will be a sufficient guarantee of his ability.”
“I feel deeply indebted to you for the confidence you express in my
judgment,” said Lewis, bowing, “particularly as I am a perfect stranger
to you. Such instances are rarely met with in a world like ours.”
Mr. Sharp was not quite sure whether his visitor was not secretly
bantering him. He thought it best, however, to construe his meaning
literally.
“I am not usually hasty in bestowing my confidence, Mr.—your name
escaped me.”
“I think I have not mentioned it.”
“O ho, ahem! perhaps not,” continued Mr. Sharp, finding his little
artifice to obtain his visitor’s name ineffectual, “but as I was about
to say, I seldom give my confidence without good reason. I am—I may
say—somewhat skilled in physiognomy, and a cursory examination of the
features is sufficient, in ordinary cases, to enable me to form an
opinion of a person.”
Mr. Sharp was fertile in expedients, and had an abundant share of
self-possession.
“Perhaps we had better proceed to business,” said Lewis, abruptly.
“Oh, by all means, sir, by all means?” returned Mr. Sharp, assuming a
brisk tone at the prospect of a client. “As I before remarked, I never
feel more completely in my element than when immersed in business. It is
an——”
“If you will give me your attention for a few minutes,” pursued Lewis,
unceremoniously interrupting him, “I will endeavor to explain the nature
of the service I require.”
Mr. Sharp bent forward, and assumed an attitude of the most earnest
attention. He nodded slightly, and screwed up his eyes, as if to
intimate that he was about to concentrate all his mental energies upon
the matter in hand.
“You must know,” said Lewis, slowly, “that there are two persons living
in this city whose presence, in what way it is needless to specify,
conflict very seriously with my interests. It is my wish to bring some
motive to bear upon them which shall lead to their departure from the
city.”
“I understand,” nodded Mr. Sharp, with an air of profound wisdom. “Go
on, my good sir.”
“One difficulty, however, meets me at the outset,” continued Lewis; “I
do not know in what part of the city the two persons——”
“Aforesaid,” prompted Mr. Sharp, nodding sagaciously.
“Live,” concluded Lewis, not heeding the interpolation; “nor have I any
definite clew by which to find them.”
“Can you describe these persons to me so that I may be able to identify
them?”
“That is not easy, since one of them I have never seen but once, and the
other but once in fifteen years.”
Mr. Sharp looked a little puzzled.
“I can, however, tell you this much. One is a man of about forty, who
appears somewhat older. The other, his daughter, is a girl of fourteen,
or thereabouts. The former is a little absent in manner, or was formerly
so; the little girl, I should judge, is attractive in her personal
appearance.”
“When did you last meet them?” inquired the lawyer.
“One evening last week.”
“And where?”
“They were then leaning against the railing on the west side of the
Park.”
“Can you tell at what hour?”
“About six.”
“Then it is quite possible that they may be found at the same place some
evening, at or near this hour. Very probably they are in the habit of
taking a walk at that time and in that direction. We are all creatures
of habit, and are apt to stick to the ruts we have made. Have you no
other clew by which I may be guided? It is quite likely that there are
others to whom the description you have given will apply. When you saw
them, in what manner were they dressed?”
“I had but a brief glimpse, and do not feel altogether sure. The father
is as tall as yourself. I can tell you the girl’s name also; it is
Helen.”
“And her father’s?”
“I could tell you his real name, but as I have every reason to believe
that he has dropped it and assumed another, it will, perhaps, be
unnecessary. His Christian name is Robert.”
“The first step, then,” said Mr. Sharp, reflectively, “is, of course, to
find these persons. This will be a matter of some difficulty, and may
require considerable time. I do not doubt, however, that I shall
ultimately be able to accomplish it. May I inquire whether they are in
good circumstances pecuniarily?”
“Probably not. I presume their means are quite limited.”
“So much the better.”
“For what reason?” inquired Lewis, in some curiosity.
“Simply this. You tell me you are desirous of removing them from the
city; if they are poor it will be much easier to offer an inducement
likely to weigh with them, than if they were in prosperous
circumstances.”
“There is something in that, I admit, but if Robert is as proud as he
used to be in days gone by, such an attempt would avail but little.
However, there is no occasion to consider what further steps are to be
taken, till we have actually found them. That must be our first care.”
“In that I shall endeavor to serve you. How and where shall I
communicate with you?”
“I shall call upon you frequently. There may, however, be occasions when
