fearless giving forth of their inner nature, which comes from the
atmosphere of free democratic society. Like most high-bred American
girls, they had traveled, and had opportunities of observing European
society, which added breadth to their range of conversation without
taking anything from their frank simplicity. Foreign travel produces
two opposite kinds of social effect, according to character. Persons
who are narrow in their education, sensitive and self-distrustful,
are embarrassed by a foreign experience: they lose their confidence
in their home life, in their own country and its social habitudes,
and get nothing adequate in return; their efforts at hospitality
are repressed by a sort of mental comparison of themselves with
foreign models; they shrink from, entertaining strangers, through an
indefinite fear that they shall come short of what would be expected
somewhere else. But persons of more breadth of thought and more
genuine courage see at once that there is a characteristic American
home life, and that what a foreigner seeks in a foreign country is the
peculiarity of that country, and not an attempt to reproduce that
which has become stupid and tedious to him by constant repetition at
home.
Angelique and Alice talked readily and freely; Alice with the calm,
sustained good sense and dignity which was characteristic of her, and
Angelique in those sunny jets and flashes of impulsive gaiety which
rise like a fountain at the moment. Given the presence of three female
personages like Eva, Alice, and Angelique, and it would not be among
the possibilities for a given set of the other sex to be dull or
heavy. Then, most of the gentlemen were more or less habitués of the
house, and somewhat accorded with each other, like instruments that
have been played in unison; and it is not, therefore to be wondered
at that Mr. Selby made the mental comment that, taken at home, these
Americans are delightful, and that cultivated American women are
particularly so from their engaging frankness of manner.
There would be a great deal more obedience to the apostolic
injunction, "Be not forgetful to entertain strangers," if it once
could be clearly got into the heads of well-intending people what it
is that strangers want. What do you want, when away from home, in a
strange city? Is it not the warmth of the home fireside, and the sight
of people that you know care for you? Is it not the blessed privilege
of speaking and acting yourself out unconstrainedly among those who
you know understand you? And had you not rather dine with an old
friend on simple cold mutton, offered with a warm heart, than go to a
splendid ceremonious dinner party among people who don't care a rush
for you?
Well, then, set it down in your book that other people are like
you; and that the art of entertaining is the art of really caring
for people. If you have a warm heart, congenial tastes, and a real
interest in your stranger, don't fear to invite him, though you have
no best dinner set, and your existing plates are sadly chipped at the
edges, and even though there be a handle broken off from the side of
your vegetable dish. Set it down in your belief that you can give
something better than a dinner, however good,--you can give a part of
yourself. You can give love, good will, and sympathy, of which there
has, perhaps, been quite as much over cracked plates and restricted
table furniture as over Sèvres china and silver.
It soon appeared that Mr. Selby, like other sensible Englishmen,
had a genuine interest in getting below the surface life of our
American world, and coming to the real "hard-pan" on which our social
fabric is founded. He was full of intelligent curiosity as to the
particulars of American journalism, its management, its possibilities,
its remunerations compared with those of England; and here was
where Bolton's experience, and Jim Fellows's many-sided practical
observations, came out strongly.
Alice was delighted with the evident impression that Jim made on a
man whose good opinion appeared to be worth having; for that young
lady, insensibly perhaps to herself, held a sort of right of property
in Jim, such as the princesses of the middle ages had in the knights
that wore their colors, and Jim, undoubtedly, was inspired by the
idea that bright eyes looked on, to do his devoir manfully in
the conversation. So they went over all the chances and prospects
of income and living for literary men and journalists in the two
countries; the facilities for marriage, and the establishment of
families, including salaries, rents, prices of goods, etc. In the
course of the conversation, Mr. Selby made many frank statements of
his own personal experience and observation, which were responded to
with equal frankness on the part of Harry and Eva and others, till it
finally seemed as if the whole company were as likely to become au
courant of each other's affairs as a party of brothers and sisters.
Eva, sitting at the head, like a skillful steerswoman, turned the helm
of conversation adroitly, now this way and now that, to draw out the
forces of all her guests, and bring each into play. She introduced
the humanitarian questions of the day; and the subject branched at
once upon what was doing by the Christian world: the high church, the
ritualists, the broad church, and the dissenters all rose upon the
carpet, and St. John was wide awake and earnest in his inquiries. In
fact, an eager talking spirit descended upon them, and it was getting
dark when Eva made the move to go to the parlor, where a bright fire
and coffee awaited them.
"I always hate to drop very dark shades over my windows in the
evening," said Eva, as she went in and began letting down the lace
curtains; "I like to have the firelight of a pleasant room stream out
into the dark, and look cheerful and hospitable outside; for that
reason I don't like inside shutters. Do you know, Mr. Selby, how your
English arrangements used to impress me? They were all meant to be
very delightful to those inside, but freezingly repulsive to those
without. Your beautiful grounds that one longs to look at, are guarded
by high stone-walls with broken bottles on the top, to keep one from
even hoping to get over. Now, I think beautiful grounds are a public
charity, and a public education; and a man shouldn't build a high wall
round them, so that even the sight of his trees, and the odor of his
flowers, should be denied to his poor neighbors."
"It all comes of our national love of privacy," said Mr. Selby;
