have seen the whole of them.”
“I don’t know about that,” suggested Lon Gibbs,
who, from the chaplain’s point of view, was the most
hopeful of the four; for his education was better than
the others, and he had some taste for the wonders of
nature and art. “Spain ought to be worth seeing to
fellows from the United States of America. I suppose
you know that Columbus sailed from this country.”
“Is that so?” laughed Bark Lingall. “I thought he
was an Italian; at any rate, we saw the place where he
was born, or else it was a fraud.”
“I think you had better read up your history again,
and you will find that Columbus was born in Italy, but
sailed in the service of Spain,” replied Lon Gibbs.
“That will do!” interposed Bill Stout, turning up
his nose. “We don’t want any of that sort of thing in
our crowd. If you wish to show off your learning,
Lon, you had better go and join the lambs.”
“That’s so. It’s treason to talk that kind of bosh in
our company. We have too much of it in the steerage
to tolerate any of it when we are by ourselves,” said
Ben Pardee.
“I thought you were going to do something about
it,” added Bill Stout. “We are utterly disgusted, and
we agreed that we could not stand it any longer. We
shall go into the next place—I forget the name of
it”—
“Barcelona,” added Lon Gibbs, who was rather
annoyed at the dense ignorance of his friend.
“Barcelona, then. I suppose it is some one–horse
seaport, where we are expected to go into ecstasies over
tumble–down old buildings, or pretend that we like to
look at a lot of musty pictures. I have had enough of
this sort of thing, as I said before. I should like to
have a right down good time, such as we had in New
York when we went round among the theatres and the
beer–shops. That was fun for me. I’m no book–worm,
and I don’t pretend to be. I won’t make believe that
I enjoy looking at ruins and pictures when it is a bore
to me. I will not be a hypocrite, whatever else I am.”
Bill Stout evidently believed that he had some virtue
left; and, as he delivered himself of his sentiments, he
looked like a much abused and wronged young man.
“Here we are; and in six or eight hours we shall be
in Barcelona,” continued Ben Pardee.
“And it is no such one–horse place as you seem to
think it is,” added Lon Gibbs. “It is a large city; in
fact, the second in size in Spain, and with about the
same population as Boston. It is a great commercial
place.”
“You have learned the geography by heart,” sneered
Bill Stout, who had a hearty contempt for those who
knew any thing contained in the books, or at least for
those who made any display of their knowledge.
“I like, when I am going to any place, to know
something about it,” pleaded Lon, in excuse for his
wisdom in regard to Barcelona.
“Are there any beer–shops there, Lon?” asked Bill.
“I don’t know.”
“Then your education has been neglected.”
“Spain is not a beer–drinking country; and I should
say you would find no beer–shops there,” continued
Lon. “Spain is a wine country; and I have no doubt
you will find plenty of wine–shops in Barcelona, and in
the other cities of the country.”
“Wine–shops! that will do just as well, and perhaps
a little better,” chuckled Bill. “There is no fun where
there are no wine or beer shops.”
“What’s the use of talking?” demanded Bark Lingall.
“What are the wine or the beer shops to do with
us? If we entered one of them, we should be deprived
of our liberty, or be put into the brig for twenty–four
hours; and that don’t pay.”
“But I want to break away from this thing altogether,”
added Bill Stout. “I have been a slave from
the first moment I came into the squadron. I never
was used to being tied up to every hour and minute in
the day. A fellow can’t move without being watched.
What they call recreation is as solemn as a prayer–meeting.”
“Well, what do you want to do, Bill?” asked Ben
Pardee, as he glanced at the second master, who had
halted in his walk in the waist, to overhear, if he could,
any word that might be dropped by the party.
“That’s more than I am able to say just at this
minute,” replied Bill, pausing till the officer of the
watch had moved on. “I want to end this dog’s life,
and be my own master once more. I want to get out
of this vessel, and out of the fleet.”
“Would you like to get into the steamer?” asked
Lon Gibbs.
“I should like that for a short time; but I don’t
think I should be satisfied in her for more than a week
or two. It was just my luck, when I got out of the
Young America, after she went to the bottom, to have
the American Prince come to take her place, and leave
me out in the cold. No, I don’t want to stay in the
steamer; but I should like to be in her a few days, just
to see how things are done. All the fellows have to
keep strained up in her, even more than in the Tritonia;
and that is just the thing I don’t like. In fact, it is just
