this--in fact, over the whole roof--was pitched an awning of heavy
sail-cloth. I noticed that the house was anchored to the sand by
chains, already rusted red. But this one-storied house was not the
only building nestling in the south shelter of the big dune. A hundred
feet away stood another structure--long, low, also built of wood. It
had rows on rows of round port-holes on every side. The ports were
fitted with heavy glass, hinged to swing open if necessary. A single,
big double door occupied the front.
"Behind this long, low building was still another, a mere shed. Smoke
rose from the sheet-iron chimney. There was somebody moving about
inside the open door.
"As I stood gaping at this mushroom hamlet the professor appeared at
the door and asked me to enter. I stepped in at once.
"The house was much larger than I had imagined. A straight hallway ran
through the centre from east to west. On either side of this hallway
were rooms, the doors swinging wide open. I counted three doors on
each side; the three on the south appeared to be bedrooms.
"The professor ushered me into a room on the north side, where I found
Captain McPeek and Frisby sitting at a table, upon which were drawings
and sketches of articulated animals and fishes.
"'You see, McPeek,' said the professor, 'we only wanted one more man,
and I think I've got him--Haven't I?' turning eagerly to me.
"'Why, yes,' I said, laughing; 'this is delightful. Am I invited to
stay here?'
"'Your bedroom is the third on the south side; everything is ready.
McPeek, you can bring his trunk to-morrow, can't you?' demanded the
professor.
"The red-faced captain nodded, and shifted a quid.
"'Then it's all settled,' said the professor, and he drew a sigh of
satisfaction. 'You see,' he said, turning to me, 'I was at my wit's
end to know whom to trust. I never thought of you. Jack's out in
China, and I didn't dare trust anybody in my own profession. All you
care about is writing verses and stories, isn't it?'
"'I like to shoot,' I replied, mildly.
"'Just the thing!' he cried, beaming at us all in turn. 'Now I can see
no reason why we should not progress rapidly. McPeek, you and Frisby
must get those boxes up here before dark. Dinner will be ready before
you have finished unloading. Dick, you will wish to go to your room
first.'
"My name isn't Dick, but he spoke so kindly, and beamed upon me in
such a fatherly manner, that I let it go. I had occasion to correct
him afterwards, several times, but he always forgot the next minute.
He calls me Dick to this day.
"It was dark when Professor Holroyd, his daughter, and I sat down to
dinner. The room was the same in which I had noticed the drawings of
beast and bird, but the round table had been extended into an oval,
and neatly spread with dainty linen and silver.
"A fresh-cheeked Swedish girl appeared from a farther room, bearing
the soup. The professor ladled it out, still beaming.
"'Now, this is very delightful--isn't it, Daisy?' he said.
"'Very,' said Miss Holroyd, with a tinge of irony.
"'Very,' I repeated, heartily.
"'I suppose,' said the professor, nodding mysteriously at his
daughter, 'that Dick knows nothing of what we're about down here?'
"'I suppose,' said Miss Holroyd, 'that he thinks we are digging for
fossils.'
"I looked at my plate. She might have spared me that.
"'Well, well,' said her father, smiling to himself, 'he shall know
everything by morning. You'll be astonished, Dick, my boy.'
"'His name isn't Dick,' corrected Daisy.
"The professor said, 'Isn't it?' in an absent-minded way, and relapsed
into contemplation of my necktie.
"I asked Miss Holroyd a few questions about Jack, and was informed
that he had given up law and entered the consular service--as what, I
did not dare ask, for I know what our consular service is.
"'In China,' said Daisy.
"'Choo Choo is the name of the city,' added her father, proudly; 'it's
the terminus of the new trans-Siberian railway.'
"'It's on the Pong Ping,' said Daisy.
"'He's vice-consul,' added the professor, triumphantly.
"'He'll make a good one,' I observed. I knew Jack. I pitied his
consul.
"So we chatted on about my old playmate, until Freda, the red-cheeked
maid, brought coffee, and the professor lighted a cigar, with a little
bow to his daughter.
"'Of course, you don't smoke,' she said to me, with a glimmer of
malice in her eyes.
"'He mustn't,' interposed the professor, hastily; 'it will make his
hand tremble.'
"'No, it won't,' said I, laughing; 'but my hand will shake if I don't
smoke. Are you going to employ me as a draughtsman?'
"'You'll know to-morrow,' he chuckled, with a mysterious smile at his
daughter. 'Daisy, give him my best cigars--put the box here on the
table. We can't afford to have his hand tremble.'
"Miss Holroyd rose and crossed the hallway to her father's room,
returning presently with a box of promising-looking cigars.
"'I don't think he knows what is good for him,' she said. 'He should
smoke only one every day.'
"It was hard to bear. I am not vindictive, but I decided to treasure
up a few of Miss Holroyd's gentle taunts. My intimacy with her brother
was certainly a disadvantage to me now. Jack had apparently been
talking too much, and his sister appeared to be thoroughly acquainted
with my past. It was a disadvantage. I remembered her vaguely as a
girl with long braids, who used to come on Sundays with her father and
take tea with us in our rooms. Then she went to Germany to school, and
Jack and I employed our Sunday evenings otherwise. It is true that I
regarded her weekly visits as a species of infliction, but I did not
think I ever showed it.
"'It is strange,' said I, 'that you did not recognize me at once, Miss
Holroyd. Have I changed so greatly in five years?'
