through coincidence, of course every time a 
new misfortune comes upon our family, misfortune also falls on France." He nodded, 
still mystified, but interested. 
"Did you happen to notice the device 
carved on the gatepost?" she asked. 
"I thought it resembled a fish " 
"Do you understand French, Captain Nee- 
land?" 
"Yes." 
"Then you know that L Ombre means the 
shadow ." 
"Yes." 
"Did you know, also, that there is a fish 
called L Ombre ?" 
"No; I did not know that." 
"There is. It looks like a shadow in the 
water. L Ombre does not belong here in Brit 
tany. It is a northern fish of high altitudes 
where waters are icy and rapid and always 
tinctured with melted snow . . . would you accord me a little more patience, Monsieur, if 
I seem to be garrulous concerning my own 
family? It is merely because I want you to 
understand everything . . . everything. . . ." 
"I am interested," lie assured her pleasantly. 
"Then it is a legend perhaps a superstition in our family that any misfortune to 
us and to France is always preceded by two 
invariable omens. One of these dreaded signs 
is the abrupt appearance of L Ombre in the 
waters of our moat " She turned her head 
slowly and looked down over the parapet of 
the bridge. "The other omen," she continued quietly, "is that the clocks in our house 
suddenly go wrong all striking the same 
hour, no matter where the hands point, no 
matter what time it really is. ... These 
things have always happened in our family, 
they say. I, myself, have never before witnessed them. But during the Vendee the 
clocks persisted in striking four times every 
hour. The Comte'd Aulnes mounted the scaffold at that hour; the Vicomte died under 
Charette at Fontenay at that hour. . . . L Om- 
bre appeared in the waters of the moat at 
four o clock one afternoon. And then the 
clocks went wrong. 
"And all this happened again, they say, in 
1870. L Ombre appeared in the moat. Every 
clock continued to strike six, day after day 
for a whole week, until the battle of Sedan 
ended. . . . My grandfather died there with 
the light cavalry. ... I am so afraid I am 
taxing your courtesy, Captain Neeland 
"I am intensely interested," he repeated, 
watching the lovely, sensitive face which pride 
and dread of misinterpretation had slightly 
flushed again. 
"It is only to explain perhaps to justify 
myself for writing for asking that an officer 
be sent here from Lorient for a few days 
"I understand, Countess." 
"Thank you. . . . Had it been merely for 
myself for my own fears my personal safety, 
I should not have written. But our misfortunes seem to be coincident with my country's mishaps. ... So I thought if they 
sent an officer who would be kind enough to 
understand " 
"I understand . . . L Ombre has appeared in 
the moat again, has it not?" 
"Yes, it came a week ago, suddenly, at 
five o clock in the afternoon." 
"And the clocks?" 
"For a week they have been all wrong." 
"What hour do they strike?" he asked curiously. 
"Five." 
"No matter where the hands point?" 
"No matter. I have tried to regulate them. 
I have done everything I could do. But they 
continue to strike five every hour of the day 
and night. ... I have" a pale smile touched 
her lips "I have been a little wakeful perhaps a trifle uneasy on my country's account. 
You understand. . . ." Pride and courage had 
permitted her no more than uneasiness, it 
seemed. Or if fear had threatened her there 
in her lonely bedroom through the still watches 
of the night, she desired him to understand 
that her solicitude was for France, not for 
any daughter of the race whose name she 
bore. 
The simplicity and directness of her amazing narrative had held his respect and attention; there could be no doubt that she implicitly believed what she told him. 
But that was one thing; and the wild extravagance of the story was another. There 
must be, of course, an explanation for these 
phenomena other than a supernatural one. 
Such things do not happen except in medieval 
romance and tales of sorcery and doom. And 
of all regions on earth Brittany swarms with 
such tales and superstitions. He knew it. 
And this young girl was Bretonne after all, 
however educated, however accomplished, how 
ever honest and modern and sincere. And 
he began to comprehend that the germs of 
superstition and credulity were in the blood 
of every Breton ever born. 
But he merely said with pleasant deference : 
"I can very easily understand your uneasiness and perplexity, Madame. It is a time 
