 he asked wistfully.
“Dear Mac, I cannot give you the love you want, but I do trust and
respect you from the bottom of my heart, if that is any comfort,” began
Rose, looking up with eyes full of contrition for the pain her reply
must give.
She got no further, however, for those last words wrought a marvelous
change in Mac. Dropping her hands, he stood erect, as if inspired with
sudden energy and hope, while over his face there came a brave, bright
look, which for the moment made him a nobler and comelier man than
ever handsome Prince had been. “It is a comfort!” he said, in a tone
of gratitude that touched her very much. “You said your love must be
founded on respect, and that you have given me why can I not earn the
rest? I’m nothing now, but everything is possible when one loves with
all his heart and soul and strength. Rose, I will be your hero if a
mortal man can, even though I have to work and wait for years. I’ll make
you love me, and be glad to do it. Don’t be frightened. I’ve not lost my
wits I’ve just found them. I don’t ask anything I’ll never speak of my
hope, but it is no use to stop me. I must try it, and I will succeed!”
With the last words, uttered in a ringing voice while his face glowed,
his eyes shone, and he looked as if carried out of himself by the
passion that possessed him, Mac abruptly left the room, like one eager
to change words to deeds and begin his task at once.
Rose was so amazed by all this that she sat down trembling a little, not
with fear or anger, but a feeling half pleasure, half pain, and a sense
of some new power subtle, strong, and sweet that had come into her life.
It seemed as if another Mac had taken the place of the one she had
known so long an ardent, ambitious man, ready for any work now that the
magical moment had come when everything seems possible to love. If hope
could work such a marvelous change for a moment, could not happiness
do it for a lifetime? It would be an exciting experiment to try, she
thought, remembering the sudden illumination which made that familiar
face both beautiful and strange.
She could not help wondering how long this unsuspected sentiment
had been growing in his heart and felt perplexed by its peculiar
demonstration, for she had never had a lover like this before. It
touched and flattered her, nevertheless and she could not but feel
honored by a love so genuine and generous, for it seemed to make a
man of Mac all at once, and a manly man, too, who was not daunted by
disappointment but could “hope against hope” and resolve to make her
love him if it took years to do it.
There was the charm of novelty about this sort of wooing, and she tried
to guess how he would set about it, felt curious to see how he would
behave when next they met, and was half angry with herself for not being
able to decide how she ought to act. The more she thought, the more
bewildered she grew, for having made up her mind that Mac was a genius,
it disturbed all her plans to find him a lover, and such an ardent one.
As it was impossible to predict what would come next, she gave up trying
to prepare for it and, tired with vain speculations, carried Dulce off
to bed, wishing she could tuck away her love troubles as quietly and
comfortably as she did her sleepy little charge.
Simple and sincere in all things, Mac gave Rose a new surprise by
keeping his promise to the letter asked nothing of her, said nothing
of his hope, and went on as if nothing had happened, quite in the old
friendly way. No, not quite, for now and then, when she least expected
it, she saw again the indescribable expression on his face, a look
that seemed to shed a sudden sunshine over her, making her eyes fall
involuntarily, her color rise, and her heart beat quicker for a moment.
Not a word did he say, but she felt that a new atmosphere surrounded
her when he was by, and although he used none of the little devices most
lovers employ to keep the flame alight, it was impossible to forget that
underneath his quietude there was a hidden world of fire and force ready
to appear at a touch, a word from her.
This was rather dangerous knowledge for Rose, and she soon began to feel
that there were more subtle temptations than she had expected, for it
was impossible to be unconscious of her power, or always to resist the
trials of it which daily came unsought. She had never felt this desire
before, for Charlie was the only one who had touched her heart, and he
was constantly asking as well as giving, and wearied her by demanding
too much or oppressed her by offering more than she could accept.
Mac did neither; he only loved her, silently, patiently, hopefully, and
this generous sort of fidelity was very eloquent to a nature like hers.
She could not refuse or chide, since nothing was asked or urged; there
was no need of coldness, for he never presumed; no call for pity, since
he never complained. All that could be done was to try and be as just
and true as he was, and to wait as trustfully for the end, whatever it
was to be.
For a time she liked the new interest it put into her life, yet did
nothing to encourage it and thought that if she gave this love no food
it would soon starve to death. But it seemed to thrive on air, and
presently she began to feel as if a very strong will was slowly but
steadily influencing her in many ways. If Mac had never told her that he
meant to “make her love him,” she might have yielded unconsciously, but
now she mistook the impulse to obey this undercurrent for compassion and
resisted stoutly, not comprehending yet the reason for the unrest which
took possession of her about this time.
She had as many moods as an April day, and would have much surprised Dr.
Alec by her vagaries had he known them all. He saw enough, however, to
guess what was the matter, but took no notice, for he knew this fever
must run its course, and much medicine only does harm. The others were
busy about their own affairs, and Aunt Plenty was too much absorbed in
her rheumatism to think of love, for the cold weather set in early, and
the poor lady kept her room for days at a time with Rose as nurse.
Mac had spoken of going away in November, and Rose began to hope he
would, for she decided that this silent sort of adoration was bad for
her, as it prevented her from steadily pursuing the employments she
had marked out for that year. What was the use of trying to read useful
books when her thoughts continually wandered to those charming essays on
“Love” and “Friendship”? To copy antique casts, when all the masculine
heads looked like Cupid and the feminine ones like the Psyche on her
mantelpiece? To practice the best music if it ended in singing over and
