disposed at the back in a manner of careless grace 
which reminded Betty of a head of Sappho on an 
 
old gem in her possession. The face she could not 
see quite so well, for it was partly turned from her; 
Betty's attention centred on the figure and carriage. 
A pang of jealous rivalry shot through her as she 
looked. There was not a person in the room that 
carried her head so nobly, nor whose pose was so 
stately and graceful; yet stately as it was, it had 
no air of proud self-consciousness, nor of pride at 
all ; it was not that; it was simple maidenly dignity, 
not dignity aped. Betty read so much, and rapidly 
read what else she could see. She saw that the fig 
ure she was admiring was dressed but indifferently; 
the black silk had certainly seen its best days, 
if it was not exactly shabby; no ornaments what 
ever were worn with it. The fashion of garments 
at that day was, as I have remarked, very trying 
to any but a good figure, while it certainly shewed 
such a one to advantage. Betty knew her own 
figure could bear comparison with most; the one 
she was looking at would bear comparison with 
any. Miss Gainsborough was standing in the 
most absolute quiet, the arms crossed over one an 
other, with no ornament but their whiteness. 
"A good deal of a plomb there?" whispered 
one of Betty's attendants who saw whither her 
eyes had gone. 
"2 plomb!" repeated Betty. "That is not'd 
plomb ! " 
"Isn't it? Why not?" 
" It is something else," said Betty, eyeing still 
the figure she was commenting on. "You don't 
speak of balance unless how shall I put it ? Don't 
you know what I mean ? " 
" No ! " laughed her companion. 
" You might save me the trouble of telling you, 
if you were clever. You know you do not speak 
of balance, except well, except where either the 
footing or the feet are somehow doubtful. You 
would not think of balance as belonging to a 
mountain." 
" A mountain ! " said the other, looking over at 
Esther and still laughing. 
" Yes, I grant you there is not much in common 
between the two things; only that element of undisturbableness. Do you know Miss Gainsborough?" 
" I have not the honour. I have never met her 
before." 
" I must know her. Who can introduce me ? " 
And finding her hostess at this moment near her, 
Betty went on. "Dear Mrs. Chatsworth, do take 
me over and introduce me to Miss Gainsborough ! 
I am filled with admiration and curiosity. But 
first, who is she ? " 
" I really can tell you little. She is a great favour 
ite of my friend Miss Fairbairn ; that is how I came 
to know her. She teaches in Mme. Duval's school. 
She is English, I believe. Miss Fairbairn says, she 
is very highly accomplished; and I believe it is 
true." 
"Well please introduce me. I am dying to 
know her." 
The introduction was made; the gentleman who 
 
had been talking to Miss Gainsborough withdrew ; 
the two girls were left face to face. 
Yes, what a face ! thought Betty, as soon as it 
was turned upon her; and with every minute of 
their being together the feeling grew. Not like 
any face she had ever seen in her life, Betty de 
cided; what the difference was it took longer to 
determine. Good features, with refinement in every 
line of them; a fair, delicate skin, matching the 
pale brown hair ; Betty had seen as good repeatedly. 
What she had not seen was what attracted her. 
The brow, broad and intellectual, had a most beautiful repose upon it ; and from under it looked forth 
upon Betty two glorious grey eyes, pure, grave, 
thoughtful, penetrating, sweet. Yet more than all 
the rest, perhaps, which struck Miss Frere, was an 
expression, in mouth and eyes both, which is seen 
on no faces but of those who have gone through discipline and have learned the habit of self-renunciation, endurance, and loving ministry. 
The two girls sat down together at Betty's 
instance. 
"Will you forgive me?" she said. "I am a 
stranger, but I do want to ask you a question or 
two. May I ? and will you hear me patiently ? I 
see you will." 
The other made a courteous, half smiling, sign 
of assent; not as if she were surprised. Betty no 
ticed that. 
" It is very bold, for a stranger," she went on, 
making her observations while she spoke ; " but the 
thing is earnest with me, and I must seize my chance, 
if it is a chance. It has happened," she lowered 
her voice somewhat and her words came slower, 
" it has happened, that I have been studying the 
subject of religion a good deal lately; it interests 
me ; and I want to ask you Why did you sing that 
hymn? " 
