     vows before; it was something within me, I don't know what.
     "But, if I were wedded with him, it would be fear of
     punishment alone that could save me--not terror of flames; I
     could endure them with you, but the new knowledge that has
     come to me that my punishment would be the one thing I could
     not endure--eternity without you!
     "Neither in heaven nor in hell may I have you. Is there no
     way, my beloved? Is there no place for us?
       *       *       *       *       *
     "I have been to the porch to tell Sir George that I must
     postpone the wedding. I did not tell him. He was standing
     with Magdalen Brant, and she was crying. I did not know she
     had received bad news. She said the news was bad. Perhaps Sir
     George can help her.
     "I will tell him later that the wedding must be postponed....
     I don't know why, either. I cannot think. I can scarcely see
     to write. Oh, help me once more, my darling! Do not come to
     Varicks'! That is all I desire on earth! For we must never,
     never, see each other again!"
       *       *       *       *       *
Stunned, I reeled to my feet and stumbled out into the moonlight,
staring across the misty wilderness into the east, where, beyond the
forests, somewhere, she lay, perhaps a bride.
A deathly chill struck through and through me. To a free man, with one
shred of pity, honor, unselfish love, that appeal must be answered. And
he were the basest man in all the world who should ignore it and show
his face at Varick Manor--were he free to choose.
But I was not free; I was a military servant, pledged under solemn oath
and before God to obedience--instant, unquestioning, unfaltering
obedience.
And in my trembling hand I held my written orders to report at Varick
Manor.
XX
COCK-CROW
At dawn we left the road and struck the Oneida trail north of the river,
following it swiftly, bearing a little north of east until, towards
noon, we came into the wagon-road which runs over the Mayfield hills and
down through the outlying bush farms of Mayfield and Kingsborough.
Many of the houses were deserted, but not all; here and there smoke
curled from the chimney of some lonely farm; and across the stump
pasture we could see a woman laboring in the sun-scorched fields and a
man, rifle in hand, standing guard on a vantage-point which
overlooked his land.
Fences and gates became more frequent, crossing the rough road every
mile or two, so that we were constantly letting down and replacing
cattle-bars, unpinning rude gates, or climbing over snake fences of
split rails.
Once we came to a cross-roads where the fence had been demolished and a
warning painted on a rough pine board above a wayside watering-trough.
     "WARNING!
     All farmers and townsfolk are hereby requested and ordered to
     remove gates, stiles, cow-bars, and fences, which includes
     all obstructions to the public highway, in order that the
     cavalry may pass without difficulty. Any person found felling
     trees across this road, or otherwise impeding the operations
     of cavalry by building brush, stump, rail, or stone fences
     across this road, will be arrested and tried before a court
     on charge of aiding and giving comfort to the enemy.
     G. COVERT,
     "Captain Commanding Legion."
Either this order did not apply to the cross-road which we now filed
into, or the owners of adjacent lands paid no heed to it; for presently,
a few rods ahead of us, we saw a snake fence barring the road and a man
with a pack on his back in the act of climbing over it.
He was going in the same direction that we were, and seemed to be a
fur-trader laden with packets of peltry.
I said this to Murphy, who laughed and looked at Mount.
"Who carries pelts to Quebec in August?" asked Elerson, grinning.
"There's the skin of a wolverine dangling from his pack," I said, in a
low voice.
Murphy touched Mount's arm, and they halted until the man ahead had
rounded a turn in the road; then they sprang forward, creeping swiftly
to the shelter of the undergrowth at the bend of the road, while Elerson
and I followed at an easy pace.
"What is it?" I asked, as we rejoined them where they were kneeling,
looking after the figure ahead.
"Nothing, sir; we only want to see them pelts, Tim and me."
"Do you know the man?" I demanded.
Murphy gazed musingly at Mount through narrowed eyes. Mount, in a brown
study, stared back.
"Phwere th' divil have I seen him, I dunnoa!" muttered Murphy. "Jack,
'tis wan mush-rat looks like th' next, an' all thrappers has the same
cut to them! Yonder's no thrapper!"
"Nor peddler," added Mount; "the strap of the Delaware baskets never
bowed his legs."
"Thrue, avick! Wisha, lad, 'tis horses he knows better than snow-shoes,
bed-plates, an' thrip-sticks! An' I've seen him, I think!"
"Where?" I asked.
He shook his head, vacantly staring. Moved by the same impulse, we all
started forward; the man was not far ahead, but our moccasins made no
noise in the dust and we closed up swiftly on him and were at his elbow
before he heard us.
Under the heavy sunburn the color faded in his cheeks when he saw us. I
noted it, but that was nothing strange considering the perilous
conditions of the country and the sudden shock of our appearance.
"Good-day, friend," cried Mount, cheerily.
"Good-day, friends," he replied, stammering as though for lack of
breath.
"God save our country, friend," added Elerson, gravely.
"God save our country, friends," repeated the man.
