practice, found a slim box done up with a 
 
white ribbon and her name in bold characters. 
It was not Willard Bell; she bad forbidden 
any remembrance from him. 
Opening it, she found a beautiful edition of 
“ The Ancient Mariner.” On the fly-leaf was 
a daintily written acrostic ending with, “ Love 
fervent and true. S. C.” 
There could be no doubt about the donor. 
It was a costly gift, and Helen’s cheek burned. 
Her first impulse was to return it, but there 
was the unfortunate acrostic, and it was truly 
poetical, with charming conceits. 
She evaded the girl all the next day, and 
she knew Shirley was too well-bred to come 
to her room without an invitation. She ran 
to Leslie’s room just before dinner with the 
gift in her hand. 
“ Why, that is really superb ! What an ad- 
mirer you must have! Though I suppose it 
is your friend, Miss Craven.” 
“ She knows better than that,” and Helen 
flushed as if annoyed. “ Read the inscrip- 
tion.” 
“ What a lovely, dainty thing! Do you 
know, it suggests Herrick and the poets of 
that time? I never thought there could be 
so much real beauty in an acrostic. Have you 
unearthed a new poet? Why, I am intensely 
interested. And all this worship to be offered 
at your shrine. Miss Grant, juniors have no 
right to lovers, though admirers may be tol- 
erated.” 
Leslie was smiling, and her eyes shone with 
curiosity, as if she was really insistent upon 
an answer. 
“ There's a queer story, and I am glad to 
tell you. I haven't had a father confessor 
among the girls, O ‘ Miss Ophelia,’ so I 
think I shall take you. I have an admirer, 
and I don’t know what to do. Advise me.” 
And then came out the story. Leslie lis- 
tened with much interest. 
“ Helen, you did look like a young goddess 
that day,” she said, laughingly. “ You are 
one of the girls who have beautiful moments, 
and it is fortunate to have them appear at the 
right instant. But I am puzzled about these 
verses. I suppose they are original. They are 
suggestive. Either she must be very well read 
or have a touch of the divine inspiration. I’ll 
 
have to look her up. Poets are born at times, 
even in the prosaic world of to-day.” 
“ But about the gift. I’m sorry it was so 
expensive. And,” laughing, “ I have two cop- 
ies already donated by dear friends. You see 
it is difficult to pass them on when your name 
is on an elegant fly-leaf.” 
“ Why, it would be simply dreadful to send 
it back! She may come to be an ornament 
to the college if cruel disappointment does not 
blight her genius in the bud. Truly, I am 
seized with a sudden interest in her. There 
are candle geniuses that soon burn down, and 
you take a delight in snuffing them out. But 
I have seen them grow brighter. We have 
evolved several of them. I think the best 
thing would be to write a graceful little note 
of thanks, and — ” 
“And what?” in the long pause, as she 
saw Leslie’s eyes fixed on the opposite wall 
regarding it vaguely. 
“ I honestly believe, Helen, that you do not 
want to receive gifts like these. You are a 
frank, upright sort of girl, and it is embar- 
rassing not to return them in some kind or 
degree, which is a bad plan to adopt. One 
would spend a good deal of money on it; and 
sometimes, you wouldn’t really care for the 
girl.” 
“ I shall not begin it,” said Helen, reso- 
lutely. “ I can’t afford it. That is one nice 
thing between Miss Craven and myself. She 
understands that I am not able to compete 
with her, and she doesn’t want anything but 
the regard. It is such a pleasure for her to 
give, but she doesn’t overburden you. Why 
that smile? ” 
A peculiar bright light had crossed Leslie’s 
face like a half-hidden sunbeam peering out. 
“ Some one says it is a duty to let others 
do to us as we would do if the occasions were 
reversed. But we ought to be quite certain 
we would do it, I suppose. And nothing 
comes nearer to putting me out of temper than 
to have a friend — no, I will say a person — 
often remarking, ‘ Oh, I should so delight to 
do this or that for you ! ’ some great thing, 
