ever now. I knew he was a fellow of good sense; but he has showed
himself to possess more of that sterling material than I thought."
Mr. Freeman also gave his opinion, and in doing so, expressed himself
pretty freely in regard to the treatment Jessie had received, while in
the house.
As for his wife, when the truth assumed an undoubted form, she sunk
into mortified silence, and Fanny felt even worse than her mother, and
for reasons that lay nearer her heart.
In a little while the bride took her old place in society, and many
who, in her seclusion, passed her coldly, or all unnoticed, met her now
with smiles and with warm congratulations. Of all the changes that
followed as a consequence of her marriage, there was none that filled
her with so much delight as the improved prospects of her uncle, Mr.
Hartman. Her husband became his fast friend, and sustained him through
every difficulty. One home held them both. How purely and brightly the
stream of Jessie's happiness flowed on, need not be told.
Virtue and integrity of character had met their just reward. In
adversity she was not cast down, and when prosperity again smiled she
was not unduly elated. In either relation to society, she was a
dispenser of blessings to those she loved.
It is a fact worthy of notice, that those who looked down upon Jessie,
and passed her unnoticed while she was only a governess, now referred
to the noble, self-sacrificing spirit that prompted her to act as she
had done, and spoke of her conduct with admiration.
THE NEW YEAR'S GIFT.
"JUST four weeks off," said a little boy, striking his hands together,
"and papa will be home!"
"Yes, four weeks more, and we shall see dear father. It will be the
happiest New Year's day we ever had; won't it, mother?" said the little
boy's sister, a bright smile playing over her face.
"I hope so," replied the mother. "Father has been away so long, his
coming home would make any day in the year a happy one."
"I wonder what he will bring me for a New Year's present?" said the boy.
"I know what I'll get," said the little sister.
"What?"
"A hundred kisses."
"Oh! I don't care much for kisses."
"But I do; and I'm sure of getting them."
"I wonder what mamma will get?"
"I know!" replied the sister, with an arch smile.
"What?"
"Just what I will." And the little girl looked at her mother, and
smiled still more archly.
"A hundred kisses, you mean?"
"We'll see."
The mother's hand rested from her work, and she looked at her children,
with a calm, yet happy face. Their words had caused her to realize, in
imagination, with more than usual distinctness, the fact of her
husband's return, which he had written would be on the first day of the
coming new year. He had been away for many months, and home had hardly
seemed like home during his absence.
"We mustn't think too much about it," said the mother, "or we will get
so impatient for dear father's return as to make ourselves unhappy. I
am sure we will all love him better than ever we did, when he does come
home!"
"I am sure I will," returned the little girl.
"Oh! I think I never loved him so well in my life as I have since he
has been away."
Thus talked the mother and her children of the return of one whose
presence was so dear to them all.
This brief conversation took place in a farm-house. In the room sat,
near the fire, a man whose appearance was any thing but pleasant to the
eyes. He was a labourer, who had been hired, some months previously, by
the farmer. He did not seem to hear what was said, yet he was listening
with reluctant attention. The mother and her children continued still
to talk of what was uppermost in their minds--the absent one, and his
expected return--until the man became restless, and at last got up and
went out.
"I don't wonder Mr. Foster went out of the room," said the boy, as the
person alluded to shut the door.
"Why, Edward?" asked his sister.
"Can't you think, Maggy?"
"No. What made him go out?"
"Because we said we were so glad papa was coming home on New Year's
day. I'm sure he must have thought of his home. They won't be so glad
to see him on New Year's day, as we are to see our dear, good father."
"Why do you say that, my son?" asked the mother.
"I'm sure they can't be so glad," said Edward. "I know I wouldn't be so
glad to see my father, if he was like Mr. Foster. Doesn't he spend
nearly all the money he gets in liquor? I've heard you say that his
poor wife and children hardly have enough to eat or to wear, although
he gets very good wages, and could make them comfortable if he would.
No, I'm sure they can't love him as we love our father, nor be as glad
to see him come home as we will be to see our father. And he knows it,
and that made him go out of the room. He didn't like to hear us
talking."
The boy was correct in his conclusions. The man Foster, of whom he
spoke, did feel troubled. He had children and a wife, and he was absent
from them, and had been absent for many months. On New Year's day he
was to go home; but many painful feelings mingled with the thought of
seeing his long-neglected and much-abused family. Since he had been
away, he had expended more than half his earnings upon himself, and yet
his appearance was worse than when he went from home, for, in exchange
for his money, he had received only poison.
It was evening. Without, the air was cold. The sky was clear, and the
moon and stars shone brightly. Foster walked a short distance from the
house, trying to drive from his mind the images that had been conjured
up by the words of the children and their mother; but he could not. His
own abused wife and neglected little ones were before him, in their
comfortless home, poorly clad, and pale and thin from want of healthy
