could see nothing of the thicker foliage of the "narrow place."
Margaret clasped her hands. "We're lost!"
"No, we're not lost; at least we were not seven minutes ago. It won't
take long to go over all the water that is seven minutes from here." He
took out one of the torches and inserted it among the roots of a
cypress, so that it could hold itself upright. "That's our guide; we can
always come back to that, and start again."
Margaret no longer tried to direct; she sat with her face towards him,
leaving the guidance to him.
He started back in what he thought was the course they had just
traversed. But they did not come to the defile of flowers; and suddenly
they lost sight of their beacon.
"We shall see it again in a moment," he said.
But they did not see it. They floated in and out among the great
cypresses, he plunged his paddle down over the side, and struck bottom;
they were out of the channel and in the shallows--the great Monnlungs
Lake.
"We don't see it yet," she said. Then she gave a cry, and shrank
towards him. They had floated close to one of the trees, and there on
its trunk, not three feet from her, was a creature of the lizard family,
large, gray-white in hue like the bark, flat, and yet fat; it moved its
short legs slowly in the light of their torches; no doubt it was
experiencing a sensation of astonishment, there had never been in its
memory a bright light in the Monnlungs before.
Winthrop laughed, it did him good to see Margaret Harold cowering and
shuddering over such a slight cause as that. The boat had floated where
it listed for a moment or two while he laughed, and now he caught sight
of their beacon again.
"That laugh was lucky," he said, as he paddled rapidly back towards the
small light-house. "Now I shall go in exactly the wrong direction--I
mean what seems such to me."
"Oh, must we go again?"
"I don't suppose you wish to remain permanently floating at the foot of
this tree?" He looked at her. "You think we're lost, you're frightened.
We're not lost at all, and I know exactly what to do; trust yourself to
me, I will bring you safely out."
"You don't know this swamp, it's not so easy. I'm thinking of myself."
"I know you are not. But I think of nothing else." He said this
impetuously enough.
They started on their second search. And at the end of five minutes they
had again lost sight of their beacon. He paddled to the right and back
again; then off to the left and back; he went forward a little way, then
in the opposite direction; but they did not see the gleam of their
guide, nor did they find the defile of flowers.
Suddenly there rose, close to them, a cry. It was not loud, but it was
thrilling, it conveyed an impression of agonized fear.
"What was that?" said Margaret. She did not speak the words aloud, but
syllabled them with her lips; involuntarily she drew nearer to him.
"I don't know what it was myself, exactly," he answered; "some bird or
other small creature, probably, caught by a snake or alligator. It only
sounded strange because it is so still here, our nerves are affected, I
presume."
"You mean that mine are. I know they are, I will try to be more
sensible."
He pursued his tentative course. But the watery vistas seemed only to
grow wilder. They never had a desolate appearance; on the contrary there
was something indescribably luxuriant, riotously so, in the still lake
with its giant trees, its scented air, its masses of flowers. At length
something dark, that was not a tree trunk, nor a group of tree trunks,
loomed up on their right. Their torches outlined it more plainly; it was
square and low.
"It's a house" Margaret said, in the same repressed whisper. "Oh,
don't go near it!"
"Why--it's deserted, can't you see that? There's no living thing there,
unless you count ghosts--there may be the ghost of some fugitive slave.
The door, I suppose, is on the other side." And he paddled towards it.
The cabin--it was no more than a cabin--had been built upon the great
roots of four cypresses, which had happened to stand in a convenient
position for such a purpose; the planks of the floor had been nailed
down across these, and the sides formed of rough boards braced by small
beams which stretched back to the tree trunks; the roof was a network of
the large vines of the swamp, thickly thatched with the gray moss, now
black with age and decay. The door was gone; Winthrop brought the boat
up towards the dark entrance; the sill was but an inch or two above the
water.
They looked within, the light from their torches illuminating the
central portion. And as they looked, they saw a slight waving motion on
the floor. Were the planks oscillating a little, or was it dark water
flowing over the place?
At first they could not distinguish; then in another instant they could.
It was not water; it was the waving, squirming bodies of snakes.
Winthrop had given the canoe a quick swerve. But before they could have
counted one, the creatures, soundlessly, had all disappeared.
"Men are queer animals," he said; "I should have liked one more good
peep. But of course I won't go back."
"Yes--go."
"You are prepared to humor me in everything? Well, it won't take an
instant." They were but ten feet away; he gave a stroke with his paddle
and brought the canoe up to the entrance again.
Within there was now nothing, their torch-light shone on the bare
glistening boards of the floor. But stay--yes, there was; something
white in one corner; he took one of the torches, and held it within for
a moment. Margaret gave a cry; the light was shining on bones--a white
breastbone with the ribs attached, and larger bones near.
He threw the torch into the water, where it went out with a hiss, and
sent the canoe rapidly away. This time he did not stop.
Margaret had hidden her face in her hands. "Well," he said, still urging
the light boat along, "the last hunter who occupied that cabin was not
as tidy in his habits as he might have been; he left the remains of the
last bear he had had for dinner behind him."
