liked to know most of all was why Muniment had not men- 
tioned to him, first, that Hoffendahl was in London, and 
that he had seen him ; for he had seen him, though he had 
dodged Schinkel's question of that Hyacinth instantly felt 
sure. He would ask for more information later ; and 
meanwhile he wished, without resentment, but with a 
certain helpless, patient longing, that Muniment would treat 
him with a little more confidence. If there were a secret 
in regard to Hoffendahl (and there evidently was : Muni- 
ment, quite rightly, though he had dropped the announce- 
ment of his arrival, for a certain effect, had no notion of 
sharing the rest of what he knew with that raw roomful), 
if there were something to be silent and devoted about, 
Hyacinth ardently hoped that to him a chance would be 
given to show how he could practise this superiority. He 
felt hot and nervous ; he got up suddenly, and, through the 
dark, tortuous, greasy passage which communicated with the 
outer world, he went forth into the street. The air was 
foul and sleety, but it refreshed him, and he stood in front 
of the public-house and smoked another pipe. Bedraggled 
figures passed in and out, and a damp, tattered, wretched 
man, with a spongy, purple face, who had been thrust 
suddenly across the threshold, stood and whimpered in the 
brutal blaze of the row of lamps. The puddles glittered 
roundabout, and the silent vista of the street, bordered with 
low black houses, stretched away, in the wintry drizzle, to 
right and left, losing, itself in the huge tragic city, where 
unmeasured misery lurked beneath the dirty night, 
ominously, monstrously, still, only howling, in its pain, 
in the heated human cockpit behind him. Ah, what could 
he do ? What opportunity would rise ? The blundering, 
divided counsels he had been listening to only made the 
 
helplessness of every one concerned more abject. If he 
had a definite wish while he stood there it was that that 
exalted, deluded company should pour itself forth, with 
Muniment at its head, and surge through the sleeping city, 
gathering the myriad miserable out of their slums and bur- 
rows, and roll into the selfish squares, and lift a tremendous 
hungry voice, and awaken the gorged indifferent to a terror 
that would bring them down. Hyacinth lingered a quarter 
of an hour, but this grand spectacle gave no sign of coming 
off, and he finally returned to the noisy club-room, in 
a state of tormented wonder as to what better idea than this 
very bad one (which seemed to our young man to have at 
the least the merit that it was an idea) Muniment could be 
revolving in that too-comprehensive brain of his. 
As he re-entered the place he saw that the meeting was 
breaking up in disorder, or at all events in confusion, and 
that, certainly, no organised attempt at the rescue of the 
proletariat would take place that night. All the men were 
on their feet and were turning away, amid a shuffling of 
benches and chairs, a hunching of shaggy shoulders, a 
frugal lowering of superfluous gas, and a varied vivacity of 
disgust and resignation. The moment after Hyacinth came 
in, Mr. Delancey, the supposititious hairdresser, jumped 
upon a chair at the far end of the room, and shrieked out 
an accusation which made every one stop and stare at him. 
' Well, I want you all to know what strikes me, before 
we part company. There isn't a man in the blessed lot 
that isn't afraid of his bloody skin afraid, afraid, afraid ! 
I'll go anywhere with any one, but there isn't another, by 
G , by what I can make out ! There isn't a mother's 
son of you that'll risk his precious bones ! ' 
This little oration affected Hyacinth like a quick blow in 
the face ; it seeemed to leap at him personally, as if a three- 
legged stool, or some hideous hob-nailed boot, had been shied 
at him. The room surged round, heaving up and down, while 
he was conscious of a loud explosion of laughter and scorn ; 
of cries of ' Order, order ! ' of some clear word of Muni- 
ment's, ' I say, Delancey, just step down ; ' of Eustache 
Poupin shouting out, ' Vous insultez le peuple vous insultez 
le peuple ! ' of other retorts, not remarkable for refinement. 
The next moment Hyacinth found that he had sprung up 
on a chair, opposite to the barber, and that at the sight of 
so rare a phenomenon the commotion had suddenly 
checked itself. It was the first time he had asked the 
ear of the company, and it was given on the spot. He 
was sure, he looked very white, and it was even possible 
they could see him tremble. He could only hope that 
this didn't make him ridiculous when he said, 'I don't 
think it's right of him to say that. There are others, 
besides him. At all events, I want to speak for myself: it 
may do some good ; I can't help it. I'm not afraid ; I'm 
very sure I'm not. I'm ready to do anything that will do 
any good; anything, anything I don't care a rap. In 
such a cause I should like the idea of danger. I don't 
consider my bones precious in the least, compared with 
some other things. If one is sure one isn't afraid, and 
one is accused, why shouldn't one say so ? ' 
It appeared to Hyacinth that he was talking a long 
time, and when it was over he scarcely knew what happened. 
He felt himself, in a moment, down almost under the feet 
of the other men ; stamped upon with intentions of ap- 
plause, of familiarity ; laughed over and jeered over, 
 
hustled and poked in the ribs. He felt himself also 
pressed to the bosom of Eustache Poupin, who apparently 
was sobbing, while he heard some one say, ' Did ye hear 
the little beggar, as bold as a lion ? ' A trial of personal 
