the first place it was important that he, who was the person 
nearest concerned, should be in reality perfectly innocent, 
and should be himself as much deceived as any one. No 
thing impresses judges like real and unaffected innocence. 
Secondly, if he were consulted, it was impossible to say 
what view he might take of the matter. Montevarchi 
suspected him of possessing some of the hereditary boldness 
of the Saracinesca. He might refuse to be a party in a 
deception, even though he himself was to benefit by it, 
a consideration which chilled the old man's blood and 
determined him at once to confide the secret to no one but 
Arnoldo Meschini, who was completely in his power. 
The early history of this remarkable individual was 
uncertain. He had received an excellent education and it 
is no exaggeration to call him learned, for he possessed a 
surprising knowledge of ancient manuscripts and a, great 
experience in everything connected with this branch of 
archaeology. It was  generally believed that he had been 
bred to enter the church, but he himself never admitted 
that he had been anything more than a scholar in a religious 
seminary. He had subsequently studied law and had 
practised for some time, when he had suddenly abandoned 
his profession in order to accept the ill-paid post of librarian 
and secretary to the father of the present Prince Montevarchi. 
Probably his love of medieval lore had got the better of his 
desire for money, and during the five and twenty years he 
had spent in the palace he had never been heard to complain 
of his condition. He lived in a small chamber in the attic 
and passed his days in the library, winter and summer 
alike, perpetually poring over the manuscripts and making 
endless extracts in his odd, old-fashioned handwriting. The 
result of his labours was never published, and at first sight 
it would have been hard to account for his enormous in 
dustry and for the evident satisfaction he derived from his 
work. The nature of the man, however, was peculiar, and 
his occupation was undoubtedly congenial to him, and far 
more profitable than it appeared to be. 
Arnoldo Meschini was a forger. He was one of that 
band of manufacturers of antiquities who have played such 
a part in the dealings of foreign collectors during the last 
century, and whose occupation, though slow and laborious, 
occasionally produces immense profits. He had not given 
up his calling with the deliberate intention of resorting to 
this method of earning a subsistence, but had drifted into 
his evil practices by degrees. In the first instance he had 
quitted the bar in consequence of having been connected 
with a scandalous case of extortion and blackmailing, in 
which he had been suspected of constructing forged docu 
ments for his client, though the crime had not been proved 
against him. His reputation, however, had been ruined, and 
he had been forced to seek his bread elsewhere. It chanced 
that the former librarian of the Montevarchi died at that time 
and that the prince was in search of a learned man ready 
to give his services for a stipend about equal to the wages of 
a footman. Meschini presented himself and got the place. 
The old prince was delighted with him and agreed to forget 
the aforesaid disgrace he had incurred, in consideration of his 
exceptional qualities. He set himself systematically to study 
the contents of the ancient library, with the intention of 
publishing the contents of the more precious manuscripts, 
 
and for two or three years he pursued his object with this 
laudable purpose, and with the full consent of his employer. 
One day a foreign newspaper fell into his hands contain 
ing an account of a recent sale in which sundry old manu 
scripts had brought large prices. A new idea crossed his 
mind, and the prospect of unexpected wealth enfolded itseli 
to his imagination. For several months he studied even 
more industriously than before, until, having made up his 
mind, he began to attempt the reproduction of a certain 
valuable writing dating from the fourteenth century. He 
worked in his own room during the evening and allowed 
no one to see what he was doing, for although it was rarely 
that the old prince honoured the library with a visit, yet 
Meschini was inclined to run no risks, and proceeded in his 
task with the utmost secrecy. 
Nothing could exceed the care he showed in the prepara 
tion and use of his materials. One of his few acquaintances 
was a starving, but clever chemist, who kept a dingy shop in 
the neighbourhood of the Ponte Quattro Capi. To this poor 
man he applied in order to obtain a knowledge of the ink 
used in the old writings. He professed himself anxious to 
get all possible details on the subject for a work he was 
preparing upon mediaeval calligraphy, and his friend soon set 
his mind at rest by informing him that if the ink contained 
any metallic parts he would easily detect them, but that if it 
was composed of animal and vegetable matter it would be 
almost impossible to give a satisfactory analysis. At the 
end of a few days Meschini was in possession of a recipe for 
concocting what he wanted, and after numerous experiments, 
in the course of which he himself acquired great practical 
knowledge of the subject, he succeeded in producing an ink 
apparently in all respects similar to that used by the scribe 
whose work he proposed to copy. He had meanwhile busied 
himself with the preparation of parchment, which is by no 
means an easy matter when it is necessary to give it the 
colour and consistency of very ancient skin. He learned 
that the ligneous acids contained in the smoke of wood could 
be easily detected, and it was only through the assistance of 
the chemist that he finally hit upon the method of staining 
