be in imminent danger of arrest, with or without any legal grounds, an
opinion sufficiently indicative of the state of the country. The man
stared blankly at the wall for a few seconds after Concetta had last
spoken, then nodded, and began to eat again.
The girl rose from her chair, and moved towards the door with her
graceful, slowly-cadenced step. She had done what she had come to do and
was quite sure of the man, as indeed she had reason to be, for the mafia
protects its own, and generally has its own way in the end, in spite of
governments and soldiers. If Concetta and the fat sacristan asked no
one to help them, it was because it was such a very simple matter to
warn Francesco of danger, that they needed no assistance. But as they
needed none, they told no one what they were going to do.
Concetta came home again to the quiet little shop, and Don Atanasio
bolted the glass door, and they both went upstairs to dinner. The girl
ate a little better than usual, and sipped half a glass of strong, black
wine.
'The air did you good,' observed her father, looking at her. 'Eh, this
human body! What is it? Who shall ever understand it? You go out every
afternoon, when it is cool, for two hours, and it does you no good, and
you eat no more than a bee takes from a flower. And to-day you go out
for half an hour into a heat that would burn up paving-stones, and you
come back with an appetite. So much the better. It is not I that should
complain, if you ate the house and the walls, poor child.'
'When the heart is thirsty for blood, the body is not hungry for meat,'
said the beautiful, white-faced girl, in her clear, low voice.
CHAPTER XXVI
Ippolito and Orsino had already acquired certain fixed habits in their
several occupations, so that they rarely failed to meet at the same
regular hours and then separate again, each doing the same or similar
things day after day. Such regularity becomes a second nature in remote
places where there is little chance that anything unexpected should
happen.
Orsino had really not enough to do, after he had once familiarised
himself with his surroundings. So long as San Giacinto had remained, it
had been different, for he had great plans, and had spent much time in
riding about the country with an engineer from Palermo who was to build
the light railway round Etna. San Giacinto had now gone back to Rome,
however, leaving his cousin in charge of Camaldoli, with directions to
manage things with an easy hand, so as not to prejudice the people
against the work of the railway when it should be begun. To do this
meant, practically, to leave the tenants to their own devices, unless it
were possible to help them in any way to which they should not object.
At the same time, there were certain defensive measures which were
always necessary, for no one knew when the brigands might grow weary of
Noto and appear on the slopes of Etna again to avenge their friend
Ferdinando Pagliuca.
Orsino used to ride about a good deal, more for the sake of exercise
than for anything he could accomplish, and he carried his rifle now as a
matter of habit, but rarely took one or two of the carabineers with him.
He began to believe that there were not really any outlaws at all, and
that Ferdinando's unknown friend had left that part of the country.
Ippolito, as a priest, went about unarmed, and, being naturally
fearless, he rambled about as he pleased. Almost every day he walked to
Santa Vittoria and spent an hour at the organ. Orsino accompanied him,
when there was any reason for going to the village, but it did not amuse
him to hear his brother's music. In fact, it was rather a relief to him
not to hear the piano constantly at his elbow, as he heard it when
Ippolito played in their joint sitting-room in Rome.
On the afternoon of the day on which Concetta had walked to the grocer's
shop, Ippolito strolled up to the small church as usual. There was a
little lame boy who had discovered the priest's habits, and used to hang
about in the afternoon in the hope of earning a penny by calling the fat
sacristan to come and blow the organ. He was not strong enough to blow
it himself, and was content and glad to get a copper or two for limping
into the village with his message. Ippolito now had a key of his own to
the church, and went inside while the man was coming. Each day, during
the twenty minutes or so which generally elapsed, he worked at the back
of the instrument, repairing with bits of wire a number of trackers that
ran from the pedals to a wooden stop set up on one side of the organ. At
some former time the connexions had been repaired with waxed string,
which the hungry church mice had gnawed to pieces. It was a troublesome
job, requiring patience and some mechanical skill, as well as two or
three simple tools which Ippolito had brought from Rome and now left in
the organ until the work should be finished.
Instead of the sacristan, a big boy appeared on this particular day, the
same who had carried the holy water for the priest who had come down to
Camaldoli when Ferdinando had been killed. He explained that the
sacristan had been sent on an errand to Bronte by his brother, the
grocer, and had left him, the boy, to do duty at the bellows if needed.
Ippolito thought nothing of the matter, and sat down to make music, as
usual. The days were growing very long, and he generally regulated his
stay in the church by the sun rather than by his watch. Sometimes the
fat sacristan came round from behind, perspiring, and declaring that his
brother needed him at home.
Meanwhile Concetta had gone down the road to the cemetery just beyond
the shoulder of the hill, out of sight of the village and the little
church in which Ippolito was playing the organ. It was her hour, and he
had grown used to seeing her sitting on the curbstone by the churchyard
gate every day when he went home just before sunset. When she passed the
church and heard the music through the door that was left ajar, she knew
also who was there, and her eyes darkened as she went by, and she drew
her shawl more closely about her head. And she recognised the priest's
light step when he came by the cemetery gate an hour later, and she
always turned her face away that she might not see him.
The people knew her, too, and most of them pitied her, and all respected
her sorrow. Some of the labourers who came down from the hill farm, by
the paths that turned into the main road just at the end of the
churchyard, used to touch their hats when they passed her, and, when she
chanced to be looking, she nodded gravely acknowledging their greeting.
They knew she was half mad, but the madness of a great sorrow has always
