liberty; my room will be my dungeon-keep."  How big and handsome and
strong he looked!  What a terrible thing it was to be born in purple!
"Tell me about yourself."
His hand strayed absently toward his upper vest-pocket, and then fell
to his side.  He licked his lips.
"Smoke!" she commanded intuitively.  "I said that you might."
"I can talk better when I smoke," he advanced rather lamely.  "May I,
then?"--gratefully.
"I command it!"
Wasn't it fine to be ordered about in this fashion?  If only the train
might go on and on and on, thousands of miles!  He applied a match to
the end of his cigar and leaned back against the cushion.
"Where shall I begin?"
"At the beginning.  I'm not one of those novel readers who open a book
at random.  I do not appreciate effects till I have found out the
causes.  I want to know everything about you, for you interest me."
He began.  He told her that he was a German by birth and blood.  He had
been born either in Germany or in Austria, he did not know which.  He
had been found in Tyrol, in a railway station.  A guard had first
picked him up, then a kind-hearted man named Scharfenstein had taken
him in charge, advertised for his parents and, hearing nothing, had
taken him to America with him.
"If they catch you," she interrupted, "do not under any consideration
let them know that you were not born in the United States.  Your friend
the American consul could do nothing for you then."
"Trust me to keep silent, then."  He continued: "I have lived a part of
my life on the great plains; have ridden horses for days and days at a
time.  As a deputy sheriff I have arrested desperadoes, have shot and
been shot at.  Then I went East and entered a great college; went in
for athletics, and wore my first dress-suit.  Then my foster-parent
died, leaving me his fortune.  And as I am frugal, possibly because of
my German origin, I have more money than I know what to do with."  He
ceased.
"Go on," she urged.
"When the Spanish War broke out I entered a cavalry regiment as a
trooper.  I won rank, but surrendered it after the battle of Santiago.
And now there are but two things in the world I desire to complete my
happiness.  I want to know who I am."
"And the other thing?"
"The other thing?  I can't tell you that!"--hurriedly.
"Ah, I believe I know.  You have left some sweetheart back in America."
All her interest In his narrative took a strange and unaccountable
slump.
"No; I have often admired women, but I have left no sweetheart back in
America.  If I had I should now feel very uncomfortable."
Somehow she couldn't meet his eyes.  She recognized, with vague anger,
that she was glad that he had no sweetheart.  Ah, well, nobody could
rob her of her right to dream, and this was a very pleasant dream.
"The train is slowing down," he said suddenly.
"We are approaching the frontier."  She shaded her eyes and searched
the speeding blackness outside.
"How far is it to the capital?" he asked.
"It lies two miles beyond the frontier."
Silence fell upon them, and at length the train stopped with a jerk.
In what seemed to them an incredibly short time a guard unlocked the
door.
He peered in.
"Here they are, sure enough, your Excellency!" addressing some one in
the dark beyond.
An officer from the military household of the Prince of Doppelkinn was
instantly framed in the doorway.  The girl tried to lower her veil; too
late.
"I am sorry to annoy your Highness," he began, "but the grand duke's
orders are that you shall follow me to the castle.  Lieutenant, bring
two men to tie this fellow's hands,"--nodding toward Scharfenstein.
Max stared dumbly at the girl.  All the world seemed to have slipped
from under his feet.
"Forgive me!" she said, low but impulsively.
"What does it mean?"  His heart was very heavy.
"I am the Princess Hildegarde of Barscheit, and your entering this
carriage has proved the greatest possible misfortune to you."
He stared helplessly--And everything had been going along so
nicely--the dinner he had planned in Dresden, and all that!
"And they believe," the girl went on, "that I have eloped with you to
avoid marrying the prince."  She turned to the officer in the doorway.
"Colonel, on the word of a princess, this gentleman is in no wise
concerned.  I ran away alone."
Max breathed easier.
"I should be most happy to believe your Highness, but you will honor my
strict observance of orders."  He passed a telegram to her.
Search train for Doppelkinn.  Princess has eloped.  Arrest and hold
pair till I arrive on special engine.
Barscheit.
The telegraph is the true arm of the police.  The princess sighed
pathetically.  It was all over.
"Your passports," said the colonel to Max.
Max surrendered his papers.  "You need not tie my hands," he said
calmly.  "I will come peaceably."
The colonel looked inquiringly at the princess.
"He will do as he says."
"Very good.  I should regret to shoot him upon so short an
acquaintance."  The colonel beckoned for them to step forth.
"Everything is prepared.  There is a carriage for the convenience of
your Highness; Herr Ellis shall ride horseback with the troop."
Max often wondered why he did not make a dash for it, or a running
fight.  What he had gone through that night was worth a good fight.
"Good-by," said the princess, holding out her hand.
Scharfenstein gravely bent his head and kissed it.
"Good-by, Prince Charming!" she whispered, so softly that Max scarcely
heard her.
