Guggenheim’s Department-store?
So Peter waited, and listened to the horrible sounds of people in
agony, and pleading with others to put them out of it. Peter heard
voices of men giving orders, and realized that these must be
policemen, and that no doubt there would be ambulances coming. Maybe
there was something the matter with him, and he ought to crawl out
and get himself taken care of. All of a sudden Peter remembered his
stomach; and his wits, which had been sharpened by twenty years’
struggle against a hostile world, realized in a flash the
opportunity which fate had brought to him. He must pretend to be
wounded, badly wounded; he must be unconscious, suffering from shock
and shattered nerves; then they would take him to the hospital and
put him in a soft bed and give him things to eat--maybe he might
stay there for weeks, and they might give him money when he came
out.
Or perhaps he might get a job in the hospital, something that was
easy, and required only alert intelligence. Perhaps the head doctor
in the hospital might want somebody to watch the other doctors, to
see if they were neglecting the patients, or perhaps flirting with
some of the nurses--there was sure to be something like that going
on. It had been that way in the orphans’ home where Peter had spent
a part of his childhood till he ran away. It had been that way again
in the great Temple of Jimjambo, conducted by Pashtian el Kalandra,
Chief Magistrian of Eleutherinian Exoticism. Peter had worked as
scullion in the kitchen in that mystic institution, and had worked
his way upward until he possessed the confidence of Tushbar Akrogas,
major-domo and right hand man of the Prophet himself.
Wherever there was a group of people, and a treasure to be
administered, there Peter knew was backbiting and scandal and
intriguing and spying, and a chance for somebody whose brains were
“all there.” It might seem strange that Peter should think about
such things, just then when the earth had opened up in front of him
and the air had turned to roaring noise and blinding white flame,
and had hurled him against the side of a building and dropped the
bleeding half of a woman’s body across his chest; but Peter had
lived from earliest childhood by his wits and by nothing else, and
such a fellow has to learn to use his wits under any and all
circumstances, no matter how bewildering. Peter’s training covered
almost every emergency one could think of; he had even at times
occupied himself by imagining what he would do if the Holy Rollers
should turn out to be right, and if suddenly Gabriel’s trumpet were
to blow, and he were to find himself confronting Jesus in a long
white night-gown.
Section 3
Peter’s imaginings were brought to an end by the packing-box being
pulled out from the wall. “Hello!” said a voice.
Peter groaned, but did not look up. The box was pulled out further,
and a face peered in. “What you hidin’ in there for?”
Peter stammered feebly: “Wh-wh-what?”
“You hurt?” demanded the voice.
“I dunno,” moaned Peter.
The box was pulled out further, and its occupant slid out. Peter
looked up, and saw three or four policemen bending over him; he
moaned again.
“How did you get in there?” asked one.
“I crawled in.”
“What for?”
“To g-g-get away from the--what was it?”
“Bomb,” said one of the policemen; and Peter was astounded that for
a moment he forgot to be a nervous wreck.
“Bomb!” he cried; and at the same moment one of the policemen lifted
him to his feet.
“Can you stand up?” he demanded; and Peter tried, and found that he
could, and forgot that he couldn’t. He was covered with blood and
dirt, and was an unpresentable object, but he was really relieved to
discover that his limbs were intact.
“What’s your name?” demanded one of the policemen, and when Peter
answered, he asked, “Where do you work?”
“I got no job,” replied Peter.
“Where’d you work last?” And then another broke in, “What did you
crawl in there for?”
“My God!” cried Peter. “I wanted to get away!”
The policemen seemed to find it suspicious that he had stayed hidden
so long. They were in a state of excitement themselves, it appeared;
a terrible crime had been committed, and they were hunting for any
trace of the criminal. Another man came up, not dressed in uniform,
but evidently having authority, and he fell onto Peter, demanding to
know who he was, and where he had come from, and what he had been
doing in that crowd. And of course Peter had no very satisfactory
answers to give to any of these questions. His occupations had been
unusual, and not entirely credible, and his purposes were hard to
explain to a suspicious questioner. The man was big and burly, at
least a foot taller than Peter, and as he talked he stooped down and
stared into Peter’s eyes as if he were looking for dark secrets
hidden back in the depths of Peter’s skull. Peter remembered that he
was supposed to be sick, and his eyelids drooped and he reeled
slightly, so that the policemen had to hold him up.
“I want to talk to that fellow,” said the questioner. “Take him
inside.” One of the officers took Peter under one arm, and the other
under the other arm, and they half walked and half carried him
across the street and into a building.
Section 4
It was a big store which the police had opened up. Inside there were
wounded people lying on the floor, with doctors and others attending
them. Peter was marched down the corridor, and into a room where sat
or stood several other men, more or less in a state of collapse like
himself; people who had failed to satisfy the police, and were being
held under guard.
Peter’s two policemen backed him against the wall and proceeded to
go thru his pockets, producing the shameful contents--a soiled rag,
