faults that worried her almost as much as his 
stormy temper, selfishness, and a disposition to 
domineer over his sister, who remained still too 
much inclined to yield rather than contend with 
him. Spite of all her efforts to control herself, 
these things so disturbed the mind of Mrs. Hartley, 
that she would at times speak fretfully, and even 
passionately to the boy. Whenever this was the 
case, she could see that the effect was had. Siie 
reached nothing in her child — took hold of no- 
thing in his mind by which she could turn him to 
good. It was a mere external concussion, that 
moved him just so far, and that against his will. 

Unhappy, for hours and days, would the mother 
be whenever she thus lost her self-command ; and 
long and deep would be her self-communings, and 
earnest her resolutions to conquer the evils in her- 
self tliat were re-acting so injuriously upon her 
child. 

"I am not fit to be a mother," she would some- 
times say to her husband during these seasons of 
depression. " I lack patience and forbearance, and 
it seems, every other virtue required for one in my 
position. That boy, Clarence, tries me, at times, 
beyond endurance. And yet, when my mind is 



 

calm and my perceptions clear, I can see that he 
has very many good qualities, and that these really 
overbalance the evil. His intellect is remarkably 
quick, and there is a manliness about him but rarely 
seen in children of his age." 

" Persevere, Anna — persevere," were usually her 
husband's encouraging words. "You are doing 
well. If any one can mould aright the disposition 
of that wayward child, it is you. I only wish that 
I had half your patience and forbearance." 

Time passed steadily on. Another and another 
babe saw the light, until five bright-eyed children 
filled their home with music and sunshine. When 
her care was lavished upon a single child, the mo- 
ther had both mind and heart full. Now her duties 
were increased five fold, but she did not feel them 
to be greater than at first. It seemed to her, when 
she had but one babe, that there was not room in 
her heart for another — but now she found that 
there was room for all. — Each had its appropriate 
place. 

Alike in some general features, these five chil- 
dren were, in particulars, as unlike as possible. 
Marien, the eldest, was a sweet-tempered girl, ten 
years of age. Clarence had improved much under 
the careful training of his mother, though he was 
still rude, self-willed, and too little inclined to re- 


gard properly the rights and comforts of his bro- 
ther and sisters. Henry, next younger than Cla- 
rence, was altogether opposite in character. I'imid, 
bashful and retiring, he had little confidence in 
himself, and was too much inclined to lean upon 
others. Fanny, a laughing little fairy thing, ma- 
king the house musical with her happy voice, and 
Lillian, the babe, filled up the number of Mrs. 
Hartley's household treasures. 

Nearly twelve years had passed since their mar- 
riage, and yet neither James Hartley nor his wife 
were very strongly marked by time. He had a 
more thoughtful, and shea more earnest expression 
of countenance. Their external condition had im- 
proved. He had again entered into business, though 
not with the flattering promises that before encour- 
aged him to hope for a speedily attained fortune ; 
but he was in a surer way to competency at least. 

During this time, both the father and mother of 
Mrs. Hartley died, and a maiden aunt, the sister of 
Anna's mother, had become a member of their 
household. The puritanical prejudices, narrow 
views, and constant interference of this woman 
with Anna's management of her children, were a 
source of great trial. Aunt Mary had no patience 
with the wayward Clarence, while she petted 
and indulged Henry to a degree that was really ior 



 

jurious to a child of his particular disposition. 
Ileaionstraiice was of no avail ; for Aunt Mary 
imagined that her age and relationship entitled her 
to all the control in the family she chose to as- 
sume. She could not understand that Anna, '' the 
child," as she usually spoke of her, had rights and 
responsibilities as a parent, with which she ought 
not to interfere. All this was beyond her compre- 
hension. 

Aunt Mary was a strict church-going member. 
A regular Simday religionist. She seemed to re- 
gard every thing outside of a church as profane. 
There was sin in a pink ribbon, and carnal-mind- 
edness in a blue bonnet. All amusements were 
considered by her as offences against God. To 
attend a ball, or dance, was to insure the soul's 
perdition. Aunt Mary was not one of those who, 
while they hold peculiar and strict notions, have 
the good sense to keep quiet about them where 
they know their declaration not to be agreeable. 
She deemed it her duty to preach from the house 
top, so to speak, on all occasions ; and to declare 
to the children that many of the very things taught 
them by their parents were wrong. When Marien 
and Clarence were first sent to dancing school, 
Aunt Mary preached upon the subject, in season 
and out of season, for nearly a month. 



 

"Toil will ruin your children, Anna," she would 
say. "Isn't it a shame to think that a mother will 
have no more regard for her little ones." 

" How will dancing ruin them, Aunt Mary ?" 
Mrs. Hartley would sometimes ask in a quiet tone. 
" I cannot, for my life, see any evil in motions of 
the body made to accord with good music." 

"Dancing is one of Satan's most cunning de- 
vices to lure the soul to ruin." 

"How is it. Aunt Mary? I cannot understand 
in what the evil lies. Is there any thing in music 
opposed to the Ten Commandments ? Do the 
Ten Commandments forbid dancing?" 

" You reason like a little simpleton, as you are," 
returned Aunt Mary, peevishly. " The Bible for- 
bids dancing." 

" I never saw it, and I believe I have read that 
good book very carefully. It does say, that there 
is a time to dance." 

" It is wicked to quote Scripture, with the inten- 
tion of perverting its meaning," replied Aunt Mary, 
warmly. 

" I know that. But I am not so sure that I have 
done so. The Bible certainly says that there is a 
time to dance." 

" Not in the sense that you pretend to under- 
stand it." 



 

" Why not ?" 

''Because it is wicked to dance, and the Bible 
never teaches us to do what is wicked." 

"Oh! oh!" returned Anna, laughing — "You 
are like a great many other good people, Aunt 
Mary. You first call a thing good or evil to suit 
some notion of your own, and then make the Bible 
prove it whether it will or no. A convenient 
method, I own, but it doesn't suit my common 
sense notions. But to be serious with you, aunt ; 
— we send our children to dancing school from 
conscientious motives." 

"Conscientious motives! Humph!" 

"It is true. We are satisfied that all external 
graces and accomplishments are so many aids to 
moral culture, if selfish and worldly-minded peo- 
ple pervert them to selfish and worldly purposes, 
that is an evil for which they alone are responsible. 
Shall I, because a glutton makes himself sick on 
dainty food, refuse to eat any thing but the coarsest 
bread ? Or, because my next door neighbor fur- 
nishes her house richly that her taste may be ad- 
mired, refuse to have a carpet upon my floor, or a 
mirror in my parlor  It is the end for which a 
vhing is done that makes it evil or good, aunt. All 
good gifts are from Heaven. There are no positive 
evils, — all that exist are perversions of good." 



 

'''Do you mean to say that the end sanctifies the 
means ?" asked Aunt Mary, quite fiercely. 

" I do, if the means are good ?" 

"What am I to understand by that? You seem 
to be talking riddles." 

" Good means never violate the laws of either 
God or man. You may always be sure that the 
end is bad, if the means used in its attainment are 
so. But to come back to the point from which we 
started. We can see no harm in music and dan- 
cing, abstractly considered." 

" But their effects, Anna. Cannot you see their 
injurious effects upon young people." 

" What are they ?" 

" They make them vain and frivolous, and wean 
their minds from better things." 

" I always find that my children say their 
prayers as earnestly in the evening of the day they 
have taken their dancing lesson, as on any other. 
And, sometimes, I think with a more tender and 
grateful spirit." 

" I shudder to hear you talk so, Anna. You are 
trifling with holy things. Dancing and praying — ' 
Ugh ! It makes my very blood run cold !" 

" I don't see. Aunt Mary, that any good can 
grow out of tliese discussions," remarked Anna, 
gravely. '' The responsibility of our children's 



education rests with James and myself. Our guide 
is the reason that God has given us, illustrated by 
his Revelation. These teach us that it is right to 
bring out into ultimate forms all that is innocent in 
our children. Their buoyant spirits are ever caus- 
ing them to throw their bodies about in every ima- 
ginable attitude. Is it not much better to teach a 
boy like Clarence to dance gracefully to good mu- 
sic, than to let his excessive flow of animal spirits 
lead him to turn summersets, stand on his head, or 
contort his body until it is deformed ? — and to let 
the peevishness of an unhappy temper subside in a 
similar amusement? We, after much careful re- 
flection, have determined that is best." 

" But all amusements are sinful, Anna. How 
can you reconcile that with your duty to your 
children." 

" As I have often said before," replied Mrs. Hart- 
ley, " I do not believe that all amusements are 
sinful. My opinion is that one person may com- 
mit more sin in going to church, than another in 
going to a ball room." 

" Anna !" 

'' It is the motive from which a thing is done 
that makes it good or bad," resumed the niece. 
" If [ go to a ball with a right motive, and that i can 
do, my act is much better than the act of one who 



 

goes to church to be seen and admired, or, as too 
many go, with a pharisaical spirit." 

''' It's no use to talk to you !" Aunt Mary said, 
pettishly. ''You and James are as set in your 
ways as you can be. I pity your children — that's 
what I do. If ever they come lo any thing, it will 
be more from good luck than any thing else. As 
to their ever caring about religion, I give up all 
hopes. Mark my words, Anna, the day will come 
when you will repent of this folly. Young folks 
think old folks fools ; but old folks know young 
folks to be fools. Remember that." 
t Contentions like these did not change in the 
slightest degree the system which Mr. and Mrs. 
Hartley had adopted. They believed that their 
children would be more useful as members of com- 
mon society after they arrived at mature age, if en- 
dowed with every accomplishment of mind and 
manners, than if rude and uncultivated, except ia 
the higher and sterner qualities of the intellect. 
As to the absurd notion that such accomplishments 
were inconsistent with true religion, they were well 
assured that, without such accomplishments, reli- 
gion lost more than half of its means of acting for 
good in common society. 



CHAPTER IV. 

THE SECRET OF GOVERNING CHILDREN. 

Very soon after Mrs. Hartley assumed the re- 
sponsible position of a mother, she became sensible 
that she had really more to do in the correction of 
what was wrong in herself, than in her children. 
To remain undisturbed at their disobedience, and 
unimpassioned when duty called her to administer 
correction, was next, it seemed to her, to impossi- 
ble. A calm admonition she always saw did more 
good than an energetic one — and grief at her child's 
disobedience was ever more effective than anger. 
But anger was too ready to lift its distorted visage, 
and she mourned over this tendency with a real 
sorrow, because she saw that it exerted an unhappy 
influence, especially upon the self-willed, excitable 
Clarence. 

" I believe I have discovered a secret," she re- 
marked to her husband, while they sat conversing 
one evening, about the time that Clarence attained 
his third year. 

" What is that, dear." he asked. 


 

"The secret of governing my children easily." 

" A great secret that. But are you sure you are 
right ?" 

" I think I am. It is to govern myself." 

Mr. Hartley smiled. 

" I believe it is the only true way," returned his 
wife. 

" And so do I, Anna. But the government of 
ourselves is not so easy a matter." 

'" I am well aware of that. No one, it seems to 
ne, can try harder than I do to control my feelings 
when Clarence does wrong. But I cannot do it 
once in ten times that I make the effort. When I 
do succeed, the task of correction is easy and ef- 
fectual. A word, mildly but firmly uttered, or a 
look, is all that is required. The child seems at 
once subdued. I am sometimes astonished at so 
marked a result from what seems so small a 
cause." 

" That you succeed once even in ten efforts, is 
certainly encouraging." 

" It inspires me with the hope that I shall yet 
conquer myself, through the power sent me from 
above. The earnest love I feel for my children, 
shall give me resolution to persevere." 

The manner and words of Mrs. Hartley touched 
her husband. 



 

" For their sakes, persevere, dear Anna !" he 
said with emotion. 

" I will," was her tearful ans\ver — the drops of 
pure feeling were dimming her eyes. 

"There is still another reason why both yoia 
and I should resist every evil tendency of our na- 
tures," said Mr. Hartley. " We are well convinced, 
that our children can have no moral perversions that 
are not inherited from their parents," 

" It is, alas ! but too true. — How sad the reflec- 
tion that we entail a curse upon our offspring." 

" Sad indeed. But what is our duty ?" 

"A very plain one," returned J\lrs, Hartley. 
"To resist evil in ourselves, and put it away, that 
our future offspring, should God add to the number 
of our jewels, may inherit from us tendencies to 
good instead of tendencies to evil. This is the way 
in which we can care best for our children. The 
forms of all uncorrected evils in ourselves must, by 
the immutable law that every thing produced bears 
the likeness and has the qualities of the producing 
cause, be in our children ; and there is enough and 
more than enough surrounding every one to excite 
his latent evils. Every wrong temper, every selfish 
feeling, that we conquer in ourselves, is just so 
much gain of good for our children." 

" Yes, to subdue our own evils is the only sure 



 

way to correct them in our children. We weaken 
them in their transmission, and are in better stales 
to correct them when they begin to appear." 

How very few there are who think on this sub- 
ject as did Mr. and Mrs. Hartley. Parents will 
indulge in all the evil tempers and dispositions of 
an unregenerate nature — will cherish envy and 
pride, hatred, malice, and all manner of selfishness, 
and yet wonder at their existence in their children 
— will indulge these things in secret, and yet be 
angry at their children, who have no motive for 
curbing their passions or hiding what they think 
or feel. It is not to be wondered at, that so few 
are successful in the government of their children, 
when it is seen that they have not learned to go- 
vern themselves. 

From this time both Mr. and Mrs. Hartley felt a 
new motive for striving after the correction in them- 
selves of all perverted moral forms. The result 
was good. Mrs. Hartley found herself growing 
more patient and forbearing. She was able to 
stand, as it were, above her children, so as not to 
be affected by their wrong tempers and dispositions 
with any thing but an earnest and unimpassioned 
desire to correct them. Her love was guided by 
right reason, instead of being obscured by anger, 
&d had often been the case. 

 

Having fairly set forth the principles of action 
which governed Mrs. Hartley in the management 
and education of her children, let us introduce her 
more fully to the reader, that she may be seen in 
the active effort to perform well a mother's part. 
The period already named, twelve years from the 
time of her marriage, will be the best for our 
purpose. 



CHAPTER V. 
A mother's influence. 

"There come the children from school," said 
Aunt Mary, looking from the window. "Just see 
that Clarence ! He'll have Henry in the gutter. 
I never saw just such another boy. Why can't 
he come quietly along like other children. There ! 
— now he must stop to throw stones at the pigs. 
That boy 'll give you the heart ache yet, Anna." 

Mrs. Hartley made no reply, but laid aside her 
work quietly and left the room, to see that their 
dinner was ready. In a few minutes the street door 
was thrown open, and the children came bound- 
ing in, full of life, and noisy as they could be. 



 

" Where is your coat, Clarence ?" she asked, in 
a pleasant tone, looking her oldest boy in the face. 

'' Oh, I forgot !" he replied cheerfully, and turn- 
ing quickly, he ran down stairs, and lifting his 
coat from where, in his thoughtlessness, he had 
thrown it upon the floor, hung it up in its proper 
place, and then sprung up the stairs. 

'' Isn't dinner ready yet ." he said, with fretful 
impatience, his whole manner changing suddenly. 
" I'm hungry." 

" It will be ready in a few minutes, Clarence." 

"I want it now. I'm hungry." 
