steel points enough to last you a great while, — and as many 
quills as it is needful you should cut up for one year at least ; 
— we haven't a pen handle 3 T et." 
" Here, mamma," said Ellen, holding out a plain ivory 
one, — " don't you like this ? I think it is prettier than these 
that are all cut and fussed, or those other gay ones either." 
" I think so too, Ellen ; the plainer the prettier. Now 
what comes next ?" 
" The knife, mamma, to make the pens," said Ellen; 
smiling. 
" True, the knife. Let us see some of your best pen- 
knives. Now, Ellen, choose. That one won't do, my deaf ; 
it should have two blades, — a large as well as a small one. 
You know you want to mend a pencil sometimes." 
" So I do, mamma, to be sure, you're very right ; here's a 
nice one. Now, mamma, the wax." 
" There is a box-full ; choose your own colours." Seeing it 
was likely to be a work of time, Mrs. Montgomery walked 
away to another part of the store. When she returned 
Ellen had made up an assortment of the oddest colours she 
could find. 
" I won'thave any red, mamma, it is so common," she 
said. 
" I think it is the prettiest of all," said Mrs. Montgomery. 
" Do you, mamma ? then I will have a stick of red on 
purpose to seal to you with." 
" And who do you intend shall have the benefit of the 
other colours ?" inquired her mother. 
" I declare, mamma," said Ellen, laughing, " I never 
thought of that; I am afraid they will have to go to you. 
You must not mind, mamma, if you get green and blue and 
yellow seals once in a while." 
" I dare say I shall submit myself to it with a good grace," 
said Mrs. Montgomery. " But come, my dear, have we got 
all that we want? This desk has been very long in 
furnishing." 
" You haven't given me a seal yet, mamma." 
" Seals ! There are a variety before you ; see if you can 
find one that you like. By the way, you cannot seal a letter, can you ?" 
" Not yet, mamma," said Ellen, smiling again, " that is 
another of the things I have got to learn." 
" Then I think you had better have some wafers in the 
mean time." 
While Ellen was picking out her seal, which took not a 
little time, Mrs. Montgomery laid in a good supply of wafers 
of all sorts ; and then went on further to furnish the desk 
with an ivory leaf-cutter, a paper-folder, a pounce-box, a ruler, 
and a neat little silver pencil ; also, some drawing-pencils, 
India-rubber, and sheets of drawing paper. She took a sad 
pleasure in adding everything she could think of that might 
be for Ellen's future use or advantage ; but as with her own 
hands she placed in the desk one thing after another, the 
thought crossed her mind how Ellen would make drawings 
with those very pencils, on those very sheets of paper, which 
her eyes would never see! She turned away with a sigh, 
and receiving Ellen's seal from her hand put that also in 
its place. Ellen had chosen one with her own name. 
" Will you send these things at bnceV said Mrs. Mont- 
gomery ; "I particularly wish to have them at home as early 
in the day as possible." 
The man promised. Mrs. Montgomery paid the bill, and 
she and Ellen left the store. 
They walked a little way in silence. 
" I cannot thank you mamma," said Ellen. 
"It is not necessary my dear child," said Mis. Montgomery, returning the pressure of her hand ; " I know all that 
you would say." 
There was as much sorrow as joy at that moment in the 
heart of the joyfullest of the two. 
" Where are we going now, mamma ?" said Ellen again 
after a while. 
" I wished and intended to have gone to St. Clair and 
Fleury's, to get you some merino and other things ; but we 
have been detained so long already that I think I had better 
go home. I feel somewhat tired." 
" I am very sorry, dear mamma," said Ellen, — I am afraid 
I kept you too long about that desk. 
" You did not keep me, daughter, any longer than I chose 
to be kept. But I think I will go home now, and take the 
chance of another fine day for the merino." 
CHAPTER IV. 
When dinner was over and the table cleared away, the 
mother and daughter were left, as they always loved to be, 
alone. It was late in the afternoon, and already somewhat 
dark, for clouds had gathered over the beautiful sky of the 
morning, and the wind rising now and then made its voice 
heard. Mrs. Montgomery was lying on the sofa as usual, 
seemingly at ease ; and Ellen was sitting on a little bench 
before the fire, very much at her ease indeed, without any 
seeming about it. She smiled as she met her mother's eyes. 
" You have made me very happy to-day, mamma." 
" I am glad of it, my dear child. I hoped I should. I 
believe the whole affair has given me as much pleasure, Ellen, 
as it has you." 
There was a pause. 
" Mamma, I will take the greatest possible care of my new 
treasures." 
" I know you will. If I had doubted it, Ellen, most 
assuredly I should not have given them to you, sorry as I 
should have been to leave you without them. So you see 
you have not established a character for carefulness in vain." 
" And, mamma, I hope you have not given them to me in 
vain either. I will try to use them in the way that I know 
you wish me to ; that will be the best way I can thank you." 
" Well, I have left you no excuse, Ellen. You know fully 
what I wish you to do and to be ; and when I am away I 
shall please myself with thinking that my little daughter is 
following her mother's wishes ; I shall believe so, Ellen. You 
will not let me be disappointed ?" 
"0 no, mamma," said Ellen, who was now in her mother's 
arms. 
" "Well, my child," said Mrs. Montgomery, in a lighter 
tone, " my gifts will serve as reminders for you if you are 
ever tempted to forget my lessons. If you fail to send me 
letters, or if those you send are not what tljey ought to 
be, I think the desk will cry shame upon you. And if you 
ever go an hour with a hole in your stocking, or a tear in your 
dress, or a string off your petticoat, I hope the sight of your 
work-box will make you blush." 
" Work-box, mamma ?" 
" Yes. 0, I forgot ; you've not seen that." 
" No, mamma ; what do you mean ?" 
" Why, my dear, that was one of the things you most 
wanted, but I thought it best not to overwhelm you quite 
this morning ; so while you were on an exploring expedition 
round the store I chose and furnished one for you." 
" O mamma, mamma !" said Ellen, getting up and clasp- 
ing her hands, " what shall I do ? I don't know what to say ; 
I can't say anything. Mamma, it's too much." 
So it seemed, for Ellen sat down and began to cry. Her 
mother silently reached out a hand to her, which she squeezed and kissed with all the energy of gratitude, love, and 
sorrow ; till gently drawn by the same hand she was placed 
again in her mother's arms and upon her bosom. And in that 
tried resting-place she lay, calmed and quieted, till the shades 
of afternoon deepened into evening and evening into night, 
and the light of the fire was all that was left to them. 
Though not a word had been spoken for a long time Ellen 
was not asleep ; her eyes were fixed on the red glow of the 
coals in the grate, and she was busily thinking, but not of 
them. Many sober thoughts were passing through her little 
head, and stirring her heart; a few were of her new possessions and bright projects — more of her mother. She was 
thinking how very, very precious was the heart she could 
feel beating where her cheek lay — she thought it was greater 
happiness to lie there than anything else in life could be — she 
thought she had rather even die so, on her mother's breast, 
than live long without her in the world — she felt that in earth 
or in heaven there was nothing so dear. Suddenly she broke 
the silence. 
" Mamma, what does that mean, * He that loveth father or 
mother more than me, is not worthy of me ?' " 
" It means just what it says. If you love anybody or anything better than Jesus Christ, you cannot be one of his 
children." 
" But then, mamma," said Ellen, raising her head, " how 
can I be one of his children ? I do love you a great deal 
better ; how can. I help it, mamma?" 
" You cannot help it, I know, my dear," said Mrs. Montgomery, with a sigh, " except by His grace who has promised to change the hearts of his people — to take away the 
heart of stone and give them a heart of flesh." 
" But is mine a heart of stone then, mamma, because I 
cannot help loving you best ?" 
" Not to me, dear Ellen," replied Mrs. Montgomery, pressing closer the little form that lay in her arms ; " I have never 
found it so. But yet I know that the Lord Jesus is far, far 
more worthy of your affection than I am, and if your heart 
were not hardened by sin you would see him so ; it is only 
because you do not know him that you love me better. Pray, 
pray, my dear child, that he would take away the power of 
sin, and show you himself; that is all that is wanting." 
" I will, mamma," said Ellen, tearfully. " 0, mamma, 
what shall I do without you ?" 
Alas, Mrs. Montgomery's heart echoed the question ; she 
had no answer. 
" Mamma," said Ellen, after a few minutes, " can I have 
no true love to him at all unless I love him best ?" 
" I dare not say that you can," answered her mother, 
seriously. 
" Mamma," said Ellen, after a little, again raising her head 
and looking her mother full in the face, as if willing to apply 
the severest test to this hard doctrine, and speaking with an 
indescribable expression, " do you love him better than you do 
me?" 
She knew her mother loved the Saviour, but she thought 
it scarcely possible that herself could have but the second 
place in her heart ; she ventured a bold question to prove 
whether her mother's practice would not contradict her 
theory, 
But Mrs. Montgomery answered steadily, " I do, my 
daughter ;" and with a gush of tears Ellen sunk her head 
again upon her bosom. She had no more to say ; her mouth 
was stopped forever as to the right of the matter, though 
she still thought it an impossible duty in her own particular 
case. 
" I do indeed, my daughter," repeated Mrs. Montgomery ; 
" that does not make my love to you the less, Eut the more, 
Ellen." 
" mamma, mamma," said Ellen, clin^inor to her, " I wish 
you w r ould teach me ! I have only you, and I am going to 
lose you. What shall I do, mamma ?" 
With a voice that strove to be calm Mrs. Montgomery answered, " ' I love them that love me, and they that seek me 
early shall find me.' " And after a minute or two she added, 
" He who says this has promised too that he will ' gather 
the lambs with his arm and carry them in his bosom.' " 
The words fell soothingly on Ellen's ear, and the slight 
tremor in the voice reminded her also that her mother must 
not be agitated. She checked herself instantly, and soon lay 
as before, quiet and still on her mother's bosom, with her 
eyes fixed on the fire ; and Mrs. Montgomery did not know 
that when she now and then pressed a kiss upon the forehead that lay so near her lips, it every time brought the 
water to Ellen's eyes and a throb to her heart. But after 
some half or three-quarters of an hour had passed away, a 
sudden knock at the door found both mother and daughter 
asleep ; it had to be repeated once or twice before the 
knocker could gain attention. 
"What is that, mamma?" said Ellen, starting up. 
" Somebody at the door. Open it quickly, love." 
Ellen did so, and found a man standing there, with his 
arms rather full of sundry packages. 
" 0, mamma, my things !" cried Ellen, clapping her hands ; 
" here they are !" 
The man placed his burden on the table, and withdrew. 
" 0, mamma, I am so glad they are come ! Now if I only 
had a light — this is my desk, I know, for it's the largest ; 
and I think this is my dressing-box, as well as I can tell by 
feeling — yes, it is, here's the handle on top ; and this is my 
dear work-box — not so big as the desk, nor so little as the 
dressing-box. O, mamma, mayn't I ring for a light ?" 
There was no need, for a servant just then entered, bringing the wished-for candles, and the not-wished-for tea. Ellen 
was capering about in the most fantastic style, but suddenly 
stopped short at sight of the tea-things, and looked very 
grave. " Well, mamma, I'll tell you what I'll do." she 
said, after v a pause of consideration ; " I'll make the tea 
the first thing, before I untie a single knot ; won't that be 
best, mamma ? Because I know if I once begin to look T 
shan't want to stop. Don't you think that is wise, mamma ?" 
But alas ! the fire had got very low ; there was no making 
the tea quickly ; and the toast was a work of time. And 
when all was over at length, it was then too late for Ellen 
to begin to undo packages. She struggled with impatience 
a minute or two, and then gave up the point very gracefully, 
and went to bed. 
She had a fine opportunity the next day to make up for 
the evening's disappointment. It was cloudy and stormy ; 
going out was not to be thought of, and it was very unlikely that anybody would come in. Ellen joyfully allotted 
the whole morning to the examination and trial of her new 
possessions ; and as soon as breakfast was over and the room 
clear she set about it. She first went through the desk 
pnd everything in it, making a running commentary on the 
excellence, fitness, and beauty of all it contained ; then the 
dressing-box received a share, but a much smaller share, of 
attention ; and lastly, with fingers trembling with eagerness 
she untied the packthread that was wound round the workbox, and slowly took off cover after cover ; she almost 
screamed when the last was removed. The box was of satinwood, beautifully finished, and lined with crimson silk ; and 
Mrs. Montgomery had taken good care it should want nothing that Ellen might need to keep her clothes in perfect 
order. 
" O, mamma, how beautiful ! 0, mamma, how good you 
are ! Mamma, I promise you I'll never be a slattern. Here 
is more cotton than I can use up in a great while — every 
number, I do think; and needles, oh, the needles! what a 
parcel of them ! and, mcmma ! what a lovely scissors ! did you 
choose it, mamma, or did it belong to the box?" 
" I chose it." 
" I might have guessed it, mamma, it's just like you. 
And here's a thimble — fits me exactly ; and an emery-bag! 
how pretty ! — and a bodkin ! this is a great deal nicer than 
your's, mamma — your's is decidedly the worse for wear ; — and 
what's this ? — 0, to make eyelet holes with, I know. And O, 
mamma! here is almost every thing, I think — here are tapes, 
and buttons, and hooks and eyes, and darning cotton, and 
silk-winders, and pins, and all sorts of things. What's this 
for, mamma ?" 
" That's a scissors to cut buttonholes with. Try it on 
that piece of paper that lies by you, and you will see how it 
works." 
" 0, I see!" said Ellen, " how very nice that is. Well, I 
shall take great pains now to make my buttonholes very 
handsomely." 
One survey of her riches could by no means satisfy Ellen. 
For some time she pleased herself with going over and over 
the contents of the box, finding each time something new to 
like. At length she closed it, and keeping it still in her lap, 
sat awhile looking thoughtfully into the fire; till turning 
toward her mother she met her gaze, fixed mournfully, 
almost tearfully, on herself. The box was instantly shoved 
aside, and getting up and bursting into tears, Ellen went to 
her. " 0, dear mother," she said, u I wish they were all 
back in the store, if I could only keep you !" 
Mrs. Montgomery answered only by folding her to her 
heart. 
" Is there no help for it, mamma ?" 
" There is none. — We know that all things shall work together for good to them that love God." 
" Then it will be ail good for you, mamma, but what will 
it be for me ?" And Ellen sobbed bitterly. 
" It will be all well, my precious child, I doubt not. I do 
not doubt it, Ellen. Do you not doubt it either, love ; but 
from the hand that wounds, seek the healing. He wounds 
that he may heal. He does not afflict willingly. Perhaps 
he sees, Ellen, that you never would seek him while you had 
me to cling to " 
Ellen clung to her at that moment ! yet not more than 
her mother clung to her. 
" How happy we were, mamma, only a year ago, — even a 
month." 
" We have no continuing city here," answered her mother, 
with a sigh. " But there is a home, Ellen, where changes do 
not come; and they that n»*e once gathered there are parted no more forever ; and all tears are wiped from their eyes. 
I believe I am going fast to that home ; and now my greatest 
concern is, that my little Ellen — my precious baby — may 
follow me and come there too." 
No more was said, nor could be said, till the sound of the 
doctor's steps upon the stair obliged each of them to assume 
an appearance of composure as speedily as possible. But 
they could not succeed perfectly enough to blind him. He 
did not seem very well satisfied, and told Ellen he believed 
he should have to get another nurse, — he was afraid she didn't 
obey orders. 
While the doctor was there Ellen's Bible was brought in ; 
and no sooner was he gone than it underwent as thorough an 
examination as the boxes had received. Ellen went over 
every part of it with the same great care and satisfaction ; but 
mixed with a different feeling. The words that caught her 
eye as she turned over the leaves seemed to echo what her 
mother had been saying to her. It began to grow dear 
already. After a little she rose and brought it to the sofa. 
"Are you satisfied with it, Ellen?" 
" Oh yes, mamma ; it is perfectly beautiful, outside and 
inside. Now, mamma, will you please to write my name in 
this precious book — my name, and anything else you please, 
mother. I'll bring you my new pen to write it with, and I've 
got ink here ; — shall I ?"  
She brought it ; and Mrs. Montgomery wrote Ellen's name, 
and the date of the gift. The pen played a moment in her 
fingers, and then she wrote below the date : 
" ' I love them that love me ; and they that seek me early 
shall find me.' " 
This was for Ellen ; but the next words were not for her ; 
what made her write them ? — 
" ' I will be a God to thee, and to thy seed after thee.' " 
They were written almost unconsciously, and as if bowed 
by an unseen force Mrs. Montgomery's head sank upon the 
open page ; and her whole soul went up with her petition : 
" Let these words be my memorial, that I have trusted in 
thee. And oh, when these miserable lips are silent for ever, 
remember the word unto thy servant, upon which thou hast 
caused me to hope ; and be unto ray little one all thou hast 
been to me. Unto thee lift I up mine eyes, thou that 
dwellest in the heavens !" 
She raised her face from the book, closed it, and gave it 
silently to Ellen. Ellen had noticed her action, but had no 
suspicion of the cause ; she supposed that one of her mother's 
frequent feelings of weakness or sickness had made her lean 
her head upon the Bible, and she thought no more about it. 
However, Ellen felt that she wanted no more of her boxes 
that day. She took her old place by the side of her mother's 
sofa, with her head upon her mother's hand, and an expression of quiet sorrow in her face that it had not worn for 
several days. 
CHAPTER V. 
 
The next day would not do for the intended shopping 
nor the next. The third day was fine, though cool and 
windy. 
" Do you think you can venture out to-day, mamma ? " 
said Ellen. 
" I am afraid not. I do not feel quite equal to it ; and the 
wind is a great deal too high for me besides." 
" Well," said Ellen, in the tone of one who is making up 
her mind to something, " we shall have a fine day by and by, 
I suppose, if we wait long enough ; we had to wait a great 
while for our first shopping day. I wish such another would 
come round." 
" But the misfortune is," said her mother, " that we cannot 
afford to wait. November will soon be here, and your clothes 
may be suddenly wanted before they are ready, if we do not 
bestir ourselves. And Miss Rice is coming in a few days — I 
ought to have the merino ready for her." 
" What will you do, mamma ? " 
" I do not know, indeed, Ellen ; I am greatly at a loss." 
" Couldn't papa get the stuffs for you mamma ? " 
" No, he's too busy ; and besides, lie knows nothing at all 
about shopping for me ; he would be sure to bring me exactly 
what I do not want. I tried that once." 
" Well, what will you do, mamma ? Is there nobody else 
you could ask to get the things for you? Mrs. Foster would 
do it, mamma ! " 
" I know she would, and I should ask her without any 
difficulty, but she is confined to her room with a cold. I see 
nothing for it but to be patient and let things take their 
course, though if a favourable opportunity should offer you 
would have to go, clothes or no clothes ; it would not do to 
lose the chance of a good escort." 
And Mrs. Montgomery's face showed that this possibility, 
of Ellen's going unprovided, gave her some uneasiness. Ellen 
observed it. 
" Never mind me, dearest mother ; don't be in the least 
worried about my clothes. You don't know how little I 
think of them or care for them. It's no matter at all whether 
I have them or not." 
Mrs. Montgomery smiled, and passed her hand fondly over 
her little daughter's head, but presently resumed her anxious 
look out of the window. 
" Mamma !" exclaimed Ellen, suddenly starting up, " a 
brigh tthought has just come into my head ! I'll do it for 
you, mamma ! " 
" Do what ? " 
" I'll get the merino and things for you, mamma, You 
needn't smile, — I will, indeed, if you will let me?" 
" My dear Ellen," said her mother, " I don't doubt you 
would if goodwill only were wanting ; but a great deal of 
skill and experience is necessary for a shopper, and what 
would you do without either ? " 
" But see, mamma," pursued Ellen eagerly, " I'll tell you 
how I'll manage, and I know I can manage very well. You 
tell me exactly what coloured merino you want, and give me a 
little piece to show me how fine it should be, and tell me 
what price you wish to give, and then I'll go to the store and 
ask them w show me different pieces, you know, and if I see 
any I think you would like, I'll ask them to give me a little 
bit of it to show you ; and then I'll bring it home, and if you 
like it, you can give me the money, and tell me how many 
yards you want, and I can go back to the store and get it. 
Why can't I, mamma? " 
" Perhaps you could ; but my dear child I am afraid you 
wouldn't like the business." 
" Yes I should ; indeed, mamma, I should like it dearly if 
I could help you so. Will you let me try, mamma ? " 
" I don't like, my child, to venture you alone on such an 
errand, among crowds of people ; I should be uneasy about 
you." 
" Dear mamma, what would the crowds of people do to 
me ? I am not a bit afraid. You know, mamma, I have 
often taken walks alone, — that's nothing new ; and what harm 
should come to me while I am in the store ? You needn't 
be the least uneasy about me ; — may I go ? " 
Mrs. Montgomery smiled, but was silent. 
" May I go, mamma ?" repeated Ellen. " Let me go at 
least and try what I can do. What do you say, mamma ? " 
" I don't know what to say, my daughter, but I am in 
difficulty on either hand. I will let you go and see what you 
can do. It would be a great relief to me to get this merino 
by any means." 
" Then shall I go right away, mamma ? " 
" As well now as ever. You are not afraid of the wind ? " 
" I should think not," said Ellen ; and away she scampered 
up stairs to get ready. With eager haste she dressed herself ; 
then with great care and particularity took her mother's 
instructions as to the article wanted ; and finally set out, sensible that a great trust was reposed in her, and feeling busy 
and important accordingly. But at the very bottom of Ellen's 
heart there was a little secret doubtfulness respecting her 
undertaking. She hardly knew it was there, but then she 
couldn't tell what it was that made her fingers so inclined to 
be tremulous while she was dressing, and that made her 
heart beat quicker than it ought, or than was pleasant, and 
one of her cheeks so much hotter than the other. However, 
she set forth upon her errand with a very brisk step, which 
she kept up till on turning a corner she came in sight of the 
place she was going to. Without thinking much about it, 
Ellen had directed her steps to St. Clair and Fleury's. It 
was one of the largest and best stores in the city, and the one 
she knew where her mother generally made her purchases ; 
and it did not occur to her that it might not be the best for 
her purpose on this occasion. But her steps slackened as 
soon as she came in sight of it, and continued to slacken as 
she drew nearer, and she went up the broad flight of marble 
steps in front of the store very slowly indeed, though they 
were exceeding low and easy. Pleasure was not certainly 
the uppermost feeling in her mind now ; yet she never 
thought of turning back. She knew that if she could succeed in the object of her mission her mother would be relieved 
from some anxiety ; that was enough ; she was bent on accomplishing it. 
Timidly she entered the large hall of entrance. It was full 
of people, and the buzz of business was heard on all sides. 
Ellen had for some time past seldom gone a shopping with 
her mother, and had never been in this store but once or 
twice before. She had not the remotest idea where, or in 
what apartment of the building, the merino counter was 
situated, and she could see no one to speak to. She stood 
irresolute in the middle of the floor. Everybody seemed to 
be busily engaged with somebody else ; and whenever an 
opening on one side or another appeared to promise her an 
opportunity, it was sure to be filled up before she could reach 
it, and disappointed and abashed she would return to her own station in the middle of the floor. Clerks frequently passed 
her, crossing the store in all directions, but they were always 
bustling along in a great hurry of business ; they did not 
seem to notice her at all, and were gone before poor Ellen 
could get her mouth open to speak to them. She knew well 
enough now, poor child, what it was that made her cheeks 
burn as they did, and her heart beat as if it would burst its 
bounds. She felt confused, and almost confounded, by the 
incessant hum of voices, and moving crowd of strange people 
all around her, while her little figure stood alone and unnoticed 
in the midst of them ; and there seemed no prospect that she 
would be able to gain the ear or the eye of a single person. 
Once she determined to accost a man she saw advancing 
toward her from a distance, and actually made up to him 
for the purpose, but with a hurried bow, and " I beg your 
pardon, Miss !" he brushed past. Ellen almost burst into 
tears. She longed to turn and run out of the store, but a faint 
hope remaining, and an unwillingness to give up her undertaking, kept her fast. At length one of the clerks in the desk 
observed her, and remarked to Mr. St. Clair who stood by, 
" There is a little girl, sir, who seems to be looking for something, or waiting for somebody ; she has been standing there 
a good while." Mr. St. Clair, upon this, advanced to poor 
Ellen's relief. 
" What do you wish, Miss ? " he said. 
But Ellen had been so long preparing sentences, trying to 
utter them and failing in the attempt, that now, when an 
