
"Such, however, let me assure you, is the case. Mr. Halpin has no other
avenue to the public road."

"That's his misfortune; but it gives him no license to trespass on my
property."

"It is not a trespass, Mr. Bolton. He only uses a right purchased when
he bought his farm, and one that he can and will sustain in the courts
against you."

"Let him go to court, then. I bought this farm for my own private use,
not as a highway; no such qualification is embraced in the deed. The
land is mine, and no one shall trespass upon it."

"But, Mr. Bolton," calmly replied the other, "in purchasing, you
secured an outlet to the public road."

"Certainly I did; but not through your farm, nor that of any one else."

"Halpin was not so fortunate," said Mr. Dix. "In buying his farm, he
had to take it with a guarantied right of way across this one. There
was no other outlet."

"It was not a guarantee against my ownership," doggedly replied Mr.
Bolton.

"Pardon me for saying that in this you are in error," returned the
other. "Originally both farms were in one; that was subsequently sold
with a right of way across this."

"There is no such concession in the deed I hold," said Bolton.

"If you will take the trouble to make an examination in the clerk's
office in the county court, you'll find it to be as I state."

"I don't care any thing about how it was originally," returned Bolton,
with the headiness of passionate men when excited. "I look only to how
it is now. This is my farm; I bought it with no such concessions, and
will not yield it unless by compulsion. I wouldn't be the owner of a
piece of land that another man had the right to enter."

"That little strip of ground," said Mr. Dix, "which is of but trifling
value, might be fenced off as a road. This would take away all
necessity for entering your ground."

"What!" said Bolton, indignantly; "vacate the property I have bought
and paid for? I am not quite so generous as that. If Mr. Halpin must
have a right of way, let him obtain his right by purchase. I'll sell
him a strip from off the south side of my farm, wide enough for a road,
if that will suit him; but he shall not use one inch of my property as
a common thoroughfare."

Mr. Dix still tried to argue the matter with Bolton, but the latter had
permitted himself to get angry, and angry men are generally deaf as an
adder to the voice of reason. So the neighbour, who called in the hope
of turning the new occupant of the farm from his purpose, and thus
saving trouble to both himself and Mr. Halpin, retired without
effecting what he wished to accomplish.

It would be doing injustice to the feelings of Mr. Bolton to say, that
he did not feel some emotions of regret for his precipitate action.
But, having assumed so decided a position in the matter, he could not
think of retracing a step that he had taken. Hasty and positive men are
generally weak-minded, and this weakness usually shows itself in a
pride of consistency. If they say a thing, they will persevere in doing
it, right or wrong, for fear that others may think them vacillating,
or, what they really are, weak-minded. Just such a man was Mr. Bolton.

"I've said it, and I'll do it!" That was one of his favourite
expressions. And he repeated it to himself, now, to drive off the
repentant feelings that came into his mind.

At dinner-time, when Mr. Bolton sat down to the table, he found, placed
just before him, a print of the golden butter sent to his wife on that
very morning by Mrs. Halpin. The sight annoyed and reproved him. He
felt that he had been hasty, unneighbourly, and, it might be, unjust;
for, as little gleams of reflection came breaking in one after another
upon his mind, he saw that a right of way for Mr. Halpin was
indispensable, and that if his deed gave it to him, it was a right of
which he could not deprive him without acting unjustly. Passion and
false reasonings would, it is true, quickly darken his mind again. But
they had, in turn, to give place to more correct views and feelings.

"Just try some of that butter. It is delicious!" said Mrs. Bolton, soon
after they were seated at the table.

"I don't care about butter at dinner-time," replied Mr. Bolton, coldly.

"But just try some of this. I want you to taste it," urged the wife.
"Its flavour is delightful. I must go over and see Mrs. Halpin's dairy."

To satisfy his wife, Mr. Bolton took some of the butter on his plate.
He would rather have thrown it out of the window.

"Now try it on a piece of bread," said Mrs. Bolton. "I declare! You act
as if you were afraid of the butter. What's the matter with you?"

There was no reason why Mr. Bolton should not do as his wife wished--at
least no reason that he could give to her. It wouldn't do to say--

"I won't touch Mrs. Halpin's butter because I've cut off her husband's
right of way across my land. I have nailed up the only outlet there is
from his property to the public road."

No, it wouldn't do to say that. So, nothing was left for Mr. Bolton but
to taste the delicious butter.

"Isn't it very fine?" said his wife, as she saw him place it to his
lips.

"Yes, it's good butter," replied Mr. Bolton, "very good butter."
Though, in fact, it was far from tasting pleasant to him.

"It's more than very good," said Mrs. Bolton, impatiently. "What has
come over you? But wait a little while, and I'll give you something to
quicken your palate. I've made some curds--you are so fond of them. If
you don't praise the sweet cream Mrs. Halpin so kindly sent over this
morning, when you come to eat these curds, I shall think--I don't know
what I shall think."

The dinner proceeded, and, at length, the dessert, composed of curds
and cream, was served.

"Isn't that beautiful?" said Mrs. Bolton, as she poured some of the
cream received from Mrs. Halpin into a saucer of curds, which she
handed to her husband.

Bolton took the curds and ate them. Moreover, he praised the cream;
for, how could he help doing so? Were not his wife's eyes on him, and
her ears open? But never in his life had he found so little pleasure in
eating.

"Do you know," said Mrs. Bolton, after she had served the curds and
said a good deal in favour of the cream, "that I promise myself much
pleasure in having such good neighbours? Mrs. Halpin I've always heard
spoken of in the highest terms. She's a sister of Judge Caldwell, with
whose family we were so intimate at Haddington."

"You must be in error about that."

"No. Mrs. Caldwell often spoke to me about her, and said that she had
written to her sister that we talked of buying this farm."

"I never knew this before," said Mr. Bolton.

"Didn't you! I thought I had mentioned it."

"No."

"Well it's true. And, moreover, Mrs. Caldwell told me, before we left,
that she had received a letter from her sister, in which she spoke of
us, and in which she mentioned that her husband had often heard you
spoken of by the judge, and promised himself great pleasure in your
society."

Mr. Bolton pushed back his chair from the table, and, rising, left the
room. He could not bear to hear another word.

"Is my horse ready, Ben?" said he, as he came into the open air.

"Yes, sir," replied Ben.

"Very well. Bring him round."

"Are you going now?" asked Mrs. Bolton, coming to the door, as Ben led
up the horse.

"Yes. I wish to be home early, and so must start early."

And Bolton sprang into the saddle.

But for the presence of his wife, it is more than probable that he
would have quietly directed Ben to go and rehang the gate, and thus
re-establish Mr. Halpin's right of way through his premises. But, this
would have been an exposure of himself to his better-half that he had
not the courage to make. So he rode away. His purpose was to visit the
city, which was three miles distant, on business. As he moved along in
the direction of the gate through which he was to pass on his way to
the turnpike, he had to go very near the spot where Ben had been at
work in the morning. The unhinged gate lay upon the ground where,
according to his directions, it had been thrown; and the place it
formerly occupied was closed up by four strong bars, firmly attached to
the posts.

Mr. Bolton didn't like the looks of this at all. But it was done; and
he was not the man to look back when he had once undertaken to do a
thing.

As he was riding along, just after passing from his grounds, he met Mr.
Dix, who paused as Bolton came up.

"Well, neighbour," said the former in a tone of mild persuasion, "I
hope you have thought better of the matter about which we were talking
a few hours ago."

"About Halpin's right of way through my farm, you mean?"

"Yes. I hope you have concluded to reopen the gate, and let things
remain as they have been, at least for the present. These offensive
measures only provoke anger, and never do any good." Bolton shook his
head.

"He has no right to trespass on my premises," said he, sternly.

"As to the matter of right," replied Mr. Dix, "I think, the general
opinion will be against you. By attempting to carry out your present
purpose, you will subject yourself to a good deal of odium; which every
man ought to avoid, if possible. And in the end, if the matter goes to
court, you will not only have to yield this right of way, but be
compelled to pay costs of suit and such damages as may be awarded
against you for expense and trouble occasioned Mr. Halpin. Now let me
counsel you to avoid all these consequences, if possible."

"Oh, you needn't suppose all this array of consequences will frighten
me," said Mr. Bolton. "I don't know what fear is. I generally try to do
right, and then, like Crockett, 'go ahead.'"

"Still, Mr. Bolton," urged the neighbour mildly, "don't you think it
would be wiser and better to see Mr. Halpin first, and explain to him
how much you are disappointed at finding a right of way for another
farm across the one you have purchased? I am sure some arrangement,
satisfactory to both, can be made. Mr. Halpin, if you take him right,
is not an unreasonable man. He'll do almost any thing to oblige
another. But he is very stubborn if you attempt to drive him. If he
comes home and finds things as they now are, he will feel dreadfully
outraged; and you will become enemies instead of friends."

"It can't be helped now," said Mr. Bolton. "What's done is done."

"It's not yet too late to undo the work," suggested Mr. Dix.

"Yes, it is. I'm not the man to make back-tracks. Good-day, Mr. Dix?"

And speaking to his horse, Mr. Bolton started off at a brisk trot. He
did not feel very comfortable. How could he? He felt that he had done
wrong, and that trouble and mortification were before him. But a
stubborn pride would not let him retrace a few wrong steps taken from a
wrong impulse. To the city he went, transacted his business, and then
turned his face homeward, with a heavy pressure upon his feelings.

"Ah me!" he sighed to himself, as he rode along. "I wish I had thought
twice this morning before I acted once. I needn't have been so
precipitate. But I was provoked to think that any one claimed the right
to make a public road through my farm. If I'd only known that Halpin
was a brother-in-law to Judge Caldwell! That makes the matter so much
worse."

And on rode Mr. Bolton, thinking only of the trouble he had so
needlessly pulled down about his ears.

For the last mile of the way, there had been a gentleman riding along
in advance of Mr. Bolton, and as the horse of the latter made a little
the best speed, he gained on him slowly, until, just as he reached the
point where the road leading to his farm left the turnpike, he came up
with him.

"Mr. Bolton, I believe," said the gentleman, smiling, as both, in
turning into the narrow lane, came up side by side.

"That is my name," was replied.

"And mine is Halpin," returned the other, offering his hand, which Mr.
Bolton could but take, though not so cordially as would have been the
case had the gate opening from his farm into Mr. Halpin's been on its
hinges. "I have often heard my brother-in-law, Judge Caldwell, speak of
you and your lady. We promise ourselves much pleasure in having you for
neighbours. Mrs. Halpin and I will take a very early opportunity to
call upon you. How is all your family?"

"Quite well, I thank you," replied Mr. Bolton, trying to appear polite
and pleased, yet half averting his face from the earnest eyes of Mr.
Halpin.

"We have had a beautiful day," said the latter, who perceived that,
from some cause, Mr. Bolton was not at ease.

"Very beautiful," was the brief answer.

"You have been into the city," said Mr. Halpin, after a brief pause.

"Yes, I had some business that made it necessary for me to go into
town."--Another silence.

"You have a beautiful farm. One of the finest in the neighbourhood,"
said Mr. Halpin.

"Yes, it is choice land," returned the unhappy Mr. Bolton.

"The place has been a little neglected since the last occupant left,"
continued Mr. Halpin. "And since your purchase of it, some ill-disposed
persons have trespassed on the premises. Day before yesterday, as I was
passing along the lower edge of your farm,--you know that, through some
ill-contrivance, my right of way to the public road is across the south
edge of your premises. But we will talk of that some other time. It's
not a good arrangement at all, and cannot but be annoying to you. I
shall make some proposition, before long, about purchasing a narrow
strip of ground and fencing it in as a road. But of that another time.
We shall not quarrel about it. Well, as I was saying, day before
yesterday, as I was passing along the lower edge of your farm, I saw a
man deliberately break a large branch from a choice young plum-tree, in
full blossom, near your house, that only came into bearing last year. I
was terribly vexed about it, and rode up to remonstrate with him. At
first, he seemed disposed to resent my interference with his right to
destroy my neighbour's property. But, seeing that I was not in a temper
to be trifled with, he took himself off. I then went back home, and
sent one of my lads over, in company with a couple of good dogs, and
put the property in their charge. I found all safe when I returned in
the evening."

"It was kind in you--very kind!" returned Mr. Bolton. He could say no
less. But, oh! how rebuked and dissatisfied he felt.

"About that right of way," he stammered out, after a brief silence,
partly averting his eyes as he spoke. "I--I"--

"Oh, we'll not speak of that now," returned Mr. Halpin cheerfully.
"Let's get better acquainted first."

"But, Mr. Halpin--I--I"--

They were now at the gate entering upon Mr. Bolton's farm, and the
neighbour pushed it open, and held it for Bolton to pass through. Then,
as it swung back on its hinges, he said, touching his hat politely--

"Good-day! Mrs. Halpin and I will call over very soon;--perhaps this
evening, if nothing interfere to prevent. If we come, we shall do so
without any ceremony. Make my compliments, if you please, to Mrs.
Bolton."

"Thank you! Yes--yes! Mr. Halpin--I--I--Let me speak a--a"--

But Mr. Halpin had turned his horse's head, and was moving off towards
the place of entrance to his own farm.

Poor Bolton What was he to do? Never had he felt so oppressive a sense
of shame--such deep humiliation. He had reined up his horse after
passing through the gate, and there he still stood, undetermined, in
the confusion of the moment, what to do. Briskly rode Mr. Halpin away;
and only a few moments would pass before he discovered the outrage
perpetrated against him, and that by a man for whom he had entertained
the kindest feelings in advance, and even gone out of his way to serve.

"Oh, why did I act with such mad haste!" exclaimed Mr. Bolton, as he
thought this, and saw but a moment or two intervening between him and
the bitterest humiliation. He might repair the wrong, and, in his
heart, he resolved to do it. But what could restore to him the good
opinion of his neighbour? Nothing! That was gone for ever.

So troubled, oppressed, and shame-stricken was Mr. Bolton, that he
remained on the spot where Mr. Halpin had left him, looking after the
latter until he arrived at the place where an obstruction had been
thrown in his way. By this time, the very breath of Bolton was
suspended. Unbounded was his surprise, as he observed Mr. Halpin leap
from his horse, swing open the gate, and pass through. Had he seen
aright? He rubbed his eyes and looked again. Mr. Halpin had closed the
gate, and was on the other side, in the act of mounting his horse.

"Have I done right?" said a voice at this moment.

Bolton started, and, on looking around, saw Mr. Dix.

"Yes, you have done right!" he returned, with an emotion that he could
not conceal: "and from my heart I thank you for this kind office. You
have saved me from the consequences of a hasty, ill-judged, ill-natured
act--consequences that would have been most painful. Oblige me still
further Mr. Dix, by letting this matter remain with yourself, at least
for the present. Before it comes to the ears of Mr. Halpin, I wish to
let him see some better points in my character."

To this, Mr. Dix pledged himself. After repeating his thanks, Mr.
Bolton rode away a wiser and a better man.

When Mr. Halpin, some weeks afterwards, made reference to the right of
way across Mr. Bolton's land, and asked if he would not sell him a
narrow strip on the south edge of his farm, to be fenced off for a
road, the latter said--

"No, Mr. Halpin, I will not sell you the land; but as it is of little
or no value to me, I will cheerfully vacate it for a road, if you are
willing to run the fence."

And thus was settled, most amicably, a matter that bid fair, in the
beginning, to result in a long and angry disputation, involving loss of
money, time, and friendly relationships. Ever after, when disposed to
act from a first angry impulse, Mr. Bolton's thoughts would turn to
this right-of-way question, and he would become cool and rational in a
moment.




COALS OF FIRE.


"I AM sorry, Mr. Grasper, that you should have felt it necessary to
proceed to extremities against me," said a care-worn, anxious-looking
man, as he entered the store of a thrifty dealer in tapes, needles, and
sundry small wares, drawing aside, as he spoke, the personage he
addressed. "There was no need of this."

"There's where you and I differ, Mr. Layton," replied Grasper, rudely.
"The account has been standing nearly a year, and I have dunned you for
it until I am sick and tired."

"I know you have waited a long time for your money," returned the
debtor, humbly, "but not, I assure you, because I felt indifferent
about paying the bill. I am most anxious to settle it, and would do so
this hour, if I had the ability."

"I can't lie out of my money in this way, Mr. Layton. If everybody kept
me out of my just dues as long as you have, where do you think I would
be? Not in this store, doing as good a business as any one in the
street, (Grasper drew himself up with an air of consequence,) but
coming out at the little end of the horn, as some of my neighbours are.
I pay every man his just dues, and it is but right that every man
should pay me."

"Where there is a willingness, without present ability, some allowances
should be made."

"Humph! I consider a willingness to pay me my own, a very poor
substitute for the money."

There was an insulting rudeness in the way Grasper uttered this last
sentence, that made the honest blood boil in the veins of his
unfortunate debtor. He was tempted to utter a keen rebuke in reply, but
restrained himself, and simply made answer:

"Good intentions, I know, are not money. Still, they should be
considered as some extenuation in a debtor, and at least exempt him
from unnecessarily harsh treatment. No man can tell how it may be with
him in the course of a few years, and that, if nothing else, should
make every one as lenient towards the unfortunate as possible."

"If you mean to insinuate by that," replied Grasper, in a quick voice,
"that I am likely to be in your situation in a few years, I must beg
leave to say that I consider your remarks as little better than an
insult. It's enough, let me tell you, for you to owe me and not pay me,
without coming into my store to insult me. If you have nothing better
to say, I see no use in our talking any longer." And Grasper made a
motion to turn from his debtor. But the case of Layton was too urgent
to let him act as his indignant feelings prompted.

"I meant no offence, I assure you, Mr. Grasper," he said,
earnestly,--"I only urged one among many reasons that I could urge, why
you should spare a man in my situation."

"While I have as many to urge why I shall not spare you," was angrily
retorted. "Your account is sued out, and must take its course, unless
you can pay it, or give the required security under the law."

"Won't you take my notes at three, six, nine, and twelve months, for
the whole amount I owe you? I am very confident that I can pay you in
that time; if not, you may take any steps you please, and I will not
say a single word."

"Yes, if you will give me a good endorser."

Layton sighed, and stood silent for some time.

"Will that suit you?" said Grasper.

"I am afraid not. I have never asked for an endorser in my life, and do
not know any one who would be willing to go on my paper."

"Well, just as you like. I shall not give up the certainty of a present
legal process, for bits of paper with your name on them, you may depend
upon it."

The poor debtor sighed again, and more heavily than before.

"If you go on with your suit against me, Mr. Grasper, you will entirely
break me up," said he, anxiously.

"That's your look-out, not mine. I want nothing but justice--what the
law gives to every man. You have property enough to pay my claim; the
law will adjudge it to me, and I will take it. Have you any right to
complain?"

"Others will have, if I have not. If you seize upon my goods, and force
a sale of them for one-fourth of what they are worth, you injure the
interests of my other creditors. They have rights, as well as yourself."

"Let them look after them, then, as I am looking after mine. It is as
much as I can do to see to my own interests. But it's no use for you to
talk. If you can pay the money or give security, well--if I not, things
will have to take their course."

"On this you are resolved?"

"I am."

"Even with the certainty of entirely breaking me up?"

"That, I have before told you, is your own look-out, not mine."

"All I have to say, then, is," remarked Layton, as he turned away,
"that I sincerely hope you may, never be placed in my situation; or, if
so unfortunate, that you may have a more humane man to deal with than I
