he wishes to."
"I knew you were afraid."
"Indeed, I am not, then."
"Yes, you are."
"It's no such thing."
"Try him, then."
"I will, then, since it's come to that."
"He'll be too much for you."
"Don't flatter yourself. I'll manage him."
"How?"
"Why, I'll insist on his taking a glass of that delightful champaign
with me, which you sent home yesterday."
"Suppose he declines?"
"I won't take his refusal. He shall take a glass with me."
"We'll see, little sis'. I'll bet on Haley."--And so saying, the
young man turned away laughing at the success of his scheme.
That evening, towards nine o'clock, as Haley sat conversing with
Clara, a servant entered the room as usual with bottles and glasses.
George Manley was promptly on his feet, to cut the cork and "pop"
the champaign, which he did, while the servant stood just before
Clara and her lover.
"You must take a glass of this fine champaign with me, Mr. Haley,"
the young tempter said, turning upon him a most winning smile.
"Indeed, Clara--"
"Not a word now. I shall take no refusal."
"I must be--"
"Pour him out a glass, George."
And George filled two glasses, one of which Clara lifted, with the
sparkling liquor at the height of its effervescence.
"There's the other; take it quick, before it dies," she said,
holding her own glass near her lips.
"You must excuse me, Clara. I do not drink wine," Mr. Haley said, as
soon as he was permitted to speak, in a tone and with a manner that
settled the question at once.
"Indeed, it is too bad, Mr. Haley!" Clara responded, with a
half-offended air, putting her untasted glass of wine back upon the
waiter,--"to deny me so trifling a request. I must say, that your
refusal is very ungallant. Whoever heard of a gentleman declining to
take wine with a lady?"
"There certainly is an exception to the rule to-night, Clara," the
young man said. "Still, I can assure you, that nothing ungallant was
meant. But that you know to be out of the question. I could not be
rude to any lady, much less to you."
"O, as to that, it's easy to make fine speeches--but acts, you know,
speak louder than words"--Clara said, half-laughing--half-serious.
The servant had, by this time, passed on with the untasted wine;
and, of course, no further effort could be made towards driving the
young man from his position. His positive refusal to drink, however,
under the circumstances, very naturally disappointed Clara. He
observed the sudden revulsion of feeling that took place in her
mind, and it pained him very much.
As for her, she felt herself positively offended. She had set her
heart upon proving to her brother her power over Haley, but had
signally failed in the effort. He had proved to her immovable in his
singular position.
From that time, for many weeks, there was a coldness between him and
Clara. She did not receive him with her accustomed cordiality; but
seemed both hurt and offended. To take a simple glass of champaign
with her was so small a request, involving, as she reasoned, no
violation of principle, that for him to refuse to do so, under all
the circumstances, was almost unpardonable.
Affection, however, at last triumphed over wounded pride, but not
until he had begun, seriously, to debate the question of proposing
to her a dissolution of the contract existing between them.
Everything again went on smoothly enough, for there was no further
effort on the part of Clara to drive her lover from his resolution.
But she still entertained the idea of doing so--and still resolved
that she would conquer him.
At last the wedding-day was set, and both looked forward to its
approach with feelings of pure delight. Their friends, without an
exception, approved the match; and well they might, for he was a man
of known integrity, fine intellect, and cultivated tastes; and she a
young woman in every way fitted to unite with him in marriage bonds.
Finally came the long anticipated evening. Never before was there
assembled in the old mansion of Mr. Manley a happier company than
that which had gathered to witness the marriage of his daughter,
whose young heart trembled in the fulness of its delight, as she
uttered the sealing words of her union with one who possessed all
her heart.
"May kind heaven bless you, my child!" murmured the mother, as she
pressed her lips to those of her happy child.
"And make your life glide on as peacefully as a quiet stream," added
the father, kissing her in turn, scarcely refraining, as he did so,
from taking her in his arms and folding her to his bosom.
Then came crowding upon her the sincere congratulations of friends.
O, how happy she felt Joy seemed to have reached a climax. The cup
was so full, that a drop more would have overflowed the brim.
A few minutes sufficed to restore again the order that had reigned
through the rooms, and the servants appeared with the bride's cake.
All eyes were upon the happy couple.
"You won't refuse me now, James?" the bride said, in a low tone;
but with an appealing look, as she reached out her hand and lifted a
glass of wine.
There was a hesitation in the manner of Haley, and Clara saw it. She
knew that all eyes were upon them, and she knew that all had
observed her challenge. Her pride was roused, and she could not bear
the thought of being refused her first request after marriage.
"Take it, James, for my sake, even if you only place it to your lips
without tasting it," she said, in a low, hurried whisper.
The young husband could not stand this. He took the glass, while the
heart of Clara bounded with an exulting throb. Of course, having
gone thus far, he had to go through the form of drinking with her.
In doing so, he sipped but a few drops. These thrilled on the nerve
of taste with a sensation of exquisite pleasure. Involuntarily he
placed the glass to his lips again, and took a slight draught.
Then a sudden chill passed through his frame as consciousness
returned, and he would fain have dashed the glass from him as a
poisoning serpent that was preparing to sting him, but for the
company that crowded the rooms. From this state he was aroused by
the sweet voice of his young wife, saying, in happy tones--
"So it has not poisoned you, James."
He smiled an answer, but did not speak. The peculiar expression of
that smile, Clara remembered for many years afterwards.
"Come! you must empty your glass with me," she said, in a moment
after. "See! you have scarcely tasted it yet. Now--"
And she raised her glass, and he did the same. When he withdrew his
own from his lips, it was empty.
"Bravo!"--exclaimed Clara, in a low, triumphant tone.
"Now, isn't that delightful wine?"
"Yes, very."
"Did you ever taste wine before, James?" the bride laughingly said--
"O, yes, many a time. But none so exquisitely flavoured as this."
"Long abstinence has sweetened it to your taste."
"No doubt."
"Clara has been too much for you to-night, Haley," George Manley
said, coming up at this moment, and laughing in great glee.
"He couldn't refuse me on such an occasion"--the bride gaily
responded. "I set my heart on making him drink wine with me on our
wedding-night, and I have succeeded."
"Are you sure he hasn't poured it slyly upon the floor?"
"O, yes! I saw him take every drop. And what is more; he smacked his
lips, and said it was exquisitely flavoured."
"Here comes the servant again," George said, at this moment. "Come,
James! let me fill your glass again. You must drink with me
to-night. You've never given me that pleasure yet. Come!--As well be
hung for a sheep as a lamb." Thus importuned, Haley held up his
glass which George Manley filled to the brim.
"Health and happiness!" the young man said, bowing.
Haley bowed in return, placed the glass to his lips, and took its
contents at a draught.
"Bravely done! Why, it seems to go down quite naturally. You were
not always a total-abstinence man?"
"No, I was not."--While a slight shadow flitted over his face.
"Welcome back again, then, to a truly social, and convivial spirit!
After this, don't let me ever see you refuse a generous glass."
"What! An empty wine-glass in the hand of young Mr. Incorrigible!
Upon my word!" ejaculated old Mr. Manley, coming up at this moment.
"O, yes, pa! I've conquered him to-night! He couldn't refuse to take
a glass of wine with me on this occasion!" the daughter said, in
great glee.
"He must take one with me, too, then."
"You must excuse me, indeed, sir," Haley replied--rallying himself,
and bracing up into firmness his broken and still wavering
resolutions.
"Indeed, then, and I won't."
"O, no. Don't excuse him at all, pa! He drank with me, and then with
brother, and now to refuse to drink with you would be a downright
shame."
"He has taken a glass with George, too, has he? And now wants to be
excused when I ask him. Upon my word! Here, George, tell the servant
to come over this way."
The servant came, of course, in a moment or two, with the wine.
"Fill up his glass, George," the father said.
Haley's glass was, of course, filled again.
"Now, my boy!--Here's a health to my children! May this night's
happiness be but as a drop to the ocean of delight in reserve for
them." Drinking.
"And here's to our father! May his children never love him less than
they do now." Drinking in turn.
"Thank you, my boy!"
"And thank you in return, for your kind wishes."
"That wine didn't seem to taste unpleasantly, James?"
"O, no, sir. It is rich and generous."
"How long is it since you tasted wine?"
"About three years."
"Are you not fond of it?"
"O, yes. I like a good glass of wine."
"Then what in the world has made you act so singularly about it?"
"A mere whim of mine, I suppose you will call it. And perhaps it
was. I thought I was just as well without it."
"Nonsense! Don't let me ever again hear of this foolishness."
And then the old man mingled with the happy company.
"Come, James, you must drink with me, too," the mother said, a
little while afterward.
Haley did not seem unwilling, but turned off a glass of wine with an
air of real pleasure.
"You must drink with me, too," went through the room. Every little
while some one, with whom the young man had on former occasions
refused to drink, finding out that he had been driven from his
cold-water resolutions, insisted upon taking a glass with him. Such
being the case, it is not to be wondered at that a remark like this
should be made before the passage of an hour.
"See! As I live, Haley's getting lively!"
"I think that 'rich and generous wine' is beginning to brighten you
up a little," Mr. Manley said, about this time, slapping his
son-in-law familiarly upon the shoulder?
"I feel very happy, sir," was Haley's reply.
"That's right. This is a happy occasion."
"I never was so happy in my life! I hardly know what to do with
myself. Come! Won't you take some wine with me. I drank with you a
little while ago."
"Certainly! Certainly! My boy! Or, perhaps you would try a little
brandy."
"No objection," said the young man. And then the two went to the
side-board, and each took a stiff glass of brandy.
"That's capital! It makes me feel good!" ejaculated Haley, as he set
his empty glass down.
Cotillions were now formed, and the bride and groom took the floor
in the first set. Clara felt very proud of her husband as she leaned
upon his arm, waiting for the music to begin, and glanced around
upon her maiden companions with a look of triumph. But she soon had
cause to abate her exultation, for when the music struck up, and the
dancers commenced their intricate movements, she found that her
husband blundered so as to throw all into confusion. The reason of
this instantly flashed upon her mind, for she knew him to be a
correct and graceful dancer. He was too much intoxicated to dance!
 Her woman's pride caused her to make the effort to guide him
through the figures. But it was of no use. The second attempt failed
signally by his breaking the figures, and reeling with a loud,
drunken laugh, through and through, and round and round the
astonished group of dancers, thrown thus suddenly into confusion.
Poor Clara, overwhelmed with mortification, retired to a seat, while
her husband continued his antics, ending them finally with an Indian
whoop, such as may often be heard late at night in the streets, from
a company of drunken revellers,--when he sought her out, and came
and took a seat by her side.
"Aint you happy to-night, Clara! Aint you, old girl!" he said, in a
loud voice, striking her with his open hand upon the shoulder. "I'm
so happy that I feel just ready to jump out of my skin! Whoop!--Now
see how beautifully I can cut a pigeon's-wing."
And he sprang from his seat, and commenced describing the elegant
figure he had named, with industrious energy, much to the amusement
of one portion of the company, but to the painful mortification of
another. A circle was soon formed around him, to witness his
graceful movements, which strongly reminded those present who had
witnessed the performances, of a corn-field negro's Juba, or the
double-shuffle.
"Come," old Mr. Manley said, interrupting the young man in his
evolutions, by laying his hand upon his arm.
"Come! I want you a moment."
"Hel-lel-lel-lo, o-o, there! What's wanting? ha!" he said, pausing,
and then staggering forwards against Mr Manley. "Who are you, sir?"
"For shame, sir!" the old man replied in a stern voice. "Come with
me, I wish to speak to you."
"Speak here, then, will you? I've no se-se-secrets. I'm open and
above board! Jim Haley's the boy that knows what he's about!
Who-o-o-oop! Clear the track there!"
And starting away from the old man, he ran two or three paces, and
then sprang clear over the head of a young lady, frightening her
almost out of her wits.
"There! Who'll match me that? Jim Haley's the boy what's hard to
beat! Whoo-oo-oop, hurrah! But where's Clara? Where's my dear little
wifie? Ah! there--No, that isn't her, neither. Wh-wh-where is the
little jade?"
The whole of this passed in a few moments, with all the drunken
gestures required to give it the fullest effect.
Poor Clara, at first mortified, when she saw what a perfect madman
her husband had become, was so shocked that her feelings overcame
her, and she was carried fainting from the room. O, how bitter was
her momentary repentance of her blind folly, ere her bewildered
senses forsook her.
As for Haley, he grew worse and worse, until the brandy which he
continued to pour down, had completely stupified him, when he was
carried off to bed in a state of drunken insensibility; after which,
the company retired in oppressive and embarrassed silence.
Sad and lonely was the bridal chamber that night, and the couch of
the young bride was wet with bitter, but unavailing tears.
On the next morning, those who first entered the room where Haley
had slept, found it empty. Towards the middle of the day, a letter
was left for Clara by an unknown hand. It ran thus:
"DEAR CLARA--For you are still dear to me, although you have robbed
me of happiness for ever, and crushed your own hopes with mine. For
years before I came to this place, I had been a slave to
intoxication--a slave held in a fearful bondage. At last, I resolved
to break loose from my thraldom. One vigorous effort, and I was
free. There yet remained to me a small remnant of a wrecked fortune.
With this I abandoned my early home, and fixed my residence here,
determined once more to be a man. Temptations beset me on every
hand; but while I touched not, tasted not, handled not, I knew that
I was safe. But alas for the hour when you became my tempter! O,
that the remembrance of it could be blotted from my memory for ever!
When, for your sake, I raised that fatal glass to my lips, and the
single drop of wine that touched them thrilled wildly through every
nerve, I felt that I was lost. Horrible were my sensations, but your
tempting voice lured me to sip the scarcely tasted poison; I did so,
and my resolution was gone! All that occurred after that is only
dimly written on my memory. But I was a madman. That I can realize.
When drunk, I have always acted the madman. And now we part for
ever! I am a proud man, and cannot remain in the scene of my
disgrace. My property I leave for you, and go I know not, and care
not, whither--perhaps to die, unlamented, and unknown, and sink into
a drunkard's grave. Farewell!"
This letter bore neither name nor date. But they were not needed.
Five years from that sorrowful morning Clara sat by a window in her
father's house, near the close of day, looking dreamily up into the
serene and cloudless sky. Her face was pale, and had a look of
hopeless suffering. Five years!--It seemed as if twenty must have
passed over her head, each burdening her with a heavy weight of
affliction. O, what a wreck did she present! Five years of such a
life! Who can tell their history? She was alone; and sat with her
head upon her hand, and her eyes fixed, as if upon some object. But,
evidently, no image touched the nerve of vision. Presently her lips
moved, and a few mournful words were uttered aloud, almost
involuntarily.
"O, that I knew where he was! O, that I could but find him, if
alive!"
A slight noise startled her, and she turned quickly. Was it a
vision? Or did her long-lost husband stand before her, the shadow of
what he had been?
"Clara! Dear Clara!"
In a moment she was clinging to him with a trembling, eager,
convulsive grasp. Tenderly did he fold her in his arms, and press
his lips to hers fervently.
"Clara! Dear Clara!"
"My own dear husband!" was all she could utter, as she sank like a
helpless child on his bosom.
For four years from the night of his wedding, Haley had been a
common drunkard, with no power over himself. On the brink of the
grave, he was rescued, signed a pledge of total abstinence, and set
himself eagerly to work to elevate his condition. One year had
sufficed to efface many sad tokens of his degradation, but time
could not restore the freshness to his cheek, nor the light to his
eye. Then he returned and sought his bride, who still mourned him
with an inconsolable grief. A few months produced a happy change in
both. But they cannot look back. Over the past they throw a
veil,--the future is theirs, and it is growing brighter and
brighter. May its clear sky never be darkened!
THE ELEVENTH COMMANDMENT.
"Is there a good fire in the little spare room Jane?" said Mr. Wade,
a plain country farmer, coming into the kitchen where his good wife
was busy preparing for supper.
"Oh, yes, I've made the room as comfortable as can be," replied Mrs.
Wade; "but I wish you would take up a good armful of wood now, so
that we wont have to disturb Mr. N--, by going into the room after
he gets here."
"If he should come this evening," remarked the husband. "But it is
getting late, and I am afraid he won't be here Before the morning."
"Oh, I guess he will be along soon. I have felt all day as if he
were coming."
"They say he is a good man, and preaches most powerfully. Mr. Jones
heard him preach in New York at the last conference, and tells me he
never heard such a sermon as he gave them. It cut right and left,
and his words went home to every heart like arrows of conviction."
"I hope he will be here this evening," remarked the wife as she put
some cakes in the oven.
"And so do I." remarked Mr. Wade, as he turned away, and went out to
the wood pile for an armfull of wood for the expected minister's
room.
It was Saturday afternoon, and nearly sundown. Mr. N--, who was
expected to arrive, and for whose comfort every preparation in their
power to make, had been completed by the family at whose house he
was to stay, was the new Presiding Elder of B--District, in the
New Jersey Conference. Quarterly meeting was to be held on the next
day, which was Sunday, when Mr. N--was to preach, and administer
the ordinances of the church. Being his first visit to that part of
the District, the preacher was known to but few, if any, of the
members, and they all looked forward to his arrival with interest,
and were prepared to welcome him with respect and affection.
The house of Mr. Wade was known as the 'minister's home.' For years,
in their movements through the circuit, the preachers, as they came
round to this part in the field of their appointed labor, were
welcomed by Brother and Sister Wade, and the little spare chamber
made comfort. able for their reception. It was felt by these
honest-hearted people, more a privilege than a duty, thus to share
their temporal blessings with the men of God who ministered to them
in holy things. They had their weaknesses, as we all have. One of
their weaknesses consisted in a firm belief that they were deeply
imbued with the genuine religion, and regarded things spiritual
above all worldly considerations. They were kind, good people,
certainly, but not as deeply read in the lore of their own hearts,
not as familiar with the secret springs of their own actions, as all
of us should desire to be. But this was hardly to be wondered at,
seeing that their position in the church was rather elevated as
compared with those around them, and they were the subjects of
little distinguishing marks flattering to the natural man.
While Mr. Wade was splitting a log at the wood-pile, his thoughts on
the new Presiding Elder, and his feelings warm with the anticipated
pleasure of meeting and entertaining him, a man of common appearance
approached along the road, and when he came to where the farmer was,
stood still and looked at him until he had finished cutting the log,
and was preparing to lift the cleft pieces in his arms.
"Rather a cold day this," said the man.
"Yes, rather," returned Mr. Wade, a little indifferently, and in a
voice meant to repulse the stranger, whose appearance did not
impress him very favorably.
"How far is it to D--?" inquired the man.
"Three miles," replied Mr. Wade, who having filled his arms with
wood, was beginning to move off towards the house.
"So far!" said the man in a tone that was slightly marked with
hesitation. "I thought it was but a little way from this." Then with
an air of hesitation, and speaking in a respectful voice, he added,
"I would feel obliged if you would let me go in and warm myself. I
have walked for two miles in the cold, an--as D--is still three
miles off, I shall be chilled through before I get there."
So modest and natural a request as this, Mr. Wade could not refuse,
and yet, in the way he said--"Oh, certainly"--there was a manner
that clearly betrayed his wish that the man had passed on and
preferred his request somewhere else. Whether this was noticed or
not, is of no consequence; the wayfarer on this assent to his
request, followed Mr. Wade into the house.
"Jane," said the farmer as he entered the house with the stranger,
and his voice was not as cordial as it might have been; "let this
man warm himself by the kitchen fire. He has to go all the way to
D--this evening and says he is cold."
There is a kind of magnetic intelligence in the tones of the voice.
Mrs. Wade understood perfectly, by the way in which this was said,
that the husband did not feel much sympathy for the stranger, and
only yielded the favor asked because he could not well refuse to
grant it. Her own observation did not correct the impression her
husband's manner had produced. The man's dress, though neither dirty
nor ragged, was not calculated to impress any one very favorably.
His hat was much worn, and the old gray coat in which he was
buttoned up to the chin, had seen so much service that it was
literally threadbare from collar to skirt, and showed numerous
patches, darns, and other evidences of needlework, applied long
since to its original manufacture. His cow-hide boots, though whole,
had a coarse look; and his long dark beard gave his face, not a very
prepossessing one at best, a no very attractive aspect.
"You can sit down there," said Mrs. Wade, a little ungraciously, for
she felt the presence of the man, just at that particular juncture,
as an intrusion; and she pointed to an old chair that stood. near
the fire-place, in front of which was a large Dutch oven containing
some of her best cream short cakes, prepared especially for Mr.
N--, the new Presiding Elder now momently expected.
"Thank you, Ma'am," returned the stranger, as he took the chair, and
drew close up to the blazing hearth, and removing his thick woolen
gloves, spread his hands to receive the genial warmth.
Nothing more was said by either the stranger or Mr. Wade, for the
space of three or four minutes. During this time, the good
house-wife passed in and out, once or twice, busy as could be in
looking after supper affairs. The lid of the ample Dutch oven had
been raised once or twice, and both the eyes and nose of the
traveller greeted with a pleasant token of the good fare soon to be
served up in the family. He was no longer cold; but the sight and
smell of the cakes and other good things in preparation by the lady,
awakened a sense of hunger, and made it keenly felt. But, as the
comfort of a little warmth had been bestowed so reluctantly, he
could not think of trespassing on the farmer and his wife for a bite
of supper, and so commenced drawing on his heavy woolen gloves, and
buttoning up his old gray coat. While occupied in doing this, Mr.
Wade came into the kitchen, and said--
"I'm afraid Jane, that the minister won't be along this evening.
It's after sun-down, and begins to grow duskish."
"He ought to have been here an hour ago," returned Mrs. W., in a
tone of disappointment.
"It's getting late, my friend, and D--'s a good distance ahead,"
remarked the farmer, after standing with his back to the fire, and
regarding for some moments the stranger, who had taken off his
gloves, and was slowly unbuttoning his coat again.
"It's three miles you say?"
"Yes, good three miles, if not more; and it will be dark in half an
hour."
"What direction must I take?" required the stranger.
"You keep along the road until you come to the meeting house on the
top of the hill, half a mile beyond this, and then you strike off to
the right, and keep straight on."
"What meeting house is it?"
"The D--Methodist Meeting House."
"You are expecting the minister, I think you just now said?"
"Yes. Mr. N--, our new Presiding Elder, is to preach to-morrow,
and he was to have been here this afternoon."
"He is to stay with you?"
"Certainly he is. The ministers all stay at my house."
The man got up, and went to the door and looked out.
"Couldn't you give me a little something to eat before I go," he
said, returning. "I havn't tasted food since this morning, and feel
a little faint."
"Jane, can't you give him some cold meat and bread?" Mr. Wade turned
to his wife, and she answered, just a little fretfully, "Oh, yes, I
suppose so;" and going to the cupboard, brought out a dish
containing a piece of cold fat bacon that had been boiled with
cabbage for dinner, and half a loaf of bread, which she placed on
the kitchen table and told the man to help himself. The stranger did
not wait for another invitation; but set to work in good earnest
upon the bread and bacon, while the farmer stood with his hands
behind him, and his back to the fire, whistling the air of "Auld
Lang Syne," while he mentally repeated the words of the hymn of
"When I can read my title clear," and wished that his visitor would
make haste and get through with his supper. The latter, after eating
for a short time with the air of a man whose appetite was keen,
began to discuss the meat and bread with more deliberation, and
occasionally to ask a question, or make a remark, the replies to
which were not very gracious, although Mr. Wade forced himself to be
as polite as he could be.
The homely meal at length concluded, the man buttoned up his old
coat and drew on his coarse woolen gloves again, and thanking Mr.
and Mrs. Wade for their hospitality, opened the door and looked out.
It was quite dark, for there was no moon, and the sky was veiled in
clouds. The wind rushed into his face, cold and piercing. For a
moment or two, he stood with his hand upon the door, and then
closing it he turned back into the house, and said to the farmer
"You say it is still three miles to D--?"
"I do," said Mr. Wade coldly.
"I said so to you when you first stopped, and you ought to have
pushed on like a prudent man. You could have reached there before it
was quite dark."
"But I was cold and hungry, and might have fainted by the way."
The manner of saying this touched the farmer's feelings a little,
and caused him to look more narrowly into the stranger's face than
he had yet done. But he saw nothing more than he had already seen.
