
"I s'pose I do," said Barby, her face softening still more 
"or I can guess."

"Because I know that all these troublesome things will be
managed in the best way, and by my best Friend, and I know
that He will let none of them hurt me. I am sure of it  isn't
that enough to keep me quiet?"

Fleda's eyes were filling, and Barby looked away from them.

"Well, it beats me," she said, taking up her dish-cloth again,
"why you should have anything to trouble you. I can understand
wicked folks being plagued, but I can't see the sense of the
good ones."

"Troubles are to make good people better, Barby."

"Well," said Barby, with a very odd mixture of real feeling
and seeming want of it, "it's a wonder I never got religion,
for I will say that all the decent people I ever see were of
that kind,  Mis' Rossitur aint, though, is she?"

"No," said Fleda, a pang crossing her at the thought that all
her aunt's loveliness must tell directly and heavily in this
case to lighten religion's testimony. It was that thought, and
no other, which saddened her brow as she went back into the
other room.

"Troubles already!" said Mrs. Rossitur. "You will be sorry you
have come back to them, dear."

"No, indeed," said Fleda, brightly; "I am very glad I have
come home. We will try and manage the troubles, aunt Lucy."

There was no doing anything that day, but the very next
afternoon Fleda and Hugh walked down through the snow to Mrs.
Douglass's. It was a long walk and a cold one, and the snow
was heavy; but the pleasure of being together made up for it
all. It was a bright walk, too, in spite of everything.

In a most thrifty-looking well-painted farm-house, lived Mrs.
Douglass.

"Why, 'taint you, is it'?" she said, when she opened the door
 "Catharine said it was, and I said I guessed it wa'n't, for
I reckoned you had made up your mind not to come and see me at
all. How do you do?"

The last sentence in the tone of hearty and earnest
hospitality. Fleda made her excuses.

"Ay, ay  I can understand all that just as well as if you
said it. I know how much it means, too. Take off your hat."

Fleda said she could not stay, and explained her business.

"So you ha'n't come to see me, after all? Well, now, take off
your hat 'cause I wont have anything to say to you till you
do. I'll give you supper right away."

"But I have left my aunt alone, Mrs. Douglass; and the
afternoons are so short now, it would be dark before we could
get home."

"Serve her right for not coming along! and you sha'n't walk
home in the dark, for Earl will harness the team, and carry
you home like a streak  the horses have nothing to do. Come,
you sha'n't go."

And as Mrs. Douglass laid violent hands on her bonnet, Fleda
thought best to submit. She was presently rewarded with the
promise of the very person she wanted  a boy, or young man,
then in Earl Douglass's employ; but his wife said, "she
guessed he'd give him up to her;" and what his wife said,
Fleda knew Earl Douglass was in the habit of making good.

"There aint enough to do to keep him busy," said Mrs.
Douglass. "I told Earl he made me more work than he saved; but
he's hung on till now."

"What sort of a boy is he, Mrs. Douglass."

"He aint a steel-trap, I tell you beforehand," said the lady,
with one of her sharp intelligent glances; "he don't know
which way to go till you show him; but he's a clever enough
kind of a chap  he don't mean no harm. I guess he'll do for
what you want."

"Is he to be trusted?"

"Trust him with anything but a knife and fork," said she, with
another look and shake of the head. "He has no idee but what
everything on the supper-table is meant to be eaten straight
off. I would keep two such men as my husband as soon as I
would Philetus."

"Philetus!" said Fleda  "the person that brought the chicken,
and thought he had brought two?"

"You've hit it," said Mrs. Douglass. "Now you know him. How do
you like our new minister?"

"We are all very much pleased with him."

"He's very good-looking, don't you think so?"

"A very pleasant face."

"I ha'n't seen him much yet except in church; but those that
know, say he is very agreeable in the house."

"Truly, I dare say," answered Fleda, for Mrs. Douglass's face
looked for her testimony.

"But I think he looks as if he was beating his brains out
there among his books. I tell him he is getting the blues,
living in that big house by himself."

"Do you manage to do all your work without help, Mrs.
Douglass?" said Fleda, knowing that the question was in
"order," and that the affirmative answer was not counted a
thing to he ashamed of.

"Well, I guess I'll know good reason," said Mrs. Douglass,
complacently, "before I'll have any help to spoil my work.
Come along, and I'll let you see whether I want one."

Fleda went, very willingly, to be shown all Mrs. Douglass's
household arrangements and clever contrivances, of her own or
her husband's devising, for lessening or facilitating labour.
The lady was proud, and had some reason to be, of the very
superb order and neatness of each part and detail. No corner
or closet that might not be laid open fearlessly to a
visitor's inspection. Miss Catharine was then directed to open
her piano, and amuse Fleda with it while her mother performed
her promise of getting an early supper  a command grateful to
one or two of the party, for Catharine had been carrying on
all this while a most stately tête-à-tête with Hugh, which
neither had any wish to prolong. So Fleda filled up the time
good naturedly with thrumming over the two or three bits of
her childish music that she could recall, till Mr. Douglass
came in, and they were summoned to sit down to supper; which
Mrs. Douglass introduced by telling her guests "they must take
what they could get, for she had made fresh bread and cake and
pies for them two or three times, and she wasn't a-going to do
it again."

Her table was abundantly spread, however, and with most
exquisite neatness; and everything was of excellent quality,
saving only certain matters which call for a free hand in the
use of material. Fleda thought the pumpkin pies must have been
made from that vaunted stock which is said to want no eggs nor
sugar, and the cakes, she told Mrs. Rossitur afterwards, would
have been good if half the flour had been left out, and the
other ingredients doubled, The deficiency in one kind,
however, was made up by superabundance in another; the table
was stocked with such wealth of crockery that one could not
imagine any poverty in what was to go upon it. Fleda hardly
knew how to marshal the confusion of plates which grouped
themselves around her cup and saucer, and none of them might
be dispensed with. There was one set of little glass dishes
for one kind of sweetmeat, another set of ditto for another
kind; an army of tiny plates to receive and shield the
tablecloth from the dislodged cups of tea, saucers being the
conventional drinking vessels; and there were the standard
bread and butter plates, which, besides their proper charge of
bread and butter, and beef, and cheese, were expected, Fleda
knew, to receive a portion of every kind of cake that might
happen to be on the table. It was a very different thing,
however, from Miss Anastasia's tea-table, or that of Miss
Flora Quackenboss. Fleda enjoyed the whole time without
difficulty.

Mr. Douglass readily agreed to the transfer of Philetus's
services.

"He's a good boy!" said Earl  he's a good boy; he's as good a
kind of a boy as you need to have. He wants tellin'; most boys
want tellin'; but he'll do when he is told, and he means to do
right."

"How long do you expect your uncle will be gone?" said Mrs.
Douglass.

"I do not know," said Fleda.

"Have you heard from him since he left?"

"Not since I came home," said Fleda. "Mr. Douglass, what is
the first thing to be done about the maple-trees in the sugar
season?"

"Why, you calculate to try makin' sugar in the spring?"

"Perhaps  at any rate I should like to know about it."

"Well, I should think you would," said Earl, "and it's easy
done  there aint nothin' easier, when you know the right way
to set to work about it; and there's a fine lot of sugar trees
on the old farm  I recollect of them sugar trees as long ago
as when I was a boy  I've helped to work them afore now, but
there's a good many years since  has made me a leetle older;
but the first thing you want is a man and a team, to go about
and empty the buckets  the buckets must be emptied every day
 and then carry it down to the house."

"Yes, I know," said Fleda; "but what is the first thing to be
done to the trees?"

"Why, la! 'tain't much to do to the trees  all you've got to
do is to take an axe and chip a bit out, and stick a chip a
leetle way into the cut for to dreen the sap, and set a trough
under, and then go on to the next one, and so on;  you may
make one or two cuts in the south side of the tree, and one or
two cuts in the north side, if the tree's big enough, and if
it aint, only make one or two cuts in the south side of the
tree; and for the sap to run good, it had ought to be that
kind o' weather when it freezes in the day and thaws by night;
I would say!  when it friz in the night and thaws in the day;
the sap runs more bountifully in that kind o' weather."

It needed little from Fleda to keep Mr. Douglass at the maple-
trees till supper was ended; and then, as it was already
sundown, he went to harness the sleigh.

It was a comfortable one, and the horses, if not very handsome
nor bright-curried, were well fed and had good heart to their
work. A two-mile drive was before them, and with no
troublesome tongues or eyes to claim her attention, Fleda
enjoyed it fully. In the soft clear winter twilight, when
heaven and earth mingle so gently, and the stars look forth
brighter and cheerfuller than ever at another time, they slid
along over the fine roads, too swiftly, towards home; and
Fleda's thoughts as easily and swiftly slipped away from Mr.
Douglass, and maple-sugar, and Philetus, and an unfilled
woodyard, and an empty flour-barrel, and revelled in the pure
ether. A dark rising ground covered with wood sometimes rose
between her and the western horizon; and then a long stretch
of snow, only less pure, would leave free view of its
unearthly white light, dimmed by no exhalation, a gentle,
mute, but not the less eloquent, witness to earth of what
heaven must be.

But the sleigh stopped at the gate, and Fleda's musings came
home.

"Good night!" said Earl, in reply to their thanks and adieus;
 " 'taint anything to thank a body for  let me know when
you're a-goin' into the sugar-making, and I'll come and help
you."

"How sweet a pleasant message may make an unmusical tongue!"
said Fleda, as she and Hugh made their way up to the house.

"We had a stupid enough afternoon," said Hugh.

"But the ride home was worth it all!"




CHAPTER XXVI.


" 'Tis merry, 'tis merry, in good green wood,
So blithe Lady Alice is singing;
On the beech's pride, and the oak's brown side,
Lord Richard's axe is ringing."
LADY OF THE LAKE.


Philetus came, and was inducted into office and the little
room immediately; and Fleda felt herself eased of a burden.
Barby reported him stout and willing, and he proved it by what
seemed a perverted inclination for bearing the most enormous
logs of wood he could find into the kitchen.

"He will hurt himself!" said Fleda.

"I'll protect him!  against anything but buckwheat batter,"
said Barby, with a grave shake of her head. "Lazy folks takes
the most pains, I tell him. But it would be good to have some
more ground, Fleda, for Philetus says he don't care for no
dinner when he has griddles to breakfast, and there aint
anything much cheaper than that."

"Aunt Lucy, have you any change in the house?" said Fleda,
that same day.

"There isn't but three and sixpence," said Mrs. Rossitur, with
a pained, conscious look. "What is wanting, dear?"

"Only candles  Barby has suddenly found we are out, and she
wont have any more made before to-morrow. Never mind."

"There is only that," repeated Mrs. Rossitur. "Hugh has a
little money due to him from last summer, but he hasn't been
able to get it yet. You may take that, dear."

"No," said Fleda, "we mustn't. We might want it more."

"We can sit in the dark for once, said Hugh, "and try to make
an uncommon display of what Dr. Quackenboss calls 'sociality!'
"

"No," said Fleda, who had stood busily thinking, "I am going
to send Philetus down to the post-office for the paper, and
when it comes, I am not to be balked of reading it; I've made
up my mind. We'll go right off into the woods and get some
pine knots, Hugh  come! They make a lovely light. You get us
a couple of baskets and the hatchet; I wish we had two; and
I'll be ready in no time. That'll do!"

It is to be noticed, that Charlton had provided against any
future deficiency of news in his family. Fleda skipped away,
and in five minutes returned arrayed for the expedition, in
her usual out-of-door working trim, namely, an old dark merino
cloak, almost black, the effect of which was continued by the
edge of an old dark mousseline below, and rendered decidedly
striking by the contrast of a large whitish yarn shawl worn
over it; the whole crowned with a little close-fitting hood
made of some old silver-grey silk, shaped tight to the head,
without any bow or furbelow to break the outline. But such a
face within side of it! She came almost dancing into the room.

"This is Miss Ringgan! as she appeared when she was going to
see the pine-trees. Hugh, don't you wish you had a picture of
me?"

"I have got a tolerable picture of you, somewhere," said Hugh.

"This is somebody very different from the Miss Ringgan that
went to see Mrs. Evelyn, I can tell you," Fleda went on,
gaily. "Do you know, aunt Lucy, I have made up my mind that my
visit to New York was a dream, and the dream is nicely folded
away with my silk dresses. Now, I must go tell that precious
Philetus about the post-office; I am so comforted, aunt Lucy,
whenever I see that fellow staggering into the house under a
great log of wood! I have not heard anything in a long time so
pleasant as the ringing strokes of his axe in the yard. Isn't
life made up of little things?"

"Why don't you put a better pair of shoes on?"

"Can't afford it, Mrs. Rossitur. You are extravagant."

"Go and put on my India-rubbers."

"No, Ma'am  the rocks would cut them to pieces. I have
brought my mind down to  my shoes."

"It isn't safe, Fleda; you might see somebody."

"Well, Ma'am! But I tell you I am not going to see anybody but
the chick-a-dees and the snow-birds, and there is great
simplicity of manners prevailing among them."

The shoes were changed, and Hugh and Fleda set forth,
lingering a while, however, to give a new edge to their
hatchet  Fleda turning the grindstone. They mounted then the
apple-orchard hill, and went a little distance along the edge
of the table-land, before striking off into the woods. They
had stood still a minute to look over the little white valley
to the snow-dressed woodland beyond.

"This is better than New York, Hugh," said Fleda.

"I am very glad to hear you say that," said another voice.
Fleda turned, and started a little to see Mr. Olmney at her
side, and congratulated herself instantly on her shoes.

"Mrs. Rossitur told me where you had gone, and gave me
permission to follow you, but I hardly hoped to overtake you
so soon."

"We stopped to sharpen our tools," said Fleda. "We are out on
a foraging expedition."

"Will you let me help you?"

"Certainly  if you understand the business. Do you know a
pine-knot when you see it?"

He laughed, and shook his head, but avowed a wish to learn.

"Well, it would be a charity to teach you anything wholesome,"
said Fleda; "for I heard one of Mr. Olmney's friends lately
saying that he looked like a person who was in danger of
committing suicide."

"Suicide! One of my friends!" he exclaimed, in the utmost
astonishment.

"Yes," said Fleda, laughing; "and there is nothing like the
open air for clearing away vapours."

"You cannot have known that by experience," said he, looking
at her.

Fleda shook her head, and, advising him to take nothing for
granted, set off into the woods.

They were in a beautiful state. A light snow, but an inch or
two deep, had fallen the night before; the air had been
perfectly still during the day; and though the sun was out,
bright and mild, it had done little but glitter on the earth's
white capping. The light dry flakes of snow had not stirred
from their first resting-place. The long branches of the large
pines were just tipped with snow at the ends; on the smaller
evergreens every leaf and tuft had its separate crest. Stones
and rocks were smoothly rounded over, little shrubs and sprays
that lay along the ground were all doubled in white; and the
hemlock branches, bending with their feathery burden, stooped
to the foreheads of the party, and gave them the freshest of
salutations as they brushed by. The whole wood-scene was
particularly fair and graceful. A light veil of purity, no
more, thrown over the wilderness of stones, and stumps, and
bare ground  like the blessing of charity, covering all
roughnesses and unsightlinesses  like the innocent, unsullied
nature that places its light shield between the eye and
whatever is unequal, unkindly, and unlovely in the world.

"What do you think of this for a misanthropical man, Mr.
Olmney? there's a better tonic to be found in the woods than
in any remedies of man's devising."

"Better than books?" said he.

"Certainly!  No comparison."

"I have to learn that yet."

"So I suppose," said Fleda. "The very danger to be
apprehended, as I hear, Sir, is from your running a tilt into
some of those thick folios of yours, head foremost. There's no
pitch there, Hugh  you may leave it alone. We must go on 
there are more yellow pines higher up."

"But who could give such a strange character of me to you?"
said Mr. Olmney.

"I am sure your wisdom would not advise me to tell you that,
Sir. You will find nothing there, Mr. Olmney."

They went gaily on, careering about in all directions, and
bearing down upon every promising stump or dead pine-tree they
saw in the distance. Hugh and Mr. Olmney took turns in the
labour of hewing out the fat pine knots, and splitting down
the old stumps to get at the pitchy heart of the wood; and the
baskets began to grow heavy. The whole party were in excellent
spirits, and as happy as the birds that filled the woods, and
whose cheery "chick-a-dee-dee-dee" was heard whenever they
paused to rest, and let the hatchet be still.

"How one sees everything in the colour of one's own
spectacles!" said Fleda.

"May I ask what colour yours are to-day?" said Mr. Olmney.

"Rose, I think," said Hugh.

"No," said Fleda, "they are better than that  they are no
worse colour than the snow's own  they show me everything
just as it is. It could not be lovelier."

"Then we may conclude, may we not," said Mr. Olmney, "that you
are not sorry to find yourself in Queechy again?"

"I am not sorry to find myself in the woods again. That is not
pitch, Mr. Olmney."

"It has the same colour  and weight."

"No, it is only wet  see this, and smell of it  do you see
the difference? Isn't it pleasant?"

"Everything is pleasant to-day," said he, smiling.

"I shall report you a cure. Come, I want to go a little higher
and show you a view. Leave that, Hugh  we have got enough."

But Hugh chose to finish an obstinate stump, and his
companions went on without him. It was not very far up the
mountain, and they came to a fine look-out point  the same
where Fleda and Mr. Carleton had paused long before on their
quest after nuts. The wide spread of country was a white waste
now; the delicate beauties of the snow were lost in the far
view; and the distant Catskill showed wintrily against the
fair blue sky. The air was gentle enough to invite them to
stand still, after the exercise they had taken; and as they
both looked in silence, Mr. Olmney observed that his
companion's face settled into a gravity rather at variance
with the expression it had worn.

"I should hardly think," said he, softly, "that you were
looking through white spectacles, if you had not told us so."

"Oh  a shade may come over what one is looking at, you know,"
said Fleda. But seeing that he still watched her inquiringly,
