was Uncle Tom, who had come in and stood listening to the 
conversation at the door. 
"Chil'en," he said, "I'm afeard you don't know what 
ye're sayin'. Forever is a dre'ful word, chil'en ; it's awful 
to think on't. You oughtenter wish that ar to any human 
critter." 
"We wouldn't to anybody but the soul-drivers," said 
Andy ; " nobody can help wishing it to them, they's so awful 
wicked." 
" Don't natur herself kinder cry out on 'em ? " said Aunt 
Chloe. "Don't dey tear der sucking baby right off his 
mother's breast, and sell him ? And der little children as is 
crying and holding on by her clothes, don't they pull 'em 
off and sells 'em ? Don't dey tear wife and husband apart?" 
said Aunt Chloe, beginning to cry, " when it's jest takin' the 
very life on 'em ? and all the while does they feel one bit ? 
don't dey drink, and smoke, and take it oncommon easy ? 
Lor, if the devil don't get them, what's he good for ? " And 
Aunt Chloe covered her face with her checked apron, and 
began to sob in good earnest. 
 " Pray for them that 'spitefully use you, the good book 
says," says Tom. 
- " Pray for 'em," said Aunt Chloe ; " Lor, it's too tough ! 
I can't pray for 'em." 
"It's natur, Chloe, and natur's strong," said Tom, "but 
the Lord's grace is stronger. Besides, you oughter think 
what an awful state a poor critter's soul's in that'll do 
them ar things; you oughter thank Grod that you an't 
like him, Chloe. I'm sure I'd rather be sold ten thousand 
times over than to have all that ar poor critter's got to 
answer for." 
" So'd I a heap," said Jake. " Lor, shouldn't we cotch it, 
Andy?" 
Andy shrugged his shoulders, and gave an acquiescent 
whistle. 
" I'm glad mas'r didn't go off this morning, as he looked 
to," said Tom; " that ar hurt me more than sellin', it did. 
Mebbe ifc might have been natural for him, but 'twould have 
come desp't hard on me, as has known him from a baby ; 
but I've seen mas'r, and I begin to feel sort o' reconciled 
to the Lord's will now. Mas'r couldnt help hisself ; he 
did right, but I'm feared things will be kinder goin' to 
rack when I'm gone. Mas'r can't be 'spected to be a 
pryin' round everywhar, as I've done, a ke'epin' up all the 
ends. The boys all means well, but they's powerful car'less. 
That ar troubles me." 
The bell here rung, and Tom was summoned to the 
parlour. 
"Tom," said his master kindly, "I want you to notice 
that I give this gentleman bonds to forfeit a thousand dollars 
if you are not on the spot when he wants you ; he's going 
to-day to look after his other business, and you can have the 
day to yourself. Go anywhere you like, boy." 
" Thank you, mas'r," said Tom. 
"And mind yerself," said the trader, " and don't come it 
over your master with any o' yer nigger tricks ; for I'll take 
every cent out of him, if you an't thar. If he'd hear to me, 
he wouldn't trust any on ye slippery as eels ! " 
"Mas'r," said Tom and he stood very straight "I was 
jist eight years old when ole missis put you into my arms, and 
you wasn't a year old. ' Thar,' says she, ' Tom, that's to be 
your young mas'r ; take good care on him,' says she. And 
now I jist ask you, mas'r, have I ever broke word to you, or 
gone contrary to you, 'specially since I was a Christian ? " 
Mr. Shelby was fairly overcome, and the tears rose to 
his eyes. 
" My good boy," said he, " the Lord knows you say but 
the truth ; and if I was able to help it, all the world shouldn't 
buy you." 
" And sure as I am a Christian woman," said Mrs. Shelby, 
"you shall be redeemed as soon as I can anyway bring 
together means. Sir," she said to Haley, " take good account 
of who you sell him to, and let me know." 
" Lor, yes, for that matter," said the trader, " I may bring 
him up in a year, not much the wuss for wear, and trade him 
back." 
" I'll trade with you, then, and make it for your advan- 
tage," said Mrs. Shelby. 
" Of course," said the trader, " all's equal with me ; li'ves 
trade 'em up as down, so I does a good business. AH I 
 want is a livin' you know, ma'am ; that's all any on us wants, 
I 'spose." 
Mr. and Mrs. Shelby both felt annoyed and degraded by 
the familiar impudence of the trader, and yet both saw the 
absolute necessity of putting a constraint on their feelings. 
The more hopelessly sordid and insensible he appeared, the 
greater became Mrs. Shelby's dread of his succeeding in 
re-capturing Eliza and her child, and of course the greater her 
motive for detaining him by every female artifice. She, 
therefore, graciously smiled, assented, chatted familiarly, and 
did all she could to make time pass imperceptibly. 
At two o'clock Sam and Andy brought the horses up to 
the posts, apparently greatly refreshed and invigorated by 
the scamper of the morning. 
Sam was there new oiled from dinner, with an abundance 
of zealous and ready officiousness. As Haley approached, 
he was boasting, in nourishing style, to Andy, of the evident 
and eminent success of the operation, now that he had 
" farly come to it." 
" Your master, I s'pose, don't keep no dogs ?" said Haley, 
thoughtfully, as he prepared to mount. 
"Heaps on 'em," said Sam, triumphantly; thar's Bruno 
he's a roarer ! and, besides that, 'bout every nigger of us 
keeps a pup of some natur' or uther." 
" Poh ! " said Haley and he said something else, too, 
with regard to the said dogs, at which Sam muttered, 
"I don't see no use cussin' on 'em, noway." 
'" But your master don't keep no dogs (I pretty much know 
he don't) for trackin' out niggers ? " 
Sam knew exactly what he meant, but he kept on a look 
of earnest and desperate simplicity. 
" Our dogs all smells round considable sharp. I 'spect 
they's the kind, though they han't never had no practice. 
They's far dogs, though, at most anything, if you'd get 'em 
started. Here, Bruno," he called, whistling to the lumbering Newfoundland, who came pitching tumultuously toward 
them. 
" You go hang ! " said Haley, getting up. " Come, tumble 
up, now." 
Sam tumbled up accordingly, dexterously contriving to 
tickle Andy as he did so, which occasioned Andy to split out 
into a laugh, greatly to Haley's indignation, who made a cut 
at him with his riding-whip. 
" I's 'stonished at yer, Andy," said Sam, with awful 
gravity. "This yer's a seris business, Andy. Ter 
musn't be a makin' game. This yer an't no way to help 
mas'r." 
" I shall take the straight road to the river," said Haley, 
decidedly, after they had come to the boundaries of the 
estate. " I know the way of all of 'em they makes tracks 
for the underground." 
" Sartin," said Sam, " dat's de idee. Mas'r Haley hits de 
thing right in de middle. Now, der's two roads to de river 
de dirt road and der pike which mas'r mean to take ? " 
Andy looked up innocently at Sam, surprised at hearing 
this new geographical fact, but instantly confirmed what he 
said by a vehement reiteration. 
" 'Cause," said Sam, " I'd rather be 'clined to 'magine that 
Lizzy 'd take de dirt road, bein' it's the least travelled." 
Haley, notwithstanding that he was a very old bird, and 
naturally inclined to be suspicious of chaff, was rather brought 
up by this view of the case. 
" If yer warn't both on yer such cussed liars now ! " he 
said, contemplatively, as he pondered a moment. 
The pensive, reflective tone in which this was spoken 
appeared to amuse Andy prodigiously, and he drew a little 
behind and shook so as apparently to run a great risk of 
falling off his horse, while Sam's face was immoveably 
composed into the most doleful gravity. 
" Course," said Sam, "mas'r can do as he'd ruther ; go de 
straight road, if mas'r thinks best it's all one to us. Now, 
when I study 'pon it, I think de straight road de best 
"She would naturally go a lonesome way," said Haley, 
thinking aloud, and not minding Sam's remark. 
" Dar a'nt no sayin'," said Sam ; " gals is pecular. They 
never does nothin' ye thinks they will ; mose gen'lly the 
contrar. Grals is nat'lly made contrary ; and so, if you thinks 
they've gone one road, it is sartin you'd better go t'other, 
and then you'll be sure to find 'em. Now, my private 'pinion 
is, Lizzy took der dirt road; so I think w'd better take de 
straight one." 
This profound generic view of the female sex did not 
seem to dispose Haley particularly to the straight road ; and 
he announced decidedly that he should go the other, and 
askedJSam when they should come to it. 
".A little piece a-head," said Sam, giving a wink to Andy 
with the eye which was on Andy's side of the head ; and he 
added gravely, " but I've studded on de matter, and I'm 
quite clar we ought not to go dat ar way. I nebber been 
over it no way. It's despit lonesome, and we might lose 
our way whar we'd come to, de Lord only knows." 
" Nevertheless," said Haley, " I shall go that way." 
" Now I think on't, I think I hearn 'em tell that dat ar road 
was all fenced up and down by der creek, and thar ; an't it, 
Andy?" 
Andy wasn't certain, he'd only "hearn tell" about that 
road, but never been over it. In short, he was strictly 
non-committal. 
Haley, accustomed to strike the balance of probabilities 
between lies of greater or lesser magnitude, thought that it 
lay in favour of the dirt road aforesaid. The mention of the 
thing he thought he perceived was involuntary on Sam's 
part at first ; and his confused attempts to dissuade him he 
set down to a desperate lying, on second thoughts, as being 
unwilling to implicate Eliza. 
When, therefore, Sain indicated the road, Haley plunged 
briskly into it, followed by Sam and Andy. 
Now, the road, in fact, was an old one that had formerly 
been a thoroughfare to the river, but abandoned for many 
years after the laying of the new pike. It was open for 
about an hour's ride, and after that it was cut across by 
various farms and fences. Sam knew this fact perfectly 
well ; indeed, the road had been so long closed up that Andy 
had never heard of it. He therefore rode along with an air 
of dutiful submission, only groaning and vociferating 
occasionally that " 'twas desp't rough, and bad for Jerry's 
foot." 
" Now, I jest give yer warning," said Haley, " I know 
yer ; yer won't get me to turn off" this yer road, with all yer 
fussin' so you shet up ! " 
" Mas'r will go his own way ! " said Sam, with rueful submission, at the same time winking most portentously to 
Andy, whose delight was now very near the explosive point. 
Sain was in wonderful spirits ; professed to keep a very 
brisk look-out at one time exclaiming that he saw " a gal's 
bonnet " on the top of some distant eminence, or calling to 
Andy "if that thar was'nt Lizzy down in the hollow" 
always making these exclamations in some rough or craggy 
part of the road, where the sudden quickening of speed was 
a special inconvenience to all parties concerned, and thus 
keeping Haley in a state of constant commotion. 
After riding about an hour in this way, the whole party 
made a precipitate and tumultuous descent into a barn-yard 
belonging to a large farming establishment. Not a soul was 
in sight, all the hands being employed in the fields; but, 
as the barn stood conspicuously and plainly square across the 
road, it was evident that their journey in that direction had 
reached a decided finale. 
" Wan't dat ar what I tell'd mas'r ? " said Sam, with an 
air of injured innocence. "How does strange gentlemen 
'spect to know more about a country dan de natives born 
and raised?" 
" You rascal ! " said Haley, " you knew all about this." 
" Didn't I tell yer I know'd, andyer wouldn't believe me ? 
I tell'd mas'r it was all shet up, and fenced up, and I didn't 
'spect we could get through Andy heard me." 
It was all too true to be disputed, and the unlucky man 
had to pocket his wrath with the best grace he was able, and 
all three faced to the right about, and took up their line of 
march for the highway. 
In consequence of all the various delays, it was about 
three quarters of an hour after Eliza had laid her child to 
sleep in the village tavern that the party came riding into 
the same place. Eliza was standing by the window, looking 
out in another direction, when Sam's quick eye caught a 
glimpse of her. Haley and Andey were two yards behind. 
At this crisis Sam contrived to have his hat blown off, and 
uttered a loud and characteristic ejaculation, which startled 
her at once, she drew suddenly back ; the whole train swept 
by the window, round to the front door. 
A thousand lives seemed to be concentrated in that one 
moment to Eliza. Her room opened by a side-door to the 
river. She caught her child, and sprang down the steps 
towards it. The trader caught a full glimpse of her, just as 
she was disappearing down the bank ; and throwing himself 
from his horse, and calling loudly on Sam and Andy, he was 
after her like a hound after a deer. In that dizzy moment, 
her feet to her scarce seemed to touch the ground, and a moment brought her to the water's edge. Bight on behind they 
came ; and, nerved with strength such as Grod gives only to 
the desperate, with one wild cry and flying leap, she vaulted, 
sheer over the turbid current by the shore, on to the raft of 
ice beyond. It was a desperate leap impossible to any- 
thing but madness and despair ; and Haley, Sam, and Andy 
instinctively cried out, and lifted up their hands, as she 
did it. 
The huge green fragment of ice on which she alighted 
pitched and creaked as her weight came on it, but she stayed 
there not a moment. "With wild cries and desperate energy 
she leaped to another and still another cake ; stumbling 
leaping slipping springing upwards again ! Her shoes 
are gone her stockings cut from her feet while blood 
marked every step ; but she saw nothing, felt nothing, till 
dimly, as in a dream, she saw the Ohio side, and a man 
helping her up the bank. 
" Yer a brave gal, now, whoever ye ar ! " said the man, 
with an oath. 
Eliza recognised the voice and face of a man who owned a 
farm not far from her old home. 
" Oh Mr. Symmes ! save me do save me do hide me ! " 
said Eliza. 
"Why, what's this?" said the man. "Why, if 'tant 
Shelby's gal ! " 
"My child! this boy he'd sold him! There is his 
mas'r," said she, pointing to the Kentucky shore. " Mr. 
Symmes, you've got a little boy." 
" So I have," said the man, as he roughly, but kindly, drew 
her up the steep bank. " Besides, you are a right brave gal. 
I like grit wherever I see it." 
When they had gained the top of the bank the man 
paused. 
" I'd be glad to do something for ye," said he, " but then 
there's nowhar I could take ye. The best I can do is to tell 
ye to go thar" said he, pointing to a large white house 
which stood by itself, off the main street of the village. 
" Go thar ; they're kind folks. Thar's no kind o' danger 
but they'll help you they're up to all that sort o'thing." 
" The Lord bless you ! " said Eliza, earnestly. 
"No 'casion, no 'casion in the world," said the man. 
"What I've done's of no 'count." 
" And oh, surely, sir, you won't tell any one ! " 
" Gro to thunder, gal ! What do you take a feller for ? 
In course not," said the man. " Come, now, go along like a 
likely, sensible gal, as you are. You've arnt your liberty, 
and you shall have it, for all me." 
The woman folded her child to her bosom, and walked 
firmly and swiftly away. The man stood and looked 
after her. 
" Shelby, now, mebbe won't think this yer the most neighbourly thing in the world ; but what's a feller to do ? If he 
catches one of my gals in the same fix, he's welcome to pay 
back. Somehow I never could see no kind o' critter a strivin' 
and pantin,' and trying to clar theirselves, with the dogs arter 
'em, and go agin' 'em. Besides, I don't see no kind of 'casion 
for me to be hunter and catcher for other folks, neither." 
So spoke this poor, heathenish Kentuckian, who had not 
been instructed in his constitutional relations, and, conse- 
quently, was betrayed into acting in a sort of Christianised 
manner, which, if he had been better situated and more 
enlightened, he would not have been left to do. 
Haley had stood a perfectly amazed spectator of the scene 
till Eliza had disappeared up the bank, when he turned a 
blank, inquiring look, on Sam and Andy. 
"That ar was a tolerable fair stroke of business," said 
Sam. 
" The gal's got seven devils in her, I believe," said Haley. 
" How like a wild cat she jumped !" 
"Wai, now," said Sam, scratching his head, "I hope 
mas'r '11 'scuse us tryin' dat ar road. Don't think I feel 
spry enough for dat ar, no way!" and Sam gave a hoarse 
chuckle. 
" You laugh !" said the trader, with a growl. 
Lord bless you, mas'r, I couldn't help it, now," said Sam, 
giving way to the long pent-up delight of his soul. " She 
looked so curi's, a leapin' and springin', ice a crackin', and 
only to hear her plump ! ker chunk ! ker splash ! Spring ! 
Lord ! how she goes it !" And Sam and Andy laughed till 
the tears rolled down their cheeks. 
"I'll make ye laugh t'other side yer mouths!" said the 
trader, laying about their heads with his riding-whip. 
Both ducked, and ran shouting up the bank, and were on 
their horses before he was up. 
" Grood evening, mas'r," said Sam, with much gravity. 
" I berry much 'spect missis be anxious 'bout Jerry. Mas'r 
Haley won't want us no longer. Missis wouldn't hear of our 
ridin' the critters over Lizzy's bridge to-night ;" and, with a 
facetious poke into Andy's ribs, he started off, followed by the 
latter, at full speed, their shouts of laughter coming faintly 
on the wind. 
CHAPTEE VIII. 
ELIZA'S ESCAPE. 
ELIZA made her desperate retreat across the river just in 
the dusk of twilight. The grey mist of evening, rising slowly 
from the river, enveloped her as she disappeared up the 
bank, and the swollen current and floundering masses of ice 
presented a hopeless barrier between her and her pursuer. 
Haley, therefore, slowly and discontentedly returned to the 
little tavern, to ponder further what was to be done. The 
woman opened to him the door of a little parlour, covered 
with a rag carpet, where stood a table with a very shining 
black oil-cloth, sundry lank, high-backed wood chairs, with 
some plaster images, in resplendent colours, on the mantel-
shelf, above a very dimly-smoking grate ; a long hard- wood 
settle extended its uneasy length by the chimney, and here 
Haley sat him down to meditate on the instability of human 
hopes and happiness in general. 
"What did I want with the little cuss, now," he said to 
himself, " that I should have got myself treed like a 'coon, 
as I am, this yer way?" and Haley relieved himself by 
repeating over a not very select litany of imprecations 
on himself, which, though there was the best possible 
reason to consider them as true, we shall, as a matter of 
taste, omit. 
He was startled by the loud and dissonant voice of a man 
who was apparently dismounting at the door. He hurried to 
the window. 
" By the land ! if this yer an't the nearest, now, to what 
I've heard folks call Providence," said Haley. "I do b'lieve 
that ar's Tom Loker." 
Haley hastened out. Standing by the bar, in the corner 
of the room, was a brawny, muscular man, full six feet in 
height, and broad in proportion. He was dressed in a coat 
of buffalo-skin, made with the hair outward, which gave him 
a shaggy and fierce appearance, perfectly in keeping with the 
whole air of his physiognomy. In the head and face, every 
organ and lineament expressive of brutal and unhesitating 
violence was in a state of the highest possible development. 
Indeed, could our readers fancy a bull-dog come unto man's 
estate, and walking about in a hat and coat, they would have 
no unapt idea of the general style and effect of his physique. 
He was accompanied by a travelling companion, in many 
respects an exact contrast to himself. He was short and 
slender, lithe and cat-like in his motions, and had a peering, 
mousing expression about his keen black eyes, with which 
every feature of his face seemed sharpened into sympathy ; 
his thin, long nose, ran out as if it waseager to bore into the 
nature of things in general ; his sleek, thin black hair was 
stuck eagerly forward, and all his motions and evolutions 
expressed a dry, cautious acuteness. The great big man 
poured out a big tumbler half full of raw spirits, and gulped 
it down without a word. The little man stood tip-toe, and, 
putting his head first to one side and then to the other, and 
snuffing considerately in the directions of the various bottles, 
ordered at last a mint julep, in a thin and quivering voice, 
and with an air of great circumspection. "When poured out, 
he took it and looked at it with a sharp, complacent air, like 
a man who thinks he has done about the right thing, and hit 
the nail on the head, and proceeded to dispose of it in short 
and well-advised sips. 
" "Wai, now, who'd a thought this yer luck 'ad come to me? 
"Why, Loker, how are ye ?" said IJaley, coming forward and 
extending his hand to the big man. 
"The devil!" was the civil reply. "What brought you 
here, Haley?" 
The mousing man, who bore the name of Marks, instantly 
stopped his sipping, and, poking his head forward, looked 
shrewdly on the new acquaintance, as a cat sometimes looks 
at a moving dry leaf, or some other possible object of pursuit. 
"I say, Tom, this yer's the luckiest thing in the world. 
I'm in a devil of a hobble, and you must help me out." 
"Ugh! awl like enough!" grunted his complaisant ac- 
quaintance. " A body may be pretty sure of that, when you're 
glad to see 'em : something to be made off of 'em. "What's 
the blow now?" 
"You've got a friend here?" said Haley, looking doubtfully at Marks ; "partner, perhaps ?" 
" Yes, I have. Here, Marks ! here's that ar feller that I 
was in with in Natchez." 
" Shall be pleased with his acquaintance," said Marks, 
thrusting out a long thin hand, like a raven's claw. " Mr. 
Haley, I believe?" 
" The same, sir," said Haley. " And now, gentlemen, 
seein' as we've met so happily, I think I'll stand up to a 
small matter of a treat in this here parlour. So, now, old 
'coon," said he to the man at the bar, " get us hot water, and 
sugar, and cigars, and plenty of the real stuff, and we'll have 
a blow-out." 
Behold, then, the candles lighted, the fire stimulated to 
the burning-point in the grate, and our three worthies seated 
round a table, well spread with all the accessories to good 
fellowship enumerated before. 
Haley began a pathetic recital of his peculiar troubles. 
Loker shut up his mouth, and listened to him with gruff 
and surly attention. Marks, who was anxiously and with 
much fidgeting, compounding a tumbler of punch to his own 
peculiar taste, occasionally looked up from his employment, 
and, poking his sharp nose and chin almost into Haley's face, 
gave the most earnest heed to the whole narrative. The 
conclusion of it appeared to amuse him extremely, for he 
shook his shoulders and sides in silence, and perked up his 
thin lips with an air of great internal enjoyment. 
" So, then, ye'r fairly sewed up, an't ye ?" he said ; " he ! 
he ! he ! It's neatly done, too." 
" This yer young-un business makes lots of trouble in the 
trade," said Haley, dolefully. 
" If we could get a breed of gals that didn't care, now, for 
their young uns," said Marks, "tell ye, I think 'twould be  
'bout the greatest mod'rn improvement I knows on;" and 
Marks patronised his joke by a quiet introductory sniggle. 
"Jest so," said Haley; "I never coulda't see into it. 
Young uns is heaps of trouble to 'em one would think, 
now, they'd be glad to get clar on 'em; but they arn't. 
And the more trouble a young un is, and the more good for 
nothing, as a gen'l thing, the tighter they sticks to 'em." 
" Wai, Mr. Haley," said Marks, "jest pass the hot water. 
Yes, sir ; you say jest what I feel and all'us have. Now, I 
bought a gal once when I was in the trade, a tight, likely 
wench she was, too, and quite considerable smart and she 
had a young un that was mis'able sickly ; it had a crooked 
back, or something or other, and I jest gin't away to a man 
that thought he'd take his chance raisin' on't, being it 
didn't cost nothin' never thought, yer know, of the gal's 
takin' on about it but, Lord, yer oughter seen how she 
went on ! Why, re'lly, she did seem to me to valley the 
child more 'cause 'twas sickly and cross, and plagued her ; 
and she warn't making-b'lieve, neither cried about it, she 
did, and lopped round, as if she'd lost every friend she had. 
It re'lly was droll to think on't. Lord, there an't no end to 
women's notions." 
" Wai, jest so with me," said Haley. " Last summer, 
down on feed River, I got a gal traded off on me, with a 
likely-lookin' child enough, and his eyes looked as bright as 
yourn ; but, come to look, I found him stone-blind. Pact 
he was stone-blind. Wai, ye see, I thought there warn't no 
harm in my jest passing him along, and not sayin' nothin' ; 
and I'd got him nicely swopped off for a keg o' whiskey ; 
but come to get him away from the gal, she was jest like a 
tiger. So' twas before we started, and I hadn't got my gang 
chained up ; so what should she do but ups on a cotton-bale, 
like a cat, ketches a knife from one of the deck hands, and, 
I'll tell ye, she made all fly for a minnit, till she saw 'twan't 
no use ; and she jest turns round and pitches head-first, 
young un and all, into the river went down plump, and 
never ris." 
"Bah!" said Tom Loker, who had listened to these 
stories with ill-repressed disgust. " Shif 'less, both on ye ! 
My gals don't cut up no such shines, I tell ye ! " 
" Indeed ! how do you help it ? " said Marks, briskly. 
" Help it ? why, I buys a gal, and if she's got a young un 
sto be sold, I jest walks up and puts my fist to her face, and 
says, ' Look here, now, if you give me one word out of your 
 head, I'll smash yer face in. I won't hear one word not 
the beginning of a word.' I says to 'em, ' This yer young 
un's mine and not yourn, and you've no kind o' business 
with it. I'm going to sell it, first chance ; mind you don't 
cut up none o' yer shines about it, or I'll make ye wish ye'd 
never been born.' I tell ye, they sees it an't no play, when I 
gets hold. I makes 'em as whist as fishes ; and if one on 'em 
begins and gives a yelp, why" and Mr. Loker brought 
down his fist with a thump that fully explained the hiatus. 
" That ar's what ye may call emphasis" said Marks, 
poking Haley in the side, and going into another small 
giggle. " An't Tom peculiar ? he ! he ! he ! I say, Tom, I 
'spect you make 'em understand, for all niggers' heads is 
woolly. They don't never have no doubt o' your meaning, 
