Andrew Howland. When the children were twelve years old, they felt
bound to take some action in the case, and began by giving Andrew a
gentle hint, one day, to the effect that his visits to their house
were rather too frequent. This was enough for the high-spirited boy.
He left, with a burning spot on his cheek, vowing, in his
indignation, that he would never enter their door again, nor speak
to Emily. But it was much easier to keep the first part of this
promise than the last. As early as the next day he met Emily on his
way to school. She was going to school also, and had much farther
to, walk than himself. To enjoy her society, he went with her all
the way. This made him late, and he was in consequence, kept in by
the teacher, half an hour after his own school was dismissed. But
this punishment did not deter him from repeating the act on the next
day and on the next. From that time he rarely came to school until
ten or fifteen minutes after the session was opened; and, sometimes,
Emily was late also. Reproof and punishment doing no good, the
teacher sent a note to Andrew's father, complaining of his want of
punctuality. A severe reprimand was the consequence. This failing of
the desired effect, the boy was put on bread and water for days at a
time. But complaints from the teacher still arriving, corporeal
punishment was added. No change, however, followed. In the end
Andrew was sent home from school as incorrigible.
"What shall I do with the boy!" was the despairing exclamation of
Mr. Howland, when this event occurred. "Idleness will complete his
ruin, and he is too young to put out."
"I will send him to sea," was the final conclusion of his mind,
after debating the matter for some days, and talking with several
friends on the subject. Mr. Howland was generally in earnest when he
decided a matter, and but little given to change his purposes. And
he was in earnest now. But the moment his intention was announced to
his wife, there came from her an unexpected and vigorous opposition.
"No, Andrew," said she, with an emphasis unusual to her in
addressing her husband, "that must not be."
"I tell you it must be, Esther," quickly replied Mr. Howland.
"Nothing else will save the boy."
"It lacks only that to complete his ruin," said Mrs. Howland,
firmly. "Never, Andrew--never will he go on board of a vessel with
my consent."
And the mother burst into tears.
"I don't wish to have any contention about this matter, Esther,"
said Mr. Howland, gravely, as soon as his wife had grown calm, "and
I don't mean to have any. But I wish you to understand that I am in
earnest. Being fully satisfied that the last hope for Andrew is to
send him to sea, I have fully made up my mind to do it. I have
already spoken to the captain of a vessel trading to South America.
A few months on ship-board will tame him. He'll be glad enough to
behave himself when he gets home."
"I have no faith in this remedy," replied Mrs. Howland, somewhat to
the surprise of her husband, who expected to silence her, as usual,
with his broadly asserted ultimatum. "Severe remedies have been
tried long enough. In my view, a milder course pursued toward the
boy would effect more than any other treatment."
"Mildness! Haven't we tried that, over and over again? And hasn't it
only encouraged him to bolder acts of disobedience?"
Mrs. Howland sighed. Her mind went back to the past, but none of
these instances of mild treatment could she remember. The iron hand
had been on him from the beginning, crushing out the good, and
hardening the evil into endurance.
"Andrew," said she, after sitting for some time with her eyes upon
the floor, speaking in a very calm voice, "he is my son as well as
yours--and his welfare is as dear to me as it is to you. As his
mother, I am entitled to a voice in all that concerns him; and now,
in the sight of heaven, I give my voice distinctly against his being
sent to sea."
Mr. Howland seemed startled at this bold speaking in his wife,
which, to him, amounted to little less than rebellion against his
authority. As the head of the family, it was his prerogative to
rule; and he had ruled for years with almost undisputed sway. Not in
the least inclined did he feel to give up now, the power which he
believed, of right, belonged to him. A sharp retort trembled for a
moment on his lips; but he kept back its utterance. He did not,
however, waver a single line from his purpose, but rather felt it
growing stronger.
No more was said at this time by either. Mrs. Howland sought the
earliest opportunity to be alone with her son, when she informed him
of his father's purpose to send him to sea. Andrew was somewhat
startled by this information, and replied, instantly--
"I don't want to go to sea, mother."
"Nor do I wish you to go, Andrew," said Mrs. Howland. "You are too
young to bear the hard usage that would certainly fall to your lot.
But your father is very determined about the matter."
"I won't go!" boldly declared the boy.
"Andrew! Andrew! don't speak in that manner," said the mother in a
reproving voice.
"I'll run away first!"
An indignant flush came into the lad's face as he said this.
Mrs. Howland was both startled and alarmed at this bold and
unexpected declaration, and for a time she hardly knew what to say.
At length, in a voice so changed that Andrew looked up, half
wonderingly, into her face, she said--
"My son, do you love me?"
Not until the question was repeated did Andrew make any reply. Then
he answered, in a low, unsteady voice, for something in her manner
had touched his feelings.
"You know I love you, mother; for you are the only one who loves
me."
"For the sake, then, of that love, let me ask you to do one thing,
Andrew," said Mrs. Howland.
"What is that mother?"
"Go back to your teacher, and ask him to take you into the school
again."
A flush came warmly into the boy's face, and he shook his head in a
positive manner.
"I wish you to do it for my sake, Andrew," urged Mrs. Howland.
"I can't, mother. And it would not do any good."
"Yes, it will do good. You were wrong in not going punctually to
school. All that is now required of you is to acknowledge this, and
ask to be restored to your place."
Andrew stood silent and gloomy by his mother's side.
"Were you not wrong in absenting yourself from school at the proper
hour?" asked Mrs. Howland, in a calm, penetrating voice.
There was no reply.
"Say, Andrew?" urged the mother.
"Yes, ma'am. I suppose I was."
"Was not your teacher right in objecting to this?"
"I suppose so."
"And right in sending you home if you would not obey the rules of
the school?"
The boy assented.
"Very well. Then you alone are to blame for the present trouble, and
it rests with you to remove it. For my sake, go back to school,
promise to do right in future, and ask to be reinstated. Will not
this be better than going to sea, or leaving your father's
house, as you thoughtlessly threatened to do just now?"
The tender earnestness with which Mrs. Howland spoke, more than the
reasons she urged, subdued the stubborn spirit of the boy.
"You know how determined your father is," she continued. "In his
intention to send you to sea he is entirely in earnest, and nothing
will prevent his doing so but your going back to school. You
threaten to run away. That would avail nothing. You are but a boy,
and would be restored to us in a week. Think of the trouble you will
bring upon me. Andrew! Andrew! unless you do as I desire, you will
break my heart."
Giving way at this point to the pressure on her feelings, Mrs.
Howland wept bitterly; and, greatly subdued by his mother's grief,
Andrew drew his arm around her neck, and wept with her.
"Go, dear," said Mrs. Howland, as soon as she had recovered herself,
parting the hair upon the forehead of her boy, and pressing her lips
upon it--"go, and secure your own self-approbation and my happiness,
by doing as I desire. Go, now, while your heart beats rightly. Go,
and save your mother from untold wretchedness."
And again Mrs. Howland pressed her lips to his forehead. Happily,
she prevailed over him. Acting from the good impulses with which she
had inspired his better nature, he went to the teacher, who readily
consented to take him back into the school on his promise of more
orderly conduct in future.
"Andrew has gone back to school," said Mrs. Howland to her husband,
on his return home in the evening.
"Gone back to school? I thought the teacher had expelled him."
"Andrew went to him, and promised amendment."
"He did?"
"Yes. After I had talked with him a long time, he consented to do
so."
"It is well," briefly, and with much severity in his tone, replied
Mr. Howland. He was greatly relieved at this unexpected result;
although neither in word or manner did he let his real feelings
appear.
CHAPTER VI.
THE thought that came instantly to the mind of Andrew, when his
father's resolution to send him to sea was mentioned, was the
thought of Emily Winters. For the sake of spending daily a few
quickly passing minutes with her, he had subjected himself to
reprimand, punishment and disgrace. And his mind instantly reacted
against the idea of a separation such as was now threatened. Still
he was too proud and stubborn to think for a moment of retracing any
of the wrong steps he had made. Nothing but the tender appeal of his
mother, whom he did indeed love, amid all his perverseness, could
have subdued him. But for the strong attachment felt for Emily, he
would have received the intelligence that he was about to be sent to
sea, with, pleasure.
For some time after this, Andrew's external conduct was more
orderly. But there was so much about him to offend his easily
offended father, that he did not escape for even a single day
without a frown or harsh word, which soon had the effect to
extinguish the few good impulses which the recent subjugation of his
will had awakened. He continued to meet Emily on his way to school,
but was careful not to linger in her company go long as before. But
this pleasure was at length denied him. A person who frequently saw
them together, mentioned the fact to Mr. Winters, who immediately
reproved his daughter for the association, and positively forbade
its continuance. Emily had ever been obedient to her parents in all
things, and this command, grievous as it was, she felt bound to
obey. On the day after it was given, Andrew lingered for her in vain
at the place where they had met daily, until after his school hour.
On the next morning he was there earlier than usual, and waited
until past his school hour again. But she did not come. Strictly
obedient to her parents, she had gone another way so as to avoid the
meeting.
During that day, Andrew was absent from school. Having twice missed
his gentle friend, he had no heart to enter upon his studies, and so
went listlessly wandering about the streets until nearly twelve
o'clock. Then he repaired to the neighborhood of her school, and
waited to see if she was among the scholars at the time of their
dismissal. In a little while the children came pouring forth, and
among them his eager eyes soon caught the form of Emily. He was by
her side in a moment, saying, as he took her hand--
"Where have you been? I've looked for you these two days."
A crimson flush overspread the face of Emily in an instant, and she
gently disengaged the hand he had taken.
Andrew, who, with all his faults, was proud and sensitive, seemed
startled by this unexpected reception. For a moment or two he stood
gazing upon her downcast face, and then turned from her and walked
rapidly away. As he did so, the little girl lifted toward him her
gentle eyes, that were now full of tears, and stood gazing after him
with a sad expression of countenance until he was out of sight.
"I don't care for anything now!" Such was the ejaculation of Andrew,
pausing, and throwing himself, with a reckless air, upon a
door-step, so soon as he had passed beyond the view of the friend he
had so loved for years, but who now, from some cause unknown to him,
had become suddenly estranged. "I don't care for anything now," he
repeated. "Let them send me to sea, or anywhere else, if they will!
I don't care! I'm not going to school any more! What do I care for
school? I do nothing right, any how! It's scold, scold, or flog,
flog, all the time! Father says he'll beat goodness into me; but I
guess he's beaten it 'amost all out."
With such thoughts passing through his mind, the unhappy boy sat,
with his face down, and his head supported on his hands, for some
two or three minutes, when he was startled by a well-known voice,
whose tones were ever like music to his ears, pronouncing his name.
In an instant he was on his feet. Emily was before him, and her eyes
were now fixed upon his face with a sad expression.
"Andrew," said she, "don't be angry. It isn't my fault."
"What isn't your fault?" eagerly inquired the boy, as he grasped her
hand.
"Father said I mustn't--"
The little girl hesitated. It seemed as if she couldn't utter the
words.
"Said what?"
There was ill-repressed indignation in Andrew's voice.
"Don't be angry! It frightens me when you are angry!" said Emily,
looking distressed.
"What did your father say?" asked the boy, in milder tones.
"He said that I mustn't meet you as I went to school any more,"
replied Emily.
The face of the boy grew crimson, while his lips arched with the
angry indignation that swelled in his bosom. He was about giving a
passionate vent to his feelings, when he was restrained by the look
of distress that overspread the face of his gentle friend, and by
the tears that came slowly stealing from her eyes.
"Ain't I as good?"
Thus far Andrew gave utterance to what was in his thoughts, and
then, seeing the tears of Emily, checked himself and became silent.
"You ain't angry with me, are you?" asked the little girl, laying
her hand upon his, and looking earnestly in his face.
"No; I'm not angry with you, Emily. I'm never angry with you. But
it's hard. I'd rather see you than anybody. I don't care what
becomes of me now! Let them send me to sea if they will!"
At the word "sea" Emily's face grew pale, and she said in a choking
voice,
"O! they won't send you to sea, Andrew?"
"Father threatened to send me to sea if I didn't attend school
better."
"But you will attend better, Andrew. I know you will. Oh, it would
be dreadful to be sent to sea!"
"I don't know. I'd as lief be there as anywhere else, if I can't see
you!"
"But you will see me sometimes. We can't meet any more as we go to
school; but we'll see each other often, Andrew."
These words lifted much of the heavy weight that pressed on the
feelings of the boy.
"When will we see each other?" he asked.
"I don't know," replied Emily. "Father said we musn't meet going to
school; but there will be other chances. Good-by! I wouldn't like
father to see me here, for then he would think me a very disobedient
girl."
And saying this, Emily turned and ran fleetly away. Andrew's
feelings were relieved from the pressure that rested upon them.
Still he felt angry and indignant at Mr. Winters, and this state
increasing rather than subsiding, tended to encourage other states
of mind that were not good. With a feeling of rebellion in his heart
he returned home, where he found no difficulty in provoking some
reaction, and in falling under the quickly excited displeasure of
his father, who was ever more inclined to seek than overlook causes
of reproof. The consequence was, that when he left home for school
in the afternoon he felt little inclination to attend, and, after a
slight debate, yielded to this inclination. A little forbearance and
kindness would have softened the child's feelings, and prompted him
to enter the right way. But the iron hand was never relaxed, and
there was no room beneath it for the crushed heart of the boy to
swell with better impulses.
At supper time, on that evening, the boy was absent. He should have
been at home nearly two hours before.
"Where is Andrew?" asked Mr. Howland, as they gathered at the table.
"I'm sure I don't know," replied Mrs. Howland, in a voice touched
with a deeper concern than usual.
"Has he been home since school was dismissed?"
"No."
"Was there ever such a boy!" exclaimed Mr. Howland.
"Most probably he has been kept in," suggested the mother.
"Edward, go round to the house of his teacher and ask if he was
dismissed at five o'clock," said Mr. Howland.
Edward left the table and went on his errand. He soon returned with
word that Andrew had not been to school all day.
Knife and fork fell from the hands of Mr. Howland, and the mother's
face instantly grew pale.
"I felt troubled about him all day," murmured the latter.
"He was home at dinner time?" said Mr. Howland, as he pushed his
chair back from the table.
"Yes."
"Oh dear!--oh dear! What is to become of him? I've tried everything
in my power to restrain him from evil, but all is of no avail."
Just at this moment the street-door bell was rung very violently. As
each one paused to listen, and the room became perfectly silent, the
murmur of many voices could be heard in the street. For a few
moments all was breathless expectation. The sound of the servant's
feet, as she moved along the passage to the door, throbbed on each
heart, and then all sprung from their chairs, as a cry of distress
was uttered by the servant, followed by men's voices, and the
entrance of a crowd of people.
Poor Mrs. Howland sunk to the floor, nerveless, while Mr. Howland
sprung quickly out of the room. The story was soon told. Andrew had
been out on the river with some other boys in a boat, from which he
had fallen into the water, and was now brought home to his parents,
to all appearance, lifeless. It proved in the end that vitality was
only suspended; after an hour's unremitted effort, by a skillful
physician, the circle of life went on again.
The shock of this event somewhat subdued the mind of Mr. Howland. He
felt utterly discouraged about the boy. While in this state of
discouragement, he refrained from saying anything to him about his
bad conduct. Indeed, in view of this second narrow escape from
death, his feelings were a good deal softened toward Andrew, and
something like pity took the place of anger. During the two days
that the lad was convalescing, his father said little to him; but
what little he did say was spoken kindly, and with more of a
parental sentiment therein than had been apparent for years.
Electrically did this sentiment reach the heart of Andrew. Once when
Mr. Howland took his hand, and asked in a kind voice how he felt,
tears rushed to his eyes, and his lips quivered so that he could not
reply. This was perceived by Mr. Howland, and he felt that his boy
was not altogether given over to hardness of heart. In that moment
Andrew promised in his own mind, that in future he would be a more
obedient boy.
Unhappily, Mr. Howland attributed this subdued and better state of
feeling in his son, to the narrow escape from drowning that he had
had, and not to the real cause--the change of his own manner toward
him. Through the feeble moving of sympathy and kindness in his own
heart, there was the beginning of power over the perverse boy, and
this power might have been exercised, had the father possessed
enough of wisdom and self-denial, until he had gained a complete
control over him. But alas! he did not possess this wisdom and
self-denial. He was a hard man, and believed in no virtue but that
of force. He could drive, but not lead. He could hold with an iron
hand, but not restrain by a voice full of the power of kindness.
Before the close of the second day he spoke harshly to Andrew, and
did, thereby, such violence to the boy's feelings, that he turned
his face from him and wept.
On the third day after the accident Andrew went back to school, and
continued, for a time, to go punctually and to attend diligently
to his studies. But soon the angry reaction of his father, against
little acts of thoughtlessness or disobedience, threw him back into
his old state, and he was as bad as ever.
CHAPTER VII.
THUS the struggle went on, Mr. Howland's power to control his boy
growing less and less every year. Naturally, considering the
relation of the two families of Mr. Howland and Mr. Winters, and the
bad reputation of the son of the former, the intercourse between
Andrew and Emily was more and more restricted. Still their
friendship for each other remained, to a certain extent,
undiminished, and they met as often as favorable circumstances would
permit. To Emily, the kind feelings entertained for the wayward boy
proved sources of frequent unhappiness. Few opportunities for
speaking against him were omitted by her parents, and she never
heard his name coupled with words of censure without feeling pain.
One half that was said of him she did not believe; for she saw more
of the bright side of his character than did any one else.
As before intimated, by the time Emily gained her sixteenth year,
she had developed so far toward womanhood, that Andrew, who still
remained a slender boy in appearance, felt his heart tremble as he
looked upon her, and thought of the distance this earlier
development had placed between them. And even a greater distance was
beginning to exist--the distance that lies between a pure mind and
one that is corrupt. As Andrew grew older, he grew worse, and the
sphere of his spiritual quality began to be felt, oppressively, at
times, by Emily, during the periods of their brief intercourse.
Moreover, she was ever hearing some evil thing laid to his charge.
At length their intimate intercourse came to an end, and, with the
termination of this, was removed the last restraint that held the
lad in bounds of external propriety. The cause of this termination
we will relate: As Andrew grew older, he grew more and more
self-willed, and strayed farther and farther from the right way.
Social in his feelings, he sought the companionship of boys of his
own age, and by the time he was seventeen, had formed associations
of a very dangerous character. Though positively forbidden by his
father to be out after night, he disregarded the injunction, and
went from home almost every evening. At home there was nothing to
attract him; nothing to give him pleasure. A shadow was ever on the
brow of his father, and this threw a gloom over the entire
household. But, abroad, among his companions, he found a hundred
things to interest him. All license tends toward further extremes.
It was not long before Andrew found ten o'clock at night too early
for him. The theatre was a place positively interdicted by his
parents; and, restrained by some lingering respect for his mother's
feelings, Andrew had, up to the age of seventeen, resisted the
strong desire he felt to see a play. At last, however, he yielded to
temptation, and went to the theatre. On returning home about eleven
o'clock, he found his father sitting up for him. To the stern
interrogation as to where he had been so late, he replied with
equivocation, and finally with direct falsehood.
"Andrew," said Mr. Howland, at length, speaking with unusual
severity of tone, and with a deliberation and emphasis that
indicated a higher degree of earnestness than usual, "if you are out
again until after ten o'clock, you remain out all night. To this my
mind is fully made up. So act your own good pleasure."
The father and son then separated.
Ten o'clock came on the next night, and Andrew had not returned. For
the half hour preceding the stroke of the clock, Mr. Howland had
walked the floor uneasily, with his ear harkening anxiously for the
sound of the bell that marked his son's return; and, as the time
drew nearer and nearer, he half repented the utterance of a law,
that, if broken, could not, he feared, but result in injury to the
disobedient boy. At last the clock struck ten. He paused and stood
listening for over a minute; then he resumed his walk again, and
continued his measured paces for over ten minutes longer, intending
to give his erring son the benefit of that space of time. But he
yielded thus much in his favor in vain. Anger at this deliberate
disobedience of a positive order then displaced a portion of
anxiety, and he closed, mentally, the door upon his child for that
night.
Of his purpose, Mr. Howland said nothing to his wife. He hoped that
she would be asleep before Andrew returned, if he returned at all
before morning. But in this his hope was not realized. The fact of
Andrew's having staid out so late on the night before had troubled
her all day, and she had made up her mind to sit up for him now
until he came home.
"Come, Esther, it is time to go to bed," said Mr. Howland to his
wife, seeing that she made no motion towards retiring.
"You go. I will sit up for Andrew," was replied.
"Andrew can't come in, to-night," said Mr. Howland.
The mother sprung to her feet instantly; her face flushing, and then
becoming very pale.
"I told him, last night, that if he staid out again until after ten
o'clock, there would be no admission for him until morning. And I
shall assuredly keep my word!"
"Oh, Andrew! Don't, don't do this!" pleaded the unhappy mother, in a
low, choking voice. "Would you turn an erring son from your door,
when danger is hovering around him?"
"He turns himself away. The act is his, not mine," replied Mr.
Howland, coldly.
As he spoke, the bell rung.
"There he is, now!" exclaimed the mother, starting toward the door.
"Esther!" Mr. Howland stept in front of his wife, and, looking
sternly in her face, added, "Haven't I just said that there was no
entrance for him, to-night?"
"But it's early! It's only a few minutes after ten," eagerly replied
the mother.
"It's past ten o'clock, and that settles the matter," returned Mr.
Howland.
"But where will he go?" asked the mother.
"To the Station House, if he can find no better place. To-morrow he
will most probably have a higher appreciation of the comforts of
home."
As Mr. Howland closed this sentence, the bell rung again.
"Andrew! I must let him in!" exclaimed the mother, in a tone of
anguish, and she made a movement to pass her husband. But a strong
hand was instantly laid upon her arm, and a stern voice said--
"Don't interfere with me in this matter, Esther! As the father of
that wayward boy, it is my duty to control him."
"This is driving him from his home; not controlling him!"
"I'll bear the responsibility of what I am doing," said Mr. Howland,
impatiently. "Why will you interfere with me in this way?"
"Is he not my son also?" inquired Mrs. Howland, passing, in her
distress of mind, beyond the ordinary spirit of her intercourse with
her self-willed husband.
"I am his father," coldly replied the latter, "and knowing my duty
toward him, shall certainly do it."
The bell was rung again at this moment, and more loudly than before.
"Oh, Andrew! let me beg of you to open the door!" And Mrs. Howland
clasped her hands imploringly, and lifted her eyes running over with
tears to her husband's face.
"It cannot be opened to-night, Esther!" was the firm reply. "Have I
not said this over and over again. Why will you continue these
importunities? They are of no avail."
A loud knocking on the street door was now heard. By this time, a
servant who had retired came down from her room and was moving along
the passage, when Mr. Howland intercepted her, with the question--
"Where are you going?"
"Some one rung the bell," replied the servant.
"Never mind; go back to your room. You needn't open the door."
"Andrew isn't in yet," said the servant, respectfully.
"Didn't I say, go back to your room?" returned Mr. Howland, in a
sharp voice.
Twice more the bell was rung, and twice more the knocking was
repeated. Then all remained silent.
"Come, Esther!" said Mr. Howland to his wife, who was sitting on a
sofa, with her face buried in her hands. "Let us go up stairs. It is
late."
The mother did not stir.
"Esther! did you hear me?"
Slowly, more like a moving automaton than a living creature, did
Mrs. Howland arise from her place, and follow her husband up to
their chamber. There, without uttering a word, she partially
disrobed herself, and getting into bed, buried her tearful face in a
pillow. Mr. Howland was soon by her side. Both lay without moving
for nearly half an hour, and then the heavy respiration of the
husband told that he was asleep. The moment this was apparent, Mrs.
Howland, who had lain as still as if locked in deep slumber, crept
softly from the bed, and then, with a quick, eager motion, commenced
putting on a wrapper. This done, she drew a pair of slippers on her
feet, glided noiselessly from the room, and hurried down to the
street door, which she softly opened.
