  different, you know. Now, Tom’s a roarer when there’s any thumping
  or fighting to be done; but at lying he an’t good, Tom an’t; ye see
  it don’t come natural to him; but, Lord! if thar’s a feller in the
  country that can swear to anything and everything, and put in all
  the circumstances and flourishes with a longer face, and carry’t
  through better’n I can, why, I’d like to see him, that’s all! I
  b’lieve, my heart, I could get along, and make through, even if
  justices were more particular than they is. Sometimes I rather wish
  they was more particular; ‘twould be a heap more relishin’ if they
  was,—more fun, yer know.”
In the year 1839, the writer received into her family, as a servant, a
girl from Kentucky. She had been the slave of one of the lowest and most
brutal families, with whom she had been brought up, in a log-cabin, in a
state of half-barbarism. In proceeding to give her religious
instruction, the author heard, for the first time in her life, an
inquiry which she had not supposed possible to be made in America:—“Who
is Jesus Christ, now, anyhow?”
When the author told her the history of the love and life and death of
Christ, the girl seemed wholly overcome; tears streamed down her cheeks;
and she exclaimed, piteously, “Why didn’t nobody never tell me this
before?”
“But,” said the writer to her, “haven’t you ever seen the Bible?”
“Yes, I have seen missus a-readin’ on’t sometimes; but, law sakes! she’s
just a-readin’ on’t ‘cause she could; don’t s’pose it did her no good,
no way.”
She said she had been to one or two camp-meetings in her life, but
“didn’t notice very particular.”
At all events, the story certainly made great impression on her, and had
such an effect in improving her conduct, that the writer had great hopes
of her.
On inquiring into her history, it was discovered that, by the laws of
Ohio, she was legally entitled to her freedom, from the fact of her
having been brought into the state, and left there, temporarily, by the
consent of her mistress. These facts being properly authenticated before
the proper authorities, papers attesting her freedom were drawn up, and
it was now supposed that all danger of pursuit was over. After she had
remained in the family for some months, word was sent, from various
sources, to Professor Stowe, that the girl’s young master was over,
looking for her, and that, if care were not taken, she would be conveyed
back into slavery.
Professor Stowe called on the magistrate who had authenticated her
papers, and inquired whether they were not sufficient to protect her.
The reply was, “Certainly they are, in law, if she could have a fair
hearing; but they will come to your house in the night, with an officer
and a warrant; they will take her before Justice D——, and swear to her.
He’s the man that does all this kind of business, and, he’ll deliver her
up, and there’ll be an end to it.”
Mr. Stowe then inquired what could be done; and was recommended to carry
her to some place of security till the inquiry for her was over.
Accordingly, that night, a brother of the author, with Professor Stowe,
performed for the fugitive that office which the senator is represented
as performing for Eliza. They drove about ten miles on a solitary road,
crossed the creek at a very dangerous fording, and presented themselves,
at midnight, at the house of John Van Zandt, a noble-minded Kentuckian,
who had performed the good deed which the author, in her story, ascribes
to Van Tromp.
After some rapping at the door, the worthy owner of the mansion
appeared, candle in hand, as has been narrated.
“Are you the man that would save a poor colored girl from kidnappers?”
was the first question.
“Guess I am,” was the prompt response; “where is she?”
“Why, she’s here.”
“But how did you come?”
“I crossed the creek.”
“Why, the Lord helped you!” said he; “I shouldn’t dare cross it myself
in the night. A man and his wife, and five children, were drowned there,
a little while ago.”
The reader may be interested to know that the poor girl never was
retaken; that she married well in Cincinnati, is a very respectable
woman, and the mother of a large family of children.
                              CHAPTER VI.
                               UNCLE TOM.
The character of Uncle Tom has been objected to as improbable; and yet
the writer has received more confirmations of that character, and from a
greater variety of sources, than of any other in the book.
Many people have said to her, “I knew an Uncle Tom in such and such a
Southern State.” All the histories of this kind which have thus been
related to her would of themselves, if collected, make a small volume.
The author will relate a few of them.
While visiting in an obscure town in Maine, in the family of a friend,
the conversation happened to turn upon this subject, and the gentleman
with whose family she was staying related the following. He said that,
when on a visit to his brother, in New Orleans, some years before, he
found in his possession a most valuable negro man, of such remarkable
probity and honesty that his brother literally trusted him with all he
had. He had frequently seen him take out a handful of bills, without
looking at them, and hand them to this servant, bidding him go and
provide what was necessary for the family, and bring him the change. He
remonstrated with his brother on this imprudence; but the latter replied
that he had had such proof of this servant’s impregnable
conscientiousness that he felt it safe to trust him to any extent.
The history of the servant was this. He had belonged to a man in
Baltimore, who, having a general prejudice against all the religious
exercises of slaves, did all that he could to prevent his having any
time for devotional duties, and strictly forbade him to read the Bible
and pray, either by himself, or with the other servants; and because,
like a certain man of old, named Daniel, he constantly disobeyed this
unchristian edict, his master inflicted upon him that punishment which a
master always has in his power to inflict,—he sold him into perpetual
exile from his wife and children, down to New Orleans.
The gentleman who gave the writer this information says that, although
not himself a religious man at the time, he was so struck with the man’s
piety that he said to his brother, “I hope you will never do anything to
deprive this man of his religious privileges, for I think a judgment
will come upon you if you do.” To this his brother replied that he
should be very foolish to do it, since he had made up his mind that the
man’s religion was the root of his extraordinary excellences.
Some time since, there was sent to the writer from the South, through
the mail, a little book, entitled, “Sketches of Old Virginia Family
Servants,” with a preface by Bishop Meade. The book contains an account
of the following servants: African Bella, Old Milly, Blind Lucy, Aunt
Betty, Springfield Bob, Mammy Chris, Diana Washington, Aunt Margaret,
Rachel Parker, Nelly Jackson, My Own Mammy, Aunt Beck.
  The following extract from Bishop Meade’s preface may not be
  uninteresting.
  The following sketches were placed in my hands with a request that I
  would examine them with a view to publication.
  After reading them I could not but think that they would be both
  pleasing and edifying.
  Very many such examples of fidelity and piety might be added from
  the old Virginia families. These will suffice as specimens, and will
  serve to show how interesting the relation between master and
  servant often is.
  Many will doubtless be surprised to find that there was so much
  intelligence, as well as piety, in some of the old servants of
  Virginia, and that they had learned to read the Sacred Scriptures,
  so as to be useful in this way among their fellow-servants. It is,
  and always has been true, in regard to the servants of the Southern
  States, that although public schools may have been prohibited, yet
  no interference has been attempted, where the owners have chosen to
  teach their servants, or permit them to learn in a private way, how
  to read God’s word. Accordingly, there always have been some who
  were thus taught. In the more southern states the number of these
  has most abounded. Of this fact I became well assured, about thirty
  years since, when visiting the Atlantic states, with a view to the
  formation of auxiliary colonization societies, and the selection of
  the first colonists for Africa. In the city of Charleston, South
  Carolina, I found more intelligence and character among the free
  colored population than anywhere else. The same was true of some of
  those in bondage. A respectable number might be seen in certain
  parts of the Episcopal churches which I attended using their
  prayer-books, and joining in the responses of the church.
  Many purposes of convenience and hospitality were subserved by this
  encouragement of cultivation in some of the servants, on the part of
  the owners.
  When travelling many years since with a sick wife, and two female
  relatives, from Charleston to Virginia, at a period of the year when
  many of the families from the country resort to the town for health,
  we were kindly urged to call at the seat of one of the first
  families in South Carolina, and a letter from the mistress, then in
  the city, was given us, to her servant, who had charge of the house
  in the absence of the family. On reaching there and delivering the
  letter to a most respectable-looking female servant, who immediately
  read it, we were kindly welcomed, and entertained, during a part of
  two days, as sumptuously as though the owner had been present. We
  understood that it was no uncommon thing in South Carolina for
  travellers to be thus entertained by the servants in the absence of
  the owners, on receiving letters from the same.
  Instances of confidential and affectionate relationship between
  servants and their masters and mistresses, such as are set forth in
  the following Sketches, are still to be found in all the
  slaveholding states. I mention one, which has come under my own
  observation. The late Judge Upshur, of Virginia, had a faithful
  house-servant (by his will now set free), with whom he used to
  correspond on matters of business, when he was absent on his
  circuit. I was dining at his house, some years since, with a number
  of persons, himself being absent, when the conversation turned on
  the subject of the presidential election, then going on through the
  United States, and about which there was an intense interest; when
  his servant informed us that he had that day received a letter from
  his master, then on the western shore, in which he stated that the
  friends of General Harrison might be relieved from all uneasiness,
  as the returns already received made his election quite certain.
  Of course it is not to be supposed that we design to convey the
  impression that such instances are numerous, the nature of the
  relationship forbidding it; but we do mean emphatically to affirm
  that there is far more of kindly and Christian intercourse than many
  at a distance are apt to believe. That there is a great and sad want
  of Christian instruction, notwithstanding the more recent efforts
  put forth to impart it, we most sorrowfully acknowledge.
Bishop Meade adds that these sketches are published with the hope that
they might have the effect of turning the attention of ministers and
heads of families more seriously to the duty of caring for the souls of
their servants.
With regard to the servant of Judge Upshur, spoken of in this
communication of Bishop Meade, his master has left, in his last will,
the following remarkable tribute to his worth and excellence of
character:
  I emancipate and set free my servant, David Rice, and direct my
  executors to give him one hundred dollars. I recommend him in the
  strongest manner to the respect, esteem and confidence, of any
  community in which he may happen to live. He has been my slave for
  twenty-four years, during all which time he has been trusted to
  every extent, and in every respect; my confidence in him has been
  unbounded; his relation to myself and family has always been such as
  to afford him daily opportunities to deceive and injure us, yet he
  has never been detected in any serious fault, nor even in an
  unintentional breach of the decorum of his station. His intelligence
  is of a high order, his integrity above all suspicion, and his sense
  of right and propriety correct, and even refined. I feel that he is
  justly entitled to carry this certificate from me in the new
  relations which he must now form; it is due to his long and most
  faithful services, and to the sincere and steady friendship which I
  bear to him. In the uninterrupted confidential intercourse of
  twenty-four years, I have never given him, nor had occasion to give
  him, one unpleasant word. I know no man who has fewer faults or more
  excellences than he.
In the free states there have been a few instances of such extraordinary
piety among negroes, that their biography and sayings have been
collected in religious tracts, and published for the instruction of the
community.
One of these was, before his conversion, a convict in a state-prison in
New York, and there received what was, perhaps, the first religious
instruction that had ever been imparted to him. He became so eminent an
example of humility, faith, and, above all, fervent love, that his
presence in the neighborhood was esteemed a blessing to the church. A
lady has described to the writer the manner in which he would stand up
and exhort in the church-meetings for prayer, when, with streaming eyes
and the deepest abasement, humbly addressing them as his masters and
misses, he would nevertheless pour forth religious exhortations which
were edifying to the most cultivated and refined.
In the town of Brunswick, Maine, where the writer lived when writing
“Uncle Tom’s Cabin,” may now be seen the grave of an aged colored woman,
named Phebe, who was so eminent for her piety and loveliness of
character, that the writer has never heard her name mentioned except
with that degree of awe and respect which one would imagine due to a
saint. The small cottage where she resided is still visited and looked
upon as a sort of shrine, as the spot where old Phebe lived and prayed.
Her prayers and pious exhortations were supposed to have been the cause
of the conversion of many young people in the place. Notwithstanding
that the unchristian feeling of caste prevails as strongly in Maine as
anywhere else in New England, and the negro, commonly speaking, is an
object of aversion and contempt, yet, so great was the influence of her
piety and loveliness of character, that she was uniformly treated with
the utmost respect and attention by all classes of people. The most
cultivated and intelligent ladies of the place esteemed it a privilege
to visit her cottage; and when she was old and helpless, her wants were
most tenderly provided for. When the news of her death was spread abroad
in the place, it excited a general and very tender sensation of regret.
“We have lost Phebe’s prayers,” was the remark frequently made
afterwards by members of the church, as they met one another. At her
funeral the ex-governor of the state and the professors of the college
officiated as pall-bearers, and a sermon was preached in which the many
excellences of her Christian character were held up as an example to the
community. A small religious tract, containing an account of her life,
was published by the American Tract Society, prepared by a lady of
Brunswick. The writer recollects that on reading the tract, when she
first went to Brunswick, a doubt arose in her mind whether it was not
somewhat exaggerated. Some time afterwards she overheard some young
persons conversing together about the tract, and saying that they did
not think it gave exactly the right idea of Phebe. “Why, is it too
highly colored?” was the inquiry of the author. “O, no, no, indeed,” was
the earnest response; “it doesn’t begin to give an idea of how good she
was.”
Such instances as these serve to illustrate the words of the apostle,
“God hath chosen the foolish things of the world to confound the wise;
and God hath chosen the weak things of the world to confound the things
which are mighty.”
John Bunyan says that although the valley of humiliation be unattractive
in the eyes of the men of this world, yet the very sweetest flowers grow
there. So it is with the condition of the lowly and poor in this world.
God has often, indeed always, shown a particular regard for it, in
selecting from that class the recipients of his grace. It is to be
remembered that Jesus Christ, when he came to found the Christian
dispensation, did not choose his apostles from the chief priests and the
scribes, learned in the law, and high in the church; nor did he choose
them from philosophers and poets, whose educated and comprehensive minds
might be supposed best able to appreciate his great designs; but he
chose twelve plain, poor fishermen, who were ignorant, and felt that
they were ignorant, and who, therefore, were willing to give themselves
up with all simplicity to his guidance. What God asks of the soul more
than anything else is faith and simplicity, the affection and reliance
of the little child. Even these twelve fancied too much that they were
wise, and Jesus was obliged to set a little child in the midst of them,
as a more perfect teacher.
The negro race is confessedly more simple, docile, childlike and
affectionate, than other races; and hence the divine graces of love and
faith, when in-breathed by the Holy Spirit, find in their natural
temperament a more congenial atmosphere.
A last instance parallel with that of Uncle Tom is to be found in the
published memoirs of the venerable Josiah Henson, now, as we have said,
a clergyman in Canada. He was “raised” in the State of Maryland. His
first recollections were of seeing his father mutilated and covered with
blood, suffering the penalty of the law for the crime of raising his
hand against a white man,—that white man being the overseer, who had
attempted a brutal assault upon his mother. This punishment made his
father surly and dangerous, and he was subsequently sold south, and thus
parted forever from his wife and children. Henson grew up in a state of
heathenism, without any religious instruction, till, in a camp-meeting,
he first heard of Jesus Christ, and was electrified by the great and
thrilling news that He had tasted death for every man, the bond as well
as the free. This story produced an immediate conversion, such as we
read of in the Acts of the Apostles, where the Ethiopian eunuch, from
one interview, hearing the story of the cross, at once believes and is
baptized. Henson forthwith not only became a Christian, but began to
declare the news to those about him; and, being a man of great natural
force of mind and strength of character, his earnest endeavors to
enlighten his fellow-heathen were so successful that he was gradually
led to assume the station of a negro preacher; and though he could not
read a word of the Bible or hymn-book, his labors in this line were much
prospered. He became immediately a very valuable slave to his master,
and was intrusted by the latter with the oversight of his whole estate,
which he managed with great judgment and prudence. His master appears to
have been a very ordinary man in every respect,—to have been entirely
incapable of estimating him in any other light then as exceedingly
valuable property, and to have had no other feeling excited by his
extraordinary faithfulness than the desire to make the most of him. When
his affairs became embarrassed, he formed the design of removing all his
negroes into Kentucky, and intrusted the operation entirely to his
overseer. Henson was to take them alone, without any other attendant,
from Maryland to Kentucky, a distance of some thousands of miles, giving
only his promise as a Christian that he would faithfully perform this
undertaking. On the way thither they passed through a portion of Ohio,
and there Henson was informed that he could now secure his own freedom
and that of all his fellows, and he was strongly urged to do it. He was
exceedingly tempted and tried, but his Christian principle was
invulnerable. No inducements could lead him to feel that it was right
for a Christian to violate a pledge solemnly given, and his influence
over the whole band was so great that he took them all with him into
Kentucky. Those casuists among us who lately seem to think and teach
that it is right for us to violate the plain commands of God whenever
some great national good can be secured by it, would do well to
contemplate the inflexible principle of this poor slave, who, without
being able to read a letter of the Bible, was yet enabled to perform
this most sublime act of self-renunciation in obedience its commands.
Subsequently to this his master, in a relenting moment, was induced by a
friend to sell him his freedom for four hundred dollars; but, when the
excitement of the importunity had passed off, he regretted that he had
suffered so valuable a piece of property to leave his hands for so
slight a remuneration. By an unworthy artifice, therefore, he got
possession of his servant’s free papers, and condemned him still to
hopeless slavery. Subsequently, his affairs becoming still more
involved, he sent his son down the river with a flat-boat loaded with
cattle and produce for the New Orleans market, directing him to take
Henson along, and sell him after they had sold the cattle and the boat.
All the depths of the negro’s soul were torn up and thrown into
convulsion by this horrible piece of ingratitude, cruelty and injustice;
and, while outwardly calm, he was struggling with most bitter
temptations from within, which, as he could not read the Bible, he could
repel only by a recollection of its sacred truths, and by earnest
prayer. As he neared the New Orleans market, he says that these
convulsions of soul increased, especially when he met some of his old
companions from Kentucky, whose despairing countenances and emaciated
forms told of hard work and insufficient food, and confirmed all his
worst fears of the lower country. In the transports of his despair, the
temptation was more urgently presented to him to murder his young master
and the other hand on the flat-boat in their sleep, to seize upon the
boat, and make his escape. He thus relates the scene where he was almost
brought to the perpetration of this deed:
  One dark, rainy night, within a few days of New Orleans, my hour
  seemed to have come. I was alone on the deck; Mr. Amos and the hands
  were all asleep below, and I crept down noiselessly, got hold of an
  axe, entered the cabin, and looking by the aid of the dim light
  there for my victims, my eye fell upon Master Amos, who was nearest
  to me; my hand slid along the axe-handle, I raised it to strike the
  fatal blow,—when suddenly the thought came to me, “What! commit
  murder! and you a Christian?” I had not called it murder before.
  It was self-defence,—it was preventing others from murdering me,—it
  was justifiable, it was even praiseworthy. But now, all at once, the
  truth burst upon me that it was a crime. I was going to kill a young
  man, who had done nothing to injure me, but obey commands which he
  could not resist; I was about to lose the fruit of all my efforts at
  self-improvement, the character I had acquired, and the peace of
  mind which had never deserted me. All this came upon me instantly,
  and with a distinctness which made me almost think I heard it
  whispered in my ear; and I believe I even turned my head to listen.
  I shrunk back, laid down the axe, crept up on deck again, and
  thanked God, as I have done every day since, that I had not
  committed murder.
  My feelings were still agitated, but they were changed. I was filled
  with shame and remorse for the design I had entertained, and with
  the fear that my companions would detect it in my face, or that a
  careless word would betray my guilty thoughts. I remained on deck
  all night, instead of rousing one of the men to relieve me; and
  nothing brought composure to my mind, but the solemn resolution I
  then made to resign myself to the will of God, and take with
  thankfulness, if I could, but with submission, at all events,
  whatever he might decide should be my lot. I reflected that if my
  life were reduced to a brief term I should have less to suffer, and
  that it was better to die with a Christian’s hope, and a quiet
  conscience, than to live with the incessant recollection of a crime
  that would destroy the value of life, and under the weight of a
  secret that would crush out the satisfaction that might be expected
  from freedom, and every other blessing.
Subsequently to this, his young master was taken violently down with the
river fever, and became as helpless as a child. He passionately
entreated Henson not to desert him, but to attend to the selling of the
boat and produce, and put him on board the steamboat, and not to leave
him, dead or alive, till he had carried him back to his father.
The young master was borne in the arms of his faithful servant to the
steamboat, and there nursed by him with unremitting attention during the
journey up the river; nor did he leave him till he had placed him in his
father’s arms.
Our love for human nature would lead us to add, with sorrow, that all
this disinterestedness and kindness was rewarded only by empty praises,
such as would be bestowed upon a very fine dog; and Henson indignantly
resolved no longer to submit to the injustice. With a degree of
prudence, courage and address, which can scarcely find a parallel in any
history, he managed, with his wife and two children, to escape into
Canada. Here he learned to read, and, by his superior talent and
capacity for management, laid the foundation for the fugitive settlement
of Dawn, which is understood to be one of the most flourishing in
Canada.
It would be well for the most cultivated of us to ask, whether our ten
talents in the way of religious knowledge have enabled us to bring forth
as much fruit to the glory of God, to withstand temptation as patiently,
to return good for evil as disinterestedly, as this poor, ignorant
slave. A writer in England has sneeringly remarked that such a man as
Uncle Tom might be imported as a missionary to teach the most cultivated
in England or America the true nature of religion. These instances show
that what has been said with a sneer is in truth a sober verity; and it
should never be forgotten that out of this race whom man despiseth have
often been chosen of God true messengers of his grace, and temples for
the indwelling of his Spirit.
“For thus saith the high and lofty One that inhabiteth eternity, whose
name is Holy, I dwell in the high and holy place, with him also that is
of a contrite and humble spirit, to revive the spirit of the humble, and
to revive the heart of the contrite ones.”
The vision attributed to Uncle Tom introduces quite a curious chapter of
psychology with regard to the negro race, and indicates a peculiarity
which goes far to show how very different they are from the white race.
They are possessed of a nervous organization peculiarly susceptible and
impressible. Their sensations and impressions are very vivid, and their
fancy and imagination lively. In this respect the race has an oriental
character, and betrays its tropical origin. Like the Hebrews of old and
the oriental nations of the present, they give vent to their emotions
with the utmost vivacity of expression, and their whole bodily system
sympathizes with the movements of their minds. When in distress, they
actually lift up their voices to weep, and “cry with an exceeding bitter
cry.” When alarmed, they are often paralyzed, and rendered entirely
helpless. Their religious exercises are all colored by this sensitive
and exceedingly vivacious temperament. Like oriental nations, they
incline much to outward expressions, violent gesticulations, and
agitating movements of the body. Sometimes, in their religious meetings,
they will spring from the floor many times in succession, with a
violence and rapidity which is perfectly astonishing. They will laugh,
weep, embrace each other convulsively, and sometimes become entirely
paralyzed and cataleptic. A clergyman from the North once remonstrated
with a Southern clergyman for permitting such extravagances among his
flock. The reply of the Southern minister was, in effect, this: “Sir, I
am satisfied that the races are so essentially different that they
cannot be regulated by the same rules. I, at first, felt as you do; and,
though I saw that genuine conversions did take place, with all this
outward manifestation, I was still so much annoyed by it as to forbid it
among my negroes, till I was satisfied that the repression of it was a
serious hindrance to real religious feeling; and then I became certain
that all men cannot be regulated in their religious exercises by one
model. I am assured that conversions produced with these accessories are
quite as apt to be genuine, and to be as influential over the heart and
life, as those produced in any other way.” The fact is, that the
Anglo-Saxon race—cool, logical and practical—have yet to learn the
doctrine of toleration for the peculiarities of other races; and perhaps
it was with a foresight of their peculiar character, and dominant
position in the earth, that God gave the Bible to them in the fervent
language and with the glowing imagery of the more susceptible and
passionate oriental races.
Mesmerists have found that the negroes are singularly susceptible to all
that class of influences which produce catalepsy, mesmeric sleep, and
partial clairvoyant phenomena.
The African race, in their own climate, are believers in spells, in
“fetish and obi,” in “the evil eye,” and other singular influences, for
which, probably, there is an origin in this peculiarity of constitution.
The magicians in scriptural history were Africans; and the so-called
magical arts are still practised in Egypt, and other parts of Africa,
with a degree of skill and success which can only be accounted for by
supposing peculiarities of nervous constitution quite different from
those of the whites. Considering those distinctive traits of the race,
it is no matter of surprise to find in their religious histories, when
acted upon by the powerful stimulant of the Christian religion, very
peculiar features. We are not surprised to find almost constantly, in
the narrations of their religious histories, accounts of visions, of
heavenly voices, of mysterious sympathies and transmissions of knowledge
from heart to heart without the intervention of the senses, or what the
Quakers call being “baptized into the spirit” of those who are distant.
Cases of this kind are constantly recurring in their histories. The
young man whose story was related to the Boston lady, and introduced
above in the chapter on George Harris, stated this incident concerning
the recovery of his liberty: That, after the departure of his wife and
sister, he, for a long time, and very earnestly, sought some opportunity
of escape, but that every avenue appeared to be closed to him. At
length, in despair, he retreated to his room, and threw himself upon his
bed, resolving to give up the undertaking, when, just as he was sinking
to sleep, he was roused by a voice saying in his ear, “Why do you sleep
now? Rise up, if you ever mean to be free!” He sprang up, went
immediately out, and, in the course of two hours, discovered the means
of escape which he used.
A lady whose history is known to the writer resided for some time on a
Southern plantation, and was in the habit of imparting religious
instruction to the slaves. One day, a woman from a distant plantation
called at her residence, and inquired for her. The lady asked, in
surprise, “How did you know about me?” The old woman’s reply was, that
she had long been distressed about her soul; but that, several nights
before, some one had appeared to her in a dream, told her to go to this
plantation and inquire for the strange lady there, and that she would
teach her the way to heaven.
Another specimen of the same kind was related to the writer by a
slave-woman who had been through the whole painful experience of a
slave’s life. She was originally a young girl of pleasing exterior and
gentle nature, carefully reared as a seamstress and nurse to the
children of a family in Virginia, and attached, with all the warmth of
