is."
"I will go with pleasure," I returned, rising.
We left my office immediately, and went direct to Maxwell's shop. As
we entered, we heard most agonizing cries, mingled with hoarse angry
imprecations from the shoemaker and the sound of his strap. He was
whipping some one most severely. My heart misgave me that it was
poor little Bill. We hurried into the shop. It was true. Maxwell had
the child across his knees, and was beating him most cruelly.
"That is your son," I said, in an excited voice to Miller, pointing
to the writhing subject of the shoemaker's ire. In an instant
Maxwell was lying four or five feet from his bench in a corner of
his shop, among the lasts and scraps of leather. A powerful blow on
the side of his head, with a heavy cane, had done his. The father's
hand had dealt it. Maxwell rose to his feet in a terrible fury, but
the upraised cane of Miller, his dark and angry countenance, and his
declaration that if he advanced a step toward him, or attempted to
lay his hand again upon the boy, he would knock his brains out,
cooled his ire considerably.
"Come, my boy," Miller then said, catching hold of the hand of the
sobbing child--"let me take you away from this accursed den for
ever."
"Stop!" cried Maxwell, coming forward at this; "you cannot take that
boy away. He is bound to me by law, until he is twenty-one. Bill!
don't you dare to go."
"Villain!" said Miller, in a paroxysm of anger, turning toward
him--"I will have you before the the court in less than twenty-four
hours for inhuman treatment of this child--of my child."
As Miller said this, the trembling boy at his side started and
looked eagerly in his face.
"Oh, sir! Are you indeed my father?" said he, in a voice that
thrilled me to the finger ends.
"Yes, William; I am your father, and I have come to take you home."
Tears gushed like rain over the cheeks of the poor boy. He shrank
close to his father's side, and clung to him with a strong grasp,
still looking up into a face that he had never hoped to see, with a
most tender, confiding, hopeful, expressive countenance.
The announcement of the fact subdued the angry shoemaker. He made a
feeble effort at apology, but was cut short by our turning abruptly
from him and carrying of the child he had so shamefully abused.
I parted from the father and son at the first carriage-stand that
came in our way. When I next saw Bill, his appearance was very
different indeed from what it was when I first encountered him. His
father lived some ten years from this time during the most of which
period William was at school or college. At his death he left him a
large property, which remained with him until his own death, which
took place a few years ago. He never I believe, had the most distant
idea of the cause which had separated his mother from his father.
That there had been a separation he knew too well but, he always
shrank from inquiring the reason, and had always remained in
ignorance of the main facts here recorded.
EUTHANASY.
"YOU remember Anna May, who sewed for you about a year ago?" said
one fashionably-dressed lady to another.
"That pale, quiet girl, who made up dresses for the children?"
"The one I sent you."
"Oh yes; very well. I had forgotten her name. What has become of
her? If I remember rightly, I engaged her for a week or two in the
fall; but she did not keep her engagement."
"Poor thing!" said the first lady, whose name was Mrs. Bell, "she'll
keep no more engagements of that kind."
"Why so? Is she dead?" The tone in which these brief questions were
asked, evinced no lively interest in the fate of the poor
sewing-girl.
"Not dead; but very near the end of life's weary pilgrimage."
"Ah, well! we must all die, I suppose--though it's no pleasant thing
to think about. But I am glad you called in this morning"--the
lady's voice rose into a more cheerful tone--"I was just about
putting on my things to go down to Mrs. Bobinet's opening. You
intend going, of course. I shall be so delighted to have you along,
for I want to consult your taste about a bonnet."
"I came out for a different purpose altogether, Mrs. Ellis," said
Mrs. Bell, "and have called to ask you to go with me."
"Where?"
"To see Anna May."
"What!--that poor seamstress of whom you just spoke?" There was a
look of unfeigned surprise in the lady's countenance.
"Yes; the poor seamstress, Anna May. Her days in this world are
nearly numbered. I was to see her yesterday, and found her very low.
She cannot long remain on this side the river of death. I am now on
my way to her mother's house. Will you not go with me?"
"No, no," replied Mrs. Ellis, quickly, while a shadow fell over her
face; "why should I go? I never took any particular interest in the
girl. And as for dying, every thing in relation thereto is
unpleasant to me. I can't bear to think of death: it makes me
shudder all over."
"You have never looked in the face of death," said Mrs. Lee.
"And never wish to," replied Mrs. Ellis, feelingly. "Oh, if it
wasn't for this terrible consummation, what a joyful thing life
might be!"
"Anna May has looked death in the face; but does not find his aspect
so appalling. She calls him a beautiful angel, who is about to take
her by the hand, and lead her up gently and lovingly to her Father's
house."
There came into the face of Mrs. Ellis a sudden look of wonder.
"Are you in earnest, Mrs. Bell?"
"Altogether in earnest."
"The mind of the girl is unbalanced."
"No, Mrs. Ellis; never was it more evenly poised. Come with me: it
will do you good."
"Don't urge me, Mrs. Bell. If I go, it will make me sad for a week.
Is the sick girl in want any comfort?--I will freely minister
thereto. But I do not wish to look upon death."
"In this aspect it is beautiful to look upon. Go with me, then. The
experience will be something accompany you through life. The image
of frightful monster is in your mind; you may now have it displaced
by the form of an angel."
"How strangely you talk, Mrs. Bell! How can death be an angel? Is
any thing more terrible than death?"
"The phantom called death, which a diseased imagination conjures up,
may be terrible to look upon; but death itself is a kind messenger,
whose it is to summon us from this world of shadows and changes, to
a world of eternal light and unfading beauty. But come, Mrs. Ellis;
I must urge you to go with me. Do not fear a shock to your feelings,
for none will be experienced."
So earnest were Mrs. Bell's persuasions, that her friend at last
consented to go with her. At no great distance from the elegant
residence of Mrs. Ellis, in an obscure neighbourhood, was a small
house, humble in exterior, and modestly, yet neatly attired within.
At the door of this house the ladies paused, and were admitted by a
woman somewhat advanced in years, on whose mild face sorrow and holy
resignation were beautifully blended.
"How is your daughter?" inquired Mrs. Bell, as soon as they were
seated in the small, neat parlour.
"Not so strong as when you were here yesterday," was answered, with
a faint smile. "She is sinking hourly."
"But continues in the same tranquil, heavenly state?"
"Oh yes." There was a sweet, yet touching earnestness in the
mother's voice. "Dear child! Her life has been pure and unselfish;
and now, when her change is about to come, all is peace, and hope,
and patient waiting for the time when she will be clothed upon with
immortality."
"Is she strong enough to see any one?" asked Mrs. Bell.
"The presence of others in no way disturbs her. Will you walk up
into her chamber, friends?"
The two ladies ascended the narrow stairs, and Mrs. Ellis found
herself, for the first time in many years, in the presence of one
about to die. A slender girl, with large, mild eyes, and face almost
as white as the pillow it pressed, was before her. The unmistakable
signs of speedy dissolution were on the pale, shrunken features; not
beautiful, in the ordinary acceptation of beauty, but from the pure
spirit within. Radiant with heavenly light was the smile that
instantly played upon her lips.
"How are you to-day, Anna?" kindly inquired Mrs. Bell, as she took
the shadowy hand of the dying girl.
"Weaker in body than when you were here yesterday," was answered;
"but stronger in spirit."
"I have brought Mrs. Ellis to see you. You remember Mrs. Ellis?"
Anna lifted her bright eyes to the face of Mrs. Ellis, and said--
"Oh yes, very well;" and she feebly extended her hand. The lady
touched her hand with an emotion akin to awe. As yet, the scene
oppressed and bewildered her. There was something about it that was
dreamlike and unreal. "Death! death!" she questioned with herself;
"can this be dying?"
"Your day will soon close, Anna," said Mrs. Bell, in a cheerful
tone.
"Or, as we say," quickly replied Anna, smiling, "my morning will
soon break. It is only a kind of twilight here. I am waiting for the
day-dawn."
"My dear young lady," said Mrs. Ellis, with much earnestness,
bending over the dying girl as she spoke--the newness and
strangeness of the scene had so wrought upon her feelings, that she
could not repress their utterance--"Is all indeed as you say? Are
you inwardly so calm, so hopeful, so confident of the morning?
Forgive me such a question, at such a moment. But the thought of
death has ever been terrible to me; and now, to see a fellow-mortal
standing, as you are, so near the grave, and yet speaking in
cheerful tones of the last agony, fills me with wonder. Is it all
real? Are you so full of heavenly tranquillity?"
Was the light dimmed in Anna's eyes by such pressing questions? Did
they turn her thoughts too realizingly upon the "last agony?" Oh no!
Even in the waning hours of life, her quickest impulse was to render
service to another. Earnest, therefore, was her desire to remove
from the lady's mind this fear of death, even though she felt the
waters of Jordan already touching her own descending feet.
"God is love," she said, and with an emphasis that gave to the mind
of Mrs. Ellis a new appreciation of the words. "In his love he made
us, that he might bless us with infinite and eternal blessings, and
these await us in heaven. And now that he sends an angel to take me
by the hand and lead me up to my heavenly home, shall I tremble and
fear to accompany the celestial messenger? Does the child, long
separated from a loving parent, shrink at the thought of going home,
or ask the hours to linger? Oh no!"
"But all is so uncertain," said Mrs. Ellis, eager to penetrate
further into the mystery.
"Uncertain!" There was something of surprise in the voice of Anna
May. "God is truth as well as love; and both in his love and truth
he is unchangeable. When, as Divine Truth, he came to our earth, and
spake as never man spake, he said, 'In my Father's house are many
mansions. I go to prepare a place for you.' The heavens and the
earth may pass away, Mrs. Ellis, but not a jot or tittle of the
divine word can fail."
"Ah! but the preparation for those heavenly mansions!" said Mrs.
Ellis. "The preparation, Anna! Who may be certain of this?"
The eyes of the sick girl closed, the long lashes resting like a
dark fringe on her snowy cheek. For more than a moment she lay
silent and motionless; then looking up, she answered--
"God is love. If we would be with him, we must be like him."
"How are we to be like him, Anna?" asked Mrs. Ellis.
"He is love; but not a love of himself. He loves and seeks to bless
others. We must do the same."
"And have you, Anna"--
But the words died on the lips of the speaker. Again had the
drooping lashes fallen, and the pale lids closed over the beautiful
eyes. And now a sudden light shone through the transparent tissue of
that wan face--a light, the rays of which none who saw them needed
to be told were but gleams of the heavenly morning just breaking for
the mortal sleeper.
How hushed the room--how motionless the group that bent forward
toward the one just passing away! Was it the rustle of angels
garments that penetrated the inward sense of hearing?
It is over! The pure spirit of that humble girl, who, in her sphere,
was loving, and true, and faithful, hath ascended to the God in
whose infinite love she reposed a childlike and unwavering
confidence. Calmly and sweetly she went to sleep, like an infant on
its mother's bosom, knowing that the everlasting arms were beneath
and around her.
And thus, in the by-ways and obscure places of life, are daily
passing away the humble, loving, true-hearted ones. The world
esteems them lightly; but they are precious in the sight of God.
When the time of their departure comes, they shrink not back in
fear, but lift their hands trustingly to the angel messenger, whom
their Father sends to lead them up to their home in heaven. With
them is the true "Euthanasy."
"Is not that a new experience in life?" said Mrs. Bell, as the two
ladies walked slowly homeward. With a deep sigh, the other
answered--
"New and wonderful. I scarcely comprehend what I have seen. Such a
lesson from such a source! How lightly I thought of that poor
sewing-girl, who came and went so unobtrusively! How little dreamed
I that so rich a jewel was in so plain a casket! Ah! I shall be
wiser for this--wiser, and I may hope, better. Oh, to be able to die
as she has died!--what of mere earthly good would I not cheerfully
sacrifice!"
"It is for us all," calmly answered Mrs. Bell. "The secret we have
just heard--we must be like God."
"How--how?"
"He loves others out of himself, and seeks their good. If we would
be like him, we must do the same."
Yes; this is the secret of an easy death, and the only true secret.
THREE SCENES IN THE LIFE OF A WORLDLING.
SCENE FIRST.
"IT is in vain to urge me, brother Robert. Out into the world I must
go. The impulse is on me. I should die of inaction here."
"You need not be inactive. There is work to do. I shall never be
idle."
"And such work! Delving in and grovelling close to the very ground.
And for what? Oh no, Robert. My ambition soars beyond your 'quiet
cottage in a sheltered vale.' My appetite craves something more than
simple herbs and water from the brook. I have set my heart on
attaining wealth; and, where there is a will there is always a way."
"Contentment is better than wealth."
"A proverb for drones."
"No, William; it is a proverb for the wise."
"Be it for the wise or simple, as commonly understood, it is no
proverb for me. As a poor plodder along the way of life, it were
impossible for me to know content. So urge me no further, Robert. I
am going out into the world a wealth-seeker, and not until wealth is
gained do I purpose to return."
"What of Ellen, Robert?"
The young man turned quickly toward his brother, visibly disturbed,
and fixed his eyes upon him with an earnest expression.
"I love her as my life," he said, with a strong emphasis on his
words.
"Do you love wealth more than life, William?"
"Robert!"
"If you love Ellen as your life, and leave her for the sake of
getting riches, then you must love money more than life."
"Don't talk to me after this fashion. I cannot bear it. I love Ellen
tenderly and truly. I am going forth as well for her sake as my own.
In all the good fortune that comes as the meed of effort, she will
be a sharer."
"You will see her before you leave us?"
"No. I will neither pain her nor myself by a parting interview. Send
her this letter and this ring."
A few hours later, and the brothers stood with tightly grasped
hands, gazing into each other's faces.
"Farewell, Robert."
"Farewell, William. Think of the old homestead as still your home.
Though it is mine, in the division of our patrimony, let your heart
come back to it as yours. Think of it as home; and, should fortune
cheat you with the apples of Sodom, return to it again. Its doors
will ever be open, and its hearth-fire bright for you as of old.
Farewell."
And they turned from each other, one going out into the restless
world, an eager seeker for its wealth and honours; the other to
linger among the pleasant places dear to him by every association of
childhood, there to fill up the measure of his days--not idly, for
he was no drone in the social hive.
On the evening of that day, two maidens sat alone, each in the
sanctuary of her own chamber. There was a warm glow on the cheeks of
one, and a glad light in her eyes. Pale was the other's face, and
wet her drooping lashes. And she that sorrowed held an open letter
in her hand. It was full of tender words; but the writer loved
wealth more than the maiden, and had gone forth to seek the mistress
of his soul. He would "come back;" but when? Ah, what a vail of
uncertainty was upon the future! Poor stricken heart! The other
maiden--she of the glowing cheeks and dancing eyes--held also a
letter in her hand. It was from the brother of the wealth-seeker;
and it was also full of loving words; and it said that, on the
morrow, he would come to bear her as a bride to his pleasant home.
Happy maiden!
SCENE SECOND.
TEN years have passed. And what of the wealth-seeker? Has he won the
glittering prize? What of the pale-faced maiden he left in tears?
Has he returned to her? Does she share now his wealth and honour?
Not since the day he went forth from the home of his childhood has a
word of intelligence from the wanderer been received; and, to those
he left behind him, he is now as one who has passed the final
bourne. Yet he still dwells among the living.
In a far-away, sunny clime, stands a stately mansion. We will not
linger to describe the elegant exterior, to hold up before the
reader's imagination a picture of rural beauty, exquisitely
heightened by art, but enter its spacious hall, and pass up to one
of its most luxurious chambers. How hushed and solemn the pervading
atmosphere! The inmates, few in number, are grouped around one on
whose white forehead Time's trembling finger has written the word
"Death." Over her bends a manly form. There--his face is toward you.
Ah! You recognise the wanderer--the wealth-seeker. What does he
here? What to him is the dying one? His wife! And has he, then,
forgotten the maiden whose dark lashes lay wet on her pale cheeks
for many hours after she read his parting words? He has not
forgotten, but been false to her. Eagerly sought he the prize, to
contend for which he went forth. Years came and departed; yet still
hope mocked him with ever-attractive and ever-fading illusions.
To-day he stood with his hand just ready to seize the object of his
wishes--to-morrow, a shadow mocked him. At last, in an evil hour, he
bowed down his manhood prostrate even to the dust in mammon-worship,
and took to himself a bride, rich in golden attractions, but poorer,
as a woman, than even the beggar at his father's gate. What a thorn
in his side she proved!--a thorn ever sharp and ever piercing. The
closer he attempted to draw her to his bosom, the deeper went the
points into his own, until, in the anguish of his soul, again and
again he flung her passionately from him.
Five years of such a life! Oh, what is there of earthly good to
compensate therefor? But, in this last desperate throw, did the
worldling gain the wealth, station, and honour he coveted? He had
wedded the only child of a man whose treasure might be counted by
hundreds of thousands; but, in doing so, he had failed to secure the
father's approval or confidence. The stern old man regarded him as a
mercenary interloper, and ever treated him as such. For five years,
therefore, he fretted and chafed in the narrow prison whose gilded
bars his own hands had forged. How often, during that time, had his
heart wandered back to the dear old home, and the beloved ones with
whom he had passed his early years And ah! how many, many times came
between him and the almost hated countenance of his wife, the
gentle, loving face of that one to whom he had been false! How often
her soft blue eyes rested on his own! How often he started and
looked up suddenly, as if her sweet voice came floating on the air!
And so the years moved on, the chain galling more deeply, and a
bitter sense of humiliation as well as bondage robbing him of all
pleasure in life.
Thus it is with him when, after ten years, we find him waiting, in
the chamber of death, for the stroke that is to break the fetters
that so long have bound him. It has fallen. He is free again. In
dying, the sufferer made no sign. Sullenly she plunged into the dark
profound, so impenetrable to mortal eyes, and as the turbid waves
closed, sighing, over her, he who had called her wife turned from
the couch on which her frail body remained, with an inward "Thank
God! I am a man again!"
One more bitter drug yet remained for his cup. Not a week had gone
by, ere the father of his dead wife spoke to him these cutting
words--
"You were nothing to me while my daughter lived--you are less than
nothing now. It was my wealth, not my child, that you loved. She has
passed away. What affection would have given to her, dislike will
never bestow on you. Henceforth we are strangers."
When next the sun went down on that stately mansion which the
wealth-seeker had coveted, he was a wanderer again--poor,
humiliated, broken in spirit.
How bitter had been the mockery of all his early hopes! How terrible
the punishment he had suffered!
SCENE THIRD.
ONE more eager, almost fierce struggle with alluring fortune, in
which the worldling came near steeping his soul in crime, and then
fruitless ambition died in his bosom.
"My brother said well," he murmured, as a ray of light fell suddenly
on the darkness of his spirit: "Contentment is better than wealth.
Dear brother! Dear old home! Sweet Ellen! Ah, why did I leave you?
Too late! too late! A cup, full of the wine of life, was at my lips;
but I turned my head away, asking for a more fiery and exciting
draught. How vividly comes before me now that parting scene! I am
looking into my brother's face. I feel the tight grasp of his hand.
His voice is in my ears. Dear brother! And his parting words, I hear
them now, even more earnestly than when they were first
spoken:--'Should fortune cheat you with the apples of Sodom, return
to your home again. Its doors will ever be open, and its
hearth-fires bright for you as of old.' Ah! do the fires still burn?
How many years have passed since I went forth! And Ellen? But I dare
not think of her. It is too late--too late! Even if she be living
and unchanged in her affections, I can never lay this false heart at
her feet. Her look of love would smite me as with a whip of
scorpions."
The step of time had fallen so lightly on the flowery path of those
to whom contentment was a higher boon than wealth, that few
footmarks were visible. Yet there had been changes in the old
homestead. As the smiling years went by, each, as it looked in at
the cottage-window, saw the home circle widening, or new beauty
crowning the angel brows of happy children. No thorn in his side had
Robert's gentle wife proved. As time passed on, closer and closer
was she drawn to his bosom; yet never a point had pierced him. Their
home was a type of paradise.
It is near the close of a summer day. The evening meal is spread,
and they are about gathering around the table, when a stranger
enters. His words are vague and brief, his manner singular, his air
slightly mysterious. Furtive, yet eager glances go from face to
face.
"Are these all your children?" he asks, surprise and admiration
mingling in his tones.
"All ours. And, thank God! the little flock is yet unbroken."
The stranger averts his face. He is disturbed by emotions that it is
impossible to conceal.
"Contentment is better than wealth," he murmurs. "Oh that I had
earlier comprehended this truth!"
The words were not meant for others; but the utterance had been too
distinct. They have reached the ears of Robert, who instantly
recognises in the stranger his long wandering, long mourned brother.
"William!"
The stranger is on his feet. A moment or two the brothers stand
gazing at each other, then tenderly embrace.
"William!"
How the stranger starts and trembles! He had not seen, in the quiet
maiden, moving among and ministering to the children so
unobtrusively, the one he had parted from years before--the one to
whom he had been so false. But her voice has startled his ears with
the familiar tones of yesterday.
"Ellen!" Here is an instant oblivion of all the intervening years.
He has leaped back over the gloomy gulf, and stands now as he stood
ere ambition and lust for gold lured him away from the side of his
first and only love. It is well both for him and the faithful maiden
that he can so forget the past as to take her in his arms and clasp
her almost wildly to his heart. But for this, conscious shame would
have betrayed his deeply repented perfidy.
And here we leave them, reader. "Contentment is better than wealth."
So the wordling proved, after a bitter experience--which may you
be spared! It is far better to realize a truth perceptively, and
thence make it a rule of action, than to prove its verity in a
life of sharp agony. But how few are able to rise into such a
realization!
MATCH-MAKING.
"YOU are a sly girl, Mary."
"Not by general reputation, I believe, Mrs. Martindale."
"Oh no. Every one thinks you a little paragon of propriety. But I
can see as deep as most people."
"You might as well talk in High Dutch to me, Mrs. Martindale. You
would be equally intelligible."
"You are a very innocent girl, Mary."
"I hope I am. Certainly I am not conscious of wishing harm to any
one. But pray, Mrs. Martindale, oblige me by coming a little nearer
to the point."
"You don't remember any thing about Mrs. Allenson's party--of
course?"
"It would be strange if I did not."
"Oh yes. Now you begin to comprehend a little."
"Do speak out plainly, Mrs. Martindale!"
"So innocent! Ah me, Mary! you are a sly girl. You didn't see any
thing of a young man there with dark eyes and hair, and a beautiful
white, high forehead?"
"If there was an individual there, answering to your description, it
is highly probable that I did see him. But what then?"
"Oh, nothing, of course!"
"You are trifling with me, Mrs. Martindale."
"Seriously, then, Mary, I was very much pleased to notice the
attentions shown you by Mr. Fenwick, and more pleased at seeing how
much those attentions appeared to gratify you. He is a young man in
a thousand."
"I am sure I saw nothing very particular in his attentions to me;
and I am very certain that I was also more gratified at the
attentions shown by him, than I was by those of other young men
present."
"Of course not."
"You seem to doubt my word?"
"Oh no--I don't doubt your word. But on these subjects young ladies
feel themselves privileged to--to"----
"To what, Mrs. Martindale?"
"Nothing--only. But don't you think Mr. Fenwick a charming young
man?"
"I didn't perceive any thing very remarkable about him."
"He did about you. I saw that, clearly."
"How can you talk so to me, Mrs. Martindale?"
"Oh la! Do hear the girl! Did you never have a beau, Mary?"
"Yes, many a one. What of it?"
"And a lover too?"
"I know nothing about lovers."
As Mary Lester said this, her heart made a fluttering bound, and an
emotion, new and strange, but sweet, swelled and trembled in her
bosom.
"But you soon will, Mary, or I'm mistaken."
Mrs. Martindale saw the cheek of the fair girl kindle, and her eye
brighten, and she said to herself, with an inward smile of
satisfaction--
"I'll make a match of it yet--see if I don't! What a beautiful
couple they will be!"
Mrs. Martindale was one of that singular class of elderly ladies
whose chief delight consists in match-making. Many and many a couple
had she brought together in her time, and she lived in the pleasing
hope of seeing many more united. It was a remarkable fact, however,
that in nearly every instance where her kind offices had been
interposed, the result had not been the very happiest in the world.
This fact, however, never seemed to strike her. The one great end of
her life was to get people together--to pair them off. Whether they
