his singularly restless and dissatisfied state of mind, the fact
disquieted her. The shadow of an approaching change was dimming the
cheerful light of her spirit.
Scarcely a moment since the reception of her husband's letter,
enclosing one for Fanny, was the fact that Mr. Lyon had made
advances toward her daughter--yet far too young to have her mind
bewildered by love's mazy dream--absent from her mind. It haunted
even her sleeping hours. And the more she thought of it, the more
deeply it disturbed her. As an interesting, and even brilliant,
companion, she had enjoyed his society. With more than usual
interest had she listened to his varied descriptions of personages,
places, and events; and she had felt more than a common admiration
for his high mental accomplishments. But, whenever she imagined him
the husband of her pure-hearted child, it seemed as if a heavy hand
lay upon her bosom, repressing even respiration itself.
Enough was crowding into the mind of this excellent woman to drive
slumber from her eyelids. The room adjoining was occupied by Fanny,
and, as the communicating door stood open, she was aware that the
sleep of her child was not sound. Every now and then she turned
restlessly in her bed; and sometimes muttered incoherently. Several
times did Mrs. Markland raise herself and lean upon her elbow, in a
listening attitude, as words, distinctly spoken, fell from the lips
of her daughter. At last the quickly uttered sentence, "Mother!
mother! come!" caused her to spring from the bed and hurry to her
child.
"What is it, Fanny? What has frightened you?" she said, in a gentle,
encouraging voice. But Fanny only muttered something incoherent, in
her sleep, and turned her face to the wall.
For several minutes did Mrs. Markland sit upon the bedside,
listening, with an oppressed feeling, to the now calm respiration of
her child. The dreams which had disturbed her sleep, seemed to have
given place to other images. The mother was about returning to her
own pillow, when Fanny said, in a voice of sad entreaty--
"Oh! Mr. Lyon! Don't! don't!"
There was a moment or two of breathless stillness, and then, with a
sharp cry of fear, the sleeper started up, exclaiming--
"Mother! father! Oh, come to me! Come!"
"Fanny, my child!" was the mother's instant response, and the yet
half-dreaming girl fell forward into her arms, which were closed
tightly around her. What a strong thrill of terror was in every part
of her frame!
"Dear Fanny! What ails you? Don't tremble so! You are safe in my
arms. There, love, nothing shall harm you."
"Oh, mother! dear mother! is it you?" half sobbed the not yet
fully-awakened girl.
"Yes, love. You are safe with your mother. But what have you been
dreaming about?"
"Dreaming!" Fanny raised herself from her mother's bosom, and looked
at her with a bewildered air.
"Yes, dear--dreaming. This is your own room, and you are on your own
bed. You have only been frightened by a fearful dream."
"Only a dream! How thankful I am! Oh! it was terrible!"
"What was it about, daughter?" asked Mrs. Markland.
Fanny, whose mind was getting clearer and calmer, did not at once
reply.
"You mentioned the name of Mr. Lyon," said the mother.
"Did I?" Fanny's voice expressed surprise.
"Yes. Was it of him that you were dreaming?"
"I saw him in my dream," was answered.
"Why were you afraid of him?"
"It was a very strange dream, mother--very strange," said Fanny,
evidently not speaking from a free choice.
"I thought I was in our garden among the flowers. And as I stood
there, Mr. Lyon came in through the gate and walked up to me. He
looked just as he did when he was here; only it seemed that about
his face and form there was even a manlier beauty. Taking my hand,
he led me to one of the garden chairs, and we sat down side by side.
And now I began to see a change in him. His eyes, that were fixed
upon mine, grew brighter and deeper, until it seemed as if I could
look far down into their burning depths. His breath came hot upon my
face. Suddenly, he threw an arm around me, and then I saw myself in
the strong folds of a great serpent! I screamed for help, and next
found myself in your arms. Oh! it was a strange and a fearful
dream!"
"And it may not be all a dream, Fanny," said Mrs. Markland, in a
very impressive voice.
"Not all a dream, mother!" Fanny seemed startled at the words.
"No, dear. Dreams are often merely fantastic. But there come visions
in sleep, sometimes, that are permitted as warnings, and truly
represent things existing in real life."
"I do not understand you, mother."
"There is in the human mind a quality represented by the serpent,
and also a quality represented by the dove. When our Saviour said of
Herod, 'Go tell that fox,' he meant to designate the man as having
the quality of a fox."
"But how does this apply to dreams?" asked Fanny.
"He who sends his angels to watch over and protect us in sleep, may
permit them to bring before us, in dreaming images, the embodied
form of some predominating quality in those whose association may do
us harm. The low, subtle selfishness of the sensual principle will
then take its true form of a wily serpent."
Fanny caught her breath once or twice, as these words fell upon her
ears, and then said, in a deprecating voice--
"Oh, mother! Don't! don't!" And lifting her head from the bosom of
her parent, she turned her face away, and buried it in the pillow.
As she did not move for the space of several minutes, Mrs. Markland
thought it unwise to intrude other remarks upon her, believing that
the distinct image she had already presented would live in her
memory and do its work. Soon after, she retired to her own room.
Half an hour later, and both were sleeping, in quiet unconsciousness.
CHAPTER XI.
LATE on the following day, Mr. Markland arrived from New York. Eager
as all had been for his return, there was something of embarrassment
in the meeting. The light-hearted gladness with which every one
welcomed him, even after the briefest absence, was not apparent now.
In the deep, calm eyes of his wife, as he looked lovingly into them,
he saw the shadow of an unquiet spirit. And the tears which no
effort of self-control could keep back from Fanny's cheeks, as she
caught his hand eagerly, and hid her face on his breast, answered
too surely the question he most desired to ask. It was plain to him
that Mr. Lyon's letter had found its way into her hands.
"I wish it had not been so!" was the involuntary mental ejaculation.
A sigh parted his lips--a sigh that only the quick ears of his wife
perceived, and only her heart echoed.
During the short time the family were together that evening, Mr.
Markland noticed in Fanny something that gave him concern. Her eyes
always fell instantly when he looked at her, and she seemed
sedulously to avoid his gaze. If he spoke to her, the colour mounted
to her face, and she seemed strangely embarrassed. The fact of her
having received a letter from Mr. Lyon, the contents of which he
knew, as it came open in one received by himself from that
gentleman, was not a sufficient explanation of so entire a change in
her deportment.
Mr. Markland sought the earliest opportunity to confer with his wife
on the subject of Fanny's altered state of mind, and the causes
leading thereto; but the conference did not result in much that was
satisfactory to either of them.
"Have you said any thing to her about Mr. Lyon?" asked Mr. Markland.
"Very little," was answered. "She thought it would only be courteous
to reply to his letter; but I told her that, if he were a true man,
and had a genuine respect for her, he would not wish to draw her
into a correspondence on so slight an acquaintance; and that the
only right manner of response was through you."
"Through me!"
"Yes. Your acknowledgment, in Fanny's name, when you are writing to
Mr. Lyon, will be all that he has a right to expect, and all that
our daughter should be permitted to give."
"But if we restrict her to so cold a response, and that by
second-hand, may she not be tempted to write to him without our
knowledge?"
"No, Edward. I will trust her for that," was the unhesitating
answer.
"She is very young," said Mr. Markland, as if speaking to himself.
"Oh, yes!" quickly returned his wife. "Years too young for an
experience--or, I might say, a temptation--like this. I cannot but
feel that, in writing to our child, Mr. Lyon abused the hospitality
we extended to him."
"Is not that a harsh judgment, Agnes?"
"No, Edward. Fanny is but a child, and Mr. Lyon a man of mature
experience. He knew that she was too young to be approached as he
approached her."
"He left it with us, you know, Agnes; and with a manly delicacy that
we ought neither to forget nor fail to appreciate."
The remark silenced, but in no respect changed the views of Mrs.
Markland; and the conference on Fanny's state of mind closed without
any satisfactory result.
The appearance of his daughter on the next morning caused Mr.
Markland to feel a deeper concern. The colour had faded from her
cheeks; her eyes were heavy, as if she had been weeping; and if she
did not steadily avoid his gaze, she was, he could see, uneasy under
it.
As soon as Mr. Markland had finished his light breakfast he ordered
the carriage.
"You are not going to the city?" his wife said, with surprise and
disappointment in her voice.
"Yes, Agnes, I must be in town to-day. I expect letters on business
that will require immediate attention."
"Business, Edward! What business?"
The question appeared slightly to annoy Mr. Markland. But with a
forced smile, and in his usual pleasant voice, he answered:
"Oh, nothing of very great importance, but still requiring my
presence. Business is business, you know, and ought never to be
neglected."
"Will you be home early?"
"Yes."
Mr. Markland walked out into the ample porch, and let his eyes range
slowly over the objects that surrounded his dwelling. His wife stood
by his side. The absence of a few days, amid other and less
attractive scenes, had prepared his mind for a better appreciation
of the higher beauties of "Woodbine Lodge." Something of the old
feeling came over him; and as he stood silently gazing around, he
could not but say, within himself, "If I do not find happiness here,
I may look for it through the world in vain."
The carriage was driven round to the door, while he stood there.
Fanny came out at the moment, and seeing her father about to step
into it, sprang forward, and exclaimed--
"Why, father, you are not going away again?"
"Only to the city, love," he answered, as he turned to receive her
kiss.
"To the city again? Why, you are away nearly all the time. Now I
wish you wouldn't go so often."
"I will be home early in the afternoon. But come, Fanny, won't you
go with me, to spend the day in town? It will be a pleasant change
for you."
Fanny shook her head, and answered, "No."
Mr. Markland entered the carriage, waved his hand, and was soon
gliding away toward the city. As soon as he was beyond the
observation of his family, his whole manner underwent a change. An
expression of deep thought settled over his face; and he remained in
a state of profound abstraction during his whole ride to the city.
On arriving there, he went to the office of an individual well known
in the community as possessing ample means, and bearing the
reputation of a most liberal, intelligent, and enterprising citizen.
"Good morning, Mr. Brainard," said Markland, with a blending of
respect and familiarity in his voice.
"Ah, Mr. Markland!" returned the other, rising, and shaking the hand
of his visitor cordially. "When did you get back from New York?"
"Yesterday afternoon. I called after my arrival, but you had left
your office."
"Well, what news do you bring home? Is every thing to your mind?"
"Entirely so, Mr. Brainard."
"That's clever--that's right. I was sure you would find it so. Lyon
is shrewd and sharp-sighted as an eagle. We have not mistaken our
man, depend on it."
"I think not."
"I know we have not," was the confident rejoinder.
"Any further word from him, since I left?"
"I had a letter yesterday. He was about leaving for Mexico."
"Are you speaking of Mr. Lyon, the young Englishman whom I saw in
your office frequently, a short time since?" inquired a gentleman
who sat reading the morning paper.
"The same," replied Mr. Brainard.
"Did you say he had gone to Mexico?"
"Yes, or was about leaving for that country. So he informed me in a
letter I received from him yesterday."
"In a letter?" The man's voice expressed surprise.
"Yes. But why do you seem to question the statement?"
"Because I saw him in the city day before yesterday."
"In the city!"
"Yes, sir. Either him or his ghost."
"Oh! you're mistaken."
"I think not. It is rarely that I'm mistaken in the identity of any
one."
"You are, assuredly, too certain in the present instance," said Mr.
Markland, turning to the gentleman who had last spoken, "for, it's
only a few days since I received letters from him written at
Savannah."
Still the man was positive.
"He has a hair-mole on his cheek, I believe."
Mr. Brainard and Mr. Markland looked at each other doubtingly.
"He has," was admitted by the latter.
"But that doesn't make identity," said Mr. Brainard, with an
incredulous smile. "I've seen many men, in my day, with moles on
their faces."
"True enough," was answered; "but you never saw two Mr. Lyons."
"You are very positive," said Mr. Brainard, growing serious. "Now,
as we believe him to be at the South, and you say that he was here
on the day before yesterday, the matter assumes rather a perplexing
shape. If he really was here, it is of the first importance that we
should know it; for we are about trusting important interests to his
hands. Where, then, and under what circumstances, did you see him?"
"I saw him twice."
"Where?"
"The first time, I saw him alighting from a carriage, at the City
Hotel. He had, apparently, just arrived, as there was a trunk behind
the carriage."
"Singular!" remarked Mr. Brainard, with a slightly disturbed manner.
"You are mistaken in the person," said Mr. Markland, positively.
"It may be so," returned the gentleman.
"Where did you next see him?" inquired Mr. Brainard.
"In the neighbourhood of the--Railroad Depot. Being aware that he
had spent several days with Mr. Markland, it occurred to me that he
was going out to call upon him."
"Very surprising. I don't just comprehend this," said Mr. Markland,
with a perplexed manner.
"The question is easily settled," remarked Mr. Brainard. "Sit here a
few moments, and I will step around to the City Hotel."
And as he spoke, he arose and went quickly from his office. In about
ten minutes he returned.
"Well, what is the result?" was the rather anxious inquiry of Mr.
Markland.
"Can't make it out," sententiously answered Mr. Brainard.
"What did you learn?"
"Nothing."
"Of course, Mr. Lyon has not been there?"
"I don't know about that. He certainly was not there as Mr. Lyon."
"Was any one there answering to his description?"
"Yes."
"From the South?"
"Yes. From Richmond--so the register has it; and the name recorded
is Melville."
"You asked about him particularly?"
"I did, and the description given, both by the landlord and his
clerk, corresponded in a singular manner with the appearance of Mr.
Lyon. He arrived by the southern line, and appeared hurried in
manner. Almost as soon as his name was registered, he inquired at
what hour the cars started on the--road. He went out in an hour
after his arrival, and did not return until late in the evening.
Yesterday morning he left in the first southern train."
"Well, friends, you see that I was not so very far out of the way,"
said the individual who had surprised the gentlemen by asserting
that Mr. Lyon was in the city only two days before.
"I can't believe that it was Mr. Lyon." Firmly Mr. Markland took
this position.
"I would not be sworn to it--but my eyes have certainly played me
false, if he were not in the city at the time referred to," said the
gentleman; "and let me say to you, that if you have important
interests in his hands, which you would regard as likely to suffer
were he really in our city at the time alleged, it will be wise for
you to look after them a little narrowly, for, if he were not here,
then was I never more mistaken in my life."
The man spoke with a seriousness that produced no very pleasing
effect upon the minds of his auditors, who were, to say the least,
very considerably perplexed by what he alleged.
"The best course, in doubtful cases, is always a prudent one," said
Mr. Markland, as soon as the gentleman had retired.
"Unquestionably. And now, what steps shall we take, under this
singular aspect of affairs?"
"That requires our first attention. If we could only be certain that
Mr. Lyon had returned to the city."
"Ah, yes--if we could only be certain. That he was not here, reason
and common sense tell me. Opposed to this is the very positive
belief of Mr. Lamar that he saw him on the day before yesterday,
twice."
"What had better be done under these circumstances?" queried Mr.
Brainard.
"I wish that I could answer that question both to your satisfaction
and my own," was the perplexed answer.
"What was done in New York?"
"I had several long conferences with Mr. Fenwick, whom I found a man
of extensive views. He is very sanguine, and says that he has
already invested some forty thousand dollars."
"Ah! So largely?"
"Yes; and will not hesitate to double the sum, if required."
"His confidence is strong."
"It is--very strong. He thinks that the fewer parties engage in the
matter, the better it will be for all, if they can furnish the
aggregate capital required."
"Why?"
"The fewer persons interested, the more concert of action there will
be, and the larger individual dividend on the business."
"If there should come a dividend," said Mr. Brainard.
"That is certain," replied Mr. Markland, in a very confident manner.
"I am quite inclined to the opinion of Mr. Fenwick, that one of the
most magnificent fortunes will be built up that the present
generation has seen."
"What is his opinion of Mr. Lyon?"
"He expresses the most unbounded confidence. Has known him, and all
about him, for over ten years; and says that a man of better
capacity, or stricter honour, is not to be found. The parties in
London, who have intrusted large interests in his hands, are not the
men to confide such interests to any but the tried and proved."
"How much will we be expected to invest at the beginning?"
"Not less than twenty thousand dollars apiece."
"So much?"
"Yes. Only two parties in this city are to be in the Company, and we
have the first offer."
"You intend to accept?"
"Of course. In fact, I have accepted. At the same time, I assured
Mr. Fenwick that he might depend on you."
"But for this strange story about Mr. Lyon's return to the city--a
death's-head at our banquet--there would not be, in my mind, the
slightest hesitation."
"It is only a shadow," said Mr. Markland.
"Shadows do not create themselves," replied Mr. Brainard.
"No; but mental shadows do not always indicate the proximity of
material substance. If Mr. Lyon wrote to you that he was about
starting for Mexico, depend upon it, he is now speeding away in that
direction. He is not so sorry a trifler as Mr Lamar's hasty
conclusion would indicate."
"A few days for reflection and closer scrutiny will not in the
smallest degree affect the general issue, and may develope facts
that will show the way clear before us," said Mr. Brainard. "Let us
wait until we hear again from Mr. Lyon, before we become involved in
large responsibilities."
"I do not see how I can well hold back," replied Mr. Markland. "I
have, at least, honourably bound myself to Mr. Fenwick."
"A few days can make no difference, so far as that is concerned,"
said Mr. Brainard, "and may develope facts of the most serious
importance. Suppose it should really prove true that Mr. Lyon
returned, in a secret manner, from the South, would you feel
yourself under obligation to go forward without the clearest
explanation of the fact?"
"No," was the unhesitating answer.
"Very well. Wait for a few days. Time will make all this clearer."
"It will, no doubt, be wisest," said Mr. Markland, in a voice that
showed a slight depression of feeling.
"According to Mr. Lamar, if the man he saw was Lyon, he evidently
wished to have a private interview with yourself."
"With me?"
"Certainly. Both Mr. Lamar and the hotel-keeper refer to his going
to, or being in, the neighbourhood of the cars that run in the
direction of 'Woodbine Lodge.' It will be well for you to question
the various members of your household. Something may be developed in
this way."
"If he had visited Woodbine Lodge, of course I would have known
about it," said Mr. Markland, with a slightly touched manner, as if
there were something more implied by Mr. Brainard than was clearly
apparent.
"No harm can grow out of a few inquiries," was answered. "They may
lead to the truth we so much desire to elucidate, and identify the
person seen by Mr. Lamar as a very different individual from Mr.
Lyon."
Under the existing position of things, no further steps in the very
important business they had in progress could be taken that day.
After an hour's further conference, the two men parted, under
arrangement to meet again in the morning.
CHAPTER XII.
IT was scarcely mid-day when Mr. Markland's carriage drew near to
Woodbine Lodge. As he was about entering the gateway to his grounds,
he saw Mr. Allison, a short distance beyond, coming down the road.
So he waited until the old gentleman came up.
"Home again," said Mr. Allison, in his pleasant, interested way, as
he extended his hand. "When did you arrive?"
"Last evening," replied Mr. Markland.
"Been to the city this morning, I suppose."
"Yes. Some matters of business required my attention. The truth is,
Mr. Allison, I grow more and more wearied with my inactive life, and
find relief in any new direction of thought."
"You do not design re-entering into business?"
"I have no such present purpose." Mr. Markland stepped from his
carriage, as he thus spoke, and told the driver to go forward to the
house. "Though it is impossible to say where we may come out when we
enter a new path. I am not a man to do things by halves. Whatever I
undertake, I am apt to prosecute with considerable activity and
concentration of thought."
"So I should suppose. It is best, however, for men of your
temperament to act with prudence and wise forethought in the
beginning--to look well to the paths they are about entering; for
they are very apt to go forward with a blind perseverance that will
not look a moment from the end proposed."
"There is truth in your remark, no doubt. But I always try to be
sure that I am right before I go ahead. David Crockett's homely
motto gives the formula for all high success in life."
"Yes; he spoke wisely. There would be few drones in our hive, if all
acted up to his precept."
"Few, indeed. Oh! I get out of all patience sometimes with men in
business; they act with such feebleness of nerve--such indecision of
purpose. They seem to have no life--none of those clear intuitions
that spring from an ardent desire to reach a clearly-seen goal.
Without earnestness and concentration, nothing of more than ordinary
importance is ever effected. Until a man taxes every faculty of his
mind to the utmost, he cannot know the power that is in him."
"Truly said. And I am for every man doing his best; but doing it in
the right way. It is deplorable to see the amount of wasted effort
there is in the world. The aggregate of misapplied energy is
enormous."
"What do you call misapplied energy?" said Markland.
"The energy directed by a wrong purpose."
"Will you define for me a wrong purpose?"
"Yes; a merely selfish purpose is a wrong one."
"All men are selfish," said Mr. Markland.
"In a greater or less degree they are, I know."
"Then all misapply their energies?"
"Yes, all--though not always. But there is a beautiful harmony and
precision in the government of the world, that bends man's selfish
purposes into serving the common good. Men work for themselves
alone, each caring for himself alone; yet Providence so orders and
arranges, that the neighbour is more really benefited than the
individual worker toiling only for himself. Who is most truly
served--the man who makes a garment, or the man who enjoys its
warmth? the builder of the house, or the dweller therein? the tiller
of the soil, or he who eats the fruit thereof? Yet, how rarely does
the skilful artisan, or he who labours in the field, think of, or
care for, those who are to enjoy the good things of life he is
producing! His thought is on what he is to receive, not on what he
is giving; and far too many of those who benefit the world by their
labour are made unhappy when they think that others really enjoy
what they have produced--if their thought ever reaches that far
beyond themselves."
"Man is very selfish, I will admit," said Mr. Markland,
thoughtfully.
"It is self-love, my friend," answered the old man, "that gives to
most of us our greatest energy in life. We work ardently, taxing all
our powers, in the accomplishment of some end. A close self-examination
will, in most cases, show us that self is the main-spring of all this
activity. Now, I hold, that in just so far as this is the case, our
efforts are misapplied."
"But did you not just admit that the world was benefited by all
active labour, even if the worker toiled selfishly? How, then, can
the labour be misapplied?"
"Can you not see that, if every man worked with the love of
benefiting the world in his heart, more good would be effected than
if he worked only for himself?"
"Oh, yes."
"And that he would have a double reward, in the natural compensation
that labour receives, and in the higher satisfaction of having done
good."
"Yes."
"To work for a lower end, then, is to misapply labour, so far as the
man is concerned. He robs himself of his own highest reward, while
Providence bends the efforts he makes, and causes them to effect
good uses to the neighbour he would, in too many cases, rather
insure than benefit."
"You have a curious way of looking at things, or, rather, into
them," said Mr. Markland, forcing a smile. "There is a common saying
about taking the conceit out of a man, and I must acknowledge that
you can do this as effectually as any one I ever knew."
"When the truth comes to us," said the old gentleman, smiling in
return, "it possesses the quality of a mirror, and shows us
something of our real state. If we were more earnest to know the
truth, so far as it applied to ourselves, we would be wiser, and, it
is to be hoped, better. Truth is light, and when it comes to us it
reveals our true relation to the world. It gives the ability to
define our exact position, and to know surely whether we are in the
right or the wrong way. How beautifully has it been called a lamp to
our path! And truth possesses another quality--that of water. It
cleanses as well as illustrates."
Mr. Markland bent his head in a thoughtful attitude, and walked on
in silence. Mr. Allison continued:
