Charles Hardy was there with the rest; but he seemed to be a different
boy. He had lost that forwardness which had often rendered him a
disagreeable companion. He had been forgiven; Mr. Walker had spoken to
him very kindly, and all his friends treated him as though nothing had
happened; but for all this, he could not feel right. His sufferings were
not yet ended; repentance will not banish at once the remembrance of
former sin and error. There was a deep feeling of commiseration
manifested towards him by his associates. He was to them the returned
prodigal, and they would fain have killed the fatted calf in honor of
his happy restoration.
The Zephyrs and the Butterflies wore their uniforms, and Mr. Walker was
so excited that all the boys were sure a good time was before them;
though, as the boats had not yet been recovered, they were at a loss to
determine the nature of the sports to which they had been invited.
The Rovers still maintained themselves on the island. The rupture
between Tim and Barney had evidently been healed; for both parties
seemed to mingle as though nothing had occurred to mar their harmonious
action.
The boys at the boat-house were not kept long in suspense in relation to
their day's sport. Captain Sedley formed them into a procession, when
all had arrived, and, after appointing Fred Harper chief marshal,
directed them to march down to Rippleton, cross the river, and halt upon
the other side till he came.
When they reached the place they found Uncle Ben there, and soon after
were joined by Captain Sedley and Mr. Walker.
"Follow us," said the former, as he led the way down to a little inlet
of the lake, whose waters were nearly enclosed by the land.
"Hurrah!" shouted Fred Harper, suddenly, when he obtained a view of the
inlet, and the cry was taken up by the whole party.
"The fleet! The fleet!" was passed from mouth to mouth; and unable to
control their excitement, they broke their ranks and ran with all their
might down to the water's side.
Resting gracefully, like so many swans, on the bright waters of the
inlet, lay five beautiful club boats. They were of different sizes, and
fore and aft floated their flags to the gentle breeze.
I will not attempt to describe the wild delight of the boys when they
beheld the splendid boats. The bright vision of a fleet, which they had
so cheerfully abandoned to be enabled to do a good and generous deed,
was realized. Here was the fleet, far surpassing in grandeur their most
magnificent ideal.
Five boats! And the Zephyr and the Butterfly would make seven!
"You have done this!" exclaimed Frank, as Mr. Walker approached.
"Your father and I together did it. Now, boys, if you will form a ring
we will explain."
"Three cheers for Mr. Walker first," suggested Tony.
They were given, and three more for Captain Sedley.
"My lads, I heard all about your giving up the fleet to help Mr. Munroe
out of trouble. It was noble--heroic, and I have since taken pains to
inform myself as to the manner in which you conducted yourself after the
brave sacrifice. As far as I can learn, not a regret has been expressed
at the mode in which your money was applied. Here is your reward," and
he pointed to the boats. "They are the gift of Captain Sedley and
myself. I am sorry that these Rovers have taken your other boats; but it
enables us to observe the difference between good boys and bad boys.
Nay, Master Hardy, you need not blush; for, though you have erred, you
have behaved heroically; you risked your life to escape from them; you
are forgiven."
This speech was received with shouts of applause, and Charles Hardy
stepped forward with tears in his eyes to thank the kind gentleman for
his generosity towards him.
"Now, boys," said Captain Sedley, "we are going to recover the lost
boats."
"Hurrah!" shouted all the boys.
"Two of these boats, you perceive, carry twelve oars each. The crew of
the Zephyr will man the Bluebird."
The Zephyrs obeyed the order.
"The crew of the Butterfly will man the Rainbow," continued Captain
Sedley.
The Butterflies seated themselves in the new boat.
"This is merely a temporary arrangement, and when we get the other
boats, we shall organize anew. We want practised oarsmen for our present
service. While we are absent, Uncle Ben will instruct the rest of the
boys in rowing."
Captain Sedley and Mr. Walker then seated themselves in the stern sheets
of the Bluebird.
"Now pull for Center Island," said the former. "Tony, you will follow
us."
The two boats darted out of the inlet, leaving Uncle Ben in charge of
the "recruits."
The Lily and the Dart were eight-oar boats, while the Dip carried only
four, and was designed as a "tender" for the fleet. Uncle Ben assigned
places to the boys, though there were about thirty left after the oars
were all manned. After an hour's drilling, he got the crews so they
could work together, and the boats were then employed in conveying the
rest of the party over to the boat-house. The others in their turn were
instructed and before noon Uncle Ben had rendered them tolerably
proficient in the art of rowing.
When the Bluebird reached Center Island, Tim had just embarked in the
Butterfly, and Barney was preparing to do the same in the Zephyr. The
Rovers were utterly confounded at this unexpected invasion of their
domain, and hastily retreated from the beach.
William Bright, who was the coxswain of the Bluebird, ran her alongside
the Zephyr, and took her in tow. In like manner they took possession of
the Sylph and the "gondola," leaving the Rovers "alone in their glory,"
with no means of escaping from the island. With the three boats in tow,
they pulled for the beach.
"Now for the Butterfly," said Captain Sedley, as he placed the Sylph in
charge of Uncle Ben, and directed William Bright to steer up the lake.
Away dashed the Bluebird. The excited crew had observed the Butterfly
about a mile off, pulling towards the river. Tim Bunker, at this safe
distance, had paused to observe the movements of the invaders. He was as
much confounded as Barney had been, and seemed to be at a loss what to
do; but when he saw the Bluebird headed towards him, he ordered his crew
to pull for the river.
"Steady, boys," said Captain Sedley, when they had approached within a
quarter of a mile of the chase. "Probably they will run her ashore and
leave her."
But Tim did not mean to do anything of the kind, and was running the
Butterfly directly for the river.
"They will dash her in pieces, I fear," continued the director, when he
perceived Tim's intention. "Pull slowly--put her about, and perhaps they
will return."
The Bluebird came round; but Tim dashed madly on, heedless of the rocks.
"She strikes!" exclaimed Mr. Walker.
"Round again--quick!" added Captain Sedley. "They will all be drowned!
She fills! There they go!"
The Butterfly had stove a hole in her bow; in an instant she was filled
with water, and, careening over, threw her crew into the lake, where
they were struggling for life.
"Your boat is stove, Tony," said Captain Sedley to the coxswain of the
Butterfly, who had exchanged places with Fred Harper, for the chase.
"Never mind the boat; save the boys!" replied Tony.
"Bravo! my little hero!" exclaimed Mr. Walker.
In a few moments the Bluebird reached the scene of the disaster. The
Butterfly was so light that she did not sink; and most of the Rovers
were supporting themselves by holding on at her gunwale. Tim and two or
three more had swum ashore, and one would have been drowned, if
assistance had not reached him when it did.
The discomfited Rovers were rescued from their perilous situation, and
after a severe reprimand, were landed at the nearest shore. Tim made his
escape; but probably none of them have since felt any inclination to
imitate the freebooters.
The Butterfly was towed down to her house, and taken out of the water.
It was found that two of her planks had been stove, and that the damage
could be easily repaired. Mr. Walker proposed sending to Boston for a
boat-builder; but Captain Sedley was sure that Uncle Ben, with the
assistance of the wheelwright, could repair her quite as well.
The Bluebird then returned to the beach, and the boys were dismissed
till three o'clock. The situation of the Rovers on the island was next
discussed by Captain Sedley and Mr. Walker, and it was decided that, as
Tim had escaped, it was not expedient to punish his companions, who were
less guilty. So Uncle Ben, with Frank and Tony, was sent off to bring
them ashore. Barney and his band were glad enough to get off. They
freely acknowledged that they had had enough of "camping out." It was
not what they anticipated. Nearly all of them had taken severe colds,
and since the rain on Monday night, which had spoiled their provisions,
they had been nearly starved. Barney declared that they meant to return
the boats that night, and if Captain Sedley would "let them off" this
time, they would never do such a thing again. Like Charles, they had
been punished enough, and with some good advice they were permitted to
depart. How they made peace with their parents I cannot say; but
probably many of them "had to take it." As for Tim Bunker, he did not
show his face in Rippleton again, but made his way to Boston, where he
shipped in a vessel bound for the East Indies; and everybody in town was
glad to get rid of him.
Thus ended the famous "camping out" of the Rovers. It was a very
pleasant and romantic thing to think about; but the reality was
sufficient to effect a radical cure, and convince them that
"yellow-covered books" did not tell the truth.
At three o'clock the boys reassembled, and the crews were organized and
officers selected. By a unanimous vote, Frank Sedley was chosen
commodore of the fleet. The next morning the Butterfly was repaired, and
the squadron made its first voyage round the lake.
But as the rest of the week was occupied in drilling, and the maneuvers
were necessarily imperfect, I pass over the time till the August
vacation, when the fleet made a grand excursion up Rippleton River.
CHAPTER XIX.
THE CRUISE OF THE FLEET.
The school year was ended; and it was remarked that the school had never
been in a more flourishing condition. The boys, stimulated by the boat
organizations, had made remarkable progress, and parents and committee
sympathized with them in the pleasant anticipations of the coming
vacation.
Since his defection in June, the conduct of Charles Hardy had been in
the highest degree satisfactory. His character seemed to be radically
changed. He did not "put on airs," nor aspire to high places. His pride
had been lowered, and he was modest and gentle; therefore my young
friends will not be surprised to learn that his associates had rewarded
his endeavors to do well by electing him coxswain of the Zephyr.
On the morning of the day appointed for the grand excursion, the
squadron, as it formed in line opposite Captain Sedley's house,
consisted of the following boats, manned and commanded as below:--
Zephyr,    12 oars, (bearing the broad pennant of
    Commodore Sedley,)        Charles Hardy.
Butterfly, 12 oars,           Paul Munroe.
Bluebird,  12  "              Fred Harper.
Rainbow,   12  "              William Bright.
Lily,       8  "              Henry Brown.
Dart,       8  "              Dick Chester.
Dip,        4  " (tender,)    Tony Weston.
My young readers need not be indignant at finding so brave and skilful
an officer as Tony Weston in command of the little Dip, deeming it an
insignificant position for him to occupy; for the tender was to be
detailed on special duty, and the appointment was a marked compliment to
his skill and judgment.
The system of signals established for the use of the fleet was very
simple, and consisted of plain flags of red, white, blue, yellow, green,
orange, and purple, each color being a distinct order. The discipline of
the fleet was of a mongrel character, composed of naval and military
tactics. When the squadron sailed in compact order verbal commands were
given; and when the boats were too far apart for the word to be heard,
signals were used. But these details will be better understood as the
squadron proceeds on its voyage.
The boats were ranged in line, side by side, with the Zephyr on the
right, the Butterfly on the left, and the Dip in the middle, each with
its gay flags floating to the breeze. All the oars were in-board, and
the clubs were waiting for the commodore's orders.
On board the Zephyr, a longer staff than she had formerly used was
erected, on which, half way up, was placed her fly, and at the top the
broad pennant--of blue, covered with silver stars. On this pole the
signals were hoisted, when the pennant had to be lowered for the time.
All eyes were directed to the commodore, who was standing up in the
stern sheets of the flag boat.
"Ready!" said he, in a voice loud enough to be heard the whole length of
the line; and every boy grasped his oar.
"Up!"
It was a beautiful sight to observe the precision with which the oars
were erected. A company of soldiers could not have handled their muskets
with more unanimity.
"Down!" and in like manner the oars dropped into the water.
Those who have observed the manner in which a military officer gives his
orders have discovered the secret of this pleasing concord of action.
Commands consist, except in a series, of two words; and dwelling for an
instant on the first keeps all in a state of readiness to act the
instant the second is given. Frank had studied the matter while
witnessing the evolutions of the Rippleton Guards, and he had adopted
the plan in the club. When the captain said "shoulder," the men knew
what was coming; and at the word "arms," the evolution was performed. So
with "present--arms!" "file--right!" "left--wheel!" etc.; and to these
observations he was indebted for the proficiency of his club, and of the
fleet.
"Ready--pull!" he continued.
The stroke was very slow, and each coxswain was obliged to keep his boat
in line with the others, the flag boat regulating their speed.
When the squadron had reached the upper part of the lake, the pennant
was dropped, and up went a red flag.
"Cease--rowing!" said all the coxswains, except the Zephyr's.
Then the red flag was lowered, and a blue one was hoisted.
"In single line," the coxswain of the Bluebird, which was next to the
Zephyr, interpreted the signal, and his boat followed the flag.
The others came into the line in proper order, and the squadron passed
entirely round the lake.
"Cease--rowing!" exclaimed the coxswains, in concert, as the red flag
again appeared.
Up went a green flag, and the line was formed; then a yellow, to form in
sections of two. In this order the squadron pulled down the lake again,
to the widest part, where various fanciful evolutions were
performed--which it would be impossible to describe on paper. One of
them was rowing in a circle round the Dip; another was two circles of
three boats each, pulling in opposite directions. Then the boats were
sent off in six different ways, forming a hexagon, with the tender in
the center; after which they all came together so that their stems
touched each other, in the shape of a star.
"Now, boys, we are ready for the voyage up Rippleton River," said
Commodore Sedley. "I need not tell you that the utmost caution must be
used. Watch the flags closely, and every coxswain be very prudent."
"Ay, ay!"
"Tony will lead in the Dip, and each boat will place a man in the bow to
look out for buoys, which he will place over rocks and shoals."
"Ay, ay," answered the coxswains.
"Now, Tony, you may go up and mark off the rocks at the mouth of the
river."
The little Dip, which had a picked crew for the occasion, darted away up
the lake, leaving the rest of the fleet to follow.
"Form a line!" shouted Frank, and the boats backed out from their
positions, and in a moment had obeyed the order.
"Ready--pull;" and the fleet moved slowly and grandly up the lake.
The boys were in high spirits. There was something inspiring in the
operations of the squadron that would have moved a more steady mind than
that of a boy of twelve. Every moment was a revelation of the power that
dwelt in them, of the beauty of order, of the grace of harmonious
action. As in the great world, a single intractable spirit might have
produced a heap of confusion, and it was the purpose of the organization
to bring each into harmony with the whole.
The fleet reached the mouth of the river. Tony had placed buoys on the
dangerous rocks each side of the channel, so that the boats, by
approaching it in the right direction, could easily pass through in
safety.
The Dip had been provided with a large number of these buoys. They were
pieces of board, part of them painted red, and part blue, with a line
and weight attached to each. Near the dangerous rock or shoal one of
these buoys was to be located, which would be kept in place by the
weight. The coxswains had written instructions from the commodore to
keep red ones on the starboard side, and blue on the port side, going
up the river, and vice versa coming down.
The Zephyr took position near the rocks to see that every boat
approached the channel in the right direction, as, if they did not, they
would be sure to strike. By these extraordinary precautions, the fleet
passed through in safety, and three stunning cheers announced that the
passage had been effected.
"Here we are, Charley," said Frank, as the Zephyr pulled ahead of the
other boats.
"All safe, thanks to the skill and prudence of our commodore," replied
Charles; and the reader will be struck with the modesty of his language.
"Where is Tony? I don't see him."
"Round the bend, I guess; but here are his buoys all along."
"Signal man, hoist the blue," continued the commodore; and the fleet
followed in single line.
"Here's the bridge; I fancy Tony knows the soundings here," said
Charles.
"Ay, there is the rock on which Mr. Walker's chaise hung. It is almost
out of water, now."
"Did you hear what Mr. Walker said when some one asked him why he did
not sue the town?"
"No; what was it?"
"He said it was the luckiest day of his life when he pitched off the
bridge."
"Indeed!"
"He has thought so much better of humanity since, and it introduced him
to Tony Weston, whom he calls a hero in embryo."
"Mr. Walker is a nice man--a whole-souled man."
"That he is! How many men would have done for us what he did? And I, in
particular, have reason to be grateful to him," said Charles, with a
sigh. "I shall never forget him and your father, wherever my lot is
cast."
"That is manly of you, Charley. But I am sure they have been abundantly
rewarded by your devotion to duty since."
"I have tried to do right."
"You have done well; everybody says so."
"I cannot soon forget what a fool I was to believe Tim's wicked lies. I
suppose I wanted to believe them, or I should not."
"It is a great pity we ever let Tim into the club; but we meant right;
we meant to reform him. Where do you suppose he is now?"
"Somewhere near the Cape of Good Hope."
"My father thinks he has got enough of the sea by this time."
"I dare say. Didn't you ever feel a desire to go to sea, Frank?"
"No; not lately."
"Nor I; Tim Bunker lent me the Red Corsair of the Caribbean Sea, just
before that scrape, and I thought then that I should like to take a
voyage."
"My father will not let me read such books; and since he has told me
what they are, and what their influence is, I don't want to read them."
"There's Tony, with the red flag hoisted."
The red flag had been agreed upon as the signal to stop the fleet, when
the navigation was very hazardous, or impracticable.
"Cease--rowing!" said Charles.
Frank ordered his signal man to hoist the red in the flag boat.
"Can't we go any farther than this?" asked Charles.
"I don't know; we are not more than a mile above the bridge."
"Here comes the Dip."
"Well, Tony, what's the matter?" said the commodore, as the tender
approached.
"I haven't found a clear channel yet. The bed of the river is covered
with rocks," replied Tony, as the Dip came alongside the Zephyr.
"Then we must call this the head of navigation," added Frank, with a
laugh, though he was not a little disappointed to find the cruise up so
soon.
"Perhaps not; there is water enough, but the twelve-oar boats are so
long they can hardly dodge the rocks. The Lily and the Dart can get
through very well."
"Have you sounded clear across?"
"I haven't had time to examine very thoroughly yet. If you let the boats
lay off I will look farther."
"Very well; I will go with you in the Dart," replied the commodore, as
he ordered up a white and a blue flag, which was the signal for the Dart
to close up.
The signal was obeyed, and Frank followed the Dip. After half an hour's
search, a clear channel was found close to the land; so close that the
oars could not be used, and a party was sent on shore to drag them
through with ropes.
The line was formed again, and the squadron slowly followed the Dip as
she examined the river. For the next mile there were no obstructions.
"Twelve o'clock!" shouted Fred Harper from the Bluebird.
"Dinner time, then," replied Frank. "Here is a beautiful grove, and we
will land and dine. Hoist the orange"--the signal to land.
CHAPTER XX.
THE HOSPITALITIES OF OAKLAWN.
The boys all had remarkably good appetites, and therefore dinner was no
unimportant event in the experience of the day. Somehow, boys contrive
to be hungry at almost all times of the day, even without the stimulus
of pulling three hours at an oar. There was something, too, in the
circumstance of dining in a beautiful grove, on the bank of the river,
with their boats floating near them, which rendered the occasion
peculiarly pleasant--which made their cold meat, doughnuts, and apple
pie taste much better than usual.
But the adventure was not yet completed. The head waters of navigation
had not been reached, and their love of exploring did not permit them to
spend any unnecessary time over the meal. Tony and his oarsmen had
reported themselves at the grove, and after "bolting" their dinner, had
resumed their occupation; and the boys perceived the Dip half a mile up
the river before they were ready to start.
"All aboard!" said Frank; and the crews, hastily gathering up their tin
pails, and their baskets, tumbled into the boats.
The Zephyr led off, followed by the other boats of the squadron.
"I see no buoys ahead," said Frank, after they had advanced some
distance. "The navigation must be unobstructed."
"It looks like deep water," answered Charles.
"And Tony's crew are pulling very hard; they are going faster than we
do."
"He is trying to gain time against he reaches a bad place. There he goes
round the bend. Were you ever up here before, Frank?"
"I have been to Oaklawn, which is about four miles from Rippleton. Of
course I never came up the river."
"Wouldn't it be fine if we could get up to Oaklawn?"
"Perhaps we can."
"This is smooth work," continued Frank. "Can't we give a little variety
to the excursion?"
"What?"
"Hoist the yellow, signalman," replied the commodore. "We will pull a
while in sections of two, and sing some songs."
Obedient to the signal, the boats of the fleet came into the order
prescribed, and the boys waked up the hills and the woods with the
earnestness of their song. It was a beautiful and cheering sight to see
them gliding over the clear waters, while their voices mingled with
those of the songsters which nature had given to the hillside and the
forest. Their hearts were glad, and in beautiful unison with the scene
around them.
"Rapids!" exclaimed Frank, when the boat reached the bend. "Up with the
blue!"
"Steady!" added Charles. "Pull slowly."
"Tony has been very busy," continued Frank, pointing to the buoys, that
speckled the waters. I am afraid the cruise is about up."
"Tony has passed the rapids. You know steamboats go down the rapids on
the St. Lawrence River."
"Ah, there is Oaklawn," said Frank, pointing to the spire of a church in
the distance. "We cannot go much farther, I know."
"We have made nearly four miles."
What the commodore had styled "rapids" were not a very formidable
difficulty. Near one bank was a ledge of rocks, over which the waters
dashed with considerable energy; but though there was the same descent
on the other side, no obstruction appeared to check them from attempting
the passage. Tony had accomplished it, and had left no warning to deter
them.
"Shall we go through, Frank?"
"Ay; bend on sharp, and she will leap up like a fawn. Now for it!"
The Zephyrs applied all their strength to the oars, and the boat darted
up the rapids with no other detriment than taking in two or three
pailfuls of water.
The rest of the fleet followed, with the exception of the Lily, without
accident; and she, not having sufficient headway, was carried down
again. By the skill of her coxswain, however, she was saved from damage,
and her second attempt was successful.
The navigation was again tolerably safe, and for half a mile they
proceeded on their way without interruption.
"There's a bridge," said Charles, pointing ahead.
"And there is the Dip, with the red hoisted. Tony seems to have given
it up. He has made fast to the bridge."
On the shore was a crowd of men and boys, who were holding a parley with
the pilot of the expedition; but when they saw the squadron approaching
they seemed petrified with astonishment. The boys thrust their hands
deep in their trousers' pockets, and with mouths wide open stared in
speechless wonder. The arrival of Columbus on the shores of the new
world could not have been more astounding to the natives than was the
coming of the Wood Lake squadron to the boys of Oaklawn.
"Sheer off, Charley, to the port side of the river, and we will come
into line. The river is wide enough here, I believe. Up with the green!"
On dashed the boats in the rear till they came into the line. The river
widened into a kind of pond; but the line stretched clear across
it--making a very imposing appearance.
"Slowly; cease--rowing!" continued Frank. "Ready--up!" and the
sixty-eight oars of the fleet glittered in the sunshine before the
astonished Oaklawners, who were gathered in great numbers on the shore
and bridge.
"Well, Tony, the cruise is up," said Frank, when the Dip came into line.
"Yes," replied the pilot, pointing under the bridge, where the river
dashed its foaming waters down a long reach of half-exposed rocks. "We
can't get over those."
"No; and we may as well land and take a look at Oaklawn. Hoist the
orange. Ready--down!"
Each boat landed its crew at a convenient place, and they were then
marshaled into a procession. They were formed in sections of four, each
crew preceded by its coxswain, with one of the flags on each side of
him. The commodore marched at the head of the company, and in this order
they proceeded through the principal street of the village. Of course
their appearance excited a great deal of wonder, and not a little
admiration. Several of the principal citizens, unwilling that their
guests should depart unwelcomed, got up an impromptu reception, and
the clubs were invited to the Town Hall, where some very pretty speeches
were made by the chairman of the Selectmen, of the School Committee, the
representative to the General Court, and other distinguished
individuals; to whom the commodore replied with a great deal of dignity
and self-possession.
While the speeches were proceeding, the ladies were not idle; and the
boys were next invited to a collation on the green; after which they
marched back to the river and re-embarked. Three times three cheers were
given for the people of Oaklawn, and the word was given to pull for
home.
The boys of the village were not so ready to part with them, and some
twenty of them followed the boats, on the bank of the river.
"I say, Frank, these folks were very kind to us," Charles remarked.
"They were, indeed."
"And the boys seem to enjoy it."
"I suppose not many of them ever saw our boats before."
"Suppose we take them in; they will be very willing to walk home, say
from the grove where we dined, for the sake of the sail."
"Good! I didn't think of that before. Up with the orange!"
The boats landed, and the astonished Oaklawn boys were distributed among
them. They seemed to regard the favor as an unexpected condescension,
and their delight knew no bounds. As Little Paul expressed it, "they
were tickled half to death"; and when they reached the grove it was a
sad and bitter disappointment for them to get out and go home.
"I was thinking of something," said Charles, a little while after they
had landed their passengers.
"What was it, Charley?" replied the commodore.
"That we might invite the boys of Oaklawn to spend a day with us on the
lake."
"Capital!"
"We could give them a picnic on Center Island."
"We will do it; and now that we know the river we can easily come up as
far as the grove after them."
