"He stands just on the verge, Florence; just where a word fitly spoken
might turn him. He is a noble creature, full of all sorts of fine
impulses and feelings; the only son of a mother who dotes on him, the
idolized brother of sisters who love him as you love your brother,
Florence; and he stands where a word, a look--so they be of the right
kind--might save him."
"And why, then, do you not speak to him?" said Florence.
"Because I am not the best person, Florence. There is another who can do
it better; one whom he admires, who stands in a position which would
forbid his feeling angry; a person, cousin, whom I have heard in gayer
moments say that she knew how to say any thing she pleased without
offending any body."
"O Edward!" said Florence, coloring; "do not bring up my foolish
speeches against me, and do not speak as if I ought to interfere in this
matter, for indeed I cannot do it. I never could in the world, I am
certain I could not."
"And so," said Edward, "you, whom I have heard say so many things which
no one else could say, or dared to say--you, who have gone on with your
laughing assurance in your own powers of pleasing, shrink from trying
that power when a noble and generous heart might be saved by it. You
have been willing to venture a great deal for the sake of amusing
yourself and winning admiration; but you dare not say a word for any
high or noble purpose. Do you not see how you confirm what I said of the
selfishness of you women?"
"But you must remember, Edward, this is a matter of great delicacy."
"That word delicacy is a charming cover-all in all these cases,
Florence. Now, here is a fine, noble-spirited young man, away from his
mother and sisters, away from any family friend who might care for him,
tempted, betrayed, almost to ruin, and a few words from you, said as a
woman knows how to say them, might be his salvation. But you will coldly
look on and see him go to destruction, because you have too much
delicacy to make the effort--like the man that would not help his
neighbor out of the water because he had never had the honor of an
introduction."
"But, Edward, consider how peculiarly fastidious Elliot is--how jealous
of any attempt to restrain and guide him."
"And just for that reason it is that men of his acquaintance cannot do
any thing with him. But what are you women made with so much tact and
power of charming for, if it is not to do these very things that we
cannot do? It is a delicate matter--true; and has not Heaven given to
you a fine touch and a fine eye for just such delicate matters? Have you
not seen, a thousand times, that what might be resented as an
impertinent interference on the part of a man, comes to us as a
flattering expression of interest from the lips of a woman?"
"Well, but, cousin, what would you have me do? How would you have me do
it?" said Florence, earnestly.
"You know that Fashion, which makes so many wrong turns, and so many
absurd ones, has at last made one good one, and it is now a fashionable
thing to sign the temperance pledge. Elliot himself would be glad to do
it, but he foolishly committed himself against it in the outset, and now
feels bound to stand to his opinion. He has, too, been rather rudely
assailed by some of the apostles of the new state of things, who did not
understand the peculiar points of his character; in short, I am afraid
that he will feel bound to go to destruction for the sake of supporting
his own opinion. Now, if I should undertake with him, he might shoot me;
but I hardly think there is any thing of the sort to be apprehended in
your case. Just try your enchantments; you have bewitched wise men into
doing foolish things before now; try, now, if you can't bewitch a
foolish man into doing a wise thing."
Florence smiled archly, but instantly grew more thoughtful.
"Well, cousin," she said, "I will try. Though you are liberal in your
ascriptions of power, yet I can put the matter to the test of
experiment."
       
Florence Elmore was, at the time we speak of, in her twentieth year.
Born of one of the wealthiest families in ----, highly educated and
accomplished, idolized by her parents and brothers, she had entered the
world as one born to command. With much native nobleness and magnanimity
of character, with warm and impulsive feelings, and a capability of
every thing high or great, she had hitherto lived solely for her own
amusement, and looked on the whole brilliant circle by which she was
surrounded, with all its various actors, as something got up for her
special diversion. The idea of influencing any one, for better or worse,
by any thing she ever said or did, had never occurred to her. The crowd
of admirers of the other sex, who, as a matter of course, were always
about her, she regarded as so many sources of diversion; but the idea of
feeling any sympathy with them as human beings, or of making use of her
power over them for their improvement, was one that had never entered
her head.
Edward Ashton was an old bachelor cousin of Florence's, who, having
earned the title of oddity, in general society, availed himself of it to
exercise a turn for telling the truth to the various young ladies of his
acquaintance, especially to his fair cousin Florence. We remark, by the
by, that these privileged truth tellers are quite a necessary of life to
young ladies in the full tide of society, and we really think it would
be worth while for every dozen of them to unite to keep a person of this
kind on a salary, for the benefit of the whole. However, that is nothing
to our present purpose; we must return to our fair heroine, whom we
left, at the close of the last conversation, standing in deep revery, by
the window.
"It's more than half true," she said to herself--"more than half. Here
am I, twenty years old, and never have thought of any thing, never done
any thing, except to amuse and gratify myself; no purpose, no object;
nothing high, nothing dignified, nothing worth living for! Only a parlor
ornament--heigh ho! Well, I really do believe I could do something with
this Elliot; and yet how dare I try?"
Now, my good readers, if you are anticipating a love story, we must
hasten to put in our disclaimer; you are quite mistaken in the case. Our
fair, brilliant heroine was, at this time of speaking, as heart-whole as
the diamond on her bosom, which reflected the light in too many
sparkling rays ever to absorb it. She had, to be sure, half in earnest,
half in jest, maintained a bantering, platonic sort of friendship with
George Elliot. She had danced, ridden, sung, and sketched with him; but
so had she with twenty other young men; and as to coming to any thing
tender with such a quick, brilliant, restless creature, Elliot would as
soon have undertaken to sentimentalize over a glass of soda water. No;
there was decidedly no love in the case.
"What a curious ring that is!" said Elliot to her, a day or two after,
as they were reading together.
"It is a knight's ring," said she, playfully, as she drew it off and
pointed to a coral cross set in the gold, "a ring of the red-cross
knights. Come, now, I've a great mind to bind you to my service with
it."
"Do, lady fair," said Elliot, stretching out his hand for the ring.
"Know, then," said she, "if you take this pledge, that you must obey
whatever commands I lay upon you in its name."
"I swear!" said Elliot, in the mock heroic, and placed the ring on his
finger.
An evening or two after, Elliot attended Florence to a party at Mrs.
B.'s. Every thing was gay and brilliant, and there was no lack either of
wit or wine. Elliot was standing in a little alcove, spread with
refreshments, with a glass of wine in his hand. "I forbid it; the cup is
poisoned!" said a voice in his ear. He turned quickly, and Florence was
at his side. Every one was busy, with laughing and talking, around, and
nobody saw the sudden start and flush that these words produced, as
Elliot looked earnestly in the lady's face. She smiled, and pointed
playfully to the ring; but after all, there was in her face an
expression of agitation and interest which she could not repress, and
Elliot felt, however playful the manner, that she was in earnest; and
as she glided away in the crowd, he stood with his arms folded, and his
eyes fixed on the spot where she disappeared.
"Is it possible that I am suspected--that there are things said of me as
if I were in danger?" were the first thoughts that flashed through his
mind. How strange that a man may appear doomed, given up, and lost, to
the eye of every looker on, before he begins to suspect himself! This
was the first time that any defined apprehension of loss of character
had occurred to Elliot, and he was startled as if from a dream.
"What the deuse is the matter with you, Elliot? You look as solemn as a
hearse!" said a young man near by.
"Has Miss Elmore cut you?" said another.
"Come, man, have a glass," said a third.
"Let him alone--he's bewitched," said a fourth. "I saw the spell laid on
him. None of us can say but our turn may come next."
An hour later, that evening, Florence was talking with her usual spirit
to a group who were collected around her, when, suddenly looking up, she
saw Elliot, standing in an abstracted manner, at one of the windows that
looked out into the balcony.
"He is offended, I dare say," she thought; "but what do I care? For once
in my life I have tried to do a right thing--a good thing. I have risked
giving offence for less than this, many a time." Still, Florence could
not but feel tremulous, when, a few moments after, Elliot approached her
and offered his arm for a promenade. They walked up and down the room,
she talking volubly, and he answering yes and no, till at length, as if
by accident, he drew her into the balcony which overhung the garden. The
moon was shining brightly, and every thing without, in its placid
quietness, contrasted strangely with the busy, hurrying scene within.
"Miss Elmore," said Elliot, abruptly, "may I ask you, sincerely, had you
any design in a remark you made to me in the early part of the evening?"
Florence paused, and though habitually the most practised and
self-possessed of women, the color actually receded from her cheek, as
she answered,--
"Yes, Mr. Elliot; I must confess that I had."
"And is it possible, then, that you have heard any thing?"
"I have heard, Mr. Elliot, that which makes me tremble for you, and for
those whose life, I know, is bound up in you; and, tell me, were it well
or friendly in me to know that such things were said, that such danger
existed, and not to warn you of it?"
Elliot stood for a few moments in silence.
"Have I offended? Have I taken too great a liberty?" said Florence,
gently.
Hitherto Elliot had only seen in Florence the self-possessed, assured,
light-hearted woman of fashion; but there was a reality and depth of
feeling in the few words she had spoken to him, in this interview, that
opened to him entirely a new view in her character.
"No, Miss Elmore," replied he, earnestly, after some pause; "I may be
pained, offended I cannot be. To tell the truth, I have been
thoughtless, excited, dazzled; my spirits, naturally buoyant, have
carried me, often, too far; and lately I have painfully suspected my own
powers of resistance. I have really felt that I needed help, but have
been too proud to confess, even to myself, that I needed it. You, Miss
Elmore, have done what, perhaps, no one else could have done. I am
overwhelmed with gratitude, and I shall bless you for it to the latest
day of my life. I am ready to pledge myself to any thing you may ask on
this subject."
"Then," said Florence, "do not shrink from doing what is safe, and
necessary, and right for you to do, because you have once said you would
not do it. You understand me."
"Precisely," replied Elliot: "and you shall be obeyed."
It was not more than a week before the news was circulated that even
George Elliot had signed the pledge of temperance. There was much
wondering at this sudden turn among those who had known his utter
repugnance to any measure of the kind, and the extent to which he had
yielded to temptation; but few knew how fine and delicate had been the
touch to which his pride had yielded.
ART AND NATURE.
"Now, girls," said Mrs. Ellis Grey to her daughters, "here is a letter
from George Somers, and he is to be down here next week; so I give you
fair warning."
"Warning?" said Fanny Grey, looking up from her embroidery; "what do you
mean by that, mamma?"
"Now that's just you, Fanny," said the elder sister, laughing. "You dear
little simplicity, you can never understand any thing unless it is
stated as definitely as the multiplication table."
"But we need no warning in the case of Cousin George, I'm sure," said
Fanny.
"Cousin George, to be sure! Do you hear the little innocent?" said
Isabella, the second sister. "I suppose, Fanny, you never heard that he
had been visiting all the courts of Europe, seeing all the fine women,
stone, picture, and real, that are to be found. Such an amateur and
connoisseur!"
"Besides having received a fortune of a million or so," said Emma. "I
dare say now, Fanny, you thought he was coming home to make dandelion
chains, and play with button balls, as he used to do when he was a
little boy."
"Fanny will never take the world as it is," said Mrs. Grey. "I do
believe she will be a child as long as she lives." Mrs. Grey said this
as if she were sighing over some radical defect in the mind of her
daughter, and the delicate cheek of Fanny showed a tint somewhat deeper
as she spoke, and she went on with her embroidery in silence.
Mrs. Grey had been left, by the death of her husband, sole guardian of
the three girls whose names have appeared on the page. She was an
active, busy, ambitious woman, one of the sort for whom nothing is ever
finished enough, or perfect enough, without a few touches, and dashes,
and emendations; and, as such people always make a mighty affair of
education, Mrs. Grey had made it a life's enterprise to order, adjust,
and settle the character of her daughters; and when we use the word
character, as Mrs. Grey understood it, we mean it to include both
face, figure, dress, accomplishments, as well as those more unessential
items, mind and heart.
Mrs. Grey had determined that her daughters should be something
altogether out of the common way; and accordingly she had conducted the
training of the two eldest with such zeal and effect, that every trace
of an original character was thoroughly educated out of them. All their
opinions, feelings, words, and actions, instead of gushing naturally
from their hearts, were, according to the most approved authority,
diligently compared and revised. Emma, the eldest, was an imposing,
showy girl, of some considerable talent, and she had been assiduously
trained to make a sensation as a woman of ability and intellect. Her
mind had been filled with information on all sorts of subjects, much
faster than she had power to digest or employ it; and the standard which
her ambitious mother had set for her being rather above the range of her
abilities, there was a constant sensation of effort in her keeping up to
it. In hearing her talk you were constantly reminded, "I am a woman of
intellect--I am entirely above the ordinary level of woman;" and on all
subjects she was so anxiously and laboriously, well and
circumstantially, informed, that it was enough to make one's head ache
to hear her talk.
Isabella, the second daughter, was, par excellence, a beauty--a tall,
sparkling, Cleopatra-looking girl, whose rich color, dazzling eyes, and
superb figure might have bid defiance to art to furnish an extra charm;
nevertheless, each grace had been as indefatigably drilled and
manoeuvred as the members of an artillery company. Eyes, lips,
eyelashes, all had their lesson; and every motion of her sculptured
limbs, every intonation of her silvery voice, had been studied,
considered, and corrected, till even her fastidious mother could discern
nothing that was wanting. Then were added all the graces of belles
lettres--all the approved rules of being delighted with music,
painting, and poetry--and last of all came the tour of the continent;
travelling being generally considered a sort of pumice stone, for
rubbing down the varnish, and giving the very last touch to character.
During the time that all this was going on, Miss Fanny, whom we now
declare our heroine, had been growing up in the quietude of her mother's
country seat, and growing, as girls are apt to, much faster than her
mother imagined. She was a fair, slender girl, with a purity and
simplicity of appearance, which, if it be not in itself beauty, had all
the best effect of beauty, in interesting and engaging the heart.
She looked not so much beautiful as lovable. Her character was in
precise correspondence with her appearance; its first and chief element
was feeling; and to this add fancy, fervor, taste, enthusiasm almost up
to the point of genius, and just common sense enough to keep them all in
order, and you will have a very good idea of the mind of Fanny Grey.
Delightfully passed the days with Fanny during the absence of her
mother, while, without thought of rule or compass, she sang her own
songs, painted flowers, and sketched landscapes from nature, visited
sociably all over the village, where she was a great favorite, ran about
through the fields, over fences, or in the woods with her little cottage
bonnet, and, above all, built her own little castles in the air without
any body to help pull them down, which we think about the happiest
circumstance in her situation.
But affairs wore a very different aspect when Mrs. Grey with her
daughters returned from Europe, as full of foreign tastes and notions as
people of an artificial character generally do return.
Poor Fanny was deluged with a torrent of new ideas; she heard of styles
of appearance and styles of beauty, styles of manner and styles of
conversation, this, that, and the other air, a general effect and a
particular effect, and of four hundred and fifty ways of producing an
impression--in short, it seemed to her that people ought to be of
wonderful consequence to have so many things to think and to say about
the how and why of every word and action.
Mrs. Grey, who had no manner of doubt of her own ability to make over a
character, undertook the point with Fanny as systematically as one would
undertake to make over an old dress. Poor Fanny, who had an
unconquerable aversion to trying on dresses or settling points in
millinery, went through with most exemplary meekness an entire
transformation as to all externals; but when Mrs. Grey set herself at
work upon her mind, and tastes, and opinions, the matter became somewhat
more serious; for the buoyant feeling and fanciful elements of her
character were as incapable of being arranged according to rule as the
sparkling water drops are of being strung into necklaces and earrings,
or the gay clouds of being made into artificial flowers. Some warm
natural desire or taste of her own was forever interfering with her
mother's régime; some obstinate little "Fannyism" would always put up
its head in defiance of received custom; and, as her mother and sisters
pathetically remarked, do what you would with her, she would always come
out herself after all.
After trying laboriously to conform to the pattern which was daily set
before her, she came at last to the conclusion that some natural
inferiority must forever prevent her aspiring to accomplish any thing in
that way.
"If I can't be what my mother wishes, I'll at least be myself," said she
one day to her sisters, "for if I try to alter I shall neither be myself
nor any body else;" and on the whole her mother and sisters came to the
same conclusion. And in truth they found it a very convenient thing to
have one in the family who was not studying effect or aspiring to be any
thing in particular.
It was very agreeable to Mrs. Grey to have a daughter to sit with her
when she had the sick headache, while the other girls were entertaining
company in the drawing room below. It was very convenient to her sisters
to have some one whose dress took so little time that she had always a
head and a pair of hands at their disposal, in case of any toilet
emergency. Then she was always loving and affectionate, entirely willing
to be outtalked and outshone on every occasion; and that was another
advantage.
As to Isabella and Emma, the sensation that they made in society was
enough to have gratified a dozen ordinary belles. All that they said,
and did, and wore, was instant and unquestionable precedent; and young
gentlemen, all starch and perfume, twirled their laced pocket
handkerchiefs, and declared on their honor that they knew not which was
the most overcoming, the genius and wit of Miss Emma, or the bright eyes
of Miss Isabella; though it was an agreed point that between them both,
not a heart in the gay world remained in its owner's possession--a thing
which might have a serious sound to one who did not know the character
of these articles, often the most trifling item in the inventory of
worldly possessions. And all this while, all that was said of our
heroine was something in this way: "I believe there is another
sister--is there not?"
"Yes, there is a quiet little blue-eyed lady, who never has a word to
say for herself--quite amiable I'm told."
Now, it was not a fact that Miss Fanny never had a word to say for
herself. If people had seen her on a visit at any one of the houses
along the little green street of her native village, they might have
learned that her tongue could go fast enough.
But in lighted drawing rooms, and among buzzing voices, and surrounded
by people who were always saying things because such things were proper
to be said, Fanny was always dizzy, and puzzled, and unready; and for
fear that she would say something that she should not, she concluded to
say nothing at all; nevertheless, she made good use of her eyes, and
found a very quiet amusement in looking on to see how other people
conducted matters.
       
Well, Mr. George Somers is actually arrived at Mrs. Grey's country seat,
and there he sits with Miss Isabella in the deep recess of that window,
where the white roses are peeping in so modestly.
"To be sure," thought Fanny to herself, as she quietly surveyed him
looming up through the shade of a pair of magnificent whiskers, and
heard him passing the shuttlecock of compliment back and forth with the
most assured and practised air in the world,--"to be sure, I was a child
in imagining that I should see Cousin George Somers. I'm sure this
magnificent young gentleman, full of all utterance and knowledge, is not
the cousin that I used to feel so easy with; no, indeed;" and Fanny gave
a half sigh, and then went out into the garden to water her geraniums.
For some days Mr. Somers seemed to feel put upon his reputation to
sustain the character of gallant, savant, connoisseur, etc.., which
every one who makes the tour of the continent is expected to bring home
as a matter of course; for there is seldom a young gentleman who knows
he has qualifications in this line, who can resist the temptation of
showing what he can do. Accordingly he discussed tragedies, and reviews,
and ancient and modern customs with Miss Emma; and with Miss Isabella
retouched her drawings and exhibited his own; sported the most choice
and recherché style of compliment at every turn, and, in short,
flattered himself, perhaps justly, that he was playing the irresistible
in a manner quite equal to that of his fair cousins.
Now, all this while Miss Fanny was mistaken in one point, for Mr. George
Somers, though an exceedingly fine gentleman, had, after all, quite a
substratum of reality about him, of real heart, real feeling, and real
opinion of his own; and the consequence was, that when tired of the
effort of conversing he really longed to find somebody to talk to;
and in this mood he one evening strolled into the library, leaving the
gay party in the drawing room to themselves. Miss Fanny was there, quite
intent upon a book of selections from the old English poets.
"Really, Miss Fanny," said Mr. Somers, "you are very sparing of the
favor of your company to us this evening."
"O, I presume my company is not much missed," said Fanny, with a smile.
"You must have a poor opinion of our taste, then," said Mr. Somers.
"Come, come, Mr. Somers," replied Fanny, "you forget the person you are
talking to; it is not at all necessary for you to compliment me; nobody
ever does--so you may feel relieved of that trouble."
"Nobody ever does, Miss Fanny; pray, how is that?"
"Because I'm not the sort of person to say such things to."
"And pray, what sort of person ought one to be, in order to have such
things said?" replied Mr. Somers.
"Why, like Sister Isabella, or like Emma. You understand I am a sort of
little nobody; if any one wastes fine words on me, I never know what to
make of them."
"And pray, what must one say to you?" said Mr. Somers, quite amused.
"Why, what they really think and really feel; and I am always puzzled by
any thing else."
Accordingly, about a half an hour afterwards, you might have seen the
much admired Mr. Somers once more transformed into the Cousin George,
and he and Fanny engaged in a very interesting tête-à-tête about old
times and things.
Now, you may skip across a fortnight from this evening, and then look in
at the same old library, just as the setting sun is looking in at its
western window, and you will see Fanny sitting back a little in the
shadow, with one straggling ray of light illuminating her pure childish
face, and she is looking up at Mr. George Somers, as if in some sudden
perplexity; and, dear me, if we are not mistaken, our young gentleman is
blushing.
"Why, Cousin George," says the lady, "what do you mean?"
"I thought I spoke plainly enough, Fanny," replied Cousin George, in a
tone that might have made the matter plain enough, to be sure.
Fanny laughed outright, and the gentleman looked terribly serious.
"Indeed, now, don't be angry," said she, as he turned away with a vexed
and mortified air; "indeed, now, I can't help laughing, it seems to me
so odd; what will they all think of you?"
"It's of no consequence to me what they think," said Mr. Somers. "I
think, Fanny, if you had the heart I gave you credit for, you might have
seen my feelings before now."
"Now, do sit down, my dear cousin," said Fanny, earnestly, drawing him
into a chair, "and tell me, how could I, poor little Miss Fanny Nobody,
how could I have thought any such thing with such sisters as I have? I
did think that you liked me, that you knew more of my real feelings
than mamma and sisters; but that you should--that you ever should--why,
I am astonished that you did not fall in love with Isabella."
"That would have met your feelings, then?" said George, eagerly, and
looking as if he would have looked through her, eyes, soul, and all.
"No, no, indeed," she said, turning away her head; "but," added she,
quickly, "you'll lose all your credit for good taste. Now, tell me,
seriously, what do you like me for?"
"Well, then, Fanny, I can give you the best reason. I like you for being
a real, sincere, natural girl--for being simple in your tastes, and
simple in your appearance, and simple in your manners, and for having
heart enough left, as I hope, to love plain George Somers, with all his
faults, and not Mr. Somers's reputation, or Mr. Somers's establishment."
"Well, this is all very reasonable to me, of course," said Fanny, "but
it will be so much Greek to poor mamma."
"I dare say your mother could never understand how seeing the very acme
of cultivation in all countries should have really made my eyes ache,
and long for something as simple as green grass or pure water, to rest
them on. I came down here to find it among my cousins, and I found in
your sisters only just such women as I have seen and admired all over
Europe, till I was tired of admiring. Your mother has achieved what she
aimed at, perfectly; I know of no circle that could produce higher
specimens; but it is all art, triumphant art, after all, and I have so
strong a current of natural feeling running through my heart that I
could never be happy except with a fresh, simple, impulsive character."
"Like me, you are going to say," said Fanny, laughing. "Well, I'll
admit that you are right. It would be a pity that you should not have
one vote, at least."
CHILDREN.
"A little child shall lead them."
One cold market morning I looked into a milliner's shop, and there I saw
a hale, hearty, well-browned young fellow from the country, with his
long cart whip, and lion-shag coat, holding up some little matter, and
turning it about on his great fist. And what do you suppose it was? A
baby's bonnet! A little, soft, blue satin hood, with a swan's down
border, white as the new-fallen snow, with a frill of rich blonde around
the edge.
By his side stood a very pretty woman, holding, with no small pride, the
baby--for evidently it was the baby. Any one could read that fact in
every glance, as they looked at each other, and then at the large,
unconscious eyes, and fat, dimpled cheeks of the little one.
It was evident that neither of them had ever seen a baby like that
before.
"But really, Mary," said the young man, "isn't three dollars very high?"
Mary very prudently said nothing, but taking the little bonnet, tied it
on the little head, and held up the baby. The man looked, and without
another word down went the three dollars--all the avails of last week's
butter; and as they walked out of the shop, it is hard to say which
looked the most delighted with the bargain.
"Ah," thought I, "a little child shall lead them."
Another day, as I was passing a carriage factory along one of our
principal back streets, I saw a young mechanic at work on a wheel. The
rough body of a carriage stood beside him, and there, wrapped up snugly,
all hooded and cloaked, sat a little dark-eyed girl, about a year old,
playing with a great, shaggy dog. As I stopped, the man looked up from
his work, and turned admiringly towards his little companion, as much as
to say, "See what I have got here!"
"Yes," thought I; "and if the little lady ever gets a glance from
admiring swains as sincere as that, she will be lucky."
Ah, these children, little witches, pretty even in all their faults and
absurdities. See, for example, yonder little fellow in a naughty fit. He
has shaken his long curls over his deep-blue eyes; the fair brow is bent
in a frown, the rose leaf lip is pursed up in infinite defiance, and the
white shoulder thrust angrily forward. Can any but a child look so
pretty, even in its naughtiness?
Then comes the instant change; flashing smiles and tears, as the good
comes back all in a rush, and you are overwhelmed with protestations,
promises, and kisses! They are irresistible, too, these little ones.
They pull away the scholar's pen, tumble about his paper, make somersets
over his books; and what can he do? They tear up newspapers, litter the
carpets, break, pull, and upset, and then jabber unheard-of English in
self-defence; and what can you do for yourself?
"If I had a child," says the precise man, "you should see."
He does have a child, and his child tears up his papers, tumbles over
his things, and pulls his nose, like all other children; and what has
the precise man to say for himself? Nothing; he is like every body else;
"a little child shall lead him."
The hardened heart of the worldly man is unlocked by the guileless tones
and simple caresses of his son; but he repays it in time, by imparting
