outer life palled upon me, I could then retire within my own being
to boundless stores of riches and beauty. Well--this time has come,
and what do I find? Truly it is no Aladdin-palace, glittering with
gold and gems. It is more like a cavernous depth, stored with
rubbish, and from its dark deeps comes up an earthy odour, that almost
suffocates my spirit. But this is my all, and I must descend from the
life of the heart to the life of the mind, and scan my unsatisfactory
possessions.
Well, here is a world of childish, school-day lumber. Once it was a
great delight to me to learn that the world was round, and not
square; but I cannot see that a knowledge of that fact affords me
any great satisfaction now, for it has shaped itself to me as an
acute angle. And the earth's surface! how I used to glow with the
excitement of the bare thought of Rome! and Athens! and
Constantinople! and their thrilling histories and wonders of art,
and beauties of nature, seemed to me an indefinite world of
unattainable delight and ecstasy. But now, I have lived in all these
places, and the light and glory have gone. They have fallen within
the freezing light of reason. They are no longer like beautiful
dreams to me. They are squared down into fixed, unalterable facts. I
cannot gild them with any light of fancy; and I cannot extract from
them anything like the delight of my childhood. So I will turn from
these fixed facts and look out for those philosophical theories,
that gave me a later delight, as more interior mental pleasure.
Well, when I first broke through the shackles of the old childish
faith, Percy Bysshe Shelley was my high-priest. Through him I
thought I had come into a beautiful light of nature, vague, shadowy,
and grand, filling vast conceptions of the indefinite. He discarded
the God of the Hebrews, who was fashioned after their own narrow,
revengeful passions; a Being of wrath and war. And a brooding
spirit, an indefinite indwelling life of nature, was a new
revelation to me. I grew mystical and sublime and sentimental, in
this new mental perception. But I wearied of that. I could not walk
on stilts always, and I descended to the earth and read Voltaire,
and laughed and sneered at all the old forms and superstitions of
man. But this does not afford me any enjoyment now--the unhappy do
not feel like laughing at a ribald wit; but, alas! this rubbish is
stored here, and here I must live with it. It blackened and blurred
the pictures of the angels, that adorned my childish memories. It
wiped out all heavenly visions, and left only the earthly life.
But the human heart cannot live without a God; and I tried hard to
make one, for myself, through German pantheism. But I turn this
rubbish over disconsolately, for it is a material God, and does not
respond to one spiritual nature. It seems rather to react against
it. Alas! alas! I sink down into a Cimmerian darkness here; it seems
as if the Stygian pools of blackness had closed over me, and a cry
of anguish goes forth from my inmost soul, piercing the dark depths
to learn what is spirit? and what is God? What manner of existence
or unity of Being is He? Who is He? Where is He? And how can I
attain to a knowledge of Him? But through the echoing halls of my
dark mind, there is only a wailing sound of woe, of misery, of
disappointment, of a yearning anguish of spirit for a something
higher and better than I have ever yet conceived of or known.
But there is yet more of this mental rubbish. Ah! here is a whole
chapter of stuff--and I once thought it was so wise. I called it the
"progressive chain of being," and wove it out of the Pythagorean
philosophy. I said man's nature begins from the lowest, and ascends
to the highest. Nature gives the impulse to life; and the flower
that blooms in South America may die, and its inner spirit may
clothe itself in a donkey born in Greece! and so it goes on
transfusing itself from clime to clime, in ever new and higher
forms, until man is developed. Well, was there ever such stuff
concocted before? I almost hear the bray of that donkey, who
originated in a flower. And pray, most sapient self! what is nature?
It seems now, to me, a form, a mere dead incubus of matter. And
could this inert tangible matter, sublimate in its hard, dead bosom,
an essence so subtle, as to be freer of the bonds of time and space?
At such a preposterous suggestion even a donkey might bow his ears
with shame. So I will hand this "progressive chain of being" over to
a deeper darkness, and pass on.
Lo! here lie the statues of broken gods, headless divinities. I
tried to believe in Greek mythology; to fancy that the world had
gone backwards, and that there were spirits of the earth and air,
that took part in the life of man. But these were poetic visions
that shifted and waved with every fleeting fancy. But now this
would be a pleasant faith. What if I could appeal to an invisible,
higher spiritual being, who sympathized with my nature, to lead me
out of this darkness of ignorance into a true world of light, of
truth, of definite knowledge, concerning life and its origin;
concerning God and His nature? If I were only an old Greek, how I
would pray to Minerva for help, and call upon Hercules to remove
this Augean dirt, that pollutes and lumbers all the chambers of my
mind! But when the old Greeks called, were they answered? Ah, there
is nothing to hope for!
Yet Socrates believed in these spiritual existences; he ordered a
cock to be sacrificed to Esculapius as he was drinking the hemlock.
To him, they were not mere poetic creations; he believed to the last
that he was guided and guarded by his demon. What if we all are?
What if even now, in this midnight darkness, stands a beautiful
being, veiled by my ignorance, who loves me, from a world of light;
sees the tangled web of my thoughts, and would draw it out into
form, and order, and beauty? If such there be, oh, bright and
beautiful one! pity me, love me, and enlighten me. Alas, no!--all is
yet dark. What would a being revelling in light and beauty, have to
do with this poor, faded life of mine? Alas! that was a fleeting
hope, that, like a pale, flickering ray, gilded the darkness for a
moment.
But, here is a something which gives somewhat of joy and life to the
mind. It is a beautiful thought of Plato, that there is a great
central sun in the universe, around which all other suns revolve.
What if this be an inner sun, which is the fountain of spiritual
life? That is something to believe. Yet the thought sinks appalled
from it. The heart desires a God that it may love, and trust in,
that it may speak to and be heard; and if the fountain of life be
only a sun, what is there to love in it? True, we rejoice in the
light and beauty of the sun that upholds this world in its place;
but what is this enjoyment compared to the bliss of human love? A
man--a living, breathing, loving man--is the perfection of
existence; and one could be happy with a perfect man, if all the
suns in the universe were blotted out. A MAN! what is he, in his
essential attributes? What is it that gives a delight in him? Ah! I
am full of ideal visions--for in all history I find not one man that
altogether fills my vision of what a man should be. From the
Alexanders and Caesars I turn with loathing--their fierce, rude,
outre life, their selfish, grasping ambition, suggest to me the
vision of snarling wild beasts, battling over the torn and
palpitating limbs of nations. These men could never have touched my
soul; they could never have dispelled the darkness of my mind; they
could not be friends. But was there ever a man that could have
answered the questions for the solution of which my spirit yearns?
Plato was beautiful; around him was a pure, intellectual light. But,
after all, he knew very little; his writings are mostly
suggestive. But suppose here was a man who could reveal all the
hidden things of life? How sudden would be the delight of learning
of him, of communing with his spirit? And what if he knew, not only
everything relating to this world, and my own intellectual being,
but could tell me of all the universe, of all the after life? Oh!
what a joy such a man would be to me! How would this midnight
darkness melt into the clearest and most beautiful day!
But did such an one ever exist? Why is it that now comes over me the
vision of my childhood, of the Divine Man walking over the hills of
Judea? Oh, Christ! who wert Thou? My thought goes forth to Thee;
beautiful was Thy life upon the earth. It had in it a heavenly
sanctity, a purity, a grace and mercy, a gentleness and forbearance,
that seems to me God-like and Divine. Yes--what if God descended and
walked on the earth? I could love Him, that He had lowered Himself
to my comprehension. But God! the Infinite and Eternal! in the
finite human form, undergoing death! I cannot comprehend this. But
what is infinity? When I look within myself and realize my
ever-changing and fleeting feelings, now glancing in expansive
ranges of thought from star to star, I realize an infinity in mind,
that is not of the body. What if it were thus with the Holy Man,
Christ? What if He were God as to the spirit, and man as to the
flesh? If this were so, well may I have wished "to live when Jesus
walked the earth," for He alone could have revealed all things to
me. How wonderful must have been His wisdom! And if His indwelling
spirit were God, then Christ yet lives--lives in some inner world of
love and beauty. Ah, beautiful hope! for, if immortality is my
portion, I may yet see Him, and learn of Him in another existence.
Methinks the night of my soul is passing away; upon the rayless
darkness a star has risen; a fixed star of love and hope; what if
like other fixed stars it prove a sun?
Oh, Christ! holy and beautiful Man! if Thou yet livest in far-away
realms of light and blessedness--grant that I may see Thee, and
learn of Thy wondrous wisdom. Enlighten my darkness, and suffer me
to love Thee as the Divinest type of man that my thought has yet
imagined.
THE DAWN OF THE MORNING.--I have gone back to my Bible with the old
childish love and reverence. I read it with an object now. I know
that in it, the beautiful Christ-nature was portrayed; and I read
with infinite longings to find Him the "unknown God;" and bright
revealings come to me through this Book. I feel that it is Divine,
and the light grows upon me; and sometimes like the Apostles, who
awakened in the night, and saw Christ transfigured before them, I
also saw a transfiguration. I lose sight of the mere material man,
and I perceive an inner glory of being, a radiance of wisdom, and
purity, and love, that clothe Him in a Divine light, and make His
countenance brilliant with a spiritual glory.
This transfiguration, what was it? My thought dwells upon it so--it
was a wonderful thing. I know that the scoffing philosophers
ridicule the idea of there being any reality in it; they regard it
either as a fiction on the part of the writers, or as a dream or a
delusion of the senses. But I believe that it all happened just as
it was narrated. For it is beautiful to believe it. If it did not
happen, I am none the worse for believing it, even if the whole life
was a fiction, which all history proves to have been true; and had
no Christ lived upon the earth, yet, as a work of art, this fiction
would have been the highest and most beautiful dream of the human
thought. But if it is all literally true; if Christ was "God
manifest in the flesh," how much do I gain by believing in him! I
have attained the highest and best of all knowledge--I know GOD!
And this transfiguration becomes a wonderful revelation! It was the
Spirit of God shining through the Man. And this spirit was a
substance and a form. And what was its form?--that of a man, with a
face radiant as the sun. Now know I how to think of God. He is no
longer a vague, incomprehensible existence; an ether floating in
space. But He is a living, breathing human form, a Man! in whose
image and likeness we were created. Oh, how I thank God that He has
revealed this to me! Now, I know what manner of Being I pray to; and
like as the apostles saw Him, in His Divine spiritual human form,
will I now always think of Him. I will look through His veil of
flesh, I will love Him as the only God-man that ever existed.
When I think thus of the inner Divine nature, clothed in a material
body, how wonderfully do the scenes of this drama of the life of
Christ strike me! Imagine Him, the God of the universe, standing
before the Jewish sanhedrim, condemned, buffeted, and spit upon. How
at that moment in His inmost Divine soul, He must have glanced over
the vast creation, that He had called into being; and felt that an
Infinite power dwelt in Him. One blazing look of wrathful
indignation would have annihilated that rude rabble. But He had
clothed himself in flesh, to subdue all of its evil and vile
passions; to show to an ignorant and sensual race, the grace and
beauty of a self-abnegation--a Divine pity and forgiveness. And thus
did the outer material Man die with that beautiful and touching
appeal to the Infinite-loving soul, from which the body was born:
"Father! forgive them, they know not what they do." Oh, Thou! Divine
Jesus! make me like unto Thee in this heavenly and loving spirit.
How clear many things grow to me now! I smile when I think of the
old childish trouble over the word "Logos," for this Logos, i.
e. truth, has been revealed to me. In the knowledge that Christ was
the Infinite God--the Creator of the universe, I see Him as the
central truth. Thus Christ was the Logos,--the Word; the
Divine Truth, and now I read, that "In the beginning was Christ, and
Christ was with God, and Christ was God." And I am happy in this
knowledge--my thought has something to rest upon out of myself; and
my affections grow up from the earth to that wonderful Divine Man,
who, after the death of the body, was seen as a man, a living man!
Immortality is no longer the dream of a Plato. It is a demonstrated
fact.
In my mind is the stirring of a new life, as in the light of an
early morning-glory; the voice of singing birds is in my heart, and
an odour of blooming flowers expands itself in the delight of my new
day. I see the morning sun in a fixed form, yet flooding worlds with
the radiations of its light and heat, and shining in its glory on
the dew-bespangled blade of grass. Oh Christ!--thou art my Sun--and
I, the tiny blade of grass, rejoice in Thy Divine wisdom and love.
Look down upon me, oh, Thou holy One! from the "throne of Thy glory,
and the habitation of Thy Holiness," and exhale from me, through the
dew of my sorrow, the incense of my love. Draw me up from the earth,
even as the sun draws up the bowed plants, and let me drink in the
beautiful life of free heavenly airs.
NOON-DAY.--How the light grows! In the warm love of my soul a
summer's day glows--so serene and bright, so full of ceaseless
activities, that the fruits ripen in a smiling, rosy beauty.
The living Christ hath heard my soul's prayer; and books, which I
never before heard of, have revealed to me all those wonderful
truths after which my spirit yearned.
First of all, the mystery of the Bible has been made clear to me. I
see it now as a beautiful whole. The Infinite knew from the
beginning that He was going to descend upon the earth, and take upon
Himself a human nature, weak and ignorant and vicious; and that He
was to purify and enlighten, and make Divine this fallen nature,
that man might know God in a material form, and love Him. All this
is written out in the Bible.
I stand on the threshold of a wonderful science. There are
innumerable things that I do not comprehend in the Bible; but what I
see and understand awakens in me a thrilling delight, and I can
never exhaust this book; for it is full of the nerves of life; and I
can no more number them than I can count the sensitive fibres that
spread themselves from my brain, to the innumerable cellular tissues
of my skin. But as the body is full of a sentient life, so is every
word of the Bible full of an indwelling life.
And now do I recognise the good that my patient, suffering old
friend did me in my childhood; would that I had read the Holy Bible
to her many other days. Doubtless she is now a beautiful angel in
Heaven.
The angels! and Heaven! now too do I understand the inner existence;
and the dreams and visions of my childhood were, after all, blessed
realities; and the dead father and the dead mother, after whom my
childish heart yearned so lovingly, were revealed to me as a living
father and a living mother, in a wondrously beautiful life. Thus was
a warm inner love kept alive in my soul; and now I know that death
is but a new birth. As a glove is drawn from the hand, so is the
body drawn from the spirit; and, I too, will thus be born again.
Life is again crowned with a beautiful hope.
Life!--and this mystery too is solved. God is the alone life, and
finite human spirits are forms receptive of life from God. God is
the soul and creation is His body--and from this infinite Divine
soul, life flows forth into every atom of the body. Beautiful
thought! The Lord sits throned in the inmost, and is cognisant of
every nerve that thrills through His boundless universe of being.
Every thought and feeling that passes through my heart and mind is
as clearly perceived by Him, as are the sensations of my body
perceived by my soul. Thus are we in God, and God in us.
And how vast is the thought that suns, and their peopled worlds, are
to the body of God but as the drops of blood to the finite human
body; and who can count these drops? for as they flow forth, and
back to the heart, they ever grow and change, and increase--and who
can measure the Infinite! and this Being, sentient of all things in
the universe, providing for all things; seeing all things;
maintaining order, down to the minutest particle, in a system which
the finite thought of man can never grasp--and loving his creatures
in myriads of worlds, of which man never dreamed. How inconceivable
must be His boundless wisdom, His infinite love! Can we wonder that
a Soul so glowing with love, so radiant in intelligence, should
shine as the sun? Yes--this is the Central Sun, whose spiritual
beams, pouring forth their Divine influences, creating as they go
angelic and spiritual intelligences, finally ultimate themselves in
material suns, and material human bodies. Thus the garment of dull,
opaque matter is woven by the Divine Soul, through the condensations
of His emanations. Thus, were "all things made by Him; and without
Him was not anything made that was made;" and "in Him was life, and
the life was the light of men."
The thought sinks after this far flight--we worship and adore the
Infinite. But the Lord must for ever remain apart from our weak
natures, as far as the sun is above the earth. He lives, in His
incomprehensible self-existence, at an immeasurable distance from
us. This the Divine Man sees, and in His tender compassion and
loving mercy for every human soul He creates, a twin-soul is made,
that the finite may find the fullness of delight in another finite
existence.
Oh, blessed and beautiful providence of God! that two human hearts
and minds may intertwine in mutual support, and look up to the
Infinite. And in the glorious sunshine of life, grow ever young and
beautiful, in an immortal youth.
Oh, ye suffering, sorrowing children of earth! turn your affections
and hopes from the fleeting things of time; from the outside-world,
to the beautiful inner spirit-life, where eternity develops ever new
and varying joys. Then only can the day dawn upon the human soul,
and the midnight darkness be dissipated by boundless effulgence of
light.
MINISTERING ANGELS.
  TIME and Patience! These are Angels
    By our Heavenly Father sent;
  Whispering to our restless spirits,
    "Cease to murmur--be content;
  God, who is thy truest friend,
  Doth our aid in trials send.
  When thy weary spirit faileth,
    'Neath the weary cross it bears,
  God is not unmindful of thee--
    He is listening to thy prayers;
  From His children's tearful pleading
  He will never turn unheeding!"
  Heart of mine! Trust thou these Angels;
    Lean on Patience, and be calm;
  Trust in Time, who is preparing
    For thy grief a spirit-balm;
  God is merciful, and He
  Gave them charge concerning thee.
OURS, LOVED, AND "GONE BEFORE."
  The light of her young life went out,
    As sinks behind the hill
  The glory of a setting star;
    Clear, suddenly, and still.
  --WHITTIER.
YOU ask me to tell you of her, the sweet friend we have loved and
lost. You impose on me a difficult task; I find it so harrowing to
my feelings, and I also find that my pen is inadequate to the
tribute my heart would pay.
I would that the privilege of knowing and loving her had been yours,
for to know her was to love her.
In former letters I told you something of her; how she came to us a
lovely bride of just nineteen summers; how anxiously we looked for
her first appearance in church, for they arrived late Saturday
evening, and no one had seen her. I told you how my heart went out
to her as I looked on her sweet, bright, yet somewhat timid face;
there was a perfect witchery in her eyes. I felt that I could gaze
into them for ever; there was about them a spell, a fascination that
I have never seen in others; they laughed as they looked at you, and
yet they were not merely laughing eyes; perhaps the long, drooping
lashes somewhat modified the expression, and helped to give the
peculiarity so strikingly their own.
Her dress and whole appearance were captivating; the simple light
straw hat, with the little illusion veil, and the pure white dress
fitting so prettily the slender form. I could hardly wait for the
next day, so anxious was I to see and speak with her, for I loved
her already.
I had been prepared to love her, for our young pastor had told us
much of his future bride. You know our house was one of his homes,
and to us he had spoken often and enthusiastically of his Mary. It
seemed to me that first Sabbath, that his prayers were particularly
impressive, and his thanks to the Author and Giver of every perfect
gift unusually appropriate; he seemed overpowered by a weight of
gratitude and love.
How I admired the two as I glanced from one to the other! And I know
that many prayers went up from that assembled congregation for long
life and blessings on them.
It was a beautiful home that had been prepared for her. Her
furniture had been sent on previous to their marriage, and our
little band had vied with each other in arranging with a view both
to taste and comfort. How we did wish for a peep into her own home,
to get a hint with regard to arranging her things, so as to be
home-like!
You know there is often so much in association, and we would have
loved the new strange place to have a familiar look to her at first
sight. Oh! what visions we conjured up as we arranged the room which
was to serve both as parlour and dining-room; for the house was
small, and Mr. B.'s study must be on the first floor. There was
the best place for the piano between the windows, which looked into
the garden; we heard in anticipation the sweet voice which was to
fill the little room with melody, as the roses and flowers of June
now filled the garden with fragrance. The pretty fire-screen must
stand in a conspicuous corner, for that spoke particularly of home,
and of the hours delightfully passed in the dear family circle while
tracing it stitch by stitch; and I fancied that into each bright
flower which stood out so life-like from the canvas some emotion of
her heart had been indelibly wrought. How many lovely home
associations will the pretty fire-screen bring up!
How we arranged, and disarranged, and re-arranged, before all was to
our minds; and how we hoped, when all was finished, that it would
look as charming to her as it did to us! And we were not
disappointed; for, on the following Monday, when we called to see
her, nothing could exceed the enthusiasm of her expression and
gratitude; everything was lovely, perfect; she saw all en couleur
de rose.
She had left indulgent parents, and a home of refinement and luxury,
and we feared for her the untried duties of her new position; but an
intimate acquaintance proved her eminently qualified for the
responsibility she had assumed. She adapted herself with charming
grace and readiness to her present circumstances. She was a most
delightful acquisition to our limited circle; a favourite with all;
and she blended so beautifully the graces of religion with those of
her natural temperament that she became our idol.
The "parsonage" seemed to me a paradise, surrounded by none but
bright and holy influences. There the poor always found a welcome, a
willing heart, a ready hand, and listening ear; however sad and
desponding on entering, they invariably came out cheerful and
hopeful. There seemed a magic spell cast around every one who sought
the presence of our dearly loved pastor and his wife.
With what pleasure I used to watch for their steps as they took
their morning walks together that bright first year of their married
life! They seemed to have the life and vivacity of children. She
always accompanied him in his walks, in his visits to the poor, in
relief to the sick, by the bedside of the dying; she was like his
shadow, and always haunted him for good. It might be said most
emphatically of both, "When the ear heard them it blessed them, and
when the eye saw them it gave witness to them, because they
delivered the poor that cried, and the fatherless, and him that had
none to help him; the blessing of him that was ready to perish came
upon them, and they caused the widow's heart to sing for joy."
Thus several years passed away; new cares and new duties devolved on
them; but all were cheerfully met and delightfully performed; and
they basked in the sunshine of God's love. Beautiful children sprang
up around them, and we felt that "earth never owned a happier nest"
than that which was placed in our midst.
How proud Mr. B. was of his family, and with what reason, too, for
we all felt it with him; his wife so beautiful, so good, so in all
respects fitted to make home happy, with her never-failing sunshine
and light-heartedness; his two little girls, our impersonation of
cherubs; and the youngest a noble boy, so dear to his mother's
heart. Oh! how many attractions within that charmed circle!
I shall never forget an evening I passed in the nursery with that
dear one surrounded by her happy little band. Willie, "the baby," as
she called him, although more than two years old, was sitting in her
lap, twirling one of her long, beautiful ringlets round his tiny
fingers.
"Sing, mamma!" he said.
"Oh, do!" joined in Effie and Minnie, putting their bright innocent
faces and soft brown curls close to hers; "sing The Dove, mamma,
please."
She laughingly asked me to excuse her, saying, she always devoted
the twilight hour to amusing and instructing the little ones. I
begged her to allow my presence to be no restraint upon her usual
custom. She then commenced, and I thought no seraph's voice could be
sweeter, as she sang one of Mary Howitt's beautiful translations:--
  "There sitteth a dove so white and fair
    All on the lily spray,
  And she listeneth how to Jesus Christ
    The little children pray;
  Lightly she spreads her friendly wings,
    And to Heaven's gate hath fled,
  And to the Father in Heaven she bears
    The prayers which the children have said.
  And back she comes from Heaven's gate,
    And brings, that dove so mild,
  From the Father in Heaven, who hears her speak,
    A blessing for every child.
  The children lift up a pious prayer--
    It hears whatever you say,
  That heavenly dove, so white and fair,
    All on the lily spray."
I joined heartily in the thanks and admiration the children
expressed when she had finished.
As she laid them in their little beds, and kissed their rosy lips
and dimpled cheeks, she said, "I can never thank God enough for
these sweet children." She then added, "Oh! what an affliction it
must be to lose a child; I think if one of mine should die, I should
die too; but," she added, "I should not say so; could I not trust
them with Him who doeth all things well?" She little realized how
soon she was to be put to the test. I called there a few days after.
She was in the garden raising and tying up some drooping carnations
which the rain of the preceding day had injured.
"Willie is not well," said she. "I have just sung him to sleep, and
Mr. B. said I must take a little fresh air, for I was fatigued with
holding him, and I thought I would confine myself to the garden, to
be near, if he should wake."
Soon a cry from the nursery was heard; she sprang up the steps in
nervous haste, while I quite chided her anxiety. I followed her into
the room, and was surprised and shocked to find the dear boy in a
high fever; his little arms tossing restlessly, and his lips dry and
parched. Mr. B. sent immediately for the physician; we waited
anxiously his arrival, hoping secretly that we were unnecessarily
alarmed; but his coming did not reassure us; he saw dangerous
symptoms; but still, he said, he hoped for the best. I went home, as
Mr. and Mrs. B. both declined my services for the night, saying they
would rather attend him alone. The next day I was pained to hear
that his symptoms were more unfavourable; that the medicine had had
no effect, and the physician was becoming discouraged. I flew over
to the "parsonage;" the wildly anxious look of the mother distressed
me. I begged her to lie down a little while, and allow me to take
her place by the baby.
"Oh, no," she said, "I cannot leave him; who but his mother should
be by his side?"
It seemed to me that I had never seen greater distress on any
countenance. Mr. B. endeavoured to soothe her, though his anguish
was apparently as keen as her own.
"If our Saviour would remove this little flower to his own garden,
shall we refuse to give it up? Shall we not rather bless and thank
him for allowing us to keep it so long?"
