his way up to be captain of some fine ship. She suspected, therefore,
that he had found a chance to go to sea, and wanted to tell her all
about it.
She found him at home, waiting her expected visit; but a feeling of
sadness came over her when she saw his manly face, and thought how
badly she should feel if he should go off on the ocean, and, perhaps,
be drowned in its vast depths. He had been her friend and protector.
Johnny Grippen hardly dared to look at her since the flogging he had
given him; and Katy thought, perhaps, if he went away, that she should
have no one to defend her.
"I am going to-morrow, Katy," said he, after he had given her a seat by
the window.
"To sea?" asked Katy, gloomily.
"Yes; I have got a first-rate ship, and she sails to-morrow."
"I am so sorry you are going!"
"O, never mind it, Katy; I shall be back one of these days. I wanted to
tell you if Johnny Grippen gives you any impudence, to let me know and
I'll lick him when I come back."
"I guess he won't."
"He may; if he does, you had better tell his father."
"But where are you going, Tommy?"
"To Liverpool."
Katy started. Her grandfather lived there. After a moment's thought she
conceived a plan which made her heart bound with emotion. She could
send word to her grandfather, by Tommy, that she and her mother were in
Boston, and then he would send over after them, and they could live in
his fine house, and she should be as happy as a queen. Then she and her
mother might be passengers in Tommy's ship--and wouldn't they have
great times on the passage! And as her grandfather was a merchant, and
owned ships, she might be able to do something for Tommy.
Under the seal of secrecy she related to her young sailor friend all
the particulars of her mother's history; and he wrote down the names
she gave him. Tommy promised to hunt all over Liverpool till he found
her grandfather; and to insure him a good reception, Katy wrote a short
letter to him, in which she stated the principal facts in the case.
"Now, good-by, Tommy," said she, wiping away a tear; "I shall think of
you every day, and pray for you too. I hope there won't be any storms
to sink your ship."
"We shan't mind the storms. Good-by, Katy."
She felt very badly all the rest of the day, and her sales were smaller
than usual, for her energy was diminished in proportion to the sadness
of her heart.
CHAPTER XIII.
KATY EMPLOYS AN ASSISTANT.
As winter approached, Katy realized that the demand for molasses candy
was on the increase, and she found it necessary to make a much larger
quantity. Mrs. Colvin still rendered her assistance "for a
consideration," and the supply was thus made to correspond with the
demand.
Mrs. Redburn's health which had begun to improve with the advent of
their prosperity, now enabled her to sit up nearly the whole day, and
to render much aid in the household affairs, and especially in the
manufacturing of the candy. The good fortune that had attended Katy's
efforts brought many additional comforts to their humble dwelling;
indeed, they had everything that they needed, and everything that any
poor person would have required. But the fond mother had never been
able to reconcile herself to the business which Katy followed. She
dreaded every day lest the temptations to which it constantly exposed
her might lead her astray. She loved her daughter with all her heart,
and she would rather have died in poverty and want than have had her
corrupted. She had every reason to believe that Katy was the pure and
innocent child she had always been; but she feared, as she grew older,
that some harm might befall her. She would rather bury her than see her
become a bad person, and she hoped soon to be able to resume her own
labors, and let Katy abandon her dangerous business.
Mrs. Redburn often talked with her about the perils that lay in her
path; but Katy spoke like one who was fortified by good resolutions and
a strong will. She declared that she knew what dangers were in her way,
and that she could resist all the temptations that beset her. Whatever
views the mother had, there seemed to be no opportunity to carry them
out, for by Katy's labors they were fed, clothed, and housed. She was
her mother's only support, and the candy trade, perilous as it was,
could not be given up.
Katy did not desire to abandon the business she had built up, for she
was proud of her achievement. She was resolved to be good and true, and
to her it did not seem half so perilous as to others. She had even
indulged some thoughts of enlarging her business. Why could she not
have a shop, and sell candy on a counter as well as in the street? She
mentioned this idea to her mother, who was sure the shop could not
succeed, for she was aware that her daughter's winning manners were
more than half her stock in trade, and that her large sales resulted
from carrying the candy to hundreds of people who did not want it
enough to go after it. Therefore Katy gave up the shop at once, but she
did not abandon the idea of enlarging her business, though she did not
exactly see how it could be done. One day an accident solved the
problem for her, and at that time commenced a new era in the candy
trade.
One pleasant morning in November, as she walked up the court, she met
Ann Grippen, a sister of Johnny who stopped to talk with her. The
Grippen family consisted of eleven persons. The father was a day
laborer, and as his wages were small, and he had a great many mouths to
feed, they were, of course, miserably poor. The older children showed
no ability or disposition to help their parents but spent most of their
time in strolling about the streets. Johnny was a fair specimen of the
boys, as Ann was of the girls. She might have been seen almost any day
with a well-worn basket on her arm, exploring the streets and wharves
in search of chips, for Johnny was too vicious to do the work which
more properly belonged to him.
"You sell lots of candy now--don't you?" said Ann.
"Yes, a great deal," replied Katy, who was not disposed to spend her
time idly, and in the company of one whose reputation in the
neighborhood was not very good.
"Stop a minute--won't you? I want to speak to you."
"I will; but be as quick as you can, for I am in a hurry."
"Don't you think I could sell candy?" continued Ann.
"I dare say you could. Why don't you try, if you want to?"
"But I haven't got no candy; and mother can't make it, as you can. If
you are a mind to let me have some, I will sell it for you, and you may
give me what you like."
The idea struck the little merchant very favorably. There were a great
many girls just like Ann Grippen, who were wasting their time about the
streets, and learning to be wicked. Why couldn't she employ them to
sell candy?
"I will try you," replied Katy.
"Well, I'm all ready to begin."
"Not yet," said the little candy merchant, with a smile.
"Yes, I am."
"Your face and hands are very dirty."
"What odds will that make?" asked Ann, rather indignantly.
"Do you suppose anybody would eat a stick of candy after you had
touched it with those dirty fingers? Your customers would be afraid of
being poisoned."
"I s'pose I can wash 'em," replied Ann, who seemed still to regard it
as a very unnecessary operation.
"It would be a good plan; and while you are about it you must not
forget your face."
"I ain't a-going to touch the candy with my face," added Ann,
triumphantly.
"Very true; but if people saw you with such a dirty face, they would be
afraid your candy was not very clean."
"Any way you like. I will wash my face and hands both, if that's all."
"But that isn't all. Your dress is very dirty and very ragged."
"I can't afford to dress like a lady," said Ann, who had some of her
brother's disposition, and under any other circumstances would have
resented Katy's plain home thrusts.
"You needn't dress like a lady; but the neater and cleaner you are, the
more candy you will sell."
"I will fix up as much as I can."
"Very well; if you will come to my house to-morrow morning, I will let
you have some candy."
"How much will you give me for selling it?" asked Ann.
"I can't tell now; I will think about it, and let you know when you
come."
Katy went her way, turning over and over in her mind the scheme which
Ann's application had suggested to her. She might employ a dozen girls,
or even more than that, and pay them so much a dozen for selling the
candy. She might then stop going out to sell herself, and thus gratify
her mother. She could even go to school, and still attend to her
business.
When she returned home at noon, she proposed the plan to her mother.
Mrs. Redburn was much pleased with it, though she suggested many
difficulties in the way of its success. The girls might not be honest;
but if they were not, they could be discharged. Many of them were
vicious; they would steal or be saucy, so that people would not permit
them to enter their stores and offices, and the business would thus be
brought into disrepute. Katy determined to employ the best girls she
could find, and to tell them all that they must behave like ladies.
The next morning Ann Grippen appeared with her face and hands tolerably
clean, and wearing a dress which by a liberal construction could be
called decent. She brought a dirty, rusty old tray, which was the best
she could obtain; yet in spite of all these disadvantages, the little
candy merchant looked upon it as a hopeful case.
"Now, Ann, you must be very civil to everybody you meet," said Katy, as
she covered the rusty tray with a sheet of clean white paper.
"I hope I know how to behave myself," replied Ann, rather crustily.
"I dare say you do;" and she might have hinted that there was some
difference between knowing how to do a thing and doing it. "I was only
going to tell you how to sell candy. If you don't want me to tell you,
I won't."
"I should like to have you tell me, but I guess I know how to behave."
"You must be very civil to everybody, even when they don't speak very
pleasant to you."
"I don't know about that," replied Ann, doubtfully, for it was contrary
to the Grippen philosophy to be very civil to any one, much less to
those who were not civil to them.
"When any one buys any candy of you, you must always say, 'Thank you';
and then the next time you meet the person he will buy again."
"How much you going to give me for selling?" demanded Ann, abruptly
cutting short the instructions.
"Mother thinks you ought to have four cents a dozen."
"Four cents? My mother says I ought to have half, and I ain't going to
sell your candy for no four cents a dozen."
"Very well; you needn't if you don't wish to do so;" and Katy removed
the sheet of white paper she had placed over the dirty tray.
"You ought to give me half I get," added Ann, rather softened by Katy's
firmness and decision.
"Four cents is enough. I often sell a hundred sticks in a day."
"Well, I don't care; I will try it once."
"If we find we can afford to pay any more than four cents, we will do
so."
Katy covered the tray again, and arranged two dozen sticks on it in an
attractive manner. After giving Ann some further instructions in the
art of selling candy, she permitted her to depart on her mission. She
was not very  confident in regard to her success for Ann was too coarse
and ill-mannered for a good sales-woman. She hoped for the best,
however, and after preparing her own tray, she went out to attend to
business as usual. In the court she saw Master Simon Sneed, who was
sitting on his father's doorstep. She noticed that he looked sad and
downhearted; and when he spoke to her the tones of his voice indicated
the same depression of spirits.
"Have you seen the Mayor lately, Katy?" asked Simon, as he approached.
"Not very lately."
"I should like to see him," added he, raising his eyes to her.
"Why don't you call upon him? You know where he lives--don't you?"
"Yes, but----"
Master Simon paused, as though he did not like to explain the reason.
Katy waited for him to proceed, but as he did not, she remarked that he
looked very sad, and she hoped nothing had happened.
"Something has happened," replied he, gloomily.
"Nothing bad, I hope."
"I have left my place at Sands & Co.'s.
"Left it? Why, how can they possibly get along without you?" exclaimed
Katy.
"It is their own fault; and though I say it who should not say it, they
will never find another young man who will do as much for them as I
have done."
"I shouldn't think they would have let you go."
"Nor I; but some men never know when they are well used."
"How did it happed?"
"I asked them for an increase of salary, and told them I could stay no
longer unless they did so. And what do you think they did?"
"I don't know; I should suppose they would have raised your salary."
"No, Katy," added Simon, bitterly. "Mr. Sands told me I might go; he
wouldn't have me at any rate. Wasn't that cool? Well, well; if they
don't know their own interest, they must bear the consequences. If they
fail, or lose all their trade, they can't blame me for it. Now I have
nothing to do; and I was just thinking whether my friend the mayor
couldn't help me into a situation."
"I dare say he can. Why don't you call and see him at once?"
"I don't like to do so. He sees so many persons that I really don't
think he would recollect me. I must get something to do, though; for my
father is sick, and winter is coming on."
"How much salary did you get, Master Simon?" asked Katy, who highly
approved his determination not to be a burden upon his father.
"Two dollars and a half a week."
"Is that all!"
"Yes; they ought to have given me ten. Even that was better than
nothing."
"I was thinking of something, Master Simon," said Katy, after a pause.
"What, Katy?"
"I make four or five dollars a week."
"Is it possible!"
"If you have a mind to sell candy, I will furnish you all you want, so
that you can make at least three dollars a week."
The lip of Master Simon slowly curled, till his face bore an expression
of sovereign contempt. He rose from his seat, and fixed his eyes rather
sternly upon the little candy merchant, who began to think she had made
a bad mistake, though all the time she had intended to do a kind act.
"What have I done, Katy, that you should insult me? Do you think I have
sunk so low as to peddle candy about the streets?" said he,
contemptuously.
"Do you think I have sunk very low, Master Simon?" asked Katy, with a
pleasant smile on her face.
"Your business is very low," he replied, more gently.
"Is that business low by which I honestly make money enough to support
my sick mother and myself?"
"It would be low for me; my ideas run a little higher than that,"
answered Simon, rather disposed to apologize for his hard words; for
Katy's smile had conquered him, as a smile oftener will conquer than a
hard word.
"You know best; but if I can do anything for you, Master Simon, I shall
be very glad to do so."
"Thank you, Katy; you mean right, but never speak to me about selling
candy again. I think you can help me."
"Then I will."
"I will see you again when I get my plan arranged. In the meantime, if
you happen to meet my friend the mayor, just speak a good word for me."
"I will;" and Katy left him.
CHAPTER XIV.
MASTER SIMON SNEED MAKES A MISTAKE.
Contrary to the expectations of Katy and her mother, Ann Grippen
returned at noon with her tray empty, having sold the whole two dozen
sticks.
"Well, Ann, how do you like the business?" asked Katy.
"First rate. Here is twenty-four cents," replied Ann; and it was
evident, from her good-natured laugh, that she was much encouraged by
her success.
"You may give me sixteen; the other eight belong to you."
"I think I can do something at it," added Ann, as she regarded with
much satisfaction the first money she had ever earned in her life.
"You can, if you work it right; but you must be very gentle and
patient; you must keep yourself clean and----"
"Well, I guess I know all about that," interrupted Ann, who did not
like this style of remark.
"Katy," said her mother, who was sitting in her rocking-chair, by the
fire.
"What, mother?"
"Come here a moment."
Katy crossed the room to her mother, to hear what she wished to say.
"You must not talk to her in that style," said Mrs. Redburn, in a tone
so low that Ann could not hear her.
"Why not, mother? I was only telling her how to do."
"But you speak in that tone of superiority which no one likes to hear.
You are but a child, as she is, and she will not listen to such advice
from you."
Katy wondered what her mother would have thought if she had heard what
she said to Ann the day before. Yet she was conscious that she had "put
on airs," and talked like a very old and a very wise person.
"I suppose you would like to go out again this afternoon," resumed
Katy, joining her assistant again.
"I don't care if I do."
"Well, come this afternoon, and you shall have some more candy;" and
Ann ran home to get her dinner.
"I think my plan will work well, mother," said Katy, when she had gone.
"It has so far, but you must not be too sure."
"I mean to go out after dinner and hunt up some more girls, for you see
I shall have no candy to sell myself this afternoon, when I have given
Ann two dozen sticks."
"I hope you will not attempt to lecture them as you did her."
"Why, mother, I know all about the business and they don't know
anything."
"I doubt not you are competent to advise them; but the manner in which
you address them is more offensive than the matter. Your knowledge of
the business makes you treat them as inferiors. You must not think too
much of yourself, Katy."
"No danger of that, mother."
"I am afraid there is. Persons in authority, who are gentle and kind,
and do not act like superiors, are more promptly obeyed, and more loved
and respected, than those who are puffed up by their office, and
tyrannical in their manners."
"But I am not a person in authority, mother," laughed Katy.
"You will be, if you employ a dozen girls to sell candy for you."
After Katy had eaten her dinner, and fitted out Ann Grippen, she left
the house in search of some more assistants. She was well known to all
the boys and girls in the neighborhood; and when she stated her object
to one and another of them, she was readily understood. To help her
cause, it had begun to be known that Ann Grippen had been seen with a
clean face, selling candy in the street. She had no difficulty,
therefore, in procuring the services of half a dozen girls, who were
delighted with the plan especially when Katy informed them of Ann's
success.
On her return home, she found that Simon Sneed had called to see her,
and she immediately hastened to his house. When she knocked, he came to
the door and invited her into the parlor.
"Well, Katy, I have hit upon something," said he.
"I am glad you have."
"I went down town after I saw you, and hearing of a place in Tremont
Row, I went to apply for it."
"Did you get it?"
"Not yet, but I hope to get it. They agreed to give me three dollars a
week if everything proved satisfactory; but they wanted a
recommendation from my last employers."
"Of course they will give you one."
"No, they would not; they were offended because I left them."
"Then you asked them?"
"Yes, I went after one this afternoon, and they would not give it to
me. I did not much expect they would, and so I informed Messrs. Runn &
Reed, the firm to which I have applied for an engagement. I told them
exactly how the case stood; that I had demanded higher wages, and the
Messrs. Sands were angry with me for doing so, and for that reason
refused the testimonial. They saw through it all, and understood my
position. When I spoke to them about my friend the mayor, they looked
surprised, and said a recommendation from him would satisfy them. So
you see just how I am situated."
"Why don't you go to him at once, and ask him for the recommendation?"
said Katy wondering why he hesitated at so plain a case.
But Master Simon had some scruples about doing so. He was old enough to
know that it was rather a delicate business to ask a man in a high
official station for a testimonial on so slight an acquaintance. The
mayor was interested in Katy, though she did not presume to call him
her friend. She had twice called upon him, and she might again.
"I don't like to ask him, Katy. I feel some delicacy about doing so."
"I should just as lief ask him as not, if I were you. I am afraid you
are too proud, Master Simon."
"I am proud, Katy: that's just it. I was born to be a gentleman, but I
submit to my lot. I am willing to sell my talents and my labor for
money. If I can once get in at Runn & Reed's, I am sure they will
appreciate me, and consider it a lucky day on which they engaged me."
"If you want me to go to the mayor's house with you, I will," said
Katy, who did not clearly comprehend Simon's wishes.
"Well, I think I will not go myself," replied Simon.
"Why not?"
"I do not like to place myself in a humiliating posture before great
men. If I were mayor of Boston, I should like to do him the favor which
I ask for myself. When I am--"
"You haven't asked him, Master Simon."
"In a word, Katy, I want you to ask him for me. You will do me a great
favor."
"I will," replied Katy, promptly.
"The mayor is a very fine man, kind-hearted, and willing to help
everybody that deserves help; and if he were not my friend, I should
feel no delicacy in asking him myself. You can state the case, and
inform him who I am, and what I am; that you know me to be honest and
faithful. You can tell him, too, that I am a gentlemanly person, of
pleasing address."
"But I can't remember all that," interposed Katy.
"Tell him what you can recollect, then. He is an easy, good-natured
man, and will give you the testimonial at once."
"Suppose you write a paper, just such as you want, Master Simon. Then
he can copy it."
"Well I will do that."
Simon seated himself at a table, and, after considerable effort,
produced the following piece of elegant composition, which he read to
Katy:--
"To whom it may concern:
"This may certify that I have been for some time acquainted with my
friend Mr. Simon Sneed, and I believe him to be an honest and faithful
young man, of gentlemanly bearing, pleasing address, and polite
manners, who will be an honor and an ornament to any establishment that
may be so fortunate as to secure his valuable services; and I
cheerfully recommend him to any person to whom he may apply for a
situation. Mayor of Boston."
"I have left a blank space for his honor's signature," continued Master
Simon, when he had read the modest document. "What do you think of it,
Katy?"
"It is very fine. What a great scholar you must be! I should think
you'd write a book."
"Perhaps I may one of these days."
"I will go right up to the mayor's house now," said Katy, as she bade
him good afternoon.
Before she went, she returned home and nicely enclosed six sticks of
candy in white paper as a present for Freddie, the mayor's little son.
On her way up to Park Street she opened Simon's paper, and read it. It
sounded funny to her, with its big words and fine sentences; and then
what a puffing Master Simon had given himself! She even began to wonder
if there was not something about her gentlemanly friend which was not
all right.
She reached the mayor's house, and as it was his time to be at home,
she was conducted to the library.
"Ah, Katy, I am glad to see you," said he, taking her hand.
"Thank you, sir. I have brought this candy for Master Freddie."
"You are very good, and I suppose you are so proud that I must not
offer to pay you for it."
"If you please, don't, sir," replied Katy, unconsciously taking Master
Simon's testimonial from her pocket. "I don't want you to pay me in
money, but you may pay me in another way, if you please."
"May I? What have you in your hand?"
"A paper, sir. You remember Master Simon Sneed?"
"No, I don't."
"The young man at Sands & Co.'s."
"O, yes; the young gentleman that uses so many long words."
"He has left his place, and wants to get another."
"He has left it? Why was that?"
"He asked for more wages. He has found another place, which he can have
if he can get a testimonial."
"Let him ask Sands & Co."
"They won't give him one, because they are so angry with him for
leaving them."
"That indeed!"
"Master Simon wants you to give him one," continued Katy, who, in her
confusion was jumping at the conclusion of the matter rather too
hastily, and before she had produced a proper impression in regard to
her hero's transcendent character and ability.
"Does he, indeed," laughed the mayor. "He is very modest."
"He said, as you are his friend, you would not object to giving him
one."
"What have you in your hand, Katy? Has he written one to save me the
trouble?" laughed the mayor.
"I asked him to do so. You can copy it off, if you please, sir."
The mayor took the testimonial and proceeded to read it. Katy had
already concluded from his manner that the business was not all
correct, and she wished herself out of the scrape. He finished the
reading, and then burst into a violent fit of laughter.
"Your friend is very modest, Katy;--my friend Mr. Simon Sneed."
"I hope I haven't done anything wrong, sir?" stammered Katy.
"No, Katy; you have been imposed upon by a silly young man. You meant
to do him a kindness--in your heart you had nothing but kindness--and I
think the more of you for what you have done, and the less of Simon for
what he has done. Did he think I would recommend him, when I know
nothing about him? He is a conceited puppy, and, in my opinion, a
worthless fellow. One of these days he will be 'an honor and an
ornament' to the workhouse, if he does business in this manner."
"Dear me!" exclaimed Katy, frightened at the remarks of the mayor.
"Now, Katy, we will go to the store of the Messrs. Sands & Co., and
find out about this young man. I will meet you there at half-past four.
Good-by, Katy. Freddie thinks ever so much of you now, and in his
behalf I thank you for the candy."
Katy did not know exactly what to make of her position but at the time
fixed, she was at the store of Sands & Co., where the mayor soon joined
her.
"Now, Katy, you shall hear what his employers say of Master Simon,"
said he; and she followed him into the store.
The mayor stated his business, and inquired concerning the character of
Simon.
"He is honest, and did his work very well," replied Mr. Sands.
Katy was pleased to hear this, and the mayor confessed his surprise.
"But he was an intolerable nuisance about the store," continued Mr.
Sands. "With only a small amount of modesty, he would have done very
well; as it was, he was the biggest man in our employ. Our customers
were disgusted with him, and we had been thinking of getting rid of him
for a long time. When he asked for more wages, impudently declaring he
would leave if we did not accede to his demand, we discharged him. In a
word, I wouldn't have him round the store at any price."
"As I supposed," replied the mayor, as he showed Mr. Sands the
recommendation Simon had written.
"This sounds just like him."
Katy pitied poor Simon now that she understood him, and she went home
determined to tell him all that had passed between the mayor and
herself.
CHAPTER XV.
KATY GETS A LETTER FROM LIVERPOOL.
Master Simon Sneed sat at the window when Katy returned, and she had to
tell him all about it. She pitied him, poor fellow, and she hoped the
lesson would do him good. She did not like to tell him so many
unpleasant things, for they would wound his pride.
"Well, Katy, what did my friend the mayor say?" asked Simon, as he
joined her on the sidewalk.
"I am afraid you will not call him your friend after this," replied
Katy.
"Why? He had not the effrontery to refuse my reasonable request?"
