ever as we see them in these clairvoyant hours.
We are writing thus on and on, linking image and thought and feeling,
and lingering over every flower, and listening to every bird, because
just before us there lies a dark valley, and we shrink and tremble to
enter it.
But it must come, and why do we delay?
       
Towards evening, one afternoon in the latter part of June, Mary
returned from one of these lonely walks by the sea, and entered the
kitchen. It was still in its calm and sober cleanness;—the tall clock
ticked with a startling distinctness. From the half-closed door of
her mother’s bedroom, which stood ajar, she heard the chipper of Miss
Prissy’s voice. She stayed her light footsteps, and the words that fell
on her ear were these:—
‘Miss Marvyn fainted dead away;—she stood it till he came to that;
but then she just clapped both hands together, as if she’d been shot,
and fell right forward on the floor in a faint!’
What could this be? There was a quick, intense whirl of thoughts in
Mary’s mind, and then came one of those awful moments when the powers
of life seem to make a dead pause and all things stand still; and then
all seemed to fail under her, and the life to sink down, down, down,
till nothing was but one dim, vague, miserable consciousness.
Mrs. Scudder and Miss Prissy were sitting, talking earnestly, on the
foot of the bed, when the door opened noiselessly, and Mary glided to
them like a spirit,—no colour in cheek or lip,—her blue eyes wide with
calm horror; and laying her little hand, with a nervous grasp, on Miss
Prissy’s arm, she said,—
‘Tell me,—what is it?—is it?—is he—dead?’
The two women looked at each other, and then Mrs. Scudder opened her
arms.
‘My daughter!’
‘Oh! mother! mother!’
Then fell that long, hopeless silence, broken only by hysteric sobs
from Miss Prissy, and answering ones from the mother; but she lay
still and quiet, her blue eyes wide and clear, making an inarticulate
moan.
‘Oh! are they sure?—can it be?—is he dead?’ at last she gasped.
‘My child, it is too true; all we can say is, “Be still, and know that
I am God!”’
‘I shall try to be still, mother,’ said Mary, with a piteous,
hopeless voice, like the bleat of a dying lamb; ‘but I did not think
he could die!—I never thought of that!—I never thought of it!—Oh!
mother! mother! mother! oh! what shall I do?’
They laid her on her mother’s bed,—the first and last resting-place of
broken hearts,—and the mother sat down by her in silence. Miss Prissy
stole away into the Doctor’s study, and told him all that had happened.
‘It’s the same to her,’ said Miss Prissy, with womanly reserve, ‘as if
he’d been an own brother.’
‘What was his spiritual state?’ said the Doctor, musingly.
Miss Prissy looked blank, and answered mournfully,—
‘I don’t know.’
The Doctor entered the room where Mary was lying with closed eyes.
Those few moments seemed to have done the work of years,—so pale, and
faded, and sunken she looked; nothing but the painful flutter of the
eyelids and lips showed that she yet breathed. At a sign from Mrs.
Scudder, he kneeled by the bed, and began to pray,—‘Lord, thou hast
been our dwelling-place in all generations,’—prayer deep, mournful,
upheaving like the swell of the ocean, surging upward, under the
pressure of mighty sorrows, towards an Almighty heart.
The truly good are of one language in prayer. Whatever lines or angles
of thought may separate them in other hours, when they pray in
extremity, all good men pray alike. The Emperor Charles V. and Martin
Luther, two great generals of opposite faiths, breathed out their dying
struggle in the self-same words.
There be many tongues and many languages of men,—but the language
of prayer is one by itself, in all and above all. It is the
inspiration of that Spirit that is ever working with our spirit, and
constantly lifting us higher than we know, and, by our wants, by our
woes, by our tears, by our yearnings, by our poverty, urging us,
with mightier and mightier force, against those chains of sin which
keep us from our God. We speak not of things conventionally called
prayers,—vain mutterings of unawakened spirits talking drowsily in
sleep,—but of such prayers as come when flesh and heart fail, in mighty
straits;—then he who prays is a prophet, and a Mightier than he
speaks in him; for the ‘Spirit helpeth our infirmities; for we know
not what we should pray for as we ought; but the Spirit itself maketh
intercession for us, with groanings which cannot be uttered.’
So the voice of supplication, upheaving from that great heart, so
childlike in its humility, rose with a wisdom and a pathos beyond what
he dreamed in his intellectual hours; it uprose even as a strong angel,
whose brow is solemnly calm, and whose wings shed healing dews of
paradise.
CHAPTER XXI.
THE next day broke calm and fair. The robins sang remorselessly in
the apple-tree, and were answered by bobolink, oriole, and a whole
tribe of ignorant little bits of feathered, happiness that danced
among the leaves. Golden and glorious unclosed those purple eyelids of
the East, and regally came up the sun; and the treacherous sea broke
into ten thousand smiles, laughing and dancing with every ripple, as
unconsciously as if no form dear to human hearts had gone down beneath
it. Oh! treacherous, deceiving beauty of outward things! beauty,
wherein throbs not one answering nerve to human pain!
Mary rose early and was about her morning work. Her education was that
of the soldier, who must know himself no more, whom no personal pain
must swerve from the slightest minutiæ of duty. So she was there, at
her usual hour, dressed with the same cool neatness, her brown hair
parted in satin bands, and only the colourless cheek and lip differing
from the Mary of yesterday.
How strange this external habit of living! One thinks how to stick in a
pin, and how to tie a string,—one busies one’s self with folding robes,
and putting away napkins, the day after some stroke that has cut the
inner life in two, with the heart’s blood dropping quietly at every
step.
Yet it is better so! Happy those whom stern principle or long habit
or hard necessity calls from the darkened room, the languid trance
of pain, in which the wearied heart longs to indulge, and gives this
trite prose of common life, at which our weak and wearied appetites so
revolt!
Mary never thought of such a thing as self-indulgence;—this daughter of
the Puritans had her seed within her. Aërial in her delicacy, as the
blue-eyed flax-flower with which they sowed their fields, she had yet
its strong fibre, which no stroke of the flail could break; bruising
and hackling only made it fitter for uses of homely utility. Mary,
therefore, opened the kitchen-door at dawn, and, after standing one
moment to breathe the freshness, began spreading the cloth for an early
breakfast. Mrs. Scudder, the meanwhile, was kneading the bread that had
been set to rise over-night; and the oven was crackling and roaring
with a large-throated, honest garrulousness.
But, ever and anon, as the mother worked, she followed the motions of
her child anxiously.
‘Mary, my dear,’ she said, ‘the eggs are giving out; hadn’t you better
run to the barn and get a few?’
Most mothers are instinctive philosophers. No treatise on the laws of
nervous fluids could have taught Mrs. Scudder a better rôle for this
morning, than her tender gravity, and her constant expedients to break
and ripple, by changing employments, that deep, deadly under-current of
thoughts which she feared might undermine her child’s life.
Mary went into the barn, stopped a moment, and took out a handful of
corn to throw to her hens, who had a habit of running towards her and
cocking an expectant eye to her little hand whenever she appeared.
All came at once flying towards her,—speckled, white, and gleamy with
hues between of tawny orange-gold,—the cocks, magnificent with the
blade-like waving of their tails,—and, as they chattered and cackled
and pressed and crowded about her, pecking the corn even where it
lodged in the edge of her little shoes, she said, ‘Poor things, I
am glad they enjoy it!’—and even this one little act of love to the
ignorant fellowship below her carried away some of the choking pain
which seemed all the while suffocating her heart. Then, climbing into
the hay, she sought the nest and filled her little basket with eggs,
warm, translucent, pinky-white in their freshness. She felt, for a
moment, the customary animation in surveying her new treasures; but
suddenly, like a vision rising before her, came a remembrance of once
when she and James were children together and had been seeking eggs
just there. He flashed before her eyes, the bright boy with the long
black lashes, the dimpled cheeks, the merry eyes, just as he stood and
threw the hay over her when they tumbled and laughed together,—and she
sat down with a sick faintness, and then turned and walked wearily in.
CHAPTER XXII.
MARY returned to the house with her basket of warm, fresh eggs, which
she set down mournfully upon the table. In her heart there was one
conscious want and yearning, and that was to go to the friends of him
she had lost—to go to his mother. The first impulse of bereavement is
to stretch out the hands towards what was nearest and dearest to the
departed.
Her dove came fluttering down out of the tree and settled on her hand,
and began asking in his dumb way to be noticed. Mary stroked his white
feathers, and bent her head down over them till they were wet with
tears. ‘Oh, birdie, you live, but he is gone!’ she said. Then suddenly
putting it gently from her, and going near and throwing her arms around
her mother’s neck,—‘Mother,’ she said, ‘I want to go up to Cousin
Ellen’s.’ (This was the familiar name by which she always called Mrs.
Marvyn.) ‘Can’t you go with me, mother?’
‘My daughter, I have thought of it. I hurried about my baking this
morning, and sent word to Mr. Jenkyns that he needn’t come to see about
the chimney, because I expected to go as soon as breakfast should be
out of the way. So hurry, now, boil some eggs, and get on the cold beef
and potatoes, for I see Solomon and Amaziah coming in with the milk.
They’ll want their breakfast immediately.’
The breakfast for the hired men was soon arranged on the table, and
Mary sat down to preside while her mother was going on with her baking,
introducing various loaves of white and brown bread into the capacious
oven by means of a long iron shovel, and discoursing at intervals with
Solomon with regard to the different farming operations which he had in
hand for the day.
Solomon was a tall, large-boned man, brawny and angular, with a face
tanned by the sun, and graven with those considerate lines which New
England so early writes on the faces of her sons. He was reputed
an oracle in matters of agriculture and cattle, and, like oracles
generally, was prudently sparing of his responses. Amaziah was one
of those uncouth over-grown boys of eighteen, whose physical bulk
appears to have so suddenly developed that the soul has more matter
than she has learned to recognize, so that the hapless individual is
always awkwardly conscious of too much limb; and in Amaziah’s case this
consciousness grew particularly distressing when Mary was in the room.
He liked to have her there, he said, ‘but somehow she was so white and
pretty, she made him feel sort o’ awful-like.’
Of course, as such poor mortals always do, he must, on this particular
morning, blunder into precisely the wrong subject.
‘S’pose you’ve heerd the news that Jeduthan Pettibone brought home in
the “Flying Scud,” ’bout the wreck o’ the “Monsoon;” it’s an awful
providence, that ’ar’ is—a’n’t it? Why Jeduthan says she jest crushed
like an egg-shell’—and with that Amaziah illustrated the fact by
crushing an egg-shell in his great brown hand.
Mary did not answer. She could not grow any paler than she was before;
a dreadful curiosity came over her, but her lips could frame no
question. Amaziah went on:
‘Ye see, the cap’en he got killed with a spar when the blow fust come
on, and Jim Marvyn he commanded; and Jeduthan says that he seemed to
have the spirit of ten men in him. He worked, and he watched, and he
was everywhere at once, and he kep’ ’em all up for three days, till
finally they lost their rudder, and went drivin’ right onto the rocks.
When they come in sight, he come up on deck, and says he, “Well, my
boys, we’re headin’ right into eternity,” says he, “and our chances
for this world a’n’t worth mentionin’, any on us; but we’ll all have
one try for our lives. Boys, I’ve tried to do my duty by you and the
ship—but God’s will be done! All I have to ask now is, that if any of
you git to shore, you’ll find my mother and tell her I died thinkin’ of
her and father and my dear friends.” That was the last Jeduthan saw of
him, for in a few minutes more the ship struck, and then it was every
man for himself. Laws! Jeduthan says there couldn’t nobody have stood
beatin’ agin them rocks unless they was all leather and inger-rubber
like him. Why, he says the waves would take strong men and jest crush
’em against the rocks like smashin’ a pie-plate!’
Here Mary’s paleness became livid; she made a hasty motion to rise from
the table, and Solomon trod on the foot of the narrator.
‘You seem to forget that friends and relations has feelin’s,’ he said,
as Mary hastily went into her own room.
Amaziah, suddenly awakened to the fact that he had been trespassing,
sat with mouth half open and a stupefied look of perplexity on his face
for a moment, and then, rising hastily, said: ‘Well, Sol, I guess I’ll
go an’ yoke up the steers.’
At eight o’clock all the morning toils were over, the wide kitchen cool
and still, and the one-horse waggon standing at the door, into which
climbed Mary, her mother, and the Doctor, for, though invested with no
spiritual authority, and charged with no ritual or form for hours of
affliction, the religion of New England always expects her minister as
a first visitor in every house of mourning.
The ride was a sorrowful and silent one. The Doctor, propped upon his
cane, seemed to reflect deeply.
‘Have you been at all conversant with the exercises of our young
friend’s mind on the subject of religion?’ he asked.
Mrs. Scudder did not at first reply. The remembrance of James’s last
letter flashed over her mind, and she felt the vibration of the frail
child beside her, in whom every nerve was quivering. After a moment she
said: ‘It does not become us to judge the spiritual state of any one.
James’s mind was in an unsettled way when he left; but who can say what
wonders may have been effected by Divine grace since then?’
This conversation fell on the soul of Mary like the sound of clods
falling on a coffin to the ear of one buried alive; she heard it
with a dull, smothering sense of suffocation. That question to be
raised!—and about one, too, for whom she could have given her own
soul! At this moment she felt how idle is the mere hope or promise of
personal salvation made to one who has passed beyond the life of self,
and struck deep the roots of his existence in others. She did not utter
a word—how could she? A doubt—the faintest shadow of a doubt—in such
a case, falls on the soul with the weight of mountain certainty, and
in that short ride she felt what an infinite pain may be locked in one
small, silent breast.
The waggon drew up to the house of mourning. Cato stood at the gate,
and came forward, officiously, to help them out. ‘Mass’r and Missis
will be glad to see you,’ he said. ‘It’s a drefful stroke has come upon
’em.’
Candace appeared at the door. There was a majesty of sorrow in her
bearing as she received them. She said not a word, but pointed with her
finger towards the inner room; but as Mary lifted up her faded, weary
face to hers, her whole soul seemed to heave towards her like a billow,
and she took her up in her arms and broke forth into sobbing, and,
carrying her in, as if she had been a child, set her down in the inner
room and sat down beside her.
Mrs. Marvyn and her husband sat together, holding each other’s hands,
the open Bible between them. For a few moments nothing was to be heard
but sobs and unrestrained weeping, and then all kneeled down while the
Doctor prayed.
After they rose up, Mr. Zebedee Marvyn stood for a moment thoughtfully,
and then said: ‘If it had pleased the Lord to give me a sure evidence
of my son’s salvation, I could have given him up with all my heart; but
now, whatever there may be, I have seen none.’ He stood in an attitude
of hopeless, heart-smitten dejection, which contrasted painfully with
his usual upright carriage and the firm lines of his face.
Mrs. Marvyn started as if a sword had pierced her, passed her arm round
Mary’s waist, with a strong, nervous clasp, unlike her usual calm
self, and said, ‘Stay with me, daughter, to-day!—stay with me!’
‘Mary can stay as long as you wish, cousin,’ said Mrs. Scudder; ‘we
have nothing to call her home.’
‘Come with me!’ said Mrs. Marvyn to Mary, opening an adjoining
door into her bedroom, and drawing her in with a sort of suppressed
vehemence, ‘I want you!—I must have you!’
‘Mrs. Marvyn’s state alarms me,’ said her husband, looking
apprehensively after her when the door was closed; ‘she has not shed
any tears nor slept any since she heard this news. You know that her
mind has been in a peculiar and unhappy state with regard to religious
things for many years. I was in hopes she might feel free to open her
exercises of mind to the Doctor.’
‘Perhaps she will feel more freedom with Mary,’ said the Doctor. ‘There
is no healing for such troubles except in unconditional submission to
Infinite Wisdom and Goodness. The Lord reigneth, and will at last bring
infinite good out of evil, whether our small portion of existence be
included or not.’
After a few moments more of conference, Mrs. Scudder and the Doctor
departed, leaving Mary alone in the house of mourning.
CHAPTER XXIII.
WE have said before, what we now repeat, that it is impossible to
write a story of New England life and manners for superficial thought
or shallow feeling. They who would fully understand the springs which
moved the characters with whom we now associate must go down with us to
the very depths.
Never was there a community where the roots of common life shot down
so deeply, and were so intensely grappled around things sublime and
eternal. The founders of it were a body of confessors and martyrs, who
turned their backs on the whole glory of the visible to found in the
wilderness a republic of which the God of heaven and earth should be
the sovereign power. For the first hundred years grew this community,
shut out by a fathomless ocean from the existing world, and divided
by an antagonism not less deep from all the reigning ideas of nominal
Christendom.
In a community thus unworldly must have arisen a mode of thought,
energetic, original, and sublime. The leaders of thought and feeling
were the ministry, and we boldly assert that the spectacle of the
early ministry of New England was one to which the world gives no
parallel. Living an intense, earnest, practical life, mostly tilling
the earth with their own hands, they yet carried on the most startling
and original religious investigations with a simplicity that might
have been deemed audacious, were it not so reverential. All old
issues relating to government, religion, ritual, and forms of church
organization having for them passed away, they went straight to the
heart of things, and boldly confronted the problem of universal being.
They had come out from the world as witnesses to the most solemn
and sacred of human rights. They had accustomed themselves boldly to
challenge and dispute all sham pretensions and idolatries of past
ages—to question the right of kings in the State and of prelates in the
Church; and now they turned the same bold inquiries towards the Eternal
Throne, and threw down their glove in the lists as authorized defenders
of every mystery in the Eternal Government. The task they proposed to
themselves was that of reconciling the most tremendous facts of sin and
evil, present and eternal, with those conceptions of Infinite Power
and Benevolence which their own strong and generous natures enabled
them so vividly to realize. In the intervals of planting and harvesting
they were busy with the toils of adjusting the laws of a universe.
Solemnly simple, they made long journeys in their old one-horse chaises
to settle with each other some nice point of celestial jurisprudence,
and to compare their maps of the Infinite. Their letters to each
other form a literature altogether unique. Hopkins sends to Edwards
the younger his scheme of the universe, in which he starts with the
proposition that God is infinitely above all obligations of any kind
to his creatures. Edwards replies with the brusque comment:—‘This is
wrong; God has no more right to injure a creature than a creature has
to injure God;’ and each probably about that time preached a sermon on
his own views, which was discussed by every farmer, in intervals of
plough and hoe, by every woman and girl, at loom, spinning-wheel, or
wash-tub. New England was one vast sea, surging from depths to heights
with thought and discussion on the most insoluble of mysteries. And it
is to be added that no man or woman accepted any theory or speculation
simply as theory or speculation; all was profoundly real and vital—a
foundation on which actual life was based with intensest earnestness.
The views of human existence which resulted from this course of
training were gloomy enough to oppress any heart which did not
rise above them by triumphant faith, or sink below them by brutish
insensibility; for they included every moral problem of natural or
revealed religion, divested of all those softening poetries and tender
draperies which, forms, ceremonies, and rituals had thrown around
them in other parts and ages of Christendom. The human race, without
exception, coming into existence ‘under God’s wrath and curse,’ with
a nature so fatally disordered, that, although perfect free agents,
men were infallibly certain to do nothing to Divine acceptance until
regenerated by the supernatural aid of God’s Spirit, this aid being
given to a certain decreed number of the human race only; the rest,
with enough free agency to make them responsible, but without this
indispensable assistance exposed to the malignant assaults of evil
spirits versed in every art of temptation, were sure to fall hopelessly
into perdition. The standard of what constituted a true regeneration,
as presented in such treatises as Edwards on the Affections, and others
of the times, made this change to be something so high, disinterested,
and superhuman, so removed from all natural and common habits and
feelings, that the most earnest and devoted, whose whole life had
been a constant travail of endeavour, a tissue of almost unearthly
disinterestedness, often lived and died with only a glimmering hope of
its attainment.
According to any views then entertained of the evidences of a true
regeneration, the number of the whole human race who could be supposed
as yet to have received this grace was so small, that, as to any
numerical valuation, it must have been expressed by an infinitesimal.
Dr. Hopkins, in many places, distinctly recognizes the fact, that the
greater part of the human race, up to his time, had been eternally
lost; and boldly assumes the ground, that this amount of sin and
suffering, being the best and most necessary means of the greatest
final amount of happiness, was not merely permitted, but distinctly
chosen, decreed, and provided for, as essential in the schemes of
Infinite Benevolence. He held that this decree not only permitted
each individual act of sin, but also took measures to make it certain,
though, by an exercise of infinite skill, it accomplished this result
without violating human free agency.
The preaching of those times was animated by an unflinching consistency
which never shrank from carrying an idea to its remotest logical
verge. The sufferings of the lost were not kept from view, but
proclaimed with a terrible power. Dr. Hopkins boldly asserts, that ‘all
the use which God will have for them is to suffer; this is all the
end they can answer; therefore all their faculties, and their whole
capacities, will be employed and used for this end.... The body can by
omnipotence be made capable of suffering the greatest imaginable pain
without producing dissolution, or abating the least degree of life
or sensibility.... One way in which God will show his power in the
punishment of the wicked, will be in strengthening and upholding their
bodies and souls in torments which otherwise would be intolerable.’
The sermons preached by President Edwards on this subject are so
terrific in their refined poetry of torture, that very few persons of
quick sensibility could read them through without agony; and it is
related that when in those calm and tender tones, which never rose to
passionate enunciation, he read these discourses, the house was often
filled with shrieks and wailings, and that a brother minister once
laid hold of his skirts, exclaiming, in an involuntary agony, ‘Oh! Mr.
Edwards! Mr. Edwards! is God not a God of mercy?’
Not that these men were indifferent or insensible to the dread words
they spoke; their whole lives and deportment bore thrilling witness to
their sincerity. Edwards set apart special days of fasting, in view of
the dreadful doom of the lost, in which he was wont to walk the floor,
weeping and wringing his hands. Hopkins fasted every Saturday. David
Brainerd gave up every refinement of civilized life to weep and pray
at the feet of hardened savages, if by any means he might save one.
All, by lives of eminent purity and earnestness, gave awful weight and
sanction to their words.
If we add to this statement the fact, that it was always proposed to
every inquiring soul, as an evidence of regeneration, that it should
truly and heartily accept all the ways of God thus declared right and
lovely, and from the heart submit to Him as the only just and good,
it will be seen what materials of tremendous internal conflict and
agitation were all the while working in every bosom. Almost all the
histories of religious experience of those times relate paroxysms of
opposition to God and fierce rebellion, expressed in language which
appals the very soul, followed at length by mysterious elevations
of faith and reactions of confiding love, the result of Divine
interposition, which carried the soul far above the region of the
intellect, into that of direct spiritual intuition.
President Edwards records that he was once in this state of enmity,
that the facts of the Divine administration seemed horrible to him, and
that this opposition was overcome by no course of reasoning, but by an
‘inward and sweet sense’ which came to him once when walking alone in
the fields, and, looking up into the blue sky, he saw the blending of
the Divine majesty with a calm, sweet, and almost infinite meekness.
The piety which grew up under such a system was, of necessity,
energetic; it was the uprousing of the whole energy of the human soul,
pierced and wrenched and probed from her lowest depths to her topmost
heights, with every awful life-force possible to existence. He whose
faith in God came clear through these terrible tests, would be sure
never to know greater ones. He might certainly challenge earth or
heaven, things present or things to come, to swerve him from this grand
allegiance.
But it is to be conceded that these systems, so admirable in relation
to the energy, earnestness, and acuteness of their authors, when
received as absolute truth, and as a basis of actual life, had, on
minds of a certain class, the effect of a slow poison, producing
life-habits of morbid action very different from any which ever
followed the simple reading of the Bible. They differ from the New
Testament as the living embrace of a friend does from his lifeless
body, mapped out under the knife of the anatomical demonstrator; every
nerve and muscle is there, but to a sensitive spirit there is the very
chill of death in the analysis.
All systems that deal with the infinite are, besides, exposed to danger
from small, unsuspected admixtures of human error, which become deadly
when carried to such vast results. The smallest speck of earth’s dust,
in the focus of an infinite lens, appears magnified among the heavenly
orbs as a frightful monster.
Thus it happened that while strong spirits walked, palm-crowned, with
victorious hymns, along these sublime paths, feebler and more sensitive
ones lay along the track, bleeding away in life-long despair. Fearful
to them were the shadows that lay over the cradle and the grave. The
mother clasped her babe to her bosom, and looked with shuddering to the
awful coming trial of free agency, with its terrible responsibilities
and risks, and, as she thought of the infinite chances against her
beloved, almost wished it might die in infancy. But when the stroke of
death came, and some young, thoughtless head was laid suddenly low, who
can say what silent anguish of loving hearts sounded the dread depths
of eternity with the awful question, Where?
In no other time or place of Christendom have so fearful issues been
presented to the mind. Some church interposed its protecting shield;
the Christian born and baptized child was supposed in some wise rescued
from the curse of the fall, and related to the great redemption, to be
a member of Christ’s family, and, if ever so sinful, still infolded in
some vague sphere of hope and protection. Augustine solaced the dread
anxieties of trembling love by prayers offered for the dead, in times
when the Church above and on earth presented itself to the eye of the
mourner as a great assembly with one accord lifting interceding hands
for the parted soul.
But the clear logic and intense individualism of New England deepened
the problems of the Augustinian faith, while they swept away all those
softening provisions so earnestly clasped to the throbbing heart of
that great poet of theology. No rite, no form, no paternal relation,
no faith or prayer of church, earthly or heavenly, interposed the
slightest shield between the trembling spirit and Eternal Justice. The
individual entered eternity alone, as if he had no interceding relation
the universe.
This, then, was the awful dread which was constantly underlying life.
This it was which caused the tolling bell in green hollows and lonely
dells to be a sound which shook the soul and searched the heart with
fearful questions. And this it was that was lying with mountain weight
on the soul of the mother, too keenly agonized to feel that doubt in
such a case was any less a torture than the most dreadful certainty.
Hers was a nature more reasoning than creative and poetic; and whatever
she believed bound her mind in strictest chains to its logical results.
She delighted in the regions of mathematical knowledge, and walked them
as a native home; but the commerce with abstract certainties fitted her
mind still more to be stiffened and enchained by glacial reasonings, in
regions where spiritual intuitions are as necessary as wings to birds.
Mary was by nature of the class who never reason abstractly, whose
intellections all begin in the heart, which sends them coloured with
its warm life-tint to the brain. Her perceptions of the same subjects
were as different from Mrs. Marvyn’s as his who revels only in colour
from his who is busy with the dry details of mere outline. The one
mind was arranged like a map, and the other like a picture. In all the
system which had been explained to her, her mind selected points on
which it seized with intense sympathy, which it dwelt upon and expanded
