words.
"Miss Faith, I suppose you are not much acquainted with law forms,--yet
you perhaps know that an important witness in an important case, is
sometimes put in prison until his evidence is obtained."
Faith looked up at him in pure astonishment, the corners of her mouth
indicating that she expected another puzzle, or rather was already
engaged in one. The look made his gravity give way a little.
"I thought you might like to know your position at present," he said.
"I don't know it yet, Mr. Linden."
"It is that of the unfortunate prisoner to whom I referred."
"A prisoner!--" said Faith looking up at him very much amused. "Well,
Mr. Linden?"
He looked amused too, yet with a difference.
"Well, Miss Faith--You are a prisoner, for political purposes. There is
no practicable way for you to get back to the house save through the
witness-box."
"Where is the witness-box?" said Faith.
"Are you in a hurry to be in it?"
"No," said Faith with a very unshadowed smile, "I am not in a hurry for
anything."
"Then tell me what you have been reading to-day," he said, throwing
himself down on the grass beside her.
She looked at him, hesitated, then said with a lowered tone,
"I have been reading what you told me to read--and my testament."
Mr. Linden lifted his hat a little, replaced it--rather more down over
his brows than before, looking steadily down at Kildeer river the while.
"Why did you look grave when I asked you if you had brought 'Le
Philosophe'?"
"I didn't know I did!" said Faith simply. "I had brought only my
testament."
"Only--" Mr. Linden repeated. "Well, from 'only' a testament and only
such a scene--a skilful reader may get much." Then turning and looking
her full in the face, he said, "Miss Faith--what have those boys done
to vex you?"
A sudden, painful, startled flush answered him. She did not look now;
she said earnestly,
"Please Mr. Linden, don't speak of it!"
"I must know--" was his only answer.
"No," she said gently but troubled,--"you mustn't know, and there is no
need you should. There is no need," she repeated eagerly.
"There is another true little witness I can call upon--but I would
rather have your account."
"How did you know?--how did you know anything about it?" said Faith,
facing round upon him in her turn.
"Gentlemen of what Miss Danforth is pleased to call 'my profession'
must know things occasionally," said Mr. Linden.
"What do you think you know, Mr. Linden?" she said a little timidly.
His answer was gentle though resolute.
"I don't think I know anything. What I know, I know----what I do not,
I will."
Faith's head half drooped for an instant, and the flush which had faded
came back painfully. Then she looked at him again, and though the flush
was there she spoke as usual.
"You won't try, Mr. Linden--because I am going to ask you not. It is
nothing you need take up--it was nothing but--what perhaps I was
foolish to mind. I don't mind it now--much--"
But there was a grave falling off in the tone of that much. She felt it
herself, for she rallied and said with her own quiet frank smile,
"I shall not mind it at all to-morrow."
Mr. Linden looked at her while she spoke, gravely and intently enough;
but then he looked away at the river again, and probably read problems
in its soft rippling waters, for he spoke not. Overhead a hawk sailed
noiselessly to and fro, on spread wings,--in the trees close at hand a
squirrel chattered and barked with his mouth full. The afternoon light
left Kildeer river step by step, and the shadows crept after.
Now the one white speck of cloud reflected in that peaceful stream was
no break in its beauty,--it marred nothing, nay, even brought a little
glow of its own to replace the sunbeams. Yet at that speck did Mr.
Linden take aim--sending his pebble so surely, so powerfully, that the
mirror itself was shattered to the remotest shore! Then he stood up and
announced that it was time to go.
Faith stood up, but stood still, and waited somewhat anxiously upon the
answer to her question.
"Then, Mr. Linden, you will not speak of it any more?"
"The witness is discharged," he answered lightly, and walking on.
She sprang after and placed herself directly in his way.
"Mr. Linden--please give me your promise!"
He looked down at her with eyes that were a little moved.
"Miss Faith," he said, "please give me yours!"
"For what?" said Faith.
"That you will trust me--and not ask what I do."
"Yes,"--said Faith,--"but--You must trust me, Mr. Linden," she said
smiling at him,--"and believe me that this is nothing for you to take
up--mere nonsense;--nothing at all to-morrow,--it is nothing to me now.
I want your word."
She wanted it very much, it was easy to see; but beyond that, her face
did not belie her words.
"I don't suppose Mrs. Derrick ever called you 'naughty child'"--said
Mr. Linden,--"but if ever she did she might to-night. Look where the
sun is--and where I am,--and guess where those boys are! Come--" and it
was not easy to resist the hand that again took hold of hers, nor the
quick pace at which he went forward.
And for some fields' length Faith yielded and went as fast as he
pleased. Then as he stopped to put up a bar-place she said again, very
gently but firmly too, standing before him,
"Mr. Linden, I think I have a right to ask this. I know what I ask,
but you do not."
"I never questioned your right, Miss Faith."
"Then you'll not deny it to me?"
"What is your idea of trust?" said Mr. Linden, replacing the last bar.
"That it is something I ought to have just now," said Faith, smiling a
little.
He stood leaning on the bars and looking at her--a kind look, that she
might well trust.
"Child," he said, "you don't know what you are talking about--and I do.
And if you will not trust me any further than you can see me, you don't
deserve to be called Miss Faith any longer! Now don't you think I have
a right to get home and attend to my duties?"
She yielded utterly at that, but with a set of her lip which he had
never seen before; it was trembling. She was turning to go on, when as
if to make amends for that--or to ask forgiveness generally--or to give
assurance of the trust he had claimed,--she stretched out her hand to
him and went by his help again until the orchard was reached and other
eyes might be expected to be on the look-out for them.
"Do you like to read letters written from other countries by people you
have never seen?" Mr. Linden said when they reached that point.
Faith's eyes opened slightly as was their way when suddenly astonished,
and a little colour started too, of surprise or pleasure.
"I never did read any," she said,--"I should like it."
"Well, Miss Faith, I think Mrs. Derrick and Reuben can manage that
brown horse--especially as he has had no oats to-day--and I want you to
take possession of the whole of the back seat, put yourself in a
comfortable position, and spend the rest of the daylight in Italy with
my sister. When it gets dark you may go to sleep. And here is the
talismanic paper by whose help you must make the journey."
What a colour thanked him! what a rosy flush of pleasure and gratitude!
To say 'thank you' Faith nearly forgot. But it was said.
There was no more delay of any kind after that. Wagons were ready, and
baskets, and boys; also Mrs. Derrick; and Faith was ready first of all.
So the two parties, now getting under weigh, went fairly homewards, by
an evening sky and a night full of stars. Only one incident need be
recorded.
The ferry was passed, and four of the six miles between that and the
central town of Pattaquasset, when Mr. Linden suddenly checked his
horses. Turning half round, and laying a pretty imperative hand on the
collar of Phil Davids, he dropped him outside the wagon--like a walnut
from its husk--remarking that he had seen enough of him for one day,
and did not wish to hear of him again till next morning.
CHAPTER XI.
Little Charles twelfth did not come to meet his Sunday school teacher,
as had been arranged, the Sunday preceding the Neanticut expedition.
Faith waited for him in the morning--waited and hoped,--but was not
greatly surprised to find that she had waited in vain. Charles the
twelfth, whether or not he was to follow during life the erratic and
wilful course of his namesake, was that day at least not to be led by
her. So Faith went to church, meditating a sometime descent upon Mrs.
Seacomb's shady domain, there to meet and recapture the heart of her
little charge. For so he seemed to her now. But on her return from the
morning service, she found Charles the twelfth, crest-fallen and
repentant, in his turn waiting for her. The matter was, his brother
Americus Vespucius had shut him up, so that he couldn't come; and as
soon as he was set free Charles the twelfth had used his freedom and
his legs in 'making tracks,' to use Mr. Simlins' expression, for Mrs.
Derrick's abode; and on this occasion he had made many fewer 'tracks'
than the afternoon of his previously recorded invasion; as being
somewhat burdened in spirit he had stopped for no somersets, and had
been lured aside by no tempting invitations of a dusty place or a
mudpuddle.
Faith heard his story gravely and sympathizingly; comforted him up;
encouraged him to hope that the discoverer of America would not prove
so adverse to his making discoveries another Sunday; gave him a
little talk and a good dinner, and sent him home cheerful and
determined. The very mood for success; accordingly the next morning
after the return from Neanticut, being Sunday, Charles the twelfth
presented himself at the house in brave good time; and Faith and her
little charge, for the first time in their lives both of them, went to
Sunday school. The child very important and expectant; the teacher very
gentle and very grave indeed.
Faith had made her arrangements the Sunday before; so she and Charles
twelfth proceeded at once to the place assigned her. At the opening
services the king of Sweden stared mightily. Faith looked at nothing.
She had a feeling that other children and other teachers were nearer to
her than she wished they were; and she was a little uncertain how best
to take hold of the odd little piece of humanity intrusted to her care.
However, when the reading and the singing were over Faith began a long
low talk to him about some Bible story, diverging as she went on to an
account of the other world, and the two ways that lead to it, and the
two sorts of people that travel them. And becoming exceedingly
interested herself, she fastened the eyes of Charles the twelfth in a
way that shewed his thoughts were cleaving to hers. Faith's own
thoughts were cleaving elsewhere. The things she said were simply said;
her words were the plainest; her illustrations just at his hand; but
the voice in which they were given would alone have won the ear of a
child; and whatever other impression her words made upon his mind, the
fixed conclusion in which he was left at the ending was, that whatever
way she was travelling was the right one!
It was a beautiful fair first of October; still and sunny; but if it
had not, it would probably have been a fair day to Faith after that
beginning of it. She looked as if it was, in the church, and on the way
home, and at the quiet dinner table; her face was a transcript of the
day; still and sunny. It seemed to be true, her promise that the
annoyance of yesterday would be nothing to her to-day. There was no
shadow of it in sight. If there was a shadow anywhere at the table, it
was upon Mrs. Derrick,--a half jealous fear that her child would be
less hers by becoming a Christian--a half uneasy feeling of the new
state of things, did cloud her heart a little, though almost unknown to
her self She would not have confessed to any such cloud--and
practically it was not there: no straw of hindrance did she put in
Faith's way; indeed she seemed rather fearful of touching the matter in
any wise. It was rather from curiosity than anything else, that she
said--as they were both getting ready for afternoon church,
"Well child, how did you like going to Sunday school?"
Faith's answer was subdued, but earnest. "I liked it very much, mother."
"How many's in your class?" said Mrs. Derrick, tying her bonnet.
"Only one yet--but that was enough for me to begin with.--I hope I
shall get some more soon."
"Only one!" said Mrs. Derrick--"besides you, do you mean, child?"
"Mother!"--said Faith. Then smiling she added, "Yes, mother--only one
besides me. That one is little Charley Seacomb--and I am trying to
teach him."
"Why I thought you were in Mr. Linden's class!" said Mrs. Derrick,
facing round.
But Faith's face flushed, and what was very uncommon with her, the
tears came too.
"So I am, mother," she said;--"but I am one that he teaches at home. I
have learned all I know from him," she said, covering her eyes with
both hands.
"Why child, hush!" said her mother softly--"I didn't mean to say
anything,--how should I know? So you're teaching Charley Seacomb,
hey?--well I'm sure he wants it bad enough. I guess I'd better go too,
next Sabbath,--it was real lonesome with you all gone. And that makes
me think, child--I wonder if you could go a little way for me after
meeting?"
"Go to Sunday school, mother!" said Faith shewing her bright wet eyes.
"Will you teach some children, mother?"
Written letters don't give the intonation of these words.
"I guess they could teach me, some of 'em," said her mother. "But I
thought maybe, Faith, you'd take Sally Loundes some medicine--she sent
word for it, and I don't know as I can get so far to-day. Mr. Linden
does have a class, don't he?"
"I can go just as well as not, and like it very much, mother. O yes--he
has a class of course--a class of some of the biggest boys--a large
class."
"I wonder what he does with himself after meeting," said Mrs.
Derrick. "Folks do say he goes strolling round, but I don't believe it."
"Mother! Folks say everything, I believe. He knows what he does."
"Maybe you wouldn't like to be seen out on Sabbath?" said Mrs.
Derrick, with sudden thought. "Because if you wouldn't, Faith, I'll go
myself to Sally's--can or no can."
"No, mother--" she said brightly,--"I would like to go. If I know I am
doing right, I don't mind about being seen. I wish people had as good
reason for telling tales about me, as they have for some others."
"I guess your class 'll fill up,--" said her mother, with her fond,
wistful look at the only thing she had in the world.
It was the fairest, still, sweet afternoon, when after church Faith got
the medicine for Sally Loundes and set out to take it to her. So fair
and lovely, that Faith hardly considered much the features of the road
she travelled; in that light any piece of ground was beautiful. The
road was very lonely after a little part of the village had been gone
through. It left the main street, then bid farewell to a few scattering
distant houses and approached what was called Barley Point;--a barren
piece of ground from which a beautiful view of the Sound and the ocean
line, and perhaps porpoises, could be had. But at the foot of this
field the road turned, round the end of that belt of woods spoken of;
and getting on the other side of it ran back eastward towards the
Lighthouse point. Between the woods and the sea, on this side, was a
narrow down that the farmers could make little of; and here the road,
if desolate, had a beauty of its own. On Faith's right was this strip
of tolling downs, grown with nothing but short grass and low blackberry
vines; and close at hand, just beyond its undulating line, the waves of
the sea beating in. Very little waves to-day, everything was so quiet.
At the Lighthouse point, a mile or more on, was a little settlement of
fishermen and others; but only one house stood on the way, and that
hardly disturbed the monotony or the solitude; it was so little, so
brown, and looked so of a piece with the barren country. That was Sally
Loundes' house. Faith met nobody till she got there.
When Faith came out of the house, the sun's place warned her she would
have no time to spare to get home. She set off with quicker pace,
though nowise concerned about it. There was no danger of anything in
Pattaquasset. But she had gone only a little part of her wild homeward
way when she met Mr. Simlins. Now Mr. Simlins was accustomed to take an
afternoon Sunday stroll and sometimes a long one; so it was no matter
of surprise to meet him, nor even to meet him there, for Mr. Simlins
was as independent in his choice of a walk as in everything else. But
he was surprised.
"Hullo! my passenger pigeon," he exclaimed. "Why are you here all
alone, in this unfrequent place?"
"It's a very nice place," said Faith. "And it's not disagreeable to be
alone--though I am willing to meet you, Mr. Simlins."
"Haven't been quarrelling with anybody, have you?"
"No," said Faith, giving an amused look to this view of the subject.
"Do I look quarrelsome, Mr. Simlins?"
"I don't know how you look!" said the farmer. "I aint anything of an
exposition. You'll have to ask somebody else. There's some words too
hard for me to spell and pro-nounce. Where have you been?"
"Just to carry Sally Loundes some medicine mother had for her."
"Where are you goin' now?"
"Home."
"Goin' alone?"
"Why, yes. Why not?"
"Don' know," said Mr. Simlins,--"only I'm going part way, and I'll see
nothin' happens to you as long as I'm in your consort."
It was a wild place enough to make company pleasant. Dark clumps of
forest-trees on one hand grew near together, and the spaces between,
though cleared, looked hardly less wild; for vines and sumach and ferns
had taken possession. The sun's rays yet lay warm on the rolling downs,
the sere grass and the purplish blackberry vines, and sparkled on the
waves beyond; but when Mr. Simlins and Faith struck into the woods for
a 'short cut,' the shadowy solitude closed them in on all sides. Softly
their steps moved over the fallen pine leaves, or rustled through the
shreds of autumn finery that lay beneath oak and maple, and nothing
else but birds and squirrels broke the stillness till they were near
the further edge of the wood. There they heard a soft murmur of voices.
"Who lives here?" said Mr. Simlins.
But Faith held her breath.
"There's mortality here, where I thought there was nothing but animals
and vegetation," said Mr. Simlins stepping softly and cautiously
forward. "Let's see--don't make no noise more'n the leaves 'll let you.
I shouldn't think anything would come to a meetin' here but a
wood-chuck--and they're skeered if they see a shadow."
On that side the trees ceased abruptly, and the open sunshine of a
little clearing replaced them; and there were the speakers.
Tallest among the group sat Mr. Linden, and around him--in various
attitudes of rest or attention--a dozen boys basked in the sunshine.
Most of them were a size or two smaller than his morning class at the
Sunday school, though several of those were stretched on the grass at
the outskirts of the circle, as honorary members. Little Johnny Fax,
established in Mr. Linden's lap, divided his attention pretty evenly
between the lesson and the teacher; though indeed to his mind the
separate interests did not clash.
The little glade was very green still, but sprinkled with the autumn
leaves which came floating down at every breath; and the bordering
trees stood some in deep green hemlock and some in paler pine, and
thrust out here and there a glowing arm into the sunlight. The
boys--listening and looking,--some playing the part of young
Nebuchadnezzars, some picking and breaking up the asters and golden rod
within their reach,--giving little side nods of assent to each other,
or bending a more earnest gaze on Mr. Linden; pushing back their
caps--or pulling them down with a quick brush across the eyes;--the
hand with which Johnny Fax stroked back from Mr. Linden's forehead any
stray lock of hair which the wind displaced, or laid on his shoulder
when there was nothing else to do;--made altogether a picture the like
of which Mr. Simlins had not seen before--nor even Faith. The sun might
leave the clearing and betake itself to the tree-tops, and thence to
the clouds,--there was light there which came from a higher source.
Not Faith's silent attention was more silent and motionless than that
of her companion; he did not move or stir. But her deep, deep, rapt
gravity formed part of the subject of his contemplations, for one or
two keen sidelong glances fell upon it. Else, his eyes were busy
uninterruptedly with the scene and took in the whole effect of it; hers
hardly wavered from one point.
A little stir among the boys roused both the lookers-on from their
muse; but they stood still again at the first notes of a hymn--as Mr.
Linden's deep voice began, and the young choir with its varied treble
chimed in.
   "I want to be an angel,
   And with the angels stand,
   A crown upon my forehead,
   A harp within my hand;
   There, right before my Saviour,
   So glorious and so bright,
   I'd wake the sweetest music,
   And praise him day and night.
   "I never should be weary,
   Nor ever shed a tear,
   Nor ever know a sorrow,
   Nor ever feel a fear;
   But blessed, pure, and holy,
   I'd dwell in Jesus' sight,
   And with ten thousand thousand
   Praise him both day and night.
   "I know I'm weak and sinful,
   But Jesus will forgive,
   For many little children,
   Have gone to heaven to live.
   Dear Saviour, when I languish,
   And lay me down to die,
   Oh send a shining angel
   To bear me to the sky!
   "Oh there I'll be an angel,
   And with the angels stand!
   A crown upon my forehead,
   A harp within my hand.
   And there before my Saviour,
   So glorious and so bright,
   I'll wake the sweetest music,
   And praise him day and night!"
The two listeners stood still while the hymn was singing, still as the
air; but Mr. Simlins got no more sight of Faith's face. They stood
still when the hymn was finished, as if they lingered where the last
vibrations had been. But as a general stir among the hymn party
proclaimed that they would soon be on the move, the two who had watched
them, as if by consent, turned short about and silently picked their
way back through the darkening wood to the nearest point of road they
could reach. It was far from home, and even out of the wood the light
was failing; they walked with quick steps. Mr. Simlins could get
glances now at Faith's face, but though it was quiet enough, he seemed
for some reason or other in a disagreeable state of mind. It made
itself manifest at length in a grunt of considerable power.
"Ugh!--this is a complexious sort of a world to live in!"--was his not
very clear remark. The contrast of the tone of the next words was
striking.
"Dear Mr. Simlins, there is something better."
"What do you call me 'dear' for?" growled he. "You never did before."
"I don't know," said Faith. "Because I want you to be as happy as I am."
"Be you so happy?" said the farmer inquisitively.
Faith said yes. It was a calm and clear yes; a confident yes; one that
felt its foundations strong and deep; yet Faith's mother or dearest
friend, if gifted with quick apprehensions, would hardly have been
satisfied with it. Was Mr. Simlins so gifted?
"Not so happy you couldn't be happier?" he said in a tone that assumed
it.
"No," said Faith, looking at him with a sunshiny smile;--"I want to be
better, Mr. Simlins."
"Better!"--growled Mr. Simlins. "You go hang yourself!--I wish you
was better. If you aint happy--I wish the Simlins' may be--an extant
race!"
The extraordinary combination of wishes in this speech took away
Faith's breath for an answer. She waited for something more.
"What was that fellow doing there?" growled the farmer after a while.
"I suppose he was teaching Sunday school," Faith said after a little
hesitation.
"Why, is one to be forever teaching Sunday school?" said the farmer in
a discontented tone.
"Why not?" said Faith,--"as long as there are people to be taught?"
"Don't you want to take hold and teach me now?" said Mr. Simlins.
Faith did not know at all what to make of this question; and before she
had found an answer that would do, she was saved making any. For Mr.
Linden, with even brisker steps than theirs, came up behind them; and
after a bright "Good evening, Mr. Simlins," uttered a somewhat
surprised "Miss Faith!"
"Yes," said Mr. Simlins, "here she is; and I'm goin' along to see that
nothing happens to her. She goes to take care o' somebody else,--and I
come after to take care o' her; so we go. We all give each other a deal
o' trouble in this world!"
"Am I expected to take care of you, Mr. Simlins, by the same rule?--I
came after."
"Well!--I don't know," said the farmer "I guess there'll be nobody to
take care of me. I'm past taking care of."
"What does that mean?" said Mr. Linden.
"How would you like the job?" said Mr. Simlins. "Think it 'ud be easy?"
"Why I should like to know a little more about the job before I express
any opinion."
"I have an opinion," said Mr. Simlins, "that you don't know much o'
farming. Guess it's correct, aint it?"
"What kind of farming?" inquired Mr. Linden again.
"I don't know more'n one kind. Tillin' the earth, to bring out the
produce of it."
"I have seen something of another kind," said Mr. Linden; "it is
this:--'Sow to yourselves in righteousness, reap in mercy; break up
your fallow ground: for it is time to seek the Lord, till he return and
rain righteousness upon you.'"
Mr. Simlins wasn't quick to answer that, and there was silence for a
minute or two, only broken by their footsteps.
"Well--" he said slowly at length,--"suppos 'n a piece o' ground bears
as good a crop as it has soil for, hadn't you ought to be contented
with it?"
"Yes," said Mr. Linden; "but I never saw such a piece of ground, yet."
Mr. Simlins paused.
"Do you believe some folks can be better than they air already?" he
asked.
"I believe all folks can."
"You believe in cameras, then. How're you goin' to work?"
"To make people better?--set them to work for them selves, if I can."
"What sort o' ploughs and harrows would you want 'em to take hold of?"
"They'll find out, when they set to work in earnest to make the ground
yield the right sort of fruit," said Mr. Linden.
"What do you call the right sort?" said the farmer, now thoroughly
engaged. "Aint as good as a man can do, the right sort?"
"Why yes," said Mr. Linden again, "but I tell you I never saw that sort
of fruit ripe--and I'm not sure that I ever shall in this world. For
the best fruit that the ground can yield, includes not only the best
seed and cultivation, but the perfect keeping down of every weed, and
the unchecked receiving of all sweet heavenly influences."
"That's a camera!" said Mr. Simlins something shortly. "You can't have
all that in this world."
"The fact that people cannot be perfect in this world, does not hinder
their being better than they are."
"Well, I say, how're you goin' to work to make it, when they're doin'
the best they can do, already?"
"Who is?"
"I am inclined to be of the opinion you air," said Mr Simlins slowly.
"I won't say I be--but I don't know how to do no better."
"Thank you, Mr. Simlins--" was the somewhat sorrowful reply,--"you may
see what I do, but you do not see what I know. And for you, my
friend--pray to know!--there can be no mistakes in the advice that
comes from heaven."
There was a minute's silence, till they came to a turning.
"I'd be glad to see you," said Mr. Simlins in a somewhat lowered
tone,--"ary one of you--down to my house, any time. You can take care
of her the rest of the way. Good night!"--
He turned off abruptly down a road that led his way.
They had been walking with slackened steps during this conversation,
and the lingering memory of it still checked the pace of the two now
left together:
   "Silence accompanied; for beast and bird,
   They to their grassy couch, these to their nests,"
had all retreated. And when Mr. Linden spoke, it was not in his own
words.
   "'I thank thee, uncreated Sun,
   That thy bright beams on me have shined!
   I thank thee, who hast overthrown
   My foes, and healed my wounded mind!
   I thank thee, whose enlivening voice
   Bids my freed heart in thee rejoice!
   "'Thee will I love, my joy, my crown!
   Thee will I love, my Lord, my God!
   Thee will I love--beneath thy frown
   Or smile, thy sceptre or thy rod!
   What though my flesh and heart decay,
