almost screamed out when I saw the strange, suffering expression on his
colorless face. My first thought was that he had fallen somewhere, and
been hurt dreadfully. He tried to pass me without stopping; but I put
both hands on him, and said--‘Oh, Henry! what does ail you?’ ‘Nothing
of any account,’ he answered, in a low, husky tone. ‘I don’t feel right
well, and am going to my room to lie down.’ And saying this, he brushed
right past me, and went up stairs. I followed after him, but when I
tried his door it was fastened on the inside. I called three times
before he answered, and then he said--‘Mother, I’m not sick; but I feel
bad and want to be alone. Please don’t disturb me to-night.’ I don’t
think I would have known the voice if it hadn’t been just then and
there. Knowing his disposition, anxious and troubled as I was, I felt
that it would be best for the time being to let him alone. And I did so.
For an hour or more all in his room was as still as death, and I began
to grow very uneasy. Then I heard his feet upon the floor moving about.
I heard him walk to his bureau--my ears served me for eyes--then to
the mantlepiece, and then to the window. All was still again for some
minutes. My heart beat like a hammer, as one vague suggestion after
another floated through my mind. Then he crossed the room with a slow
step; turned and went back again; and so kept on walking to and fro.
I listened, waiting for the sound to cease; nut he walked on and on,
backwards and forwards, backwards and forwards, tramp, tramp, tramp,
until it seemed as if every jarring footfall was on my heart. Oh,
Doctor! I never had anything to affect me so before in my whole life. An
hour passed, and still he walked the floor of his room. I could bear it
no longer, and went and called to him. But he seemed deaf, and made no
reply. I rattled at the lock and called again and again. Then he came
close to the door, and said, speaking a little impatiently for him--
‘Mother! Mother! For Heaven’s sake don’t trouble me! I don’t feel just
right, and you must let me alone for the present.’
“Well, he kept on walking for an hour longer, and then everything was
still in his room for the night. This morning on trying his door it was
unfastened. I went in. He was lying in bed wide awake. But, oh! such a
change as I saw in his face. It was colorless as on the evening before;
but less expressive of emotion. A dead calm seemed to have settled upon
it. I took his hand; it was cold. I pressed his forehead; it was cold
also. ‘Henry, my son, how are you?’ I asked. He did not reply; but
looked in my face with a cold, steady gaze that chilled me. ‘Are you
sick, my son?’ He merely shook his head slowly. ‘Has anything happened?
What has happened?’ I pressed my question upon him; but it was of no
use. He would not satisfy me. I then asked if he would not rise. ‘Not
yet,’ he said. ‘Shall I bring you some breakfast?’ ‘No--no--I cannot
eat.’ And he shook his head and shut his eyes, while there came into his
face a look so sad and suffering that as I gazed on him I could not keep
the tears back.
“And it has been no better with him all the day, Doctor,” added Mrs.
Wallingford, heaving a long sigh. “Oh, I am distressed to death about
it. Won’t you come and see him? I’m afraid if something isn’t done that
he will lose his senses.”
“Have you no conjecture as to the cause of this strange condition of
mind?” I asked.
“None,” she replied. “Henry is a reserved young man, you know, Doctor;
and keeps many things hidden in his mind even from me that should be
outspoken.”
“Has he no love affair on hand?”
“I think not.”
“Hasn’t he been paying attention to Squire Floyd’s daughter?”
“Delia?”
“Yes.”
“I believe not, Doctor.”
“I’ve seen him at the Squire’s.”
“Nothing serious, or I should have known of it. Henry is rather shy
about the girls.”
“And you wish me to see him to-night?”
“Yes. Something ought to be done.”
“What is his condition just now?” I inquired. “How did you leave him?”
“He’s been in bed nearly all day, and hasn’t touched a mouthful. To all
my persuasions and entreaties he answers--‘Please, mother, let me alone.
I will be better after a while.’”
“I think,” said I, after musing on the case, “that, may be, the
let-alone prescription will be the best one for the present. He is
prostrated by some strong mental emotion--that seems clear; and time
must be given for the mind to regain its equipoise. If I were to call,
as you desire, it might annoy or irritate him, and so do more harm than
good. No medicine that I can give is at all likely to reach his case.”
Mrs. Wallingford looked disappointed, and demurred strongly to my
conclusion.
“I’m sure, Doctor, if you saw him you might suggest something. Or, may
be, he would open his mind to you.”
“I’ll think it over,” said I. “Mrs. Jones has sent for me to see her
baby to-night. I was just about starting when you called. On my way
back, if, on reflection, it seems to me advisable, I will drop in at
your house.”
“Call at any rate, Doctor,” urged Mrs. Wallingford. “Even if you don’t
see Henry, you may be able to advise me as to what I had better do.”
I gave my promise, and the troubled mother went back through storm and
darkness to her home. By this time my overcoat was thoroughly dried. As
Constance brought it forth warm from the fire, she looked into my face
with an expression of inquiry. But I was not ready to speak in regard to
Mrs. Wallingford, and, perceiving this at a glance, she kept silence on
that subject.
As I opened the front door, the storm swept into my face; but I passed
out quickly into the night, and shielding myself with an umbrella, as
best I could, bent to the rushing wind, and took my solitary way in
the direction of Mrs. Jones’s humble dwelling, which lay quite upon the
outskirts of our town. To reach my destination, I had to pass the Old
Allen House, which stood within a high stone enclosure, surrounded by
stately elms a century old, which spread their great arms above and
around the decaying mansion, as if to ward off the encroachments of
time. As I came opposite the gate opening upon the carriage way, I
stopped suddenly in surprise, for light streamed out from both windows
of the north-west chamber, which I knew had been closed ever since the
death of Captain Allen, who passed to his account several years before.
This Allen House was one of the notable places in our town; and the
stories in circulation touching the Allen family, now almost extinct,
were so strongly tinctured with romance, that sober-minded people
generally received them with a large measure of incredulity.
The spacious old two-story mansion, with its high-pitched roof and rows
of dormer windows, was built by the father of Captain Allen, who had
also followed the sea, and, it was said, obtained his large wealth
through means not sanctioned by laws human or divine. Men and women of
the past generation, and therefore contemporaries, did not hesitate to
designate him an “old pirate,” though always the opprobrious words
were spoken in an undertone, for people were half afraid of the dark,
reserved, evil-looking man, who had evidently passed a large portion of
his life among scenes of peril and violence. There were more pleasing
traditions of the beautiful wife he brought home to grace the luxurious
dwelling he had fitted up in a style of almost princely splendor,
compared with the plain abode of even the best off people in town. Who
she was, or from whence she came, no one knew certainly. She was very
young--almost a child--when the elder Captain Allen brought her to
S----.
Very little intercourse, I believe, passed between the Allen family and
the town’s-people, except in a business way. The first regular entry
made into the house beyond the formal drawing-room, was on the occasion
of a birth, when the best nurse and gossip in town was summoned to
attend the young mistress. A son was born. He was called John; though
not under the sign of Christian baptism--John Allen; afterwards Captain
Allen. The old sea-dog, his father, was absent at the time; but returned
before the infant was four weeks old. The nurse described the meeting
of husband and wife as very lover-like and tender on his part, but with
scarcely a sign of feeling on hers. She did not repel him, nor turn from
him; but received his caresses with the manner of one in whom all quick
emotion had died. And so it continued between them--he thoughtful and
assiduous, and she cold, and for the most part silent. But, to her babe,
the young mother was passionate at times in her loving demonstrations.
The pent up waters of feeling gave way in this direction, and poured
themselves out, often, in a rushing flood. Towards all others she bore
herself with a calm, sweet dignity of manner, that captivated the heart,
and made it sigh for a better acquaintance with one around whom mystery
had hung a veil that no hand but her own could push aside--and that hand
was never lifted.
The next event in the Allen House, noted by the people, was the birth of
a daughter. The same nurse was called in, who remained the usual time,
and then retired; bearing with her a history of the period, which she
related, very confidentially, at tea-tables, and in familiar gossip with
choice spirits of her own.
Those who knew her best, were always something in doubt as to which
of her stories contained truth and which romance. The latter element
mingled largely, it is presumed, in all of them.
A great change had taken place in the Captain’s manner. He no longer
played the lover to a cold and distant mistress, but carried himself
haughtily at times--captiously at times--and always with an air of
indifference. All affection seemed transferred to his boy, who was
growing self-willed, passionate, and daring. These qualities were never
repressed by his father, but rather encouraged and strengthened. On
learning that his next heir was a daughter, he expressed impatience, and
muttered something about its being strangled at birth. The nurse said
that he never deigned even to look at it while she was in the house.
The beautiful young wife showed signs of change, also. Much of the old
sweetness had left her mouth, which was calmer and graver. Her manner
towards Captain Allen, noted before, was of the same quiet, distant
character, but more strongly marked. It was plain that she had no love
for him. The great mystery was, how two so wholly unlike in all internal
qualities, and external seeming, could ever have been constrained into
the relationship, of man and wife. She was, evidently, an English woman.
This was seen in her rich complexion, sweet blue eyes, fair hair, and
quiet dignity of manner. Among the many probable and improbable rumors
as to her first meeting with Captain Allen, this one had currency. A
sailor, who had seen a good deal of service in the West Indies, told the
following story:
An English vessel from Jamaica, richly freighted, had on board a
merchant with his family, returning from a residence of a few years on
the island, to the mother country.
They had been out only a day, when a pirate bore down upon them, and
made an easy capture of the ship. The usual bloody scenes of that day
followed. Death, in terrible forms, met the passengers and crew, and the
vessel, after being robbed of its costliest treasures, was scuttled and
sent down into the far depths of the ocean, from whence no sign could
ever come.
But one living soul was spared--so the story went. An only child of
the English merchant, a fair and beautiful young girl, whose years had
compassed only the early spring-time of life, flung herself upon her
knees before the pirate Captain and begged so piteously for life,
that he spared her from the general slaughter he had himself decreed.
Something in her pure, exquisitely beautiful face, touched his
compassion. There were murmurs of discontent among his savage crew. But
the strong-willed Captain had his way, and when he sailed back with
his booty to their place of rendezvous, he bore with him the beautiful
maiden. Here, it was said, he gave her honorable protection, and had her
cared for as tenderly as was possible under the circumstances. And it
was further related, that, when the maiden grew to ripe womanhood, he
abandoned the trade of a buccaneer and made her his wife. The sailor
told this story, shrugged his shoulders, looked knowing and mysterious,
and left his auditors to draw what inference they pleased. As they had
been talking of Captain Allen, the listeners made their own conclusion
as to his identity with the buccaneer. True to human nature, in its
inclination to believe always the worst of a man, nine out of ten
credited the story as applied to the cut-throat looking captain, and so,
after this, it was no unusual thing to hear him designated by the not
very flattering sobriquet of the “old pirate.”
Later events, still more inexplicable in their character, and yet
unexplained, gave color to this story, and invested it with the elements
of probability. As related, the old gossip’s second intrusion upon the
Aliens, in the capacity of nurse, furnished the town’s-people with a few
additional facts, as to the state of things inside of a dwelling, upon
whose very walls seemed written mystery. In the beginning, Mrs. Allen
had made a few acquaintances, who were charmed with her character, as
far as she let herself be known. Visits were made and returned for a
short season. But after the birth of her first child, she went abroad
but rarely, and ceasing to return all visits, social intercourse came to
an end. The old nurse insisted that this was not her fault, but wholly
chargeable upon the Captain, who, she was certain, had forbidden his
wife to have anything to do with the town’s-people.
CHAPTER II.
One day, nearly two years after the birth of this second child,
the quiet town of S----was aroused from its dreams by a strange and
startling event. About a week before, a handsomely dressed man, with the
air of a foreigner, alighted from the stage coach at the “White
Swan,” and asked if he could have a room. A traveler of such apparent
distinction was a rare event in S----; and as he suggested the probable
stay of a week or so, he became an object of immediate attention, as
well as curiosity.
Night had closed in when he arrived, and as he was fatigued by his
journey in the old lumbering stage coach that ran between the nearest
sea-port town and S----, he did not show himself again that evening to
the curious people who were to be found idling about the “White Swan.”
 But he had a talk with the landlord. That functionary waited upon him to
know his pleasure as to supper.
“The ride has given me a headache,” the stranger said, “which a cup of
tea will probably remove. Beyond that, I will take nothing to-night.
Your name is--”
“Adams, sir. Adams is my name,” replied the landlord.
“And mine is Willoughby--Col. Willoughby.” And the Englishman bowed with
a slight air of condescension.
“I am at your service, Col. Willoughby,” said the landlord in his blunt
way. “Just say what you want, and the thing is done.”
“A cup of tea will serve me to-night, my friend. Let it be good and
strong; for my head is a little unsettled with this throbbing pain.
That stage coach of yours would be something better for a pair of new
springs.”
“It’s seen service, and no mistake. But people in these parts don’t
calculate much on easy riding. Springs are no great account. We look to
the main chance.”
“What is that?”
“Getting over the ground.”
The traveler smiled to himself in a quiet way, as if the landlord’s
answer had touched some memory or experience.
Nothing further being remarked, Mr. Adams retired to order a cup of
tea for his guest. Something about the Englishman had stimulated his
curiosity; and, so, instead of sending the cup of tea by his wife, who
did most of the waiting, he carried it to the room himself.
“Sit down, Mr. Adams,” said the traveler, after the tea had been put
before him.
The landlord did not wait for a second invitation.
“I hope the tea is to your liking, sir.”
“Excellent. I’ve not tasted better since I left London.”
The traveler spoke blandly, as he held his cup a little way from his
lips, and looked over the top of it at his host with something more than
a casual glance. He was reading his face with an evident effort to gain
from it, as an index, some clear impression of his character.
“My wife understands her business,” replied the flattered landlord.
“There is not her equal in all the country round.”
“I can believe you, Mr. Adams. Already this delicious beverage has acted
like a charmed potion. My headache has left me as if by magic.”
He set his cup down; moved his chair a little way from the table at
which he was sitting, and threw a pleasant look upon the landlord.
“How long have you been in this town, Mr. Adams?” The question seemed
indifferently asked; but the landlord’s ear did not fail to perceive in
the tone in which it was given, a foreshadowing of much beyond.
“I was born here,” he replied.
“Ah! Then you know all the people, I imagine?”
“I know all their faces, at least.”
“And their histories and characters?”
“Perhaps.”
Something in this “perhaps,” and the tone in which it was uttered,
seemed not to strike the questioner agreeably. He bent his brows a
little, and looked more narrowly at the landlord.
“I did not see much of your town as I came in this evening. How large is
it?”
“Middling good size, sir, for an inland town,” was the not very
satisfactory answer.
“What is the population?”
“Well, I don’t know--can’t just say to a certainty.”
“Two thousand?”
“Laws! no sir! Not over one, if that.”
“About a thousand, then?”
“Maybe a thousand, and maybe not more than six or seven hundred.”
“Call it seven hundred, then,” said the traveler, evidently a little
amused.
“And that will, in my view, be calling it enough.”
There was a pause. The traveler seemed in doubt as to whether he should
go on with his queries.
“Not much trade here, I presume?” He asked, at length.
“Not much to boast of,” said Adams.
Another pause.
“Any well-to-do people? Gentlemen who live on their means?”
“Yes; there’s Aaron Thompson. He’s rich, I guess. But you can’t measure
a snake ‘till he’s dead, as they say.”
“True,” said the traveler, seeming to fall into the landlord’s mood.
“Executors often change the public estimate of a man as to this world’s
goods. So, Aaron Thompson is one of your rich men?”
“Yes, and there’s Abel Reeder--a close-fisted old dog, but wealthy as a
Jew, and no mistake. Then there is Captain Allen.”
A flash of interest went over the stranger’s face, which was turned at
once from the light.
“Captain Allen! And what of him?” The voice was pitched to a lower tone;
but there was no appearance of special curiosity.
“A great deal of him.” The landlord put on a knowing look.
“Is he a sea captain?”
“Yes;” and lowering his voice, “something else besides, if we are to
credit people who pretend to know.”
“Ah! but you speak in riddles, Mr. Adams. What do you mean by something
more?”
“Why, the fact is, Mr. Willoughby, they do say, that he got his money in
a backhanded sort of fashion.”
“By gambling?”
“No, sir! By piracy!”
Col. Willoughby gave a real or affected start.
“A grave charge that, sir.” He looked steadily at the landlord. “And one
that should not be lightly made.”
“I only report the common talk.”
“If such talk should reach the ears of Captain Allen?” suggested the
stranger.
“No great likelihood of its doing so, for I reckon there’s no man in
S----bold enough to say ‘pirate’ to his face.”
“What kind of a man is he?”
“A bad specimen in every way.”
“He’s no favorite of yours, I see?”
“I have no personal cause of dislike. We never had many words together,”
 said the landlord. “But he’s a man that you want to get as far away from
as possible. There are men, you know, who kind of draw you towards them,
as if they were made of loadstone; and others that seem to push you off.
Captain Allen is one of the latter kind.”
“What sort of a looking man is he?”
“Short; thick-set; heavily built, as to body. A full, coarse face; dark
leathery skin; and eyes that are a match for the Evil One’s. There is a
deep scar across his left forehead, running past the outer corner of
his eye, and ending against the cheek bone. The lower lid of this eye
is drawn down, and the inside turned out, showing its deep red lining.
There is another scar on his chin. Two fingers are gone from his left
hand, and his right hand has suffered violence.”
“He has evidently seen hard service,” remarked the stranger, and in a
voice that showed him to be suppressing, as best he could, all signs of
interest in the landlord’s communication.
“There’s no mistake about that; and if you could only see him, my word
for it, you would fall into the common belief that blood lies upon his
conscience.”
“I shall certainly put myself in the way of seeing him, after the spur
you have just given to my curiosity,” said Col. Willoughby, in a decided
manner, as if he had an interest in the man beyond what the landlord’s
communication had excited.
“Then you will have to remain here something more than a week, I’m
thinking,” replied the landlord.
“Why so?”
“Captain Allen isn’t at home.”
There was a sudden change in the stranger’s face that did not escape the
landlord’s notice. But whether it indicated pleasure or disappointment,
he could not tell; for it was at best a very equivocal expression.
“Not at home!” His voice indicated surprise.
“No, sir.”
“How long has he been absent?”
“About a month.”
“And is expected to return soon, no doubt?”
“As to that, I can’t say. Few people in this town I apprehend, can speak
with certainty as to the going and coming of Captain Allen.”
“Is he often away?”
“No, sir; but oftener of late than formerly.”
“Is his absence usually of a prolonged character?”
“It is much longer than it used to be--never less than a month, and
often extended to three times that period.”
Colonel Willoughby sat without further remark for some time, his eyes
bent down, his brows contracted by thought, and his lips firmly drawn
together.
“Thank you, my friend,” he said, at length, looking up, “for your
patience in answering my idle questions. I will not detain you any
longer.”
The landlord arose, and, bowing to his guest, retired from the
apartment.
CHAPTER III.
On the next morning Colonel Willoughby plied the landlord with a few
more questions about Captain Allen, and then, inquiring the direction of
his house, started out, as he said, to take a ramble through the town.
He did not come back until near dinner time, and then he showed no
disposition to encourage familiarity on the part of Mr. Adams. But that
individual was not in the dark touching the morning whereabouts of his
friend. A familiar of his, stimulated by certain good things which the
landlord knew when and how to dispense, had tracked the stranger from
the “White Swan” to Captain Allen’s house. After walking around it, on
the outside of the enclosure once or twice, and viewing it on all sides,
he had ventured, at last, through the gate, and up to the front door of
the stately mansion. A servant admitted him, and the landlord’s familiar
loitered around for nearly three hours before he came out. Mrs. Allen
accompanied him to the door, and stood and talked with him earnestly
for some time in the portico. They shook hands in parting, and Colonel
Willoughby retired with a firm, slow step, and his eyes bent downwards
as if his thoughts were sober, if not oppressive.
All this Mr. Adams knew; and of course, his curiosity was pitched to a
high key. But, it was all in vain that he threw himself in the way
of his guest, made leading remarks, and even asked if he had seen the
splendid dwelling of Captain Allen. The handsome stranger held him
firmly at a distance. And not only on that day and evening, but on the
next day and the next. He was polite even to blandness, but suffered no
approach beyond the simplest formal intercourse. Every morning he was
seen going to Captain Allen’s house, where he always stayed several
hours. The afternoons he spent, for the most part, in his own room.
All this soon became noised throughout the town of S----, and there was
a little world of excitement, and all manner of conjectures, as to who
this Colonel Willoughby might be. The old nurse, of whom mention has
been made, presuming upon her professional acquaintance with Mrs. Allen,
took the liberty of calling in one afternoon, when, to her certain
knowledge, the stranger was in the house. She was, however, disappointed
in seeing him. The servant who admitted her showed her into a small
reception-room, on the opposite side of the hall from the main parlor,
and here Mrs. Allen met her. She was “very sweet to her”--to use her own
words--sweet, and kind, and gentle as ever. But she looked paler than
usual, and did not seem to be at ease.
The nurse reported that something was going wrong; but, as to its exact
nature, she was in the dark. It certainly didn’t look right for Mrs.
Allen to be receiving daily the visits of an elegant looking stranger,
and her husband away. There was only one opinion on this head.
And so it went on from day to day for nearly a week--Colonel Willoughby,
as he had called himself, spending the greater part of every morning
with Mrs. Allen, and hiding himself from curious eyes, during the
afternoons, in his room at the “White Swan.” Then came the denouement to
this exciting little drama.
One day the stranger, after dining, asked Mr. Adams for his bill, which
he paid in British gold. He then gave directions to have a small trunk,
the only baggage he had with him, sent to the house of Captain Allen.
The landlord raised his eyebrows, of course; looked very much surprised,
and even ventured a curious question. But the stranger repelled all
inquisition touching his movements. And so he left the “White Swan,”
 after sojourning there for nearly a week, and the landlord never saw him
again.
The news which came on the following day, created no little sensation in
S----. Jacob Perkins, who lived near Captain Allen’s, and often worked
for him, told the story. His relation was to this effect: About
ten o’clock at night, Mrs. Allen sent for him, and he waited on her
accordingly. He found her dressed as for a journey, but alone.
“Take a seat, Jacob,” she said. “I wish to have some talk with you.” The
man noticed something unusual in her talk and manner.
“Jacob,” she resumed, after a pause, bending towards Mr. Perkins, “can
I trust you in a matter requiring both service and secrecy? I have done
some kind things for you and yours; I now wish you to return the favor.”
As she spoke, she drew out a purse, and let him see something of its
golden contents.
“Say on, Mrs. Allen. You may trust me. If you ask anything short of a
crime, it shall be done. Yes, you have been kind to me and mine, and now
I will repay you, if in my power to do so.”
Jacob Perkins was in earnest. But, whether gratitude, or that apparition
of golden sovereigns, had most influence upon him, cannot at this remote
period be said.
“Can you get a pair of horses and a carriage, or light wagon, to-night?”
“I can,” replied Jacob.
“And so as not to excite undue curiosity?”
“I think so.”
“Very well. Next, will you drive that team all night?”
And Mrs. Allen played with the purse of gold, and let the coins it
contained strike each other with a musical chink, very pleasant to the
ear of Jacob Perkins.
“You shall be paid handsomely for your trouble,” added the lady, as
she fixed her beautiful blue eyes upon Jacob with an earnest, almost
pleading look.
“I hope there is nothing wrong,” said Jacob, as some troublesome
suspicions began turning themselves over in his mind.
“Nothing wrong, as God is my witness!” And Mrs. Allen lifted her pale
face reverently upwards.
“Forgive me, madam; I might have known that,” said Jacob. “And now, if
you will give me your orders, they shall be obeyed to the letter.”
“Thank you, my kind friend,” returned Mrs. Allen. “The service you are
now about to render me, cannot be estimated in the usual way. To me, it
will be far beyond all price.”
She was agitated, and paused to recover herself. Then she resumed, with
her usual calmness of manner--
“Bring the carriage here--driving with as little noise as possible--in
half an hour. Be very discreet. Don’t mention the matter even to your
wife. You can talk with her as freely as you choose on your return from
Boston.”
“From Boston? Why, that is thirty miles away, at least!”
“I know it, Jacob; but I must be in Boston early to-morrow morning. You
know the road?”
“Every foot of it.”
“So much the better. And now go for the carriage.”
Jacob Perkins arose. As he was turning to go, Mrs. Allen placed her hand
upon his shoulder, and said--
“I can trust you, Mr. Perkins?”
“Madam, you can,” was his reply; and he passed from the quiet house into
the darkness without. The night was moonless, but the stars shone down
from an unclouded sky. When Jacob Perkins found himself alone, and began
to look this adventure full in the face, some unpleasant doubts touching
the part he was about to play, intruded themselves upon his thoughts. He
had seen the handsome stranger going daily to visit Mrs. Allen, for now
nearly a week, and had listened to the town talk touching the matter,
until his own mind was filled with the common idea, that something was
wrong. And now, to be called on to drive Mrs. Allen to Boston, secretly,
and under cover of the night, seemed so much like becoming a party to
some act of folly or crime, that he gave way to hesitation, and began
to seek for reasons that would justify his playing the lady false. Then
came up the image of her sweet, reverent face, as she said so earnestly,
“Nothing wrong, as God is my witness!” And his first purpose was
