peaceful under the turf in the little graveyard not far off, and she
must care for her boy.
A strong motherly feeling swelled out the girl's heart,--she felt that
she must, she would, somehow save that treasure which had so
mysteriously been committed to her. So, when she thought she had given
time enough for Moses to be quietly asleep in his room, she arose and
ran with quick footsteps across the moonlit plain to the house.
The front-door was standing wide open, as was always the innocent
fashion in these regions, with a half-angle of moonlight and shadow
lying within its dusky depths. Mara listened a moment,--no sound: he had
gone to bed then. "Poor boy," she said, "I hope he is asleep; how he
must feel, poor fellow! It's all the fault of those dreadful men!" said
the little dark shadow to herself, as she stole up the stairs past his
room as guiltily as if she were the sinner. Once the stairs creaked, and
her heart was in her mouth, but she gained her room and shut and bolted
the door. She kneeled down by her little white bed, and thanked God
that she had come in safe, and then prayed him to teach her what to do
next. She felt chilly and shivering, and crept into bed, and lay with
her great soft brown eyes wide open, intently thinking what she should
do.
Should she tell her grandfather? Something instinctively said No; that
the first word from him which showed Moses he was detected would at once
send him off with those wicked men. "He would never, never bear to have
this known," she said. Mr. Sewell?--ah, that was worse. She herself
shrank from letting him know what Moses had been doing; she could not
bear to lower him so much in his eyes. He could not make allowances, she
thought. He is good, to be sure, but he is so old and grave, and doesn't
know how much Moses has been tempted by these dreadful men; and then
perhaps he would tell Miss Emily, and they never would want Moses to
come there any more.
"What shall I do?" she said to herself. "I must get somebody to help me
or tell me what to do. I can't tell grandmamma; it would only make her
ill, and she wouldn't know what to do any more than I. Ah, I know what I
will do,--I'll tell Captain Kittridge; he was always so kind to me; and
he has been to sea and seen all sorts of men, and Moses won't care so
much perhaps to have him know, because the Captain is such a funny man,
and don't take everything so seriously. Yes, that's it. I'll go right
down to the cove in the morning. God will bring me through, I know He
will;" and the little weary head fell back on the pillow asleep. And as
she slept, a smile settled over her face, perhaps a reflection from the
face of her good angel, who always beholdeth the face of our Father in
Heaven.
CHAPTER XXII
A FRIEND IN NEED
Mara was so wearied with her night walk and the agitation she had been
through, that once asleep she slept long after the early breakfast hour
of the family. She was surprised on awaking to hear the slow old clock
downstairs striking eight. She hastily jumped up and looked around with
a confused wonder, and then slowly the events of the past night came
back upon her like a remembered dream. She dressed herself quickly, and
went down to find the breakfast things all washed and put away, and Mrs.
Pennel spinning.
"Why, dear heart," said the old lady, "how came you to sleep so?--I
spoke to you twice, but I could not make you hear."
"Has Moses been down, grandma?" said Mara, intent on the sole thought in
her heart.
"Why, yes, dear, long ago,--and cross enough he was; that boy does get
to be a trial,--but come, dear, I've saved some hot cakes for you,--sit
down now and eat your breakfast."
Mara made a feint of eating what her grandmother with fond officiousness
would put before her, and then rising up she put on her sun-bonnet and
started down toward the cove to find her old friend.
The queer, dry, lean old Captain had been to her all her life like a
faithful kobold or brownie, an unquestioning servant of all her gentle
biddings. She dared tell him anything without diffidence or
shamefacedness; and she felt that in this trial of her life he might
have in his sea-receptacle some odd old amulet or spell that should be
of power to help her. Instinctively she avoided the house, lest Sally
should see and fly out and seize her. She took a narrow path through the
cedars down to the little boat cove where the old Captain worked so
merrily ten years ago, in the beginning of our story, and where she
found him now, with his coat off, busily planing a board.
"Wal', now,--if this 'ere don't beat all!" he said, looking up and
seeing her; "why, you're looking after Sally, I s'pose? She's up to the
house."
"No, Captain Kittridge, I'm come to see you."
"You be?" said the Captain, "I swow! if I ain't a lucky feller. But
what's the matter?" he said, suddenly observing her pale face and the
tears in her eyes. "Hain't nothin' bad happened,--hes there?"
"Oh! Captain Kittridge, something dreadful; and nobody but you can help
me."
"Want to know, now!" said the Captain, with a grave face. "Well, come
here, now, and sit down, and tell me all about it. Don't you cry,
there's a good girl! Don't, now."
Mara began her story, and went through with it in a rapid and agitated
manner; and the good Captain listened in a fidgety state of interest,
occasionally relieving his mind by interjecting "Do tell, now!" "I
swan,--if that ar ain't too bad."
"That ar's rediculous conduct in Atkinson. He ought to be talked to,"
said the Captain, when she had finished, and then he whistled and put a
shaving in his mouth, which he chewed reflectively.
"Don't you be a mite worried, Mara," he said. "You did a great deal
better to come to me than to go to Mr. Sewell or your grand'ther either;
'cause you see these 'ere wild chaps they'll take things from me they
wouldn't from a church-member or a minister. Folks mustn't pull 'em up
with too short a rein,--they must kind o' flatter 'em off. But that ar
Atkinson's too rediculous for anything; and if he don't mind, I'll serve
him out. I know a thing or two about him that I shall shake over his
head if he don't behave. Now I don't think so much of smugglin' as some
folks," said the Captain, lowering his voice to a confidential tone. "I
reely don't, now; but come to goin' off piratin',--and tryin' to put a
young boy up to robbin' his best friends,--why, there ain't no kind o'
sense in that. It's p'ison mean of Atkinson. I shall tell him so, and I
shall talk to Moses."
"Oh! I'm afraid to have you," said Mara, apprehensively.
"Why, chickabiddy," said the old Captain, "you don't understand me. I
ain't goin' at him with no sermons,--I shall jest talk to him this way:
Look here now, Moses, I shall say, there's Badger's ship goin' to sail
in a fortnight for China, and they want likely fellers aboard, and I've
got a hundred dollars that I'd like to send on a venture; if you'll take
it and go, why, we'll share the profits. I shall talk like that, you
know. Mebbe I sha'n't let him know what I know, and mebbe I shall; jest
tip him a wink, you know; it depends on circumstances. But bless you,
child, these 'ere fellers ain't none of 'em 'fraid o' me, you see,
'cause they know I know the ropes."
"And can you make that horrid man let him alone?" said Mara, fearfully.
"Calculate I can. 'Spect if I's to tell Atkinson a few things I know,
he'd be for bein' scase in our parts. Now, you see, I hain't minded
doin' a small bit o' trade now and then with them ar fellers myself; but
this 'ere," said the Captain, stopping and looking extremely disgusted,
"why, it's contemptible, it's rediculous!"
"Do you think I'd better tell grandpapa?" said Mara.
"Don't worry your little head. I'll step up and have a talk with Pennel,
this evening. He knows as well as I that there is times when chaps must
be seen to, and no remarks made. Pennel knows that ar. Why, now, Mis'
Kittridge thinks our boys turned out so well all along of her bringin'
up, and I let her think so; keeps her sort o' in spirits, you see. But
Lord bless ye, child, there's been times with Job, and Sam, and Pass,
and Dass, and Dile, and all on 'em finally, when, if I hadn't jest
pulled a rope here and turned a screw there, and said nothin' to nobody,
they'd a-been all gone to smash. I never told Mis' Kittridge none o'
their didos; bless you, 'twouldn't been o' no use. I never told them,
neither; but I jest kind o' worked 'em off, you know; and they's all
putty 'spectable men now, as men go, you know; not like Parson Sewell,
but good, honest mates and ship-masters,--kind o' middlin' people, you
know. It takes a good many o' sich to make up a world, d'ye see."
"But oh, Captain Kittridge, did any of them use to swear?" said Mara, in
a faltering voice.
"Wal', they did, consid'able," said the Captain;--then seeing the
trembling of Mara's lip, he added,--
"Ef you could a-found this 'ere out any other way, it's most a pity
you'd a-heard him; 'cause he wouldn't never have let out afore you. It
don't do for gals to hear the fellers talk when they's alone, 'cause
fellers,--wal', you see, fellers will be fellers, partic'larly when
they're young. Some on 'em, they never gits over it all their lives
finally."
"But oh! Captain Kittridge, that talk last night was so dreadfully
wicked! and Moses!--oh, it was dreadful to hear him!"
"Wal', yes, it was," said the Captain, consolingly; "but don't you cry,
and don't you break your little heart. I expect he'll come all right,
and jine the church one of these days; 'cause there's old Pennel, he
prays,--fact now, I think there's consid'able in some people's prayers,
and he's one of the sort. And you pray, too; and I'm quite sure the good
Lord must hear you. I declare sometimes I wish you'd jest say a good
word to Him for me; I should like to get the hang o' things a little
better than I do, somehow, I reely should. I've gi'n up swearing years
ago. Mis' Kittridge, she broke me o' that, and now I don't never go
further than 'I vum' or 'I swow,' or somethin' o' that sort; but you see
I'm old;--Moses is young; but then he's got eddication and friends, and
he'll come all right. Now you jest see ef he don't!"
This miscellaneous budget of personal experiences and friendly
consolation which the good Captain conveyed to Mara may possibly make
you laugh, my reader, but the good, ropy brown man was doing his best to
console his little friend; and as Mara looked at him he was almost
glorified in her eyes--he had power to save Moses, and he would do it.
She went home to dinner that day with her heart considerably lightened.
She refrained, in a guilty way, from even looking at Moses, who was
gloomy and moody.
Mara had from nature a good endowment of that kind of innocent hypocrisy
which is needed as a staple in the lives of women who bridge a thousand
awful chasms with smiling, unconscious looks, and walk, singing and
scattering flowers, over abysses of fear, while their hearts are dying
within them.
She talked more volubly than was her wont with Mrs. Pennel, and with her
old grandfather; she laughed and seemed in more than usual spirits, and
only once did she look up and catch the gloomy eye of Moses. It had that
murky, troubled look that one may see in the eye of a boy when those
evil waters which cast up mire and dirt have once been stirred in his
soul. They fell under her clear glance, and he made a rapid, impatient
movement, as if it hurt him to be looked at. The evil spirit in boy or
man cannot bear the "touch of celestial temper;" and the sensitiveness
to eyebeams is one of the earliest signs of conscious, inward guilt.
Mara was relieved, as he flung out of the house after dinner, to see the
long, dry figure of Captain Kittridge coming up and seizing Moses by the
button. From the window she saw the Captain assuming a confidential air
with him; and when they had talked together a few moments, she saw Moses
going with great readiness after him down the road to his house.
In less than a fortnight, it was settled Moses was to sail for China,
and Mara was deep in the preparations for his outfit. Once she would
have felt this departure as the most dreadful trial of her life. Now it
seemed to her a deliverance for him, and she worked with a cheerful
alacrity, which seemed to Moses more than was proper, considering he
was going away.
For Moses, like many others of his sex, boy or man, had quietly settled
in his own mind that the whole love of Mara's heart was to be his, to
have and to hold, to use and to draw on, when and as he liked. He
reckoned on it as a sort of inexhaustible, uncounted treasure that was
his own peculiar right and property, and therefore he felt abused at
what he supposed was a disclosure of some deficiency on her part.
"You seem to be very glad to be rid of me," he said to her in a bitter
tone one day, as she was earnestly busy in her preparations.
Now the fact was, that Moses had been assiduously making himself
disagreeable to Mara for the fortnight past, by all sorts of unkind
sayings and doings; and he knew it too; yet he felt a right to feel very
much abused at the thought that she could possibly want him to be going.
If she had been utterly desolate about it, and torn her hair and sobbed
and wailed, he would have asked what she could be crying about, and
begged not to be bored with scenes; but as it was, this cheerful
composure was quite unfeeling.
Now pray don't suppose Moses to be a monster of an uncommon species. We
take him to be an average specimen of a boy of a certain kind of
temperament in the transition period of life. Everything is chaos
within; the flesh lusteth against the spirit, and the spirit against the
flesh, and "light and darkness, and mind and dust, and passion and pure
thoughts, mingle and contend," without end or order. He wondered at
himself sometimes that he could say such cruel things as he did to his
faithful little friend--to one whom, after all, he did love and trust
before all other human beings.
There is no saying why it is that a man or a boy, not radically
destitute of generous comprehensions, will often cruelly torture and
tyrannize over a woman whom he both loves and reveres, who stands in his
soul in his best hours as the very impersonation of all that is good and
beautiful. It is as if some evil spirit at times possessed him, and
compelled him to utter words which were felt at the moment to be mean
and hateful. Moses often wondered at himself, as he lay awake nights,
how he could have said and done the things he had, and felt miserably
resolved to make it up somehow before he went away; but he did not.
He could not say, "Mara, I have done wrong," though he every day meant
to do it, and sometimes sat an hour in her presence, feeling murky and
stony, as if possessed by a dumb spirit; then he would get up and fling
stormily out of the house.
Poor Mara wondered if he really would go without one kind word. She
thought of all the years they had been together, and how he had been her
only thought and love. What had become of her brother?--the Moses that
once she used to know--frank, careless, not ill-tempered, and who
sometimes seemed to love her and think she was the best little girl in
the world? Where was he gone to--this friend and brother of her
childhood, and would he never come back?
At last came the evening before his parting; the sea-chest was all made
up and packed; and Mara's fingers had been busy with everything, from
more substantial garments down to all those little comforts and nameless
conveniences that only a woman knows how to improvise. Mara thought
certainly she should get a few kind words, as Moses looked it over. But
he only said, "All right;" and then added that "there was a button off
one of the shirts." Mara's busy fingers quickly replaced it, and Moses
was annoyed at the tear that fell on the button. What was she crying for
now? He knew very well, but he felt stubborn and cruel. Afterwards he
lay awake many a night in his berth, and acted this last scene over
differently. He took Mara in his arms and kissed her; he told her she
was his best friend, his good angel, and that he was not worthy to kiss
the hem of her garment; but the next day, when he thought of writing a
letter to her, he didn't, and the good mood passed away. Boys do not
acquire an ease of expression in letter-writing as early as girls, and a
voyage to China furnished opportunities few and far between of sending
letters.
Now and then, through some sailing ship, came missives which seemed to
Mara altogether colder and more unsatisfactory than they would have done
could she have appreciated the difference between a boy and a girl in
power of epistolary expression; for the power of really representing
one's heart on paper, which is one of the first spring flowers of early
womanhood, is the latest blossom on the slow-growing tree of manhood. To
do Moses justice, these seeming cold letters were often written with a
choking lump in his throat, caused by thinking over his many sins
against his little good angel; but then that past account was so long,
and had so much that it pained him to think of, that he dashed it all
off in the shortest fashion, and said to himself, "One of these days
when I see her I'll make it all up."
No man--especially one that is living a rough, busy, out-of-doors
life--can form the slightest conception of that veiled and secluded life
which exists in the heart of a sensitive woman, whose sphere is narrow,
whose external diversions are few, and whose mind, therefore, acts by a
continual introversion upon itself. They know nothing how their careless
words and actions are pondered and turned again in weary, quiet hours of
fruitless questioning. What did he mean by this? and what did he intend
by that?--while he, the careless buffalo, meant nothing, or has
forgotten what it was, if he did. Man's utter ignorance of woman's
nature is a cause of a great deal of unsuspected cruelty which he
practices toward her.
Mara found one or two opportunities of writing to Moses; but her letters
were timid and constrained by a sort of frosty, discouraged sense of
loneliness; and Moses, though he knew he had no earthly right to expect
this to be otherwise, took upon him to feel as an abused individual,
whom nobody loved--whose way in the world was destined to be lonely and
desolate. So when, at the end of three years, he arrived suddenly at
Brunswick in the beginning of winter, and came, all burning with
impatience, to the home at Orr's Island, and found that Mara had gone to
Boston on a visit, he resented it as a personal slight.
He might have inquired why she should expect him, and whether her whole
life was to be spent in looking out of the window to watch for him. He
might have remembered that he had warned her of his approach by no
letter. But no. "Mara didn't care for him--she had forgotten all about
him--she was having a good time in Boston, just as likely as not with
some train of admirers, and he had been tossing on the stormy ocean, and
she had thought nothing of it." How many things he had meant to say! He
had never felt so good and so affectionate. He would have confessed all
the sins of his life to her, and asked her pardon--and she wasn't there!
Mrs. Pennel suggested that he might go to Boston after her.
No, he was not going to do that. He would not intrude on her pleasures
with the memory of a rough, hard-working sailor. He was alone in the
world, and had his own way to make, and so best go at once up among
lumbermen, and cut the timber for the ship that was to carry Cæsar and
his fortunes.
When Mara was informed by a letter from Mrs. Pennel, expressed in the
few brief words in which that good woman generally embodied her
epistolary communications, that Moses had been at home, and gone to
Umbagog without seeing her, she felt at her heart only a little closer
stricture of cold, quiet pain, which had become a habit of her inner
life.
"He did not love her--he was cold and selfish," said the inner voice.
And faintly she pleaded, in answer, "He is a man--he has seen the
world--and has so much to do and think of, no wonder."
In fact, during the last three years that had parted them, the great
change of life had been consummated in both. They had parted boy and
girl; they would meet man and woman. The time of this meeting had been
announced.
And all this is the history of that sigh, so very quiet that Sally
Kittridge never checked the rattling flow of her conversation to observe
it.
CHAPTER XXIII
THE BEGINNING OF THE STORY
We have in the last three chapters brought up the history of our
characters to the time when our story opens, when Mara and Sally
Kittridge were discussing the expected return of Moses. Sally was
persuaded by Mara to stay and spend the night with her, and did so
without much fear of what her mother would say when she returned; for
though Mrs. Kittridge still made bustling demonstrations of authority,
it was quite evident to every one that the handsome grown-up girl had
got the sceptre into her own hands, and was reigning in the full
confidence of being, in one way or another, able to bring her mother
into all her views.
So Sally stayed--to have one of those long night-talks in which girls
delight, in the course of which all sorts of intimacies and confidences,
that shun the daylight, open like the night-blooming cereus in strange
successions. One often wonders by daylight at the things one says very
naturally in the dark.
So the two girls talked about Moses, and Sally dilated upon his
handsome, manly air the one Sunday that he had appeared in Harpswell
meeting-house.
"He didn't know me at all, if you'll believe it," said Sally. "I was
standing with father when he came out, and he shook hands with him, and
looked at me as if I'd been an entire stranger."
"I'm not in the least surprised," said Mara; "you're grown so and
altered."
"Well, now, you'd hardly know him, Mara," said Sally. "He is a man--a
real man; everything about him is different; he holds up his head in
such a proud way. Well, he always did that when he was a boy; but when
he speaks, he has such a deep voice! How boys do alter in a year or
two!"
"Do you think I have altered much, Sally?" said Mara; "at least, do you
think he would think so?"
"Why, Mara, you and I have been together so much, I can't tell. We don't
notice what goes on before us every day. I really should like to see
what Moses Pennel will think when he sees you. At any rate, he can't
order you about with such a grand air as he used to when you were
younger."
"I think sometimes he has quite forgotten about me," said Mara.
"Well, if I were you, I should put him in mind of myself by one or two
little ways," said Sally. "I'd plague him and tease him. I'd lead him
such a life that he couldn't forget me,--that's what I would."
"I don't doubt you would, Sally; and he might like you all the better
for it. But you know that sort of thing isn't my way. People must act in
character."
"Do you know, Mara," said Sally, "I always thought Moses was hateful in
his treatment of you? Now I'd no more marry that fellow than I'd walk
into the fire; but it would be a just punishment for his sins to have to
marry me! Wouldn't I serve him out, though!"
With which threat of vengeance on her mind Sally Kittridge fell asleep,
while Mara lay awake pondering,--wondering if Moses would come
to-morrow, and what he would be like if he did come.
The next morning as the two girls were wiping breakfast dishes in a room
adjoining the kitchen, a step was heard on the kitchen-floor, and the
first that Mara knew she found herself lifted from the floor in the
arms of a tall dark-eyed young man, who was kissing her just as if he
had a right to. She knew it must be Moses, but it seemed strange as a
dream, for all she had tried to imagine it beforehand.
He kissed her over and over, and then holding her off at arm's length,
said, "Why, Mara, you have grown to be a beauty!"
"And what was she, I'd like to know, when you went away, Mr. Moses?"
said Sally, who could not long keep out of a conversation. "She was
handsome when you were only a great ugly boy."
"Thank you, Miss Sally!" said Moses, making a profound bow.
"Thank me for what?" said Sally, with a toss.
"For your intimation that I am a handsome young man now," said Moses,
sitting with his arm around Mara, and her hand in his.
And in truth he was as handsome now for a man as he was in the promise
of his early childhood. All the oafishness and surly awkwardness of the
half-boy period was gone. His great black eyes were clear and confident:
his dark hair clustering in short curls round his well-shaped head; his
black lashes, and fine form, and a certain confident ease of manner, set
him off to the greatest advantage.
Mara felt a peculiar dreamy sense of strangeness at this brother who was
not a brother,--this Moses so different from the one she had known. The
very tone of his voice, which when he left had the uncertain cracked
notes which indicate the unformed man, were now mellowed and settled.
Mara regarded him shyly as he talked, blushed uneasily, and drew away
from his arm around her, as if this handsome, self-confident young man
were being too familiar. In fact, she made apology to go out into the
other room to call Mrs. Pennel.
Moses looked after her as she went with admiration. "What a little woman
she has grown!" he said, naïvely.
"And what did you expect she would grow?" said Sally. "You didn't expect
to find her a girl in short clothes, did you?"
"Not exactly, Miss Sally," said Moses, turning his attention to her;
"and some other people are changed too."
"Like enough," said Sally, carelessly. "I should think so, since
somebody never spoke a word to one the Sunday he was at meeting."
"Oh, you remember that, do you? On my word, Sally"--
"Miss Kittridge, if you please, sir," said Sally, turning round with the
air of an empress.
"Well, then, Miss Kittridge," said Moses, making a bow; "now let me
finish my sentence. I never dreamed who you were."
"Complimentary," said Sally, pouting.
"Well, hear me through," said Moses; "you had grown so handsome, Miss
Kittridge."
"Oh! that indeed! I suppose you mean to say I was a fright when you
left?"
"Not at all--not at all," said Moses; "but handsome things may grow
handsomer, you know."
"I don't like flattery," said Sally.
"I never flatter, Miss Kittridge," said Moses.
Our young gentleman and young lady of Orr's Island went through with
this customary little lie of civilized society with as much gravity as
if they were practicing in the court of Versailles,--she looking out
from the corner of her eye to watch the effect of her words, and he
laying his hand on his heart in the most edifying gravity. They
perfectly understood one another.
But, says the reader, seems to me Sally Kittridge does all the talking!
So she does,--so she always will,--for it is her nature to be bright,
noisy, and restless; and one of these girls always overcrows a timid and
thoughtful one, and makes her, for the time, seem dim and faded, as does
rose color when put beside scarlet.
Sally was a born coquette. It was as natural for her to want to flirt
with every man she saw, as for a kitten to scamper after a pin-ball.
Does the kitten care a fig for the pin-ball, or the dry leaves, which
she whisks, and frisks, and boxes, and pats, and races round and round
after? No; it's nothing but kittenhood; every hair of her fur is alive
with it. Her sleepy green eyes, when she pretends to be dozing, are full
of it; and though she looks wise a moment, and seems resolved to be a
discreet young cat, let but a leaf sway--off she goes again, with a
frisk and a rap. So, though Sally had scolded and flounced about Moses's
inattention to Mara in advance, she contrived even in this first
interview to keep him talking with nobody but herself;--not because she
wanted to draw him from Mara, or meant to; not because she cared a pin
for him; but because it was her nature, as a frisky young cat. And Moses
let himself be drawn, between bantering and contradicting, and jest and
earnest, at some moments almost to forget that Mara was in the room.
She took her sewing and sat with a pleased smile, sometimes breaking
into the lively flow of conversation, or eagerly appealed to by both
parties to settle some rising quarrel.
Once, as they were talking, Moses looked up and saw Mara's head, as a
stray sunbeam falling upon the golden hair seemed to make a halo around
her face. Her large eyes were fixed upon him with an expression so
intense and penetrative, that he felt a sort of wincing uneasiness.
"What makes you look at me so, Mara?" he said, suddenly.
A bright flush came in her cheek as she answered, "I didn't know I was
looking. It all seems so strange to me. I am trying to make out who and
what you are."
"It's not best to look too deep," Moses said, laughing, but with a
slight shade of uneasiness.
When Sally, late in the afternoon, declared that she must go home, she
couldn't stay another minute, Moses rose to go with her.
"What are you getting up for?" she said to Moses, as he took his hat.
"To go home with you, to be sure."
"Nobody asked you to," said Sally.
"I'm accustomed to asking myself," said Moses.
"Well, I suppose I must have you along," said Sally. "Father will be
glad to see you, of course."
"You'll be back to tea, Moses," said Mara, "will you not? Grandfather
will be home, and want to see you."
"Oh, I shall be right back," said Moses, "I have a little business to
settle with Captain Kittridge."
But Moses, however, did stay at tea with Mrs. Kittridge, who looked
graciously at him through the bows of her black horn spectacles, having
heard her liege lord observe that Moses was a smart chap, and had done
pretty well in a money way.
How came he to stay? Sally told him every other minute to go; and then
when he had got fairly out of the door, called him back to tell him that
there was something she had heard about him. And Moses of course came
back; wanted to know what it was; and couldn't be told, it was a secret;
and then he would be ordered off, and reminded that he promised to go
straight home; and then when he got a little farther off she called
after him a second time, to tell him that he would be very much
surprised if he knew how she found it out, etc., etc.,--till at last tea
being ready, there was no reason why he shouldn't have a cup. And so it
was sober moonrise before Moses found himself going home.
"Hang that girl!" he said to himself; "don't she know what she's about,
though?"
There our hero was mistaken. Sally never did know what she was
about,--had no plan or purpose more than a blackbird; and when Moses was
gone laughed to think how many times she had made him come back.
"Now, confound it all," said Moses, "I care more for our little Mara
than a dozen of her; and what have I been fooling all this time
for?--now Mara will think I don't love her."
And, in fact, our young gentleman rather set his heart on the sensation
he was going to make when he got home. It is flattering, after all, to
feel one's power over a susceptible nature; and Moses, remembering how
entirely and devotedly Mara had loved him all through childhood, never
doubted but he was the sole possessor of uncounted treasure in her
heart, which he could develop at his leisure and use as he pleased. He
did not calculate for one force which had grown up in the meanwhile
