strewn in all directions, and Sarah's quick eye perceived 
that it was not formless, chance driftwood. There were 
hewn beams and shapely spars, and planks in which great 
iron bolts were still fast. When Philip overtook her, she 
was standing by an immense piece of solid wood, lying far 
beyond the reach of the highest summer tides. One end was 
buried in the sand ; the other, bleached by sun and wind, 
and seamed with cracks, was curved like the extremity of a 
bow. Her late embarrassment or hauteur was forgotten in 
the direct earnestness of her appealing look. 
" Am I mistaken ?" she said, in a low, awed tone. " Is 
not this the keel of a ship ?" 
" It is. There have been many wrecked on this coast." 
" Here !" She glanced from the fierce, bellowing break 
ers to the melancholy testimonial of their destructive might. 
" I have never heard that this was esteemed a dangerous 
point." 
" You can form but an imperfect idea of what this beach 
is in winter," remarked Philip, signing to her to seat herself 
upon the sand, and throwing himself down beside her. " I 
was here once, late in the autumn, and saw a vessel go to 
pieces, scarcely a stone's throw from where we are now sitting. The sea was high, the wind blowing a perfect gale, 
and this schooner, having lost one of her most important 
sails, was at the mercy of the elements. She was cast upon 
the shore, and her crew, watching their opportunity, sprang 
overboard as the waves receded, and reached firm ground 
in safety. Then came a monster billow, and lifting the vessel farther upon the sand, left her careened towards the land. 
It was pitiful to see the poor thing ! so like life were her 
 
shudders and groans, as the cruel surf beat against her, that 
my heart fairly ached. The spray, at every dash, arose 
nearly as high as her mast-head, and a cataract of water 
swept over her deck. Piece by piece she broke up, 
and we could only stand and look on, while the scattered 
portions were thrown to our very feet. I shall  never forget 
the sight. It taught me the truth of man's impotence and 
nature's strength as I had never read it before." 
" But there were no lives lost ! You were spared the 
spectacle of that most terrible scene in the tragedy of ship 
wreck." 
" Yes. But the light of many a life has been quenched 
in that raging caldron. A young man, a resident of 
Shrewsbury, with whom I hunted last year, described to me 
a catalogue of horrors which he had beheld here, that has 
visited me in dreams often since. An emigrant ship was 
cast away on this coast, in midwinter. High above the roar 
of the wind and the booming surf, was heard the cry of the 
doomed wretches, perishing within hail of the crowd of 
fellow-beings who had collected at news of the catastrophe. 
The cold was intense ; mast, and sail, and rope were coated 
with ice, and the benumbed, freezing wretches were exposed 
every instant to the torrents of brine that swept over them 
like sleet. The agony was horrible beyond description, but 
it was soon over. Before the vessel parted, the accent of 
mortal woe was hushed. "Not a man survived to tell the 
tale!" 
For an hour, they sat thus and talked. The subject had, 
for Sarah, a fearful fascination, and, led on by her absorbed 
attention, Philip rehearsed to her wonders and stories of the 
mysterious old ocean, that to-day stretched before them, 
blanched and angry, under the veil of summer cloud, until to 
his auditor there were bitter wailings blent with the surge's 
roar ; arms, strained and bare, were tossed above the dark, 
serpent-like swell of water, in unavailing supplication, and 
livid, dead faces stared upon her from beneath the curling 
crests of the breakers. 
That day on the Deal Beach ! How quietly happy was its 
seeming ! how full of event, emotion, fate was its reality ! 
Charley and Jeannie wandered up and down the coast, fill 
ing their baskets with shells and pebbles ; chasing the retiring waves as far as they dared, and scampering back, with 
shrieks of laughter, as the succeeding billow rolled rapidly 
after them ; building sand-houses, and digging wells to be 
filled by salt-water ; exulting greatly when a rough coralline 
fragment, or a jelly-fish of unusual dimensions was thrown 
in their way. They all lunched together, seated upon the 
heather-clumps, around Aunt Sarah's liberal hamper. 
"Sister!" said Jeannie, when the edge of her sea-side 
appetite was somewhat blunted by her repast, " I like living 
here better than in New York don't you ?" 
" It is more pleasant in summer, my dear." 
" But I mean that I am happier here ! I wish you would 
write to mother, and ask her to let us live here always." 
" But what would she do without her baby ?" asked Phil 
ip, emphasizing the last word. 
The little lady bridled instantly. 
" Cousin Phil ! I do wish you would never call me a 
baby again! I am seven years and two weeks old. I 
could get along very well without mother for a while. Of 
course, I would go over sometimes, and pay her a visit and 
get new dresses. Shrewsbury is a nice place ; I would like 
to buy that pretty white house next to Uncle Nathan's, and 
live there sister, and Charley, and I and you if you 
would promise not to tease me ever !" 
" Thank you !" said Philip, with admirable gravity, seem 
ing not to note Sarah's heightened color at this proposal of 
copartnership. " You are very kind to include me in your 
 
household arrangements, and nothing would please me bet 
ter, if I could stay here. But you know, Jeannie, my dear 
little cousin, that my home is far away from this quarter of 
the world. I have remained here too long already." There 
was a touch of feeling or nervousness in his voice. " I had 
a letter last night, reminding me that I ought to have left a 
week ago, to join a party of friends, whom I promised to 
meet in New York, and travel with them until the time for 
our return to the South." 
He did not look at Sarah, but she felt that the explanation 
was intended for her that, whether intentionally or not, he 
was preparing her for a blow to heart and hope. 
" I shall be obliged to leave Shrewsbury and all my friends 
there, to-morrow morning, Jeannie !" 
The child's exclamation of dismay, and Charley's quick, 
mute remonstrance to his cousin, as his playfellow communicated the news to him, gave Sarah time to rally firmness 
and words. 
" This is unexpected intelligence," she said, calmly. " We 
shall miss you. Your kindness has, directly and indirectly, 
been the means of affording us much pleasure during our 
visit to our good aunt. It will seem dull when you are 
gone." 
There was a flash in Philip's eye that looked like pleasure 
a mixture of relief and surprise, as he turned to her. 
" I am selfish enough to hope that you will miss me for a 
time, at least. I shall not then be so soon forgotten. We 
have had some pleasant days and weeks together ; have we 
not ?" 
" I have enjoyed them, assuredly." 
She was a little pale, Philip thought, but that might be 
the effect of fatigue. Her cheek was seldom blooming, 
unless when flushed in animated speech, or by brisk exercise. She spoke of his going with politeness, that seemed 
 
scarce one remove from carelessness ; and, man-like, his 
pleasure at the thought that their association in the country 
house had not been followed by the results Aunt Sarah 
wished and predicted, gave way to a feeling of wounded 
vanity and vexation, that his summer's companion could're 
linquish him so easily. While he repeated to himself his 
congratulations that his friendly and gallant attentions had 
not been misconstrued, had not awakened any inconvenient, 
because futile " expectations," he wondered if it were a pos 
sibility for a girl of so much sense and feeling, such genuine 
appreciation of his talents and tastes, to know him well 
even intimately without experiencing a warmer sentiment 
than mere approval of an agreeable associate's mind and 
manners, and Platonic liking for him on these accounts. 
With the respectful familiarity of a privileged acquaintance, he drew her hand within his arm, as they arose at the 
conclusion of the collation. 
" We have yet two hours and more to spend here, before 
we set out for home. We can have one more walk and talk 
together." 
They took but one turn on the beach, and returning to 
their morning's seat beside the half-buried keel, tried to talk 
as they had done then. It was hard work, even to the man 
of the world, the heart-free student of human nature. 
Gradually the conversation languished and died away, and, 
for a while, both sat silent, looking out upon the sea. Then 
Philip's gaze came back to his companion stealthily at first, 
and, as she remained unconscious of his scrutiny, it lingered 
long and searchingly upon features, form, and attire. 
There were white, tight lines about her mouth, and a 
slight knitting of the brow, that imparted a care-worn look 
to the young face, it pained him to see. Her hands were 
clasped upon her knee, and the fingers were bloodless where 
they interlaced one another. Was she suffering ? Was the 
threatened parting the cause of her disquiet ? If this were 
so, what was his duty as a man of honor of common hu 
manity ? And if he were forced to admit that he held her 
happiness in his power, and to accept the consequences that 
must ensue from his idle gallantry and her mistaken read 
ing of the same, was the thought really repulsive ? Would 
it be a total sacrifice of feeling to a sense of right ? It was 
a repetition, grave and careful, of the r every of that July 
night, two weeks ago. 
Sarah's hat a broad-brimmed "flat" of brown straw had 
fallen back upon her shoulders, and the sea-breeze played in 
her hair, raising the short and loose strands, and giving to 
the whole a rough, "frowzy" look. Her plain linen collar 
and undersleeves showed her complexion and hands to the 
worst possible advantage. Upon her cheeks, this same un 
friendly wind had bestowed a coat of tan and a few freckles, that were all the more conspicuous from her pallor, while 
her fingers were as brown as a gypsy s. Her gray poplin 
dress had lost most of its original gloss, and being one of 
Mrs. Hunt's bargains " a cheap thing, but plenty good for 
that outlandish Shrewsbury" already betrayed its cotton 
warp by creases that would not be smoothed, and an aspect 
of general limpness a prophecy of speedy, irremediable 
shabbiness. Cast loosely about her shoulders was a light 
shawl, green, with black sprigs another bargain ; and be 
yond the skirt of her robe appeared the toe and instep of a 
thick-soled gaiter, very suitable for a tramp through damp 
sand, yet any thing but becoming to the foot it protected. 
With an impatient shake of the head, involuntary and 
positive, Philip closed his final observation. And cutting off a large splinter from the weather-beaten timber, against 
which he leaned, set about trimming it, wearing a serious, 
settled face, that said his mind was fully made up. 
What had Sarah seen all this while ? 
 
Heavens, over which the films of the forenoon had thickened into dun cloud-curtains, stretching above, and enwrapping the world ; a wild, dreary expanse of troubled waters, 
whose horizon line was lost in the misty blending of sea 
and sky, ever hurrying and heaving to moan out their unrest 
upon the barren beach. In the distance was a solitary sail ; 
nearer to the land, a large sea-bird flew heavily against the 
wind. In such mateless, weary flight, must her life be passed ; 
that lone, frail craft was not so hopelessly forlorn upon a 
gloomy sea, beneath a sky that gloomed yet more darkly 
as was her heart, torn suddenly from its moorings anchor, 
and rudder, and compass gone ! Yet who could syllable 
the mighty sorrow of the complaining sea? And were 
there words in human language, that could tell the anguish 
of the swelling flood beating within her breast ? 
" Going away ! To-morrow !" For a little space this 
was all the lament she kept repeating over to herself. 
Pregnant with woe she knew it to be, yet it was not until 
she was allowed to meditate in silence upon the meaning of 
the words that she realized what had truly come upon her. 
She had thrown away all her hope of earthly happiness 
risked it as madly, lost it as surely, as if she had tossed it 
a tangible pearl into the yawning ocean. Her instinct 
assured her that, were it otherwise, the tidings of Philip's 
intended departure, his suddenly formed resolution to leave 
her, would have been conveyed to her in a far different 
manner. Her keen backward glance penetrated Aunt 
Sarah's simple wiles ; his obvious annoyance thereat ; his 
determination to save himself from suspicion ; his honorable 
fear lest she, too, should imagine him loving, where he was 
only civil and kind. Yes, it was all over ! The best thing 
she could hope to do, the brightest prospect life had now 
for her, was that her secret should remain hers alone, until 
the troubled heart moaned itself into the rest which knows 
 
no waking. She was used to concealment. All her existence, excepting the sweet delusive dream of the past three 
weeks, had been a stern preparation for this trial. But she 
was already weary and faint fit to lie down and die, so 
intense had been the throe of this one struggle. 
" How long is this to last ? How long ?" 
The exclamation actually broke, in an inarticulate murmur, 
from her lips. 
" Did you speak?" inquired Philip. 
" I think not. I am not sure. I did not intend to do 
so!" 
" Grant me credit for my forbearance in not obtruding 
my prosaic talk upon your musings," he went on, playfully. 
" It was a powerful temptation for I remember, constantly, 
that this is our last opportunity for a genuine heart and 
head confabulation, such as I shall often linger for, after I 
leave you and sinceuity ! You have done me good, Miss 
Sarah ; taught me Faith, Hope, Charity a blessed sisterhood !" 
" May they ever attend you !" 
" Amen ! and thank you ! And what wish shall I make 
in return for your beautiful benediction ?" 
" Whatever you like. My desires are not many or ex 
travagant." 
" You are wrong. You have a craving heart and a crav 
ing mind. May both be fed to the full, with food convenient 
for them in measures pressed down, shaken together, and 
running over." 
"Of what? Husks?" was Sarah's unspoken and bitter 
reply. She could not thank him, as he had done her. She 
only bowed, and, bending forward, took up a handful of the 
fine white sand that formed the shore. Slowly sifting it 
through her fingers, she waited for him to speak again. 
Was this careless equanimity real or feigned ? The 
judge of character, the harpist upon heart-chords, made the 
next move not the candid manly friend. 
" I am going to ask a favor of you a bold one." 
" Say on." 
"By the time I am ready to retrace my steps southward, 
you will be again settled in New York. Will you think me 
presumptuous, if I call at your father's house to continue an 
acquaintance which has been, to me, at once agreeable and 
profitable ?" 
The fingers were still, suddenly. A warm glow, like 
sunrise, swept over cheek and forehead. A smile, slight 
but sweet, quivered upon her lips. Drowning in the depths, 
she heard across the billow a hail that spoke of hope, life, 
happiness. 
" We will all be glad to see you," she said, with affected 
composure. 
" Not half so glad as I shall be to come. Will you now, 
while you think of it, give me your address ?" 
He handed her a card and a pencil. She wrote the required direction, and received in exchange for it the now 
smooth bit of wood, which had afforded occupation to Philip 
for half an hour past. It was tendered in mock ceremony, 
and accepted smilingly. Upon the gray tablet was inscribed, "Philip Benson, Deal Beach, July 27th, 1856." A 
playful or thoughtless impulse caused him to extend his 
hand for it, after she had read it, and to add a motto, stale 
as innocent in his eyes : Pensez'd mof ." 
" I shall preserve it as a souvenir of the day and place," 
observed Sarah, slipping it into her pocket. 
Twilight overtook them before they reached home, and 
the night was too cloudy and damp for a promenade, such 
as they often had in the garden walks and lane, or for the 
customary family gathering in the long porch. Yet Aunt 
Sarah was surprised that Philip was apparently content to 
 
spend the evening in the sitting-room, with herself and 
husband by, to spoil the tete-d-tete he must be longing for. 
Still more confounded was she, when, after her clever 
strategy of coaxing Uncle Nathan into the kitchen, that the 
coast might be clear, she heard Philip's step close behind 
them. 
" I must clean my gun to-night, aunt," he said, taking it 
from the corner ; " I shall not have time to do it to-morrow." 
With the utmost nonchalance he began the operation, 
whistling softly a lively air over his work. Aunt Sarah 
gave her partner a look of bewildered despair, which he 
returned by a confirmatory nod, and a smile, half comic, half 
regretful. 
After breakfast next morning, the nephew-guest said 
affectionate farewells to his relatives and Jeannie ; a grave, 
gentle adieu to Sarah, accompanied by a momentary pres 
sure of the hand, that may have meant much or little ; and 
upon the snug homestead settled a quiet that was dreariness itself to one of its inmates. 
 
CHAPTER VI. 
MEANWHILE, how had the time sped to the nominal head 
of the Hunt household the solitary, toiling father and 
husband ? The servants were dismissed when " the family" left town, although Mr. Hunt continued to sleep at 
home. A peripatetic maid-of-all-work what the English 
denominate a char-woman was engaged to come early 
every morning to clear up the only room in the establishment that was used, before the cashier went out for his 
breakfast, which he procured at a restaurant pretty far 
down town. The same quiet coffee-house furnished him 
with dinner and an early tea, after which last refreshment 
he was at liberty to pass the evening in whatever manner 
he liked best. There was nothing in the city worth seeing 
at this season, even if he had not lost all taste for shows 
and gayety. Those of his acquaintances who were not 
absent with their wives and daughters, were living like 
himself, furniture in overalls ; carpets covered ; apartments 
closed, with the exception, perhaps, of one bedroom ; and 
had no place in which to receive him if he had been in the 
habit of visiting, which he was not. He was very tired, 
moreover, by the time night came on, and as the heat 
increased, and the days grew longer, his strength waned 
more and more, and his spirits with it. Meekly and uncom 
plainingly he plodded through his routine of bank duties, 
so steady and so faithful that his fellow-workers and 
customers had come to regard him as a reliable fixture; a 
piece of machinery, whose winding up was self-performed 
and whose accuracy was infallible. 
When, therefore, on a sultry August afternoon, he turned 
to leave his desk at the close of business hours, grew 
terribly pale, and dropped upon the floor in a fit of death 
like faintness, there was great consternation, and as much 
wonder as if no human clock-work had ever given out 
before, under a like process of exhausting demands. 
Clumsily, but with the best of intentions, they brought 
him to his senses, and in half an hour or so he was sufficiently recovered to be taken home. There was a twitch 
ing of the lips that might have passed for a sarcastic smile, 
as he heard the proposal to convey him to his house ; but he 
only gave his street and number, and lay silently back in 
the carriage, supported by his friends, two of whom insisted 
upon seeing him safely to his own abode. 
" Is this the place ? Why, it is all shut up !" exclaimed 
one of these gentlemen, as the driver drew up before the 
dusty steps. 
Mrs. Hunt's orders were that the entrance to her mansion 
should present the most desolate air possible during her 
absence. It had " an aristocratical look in the summer time, 
when everybody but nobodies was rusticating." 
Again that singular contortion of the mouth, and the 
master (?) of the forlorn-looking habitation prepared to 
descend, fumbling in his pocket for his pass-key. 
" I am obliged to you, gentlemen, for your great kindness, 
and will not trouble you longer." 
In trying to raise his hand to his hat for a bow, the 
ghastly hue again overspreadjiis face, and he staggered. 
Without further parley, his two aids laid hold of him, one 
on each side, and supported him into the house, up one, two 
flights of linen-draped stairs, to a back bedroom. 
Mrs. Hunt would have let her husband faint on the side- 
 
walk before she would have received company in that 
chamber in its present condition ; for the handsomest articles of furniture stood covered up in another apartment, and 
their place was supplied by a plain bureau, wash-stand, and 
bed belonging to the boys room, a story higher up. The 
wisdom of this precaution was manifest in the signs of 
neglect and slovenliness displayed on all sides. One could 
have written his name in the dust upon the glass; there 
was dirt in every corner and under each chair and table ; the 
wash-basin was partly full of dirty suds, and the towels and 
counterpane shockingly dingy. 
These things were not remarked by the intruders until 
they had got their charge to bed, resisted no longer by him, 
for he began to comprehend his inability to help himself. 
" There is no one beside ourselves on the premises, not 
even a servant," one of them said, apart to his associate, 
after a brief absence from the room. " If you will stay with 
him until I come back, I will go for a doctor." 
The invalid caught the last word. 
" Indeed, Mr. Hammond, there is no need for you to do 
any thing more no necessity for calling in a physician. I 
am quite comfortable now, and shall be well by morning." 
Mr. Hammond, who was a director in the bank, and 
sincerely honored the honest veteran now prostrated by his 
devoted performance of duty, took the hot, tremulous 
hand in his. 
" I cannot allow you to peril your valuable health, my 
dear sir. Unless you positively forbid it, I shall not only 
call your physician, but drop in again myself this evening, 
and satisfy my mind as to whether you require my presence 
through the night." 
He was as good as his word ; but no amount of persuasion could induce Mr. Hunt to accept his offered watch. 
He would be "uneasy, unhappy, if his young friend sacrificed his own rest so uselessly," and loath as he was to leave 
him to solitude and suffering, Mr. Hammond had to yield. 
At his morning visit, he found the patient more tractable. 
After tedious hours of fevered wakefulness, he had en 
deavored to rise, only to sink back again upon his pillow 
dizzy, sick, and now thoroughly alarmed at the state of his 
system. He did not combat his friend's proposal to obtain 
a competent nurse, and to look in on him in person as often 
as practicable ; still, utterly refused to allow his wife to be 
written to on the subject of his indisposition. 
" I shall be better in a day or two, probably before she 
could reach me. I have never had a spell of illness. It is 
not likely that this will be any thing of consequence. I 
greatly prefer that she should not be apprised of this 
attack." 
Mr. Hammond was resolute on his part the more determined, when the physician had paid another visit, and 
pronounced the malady a low fever, that would, doubtless, 
confine the sick man to his bed for several days, if not 
weeks. 
"It is not just to your wife and children, Mr. Hunt, to 
keep them in ignorance of so important a matter!" he urged. 
" They will have cause to feel themselves aggrieved by you, 
and ill-treated by me, if we practise this deception upon 
them." 
Mr. Hunt lay quiet for some minutes. 
" Perhaps you are in the right," he said. " Sarah would 
be wounded, I know. I will send for her !" he concluded, 
with more animation. " She will come as soon as she're 
ceives the letter." 
" Of course she will !" rejoined Mr. Hammond, confident 
ly ; " you are not able to write. SuiFer me to be your 
amanuensis." He sat down at a stand, and took out his pen. 
" Where is Mrs. Hunt at present ?" 
 
" I am not sure. Either at Saratoga or Newport." 
Mr. Hammond looked surprised. " But it is necessary, 
sir, that we should know with some degree of certainty, or 
the letter may miscarry. Perhaps it would be well to write 
to both places." 
"The letter! Both places !" repeated Mr. Hunt, with 
perplexity. "I alluded to my daughter Sarah, sir, my 
second child, who is spending the summer with her aunt in 
Shrewsbury, New Jersey. May I take the liberty of asking 
you to write her a short note, mentioning my sickness in as 
guarded terms as you can use, and requesting her to come 
up to the city for a few days ? She has my youngest child 
a little girl with her. If she can be contented to remain 
with her aunt, Sarah had better leave her there. She would 
be an additional burden to her sister if she were here." 
Whatever Mr. Hammond thought of the marked preference shown to the daughter above the wife, he said nothing, 
but proceeded to indite the desired epistle, adding, in a 
postscript, on his own account, that he would take pleasure 
in meeting Miss Hunt at the wharf, on her arrival, and for 
this purpose would be at the boat each day, until she made 
her appearance in New York. 
He went, accordingly, the next afternoon, although very 
sure that she could not have received his letter in season to 
take that boat. Mr. Hunt had proved to him and to him 
self the utter impossibility of her coming, yet his eyes 
brightened with expectancy as his friend entered, and faded 
into sadness as he reported the ill-success of his errand. 
" He is evidently extremely partial to this one of his 
children," thought Mr. Hammond, as he paced the wharf on 
the second evening, watching, amid noisy hack-drivers and 
express-men, for the steamer. " I have seen the girls at 
parties, but do not remember their names. One of them is 
Tery pretty. I wonder if she is c Sarah ! " 
 
It was growing dusk as the boat touched the pier. So 
dim was the light, that Mr. Hammond was obliged to 
station himself close beside the gangway, and inspect the 
features of each lady passenger more narrowly than politeness would, in other circumstances, have warranted. They 
hurried across, men and women, tall and short, stout and 
slender, until there tripped towards him the figure of a 
young girl, attired in a gray dress and mantle, and carrying 
a small travelling bag in her hand. She would have passed 
him, had he not stepped forward and spoken. 
" Miss Hunt, I believe !" 
In the uncertain twilight, he could see that she grew 
very pale. 
"How is my father?" 
There was no preamble of civility or diffidence ; no're 
serve in addressing him, a mere stranger; no trembling, 
preparatory queries ; but a point-blank question, in a tone 
whose impatient anguish moved his kind heart; a piercing 
look, that would know the truth then and there ! 
"He is better, to-day" and he led her out of the press 
of the onward stream. " He has not been dangerously ill. 
We hope and believe that he will not be." 
" Is that true ?" Her fingers tightened upon his arm. 
" It is ! I would not, for the world, deceive you in such 
a matter." 
" I believe you ! Thank Heaven ! I feared the worst !" 
She covered her face with her hands, and burst into tears. 
Hammond beckoned to a hackman, close by, and when 
the short-lived reaction of over- wrought feeling subsided so 
far as to allow Sarah to notice surrounding objects, she was 
