"No, sir. I did catch a fish once--but it was only my line caught it."
"Not your hand at the end of the line?"
"My hand was not there. The line was lying on the bank and my hook in
the water."
"Oh! that was it!"
Away went the doctor with his gun, and the boys sped off with their
fishing rods. The heat was too great for anybody else to move.
Nevertheless, what are parties of pleasure for but pleasure? they must
not let the whole day slip away with nothing done but lying in the shade
of the trees. There was a little island in the lake, well wooded like
its shores. It was proposed that the ladies' fishing party should row
over to the island, and there, under another shady grove, carry on their
designs against the pickerel. Daisy's wish was to go with that party in
the boat and watch their sport; especially as Mr. Randolph was the
leader and manager of it. She was not asked to go; there was no room
for the little people; so they stood on the shore and saw the
setting-off, and watched the bright dimples every stroke of the oars
made in the surface of the lake.
The people were pretty well scattered now. Nobody was left on the ground
but Mrs. Gary and Mrs. Fish, sitting under a tree at some distance,
talking; and Eloïse and Theresa, who were charged to superintend the
laying of the cloth. Having nothing particular to do, the three children
became hangers-on, to watch how this business would be conducted; ready
to help if they got a chance.
It was found a difficult business to arrange places for so many people
on the grass; and the girls finally and wisely gave it up. They
determined to set out the eatables only, on a tablecloth spread to
receive them; but to let everybody eat where he felt disposed, or where
he could find the best bit of shade. Shade was the best thing that day,
Theresa Stanfield declared. But the first thing of all was to light a
fire; for coffee must be boiled, and tea made. The fire was not a
troublesome thing to have, for dead wood was in plenty for the
gathering. James and Logan, who had come to the scene of action, soon
had that going; and the children forgot that it was hot, in the beauty
and the novelty of the thing, and laughed at Theresa's red cheeks as she
stooped over the coals with her coffee-pot. About coffee Daisy was
ignorant. But tea had been made in her behalf by Juanita too many times
for her not to have the whole proceeding fixed in her memory.
"O Eloïse, you must not make that tea now!" she exclaimed.
"Mustn't I!"
"No. It will be spoiled."
"Some other things have had the same fate," said Eloïse.
"It will not be good for anything, Eloïse," Daisy persisted gently. "It
should not be made but just before you want it--just a few minutes."
"You are wise, Daisy," returned her cousin. "I do not know so much as
you do, you see."
Daisy fell back a little. Eloïse and Theresa went to unpacking the
hampers; and James, acting under their direction, carried and placed the
various articles they took out, placed and replaced; for as new and
unlooked-for additions were made to the stock of viands, the arrangement
of those already on the tablecloth had to be varied. There was a
wonderful supply; for a hamper had come from every house that had sent
members to the party.
"What shall we do with it all?" said Eloïse.
"Find out what people like--or are expected to like. Just look at the
cold chickens! and the ham! I am so thankful for that red lobster, to
make a variety. There are three boxes of sardines--and what is that?"
"Anchovy paste."
"Well!--and look at the other things! We want an army to eat them. There
is a dog, to begin with."
Theresa said it with comical coolness; but Eloïse screamed, as a little
spaniel was perceived to be snuffing round the tablecloth.
"It's Ransom's dog! Run, Daisy, run, and keep him off. Just stay there
and keep watch of him, or he'll be all over everything. Daisy, run!"
Daisy left the hampers, and walked, or indeed obeyed orders and ran, to
where the little spaniel was threatening a rout among the whole army of
cold chickens. Daisy called him off, and then stood by to take care of
him. It was very amusing to see Eloïse and Theresa unpack the hampers;
and Ella and Nora, finding it so, made no move to join Daisy in her
distant watch. The men were busy running to and fro with the unpacked
eatables, and keeping up the fire, and setting piles of plates
everywhere, and laying glasses all round the tablecloth--for they would
not stand up--and putting wine in coolers, that is to say, in pails of
ice water. Daisy felt alone again, left out of the play. She looked at
Nora and Ella in the distance--that is, just far enough away to be out
of her society, eagerly standing over the hampers; and for a moment felt
not very well pleased, either with them or her cousin Eloïse. But then
she remembered that she was tired, and sat down with her back against a
tree; resolved to take all things patiently, if she could; and she very
soon found enough to do, and amusing enough, in ordering the arrangement
of the dishes on the tablecloth. Logan was sure to set a thing down in
the wrong place, if he set it anywhere; and even James was confused in
such a very novel state of his department. Daisy found exercise for all
her wisdom, and full content came with full employment, naturally.
You can make pleasure out of almost anything, if you set about it. In
the intervals she rested, and watched the distant figures of the fishing
party on the island; and gladdened herself with the beauty and the sweet
air of the wood, and the flecks of sunshine and moving shadow on the
ground beneath the trees. I am afraid nobody else found the air sweet,
unless it were the doctor. He was hardy, and besides had a philosophical
way of looking at things. Daisy watched for his coming, afraid that he
might wander off beyond luncheon time; but he did not come. The three
boys, however, a less welcome sight, had recollected that there was
something forward besides fishing; and came strolling along through the
trees towards the tablecloth. Preston was stopped to speak to his
mother; the other two approached Daisy.
"Hello!" said Ransom, "here we are! now where's everybody else? I'm
furious as a lion."
"A hungry lion," said Alexander Fish. "I wish we had got some fish for
the people to cook. That's fun. I tell you, Ransom, it's fun to see the
work they make with it."
"Fish is no count, I think," said Ransom. "It's only good to catch. I
can stand a lobster salad, though. But I can't stand long without
something. What's the use of waiting? They aren't coming back yonder
till night. They haven't stirred yet."
Ransom's eyes indicated the party on the island. And acting upon his
announced opinion, Ransom, paid his respects in a practical form, not to
cold chicken and bread, but to a dish of cream cakes which stood
conveniently near. And having eaten one, in three mouthfuls, he
stretched out his hand and took another. Happily then some meringues
attracted his attention; and he stood with a cream cake in one hand and
a meringue in the other, taking them alternately or both together. The
meringues began to disappear fast. Daisy warned him that the only dish
of those delicacies in all the entertainment was the one into which he
was making such inroads. Ransom paid her no heed and helped himself to
another.
"Ransom, that is not fair," said his sister. "There are no more but
those, and you will have them all gone. Just look, now, how the dish
looks!"
"How the dish looks!" said Ransom mockingly. "None of your business."
"It is not right. Don't Ransom!" Daisy said, as his hand was extended
for a fourth meringue.
"Want 'em for yourself?" said Ransom sneeringly. "I say,
Alexander--here's a game! Here's something just fit for a man's luncheon
in a summer day--something nice and light and nourishing. Here's a lark
pie--I know what it is, for I saw Joanna making it. Now we'll have this
and be off."
"You must not, Ransom," Daisy urged anxiously. But Ransom seized the pie
from its place and proceeded to cut into it, seeing that nobody was near
to hinder him.
"Ransom, you ought not to do it," pleaded Daisy. "You ought to wait your
turn. You are worse than Fido."
"Am I?" said Ransom fiercely. "Take that! Mind your own affairs, and
let mine alone. You are not queen here yet, if you think you are."
A tolerably smart box on the ear was the accompaniment to this speech.
Nobody was near. Alexander, after joining his friend in a meringue or
two with a cream cake, not feeling quite comfortable in the connection,
had moved off. So did Ransom now, but he carried his pie with him and
called the other two boys to bear him company in making lunch of it.
Preston was much too gentlemanly a fellow to take part even of a lark
pie in such circumstances; he walked off in disdain, leaving Ransom and
Alexander to do what they liked. And they liked the pie so well that I
am bound to say nothing of it remained very soon excepting the dish.
Even the bones were swallowed by Fido.
Daisy was left alone under the tree with her occupation gone; for Fido
was after the lark bones. Her ear rang a few minutes from the
application of Ransom's hand; but that effect had passed off long before
Daisy's mind was quieted. For gentle as she was, Daisy was a little lady
who had a very deep and particular sense of personal dignity; she felt
wronged as well as hurt. Her father and mother never indulged in that
method of punishment; and if they had, Ransom's hand was certainly not
another one to inflict it.
Daisy was quite as much stung by the insult as by the unkindness; but
she felt both. She felt both so much that she was greatly discomposed.
Her watch over the feast was entirely forgotten; luckily Fido had gone
off with his master, and chickens were no longer in immediate danger.
Daisy rubbed away first one tear and then another, feeling a sort of
bitter fire hot at her heart; and then she began to be dissatisfied at
finding herself so angry. This would not do; anger was something she had
no business with; how could she carry her Lord's message, or do anything
to serve him, in such a temper? It would not do; but there it was,
offended dignity and pride, hot at her heart. Nobody would have thought
perhaps that Daisy was proud; but you never can tell what is in a
person's heart till it is tried; and then the kinds of pride are
various. It does not follow because you have none of one sort that you
have not plenty of another sort. However, finding this fire at her heart
quite too much for her to manage, Daisy went away from her
watching-place; crept away among the trees without any one's observing
her; till she had put some distance between her and the party, and found
a further shelter from them in a big moss-grown rock and large tree.
There was a bed of moss, soft and brown, on the other side of the rock;
and there Daisy fell down on her knees and began to remember--"Thou
therefore endure hardship, as a good soldier of Jesus Christ."
CHAPTER V.
Certainly the sun was very hot that day. The fishers on the island found
it so, notwithstanding that they had sought out every one for himself
the shadiest, freshest nook that could be found. Nothing was fresh; and
if the trees did hinder the sunshine from falling on some parts of the
ground, they kept off none of it from the water; and the glare from that
was said to be unendurable. Even where there was not much glare strictly
speaking; people were not particular in their speech that day. At last
they voted that holding lines in the water was of no use; fish could not
be expected to leave their cool depths below to seek the sunny regions
near the surface of the water; "they would be fools if they did," one of
the ladies remarked. Fish never were supposed to be very wise creatures,
Mr. Sandford informed her; but nevertheless, it was resolved not to
reckon upon their want of wisdom at this time, but to put up and go back
to shore, and try what cold chicken would do. So just about the hour
when the sun's work for the day verges towards the hottest, the little
boat was seen again stealing over the sunny surface of the lake, back to
where the tablecloth lay spread for the tired people.
A little while before it reached that place, Dr. Sandford arrived upon
the scene. He locked a little warm in the face; but his white shooting
coat did not seem less affected by the state of the weather than the
doctor's temper. Mrs. Gary and Mrs. Fish he found sunk in somnolency at
the foot of the tree where they had been talking. The young ladies were
sitting by the emptied hampers, deep in confab. The boys and Fido, over
against the outspread feast, were arranging fishing tackle, and watching
the return of the boat; with eyes of anticipation. To them came the
doctor.
"Where is your sister, Ransom?"
"I don't know." The tone meant, I don't care.
"I do not see her anywhere."
"No more do I," said Ransom, without raising his eyes from his fishing
line.
"Where is she?"
"I told you, I don't know."
"Did she go with the fishing party?"
"No sir; she was here when we came," Alexander Fish spoke up.
"Yes, I remember she was here," said Preston. "I remember seeing her.
She cannot be far off. It's hot enough to keep people from straying
far."
The doctor, being not absolutely satisfied with this reasoning, and
having nothing better to do, occupied himself with a search after the
missing Daisy. It lasted some time, and he was beginning to be not quite
easy in his mind; when, being a sportsman, his eye detected something at
a distance which was not moss nor stone. In two minutes the doctor came
up with it. It was Daisy, fast asleep on her moss bed behind the rock.
Her head lay on her arm which was curled up under it; and profound
slumber had left the little pale face as serene as usual. The doctor was
warm by this time. He sat down on the moss beside her; and putting his
arm under Daisy's shoulders lifted her up, by way of waking her,
speaking to her at the same moment. But to his amusement, Daisy no
sooner got her eyes well open than she shook herself free of him, and
sat as demure as possible opposite to him on the moss.
"Dr. Sandford!--I believe--I got asleep," she said in a bewildered kind
of way.
"How did you get here, Daisy?"
"I came here, sir."
"What for did you come here?"
Daisy looked troubled; glanced at the doctors face, and then rested her
head on her hand.
"Who has been vexing you now?" said he at haphazard.
"I am not vexed," said Daisy in the gentlest of all possible tones.
"Tired?"
"I think I am tired."
"Honour bright, Daisy!--has not some one been vexing you?"
"I ought not to have been vexed," said Daisy slowly.
"I will wager that you are wrong there, and that you ought to have been
vexed. Who was it, Daisy?"
"Never mind, please, Dr. Sandford! It is no matter at all now."
She put her little hand confidingly in the doctor's as she spoke and
looked very earnest. He could not resist her.
"I wish I had come sooner," he said. "I shall be suspicious of
everybody, Daisy. Come--you and I must go to dinner, or there will be a
hue and cry after us."
Indeed by this time the whole party were gathered, and in impatient
expectation that the dinner would make up to them in some degree for the
various disappointments of the morning. All were gathered and had
arranged themselves conveniently upon the grass, around the feast which
was spread out upon the tablecloth, before anybody knew that two of
their number were wanting. The cry was just raised, "Where is the
doctor?"--when the doctor hove in sight with Daisy by his side.
Everybody was placed already; and it was very natural that the doctor
keeping hold of Daisy's hand, led her with him to the spot that seemed
to be left for his occupancy, and seated her there beside him. On the
other side of Daisy was Mrs. Stanfield. She was very well satisfied with
this arrangement, seeing that her father was surrounded by people and
busy besides; and that Nora and Ella were with Alexander and Ransom.
What a gay tableful they were! all talking and laughing, though
everybody declared himself exceeded by the heat and bored by the
fishing, and generally tired of everything but eating and drinking. But
iced champagne was now at the parched lips, and boned turkey and jellied
ham were waiting attention, and a good time had come. It was some while,
of course, before Daisy could be served. She waited, feeling very happy
and amused; for a party of people taking a cold dinner out of doors do
not look nor act exactly like the same people taking a hot dinner in the
house. Daisy never dreamed that anybody was noticing her. She had a
disagreeable surprise.
"Daisy," said Mrs. Randolph from a little distance, and across several
people,--"Daisy, what did you do that for?"
"Mamma!"--said Daisy. "What, mamma?"
"Have you a headache?"
"O no, mamma."
"What did you put up your hand to your brow for?"
"Mamma?"--said Daisy, very much bewildered. For she knew nothing was the
matter, and she could not guess what her mother was thinking of.
Moreover, somehow, Mrs. Randolph's words or manner had acted to stop the
voices of all the company in her neighbourhood; and everybody was
waiting and looking to see what the subject of interest might be. Mrs.
Randolph's words could come now with their usual calm distinctness; and
Daisy's answers, no matter how softly spoken, could be well heard. In a
good deal of wonder Daisy repeated, "Mamma?"
"You put up your hand and sat with your eyes covered--did you not,
just now?"
"Yes, mamma."--No need to bid anybody look and listen now; the rosy
flush that had spread itself all over Daisy's pale cheeks sufficiently
aroused curiosity.
"I notice that you do so before every meal--is it not the case?"
"Yes, mamma."
Dr. Sandford could hear the caught breath. He did not look, except by a
glance, but he listened.
"What does that mean, Daisy?"
"Mamma?"--said the child in distress.
"I ask you, what that means? what is it for?"
"Mamma--may I come round there and speak to you?"
"Certainly not. Sit still in your place and answer."
But Daisy was silent, very flushed.
"Do you hear, Daisy? what does that action mean? I wish to know."
"Mamma, may I speak to you in private and tell you?"
"Are you ashamed of it? are you ashamed to tell me?"
"No, mamma."
"Then do it at once."
But everybody waited in vain to hear the answer. It did not come.
"I shall not ask you again, Daisy."
"Mamma," said the child low and modestly, but with steadiness,--"I was
praying."
"Praying! were you! Why do you choose that particular time for your
private devotions?"
It was almost too much. The tears started in Daisy's eyes; but presently
she answered,--"Because God is good to us, mamma."
"He is always good," said Mrs. Randolph. "That is a very silly practice
of yours, Daisy, and very unbecoming. There is a proper way of doing
everything."
The lady's manner said that the subject was dismissed, and her guests
returned to their ordinary conversation. Except the doctor and Daisy.
She was overwhelmed, and he was gravely unsocial.
Was it silly?--that bound her heart had made up to the feet of her King?
That joyful thanksgiving, and expression of love, and pledge of
obedience, and prayer for help? It was something better than the meal
often to Daisy; something sweeter and happier. Was it silly? and must
she do so no more except when she was alone?
Daisy had quite forgotten that eating and drinking was part of the
present matter in hand, when Dr. Sandford softly asked her what she
would like to have. Daisy said anything he pleased; not caring herself,
and indeed in too much confusion of mind yet to know or think about the
business. And her appetite was gone. Dr. Sandford provided for her with
kind care, what she liked too; but nothing was good to Daisy. She broke
bread and swallowed milk mechanically; the more substantial food she
refused utterly. Bread and milk and grapes were Daisy's dinner.
"It's good to be somebody's favourite," Ransom said to her after the
meal was over. "Nobody got any grapes but you."
"Nobody? Why Ransom, I thought everybody had them."
"I didn't,--nor Preston, nor Alexander--not a berry; and Nora and Ella
Stanfield didn't. You are the favourite."
"O Nora," said Daisy, "didn't you have any grapes? I'm sorry!"
"I had peaches," said Nora. "I like peaches a great deal the best.
Daisy, what shall we do now?"
"Suppose we sit down and have a talk."
"A talk?" said Nora. "Suppose we have a game of hide and seek? It's such
a good place."
"Or forfeits?" said Ella. "It is too hot to play hide and seek."
"I don't think it is hot," said Nora. "The sun don't shine now."
"Daisy, don't you want to go out with me in the boat?" said Preston
coming up. "We'll get in the shade, and see if you can catch a pickerel
as well as you did a trout."
"O I should like that!" said Daisy eagerly. She saw the kindness of
Preston's meaning. He wanted to make her forget her vexations.
"And may we go too?" Nora asked.
"Certainly; but Daisy and I are going to do the fishing. You must be
content to look on. We will go round to the other side of the island,
Daisy; it is pretty there, I know. And we shall have a better chance for
the pickerel, for the sun is gone under a cloud."
So the sun had; but at that very moment the cloud passed off and the
brilliant hot beams fell with what seemed renewed brilliancy on the
lake, and on all the ground which they could touch.
"It will go under again," said Preston. "We do not mind trifles. Come,
Daisy."
"Daisy, you must not go," said Dr. Sandford looking round. He was just
moving away to see some one else, and was gone in a minute.
"The doctor is all very well when one is sick," said Preston; "but I
never heard he had a right to command people when they are well. Daisy,
we will not mind him."
"I must," said Daisy, meekly. "But you can go without me, if you want
to."
"Nonsense, dear little Daisy! you are not obliged to do what everybody
says," her cousin urged. "Dr. Sandford has no more business to say what
you shall do than what I shall do. I will not let him rule you so. Come!
we will go try for the pickerel. Go, Nora and Ella, run away with the
baskets to the boat. Come, Daisy, come!"
"No, Preston, I cannot."
"Because of what that stupid man says? or don't you want to go!"
"I would like to go very much, thank you, Preston."
"Then you shall!"
"No. I cannot."
"Daisy, you might as well obey me as Dr. Sandford."
"I do not think so."
"Nora and Ella are going. You will be left alone."
"I hope you will catch some pickerel," said Daisy steadily.
But Preston was vexed. He did not like it that his word should not have
as much weight with his little cousin as any other person's, after her
father and mother. Like other boys, and men, for the most part, he was
fond of having his own way even in little things; though he sought it in
a polite fashion. And Daisy was very fond of him, and always followed
his lead; but now he could not move her. He went off at a bound, and
soon was out upon the water, with the girls and Alexander and Ransom
also who had joined him.
Daisy would have liked the shelter of her mossy hiding-place again. She
stood in the shade of a tree looking after the boat; feeling very much
left alone and greatly disposed to have a good crying time; but that was
not her way of meeting trouble. What a strange day of pleasure this
Silver Lake business had turned out! Yet Daisy had enjoyed many things
in it; but her mother's attack upon her at luncheon had sobered her
completely. It was such a sign of what she might expect. Daisy presently
fell to considering what she should do; and then remembered her old
refuge, prayer; and then concluded that she was a very happy little girl
after all. And instead of being hurt that Nora had been with her so
little that day, it was very natural, Daisy said to herself. Of course,
Nora wanted to go in the boat with Preston after fish; it was too good
an opportunity to be lost; and of course she had liked to walk in the
morning with the larger and gayer party. It was all right, Daisy
decided, although not what she herself would have done in the
circumstances. Would her note to her father have been reckoned "silly"
too? Very likely. Daisy turned her wistful eyes to where he was; sitting
in a group of ladies and gentlemen, talking. Daisy could not go to him.
Further along, Mrs. Gary was fighting the heat under a tree by herself.
No attraction there. Still further--the doctor was standing talking to
the two young ladies. As Daisy looked, he quitted them and came towards
her.
"Have I spoiled all your pleasure, Daisy?"
"No, sir."
"Are you angry with me?"
The answer this time was given with such an affectionate bright smile
that the doctor must have been hard not to feel it.
"You do not seem to have much pleasure on hand just now," said he;
"would you like to take a little walk with me, and see if we can find
any wonderful things?"
Daisy's face was quite answer enough, it was so full of content. The
doctor had no intention to tire her; be strolled along the borders of
the lake, which was wild and lovely all the more as they got further
away from the pic-nic ground. Firs and oaks stood thick all along, with
many other trees also; the ground was carpeted with layers of moss;
great rocks rose up by the water's edge, grey and brown with lichens. It
was not so hot now. The sun's glare was shielded off. On a mossy carpet
beside the water's edge the doctor and Daisy sat down. Undoubtedly the
doctor had never taken so much trouble with a child before; but Daisy
was a study to him.
"We do not find the wonderful things, Daisy," he remarked, throwing
himself back upon the moss with his hands under his head. His cap fell
off; his blue eyes looked at her with a sort of contented laziness;
never sleepily. Daisy smiled at him.
"I do," she said.
"You do! What have you found!"
"I think everything is wonderful."
"A profound truth," said the doctor; "but you are very young to find it
out. Instance, Daisy."
"But you want to go to sleep, sir."
"How dare you say so? No, I don't. I want to have a talk with you about
something wonderful."
Daisy thought he looked a little sleepy, for his eyelids drooped well
over his eyes; nevertheless the eyes saw keenly enough the start of
pleasure into hers. And they had seen the pale, subdued look of the face
that it had worn before. Nevertheless, in spite of that start, Daisy
remained as quiet as a mouse, looking at him.
"Don't you think I can talk while I am enjoying myself in this fashion?"
said the doctor.
"I think you can talk any way," said Daisy; "but you look a great deal
more like sleeping, sir."
"None of that. Go on, Daisy. Only do not say anything about the sun, now
that it has gone under a cloud. Let us forget it for a little while."
"What shall I take, then?"
"I don't care. Something green and refreshing."
Daisy looked around her. On every side she saw things that she had no
doubt would be very interesting to talk about; she did not know which to
choose. There were the trees; the firs and hemlocks, and the oaks and
maples, growing thick on every hand. No doubt those beautiful structures
had uses and characters of wonder; she had a great mind to ask the
doctor to tell her about them. But the great boulder beside which they
were hid from view, divided her attention; it was very large, and
rounded off on all sides, lying quietly on the ground; and Daisy was
curious to know how it came to be so grown over with green things;
mosses and ferns draped it all over; how could they grow on the bare
rock?
"Well, Daisy?" said her friend, watching how Daisy's countenance woke up
from its subdued expression.
"Dr. Sandford, how could these things grow on the rock? these green
things?"
"What green things?"
"Why, ever so many sorts. Here is moss, a great deal of it, of different
kinds; and there is beautiful brake at the top, like plumes of feathers.
How can they grow there?"
"Why not?"
"I thought everything wanted some earth to grow in."
"Have they none?"
"I don't know. I thought not. They must have very little indeed, Dr.
Sandford."
"Very little will do, I suppose."
"But I do not see how any earth got there," said Daisy. "It was only a
bare rock at first, of course."
"At first," repeated the doctor. "Well, Daisy, I suppose it was no more.
But there is something else growing there, which you have not spoken
of."
"Is there?" said Daisy. "I do not see anything else."
"Pardon me--you do see it."
"Then I do not know what it is," said Daisy laughing. Absolutely, the
sober, sober little face had forgotten its care, and the eyes were
alight with intelligence and curiosity, and the lips were unbent in good
honest laughter. The doctor raised himself up to a sitting posture.
"What do you call those grey and brown patches of colour that hide your
rock all over?"
"Grey and brown?" said Daisy wistfully--"those are just the colours of
the rock, aren't they?"
"No. Look close."
"Why, Dr. Sandford, what is it? It is not the rock--some of it is
not--but here is a spot of yellow that is nothing else, I think."
"You must learn not to trust your eyes, Daisy. That is something that
grows; it is not rock; it is a vegetable. If I had my pocket lens here
I would shew you; but I am afraid--yes, I have left it at home."
"Why it is!" cried Daisy. "I can see now--it is not rock. What is it,
Dr. Sandford?"
