CHAPTER XIX.
THROUGH THE GAP.
Joe Burnap was perfectly familiar with the country, and Tom readily
accepted him as a guide; and, as they had a common object in view, neither
had good cause for mistrusting the other. They walked, without stopping to
rest, till the sun set behind the mountains towards which they were
travelling.
"I reckon we needn't hurry now," said Joe, as he seated himself on a rock.
"I don't think there is any danger of their catching us," replied Tom, as
he seated himself beside his fellow-traveller. "Can you tell me where we
are?"
"I reckon I can. There ain't a foot of land in these yere parts that I
hain't had my foot on. I've toted plunder of all sorts through these woods
more'n ten thousand times."
"Well, where are we?" asked Tom, whose doubts in regard to the locality
had not yet been solved.
In the pressure of more exciting matters, he had not attempted to explain
why he did not come to Fairfax station while following the railroad.
"If we keep on a little while longer, I reckon we shall come to
Thoroughfare Gap," answered Joe.
"But where do you live? What town is your house in?" asked Tom, who had
never heard of Thoroughfare Gap before.
"Haymarket is the nearest town to my house."
"What railroad is that over there?" asked Tom, who was no nearer the
solution of the question than he had been in the beginning.
"That's the Manassas Gap Railroad, I reckon," replied Joe, who seemed to
be astonished at the ignorance of his companion.
"Just so," added Tom, who now, for the first time, comprehended where he
was.
When he left Sudley church, he walked at random till he came to the
railroad; but he had struck the Manassas Gap Railroad instead of the main
line, and it had led him away from the great body of the rebels, though it
also conducted him away from Washington, where he desired to go. He was
perplexed at the discovery, and at once began to debate the question
whether it was advisable for him to proceed any farther in this direction.
"I suppose you are a Union man--ain't you?" said Tom, after he had
considered his situation for some time.
Instead of answering this question, Joe Burnap raised his eyes from the
ground, and fixed his gaze intently upon Tom. He stared at him for a
moment in doubt and silence, and then resumed his former attitude.
"You don't want to fight for the south," added Tom; "so I suppose you
don't believe in the Southern Confederacy."
"I don't want to fight for nuther of 'em," replied Joe, after a moment of
further consideration. "If they'll only let me alone, I don't keer which
beats."
His position was certainly an independent one, and he appeared to be
entirely impartial. The newspapers on either side would not have disturbed
him. Patriotism--love of country--had not found a resting place in his
soul. Tom had not, from the beginning, entertained a very high respect for
the man; but now he despised him, and thought that a rebel was a gentleman
compared with such a character. How a man could live in the United States,
and not feel an interest in the stirring events which were transpiring
around him, was beyond his comprehension. In one word, he so thoroughly
despised Joe Burnap, that he resolved, at the first convenient
opportunity, to get rid of him, for he did not feel safe in the company of
such a person.
"Now which side do you fight fur?" asked Joe, after a long period of
silence.
"For the Union side," replied Tom, promptly.
"What are yer doin' here, then?"
"I was in the battle below, and was taken prisoner, got away, and I want
to get to Washington."
"I reckon this ain't the way to git thar," added Joe.
"I doubt whether I can get there any other way."
Just then, Tom would have given all the money he had in the world, and all
that the government owed him, for a good map of Virginia--or even for a
knowledge of geography which would have enabled him to find his way by the
safest route to Washington. But he had been a diligent scholar in school,
and had faithfully improved the limited opportunities which had been
afforded him. His mind could recall the map of Virginia which he had
studied in school, but the picture was too faint to be of much practical
benefit to him.
He had treasured up some information, derived from the newspapers, in
regard to the Manassas Gap Railroad. He knew that it passed through the
Blue Ridge, at the western base of which flowed the Shenandoah River: this
emptied into the Potomac, which would certainly conduct him to Washington.
In following these two rivers, he should have to describe nearly a circle,
which was not an encouraging fact to a boy on foot, with no resources, and
in an enemy's country.
If he returned by the way he came, the country was filled with rebel
soldiers, and he could hardly expect to pass through their lines without
being captured. Difficult and dangerous as the route by the Shenandoah
appeared, he decided to adopt it.
Joe Burnap proposed that they should have supper and opened the bag which
he had filled with such eatables as he could hastily procure on leaving
home. They ate a hearty meal, and then resumed their walk for another
hour.
"I reckon we'd better stop here," said Joe. "The Gap's only half a mile
from here, and it's too arly in the night to go through thar yet. Thar's
too many soldiers goin' that way."
"What time will you go through?" asked Tom.
"Not afore midnight."
"Then I'll turn in and take a nap. I didn't sleep any last night."
"I'm agreed," replied Joe, who seemed to be indifferent to every thing
while he could keep out of the rebel army.
Tom coiled up his body in the softest place he could find, and went to
sleep. Exhausted by fatigue and the want of rest, he did not wake for many
hours. He came to his senses with a start, and jumped upon his feet. For a
moment, he could not think where he was; but then came the recollection
that he was in the country of his enemies--a wanderer and a fugitive.
He looked about him in search of his travelling companion; but the fact
that he could not see him in the night was no argument that he was not
near him. He supposed Joe had chosen a place to sleep in the vicinity, and
thinking he might not wake in season to pass through the Gap before
daylight, he commenced a search for him. He beat about the place for half
an hour, calling his companion by name; but he could not see him, and no
sound responded to the call but the echoes of his own voice.
The independent Virginia farmer had anticipated Tom's intention to part
company with him, and, by this time, perhaps, had passed through the Gap.
The soldier boy was not quite ready to dispense with the services of his
guide, inasmuch as he did not even know where the Gap was, or in what
direction he must travel to reach it. While he was debating his prospects,
an enterprising rooster, in the distance, sounded his morning call. This
assured him that he must be near some travelled road, and, taking the
direction from the fowl, he resumed his journey.
A short walk brought him out of the woods, and, in the gray light of the
dawn, he discovered a house. As he did not care to make any new
acquaintances, he avoided the house, and continued his travels till he
arrived at a road. As it was too early in the morning for people to be
stirring, he ventured to follow the highway, and soon perceived an opening
in the mountains, which he doubted not was the Gap.
At sunrise he arrived at another house, which suddenly came into view as
he rounded a bend in the road. Near it were several negroes engaged in
various occupations. As he passed the house, the negroes all suspended
operations, and stared at him till he was out of sight. He soon reached
the Gap; but he had advanced only a short distance before he discovered a
battery of light artillery stationed on a kind of bluff, and whose guns
commanded the approaches in every direction.
Deeming it prudent to reconnoitre before he proceeded any farther, he also
ascertained that the Gap was picketed by rebel infantry. Of course it was
impossible to pass through under these circumstances, and he again took to
the woods. The scanty supply of food which he had purchased from Mrs.
Burnap was now produced, and he made an economical breakfast. Finding a
secluded place, he stretched himself upon the ground, and went to sleep.
Though he slept till the sun had passed the meridian, the day was a very
long one.
When it was fairly dark, he resolved to attempt the passage of the Gap,
for he was so tired of inaction that peril and hardship seemed preferable
to doing nothing. Returning to the road, he pursued his way with due
diligence through the narrowing defile of the mountains, till he suddenly
came upon a sentinel, who challenged him. Before he started from his
hiding place, Tom had carefully loaded the revolver which he had taken
from the rebel soldier; and, as he walked along, he carried the weapon in
his hand, ready for any emergency that might require its use.
The guard questioned him, and Tom replied that he had fought in the battle
down below, and had a furlough to go home and see his father, who was very
sick.
"Where's your furlough?" demanded the soldier.
"In my pocket."
"Let me see it."
"Here it is," replied Tom, producing an old letter which he happened to
have in his pocket.
The sentinel took the paper, unfolded it, and turned it over two or three
times. It was too dark for him to read it if he had been able to do so,
for all the rebel soldiers are not gifted in this way.
"I reckon this won't do," he added, after patiently considering the
matter. "Just you tote this paper up to the corporal thar, and if he says
it's all right, you kin go on."
"But I can't stop to do all that. Here's my pass, and I want to go on. My
father may die before I get home."
"What regiment do you b'long to?" asked the guard, who evidently did not
wish to disoblige a fellow-soldier unnecessarily.
"The Second Virginia," replied Tom, at a venture.
"Where does your father live?" continued the sentinel.
"Just beyond the Gap, if he's living at all."
"What town?"
Tom was nonplussed, for he did not know the name of a single place on the
route before him; and, of course, he did not dare to answer the question.
"About five or six miles from here," he answered.
"Is it Salem or White Plains?" demanded the soldier, whose cunning was
inferior to his honesty.
"White Plains," added Tom, promptly accepting the suggestion.
"What's the matter with your father?"
"I don't know; he was taken suddenly."
"Pears like your uniform ain't exactly our sort," added the soldier.
"Mine was all used up, and I got one on the battle-field."
"I wouldn't do that. It's mean to rob a dead man of his clothes."
"Couldn't help it--I was almost naked," replied Tom, who perfectly agreed
with the rebel on this point.
"You kin go on, Old Virginny," said the soldier, whose kindly sympathy for
Tom and his sick father was highly commendable.
The soldier boy thanked the sentinel for his permission, of which he
immediately availed himself. Tom did not yet realize the force of the
maxim that "all is fair in war," and his conscience gave a momentary
twinge as he thought of the deception he had practised upon the honest and
kind-hearted rebel. He was very thankful that he had not been compelled to
put a bullet through his head; but perhaps he was more thankful that the
man had not been obliged to do him a similar favor.
The fugitive walked, with an occasional rest, till daylight the next
morning. He went through three or four small villages. After passing
through the Gap, he had taken the railroad, as less likely to lead him
through the more thickly settled parts of the country. Before him the
mountains of the Blue Ridge rose like an impassable wall, and when the day
dawned he was approaching Manassas Gap. He had walked twenty-five miles
during the night, and prudence, as well as fatigue, required him to seek a
place of rest.
CHAPTER XX.
DOWN THE SHENANDOAH.
In that wild mountain region, Tom had no difficulty in finding a secluded
spot, where there was no probability that he would be molested. He had
been in a state of constant excitement during the night, for the country
was full of soldiers. The mountaineers of Virginia were rushing to the
standard of rebellion. They were a wild, rude set of men, and they made
the night hideous with their debauchery. Tom succeeded in keeping out of
the way of the straggling parties which were roaming here and there; but
he was filled with dread and anxiety lest he should, at the next moment,
stumble upon a camp, or a squad of these marauders.
The nook in the mountains which he had chosen as his resting place was a
cleft in the rocks, concealed by the overhanging branches of trees. Here
he made his bed, as the sun rose, and, worn out with fatigue and anxiety,
he dropped asleep.
When he awoke, the sun was near the meridian. He rose and walked out a
short distance from his lodging place, and listened for any sounds which
might indicate the presence of an enemy. All was still; silence deep and
profound reigned through the solitudes of the mountains. Tom returned to
his place of concealment, and after eating the remainder of the food he
had brought with him, he stretched himself upon the ground, and went to
sleep again. He had nothing else to do, and he needed all the rest he
could obtain. It was fortunate for him that he had self-possession enough
to sleep--to banish his nervous doubts and fears, and thus secure the
repose which was indispensable to the success of his arduous enterprise.
It was after sundown when he finished his second nap. He had slept nearly
all day,--at least ten hours,--and he was entirely refreshed and restored.
He was rather stiff in some of his limbs when he got up; but he knew this
would wear off after a little exercise. He had no supper with which to
brace himself for the night's work; so he took a drink from the mountain
stream, and made his way back to the railroad. But it was too early then
to commence the passage of the Gap, and he sat for a couple of hours by
the side of the road, before he ventured to resume his journey.
While he was passing through the narrow gorge in the mountains, he met
several persons, on foot and on horseback; but as he was armed with a
pistol, he did not turn out for them; but when a party of soldiers
approached, he sought a hiding place by the side of the road until they
were out of hearing. When he had passed through the Gap, he came to a road
crossing the track, and after debating the question thoroughly, he decided
to abandon the railroad, and pursued his course by the common highway
towards the North.
Continuing his journey diligently for a time longer, he came to another
road, branching off to the left from the one he had chosen, which required
further consideration. But his conclusion was satisfactory, and he
continued on the same road, which soon brought him to a more thickly
settled country than that through which he had been travelling.
By this time Tom's stomach began to be rebellious again, and the question
of rations began to assume a serious aspect. He was not suffering for
food, but it was so much more comfortable to travel upon a full stomach
than an empty one, that he could not pass a dwelling house without
thinking of the contents of the cellar and closets. It was perfectly
proper to forage on the enemy; but he could not eat raw chicken and geese,
or the problem of rations would have been effectually settled by a
demonstration on the hen-coops of the Shenandoah valley.
He came to a halt before a large mansion, which had the appearance of
belonging to a wealthy person. Its larder and kitchen cupboards, he
doubted not, were plentifully supplied with the luxuries of the season;
and Tom thought he might as well obtain his provisions now, as wait till
he was driven to desperation by hunger. He entered the front gate of the
great house, and stepped upon the veranda in front of it. The windows
reached down to the floor. He tried one of them, and found that it was not
fastened. He carefully raised the sash and entered.
Tom was determined to put himself upon his impudence on the present
occasion; but he satisfied himself that his revolver was in condition for
instant use before he proceeded any farther. Passing from the front room
to an apartment in the rear, he found a lamp and matches, and concluded
that he would have some light on the subject, which was duly obtained.
Leaving this room, he entered another, which proved to be the kitchen. A
patient search revealed to him the lurking place of a cold roast chicken,
some fried bacon, bread, and crackers.
Placing these things on the table, he seated himself to partake of the
feast which the forethought of the occupants had provided for him. Tom
began to be entirely at home, for having thrown himself on his impudence
now; he did not permit any doubts or fears to disturb him; but the handle
of his pistol protruded from between the buttons of his coat. He ate till
he had satisfied himself, when he happened to think that the coffee pot he
had seen in the closet might contain some cold coffee; and he brought it
out. He was not disappointed, and even found sugar and milk. He poured out
a bowl of the beverage, and, having prepared it to his taste, was about to
conclude the feast in this genteel style, when he heard footsteps in the
adjoining entry.
Tom determined not to be cheated out of his coffee, and instead of putting
himself in a flurry, he took the bowl in one hand and the pistol in the
other. The door opened, and a negro timidly entered the room.
"Well, sar!" said the servant, as he edged along the side of the room.
"Hem! Well, sar!"
Tom took no notice of him, but continued to drink his coffee as coolly as
though he had been in his mother's cottage at Pinchbrook.
"Hem! Well, sar!" repeated the negro, who evidently wished to have the
interloper take some notice of him.
But the soldier boy refused to descend from his dignity or his impudence.
He finished the bowl of coffee as deliberately as though the darkey had
been somewhere else.
"Well, sar! Who's you, sar?"
"Eh, Blackee?"
"Who's you, sar?"
"Good chicken! Good bread! Good bacon!" added Tom. "Are the folks at home,
Blackee?"
"No, sar; nobody but de women folks, sar. Who's you, sar?"
"It don't make much difference who I am. Where's your master?"
"Gone to Richmond, sar. He's member ob Congress."
"Then he's in poor business, Blackee," said Tom, as he took out his
handkerchief, and proceeded to transfer the remnants of his supper to its
capacious folds.
"Better luff dem tings alone, sar."
But Tom refused to "luff dem alone," and when he had placed them on the
handkerchief, he made a bundle of them.
"Golly, sar! I'll tell my missus what's gwine on down here," added the
servant, as he moved towards the door.
"See here, Blackee," interposed Tom, pointing his pistol at the negro; "if
you move, I'll put one of these balls through your skull."
"De Lud sabe us, massa! Don't shoot dis nigger, massa."
"Hold your tongue then, and mind what I say."
"Yes, massa," whined the darkey, in the most abject tones.
"Now come with me, Blackee, and if you open your mouth, one of these pills
shall go down your throat."
Tom flourished his pistol before the negro, and led the way to the window
by which he had entered the house. Passing out upon the veranda, he
cautiously conducted the terrified servant to the road; and when they had
gone a short distance, he halted.
"Now, Blackee, what town is this?" demanded Tom.
"Leeds Manor, sar," replied the trembling negro.
"How far is it to the Shenandoah River?"
"Only two or tree miles, massa. Now let dis chile go home again."
"Not yet."
"Hab mercy on dis nigger dis time, and sabe him."
"I won't hurt you, if you behave yourself."
Tom questioned him for some time in regard to the river, and the towns
upon its banks; and when he had obtained all the information in regard to
the valley which the servant possessed, he resumed his journey, driving
the negro before him.
"Spare dis chile, massa, for de sake ob de wife and chil'n," pleaded the
unwilling guide.
"I tell you I won't hurt you if you behave yourself," replied Tom. "You'll
have the whole place down upon me in half an hour, if I let you go now."
"No, massa; dis nigger won't say one word 'bout you, nor de tings you took
from de house--not one word, massa. Spare dis chile, and luff him go
home."
But Tom compelled him to walk before him till they came to the river. The
place was called Seaburn's Ford.
"Now, Blackee, if anybody wants me, tell them I've gone to Winchester,"
said Tom, when he had ordered his escort to halt.
"No, massa, I won't say one word," replied the servant.
"If you do, I'll shoot you the very next time I see you--depend upon that.
You can go now."
The negro was not slow to avail himself of this privilege, and ran off,
evidently expecting a bullet from the revolver would overtake him before
he had gone far, for he glanced fearfully over his shoulder, begging his
captor not to shoot him.
Tom stood upon the bank of the Shenandoah. The negro had told him that he
was about thirty miles from Harper's Ferry, which he knew was in
possession of General Patterson's forces. Attached to a tree on the shore
was a small flat-bottomed boat, which attracted the attention of the
soldier boy. Tom was accustomed to boats, and the sight of this one
suggested a change of programme, for it would be much easier to float down
the stream, than to walk the thirty miles. This was a point which needed
no argument; and unfastening the painter of the boat, he jumped in, and
pushed off. Seating himself in the stern, with the paddle in his hand, he
kept her head with the current, and swept down the rapid stream like a
dreamy youth just starting upon the voyage of life.
Like the pilgrim on the sea of time, Tom was not familiar with the
navigation of the Shenandoah, and he had neither chart nor compass to
assist him. The current was very swift, and once in a while the bateau
bumped upon a concealed rock, or bar of sand. Fortunately no serious
accident occurred to him, though he found that the labor of managing the
boat was scarcely less than that of walking.
There was one consolation about it; he was in no danger of missing the
road, and he was not bothered by Confederate soldiers or inquisitive
civilians. His light bark rushed on its way down the stream, without
attracting the notice of any of the inhabitants, if any were abroad at
that unseemly hour of the night. The difficulties of the navigation were
overcome with more or less labor, and when the day dawned, Tom made up his
mind that he had done a good night's work; and choosing a secluded nook by
the side of the river, he hauled up his boat, intending to wait for the
return of darkness.
The place he had chosen appeared to be far from any habitation, and he ate
his breakfast in a very hopeful frame of mind. Though he was not very
tired or very sleepy, yet for the want of something better to do, he felt
compelled to go to sleep, hoping, as on the previous day, to dispose of
the weary hours in this agreeable manner. His pastime, however, was soon
interrupted by loud shouts and the tramp of men, not far from the spot
where he lay. A hurried examination of the surroundings assured him that
he had chosen a resting place near one of the fords of the river, over
which a rebel regiment was then passing.
CHAPTER XXI.
THE PROBLEM OF RATIONS.
The ford over which the rebel regiment was passing was only a few rods
distant from the place where Tom had concealed himself and his boat. When
he discovered the soldiers, he was thrilled with terror; and, fully
believing that his hour had come, he dropped upon the ground, to wait, in
trembling anxiety, the passage of the troops. It was a regiment of
Virginia mountaineers, clothed in the most fantastic style with
hunting-shirts and coon-skin caps. They yelled and howled like so many
wildcats.
From his hiding place on the bank of the stream, he obtained a good view
of the men, as they waded across the river. He was fearful that some of
them might stray from the ranks, and stumble upon his place of refuge; but
a kind Providence put it into their heads to mind their own business, and
Tom gathered hope as the yells of the mountaineers grew indistinct in the
distance.
"This is no place for me," said Tom to himself, when the sounds had died
away in the direction of the Blue Ridge. "A whole army of them may camp
near that ford, and drive me out of my hiding place."
Jumping into the bateau again, he waited till he was satisfied no carriage
or body of troops was in the vicinity; and then plying the paddle with the
utmost vigor, he passed the ford. But then he found that the public
highway ran along the banks of the river, which exposed him to increased
risk of being seen. A couple of vehicles passed along the road while he
was in this exposed situation; but as the occupants of them seemed to take
no notice of him, he congratulated himself upon his escape, for presently
the boat was beneath the shadows of the great trees. Finding a suitable
place, he again hauled up, and concealed himself and the bateau.
As all danger seemed to have passed, Tom composed his nerves, ate his
dinner, and went to sleep as usual; but his rest was not so tranquil as he
had enjoyed in the solitudes of the mountains. Visions of rebel soldiers
haunted his dreams, and more than once he started up, and gazed wildly
around him; but these were only visions, and there was something more real
to disturb his slumbers.
"Hi! Who are you?" exclaimed a wildcat soldier, who had penetrated the
thicket without disturbing the sleeper.
Tom started up, and sprang to his feet. One of the tall mountaineers, whom
he had seen crossing the ford, stood before him; and the reality was even
more appalling than the vision.
"Who mought you be?" demanded the tall soldier, with a good-natured grin
upon his greasy face.
"Faith! I believe I've been asleep!" said Tom, rubbing his eyes, and
looking as innocent as a young lamb.
"You may bet your life on thet, my boy," replied the rebel, laughing. "Hi!
Jarvey!" added he, apparently addressing a companion at no great distance
from the spot.
Heavy footsteps announced the approach of Jarvey, who soon joined them. He
was not less than six feet three inches in height, and, with two such
customers as these, Tom had no hope except in successful strategy. He had
no doubt they had obtained information of him from the persons in the
vehicles, and had come to secure him. He fully expected to be marched off
to the rebel regiment, which could not be far off.
"Who is he, Sid?" asked Jarvey, when he reached the spot.
"Dunno. Say, who are ye, stranger?"
"Who am I? Tom Somers, of course. Do you belong to that regiment that
stopped over yonder last night?" asked Tom, with a proper degree of
enthusiasm. "Don't you know me?"
"Well, we don't."
"Didn't you see me over there? That's a bully regiment of yours. I'd like
to join it."
"Would you, though, sonny?" said Sid, laughing till his mouth opened wide
enough for a railroad train to pass in.
"Wouldn't I, though!" replied Tom. "If there's any big fighting done, I'll
bet your boys do it."
"Bet your life on thet," added Jarvey. "But why don't you jine a
regiment?"
"Don't want to join any regiment that comes along. I want to go into a
fighting regiment, like yours."
"Well, sonny, you ain't big enough to jine ours," said Sid, as he
compassionately eyed the young man's diminutive proportions.
"The old man wouldn't let me go in when I wanted to, and I'm bound not to
go in any of your fancy regiments. I want to fight when I go."
"You'll do, sonny. Now, what ye doing here?"
"I came out a-fishing, but I got tired, and went to sleep."
"Where's your fish-line?"
"In the boat."
"What ye got in that handkerchief?"
"My dinner," replied Tom. "Won't you take a bite?"
"What ye got?"
"A piece of cold chicken and some bread."
"We don't mind it now, sonny. Hev you seen any men with this gear on in
these yere parts?" asked Jarvey, as he pointed to his uniform.
"Yes, sir," replied Tom, vigorously.
"Whar d'ye see 'em, sonny?"
"They crossed the ford, just above, only a little while ago."
"How many?"
"Two," replied Tom, with promptness.
"Where's the other?" asked Jarvey, turning to his companion.
"He's in these yere woods, somewhar. We'll fotch 'em before night. You say
the two men crossed the ford--did ye, sonny?"
"Yes, half an hour ago. What is the matter with them?"
"They're mean trash, and want to run off. Now, sonny, 'spose you put us
over the river in your boat."
"Yes, sir!" replied Tom, readily.
The two wildcats got into the bateau, nearly swamping it by their great
weight, and Tom soon landed them on the other side of the river.
"Thank'e, sonny," said Jarvey, as they jumped on shore. "If you were only
four foot higher, we'd like to take you into our regiment. You'll make a
right smart chance of a soldier one of these yere days. Good by, sonny."
"Good by," answered Tom, as he drew a long breath, indicative of his
satisfaction at being so well rid of his passengers.
He had fully persuaded himself that he should be carried off a prisoner to
this wildcat regiment, and he could hardly believe his senses when he
found himself again safely floating down the rapid tide of the Shenandoah.
His impudence and his self-possession had saved him; but it was a mystery
to him that his uniform, or the absence of his fish-line, or the answers
he gave, had not betrayed him. The mountaineers had probably not yet seen
a United States uniform, or they would, at least, have questioned him
about his dress.
Tom ran down the river a short distance farther before he ventured to stop
again, for he could not hope to meet with many rebel soldiers who were so
innocent and inexperienced as these wildcats of the mountains had been.
When the darkness favored his movements, he again embarked upon his
voyage. Twice during the night his boat got aground, and once he was
pitched into the river by striking upon a rock; but he escaped these and
other perils of the navigation with nothing worse than a thorough ducking,
which was by no means a new experience to the soldier boy. In the morning,
well satisfied with his night's work, he laid up for the day in the safest
place he could find.
On the second day of his voyage down the river, the old problem of rations
