 
" I think not, Miss Guilford," replied the lieutenant, 
very much embarrassed. "I only pulled you out from 
the ruins ; I couldn't have helped doing it if I had tried : 
and I hope you won't feel under any obligations to me." 
" But I do feel under very great obligations to you, 
and I assure you I am happy to owe my life to so brave 
and gallant a soldier." 
Somers felt just as though he was reading an excit- 
ing chapter in a sensation novel ; though he could not help 
thinking of Lilian Ashford, and thus spoiling all the 
romance of the affair. He made no reply to Miss Em- 
mie's pretty speech ; it was utterly impossible for him to 
do so : and therein he differed from all the heroes of the 
novels. 
" I want to hear from you some time, and even to 
see you again. You must promise to call and see me 
when we get to Washington." 
" I may not be able to leave my regiment at that 
time." 
" Oh ! my father will get you a furlough any time you 
want one." 
Lieutenant Somers thought he should like to see him- 
self asking a furlough to enable him to visit a young lady 
in Washington, even if she was ?C senator's daughter ; but 
he promised to call at Mr. dkiilford's whenever he hap- 
pened to be at the capital, which was entirely satisfactory 
to the young lady. Though Emmie was by this time 
 
suffering severely, she managed to say several pleasant 
things ; and among them she hinted that her father could 
make a brigadier as easily as a tinker could make a tin 
kettle. 
The train arrived at the stopping-place ; and Mr. Gnil- 
ford, with the assistance of Lieutenant Soiners, placed his 
daughter in a carriage. Captain de Banyan was very 
anxious to assist in the operation ; but the sufferer de- 
clined. They parted with a renewed promise on the part 
of the young officer to visit her in Washington, whenever 
his duty called him to that city. The cars arrived in 
New York two hours behind time, too late to connect 
with the train for Philadelphia. Captain de Banyan pro- 
posed, as they were obliged to remain in the city over 
night, that they should stop at the " Fifth Avenue," 
declaring it was the best hotel in New York. Somers 
objected ; hoping that he should thus escape the society of 
the captain, who appeared to be altogether too "fast" 
for his time. 
De Banyan was accommodating ; and, when the lieuten- 
ant mentioned a small hotel down town, he readily agreed 
to the proposition, and Somers found it useless to attempt 
to get rid of him. The captain, for some reason or other, 
appeared to have taken a decided liking to our officer. 
Perhaps he hoped to share with him the powerful patron- 
age of Senator Guilford. 
After supper, Captain de Banyan proposed that they 
should go out and see the "elephant;" but Somers 
having no taste for the study of this description of 
natural history, positively declined to see the metaphori- 
cal monster. 
. " They must go somewhere," persisted the captain, taking 
up a newspaper. " Here's a ' Lecture on the Battle of 
Bull Run, by Lieutenant-Colonel Staggerback, who par- 
ticipated in that memorable action,'" he continued, read- 
ing- from the paper. 
" I was in that battle myself: I don't object to that," 
replied Somers. 
" Good ! Then we'll go." 
They walked up Broadway till they came to one of 
those gaudy saloons where rum and ruin are tricked 
out in the gayest of colors. 
"We are early for the lecture, Somers. Let's go in 
here, and see what there is to be seen." 
" No, I thank you : I don't care about going into any 
of these dens of vice and sin." 
'" Vice is a monster of so frightful mien, 
As, to be hated, needs but to be seen,' " 
repeated the captain with dramatic force 
<(< But seen too oft'" 
" You needn't see it but once. Don't you want to see 
the lions of the metropolis ? " 
 
" Dou't object to the lions ; but, m rny opinion, you "will 
find only the donkeys in there." 
"Let us see, at any rate." 
" I will go in for a moment," replied Somers, who did 
not like to seem over-squeamish. 
They entered this outer gate of ruin. There was a 
bar at the end next to the street, while at the other end a 
band of music was playing the national airs. It looked 
like a very pleasant place to the young lieutenant, who 
had never entered one of these saloons before. 
 
CHAPTER IV. 
THE FIRE OF TEMPTATION. 
sfiS APTAIN DE BANYAN sauntered gracefully 
j up the saloou, with Somers at his side. He 
_X appeared to be perfectly a"t home, and to have 
all the ease and finish of a thorough man of the 
world. His movements were calculated to make a sensa- 
tion ; and, as he passed along, old topers and gay young 
bloods paused to glance at him. If the captain had been 
in command of the Army of the Potomac, his elevated 
position would hardly have justified a more extensive 
flourish llian he made. 
Lieutenant Somers was duly impressed by the magni- 
ficence of his companion, though the surroundings of the 
place created some painful misgivings in his mind. The 
captain sat down at one of the little tables where the fre- 
quenters of the saloon who were disposed to prolong the 
enjoyment of their drams discussed "juleps," " cobblers,'' 
aud other villanous compounds. 
Somers could not do less than seat himself at the other 
side of the table. He was ill at ease, even while he was 
 
endeavoring to seem indifferent and at home. I ;im ,-orry 
to say he was haunted by that abominable bugbear which 
often takes po ion of the minds of young men when 
they find themselves in the presence of those who are 
adepts in the arts of vie';, a fear of being thought 
" <Teen," " verdant," or being measured by some other 
(idjeHive used in f;i-t circles to caricature the innocenee 
of a soul un-ul!ied bv contact with the vices and follies 
of the city. He half expert. :d that some of the disso- 
lute young wretches who were- drinking, swearing, and 
pouring the filth of a poisoned mind from their lips, would 
ask him if " his, mother knew he was out." He tried to 
maintain hi- self-posses ion, and to seem a! home where 
ruin was rioting in the soul- of young men. If he did 
not entire] v succeed, it was fill the more to his rn-dit. 
"AVhat will you take?" demanded Captain de Banyan, 
after they had sal at the table long enough to examine 
the prominent features of the saloon. 
Take a walk," replied Lieutenant Somer.s. 
Xo, no ! What will you drink?" 
" Xothing, thank you. I've just been to supper, and 
don't want any thing/' 
"Yes ; but people who come in here, and listen to the 
music, an- expected to patronize the establishment. I'm 
going to have a brandy smash : shall I order one for 
you?" 
" No, I thank you." 
"But I can't drink alone." 
" I never drink." 
" Nonsense ! A lieutenant in our regiment, and not 
drink ! I see ! You haven't learned yet ; but it won't 
take you long. Your case is exactly my own. I was 
about your age when I went to the Crimea, and didn't 
know wine from brandy. After the battle of Balaclava, 
where I did some little thing which excited the admira- 
tion of the nobs in command, Lord Raglan sent for me, 
and invited me to take a glass of wine with him. Of 
course, I could not refuse his lordship, especially as he 
was in the very act of complimenting me for what he was 
pleased to call my gallant conduct. I drank my first 
glass of wine then. It was Sicily Madeira, a light, sweet 
wine ; and, my dear fellow, you shall begin with the same ; 
and we will drink the health of Senator Guilford and his 
fair daughter. Waiter, one brandy-smash and one Sicily 
Madeira." 
" Really, Captain de Banyan, you must excuse me," 
stammered Somers, completely bewildered by the elo- 
quent and insinuating manners of his brilliant com- 
panion, who had spoken loud enough to attract the at' 
tention of a dozen idlers greedy for excitement of any 
kind, and to whom the latter part of his remarks seemed 
to be addressed, rather than to the timid young man in 
front of him. 
Captain de Banyan appeared to have a point to carry : 
 
which was nothing less than to overcome the conscien- 
tious scruples of the young officer. He had spoken loud 
enough to attract the attention of these miserable tipplers, 
that Somers might be overawed by their presence, and in- 
timidated by their sneers, and thus compelled to taste the 
intoxicating cup. The squad of fast men who had taken 
positions near the table were interested in the scene, and 
impatient to see the pure soul tumbled from its lofty emi- 
%. 
nence. 
"Here's the nectar !" almost shouted the captain as 
the waiter placed the drinks upon the table. " Wine for 
you ; brandy for me. You will be promoted to brandy 
one of these days, my boy, when your head is stronger 
and your nerves stiffer. Lieutenant Somers, here's to 
the health of the patriot statesman, Senator Guilford, 
and his lovely daughter ; " and the captain pushed aside 
the straw in the vile compound, and raised the glass to 
his lips. 
Somers was embarrassed at his position, and be- 
wildered by the dashing speeches of his companion. A 
dozen pair of leering eyes were fixed upon him ; a dozen 
mouths were wrinkled into sottish smiles, called up by 
his sufferings at that critical moment. He reached forth 
o 
his hand, and grasped the slender stem of the wine- 
glass ; but his arm trembled more than that of the most 
hardened toper in the group before him. He had been 
trembling in the presence of that squad of tyrants, 
 
those leer-eyed, grinning debauchees, who seemed to be 
opening the gate of hell, and bidding him enter. 
" Tom Somers," said the still small voice which had 
spoken to him a thousand times before in the perils and 
temptations through which he had passed, " you have 
behaved yourself very well thus far. You have been 
promoted for bravery on the battle-field ; and now will 
you cower in the presence of this brilliant brawler, and 
these weak-minded, cowardly tipplers? What would 
your mother say if she could see you now, with your 
shaking hand fastened to the wine-cup? What would 
Lilian Ashford say ? Dare you drink the health of Em- 
mie Guilford in such a place as this? You should have 
smote the lips that mentioned her name in such a pres- 
ence ! ' 
He drew back his hand from the glass. His muscles 
tightened up, as they had on the bloody field of Williams- 
burg. Tom Somers was himself again. 
" Come, Somers, you don't drink," added the captain 
sarcastically. 
" No, I thank you ; I never drink," he answered resO' 
lutely, as he cast a steady glance of pity and contempt at 
the bloated crew who had been revelling in his embarrass- 
ment. 
" You won't refuse now?" 
" Most decidedly." 
'' Lieutenant Somers, I took you for a young man of 
 
pluck. I'm disappointed. You will pardon me, my 
dear fellow ; but I can't help regarding your conduct as 
rather shabby." 
" I never drink, as I have said before ; and I do not 
intend to begin now. If I have been shabby, I hope you 
will excuse me." 
" Certainly I will excuse you, when you atone for 
your folly, and drink with me." 
The spectators laughed, and evidently thought the captain
had made a point. 
" Then I can never atone for my folly, as you call 
it," replied Somers, his courage increasing as the trial 
demanded it. 
""What would Lord Raglan have said if I had refused 
to drink his Sicily Madeira?" 
" Very likely he would have said just what you said ; 
but there would have been no more sense in it then than 
now.' 
Bully for young 'un ! "' said a seedy dandy, whose 
love of fancy drinks had made a compromise with his 
love of dress. 
" I will leave it to these gentlemen to decide whether 
I have not spoken reason and good sense." 
" I will leave you and these gentlemen to settle that 
question to suit yourselves, and I will bid you good 
evening/' said Somers, rising from his chair. 
The unpleasant emphasis which he placed upon the 
 
word " gentlemen " created a decided sensation among 
the group of idlers ; and, as he stepped from behind the 
table, he was confronted by a young man with blood- 
shot eyes and bloated cheeks, but dressed in the ex- 
treme of fashion. 
" Sir, you wear the colors of the United-States army," 
said the juvenile tippler ; " but you can't be permitted to 
insult a gentleman with impunity." 
Lieutenant Somers wanted to laugh in the face of 
this specimen of bar-room chivalry, for he forcibly re- 
minded him of a belligerent little bantam-rooster that 
paraded the barnyard of his mother's cottage at Pinch- 
brook ; but he was prudent enough not to give any further 
cause of offence. Bestowing one glance at this champion 
of the tippler's coterie, he turned aside, and attempted to 
move towards the door. 
" Stop, sir," continued the young man, who plainly 
wanted to make a little capital out of a fight, in defence 
of the dignity of his friends. " You can't go without an 
apology, or or a fight," added the bully, shaking his 
head significantly, as he placed himself in front of the 
young lieutenant. 
"What am I to apologize for?" asked Somers. 
" You insulted the whole party of us. You intimated 
that we were no gentlemen." 
" I haven't spoken to any of you since I came in.'' 
protested Somers. " I never had any thing to do with 
 
you, and I don't know whether you are gentlemen or 
not." 
" You hear that, gentlemen ! "' added the bully. 
" I think I have said all that is necessary to say, and 
with your leave I will go," said Somers. 
" Stop, sir ! " snarled the young ruffian, putting his hand 
on the lieutenant's collar. 
" Take your hand off! " said he sternly. 
The fellow complied. 
"This thing has gone far enough, sir," said Captain 
de Banyan, stepping between Somers and his assailant. 
" Lieutenant Somers is my friend ; and, if you put the 
weight of your little finger upon him, I'll annihilate you 
quicker than I did a certain Austrian field-marshal at 
the battle of Solferino. Gentlemen, permit me to apolo- 
gize for my inexperienced friend if he has uttered any 
indiscreet word." 
"He must apologize!" blustered the young ruffian. 
"He says AVC are no gentlemen. Let him prove it." 
" You have proved it yourself, you little ape," replied 
the captain, as he stepped up to the bar, and paid liis 
reckoning, bestowing no more attention upon .the ruffled 
little bully than if he had been a very small puppy ; which 
perhaps lie was not, by a strict construction of terms. 
" I demand satisfaction ! " roared the flashy little toper. 
Apologize, or fight ! ' : 
Neither, my gay and festive lark," said the captain 
with abundant good humor, as he took Somers's arm, and 
sauntered leisurely towards the door. " Now, my dear 
fellow, we will go and hear what Lieutenant-Colonel 
Staggerback has to say about the battle of Bull Run. 
I was in that actica, and rallied the Fire Zouaves 
when Colonel Ellsworth was killed." 
" Colonel Ellsworth ! He wasn't killed at Bull Run ! " 
exclaimed Somers, astonished beyond measure at the sin- 
gular character which his companion was developing. 
" You are right : he was killed at Ball's Bluff." 
" I think not ; but were you at Bull Run? " 
" Certainly I was. I was on General Fremont's 
staff." 
li Were you, indeed ? Whew ! " 
"What may be the precise meaning of that whistle? 
Do you think I was not there ? " 
"Well, I don't remember to have seen you there?' 
" Very likely you did not ; but you will call to mind 
the fact, that things were rather mixed up in that action. 
But never mind that : we will talk those things over when 
we get down upon the Peninsula, and have nothing else to 
think about. Do you really mean to say, my dear fellow, 
that you never drink at all?" 
" I do not." 
" Well, I have heard of a man climbing up to the moon 
on a greased rainbow ; but I never heard of an officer 
oefore that didn't drink." 
 
" I'm afraid you haven't been very careful in the 
choice of your companions. I know a great many 
that never taste liquor under any circumstances." 
" It may be so ; and I am willing to confess that I 
have found one. I wouldn't have believed it before if 
I had read it in the Constitution of the United States. I 
owe you an apology, then, for letting on in that saloon. 
I didn't mean to hurt your feelings, my dear fellow ; but 
I thought you were joking." 
" I hope you will not repeat the experiment, then ; 
though I shall consider myself fair game if I ever enter 
another rum-shop," replied Somers. 
They proceeded to the place designated for the lecture ; 
and Captain de Banyan betrayed his interest in that 
memorable battle, where he had served on the staff of 
General Fremont, by going to sleep before the eloquent 
" participant " had got half-way through the exordium. 
Lieutenant Somers listened attentively until he was satis- 
fied that Colonel Staggerback either was not in the battle, 
or that he had escorted "Bull-Run Russell" off the field. 
When the lecture was finished, Somers awakened his 
edified companion, and they returned to the hotel ; though 
the captain hinted several times on the way that the 
"elephant" could be seen to better advantage in New 
York than in any other city in the Union. The young 
lieutenant had an utter disgust for the elephant, and took 
 
no hints. Before he retired that night, he thanked God, 
more earnestly and devoutly than usual, that he had been 
enabled to pass unscathed through the fires of temptation. 
He was still in condition to look his mother in the face. 
CHAPTER V. 
ON THE SKIRMISH LINE. 
'N the morning our travellers resumed their journey, 
more refreshed and in better condition for service 
than if they had spent the evening in chasing the 
"elephant" from one to another of the gilded 
dens of dissipation with which the metropolis abounds. 
In spite of his errors and sins, Somers could not help 
liking his dashing companion. Pie was a dangerous 
person ; but his enthusiasm was so captivating, that he 
could not close his heart against him. But, while he 
liked the captain, he hated his vices. 
They stopped in Philadelphia only long enough to dine ? 
and in Baltimore only long enough for supper ; arriv- 
ing at Washington in the evening. Captain de Banyar 
again proposed to "go round ;" which, rendered into un- 
mistakable English, meant to visit the drinking-houses 
and gambling-saloons of the city, to say nothing of worse 
places. Lieutenant Somers had grown wise by experi- 
ence ; and no amount of persuasion could induce him to 
leave the hotel. It was horrible to him to think of 
spending even his leisure time in the haunts of dissipation, 
when his country was bleeding from a thousand wounds ; 
when his gallant comrades in the Army of the Potomac 
were enduring peril and hardship in front of the enemy. 
He had no taste for carousing at any time, and every 
fibre of his moral nature was firmly set against the 
vices which lured on his reckless companion. 
Lieutenant Somers staid at the hotel that evening, 
listening to the conversation of the officers who had been 
at the front within a few days. The great battle of Fair 
Oaks had been fought during his absence, and there was 
every prospect that the most tremendous operations of 
the war would soon commence. He listened with the 
deepest interest to the accounts from the army, and 
needed none of the stimulus of the bar-room or the 
gambling-saloon to furnish him with excitement. He 
was soon to be an actor in the momentous events of the 
campaign ; and the thought was full of inspiration, and 
lifted him up from the gross and vulgar tastes of his 
companion. 
Before noon the next day, somewhat against the incli- 
nation of Captain de Banyan, the two officers were on 
board a steamer bound down the river. After some 
delays, they arrived at White House, on the Pamunkey 
River ; and then proceeded by railroad nearly to the 
camp of the regiment, at Poplar Hill, in the very depth. 
of White-oak Swamp. 
 
" My blessed boy ! " shouted Sergeant Hapgood when 
Lieutenant Somers appeared in the camp. 
The veteran rushed upon him, and, not content to shake 
his hand, he proceeded to hug him in the most extraor- 
dinary manner. 
U I am glad to see you, Hapgood! How have you 
been since I left?" said Somers. 
" First-rate ! Bless my withered old carcass, Tom, 
but I thought I never should see you again. Why, Tom, 
how handsome you've grown ! Well, you'll be a briga- 
dier one of these days, and there won't be a better looking 
officer on the field. Dear me, Tom Beg pardon : I 
forgot that you are an officer ; and I mustn't call you 
Tom any more." 
" Never mind that, uncle," added Somers, laughing. 
" It would hardly be good discipline for a sergeant to call 
an officer by a nickname ; but we will compromise, and 
you shall call me Tom when we are not on duty, and 
there is no one within hearing." 
" Compromise ! Don't never use that word to me. 
After we fit the battle of Bull Run, I gouged that word 
out of my dictionary. No, sir ! You are a leftenant 
now ; and I shall allers call you Leftenant Somers, een 
if there ain't nobody within ten mile of us." 
"Just as you please, uncle; but, whatever you call 
me, we shall be just as good friends as we ever were." 
" That's so, Leftenant Somers." 
 
I 
" Precisely, Sergeant Hapgood." 
"Now, what's the news in Pinchbrook ? '" asked the 
veteran. 
But, before Somers had a chance to tell the news from 
home, he was welcomed to the camp, and cheered, by 
officers and men ; and his account of what had trans- 
pired in Pinchbrook during his thirty-days' furlough was 
eagerly listened to by a large and attentive audience. He 
received in return a full history of the regiment during his 
absence. Though the narrative of sundry exciting events, 
such as forrays upon pig-sties, poultry-yards, and kitchen- 
gardens, was highly amusing, there was a tale of sadness 
to tell, of deaths by disease and on the battle-field. 
Many cheerful hearts, that were beating with life and 
hope a few weeks before, were now silent in the grave, 
the soldier's mausoleum in a strange land. But soldiers 
have no time to weep over a dead past ; they must live in 
the hope of a glorious future : and when they had dropped 
a tear to the memory of the noble and the true who had 
fallen on the field or died in the hospital, victims of the 
pestilential airs of the swamp, they laughed as merrily as 
ever, careless of Death's poised arrows which were always 
aimed at them. 
Captain de Banyan took his place in the regiment, 
where Somers found that he was prodigiously popular, 
even after a few hours' acquaintance with his new com- 
mand ; but who he was, where he caine from, and how 
he had procured his commission, was a mystery to offi- 
cers and men. He told tremendous stories about the 
Crimea and the Italian war ; and now, for the first time, 
intimated that he was the only survivor of the company 
which led the advance 4it the storming of Chepultepec, 
in the Mexican war. However much the officers enjoyed 
his stories, it is not probable that all of them believed 
what they heard. 
Lieutenant Somers was perfectly familiar with the 
company and battalion drill ; and, having quick percep- 
tion and abundant self-possession, he was competent at 
once to perform his duties as an officer. He had no vices 
to be criticised by the men, who respected him not only 
for his bravery on the battle-field, but for his good moral 
character ; for even the vicious respect the virtues which 
they practically cantemn. Being neither arbitrary nor 
tyrannical, he was cheerfully obeyed ; and his company 
never appeared better than when, by the temporary 
absence of his superior, it was under his command. 
He was, however, allowed but a short time to become 
acquainted with the routine of the new duty before he 
was summoned to participate in those tremendous events 
which have passed into history as at once the most bril- 
liant and disastrous operations of the war ; brilliant in 
that our gallant army was almost invariably victorious, 
