them went down into the steerage, and in five minutes there was a
confused jabbering in every part of the ship.
"For whom shall you vote, Wilton?" asked Shuffles in a group of half a
dozen which had gathered around one of the mess tables.
"I don't know? whom do you go for?" replied Wilton.
"I rather think I shall go for Bob Shuffles. In my opinion, he is the
best fellow on board," replied the owner of that name.
"That's modest," laughed Wilton.
"Do you know of any fellow that would make a better captain than I
should?"
"You don't know the first thing about a ship."
"What odds does that make? I can learn as fast as anybody else."
"Do you expect every fellow to vote for himself?" asked Howe, another of
the group.
"Of course I don't; I expect them to vote for me," answered Shuffles,
with great good-nature.
"You are rather cheeky, Shuffles."
"What's the use of mincing the matter? Here we are, half a dozen of the
best fellows in the ship. We can't all be captain; but one of us can be
just as well as not."
"That's so," added Howe, approvingly. "But who shall that one be?"
"I am the one, without a doubt," said Shuffles.
"I don't see it," interposed Monroe, shaking his head; and he was the
young gentleman who had assisted the aspirant for the captaincy to rob
Mr. Lowington's favorite peach tree.
"What have you got to say about it, Ike Monroe? Do you expect us to go
for you?"
"I didn't say so."
"That's what you meant."
"I've just as much right to the place as you have, Bob Shuffles."
"Do you think you could make the fellows stand round as I can? But hold
on; fellows, don't let us fight about it. We are just the best six
fellows on board, and if we have a mind to do so, we can have this thing
all our own way," continued Shuffles.
"I don't see how," said Philip Sanborn.
"Don't you know how the politicians manage these things?"
"I don't."
"I'll tell you, then."
"But the principal said we must go according to merit, and elect the
fellows who were the best fitted for the offices," interposed Howe.
"Exactly so; that's just what we are going to do. I'm going to be
captain; can you tell me of any better fellow for the place?" demanded
Shuffles, who, putting aside the jesting manner in which he had
commenced the discussion, now assumed an earnest and impudent tone.
"Didn't you hear what Lowington said when he wound up his speech?" asked
Wilton.
"What?"
"About vetoing our choice if it was not a proper one."
"What of it?" asked Shuffles, innocently.
"Don't you think he would veto you?"
"Me! Not he! Lowington knows that I'm smart; I was too smart for him
once, and he knows it. He won't veto me. We have been the best of
friends lately."
"I don't believe he'll have a chance to veto you," said Wilton.
"What do you mean?"
"I don't believe you will be elected."
"I know I shall, if we manage it right. Let us look at it," continued
Shuffles, as he took a pencil from his pocket. "Got a piece of paper?"
Monroe gave him a piece of paper, and the wire-puller began to make his
calculations.
"Eighty-seven votes," said he, writing the number on the paper.
"Necessary to a choice, forty-four. Here are six votes to start with."
"For whom?" asked Monroe.
"For me, for captain, first, and for each of the others for whatever
place he wants; say for Wilton for first lieutenant; Howe for second,
Sanborn for third, Monroe for fourth, and Adler for first master. What
do you say to that, fellows?"
As with the political "slate," there was some difference of opinion in
regard to the minor officers, even after Shuffles' claim to the
captaincy had been conceded But this disposition of the spoils was
finally agreed to.
"Now we want thirty-eight more votes," Shuffles proceeded.
"Just so; and you might as well attempt to jump over the main royal yard
as to get them," added Adler, who, having been assigned to the office
lowest in rank, was least satisfied with the "slate."
"Hold on; we haven't done yet. There are nine more offices. Now we will
pick out some good fellow that will work for us, for each of these
places; then we will promise him six votes if he will go our ticket, and
do what he can for us."
"That will give us only fifteen votes," said Adler.
"I think that will be doing very well to start with. Then you five
fellows can electioneer for me, and I'll do the same for you."
"I think we have made one mistake," added Sanborn. "Most of the fellows
will go for Carnes for captain. He is an old salt, and has more
influence than any other student in the ship. We ought to offer him some
place."
"Make him purser, if you like," said Shuffles, contemptuously.
"That won't go down. Make him first lieutenant."
"And shove me out?" demanded Wilton, indignantly. "I don't see it!"
"Nor I," added Shuffles. "I won't vote for Carnes, any how. He's a snob
and a flunky."
It was useless to resist the fiat of the chief wire-puller; the ticket
remained as it had been originally prepared; and the young gentlemen
proceeded to distribute the rest of the offices.
CHAPTER III.
THE ENSIGN AT THE PEAK.
The students on board of the Young America were between the ages of
fourteen and seventeen. By the regulations, no boy under fourteen or
over seventeen could be admitted, and they averaged about fifteen. They
had, therefore, reached the years of discretion. Among them were a great
many who were disposed to be wild boys, and not a few who had found it
difficult to remain in similar institutions on shore. They were not
criminal or depraved, but simply wild; with a tendency to break through
reasonable restraint; with a taste for mad pranks, and a contempt for
authority.
Of this class, who were a trial and a torment to the teachers of the
ordinary high schools and academies, the larger proportion would have
scorned to steal, or commit any wanton outrage upon the persons or
property of others. There were many high-minded, noble-hearted young
men, who could not tamely submit to authority, and were prone to
insubordination, and who only needed the right kind of discipline to
make them earnest and faithful men and useful citizens. There were few,
if any, dunces or blockheads among them, for a life on shipboard had no
attractions for such boys. They were, almost without an exception,
wide-awake, bold, daring fellows, who had a taste for stirring events;
fellows who wanted to climb the Rocky Mountains, visit the North Pole,
and explore the Mammoth Cave. They were full of fun and mischief and it
would have been easy at any time to get up a party among them to march
the principal's cow into the parlor of the Academy; to climb to the
belfry on a winter's night, and fill the inverted bell with water, where
it would freeze solid before morning; or to convey the occupants of the
hen-coop to the recitation room.
It was Mr. Lowington's task to repress the mischief in these boys, to
keep them occupied with work and play, and to develop their moral and
mental capacities. He had doubtless taken a heavy load upon himself but
he felt that he was to labor for his race and his country. At least one
half of his students were too wild to attend the ordinary public or
private schools, or to profit by them if admitted. With such material,
his work could not be a sinecure. But he had a taste for it, and he gave
his whole heart and soul to the performance of his duties.
When the students were gathered on board the Young America, they were
mostly strangers to him, though he had communicated personally or by
letter with the parents of all of them. He had read and listened to the
stories of their pranks and peccadilloes, but when they came together,
he hardly knew one from another, and was not prejudiced against any
individual by the terrible accounts of him related by parents,
guardians, or teachers. He purposed to give them the opportunity to
select their own officers at first, in order to win a more cheerful
obedience from them, and because the students knew each other better
than he knew them.
After the announcement of the principal that the voting would commence
on the following morning, nothing else was talked of on board. The
qualifications of various members of the school were discussed by groups
of excited voters; and we must do them the justice to say that most of
them considered the matter unselfishly and with a single eye to the
public good. Perhaps it is a little remarkable that not a single
student, outside of the little group of wire-pullers that gathered in
the steerage, thought of Shuffles for the position of captain; and the
"log-rollers" were likely to have up-hill work in electing themselves to
the six principal offices. But they went to work, and labored very
diligently till bed-time in carrying their point.
While none thought of Shuffles in connection with the highest position,
many mentioned the dignified young gentleman, who had made one voyage up
the Mediterranean--Richard Carnes. He had been on board a fortnight, and
had won and retained the respect of all his companions.
Before the little band of wire-pullers in the steerage had made up the
"slate" to suit their minds, the crowd on deck had agreed upon Richard
Carnes for captain, and were busy in discussing the qualifications of
others for the subordinate offices, when the log-rollers separated, and
went to work upon their mission.
"How are you going to vote for captain, Kendall?" said Wilton, stopping
up to the young gentleman who had proposed so many questions to the
principal, and who had been so honest in confessing his ignorance of
nautical matters.
"For Carnes, of course."
"Humph! I wouldn't vote for him," sneered the wire-puller.
"Why not?"
"He's too stiff; he'll put on airs, and be a tyrant over us."
"No, he won't."
"You see if he don't. I say, Kendall, are you up for any office?"
continued Wilton, with a certain appearance of slyness which the
straightforward young gentleman did not exactly like.
"Am I?"
"Yes, you. Wouldn't you like a room in the after cabin?"
"Perhaps I would," answered Kendall, thoughtfully; and the place was
certainly very inviting to him.
"They say the after cabin is a perfect little palace."
"I dare say it is."
"You can just as well go in there, if you like."
"I don't see how that can be. I don't think I'm fit to be an officer. I
am from Cincinnati, and I never saw a ship till I came east three weeks
ago."
"None of the fellows know anything about a ship. All of us will have to
learn."
"Carnes knows all about one."
"No, he don't. He made one voyage, and knows just enough to talk salt.
He's a good fellow enough, but he isn't fit for captain. If you want to
be an officer, Kendall, and have a berth in the after cabin, you can,
just as well as not."
"Well, I would like such a place; I can't deny it; but I don't think the
fellows will go for me."
"They will, if you say so."
"If I say so! I'm not going to ask them to vote for me," replied
Kendall, warmly; for he was no politician and had a vein of modesty in
his composition.
"You needn't say a word to any one. If you will go for our ticket, it
will be all right. Half a dozen of us have talked this matter over, and
we have concluded that you would be the best fellow for second master."
"Have you?" asked Kendall, who could not help being gratified to learn
that even half a dozen of his companions had thought him worthy to be an
officer of so high a rank as second master. "I'm very much obliged to
you."
"All you have to do, is to go for our ticket."
"What do you mean by your ticket?" demanded Kendall, who was rather
confused by the technical terms of the wire-puller.
Wilton explained that his little party had selected a candidate for each
of the offices; and if all the fellows agreed to it, there would be
fifteen votes for their ticket, to begin with.
"Well, what is your ticket?" demanded Kendall, impatiently. "If they are
all good fellows, I will go for them. Of course you mean to vote for
Carnes for captain."
"Not exactly," replied Wilton, with evident disgust. "We shall put up a
better fellow than he is for captain."
"Why, all the boys are going for him," added Kendall, astonished to find
there were any who did not believe in Carnes.
"No, they are not."
"I thought they were."
"He will not be elected, and you need not throw your vote away upon him,
because, if you don't want a place in the after cabin, there are plenty
of fellows who do," added the wire-puller, with apparent indifference.
"But I do want it."
"Then all you have to do, is to go for our ticket."
"I think Carnes will make the best captain."
"Very well; if you think so, you have a right to your own opinion. I
haven't any mortgage on it."
"Whom are you going to run for captain?"
"It's no use to talk any more about it, if you are going for Carnes,"
replied Wilton, as he turned to move away.
The wire-puller was playing a part. Paul Kendall was a noble little
fellow, and was already a great favorite on board, not only with the
boys, but with the principal and the professors. Wilton knew that he had
a great deal of influence, and it was important to secure him for their
ticket. If he could tell others that Kendall was going for their men, it
would induce many to join their party. The "favorite," though he was an
honest, noble-hearted fellow, was still human, and a berth in the after
cabin was a strong temptation to him.
"I'm not going to say I'll vote for a fellow till I know who he is,"
added Kendall. "If he's the right person, perhaps I'll go for him,
though I wanted to see Carnes captain."
"Carnes can't be elected, I tell you. We are going against him."
"Whom are you going for, then?"
"For Bob Shuffles," replied Wilton, desperately, for he did not wish to
mention his candidate till he had won the assent of his companion.
"Shuffles!" exclaimed Kendall, with something like horror mingled with
his astonishment; "I shall not go for him, anyhow."
"Why not?"
"I don't think he is the right person for the place."
"I do; he's a first-rate fellow--none of your milk and water chaps, that
swallow camels and strain at gnats."
Kendall had some decided objections to Shuffles, and he positively
refused to vote for him, even to obtain the coveted position in the
after cabin. Wilton argued the matter with much skill and cunning; but
his logic and his eloquence were both wasted.
"Well, if you won't go for Shuffles, you must be content with your place
in the steerage," added Wilton.
"I won't go for him, any how," said Kendall, firmly.
"You are making a mistake."
"I don't think so. I'm bound to vote for the best fellow, and I'm sure
Shuffles isn't the right one."
"See here, Kendall; don't say a word to the others that I spoke to you
of this little matter. I thought you would go with us, or I shouldn't
have said anything to you."
"Not say anything? Why not?"
"Because it will be better to keep still."
"I shall not do anything of the kind. You have got up a plan to defeat
Carnes, by giving the offices to fellows who will vote against him. You
wish me to keep still, while you carry out your plan. I can see through
a cord of wood, when there's a hole big enough."
"I mentioned this thing to you in confidence."
"You didn't say a word about confidence; and I didn't promise to keep
still. I won't keep still. I think it is a mean trick to buy up the
votes of the fellows, and I'll blow the whole thing higher than a kite."
"You'll catch it if you do," said Wilton, in a threatening tone.
"Catch what?" demanded Kendall, with a very pretty exhibition of
dignity.
"Bob Shuffles will give it to you."
"Give what to me?"
"Give you the biggest licking you ever had in your life," answered
Wilton, angrily, "You are so stupid, you can't understand anything."
"I think I can understand the licking, when if comes. That's a game that
two can play at."
"What do you mean, you little bantam? Do you think you can whip Bob
Shuffles?"
"I had no idea of whipping him; and I have no idea of his whipping me,
either."
Kendall was spunky. Wilton could make nothing of him by threats or
persuasion; and he turned away from him to seek a more promising field
of labor. Kendall took off his cap, scratched his head as he reflected
upon the event which had just transpired, and made up his mind that it
was an insult to an independent elector to attempt to buy his vote with
the paltry consideration of an office. He was sorry that he had been
even tempted by the proposition of the wire-pullers, and thankful that
his sense of honor and decency had prompted him to decline it when asked
to vote for an improper person. True to his promise, he made all haste
to expose the conspiracy, as he regarded it, against Carnes.
When the students turned in that night, the wire-pullers had found a
sufficient number of candidates for all the offices on the terms set
forth in the compact, each of whom had promised to use his influence for
the entire ticket. Shuffles had made a very pretty calculation, to the
effect that each of the fifteen candidates could influence at least two
votes besides his own for the ticket, which would inevitably elect it.
But during all this time Paul Kendall had been laboring like a Trojan
for Carnes, and had induced his friends to do the same.
At nine-o'clock in the morning, the polls were opened for the election
of officers. A box was placed on the fife-rail, at the mainmast, in
which the ballots were deposited, under the inspection of Professor
Mapps.
"Have all the students voted?" called the professor, when the voting
was suspended. "If so, I declare the poll closed."
It was a moment of intense excitement on the spar deck of the Young
America when Mr. Lowington stood up on the hatch to announce the vote.
There was a pleasant smile upon his face, which indicated that it would
not be his painful duty to veto the choice of the independent electors.
"Young gentlemen, your balloting appears to have been conducted with
entire fairness," said he, "and I will proceed to declare the result.
Whole number of votes, eighty-seven; necessary to a choice, forty-four.
Paul Kendall has five; Charles Gordon has seven; Robert Shuffles has
twenty-two; Richard Carnes has fifty-three, and is elected captain of
the Young America for the succeeding three months."
The party who had worked and voted for Carnes applauded the result most
lustily, and gave three cheers for the new captain, which, on this
exciting occasion, were not objected to by the principal. Shuffles's jaw
dropped down, and his lip quivered with angry emotion.
"That little whipper-snapper of a Kendall did that," said Wilton, in a
low tone, to the disappointed candidate. "I was afraid of this when I
saw him blowing about the deck."
"I'll settle it with him when I get a good chance," growled Shuffles, as
he went to the rail and looked over into the water, in order to conceal
his disappointment and chagrin.
"Young gentlemen will bring in their votes for first lieutenant," said
Professor Mapps, as he placed the box on the fife-rail again.
The boys marched around the mainmast, and deposited their ballots for
the second officer, as they had done before. The friends of Shuffles
rallied again, hoping that something might yet come of the compact they
had made with him, and gave him their votes for first lieutenant,
though, in his chagrin, he declared that he would not accept the
position. Fortunately for him, he was not called upon to do so; for
Charles Gordon was elected by a very large majority. As the election
proceeded, it became evident that there was no office for Shuffles. Paul
Kendall was elected fourth lieutenant and the announcement of the vote
was greeted by even more hearty applause than had been bestowed upon the
captain.
At the conclusion of the balloting, Shuffles found that not a single one
of the wire-pullers, or of the candidates nominated by them, had been
elected. The attempt to bribe the independent voters, by giving them
office, had been a signal failure; and it is to be hoped that Young
America, when fully developed, will stick to his principles.
"Captain Richard Carnes," said Mr. Lowington, as he stepped upon the
hatch, after the voting had been concluded.
The young gentleman thus addressed came forward, blushing beneath the
honors which had been bestowed upon him. The principal took his hand.
"Captain Carnes, I congratulate you upon your election to the highest
office in the gift of your companions; and I congratulate your
fellow-students also upon having so good a young man to handle the ship.
You have been modest, and they have been wise. I congratulate you both.
Young gentlemen, I am satisfied that your captain will be just,
courteous, and gentlemanly, in his relations with you; and I hope you
will yield a willing and cheerful obedience to his orders, and to those
of all your superiors. Let me say that this business is not a farce; it
is not mere boys' play; for as soon as the officers and crew are fully
trained and instructed, all ship duty will be carried on without
assistance from me or others. When necessary, I shall advise the captain
what to do, but I shall not do it myself; neither shall I needlessly
interfere with the discipline of the ship.
"This is the last time an election of officers will be permitted, for it
is liable to many objections, not the least of which are the bribery and
corruption by which some have attempted to obtain office."
Mr. Lowington looked at Shuffles, as though he knew all about the method
to which he had resorted to secure an election; but we are quite sure
that Paul Kendall had never lisped a word of it to him, or to any of the
instructors.
"On the first day of July, young gentlemen, all the offices will be
vacant; and they will be awarded strictly in accordance with the marks
you may obtain. There will be no veto upon the result of the merit roll.
These places, therefore, are open to all. We have no aristocracy on
board. Every student in the ship is a candidate for the captaincy. Now,
if the officers elect will follow me to the after cabin, I will install
them into their new positions; after which I will proceed to organize
the crew."
The door of the after cabin, which had hitherto been a mystery to all
the boys, was unlocked by the head steward, and Mr. Lowington, followed
by the officers, entered. The students on deck were ordered forward, and
were not even permitted to look down the companion-way, for the
principal intended to keep the after cabin exclusively for the officers;
and no one not entitled to admission was to be allowed to cross its
threshold. He believed that this mystery, and this rigid adherence to
the division line between officers and crew, would promote the
discipline of the ship, and enhance the value of the offices--the prizes
for good conduct, and general fidelity to duty.
"Captain Carnes, this is your state room," continued Mr. Lowington,
opening the door of the room farthest forward on the starboard side. "As
the commander of the ship you are entitled to an apartment by yourself."
"Thank you, sir," replied the captain, as he stepped into the room.
"You will find on the hooks your uniform as captain. There are three
suits, from which you will select one that fits you."
Captain Carnes entered and closed the door. If he did not feel like a
king, he ought to have felt so.
Mr. Lowington then gave the next room to the first and second
lieutenants, who were to occupy it together; and they were also directed
to clothe themselves in the uniforms deposited there for their use. The
third state room was given to the third and fourth lieutenants, and the
fourth to the first and second midshipmen. The forward room of the port
side was assigned to the first and second masters; the next to the third
and fourth; the third to the two pursers, and the last to the third and
fourth midshipmen.
In a short time the officers came out of their rooms clothed in their
uniforms, which consisted of a blue frock coat, with brass buttons, and
blue pants. The cap was of the same material, with a gold band around
it. Thus far the uniforms were all alike; but there were distinguishing
insignia to indicate the rank of each. All the officers had
shoulder-straps, by which their positions were designated. The captain
had two anchors; the first lieutenant had one anchor, with four stars,
one above, one below, and one on each side; the second lieutenant had
the anchor with three stars--none above; the third lieutenant, one star
on each side of the anchor; and the fourth lieutenant one star below the
anchor. The captain also wore five narrow gold bands on each of his coat
sleeves; the first lieutenant four, and so on, the fourth wearing but
one band.
The shoulder-straps of the masters contained no anchor; only the stars,
one for each grade, the first master having four stars; the fourth only
one. The rank of the pursers was indicated by the outline of a
parallelogram for the second, and two of the same figure, one within the
other, for the first. The straps of the midshipmen contained gilt
numbers, from one to four, designating their grade.
The officers presented a very elegant and dashing appearance in their
new uniform; and if some of them did not feel a little vain, it was
because they were less human than boys usually are.
"What are we to do, sir?" asked Kendall of the principal, after the
uniforms had been duly criticised.
"Nothing, at present."
"Nothing! Why, I feel like a counterfeit gold dollar, in this rig, when
I know no more about a ship than I do about the inside of the moon."
"You will learn in due time. You will go on deck now, young gentlemen;
and remember that, as officers, you are not to be familiar with the crew
while you are on duty."
"Can't we speak to them?" asked Kendall, who was not disposed to be so
exclusive as naval discipline required him to be.
"Not while you are on duty, except when it is necessary to do so. We
will now assign the berths in the steerage to the crew."
As the boys came on board, they had taken the berths as they pleased.
Shuffles had selected a room, and invited his "cronies" to occupy the
bunks it contained with him. The berths were now to be distributed by
lot. Professor Mapps had provided seventy-two slips of paper, on each of
which he had written a number. The boys were mustered into line, and
drew out these numbers from the package. As each student drew his slip,
the purser wrote down his name in a book, with the number he had drawn.
In the steerage, each berth had its own number, which was also applied
to a locker, and a seat at one of the mess tables. When the drawing was
completed each student had his berth, his clothes locker, and his seat
at meals. Many of them were extremely dissatisfied when they found that
they had been separated from their "cronies;" but the principal was
firm, and would not allow a single change to be made.
By this time it was twelve o'clock, and Boatswain Peaks piped all hands
to muster. The ensign was hoisted, and saluted with three cheers, in
which all hands, young and old, joined. When this ceremony was finished,
the crew were piped to dinner, and the officers went to their cabin,
where the steward had set the table for them for the first time. They
dined like lords, though upon the same fare as their companions in the
steerage.
CHAPTER IV.
OFFICERS AND SEAMEN.
After dinner the organization of the crew was continued. All hands were
"piped to muster," and by this time most of those who had been
disaffected at the drawing of berths had recovered their natural
equanimity, and all were intensely interested in the arrangement of the
details. None of the boys knew what was coming, and their curiosity kept
them in a continuous state of excitement.
"All who have drawn even numbers will take the starboard side of the
ship," said Mr. Lowington from his perch on the hatch. "All who have
drawn odd numbers will take the port side."
"This is the starboard side, my lads," added Mr. Fluxion, the instructor
in mathematics--who, like the principal, had been a naval officer,--as
he pointed to the right, looking forward.
Some had already forgotten their numbers, and there was considerable
confusion before the order could be obeyed.
"Young gentlemen, the books will be opened to-day; and a student who
forgets his number again will lose a mark," said Mr. Lowington. "Are
they all in their places, Mr. Fluxion?"
"They are, sir," replied the instructor, who had just counted them.
"Young gentlemen, you are thus divided into two equal parts--the
starboard and the port watches. Now form a straight line, toe the crack,
and call your numbers in order, beginning with the starboard watch."
The boys eagerly followed this direction, though some assistance was
required from the instructors in repressing their superfluous
enthusiasm.
"Very well," continued Mr. Lowington, when the students were formed in
two lines. "Every boy in the starboard watch whose number is divisible
by four, step forward one pace. Number three in the port watch, do the
same. Mr. Mapps, oblige me by seeing that every alternate boy in the
line steps forward."
"The line is formed, sir," replied the instructor, when he had carried
out the direction of the principal.
"Each watch is now divided into two parts--the first and second parts,
as they will be called. Now, young gentlemen, the clothing will be
distributed, and each student will put on his uniform at once."
The four lines were then marched down into the steerage, each under the
charge of an instructor, to a particular locality, where the head
steward and his assistants had deposited the clothing for each watch and
quarter watch. The uniform consisted of blue seaman's pants and a heavy
flannel shirt or frock, such as is worn in the United States navy. To
