of Ishmaelite Arabs ; what he did, Isaac, and Jacob, and 
Ishmael did, and after them their children ; the very things 
and customs are before our eyes ; we see the old Bible times 
as in a living picture." 
" So that was why God chose Shem ? " said Priscilla. 
"Ay, Prissy ; but remember, God made Shem before He 
chose him. ' Known unto God are all his works, from the 
foundation of the world.' And it is beautiful when we can 
see how perfect they are." 
" Ay, and when we know as we are known — by and by," 
said my grandmother, " how much beauty we shall see ! " 
" Then they must have been two or three weeks going from 
Ur to Haran ? " said Daniel 
" Probably. And look at the map. At first their road 
would lie among the rich grass and corn of the plain of 
Shinar ; then, no doubt, fertile and fruitful The Euphrates 
would be always at hand to supply water for the flocks. Let 
them get as high as Hit, and from there the character of the 
country changes. The land is no longer so low ; the banks 
of the rivers are higher, and canals could not be made to 
draw the water off through the whole country as was later 
done below. The land between the two rivers is again one 
immense plain ; but not the plain of Shinar. It is different 
at different times of the year. In spring after the rains, it ' 
is an unbroken spread of the richest verdure, giving supplies 
of pasturage without end ; and adorned with multitudes of 
flowers. They are not scattered about, spotting the grass 
here and there like our dandelions ; but they stretch out in 
thick carpets and patches of red, and yellow, and blue, as 
far almost as you can see. The dogs come in from roving 
about after game, with their hides dyed with the colour of 
the flowers where they have been. That is the way Abraham 
and Terah found it, if they went in spring. In the middle 
of March it is in its glory. When summer comes, these vast 
flowery plains are dried up, and nothing but a sandy desert 
stretches across from river to river. But even then, Abraham 
would have found no difficulty ; for along the course of the 
rivers there is always delicious shade to be had, and plenty 
of good pasture. Up along those grassy plains the long lines 
of camels and sheep went slowly on, while the chiefs of the 
tribe, as Arab chiefs do now, went very likely on fine horses 
to lead the way ; or gallopped off to the right or left on a 
course after game. At night, nothing could be or can be 
more pleasant than an encampment in the desert. The 
spring evenings are soft and mild ; the air comes perfumed 
from the fields of flowers ; the cattle are moving about, the 
horses are led to water ; the groups of tents and scenes of 
busy life around you are set off by the wide desert horizon 
and the unbroken vault of the blue sky. At evening, however, 
there would be one point of difference between the way of 
things now, and in Abraham's journey. One great difference. 
A Bedouin Arab, if he prays at all, about which he is not 
always very particular, turns his face towards Mecca as near 
as he can, and makes Moslem prostrations. But Abraham, 
in those evenings of his pilgrimage, sought a place to be 
alone with the true God, whom he was obeying, and to enjoy 
His presence." 
"Abraham's obedience had not cost him inuch, so far," 
said Liph. 
"Not in the matter of this desert life, for there are few 
things more pleasant. But remember, he obeyed at any 
cost. ' He went out not knowing whither he went.' He did 
not know now. He followed where the Lord led, as every 
child of God has done since ; not seeking to choose for himself. Children, that is faith, and it is the faith that works 
by love, too. He had left one of the richest lands that the 
sun shines upon. 
"This desert that I have been speaking about, lasts till 
you come to a little river, the Khaboor, which curves round 
here and cuts the northern part of Mesopotamia in two. 
Crossing this and going on northward, they would come to 
a still different region, where Haran lies. It is an open 
country also, rolling or plain, with no trees at all, but with 
large tracts that will bear rich cultivation. It is not like 
the plain of Shiuar. Stony, and thin, and bare land come
 
in between great com and grass districts. Here it is not so 
fiercely hot ; the climate is delicious in early summer, when 
I was there ; no dews, and nice cool airs blowing over from 
Mount Taurus here in the north-west. And in the hill 
country a little beyond there is rich vegetation and plenty of 
fruit trees. This open country is Padan Aram ; 'the district 
at the foot of the hills ; ' the cultivated high land of Aram ; 
that is what the name means. And here, for some reason, 
the company with whom Abraham was travelhng made a 
stop. Half of them had no idea of going to Canaan. They 
were merely suiting themselves with a resting-place ; and 
' they came unto Haran and dwelt there.' Here is Haran, 
you see, in the far north of Mesopotamia ; there is no doubt 
of this being the place. How long they dwelt there before 
Abraham left them, we do not know ; but it must have been 
some time, for mention is made of the ' substance' that 
Abraham and Lot had gathered there, and 'the souls that 
they had gotten ;' that is, the slaves they had become possessed of. The whole tribe abode there at any rate until the 
death of Terah." 
"And then Abraham went on," said Priscilla. 
" I don't see how he came to stop," said L " He had not 
got to Canaan." 
" He did not know he was going to Canaan, Tiny. He 
went as he was bidden. Bound about Haran it is a beautiful country; so fine that it seems Nahor was satisfied to 
remain there ; and he and his portion of the family took it 
for their permanent home. But that would have been one very 
reason why Abraham must not. It became a place for the 
Chaldasan language and the worship of Chaldaean gods; and 
down to a very late date it was noted for keeping the remains 
of both language and worship, which I suppose Nahor had 
brought there. But Abraham was to be separated from all 
who followed idols. ' I called him alone, and blessed him, 
and increased him,' the Lord said. When Terah was dead, 
the call came again to Abraham, to rise up and quit kindred 
and home, and go farther, to a land which he should after 
receive for an inheritance. ' So Abram departed, as the 
Lord had spoken unto him ; and Lot went with him ; and 
Abram was seventy and five years old when he departed out 
of Haran.' They took all their substance, their flocks, and 
herds, and servants ; and set off once more." 
" But Abraham knew the Lord would take care of him, 
uncle Sam." 
" Yes, Tiny; and we know He will take care of us ; and 
yet, child, to follow God in the dark as it were, as he did, 
not knowing whither he went,'— quitting what is already 
known and dear,— it is what we do not easily ! Not at all, 
unless we are true soldiers of Christ, and ready to obey 
orders at all hazards." 
" But we ought not to leave home and friends to be Chris- 
tians," sadd Priscilla. 
" We must be ready, if the order comes," said uncle Sam. 
" It is the business of a soldier, as I once heard an officer 
say, to obey orders and not to ask for orders. It is not for us 
to choose. And 'he that loveth his life' when Christ calls 
for it, 'shall lose it ; ' but as a deserter in the war. ' He that 
forsaketh not all that he hath, cannot be my disciple.' " 
" Abraham is a grand example of obedient faith," said my 
grandmother ; " so he is called ' the father of them that 
believe.' How beautiful his obedience was in every point ! 
like the obedience of a child, who does not pretend to know 
the reason." 
" It was the obedience of perfect trust," said my uncle. 
" And so he was honoured with that wonderful title, ' the 
friend of God.' It is curious, that the Arabs know him by 
that name to this day. All over the western part of Asia 
he is called universally el Kluilil, that is, ' The Friend,' 
"'They went forth to go into the land of Canaan, and 
into the land of Canaan they came.' Westward they went. 
Two days' travel would bring them to the border of the 
Euphrates, not far probably from Bir, which has long been 
a highway point on the river for eastern and western travel. 
How they got over the river, I cannot tell you. At Bir the 
stream is some ten or twelve feet deep, pretty swift on the 
left side. There might have been afording-place for the 
cattle— I belive there was, lower down ; and the goods may 
very likely have gone over on rafts, such as they make there 
now and have made for ages beyond memory. You know, 
wood is scarce ; there are no trees in Mesopotamia, except 
when you get near the hills. The people take off the skins 
of sheep and goats, keeping them as whole as possible ; sew 
up all the openings except one, after the skins are properly 
dried and cured ; and then blow them up with air and fasten 
the opening securely. A frame work is got ready, of poplar 
branches and reeds ; and the blown-up skins are carefully 
tied to it with osiers ; then the raft is launched ; and upon 
the framework are piled the bales or the baskets or whatever 
merchandise is to be carried. There are skins enough underneath to keep the framework high and dry. On those rafts 
people go up and down those rivers now, and on nothing 
else, above Bagdad. When they are to carry a passenger, a 
little hut is made on the raft, with a wooden bedstead 
covered with reeds and spread with skins ; and so one may 
travel very comfortably ; not much as if one was on a steam- 
boat. Arabs guide the rafts with oars ; long poles with some 
pieces of split cane tied to one end. Perhaps such rafts 
carried Abraham's stock of goods over the river. Or he 
may have used boats such as were made there long ages ago 
and like what are made still at Bagdad ; circular boats, 
' round like a shield,' as an old historian describes them ; 
built of willow boughs, covered with skins and smeared with 
bitumen. They were made large enough to carry animals 
on board ; but their navigation must have been a matter of 
difficulty, one thinks who is accustomed to have a head and 
stem to a boat At any rate, Abraham and Lot got their 
goods and chattels across somehow. Then there lay before 
them a seven days' journey to Aleppo." 
" Do we know that they went there ? " said my grand- 
mother. 
" No, mother ; except from the inevitable nature of some 
of the routes of travel in the East. They would not take to 
the desert ; they probably kept very much the same track 
that caravan journeys have followed for centuries, going 
from Orfa to Aleppo. That track would take them through 
a tolerably fertile country most of the way, and also from 
there to Damascus. We have nothing else but tradition to 
show that Abraham was at either place. The Arabs say that 
on his way to Canaan he made some stay at Aleppo, which 
indeed is not fertile enough to be very inviting. However, 
they used still to show a stone trough into which the milk 
of Abraham's cows was poured ; and they tell that some 
neighbouring poor people to whom he gave milk every day, 
used to gather at evening about the foot of the hill and cry 
out now and then, Ibrahim hcdeb, — that is, 'Abraham has 
milked.' So from haleb came the name Aleppo, when the 
city was afterwards built." 
" That was giving Abraham a good character," said 
Priscilla. 
" Deserved more or less by all the Bedouin Arabs,'' said 
my uncle. " They would think it a disgrace to sell milk, 
though they will give it now to the traveller who passes by 
them. Damascus was already a city in Abraham's time, but 
I do not believe the old story that says he was king of it. 
His chief servant, some time later, was Eliezer of Damascus, 
but whether bought there or born there we do not know. 
But Abraham had been called to go into the land of Canaan ; 
I have no idea that he tarried on the way. Into the land 
of Canaan he came. And now look on the map, children. 
From Damascus he probably came down through the plain 
and entered this rich lowland tract to the east of the Sea of 
Cinneroth, (the same as Gennesareth,) where his cattle and 
flocks would find plenty of food. This was the country called 
Bashan. From Bashan, at the lower end of the Sea of 
Cinneroth, he would come upon the beautiful upland district 
called Gilead, or Mount Gilead. And now I must tell you 
a little about that." 
" I never knew where Mount Gilead was," said Dan. 
" From Cinneroth down to the Dead Sea runs the Jordan ; 
very crooked, but keeping a due southerly course on the 
whole. This river Jordan runs through a very deep valley 
rich and level, and from eight miles wide to fourteen. On 
 
the eastern side- of this valley, all along the distance from 
Cinneroth to the Dead Sea, rises up a mountain ridge ; not 
a mountain, for the summit is a pretty even line, with no 
peaks of any note that are seen from a distance. But from 
the bed of the Jordan to the top of this mountain ridge, is 
some three thousand feet ; and farther back there are points 
that rise still much higher. The high land itself, the ridge, 
is two thousand feet above the level of the Mediterranean, 
and the Jordan valley is sunk a thousand feet below the 
Mediterranean ; so that from the bottom, this grand wall is 
six times the height of the Palisades of the North Kiver where 
they are highest. Through this great barrier there are three 
clefts, where ravines and little rivers run down to the Jordan. 
One here— just below Cinneroth — the Hieromax ; and that 
glen is rather the region's northern boundary. One here — 
in the midway — the Kiver Jabbok ; and the third still below, the river Amon. All this stretch of high rocky land, 
from the one end to the other, is the land of Gilead. The 
name Gilead signified ' a hard rocky region.' On the east- 
ward, it slopes gently off and melts into the high Arabian 
plains, so that approaching from that side it does not seem 
high ground. And though it is a ' heap of rock,' when you 
are on it you are in a beautiful place. Everywhere the 
richest growth of grass and herbage; the surface of the ground 
not level but tossed into waves and swells of land; making 
the prettiest little hiDs and dales, bright with wild flowers, and 
sweet with the music of wood pigeons and wild partridges. 
Then towards the centre of the region come magnificent 
forests of oak and terebinth, arbutus and pine, and great fig-
trees. Sometimes these are in thickets ; sometimes they are 
scattered about more like English park scenery ; and in the 
spring every bit of a brook winding about or leaping down 
its ravine, is gay along its borders with the rosy oleander." 
" Think of Mount Gilead being such a pretty place," said 
Priscilla. 
"Why not?" said liph. 
" On the sides of the hills, or topping them, are now the 
raina of old places and villages crumbling to dust. In 
Abraham's time there were none of them. People had not 
lived there long then, and maybe not many villages were yet 
built in the whole land. But the ancient, that is, I would 
say, the first inhabitants, were scattered about in it, on both 
sides Jordan ; in Gilead the Eephaim and Zuzim and Emim 
were pasturing their flocks no doubt, as Abraham did his. 
Gilead was and is a great place for cattle." 
" I should not think they would have let Abraham and 
Lot come through," said Dan, " with all their troop, to eat 
up the grass." 
" Grass enough," said my uncle, " and land enough. In 
those days, before cities and villages were built and people 
had began to find their quarters too strait for themselves, it 
was all free ; and there was no hindrance whatever to Abraham's walking ' through the length and breadth of the land' 
if he was disposed. So no doubt he came down through the 
tempting pastures and forests of Gilead, till he reached the 
ravine of the little river Jabbok. And on his way he must 
have had many a strange look at the Promised Land, which 
lay spread out for him to look at. These heights of Gilead 
are everywhere to be seen from the central parts of Palestine ; 
and of course from them the eye easily takes the range of 
the lower country. From one hill in particular I remember 
the view. It is a hill that Abraham would have passed be- 
fore reaching the ravine of the Jabbok ; and it must have 
been very natural for him to turn aside to this or some other 
commanding point, to look at the promised inheritance of 
his family. An old Saracenic castle crowns the hill-top 
now ; but before the Saracens had ever been heard of, the 
view was the same. And it is one of the most magnificent 
views I ever saw in my life. Eight in front, stretching away 
right and left, is the deep dark Jordan valley. You can see 
nearly its whole course, with the Lake of Tiberias at one 
end and the Dead Sea at the other. Beyond it, there is the 
long mountain range of Palestine ; the hill country and the 
wilderness of Judea on one hand, the mountains of Ephraim, 
and the hills of Galilee more to the north. You see this 
mountain range all cut and furrowed by the deep ravioea 
 
"What did uncle Sam mean by the 'swelling of Jordan ? ' " 
I said the next day, while we were waiting on the rock for 
him and my grandmother to come up. 
Idph whistled ; but Dan answered, "I know, Tiny. Jordan overflows all his banks in the time harvest." 
" Those great high banks," I said. 
" No, that cannot be. You must ask uncle Sam. Uncle 
Sam, Tiny wants to know about the overflowing of Jordan." 
"Jordan will come under consideration by and by," said 
my uncle; "but in the meantime you can understand that 
a river which has its feeding springs among snowy moun- 
tains, will be greatly swollen for a time after the melting of 
the snows. That is the case with the Jordan. When the 
snows melt on Lebanon and Hermon, the springs and sources 
of the river are filled, and pour down a great increase of their 
tributary waters. The Jordan has two sets of banks ; one, 
the lower banks that shut in the river in its ordinary state ; 
the other banks stand back some distance on either side, 
and rise higher — in some places sixty feet and more high ; — 
it is the lower banks that are filled full and overflowed in 
the swellings of Jordan." 
"Then the fords are covered?" I said. 
" Certainly, and it is scarcely possible to get over. Well — 
an overflowing tide is everywhere used in the Bible to 
describe a time of great trouble and perplexity. Besides 
that, the passage of Jordan has been for many ages a figure 
of the passage we have to make over the line that separates 
us from our promised land. sThe best way, little Tiny, is to 
be carried over. There are fords for us too ; but the best way 
28 to he carried over." 
"To be carried over, uncle Sam ?" I repeated. 
"Ay. Don't you know, Jesus says to those that love 
Him — ' I will come again and receive you unto myself  — 
and they say, ' Though I walk through the valley of the 
shadow of death, I will fear no evil ; for Thou art with me.' 
But we shall know more of the Jordan by and by. We must 
go on now with Abraham. 
"Abraham crossed no doubt at the ford of Bethbara, a 
little above the opening of the Jabbok. On the other side 
of the Jordan valley there rose up before him a great stretch 
of mountain country, several thousand feet high to the 
highest part of it ; and the only way to get up into it was 
then as now, by the ravines of the watercourses — the tmdys. 
The hill country on that side of Jordan is full of them. 
They are steep and winding, and often narrow, and most of 
them dry except in the rainy season ; but sometimes they 
widen out into little valleys and bits of meadow ground with 
a spring making a green place. At any rate, those are the 
highways up and down, from and to the Jordan ; for they 
wind down from the very heart of the hill country where the 
springs rise. Up one of these wadys Abraham and Lot 
must have gone with their flocks and herds. There is one 
that opens with a beautiful rich plain, not very far from 
where they crossed the ford ; and it leads to the place they 
were going to ; so I think it is likely they took that road 
when they went ' through the land unto the place of Sichem, 
unto the oak of Moreh.' I know, Liph, the word is not 
'oak' in our translation of the Bible, but it ought to be." 
"Then why isn't, sir?" 
"Just because, when our translation was made, some 
things were not so perfectly understood as they are now." 
"Then perhaps there are other things which we do not 
understand." 
" Perhaps ; and in the meanwhile, liph, let us go on with 
what knowledge we have. You would not throw away a 
bushel of com because there were a few grains spilled over 
— would you, my boyi Moreh was the place; and there, 
under the oak, was Abraham's first resting-place in the land 
 
of his inheritance ; there the Lord appeared to him ; there 
he built the first altar to the Lord in his new country. Look 
on the map, and let me tell you about this place, where the 
oak of Moreh grew. It is famous for other things. 
"Some thirty miles up from the Jordan, one of these 
tmdys, or long water valleys, opens into a rich level plain. 
A little plain, only about seven miles long and one and a 
half broad, stretching northerly and southerly. It is all one 
level corn-field, without a fence or a house ; in those days it 
might have been grass or corn ; and dotted with olive-trees. 
On the western side of this little beautiful plain, coming 
bluff down to the edge of it, are the ends of two rocky 
mountain ridges ; the one on the north is Mount Ebal, the 
one on the south is Grerizim ; the eastern border is a lower 
line of swelling hills, pushing out irregularly now and then 
into the plain. Ebal and Gerizim come square and bluff 
down upon it. Between them, between these two high rocky 
ridges running back towards the west, is one of the loveliest 
little valleys in all Palestine. It is only about two huudred 
yards broad ; the mountain sides rise up steep on each side 
of it ; and all the space between is filled with greenness and 
sweetness and beauty. For half a mile the corn-fields of the 
plain push up into the valley, the ground rising gently all 
the way ; then comes a great grove of olive-trees, filling the 
whole space from side to side with their soft gray leaves ; 
and then come the fruit orchards of the town, almond and 
fig-trees. Water is plenty all through the valley, and water 
is everything in Palestine. Little streams and springs are 
flowing about you on every side, and the birds make merry 
there accordingly. The people say that they have more 
music in their valley than any other can boast in Palestine. 
Almost two miles up from the plain, the little town of 
Nablous stands now ; and that is ' the place of Shechem.' 
Shechem was the old city first built there, and famous it was 
too ; we shall hear more of it by and by ; but when Abraham 
arrived in the land the city, it seems, was not yet built. To 
the 'place' of Shechem he came; to the entrance of the 
valley most likely; and there pitched his tent under the oak 
of Moreh." 
" He must have been very glad, uncle Sam," said I. 
" I have no doubt he was, Tiny." 
" Does that ' oak of Moreh ' mean one particular oak? " 
" It is written so, and the Bible generally means what it 
says. Yes, Dan ; in those days when the land was without 
temples or cities, a general wilderness of grassy hill and dale, 
very great trees were known and noted as landmarks. Can't 
you see how that would be ? Palestine now is stripped of 
its ancient woods and is very bare ; but it never was a place 
of forests like this where we are. It was much more wooded 
then than now; but even in its early times we see that 
certain particularly great trees or groves of trees were known 
by name ; and the fame of them, and the histories connected 
with thetn, and the sacredness attached to them, were kept 
down along the years till very late times ; and in some instances are hardly forgotten yet. Single trees could not be 
honoured so in a country like this. They were honoured 
then as the temples of God." 
"I cannot wonder at that," said my grandmother. "I 
never come out here but I feel myself in the grandest sort of 
a church." 
" I have little doubt but Abraham felt so," said my uncle, 
" when he pitched his tent under the oak of Moreh. The 
oaks of Palestine are fitted for such honour above all the 
other trees that grow there. They are tall, spreading, dark ; 
with evergreen foliage, and exceedingly thick and close in 
their branches and leaves; the light comes through in a 
glorious dim, solemn way. Abraham had lived among the 
square, bare temples of the Moon-god, and other idols of the 
Chaldees, which no doubt he hated. Any sort of a temple 
for the true Lord of heaven and earth had never been erected 
anywhere, so far as we know ; and furthermore, Abraham 
had seen little of God's work in trees, until his journey 
brought him from Mesopotamia. Mesopotamia has no trees 
to speak of. Under the shadow of the great oak of Moreh, 
 
looking up into its thick canopy of dark green and its maze 
of spreading branches, I daresay he felt as if the very canopy 
of God's protection was over him. And there, under that 
oak, he built the first altar built to the Lord in the land of 
Palestine. Very naturally, no doubt, it seemed to him a 
temple that the Lord had prepared for Himself." 
"And do you think trees are, uncle Sam ?" 
"What, Tiny ?' 
"Temples!" 
" I think all nature is a temple, and every place a good 
place to pray, if that is what you mean, Tiny. But the 
trouble with the feeling about trees was that people got a 
superstitious notion about them. In after=-times, when the 
Jews took to idolatry, they could not be kept from running 
to their ' high places ' and the altars under the trees. ' They 
sacrifice upon the tops of the mountains, and bum incense 
upon the hills, under oaks and poplars and elms, because 
the shadow thereof is good,' the prophet Hosea says ; and 
he adds, 'the people that doth not understand shall fall.' 
They did fall, and learned the lesson ; but the superstition 
is in the land to this day among the people who now dwell 
there. Still they make holy places where they go to pray 
and worship, under thick trees and under groves of trees 
and on high places. In some regions, almost every village 
has its sacred oak ; and the people think the tree is inhabited 
by spiritis, and the lower class of people are afraid of them, 
and as they pass by the tree they strip a rag from their 
clothing and hang it on a branch ; as much as to say they 
have a respect for the spirits and desire to be at peace with 
them. Under these trees the Moslems bury their holy men 
and build shrines — mazars, as they are called— and make 
them places of worship. It is just the same thing as in the 
old times ; and all sects and religions in the country join in 
the superstition. Jews and wild Arabs, Moslems and Christians, and others, go to worship at the same places and with 
the same sort of feeling." 
" Christians, uncle Sam ? " said Dan. 
" So-called Christiana You know, there is a Christian by 
name, and a Christian by reality ; and that is as true here as 
there." 
" But Abraham was a Christian in reality," said Priscilla. 
"Ay," said my uncle. "I suppose we may say so; if a 
Christian is one who believes in Christ and loves Him. And 
there, while he was at the place of Shechem, the Lord whom 
he loved appeared to him — even that same Jesus, Tiny — and 
said, 'Unto thy seed will I give this land ; and there builded 
he an altar unto the Lord, who appeared unto him.' " 
" Did he know it was Jesus, uncle Sam ? " 
" Tiny, he did not know all that we know ; but he knew 
that it was the Lord whom he loved. The Lord himself 
spoke of him in after-times as ' Abraham my friend.' There 
was no idolatry or superstition in his mind. Only the Lord 
was in His holy temple, to Abraham's view, as he looked up 
into the thick dark leafage of that great old oak." 
"There is nothing in the world more like a natural temple, 
in my view," said my grandmother, "than a very fine largo 
tree." 
" I don't know," said my uncle. "I feel just so on the top 
of a high mountain. But a great oak of Palestine must have 
