like to speak with you."
The tone was gentlemanly, and even supplicating, and Somers entered the
room, closing the door behind him; but he was careful to cock his
revolver as he did so, for the prisoner was a desperate man.
"I am ready to hear you."
"It is well you are."
"If you have any threats to make, I will not remain."
"Let me speak only the truth," said Pillgrim, as he looked at his watch.
"In twenty minutes from now, we shall all be in kingdom come."
There was a malignant smile on the face of the traitor as he spoke, and
it was plain to Somers that the villain did not speak without a cause.
"Somers, you have beaten me in the last game we played. I shall beat in
the next one."
"I told you I did not come here to listen to threats."
"You will be a dead man in seventeen minutes, Somers," continued
Pillgrim, glancing at his watch again. "I could not deny myself the
satisfaction of informing you of the fact. But, Somers, you will have
the pleasure of knowing that I shall share your fate."
"What do you mean, you villain?" demanded Somers, horrified by the
thought suggested by the traitor's words.
"Gently, my dear fellow. Don't use hard words. But I am glad to see you
are moved. Ah, Somers, I have you now," said the wretch, in mocking
tones.
"Speak!" roared Somers, drawing his pistol.
"Shoot me, Somers. I will thank you if you will. It is better to be shot
dead, than to be blown up, mangled, and then, after enduring a moment or
an hour of agony, to be drowned. Fire, Somers!"
He restored the revolver to his belt, appalled by the terrible picture
which the villain painted.
"Somers, I did leave my state-room. I was not willing to acknowledge it
before your crew."
"How?"
"I have not time to explain. There are but ten minutes of life left to
you and me. We will not waste them in what is of so little consequence
to either of us. You know of what the cargo of the Ben Nevis is
composed?"
"I do--of arms, ammunition, and provisions."
"Correct; the ammunition is stowed in the after part of the ship--under
us, in fact. Captain Walmsley and myself have laid a train by which the
vessel will be blown up when four bells strike. It wants five minutes of
the time. Captain Walmsley is in a position where he can hear the bell,"
continued Pillgrim with perfect coolness.
"Marine," said Somers, opening the door.
"Here, sir," responded the man.
"Pass the word for the quartermaster to strike four bells, instantly,"
added the young commander. "I am ready, Mr. Pillgrim."
The traitor looked aghast.
CHAPTER XVI.
CAPTAIN WALMSLEY.
"Mr. Pillgrim, I am not to be intimidated by any such stuff," said
Somers, when he had ordered the bells to be struck, which would produce
the explosion.
"Perhaps Captain Walmsley will not think it best to fire the ammunition
at the moment agreed upon; some discretion on this point was left with
him; but I assure you, on my word and honor, that the train is laid
which will blow up the Ben Nevis," said Pillgrim, earnestly.
"If you had not mentioned the name of Captain Walmsley, I might have
believed you. As it is, I do not. Your word and honor do not weigh much
with me."
"Don't insult me."
"I simply speak the truth. There! do you hear four bells?"
"I do; and if you are not blown up in half a minute, you may thank
Captain Walmsley for his moderation."
"He is not villain enough to destroy the lives of forty men, his own
people as well as mine, to gratify your malice and revenge. I give you
my word and honor that he will do nothing of the kind."
Pillgrim looked hard at him, and seemed to be slightly disconcerted by
the obstinacy of Somers.
"If he will not, I will!" said he, fiercely.
"I purpose to put you in irons, when you have said all you have to say."
"In irons, Somers!" exclaimed the traitor, springing to his feet, his
face flushed with indignation.
"Since you are open enough to announce your intentions, it is plainly my
duty to defeat them. Acknowledge that your plot to blow up the vessel is
a mere scare, and I may spare you this indignity."
"You will find that it is a reality."
"Why don't it blow up, then?"
"It will, as soon as Captain Walmsley is ready. The Ben Nevis shall not
again go into a Yankee port as a prize. Mark my words."
"Captain Somers," called Mr. Hudson.
"What is wanted?"
"The men in the hold report a smell of fire there."
"I will be with you soon," replied Somers, convinced by this message
that there was some foundation for the threats of the traitor. "Go into
the hold, Mr. Hudson, and find the fire, if there is any."
He was cool, and did not permit the wretch before him to see a muscle of
his face move.
"There is fire there, Somers," said Pillgrim. "I know just where it is.
In a few minutes it will reach the ammunition boxes."
"Corporal," said Somers, opening the door again.
"Here, sir."
"Put the prisoner in irons, hands and feet," continued Somers.
"Do you mean that, Mr. Somers?" asked Pillgrim, quivering with emotion.
"I do mean it, and I shall stand by till it is done."
"Will you leave me in the midst of the fire, ironed hand and foot?"
"I will. You kindled the fire; and if you perish by it, blame yourself."
Pillgrim attempted to resist the execution of the order, but the marines
were resolute, and he was fully ironed in spite of his struggles.
"Now lock him in," said Somers.
"One word, Mr. Somers."
"Not another word;" and the young commander hastened from the
state-room, and made his way to the scene of peril in the hold.
He did not believe that even Pillgrim was stupid enough to blow up the
Ben Nevis for mere revenge; and Captain Walmsley certainly would do
nothing of the kind, for he could have no strong feeling on the
subject, at least not enough to sacrifice the lives of himself and his
crew.
There was a smell of fire in the hold--the hold filled with powder,
shells, and other combustibles. This fact tended to confirm the
statement of the wretch; yet Somers was incredulous. When he reached the
scene of danger he found the officers and the men timid about proceeding
far into the hold, for if there was fire, there must soon be an
explosion.
"Follow me, my men!" said he, as he walked aft on the cargo.
"Ay, ay, sir!" cheerfully responded the men,--for the American seaman
will go anywhere an officer will lead him.
In the after part of the hold there was a dense smoke and a strong smell
of fire.
"Keep back! You are all dead men!" shouted Captain Walmsley, as Somers
advanced and discovered the speaker seated on a box.
"What are you doing here?" demanded Somers.
"I am going to blow up the steamer," replied the captain, who held in
his hand a tin pan filled with burning oakum, chips, and other
combustible material.
"Well, why don't you do it, then?" said Somers.
"For God's sake, Mr. Somers, don't stay here," pleaded Mr. Hudson.
"You needn't, if you are afraid," replied he, coolly.
"Mr. Somers, in one instant I can blow the Ben Nevis all to pieces,"
said Captain Walmsley, with a proper exhibition of tragic adjuncts.
"Why don't you do it, then?"
"I am willing to give you one chance to save your lives."
"You are very considerate. Mr. Pillgrim was going to blow her up for my
special benefit."
"If you think I am not in earnest, you are greatly mistaken," continued
the captain, as he stirred up the burning substances in the pan.
"I see you are in earnest, and I am waiting for you to blow her up."
"I will give you ten minutes to save your lives; for I have sworn this
vessel shall never go into port as a prize. You and your people can take
to the boats and save yourselves."
"Will you blow her up when we are gone?"
"I will."
"I have had quite enough of this, Captain Walmsley," said Somers,
advancing to the fire king, revolver in hand. "Now go on deck, or I will
blow your brains out, if you have any."
The captain looked at the revolver, and he might as well have
acknowledged his defeat, for his face proclaimed it.
"If I should drop this into the cargo, it would blow up the ship."
"No, it wouldn't. There are nothing but solid shot and shell under you,"
replied Somers; and perhaps his coolness and self-possession were in a
great measure due to his knowledge of this fact, for he had carefully
inspected the cargo immediately after the capture of the vessel.
Captain Walmsley, with the blazing censer in his hand, made his way over
the boxes, bales, and barrels which lay above the heavy articles, to the
hatchway. The pan and its contents were thrown overboard, and the men
informed that there was no danger. The captain was ordered into the
cabin, where he was put in double irons, as his fellow-conspirator had
been. He protested, at first, against this indignity. Then he begged,
declaring that Mr. Pillgrim was the author of the plot by which it was
intended to recapture the steamer. It was fully believed that Somers and
his crew would abandon the vessel as soon as it was announced that there
was fire in the hold, knowing that her cargo would readily explode.
Captain Walmsley declared that Pillgrim was a fool; if he had kept still
till the fire was discovered, instead of declaiming over it beforehand,
the plan would have succeeded. Somers doubted it; and when the
humiliated captain was ironed, he was sent into his state-room, and a
sentinel placed at his door. This business was hardly completed before
the marine in charge of Pillgrim informed Somers that his prisoner
wished to speak with him. The request was peremptorily refused.
"There, Mr. Hudson, I think we have fixed those fellows so that we shall
know where to find them when we want them," said Somers, when the
conspirators had been disposed of.
"Yes, sir; and if any other man had been in charge of this vessel, he
would have lost her, Captain Somers. I should have voted for abandoning
her as soon as I was satisfied that she was on fire."
"Perhaps I should, if I had not known the powder and shells were in the
fore hold. But I did not believe the villains had pluck enough to blow
themselves up for the sake of blowing me up. If there had been any real
danger, they would have been the first to run away."
"Well, sir, I think you have managed them exceedingly well."
Somers was perfectly willing he should think so, and perhaps he thought
so himself. At any rate, he was heartily rejoiced to get out of the
scrape so easily, and fully resolved that the conspirators should have
no further opportunity to exercise their talents at plotting on board
the Ben Nevis.
There was a mystery still unsolved to the young officer, and with Mr.
Hudson he repaired to the state-room in which Pillgrim had passed the
night,--or ought to have passed it,--and commenced a further
examination. There was nothing supernatural, or even very remarkable, in
the absence of the prisoner, when the carpet was pulled up, and a square
aperture, now closed by a pine board, was discovered in the corner of
the room. In the ceiling there was a similar aperture, which had been
filled up to correspond with the deck above. It was evident that a
ventilator, which had been used to convey fresh air to the after hold,
had been removed at some recent period.
As Captain Walmsley had indicated this state-room for the use of
Pillgrim, it was probable that he had chosen it on account of this means
of egress. Some time in the night he must have visited the prisoner,
entering through this aperture, and conducted him to the hold below.
In the fine weather and smooth sea the Ben Nevis nearly made good the
claim of the conspirators in regard to her speed, for all day she logged
fifteen knots, and at three bells in the first dog watch Cape Henry was
sighted, and at ten o'clock in the evening she anchored off Fortress
Monroe.
By the first conveyance Mr. Hudson was sent to Washington with the
despatches of Captain Cascabel, and one from Somers. On the second day
the messenger returned, with orders from the department. The young
officer took the bundle of documents into the cabin, and proceeded to
examine those directed to himself. He was ordered to hand his prisoners
over to the commandant of the fort, to deliver his vessel into the
keeping of the senior naval officer on the station, and to rejoin his
ship forthwith, taking passage in a supply steamer to sail on the
following day. He was highly commended for the skill and energy with
which he had discharged his duty on board the Ben Nevis, full
particulars of which had been communicated by Mr. Hudson.
Another document contained his commission as master, the next rank above
that of ensign, which had been solicited by Captain Cascabel. This paper
was full of interest to the recipient of it, and he was obliged to open
the long letters he had written to his mother and to Kate Portington, in
order to add, in a postscript, this important intelligence. He was proud
and happy, and more than ever satisfied that republics are not
ungrateful, notwithstanding the tradition to the contrary.
At the proper time he proceeded to execute his orders in regard to the
vessel and the prisoners. Pillgrim and his fellow-conspirator were
brought on deck. The former looked easy and defiant, as usual, and
assured his captor that he should be at liberty in a few days.
"Perhaps not," said Somers.
"You shall yet be cheated of your victim, but I shall not be cheated of
mine," said he, with a malignant smile.
"I bear you no malice, Mr. Pillgrim."
"I do bear you malice; and the heaviest revenge that ever fell on man
shall fall on you before the end of this year."
"Your threats are idle. I have heard too many of them. Pass into the
boat, if you please."
Pillgrim and Walmsley went over the side, and the boat pulled away. The
chivalrous military officer removed the irons from their legs and arms
as soon as he received them.
The Ben Nevis was to be sent to New York to be condemned, and Somers
handed her over to the naval officer, according to his orders.
CHAPTER XVII.
OFF MOBILE BAY.
Somers was now entirely relieved from duty. He had delivered up the
prize and handed the prisoners over to the proper officers. On the
following day he went on shore to spend a few hours before the supply
steamer sailed. On visiting the fortress, he received the astonishing
intelligence that Mr. Pillgrim had escaped from the officer having him
in charge, even before he had been placed in the casement appropriated
to his use. Somers had cautioned the lieutenant to whom he had delivered
him, of the danger of removing the irons, but his advice had not been
heeded. The careless officer was now under arrest for his neglect of
duty.
By none was this unfortunate event more deeply regretted than by him who
had been the means of foiling the schemes of the traitor and handing him
over to the custody of the government. Pillgrim had boasted that he
would soon be at liberty. He was certainly a talented and a daring
fellow; and to handle him safely, it was necessary to understand him
thoroughly. Somers had a suspicion that the officer from whom the
wretch escaped was bribed by his prisoner; but of course there could be
no evidence on this interesting point.
A careful search had been made by the garrison of the fort, but without
success. Pillgrim was dressed in the full uniform of a naval lieutenant,
and in this garb his ingenuity would enable him to pass the military
lines, if indeed he was not provided with the means of doing so by the
faithless officer in charge of him. The prisoner had escaped on the
preceding day, and there was now little hope of recapturing him; but
Somers gave such information as he possessed in regard to the fugitive.
Captain Walmsley had been less fortunate, and was still in durance.
The story of the traitor's escape was a very simple one. When the boat
which had conveyed the prisoners from the steamer to the shore reached
the pier, and they had landed, Walmsley began to protest against his
confinement, being a British subject. He insisted upon seeing the
commandant of the fortress; and while everybody was listening to this
debate, Pillgrim slipped into the crowd and disappeared, passing the
sentinels, who had no suspicion that he was a prisoner, without a
challenge. Immediate search was made for him; but he must have taken to
the water, since there was no other place of concealment which was not
examined. A calker's stage was moored to the shore near the pier, and
it was afterwards surmised that he had crawled under this, securing a
position so that his head was out of water, and remained there till
evening.
He was gone, and that was all it was necessary to know. The officer who
had permitted him to escape would be court-martialed and broken, and
that would be the end of it. At noon, as Somers was about to embark on
the supply steamer, a letter was handed to him, which had been brought
in by a contraband. The negro said it had been handed to him by "a
gemman wid de anchors on his shoulders," whom he had met on the road to
Williamsburg, nine miles from the fort.
The epistle was from Pillgrim, as Somers would have known from the
writing, without the contraband's description of the person who had
given it to him. He put it in his pocket, and did not open it till he
had taken possession of his state-room on board the steamer. He was
confident that it contained nothing but threats and abuse, and he felt
but little interest in its contents. The writer, chagrined at the
failure of his plot, was running over with evil thoughts and malicious
purposes. Somers opened the letter and read as follows:--
    OLD POINT COMFORT, July 14.
SOMERS: You have been promoted. You remind me of the fable. The goat
went down into the well. The fox sprang upon his horns and leaped out.
You are the fox; you jumped over my head; you went up; you are a master
now. I congratulate you. You are the only man in the world I hate.
The Tallahassee is doing a good business for the South. She has captured
fifty vessels. The Ben Nevis was her sister. You have her. There are
more of the same family. You believe I am used up. No. I write this
letter to inform you that I am not even singed yet, say nothing of being
burned out. I shall be afloat soon. The Ben Lomond, twin sister of the
Ben Nevis and the Tallahassee, will be at work in a fortnight. She will
then be called the Tallapoosa. Look out for her.
The Ben Nevis was captured; my agents bought her again. The Ben Lomond
is now at--you wish you knew where! I shall command her. I could not
resist the temptation to inform you of my plan. I know you will enjoy my
prospects!
You would like to make a little arrangement for the capture of the Ben
Lomond. I wish you might. You will hear of her on the broad ocean in a
few weeks,--capturing, burning, bonding Yankee ships. It will please you
to read the papers then! I shall strike for a California steamer. Her
treasure will make good my losses.
I am so anxious to meet you again that I am tempted to tell you where my
ship is. I would like to meet you on her quarter deck. You are a
remarkably enterprising fellow; perhaps we shall meet. If we do, I
should feel justified in hanging you at the yard-arm. You belong to the
South. You accepted a commission in her navy. You betrayed your trust. I
shall endeavor to see you again.
Give my regards to the officers of the Chatauqua. Inform them of my
present brilliant prospects. Remember me kindly to Kate Portington.
Possibly she may be a little chilly when you see her again.
If you capture the Ben Lomond, otherwise the Tallapoosa, it would make
you a lieutenant. Do it by all means.
    PILLGRIM.
Somers read this singular letter three times before he could form an
opinion whether or not its statements were mere idle boasts, and whether
or not they had a foundation of truth. Was there any such vessel in
existence as the Ben Lomond? This was the interesting and important
question to him. At this time the Tallahassee was making fearful ravages
among the shipping on the coast, and the success and impunity with which
she carried on her depredations offered plenty of encouragement for the
rebels to send forth similar vessels, if they could obtain them.
The Ben Nevis had been named after a mountain in Scotland; Ben Lomond
was the name of another. The former was a Clyde-built vessel, and it
would have been natural to give these twin names to twin steamers.
Pillgrim, in the character of "Coles," had given him a certain amount
of correct information in respect to the Ben Nevis, though he had
deceived him in regard to her destination. He had obtained this
knowledge by accident, and the Ben Nevis had been captured.
To Somers there appeared to be a strong probability that the statements
contained in the letter were wholly or partially true. There were only
two rebel ports into which it was possible for the Ben Lomond to have
run--Mobile and Wilmington. The conspirators had told him that the Ben
Nevis was bound to Mobile when she was actually going to Wilmington.
Pillgrim, in his letter, declared that he was to command the Tallapoosa.
If there was any plan at all, of course it had been laid before the
Chatauqua sailed from Philadelphia.
Why did Pillgrim start for Mobile in the Chatauqua? Was it not possible
that he intended, as second lieutenant of a national ship, to obtain the
means of getting the Ben Lomond, or Tallapoosa, through the blockading
fleet? Did he not endeavor to involve the fourth lieutenant in the
meshes of the conspiracy for the purpose of obtaining his assistance in
this work? It was plausible. Perhaps the recreant wretch had left some
papers in his state-room on board the Chatauqua, which would be
intelligible in the light which he could bring to bear upon them.
Bewildered and astonished by the prospect before him, as he read the
letter again and again, and considered its remarkable statements in
connection with his previous knowledge, Somers spent the whole afternoon
in his state-room, and was only aroused from his meditations by the
supper bell. In the evening he resumed his study of the case, and tried
to reconcile the theory he had framed with reason and common sense.
There was nothing to conflict with this theory but the fact that
Pillgrim himself had given him the information upon which it was based.
The traitor would not intentionally betray himself. Perhaps he did not
expect his statements would be credited; or if he did, he had twice
before been equally reckless.
Then Somers attempted to analyze the mental constitution of Pillgrim.
The conspirator seemed to be able to endure all misfortunes. The loss of
the Ben Nevis had not affected him, and he had endangered, defeated his
plan to recapture her by indulging in idle threats before the match was
applied. He had been more desirous of mortifying, humiliating, and
overwhelming Somers, than of recovering his lost steamer. With great
talents for scheming and plotting, he had displayed the most amazing
stupidity.
At this point the remark to the letter that Kate Portington would be
chilly when he saw her again, came up for consideration. Pillgrim
certainly had some purpose in view which was equal to, or greater than,
his desire to serve the South, or even himself, in a pecuniary point of
view. He was the friend of the commodore--had known the family before
the war. Somers could not help believing that, in spite of his
thirty-five years, he was an aspirant for the hand of Kate, and that the
bond he had signed was for her use rather than his own.
Miss Portington might well be chilly, if she discovered that Somers
had pledged a part of her fortune at the present stage of proceedings!
Somers was nervous and uneasy until he had reasoned and coaxed himself
into a full belief in the theory which he had suggested. He could not
wait for evidence, if, indeed, any could be obtained. For the present he
was satisfied, and determined to proceed upon his hypothesis, just as
though every point in the argument had been fully substantiated.
Our young officer was never idle when it was possible to work. If any of
our readers believe that Somers was very "smart," very skilful, and very
fortunate in his previous career, we beg to remind them, and to impress
it upon their minds in the most forcible manner, that he owed more to
his industry and perseverance than to the accidents of natural ability
and favorable circumstances combined. For example, when he captured the
Ben Nevis, instead of gaping idly about the deck, and thinking what a
great man he was, he went into the hold, and made a careful examination
of the steamer's cargo. The knowledge thus gained had prevented him from
abandoning the vessel when she was believed to be on fire, and thus
saved the prize and confounded the conspirators.
Somers was not idle now. He procured "Blunt's Coast Pilot," and "A Chart
of the North Coast of the Gulf of Mexico, from St. Mark's to Galveston,"
of the captain of the steamer, and diligently studied up, and even
committed to memory, the bearings, distances, and depths of water in
Mobile Bay and vicinity. He carefully trained his mind on these matters
so important to a seaman; and being blessed with a retentive memory, he
hoped and expected to have this knowledge at command when it should be
serviceable. It was hard study--the hardest and dryest kind of study;
but he stuck to it as though it had been a bewitching novel.
To assist his design he drew maps and charts of the coast from memory,
and was not satisfied till he could make a perfect diagram of the coast,
shoals, islands, and bars, mark the prominent objects to be sighted from
a vessel, and lay down the depth of water. He had nothing else to do on
the passage; and as the steamer glided swiftly over the summer sea, he
found it a more agreeable occupation than smoking, playing cards, and
"spinning yarns," which were the employments of his fellow-passengers.
On the eighth day from Fortress Monroe the supply steamer reached the
blockading fleet off Mobile Bay, and Somers was warmly welcomed by his
brother officers. Of course he had a long story to tell, which was
listened to with interest. The escape of the late second lieutenant was
received with becoming indignation. Somers was now the third lieutenant
of the Chatauqua, and he moved into the state-room formerly occupied by
Mr. Garboard, who had also advanced one grade in his relative rank.
"Somers, you are just in time for a big thing," said Mr. Hackleford.
"Our Brave Old Salt is going to take us up Mobile Bay in a few days."
"Indeed?"
"Yes, the Old Salamander has issued his orders."
"God bless him!" ejaculated Somers, fervently, in much the same spirit
that a loyal subject speaks of a popular monarch.
"Ay, God bless him!" replied the first lieutenant. "He is the ablest
naval commander the world has yet produced. In my opinion he is the
superior of Nelson, Collingwood, Decatur, Porter, Preble, and Hull. By
the way, Mr. Somers, you were with him on the Mississippi?"
"Yes, sir; I was in the Harrisburg when the fleet passed Forts Jackson
and St. Philip. But I am rather sorry the attack is to take place so
soon."
"Why so?"
Then Somers showed him Pillgrim's letter; but as we intend to tell only
what was done, not what was said, we will not record the conversation.
CHAPTER XVIII.
BRAVE OLD SALT.
The most extensive and careful preparations were in progress for the
events which, a few days later, astonished the world even more than the
splendid achievements of the fleet below New Orleans. The squadron off
the mouth of Mobile Bay had been actively employed for several days in
sending down top-masts, superfluous spars, and rigging. Chain cables had
been extended over the sides of the ships where the machinery was
exposed to injury from the shot and shell of the fort. Chains and sand
bags were placed on the decks where plunging shot might disable the
engines. Boats were removed from the starboard to the port sides, for
the fleet was to go in with Fort Morgan on the right, and close aboard
of them.
The preparations were advancing when Somers reported on board of the
Chatauqua, and of course he at once experienced the inspiration of
coming events. If there was any man in the navy whom he admired and
reverenced, that man was Admiral Farragut. It is true, he was not
singular in this respect, for every man in the fleet was equally devoted
to him. The "Old Salamander," who seemed never to be happier than when
in the midst of the hottest fire which the engines of modern warfare
could produce, was the idol of both officers and seamen. He was an
honest, just, and humane man, one who involuntarily won the respect of
every person with whom he came into contact.
We were never more thoroughly impressed by the honesty, justice, and
humanity of a man, than when we took the hand of this "Brave Old Salt."
His expressive eye, and his gentle, but dignified bearing, spoke more
truly and forcibly of what he was, than the most elaborate biography
which the pen of genius could produce. It almost passes belief that men
can stand up and work and fight as officers and seamen worked and fought
between Forts Jackson and St. Philip, and at Mobile Bay; but we can
think of no better inspiration than the leadership of such a man as
Admiral Farragut.
He was born in Tennessee--a southern state; his home was in Virginia--a
southern state--at the breaking out of the rebellion. With all the
motives which actuated Lee and Johnston, Tatnall and Hollins, to induce
him to abandon the old flag under which he had fought in early youth,
and served through all his manhood, he remained true to his country in
the hour of her severest trial. Neither bribes nor threats could move
him, and not for one instant did he falter in his devotion to the flag
he had sworn to sustain against all foes. Glory, honor, and immortality
in the hearts of his countrymen to the noble Admiral!
As a naval commander, he has no rival in the past or the present, in
this or in any country. He has achieved, once, twice, thrice, what any
board of naval officers that could have been convened from the boldest
and most skilful naval heroes of the united nations, would have solemnly
pronounced impossible. Chance might have given him the Lower
Mississippi--it did not; but it could not have given him that and Mobile
Bay, and the brilliant exploits up the Great River. Chance is
capricious; it never metes out uniform success.
Admiral Farragut is not simply a brave and skilful seaman, for the
stroke of genius shines out in all his battle plans, in all his
preparations, and in all his movements, whether on the silent river, as
his majestic ship leads in the van to the conflict, or under the most
deadly and destructive fire that ever was rained down on a wooden hull.
"Brave Old Salt" in the main rigging of the Hartford, as she breasted
the storm of shot and shell from Fort Morgan, is a spectacle more
sublime than can be presented in the annals of any other nation. The
position he chose for himself on that momentous occasion, more truly
