their destination.

"I s'pose the sooner we start, the sooner we'll git there," said Ethan,
after he had carefully surveyed the ground to ascertain if any savages
were near.

"I am ready, Ethan. I will do whatever you say."

"We'll go now, then. Foller me, Fanny."

Ethan led the way, but they had hardly emerged from the bushes before
they were appalled to find that they were discovered by their savage
foes.

"Ho, ho, ho!" yelled the Indians from behind them.

It appeared that Lean Bear and his companions had waited in the
vicinity until the burning barn was so far consumed that it was not
deemed possible for a human being to remain concealed in it, and then
moved off towards another part of the settlement. With watchful eyes
behind as well as before them, they had discovered the young fugitives
when they left the clump of bushes.

"Ho, ho, ho!" shouted the painted wretches, as they gave chase to Fanny
and Ethan.

"Run for the house!" cried Ethan.

"Why not for the lake?" asked Fanny, in an agony of despair.

"They'll ketch you afore you git half way there. Run for the house!"

They were both running with all their might; and Fanny, though against
her judgment, directed her steps to the house. As they approached the
back door, an Indian boy and a squaw came out of the building, where
they had probably been searching for such valuables as might have
escaped the hasty observation of the party who had sacked the premises.
The boy was apparently about ten years old, and the woman appeared to
be his mother.

Fanny, not suspecting any harm from a woman and so young a boy, still
ran towards the door, being in advance of Ethan, who was chivalrous
enough to place himself in position to cover the retreat of his
companion in case of need. To the surprise of Fanny, the squaw placed
herself in her path, and attempted to seize her, uttering yells hardly
less savage than those of her male companions. The terrified girl
paused in her rapid flight till Ethan came up. The resolute fellow had
already picked up a heavy cart stake, and when he saw the new and
unexpected peril which menaced Fanny, he rushed forward, and though the
squaw drew a long knife and stood her ground, he dealt her a heavy blow
on the head, which felled her to the ground.

"Run into the house as fast as you kin, Fanny," said Ethan.

She obeyed, and, in doing so, passed the scalped and mutilated form of
her aunt, which lay near the door. The sight made her sick at heart,
and she had almost fainted under the horror induced by a single glance
at the ghastly spectacle. Such might, and probably would be her own
fate, for it was hoping against hope to expect any other issue.

She reached the door, and clung to the post for support. Then she saw
that Ethan, instead of following her, was pursuing the Indian boy. It
was but a short chase, for he immediately overtook the youth, and in
spite of his yells, dragged him into the house with him. Ethan seemed
then to have a savage spirit, for he handled the boy without mercy,
dragging him by the hair of the head, and kicking him to accelerate his
movements.

The capture of the young Indian had been witnessed by the whole of the
pursuing party, who yelled with renewed vigor when they saw him borne
into the house. When they reached the place where the squaw had fallen,
they paused. The tall form of Lean Bear was seen bending over her, and
it was plain that there was confusion in the counsels of the savages.

"Hold this boy, Fanny," said Ethan, out of breath with the violence of
his exertions, as he took from the belt of the little prisoner a small
scalping-knife, and offered it to Fanny. "Don't let him go, no-how;
stick him ef he don't keep still."

"I can hold him; I don't want the knife," replied she, as she grasped
the boy by the arms, bending them back behind him.

Taking her handkerchief, she tied his arms behind him, so that he was
powerless to do her any mischief. She then cut off a portion of the
clothes line, which hung up in the kitchen, and tied his feet together.
In this condition, he was secured to a door. The boy looked cool and
savage; he did not cry, and ceased to struggle only when the bonds
prevented him from doing so.

"Now we are ready for sunthin'," said Ethan, as he appeared with two
guns and a revolver, which he had taken from their place of concealment
behind the oven.




CHAPTER XV.

THE CONFERENCE.


Mr. Grant, like all settlers and backwoodsmen, had a profound respect
and veneration for his weapons. They were absolutely necessary for
purposes of defence in a new country, and upon their skilful use often
depended the supplies in the family larder. More coveted than any other
property by the Indians, trappers and strollers of the prairies, he was
obliged to secure them carefully, so that they should not be stolen;
and Mr. Grant, in building his house, had provided the place behind the
oven for their reception.

One of the guns was a fowling-piece, and the other a rifle. The
appropriate ammunition for each was kept in the secret closet with the
weapon. For the revolver there was a plentiful supply of patent
cartridges. Mr. Grant owned two of these arms, but the other he had
taken with him.

Like all western boys, Ethan French was accustomed to the use of the
rifle and the fowling-piece, though he had never particularly
distinguished himself as a marksman. It was a bold idea on his part to
think of defending Fanny and himself from the attacks of the savages;
but, desperate as was the thought, it was his only hope, for the
Indians were murdering all who fell into their hands. There was a
slight chance for him, which he was disposed to improve.

Ethan evidently had some other purpose in view than that of merely
defending himself and his companion from the savages--a purpose
indicated by his capture of the Indian boy, though he had not had time
to explain it to Fanny. He was firm and resolute, exhibiting a courage
which no one would have supposed he possessed; indeed, we can hardly
know what is in any person until he is tried in the fiery furnace.

Fanny, too, had ceased to tremble. The firmness and determination of
Ethan had inspired her with courage, and without stopping to consider
the odds against him, she ventured to hope that his efforts would be
crowned with some measure of success. The occupation of the last few
moments was calculated to increase her courage, for "something to do"
is always the best antidote for fear. She had bound the young savage,
and secured him to the door, when Ethan appeared with the weapons; and
now she anxiously waited the development of his next movement.

"What are you going to do, Ethan?" she asked, as her companion walked
to the door.

"I don't know jest exactly what I'm go'n to do; but I'm go'n to do
sunthin', as sure as you're alive. I reckon I've done sunthin' already,
for them Injins hes come to a dead halt."

"Can you see them?"

"Yes, I kin. They look kinder anxious."

The group of savages had gathered around the prostrate form of the
squaw. She could not have been killed, or even very badly injured, by
the blow she had received. Two of the party appeared to be at work over
her, while the others, among whom Lean Bear was prominent, were holding
a consultation near the spot.

"I reckon I got 'em whar the har 's short," added Ethan, with something
like a chuckle at his own cleverness.

"What do you mean, Ethan?" asked Fanny, not yet able to comprehend the
situation.

"D'ye see that little Injin?" replied he, pointing at the prisoner.

"Yes; and I wondered what you dragged him into the house for."

"Don't you see his fine fixin's--his necklaces and his moccasons? I
reckon that boy belongs to the big Injin."

"You mean Lean Bear."

"Yes, if that's his name. He looks enough like him to be his son.
Gittin' him 's what made 'em stop short jist whar they was. I tell you
we've got 'em whar the har 's short."

"What are you going to do with him?"

"Don't ye see?" replied Ethan, as he finished loading the last of the
weapons. "I'm go'n to shoot some of them Injins; and ef they don't keep
off I'm go'n to shoot the boy."

"You wouldn't do that, Ethan."

"You bet!" replied he, firmly, using more western slang than was
necessary, though he was dependent upon such expressions for the force
of his language.

"But it would be wicked to kill the poor boy."

"What's them Injins doin' to all the white folks?"

"That is no reason why you should kill a harmless boy."

"I don't want to kill him; it would make me feel bad to do any sech
thing. Ef any of them Injins come near us, I'm go'n to show 'em what I
kin do. Keep still now; one on 'em is comin' up this way."

Ethan placed himself at one of the open windows, and cocked the rifle.
One of the party was moving towards the house, apparently sent thither
by Lean Bear, who appeared suddenly to have become very quiet and
harmless.

"See hyer, Fanny," said Ethan, still keeping his eye fixed on the
approaching foe.

"What shall I do?" asked Fanny.

"Did you tie that little Injin's hands strong?"

"As well as I could with my handkerchief."

"Better do it better with the clothes line. Then undo his feet, and put
a rope round his neck."

"Around his neck!" exclaimed Fanny, horrified at the suggestion.

"Jest to lead him by. We may want to quit this house reyther suddin."

Fanny obeyed, satisfied that Ethan did not intend to hang the boy. The
Indian, approaching the house, moved very slowly and cautiously,
frequently stopping, and examining the house with great care. Ethan was
on one of his knees, pointing the rifle at the single Indian, resting
it on the sill of the window. When Lean Bear's messenger saw him, he
came to a halt, and began to make earnest gestures, pointing to his
belt, and throwing out his arms to indicate that he had no weapons.

"What does that creetur want?" mused Ethan.

"He wants to talk with you," replied Fanny, correctly interpreting his
gestures.

"I can't talk Injin--kin you?"

"No; but some of the Indians talk English."

"What ye want?" shouted Ethan, satisfied that the man's intentions were
peaceful.

"Talk! talk!" replied the messenger.

"Kim along, then," replied Ethan. "That's jest what I want, too," he
added, to Fanny. "I want to tell them Injins that this hyer boy will
ketch fits if they don't let us be."

The Indian, still gesticulating, continued to approach the house with
cautious step. Ethan put aside the rifle, and took the revolver, which
he was careful that the messenger should see.

"Stop thyer!" said he, when the Indian had come within twenty feet of
the house; and, at the same time, he elevated his pistol to enforce
obedience to his order.

"Me talk," said the messenger.

"Well! what ye got to say?" asked Ethan.

"You got Wahena--little Wahena."

"Yes, sir!" replied Ethan, with emphasis. "I've got him, and I mean to
keep him."

"No keep! We want Wahena," continued the messenger.

"No git him," added Ethan, who was inclined to be facetious at times,
especially when the advantage was on his side.

"Lean Bear's son. Big Lean Bear--little Wahena."

"You can't hev him, nohow," said Ethan, decidedly.

"Me get Wahena--you go 'way--no kill, no hurt."

"You can't fool me."

"No kill, no hurt."

"No, yer don't!"

"Give Wahena--no kill, no hurt," repeated the messenger, impressively.

"You git out!"

"No give Wahena, Lean Bear kill!"

"Two kin play at that game," added Ethan, shaking his head. "Ef you
don't quit, I'll kill the boy."

"No kill Wahena!" cried the savage, evidently horrified at the threat.

"Yes, I will, old boy, ef you don't all go off, and quit right away. I
know what's what, 'n you can't fool me, nohow."

"Why not give up the boy, if they will let us go?" asked Fanny.

"You can't trust one o' them Injin creeturs no more'n you kin trust a
rattlesnake, nohow. Jest fetch the boy here, and I'll show 'em what I
mean."

Fanny had fastened Wahena's hands more securely behind him, and
attached one end of the line to his neck. She had removed the cord from
his ankles, so that he could walk, while by the rope at his neck he
could be kept under perfect control. Ethan took the line, and led the
boy out at the door, where he was placed in full view of the savages.
His captor still held the leaded pistol in his hand.

"No kill Wahena!" shouted the messenger, fiercely.

"I won't hurt him ef you all go off--go 'way--clear out--quit the
ranch."

"No hurt?" asked the Indian.

"All go 'way," answered Ethan, pointing to the west with the revolver.

"Give Wahena--all go."

"No, sir!"

"No give Wahena?"

"I'll kill him ef them creeturs come hyer," said Ethan, sternly, as he
pointed the pistol at the boy's head.

"No kill Wahena!" shouted the messenger.

"Tell 'em to keep back, then."

This demonstration on the part of Ethan had been caused by the sudden
movement of the savages towards the house. Their spokesman fortunately
understood his meaning, and turning round, he shouted out a few words
in the Indian dialect, accompanying them with violent gestures, which
had the effect to stop the nearer approach of the band. As they moved
back, Ethan lowered his weapon. Wahena did not flinch, nor exhibit any
signs of terror while he was menaced with the pistol, though he looked
stern and resolute, as he had probably been taught to be by his savage
father.

Ethan, finding that he had the power all in his own hands, walked a few
paces nearer to the messenger, dragging his prisoner after him. It was
not an easy matter to carry on a conversation with the savage, whose
knowledge of the English language was limited to a few words; but after
a long time, and a great deal of effort, he succeeded in making the
Indian spokesman understand his intention. He refused to give up
Wahena, but he promised that the boy should not be injured if the
Indians would retire, and not attempt to molest Fanny or himself. He
assured the messenger that he would kill the boy if the savages
followed, or fired upon himself or his companion.

It was a long and trying conference, and when the parties came to an
understanding, the Indian withdrew to communicate the result to his
chief. Ethan returned to the house with his prisoner, and from the
window watched the movements of the foe, while he related to Fanny what
had passed between himself and the messenger during the interview.

"I reckon they'll do it, Fanny," said Ethan.

"I hope they will."

"When we are safe, they kin hev the Injin boy; I don't want him. I
reckon it was a smart idee o' mine, ketchin' the young cub."

"I think it was a very good idea. They would certainly have butchered
us before this time if it hadn't been for him."

"I reckon they would; but ef I knows myself, some on 'em would hev gone
down fust."

"I suppose the Indians have murdered a great many people."

"I reckon they hev."

"It's awful!" exclaimed Fanny, shuddering, as she glanced at the place
where poor Mrs. Grant lay cold and still in death.

"So 'tis, but 'tain't no use to think on't now; it makes a feller feel
kind o' weak and sickly. We must figur' it out now."

"Thanks to your good management, we may yet escape."

"I reckon we will. Did you ever fire a pistil, Fanny?"

"No, but I'm not afraid to do so."

"Better take this, then, and I'll use the guns. I reckon it may be of
use to you," added he, handing her the weapon. "Hokee!" suddenly
exclaimed he, as he glanced out of the window.

"What is it, Ethan?"

"Them Injins is go'n off!"

"So they are."

"Mebbe they're comin' round to try us on t'other side of the house. Ef
they be, I'm thar. You hold on to the little Injin, and I'll watch
'em."

Ethan went to a window on the front of the house, and soon returned
with the gratifying intelligence that the redskins were actually moving
off in the direction of the burning buildings to the west of them.

"How thankful we ought to be that we have been saved!" said Fanny. "Let
us thank God with all our hearts, Ethan."

"We can't stop to do no more prayin' now, Fanny. Besides, we ain't out
o' the woods yet."

"We need not stop to pray," replied Fanny, devoutly. "If the prayer is
in our hearts, God will understand it."

"I'm thankful, I'm sure, as a body kin be. Now, you git together
everything you kin find to eat, and I'll git a wheelbarrer to fetch 'em
down to the lake. Ef we kin only git on the island, I don't keer for
all the redskins this side o' sundown."

Wahena was tied up in such a way that he could not escape, and Fanny
hurriedly collected everything in the shape of provisions which had
escaped the depredations of the Indians. Ethan brought from the
chambers an armful of blankets and bed-quilts, and the wheelbarrow was
loaded with all it would contain. A bushel of potatoes, a leg of bacon,
a bucket of corn-meal, a small supply of groceries, and a few cooking
utensils, constituted the stock upon which they were mainly to depend
for sustenance during their banishment from civilized life for they
knew not how long a time. But both of the exiles were hopeful, though
very sad, when they thought of the death and desolation they were
leaving behind them.




CHAPTER XVI.

THE YOUNG EXILES.


Wahena, with his hands still tied behind him, was led by Fanny, while
Ethan trundled the wheelbarrow, across the handles of which lay the two
guns, ready for use if occasion should require. The Indians had halted
on one of the little eminences of the prairie, and appeared to be
watching the departure of the fugitives from their once happy home.
Lean Bear was evidently very fond of his little son, who was a boy of
bright promise, measured by the Indian standard. He had exhibited no
concern for the mother while she lay senseless upon the ground, but he
seemed to be willing to make any sacrifice, even to the curbing of his
ferocious nature, for Wahena's sake.

The party of Indians on the knoll appeared to be impressed with the
misfortune of their leader in the loss of his favorite son. Though the
work of rapine and death was still going on in the settlement, they did
not heed it. The messenger had probably represented to Lean Bear that
Wahena would certainly be killed if he attempted to molest the little
party, and the chief had withdrawn far enough to remove all temptation
on the part of Ethan to execute his threat.

The wheelbarrow was heavily loaded, and it was hard work for the
prairie boy to move it along over the soft soil. On a hill, just before
the descent to the lake commenced, he paused to rest for a moment. He
was in excellent spirits, and was proud of the success which had thus
far attended his stratagem. He was confident that he should reach the
island in safety, where, having the only boat on the lake in his
possession, he was satisfied that he should be able to defend himself
and his companion, especially with Wahena as a guaranty for the good
behavior of the Indians.

Ethan was entirely satisfied with himself, and he was about to resume
the march towards the lake, when his attention was attracted by a noise
in the direction opposite to that in which Lean Bear and his party had
retreated.

"Creation hokee!" shouted Ethan.

"What's the matter?" asked Fanny.

"Don't you see the Injins comin' out of the woods?" replied he, as he
grasped the rifle, and raised it to his shoulder.

"Ho, ho, ho! He, he, he!" yelled the band of savages, as they rushed
out of the covert of the trees, and ran towards the spot where Ethan
stood.

"We are lost!" gasped Fanny, almost overcome by this new peril.

"No, we ain't lost, Fanny. You keep a stiff upper lip. Lay right down
on the ground, behind the wheelbarrer, and don't let the varmints see
you. If they kim hyer, use that ere pistil."

One of the new enemies was considerably in advance of the others, as if
anxious to drink the first blood of the victims before him. Suddenly he
came to a halt, raised his rifle, and fired.

"Creation hokee!" exclaimed Ethan, as the ball whistled frightfully
near his head.

"Hadn't we better run?" asked Fanny, in trembling tones.

"'Tain't no use to run; them redskins kin beat you all to pieces
runnin'," replied Ethan, as he retreated behind the wheelbarrow, and
resting the rifle upon it, took careful aim at the savage who was in
advance of the others.
