
Gypsy gave two thoughts to it, while she jumped down stairs three steps at
a time; then, it must be confessed, she forgot it entirely, in the sight
of Tom coolly walking off down the lane without her. But words that Mrs.
Breynton said with a kiss did not slip away from Gypsy's memory "for good
an a'," as easily as that. She had her own little places and times of
private meditation, when such things came up to her like faithful angels,
that are always ready to speak, if you give them the chance.

Tom was still in sight, among the hazel-nut bushes and budding grape-vines
of the lane, and Gypsy ran swiftly after him. She was fleet of foot as a
young gazelle, and soon overtook him. She had just stopped, panting, by
his side, and was proceeding to make some remarks which she thought his
conduct richly deserved, when the sound of some little trotting feet
behind them attracted their attention.

"Why, Winnie Breynton!" said Gypsy.

"Where are you going?" asked Tom, turning round.

"Oh, nowheres in particular," said Winnie, with an absent air.

"Well, you may just turn round and go there, then," said Tom. "We don't
want any little boys with us this afternoon."

"Little boys!" said Winnie, with a terrible look; "I'm five years old,
sir. I can button my own jacket, and I've got a snowshovel!"

Tom walked rapidly on, and Gypsy with him. A moment's reflection seemed to
convince Winnie that his company was not wanted, and he disappeared among
the hazel nut bushes.

Gypsy and Tom were fast walkers, and they reached the pond in a
marvellously short time. This pond was about a half-mile from the house,
just at the foot of a hill which went by the name of Kleiner Berg--a
German word meaning little mountain. There were many of these elevations
all along the valley in which Yorkbury was situated. They seemed to be a
sort of stepping-stones to the great, snow-crowned mountains, that towered
sharply beyond. The pond that nestled in among the trees at the foot of
the Kleiner Berg was called the Kleiner Berg Basin. It was a beautiful
sheet of water, small and still and sheltered, and a great resort of
pleasure-seekers because of the clouds of white and golden lilies that
floated over it in the hot summer months. Mr. Breynton owned a boat there,
which was kept locked to a tiny wharf under the trees, and was very often
used by the children, although Tom declared it was no better to fish in
than a wash-tub; as a Vermont boy, used to the trout-brooks up among the
mountains, would be likely to think.

"What's that?" asked Gypsy, as they neared the wharf.

"Looks as much like a little green monkey as anything," said Tom, making a
tube of his hands to look through. "It's in the boat, whatever it is."

"It's a green-and-white gingham monkey," said Gypsy, suddenly, "with a
belt, and brown pants, and a cap on wrong side before."

"The little----, he may just walk home anyhow," observed Tom, in his
autocratic style. "He ought to be taught better than to come where older
people are, especially if they don't want him."

"I suppose he likes to have a boat-ride as well as we do," suggested
Gypsy.

"Winthrop!" called Tom, severely.

Winnie's chin was on his little fat hand, and Winnie's eyes were fixed
upon the water, and Winnie was altogether too deeply absorbed in
meditation to deign a reply.

"Winnie, where did you come from?"

"Oh!" said Winnie, looking up, carelessly; "that you?"

"How did you get down here, I'd like to know?" said Gypsy.

Winnie regarded her impressively, as if to signify that his principles of
action were his own until they were made public, and when they were made
public she might have them.

"You may just get out of that boat," said Tom, rather crossly for him.
Winnie hinted, as if it were quite an accidental remark, that he had no
intention of doing so. He furthermore observed that he would be happy to
take them to row. "Father said whoever took the boat first was to have
it."

Tom replied by taking him up in one hand, twisting him over his shoulder,
and landing him upon the grass. At this Winnie, as characteristic in his
wrath as in his dignity, threw himself flat, and began to scream after his
usual musical fashion.

"It's too bad!" said Gypsy. "Let him go, Tom--do."

"He should have stayed where he was told to," argued Tom, who, like most
boys of his age, had a sufficiently just estimate of the importance of his
own authority, and who would sometimes do a very selfish thing under the
impression that it was his duty to family and state, as an order-loving
individual and citizen.

"I know it isn't so pleasant to have him," said Gypsy, "but it does make
him so dreadfully happy."

That was the best of Gypsy;--she was as generous a child as poor, fallen
children of Adam are apt to be; as quick to do right as she was to do
wrong, and much given to this fancy of seeing people "dreadfully happy." I
have said that people loved Gypsy. I am inclined to think that herein lay
the secret of it.

Then Gypsy never "preached." If she happened to be right, and another
person wrong, she never put on superior airs, and tried to patronize them
into becoming as good as she was. She made her suggestions in such a
straightforward, matter-of-fact way, as if of course you thought so too,
and she was only agreeing with you; and was apt to make them so merrily
withal, that there was no resisting her.

Therefore Tom, while pretending to carry his point, really yielded to the
influence of Gypsy's kind feeling, in saying,--

"On the whole, Winnie, I've come to the conclusion to take you, on
condition that you always do as I tell you in future. And if you don't
stop crying this minute, you sha'n't go."

This rather ungracious consent was sufficient to dry Winnie's tears and
silence Winnie's lungs, and the three seated themselves in the little
boat, and started off in high spirits. It was a light, pretty boat,
painted in bright colors, and christened The Dipper, it being an
appropriate and respectful title for a boat on the Kleiner Berg Basin.
Moreover, the air was as sweet as a May-flower, and as warm as sunshine;
there was a soft, blue sky with clouds of silver like stately ships
sailing over it, and such a shimmering, bright photograph of it in the
water; then Tom was so pleasant, and rowed so fast, and let Gypsy help,
and she could keep time with him, and the spray dashed up like silver-dust
about the oars, and the bees were humming among the buds on the trees, and
the blue dragon-flies, that skipped from ripple to ripple, seemed to be
having such a holiday. Altogether, Gypsy felt like saying, with famous
little Prudy,--

"Oh, I'm so glad there happened to be a world, and God made me!"

After a while Tom laid down his oars, and they floated idly back and forth
among the lily-stems and the soft, purple shadows of the maple-boughs,
from which the perfumed scarlet blossoms dropped like coral into the
water. Tom took off his cap, and leaned lazily against the side of the
boat; Winnie, interested in making a series of remarkable faces at himself
in the water, for a wonder sat still, and Gypsy lay down across two seats,
with her face turned up watching the sky. It was very pleasant, and no one
seemed inclined to talk.

"I wish I were a cloud," said Gypsy, suddenly, after a long silence. "A
little white cloud, with a silver fringe, and not have anything to do but
float round all day in the sunshine,--no lessons nor torn dresses nor
hateful old sewing to do."

"S'posin' it thunder-stormed," suggested Winnie. "You might get striked."

"That would be fun," said Gypsy, laughing. "I always wanted to see where
the lightning came from."

"Supposing there came a wind, and blew you away," suggested Tom, sleepily.

"I never thought of that," said Gypsy. "I guess I'd rather do the sewing."

Presently a little scarlet maple-blossom floated out on the wind, and
dropped right into Gypsy's mouth (which most unpoetically happened to be
open).

"Just think," said Gypsy, whose thoughts seemed to have taken a
metaphysical turn, "of being a little red flower, that dies and drops into
the water, and there's never any fruit nor anything,--I wonder what it was
made for."

"Perhaps just to make you ask that question," answered Tom; and there was
a great deal more in the answer than Tom himself supposed. This was every
solitary word that was said on that boat-ride. A little is so much better
than much, sometimes, and goes a great deal further.

It seemed to Gypsy the pleasantest boat-ride she had ever taken; but Tom
became tired of it before she did, and went up to the house, carrying
Winnie with him. Gypsy stayed a little while to row by herself.

"Be sure you lock the boat when you come up," called Tom, in starting.

"Oh yes," said Gypsy, "I always do."

"Did you bring up the oars?" asked Tom, at supper.

"Yes, they're in the barn. I do sometimes remember things, Mr. Tom."

"Did you----," began Tom, again.

But Winnie just then upset the entire contents of his silver mug of milk
exactly into Tom's lap, and as this was the fourth time the young
gentleman had done that very thing, within three days, Tom's sentence was
broken off for another of a more agitated nature.

That night Tom had a dream.

He thought the house was a haunted castle--(he had, I am sorry to say,
been reading novels in study hours), and that the ghost of old Baron
Somebody who had defrauded the beautiful Lady Somebody-else, of Kleiner
Berg Basin and the Dipper, in which it was supposed Mrs. Surly had
secreted a blind kitten, which it was somehow or other imperatively
necessary should be drowned, for the well-being of the beautiful and
unfortunate heiress,--that the ghost of this atrocious Baron was going
down stairs, with white silk stockings on his feet and a tin pan on his
head.

At this crisis Tom awoke, with a jump, and heard, or thought he heard, a
slight creaking noise in the entry. Winnie's cat, of course; or the wind
rattling the blinds;--nevertheless, Tom went to his door, and looked out.
He was exceedingly sleepy, and the entry was exceedingly dark, and, though
he had not a breath of faith in ghosts, not he,--was there ever a boy who
had?--and though he considered such persons, as had, as candidates for the
State Idiot Asylum, yet it must be confessed that even Tom was possessed
of an imagination, and this imagination certainly, for an instant, deluded
him into the belief that a dim figure was flitting down stairs.

"Who's there?" said Tom, rather faintly.

There was no reply. A curious sound, like the lifting of a distant latch
by phantom fingers, fell upon his ear,--then all was still.

"Stuff and nonsense!" said Tom. Nevertheless, Tom went to the head of the
stairs, and looked down; went to the foot of the stairs, and looked
around. The doors were all closed as they had been left for the night.
Nothing was to be seen; nothing was to be heard.

"Curious mental delusions one will have when one is sleepy," said Tom, and
went back to bed, where, the reader is confidentially informed, he lay for
fifteen entire minutes with his eyes wide open, speculating on the
proportion of authenticated ghost-stories;--to be sure, there had been
some; it was, perhaps, foolish to deny as much as that.

After which, he slept the rest of the night as soundly as young people of
sixteen, who are well and happy, are apt to sleep.

That night, also, Gypsy had a dream.

She dreamed that Miss Melville sailed in through the window on an oar,
which she paddled through the air with a parasol, and told her that her
(Gypsy's) father had been hung upon a lamp-post by Senator Sumner, for
advocating the coercion of the seceded States, and that Tom had set Winnie
afloat on the Kleiner Berg Basin, in a milk-pitcher. Winnie had tipped
over, and was in imminent danger of drowning, if indeed he were not past
hope already, and Tom sat up in the maple-tree, laughing at him.

Her mother appeared to have enlisted in the Union army, and, her father
being detained in that characteristic manner by Mr. Sumner, there was
evidently nothing to be done but for Gypsy to go to Winnie's relief. This
she hastened to do with all possible speed. She dressed herself under a
remarkable sense of not being able to find any buttons, and of getting all
her sleeves upon the wrong arm. She put on her rubber-boots, because it
took so long to lace up her boots. Her stockings she wore upon her arms.
The reason appeared to be, that she might not get her hands wet in pulling
Winnie out. She stopped to put on her sack, her turban, and her blue veil.
She also spent considerable time in commendable efforts to pin on a lace
collar which utterly refused to be pinned, and to fasten at her throat a
velvet bow that kept turning into a little green snake, and twisting round
her fingers.

When at length she was fairly ready, she left the house softly, under the
impression that Tom (who appeared to have the remarkable capacity of being
in the house and down in the maple-trees at one and the same time) would
stop her if he heard her.

She ran down the lane and over the fields and into the woods, where the
Kleiner Berg rose darkly in front of her; so, at last, to the Basin, which
rippled and washed on its shore, and tossed up at her feet--an empty
milk-pitcher!

A horrible fear seized her. She had come too late. Winnie was drowned. It
was all owing to that lace collar.

She sprang into the boat; she floated away; she peered down into the dark
water. But Tom laughed in the maple-tree; and there was no sign nor sound
of Winnie.

She cried out with a loud cry, and awoke. She lifted up her head, and
saw----




CHAPTER V

WHAT SHE SAW


A great, solemn stretch of sky, alive with stars.

A sheet of silent water.

A long line of silent hills.

She had acted out her dream! When the truth came to Gypsy, she sat for a
moment like one stunned. The terrible sense of awakening in a desolate
place, at midnight, and alone, instead of in a safe and quiet bed, with
bolted doors, and friends within the slightest call, might well alarm an
older and stouter heart than Gypsy's. The consciousness of having wandered
she did not know whither, she did not know how, in the helplessness of
sleep, into a place where her voice could reach no human ear, was in
itself enough to freeze her where she sat, with hands locked, and wide,
frightened eyes, staring into the darkness.

After a few moments she stirred, shivered a little, and looked about her.

It was the Basin, surely. There were the maples, there was the Kleiner
Berg rolling up, soft and shadowy, among its pines. There were the
mountains, towering and sharp--terrible shadows against the sky. Here,
too, was the Dipper beneath her, swaying idly back and forth upon the
water. She remembered, with a little cry of joy, that the boat was always
locked; she could not have stirred from the shore; it would be but the
work of a moment to jump upon the wharf, then back swiftly through the
fields to the house.

She looked back. The wharf was not in sight. A dark distance lay between
her and it. The beds of lily-leaves, and the dropping blossoms of the
maples were about her on every side. She had drifted half across the pond.

She understood it all in a moment--she had not locked the boat that
afternoon.

What was to be done? The oars were half a mile away, in the barn at home.
There was not so much as a branch floating within reach on the water. She
tried to pull up the board seats of the boat, under the impression that
she could, by degrees, paddle herself ashore with one of them. But they
were nailed tightly in their places, and she could not stir them.
Evidently, there was nothing to be done.

Perhaps the boat would drift ashore somewhere; she could land anywhere;
even on the steep Kleiner Berg side she could easily have found footing;
she was well used to climbing its narrow ledges, and knew every crack and
crevice and projection where a step could be taken. But, no; the boat was
not going to drift ashore. It had stopped in a tangle of lily-leaves, far
out in the water, and there was not a breath of wind to stir it. If the
water had not been deep she could have waded ashore; but her practised ear
told her, from the sound of the little waves against her hand, that wading
was not to be thought of. To be sure, Gypsy could swim; but a walk of half
a mile in drenched clothes was hardly preferable to sitting still in a dry
boat, to say nothing of the inconvenience of swimming in crinoline, and on
a dark night.

No, there was nothing to be done but to sit still till morning.

Having come to this conclusion, Gypsy gave another little shiver, and
slipped down into the bottom of the boat, thinking she might lie with her
head under the stern-seat, and thus be somewhat shielded from the chilly
air. In turning up her sack-collar, to protect her throat, she touched
something soft, which proved to be the lace collar. This led her to
examine her dress. She now noticed for the first time that one stocking
was drawn up over her hand,--the other she had probably lost on the
way,--and that she had put her bare feet into rubber-boots. The lace
collar was fastened by a bit of green chenille she sometimes wore at her
throat, and which had doubtless been the snake of her dream.

Lonely, frightened, and cold as she was, Gypsy's sense of the ludicrous
overcame her at that, and she broke into a little laugh. That laugh seemed
to drive away the mystery and terror of her situation, in spite of the
curious sound it had in echoing over the lonely water; and Gypsy set
herself to work with her usual good sense to see how matters stood.

"In the first place," she reasoned, talking half aloud for the sake of the
company of her own voice, "I've had a fit of what the dictionary calls
somnambulism, I suppose. I eat too much pop-corn after supper, and that's
the whole of it,--it always makes me dream,--only I never was goose enough
to get out of bed before, and I rather think it'll be some time before I
do again. I came down stairs softly, and out of the back door. Nobody
heard me, and of course nobody will hear me till morning, and I'm in a
pretty fix. If I hadn't forgotten to lock the boat I should be back in bed
by this time. Oh dear! I wish I were. However, I'm too large to tip myself
over and get drowned, and I couldn't get hurt any other way; and there's
nothing to be afraid of if I do have to stay here till morning, except
sore throat, so there's no great harm done. The worst of it is, that old
Tom! Won't he laugh at me about the boat! I never expect to hear the end
of it. Then when they go to my room and find me gone, in the morning,
they'll be frightened. I'm rather sorry for that. I wish I knew what time
it is."

Just then the distant church-clock struck two. Gypsy held her breath, and
listened to it. It had a singular, solemn sound. She had never heard the
clock strike two in the morning but once before in her life. That was once
when she was very small, when her father was dangerously sick, and the
coming of the doctor had wakened her. She had always somehow associated
the hour with mysterious flickering lights, and anxious whispers and
softened steps, and a dread as terrible as it was undefined. Now, out here
in this desolate place, where the birds were asleep in their nests, and
the winds quiet among the mountain-tops, and the very frogs tired of their
chanting,--herself the only waking thing,--these two far, deep-toned
syllables seemed like a human voice. Like the voice, Gypsy fancied, of
some one imprisoned for years in the belfry, and crying to get out.

Two o'clock. Three--four--five--six. At about six they would begin to miss
her; her mother always called her, then, to get up. Four hours.

"Hum,--well," said Gypsy, drawing her sack-collar closer, "pretty long
time to sit out in a boat and shiver. It might be worse, though." Just
then her foot struck something soft under the seat. She pulled it out, and
found it to be an old coat of Tom's, which he sometimes used for boating.
Fortunately it was not wet, for the boat was new, and did not leak. She
wrapped it closely around her shoulders, curled herself up snugly in the
stern, and presently pronounced herself "as warm as toast, and as
comfortable as an oyster."

Then she began to look about her. All around and underneath her lay the
black, still water,--so black that the maple-branches cast no shadow on
it. About and above her rose the mountains, grim and mute, and watching,
as they had watched for ages, and would watch for ages still, all the long
night through. Overhead, the stars glittered and throbbed, and shot in and
out of ragged clouds. Far up in the great forests, that climbed the
mountain-sides, the wind was muttering like an angry voice.

Somehow it made Gypsy sit very still. She thought, if she were a poet, she
would write some verses just then; indeed, if she had had a pencil, I am
not sure but she would have, as it was.

Then some other thoughts came to Gypsy. She wondered why, of all places,
she chanced to come to the Basin in her dream. She might have gone to the
saw-mill, and been caught and whirred to death in the machinery. She might
have gone to the bridge over the river, and thrown herself off, not
knowing what she did. Or, what if the pond had been a river, and she were
now floating away, helpless, out of reach of any who came to save her, to
some far-off dam where the water roared and splashed on cruel rocks. Or
she might, in her dream, have tipped over the boat where the water was
deep, and been unable to swim, encumbered by her clothing. Then she might
have been such a girl as Sarah Rowe, who would have suffered agonies of
fright at waking to find herself in such a place. But she had been led to
the quiet, familiar Basin, and no harm had come to her, and she had good
strong nerves, and lost all her fear in five minutes, so that the
mischance would end only in an exciting adventure, which would give her
something to talk about as long as she lived.

Well; she was sure she was very thankful to--whom? and Gypsy bowed her
head a little at the question, and she sat a moment very still.

Then she had other thoughts. She looked up at the shadowed mountains, and
thought how year after year, summer and winter, day and night, those
terrible masses of rock had cleaved together, and stood still, and caught
the rains and the snows and vapors, the golden crowns of sunsets and
sunrisings, the cooling winds and mellow moonlights, and done all their
work of beauty and of use, and done it aright. "Not one faileth." No
avalanche had thundered down their sides, destroying such happy homes as
hers. No volcanic fires had torn them into seething lava. No beetling
precipice, of which she ever heard, had fallen and crushed so much as the
sheep feeding in the valleys. To the power of the hills as to the power of
the seas, Someone had said, Thus far shalt thou go, and no farther.

And the Hand that could uphold a mountain in its place, was the Hand that
had guided her--one little foolish, helpless girl, out of millions and
millions of creatures for whom He was caring--in the wanderings of an
uneasy sleep that night.

There was a great awe and a great joy in this thought; but sharp upon it
came another, as a pleasure is followed by a sudden pain,--a thought that
came all unbidden, and talked with Gypsy, and would not go away. It was,
that she had gone to bed that night without a prayer. She was tired and
sleepy, and the lamp went out, and so,--and so,--well, she didn't know
exactly how it came about.

Gypsy's bowed head fell into her hands, and there, crouched in the lonely
boat, under the lonely sky, she put this thought into a few whispered
words, and I know there was One to hear it.

Other thoughts had Gypsy after this; but they were those she could not
have put into words. For three of those solemn, human syllables had
sounded from the distant clock, and far over the mountain-tops the sweet
summer dawn was coming. Gypsy had never seen the sun rise. She had seen,
to be sure, many times, the late, winter painting of crimson and gold in
the East, which unfolded itself before her window, and chased away her
dreams. But she had never watched that slow, mysterious change from
midnight to morning, which is the only spectacle that can properly be
called a sunrise.

There was something in Gypsy that made her sit like a statue there,
wrapped in Tom's old coat, her face upturned, and her very breath held in,
as the heavy shadows softened and melted, and the stars began to dim in a
pale, gray light, that fell and folded in the earth like a mist; as the
clouds, that floated faintly over the mountains, blushed pink from the
touch of an unseen sun; as the pink deepened into crimson, and the crimson
burned to fire, and the outlines of the mountains were cut in gold; as the
gold broadened and brightened, and stole over the ragged peaks, and shot
down among the forests, and filtered through the maple-leaves, and chased
the purple shadows far down among the valleys; as the birds twittered in
unseen nests, and the crickets chirped in the meadows, and the dews fell
and sparkled from nodding grasses, and "all the world grew green again."

Gypsy thought it was worth an ugly dream and a little fright, to see such
a sight. She wondered if those old pictures of the great masters far away
over the sea, of which she had heard so much, were anything like it. She
also had a faint, flitting notion that, in a world where there were
sunrises every day, it was very strange people should ever be cross, and
tear their dresses, and forget to lock boats. It seemed as if they ought
to know better.

Just then Gypsy fell asleep, with her head on the bottom of the boat; and
the next she knew it was broad day, and a dear, familiar voice, from
somewhere, was calling,--

"Gypsy!--Why, Gypsy!"

"How do you do?" said Gypsy, sleepily, sitting up straight.

