
It was foolish, doubtless, but he expected even then to 
see her disclaim these cruel assertions, look up with implor- 
ing eyes, and give some sign of love. Vain hope ! Care- 
lessly beautiful, indifferent to any past memory, she an- 
swered, with a haughty inclination of the head, " As you 
please." 

He led her to the balcony, wished her good night, and 
turned away, feeling she was already half won by Howard 
Livingston. In that first moment he thought calmly of her 
being another's. He pitied himself as if it had been a third 
person, so little did he realize the great shadow ^fallen upon 
him. 

Ada turned to Mr. Livingston with an easy grac, and 
as if some explanation was needed, said, nonchalantly, 

" For two years I have been engaged to Dr. Bertrand 
a girlish fancy that I have outlived in the last six months. 
We have just dissolved the bond." 

He bowed with a pleased look. There was nothing for 


her to regret in the exchange. Of late, she had felt tho 
position Dr. Bertrand's wife must fill was very little to her 
liking. Here was a man to whom she would be first always, 
superior to her old lover in those points she cared most for. 
She could retain her position in society; no troublesome 
domestic details would ever be forced upon her, and life 
would prove a perfect round of pleasure. Although she 
inwardly congratulated herself on her improved prospects, 
she gave a pitying thought to Richard, and said to her- 
self, " I could have made him very happy if he had not been 
so set upon those foolish whims." She was relieved to learn 
that he left early the next morning. 

Mrs. Ashley congratulated her openly. She had never 
cordially approved of Dr. Bertrand, her theory being that 
it was much more sensible to love a rich man than a poor 
one. Since affairs had proved so obstinate, she had been 
secretly favoring Mr. Livingston, quite determined to have 
him for a brother-in-law. 

Mrs. Taylor kissed her, and said, 

" I am heartily glad, my dear. You never could have 
given satisfaction in such a family. It would have been 
worse than marrying a widower." 

Two weeks later Ada Townley went home the affianced 
of Howard Livingston. 

In the mean while the party at Cape May were well eared 
for. It took but one day for Lilian and Archie to recom- 
mence the old life laid down the preceding autumn. To 
them there seemed no change, except the few strange 
boarders, and the inches Tom and Dora had grown in a 
year. Aunt Sophy took entire charge of them, and Mabel 
was left to the undisturbed care of Tessy. She felt keenly 
the alteration her father's death had made, and would con- 
tinue to make all the coming years. She had grown older 
in those brief months. Care came to her not as a burden, 
but a portion of life that it was her duty to accept willingly. 
She missed Richard sadly, and tried to resign him with the 



 

pure unselfishness of her nature, knowing the time must 
soon come when another would be first and best to him. 

Tessy's days had been rounded into perfection by a ride 
down to the steamboat landing. But on Saturday both 
horses had gone out with the large carriage, and Mr. Shel- 
don's pony, which Tom often drove, was busy also. The 
child's eyes filled with tears of disappointment. 

" Why, we don't expect any one," Mabel said, cheerily. 

" I know it, but it seems like a little piece of Dick to see 
the steamboat and all the people. Bel ! can't we walk." 

" No, darling, not that distance. Richard would scold us 
for such a crazy step." 

" What is the matter, Snowdrop ? " said stout, good- 
natured Mrs. Chesterton, coming up the steps, and patting 
Tessy's head. Mabel briefly explained the difficulty. 

" Mr. Chesterton has had Mr. Grey's old Hero and the 
little wagon. I do not believe he has taken them back, and 
you may as well use them as not," the lady said. 

Mabel thanked her, but declined. Tessy's eyes over- 
flowed. Mrs. Chesterton found her husband, and brought 
him to the balcony. 

" Why, yes, Miss Bertrand ; take them by all means. I 
told Mr. Grey I'd be home about dusk ; so he won't expect 
his horse until that time. He's so lazy you need not feel a 
bit afraid. He couldn't run if he tried." 

Aunt Sophy insisted as well. Bell and Tessy were lifted 
in, and drove off in triumph, the little one's face full of 
intense satisfaction. The eager eyes and flushed cheeks 
gave Mabel a strange presentiment of something like evil. 
She begged to go faster, that they might be in time to see 
the passengers land. 

" What is the matter, Tessy ? Don't get so excited ; no 
friend of ours is coming," Mabel said, gently. 

" But some day Richard will come." Then, after a long 
pause, in which her eyes wandered over the crowd, she gave 
a rapturous cry, and grasping her sister's hand, exclaimed, 





" He Jias come ! Look ! there he is, our own very Dick ! 
He is waving his handkerchief," and Tessy nodded in 
reply. 

" Why, I don't see him," returned Mabel, slowly. " Tessy, 
you must be dreaming." 

" He is leaning over the eflge of the rail. There, now 
he's gone." 

" I have not had a glimpse of him." 

Tessy's eyes wandered over the throng in curious expec- 
tancy, and grew perceptibly grave. Then the whole face 
was overspread with sunshine, and following her glance, 
Mabel saw Richard. 

He pushed through the mass, and came forward, his eyes 
bright with earnest affection. Tessy reached out her arms 
to him, and was kissed again and again. 

" Why did you think of coming for me?" he asked, in 
surprise. 

" O, we do every day," was Tessy's joyous answer. 

" Because you expect me ? " and he laughed. 

" Not quite. And Bel didn't want to come to-day, 
but " 

"You made her, I suppose, little tyrant. You look im- 
proved already. Are you not going to offer me a seat ? or 
do you purpose to have me walk r " 

She sprang up, and as soon as he was settled, nestled in 
his lap. Mabel bestowed wondering glances on him, and 
asked for the third or fourth time if he was well. 

" Entirely so." He put the reins in Tessy's hands, hold- 
ing his own over them, and bending down, whispered, " I 
was not wanted at Newport. I have come back to be all 
yours." 

The words gave her a pang as she took in their full 
meaning. Yet she hardly knew what an aching heart the 
tender manner to Tessy covered. 

They were all overjoyed to have him back so unexpect- 
edly. Lily and Archie had quantities of adventures to re- 





late. Indeed, Mabel scarcely had a look at him until they 
were all sent off to bed, after he had, as a special favor, 
sung Tessy to sleep. Then he bade Mabel find a shawl, 
and come to walk on the beach with him. 

The tide was going out, leaving the shining sand smooth 
as a floor. The dim and lonely reaches of the broad ocean 
flowed onward with a sad, mighty pulsation, the slow, regu- 
lar swells breaking into a rhythmic melody a grand chant 
of ceaseless sorrow. Along the western sky sailed fleecy 
islands in a sea of wondrous azure. Above them were hosts 
of golden stars, the crown of the summer night. It was 
just the hour for a fond confidence, and Richard opened his 
heart to the fair girl blossoming into pure and lovely 
womanhood. Her tender sympathy soothed him immeasu- 
rably. He said calmly, but not in despair, that his dream 
of love was over. Henceforth he was to fill the position of 
elder brother in its truest, widest sense. There was nothing 
to come between him and his duty now ; no temptation to 
lure him from that precious household. 

It was well, perhaps, that Mabel did not see all. Alone 
in his room, with the sorrowful midnight stars for watchers, 
he laid aside the mask from his heart, and glanced at it, as 
he only might do for many a weary day to come. He did 
not so much regret Ada ; he seemed to understand now the 
wants and trivialities of her nature, the petty trials to which 
she would have continually subjected him. He was content 
to have her choose another. But the keen sense of desola- 
tion after he had shrouded the corse of a sweet first love, 
and silently borne it to a place of sepulture, was what re- 
mained with him, and left a nameless pain. As in death no 
faults are remembered, so he recalled the earlier days of 
their acquaintance, when love was haloed with the rose-hue 
of newness. Could any after passion be so sweet? He 
said then for him there could be no second spring. The 
grave in his heart could never outgrow its greenness. He 
felt how truly, how tenderly, he had loved. 





And so came one of life's sorest lessons to Richard Ber- 
trand. Was it to teach him patience, forbearance ? He 
took it in that wise, quite humbly, as a little child. He re- 
membered who had said, " All things shall work together 
for good." Others had walked in shaded pathways, and 
found rest at last. And for him, hereafter, love and duty 
would be as one word. 







CHAPTER X. 

So many feet that day by day 
Still wander from the fold astray. 

GOLDEN LEGEND. 

As it was impossible for Richard to remain at Cape May, 
he compromised with the children by promising to come 
once a week during their stay. Tessy improved as if by 
magic. When September arrived, aunt Sophy begged for 
another month, but Mabel longed to be again at home. Mrs. 
Hall and Ann were delighted with their return. Robert 
came back in a high state of satisfaction, and had plenty 
of adventures to relate to the younger ones. Yet there was 
something in his light-heartedness that rather pained than 
pleased. Excitement and enjoyment appeared to be his 
continual study. He possessed the brilliant and dangerous 
qualities that make 'men favorites of society and slaves to 
temptation. Easy and generous they are called, yet many 
a weary burden do they lay upon others. 

Richard could only pray for him when they separated. 
And in his frequent letters he strove to keep up an interest 
in home affairs for the absent one. Mabel, who had given 
up school, devoted herself assiduously to the household, and 
endeavored to make all around her happy. Love reigned 
perfect among them. 

It was a quiet, uneventful winter. Christmas brought 
aunt Sophy and the cousins. Yet the day was not gone 
through without tears. There was a missing voice, a place 
unfilled memories infinitely tender and infinitely sad. 

Ada Townley's marriage occurred at this period. It as- 





sistcd Richard to recover his mental tone somewhat. He 
no longer asked himself, in weak moments, if he had not 
been hasty or unjust. No good, faithful, affectionate man 
can easily tear up the tendrils that have twined around his 
very life. He will not in a moment forget the hope that was 
to have made glad all his future years. He may say, "I 
will dream no more," but in lonely hours 

" The spirit that no exorcism can bind " 

will rise from the deepest grave. But Richard's sorrow 
strengthened and ennobled him. He did not look on the 
passion dreams of his young summer with hard, scornful re- 
gret. Duty and sacrifice were no self-scourging bonds whose 
chain clanked with every movement. He had been " wounded 
in the house of a friend," but he did not forget there were 
others to heal. Glancing down the days yet to come, he saw 
himself the ready helper, the comforter in trouble, and the 
sharer of others' joys. He would bless their marriage vows 
when the birdlings left the old home nest. And if, at tne 
last, he was left alone by the fireside, he would be content 
with whatever God should send him. 

They went on evenly again until one March night. In the 
very room where their father had gayly frolicked with them 
that last dear evening, and kissed them with tenderest affec- 
tion, they sat recounting incidents of his love, words they 
treasured up like fine gold, caresses 

" Dear as remembered kisses after death." 

There was no storm now. For several days it had been 
lovely and spring-like, an earnest of the country beyond, 
where he had gone to be " forever with the Lord." And 
time, which sanctifies all griefs, would soften this. By and by 
they would come back to this night as a precious remem- 
brance. 

The golden sun of May streamed into the breakfast-room, 
where they were all congregated one pleasant morning. 



 

The nicial was about over. Richard sat studying his mem- 
orandum-book, and as Ann brought in the paper, Mabel took 
it until he should be ready. 

" O, Richard ! " she exclaimed, with a sudden cry of 
pain, while her bright face faded into ashy paleness. 

" What is it, Bel ? " and Richard started up in alarm. 

"It's so terrible! But it can't be true. There must be 
some mistake ; " and her trembling finger pointed out the 
paragraph. 

Richard's brow contracted with more than sorrow, with 
shame, and a flush of indignation, as he read an account of 
a disgraceful riot in New Haven, in which several students 
had been concerned. Foremost among them, indeed, the 
most daring and lawless, was Robert Bertrand. He had 
even discharged a pistol, and slightly wounded the policeman 
who arrested him. No wonder Richard shivered. The hand 
of Providence alone had kept his brother from being a mur- 
derer. And Robert in a prison cell, a criminal ! 

" It surely cannot be so bad," he said, at length, loth to 
believe such an account, and longing to comfort Mabel. " I 
must go to New Haven immediately." 

" Is Robert ill ? " asked Lily, looking up from the remnant 
of her toast, in wide-eyed wonder. 

" No, but in serious trouble. Perhaps it will be best not 
to discuss it until we know all the circumstances. So you 
must be good children, and not fret Mabel with idle ques- 
tions while I am gone." 

Mabel rose and tried to regain her composure. Mrs. Hall's 
entrance checked Archie's exclamations. Lily took up her 
neglected French, and went out on the balcony to study. 

" When will you go ? " Mabel inquired, following Richard 
to the office. 

" Just as soon as I can. There is a train at noon, I think." 

" I wonder what will be done." 

" Robert will be expelled, if nothing worse. I must bring 
him home." There was a little tremble in Richard's voice. 






" And we thought he was doing so nicely. O, how could 
he!" 

" I ought to have looked after him more closely. There 
are so many temptations for such a nature as his." 

Mabel went to prepare the children for school. In answer 
to their questions, she bade them be patient, and kissed the 
shadowed faces with strange tenderness. Then she sought 
refuge in her daily duties. Richard made a few necessary 
calls, and ran in to say good by. At sight of his troubled 
face, her firmness gave way. 

" Don't cry, dearest," he said, gently. 

She wanted to ask him to be tender with Robert ; but it 
seemed so like a reflection on the kind heart that was always 
merciful, that she could not utter it. When he was gone, 
she almost persuaded herself it was a troubled dream. 

It was sharp enough reality to Richard the more bitter 
because he had hoped much for his brother of late. Robert 
had spent the Christmas holidays with some friends, but his 
letters had been regular, his demands for money moderate, 
and his progress, as he had recorded it, very commendable. 
But Richard knew the fatal tendency of Robert's mind to 
evade any disagreeable truth ; and a chill foreboding filled 
his heart. Alas ! his worst fears were more than realized. 

Robert was still in confinement, sullen and uncommunica- 
tive. Shame added to his reticence. His face was haggard, 
and retained traces of his late debauch. It was plainly evi- 
dent that intoxication had been one cause. As nothing could 
be elicited in his present state, Richard determined to go to 
the college authorities. 

The president received him with unaffected sympathy and 
respect. His own career in that institution had been highly 
satisfactory, and gained him many warm friends. Condemn- 
ing his brother was a blow they all felt most sorry to inflict. 
It was a sad story. The party had been drinking and gam- 
bling until a late hour, when, sallying forth with boisterous 
merriment, they committed several acts of wanton mischief, 



 

ending l>y assaulting one of the officers who attempted to 
arrest them. 

" I confess," said the kind-hearted president, " Robert's 
course has never been praiseworthy. His abilities are of the 
highest order. If he chose he could distance any one in his 
class. But from the first he has allied himself with the in- 
dolent and insubordinate. I'm not sure but suspending him 
last spring would have been a good lesson. But he was so 
very penitent, that, under the circumstances, we concluded 
to forgive him." 

"Last spring?" gasped Richard. " Then this is not his 
first offence ? " 

" Nor the second," was the rejoinder. " He had been rep- 
rimanded before last March, when he committed an act of 
such flagrant disobedience, it was judged best to suspend 
him for a while. I was writing to your father when the an- 
nouncement of his death reached us. After a long conver- 
sation with Robert, we concluded to try him again. I thought 
him a good deal improved after his return, and hoped his 
grief would prove a permanent benefit. Your father possessed 
my entire esteem and confidence, and for the sake of his 
family I trusted Robert had decided on a better course. 
Up to Christmas of the present year his conduct appeared 
very satisfactory, but I am afraid it was a superficial refor- 
mation. Many depredations have been committed to which 
it seemed impossible to find a clew ; but it appears now that 
Robert headed this party. I spare you details ; it is sufficient 
to know in what it has culminated. Believe, my dear young 
friend, that you have my warmest sympathy." 

Richard felt sick at heart. The long-continued deceit that 
had unblushingly braved a dead father, and while running 
at riot had preserved a semblance of honor, filled him with 
dismay. How could one so young in years, and with Robert's 
home associations, become so perfect an adept in duplicity ? 

" It will be better for him to leave the city," suggested 
the president, kindly. " His associates are bad, his habits 



 

expensive and irregular. He needs an entire change of life 
and pursuits. If you could lead him to turn his attention to 
some active mercantile business, he might do better." 

Richard went away sorrowfully, stunned by the sad story. 
Could lie have been more watchful ? The attempts to gain 
his brother's confidence had been met with specious false- 
hoods ; even the dear father's trust wickedly betrayed. How 
dark the future looked ! He hardly dared hope, but he prayed 
fervently for strength to perform his whole duty. 

The next morning he visited Robert again. Kindly, but 
firmly, he demanded the whole truth, and a list of Robert's 
debts, stating his intention of paying them immediately, so 
that his departure might be honorable in this respect. No 
reproaches passed his lips, less for fear of exasperating 
Robert than from pity for his own sore heart. 

Robert paced the small room in silent attention, his mind 
divided between a desire to openly defy Richard, and shake 
off all authority, and the benefit of a partial concession. 
Penitent he certainly was not, and was more angry at having 
his misdeeds brought to light, than ashamed of committing 
them. Of the trouble and disgrace he had brought upon 
the family he scarcely thought. 

" To remain here is simply impossible," Richard said, 
when he found his brother in no haste to reply, " Give me 
your assistance therefore, and let us finish as speedily as 
we can." 

" It's my own money," was the ungracious answer. " If 
