about that. It wasn't because we were in want of a boy. 
We might haVfe picked up plenty that would have been 
glad to come." 
" I'm afraid you'll get into trouble with him for taking 
my part," said Charlie, with some anxiety. 
"Don't trouble yourself about me," said Sturdy, 
shrugging his shoulders. "I ain't in any way fright- 
 
ened by his black looks, and if he tries to do you any 
mischief, he'll find you'ye got one friend." 
Before Charlie had an opportunity to reply, Captain 
Brace came on deck, and looked aroimd him with a 
glance that showed a stoim was brewing. 
'  Pipe all hands to see punisbment inflicted' ordered 
Captain Brace. 
Charlie and Bill Sturdy looked at each other, uncertain where the blow was to fall. 
" It must be Antonio," thought our hero. 
Evidently Antonio was of the same opinion, for .over 
his swarthy face there stole a pallor which showed his 
apprehension. 
Such was the understanding of the crew also, as they 
could think of no other wrong-doer. Little pity was 
excited in behalf of the supposed sufferer. He had so 
abused his position when champion of the crew, that be 
had forfeited the good-will of all ; and even if this had 
not been the case, his treacherous and mean attempt to 
bring Charlie fnto trouble would have been sufficient to 
bring him into disfavor. 
The uncertainty as to the victim was dissipated by the 
captain's next words. « 
   Jack Randall, come here I " 
Charlie came forward. 
"Boy," said Captain Brace, sternly, " you wercf guilty 
of insolence to me this morning. This shall never go 
 
unpunished while I am in command of a vessel. As to 
the ring, you may or may not have stolen it. It rests 
between you and Antonio. As it cannot be proved of 
either, neither will be punished on this account." 
Antonio's sallow face lighted up with joy at this unex- 
pected escape, a joy which was not reflected on the faces 
of the crew. 
" It is for insolence, therefore, and not on account of 
theft," pursued the captain, " that I sentence you. Jack 
Randall, to a dozen lashes on the bare back. Off with 
your jacket ! " 
Charlie was a brave boy, but the prospect of this igr 
nominious punishment caused his cheek to pale and his 
voice to tremble, as he exclaimed, " Captain Brace, if I 
have been guilty of insolence or want of proper respect 
to you, it was not intentional. Do not compel me to 
submit to this disgraceful punishment." 
There was a movement of sympathy among the crew, 
and more than one heart softened at the sight of Char- 
lie's manly front, though his lips quivered, and pride 
alone kept back the tears from his eyes. Bill Sturdy 
started, but checked himself, to hear what the captain 
would say in response. 
" It is too late," he said, coldly. " You should have 
thought of all that before you indulged in insolence." 
"But " 
"It is too late, I say," roared the captain, irritated. 
a" Strip, you young rascal, or you shall have some help 
about it, and that of a rough Mud." 
It seemed as if all chance of escape was over for poor 
Charlie. But at that moment Bill Sturdy pressed for- 
ward, and, hitching up his trousers, as he was wont to 
 
do preparatory to speaking, said, in 'a distinct tone of 
voice, " Captain Brace." 
"Well?" said the captain. "What have you to 
Bay?" 
" I should like to make a proposal to you, sir." 
' A proposal," repeated the captain, mystified. "What 
am I to understand by that? " 
" It's just this, Captain Brace. You're the captain of 
this vessel, and you've got a right to flog that boy, I 
suppose, according to the law." 
" Of course I have," said the captain, fiercely. " Do 
you presume to question that right ? "  
" I don't think proper to question it just now," said 
Bill ; " but. Captain Brace, just look at that boy. Look 
at his bright, honest face, and you can't have the heart 
to abuse him." 
"Abuse him!" exclaimed the captain, stamping on 
the. deck in his fury ; " say that again, and I'll have you 
flogged with him." 
"It was something  f that Mnd at I was going to 
propose," said Bill Sturdy. 
  Captain Brace stared at him in astonishment, a feeling 
which was shared by the crew. 
" If you want to be flogged," said the captain, grimly, 
" we will try to accommodate you." 
"It is in this way that I mean," exclaimed Bill. 
" Fve taken a liking to that lad, and I've promised him 
ril stand his friend. Now, Captain Brace, if sonrebody' 
must be flogged, spare him, and flog me in his place." 
Surprise was depicted on every face, and the sunburnt 
and rough-visaged men about him felt an involuntary 
thrill of respect and admiration, as Sturdy manfhlly 
came forwai'd and offered his own back to the punishment, which is properly regarded as an insult to manhood, though the disgrace attaches not to the one who 
endures, but to the one who inflicts it. 
Charlie was the first to speak. His generous heart 
revolted at the idea of escaping, punishment at ihe 
expense of his friend. ' 
" No, Bill Sturdy," said he, manfully, " I don'twant 
you to suffer in my place. It'll be hard to bear it," and 
his lip quivered ; " but it would be weak and cowardly 
for me to let anybody else suffer in my place." 
Charlie began to take off his jacket. 
There was a murmuring among this crew, testifying to 
the excitement which they felt. 
" Put on your jacket, my lad," said Bill. " Fm older 
and tougher than you, and I can bear it better." 
  And the stout seaman pulled off his  hirt, and displayed his brawny shoulders, and a chest whose breadth 
and depth betokend a strength which could not be styled 
less than Herculean. 
Antonio looked on, his eye blazing with vindictive 
joy. Whichever was flogged, his satisfaction would be 
equal. 
''Hark you!" exclaimed Captain Brace, interfering 
at this juncture. " I think that I shall choose to have a 
voice in this matter. So you wish," turning to Sturdy, 
" to' relieve this boy of his punishment, do you? " 
" I do," said the old seaman. 
" I don't want him to," interrupted Charlie. " It is 
mine, and I will bear, it." 
 
 
 ' It seems the parties are not agreed' said the captain, sardonically. 
'' Spare him," said Bill Sturdy, his eyes resting affectionately on Charlie. " He is so young." 
" Perhaps the best way in which I can please you 
both is to divide ihe punishment between you. I had 
sentenced this lad to receive twelve lashes. Since you 
wish to do him a service, you shall receive six, and he 
the other six." 
" I do not consent," said Sturdy, comprehending the 
captain's purpose to humiliate both.  ' If his back is to 
receive a single lash, my offer will not save him from the 
disgrace, and that is worse than the p£un." 
At this juncture the mate whispered something in the 
captain's ear. 
The face of the latter lighted up with satisfaction, and 
his next words revealed.the nature of the mate's sugges- 
tion. 
 'I consent to the substitution," he said, and then 
paused. 
Bill Sturdy's face glowed with generous satisfaction, 
and with heroic forgetfulness of self, he began to strip 
for punishment. 
A moment, and his back, broad and ample, was bared, 
and ihe thick, corded muscles could be seen. 
" Antonio, come forward," said Captain Brace. 
Antonio advanced amid the general surprise of the 
crew, and somewhat to his own, and stood still, await- 
ing orders. 
' Now," said Captain Brace, his tone showing his 
malignant satisfaction, " I appoint you as my deputy to 
admimster twelve lashes to this man; mind that you 
don't spare hiuL" 
Antonio did not need this injunction. His eyes were 
fhll of fiendish triumph, as he seized the instrument of 
torture, and flourished it above his head. 
As for Bill Sturdy, when he knew that Antonio was 
to be employed to inflict punishment upon him, this refinement of torture shook his resolution for a moment. 
It was, indeed, the bitterest drop in the cup. But not 
for an instant did his resolution falter. He would save 
Charlie at all hazards. He quickly recovered himself, 
and said, in a firm voice, " I am ready." 
Instantly the lash was whirled aloft, and buried itself 
in his fiesh. 
There was a quiver, and that was all. 
One — two — three — four — 
In fast succession the blows fall upon his flesh, he 
meanwhile standing firmly braced, though his cheek was 
paler than its wont. 
Charlie's heart sickened, and he closed his eyes to 
shut out the fearfhl spectacle. 
As for Antonio, he seemed to revel in the task which 
had been assigned him. His eyes fairly danced with 
baleful light, and he seemed almost beside himself. ' It 
was this, perhaps, that led him to exceed by one the 
strokes which he had been ordered to administer. 
' A moment after, and the lash was wrested from him 
by Bill Sturdy, who threw him to the deck, with one 
powerful grasp tore the covering from his back, and 
buried the lash which had seared his own back in the 
flesh of his late executioner who with face distorted 
with fright and pain roared for mercy. 
 
 
" That is to pay for the blow you strnck on your own 
account, you scoundrel," exclaimed Sturdy. "And 
now," as the lash descended once more with prodigious 
force, and the victim fairly writhed under it, " you are 
one in my debt." 
 
So strongly were the sympathies of the crew with 
Sturdy, more especially since he had shown himself 
capable of such disinterested and heroic self-sacrifice, 
and so decidedly were their feelings enlisted against 
Antonio, who acted like a fiend rather than a man in 
the execution of the welcome duty assigned him by the 
captain, that this sudden turning of the tables, the summary revenge taken by Bill Sturdy in return for the 
additional blow Antonio had inflicted, was greeted with 
a' triumphant shout from the sailors, which seemed to 
spring from them spontaneously. 
Captain Brace bit his lip, and Randall's face darkened 
with rage. They felt that the humiliation which they 
had intended for Bill Sturdy had recoiled upon the head 
of their own agent. 
The worst of it was they could not prudently resent 
it. Antonio had in the eyes of all been guilty of a 
glaring offence in exceeding his orders, and had justly 
brought upon himself the punishment he had received. 
However, the justice or injustice of the matter would 
have weighed little with Captain Brace if he had not 
been assured that it would not be' safe for him to go 
 
fhrther. The law, at the time of which I am speaking, 
' gave almost unlimited power to the commander of a  
vessel over the lives and liberties of those who were 
placed under him, yet most were aware that there was a 
point at which it was wise to pause. At the commence- 
ment of the scene, there had been audible murmurs 
among the crew, the significance of which the captain 
and mate would understand. The habit of subordi- 
nation, and the knowledge that this was in a certain 
sense a voluntary act on the part of Bill Sturdy, had 
prevented anjrthing more, but if the captain had gone to 
greater extremities, the consequences might have been 
serious. 
Meanwhile Antonio picked himself up, smarting 
under the terrible wounds which had been inflicted by 
the lash wielded with the whole of Bill Sturdy's enormous strength. Indeed, although he had received but 
two stripes, and his enemy thirteen, it may be doubted 
whether the pain inflicted by those two  re not equal 
to that of the greater number. 
Antonio had slunk down into the forecastle to bathe 
his back and obtain fresh clothes, for his shirt had been 
rent asunder. Bill Sturdy, on the other hand, proceeded to attire himself on deck and went about his 
work, without showing outwardly the pain which he 
must have been sufiering. 
Captain Brace took no public notice of the retribution 
which had followed the punishment. He didn't dare to 
act as he wished, and therefore chose to pass it un- 
noticed. But an hour aiterwards, as he sat in confer- 
ence with- the mate, his fury burst the bounds he had 
imposed upon it. 
" Curse that fellowl " he exclaimed. " Is he forever 
» destined to thwart my designs? I felt that I could' 
willingly have flogged him myself till the last breath 
left his body." 
"It is a pity Antonio ventured to exceed his orders." 
" Yes, the fool was richly repaid for his act, but I 
could wish it ha[d been by a difTerent hand. 
" That extra blow gave Sturdy a pretext for his sum- 
mary vengeance. But for that his conduct could have 
been construed into mutiny and disrespect to you." 
" And then I might have, put him in irons." . 
" You might do it now, but for " 
" But for the crew, you would say. That alone prevents me. The fellow, unluckily, has secured their sympathy. Would that I could devise some way for taking 
vengeance safely upon this rebellious scoundrel." 
The mate leaned his head upon his hand, and gave 
himself up to reflection. , Something occurred to him, 
for lifting his head again, he asked, — 
"Have you ever been in Rio Janeiro, Captain 
Brace?" 
" Never but once, and that some nine or ten years 
since." 
" There are desperadoes in that city, as in others," 
pursued Randall, fixing his eyes intently upon the 
captain. 
" I do not quite catch your meaning, Mr. Randall." 
" Men who are little troubled by conscientious scru- 
ples, but are willing to undertake the most dangerous 
and illegal enterprises — for maZZ corwictera tow." 
" I begin to understand you now," said the captain. 
"Shall I proceed?" 
 
"Do SO." 
 The mate rightly construed this into an intimation  
that his proposition, though hinting at crime, would not 
prove distasteful to the captain. This, knowing the 
character of his superior officer, did not surprise him, 
and he proceeded. 
" I think you apprehend my meaning. Captain Brace. 
This man is a thorn in our sides. He is exerting a bad 
ii\fiuence on board the ship. He is undermining your 
influence with the crew." 
" That is all true, Mr. Randall. What, then, is your 
advice in this state of affairs ? " 
" My advice is, that this fellow shovM be removed.'' 
" To a place better fitted for him," suggested the 
captain, with a grim smile. 
"Precisely bo." 
" And through the agency of such men as you have 
spoken of?" 
" That is my proposition." 
" It deserves thinking of. May I ask if you have 
any acquaintance among the fraternity, or whether you 
have ever had any occasion to employ their services? " 
" I did on onef occasion." 
"Do you mind giving the particulars?" 
" To you, no. Some years since I shipped as com- 
mon sailor on board the Porcupine, bound from New 
York to Rio. On the voyage one of the sailors on 
several occasions insulted me, and I determined upon 
revenge. At Rio I fell in with a desperate character, 
who for a comparatively small sum engaged to do my 
bidding." 
"Well?" 
 
" There is not much to tell. One night this man was 
passing through a narrow street, quite unsuspicious of . 
danger, when he was suddenly struQk from behind by a 
bludgeon, and — he never came back to the shipJ" 
" Did no suspicion attach to you? " 
" How should there? Who was to betray me? Not 
my agent, or in so doing he would betray himself. 
This is the first time I have ever spoken of it, but I am 
safe with you." 
" Perfectly. You say the consideration was small." 
" Fifty dollars only. I dare say the fellow con- 
sidered himself well paid. Besides he took whatever 
his victim had about him." 
" Thank you for the suggestion, Mr. Randall. I will 
fhmish the money, if you will undertake the manage- 
ment of   the business when we reach Rio." 
" With pleasure," replied the mate, and he probably 
spoke the truth. 
'' While this conversation wais going on Charlie in 
another part of the vessel was commiserating Bill 
Sturdy on his injuries. 
" And it was on my account, too," said the boy, re- 
gretfully. 
'' Better me than you, my lad," said the old sailor, . 
stoutly, 'f Don't trouble yourself about that. It was 
my own free will, and if I had been unwilling all the 
power of the captain couldn't have made me submit to 
it. Besides there was one thing that repaid me for it 
all. Antonio got something he'll remember to the 
latest day of his life, I reckon. However that ain't 
what I want to say now. It's just this. I haven't any 
particular inducements to stay aboard this vessel, and 
 
I've about made up my mind to give them the slip at 
the first port we come to, if you'll go With me' 
" Where do we touch first? " 
" At Rio, I surmise." 
" I'm ready to go with you, Bill, whenever you say 
the word," said Charlie, promptly, 
"That's right, my lad." 
And so the agreement was made. 
It is my intention to pass rapidly over the time which 
intervened between the events which have been described, and the arrival of the Bouncing Betsy at Rio Janeko. Nothing happened of sufficient interest to call 
for record. 
As for our hero and Bill Sturdy, their position was, 
unquestionably, more agreeable and less disturbed by 
incidents than before. This was not owing to any 
change in the feelings of the captain and mate, but 
in consequence of the iniquitous compact into which they 
had entered. They felt secure of ultimate vengeance ; 
they could, therefore, afford to wait. Indeed, they felt 
that they should be more likely to secure the end they 
had in view if, for the present, they should so act as to 
lull asleep any suspicions which might be entertained of 
their agency in the affair after it was over. 
But Bill Sturdy was not deceived. He determined to 
keep his '  weather-eye open," as he expressed it, and be 
on the lookout for squalls. 
So the time passed. 
It was a bright, tropical day. The thick garments 
which all had worn on leaving port were laid aside, and 
every one was dressed in iight and thin attire. 
" We shall probably reach Rio to-morrow, Mr. Ban- 
dall," observed the captain. 
"Tes; if the present wind hol , there can be no 
doubt of it." 
" And the little plan which we hfl,ve been contemplat- 
ing need no longer be delayed." 
Randall smiled acquiescence. . 
The wind held favorable, and the next evening
them in port. 
The captain and mate went on shore, leaving the ves- 
sel in charge of the second mate. 
We have nothing to do with the motions of the. cap- 
tain, but will follow Randall, who, never backward in 
ill-doing, at once set about the execution of his scheme. 
 Having been in the city before, he was well acquaint- 
ed with localities, and therefore was able to direct his 
steps at once to that quarter where he felt he was most 
likely to meet the man he was in quest of. 
He entered a low drinking-saloon, and ordered a glass 
of liquor, partly to gratify his taste, partly that while 
drinking he might have leisure to look about him. 
' It was a low, square room, dark and unsightly, fre- 
quented evidently by the lowest ranks only. At this 
time there was but one man present besides Randall. 
This man was tall, low-browed, with shaggy, black 
eyebrows, and a face on which villainy was stamped in 
Nature's plainest and most ineffacable characters. 
" There's a man," thought the mate, " that will serve 
my turn, and, to judge from his looks, will be doubled 
by no unnecessary scruples on the subject." 
 
 
Meanwhile, the other, lifting his eyes from the glass, 
had observed his close scrutiny, and chose to take offence at it. He rose from his seat, and, advancing 
towards Randall, observed, in a menacing tone, " It 
appears to me, senor, that you are impertinent." 
Randall understood thd language in Which this was 
spoken, and coolly inquired, " How so?" 
" You have been staring at me as if you had some 
particular object in it." 
" So I have," returned the mate, in the same tone as 
before. 
" Explain yourself, sefior, and if, as I mistrust, you 
mean to' insult me, I will make you better acquainted 
with my good knife," and he tapped the knife signifi- 
cantly. 
"It is an acquaintance t\rhich I do not court," said 
Randall, shrugging his shoulders. '' But it appears to 
me that it is not well talking without "something to 
moisten the throat. I shall be happy to have you drink 
with me." 
" I beg your pardon, senor, for my suspicions,' which, 
I see, were wrong. I see that you are a gentleman. 
Henceforth I will treat you as such." 
" I thought you would learn to know me better," said 
Randall, filling both glusses ; "let me drink to our 
better acquaintance." . 
Both sat down very amicably. The glass had made 
them friends. . 
" I should like to ask your advice on a certain point," 
eaid Randall. 
" I will give it with pleasure." 
 
 
"I have an enemy — a deadly foe — whom I detest. 
What would you do if you were in my place?'' 
" You say he is your deadly foe ? " 
"Yes." 
" I would give him a passport to another world. That 
is my advice." 
" And you would feel no compunctions?" 
" No more than if I were crushing a spider." 
" I will own, then," said Randall, " that I have 
thought of this, but it is difficult for me to act in the 
matter." 
'' Then hire .another to do it." 
" Ah, if I could only find some brave man who would 
undertake the job." 
"Well?" 
" I would engage him to do it for me, if .. " 
"Well?" 
" If we could agree upon the terms." 
" You need seek no further for your man, then," said 
the stranger, gulping down another glass. 
"How is that?" asked Kandall, pretending not to 
understand him fully. 
" Because, you see before you one who is willing to 
nndertalie it." 
"You?" 
"And why not?" 
" Certainly, there is no good reason." 
" Now tell me about it." 
" First, let us settle about the price to be. paid." 
" As you please." 
After some little discussion this was finally fixed at 
sixty dollars. For this paltry sum, added to the booty 
 
 
"Which he might find upon the person of hid victim, this 
miserable man was willing to commit one of the worst 
of crimes. 
" Now," continued the mate, " I must give you some 
directions which will enable you to identify the person.'' 
"Is he a  sailor?" 
"He is."'' 
" On board what ship ? " 
" The Bouncing Betsy." 
" Lying where ? " 
Handall indicated the wharf at which the vessel was 
moored. 
" Now describe the man." 
" He is rather below the common height, broad-shoul- 
dered, extraordinarily strong ; in fact, such a Hercules 
that it will be well for you to take him by surprise." 
" This will make me equal with him," said the Brazil- 
ian, displaying his knife. 
" That and the darkness." 
" When shall I be likely to meet him ? " 
" He will receive permission to come on shore to- 
morrow night," said Randall. " You must be hovering 
about the vessel, and watch the sailors as they come 
from the ship. When you see him, you will follow 
him." 
" Trust me for that." 
" And when all is over, find you furnish me evidence 
