iff. " The boat has been attached for his father's 
debts." 
" For his father's debts ! " exclaimed the rich 
gentleman. 
The officer gave him a full explanation of the case. 
" This will never do," added Mr. Sherwood, indig- 
nantly. " This boat is Lawry's property in his own 
right." 
" I think not," added Taylor, who enjoyed the 
confusion of Lawry's powerful friend. " Here's my 
lawyer ; he can explain the matter to you." 
" No explanation is needed," replied Mr. Sherwood. 
" The boy is a minor," said the legal gentleman, 
who had been invited to join his client in the excur- 
sion in the Woodville, and was therefore one of the 
disappointed party. 
" He may need a guardian, nothing more, to enable 
him to hold the property." 
"Perhaps you are more familiar with the law than 
I am, Mr. Sherwood," said the legal gentleman, 
pompously. " You gave this boat to the boy." 
" I did." 
" While she lay at the bottom of the lake she was 
worth nothing. She was an abandoned wreck. If 
you had any property at all in her, it was subject to 
the salvage. Lawry Wilford raised her. I suppose 
you are willing to believe that the boy's father is 
entitled to his earnings ? " 
 
" I grant that." 
" Well, sir, whatever the boy earned in the way of 
salvage belongs to his father ; and we sue to recover 
that." 
" This is a ridiculous suit ! " exclaimed Mr. Sher- 
wood. 
" Perhaps it is, sir, but we shall hold the boat, 
subject to the decision of the coxirt." 
Mr. Sherwood was vexed and perplexed ; for, 
whether the claim could be substantiated or not, 
the Woodville could be held until a decision was 
reached. Lawry then took him aside, and told him 
what his brother had done, in order to make himself 
captain of the steamer. 
" Is that it, Lawry ? I'm more sorry for your 
brother's sake than I am for yours. I pity him, 
because he has been capable of doing so mean a 
thing. Don't distress yourself, my boy. We will 
make this all right in the course of ten minutes." 
" But they have taken the steamer away from me, 
and given her up to Ben, who is to take charge 
of her." 
" Never mind, Lawry. They shall give her back 
 
to yt)u," replied the rich man, as he walked up to 
the lawyer, " How much is your claim against 
Mr. Wilford?" 
" One thousand and sixty-four dollars," answered 
the legal gentleman. 
" Will you take my draft or check for the amount?" 
" No, sir." 
" I see you are not disposed to be accommodating." 
" We intend to have the first sail in this steamer," 
sneered Taylor. 
" I intend you shall not," said Mr. Sherwood. 
Unfortunately he had not money enough with him 
to discharge the claim against the ferryman, which, as 
it was a just debt, whatever might be said of the 
means taken to recover it, he had decided to pay, 
rather than give bonds for the steamer, and contest 
the attachment. He had invited several gentlemen to 
accompany him up the lake in the Woodville, who 
were now on the wharf, and from them he borrowed 
enough to make up the sum required. The money 
was given to Mrs. Wilford, with instructions to go to 
a certain lawyer in the village, and employ him to see 
that the mortgage on the house and land was properly 
cancelled. 
" When we get our money, the attachment on the 
boat can be dissolved, not before," said the lawyer. 
"Mr. Sheriff, the debt is not paid yet." 
" I will put the money in your hands, if you 
desire," added Mr. Sherwood to the sheriff. 
" I am satisfied. You may go where you please 
with the boat, and as soon as you please," replied the 
official, who was not disposed to cause any needless 
trouble. 
" She will not go till this claim is settled, Mr. 
Sheriff," remonstrated the legal gentleman. 
" She may go now," responded the officer. " Ben 
Wilford, your services will not be needed. Now, 
gentlemen, we will go up to the village and settle the 
bills." 
The lawyer protested that the attachment could 
not be removed till the debt had been paid ; but 
the sheriff was willing to take the responsibility of 
releasing the boat. 
" All aboard, Lawry ! " shouted Mr. Sherwood. 
" I didn't expect you to do this, sir," said the 
young pilot ; " but I will pay you every dollar, if the 
steamer ever earns so much." 
 
" We will talk about that some other time, my 
boy. We are all ready to be off now." 
Lawry, with a light heart, sprung to his place in 
the wheel-house ; Ethan was already at his post in 
the engine-room, and the ladies and gentlemen of 
the party hastened on board. 
" Put that basket ashore," said Lawry to the 
deck hands, as he pointed to the " stores " of the 
party who had expected to revel that day on the 
decks of the Woodville, 
The basket was tumbled on the wharf, to the im- 
minent peril of the glass ware it contained. Ben 
Wilford stood on the pier, leaning against one of the 
posts to which the steamer was fastened. He looked 
sour and disappointed. 
" Cast off the bow line," said Lawry, when all 
was ready. 
At this moment Ben jumped on board. 
" Stop her ! " said Mr, Sherwood, sharply, as 
Lawry rang the bell to back her. 
" What's the matter, sir ? " asked the pilot. 
" Young man," said Mr. Sherwood, stepping up 
 
to Ben Wilford, " you will oblige me by going on 
shore." 
"What for?" demanded Ben, crustily. 
" We do not need your company." 
" But I want to go." 
" I do not wish you to go." 
" I think it is rather steep for you to tell me I 
can't go in my brother's boat." 
" Steep as it may seem, you can't go," added 
Mr. Sherwood, firmly. 
" Can't I go, Lawry ? " continued Ben, appealing 
to his brother. 
" It is not for him to say. I have engaged this 
boat for my party to-day ; and, beyond his crew, it 
is not for him to say who shall go." 
" I'm going, anyhow," replied Ben, stubbornly 
as he planted himself against a stanchion. 
" No, you are not." 
" Yes, I am ; if you want to fight, I'm all ready." 
" Young man, you wanted to be captain of this 
boat ; you have made a mistake." 
" No, I haven't. You and Lawry can't make a 
nobody out of me." 
 
" You will do it yourself." * 
"You see." 
" Will you go on shore ? " 
" No, I won't." 
The sheriff stood on the wharf with Mrs. Wilford, 
waiting to see the departure of the Woodville. Ben's 
mother begged him to come on shore ; but he was 
in that frame of mind which seemed to make oppo- 
sition a necessity to him. 
"Do you want any assistance, Mr. Sherwood?" 
asked the sheriff, as he stepped on deck, and looked 
sharply into Ben's eye. 
The reckless young man would have been very 
glad to have Mr, Sherwood put his hand upon him, 
for it would have afforded him an opportunity to 
revenge himself for his disappointment. It was an- 
other thing to raise his hand against an officer of 
the law, and he sullenly walked up the gang-plank 
when that formidable individual intimated his read- 
ness to relieve the boat of her unwelcome passenger. 
" Haul in the plank, and cast off the bow line," 
said Lawry ; but he was choking with emotion as 
he felt what a terrible thing it was to have his own 
brother at enmity with him. 
 
He rang the bell to back her, and when her bow 
pointed out from the shore, the stern line was cast 
off, and she moved slowly away from the wharf. 
" I'm sorry your brother behaves so badly, Lawry," 
said Mr. Sherwood, entering the wheel-house, when 
the steamer started. 
" It makes me sick to think of it, sir," replied 
the pilot. " I'm really afraid of him, for I don't 
know what he will do next." 
" Do your duty, faithfully ; that is all you need 
do." 
" I feel almost sorry I didn't let him be captain, 
when I think the matter over." 
" He is not fit to be captain ; and you did quite 
right in not consenting to it. I'm sorry for you, 
Lawry, and sorry for your mother, for he must be 
a sore trial to both of you." 
" If he wasn't my brother I wouldn't care," added 
Lawry, restraining the tears which were gathering 
in his eyes. 
" Never mind it, my boy ; we won't say anything 
more about it. Let us hope your brother will grow 
better." 
 
" I hope he will, sir." 
The Woodville was now going at full speed up 
the lake. The party on board consisted of twenty- 
four ladies and gentlemen, most of whom were sum- 
mer visitors at Port Rock. They were delighted 
with the beautiful little craft, and glad to know 
that she could be obtained for pleasure parties during 
the summer. They wandered about the deck, sa- 
loon, and cabin till they had examined every part 
of her, and then they gave themselves up to the 
enjoyment of the sail, and of the magnificent scenery 
on the borders of the lake. 
They seated themselves under the awning on the 
forward deck, and Lawry pointed out the objects 
of interest as the steamer proceeded ; and in this 
occupation he forgot the conduct of Ben, and was 
as happy as the happiest of the party before him. 
The ladies and gentlemen sang songs and psctlm 
tunes, in which the sweet voice of Fanny Jane 
Grant was so prominent that Ethan was once en- 
ticed from the fascinating engine which occupied all 
his thoughts. 
In the mean time Mrs. Light was busy with the 
dinner. Captain Lawry was a little uneasy on this 
subject, for it was out of his line of business. In 
the middle of the forenoon he gave the wheel to 
one of the deck hands, and went down into the 
kitchen to satisfy himself that this important matter 
was receiving due attention. The cook was so con- 
fident and enthusiastic that he was quite sure she 
would realize the expectations of the passengers. 
In the cabin he found the girls busy at the tables. 
Both of them had seen service in hotels, and there 
was no danger of a failure in their department. At 
one o'clock dinner was on the table, and the young 
captain went down again to assure himself that it 
was all right. 
" Come, Lawry, can't you dine with us ? " said 
Mr. Sherwood, when the bell had been rung. 
" I can't leave the wheel, sir." 
" But don't you want some dinner ? " 
" I'll have ray dinner when we get to Whitehall. 
Haste makes waste, you know; and if I should be 
in a hurry to eat my dinner we might get aground, 
or be smashed up on the rocks." 
" I suppose you are right, Lawry, and I will do 
 
the honors of the table for you," laughed Mr. 
Sherwood. 
The dinner was not only satisfactory, but it was 
warmly praised ; and Mrs. Light was made as happy 
as the captain by the enthusiastic encomiums bestowed upon her taste and skill in the culinary art. 
The Woodville reached Whitehall at two o'clock, 
where the party went on shore to spend an hour. 
While they were absent Lawry and all hands had 
their dinner, the cabins and the deck were swept, 
and everything put in order. Quite a number of 
people visited the little steamer while she lay at 
the pier ; and a gentleman engaged her to take out 
a party the next Saturday, with dinner for twenty- 
four persons. When Mr. Sherwood returned, he had 
let her for another day. 
At three o'clock the Woodville started for Port 
Rock. The party were still in high spirits, and the 
singing was resumed when the wheels began to 
turn. On the way down, she stopped at Ticonde- 
roga, while her appearance so delighted a party of 
pleasure-seekers that she was engaged for another 
day, and a dinner for twenty spoken for. 
 
" Lawry, you must have an engagement book, or 
you will forget some of your parties," said Mr. 
Sherwood, who stood by the pilot, in the wheel- 
house, when the steamer started. 
" I have put them all down on a piece of paper, 
sir. I will get a book when I go to Burlington." 
" Which will be to-morrow. I had engaged her 
for four days when you came up with her from 
Port Henry ; but I'm afraid we shall work you too 
hard." 
" No fear of that, sir. I only hope I shall be 
able to pay you that money you advanced this 
morning." 
" Don't say a word about that. Let me see : 
you are engaged in Burlington to-morrow, to me 
the next day, and in Whitehall on the following 
day." 
" I will get a book and put them down, sir." 
" But you must be in Burlington by eight o'clock 
to-morrow morning." 
" We can run up to-night." 
" You will get no sleep if you run all night." 
"I think we shall want another fireman." 
 
" You will ; for in order to keep your engage- 
ments you will occasionally have to run nights." 
At eight o'clock the Woodville landed her pas- 
sengers at Port Rock, and as the gentlemen went 
ashore, they gave three cheers for the little steamer 
and her little captain. 
 
 
CHAPTER XVII. 
BURLINGTON TO ISLE LA MOTTE. 
On his way home, Mr. Sherwood went to the 
ferry-house and satisfied himself that the mortgage 
on the place had been cancelled. Mrs. Wilford was 
profuse in the expression of her gratitude to him 
for his kindness to the family, and hoped that Lawry 
and his father would be able to pay him back 
the whole sum. 
" Mrs. Wilford, so far as gratitude and obligation 
are concerned, the balance is still largely against me. 
Millions of dollars would not pay the debt I owe to 
your son." 
" O, Lawry don't think anything of that, sir ! " 
" But I do. Madam, if your son had been five 
minutes later than he was when the little steamer 
went down, Miss Fanny Grant would certainly have 
been drowned, and my wife would doubtless have 
 
sh ared her fate. And when I think that this exposure 
of their precious lives was my own fault ; that my 
wife and her sister had nearly perished by my foolish 
haste and recklessness, I feel like giving every dollar 
I have in the world to Lawry. You don't understand 
this matter as I do, Mrs. Wilford." 
" I didn't think you were in any great danger." 
" Miss Fanny would certainly have been drowned ; 
and I don't think it would have been possible for me 
to save my wife, for I was nearly exhausted when 
Lawry came. Now, Mrs. Wilford, do you suppose 
I shall mind one, two, or ten thousand dollars, where 
my brave deliverer is concerned. In one word, I will 
never take a dollar which I have expended for Lawry 
or the family. Your son is a manly and independent 
boy, and I don't like !o hurt his feelings ; so I shall 
not say anything about this money at present." 
"Lawry is a good boy," said Mrs. Wilford, proudly. 
" He is worth his weight in gold. I am sorry your 
oldest son is not more like him." 
" I don't know what to think of Benjamin." 
" Where is he now ? " 
" I don't know ; I haven't seen him since the 
steamer left this morning." 
 
" Lawry is a good deal troubled about the ferry- 
boat." 
" He needn't be." 
" Can you hire a man to run the boat ?" 
" Yes ; I can get a boy who will do it for half a 
dollar a day, and be glad of the chance, I will 
engage one." 
" Lawry goes to Burlington to-night to take out a 
party to-morrow." 
" To-night ? " 
" Yes ; he must be there by eight in the morning." 
Mrs. Wilford thought her son was having a hard 
time with the steamer ; but she knew he would be 
satisfied as long as he was doing well. Mr. Sher- 
wood, assured that there was nothing at home to 
detain the young pilot, left the house. Lawry soon 
after entered ; but he had not time to tell his mother 
the particulars of his first trip on the Woodville. 
He could remain but a few moments, while the hands 
were " coaling up," from a cargo of coal deposited 
on the wharf that day, by the order of Mr. Sherwood. 
At nine o'clock everything was ready for the de- 
parture. The fireman grumbled, not without reason, 
 
at being called upon to work at night ; but Lawry 
promised to get another man to keep watch and 
watch with him as soon as he could. It was a long 
day's work for all hands who were needed in running 
the boat. When the young captain had gone to the 
wheel-house to start the boat, Mr. Sherwood rushed 
down the wharf, and jumped aboard. 
" I was afraid I should be too late," said he, as 
Lawry met him on the main deck. "I have been 
all over the village to find you another fireman, and 
I have succeeded in getting you a fijrst-rate one — an 
old hand at the business." 
" Thank you, sir ; you are taking a great deal of 
trouble for me." 
" There's another thing I quite forgot ; I didn't 
pay you for the trip nor the dinners. Here is the 
money." 
" I can't take it, Mr. Sherwood," protested Captain 
Lawry. 
" But you must take it ; if you don't I can't 
engage the boat again." 
" Not from you, sir." 
" I ara more interested than any other person in 
 
your success with the steamer,, and I insist that you 
take the money." 
" I owe you for this cargo of coal, now." 
" That was a present from Miss Fanny Grant." 
" She is very generous." 
" Generous ! If she doesn't do more than that for 
you, I shall be ashamed of her. By the way, Cap- 
tain, she paid the bill for repairing the steamer at 
Port Henry." 
" Indeed ! " exclaimed Lawry, who had intended 
to discharge this debt with the first money he earned. 
" She is very kind. I don't deserve so much from 
her and you." 
" More, my boy. We haven't done anything at 
my house but talk about you for a week. Now, you 
must b'e reasonable. We intended to give you a 
good start. Miss Grant wishes to put an upright 
piano-forte in the saloon. There is just room for it 
at the end of the state-room on the starboard side. 
When that is put in, we shall let you alone. Now, 
Lawry, take this money ; if you don't, I shall be 
offended." 
" I don't like to do so," pleaded Lawry. " It 
makes me feel mean." 
 
" It need not ; take it, Lawry, for you will want 
money to provision your boat in the morning." 
Captain Lawry took it, though it seemed to burp 
his fingers. 
" Now, my boy, you shall have your own way. I 
will force nothing more on you, except what I fairly 
owe you, and you shall make your fortune without 
any help or hinderance from anybody." 
"I owe you now " 
" Silence, Lawy ! " laughed Mr. Sherwood. " There 
comes your second fireman." 
As the man came down the gang-plank, he handed 
Mr. Sherwood a long package, done up in brown 
paper. 
" One thing more, Lawry," said his munificent 
friend, as he led the way to the engine-room, which 
was lighted by a lantern. " Will you let me put this 
sign up over the front windows in the wheel-house ? " 
" Certainly, sir. What is it ? " 
"It is the motto of the steamer, and fully explains 
how I lost the boat," replied Mr. Sherwood, as he 
unrolled the package. 
It was a small sign, about three feet in length, 
 
elegantly painted and gilded, on which was the 
motto, — 
" While you were at Port Henry, repairing the 
boat, I went up to Burlington, where I ordered this 
to be done. It came down to-day, and I want it 
put up in the wheel-house, where it will be constantly 
before your eyes, as the best axiom in the world for 
a steamboat man. It will be the history of the 
Woodville to you, and I hope you will always act 
upon it, never running your boat above a safe speed, 
and never leaving your wharf when it is imprudent 
to do so." 
" I shall be very glad to have those words always 
before me," replied Lawry. 
" When you are ready to go, captain, we are," 
said Mr. Sherwood. 
" I'm all ready, sir." 
Lawry turned, and to his astonishment saw Mrs. 
Sherwood and Miss Fanny, who had been looking 
over his shoulder at the pretty sign. 
" We are going with you, Captain Lawry,'" added 
Mr. Sherwood ; " that is, if you won't charge us 
anything for our passage." 
 
" I am very happy to have you as passengers," 
stammered Lawry. 
" We are so much in love with your little boat, 
Lawry, that we could not stay away from her," added 
Mrs. Sherwood. 
" And her little captain," said Miss Fanny. 
Lawry was good for nothing at complimentary 
speeches, and he went aft to give the girls directions 
to light up the cabin and the two state-rooms for the 
accommodation of his unexpected passengers. 
" Where's Fanny Jane ? " asked Ethan, when Mr. 
Sherwood had gone to the wheel-house to put up the 
motto. 
" She is going to keep house for us while we are 
gone," replied Miss Fanny, mischievously. " You 
were so unsocial to-day she would not come with us." 
" I had to look out for the engine," pleaded Ethan. 
" That was not the reason, Ethan," interposed Mrs. 
Sherwood. " You behaved splendidly." 
" If you were twenty, instead of sixteen, Ethan, I 
should say you were in love with Fanny Jane," 
laughed Miss Fanny. 
" O, nonsense ! " exclaimed Ethan, blushing be- 
 
neath his smutty face. " I like her, and after what 
we went through out west, I don't think it is very 
strange I should." 
" You are right, Ethan. She is a good girl, and I 
hope you will like her more, rather than less." 
" The saloon is ready for you, ladies," said Lawry, 
interrupting this pleasant conversation — very pleas- 
ant to Ethan, for without entering' into an analysis 
of the young engineer's feelings, it is quite certain he 
thought a great deal of the companion of his wander- 
ings in Minnesota ; but fortunately he is not the hero 
of this book, and this interesting suggestion need not 
