channel. She grated a moment on the bottom, and then stuck fast, hard
aground, so far as I could judge.
"There! now do you see what you have done?" shouted Vallington,
stamping his foot angrily upon the deck.
"I see what you have done," I replied, as calmly as I could; and
that was not saying much, for I was very indignant at being charged
with what was plainly his doing.
And there we were, hard and fast aground, with a tempest brewing
between the general and the commodore.
CHAPTER XXIII.
IN WHICH ERNEST TAKES COMMAND OF THE EXPEDITION.
It was useless for me to remain any longer in the wheel-house, and I
descended by the forward ladder to the deck. I was indignant, but I
was determined to "face the music." The best of friends are liable to
"fall out" at times, and no better than Vallington and myself had ever
existed. He was burdened by the responsibility of the position he had
assumed, and perhaps did not feel just right about the course he had
taken. These things may have made him irritable. Though I had never
before known him to be unkind or uncourteous, he had certainly
"pitched into me," on the present occasion, in a manner which my
self-respect would not permit me to endure.
I had been acting, in charge of the wheel, to the best of my ability;
and I was perfectly confident that nothing would have gone wrong with
the steamer if the engineer had not stopped the wheels. However I felt
on the general question of duty, I was quite satisfied that I had been
faithful to the interests of the expedition upon which we had
embarked; and I could not bear to be "snapped up," and treated like an
inferior in knowledge and skill, even by my chosen leader. I was
"chief of navigation," at least; and I felt that the general had
interfered with my part of the work. He accused me of causing the
mischief, when he had been the author of it himself; and this was so
plain to me that I could not help resenting it.
Very likely my face was flushed with anger and excitement when I
confronted Vallington on the forward deck. If it was, his was not less
so, and there was a lively prospect of a "family quarrel." With my
strong consciousness that I had done right, or, at least, intended to
do right, so far as our expedition was concerned, I could have
afforded to refrain from heated expressions; and it would have been
better if I had done so. It is no reason, because one person gets
mad, that another should. It is more dignified, manly, and Christian
for one always to control his temper. Let the truth be spoken
forcibly, if need be, but kindly.
"We are in for a pretty scrape now," said Vallington, sternly and
angrily, as I walked up to him.
"It isn't my fault if we are," I answered, sharply.
"Why do you say it isn't your fault, Thornton? Didn't you pilot the
steamer into this hole?"
"I didn't pilot her aground. When you stopped her there were two or
three feet of water under her keel."
"What did you bring her in here for? If I hadn't stopped her when I
did, you would have smashed her up."
"Perhaps I should," I answered with a sneer, when I found it was
impossible to make any headway against the general's unreasonable
speech.
"You were going at full speed; and it is lucky I happened to see the
shore and stop her when I did."
"I have nothing more to say," I replied, seating myself on the rail of
the steamer.
"I don't think there is much more to be said. Here we are, hard
aground; and anybody that has a mind to come after us can take us."
I made no reply. Vallington went to the gangway and looked over into
the shallow water. Then he walked over to the other side, and I had no
doubt our situation looked hopeless to him. After he had walked about
a while, his anger abated; and perhaps he was conscious that he had
been too fast in expressing himself.
"What's to be done? That's the next question," said he.
"I suppose nothing can be done," replied Tom Rush, who was more
disappointed than any other fellow on board. "They say the Champion
will be down after us this afternoon. Perhaps she will drag us off,
and then our tyrants will treat us as they think proper."
"You needn't disturb yourselves about the Champion," I interposed.
"She can't come within half a mile of us at least."
"Is that so?"
"That is so."
"It doesn't make much difference whether she can or not. We must stay
here till some one helps us out of the scrape," added Vallington. "It
was stupid to come in here."
"I don't think so," said Bob Hale, decidedly.
"Here we are aground, anyhow."
"Harry," continued Bob, gently and kindly, "I think Ernest was right
in what he said. If you hadn't stopped the engine, we should have gone
through well enough."
Vallington bit his lips, and he and Bob walked aft together. They were
absent a few moments; and when he returned, the general's face wore a
different expression.
"Thornton, I acknowledge that I was wrong," said he, extending his
hand to me.
The boys standing around us immediately began to clap their hands in
token of their satisfaction. In matters of navigation they were more
willing to believe in me than in Vallington; and probably most of them
were satisfied that I had been in the right.
"Don't say another word," I replied, jumping down from my seat, and
grasping his offered hand.
"You will excuse my hasty language," he continued.
"Certainly; and I ask the same favor of you," I replied.
"I irritated you, commodore, by my unreasonable words, and I am
willing to bear all the blame."
"You don't deserve it all."
If Vallington had been less noble and manly, we might have had a bad
quarrel; as it was, our differences were promptly healed.
"Now, what's to be done, commodore?" the general proceeded. "I have
got you into the scrape; but I hope you will be able to get out of
it."
"I think I shall," I replied, confidently.
"They say we are to be chased by the Champion this afternoon; but just
now we don't seem to be in condition to be chased even by a scow."
"We are not very hard aground; we only drifted on the shoal bottom;
and if I mistake not, we can work her off. So far as the Champion is
concerned, I am satisfied she will be after us as soon as she has
landed her passengers at Parkville; but that will not be for a couple
of hours yet."
"Then you really expect her."
"I certainly do; and when we float again, I don't care how soon she
comes. I came into this place, which you call a hole, general, simply
to get ready for the Champion; for she draws too much water to pass
through this channel."
"Well, that's a double proof that I have wronged you, and I am all the
more sorry for my unkindness."
"Don't mention that again, Vallington," I replied, touched by his
magnanimity.
"Fellows," said Vallington, turning to the boys, "I resign my
commission as general-in-chief of this expedition."
"No, no!" shouted the students.
"We are on the water now, and it is more proper that the commodore
should have the entire command. When we are on shore again, I will
resume my office. I will obey all the commodore's orders now, and the
rest of you will do the same."
I protested, but the general insisted. We finally agreed to the
proposition, and for the time I became the commander of the
expedition. Our first business was to float the steamer. Vallington
went back to the engine-room, and I resumed my place at the wheel. I
rang to back her, and the paddles slapped the water furiously for a
time, but without producing any effect. The steamer had taken the
ground harder than I supposed. She had run her bow upon the gradual
slope of the bottom till the wheels were powerless to move her.
The boys looked at one another in blank dismay, and seemed to feel
just as though the enemy were to "bag" them, as a sportsman does the
game he has brought down. I did not despair yet. From the wheel-house
I had surveyed the surroundings, and a plan had occurred to me by
which I hoped to work the Adieno out of her uncomfortable position.
"No go," said Vallington, as we met together on the main deck.
"Not yet; but we won't give it up. The bow had dug into the bottom
more than I supposed. We must carry a line ashore, and make fast to
one of those trees; then I think we can pull her off."
Bob Hale, with two others, was sent ashore on the North Sister in the
Splash, carrying the end of a long rope. When he had secured it to a
large tree on the shore, I took the other end, the line passing
through a round hawse-hole forward, and conveyed it aft to the shaft.
After winding it four or five times round the shaft, I told the boys
to haul it taut; and about twenty of them laid hold of the rope to
"take in the slack," if we were fortunate enough to obtain any.
"Bully for you," said Vallington, as he comprehended my arrangement.
"If the rope don't break, something will come," I replied.
I had been obliged to join several ropes, in order to form one long
enough; but having carefully avoided "granny knots," I hoped it would
hold. The bearing of the line was at the hawse-hole, near the bow of
the boat; and as the power was applied to the rope by turning the
wheel and shaft, the tendency was to haul the forward end of the boat
off the ground into the deeper water.
"All ready now, Vallington," I continued, when the preparations were
completed. "Back her slowly."
He started the engine, as I directed.
"Haul taut on that rope!" I shouted to the boys at the line.
The wheels turned, and the shaft revolved. The rope groaned and
strained.
"Stop her!" I added to the engineer, afraid to risk the strain. "Run
aft the chain-box."
My orders were obeyed; and as the boat floated at her stern, the
weight of the chain-box was sensibly felt.
"Back her slowly again," I continued.
Again the rope groaned and strained as though too much was expected of
it.
"She starts!" cried the boys forward. "She is coming off!"
I heard the keel scraping upon the bottom; and as the rope wound up,
the Adieno slid off into the deep water.
"Hurrah!" shouted the boys.
"Let go the rope!" I called to the boys aft. "Stop her, Vallington."
I hastened up to the wheel-house, the better to work her. I found she
lay in good position to go ahead, and I shouted to Bob Hale to cast
off the rope from the tree, directing the boys on the forward deck to
haul it on board. I rang one bell, and the boat moved ahead slowly
towards the wood pier. The boys cheered lustily, and were overjoyed at
our good fortune in getting out of the scrape. In a few moments I ran
the bow of the steamer up to the pier, and she was made fast to the
ring.
"Now we are all hunky-dory," said Tom Rush, who was rather given to
"expressions," and who was overjoyed to find there was still a chance
for an excitement.
"Not quite," I added.
"What's the matter now?"
"We want some dinner."
"You shall have it in half an hour."
And while Tom was superintending the cooking, Vallington, Bob Hale,
and myself had a consultation in the wheel-house.
CHAPTER XXIV.
IN WHICH ERNEST ENGAGES IN AN EXCITING STEAMBOAT RACE.
"If you ask for my opinion," said Bob Hale, "I say we had better
return to Parkville at once, and not wait to be driven back."
"It is easy enough for you to say that," replied Tom Rush, who had
joined us. "You live there, and all you have to do is to go home; but
what are the fellows who reside a hundred miles from there to do?"
"They will not be any worse off there than they will be here. The
question is only between going back and being driven back," added Bob.
"I suppose that we are to acknowledge that breaking away has been a
failure," said Vallington.
"Not at all; I, for one, won't have any more to do with Mr. Parasyte,"
answered Bob. "What do you say, Ernest?"
"I probably shall not go back to the Institute, whatever happens," I
replied. "My breaking away is not from school only, but from all the
home I ever knew. I have been thrown out upon the world, to take care
of myself."
For a moment my friends seemed to forget that we were in council to
determine what should be done for the rebels in their sympathy for me;
but I assured them I was not at all concerned about myself, and felt
abundantly able to make my way without any help.
"But what an old humbug your uncle is!" said Tom.
"He is a strange man. He seemed to have turned me out because I
displeased him in resisting Mr. Parasyte's injustice. He is afraid my
conduct will lessen the value of his mortgage on the Parkville Liberal
Institute."
"I think Mr. Parasyte's conduct has lessened it," said Vallington.
"But all this is neither here nor there. What shall we do with this
steamer?"
"Take her back to Parkville, and leave her there," answered Bob.
"What are the fellows to do?" asked Tom.
"Let them go back to the Institute, and lie back till something
happens."
"I don't believe anything will happen this year," laughed Tom, who was
always light-hearted in any emergency.
"Now, I think something will happen within a few days. I know that
certain persons in Parkville, who have long been dissatisfied with Mr.
Parasyte, intended to have a change months ago; and if I mistake not,
this affair of ours will bring matters to a head," said Bob.
"What can they do? Mr. Parasyte is as obstinate as a mule, and owns
the Institute himself," added Vallington.
"Not quite; my uncle will own the most of it if his note isn't paid,"
I interposed.
"I am not at liberty to tell even what I know, which is not much; but
I believe something will turn up which will put things right at the
Institute. All we have to do is to go back to Parkville and make our
peace with the steamboat folks the best way we can," continued Bob.
We all agreed that the steamboat enterprise was a bad affair for us;
but we were just as unanimous in the opinion that we could not have
done otherwise than take her as we did. It was mean of her captain to
lend himself and his boat to such a man as Mr. Parasyte. We could not
stay on Pine Island without food and without shelter. But we hoped to
return the Adieno uninjured, and, through the powerful influence of
Bob Hale's father, who was the wealthiest man in the county, to escape
without any serious consequences. It was decided, therefore, to return
to Parkville just as soon as we had eaten our dinner.
Tom Rush's cooks were either very dilatory, or they had not got the
hang of the steamer's kitchen, for we had to wait an hour for the
meal. We dined in the cabin, where we found everything we needed to
set the table; and in spite of the desperate condition of our affairs,
we enjoyed ourselves very much. Some one ventured to inquire if we
could not charter the Adieno for a week, and finish our breaking away
in her, it would be so pleasant to live on board, and cruise up and
down the beautiful lake. But it was satisfactorily shown that our
finances, however they might be improved by letters from home, would
not warrant such a piece of extravagance.
This was the last day of the breaking away, at least on the lake and
in camp, and we were disposed to make the most of it. As soon as it
was announced that we were to return to Parkville, though some of the
students murmured, and wished to make a trip down the lake before we
went back, the plan was accepted, and the boys were disposed to
improve the remainder of the cruise. They persisted in enjoying it;
and before the boat left the wood pier, they were skylarking and
training as though the future would require no account to be rendered
of their past conduct.
Vallington went to the engine-room, and directed the boys below to
start up the fires. With Bob Hale I went to the wheel-house; while Tom
Rush, as he had been directed by our chief, had all the dishes washed,
and everything put in order in the cabin and kitchen, for we wished to
leave the boat in as good condition in every respect as we found her.
"Cast off the fasts!" I called to the boys on the forward deck, when
Vallington informed me that he had steam enough.
"All clear!" replied those who were doing duty as deck hands.
I rang to back her; and when the bow of the Adieno was clear of the
wharf, I started her forward slowly; and keeping her in the middle of
the channel, she passed in safety out into the broad lake.
"We are too late; we ought to have gone before," said Bob,
impatiently. "There comes the Champion. I was certain she would be
after us--as certain as you were. What shall we do?"
I headed the Adieno down the lake when I saw the Champion--that is,
away from Parkville.
"We must take our chances; we can't do anything else," I replied to
Bob, as I threw the wheel over.
"But you are not headed for Parkville."
"Not yet; for I don't mean to be captured."
"How can you help it?"
"Perhaps I can't help it; but I can try."
I notified Vallington through the speaking-tube that the Champion was
in sight, and headed towards us.
"We mustn't let her overtake us, if we can help it. I will put on the
steam," he replied.
"All right; I can keep out of her way," I answered.
"Why not surrender?" said Bob, who stood at my side watching the
Champion.
"Surrender!" I exclaimed.
"Why not? What harm will it do?"
"I have no idea of throwing myself into the hands of those steamboat
men. Don't you see the Champion is full of men?"
"Do you suppose they would harm us?"
"I do. No doubt Mr. Parasyte is on board, and he will give them
liberty to maul us as much as they please."
"Perhaps you are right; I didn't think of Mr. Parasyte's being with
them."
"Of course he is; and I think we can make better terms by fighting it
out. For my own part, I would run the steamer ashore and take to the
woods, rather than give myself up to Mr. Parasyte and such a gang as
he has now."
Bob did not fully agree with me, though he thought we had better get
back to Parkville, if we could. This was not an easy matter, for the
Champion lay between us and our destination, and could cut us off if
we attempted to pass her. She could run up alongside of the Adieno, if
we attempted to dodge her, and throw her men on our decks.
The Sisters lay near the middle of the lake, and the Champion must go
to the north or to the south of them. I made a blunder; I ought to
have waited at the end of the channel until our pursuer had reached
his most southern or most northern point in coming round the shoal,
and then gone off in the opposite direction; but even then he might
have put about, and headed us off. It was hard to decide what to do,
and I continued to go to the westward until the Champion, which had
chosen the southern passage, was due south of The Sisters, when I
stood away to the northward.
But the pursuer "had me;" and finding it was useless to attempt to get
by her, I headed the boat down the lake again. The Champion then
crowded on all steam and chased us. This was exactly what I wished her
to do, and I led her five miles down the lake.
"I don't know about it, Ernest," said Bob, shaking his head. "I think
she will catch us. This boat is the fastest, but we don't understand
her well enough to make her do her best."
"I am afraid of that; but don't talk to me, if you please, now," I
replied.
I led the Champion to the northward of an island at this point; and
here her captain made a blunder, which restored to me the advantage I
had lost before. When the Champion was well by the island, I turned
the Adieno to the southward, and went round the island, which
prevented our pursuer from cutting us off, and saving any of the
distance, as he might have done, in the open lake.
"There, Bob, I have done it now, and I am satisfied," I said. "She
can't cut us off, and it will be a square race up the lake."
"The Champion is gaining on us every moment," replied Bob.
[Illustration: THE RACE BETWEEN THE ADIENO AND THE CHAMPION.--Page
275.]
The other steamer was certainly overhauling us. The superior skill of
the men in charge of her gave them the advantage. I told Vallington of
the fact, and soon the roaring of the furnaces and the creaking of
the boat assured me he was in earnest. But in spite of his renewed
exertions, the Champion was gaining a little, and I was sure that she
would overtake us long before we could reach Parkville. I headed her
for The Sisters, therefore, determined to put in force the plan I had
devised before dinner. I ran directly for the channel, and the
Champion followed.
The pursuer was almost upon us when we came within a quarter of a mile
of the end of the channel. Both boats were shaking and trembling under
the high pressure of steam, and every fellow on board the Adieno was
in a fever of excitement.
"Crowd her, Vallington!" I shouted through the tube.
"The Champion's bow is within ten feet of us!" exclaimed Bob.
"Stop her, you villains!" cried the captain of the boat from the bow
of the Champion.
"Give it to her, Vallington! In two minutes more we are safe!" I
yelled through the tube.
"She is almost upon us!" said Bob, tremulously.
At that moment we heard the engine bell of the Champion ring, as the
Adieno approached the narrow channel. Her wheels stopped, and she
began to back vigorously.
"Give them three cheers!" I called to the students, as the pursuer
backed out; and they were given with a will.
CHAPTER XXV.
IN WHICH ERNEST PILOTS THE ADIENO TO PARKVILLE.
The Champion could not pass through the narrow and shoal channel
between The Sisters, and my calculation had been correct. I was so
elated at the victory that I could not refrain from calling for the
cheers, though it was bad policy for us to crow over such rivals. A
moment before, the nerves of all on board of the Adieno had been
strained to their utmost tension by the exciting peril of the moment.
The bow of our pursuer had actually lapped over the stern of our
steamer, and we expected the captain of the Adieno, who stood on the
rail, holding on to an awning stanchion, would leap on board of us,
after he had bawled himself hoarse in ordering us to stop.
The pilot of the Champion was evidently the coolest man in the
steamer, and he had run her to the very mouth of The Sisters
Channel; but he knew that she could not go through, and at the last
practicable instant, he had "stopped" and "backed," leaving the
victory with us. It was a tremendous relief when the pressure was
removed from our overstrained nerves; and never were cheers given
more enthusiastically, even madly, than those which saluted the
people of the Champion at the dawn of our triumph.
The Adieno had entered the narrow channel, and I doubt not her
appalled captain on the deck of the other boat expected to see her
"take the ground" and be smashed to pieces. The moment I saw the
pursuer was backing out, I rang to stop her, and then to go ahead
slowly; for I had no more idea of smashing her than I had of smashing
my own head.
"Silence, now!" I shouted to the boys on deck, who were still yelling
to the utmost capacity of their lungs; for I was afraid the noise
might drown the sound of the bell in the engine-room, in case I had
occasion to ring it.
The students hushed up instantly. They had climbed upon the rails,
and secured other positions where they could obtain a view of our
discomfited pursuer; and a more excited and delighted set of fellows
never gathered on the deck of a steamer.
"Have your eye on the Champion, Bob, and tell me what she does," said
I to my companion in the wheel-house; for I needed both of my own eyes
to keep the Adieno in the channel, where a slight mistake on my part
would have ruined all my plans, and perhaps the steamer in which we
sailed.
"I will," replied he.
"What is she doing?"
"Nothing."
"Don't she move?"
"No--she hasn't started yet. They probably expect us to go ashore
before we get through the channel."
"Well, the longer she waits there, the better for us, for she can't
come through," I added.
The Adieno passed safely through the channel, and came out into the
broad lake beyond The Sisters. I rang to go ahead at full speed again,
for we had now a clear run to Parkville before us.
"The Champion has started her wheels again, Ernest," said Bob Hale,
as I rang the bell; "she is backing out of the inlet into the open
lake."
"All right--let her back. We have a good three miles the start of her,
and she can't catch us before we get to Parkville," I replied.
I informed Vallington through the speaking tube in regard to the
situation, with which he was entirely satisfied. I asked him to keep
the boat moving at her best pace, assuring him, if he did so, that we
were perfectly safe from capture. In half an hour we passed Pine
Island, with the Champion, which did not appear to be straining
herself, fully three miles astern. I was afterwards told that the
captain of the Adieno held her back, fearing that if she crowded us
again, we should run ashore, burst the boiler, or otherwise damage his
steamer.
In an hour and a half after the passage of The Sisters Channel, we
were off the bluff, within half a mile of the steamboat pier, which we
saw crowded with people. It was plain that we had succeeded in
creating an excitement, and not a few of us had some delicacy about
landing in the presence of the multitude. The Champion still kept her
relative distance from us, and was now more than a mile beyond Cleaver
Island.
"Where shall we land?" I asked of Vallington through the tube, after
Bob and I had considered the matter a little.
"Wherever you please, commodore," replied our chief.
"What do you say, Bob?" I added, turning to my companion.
"Can't we land at the boat pier, in front of the Institute?"
"No; there isn't water enough to float the Adieno. In fact the only
safe place is the regular steamboat pier."
"I suppose my father is there, and I don't like to meet him just yet,"
replied Bob, earnestly.
"We can anchor within a few rods of the Institute pier, and land in
the Splash," I suggested.
"I like that better."
"But the Splash would have to go three or four times to land the
fellows, and the Champion would be upon us before we could all get
ashore," I added.
I stated the plan and the objections to Vallington.
"Let us face the music like men," said he, decidedly.
"I think that is the better way," I continued to Bob. "So far as we
have done wrong, let us acknowledge the corn, and take the
consequences."
Bob Hale assented, overcoming his modesty with an effort, and I headed
the Adieno for the steamboat pier. I think we all felt a little
bashful about landing in the presence of so many people. The students
were directed to make no noisy demonstrations of any kind, and to
repair directly to the school-room of the Institute, where Mr.
Parasyte would soon find us, and where we hoped to make a final
adjustment of all the difficulties.
As we approached the pier, the boat was "slowed down," and the fasts
got ready for landing; and other work was done as regularly and
properly as though we were all old steamboat men. At the regular time,
I stopped her wheels, and she ran her bow up gently to the wharf, and
the line was thrown ashore. A couple of turns of the wheels backward
brought the Adieno to a stand-still, and our cruise was ended.
Vallington let off steam, and we formed in a body, intending to march
ashore as compactly as possible, in order to feel the full force of
the bond of association.
With Vallington at the head of the procession, we landed. Some of the
crowd hooted at us, others laughed, and a few steamboat owners berated
us roundly. We heeded none of them, but made our way through the mob,
up the pier. Before we reached the street, it suddenly occurred to me
that I had left the Splash made fast to the stern of the steamer. I
had forgotten her in the exciting whirl of events. When I told Bob
Hale and Tom Rush that I must return for my boat, they volunteered to
accompany me.
"Robert," said a stern voice, as we moved down the wharf.
We halted, and Bob's father confronted him.
"What does all this mean?" demanded Mr. Hale. "Are you one of those
who ran away with the steamer?"
"I am, sir," replied Bob, squarely, but with due humility.
Mr. Hale bit his lips with chagrin. Probably he had hoped that his son
was not one of the reckless fellows who had taken possession of the
Adieno. But Bob was a noble fellow, and seldom gave his father any
cause to complain of his conduct,--so seldom that he appeared to be
appalled at the magnitude of the present offence.
"Robert was opposed to taking the steamer from the first," I
interposed, hoping to save him from some portion of his father's
displeasure.
"I went with the rest of the fellows, and I am willing to bear my
share of the blame."
