good for comfort in travelling. At a furnishing store I procured a
supply of shirts, collars, and handkerchiefs. When I had packed all
these articles in my valise, I felt quite respectable.

As I was walking back to the hotel, I saw in the window of a shop an
article which was labelled "money-belt." It was a kind of pocket-book,
made of wash-leather, attached to a belt to be worn round the body. I
went in and bought one; and it seemed to solve the problem about the
care of the large sum of money in my possession, which had been a great
trouble to me. I could carry my funds in this belt without the danger of
being robbed; and as soon as I reached my room, I enclosed in a piece of
oiled silk the greater part of the bills which I had carried in my
breast pocket, rolled up in a piece of newspaper, put them in the
money-belt, and strapped it around me. It did not feel comfortable at
first; but the very annoyance it caused served to remind me that my
money was safe.

Mr. and Mrs. Macombe were very good, pious people, and, wherever they
were, would as soon have thought of going without their food, as of
staying away from divine service; and we went to church with them three
times on Sunday. They would not even talk about worldly affairs on that
day; and Kate and I were probably saved from answering a great many
questions included under the head of forbidden topics. They seemed to be
greatly pleased to know that I regularly attended the Sunday school at
home. So pure, and true, and good were they, and so much interested in
me, that I wanted to tell them all about my own affairs, and to ask them
whether I had done wrong in taking the will and the money from my
uncle's safe; but I concluded that for the present it would be safer for
me to keep my own counsels. They were excellent people, but their very
simplicity of character might lead them to betray and injure me.

On Monday forenoon, leaving Kate with Mrs. Macombe, while her husband
was attending to his business affairs, I went in search of the four
persons by the name of Loraine. I had written down the address of each,
and obtained from Kate all the information she possessed in regard to
her father. I decided to try one of the merchants first; and as Mrs.
Loraine doubtless knew the name of her deceased husband's brother, I
half expected to meet Tom Thornton blockading the door of the uncle's
counting-room.

When I saw, on the opposite side of the street, the sign "Mortimer
Loraine & Co.," I made sure that Tom Thornton was not in sight, and then
went in. I was directed to the private office of the senior partner. He
was a cold, stiff, formal man, and eyed me from head to foot with a kind
of contempt which I did not appreciate.

"Your business with me, young man?" demanded he, in cast-iron tones.

According to Parkville etiquette, he ought to have asked me to sit
down, and I was waiting for him to do so.

"I called to ask, sir, if you ever had a brother by the name of Austin
Loraine," I replied.

"No, sir," answered he, gruffly.

"Excuse me for troubling you, then, sir," I added, bowing and
retreating.

"Who was Austin Loraine?" he demanded.

"It's of no consequence, sir, if he was not your brother," I replied,
still retreating.

"What is your business with him?" he added.

What my business was did not concern him, and I opened the door and
retired. Mr. Mortimer Loraine rose from his stuffed chair and followed
me, repeating the question he had put to me. I simply told him I wished
to find the brother of Austin Loraine; and in my heart I was very
grateful that he was not the person, for I should have been afraid to
leave Kate in the keeping of such a cast-iron man as he was. He appeared
to think he had a monopoly of the name of Loraine, and no one else ought
to possess it, or to have relations with it which he was not permitted
to know. Giving no further heed to him, I left his store.

My next attempt was with the broker, William, whose office was in Wall
Street. He was quite civil, and assured me he had but one brother, whose
name was Mortimer, and whom I had just seen on Broadway. He was just as
curious to know my business with any one of his name as the first had
been; but I was not willing to give him any satisfaction. The next
Loraine on my list was the other merchant, whose place of business was
in Chambers Street. "McKim & Loraine" was the firm. Impressed with the
belief that the junior member of this firm would prove to be the person
I sought, I was very careful to satisfy myself that Tom Thornton was not
lying in wait for me. In the morning I had put on the new suit of
clothes purchased on Saturday night. I hoped this change in my dress
would enable me to pass unnoticed if he were watching for me.

As I did not see him anywhere in the vicinity,--though I knew it was
possible for him to be concealed in some doorway, or observing me from
some chamber window,--I entered the store of McKim & Loraine. As I went
in, I saw on a corner sign the full names of the partners, the last of
which was "Freeman Loraine." I was directed to the counting-room by a
porter.

"Is Mr. Loraine in?" I asked of a clerk at the desk.

"He is not--gone to Baltimore," replied the man, hardly looking up from
his ledger.

"When will he return?" I inquired, greatly disappointed.

"Don't know; Mr. McKim is in his office; he can tell you."

I entered a small apartment in the corner, and asked for the senior
partner. An elderly gentleman, busy with heaps of letters, informed me
that he was the person.

"I wish to see Mr. Loraine very much," I continued.

"He has been in Baltimore for a week; we expect he will return to-day or
to-morrow--probably to-night," answered Mr. McKim, fixing his eyes upon
the open letter before him.

"Have you been acquainted with Mr. Loraine long?" I ventured to ask.

"Thirty years," replied he, glancing at me with a smile, as though the
acquaintance was a pleasant thing to contemplate. "He has been my
partner for twenty."

"Can you tell me, sir, whether he ever had a brother by the name of
Austin Loraine," I added, emboldened by his smile.

"He had; I knew Austin very well. He died some eight or ten years ago,"
said Mr. McKim, now so much interested in my questions that he threw
down the letter, and gave his attention wholly to me.

"I am very glad to learn this, and I am sorry Mr. Loraine is not at
home."

"Can I do anything for you?" he asked.

"No, sir; thank you; I think not. Mr. Loraine's niece is in the city,
and wishes to see him very much," I added.

"Why don't she go to his house? His family are at home."

"Kate is with some friends, and I think she would rather wait till her
uncle returns, as he is coming so soon. I will call again to-morrow."

"Mr. Loraine lives in Madison Place;" and he gave me the number, which
I wrote down on a paper, and told Mr. McKim where Kate was staying.

When I went out of the store I looked again for Tom Thornton. He must
have come to the city by this time, and I was rather surprised to find
he was not already on my track. I did not see him, but I afterwards
found out, to my sorrow, that his eye was upon me from the moment I went
into the store of McKim & Loraine. I hastened back to the hotel, and
informed Kate that I had found her uncle, but he was not at home. She
was so well cared for by Mrs. Macombe that she was in no haste to leave
her.

After dinner we all took a walk on the Battery and up Broadway, to see
the sights. When we returned, at five o'clock, we found a carriage
waiting to convey Kate and me to Mr. Loraine's house in Madison Place.




CHAPTER XIX.

IN WHICH ERNEST STARTS FOR MADISON PLACE WITH KATE.


I COULD not exactly understand how Mr. Loraine, being in Baltimore, or
on the way to New York, had sent a carriage for his niece. It was
possible that Kate's uncle had returned sooner than he had been
expected, or that Mr. McKim had seen his partner's family, and they had
sent for Kate. It did not occur to me that there was anything wrong; but
I desired to see Mr. Loraine, and tell him her story before his niece
went to his house.

"Who sent you for Miss Loraine?" I asked of the hackman.

"How should I know who sint me?" replied the driver, an ill-favored
Irishman, and a rough specimen even of New York hackmen, who are not
reputed to be saints. "A gintleman gave me this paper, and told me to
come here."

I took the paper, and read what was written upon it: "Call at the ----
Hotel for Miss Kate Loraine, and drive her to No. -- Madison Place.
Bring the young man who is with her also."

"Who gave you this?" I asked.

"I don't know who he was. It was a gintleman that came over to the
hack-stand by the Park."

"Was he an old man, or a young man?"

"Middling ould--not very ould, either; he wasn't what you'd call a young
man," replied the driver.

"Was he fifty?"

"He might be; and then again he might not be," answered the man.

This was very definite, and it was plain to me that I could not find out
from such a stupid fellow whether or not it was Mr. McKim who had sent
him. I decided that Kate should not go to Madison Place that day. It
would be much better for me to see her uncle first, for such a course
would save her from an unpleasant scene, if he decided not to receive
her. I told the hackman we should not go; and the fellow growled about
his fare, but finally drove off, declaring that the people in Madison
Place should pay him for his trouble.

I was annoyed by the incident, and was afraid it would prejudice Kate's
uncle--if he had returned--against her, or if he had not, that his wife
would be vexed. Before the hack was out of sight, I was sorry I had not
permitted Kate to go. I talked the matter over with her, and with her
kind friends, who thought I had been over-nice about the matter.

About seven o'clock, the same hackman came again. I was sent for, and
met him in the office. He was as surly and cross as before, though his
face wore something like an expression of triumph this time.

"It's a dale of throuble you're makin for your friends," said he,
handing me a note.

"You shall be paid for all the trouble I give you," I replied, offended
at the fellow's impudence.

I glanced at the note, and found it was directed to Kate. I carried it
up to her, and after she had read it, she handed it to me.

"My uncle has returned," said she. "He seems to be real good and
kind--don't he?"

I read the note, which was as follows:--

          "MY DEAR NIECE: I learned from Mr. McKim, since I
          returned from Baltimore this afternoon, that you
          were in the city. I should call upon you myself,
          but I am quite ill, and do not feel able to do so.
          I desire to see you very much, and the bearer of
          this note will drive you to my house. I think Mr.
          McKim spoke of a young man with you, who called
          upon him. Let him come with you, if you please.

                                          FREEMAN LORAINE."

"Your uncle is good and kind, and I am sorry I gave him the trouble to
send twice," I added, when I had finished reading the note. "We will go
with the hackman as soon as you are ready."

"How far is it?" asked Mrs. Macombe.

"Mr. Loraine lives in Madison Place; but I haven't the least idea where
that is," I replied.

"Shall we see you again?" asked our kind friend.

"Why, yes, I hope so. I will come down and see you. But I don't know yet
whether I am to stay with my uncle or not," said Kate, as she put on
her shawl and bonnet. "I must see you again, and I shall tell my uncle
all about you."

"I shall depend upon seeing you again, and I hope you will find a good
and pleasant home," added the worthy old lady.

I escorted Kate down to the street, and handed her into the carriage.
The driver closed the door when I had taken my seat, mounted his box,
and drove off.

"I am quite sure, Kate, that you will remain with your uncle," said I,
as the hack rattled up Broadway.

"You can't be sure," replied she, somewhat excited by the prospect that
was opening before her.

"Not exactly sure; but the interest he manifests in you, and the trouble
he takes to have you come to his house, convince me that he is a man
worthy to be your father's brother."

"Perhaps he will scold me for running away from Mrs. Loraine," suggested
she, timidly.

"I think not. He will not be willing that you should be shut up for a
whole week for taking long stitches, or for treading on a flower. There
may be some difficulty in the way, as your step-mother is legally your
guardian; but your uncle will find a way to release you from such odious
bondage. But we won't anticipate anything. If your uncle won't take care
of you, I will, for I like you, Kate, and I mean to stand by you just as
long as you need any help. Mrs. Macombe will be very glad to take you
home with her."

"I seem to have plenty of friends now. But, however many friends I may
have, Ernest Thornton, I shall always be grateful to you for what you
have done for me. I shall always consider you my first and best friend
on earth. But you are going off, over the ocean; and I shall not see you
again."

"I shall return soon."

"When shall you go?"

"I shall not go till I am sure you are safe and well provided for. If,
as I expect, your uncle takes you to his home, I shall start day after
to-morrow."

"So soon?"

"Yes; I cannot needlessly waste a single day. My poor mother, for aught
I know, is still in sorrow and suffering."

"How glad she will be to see you, if you find her!"

"I shall find her; I shall not give up the search until I do find her,
if it takes me all the rest of my lifetime. But I expect to be
successful without much trouble."

We were silent then for half an hour, I judged, in which I was thinking
of the great mission that was before me; and I have no doubt Kate was
anticipating the scene that awaited her at the house of her uncle. The
carriage still rattled along, and it was beginning to be dark, for we
had been riding nearly an hour. I thought it was about time for us to
reach Madison Place. We must have gone at least six miles, and I came
deliberately to the conclusion that New York was a bigger city than I
had ever supposed.

"Haven't you got almost to Madison Place?" I shouted to the driver, when
my patience began to be sorely tried.

"It's a good piece yet," replied the driver, in the same surly tones.

"I think we must be almost up to Albany," I said to Kate, as I glanced
out at the window.

"Not quite so far as that," laughed Kate.

"This don't look like a very aristocratic part of the city," I added.
"The houses are all of wood, and poor ones at that."

"You must be patient, Ernest Thornton. We must soon reach my uncle's
house."

"Your uncle's, or Albany, I should say."

We were silent again. It did not seem to me possible that Madison Place
could be so far off. While I was fretting about the distance, I heard a
whistle like that with which one calls his dog, three times repeated. I
should not have noticed it, if the carriage had not stopped in the
middle of the street immediately after I heard it. The halt was but for
an instant--long enough to permit a man to get on the box with the
driver.

"How much farther is it to Madison Place?" I demanded again.

"Only a little piece," answered the surly driver; but he seemed to be
more pliable now.

I looked out at the window again. The houses were meaner and more
scattered than before, and there were no signs of a mansion fit for the
residence of a wealthy merchant. I began to wonder who the man was on
the box with the driver, and why he had whistled. I changed my position
to the front seat, under the window, which I had opened to enable me to
speak to the driver.

I began to have a suspicion that something was wrong, and I determined
to investigate as far as it was possible to do so. I waited to hear if
anything was said by the two men on the box. I listened eagerly and
painfully, for my suspicions almost made me mad. I reviewed the
circumstances under which we had left the hotel. The letter was signed
by Mr. Loraine, and the driver told me he had brought it from Madison
Place.

My heart rose up into my throat, as the conviction flashed upon my mind
that Kate and I were the victims of some villanous scheme. The rascally
driver could not have gone to Madison Place in the time that intervened
between his two calls at the hotel, if Madison Place was farther off
than we had yet gone. I was so nervous and restless that Kate fathomed
my painful anxiety. She could not help believing by this time that
something was wrong.

"O, Ernest Thornton!" exclaimed she, when it was no longer possible for
her to keep still.

"Don't be alarmed, Kate," I replied; but I was fearfully alarmed myself.

"Where are we going?"

"I don't know; but it is plain enough now that we have been deceived."

"Tom Thornton has done this!" gasped she.

"I suppose so; but be calm, Kate. Heaven will protect us."

"I am frightened almost to death," said she, with chattering teeth.
"What shall we do?"

"I don't know yet. Keep as cool as you can, and leave it all to me. They
can't go a great ways farther with this team. We must stop soon."

I was strongly impressed with the opinion that it was time something was
done. Of course the wretches on the box had made their plans beforehand,
and everything seemed to be working well for them. Doubtless they would
have the means of securely disposing of their victims when they reached
their destination. It seemed to me to be necessary, therefore, to
derange their plans, if possible, and I waited for a favorable time to
make a demonstration.




CHAPTER XX.

IN WHICH ERNEST STRIKES A HEAVY BLOW, AND TOM THORNTON HAS A BAD FALL.


THE chances for making a demonstration were not favorable; but the more
desperate the circumstances, the greater was the need of doing something
before we were committed to any place more secure than a carriage. If I
had been alone I should have opened the door and jumped out; but Kate
could not do this. While I was considering what I could do, I heard the
driver speak. I raised myself up to the window, and listened for the
reply of the other man.

Though I could not tell what was said, I recognized the voice of Tom
Thornton. I had come to the conclusion, as soon as my suspicions were
aroused, that it was he; for it was not likely that he would trust the
execution of his scheme wholly to others. I confess that the sense of
being injured was not the only emotion that disturbed me. I was filled
with anger and indignation at the trick which had been put upon me. I
wanted a weapon like my trusty base-ball bat, and I felt that, if I had
it, I should do good service with it.

The thought of the bat suggested an idea. In going up to Chambers Street
in the forenoon, I had seen a hackman oiling his wheels at the stand by
the Park. When he finished, he put the iron wrench he had used under one
of the seats in the carriage. I felt for one in this vehicle, and
realized a savage gratification when I placed my hand upon the article.
The implement was about a foot and a half in length, but not very heavy.
Having decided upon the plan of the intended assault, I buttoned my sack
coat, and thrust the wrench into the open space between two of the
buttons.

Half paralyzed with terror, Kate asked me what I was going to do. I told
her in a whisper to keep still. In a fair, stand-up fight with two men,
I should be instantly vanquished, and it was necessary for me to obtain
the advantage of a surprise, if possible. The rear window of the
carriage was open. Though the aperture was small, it was large enough
for me to crawl through, and I worked myself out upon the baggage-rack.
The jar which I communicated to the vehicle by this movement attracted
the attention of the men on the box.

"Be aisy for a minute more, and you'll be at Madison Place," said the
driver.

"How much farther is it?" I asked, thrusting my head into the window, so
that he would not suspect that I had got out of the carriage.

"Only a short piece farther," he added.

Placing one foot on a ledge at the side of the hack, and the other on
the bottom of the back window, I scrambled to the top of the carriage,
where I was obliged to spread out like a frog, and was in imminent
danger of sliding off. Of course this feat of gymnastics could not be
effected without considerable noise. It was evident to the driver that
something decided had taken place, or was about to take place, and he
began to rein in his horses.

Just as I reached my perch on the top of the hack, all sprawling, the
vehicle was approaching one of those small public houses at the corner
of a cross street, which abound in the upper part of New York and
Harlem. In front of it burned a street lamp. Tom Thornton--and I could
distinctly make him out now, though I did not see his face--had bent his
head down to look in at the front window. He doubtless expected to find
the cause of the noise and the jar within the hack; at least, thinking I
was there, it was natural for him to look inside for it. I suppose he
thought I was breaking out through the top of the vehicle.

With the wrench in my hand, I sprang forward; but my blood was almost
frozen at the necessity of striking him a blow on the head which might
kill him, and the thought that I might take his life partially paralyzed
my arm. I struck, but it was a feeble stroke compared with what it
should have been to effect my purpose. His hat appeared to break the
force of the blow, and he sprang to his feet. Then I saw that he had a
heavy cane in his hand, and I was sorry I had not struck harder.

"Drive on! Don't stop here!" said he to the driver, fearful, perhaps,
that I might obtain assistance from the hotel.



With his cane in one hand, he reached forward with the other to grasp me
by the collar; or this was what I supposed he intended to do. He did not
see that I had a weapon, and getting up on my knees, I hit him again,
this time with better effect, for he fell over backward upon the horses.
The driver hauled in his team again, and seemed to be appalled at the
fate of his companion.

The instant he stopped I slid off the top of the hack to one of the hind
wheels, and thence to the ground. I opened the door of the carriage, and
told Kate to get out with all possible haste. I assisted her to the
ground, and taking her by the hand, actually dragged her after me. The
gloom of the night covered us, and we fled as fast as my companion's
trembling limbs would permit. I turned into a cross street, on which
there were no buildings, and followed it till we came to another avenue.

