lous yet, from her hurried descent of the stairs. 
Gypsy became so much interested in watching 
it that she very nearly forgot what Mrs. 
McMunn had come for. The Principal, 
however, quickly restored her memory. 
" Miss Gypsy Breynton ! " 
" Yes, m, I know it," said Gypsy, meekly. 
" I should like to know," proceeded Mrs. Mc 
Munn, with a severe shake of her waterfall, &gt; 
"I should like to know, if you will be so good 
as to tell me, how you came here, and what 
you have been doing." 
Just then something rattled out of Gypsy 's 
pocket, and spun away over the bare floor. 
" It 's my crackers ! " screamed the house 
keeper, looking in over Mrs. McMunn 's shoul 
ders. " It 's those crackers, that I lay awake 
half the night over, I was so anxious about 
them. Oh, the Land 's End ! to think of it ! " 
" Oh, I forgot," said Gypsy. " Yes, the girls 
wanted the crackers, Mrs. McMunn, and I 
never thought, and so I came down and Mrs. 
Holt locked me in, and then you see I thought 
there was a mouse in my neck and the barrel 
tipped me over, and I 'm very sorry, Mrs. 
McMunn, but you can't think how funny it was, 
I don't think you can possibly think how funny 
it was, unless you were to see me, now really." 
The teacher 's mouth twitched a little. 
" Miss Breynton, we have had enough of this 
levity, I think we have had enough of this levity." 
" Yes, m," replied Gypsy mildly, regarding 
her with an attentive air. 
" You re not attending to what I say ! " said 
her teacher, rather sharply. " What are you 
looking at?" 
" Oh, I do beg your pardon ! " Gypsy 
blushed all over. "I was only thinking I 
was only looking " 
"At what?" insisted the Principal. 
"At your your waterfall, you know." 
It was now Mrs. McMunn 's turn to blush. 
She felt round her head with both hands, after 
the unfortunate waterfall, till she found it; 
when, by way of improving the matter, she 
took it off and put it in her pocket. Gypsy 
felt that the scene beggared description, but 
look, she dared not. 
"Altogether too much levity," repeated the 
Principal, as severely as she knew how. 
"And I really never would have supposed, 
Miss Breynton, that you could be capable 
of" 
" Mrs. McMunn," interrupted Gypsy, seriously. 
- If you had spent the night in a sugar-barrel, 
squeezed up in a funny little heap you 've no 
idea what a funny little heap it would make 
of you under an old shelf, and bumped your 
head every time you stirred, and found the dumb 
waiter locked on top of it, and all, you wouldn't 
want to be scolded very badly, Mrs. McMunn." 
" In the sugar-barrel ! Oh, Miss Breynton, 
Miss Breynton ! " 
Mrs. McMunn gave up all efforts at com 
posure, collapsed upon the nearest firkin, and 
laughed till she cried. She seemed to recol 
lect, at last, that Gypsy remained there to be 
scolded, and grew suddenly severe again. 
" I really never should have thought you 
capable, Miss Gypsy, of stealing anybody 's 
crackers, much less " 
" Stealing ! " 
"Certainly, my dear. What was it if it 
wasn't stealing?" 
" Why, so it was," said horrified Gypsy, 
after some consideration. " Why, I never 
thought ! Why, how funny ! " 
" Funny i " said poor Mrs. McMunn, in im 
minent danger of subsiding upon the firkin again. 
" Funny, Miss Breynton? Why, really, I " 
"What will that blessed woman say?" 
observed Gypsy in an undertone, seriously 
enough. " Stealing ! And I must tell her all 
about it to-night. And to think it never 
crossed my mind now ! " 
"What blessed woman, my dear?" asked 
Mrs. McMunn, looking very much flattered. 
" Only my mother," said Gypsy, looking up. 
" Mrs. McMunn, I believe I ve been a horrid 
little wretch, and I ask your pardon, you know, 
and I 'll pay for the sugar, but I 'm sure I did 
not mean to be a horrid little wretch, and if 
you please, I 'll never get into any of your 
sugar-barrels again. I don't suppose I ever 
shall hear the last of this, though." 
She never did. 
GYPSY, Why don't Mrs. 
Makmunn let you come home? 
I don't like her. If I should 
just see her, I 'd knock her down, sir, and 
then I 'd stamp on her, and then I 'd frow 
sum orful cold watter on her. My Cat had 2 
fits ; she skratched Mrs. Surly too. I swallerd 
a apple-seed yesterday, Why won't it gro upp 
into a napple-tree inside of me. I wouldn't 
like that. Tommy Rowe 's dorg she laid him 
little dorgs last week. They haven't got any 
feathers. Besides, they re blind, and Besides, 
they can't see anything. Father says if I etc 
so much pop corn, I shan't live long enuff 
to gro up and keep my kandy-shop. I am 
bigger n I was when you were hear. I am 
a big Boy and go two Sundy-School now. I 
know about Elijah. I would like to be as good 
Mann as Elijah was. Of kourse a Prophett is 
a great deal gooder than a kandy-man. Now 
you just write me a leter as good as this. 
MR. WINNIE BREYNTON. 
Yorkbury, Vt 
Gypsy laid down the letter laughing, and 
took up her mother s. She had already read 
that through twice, but one part of it much 
surprised and somewhat puzzled her. So, 
thinking it over, she read it again. It ran thus : 
Be on your guard a little, Gypsy. There 
will be, figuratively speaking, a good many 
plates of crackers at the Golden Crescent, 
which will draw you into locked closets, unless 
you are on the watch against being led. Be 
cause the girls are older than you, they have 
a certain advantage of influence. Struggle 
against it. Take your own time to think, and 
act as you think, if what you think is right 
Yoar " beautiful, darling, precious Maude 
Clare for instance ; she may be a very nice 
girl, but remember that you do not yet know 
very much about her. If, some day or other, 
you should find out that she is not exactly 
what she seems to you to be in fact, that 
she is something very different from what she 
seems to you to be, it would be only what has 
happened in girls lives ever since there have 
been any girls. However, any such discoveries 
that are to be made, you must make for your 
self. I only throw out now and then a bit of a 
hint, by way of signal-light. 
By the way, speaking of Maude Clare, re 
minds me: Be sure that you are a perfect 
lady, no matter what anybody else may ever 
prove to be. 
As ever, lovingly, 
MOTHER. 
When Gypsy had read this for the third 
time, she threw her Virgil and Lexicon with 
such a bang upon the floor that quiet Jane 
jumped half-way across the room. 
"Why, Gypsy! What on earth is the 
matter?" 
" Nothing," said Gypsy, with flushed cheek, 
"only I have something to say to mother; 
that 's all" 
She sat straight down and wrote : 
"Why, mother! Why, I never! Why, 
how could you? You just went and hinted 
that Maude Clare isn't a perfect lady you 
know you did ! Why, she 's so par&Vular, and 
so proud, you ve no idea; and last summer 
one day a gentleman kissed her and she fired 
up and told him he didn't dare to do that 
again, and he did it again, and by-and-by she 
got up and walked right out of the room. She 
never lets people take liberties with her, and 
she 's so polite, too, and I think you re very 
much mistaken, and I don't see what made you 
say such a thing, for you see you don't know 
hardly anything about her; only what I 've 
told you; and I don't see how I can help 
knowing best, mother, I 'm sure." 
Had Gypsy seen the smile with which her 
mother read this, she would have been more 
perplexed than ever. 
One afternoon when study-hours were over, 
Maude Clare came upstairs to ask Gypsy to 
go to walk with her. 
" Why you see," said Gypsy, hesitating, 
with a glance at the window, where her room 
mate was finishing her French exercise, " I 
promised Jane I 'd go with her. I don't go 
with her very often, you know. It 's too 
bad, though; I 'd a great deal rather go with 
you." 
This was in a whisper, but whispers are al 
ways more easily audible than people suppose; 
Jane may have heard it, for she turned over the 
leaves of her Fasquelle quickly, with a sudden 
flush upon her cheek. 
"Oh, Jane doesn't care; do you, Jane?" 
said Maude, aloud. 
" Care about what? " 
" Let Gypsy go to walk with me, there 's 
a good girl. I have a particular reason for 
wanting her to-day." 
"A particular reason?" questioned Gypsy, 
curious and undecided. 
" Oh, don't mind me," spoke up Jane, hur 
riedly. " I don't care that is, I mean I 
would rather have you do as you feel about it 
I can go with Phoebe Hand just as well, you 
know." 
" It 's a very particular reason," urged Maude. 
Gypsy, still looking undecided, began to put 
on her things, saying something to Jane mean 
while about being sorry, and hating to break 
an engagement, and she didn't know 
but 
Jane put an end to the matter by running 
down to find Phoebe ; and Gypsy and Maude 
Clare went slowly down after her, and out of 
the house. Maude was chattering about the 
fit of her gloves. Gypsy did not listen. 
" It is good," she interrupted suddenly. 
"What the colour?" 
" No ; I wasn't thinking about gloves. I 
mean Jane Bruce." 
" Well, what about Jane Bruce? " 
Maude spoke a little sharply, and pulled up 
her gloves with a jerk. As long as Miss 
Maude Clare was the subject of remark, this 
young lady evinced unusual conversational
abilities. Strike off upon another topic, and one 
could but notice every one, that fs, but 
Gypsy how suddenly her interest flagged, 
and her brilliancy grew dim. 
" Why, I was thinking how good it is in her 
to go so much with that Phoebe Hand," 
pursued Gypsy, too busy with the thought to ob 
serve how Maude had received it. " She walks 
with her, and she rides with her, and she goes 
in to see her ; I don't see how she can, I 'm sure, 
with Miss Ayre looking round." 
" Yes," said uninterested Maude. " Yes, I 
suppose so. Look at Jack Delancey showing 
off those everlasting hands of hers across the 
road there ! She wears kid gloves all the time 
just because they make them look smaller. I 
wouldn't be seen in kids every day, such 
freezing weather as this, in such a little country 
place as Snapberry." 
" I think your hands look prettier in Cash 
mere than they do in kid," observed Gypsy. 
" Such little soft brown stuff curves and fits so 
easily; besides, it makes the fingers look 
shorter." 
" Yes," said Maude Clare ; " I don't know 
but it does. It isn't everybody that can bear 
Cashmere without making one 's hands look like 
a cook s. I know Jack couldn't, because hers 
are so fat. I declare ! See her flirting her 
handkerchief at those boys. How she does 
act ! See, she has on her best bonnet too, and 
I never saw anybody sail about the streets as 
she does, since she had that trailing green pop 
lin. I 'd bet you a cookie, as Jo Courtis 
says, that Jack Delancey considers herself Num 
ber i in this school, in fact, I have it on very 
good authority, that she said so herself, to 
Mary Blunt" 
" Number I ! " repeated Gypsy, looking puz 
zled. " Why, what do you mean by Number I ? " 
" Why I mean just Number I ! I can't put it 
any plainer ; if you don't know what that is." 
" Why, I 'm sure she doesn't profess to be 
the best scholar," said Gypsy, considering, 
" nor the best behaved ; and she isn't a bit of a 
favourite among the girls, and 
" You little simpleton ! " interrupted Maude 
Clare, with her patronising laugh. " Of course 
I don't mean anything like that. If you must 
have a translation, Number I means the most 
stylish, the most distingue, the I suppose 
having the most of an air to your things, 
and plenty of money, you know, and why, all 
that." 
" Oh ! " said Gypsy. She looked down the 
street as she spoke, where Jacqueline 's striking 
green poplin dragged its slow length along, and 
Jacqueline 's feathers and ribbons were blowing 
about in the wind. Then turning around, her 
eye fell on Phoebe, limping down the hill, and 
leaning heavily on Jane Bruce 's arm. 
" You haven't shown yourself much inter 
ested in what I said before we came out," said 
Maude Clare, in an aggrieved tone, after a 
silence had fallen between the two. 
Gypsy started from her musing, and begged 
pardon. 
" Your particular reason for wanting me to 
day ? Oh yes, I am interested ; I want to know, 
Of course I want to know. What was it?" 
"I have something to show you, ma 
and that 's why " 
"Something to " 
" That is to say, somebody." 
"Maude Clare, what is the matter? What 's 
up? What are you blushing about? " 
Maude Clare indignantly denied that she 
was blushing, and somewhat unintelligibly re 
quested Gypsy not to say anything, but to wait 
and see. Gypsy, not having anything to say, 
said nothing, but waited and saw. 
Presently Maude Clare turned from the main 
street into a quiet by-road, bounded with 
stone walls and apple-trees, and comparatively 
secure from a crowd of passers. 
" Why, what are you turning up Love Lane 
for?" asked Gypsy. "It isn't half so good 
walking; the ground is all frozen up in little 
jolts, Maude." 
"You 'll see," said Maude, mysteriously. 
At the same time she was looking very intently 
up the road. 
" There ! " she said at last, and pulled her 
spotted lace veil it was very becoming 
down suddenly over her face. 
"There what?" 
"There he is." 
Gypsy observed then, far up the road, the 
figure of a young man or boy approaching 
them. He was not very tall, but of rather a 
graceful form, and even at that distance she 
could see that he was fresh from the hands of a 
city tailor. 
"Who is he, Maude?" 
" Hush-sh ! It 's Ben Sizer." 
Gypsy hushed ; thinking that it was some 
old acquaintance of whom Maude Clare had 
never chanced to speak to her. She was much 
surprised to see that, as the young fellow 
neared them, Maude did not bow to him. She 
glanced up with a smile one of those brilliant 
smiles, such as had attracted Gypsy in the car 
on the evening that they came to the Golden 
Crescent and then looked demurely on the 
gtmd, her eyelashes on her cheeks, and her 
hands in her sacque-pockets. 
The stranger had scarcely passed her, how 
ever, when he stopped, and, raising his hat, said 
something in an undertone that Gypsy did not 
hear ; at the same time handing her his card. 
If Gypsy had been surprised before, she was 
struck dumb when Maude Clare, instead of 
repelling the impertinence in a dignified way, 
took the card with a blush and a smile, drew 
her own from her pocket, handed it to him, 
and with a familiar " Good-afternoon " walked 
slowly on. 
Gypsy waited till they were out of hearing, 
then expressed her opinion in this fashion: 
" Why, Maude Clare Smith ! " 
"Well, what 's the matter? You needn't 
tuck on my last name if you are mystified. 
Anybody would think you had been taking 
lessons of Jack Delancey." 
" I should like to know ! " 
"Know what?" 
" Didn't you why, haven't you ever seen 
that boy before to-day?" 
Maude laughed noisily. 
" Occasionally yes, dear; about a dozen 
times, perhaps." 
"Why, where?" 
" Oh, church, and lectures, and down town, 
ftnd so on. You ve seen him too, only you 
hadn't the sense to remember it. Did you 
ever see such eyes? And such a love of a 
moustache ! " 
" Why, then, you must be acquainted with 
him, I suppose?" 
" Depends upon what you call acquaintance. 
I never spoke to him till to-day. It was real 
bright in him to think of introducing himself 
that way, wasn't it? I never should have got 
an introduction any other way. Nobody knows 
him in school but Jack Delancey, and she 'd 
sooner cut her head off than have him fall 
into my hands. It will be a joke to hear what 
My Lady has to say to this. It was so cute." 
" Cute ! Why, I thought he was the most 
impudent fellow I ever saw. But you won't 
treat him like anybody else, of course, and bow 
to him?" 
" My dear little Gypsy, pray, why shouldn't 
I ! Of course I wouldn't without any intro 
duction, like Jack; but I 'm sure he was 
very thoughtful and gentlemanly about it, 
and I don't see any reason for cutting him. 
I don't care anything about it though, any 
way, and very likely I shall if I feel like 
it." 
" Oh," said Gypsy, looking a little relieved ; 
" well, I hope you won't have anything more 
to do with him, anyway ; it isn't a bit like 
you." But after this she was silent for some 
time. 
"Have you ever met him before in Love 
Lane?" she questioned presently. 
" Why, let me see ; once or twice, perhaps," 
said Maude Clare, evasively. 
" But you know something about him, I 
suppose, who he is, and all." 
" Why, stupid ! he is Mr. Ben Sizer." 
" But, I mean, anything more, you know." 
" Well, he is a student at Harvard College^ 
I believe ; so Jack says." 
" Harvard ! But it 's term time at Harvard ; 
how happens he to be here?" 
" Oh, I don't know, nor care," said Maude, 
carelessly. " Hush ! I declare ! Look 
round ! " 
Gypsy looked, and saw, to her surprise, that 
Mr. Benjamin Sizer was following them at a 
rapid pace. 
"The horrid, impudent old thing! Come, 
Maude, let 's hurry home." 
Just then, the most surprising series of acci 
dents happened to Miss Maude Clare. She 
dropped her glove, and she was sure that she 
had lost her purse, and her boot-lacing came 
untied, and her veil blew off, and, take it alto 
gether, she was delayed so long upon the side 
walk that Mr. Sizer had picked up the veil, 
had joined them to return it, had fallen into 
step to walk beside them, and had been for 
mally introduced to Gypsy, before Gypsy had 
fairly recovered from her amazement and seen 
through the performance. 
At this point, however, " I 'm going to walk 
on ! " she said, with bright cheeks and indig 
nant eyes. 
Maude Clare exclaimed: " Oh, don t, 
Gypsy ! Stay with us, it 's only a little 
way." 
" I should be really very sorry to be de 
prived of the pleasure of your company," 
urged the collegian, with a very low bow. 
" Can't help it if you are ! " said Gypsy, 
bluntly. " It 's against the rules, and I'm
going home." 
And home she went as fast as her feet could 
carry her. 
" Spunky ! I declare ! " she heard Mr. 
Sizer observe as she crossed the street. 
He strolled on slowly with Maude Clare, 
very slowly; there were no teachers upon the 
street; the twilight was falling. The twilight 
had quite fallen when Maude Clare came in. 
Gypsy was sitting alone in the dark, with her 
cheek leaning upon her hand, and her hat in 
her lap; she had not taken off the rest of 
her things, but seemed to have dropped 
into the first chair that she came to, deep in 
thought. 
" Gypsy this you ? " 
" Yes." 
" What are you sitting here in this azure 
fashion for?" 
Maude Clare came up and pinched her cheek, 
as she was used to, to " find the dimple," and 
kissed her several times. Gypsy sat silent, and 
did not return the caress. 
" Gypsy, how cross you are ! What ails 
you?" 
But Gypsy sat silent still. If it had not 
been dark, Maude Clare might have seen that 
her pretty black eyelashes were wet. She 
was thinking of what her mother had said. 
She was thinking of Mr. Benjamin Sizer. All 
her sense of delicacy and dignity had been 
jarred. Could a lady have done what Maude 
had done that afternoon? She must answer 
her own question honestly, and it hurt her it 
did hurt a little to decide it against her 
" precious Maude Clare." 
But Maude stood there, looking very hand 
some and grieved and injured, and she 
caressed the dimple back into its place with 
her pretty soft fingers, and so they went 
down to tea together, and Gypsy said nothing 
about it 
ANGEL OF A MOTHER, Holidays, holidays, holidays ! 
The darling McMunn has given us a week, and I 'll 
never laugh at her waterfall again, if I can 
help it. I shall just catch that blessed Thomas, 
and I shall sleep again in my own dear room, 
and I shall climb into your own dear arms, and 
besides, I shall have some rice griddle-cakes, 
and I really don't know whether I am standing 
on my head or my feet. 
Your bewildered 
GYPSY. 
