devotion ; he could see she had not acted wholly from 
selfish motives. Her strong sense of right, though less 
fine in its perceptions than that of many others, shrank 
from so abhorrent a union as she believed this would be. 
The supper-bell rang, and Stephen went down alone. 
He was glad to send Katy to Joe, and, leaning his brow 
upon his hand, left his cup of tea untasted. He was 
not conscious of any physical want. His brain was 
busy with the strange path wherein he had walked, so 
full of mistakes and misunderstandings. Was God 
really watching over him, and giving him those things 
that were best for him? A bleak, barren, desolate life ! 
The prosperity he had craved, the wealth and the ambi- 
tions he had so madly longed for, answered sharp, and 
turned into a curse ! What if he had gone on with that 
 
old, simple life in Tregony, married Joe, reared up 
children whose needs would be simply those of the 
body? Would he have been better, happier? 
O, no, no ! He was blind still, and could not see 
clearly into God's designs. These pure longings, these 
high ambitions, that were not, after all, perverted to 
mere selfish uses, meant something. God knew when 
he placed them there. And when any soul rose out of 
its slough, and took upon it a new form, came nearer 
to the All-wise, surely he saw and cared for it, pitied 
its griefs and pardoned its mistakes. Some day he 
should know. He held fast by his faith. Bruised and 
wounded, agonizing in keenest pain, he would still be- 
lieve in the God who had brought him thus far through 
the wilderness. 
He could see wherein he had failed with Hope. He 
should have told her the truth. It was not his hand 
that had placed a bar between. But he had been 
afraid. His coward soul had shrunk from the thought 
of losing her, the one thing his heart craved. And 
God, through other agencies, had taken her away. 
Her soul was too pure and high to mate with anything 
so stained and worn as his. 
He went out and walked up and down the garden- 
path. One duty was before him, one chance of resti- 
tution still remained. He could make Joe's short life 
blessed beyond compare to her. I will confess to you 
that he shrank a little from the sacrifice at first. Hope 
 
Vennard was the only woman he had cared to call his, 
and failing in that, he desired to keep his whole life 
sacred to her. Yet Joe's confession effectually precluded 
any lingering dreams. If she could have forgiven, she 
would not have penned those cold words the last re- 
membrance of her presence that was to greet his eyes. 
Some lurking tenderness would have betrayed itself. 
Therefore, if he should ever find her, all that past 
must be a sealed book. He would never speak of it 
again. 
I cannot describe to you the struggle in the man's 
mind. But the nobler part of his nature conquered 
and there was much that was grand in Stephen Dane. 
His resolve once taken, he would not flinch. 
Katy had cried over Joe's white face, and her inability 
to eat. She had undressed her, and arranged her pil- 
lows with tender care ; and though, when she returned 
to her kitchen, Joe's wistful eyes followed her, the poor 
girl would not beg for Stephen. Unwittingly she had 
worked him misery enough. 
He came at length. The young moon was climbing 
over fleecy drifts that melted into blue. Up in the hol- 
low of the luminous sky great stars pulsed and throbbed, 
beating out the giant heart of Nature. Soft airs stole 
in through the open window, dewy sweetnesses from 
river and mead, finding their way through the city. 
Joe held out her trembling hand. "Forgive it all, 
Stephen," she said, softly. " I shall not be here long. 
 
After that, I want you to find her, and tell her how I 
sinned against you both." 
"Joe," his voice was solemn and tender, "we 
have all made mistakes. I, too, have sinned. I have 
been blind and proud. But if my love will comfort 
you, it is all yours now." 
"No." There was a little thrill of delight in her 
voice, too. " I don't want it all, Stephen. The old, 
jealous torture has died away, and I am coming to 
peace, rest. I am not ungrateful, nor ruled by any 
mean, sullen spirit. Heaven knows I ought to have 
done with all such now. And I take my share of your 
love gladly." 
" Which must be all, Joe. Let me make amends for 
the past, wherein I have made you suffer. Until God 
separates us " 
She guessed what he would have said, for her wo- 
man's intuition had been quickened. She placed her 
hand gently over his lips. 
" No, Stephen. Hope's place must be kept sacred, 
if she never comes to fill it. But she will. And hav- 
ing your love, I am content." 
" You don't quite understand it," he said, gently. 
" When I told my love, I did not dare repeat the story. 
I had a misgiving of the shock it would cause her. 
God did not mean that she should be mine." 
" We don't know what God means until it comes. 
We have only to wait. I told you before that I could 
 
not fill your heart, and a name was nothing. But you 
are princely generous, Stephen." 
"Will you take the gift?" 
"No," softly and tearfully. "Only love me to the 
end." 
They clasped hands in the silence, coming nearer to 
each other then than ever before in their whole lives. 
And both hearts yearned for the absent one. 
Far into the night Stephen Dane sat and watched his 
cousin. When the wind died down he fanned her 
gently, and with tenderest hands put aside the heavy 
hair clustering about her temples. Poor Joe, how hard 
life had been with her ! 
The next day Stephen consulted an eminent physi- 
cian. It was, as he had feared, too late for recovery. 
But Joe no longer cared for life. 
The shock and her remorse made fearful inroads upon 
her enfeebled frame. She amended a little, so that she 
came down stairs, and walked about the garden. Every 
day Stephen took her to drive. Such lovely haunts as 
he found, full of the later summer's greenery and fra- 
grance ! Rambles through quiet lanes, or by the wind- 
ing river ; tender talks, for there was nothing withheld 
now. It seemed to Joe as if she was entering heaven 
almost before her time. 
As the days wore on, an odd wish came to her. She 
wanted to see the clergyman who had read the funeral 
service that had so deeply impressed her. Stephen 
 
found him easily a Mr. Leighton, a stranger in the 
place, who had been at his post barely two months. 
A very curious mood took possession of Joe on this 
afternoon. She begged Katy to braid her hair as 
Hope used, and wreathe stems of Madeira blossoms in 
it. Her snowy wrapper was as faultless as Katy's 
fond care could make it, and the loving heart insisted 
upon her being adorned with a knot of scarlet ribbon 
at her throat "Jest as dear Miss Hope used to 
fix it." 
Joe sighed. 
" I 'clare, Miss Joe, you look handsome as a pic- 
tur' ! " 
The coming death was giving her a strange beauty. 
The features were large and irregular, but the eyes 
held in them a wonderful light ; the skin was trans- 
parent, with a slight fever flush on the cheeks. She 
had subsided into a languor of movement that was 
grace, compared with her former abruptness, and her 
voice had grown low and soft. Sitting in an easy- 
chair by the open window, she watched the vines 
swaying idly in the light air, until Katy announced, 
"Mr. Leighton." 
The young man paused an instant, then walked 
directly over to her, holding out his hand frankly. 
"Do not rise," he said in the tone she recognized so 
well. " I am glad to find you able to enjoy this lovely 
day. Have I not seen you before ? " 
 
"I was at the chapel nearly a month ago, at a 
funeral," she answered. 
" Yes, I remember now. You were kneeling, and 
your paleness attracted me. I was a stranger, and 
hardly knew the congregation." 
" I don't know why I went that day ; I was very 
wretched. Something in your voice soothed me, and 
I wanted to hear you talk again." 
"Thank you." He glanced away from her for a 
moment to a picture in an oval frame, hanging in the 
recess by the chimney. It was an exquisite ivorytype 
of Hope. She noted the direction of his eyes, and 
glanced also. 
" Is she not lovely ? " Joe asked involuntarily. 
He rose and approached nearer. "Yes," he an- 
swered. "I think I met her in Baltimore a Miss 
Hope Forsyth, is it not?" 
The room whirled round to Joe's dazed brain. 
Hope so near ! Hope given back tp Stephen ! O, 
no ! she must be dreaming. 
" Pardon me," he began, surprised at her agitation ; 
but Joe interrupted him with an eager, tremulous 
voice, 
" You have seen her ! Is she alive safe ? Can you 
find her again for me ? " 
" If it is the lady I mean " 
"When did you see her?" 
"First in April. I was assistant at a church in 
 
Baltimore. She came to stay with Dr. Cutter ; at 
least, that is where I met her. But I heard her sing 
in church, one morning, and such a glorious voice one 
never forgets ; " and Mr. Leighton's eyes wandered 
absently out on the porch, his memory returning, as it 
often did, to Hope Forsyth. 
" O Hope ! my darling, my darling ! " Joe rocked 
herself to and fro, and repeated the words softly, while 
Mr. Leighton, strangely puzzled, glanced from her to 
the picture. 
" Can you find her for me ? " The tone and face 
were alike sharp and eager. 
"I don't understand " 
" No ; how should you ? " Joe made a long pause 
to collect her scattered thoughts. What should she 
tell this stranger? 
" She was the ward of my cousin Mr. Stephen 
Dane a sacred charge to him. I sent her away; 
God forgive me !. I had something else to tell you 
to ask you. There was a tender pity in your voice 
that day at the funeral. I've dreamed of it so often ! 
I felt that I wanted some one to be just so tender and 
pitiful to me, for the way is thorny and tangled, and I 
cannot find any straight path. It will not be long 
before I'm done with it alL" 
"If I can help you try me, be frank with me. 
We stumble over so many hard things in life ! " 
The voice found its way to her heart. For a mo- 
 
ment she struggled with tears; then, steadying her 
tone, she resumed : 
" I cannot tell you all to-day. I can only think of 
her. I owe her some reparation. I love her as no 
one ever loved a sister as a child that one could give 
one's life for. There was a strange, terrible mistake. 
I told her what was not true, though Heaven knows I 
believed it at the time. It sent her away broke her 
heart, may be. And now I can't die without her. 
Will you go for her?" 
The incoherent and agitated manner puzzled Mr. 
Leighton exceedingly. Was the woman quite sane? 
As if she read his thoughts, she clasped her hands 
imploringly. The .pain and weakness, hidden before, 
came out in her face. The deep, sad eyes moved him 
powerfully. 
" Anything," he said. " Command me to the utter- 
most. But if you could explain this a little to me, 
give me some message to her, I would go gladly." 
The excitement imparted to Joe both courage and 
strength. With a delicacy one would hardly have 
given her credit for, she managed to make Mr. 
Leighton understand all of the story that was neces- 
saiy. The faltering voice and slow tears impressed 
him with the truth of the misunderstanding, as well 
as her sincerity. And during his three months' ac- 
quaintance with Hope Forsyth, he had dimly guessed 
at some hidden sorrow. 
 
After this Joe was in no mood to talk about herself. 
He saw it, and wisely forbore pressing the subject that 
he knew well must be so near. She was to write a 
letter for him to take, and he was to add to it, if need 
be, his urgent entreaties. And then he left her. 
Poor Joe ! Never in her life had she written a 
letter. This was scrawled in a trembling hand, and 
blotted by many tears. More than once heart and 
strength seemed failing. In her extremity she called 
upon the God who ever lends a willing ear. If she 
could but restore Hope to Stephen that was all she 
asked now. 
The excitement told fearfully upon her. Katy had 
gone with the note to Mr. Leighton, who was to start 
that evening, and Stephen found her alone, so pros- 
trated that he was alarmed. 
But in answer to his fears and entreaties, she only 
said, , 
"I shall be better to-morrow." 
 
xn. 
JOE'S ATONEMENT. 
THERE was no sleep for Josephine Dane that 
night. Stephen insisted upon watching her until 
after midnight, resolving that on the morrow Mrs. 
Beswick should be recalled. She lay very still, the 
large eyes strained up to the ceiling, and scarcely 
moving. But there was something awesome about 
her, as there is to every human soul wavering on the 
shores of eternity. His conscience was very tender, 
too. He thought how he might have blessed this poor 
life, so barren otherwise. Had he indeed pricked him- 
self with near thorns, in reaching for the far roses, not 
for him, alas ! 
She listened to his breathing, slow and strong the 
full pulses of manhood. She wondered what was in 
his heart if she could but crawl in and see ! To- 
morrow night the woman he loved would be here. 
She almost longed to tell him now, but dared not, 
some subtile fear holding her back, as if the promised 
 
good was safer in secrecy a childish whim which we 
have all indulged. 
At length he kissed her tenderly, and went away : it 
was her wish. Then she waited in the silence, wonder- 
ing how it would be at that last hour. Did God take 
poor, weary souls home to his bosom? She was so 
tired ! She wanted rest. When Hope came back, 
kissed her, and forgave her, she would be ready to go. 
It did not seem so terrible here in this soft silence. 
Just as if God drew nearer with every breath, as if 
she could trust him, at last, after so many perplexing 
doubts and fears. 
Morning dawned. A damp, odorous air filled the 
room. Birds came and warbled in the shrubbery. 
Katy was astir, singing revival melodies, in her round, 
cheery voice. Plow many times she had listened to 
them ! Some morning she would sing in a voice 
broken by sobs Joe would not be there to hear. 
How strange to think of everything going on as usual, 
and she asleep under the ground ! Would they miss 
her? A little, perhaps. 
There was a clatter of dishes, a fragrance of warm 
biscuit, and still the hymn. "Jordan's stormy banks," 
it was this morning, and Katy's fervor and negro 
dialect gave it a peculiar interest to the one who was 
shortly to see the " fields of living green." 
Stephen entered, grave and quiet, and studied her 
curiously. Some great change had come over her. 
 
"I shall go for Mrs. Beswick," he said. "Katy can- 
not give you the attention you need." 
" Not to-day, Stephen," she pleaded. 
" Why not to-day ? " 
"-It is my wish. You have spoiled me by indul- 
gence. After to-day you may do as you like. Nay, I 
am no worse." 
' ; You do not look as if you had slept at all." 
Joe only smiled. 
Stephen lingered far into the morning, performing 
many kind little offices with the grace and patience of 
a woman. Only urgent business took him away at 
length. 
Joe seemed in a strange dream. Would Hope really 
come back to her? Dying, she had said in her note. 
O, what if she should not live to see the day close ; to 
look once more into those dear eyes ! For now that it 
was coming so near, she grew almost faithless of the 
rapture. 
Some time after noon she begged Katy to dress her, 
and carry her down stairs, having made several ineffec- 
tual attempts herself. The white wrapper and the scar- 
let ribbons again. 
" Is the minister comin', Miss Joe ? " Katy asked. 
"Sonte one will come," Joe answered, faintly, crowd- 
ing down her precious secret ; and Katy was awed by 
a sense of mystery she could not comprehend.' 
The lounge was wheeled over to the window, for it 
 
seemed to Joe, every few moments, as if she should stifle. 
Then she was left alone with Hope's little prayer-book 
in her hand. There, on the fly-leaf, was written, in a 
girlish style, "Hope Vennard." Joe kissed the name 
with reverent humility. O ! would she come ? 
A whole hour to wait. Through the swaying vines 
were sifted grains of golden sunshine. Troops of 
quaint shadows played on the wall, grasping each other 
with rosy fingers. Now and then a gorgeous butterfly 
settled himself lazily just in sight, or droning bees made 
the air sleepy with their monotonous hum. In this 
quiet street, where it was half country, you could hear 
every passer-by, and Joe listened, with ears warily 
acute, scarcely daring to breathe. Until she saw 
Hope, it must appear but a wild dream. 
How she lived through that strange hour she could 
hardly tell. Every sound of carriage wheels, every 
voice in converse with a companion, thrilled her with 
feverish anxiety. Her pale lips trembled as she caught 
her breath. At some moments she believed herself 
dying, for even the sunlight grew dim, and stars like 
those of heaven floated before her vision. 
Did some one stop ? She could not remember cleai'ly. 
Katy plodding through the hall, and jerking back the 
night-latch with a sharp click, a scream of surprise, a 
confusion of voices. 'Would they never enter ? Every- 
thing was blurred and indistinct. She seemed floating 
miles and miles away from all those she had ever known. 
 
A flutter and a fragrance in the atmosphere of the 
room. A golden light, a sweet, sad pathetic cry, 
" O, Joe ! dear, dear Joe ! " 
Even in her wavering between the two lives, Joe 
felt the clasp of the soft arms, the rain of tender kisses, 
tenderer tears ; she heard the touching voice, and was 
content to lie still many moments, steeped in blissful 
sensations. When she opened her eyes, Hope was 
looking at her, and they two were alone. 
"You will forgive me?" Joe said, softly.  I was 
wrong. Such a terrible wrong ! and to be believed 
years against one, against him ! As soon as I heard 
where you were, I sent. I could not die in peace with- 
out you. Every inch of my flesh, every pulse of my 
brain and nerves, longed for you. It has been slow 
starvation." 
"If you are glad to have me back, that is enough. 
For the past, let it go." 
"No, it is not enough. Do you think I could have 
been so selfish, longing to enter heaven's gate, and yet 
not willing to make all the reparation in my power? 
And it seems so strange ! Just when I was willing to 
turn to God, he brought me so near you. Stephen 
searched in New York, he told me." 
Hope trembled at the mention of the name, and hid 
her face on Joe's breast. 
" Dear, he loved you so ! Now that I have given 
you back to him, I am quite content to die. You will 
 
forgive him his father's deed the poor old man did 
not mean to commit such an awful crime. Why should 
it be remembered against one so generous and good as 
Stephen? Surely he has borne enough already." 
"O, don't think of that, Joe. When I went away, 
believing him guilty, I forgave him. Many an hour I 
have wanted to crawl back, ever so abjectly, and com- 
fort him. I was so sorry for what he had to bear. I 
tried to fancy him happy in " 
"Not in anything I could give him, Hope. I was 
wild that night. I was tortured by a hungry fiend. I 
was willing the whole world should sit in sackcloth, so 
that I but had his love. And I thought he had no right 
to yours. O, Hope, why does God give women hearts 
to love, and then bring only husks to satisfy them ? It 
seems so hard ! I wanted some one to be tender to me ; 
I wanted little children to climb my knees, and kiss my 
lips. God filled me up with human feelings. He did 
not bestow upon me any beauty to be proud of, any 
mind to cultivate, any broad views and longings for the 
good of my fellow-creatures. He made me dark and 
narrow, and placed just one star in my way, and my 
weary, trembling feet followed it. Was it so very 
wrong? I get confused. I can't seem to distinguish 
clearly. And now He is going to take me home. Will 
any one love me in heaven ? " 
Hope was sobbing, her wet face against Joe's. 
" When I am gone I don't want you to blame Ste- 
 
phen, or let any thought of this come between your 
love. He gave me all he could. God made him better 
and grander. I could have staid in Tregony all my 
life, and moiled with its dull and uneventful ways. 
Stephen's soul would have starved. I could not have 
supplied his wants. I know it now. We don't love 
people from will, nor duty, only so far as our duty 
towards them lies. He offered to make me his wife. 
It was good and noble in him ; but I knew well he 
had never sinned against me. When we were boy 
and girl there was some childish talk ; since then I have 
been a sister to him. That was the strongest feeling 
I could create in him. But a man with a great, 
hungry soul needs some one who will fill it. And 
you, with your youth, your beauty, your rich, winsome 
nature " 
" O, don't, don't, Joe. Every word stabs me like a 
knife ! Your love was better than mine. It lived 
through all that dark, horrible time ; it did not fear 
disgrace ; it was so strong and resolute. And I like 
it because it had the courage to fight that night. Mine 
was so weak, it failed at the first blow a very cow- 
ard ! " 
" Is it dead, Hope ? Tell me that ! " And Joe, 
raising her face, looked steadily into it. 
"Thank God," she said, softly, "that I have not 
murdered any one's soul. I shall go to God weak and 
empty-handed, but not stained with that sin. You love 
 
Lira still, Hope. It is right. I have brought you 
back given you to him again." 
"No, Joe. And yet it is not from any fault of 
yours. He almost told me the story that morning be- 
fore he asked my love. And I said, blindly and igno- 
rantly enough, that one could forgive, that one could 
even love, after such an injury. When it came to me, 
you see I failed miserably. He would never believe 
me, never trust me again." 
" But for my claim you would not have gone away." 
"I might." 
"No. It was my mistake, my evil passion and jeal- 
ousy. And I shall not believe myself forgiven until 
you promise, when the time comes, you will not let any 
pride, any word that might be said, keep you apart. 
You will do for your love what I would have done for 
mine. It is a better and worthier one. Promise ! " 
"I will," Hope said, "if so be that he should love 
me again." 
" He has never ceased. He will not have to 
begin." 
There was a long silence, broken only by sobs. 
Presently Joe said, 
"What of all this time, Hope? Where have you 
been?" 
"I made a confidant of one of my teachers. It was 
not necessary to tell her the whole story, only that there 
was an urgent reason for my leaving the city with the 
 
utmost secrecy. She had been applied to not a week 
before for a governess. Dr. Cutter's sister, living 
on the eastern shore of Maryland, required one. 
So she sent me to Dr. Cutter. This Mrs. Say res 
was expected on a visit; consequently I remained in 
his family eight or ten days. Their head singer in 
church was ill, and on Sunday I supplied her place. 
Once the hymn was " Guide me, O, thou great 
