The magnificent work through and under the Apen- 
nines, between Bologna and Florence, had been 
washed away by the mountain torrents in a dozen 
places, and the roads over the plains of the Romagna 
had been sapped by the flood, and rendered useless, 
where not actually laid under water. 
On the day of our intended departure we left the 
hotel, with other travellers, gayly incredulous of the 
landlord's fear that no train would start for Bologna. 
At the station we found a crowd of people waiting 
and hoping, but there was a sickly cast of doubt in 
some faces, and the labeled employe's of the railway 
wore looks of ominous importance. Of course the 
crowd did not lose its temper. It sought information 
of the officials running to and fro with telegrams, in 
a spirit of national sweetness, and consoled itself 
 
with saying, as Italy has said under all circumstances 
of difficulty for centuries : Ci vuol pazienza ! At last 
a blank silence fell upon it, as the Capo-Stazione 
advanced toward a well-dressed man in the crowd, 
and spoke to him quietly. The well-dressed man 
lifted his forefinger and waved it back and forth before 
his face : 
The Well-dressed Man. Dunque, non si parte 
piu ? (No departures, then ?) 
The Capo-Stazione (waving his forefinger in like 
manner.) Non si parte piu. (Like a mournful 
echo.) 
We knew quite as well from this pantomime of 
negation as from the dialogue our sad fate, and sub- 
mitted to it. Some adventurous spirit demanded 
whether any trains would go on the morrow. The 
Capo-Stazione, with an air of one who would not 
presume to fathom the designs of Providence, re- 
sponded: "Who, knows? To-day, certainly not. 
To-morrow, perhaps. But " and vanished. 
It may give an idea of the Italian way of doing 
things to say that, as we understood, this break in 
the line was only a few miles in extent, that trains 
could have approached both to and from Bologna, 
and that a little enterprise on the part of the company 
could have passed travellers from one side to the 
other with very small trouble or delay. But the 
railway company was as much daunted by the in- 
undation as a peasant going to market, and for two 
months after the accident no trains carried passengers 
from one city to the- other. No doubt, however, the 
 
line was under process of very solid repair mean- 
while. 
For the present the only means of getting to 
Bologna was by carriage on the old highway, and 
accordingly we took passage thither in the omnibus 
of the Stella d'Oro. 
There was little to interest us in the country over 
which we rode. It is perfectly flat, and I suppose 
the reader knows what quantities of hemp and flax 
are raised there. The land seems poorer than in 
Lombardy, and the farm-houses and peasants' cottages 
are small and mean, though the peasants themselves, 
when we met them, looked well fed, and were cer- 
tainly well clad. The landscape lay soaking in a 
dreary drizzle the whole way, and the town of Cento, 
when we reached it, seemed miserably conscious of 
being too wet and dirty to go in-doors, and was 
loitering about in the rain. Our arrival gave the 
poor little place a sensation, for I think such a thing 
s an omnibus had not been seen there since the 
railway of Bologna and Ferrara was built. We went 
into the principal caffd to lunch, a caffe much too 
large for Cento, with immense red-leather cushioned 
sofas, and a cold, forlorn air of half-starved gentility, 
a clean, high-roofed caffe and a breezy, and thither 
the youthful nobility and gentry of the place followed 
us, and ordered a cup of coffee, that they might sit 
down and give us the pleasure of their distinguished 
company. They put on their very finest manners, 
and took their most captivating attitudes for the 
ladies' sake ; and the gentlemen of our party fancied 
 
that it was for them these young men began to dis- 
cuss the Roman question. How loud they were, 
and how earnest! And how often they consulted 
the newspapers of the caffS ! (Older newspapers I 
never saw off a canal-boat.) I may tire some time 
of the artless vanity of the young Italians, so in- 
nocent, so amiable, so transparent, but I think I 
never shall. 
The great painter Guercino was born at Cento, 
and they have a noble and beautiful statue of him 
in the piazza, which the town caused to be erected 
from contributions by all the citizens. Formerly his 
house was kept for a show to the public ; it was full 
of the pictures of the painter and many mementos 
of him ; but recently the paintings have been taken 
to the gallery, and the house is now closed. The 
gallery is, consequently, one of the richest second- 
rate galleries in Italy, and one may spend much 
longer time in it than we gave, with great profit. 
There are some most interesting heads of Christ',' 
painted, as Guercino always painted the Saviour, with 
a great degree of humanity in the face. It is an 
excellent countenance, and full of sweet dignity, but 
quite different from the conventional face of Christ. 
AT night we were again in Bologna, of which we 
had not seen the gloomy arcades for two years. It 
must be a dreary town at all times : in a rain it is 
horrible ; and I think the whole race of arcaded cities, 
 
Treviso, Padua, and Bologna, are dull, blind, and 
comfortless. The effect of the buildings vaulted 
above the sidewalks is that of a continuous cellar- 
way ; your view of the street is constantly interrupted 
by the heavy brick pillars that support the arches ; the 
arcades are not even picturesque. Liking always to 
leave Bologna as quickly as possible, and, on this 
occasion, learning that there was no hope of crossing 
the Apennines to Florence, we made haste to take 
the first train for Genoa, meaning to proceed thence 
directly to Naples by steamer. 
It was a motley company that sat down in Hotel 
Brun the morning after our arrival in Bologna to a 
breakfast of murky coffee and furry beefsteaks, as- 
sociated with sleek, greasy, lukewarm fried potatoes. 
I am sure that if each of our weather-bound pilgrims 
had told his story, we had been as well entertained 
as those at Canterbury. However, no one thought 
fit to give his narrative but a garrulous old Hebrew 
from London, who told us how he had been made 
to pay fifteen guineas for a carriage to cross the 
Apennines, and had been obliged to walk part of the 
way at that price. He was evidently proud, now 
the money was gone, of having been cheated of so 
much; and in him we saw that there was at least 
one human being more odious than a purse-proud 
Englishman namely, a purse-proud English Jew. 
He gave his noble name after a while, as something 
too precious to be kept from the company, when 
recommending one of the travellers to go to the Hotel 
d'Angleterre in Rome : " The best 'otel out of Eng- 
 
land. You may mention my name, if you like 
Mr. Jonas." The recipient of this favor noted down 
the talismanic words in his pocket-book, and Mr. 
Jonas, conscious of having conferred a benefit on his 
race, became more odious to it than ever. An Eng- 
lishman is of a composition so uncomfortably original 
that no one can copy him, though many may carica- 
ture. I saw an American in London once who 
thought himself an Englishman because he wore leg- 
of-mutton whiskers, declaimed against universal suf- 
frage and republics, and had an appetite for high 
game. He was a hateful animal, surely, but he was 
not the British lion ; and this poor Hebrew at Bologna 
was not a whit more successful in his imitation of 
the illustrious brute, though he talked, like him, of 
nothing but hotels, and routes of travel, and hack- 
men and porters, and seemed to have nothing to do 
in Italy but get through it as quickly and abusively 
as possible. 
We were very glad, I say, to part from all this at 
Bologna and take the noon train for Genoa. In our 
car there were none but Italians, and the exchange of 
" La Perseveranza " of Milan for " IlPopolo " of Tu- 
rin with one of them quickly opened the way for con- 
versation and acquaintance. (En passant : I know 
of no journal in the United States whose articles are 
better than those of the " Perseveranza," and it was 
gratifying to an American to read in this ablest jour- 
nal of Italy nothing but applause and encouragement 
of the national side in our late war.) My new-made 
friend turned out to be a Milanese. He was a phy- 
 
sician, and had served as a surgeon in the late war of 
Italian independence ; but was now placed in a hospital 
in Milan. There was a gentle little blonde with him, 
and at Piacenza, where we stopped for lunch, " You 
see," said he, indicating the lady, " we are newly 
married," which was, indeed, plain enough to any 
one who looked at their joyous faces, and observed 
how great disposition that little blonde had to nestle 
on the young man's broad shoulder. " I have a 
week's leave from my place," he went on, " and this 
is our wedding journey. We were to have gone to 
Florence, but it seems we are fated not to see that 
famous city." 
He spoke of it as immensely far off, and herein 
greatly amused us Americans, who had outgrown 
distances. 
" So we are going to Genoa instead, for two or 
three days." " Oh, have you ever been at Genoa ? " 
broke in the bride. " What magnificent palaces ! 
And then the bay, and the villas in the environs ! 
There is the Villa Pallavicini, with beautiful gardens, 
where an artificial shower breaks out from the bushes, 
and sprinkles the people who pass. Such fun ! " and 
she continued to describe vividly a city of which she 
had only heard from her husband ; and it was easy 
to see that she walked in paradise wherever he led 
her. 
They say that Italian husbands and wives do not 
long remain fond of each other, but it was impossi- 
ble in the presence of these happy people not to be- 
 
lieve in the eternity of their love, and it was hard to 
keep from " dropping into poetry " on account of 
them. Their bliss infected every body in the car, 
and in spite of the weariness of our journey, and the 
vexation of the misadventures which had succeeded 
one another unsparingly ever since we left home, we 
found ourselves far on the way to Genoa before we 
thought to grumble at the distance. There was with 
us, besides the bridal party, a lady travelling from 
Bologna to Turin, who had learned English in Lon- 
don, and spoke it much better than most Londoners. 
It is surprising how thoroughly Italians master a lan- 
guage so alien to their own as ours, and how frequently 
you find them acquainted with English. From 
Russia the mania for this tongue has spread all over 
the Continent, and in Italy English seems to be 
prized first among the virtues. 
As we drew near Genoa, the moon came out on 
purpose to show us the superb city, and we strove 
eagerly for a first glimpse of the proud capital where 
Columbus was born. To tell the truth, the glimpse 
was but slight and false, for railways always enter 
cities by some mean level, from which any pictur- 
esque view is impossible. 
Near the station in Genoa, however, is the weak 
and ugly monument which the municipality has lately 
raised to Columbus. The moon made the best of 
this, which stands in a wide open space, and con- 
trived, with an Italian skill in the arrangement of 
light, to produce an effect of undeniable splendor. 
 
On the morrow, we found out by the careless candor 
of the daylight what a uselessly big head Columbus 
had, and how the sculptor had not very happily 
thought proper to represent him with his sea-legs on. 
V. 
UP AND DOWN GENOA. 
I HAD my note-book with me on this journey, and 
pledged myself to make notes in it. And, indeed, I 
did really do something of the kind, though the re- 
sult of my labors is by no means so voluminous as I 
would like it to be, now when the work of wishing 
there were more notes is so easy. We spent but one 
day in Genoa, and I find such a marvelous succinct 
record of this in my book that I am tempted to give 
it here, after the fashion of that Historical Heavy- 
weight who writes the Life of " Frederick the Great." 
" Genoa, November 13. Breakfast d la fourchette 
excellently and cheaply. I buy a hat. We go to 
seek the Consul, and, after finding every thing else 
for two hours, find him. Genoa is the most magnifi- 
cent city I ever saw ; and the new monument to 
Columbus about the weakest possible monument. 
Walk through the city with Consul ; Doge's palace ; 
cathedral ; girl turning somersaults in the street ; 
blind madman on the cathedral steps. We leave for 
Naples at twelve midnight." 
As for the breakfast, it was eaten at one of the 
many good caffe" in Genoa, and perhaps some statis- 
 
tician will like to know that for a beefsteak and pota- 
toes, with a half-bottle of Ligurian wine, we paid a 
franc. For this money we had also the society of an 
unoccupied waiter, who leaned against a marble col- 
umn and looked on, with that gentle, half-compassion- 
ate interest in our appetites, which seems native to 
the tribe of waiters. A slight dash of surprise is 
in this professional manner ; and there is a faint 
smile on the solemn, professional countenance, which 
is perhaps prompted by too intimate knowledge of the 
mysteries of the kitchen and the habits of the cook. 
The man who passes his life among beefsteaks can- 
not be expected to love them, or to regard without 
wonder the avidity with which others devour them. 
I imagine that service in restaurants must beget 
simple and natural tastes in eating, and that the 
jaded men who minister there to our pampered ap- 
petites demand only for themselves 
"A scrip with herbs and fruits supplied, 
And water from the spring." 
Turning from this thought to the purchase of my 
hat, I do not believe that literary art can interest the 
reader in that purely personal transaction, though I 
have no doubt that a great deal might be said about 
buying hats as a principle. I prefer, therefore, to 
pass to our search for the Consul. 
A former Consul at , whom I know, has told 
me a good many stories about the pieces of popu- 
lar mind which he received at different times from 
the travelling public, in reproof of his difficulty of 
discovery ; and I think it must be one of the most 
jealously guarded rights of American citizens in for- 
eign lands to declare the national representative hard 
to find, if there is no other complaint to lodge against 
him. It seems to be, in peculiar degree, a quality of 
consulship at , to be found remote and inac- 
cessible. My friend says that even at New York, 
before setting out for his post, when inquiring into 
the history of his predecessors, he heard that they 
were one and all hard to find ; and he relates that on 
the steamer, going over, there was a low fellow who 
set the table in a roar by a vulgar anecdote to this 
effect : 
" There was once a consul at , who indi- 
cated his office-hours by the legend on his door, 'In 
from ten to one.' An old ship-captain, who kept 
coming for about a week without finding the Consul, 
at last furiously wrote, in the terms of wager, under 
this legend, ' Ten to one you 're out ! ' 
My friend also states that one day a visitor of his 
remarked : " I 'm rather surprised to find you in. As 
a general rule, I never do find consuls in." Habitu- 
ally, his fellow-countrymen entertained him with ac- 
counts of their misadventures in reaching him. It 
was useless to represent to them that his house was 
in the most convenient locality in , where, in- 
deed, no stranger can walk twenty rods from his hotel 
without losing himself; that their guide was an ass, 
or their courier a rogue. They listened to him po- 
litely, but they never pardoned him in the least ; and 
neither will I forgive the Consul at Genoa. I had 
no earthly consular business with him, but a private 
 
favor to ask. It was Sunday, and I could not reason- 
ably expect to find him at his office, or any body to 
tell me where he lived ; but I have seldom had so 
keen a sense of personal wrong and national neglect 
as in my search for that Consul's house. 
In Italy there is no species of fact with which any 
human being you meet will not pretend to have per- 
fect acquaintance, and, of course, the driver whose 
fiacre we took professed himself a complete guide to 
the Consul's whereabouts, and took us successively 
to the residences of the consuls of all the South 
American republics. It occurred to me that it might 
be well to inquire of these officials where their col- 
league was to be found ; but it is true that not one 
consul of them was at home ! Their doors were 
opened by vacant old women, in whom a vague intel- 
ligence feebly guttered, like the wick of an expiring 
candle, and who, after feigning to throw floods of 
light on the object of my search, successively flick- 
ered out, and left me in total darkness. 
Till that day, I never knew of what lofty flights 
stairs were capable. As out-of-doors, in Genoa, it is 
either all up or down hill, so in-doors it is either all 
up or down stairs. Ascending and descending, in one 
palace after another, those infinite marble steps, it 
became a question not solved to this hour, whether it 
was worse to ascend or descend, each ordeal in its 
turn seemed so much more terrible than the other. 
At last I resolved to come to an understanding 
with the driver, and I spent what little breath I had 
left it was dry and hot as the simoom in blow- 
 
ing up that infamous man. " You are a great 
driver," I said, " not to know your own city. What 
are you good for if you can't take a foreigner to his 
consul's ? " " Signore," answered the driver pa- 
tiently, " you would have to get a book in two vol- 
umes by heart, in order to be able to find every 
body in Genoa. This city is a labyrinth." 
Truly, it had so proved, and I could scarcely believe 
in my good luck when I actually found my friend, 
and set out with him on a ramble through its toils. 
A very great number of the streets in Genoa are 
footways merely, and these are as narrow, as dark, as 
full of jutting chimney-places, balconies, and opened 
window-shutters, and as picturesque as the little alleys 
in Venice. They wander at will around the bases 
of the gloomy old stone palaces, and seem to have a 
vagabond fondness for creeping down to the port, and 
losing themselves there in a certain cavernous arcade 
which curves round the water with the flection of the 
shore, and makes itself a twilight at noonday. Under 
it are clangorous shops of iron-smiths, and sizzling 
shops of marine cooks, and, looking down its dim 
perspective, one beholds chiefly sea-legs coming and 
going, more or less affected by strong waters ; and as 
the faces to which these sea-legs belong draw near, 
one discerns sailors from all parts of the world, 
tawny men from Sicily and Norway, as diverse in 
their tawniness as olive and train-oil ; sharp faces 
from Nantucket and from the Piraeus, likewise might- 
ily different in their sharpness ; blonde Germans and 
blonde Englishmen ; and now and then a colored 
 
brother also in the seafaring line, with sea-legs, also, 
more or less affected by strong waters like the rest. 
What curious people are these seafarers ! They 
coast the whole world, and know nothing of it, being 
more ignorant and helpless than children on shore. 
I spoke with the Yankee mate of a ship one day at 
Venice, and asked him how he liked the city. 
Well, he had not been ashore yet. 
He was told he had better go ashore ; that the 
Piazza San Marco was worth seeing. 
Well, he knew it ; he had seen pictures of it ; but 
he guessed he would n't go ashore. 
Why not, now he was here ? 
Well, he laid out to go ashore the next time he 
came to Venice. 
And so, bless his honest soul, he lay three weeks 
at Venice with his ship, after a voyage of two months, 
and he sailed away without ever setting his foot on 
that enchanted ground. 
I should have liked to stop some of those seafarers 
and ask them what they thought of Genoa. 
It must have been in the little streets impassable 
for horses that the people sat and talked, as Heine 
fabled, in their doorways, and touched knees with the 
people sitting and talking on the thresholds of the 
opposite side. But we saw no gossipers there on our 
Sunday in Genoa ; and I think the domestic race of 
Heine's day no longer lives in Genoa, for every body 
we saw on the streets was gayly dressed in the idea 
of the last fashions, and was to be met chiefly in the 
public promenades. The fashions were French ; but 
 
here still lingers the lovely phantom of the old na- 
tional costume of Genoa, and snow-white veils flut- 
tered from many a dark head, and caressed many an 
olive cheek. It is the kindest and charitablest of 
attirements, this white veil, and, while decking 
beauty to the most perilous effect, befriends and 
modifies age and ugliness. 
The pleasure with which I look at the splendor of 
an Italian crowd in winter is always touched with 
melancholy. I know that, at the time of its noonday 
promenade, it has nothing but a cup of coffee in its 
stomach ; that it has emerged from a house as cold 
and dim as a cellar ; and that it will presently go 
home to dine on rice and boiled beef. I know that 
chilblains secretly gnaw the hands inside of its kid 
gloves, and I see in the rawness of its faces the an- 
guish of winter-long suffering from cold. But I also 
look at many in this crowd with the eye of the econ- 
omist, and wonder how people practicing even so 
great self-denial as they can contrive to make so 
much display on their little means, how those 
clerks of public offices, who have rarely an income 
of five hundred dollars a year, can dress with such 
peerless gorgeousness. I suppose the national instinct 
teaches them ways and means unknown to us. The 
passion for dress is universal : the men are as fond of 
it as the women ; and, happily, clothes are compara- 
tively cheap. It is no great harm in itself, this dis- 
play : it is only a pity that there is often nothing, or 
worse than nothing, under the shining surface. 
We walked with the brilliant Genoese crowd upon 
 
the hill where the public promenade overlooks a land- 
scape of city and country, houses and gardens, vines 
and olives, which it makes the heart ache to behold, 
it is so faultlessly beautiful. Behind us the fountain 
was 
" Shaking its loosened silver in the sun ; " 
the birds were singing; and there were innumerable 
fair girls going by, about whom one might have made 
romances if one had not known better. Our friend 
pointed out to us the " pink jail " in which Dickens 
lived while at Genoa; and showed* us on the brow of 
a distant upland the villa, called II Paradiso, which 
Byron had occupied. I dare say this Genoese joke 
is already in print : That the Devil reentered Para- 
dise when Byron took this villa. Though, in loveli- 
est Italy, one is half-persuaded that the Devil had 
never left Paradise. 
After lingering a little longer on that delicious 
height, we turned and went down for a stroll through 
the city. 
My note-book says that Genoa is the most magnifi- 
cent city I ever saw, and I hold by my note-book, 
though I hardly know how to prove it. Venice is, 
and remains, the most beautiful city in the world ; 
but her ancient rival impresses you with greater 
splendor. I suppose that the exclusively Renaissance 
architecture, which Ruskin declares the architecture 
of pride, lends itself powerfully to this effect in Genoa. 
It is here in its best mood, and there is little gro- 
tesque Renaissance to be seen, though the palaces 
 
are, as usual, loaded with ornament. The Via Nu- 
ova is the chief thoroughfare of the city, and the crowd 
pours through this avenue between long lines of pal- 
aces. Height on height rise the stately, sculptured 
fagades, colonnaded, statued, pierced by mighty door- 
ways and lofty windows ; and the palaces seem to 
gain a kind of aristocratic hauteur from the fact that 
there are for the most part no sidewalks, and that 
the carriages, rolling insolently through the crowd, 
threaten constantly to grind the pedestrian up against 
their carven marbles, and immolate him to their stony 
pride. There is something gracious and gentle in the 
grandeur of Venice, and much that the heart loves 
