suppose he was expected. I was introduced to Everett and Winthrop."
"You!" exclaimed his mother.
"I, mother!"
"Poor child, they were making fun of you!" sighed Mrs. Wittleworth.
"Not they. Everett bowed to me as gracefully as though I had been the
President. Winthrop was a little stiff; but what did I care for him, as
long as Choate and Everett were on good terms with me?"
"Your head is turned, Fitz."
"No matter if it is, so long as it is turned in the right direction.
Choate told Everett and Winthrop that I had formerly occupied a place
in his office, and that he had a high regard for me. He smiled
pleasantly, and so did Everett. Winthrop didn't take much notice of me.
Choate asked me if I wanted to see him for anything particular. I told
him I did; I wanted a little legal advice in the matter of Wittleworth
vs. Checkynshaw. He smiled very kindly upon me; he smiled as only
Choate can smile."
"What did he say to you?" demanded Mrs. Wittleworth, impatiently.
"He apologized for his inability to attend to the case at that time, as
he was engaged upon a matter of politics with Everett and Winthrop; but
he hoped he should find time to see me in the course of a week. Of
course I didn't care about breaking up his conference with Everett and
Winthrop; so I apologized for the interruption, and promised him I
would call upon him at his office the next day."
"I suppose he was very sorry he could not attend to the case," added
Mrs. Wittleworth.
"He appeared to be. He expressed his regrets; and, as he was attending
to the affairs of the nation, I could not be hard on him, you know."
"Certainly not," said his mother, amused in spite of the weakness of
her son.
"Choate is a good fellow--Choate is," added Fitz, rubbing his chin, and
puffing out his lips. "When he gets hold of this case, he will make
things fly, mother."
"What are you going to do, Fitz?" asked Mrs. Wittleworth, seriously.
"I'm not going to mince the matter any longer. I am going to bring a
suit against Checkynshaw for the block of stores, and the income
received from them for the last ten years," replied Fitz,
magnificently.
"You are!"
"I am; that is, when I say I am, of course I am going to do it in your
name, for I am the next heir to you. That will bring things to a head,
and we shall soon find out whether Checkynshaw is ready to stand trial
or not."
"We have no money to go to law with," pleaded the poor woman.
"We don't want any, mother. I have looked into this business, and what
I don't know about it isn't worth knowing. I know something about law,
for I used to keep my eyes and ears open when I was in the law
business."
Mr. Wittleworth had been an errand boy in Mr. Choate's office!
"I don't think you can go to law without money, Fitz. I have always
heard it was very expensive," added Mrs. Wittleworth.
"All we want, mother, is a copy of my grandfather's will. We attach the
block of stores, if necessary. Under the will it belongs to you, unless
Checkynshaw can produce your sister's child."
"Suppose he should produce her?"
"That's the very thing he can't do. If he does, of course our case
falls to the ground; but he can't."
"But if he does produce the child, where is the money to pay the
expenses?"
"The expenses won't be much. I shall say to Choate, 'Choate,' says I,
'here's a piece of property which belongs to my mother. You can go up
to the Registry of Probate, and read the will yourself. Give my mother
legal possession of it, and I will pay you five or ten thousand
dollars'--I haven't just decided exactly what to offer him. He takes
the case, brings the suit, and gets the property for you."
"Suppose he doesn't get it?"
"Then he will get nothing. When I was in the law business, cases were
sometimes taken in this way."
Mrs. Wittleworth was encouraged by this hopeful statement, and disposed
to let Fitz have his own way. Abject poverty was so terrible that she
could not afford to lose such a chance. Mr. Checkynshaw's conduct in
leaving his child in France, among strangers, for ten years, was
singular enough to beget suspicion.
The conversation was continued till the fire went out, and the chill
air of the room drove the intended litigants to their chambers. Fitz
did not come down till breakfast time the next morning. He lay in his
warm bed, building castles in the air, and thinking what a great man he
should be when the block of stores and its revenues were reclaimed from
the grasp of Mr. Checkynshaw. He thought it quite possible that he
could then go into a barber's shop and be shaved without any one having
the impudence to laugh at him.
Mrs. Wittleworth had thought a great deal about the property, but she
could not quite make up her mind to take such decided steps as those
indicated by her son. If the attempt was made, and proved to be a
failure, Mr. Checkynshaw would never forgive her, and might injure her
in revenge. When she came down stairs, she had decided to call upon the
banker, and state the case to him. If he chose to satisfy her that
Marguerite was still living, it would save trouble and future
disappointment.
"You can see him if you like, mother. I have no doubt he will smooth
you over. Checkynshaw is a plausible man--Checkynshaw is. He carries
too many guns for a woman. I would call myself if it were not for
letting myself down to his level," said Mr. Wittleworth, stroking his
chin, when his mother was ready to go.
"Don't be so silly, Fitz!"
"Checkynshaw won't stand trial, in my opinion. He is shrewd--he is."
"I only intend to ask him what he means to do," added Mrs. Wittleworth.
"He means to hold on to the property--that's what he means to do,
mother. He may try to buy you off--don't do it, on any account. Leave
this matter all to me. Me and Choate will fix it right. Now, be careful
what you do."
"I will not do anything," said his mother, as she put on her bonnet.
"I will see Choate to-day. Me and Choate will touch off a volcano under
Checkynshaw's feet in the course of a week or two," he added, as his
mother left the house.
CHAPTER XIV.
MR. CHECKYNSHAW IS LIBERAL.
Mrs. Wittleworth went directly to the door of the private office. She
had her doubts in regard to the interview which was to take place. Mr.
Checkynshaw had never treated her very handsomely. She had called upon
him only once since the downfall of her husband. The banker had
listened very coldly to her story of hardship and suffering. He had
taken Fitz into his employ at that time; but her reception was so cold,
and the great man's manner so forbidding, that she had resolved that
nothing but imminent starvation should induce her to repeat the visit.
Mr. Checkynshaw was a hard, selfish, money-getting man. He was not one
whom a poor relative would willingly approach with a tale of suffering.
Though this was not Mrs. Wittleworth's present errand, she dreaded the
result almost as much as though she had been an applicant for charity.
The banker was overbearing and haughty in his way. He bullied his
social inferiors, and looked upon them from a height which was
appalling to them. She opened the door and entered. The banker was
alone, sitting in the stuffed arm-chair at his desk.
"Ellen?" said he, glancing at her with an inquiring look, probably
satisfied that she had come to plead for the return of her son to the
place from which he had been discharged.
It did not occur to him that human impudence could extend so far as to
permit such people to bring a suit against him for their rights,
however well defined or clearly established. If he owed them anything,
or they had any claims against him, it was their duty to be solemnly
impressed by the loftiness of his social position, and humbly to beg
for what belonged to them.
"I thought I would come up and see you this morning, Mr. Checkynshaw,"
stammered the poor woman; and poverty had so subdued her, and so broken
her spirit, that she hardly knew how to introduce the subject upon her
mind.
"If you come to ask me to take Fitz back, it will do no good. You
permit the puppy to insult me," replied the banker, in the most
forbidding tones.
"I don't permit him to insult you. I did what I could to make him speak
properly to you," replied Mrs. Wittleworth, meekly.
"It's all the same; it was bad bringing up. I can't have him in my
office again," added Mr. Checkynshaw, though at that moment, for some
reason best known to himself, he would have been very glad to forgive
the young man's insolence, and take him back at double salary. "That
boy has outraged my good-nature. When I saw how hard the times were
with you, I was willing to give him double wages; but the ingrate only
insulted me for it."
"He is very wilful; I wish he was not so headstrong."
"I can't take him back now; at least not till he has apologized for his
impudence, and promised better things for the future," continued the
banker, shaking his head, as though his mind was firmly made up for the
issue.
"I did not come to ask you to take him back," added Mrs. Wittleworth.
"O, you didn't!"
"No, sir; he is not yet willing to come."
"What did you come for--to beg?"
"I don't come to you to beg," replied she with a little display of
spirit.
"What do you want, then?"
"You mustn't be angry with me, Mr. Checkynshaw."
"I'm not angry with you. If you have anything to say, say it. I hate
long stories," said the banker, impatiently.
"Fitz has taken it into his head that the block of stores which my
father gave to Mary belongs to us," continued Mrs. Wittleworth, looking
down to the floor, as if fearful that the great man's glance would
blast her if she beheld it.
"Has he, indeed?"
If Mrs. Wittleworth had looked at the banker instead of the floor, she
might have seen that his face flushed slightly; that his lip quivered,
and his chest heaved; but, as she did not look at him, the banker had
time to suppress these tell-tale emotions.
"He thinks so; and he seems to be determined that something shall be
done about it," added the poor woman, still gazing intently at the
floor.
"And you encourage such ridiculous notions--do you, Ellen?" said Mr.
Checkynshaw, severely.
"I don't know that I encourage them. I can't help his thoughts."
"Probably you don't wish to help them. Well, you can do as you please
about it. If you choose to get him and yourself into difficulty, I
suppose nothing I can say will have any influence with you."
"I don't want to get into trouble, or to spend any money in going to
law."
"I should judge, from the appearance of your house, that you hadn't
much to spend in that way," sneered the banker.
"I have not, indeed. I said all I could to dissuade Fitz from doing
anything about the matter; but he is bent upon it. He has been to see
Mr. Choate about it."
"To see Mr. Choate!" exclaimed the banker, springing out of his chair;
and now his face was deadly pale.
But in an instant Mr. Checkynshaw was conscious that he was revealing
the weakness of his position, and he sat down in his chair again, with
a placid smile upon his face.
"Am I to understand that Fitz and you intend to fight me in the law
upon this matter?" demanded he, with a sardonic grin on his face,
indicating both fear and malice.
"Fitz says there will be no fighting about it. We are to bring a suit
to recover the property, according to the terms of my father's will,
with the income for ten years."
"Fitz says so--does he?"
"He thinks Marguerite died when your present wife had the cholera. He
says all you have to do is to produce the child. If you do, that will
be the end of it; if not, the property certainly belongs to us."
"What makes Fitz think that Marguerite is not living?" asked Mr.
Checkynshaw, more mildly than he had yet spoken.
"Well, he has his reasons," replied she, not quite certain that she
might not say something which would compromise her son.
"What are his reasons?"
"I don't know that it is necessary to mention them. I think myself it
is very strange that you haven't brought her home. She must be fifteen
years old by this time."
"That is her age."
"I don't want any trouble about this business, Mr. Checkynshaw; so I
thought I would come up and see you. Perhaps you can show me some
letters from Marguerite, or something else that will convince Fitz that
she is alive."
"I have no letters here."
"Have you any at your house?" asked Mrs. Wittleworth.
"Not that I am aware of. I never preserve any but business letters. If
I understand you, Ellen, Fitz's modest claim is for the block of stores
and the income of them for the last ten years."
"That's what he said."
"Are you aware of the amount of this claim?" asked the banker,
nervously.
"I don't know, exactly."
"I suppose not," said Mr. Checkynshaw, pausing to reflect. "I don't
wish to bring Marguerite home till her education is completed, and this
thing may cause me some annoyance."
"I'm sure I don't want to annoy you," pleaded Mrs. Wittleworth.
"Perhaps you do not; but Fitz does. If you refuse to be a party to this
suit, of course he can do nothing. He has no rights yet in the premises
himself, and he is under age."
"I think myself the matter ought to be settled up somehow or other,"
replied Mrs. Wittleworth, timidly. "I am so poor I can hardly keep soul
and body together, and Fitz has lost his place."
"I will give him his place, at ten dollars a week. I will see that you
have a good house, properly furnished, and a sufficient income to live
on. If I had known that you were so badly off, I should have done
something for you before. Why didn't you come to me?"
"I don't like to ask favors; besides, we have been able to get along
till times came on so hard this winter that I couldn't get any work."
"I don't wish to be bothered with this thing, and be compelled to go to
France in the middle of the winter after Marguerite. Fitz saw that he
could annoy me, and he has taken this means to vent his spite upon me.
But the suit depends upon you. He can do nothing without you. Mr.
Choate will have nothing to do with it. He doesn't take cases of this
kind; but Fitz can find some unprincipled lawyer who will undertake the
case, and compel me to derange my plans."
"Could you show me some letters from Marguerite, or some bill you have
paid for her board or tuition?"
"Perhaps I may be able to find something of the kind at my house. I'll
see. But I think we had better settle up this business between
ourselves, without Fitz."
Mr. Checkynshaw looked troubled, and Mrs. Wittleworth could see it now.
"How can we settle it, if you have nothing to show me to prove that
Marguerite is living?" asked the poor woman.
"Marguerite is living, or was eighteen months ago, when I was in
France."
"Haven't you heard from her for eighteen months?"
"Of course I have; but that is neither here nor there. I don't wish to
be annoyed in this way, or to have your son boasting that he has a
claim on me. I don't choose to submit to that sort of thing any longer.
Neither is it my intention to bring Marguerite home till she is
eighteen years old. She is very much attached to the institution in
which she spent her childhood."
"I should think you would wish to see her oftener than once in two
years," added Mrs. Wittleworth, the remark prompted by her woman's
heart.
"So I would. But you know just how it is. I can't bring her home
without having trouble in my family; and she is perfectly happy where
she is. I ought to have done more for you, Ellen, than I have; but I
didn't know the world went so hard with you. I blame myself for not
thinking more about it; but I am plunged in business, so that I hardly
have time to think of my own family. I don't see how I can do it in any
other way than by settling a fixed sum upon you at once. Then I can do
all that I have to do at one time, and you will not have to depend upon
my bad memory."
"I'm sure I've no claims on you of that kind," replied Mrs.
Wittleworth, amazed at this outburst of generosity.
"I know you have no legal claims upon me; but you are the sister of my
first wife. I have not forgotten her yet, and I never shall," continued
Mr. Checkynshaw, with a gush of sentiment such as the poor woman had
never before seen proceed from him. "Property from your father's estate
came into my family, and it would not be right for me to permit you to
want for the comforts of life, to say nothing of the necessities. I'm
going to do something for you here and now--something so that you shall
not be dependent upon Fitz, whether I forget you for the time or not.
Do you think you could live on the income of ten thousand dollars a
year? That would be six hundred dollars, or about twelve dollars a
week."
"That is more than I have had for years," gasped Mrs. Wittleworth.
"Very well; I will give you a check for that sum; or I will invest it
for you in the best paying stocks I can find."
"You are too good! I did not expect this!" exclaimed the poor woman,
wiping the tears from her eyes.
"I shall do no more than my duty--what I ought to have done before,"
replied the banker, magnanimously. "And, by the way, it would be as
well for you to sign a paper, so as to set this business at rest, and
prevent Fitz from annoying me," said the banker, as he took down his
check-book, and shuffled the papers about the desk with assumed
indifference.
"What paper am I to sign?" asked Mrs. Wittleworth, beginning to open
her eyes.
"I mean a quitclaim deed on the block of stores; but of course that has
nothing to do with the ten thousand dollars I am to pay you."
Mrs. Wittleworth knew what a quitclaim deed was. It was a deed by which
she relinquished all her right, title, and interest in the block of
stores.
"I think I will not sign it to-day, Mr. Checkynshaw," said she, rather
fearfully.
The banker urged her in vain. Fitz had warned her against such a step,
and she had more confidence in Fitz's judgment at that moment than ever
before.
"Very well; I will have the deed drawn, and fill out the check ready
for you the next time you call," added the banker, more disappointed
than his manner indicated.
Mrs. Wittleworth went home.
CHAPTER XV.
A SUCCESS IN THE MOUSE BUSINESS.
"Now, Tom, if you will draw the wagon, I will steady the house, and see
that the mice don't get out and run away," said Leo, when he had drawn
the chariot of the beauties a short distance.
"Small loss if they do," replied Tom Casey, who had already made up his
mind that they were going on a fool's errand.
"Not a bit of it, Tom. These mice are worth fifty cents a pair," added
Leo, as he placed himself by the house, and his companion took the pole
of the wagon.
"Fifty cints--is it? Sure who'd give fifty cints for those bits o'
crayturs? I wouldn't give fifty cints for a tousand of 'em, let alone a
pair of 'em."
"When I come back with five or six dollars in my pocket, which I shall
get for this establishment, you will change your tune, Tom."
"Well, the house is foist rate, and you may get five dollars for that.
Sure I think it's worth it; but I wouldn't give two cints for all the
mice that's in it."
"Perhaps you wouldn't, Tom. You haven't any taste for white mice."
"Taste--is it? Sure, would anyone ate 'em?"
Tom Casey was a recent importation from the Green Isle, and the emerald
dust had not been rubbed off him by the civilizing and humanizing
influence of the public schools; but he brought with him from Ireland a
big heart, which was worth more than polish and refinement, though both
go very well together. In spite of the grave responsibility which
rested upon him, Leo laughed heartily at the blunder, and took the
trouble to explain the meaning of taste in its artistic sense.
The procession--for the crowd of boys and girls was augmented
continually when the mouse-car reached High Street--advanced towards
its destination, and Leo had all he could do to keep the youngsters
from crowding upon and upsetting the wagon, in their eagerness to see
the mice and their magnificent dwelling-house.
"Just twig 'em, Jimmy!" shouted one who had tipped over half a dozen of
his companions in his enthusiasm. "Their tails is as long as Seven's
rope."
"Hotel dees mice," said another, spelling out the sign over the grand
parade. "What does that mean, Billy?"
"They're going to take 'em to a hotel to make soup of. I guess there's
some Chinamen at the Tremont. They say them coveys eats rats. Twig the
red eyes they has!"
Leo kept the youngsters at bay as well as he could, and hurried Tom
along, till they reached State Street, where he took a stand in front
of the Exchange. A crowd of curious merchants, clerks, and curb-stone
brokers immediately gathered around the palace to examine the structure
and its inhabitants. It was a novel establishment, and excited no
little attention.
"What have you there, my boy?" asked a well-dressed gentleman, working
his way into the interior of the ring.
"White mice, sir," replied Leo.
"They are cunning little creatures," added the gentleman, bending down
and looking into the grand parade, where the mice were now feeding on
canary seed.
They had become somewhat accustomed to the crowd, and, as if conscious
that they were for sale, put the best foot forward.
"What's the price of them?" asked the gentleman.
"Six dollars for the mice and house," replied Leo; but the words almost
choked him.
"Six dollars!" exclaimed the questioner, edging off. "That's a very
modest price, young man."
"The mice bring fifty cents a pair, and there's a great deal of work in
the house, besides the stock."
"But you don't expect any one to give you six dollars for a trap like
that, with half a dozen rats in it--do you?"
"I think it is worth that, sir. Do you wish to buy it?"
"I thought it would amuse my children; but I can't think of giving
anything like six dollars for it," added the gentleman, shaking his
head.
"What would you be willing to give for it?"
"I'll give you a dollar for it."
"No, sir, I couldn't think of selling it at any such price as that. I
would give it away before I would sell it for that," replied Leo,
indignant at having his work so grossly undervalued.
"I will give you two dollars for it. I have a little lame boy at home,
who can't go out, and I am willing to give two for it."
"I will not sell it for less than five dollars, sir."
"Why, that's a rascally price!" exclaimed the proposed purchaser. "Five
dollars for a mere rat-trap!"
"That's my lowest price, sir. If you don't want it, the law don't
compel you to take it," added Leo, vexed to have the person run down
his handiwork.
The gentleman backed out of the crowd, and disappeared. Leo thought he
could not care much for his little lame boy, if he was not willing to
pay five dollars for such an elegant establishment as the "Hôtel des
Mice," which could not help being a very great pleasure to the
invalid. Half a dozen others looked into the palace, asked questions
about the habits of the mice, and inquired the price of the house and
its inmates. Leo answered them all very politely; but they laughed and
sneered when he mentioned the six dollars.
The "mouse business" did not seem so prosperous as Leo had anticipated.
He had been confident that a dozen persons would want the elegant
establishment, and he was not quite sure there would not be a quarrel
among them for the possession of it at the price he named. He could not
see why these rich merchants and bankers should haggle at six dollars
if they had any children at home. His heart began to feel heavy in his
bosom, for he had expected to sell his present stock of merchandise as
soon as he named the price, and to find half a dozen more who would
want them badly enough to give him advance orders.
There appeared to be a discount on the mouse business. The gentlemen in
State Street were singularly cold and wanting in enthusiasm on the
subject of white mice. It began to look like a failure, and Tom Casey
seemed to be a true prophet. What an inglorious termination to his
career as a mouse merchant it would be to drag the palace back to No. 3
Phillimore Court, and tell Maggie that no one would buy it, even at the
moderate price of five dollars!
But Leo soon realized that he was becoming chicken-hearted; that he was
almost in despair even before he had been half an hour in the field.
This was not his usual style, and he was ashamed of it, as he
considered his weakness.
"Make or break!" exclaimed he, slapping his hand upon his chest, and
throwing his shoulders back, as if to stiffen his frame. "I'll stick to
it till something breaks. This is a new business, and I must make the
trade."
The effect of this slapping of the chest and this stiffening of the
frame was immediately apparent in his demeanor, for they were the
visible manifestations of a firm will. He was more cheerful, answered
inquiries more briskly, and was less affected by adverse criticism of
his handicraft. Men asked the price, sneered, and turned away. There
were plenty to admire his workmanship, but as yet none to buy. While
Leo was thus struggling against the tide of fortune, the crowd opened,
and Mr. Checkynshaw appeared within the ring. He was a great man, and
he showed it in his manner--perhaps more in his manner than in any
other way.
Mrs. Wittleworth had taken leave of the banker an hour before, and
since that time he had been alone in his private office, only
occasionally interrupted by a business call. Mr. Checkynshaw was
troubled. Fitz was a thorn in his flesh and a stumbling-block in his
path. Doubtless it was very annoying for the father of Marguerite to
break up the educational and social relations she had sustained from
early childhood. Doubtless it was very wicked of Fitz to put him to all
this trouble for nothing. Perhaps it was rash in him to discharge his
clerk; but Fitz was so airy and impudent, that a decent self-respect
would not permit him to tolerate his insolence.
Mr. Checkynshaw wrote a letter, upon which he labored for a long time;
for the letter appeared to be full of difficulties. He finished it at
last; but, instead of enclosing it in an envelope, he folded it up and
put it into his pocket. Then he took his hat, drew on his overcoat, and
went out. He visited a stationery store in the lower part of the
street, purchased some French paper and envelopes, and walked up the
street till he saw the crowd in front of the Exchange, which had
gathered around the "Hôtel des Mice."
"What have you here, boy?" he asked, when he recognized Leo.
"White mice, sir. My father can't work now, and I am going to try and
make something by selling them," replied Leo, cheerfully.
"What is the price?" demanded the banker, rather curtly.
"Six dollars, sir."
"I'll take it, boy," replied Mr. Checkynshaw, with a promptness which
astonished the young mechanic.
The banker took the money from his pocket-book and handed it to Leo.
"Good on your head!" whispered Tom Casey, his eyes opening as wide as
teacups when he saw the bank bills; and his dark prophecy was suddenly
demolished.
"You know where I live?" interrogated Mr. Checkynshaw.
"Yes, sir."
"Take it up to the house, then," added the banker.
"I will, sir;" and Leo thought the great man, as his first customer,
was worthy of his reputation.
Just then the gentleman who had the lame boy pushed his way into the
middle of the ring.
"What's the lowest price you will take for the concern?" said he.
"It is sold, sir," replied Leo, triumphantly.
"Sold!" exclaimed the tardy customer, who appeared to think that no one
could be foolish enough to buy such an establishment unless he had a
lame son.
"Yes, sir; I just sold it."
"What did you get?"
"Six dollars."
"I bought it," interposed Mr. Checkynshaw, bowing to the other
gentleman, as though he knew him.
"I'm sorry I didn't take it, for it would have pleased my boy."
"You are too late."
"But I will get up another for you," said Leo, exhilarated by this
sudden improvement of the mouse business.
"When can you do it?" asked the gentleman, who was quite disappointed
to find he could not purchase the establishment at his own price, as he
had expected to do at a later hour in the day, after the young man had
had an opportunity to consider the vanity of worldly hopes.
"That depends upon what kind of one you want. If you wish for one like
this, I can't get it done before Monday. I can give you a two-dollar
house, with one pair of mice, to-morrow," replied Leo, in the most
business-like tones.
"I want the best one you can get up. I want one as good or better than
this."
"I will build one as good as this. I will have it at your house on
Monday; but the price will be six dollars."
