in New York.
"I shall write to her," said Preston. "How came she to do
such an absurd thing as to let you come here? and whom did you
come with? Did you come alone?"
"Not at all. I came with proper company."
"Proper company wouldn't have brought you," Preston growled.
"I think you want something to eat, Preston," I said. "You
will feel better when you have had some refreshment."
It was just the time for a meal and I saw the supplies coming
in. And Preston's refreshment, as well as that of some others,
I attended to myself. I think he found it pleasant; for
although some growls waited upon me even in the course of my
ministering to him, I heard from that time no more
remonstrances; and I am sure Preston never wrote his letter. A
testimonial of a different sort was conveyed in his whispered
request to me, not to let that horrid Yankee spinster come
near him again.
But Miss Yates was a good friend to me.
"You are looking a little pale," she said to me at evening.
"Go and lie down a spell. All's done up; you ain't wanted now,
and you may be, for anything anybody can tell, before an hour
is gone. Just you go away and get some rest. It's been your
first day. And the first day's rather tough."
I told her I did not feel tired. But she insisted; and I
yielded so far as to go and lie down for a while in the room
which Dr. Sandford had given to me. When I came back, I met
Miss Yates near the door of the room. I asked her if there
were any serious cases in the ward just then.
"La! half of 'em's serious," said she; "if you mean by that
they might take a wrong turn and go off. You never can tell."
"But are there any in immediate danger, do you think?"
She searched my face before she answered.
"How come you to be so strong, and so young, and so - well, so
unlike all this sort of thing? - Have you ever, no you never
have, seen much of sickness and death, and that?"
"No; not much."
"But you look as calm as a field of white clover. I beg your
pardon, my dear; it's like you. And you ain't one of the India
rubber sort, neither. I am glad you ain't, too; I don't think
that sort is fit to be nurses or anything else."
She looked at me inquiringly.
"Miss Yates," I said, "I love Jesus. I am a servant of Christ.
I like to do whatever my Lord gives me to do."
"Oh!" said she. "Well I ain't. I sometimes wish I was. But it
comes handy now, for there's a man down there - he ain't a
going to live, and he knows it, and he's kind o' worried about
it; and I can't say nothing to him. Maybe you can. I've
written his letters for him, and all that; but he's just
uneasy."
I asked, and she told me, which bed held this sick man, who
would soon be a dying one. I walked slowly down the ward,
thinking of this new burden of life-work that was laid upon me
and how to meet it. My very heart sank. I was so helpless. And
rose too; for I remembered that our Redeemer is strong. What
could I do?
I stood by the man's side. He was thirsty and I gave him
lemonade. His eye met mine as his lips left the cup; an eye of
unrest.
"Are you comfortable?" I asked.
"As much as I can be." - It was a restless answer.
"Can't you think of Jesus, and rest?" I asked, bending over
him. His eye darted to mine with a strange expression of
inquiry and pain; but it was all the answer he made.
"There is rest at His feet for all who trust in Him; - rest in
His arms for all who love Him."
"I am not the one or the other," he said shortly.
"But you may be."
"I reckon not, - at this time of day," he said.
"Any time of day will do," I said tenderly.
"I guess not," said he. "One cannot do anything lying here -
and I sha'n't lie here much longer, either. There's no time
now to do anything."
"There is nothing to do, dear friend, but to give your heart
and trust to the Lord who died for you - who loves you - who
invites you - who will wash away your sins for His own sake,
in His own blood, which He shed for you. Jesus has died for
you; you shall not die, if you will put your trust in Him."
He looked at me, turned his head away restlessly, turned it
back again, and said, -
"That won't do."
"Why?"
"I don't believe in wicked people going to heaven."
"Jesus came to save wicked people; just them."
"They've got to be good, though, before they" - he paused, -
"go - to His place."
"Jesus will make you good, if you will let him."
"What chance is there, lying here; and only a few minutes at
that?"
He spoke almost bitterly, but I saw the drops of sweat
standing on his brow, brought there by the intensity of
feeling. I felt as if my heart would have broken.
"As much chance here as anywhere," I answered calmly. "The
heart is the place for reform; outward work, without the
heart, signifies nothing at all; and if the heart of love and
obedience is in any man, God knows that the life would follow,
if there were opportunity."
"Yes. I haven't it," he said, looking at me.
"You may have it."
"I tell you, you are talking - you don't know of what," he
said vehemently.
"I know all about it," I answered softly.
"There is no love nor obedience in me," he repeated, searching
my eyes, as if to see whether there were anything to be said
to that.
"No; you are sick at heart, and dying, unless you can be
cured. Can you trust Jesus to cure you? They that be whole
need not a physician, He says, but those that are sick."
He was silent, gazing at me.
"Can you lay your heart, just as it is, at Jesus' feet, and
ask him to take it and make it right? He says, Come."
"What must I do?"
"Trust Him."
"But you are mistaken," he said. "I am not good."
"No," said I; and then I know I could not keep back the tears
from springing; - "Jesus did not come to save the good. He
came to save you. He bids you trust Him, and your sins shall
be forgiven, for He gave His life for yours; and He bids you
come to Him, and He will take all that is wrong away, and make
you clean."
"Come?" - the sick man repeated.
"With your heart - to his feet. Give yourself to Him. He is
here, though you do not see Him."
The man shut his eyes, with a weary sort of expression
overspreading his features; and remained silent. After a
little while he said slowly -
"I think - I have heard - such things - once. It is a great
while ago. I don't think I know - what it means."
Yet the face looked weary and worn; and for me, I stood beside
him and my tears dripped like a summer shower. Like the first
of the shower, as somebody says; the pressure at my heart was
too great to let them flow. O life, and death! O message of
mercy, and deaf ears! O open door of salvation, and feet that
stumble at the threshold! After a time his eyes opened.
"What are you doing there?" he said vaguely.
"I am praying for you, dear friend."
"Praying?" said he. "Pray so that I can hear you."
I was well startled at this. I had prayed with papa; with no
other, and before no other, in all my life. And here were rows
of beds on all sides of me, wide-awake careless eyes in some
of their occupants; nurses and attendants moving about; no
privacy; no absolute stillness. I thought I could not; then I
knew I must; and then all other things faded into
insignificance before the work Jesus came to do and had given
me to help. I knelt down, not without hands and face growing
cold in the effort; but as soon as I was once fairly speaking
to my Lord, I ceased to think or care who else was listening
to me. There was a deep stillness around; I knew that; the
attendants paused in their movements, and words and work I
think were suspended during the few minutes when I was on my
knees. When I got up, the sick man's eyes were closed. I sat
down with my face in my hands, feeling as if I had received a
great wrench; but presently Miss Yates came with a whispered
request that I would do something that was required just then
for somebody. Work set me all right very soon. But when after
a while I came round to Preston again, I found him in a rage.
"What has come over you?" he said, looking at me with a
complication of frowns. I was at a loss for the reason, and
requested him to explain himself.
"You are not Daisy!" he said. "I do not know you any more.
What has happened to you?"
"What do you mean, Preston?"
"Mean!" said he with a fling. "What do you mean? I don't know
you."
I thought this paroxysm might as well pass off by itself, like
another; and I kept quiet.
"What were you doing just now," said he savagely, "by that
soldier's bedside?"
"That soldier? He is a dying man, Preston."
"Let him die!" he cried. "What is that to you? You are Daisy
Randolph. Do you remember whose daughter you are? You making a
spectacle of yourself, for a hundred to look at!"
But this shot quite overreached its mark. Preston saw it had
not touched me.
"You did not use to be so bold," he began again. "You were
delicate to an exquisite fault. I would never have believed
that you would have done anything unwomanly. What has taken
possession of you?"
"I should like to take possession of you just now, Preston,
and keep you quiet," I said. "Look here, - your tea is coming.
Suppose you wait till you understand things a little better;
and now - let me give you this. I am sure Dr. Sandford would
bid you be quiet; and in his name, I do."
Preston fumed; but I managed to stop his mouth; and then I
left him, to attend to other people. But when all was done,
and the ward was quiet, I stood at the foot of the dying man's
bed, thinking, what could I do more for him? His face looked
weary and anxious; his eye rested, I saw, on me, but without
comfort in it. What could I say, that I had not said? or how
could I reach him? Then, I do not know how the thought struck
me, but I knew what to do.
"My dear," said Miss Yates, touching my shoulder, "hadn't you
better give up for to-night? You are a young hand; you ain't
seasoned to it yet; you'll give out if you don't look sharp.
Suppose you quit for to- night."
"O no!" I said hastily - "Oh no, I cannot. I cannot."
"Well, sit down, any way, before you can't stand. It is just
as cheap sittin' as standin'."
I sat down; she passed on her way; the place was quiet; only
there were uneasy breaths that came and went near me. Then I
opened my mouth and sang -
"There is a fountain filled with blood,
"Drawn from Immanuel's veins;
"And sinners plunged beneath that flood,
"Lose all their guilty stains."
"The dying thief rejoiced to see
"That fountain in his day;
"And there may I, as vile as he,
"Wash all my sins away."
I sang it to a sweet simple air, in which the last lines are
repeated and repeated and drawn out in all their sweetness.
The ward was as still as death. I never felt such joy that I
could sing; for I knew the words went to the furthest corner
and distinctly, though I was not raising my voice beyond a
very soft pitch. The stillness lasted after I stopped; then
some one near spoke out -
"Oh, go on!"
And I thought the silence asked me. But what to sing? that was
the difficulty. It had need be something so very simple in the
wording, so very comprehensive in the sense; something to tell
the truth, and to tell it quick, and the whole truth; what
should it be? Hymns came up to me, loved and sweet, but too
partial in their application, or presupposing too much
knowledge of religious things. My mind wandered; and then of a
sudden floated to me the refrain that I had heard and learned
when a child, long ago, from the lips of Mr. Dinwiddie, in the
little chapel at Melbourne; and with all the tenderness of the
old time and the new it sprung from my heart and lips now -
"In evil long I took delight,
"Unawed by shame or fear;
"Till a new object struck my sight,
"And stopped my wild career."
"O the Lamb - the loving Lamb!
"The Lamb on Calvary
"The Lamb that was slain, but lives again,
"To intercede for me."
How grand it was! But for the grandeur and the sweetness of
the message I was bringing, I should have broken down a score
of times.
As it was, I poured my tears into my song, and wept them into
the melody. But other tears, I knew, were not so contained; in
intervals I heard low sobbing in more than one part of the
room. I had no time to sing another hymn before Dr. Sandford
came in. I was very glad he had not been five minutes earlier.
I followed him round the ward, seeking to acquaint myself as
fast as possible with whatever might help to make me useful
there. Dr. Sandford attended only to business and not to me,
till the whole round was gone through. Then he said, -
"You will let me take you home now, I hope."
"I am at home," I answered.
"Even so," said he smiling. "You will let me take you from
home then, to the place my sister dwells in."
"No, Dr. Sandford; and you do not expect it."
"I have some reason to know what to expect, by this time. Will
you not do it at my earnest request? not for your sake, but
for mine? There is presumption for you!"
"No, Dr. Sandford; it is not presumption, and I thank you; but
I cannot. I cannot, Dr. Sandford. I am wanted here."
"Yes, so you will be to-morrow."
"I will be here to-morrow."
"But, Daisy, this is unaccustomed work; and you cannot bear
it, no one can, without intermission. Let me take you to the
hotel to-night. You shall come again in the morning."
"I cannot. There is some one here who wants me."
"Your cousin, do you mean?"
"Oh no. Not he at all. There is one who is, I am afraid,
dying."
"Morton," said the doctor. "Yes. You can do nothing for him."
But I thought of my hymn, and the tears rose to my eyes.
"I will do what I can, Dr. Sandford. I cannot leave him."
"There is a night nurse who will take charge. You must not
watch. You must not do that, Daisy. I command here."
"All but me," I said, putting my hand on his arm. "Trust me. I
will try to do just the right thing."
There must have been more persuasion in my look than I knew;
for Dr. Sandford quitted me without another word, and left me
to my own will. I went softly down the room to the poor friend
I was watching over. I found his eyes watching me; but for
talk there was no time just then; some services were called
for in another part of the ward that drew me away from him;
and when I came back he seemed to be asleep. I sat down at the
bed foot and thought my hymn all over, then the war, my own
life, and lastly the world. Miss Yates came to me and bent
down.
"Are you tired out, dear?"
"Not at all," I said. "Not at all - tired."
"They'd give their eyes if you'd sing again. It's better than
doctors and anodynes; and it's the first bit of anything
unearthly we've had in this place. Will you try?"
I was only too glad. I sang, "Jesus, lover of my soul" - "Rock
of Ages" - and then, -
"Just as I am, without one plea,
"But that Thy blood was shed for me,
"And that Thou bidst me come to Thee,
"O Lamb of God, I come."
And stillness, deep and peaceful seeming, brooded over all the
place in the pauses between the singing. There were restless
and weary and suffering people around me; patient indeed too,
and uncomplaining, in the worst of times; but now even sighs
seemed to be hushed. I looked at the man who was said to be
dying. His wide open eyes were intently fixed upon me; very
intently; and I thought, less ruefully than a while ago. Then
I sang, -
"Come to Jesus just now -"
As I sang, a voice from the further end of the room took it
up, and bore me company in a somewhat rough but true and manly
chorus, to the end of the singing. It rang sweet round the
room; it fell sweet on many ears, I know. And so I gave my
Lord's message.
I sang no more that night. The poor man for whose sake I had
begun the singing, rapidly grew worse. I could not leave him;
for ever and again, in the pauses of suffering, his eyes
sought mine. I answered the mute appeal as I best could, with
a word now and a word then. Towards morning the struggle
ceased. He spoke no more to me; but the last look was to my
eyes, and in his, it seemed to me, the shadow had cleared
away. That was all I could know.
CHAPTER XXII.
ORDERS
I slept longer than I had meant to do, the next morning; but I
rose with a happy feeling of being in my place; where I wanted
to be. That is, to be sure, not always the criterion by which
to know the place where one ought to be; yet where it is a
qualification it is also in some sense a token. The ministry
of the hours preceding swept over me while I was dressing,
with something of the grand swell and cadence of the notes of
a great organ; grand and solemn and sweet. I entered the ward,
ready for the day's work, with a glad readiness.
So I felt, as I stepped in and went down the space between the
rows of beds. Miss Yates nodded to me.
"Here you are!" she said. "Fresh as the morning. Well I don't
know why we shouldn't have pleasant things in such a place as
this, if we can get them; there's enough that ain't pleasant,
and folks forget there is anything else in the world. Now
you'll be better than breakfast, to some of them; and here's
breakfast, my dear. You know how to manage that."
I knew very well how to manage that; and I knew too, as I went
on with my ministrations, that Miss Yates was not altogether
wrong. My ministry did give pleasure; and I could not help
enjoying the knowledge. This was not the enjoyment of
flattering crowds, waiting round me with homage in their eyes
and on their tongues. I had known that too, and felt the
foolish flutter of gratified vanity for a moment, to be
ashamed of it the next. This was the brightening eye, the
relaxing lip, the tone of gratification, from those whose days
and hours were a weary struggle with pain and disease; to
bring a moment's refreshment to them was a great joy, which
gives me no shame now in the remembrance. Even if it was only
the refreshment of memory and fancy, that was something; and I
gave thanks in my heart, as I went from one sufferer to
another, that I had been made pleasant to look at. Preston
himself smiled at me this morning, which I thought a great
gain.
"Well, you do know how to sing!" he said softly, as I was
giving him his tea and toast.
"I am glad you think so."
"Think so! Why, Daisy, positively I was inclined to bless
gunpowder for the minute, for having brought me here. Now if
you would only sing something else - Don't you know anything
from Norma, or II Trovatore?"
"They would be rather out of place here."
"Not a bit of it. Create a soul under the ribs - Well, this is
vile tea."
"Hush, Preston; you know the tea is good, like everything else
here."
"I know no such thing. There is nothing good in this place, -
except you, - and I suppose that is the reason you have chosen
it for your abode. I can't imagine how Aunt Randolph came to
let you, though."
"She let me come to take care of you."
"I'm not worth it. What's a man good for, when there is only
half of him left? I should like just to get into one other
field, and let powder take the other half."
"Hush, Preston! hush; you must not talk so. There's your
mother."
"My mother won't think much of me now, I don't know why she
should. You never did, even when I was myself."
"I think just as much of you now as ever, Preston. You might
be much more than your old self, if you would."
Preston frowned and rolled his head over on the pillow.
"Confounded!" he muttered. "To be in such a den of Yankees!"
"You are ungrateful."
"I am not. I owe it to Yankee powder."
What, perhaps, had Southern powder done? I shivered inwardly,
and for a moment forgot Preston.
"What is the matter?" said he. "You look queer; and it is very
queer of you to spill my tea."
"Drink it then," I said, "and don't talk in such a way. I will
not have you do it, Preston, to me."
He glanced at me, a little wickedly; but he had finished his
breakfast and I turned from him. As I turned, I saw that the
bed opposite, where Morton had died a few hours before, had
already received another occupant. It startled me a little;
this quick transition; this sudden total passing away; then,
as I cast another glance at the newly come, my breath stood
still. I saw eyes watching me, - I had never but once known
such eyes; I saw an embrowned but very familiar face; as I
looked, I saw a flash of light come into the eyes, quick and
brilliant as I had seen such flashes come and go a hundred
times. I knew what I saw.
It seems to me now in the retrospect, it seemed to me then, as
if my life - that which makes life - were that moment suddenly
gathered up, held before me, and then dashed under my feet;
thrown down to the ground and trampled on. For a moment the
sight of my eyes failed me. I think nobody noticed it. I think
nothing was to be seen, except that I stood still for that
minute. It passed, and my sight returned; and as one whose
life is under foot and who knows it will never rise again, I
crossed the floor to Thorold. We were not alone. Eyes and ears
were all around us. Remembering this, I put my hand in his and
said a simple -
"How do you do?"
But his look at me was so infinitely glad and sweet, that my
senses failed me again. I did not sink down; but I stood
without sight or hearing. The clasp of his hand recalled me.
"It is Daisy!" he said smiling. "Daisy, and not a vision. My
Daisy! How is it?"
"What can I do for you?" I said hastily.
"Nothing. Stand there. I have been looking at you; and thought
it was long till you would look at me."
"I was busy."
"Yes, I know, love. How is it, Daisy? When did you come back
from Switzerland?"
"Months ago."
"I did not know of it."
"Letters failed, I suppose."
"Then you wrote?"
"I wrote, - with papa's letter."
"When?"
"Oh, long ago - long ago; - I don't know, - a year or two."
"It never reached me," he said, a shadow crossing his bright
brow.
"I sent it to your aunt, for her to send it to you; and she
sent it; I asked her."
"Failed," he said. "What was it, Daisy?"
The question was put eagerly.
"Papa was very good," I said; - "and you were very right,
Christian, and I was wrong. He liked your letter."
"And I should have liked his?" he said, with one of those
brilliant illuminations of eye and face.
"I think you would."
"Then I have got all I can ask for," he said. "You are mine;
and while we live in this world we belong to each other. Is it
not so?"
There was mamma. But I could not speak of her. Even she could
not prevent the truth of what Christian said; in one way it
must be true. I gave no denial. Thorold clasped my hand very
fast, and I stood breathless. Then suddenly I asked if he had
had his breakfast? He laughed and said yes, and still clasped
my hand in a grasp that said it was better than food and drink
to him. I stood like one from under whose feet the ground is
slipping away. I longed to know, but dared not ask, what had
brought him there; whether he was suffering; the words would
not come to my lips. I knew Dr. Sandford would be here by and
by; how should I bear it? But I, and nobody but me, must do
all that was done for this sufferer at least.
I left Mr. Thorold, to attend to duties that called me on all
hands. I did them like one in a dream. Yet my ordinary manner
was quiet, and I suppose nobody saw any difference; only I
felt it. I was looking all the time for the moment of Dr.
Sandford's appearance, and praying for strength. It came, his
visit, as everything does come, when its time was; and I
followed him in his round; waiting and helping as there was
want of me. I did it coolly, I know, with faculties sharpened
by an intense motive and feelings engrossed with one thought.
I proved myself a good assistant; I knew Dr. Sandford approved
of me; I triumphed, so far, in the consciousness that I had
made good my claim to my position, and was in no danger of
being shoved away on the score of incompetency.
"Doctor," said Preston when we came round to him, "won't you
send away Miss Randolph out of a place that she is not fit
for?"
"I will," said Dr. Sandford grimly, "when I find such a
place."
"Out of this place, then, where she ought not to be; and you
know it."
"It would be your loss, my friend. You are exercising great
self-denial, or else you speak in ignorance."
"She might as well go on the stage at once!" said Preston
bitterly. "Singing half the night to sixty soldiers, - and
won't give one a thing from Norma, then!"
The doctor gave one quick glance of his blue eye at me; it was
a glance inquiring, recognising, touched, sympathising, all in
an instant; it surprised me. Then it went coolly back to his
work.
"What does she sing?"
"Psalms" - said Preston.
"Feverish tendency?" said the doctor.
Preston flung himself to one side, with a violent word, almost
an oath, that shocked me. We left him and went on.
Or rather, went over; for at the instant Dr. Sandford's eye
caught the new occupant of the opposite bed. I was glad to
find that he did not recognise him.
The examination of Mr. Thorold's wounds followed. They were
internal, and had been neglected. I do not know how I went
through it; seeing how he went through it partly helped me,
for I thought he did not seem to suffer greatly. His face was
entirely calm, and his eye clear whenever it could catch mine.
But the operation was long; and I felt when it was over as if
I had been through a battle myself. I was forced to leave him
and go on with my attentions to the other sufferers in the
