principal's duty to speak first,--"I made a complaint to you yesterday.
Thus far no notice whatever seems to have been taken of it."
"Perhaps the longer we wait the easier it will be to settle the
question," replied Mr. Lowington, pleasantly, though he dreaded the
discussion that must ensue.
"If I am not to be sustained in the discharge of my duties, it is
useless for me to attempt to perform them to your satisfaction or my
own."
"You shall be sustained in the discharge of your duties, Mr. Hamblin.
But we will discuss this matter in the cabin, if you please," added the
principal, as he led the way below.
"Unless an instructor is sustained, of course he can do nothing," said
the professor, as he seated himself in the cabin.
"Certainly not. I will hear your complaint now, Mr. Hamblin," replied
the principal.
The learned gentleman stated his grievance in about the same terms as on
the day before.
"You say that a message was sent down to the captain. Do you know what
that message was?" asked the principal.
"I do not remember it precisely. It was something about a squall."
"Very likely it was," answered Mr. Lowington, dryly. "There was a squall
coming up at the time--was there not?"
"I knew there was a shower coming up."
"You declined to let him go on deck?"
"I did, sir. The recitation in Greek was not half finished," replied the
professor, who deemed this a sufficient reason for declining.
"Captain Kendall did not go on deck when the first message was sent
down?"
"No, sir; we continued the recitation for half an hour longer without
interruption. Then the messenger came again. I told Mr. Kendall not to
leave the class; but, in direct opposition to my order, he went on
deck. Not satisfied with this, though he knew that half the students
were engaged in the recitations, he ordered all hands to be called. Of
course the students were glad enough to get away from their lessons; and
all of them stampeded from the steerage, in spite of my protest, and
without even a word of apology."
"Did they?" added Mr. Lowington, with difficulty avoiding the disrespect
of laughing in the face of the learned gentleman.
"They did; and it must be as clear to you as it is to me, that such
conduct is utterly subversive of anything like good discipline."
"May I ask what punishment you propose as suitable for such an offence
as that of Captain Kendall?"
"I am perfectly willing to leave that matter to you, sir; but I should
think that simple suspension from his office would be sufficient,
considering the position of Mr. Kendall."
"Mr. Hamblin, it is your misfortune, not your fault, that you were
brought up on shore instead of at sea," added the principal. "You have
made a very great mistake, sir."
"I, sir!" exclaimed the learned gentleman, springing up from his seat as
though such an event as that indicated by Mr. Lowington had never
occurred in his life.
"Captain Kendall also made a mistake," continued the principal.
"He did indeed, sir. It is always a very great mistake to disobey one's
teacher."
"I do not mean that."
"May I ask what you do mean, sir?"
"His mistake was in not going on deck when the messenger sent to him by
the officer of the deck reported that a squall was coming up."
"But I refused the permission," said the professor, warmly.
"Then he should have gone without your permission," added Mr. Lowington,
decidedly.
"Am I to understand, sir, that you counsel disobedience among the boys
on the Josephine?"
"No, sir; I counsel obedience to the laws of God and man, and to the
orders of one's superior. Mr. Hamblin, is it possible that you could not
understand the circumstances of that occasion?" continued the principal.
"A squall was coming up, and you desired to detain the captain of your
vessel in the steerage!"
"But half the crew were on deck. I am told that Mr. Terrill is a
competent seaman. He knew enough to take down the sails, if necessary."
"Such a course would have been without a precedent, and in violation of
one of the rules of the ship."
"Did you not tell me that all the students, including the captain,--you
mentioned him especially,--were subject to the orders of the professors
in school hours?"
"I certainly did; but if I had supposed that there was an instructor in
either vessel so utterly wanting in discretion, I should have qualified
the statement. Captain Kendall is in command of the Josephine. He is
responsible for the safety of the vessel and for the lives of those on
board."
"He might have sent up word to take down the sails," growled Mr.
Hamblin, disgusted beyond measure at the decision of the principal.
"Did any one ever hear of a captain working his vessel while in the
steerage?" retorted Mr. Lowington, impatiently, as he took a pen and
wrote a few lines on a sheet of paper. "Was Captain Kendall respectful
to you?"
"No, sir."
"What did he say that was disrespectful?"
"Disobedience is always disrespectful. He used no disrespectful words."
"I did not suppose he did. In a word, if Captain Kendall had gone on
deck when the first messenger went to him, I should have justified and
sustained him. I will go a step farther: he ought to have done so."
"Then I am to understand that I am a mere cipher on board of the
Josephine," demanded Mr. Hamblin.
"You are to understand, sir, that the first duty of the captain of a
ship is to his vessel and to those on board of her. Why, sir, I thought
the young gentleman was insane, and I was intensely anxious, when I saw
his vessel with all her light sails on while a squall, so clearly
indicated as that of Saturday, was impending. I blamed him very much.
The squall was as likely to come half an hour sooner as when it did
come. If it had struck her with all sail set, it would have taken the
masts out of her--perhaps foundered her. If several of the students had
been lost, what satisfaction would it be to me or their friends to know
that the disaster occurred because the professor of Greek refused to let
the captain go on deck!"
"Perhaps I was wrong, sir."
"Perhaps you were! If you do not know that you were, you are not fit
for the position to which I assigned you."
"I see that you fully sustain Mr. Kendall," groaned the professor.
"I only blame him because he did not disobey you the first time instead
of the second."
"Was it necessary for him to call all hands?" demanded Mr. Hamblin,
triumphantly.
"It was emphatically necessary! If he had gone on deck when the first
message reached him, it might not have been necessary, though I should
have sustained him in doing so; for the safest side is always the best
side. May I ask you to read this order?" added the principal, as he
handed the sheet upon which he had written to the learned professor.
Mr. Hamblin read the order aloud.
     Captain Kendall is hereby authorized and directed to leave any
     class in which he may be engaged, whenever, in his own judgment,
     the management of his vessel requires him to do so. The instructors
     in the consort are requested to respect this order.
                                                      R. LOWINGTON.
Professor Hamblin dropped the paper, took off his spectacles, looked on
the floor a moment, and seemed to feel that the nautical academy was not
the paradise of schoolmasters.
"Mr. Lowington, I feel obliged to tender my resignation of the position
I occupy," said the learned gentleman, haughtily.
"Very well, sir. Though the want of an instructor in your department
will be a serious inconvenience to me, I shall accept your resignation
if you are not willing to respect this order," replied the principal.
That ended the conference, and Paul was sustained.
CHAPTER VI.
PROFESSOR HAMBLIN CHANGES HIS MIND.
Professor Hamblin went on deck, walked up and down, and made himself as
miserable as possible. He was the senior instructor of the Josephine,
and was the superintendent of her academic department. He had been a
schoolmaster or a professor for forty years, and was fully steeped in
the dogmatism of the pedagogue. He was disposed to be overbearing and
tyrannical, though perhaps his profession, rather than his nature, had
implanted this tendency in his character. Certainly the almost absolute
sway of the schoolmaster encourages such an unfortunate development of
the lower faculties of human nature.
It is necessary that the parent or the teacher should have this absolute
sway. Practically, his will is law, and the child has no alternative but
to rebel or obey. The limit to his authority is only placed on the line
where tyranny ends and actual abuse begins. It is true that public
opinion has its influence upon the teacher or parent; but there is room
for much petty oppression before the limit of endurance is reached. A
man may be an efficient teacher, and produce splendid intellectual
results, while he is a tyrant and an oppressor; indeed, his tyranny and
oppression may be the very means by which his success is accomplished.
The rights of the pupil are not recognized by such men. The scholar is
regarded as a machine, rather than an immortal soul. Though Mr. Hamblin
was a very pious man, in his own way, and was very careful in his
observance of all the forms of law and tradition, he was a tyrant at
heart. He ruled with an iron will, and willingly suffered no one in the
school-room to hold an opinion different from his own. He was not
popular in the Josephine; he had never been a popular teacher anywhere,
though he had been a successful one, so far as intellectual results were
concerned. His success seemed to justify him, and certainly it added to
the strength of his tyrannical will.
The good schoolmaster recognizes and respects the rights of the scholar.
While he is an unflinching disciplinarian, expecting an unquestioning
obedience, he does not believe in his own infallibility. He is kind and
considerate, and regards his pupil as an embryo man, "endowed with
certain inalienable rights," which none may trample upon with impunity.
He is both just and merciful, his heart being filled with love to God
and love to man.
Such was not Mr. Hamblin. The greatest sin of a student was to have a
will of his own. He had not the power or the inclination to harmonize
that will with the requirements of duty, and he broke it down, not by
coarse abuse, but by making the pupil so uncomfortable that a total
submission was better than a reasonable independence. In mild-tempered
boys, like Paul Kendall, the task was an easy one, when no principle was
at stake.
The professor walked up and down the deck, brooding over his grievances.
He could not afford to abandon his situation on the one hand, and it
seemed impossible to acknowledge that he was wholly wrong on the other
hand. When he had thoroughly cooled off, he was willing to own that it
was necessary for the captain to go on deck, and that if he had
comprehended the situation he should have given him permission to do so.
But he knew nothing about the management of a vessel. How should a
professor of Greek and Latin be expected to understand a matter which
even the most ignorant could comprehend, and of which even a boy of
sixteen had made himself master? Boys could play base-ball, but he did
not know how; and it seemed just as much beneath his dignity to be
familiar with practical navigation.
He was sorry now that he had not given Captain Kendall permission to go
on deck; for it was impossible to refute the arguments of the principal;
but at the same time he had not overstepped the duties of his office. He
had been informed that all the students, even to the captain, were
subject to his will and pleasure during school hours, and therefore he
had a perfect right to detain the captain. It was not his fault that a
blunder had been made; he had not made it.
The order which Mr. Lowington had shown him would remedy the difficulty
in future, and prevent its repetition; but if that order was
promulgated, it would assure the pupils that Captain Kendall had been
fully sustained, and that the professor had not been sustained. Mr.
Hamblin shuddered at the thought; for justifying a student at the
expense of the instructor was an enormity which he could not
countenance. The captain's will would remain unbroken, and the professor
would occupy a secondary position on board of the Josephine.
The learned gentleman walked the deck hour after hour, endeavoring to
devise a plan by which he could return to his position without the
sacrifice of any portion of his dignity. Mr. Lowington, in saying that
the professor's resignation would be a serious inconvenience to him, had
left the door open for him to revise his final action. The squadron was
eventually to visit Greece and other classic lands, and he was very
anxious to continue his travels, not only without expense to himself,
but while in the receipt of a handsome salary. Such an opportunity to
see Europe could never again be presented to him, and he was not willing
to sacrifice it.
Professor Hamblin was becoming more reasonable; but there was the
untamed will of Captain Kendall, an unconquered fortress, in his path.
Perhaps Mr. Lowington, now that the excitement of the first interview
had subsided, might help him out of the embarrassing dilemma, though his
decided manner was not very encouraging. The professor determined to
have another interview, and as soon as he saw the principal alone he
opened the subject again.
"What you said about my resignation, Mr. Lowington, gives me some
uneasiness. It is not my wish to subject you to any inconvenience by
leaving you, in a foreign land, where much delay must necessarily ensue
before you can obtain a suitable person to fill my place," said he, in a
tone of embarrassment.
"It would disturb my plans very much; but I cannot endanger the vessel
and the lives of those on board of her. The position of Captain Kendall
is anomalous, you will perceive."
"I am quite willing now to say that if I had understood the situation, I
should have permitted Mr. Kendall to leave the class."
"And I am quite willing to say that your services as an instructor are
entirely satisfactory to me," added the principal, with a smile.
They were more satisfactory to him than they were to the students of the
Josephine.
"Then we seem to be in full accord with each other on these points,"
replied the professor, hopefully. "I trust some arrangement may be made
to reconcile the differences of opinion on the question of discipline.
You do not sustain me, Mr. Lowington."
"I cannot, sir. If I did, I should expect the Josephine to go to the
bottom with all on board, in the first gale of wind she encounters,
should Captain Kendall happen to be reciting his Greek at the time."
"I think I understand the matter better now, and in a similar emergency
I should permit him to leave the class."
"In matters of seamanship and navigation, I have more confidence in the
judgment of Captain Kendall than in yours. He must be absolute in his
position as captain of the vessel."
"Of course, sir; and in the composition of a soup doubtless you would
have more confidence in the judgment of your cook than in mine," added
the professor, cynically; for, intellectually, the cook and the captain
appeared to be on the same level to him; and as a professor of Greek, he
did not regard it as any more derogatory to his dignity not to know
anything of the principles of seamanship than to be ignorant of the art
of making a soup.
"The order which I have written, and which I shall transmit to Captain
Kendall as soon as the squadron comes to anchor, will set the matter
right," said Mr. Lowington.
"Do you insist on issuing that order?" asked Mr. Hamblin.
"I do."
"Let me say that Mr. Stoute did not indorse my course, and that in
future I will give Mr. Kendall permission to leave the class whenever he
desires to do so."
"That is very well, sir; but, under the circumstances, I cannot permit
the captain to be embarrassed even by the necessity of asking
permission. If, by any diffidence on his part, he should delay asking
leave to go on deck, serious mishaps might occur."
"Then I am to be subject to the will of that boy?" said the professor,
disgusted at the thought.
"Not unless you are connected with the sailing department of the vessel.
You are simply prevented from exercising your will over him, to the
detriment of his duties as a navigator."
"In this light the case looks different to me," added the professor, who
was laboring to recede from his position as gracefully as possible. "I
am willing to permit the captain to have his own will in all matters
pertaining to the management of the vessel, as I am to allow the cook
entire freedom in making his soup."
"Then nothing more need be said, and you can resume your position on
board of the Josephine at once."
"I am not entirely satisfied about that order, Mr. Lowington," added Mr.
Hamblin.
"Why not?"
"Because that sustains Mr. Kendall and condemns me in a public and
formal manner."
"That is precisely what I intend to do."
"It amounts to sacrificing me, by placing me in a derogatory position. I
have not transcended the power given me, and it is not right that I
should be formally condemned."
"The order passes no judgment upon the past; it relates to the future
only. Captain Kendall must understand that he has full liberty to go
when and where he pleases, in the discharge of his duty. I am confident
he will not abuse this liberty."
"But I am to stand before him in this business as a whipped puppy.
Couldn't you give him the order verbally, and explain my position to
him?"
"What is your position?" demanded the principal, with a smile.
"I mean simply that in detaining him I erred through a want of knowledge
of seamanship."
"I can explain that; but I think it would be better for you to do so."
"For me!" gasped the professor. "Why, sir, that would be an apology!"
"It would be merely an explanation, which would come more gracefully
from you than from any other person."
"I don't think so, sir. It would be lowering myself before him."
"As you please, Mr. Hamblin. I will explain the matter myself, when I
give him the order."
"If you could give him the order verbally, it would be better."
"No; he must have the written order to show to any professor who
disputes his authority. But Captain Kendall will never give you any
trouble. He is manly and gentle, and he will not take advantage of his
position."
"I think he will have abundant ground to manifest his triumph."
"He will not do anything of the kind. If any officer of the Josephine
treats you with disrespect, he shall be suspended at once from office."
"That is very proper, sir," added Mr. Hamblin, heartily.
The learned gentleman let himself down as easily as possible. He had
consented to remain rather than subject the principal to the great
inconvenience and delay of procuring a new instructor. Captain Kendall
was to be independent only in the sailing department, in which he had no
disposition to interfere, any more than with the cook. He regarded it as
a bitter necessity which compelled him to return to the Josephine; for
he could not forego the pecuniary advantage and the opportunity of
visiting the classic lands which the voyage presented; but, though he
yielded with what grace he could command, he was dissatisfied with Mr.
Lowington, and more dissatisfied with Paul.
To go back to the consort unsustained was almost like going to a dungeon
for a capital crime, to which nothing but personal interest induced him
to submit. If the captain did not enjoy his triumph, it would be a
degree of forbearance which he could not comprehend. But he was quite
certain that the captain would "put on airs," abuse his absolute
liberty, and perhaps snub his teacher before the class. Mr. Hamblin
expected this, and made up his mind to be on the lookout for it.
After dinner Mr. Lowington suggested that his services must be much
needed on board of the Josephine, and proposed to send him to her at
once. Mr. Hamblin consented, and as the consort kept astern of the ship,
the latter was hove to, and the professor's barge lowered. Mr. Lowington
went with the learned gentleman, and agreeably to his promise, made a
full explanation to Paul, while the instructor, without a word to any
one, hastened to the steerage, and called his class, just as though
nothing had occurred. It was observed that he was unusually sour,
crabbed, and precise, and all the students were anxious to know how the
question of discipline had been settled.
"Read this order, if you please, Captain Kendall," said the principal,
when he had conducted him to the cabin, where they were alone.
"I have no desire to leave my class, unless my duty to the vessel
requires it," added Paul, after he had read the order.
"I did not suppose you had; but you will keep that order in your pocket,
and remember that your first duty is to your ship and crew."
"I suppose you have learned by this time, sir, the reason why we did not
take in sail sooner on Saturday," continued Paul, blushing deeply.
"I have. Professor Hamblin feels very badly about this matter. At the
time of it, he believed he was right, for he knows less about a vessel
than even the chaplain of the ship. He acknowledges now that he was in
error. Our rules did not before apply with sufficient distinctness to
your particular case, as captain of the vessel, responsible for her
proper navigation. Mr. Hamblin did not overstep the letter of his duty
in refusing you permission to go on deck, and I only blame him for his
want of judgment. By this order, which corrects the ship's rules, you
are made independent in all matters relating to the management of the
vessel."
"I think there can be no trouble now, sir," replied Paul, delighted to
find that his conduct was approved.
"I hope not; and I do not expect any."
Mr. Lowington returned to the ship, satisfied that he had healed the
wounds of both the sufferers. Paul was happy, and he determined to treat
the professor with the utmost deference and kindness, and thus remove
the remembrance of the difficulty. At four o'clock, after the squadron
had passed Beveland, and entered the Belgian territory, Paul went down
to recite his Greek, as usual. He could not help seeing that Mr.
Hamblin's lip quivered, and that he was laboring under strong emotions,
when he took his place at the mess table. The captain was hardly less
embarrassed, but he hoped an opportunity would soon occur for him to
perform some kind act for the irritated gentleman.
When the recitation was nearly finished, and both parties had recovered
their self-possession, the vessel gave a sudden "bump," which nearly
tipped the professor off his stool; but he righted himself, and was too
much absorbed in his favorite study to think of the incident for a
moment.
"Mr. Terrill directs me to report to you that the vessel is aground!"
said one of the midshipmen, in breathless haste, touching his cap to the
captain.
Paul blushed deeply, and was intensely annoyed at this repetition of the
circumstances of Saturday; but there was no alternative but for him to
go on deck.
"Will you excuse me, Mr. Hamblin?" asked Paul, rising.
The professor bowed, but made no reply in words. He wondered if the
vessel had not been run aground on purpose to mortify and annoy him. He
was inclined to think that such was the case, and that it had been done
to enable the captain to display his absolute authority.
Paul went on deck; but the pilot assured him that the accident would not
subject the vessel to half an hour's delay, for the tide was rising very
rapidly. He had run her a little too near a shoal, while the Young
America, by keeping in mid channel, had gone clear. There was nothing
for the captain to do on deck, and he returned to his class. The
Josephine came off the ground within the half hour, and by putting on
more sail overhauled the ship before she reached Antwerp.
"Here is the city, Paul," said Dr. Winstock, as the Josephine rounded a
bend in the river. "You can see the spire of Antwerp Cathedral."
"I see it, sir. I have heard a great deal about it. This is farther than
we have been from the sea since we sailed."
"Yes, it is a long pull from the sea for a sailing vessel; but Antwerp
is the only convenient port for visiting the greater part of Belgium. We
are only a short distance from Brussels, Ghent, Malines, and Liége. I
suppose we shall visit no other port in Belgium; indeed, there is no
other convenient one, except Ostend."
"There is a whole fleet of British steamers at anchor opposite the
town," said Paul, when the Josephine had gone a little farther.
"A great many merchant steamers come up the river. There are regular
lines to London and Harwich. By the latter route you may leave Antwerp
at four in the afternoon and be in London at nine the next morning,
though the Ostend or Calais line is quicker and better."
"Those are large steamers," added Paul, as the squadron approached the
fleet at anchor.
"Why, that's the Victoria and Albert!" exclaimed the doctor, pointing to
the largest of the ships. "That is the yacht of the Queen of England."
"It is a pretty large yacht," replied Paul. "What are the other
steamers?"
"They are the consorts of the yacht. The one that lies nearest to her is
the Osborne, which was formerly the queen's state vessel. The others are
merely a kind of guard of honor."
"Does it take five steamships to bring the queen over to Antwerp?" asked
Paul, laughing.
"She must go in state when she goes," added the doctor. "The Victoria
and Albert is a ship of twenty-four hundred tons. I hope we shall have
an opportunity to go on board of her."
"I hope we shall; but that is hardly to be expected."
"They do not exhibit her when she is in English waters, but I think they
do when she is abroad."
"All ready to moor ship, Mr. Terrill," said Paul, as the Young America
gave the signal.
The Josephine ran up to a point near the ship, and within a couple of
cables' length of the royal squadron let go her anchor. Port officers
came on board, and explained the harbor regulations; among them, one
whose duty it was to determine the amount due the pilot. This official
"hooked" the vessel, or measured her draught. As the Josephine drew
about ten feet of water, the charge was one hundred and ninety-eight
francs.
Everything was made snug on board; the ropes were carefully coiled, and
all the running rigging hauled taut; for, lying near the queen's yacht,
Paul desired to have the vessel present her best appearance. The work of
the day was ended, and the students were at liberty to observe the
strange scenes around them. There was the city of Antwerp, but it was
not much different from any other city. The Scheldt formed a crescent in
front of the town, and there was a multitude of vessels lying at the
quays, as the space on the shore is called. The river is about fifteen
hundred feet wide, and deep enough to float a ship of the line. The city
is very strongly fortified, on both sides of the river.
"Here we are, for a week or two," said Pelham to the first lieutenant,
after all the ship's duty had been performed.
"I suppose so," replied Terrill. "It seems to me just as though we had
been sailing down hill ever since we came into the river. Hark!"
It was just six o'clock, and the chime of bells on the great Cathedral
played a silver-toned melody which was almost enchanting.
"I should not object to hearing that every hour," said Pelham, when the
tune was finished. "Do they play the same tune over again?"
"I'm sure I don't know," replied Terrill.
"They have a different tune for each hour of the day, and play the
entire music of an opera," interposed Dr. Winstock. "They give a short
strain at the quarter hour, and a longer one at the half hour."
"That will be music all day long."
"Yes, and all night long," added the surgeon, as he walked away with the
captain.
"I wish he were going to stay on board instead of that solemn old
lunatic, the Greek and Latin humbug" said Terrill, who had a habit of
speaking his mind very plainly.
"Do you know how the row was settled between him and the captain?" asked
Pelham.
"I do not; but I am confident Mr. Lowington sustained the captain,"
answered Terrill. "I was in hopes that we had got rid of him when he
went on board of the ship yesterday, and I was mad when I saw him coming
back to-day noon."
"There is not a fellow in the Josephine that didn't have the same
thought," added Pelham. "I don't see why a man need try to make himself
as disagreeable as he does. All the students were willing to treat him
with respect, and get their lessons well; but he is as crank as an
alderman."
"I wish we could get rid of him," suggested Terrill.
"Of course we can't do that," replied Pelham, who was not disposed to
get into any more scrapes.
"We might make the Josephine uncomfortable for him," suggested Terrill.
"We might; but I think we had better not," added the prudent Pelham,
made wise by experience, as the bell for the cabin supper rang.
Professor Hamblin looked unusually gloomy and morose, but he labored
perseveringly to keep up his dignity. Paul sat at the head of the table,
ordinarily with his officers on each side of him in the order of their
rank; but on the present occasion, Dr. Winstock occupied the place at
his right. At the opposite end of the board was Mr. Hamblin, with the
fat professor on his right. Behind the captain's chair stood the head
steward, while the second steward was stationed near the instructors.
Mr. Hamblin occasionally cast a furtive glance at the young commander;
but Paul seemed to be as composed as though nothing had happened to
disturb the friendly relations between them. Though he did not observe
it, Terrill persisted that the learned gentleman looked "ugly," and
would make another row as soon as he could get a chance.
"I can see through the mainsail when there is a hole in it," said the
executive officer to Pelham, when they went on deck again. "If there
wasn't mischief in Mr. Hamblin's eye, there never was mischief in any
man's eye."
"What do you mean?" asked Pelham.
"You know the old lunatic threatened to have the captain suspended for
leaving the class. He failed in that, and if he don't try it again, I'm
mistaken in the man."
