learn the trade, but the confinement and employment were unfavorable
to his health and uncongenial to his feelings. He was longing for
educational advantages, and bent on a career in the world of ideas.
He was taken from this situation and sent to school at Newburyport,
paying for his board and schooling by sawing wood, doing errands, and
performing other labors out of school hours.
After some unsuccessful experiments at different situations, he found
at last a congenial sphere in being apprenticed as a printer to Ephraim
W. Allen, editor of the Newburyport Gazette.
His bent had always been for letters, and he engaged in this occupation
with enthusiasm, and that minute and careful faithfulness and accuracy
in regard to the smallest minutiæ which formed a very marked trait in
his character. In all that relates to the expression of ideas by the
written or printed signs of language, Garrison had a natural aptitude,
and attained to a peculiar perfection.
His handwriting was, and is, even at this time of life, as perfect in
point of legibility, neatness, and exact finish, as if he had been by
profession a writing-master.
Even in the days when the Liberator was the most despised and
rejected of all papers, the very lowest in the scale of genteel
appreciation, its clear and elegant typography, and the grace and
completeness of its mechanical disposition, won for it admiration. He
understood to a nicety that art which solicits the eye of a reader, and
makes a printed sheet look attractive.
It was not long before his fervid mind began to reach beyond the
mechanical setting of his types, to the intellectual and moral purposes
to be accomplished through them.
Garrison was one of the ordained priests of nature, one of the order
of natural prophets who feel themselves to have a message to society,
which they must and will deliver.
He began sending anonymous articles to the paper on which he was
employed, which were well received, and which, consequently, he had
more than once the pleasure of setting up in type.
Encouraged by their favorable reception, he gradually began to offer
articles to other journals. A series of articles for the Salem
Gazette, under the signature "Aristides," attracted particular
attention, and were commended by Robert Walsh in the Philadelphia
National Gazette, who attributed them to Timothy Pickering; a
compliment of no small significance to a young mechanic.
In 1824, his employer, Mr. Allen, was obliged for a long time to be
absent from the charge of his paper, when Mr. Garrison acted as editor
of the Newburyport Herald, of which he had been previously printer.
In 1826 he became proprietor and editor of a paper called the Free
Press, in his native town. He toiled at it with unceasing industry,
and that patient cheerfulness of enthusiasm which made every labor
light. He printed his own editorials, without previously writing
them, a fact which more than anything else shows how completely he
had mastered the mechanical part of his profession. But with all this
industry and talent, the work of keeping up a newspaper of so high a
moral tone as that to which he was always aspiring, was simply beyond
the ability of a poor man, and he was obliged to relinquish it. He
went to Boston and engaged as a journeyman printer for a time, till in
1827 he became the editor of the National Philanthropist, the first
journal that advocated total abstinence, and in 1828 he joined a friend
at Bennington, Vt., in a journal devoted to peace, temperance, and
anti-slavery.
On the 4th of July, 1829, he delivered an address in Park Street
church, Boston, on the subject of slavery. At that time the subject
had taken a deep and absorbing hold upon his mind. He then regarded
the American Colonization Society's as the most practical and feasible
issue in the case--an opinion which he afterwards most fully retracted.
At this time he visited the leading orthodox ministers and editors in
and about Boston. Being himself a child of the church, he desired to
stir up in behalf of the slave that efficiency of church activity that
was effecting so much in the cause of temperance. Burning with zeal,
he sought the then active leader of the orthodox party, and begged him
to become leader in the movement, and command the forces in a general
anti-slavery crusade.
Dr. Beecher received him favorably, listened to him courteously, wished
him success, but said in regard to himself he had so "many irons in
the fire" that he could not think of putting in another. "Then," said
Garrison, "you had better let all others go, and attend to this one
alone." The results of time have shown that the young printer saw
further than the sages of his day.
It is worth remembering by those who criticized Garrison's generalship
in leading the anti-slavery cause, that in the outset he was not in
the least ambitious of being a general, and would willingly have
become aide-de-camp to the ruling forces of the religious world.
That the campaign was carried on out of the church of New England,
and not in and by it, was because the church and the religious world
at that hour were absorbed in old issues--old activities and schemes
of benevolence--and had not grace given them to see that the great
critical national question of the day had thus been passed out of their
hands.
The articles in Garrison's paper, however, attracted the attention of
a little obscure old man, a Quaker, who was laboring in the city of
Baltimore, for the cause of the suffering slaves, with a devotion and
self-sacrifice worthy of the primitive Christians.
Benjamin Lundy, a quiet, persistent, drab-clothed, meek old man, one
of those valiant little mice who nibble undismayed on the nets which
enchain the strongest lions, was keeping up, in the city of Baltimore,
an anti-slavery paper which was read only by a few people who thought
just as he did, and which was tolerated in southern society only
because everybody was good-naturedly sure that it was no sort of matter
what it said.
Benjamin, however, took his staff in hand, and journeyed on foot up to
Bennington, Vt., to see the man who wrote as if he cared for the slave.
The strict Baptist and the meek Quaker met on the common ground of the
cross of Christ. Both were agreed in one thing; that here was Jesus
Christ, in the person of a persecuted race, hungry, thirsty, sick and
in prison, with none to visit and relieve; and the only question was,
would they arise and go to His help?
So Mr. Garrison went down to the city of Baltimore, to join his forces
with Benjamin Lundy. "But," as he humorously observed, "I wasn't much
help to him, for he had been all for gradual emancipation, and as soon
as I began to look into the matter, I became convinced that immediate
abolition was the doctrine to be preached, and I scattered his
subscribers like pigeons."
Good little Benjamin took the ruinous zeal of his new partner with the
tolerance which his sect extends to every brother who "follows his
light;" but a final assault of Garrison on one of the most villainous
aspects of slavery, quite upset the enterprise, and landed him in
prison. The story is in this wise: A certain ship, the Francis Todd,
from Newburyport, came to Baltimore and took in a load of slaves for
the New Orleans market. All the harrowing cruelties and separations
which attend the rending asunder of families, and the sale of slaves,
were enacted under the eyes of the youthful philanthropist, and in a
burning article he denounced the inter-state slave trade as piracy,
and piracy of an aggravated and cruel kind, inasmuch as those born and
educated in civilized and Christianized society, have more sensibility
to feel the evils thus inflicted, than imbruted savages. He denounced
the owners of the ship, and all the parties in no measured terms, and
expressed his determination to "cover with thick infamy all who were
engaged in the transaction." Then, to be sure, the sleeping tiger was
roused, for there was a vigor and power in the young editor's eloquence
that quite dissipated the good-natured contempt which had hitherto
hung round the paper. He was indicted for libel, found guilty, of
course, condemned, imprisoned in the cell of a man who had been hanged
for murder. His mother at this time was not living, but her heroic,
undaunted spirit still survived in her son, who took the baptism of
persecution and obloquy not merely with patience, but with the joy
which strong spirits feel in endurance. He wrote sonnets on the walls
of his prison, and by his cheerful and engaging manners made friends
of his jailor and family, who did everything to render his situation
as comfortable as possible. Some considerable effort was made for his
release, and much interest was excited in various quarters for him.
He was finally liberated by Arthur Tappan, who paid the exorbitant fine
for want of which he was imprisoned. He went out of jail, as people
generally do who are imprisoned for conscience's sake, more devoted
than ever to the cause for which he suffered. The river of his life,
which hitherto had had many branches, all flowing in the direction of
general benevolence, now narrowed and concentrated itself into one
intense volume, to beat day and night against the prison walls of
slavery, till its foundations should be washed away, and it should
tumble to dust.
He issued a prospectus of an anti-slavery journal at Washington, and
lectured through the northern cities, and was surprised to find the
many and vital cords by which the Northern States were held from the
expression of the natural feelings of humanity on a subject whose
claims were so obvious. In Boston he in vain tried to get the use of
a hall to lecture in; but a mob was threatened, and of all the public
edifices in the city, not one could be found whose owner would risk it
until a club of professed infidels came forward, and offered their hall
as a tribute to free speech.
On Jan. 1, 1831, Mr. Garrison issued the first number of the
Liberator. He had no money. The rank, respectability and religion of
Boston alike disowned him. At first, he and his partner, Isaac Knapp,
were too poor even to hire an office of their own, but the foreman in
the office of the Christian Examiner generously employed them as
journeymen, taking their labor as compensation for the use of his type.
Mr. Garrison, after working as journeyman printer all day, spent the
greater part of the night in writing and printing his paper; and under
such auspices the first number came out.
Nothing more remarkable in human literature has ever appeared than
those few memorable paragraphs in which this obscure, unfriended young
mechanic thus issued his declaration of war against an evil embodied in
the Constitution and protected by the laws of one of the most powerful
nations of the earth. David meeting Goliath with a sling and stone was
nothing to it. The words have a prophetic assurance that sounds solemn
in the remembrance of recent events. He speaks as one having authority:
"During my recent tour for the purpose of exciting the minds of
the people by a series of discourses on the subject of slavery,
every place that I visited gave fresh evidence of the fact that a
greater revolution in public sentiment was to be effected in the
free States--and particularly in New England--than at the South. I
found contempt more bitter, opposition more active, detraction more
relentless, prejudice more stubborn, and apathy more frozen than among
slaveholders themselves. Of course there were individual exceptions to
the contrary. This state of things afflicted, but did not dishearten
me. I determined, at every hazard, to lift up the standard of
emancipation in the eyes of the nation, within sight of Bunker Hill,
and in the birth-place of liberty. That standard is now unfurled; and
long may it float, unhurt by the spoliations of time or the missiles
of a desperate foe; yea, till every chain be broken, and every bondman
set free! Let Southern oppressors tremble; let their secret abettors
tremble; let all the enemies of the persecuted black tremble. Assenting
to the self-evident truths maintained in the American Declaration of
Independence, 'that all men are created equal, and endowed by their
Creator with certain inalienable rights, among which are life, liberty,
and the pursuit of happiness,' I shall strenuously contend for the
immediate enfranchisement of our slave population.
       *       *       *       *       *
"I am aware that many object to the severity of my language; but is
there not cause for severity? I will be as harsh as truth, and as
uncompromising as justice. On this subject I do not wish to think, or
speak, or write with moderation. No! No! Tell a man whose house is on
fire to give a moderate alarm; tell him to moderately rescue his wife
from the hands of the ravisher; tell the mother to gradually extricate
her babe from the fire into which it has fallen; but urge me not to use
moderation in a cause like the present! I am in earnest. I will not
equivocate--I will not excuse--I will not retreat a single inch. AND I
WILL BE HEARD. The apathy of the people is enough to make every statue
leap from its pedestal, and to hasten the resurrection of the dead.
It is pretended that I am retarding the cause of emancipation by the
coarseness of my invective, and the precipitancy of my measures. The
charge is not true. On this question, my influence, humble as it is,
is felt at this moment to a considerable extent; and it shall be felt
in coming years--not perniciously, but beneficially--not as a curse,
but as a blessing; and POSTERITY WILL BEAR TESTIMONY THAT I WAS RIGHT.
I desire to thank God that He enables me to disregard 'the fear of
man which bringeth a snare,' and to speak truth in its simplicity and
power; and I here close with this dedication:
    "Oppression! I have seen thee, face to face,
    And met thy cruel eye and cloudy brow;
    But thy soul-withering glance I fear not now--
    For dread to prouder feelings doth give place,
    Of deep abhorrence! Scorning the disgrace
    Of slavish knees that at thy footstool bow,
    I also kneel--but with far other vow
    Do hail thee and thy herd of hirelings base;
    I swear, while life-blood warms my throbbing veins,
    Still to oppose and thwart, with heart and hand,
    Thy brutalizing sway--till Afric's chains
    Are burst, and Freedom rules the rescued land,
    Trampling Oppression and his iron rod;
    Such is the vow I take--so help me God!"
Just thirty-five years after, on the first of January, 1866, Garrison
had the happiness of announcing that the glorious work to which he had
devoted himself was finally finished; and with humble ascriptions of
all the praise and glory to God, he proclaimed the cessation of the
Liberator. His own son had been a leader in that conquering army
which entered Charleston amid the shouts of liberated slaves, and
the fetters and hand-cuffs of the slave-mart were sent as peaceful
trophies to the Liberator office in Boston. Never was it given to any
mortal in one generation to witness a more perfect triumph of a moral
enterprise!
But before this triumph came were years of sharp conflict. Tones so
ringing and so resolute, coming from the poorest den in Boston, could
not but find listeners! The vital instincts of all forms of oppression
are surprisingly acute, and prompt to discriminate afar what is really
a true and what a false alarm. A storm of agitation began, which
swelled, and eddied, and howled, and shook, and convulsed the nation
from year to year, till the end came.
The first number of the Liberator brought fifty dollars from James
Forten, a colored man of Philadelphia, and the names of twenty-five
subscribers; and before long an obscure room was rented as an office,
where Garrison and his partner made their bed on the floor, boarded
themselves, and printed their paper.
A Southern magistrate, trembling for the institutions of his country,
wrote a somewhat dictatorial appeal to the mayor of Boston, Harrison
Gray Otis, to suppress that paper. Mr. Otis wrote in reply, that having
ferreted out the paper and the editor, he found that his office was an
obscure hole, his only visible auxiliary a negro boy, his supporters
a few insignificant persons of all colors--from which he argued that
there was no occasion for alarm, even though the obscure paper should
prove irrepressible. Very differently, however, thought the South.
Every mail brought to Garrison threats of assassination, and letters
whose mingled profanity and obscenity can only be described as John
Bunyan describes the discourse of Apollyon, "He spake as a dragon." The
Governors of one or two States set a price upon his head. The Governor
of Georgia, in terms somewhat more decent, offered five thousand
dollars to any one who should arrest and bring to trial under the laws
of that State, the editor or publisher of the Liberator. Many of Mr.
Garrison's friends, deeming his life in danger, besought him to wear
arms. He was, however, from religious conviction, a non-resistant of
evil, interpreting with literal strictness the Saviour's directions on
that subject; and so committed his life simply to the good providence
of God.
On January 1, 1832, he secured the co-operation of eleven others, who,
with himself, organized the American Anti-Slavery Society upon the
principle of immediate emancipation. Affiliated associations sprang
up all over the country--books, tracts, lectures, all the machinery
of moral agitation, began active movement. He went to England as agent
for the Emancipation Society, to hold counsel with the men who had
pioneered the same work successfully in England. He was warmly received
by Wilberforce, Brougham, Clarkson, and their associates, and succeeded
in opening their eyes to the entire inefficiency of the Colonization
Society as a substitute for the great duty of immediate emancipation,
so that Wilberforce, with eleven of his coadjutors, issued a protest
against it, not as in itself considered, but as it had been made a
shield to the consciences of those who deferred their immediate duty to
the slave on the ground of this distant and precarious remedy.
While in England this time, Mr. Garrison was invited to Stafford House,
and treated with marked attention by the Duchess of Sutherland, then in
the zenith of that magnificent beauty which, in union with a generous
nature and winning manners, made her one of the most distinguished
leaders among the nobility of the times. With a heart to feel every
grand and heroic impulse, she had entered with enthusiasm into the
anti-slavery movement of her own country, and was prepared to welcome
the obscure, unknown apostle of the same faith from American shores.
At her request, Garrison sat for his portrait to one of the most
distinguished artists of the time, and the copy was retained among the
memorabilia of Stafford House. Garrison humorously remarked that many
had desired to have his head before now, but the solicitation had never
come in so flattering a form. The noble woman has lived to enjoy the
triumph of that cause in which her large heart gave her that right of
personal possession which belongs to the very highest natures.
On his return from England he assisted in organizing the American
Anti-Slavery Society in Philadelphia, the declaration of whose
principles was prepared by him. From this time the anti-slavery
agitation was intensified, and the era of mob violence swept over the
country. The holding of an anti-slavery society in any place was the
appointed signal for scenes of riotous violence. In Philadelphia,
Pennsylvania Hall was burned, the negroes abused and maltreated. In
Cincinnati, Birney's printing-press and types were thrown into the
Ohio, and the negroes for days were hunted like beasts. In Alton,
Lovejoy was shot while defending his printing-press, and Boston,
notwithstanding the sepulchres of the fathers, and the shadow of Bunker
Hill spire, had her hour of the powers of darkness. Leading presses
abused the abolitionists in terms which aroused every vindictive
passion of the mob, and in October, 1835, a meeting of the Female
Anti-Slavery Society of Boston was riotously broken up by a collection
of persons, described in the journals of the day as "gentlemen of
property and standing."
The heroines of that memorable day and time, were ladies from the
very first Massachusetts families; sprung from the old heroic stock
of her historic fame. For vigor of mind, for education, for beauty,
accomplishments and genius, some of them might be cited who would
scarce find superiors in any land. Their meeting was in every way
feminine and proper, and in strict accordance with the spirit and
customs of New England, which recognize female organizations for
various benevolent purposes, as one of the most approved means for
carrying on society.
There was no more reason why a female Anti-Slavery Society should not
meet quietly, transact its own business and listen to speeches of its
own chosen orators, than the Female Foreign Missionary Society or the
Female Home Missionary Society, or the Female Temperance Union.
But certain newspapers of Boston called attention to the fact that
this meeting was so to be held, in articles written in that well known
style which stirs up and invites that very mobocratic spirit which it
pretends to deprecate.
These papers proceeded to say that those ladies were about to hold a
dangerous kind of meeting, which would be sure to end in a mob, that
they were about to be addressed by George Thompson, who was declared
to be nothing more nor less than a British agitator, sent over to make
dissension and trouble in America, and kept here for that purpose by
British funds.
It was now stated in the public prints that several store keepers
in the immediate vicinity of the Hall, had petitioned the Mayor to
suppress the meeting, as in case of a riot in the neighborhood their
property might be in danger. A placard was posted and circulated
through the city to the following purport, that
'The infamous foreign scoundrel, Thompson, would hold forth in
Anti-Slavery Hall in the afternoon, and that the present was a fair
opportunity for the friends of the Union 'to snake him out;' that a
purse of $100 has been subscribed by a number of patriotic citizens to
reward the individual who would lay violent hands on him, so that he
might be brought to the tar kettle before dark."
In consequence, the Mayor sent a deputy to Mr. Garrison to know if Mr.
Thompson did intend to address the meeting, for if he did not he wished
to apprise the people of it in order to tranquilize the excitement, and
if he did, it would be necessary to double the constabulary forces.
Mr. Garrison sent him word that Mr. Thompson was out of town, and would
not be present at the meeting. The remainder of this scene is best
given in Mr. Garrison's own words:
"As the meeting was to commence at 3 o'clock, P. M., I went to the hall
about twenty minutes before that time. Perhaps a hundred individuals
had already gathered around the street door and opposite to the
building, and their number was rapidly augmenting. On ascending into
the hall, I found about fifteen or twenty ladies assembled, sitting
with serene countenances, and a crowd of noisy intruders (mostly young
men) gazing upon them, through whom I urged my way with considerable
difficulty. 'That's Garrison,' was the exclamation of some of their
number, as I quietly took my seat. Perceiving that they had no
intention of retiring, I went to them and calmly said--'Gentlemen,
perhaps you are not aware that this is a meeting of the Boston Female
Anti-Slavery Society, called and intended exclusively for ladies,
and those only who have been invited to address them. Understanding
this fact, you will not be so rude or indecorous as to thrust your
presence upon this meeting. If, gentlemen,' I pleasantly continued,
'any of you are ladies--in disguise--why, only apprise me of the
fact, give me your names, and I will introduce you to the rest of
your sex, and you can take seats among them accordingly.' I then
sat down, and, for a few moments, their conduct was more orderly.
However, the stair-way and upper door of the hall were soon densely
filled with a brazen-faced crew, whose behavior grew more and more
indecent and outrageous. Perceiving that it would be impracticable
for me, or any other person, to address the ladies; and believing, as
I was the only male abolitionist in the hall, that my presence would
serve as a pretext for the mob to annoy the meeting, I held a short
colloquy with the excellent President of the Society, telling her that
I would withdraw, unless she particularly desired me to stay. It was
her earnest wish that I would retire, as well for my own safety as
for the peace of the meeting. She assured me that the Society would
resolutely but calmly proceed to the transaction of its business, and
leave the issue with God. I left the hall accordingly, and would have
left the building, if the stair-case had not been crowded to excess.
This being impracticable, I retired into the Anti-Slavery Office,
(which is separated from the hall by a board partition,) accompanied
by my friend, Mr. Charles C. Burleigh. It was deemed prudent to lock
the door, to prevent the mob from rushing in and destroying our
publications.
In the mean time, the crowd in the street had augmented from a hundred
to thousands. The cry was for 'Thompson! Thompson!'--but the Mayor
had now arrived, and, addressing the rioters, he assured them that
Mr. Thompson was not in the city, and besought them to disperse. As
well might he have attempted to propitiate a troop of ravenous wolves.
None went away--but the tumult continued momentarily to increase. It
was apparent, therefore, that the hostility of the throng was not
concentrated upon Mr. Thompson but that it was as deadly against the
Society and the Anti-Slavery cause. The fact is worthy of special
note--for it incontestably proves that the object of these 'respectable
and influential' rioters was to put down the cause of Emancipation, and
that the prejudice against Mr. Thompson was only a mere pretext.
Notwithstanding the presence and frantic behavior of rioters in the
hall, the meeting of the Society was regularly called to order by
the President. She read a select and exceedingly appropriate portion
of scripture, and offered a fervent prayer to God for direction and
succour and the forgiveness of enemies and rioters. It was an awful,
sublime and soul-thrilling scene. * * * The clear, untremulous tone of
that Christian heroine in prayer, occasionally awed the ruffians into
silence, and was heard distinctly even in the midst of their hisses,
yells and curses--for they could not long silently endure the agony of
conviction, and their conduct became furious. They now attempted to
break down the partition, and partially succeeded; but that little band
of women still maintained their ground unshrinkingly, and endeavored
to transact their business.
An assault was now made upon the door of the office, the lower panel of
which was instantly dashed to pieces. Stooping down, and glaring upon
me as I sat at the desk, writing an account of the riot to a distant
friend, the ruffians cried out--'There he is! That's Garrison! Out with
the scoundrel!' &c., &c. Turning to Mr. Burleigh I said--'You may as
well open the door, and let them come in and do their worst.' But he,
with great presence of mind, went out, locked the door, put the key
into his pocket, and by his admirable firmness succeeded in keeping the
office safe.
Two or three constables having cleared the hall and staircase of the
mob, the Mayor came in and ordered the ladies to desist, assuring
them that he could not any longer guarantee protection, if they did
not take immediate advantage of the opportunity to retire from the
building. Accordingly, they adjourned, to meet at the house of one of
their number, for the completion of their business; but as they passed
through the crowd, they were greeted with 'taunts, hisses, and cheers
of mobocratic triumph, from gentlemen of property and standing from all
parts of the city.' Even their absence did not diminish the throng.
Thompson was not there--the ladies were not there--but 'Garrison
is there!' was the cry. 'Garrison! Garrison! We must have Garrison!
Out with him! Lynch him!' These and numberless other exclamations
arose from the multitude. For a moment their attention was diverted
from me to the Anti-Slavery sign, and they vociferously demanded its
possession. It is painful to state, that the Mayor promptly complied
with their demand! So agitated and alarmed had he become that in very
weakness of spirit he ordered the sign to be hurled to the ground,
and it was instantly broken in a thousand fragments by the infuriated
populace. The sign being demolished the cry for Garrison was resumed
more loudly than ever. It was now apparent that the multitude would
not disperse till I left the building, and as egress out of the front
door was impossible, the Mayor and some of his assistants as well as
some of my friends earnestly besought me to escape in the rear of the
building. At this moment an abolition brother, whose mind had been
previously settled on the peace question, in his anguish and alarm for
my safety, and in the view of the helplessness of the civil authority,
said, 'I must henceforth repudiate the principle of non-resistance.
When the civil arm is powerless, my own rights are trodden in the dust,
and the lives of my friends are put in imminent peril by ruffians, I
will hereafter stand ready to defend myself and them at all hazards.'
Putting my hand upon his shoulder, I said, 'Hold, my dear brother!
You know not what spirit you are of. Of what value or utility are the
principles of peace and forgiveness, if we may repudiate them in the
hour of peril and suffering? Do you wish to become like one of those
violent and blood-thirsty men who are seeking my life? Shall we give
blow for blow, and array sword against sword? God forbid! I will perish
sooner than raise my hand against any man, even in self-defence, and
let none of my friends resort to violence for my protection. If my life
be taken, the cause of emancipation will not suffer. God reigns--his
throne is undisturbed by this storm--he will make the wrath of man to
praise him, and the remainder he will restrain--his omnipotence will at
length be victorious.'
Preceded by my faithful and beloved friend Mr. J----R----C----, I
dropped from a back window on to a shed, and narrowly escaped falling
headlong to the ground. We entered into a carpenter's shop, through
which we attempted to get into Wilson's Lane, but found our retreat
cut off by the mob. They raised a shout as soon as we came in sight,
but the proprietor promptly closed the door of his shop, kept them at
bay for a time, and thus kindly afforded me an opportunity to find
some other passage. I told Mr. C. it would be futile to attempt to
escape--I would go out to the mob, and let them deal with me as they
might elect; but he thought it was my duty to avoid them as long as
possible. We then went up stairs, and finding a vacancy in one corner
of the room, I got into it, and he and a young lad piled up some
boards in front of me, to shield me from observation. In a few minutes
several ruffians broke into the chamber, who seized Mr. C. in a rough
manner, and led him out to the view of the mob, saying, 'This is not
Garrison, but Garrison's and Thompson's friend, and he says he knows
where Garrison is, but won't tell.' Then a shout of exultation was
raised by the mob, and what became of him I do not know; though, as
I was immediately discovered, I presume he escaped without material
injury. On seeing me, three or four of the rioters, uttering a yell,
furiously dragged me to the window, with the intention of hurling me
from that height to the ground; but one of them relented, and said,
'Don't let us kill him outright.' So they drew me back, and coiled a
rope about my body--probably to drag me through the streets. I bowed to
the mob, and requesting them to wait patiently until I could descend,
went down upon a ladder that was raised for that purpose. I fortunately
extricated myself from the rope, and was seized by two or three of
the leading rioters, powerful and athletic men, by whom I was dragged
along bare-headed, (for my hat had been knocked off and cut in pieces
on the spot,) a friendly voice in the crowd shouting, 'He shan't be
hurt! He is an American!' This seemed to excite sympathy in the breasts
of some others, and they reiterated the same cry. Blows, however, were
