The bride was pale and quiet, but looked lovely in her 
soft white silk and flowing veil. Mr. Otis acquitted him- 
self very creditably; Mr. Channing was charming beyond 
description ; and when we had laughed and talked, shaken 
hands, eaten bride-cake, and smiled over our wineglasses 
for the appointed time, Anne and I made our exit. I 
helped her change her dress for a travelling costume, 
kissed her tenderly, and wished her a happiness I feared 
would never come ; and then she went to her mother for a 
few last words. 
She had preferred a remarkable composure, I thought ; 
but it gave way then. The other farewells were brief, and 
they drove away on the pilgrimage that had fallen to their 
lot. For how many of these things come from absolute 
and unbiassed election ? 
We had a gay time after they were gone. Quite a party 
remained, and the evening ended with a little dancing. 
Mr. Channing lingered until the very last, and left with a 
promise of seeing me early the next day. He had added 
a great charm to the visit for me. Not but what I could 
have enjoyed myself very well with so pleasant a family 
under other circumstances; indeed, the children made a 
great outcry when they found my departure so near at 
hand. Walter endeavored to persuade me to remain until 
Anne's return. It was odd, I thought, that they should 
seem to count upon her being just as much to them as 
before. 
" I don't know that I could have parted with her if she 
were not going to live so near," Mrs. Sutherland said. 
How would Mr. Otis like these constant claims? Per- 
haps his boundless generosity took in the whole family. 
The wreck and ruins of the wedding feast seemed every- 
where visible ; aud the house wore a listless, disconsolate 
 
look the next day. Anne was missed in every trifling 
event. Her sweet and yielding nature must have pos- 
sessed some strong points thus to make her influence felt 
and needed. 
With my good by I gave a promise of repeating the 
visit. Then I turned my face homeward, speculating not 
a little on my reception. Mr. Channing proved a delight- 
ful escort ; I liked him exceedingly, yet Mr. St. John was 
hardly out of my mind a moment. Would he deem him- 
self aggrieved by the presence of his cousin, and the fact 
that I had not heeded his suggestion ? I did not well see 
how I could have helped it. 
What a strange tangle most lives are! I wonder if we 
choose anything. Rather it appears to me that we take 
the events as they com'e along, and use them as the present 
moment dictates, and afterwards bewail mistakes, helpless 
to relieve them. 
Two of my companions had decided their destinies. I 
was not much better satisfied with Anne's marriage than 
with Laura's, and half convinced that the latter would 
enjoy more real happiness. She would not try to make 
pure and high motives harmonize with the position in which 
she would be placed, and know none of the wearying 
struggles of fruitless endeavor. 
I thanked God for the bright promise of Ellen's love. 
Yet how narrowly that had escaped going down into dark- 
ness. 
 
CHAPTER XI. 
" The heart 
Oft grows inconstant in its own despite, 
And most in love; because of cruel gods, 
Who envy man's obtaining that, the which 
They deem their own." SIR WALTEB RALEIGH. 
" Still, when we purpose to enjoy ourselves, 
To try our valor fortune semis a foe ; 
To try our equanimity, a friend." GOETHE'S TASSO. 
THE fragrant breath of a glorious May morning greeted 
me as I opened my eyes after a night's sleep at Laurel- 
wood. There had been a shower in the night, and the 
distant fields were a glittering sheet of emeralds and dia- 
monds ; every tree was a haze of sunshine ; spring gusts 
went wandering through the pines, sweet with the prom- 
ised luxuriance of coming summer. 
A warm glow quivered through my frame. I pushed 
the heavy hair back from my forehead, and drew long 
breaths of this bewildering air. I thought of the time 
when I had first come here, and a quick rush of feeling 
overpowered me for an instant. 
But I was forced to return to common daily life. Our 
welcome of the night before had been warm and cordial 
from Mrs. Lawrence, and very courteous from Mr. St. John. 
I was anxious to know how it would prove by daylight. 
Perhaps, after all, there was no real antagonism on Mr. St. 
John's part. Natures like his, strongly marked by positive 
qualities, generally prove severe in their requirements, and 
 
impatient with what they consider mental inferiority. But 
are they any happier or capable of higher enjoyments than 
the others ? 
Tbirza came to assist me. Mrs. Lawrence had already 
gone down ; so I begged her to be expeditious, and soon 
joined the family. They were all in the breakfast room, 
the two gentlemen talking amicably ; so there had been no 
instant declaration of war. In fact, I thought Mr. St. John 
unusually gay and brilliant. He inquired about the jour- 
ney, the visit, and hoped our newly-married friends had 
behaved quite to our satisfaction, and were as happy as it 
was possible to be. Mr. Channing made most of the re- 
plies. Whatever had appeared incongruous in the union 
he very delicately kept in the background. Indeed, lis- 
tening to him, I began to fancy that Anne had been a rather 
fortunate girl, and stood a fair chance for a pleasant life. 
I could not help contrasting the two men. Aylmer 
Channing bore out the resemblance to Mrs. Lawrence in 
many particulars, and especially in that peculiar appear- 
ance of youth and gracefulness. He had the beauty of 
some old god ; you could hardly disconnect him from 
Grecian groves and festivals that legends have brought 
down to us. The comparison made St. John appear really 
plainer gave him a force and ruggedness: the massive 
brow and head were indicative of power and sternness, 
where the other's displayed an elegant ease and languor; 
his face was sharply cut, cold, indrawn, while Mr. Chan- 
ning carried in his a continual glow of enjoyment. 
Mrs. Lawrence was really delighted to have me back 
again, and I yielded to the charm of her welcome. 
" So you like cousin Aylmer," she said, when we were 
alone. "I wonder that I didn't think of inviting him in 
the winter, though I don't believe you suffeied for lack 
of society." 
 
"Indeed, we had our hands full," I rejoined, with a 
smile. 
" Aylraer is one of the most finished gentlemen I have 
ever met. The Channing estate is large, too, and there 
are no children by this second marriage. I wonder that 
your friend did not choose him instead of looking farther* 
He tells me they have been acquainted for years." 
" Her husband was an old friend, also," I said, rather 
coldly. 
" What a picture you two people must have made ! " she 
went on, presently, in the tones whose melody wa^s sweet 
to fascination, even if the theme was deficient in charm. 
There was something in her manner that gave me an un- 
comfortable feeling. Why must people look at every 
ordinary acquaintance or friendship with a view to matri- 
mony? It vexes me. 
For several days all went on smoothly enough. Mr. St. 
John took very little notice of my return, and made no 
reference whatever to his unlucky note. No one would 
have supposed he entertained the slightest objection to his 
cousin. Not that he acted hypocritically: he made no 
show of affection for Aylmer, but treated him with the 
nicest courtesy. The circle of neighbors around Laurel- 
wood greeted my return with a most cordial warmth, and 
we were in continual demand. I had observed before this 
the peculiar reserve with which most people treated Mr. 
St. John, or rather which he demanded of them. He was 
not a man one would be likely to take liberties with. Mrs. 
Lawrence they drew into their gayeties as if quite by right, 
and in this pleasant social atmosphere Mr. Channing was 
instantly included. Invitations poured in upon us as thick 
as at Christmas tide. It was such lovely weather for rides 
and drives and little parties! 
"You have worked a wonderful change in my august 
 
cousin," Mr. Charming said to me. " Why, he is quite a 
civilized being." 
" You overrate my influence," I returned. "I have found 
no change in him since my arrival." 
"Ah, you didn't know him before. And Isabelle told 
me a day or two ago that he had gone into much more 
society since Miss Adriance came." 
I colored a little at this. 
" He would be stock or stone if he did not pay some 
tribute to your charms," was the rejoinder, to which I made 
no repl v,. 
But that evening Mr. St. John departed from his usual 
serene mood. We had been talking of a book which had 
interested us all a good deal, when he demolished our fa- 
vorite characters with some of his sweeping assertions, 
very unjust, I thought, and the two had a rather sharp 
skirmish. 
Aylmer went to the window, presently, complaining of 
the heat, when Mr. St. John remarked, in a sarcastic tone, 
that he did not perceive any change in the temperature. 
I was near by, and could not resist the temptation of 
saying, purposely for his ear, 
"Marble generally is impervious to heat or cold." 
" Thanks," he returned, with a scornful little smile. 
" Perhaps it would be well to congratulate you on the same 
principle." 
" I haven't been in this atmosphere long enough to be- 
come petrified ; but it probably would occur if I had no 
alternative beyond remaining," I answered, sharply. 
" How fortunate that a summer sea awaits you ! Of 
course there are no such evils as tempests under your 
bland sky." 
Aylmer called me to watch the curious effect of some 
distant light. What a hard, haughty face I encountered 
as I passed ! 
 
I begin to understand what Aylmer meant when ho 
said they did not agree. The war between them has 
been fairly inaugurated. There are bitter retorts passing 
to and fro, veiled by politeness to be sure, but sheathed in 
sarcasm. Mr. St. John acts as if he thought his cousin's 
fine qualities put on for effect. Aylmer has a quick eye 
.for beauty, and glowing descriptive powers that in some 
men would savor of affectation, but with him are per* 
fectly natural. St. John points these with irony or ridi- 
cule ; and if Aylmer's temper were not the sweetest in the 
world, he would certainly be vexed. 
I stood on the balcony in my riding habit one morning^ 
waiting for the horses, Mr. St. John rose up out of the 
vines. 
" I suppose you are going to discover another smile or 
dimple in the face of your beautiful nature," he said, with 
an irritating curl of the lip. " You have a rare interpre- 
ter in your attendant." 
"He certainly is," I returned, roused to warmth; u a 
worshipper whom not the slightest touch of grace es- 
capes." 
" Whether it be in a pretty woman or a pretty land- 
scape, a well-shaped hand, or an harmoniously colored 
tulip." 
His comparisons vexed me as much as his tone. " At 
least he is your cousin," I said, pointedly, turning my eyes 
full upon him. 
" I am at a loss to know whether that is intended as a 
compliment for him or myself." 
"It was not meant for a compliment at all, merely a 
reminder." 
"That I should take a few lessons of my charming 
cousin? become a regular Jemmy Jessamy, flatter and 
flirt, carry fans and perfumed handkerchiefs ? " 
 
" I fancy lie possesses some virtues not quite above your 
comprehension." 
"Indeed, I thought I enumerated the prominent traits." 
"You are determined to see nothing that is good ; to 
pervert and ridicule what others admire." 
"I have been aware for some time of the direction your 
approval has taken, and that you would hardly admit calm 
reason to make a statement." 
" Make as many statements as you like," I said, angrily, 
my face in a blaze at his imputation. 
"At least, Miss Adriance, you will allow that the ac- 
quaintance of a lifetime is better worth judging from than 
that of a few weeks. Not that I expect to have the 
slightest influence over you. I am aware that one hour in 
Mr. Channing's fascinating society _would eradicate any 
other impression." 
" Women are more easily impressed by gentleness and 
generosity," I said, turning coldly aside. 
" Women are impressed by any idle, conceited cox- 
comb, who chooses to appeal to their vanity, pay them, 
homage, and dangle after them continually. Tell them 
the truth, and they will hate you it is like them the 
world over. A little glitter and show is all they ask." 
"Your experience in women must have been rather 
unfortunate," I said, in a sweet, irritating tone, that I knew 
would exasperate him. 
He flushed and frowned, and some lightning rays of 
passion shot out of his eyes. His lips quivered, but made 
no sound, for just then the horses were led around, headed 
by Aylmer, who had been superintending some changes 
in the equipment of mine. 
I ran down the steps in triumph, flinging back a dis- 
dainful smile. 
"Don't you envy us, Stuart?" Aylmer asked, gayly. 
 
" Nature is in holiday apparel ; her heavens are blue, 
touched with floating drifts of silver; her earth an en- 
chanter's realm, and the air is rosemary and thyme." 
Mr. St. John vouchsafed no reply. We mounted, and 
rode quickly down the long avenue. Presently Aylmer 
said, 
" So Memnon has gone back to his voiceless marble ! 
What have you been doing, enchantress?" 
"Nothing to make him so rude." 
" How majestically sullen he was ! Do you know I half 
suspect he did envy me?" 
" Not on my account," I said, shortly. 
" I am not so sure of that. He cannot be so widely 
different from all created beings. I half expected to hear 
him order you to your room, and dismiss me on the spot. 
Every morning when I rise I look on my dressing-table to 
find a paper duly attested, wherein he disowns all relation- 
ship to one Aylmer Channing, late his loving cousin, and 
requests that he shall be no more troubled with such de- 
lectable society." 
" Not quite so bad as that ; " and I laughed. I liked 
this ridiculous exaggeration much better than sentiment, 
and therefore used every effort to keep him gay. 
I confess he does have a singular effect upon me. Every 
one admires him; and I can see that Mrs. Lawrence puta 
us in each other's way continually. Mr. St. John does 
this also. It piques me to be given to him in this posi- 
tive manner, as if I had no other resource. Mr. St. John 
seems to shun me. We might as well be at the antipodes 
for any real interest or pleasure we are to each other. He 
is hard, icy, and impenetrable. 
I believe I am coming to a serious part of my life. The 
open sea seems to divide ; and, looking down one stream, 
I see a clear, sunny, rippling tide, whose music lulls one 
 
to a restful calm. No promise of storms or tempest, no 
matter how distant. The other is full of frowning rocks, 
disturbed and unquiet shores, where it would require all 
one's strength and wisdom to guide the helm, to shun 
the dangerous ledges, and keep the bark in a safe channel. 
I wonder why it is, but I have a misgiving that this 
sweetness would pall upon me at length grow utterly 
wearisome. And yet it is what most women like. It is 
in my path, and I have only to reach out my hand and 
accept; for Mr. Channing has shown his love in many 
ways, and has evinced such a tender consideration for 
my happiness. He has youth, rare personal endowments, 
wealth, and a certain winsomeness that attracts friends on 
every side. Few would fail of being perfectly happy with 
him. Why does it nut satisfy me? 
Ah, why ? Heart, what have you done ? Why this 
wandering in gloomy places for a glance from perverse 
eyes that freeze me with their coldness? Why sip this 
draught of bitter rue while the goblet of life's sweetest 
wine stands untasted? Weak and unwomanly as it may 
be, I can confess here to myself, with no other eyes to 
witness my humiliation, that I do care for one to whom I 
am as nothing. 
He has attracted me strongly from the very sense of 
invincible power that is generous only as a conqueror ; 
and if he had striven to subdue, I think I must have 
yielded eventually, even if I had resisted at first. Once 
or twice he has carried me along the current of his im- 
petuous desires, and I have learned how sweet it was to 
yield to so superior a force. But does he care? He has 
been unjust, impatient, cruel; and that a man can never 
be to the woman he loves. Ah, dream too sweet for me ; 
the thought tortures my very being! 
 
I can never decide with any certainty upon Mr. St. 
John. A short time ago he threw me constantly in Ayl- 
mer Channing's society, never accompanied us anywhere, 
pleaded urgent business, letters to write, or persons to see ; 
and now lie lias changed inexplicably. I have a con- 
sciousness that he follows me everywhere. I catch a 
glimpse of fierce, restless eyes when I least expect ; and 
now and then he confronts rne in a manner so peculiar that 
it startles me. 
Mrs. Lawrence has had the house full of company, 
though I believe he first proposed inviting some guests. 
We have had outdoor amusements; and within, music, 
charades, tableaux, and the like. It has been quite a gala 
time ; and Aylmer lias proved a strong attraction. Mrs. 
Lawrence admires him exceedingly. 
I think he remarked this curious surveillance, for one 
morning, as we were rambling in the grounds, he spq.ke of 
it. I laughed at first. 
"He means to frighten away any possible lover by 
those portentous looks, and keep you here in his castle 
until you consent to become humble Esther to his mag- 
nificence." 
"A remarkably distant event," I replied, rather curtly. 
"I should hope so. I cannot imagine a woman loving 
him. His haughty pride, imperious will, and cold, dis- 
dainful nature, his lack of tenderness, and his utter ina- 
bility to enjoy the highest and keenest happiness, would 
repel any true woman." 
"Are you quite just?" I ventured to say, under a pas- 
sionate heart throb. 
"Just? Haven't you used your own eyes? Ah, Miss 
Adiiance, you cannot lead me very far astray in regard to 
yourself. He is barbarous to you sometimes, and you 
suffer from it as any high-toned, sensitive nature would. 
 
I know him so well that his sharp-pointed shafts never 
wound me. I forgive for relation's sake." 
Was it really his dainty, generous philosophy ? I did 
not want to misjudge one so amiable, and yet I wondered 
how deeply he could be wounded. His bright, exuberant 
nature seemed akin to a summer day with its great waves 
of sunshine, singing birds, and wafts of fragrance. How 
would it be in winter in trouble or sorrow ? 
" Of all things wonderful ! My amiable cousin coming 
to meet us I He has certainly developed a phase of jeal- 
ousy ; " and Aylmer gave a light, rippling laugh. 
I turned suddenly in a half incredulous mood. Mr. St. 
John had caught the sound. O, that bitter gesture of 
contempt, as if he could have struck some one to the 
earth ; those scornful eyes dilated and sparkling ! What 
unseen fire fed them jealousy or hate ? 
Aylmer opened the conversation in a most courteous 
manner. I debated how I could escape from them both, 
for I knew this covert peace would prove of short dura- 
tion. But when I would have left them, Mr. St. John 
Baid, pointedly, 
"Pardon my intrusion, Miss Adriance, and remain. I 
am the unlucky third." 
" My dear cousin, allow me to appease your tender con- 
science. Our ramble was most unimportant, and you were 
no interruption whatever." 
I fancy he did not like the tone, for Aylmer gave it a 
peculiar sound, and his reply was sharp. He must have 
been strangely out of humor. I was really glad when a 
turn in the walk brought us in sight of the house. 
Most of the guests had left us, and he showed a dis- 
position to retire into his former impassibility, but Aylmer 
was really tormenting with his light ridicule. St. John's 
ready wit seemed to have deserted him, for, though he 
 
was bitter, his adversary gained all the triumphs. It was 
excessively wicked ; but I really enjoyed seeing him 
vanquished. What was in those deep, mysterious eyes ? 
Great waves of something, that kept coming and going 
with phosphorescent light, showing depths and heights, 
but giving no clew to the translation thereof. 
Quite late in the evening I remember I was lingering 
over the piano, when Aylmer asked him a question about 
some musical composer. He had been making a pretence 
of reading, but did not progress very rapidly, if one 
might judge from the slowness with which the leaves 
were turned. He sat now quite unconscious, his face 
compressed with some strange, strong purpose. 
" Stuart, are you in love ? " and Aylmer's dainty lips 
gave out their musical ripple. 
He started up nervously, and shot a rapid glance 
around. 
"What foolish trifles amuse you," he said, haughtily. 
" I have asked one question half a dozen times at least. 
I know of nothing else that can render a man so oblivi- 
ous do you, Miss Adriance ? " 
"I am not experienced in such matters," I returned, 
confusedly. 
" You are, at least. A man who has a new love every 
month, must be a competent judge ! " and St. John glanced 
at him scathingly. 
" What says your poet ? " replied the other. 
' ' "Tis better to have loved and lost, 
Than never to have loved at all ; ' 
and then it^doesn't affect one so powerfully as to take 
away one's senses." 
" Some people never would suffer in that respect." 
" Stuart, you have been in a most unamiable mood all 
SYDNIE ADRIANCE, OK 
day. Something must certainly be weighing upon your 
mind." 
"What weak, womanish nonsense!" "St. John declared, 
loftily. "Since love and its accessories suit you so ad- 
mirably, keep to your own sphere. You will find suffi- 
cient attraction in it." 
The look, as he strode out of the room, was for me. 
Scorn, anger, and derisive pity, quite as if he despised me. 
My heart was under my feet in a moment, and I know I 
repaid him glance for glance. 
"The tiger lias been caught in the toils. Bravo, Miss 
Adriance ! " Aylmer said, gayly; but I turned away, 
humiliated and pained to my inmost soul. 
 
CHAPTER XII. 
" Ere such a heart regains its peaceful state, 
How often must it love, how often hate; 
How often hope, despair, resent, regret, 
Conceal, disdain do all things but forget." 
POPE. 
MR. ST. JOHN subsided again into his lofty reserve. He 
began to -treat me with a studied indifference, as if I was 
altogether beneath any friendly concern. And yet it was 
singular how attentive he was in any point of duty. Much 
as he and Ayhner bickered, he never for an instant forgot 
his position as host, or made his guest feel that he was an 
unwelcome visitor. 
I wished that Aylmer had not been quite so ready to 
tease. Mrs. Lawrence looked upon the warfare between 
them as a matter of mere amusement, and oftener hastened 
to the rescue of her cousin than that of her brother, though 
their bitterest encounters had generally occurred in my 
presence. But one morning, at the breakfast table, when 
he appeared unusually distraught, Aylmer said, gayly, 
" Cousin Isabelle, I made a discovery a few evenings 
ago." 
" What was it, pray ? " and she smiled. 
" That Stuart is in love. He has grown most melancholy 
of late." 
" Like other diseases, I suppose, the older one is, the 
more severe the malady. You are not past hope," and she 
glanced at him with a glimmer of amusement. 
" As if there was nothing to a man's life but this insane 
 
 
folly !" he retorted, in a sharp, bitter tone. " I believe the 
world runs mad on the subject. When you find me com- 
mitting such a stupendous blunder it will be time to laugh ; 
at present I have no such intentions." 
There was an awkward silence for a moment, but Mrs- 
Lawrence covered it with her usual ready tact. 
I sat still, chilled in some inexplicable way. I knew she 
had never considered him a marrying man, or likely to be 
attracted by any woman. O, what wild, fatal dreams I 
had been indulging in! dashed to a pitiless ruin at a 
word. How was I to recover, to retrieve my pride, to cast 
off this influence that had begun to envelop me so closely? 
I rose slowly, every pulse filled with keenest anguish. As 
I passed him, he turned his cold eyes full upon me. Not a 
ray of light or tenderness I must find my way alone out 
