
"Is there anything about Egypt?"

"Egypt! Are you in Egypt?  See here  look, here is Denon 
here is Laborde; here is two or three more. Do you like that?
Ah! I see by the way your grey eyes grow big.  Now sit down,
and do what you like. Nobody will disturb you. You can come
here every evening for the hour before tea."

Mademoiselle scarce staid for my thanks, and left me alone. I
had not seen either Laborde or Denon in my grandfather's
library at Magnolia; they were after his time. The engravings
and illustrations also had not been very many or very fine in
his collection of travellers' books. It was the greatest joy
to me to see some of those things in Mme. Ricard's library,
that I had read and dreamed about so long in my head. It was
adding eyesight to hearsay. I found a good deal too that I
wanted to read, in these later authorities. Evening after
evening I was in Madame's library, lost among the halls of the
old Egyptian conquerors.

The interest and delight of my work quite filled me, so that
the fate of my composition hardly came into my thoughts, or
the fact that other people were writing compositions too. And
when it was done, I was simply very sorry that it was done. I
had not written it for honour or for duty, but for love. I
suppose that was the reason why it succeeded. I remember I was
anything but satisfied with it myself, as I was reading it
aloud for the benefit of my judges. For it was a day of prize
compositions; and before the whole school and even some
visitors, the writings of the girls were given aloud, each by
its author. I thought, as I read mine, how poor it was, and
how magnificent my subject demanded that it should be. Under
the shade of the great columns, before those fine old
sphinxes, my words and myself seemed very small. I sat down in
my place again, glad that the reading was over.

But there was a little buzz; then a dead expectant silence;
then Mme. Ricard arose. My composition had been the last one.
I looked up, with the rest, to hear the award that she would
speak; and was at first very much confounded to hear my own
name called. "Miss Randolph " It did not occur to me what it
was spoken for; I sat still a moment in a maze. Mme. Ricard
stood waiting; all the room was in a hush.

"Don't you hear yourself called?" said a voice behind me. "Why
don't you go?"

I looked round at Miss Macy, who was my adviser, then
doubtfully I looked away from her and caught the eyes of Mlle.
Genevieve. She nodded and beckoned me to come forward. I did
it hastily then, and found myself curtseying in front of the
platform where stood Madame.

"The prize is yours, Miss Randolph," she said graciously.
"Your paper is approved by all the judges."

"Quite artistic,"  I heard a gentleman say at her elbow. "And
it shows an amount of thorough study and perfect preparation,
which I can but hold up as a model to all my young ladies. You
deserve this, my dear."

I was confounded; and a low curtsey was only a natural relief
to my feelings. But Madame unhappily took it otherwise.

"This is yours," she said, putting into my hands an elegant
little bronze standish;  "and if I had another prize to
bestow for grace of good manners, I am sure I would have the
pleasure of giving you that too."

I bent again before Madame, and got back to my seat as I
could. The great business of the day was over, and we soon
scattered to our rooms. And I had not been in mine five
minutes before the penalties of being distinguished began to
come upon me.

"Well, Daisy! " said Miss Lansing  "you've got it. How
pretty! Isn't it, Macy?"

"It isn't a bit prettier than it ought to be, for a prize in
such a school," said Miss Macy. "It will do."

"I've seen handsomer prizes," said Miss Bentley.

"But you've got it, more ways than one, Daisy," Miss Lansing
went on. "I declare! Aren't you a distinguished young lady!
Madame, too! Why, we all used to think we behaved pretty well
before company,  didn't we, St. Clair?"

"I hate favour and favouritism!" said that young lady, her
upper lip taking the peculiar turn to which my attention had
once been called. "Madame likes whatever is French."

"But Randolph is not French, are you, Randolph ?" said Black-
eyes, who was good-natured through everything.

"Madame is not French herself," said Miss Bentley.

"I hate everything at school!" St. Clair went on.

"It is too bad," said her friend. "Do you know, Daisy, St.
Clair always has the prize for compositions. What made you go
and write that long stuff about Rameses? the people didn't
understand it, and so they thought it was fine."

"I am sure there was a great deal finer writing in Faustina's
composition," said Miss Bentley.

I knew very well that Miss St. Clair had been accustomed to
win this half yearly prize for good writing. I had expected
nothing but that she would win it this time. I had counted
neither o n my own success nor on the displeasure it would
raise. I took my hat and went over to my dear Miss Cardigan;
hoping that ill-humour would have worked itself out by
bedtime. But I was mistaken.

St. Clair and I had been pretty near each other in our
classes, though once or twice lately I had got an advantage
over her; but we had kept on terms of cool social distance
until now. Now the spirit of rivalry was awake. I think it
began to stir at my Paris dresses and things; Karnak and Mme.
Ricard finished the mischief.

On my first coming to school I had been tempted, in my horror
at the utter want of privacy, to go to bed without prayer;
waiting till the rest were all laid down and asleep and the
lights out, and then slipping out of bed with great care not
to make a noise, and watching that no whisper of my lips
should be loud enough to disturb anybody's slumbers. But I was
sure, after a while, that this was a cowardly way of doing;
and I could not bear the words, "Whosoever shall be ashamed of
Me, and of My words, of him shall the Son of man be ashamed,
when He cometh in the glory of His Father." I determined in
the vacation that I would do so no more, cost what it might
the contrary. It cost a tremendous struggle. I think, in all
my life I have done few harder things, than it was to me then
to kneel down by the side of my bed in full blaze of the
gaslights and with four curious pairs of eyes around to look
on; to say nothing of the four busy tongues wagging about
nothing all the time. I remember what a hush fell upon them
the first night; while beyond the posture of prayer I could do
little. Only unformed or half formed thoughts and petitions
struggled in my mind, through a crowd of jostling regrets and
wishes and confusions, in which I could hardly distinguish
anything. But no explosion followed, of either ridicule or
amusement, and I had been suffered from that night to do as I
would, not certainly always in silence, but quite unmolested.

I had carried over my standish to Miss Cardigan to ask her to
take care of it for me; I had no place to keep it. But Miss
Cardigan was not satisfied to see the prize; she wanted to
hear the essay read; and was altogether so elated that a
little undue elation perhaps crept into my own heart. It was
not a good preparation for what was coming.

I went home in good time. In the hall, however, Mlle.
Genevieve seized upon me; she had several things to say, and
before I got up stairs to my room all the rest of its inmates
were in bed. I hoped they were asleep. I heard no sound while
I was undressing, nor while I knelt, as usual now, by my
bedside. But as I rose from my knees I was startled by a sort
of grunt that came from St. Clair's corner.

"Humph!  Dear me! We're so good,  Grace and Devotion, 
Christian grace, too!"

"Hold your tongue, St. Clair," said Miss Macy, but not in a
way, I thought, to check her; if she could have been checked.

"But it's too bad, Macy," said the girl. "We're all so rough,
you know. We don't know how to behave ourselves; we can't make
curtsies; our mothers never taught us anything,  and dancing
masters are no good. We ought to go to Egypt. There isn't
anything so truly dignified as a pyramid. There is a great
deal of à plomb there!"

"Who talked about à plomb?" said Miss Bentley.

"You have enough of that, at any rate, Faustina," said
Lansing.

"Mrs. St. Clair's child ought to have that," said Miss Macy.

"Ah, but it isn't Christian grace, after all," persisted
Faustina. "You want a cross at the top of a pyramid to make it
perfect."

"Hush, Faustina!" said Miss Macy.

"It's fair," said Miss Bentley.

"You had better not talk about Christian grace, girls. That
isn't a matter of opinion."

"Oh, isn't it!" cried St. Clair, half rising up in her bed.
"What is it, then?"

Nobody answered.

"I say!  Macy, what is Christian grace  if you know? If you
don't know, I'll put you in the way to find out."

"How shall I find out?"

"Will you do it, if I show it to you?"

"Yes."

"Ask Randolph. That's the first step. Ask her,  yes! just ask
her, if you want to know. I wish Mme. Ricard was here to hear
the answer."

"Nonsense!" said Macy.

"Ask her! You said you would. Now ask her."

"What is Christian grace, Daisy?" said Miss Bentley.

I heard, but I would not answer. I hoped the storm would blow
over, after a puff or two. But Black-eyes, without any ill-
nature, I think, which was not in her, had got into the gale.
She slipped out of bed and came to my side, putting her hand
on my shoulder and bringing her laughing mouth down near my
ear. A very angry impulse moved me before she spoke.

"Daisy!"  she said, laughing, in a loud whisper,  "come,
wake up! You're not asleep, you know. Wake up and tell us; 
everybody knows you know;  what is Christian grace? Daisy! "

She shook me a little.

"If you knew, you would not ask me,"  I said in great
displeasure. But a delighted shout from all my room-mates
answered this unlucky speech, which I had been too excited to
make logical.

"Capital!" cried St. Clair. "That's just it  we don't know;
and we only want to find out whether she a does. Make her
tell, Lansing  prick a little pin into her  that will bring
it out."

I was struggling between anger and sorrow, feeling very hurt,
and at the same time determined not to cry. I kept absolutely
still, fighting the fight of silence with myself. Then
Lansing, in a fit of thoughtless mischief, finding her shakes
and questions vain, actually put in practice St. Clair's
suggestion and attacked me with a pin from the dressing table.
The first prick of it overthrew the last remnant of my
patience.

"Miss Lansing!"  I exclaimed, rousing up in bed and
confronting her. They all shouted again.

"Now we'll have it!" cried St. Clair. "Keep cool, Black-eyes;
let's hear  we'll have an exposition now. Theme, Christian
grace."

Ah, there rushed through my heart with her words a remembrance
of other words  a fluttering vision of something "gentle and
easy to be entreated"  "first pure, then peaceable" 
"gentleness, goodness, meekness."  But the grip of passion
held them all down or kept them all back. After St. Clair's
first burst, the girls were still and waited for what I would
say. I was facing Miss Lansing, who had taken her hand from my
shoulder.

"Are you not ashamed of yourself?" I said; and I remember I
thought how my mother would have spoken to them. "Miss
Lansing's good nature"  I went on slowly,  "Miss Macy's
kindness  Miss Bentley's independence  and Miss St. Clair's
good breeding!" 

"And Miss Randolph's religion!" echoed the last-named, with a
quiet distinctness which went into my heart.

"What about my independence?" said Miss Bentley.

"Now we've got enough, girls,  lie down and go to sleep,"
said Miss Macy. "There's quite enough of this. There was too
much before we began. Stop where you are."

They did not stop, however, without a good deal of noisy
chaffing and arguing, none of which I heard. Only the words,
"Miss Randolph's religion," rung in my ears. I lay down with
them lying like lead on my heart. I went to sleep under them.
I woke up early, while all the rest were asleep, and began to
study them.

"Miss Randolph's religion!" If it had been only that, only
mine. But the religion I professed was the religion of Christ;
the name I was called by was His name; the thing I had brought
into discredit was His truth. I hope in all my life I may
never know again the heart-pangs that this thought cost me. I
studied how to undo the mischief I had done. I could find no
way. I had seemed to prove my religion an unsteady,
superficial thing; the evidence I had given I could not
withdraw; it must stand. I lay thinking, with the heartache,
until the rousing bell rang, and the sleepers began to stir
from their slumbers. I got up and began, to dress with the
rest.

"What was it all that happened last night?" said Miss Lansing.

"Advancement in knowledge,"  said. Miss St. Clair.

"Now, girls  don't begin again," said Miss Macy.

"Knowledge is a good thing," said the other, with pins in her
mouth. "I intend to take every opportunity that offers of
increasing mine; especially I mean to study Egyptians and
Christians. I haven't any Christians among my own family or
acquaintance  so you see, naturally, Macy, I am curious; and
when a good specimen offers "

"I am not a good specimen," I said.

"People are not good judges of themselves, it is said," the
girl went on. "Everybody considers Miss Randolph a sample of
what that article ought to be."

"You don't use the word right," remarked Miss Macy. "A sample
is taken from what is,  not from what ought to be."

"I don't care," was St. Clair's reply.

"I did not behave like a Christian last night," I forced
myself to say. "I was impatient."

"Like an impatient Christian then, I suppose," said St. Clair.

I felt myself getting impatient again, with all my sorrow and
humiliation of heart. And yet more humbled at the
consciousness, I hastened to get out of the room. It was a
miserable day, that day of my first school triumphs, and so
were several more that followed. I was very busy; I had no
time for recollection and prayer; I was in the midst of
gratulations and plaudits from my companions and the teachers;
and I missed, Oh how I missed, the praise of God. I felt like
a traitor. In the heat of the fight, I had let my colours come
to the ground. I had dishonoured my Captain. Some would say it
was a little thing; but I felt then and I know now, there are
no little things; I knew I had done harm; how much, it was
utterly beyond my reach to know.

As soon as I could I seized an opportunity to get to Miss
Cardigan. I found her among her flowers, nipping off here a
leaf and there a flower that had passed its time; so busy,
that for a few moments she did not see that I was different
from usual. Then came the question which I had been looking
for.

"Daisy, you are not right to-day?"

"I haven't been right since I got that standish," I burst
forth.

Miss Cardigan looked at me again, and then did what I had not
expected; she took my head between her two hands and kissed
me. Not loosing her hold, she looked into my face.

"What is it, my pet?"

"Miss Cardigan," I said, "can any one be a Christian and yet 
yet "

"Do something unworthy a Christian?" she said. "I wot well,
they can! But then, they are weak Christians."

I knew that before. But somehow, hearing her say it brought
the shame and the sorrow more fresh to the surface. The tears
came. Miss Cardigan pulled me into the next room and sat down,
drawing me into her arms; and I wept there with her arms about
me.

"What then, Daisy?" she asked at length, as if the suspense
pained her.

"I acted so, Miss Cardigan," I said; and I told her about it.

"So the devil has found a weak spot in your armour," she said.
"You must guard it well, Daisy."

"How can I?"

"How can you? Keep your shield before it, my bairn. What is
your shield for? The Lord has given you a great strong shield,
big enough to cover you from head to foot, if your hands know
how to manage it."

"What is that, Miss Cardigan?"

"The shield of faith, dear. Only believe. According to your
faith be it unto you."

"Believe what?" I asked, lifting my head at last.

"Believe that if you are a weak little soldier, your Captain
knows all about it; and any fight that you go into for his
sake, he will bear you through. I don't care what. Any fight,
Daisy."

"But I got impatient," I said, "at the girls' way of talking."

"And perhaps you were a wee bit set up in your heart because
you had got the prize of the day."

"Proud?" said I.

"Don't it look like it? Even proud of being a Christian,
mayhap."

"Could I!"  I said. "Was I?"

"It wouldn't be the first time one with as little cause had
got puffed up a bit. But heavenly charity 'is not puffed up.' "

"I know that,"  I said; and my tears started afresh.

"How shall I help it in future?" I asked after a while, during
which my friend had been silent.

"Help it?" she said cheerfully. "You can't help it,  but
Jesus can."

"But my impatience, and  my pride," I said, very downcast.

" 'Rejoice not against me, O mine enemy; when I fall I shall
arise.' But there is no need you should fall, Daisy. Remember,
'The Lord is able to make him stand'  may be said of every
one of the Lord's people."

"But will He keep me from impatience, and take pride out of my
heart? Why, I did not know it was there, Miss Cardigan."

"Did He say, 'Whatsoever ye shall ask in my name, I will do
it?' And when He has written 'Whatsoever,' are you going to
write it over and put 'anything not too hard'? Neither you nor
me, Daisy!"

" 'Whatsoever'  Miss Cardigan?" I said slowly.

"He said so. Are you going to write it over again?"

"No," I said. "But then, may one have anything one asks for?"

"Anything in the world  if it is not contrary to His will 
provided we ask in faith, nothing doubting. 'For he that
wavereth is like a wave of the sea, driven with the wind and
tossed. For let not that man think that he shall receive
anything of the Lord.' "

"But how can we know what is according to His will?"

"This is, at any rate," said Miss Cardigan; "for He has
commanded us to be holy as He is holy."

"But  other things?" I said. "How can one for everything 'in
faith, nothing wavering'? How can one be sure?"

"Only just this one way, Daisy my dear," Miss Cardigan
answered;  and I remember to this day the accent of her
native land which touched every word. "If ye're wholly the
Lord's  wholly, mind,  ye'll not like aught but what the
Lord likes; ye'll know what to ask for, and ye'll know the
Lord will give it to you;  that is, if ye want it enough. But
a 'double-minded man is unstable in all his ways;' and his
prayers can't hit the mark, no more than a gun that's twisted
when it's going off."

"Then,"  I began and stopped, looking at her with my eyes
full of tears.

"Ay!" she said,  "just so. There's no need that you nor me
should be under the power of the evil one, for we're free. The
Lord's words aren't too good to be true; every one of 'em is
as high as heaven; and there isn't a sin nor an enemy but you
and I may be safe from, if we trust the Lord."

I do not remember any more of the conversation. I only know
that the sun rose on my difficulties, and the shadows melted
away. I had a happy evening with my dear old friend, and went
home quite heart-whole.

CHAPTER XIII.

GREY COATS.


I went back to school comforted. I had got strength to face
all that might be coming in the future. And life has been a
different thing to me ever since. Paul's words, "I can do all
things through Christ,"  I have learned are not his words any
more than mine.

From that time I grew more and more popular in the school. I
cannot tell why; but, popularity is a thing that grows upon
its own growth. It was only a little while before my
companions almost all made a pet of me. It is humbling to know
that this effect was hastened by some of the French dresses my
mother had sent me, and which convenience obliged me to wear.
