no amount of censure would deprive her of it. She would now be able
to enrich Ben at John's expense, and she meant to do it. Henceforth
Ben would be elevated to the position of heir, and John must take a
subordinate position as a younger son, or, perhaps, to speak still more
accurately, as a poor relation with a scanty claim upon her bounty.
"I'll break that boy's proud spirit," she said to herself. "He has
been able to triumph over Ben; but he will find that I am rather more
difficult to deal with."
There was an expression of resolution upon her face, and a vicious
snapping of the eyes, which boded ill to our hero. Mrs. Oakley
undoubtedly had the power to make him uncomfortable, and she meant to
do it, unless he would submit meekly to her sway. That this was not
very likely may be judged from what we have already seen of him.
Mrs. Oakley's first act was to bestow on Ben the horse, Prince, which
had been given to John a year before by his father. John had been
accustomed to take a daily ride on Prince, whom he had come to love.
The spirited horse returned his young master's attachment, and it
was hard to tell which enjoyed most the daily gallop, the horse or
his rider. To deprive John of Prince was to do him a grievous wrong,
since it was, of all his possessions, the one which he most enjoyed.
It was the more unjustifiable, since, at the time Prince had been
bought for John, Squire Oakley, in a spirit of impartial justice, had
offered to buy a horse for Ben also; but Ben, who had long desired to
own a gold watch and chain, intimated this desire to his mother, and
offered to relinquish the promised horse if the watch and chain might
be given him. Squire Oakley had no objection to the substitution, and
accordingly the same day that Prince was placed in the stable, subject
to John's control, a valuable gold watch and chain, costing precisely
the same amount, was placed in Ben's hands. Ben was delighted with his
new present, and put on many airs in consequence. Now, however, he
coveted the horse as well as the watch, and his mother had told him he
might have it. But it seemed evident that John would not give up the
horse without a struggle. Ben, however, had enlisted his mother as his
ally, and felt pretty confident of ultimate victory.
CHAPTER II.
JOHN RECEIVES SOME PROFESSIONAL ADVICE.
John Oakley had triumphed in his encounter with Ben Brayton, and rode
off like a victor. Nevertheless he could not help feeling a little
doubtful and anxious about the future. There was no doubt that Ben
would complain to his mother, and as it was by her express permission
that he had taken the horse, John felt apprehensive that there would
be trouble between himself and his stepmother. I have already said,
that, though a manly boy, he was not quarrelsome. He preferred to live
on good terms with all, not excepting Ben and his mother, although he
had no reason to like either of them. But he did not mean to be imposed
upon, or to have his just rights encroached upon, if he could help it.
What should he do if Ben persevered in his claim and his mother
supported him in it? He could not decide. He felt that he must be
guided by circumstances. He could not help remembering how four years
before Mrs. Brayton (for that was her name then) answered his father's
advertisement for a house-keeper; how, when he hesitated in his choice,
she plead her poverty, and her urgent need of immediate employment; and
how, influenced principally by this consideration, he took her in place
of another to whom he had been more favorably inclined. How she should
have obtained sufficient influence over his father's mind to induce
him to make her his wife after the lapse of a year, John could not
understand. He felt instinctively that she was artful and designing,
but his own frank, open nature could hardly be expected to fathom hers.
He remembered again, how, immediately after the marriage, Ben was sent
for, and was at once advanced to a position in the household equal to
his own. Ben was at first disposed to be polite, and even subservient
to himself, but gradually, emboldened by his mother's encouragement,
became more independent, and even at times defiant. It was not,
however, until now that he had actually begun to encroach upon John's
rights, and assume airs of superiority. He had been feeling his way,
and waited until it would be safe to show out his real nature.
John had never liked Ben,--nor had anybody else except his mother
felt any attachment for him,--but he had not failed to treat him with
perfect politeness and courtesy. Though he had plenty of intimations
from the servants and others that it was unjust to him that so much
expense should be lavished upon Ben, he was of too generous a nature to
feel disturbed by it, or to grudge him his share of his father's bounty.
"There's enough for both of us," he always said, to those who tried to
stir up his jealousy.
"But suppose your father should divide his property between you? How
would you like to see Ben Brayton sharing the estate?"
"If my father chooses to leave his property in that way, I shan't
complain," said John. "Fortunately there is enough for us both, and
half will be enough to provide for me."
But John had never anticipated such a contingency as Ben and his mother
claiming the whole property, and, frank and unsuspicious as he was, he
felt that his father would never have left him so entirely dependent
upon his stepmother unless improper means had been used to influence
his decision. There was a particular reason which he had for thinking
thus. It was this: Three days before his father died, he was told by
the servant, on entering the house, that the sick man wished to see
him. Of course he went up instantly to the chamber where, pale and
wasted, Squire Oakley lay stretched out on the bed.
He was stricken by a disease which affected his speech, and prevented
him from articulating anything except in a whisper. He beckoned John to
the bedside, and signed for him to place his ear close to his mouth.
John did so. His father made a great effort to speak, but all that John
could make out was, "My will."
"Your will, father?" he repeated.
The sick man nodded, and tried to speak further. John thought he could
distinguish the word "drawer," but was not certain. He was about to
inquire further, when his stepmother entered the room, and looked at
him suspiciously.
"Why have you come here to disturb your sick father?" she asked, coldly.
"I did not come here to disturb him," said John. "I came because he
wished to speak to me."
"Has he spoken to you?" she asked, hastily.
"He tried to, but did not succeed."
"You should not allow him to make the effort. It can only do him harm.
The doctor says he must be kept very quiet. You had better leave the
room. He is safest in my care."
John did leave the room, and though he saw his father afterwards,
it was always in his stepmother's presence, and he had no farther
opportunity of communicating with him.
He could not help thinking of this as he rode along, and wondering what
it was that his father wished to say. He knew that it must be something
of importance, from the evident anxiety which the dying man manifested
to speak to him. But whatever it was must remain unknown. His father's
lips were hushed in death, and with such a stepmother John felt himself
worse than alone in the world. But he had a religious nature, and had
been well trained in the Sunday school, and the thought came to him
that whatever trials might be in store for him he had at least one
Friend, higher than any earthly friend, to whom he might look for help
and protection. Plunged in thought, he had suffered Prince to subside
into a walk, when, all at once, he heard his name called.
"Hallo, John!"
Looking up, he saw Sam Selwyn, son of Lawyer Selwyn, and a classmate of
his at the academy.
"Is that you, Sam?" he said, halting his horse.
"That is my impression," said Sam, "but I began to think it wasn't just
now, when my best friend seemed to have forgotten me."
"I was thinking," said John, "and didn't notice."
"Where are you bound?"
"Nowhere in particular. I only came out for a ride."
"You're a lucky fellow, John."
"You forget, Sam, the loss I have just met with;" and John pointed to
his black clothes.
"Excuse me, John, you know I sympathize with you in that. But I'm very
fond of riding, and never get any chance. You have a horse of your own."
"Just at present."
"Just at present! You're not going to lose him, are you?"
"Sam, I am expecting a little difficulty, and I shall feel better if I
advise with some friend about it. You are my best friend in school, and
I don't know but in the world, and I've a great mind to tell you."
"I'll give you the best advice in my power, John, and won't charge
anything for it either, which is more than my father would. You know
he's a lawyer, and has to be mercenary. Not that I ought to blame him,
for that's the way he finds us all in bread and butter."
"I'll turn Prince up that lane and tie him, and then we'll lie down
under a tree, and have a good talk."
John did as proposed. Prince began to browse, apparently well contented
with the arrangement, and the two boys stretched themselves out lazily
beneath a wide-spreading chestnut-tree, which screened them from the
sun.
"Now fire away," said Sam, "and I'll concentrate all my intellect upon
your case gratis."
"I told you that Prince was mine for the present," commenced John. "I
don't know as I can say even that. This afternoon when I got home I
found Ben Brayton just about to mount him."
"I hope you gave him a piece of your mind."
"I ordered him off," said John, quietly, "when he informed me that the
horse was his now,--that his mother had given it to him."
"What did you say?"
"That it was not hers to give. I seized the horse by the bridle,
till he became alarmed and slid off. He then came at me with his
riding-whip, and struck me."
"I didn't think he had pluck enough for that. I hope you gave him as
good as he sent."
"I pulled the whip away from him, and gave him two blows in return.
Then watching my opportunity I sprang upon the horse, and here I am."
"And that is the whole story?"
"Yes."
"And you want my advice?"
"Yes."
"Then I'll give it. Sink or swim, live or die, survive or perish, stick
to that horse, and defy Ben Brayton to do his worst."
"It seems to me I've heard part of that speech before," said John,
smiling. "As to the advice, I'll follow it if I can. I'm not afraid of
anything Ben Brayton can do; but suppose his mother takes his part?"
"Do you think she will?"
"I am afraid she will."
"Then defy her too," said Sam, hastily.
"I don't know about that," said John. "I am only a boy of fifteen, and
she is my father's widow. If she chooses to take the horse away, I
don't know that I can do anything."
"Ben Brayton is a mean rascal. Didn't he get a gold watch at the same
time that you got the horse?"
"Yes; he might have had a horse too, but he preferred the watch and
chain. They cost as much as Prince."
"And now he wants the horse too?"
"So it seems."
"That's what I call hoggish. I only wish Ben Brayton would come to
school, and sit next to me."
"What for?" asked John, a little surprised at this remark.
"Wouldn't I stick pins into him, that's all. I'd make him yell like--a
locomotive," said Sam, the simile being suggested by the sound of the
in-coming train.
John laughed.
"That's an old trick of yours," he said, "I remember you served me so
once. And yet you profess to be my friend."
"I didn't stick it in very far," said Sam, apologetically; "it didn't
hurt much, did it?"
"Didn't it though?"
"Well, I didn't mean to have it. Maybe I miscalculated the distance."
"It's all right, if you don't try it again. And now about the advice."
"I wouldn't be imposed upon," said Sam. "Between you and me I don't
think much of your stepmother."
"Nor she of you," said John, slyly. "I heard her say the other day that
you were a disgrace to the neighborhood with your mischievous tricks."
"That is the 'most unkindest' cut of all," said Sam. "I'd shed a few
tears if I hadn't left my handkerchief at home. I have a great mind to
tell you something," he added, more gravely.
"Well?" said John, inquiringly.
"It's something that concerns you, only I happened to overhear it,
which isn't quite fair and aboveboard, I know. Still I think I had
better tell you. You know my father was your father's lawyer?"
"Yes."
"Well, he as well as everybody else was surprised at the will that
left everything to your stepmother, only he had the best reason to be
surprised. I was sitting out on our piazza when I heard him tell my
mother that only three months ago your father came to his office, and
had a will drawn up, leaving all the property to you, except the thirds
which your stepmother was entitled to."
"Only three months ago?" said John, thoughtfully.
"Yes."
"And did he take away the will with him?"
"Yes; he thought at first of leaving it in my father's charge, but
finally decided to keep it himself."
"What can have become of it? He must have destroyed it since."
"My father doesn't think so," said Sam.
"What does he think?"
"Mind you don't say a word of what I tell you," said Sam, lowering his
voice. "He thinks that Mrs. Oakley has put it out of the way, in order
to get hold of the whole property herself."
"I can hardly think she would be so wicked," said John, shocked at the
supposition.
"Isn't it easier to believe that of her, than to believe that your
father would deal so unjustly by you?"
"I won't call it unjustly, even if he has really left her the whole
property," said John. "Still, I was surprised at being left out of the
will. Besides," he added, with a sudden reflection, "there's something
that makes me think that the will you speak of is still in existence."
"What's that?" asked Sam.
In reply John gave the particulars of his father's attempt to
communicate with him, and the few words he was able to make out.
"I understand it all now," said Sam, quickly.
"Then you're ahead of me."
"It's plain as a pike-staff. Your father hid the will, fearing that
your stepmother would get hold of it and destroy it. He wanted to tell
you where it was. Do you know of any secret drawer in your house?"
John shook his head.
"There must be one somewhere. Now, if you want my advice, I'll give it.
Just hunt secretly for the drawer, wherever you think it may possibly
be, and if you find it, and the will in it, just bring it round to
my father, and he'll see that justice is done you. Come, I'm not a
lawyer's son for nothing. What do you say?"
"I shouldn't wonder if you were right, Sam."
"You may depend upon it I am. I'm your lawyer, remember, and you are
my client. I give advice on the 'no cure no pay' system. If it don't
amount to anything I won't charge you a cent."
"And if it does?"
"If you get your property by my professional exertions, I trust to your
generosity to reward me."
"All right, Sam."
"Of course you won't let your stepmother suspect what you're after.
Otherwise she might get the start of you, and find it herself, and then
much good it would do you."
"I'm glad to think it is still in existence, and that she hasn't
destroyed it."
"She would if she could, you may depend on that."
"Well, Sam, I'm much obliged to you for your advice. I think I must be
going now."
"Well, good-by, old fellow. Keep a stiff upper lip, and don't give up
the ship--horsemanship, I mean. I must go round to the office, and see
if father doesn't need a little professional assistance."
John leaped on Prince's back, and turned him in the direction of home.
The revelation which Sam had made gave a new direction to his thoughts.
If his father had really intended to give him a share of the estate, he
felt that he ought to have it, and determined to institute a search as
cautiously as possible.
Driving into the yard he saw Ben sitting sullenly on the door-step. He
eyed John with no very friendly glance.
"Where've you been?" he demanded.
"Up the road," said John, briefly.
"It's the last time you'll ride my horse."
"It's not your horse."
"You'll find out whose horse it is," muttered Ben.
"I don't care about disputing with you," said John, quietly, turning
towards the stable.
"My mother wishes to see you at once; do you hear?" said Ben,
unpleasantly. "She's going to make you apologize to me for your
impudence."
"I'll go in and see her as soon as I have put the horse in the stable,"
John answered, quietly.
"I hate that fellow," muttered Ben, following our hero with lowering
eyes; "he puts on too many airs altogether. But my mother'll fix him."
CHAPTER III.
JOHN'S TROUBLES BEGIN.
After putting Prince in the stable, John went into the house slowly,
for he was in no hurry to anticipate what he feared would be an
unpleasant interview.
"Where is Mrs. Oakley, Jane?" he asked of a servant whom he met in the
hall.
"She's in the sitting-room, Master John," said Jane. "She wants to see
you immediately."
"Very well; I'll go in."
He heard steps behind him, and, turning, found that Ben was following
him.
"He wants to hear me scolded," thought John. "However, I won't take any
notice."
Mrs. Oakley was sitting in a rocking-chair. She looked up with a frown
as John entered. She had never liked him, but since Ben had declared,
falsely, as we know, that John had no more respect for her than a
servant, this dislike was greatly increased.
[Illustration] She was inwardly determined to make his life as
uncomfortable as possible.
"Well, sir," she said, "so you have come at last."
"I came as soon as Ben told me you wished to see me," said John. "I
only waited till I had put my horse into the stable."
"His horse!" repeated Ben, by way of calling his mother's attention
to the claim to ownership expressed in those words.
"I suppose I ought to consider it lucky that you paid any attention to
my words," said Mrs. Oakley.
"I hope I have not failed in proper respect," said John.
"It was very respectful in you to ride off with the horse, when I had
told Ben he might use it."
"It was my horse," said John, firmly. "If Ben wanted it, he might ask
me."
"Ask you, indeed!" repeated Ben, scornfully; "you won't catch me doing
that."
"It was enough that I told him that he might ride. Didn't he tell you
that?"
"Yes."
"Then what right had you to refuse?"
"The horse is mine," said John. "It was given me by my father."
"He allowed you to use it."
"He gave it to me. At the same time he gave Ben a watch, which he is
wearing now. He has no more right to demand my horse than I have to
claim his watch."
"You seem to forget," said Mrs. Oakley, coldly, "that your father saw
fit to leave me his property. The horse forms a part of that property,
and belongs to me, and it is for me to say who shall ride on it. Ben,
you may ride on the horse to-morrow."
"Do you hear that?" demanded Ben, triumphantly, looking towards John.
"I suppose," said John, quietly, "you will order Ben to let me have his
watch to-morrow."
"I shall do no such thing," said Mrs. Oakley, sharply, "and it is
impudent in you to ask such a thing."
"I don't see why it isn't fair," said John. "It appears to me rather
mean in Ben to want both, and leave me neither."
"That is for me to decide," said Mrs. Oakley. "There is one thing more
I have to speak to you about. My son tells me you were brutal enough to
strike him with the whip. Do you deny that?"
"I never deny what's true."
"Then you did strike him."
"Yes, I struck him twice."
"And you have the impudence to stand there, and say it to my face!"
"You asked me, and I have answered you. I don't see why that should be
called impudent."
"You glory in your disgraceful action," said Mrs. Oakley, sharply.
"Did Ben tell you that he struck me first?" asked John.
"I am very glad to hear it. It was what you deserved," said Mrs. Oakley.
"Then," said John, firmly, "I gave him what he deserved. You can't
expect me to stand still and be struck without returning it."
"The only fault I find with Ben is, that he did not strike you more
than once," said Mrs. Oakley, in an excited tone.
John glanced from the mother to her son, who was evidently pleased with
the reproaches John was receiving, and said, quietly:--
"I think Ben had better not attempt it."
"What do you mean by that?" demanded Mrs. Oakley, quickly.
"I don't want to strike Ben, or injure him in any way," said John; "but
I mean to defend myself if I am attacked."
And Ben, though he chose to sneer, knew very well that, quietly as
John spoke, he was thoroughly in earnest, and would do precisely as he
said. He knew very well, too, that, though he was older and taller than
John, he would very likely be worsted in an encounter. He preferred,
therefore, that his mother should fight his battles for him.
"You hear, mother," he said. "He defies you. I knew he would. You
remember what I told you."
Mrs. Oakley did remember very well, and the recollection made her angry.
"John Oakley," she said, "you will find that it won't do to insult me."
"I have no wish to insult you, Mrs. Oakley," said John. "I have not
forgotten who you are, and I shall try to treat you accordingly."
"What do you mean by that?" said Mrs. Oakley, turning pale with rage.
She was misled by the statement Ben had made, and she thought John
referred to the fact that she had been his father's house-keeper,--a
point on which she felt sensitive.
"I mean," said John, a little surprised at this outburst, "that I have
not forgotten that you are my father's widow, and as such are entitled
to my respect."
"Was that what you meant?" asked Mrs. Oakley, suspiciously.
"Certainly," said John. "What else could I mean?"
Mrs. Oakley turned to Ben, who shrugged his shoulders, intimating that
he did not believe it.
"All very fine," said his mother, "but words are cheap. If you think I
am entitled to your respect, you will do as I require. Will you promise
this?"
"I would rather not promise," said John. "If it is anything I ought to
do, I will do it."
"It is something you ought to do," said Mrs. Oakley.
"What is it?"
"I require you immediately to apologize to my son Benjamin, for the
blows you struck him with the whip this afternoon."
"I cannot do this," said John, firmly.
"Why can't you do it?"
"Because I had a good reason for striking him. He ought to apologize to
me for striking me first."
"Catch me doing it!" said Ben, scornfully.
"I have no fault to find with him for striking you," said Mrs. Oakley.
"On the contrary, I think him perfectly justified in doing so. You
forced him off the horse after I had given him permission to ride, and
I should have been ashamed of him if he had not resisted. I am glad he
gave you such a lesson."
Once more John looked at Ben, and was not surprised to see the smile
of triumph that rose to his face as he listened to these words of his
mother.
"Well," said Mrs. Oakley, impatiently, "what have you to say?"
"What can I say? You are determined to find me in the wrong."
"It is because you are wrong. I demand once more, John Oakley, will
you apologize to my son?"
"I will not," said John, firmly.
"Please to remember that you are left dependent upon me, and that your
future comfort will be a good deal affected by the way in which you
decide."
"Whatever happens," said John, who partly understood the threat, "I
refuse to apologize, unless--"
"Unless what?"
"If Ben will say that he is sorry that he struck me, I will say the
same to him."
"Ben will do nothing of the kind," said Mrs. Oakley, promptly. "I
should be ashamed of him if he did."
"Catch me apologizing to such a whipper-snapper as you!" muttered Ben.
"Then I have no more to say," said John.
"But I have," said Mrs. Oakley, angrily. "You have chosen to defy me
to my face, but you will bitterly repent of it. I'll break your proud
spirit for you!"
John certainly did not feel very comfortable as he left the room. He
was not afraid of what his stepmother could do, although he knew she
could annoy him in many ways, but it was disagreeable to him to feel at
variance with any one.
"If my poor father had only lived," he thought, "how different all
would have been!"
But it was useless to wish for this. His father was no longer on earth
to protect and shield him from the malice of Ben and his mother. Trials
awaited him, but he determined to be true to himself, and to the good
principles which he had been taught.
As for Mrs. Oakley, having once resolved to annoy John, she lost no
time in beginning her persecutions. She had a small, mean nature, and
nothing was too petty for her to stoop to.
John and Ben had been accustomed to occupy bedrooms on the second
floor, very prettily furnished, and alike in every respect. It had been
the policy of Squire Oakley to treat the two boys precisely alike,
although Ben had no claim upon him, except as the son of the woman whom
he had married. Now that he was dead, Mrs. Oakley determined that Ben
should occupy a superior position, and should be recognized throughout
the house as the eldest son and heir. After her unsatisfactory
interview with John, just described, in which he had refused to
apologize, she summoned Jane, and said:--
"Jane, you may remove John's clothes from the bedchamber where he has
slept to the attic room next to your own."
"Is Master John going to sleep there?" asked Jane, in amazement.
"Certainly."
"And shall I move Master Ben's things upstairs, also?"
"Of course not," said Mrs. Oakley, sharply. "What made you think of
such a thing?"
"Beg pardon, ma'am; but who is going to have Master John's room?"
"You ask too many questions, Jane. It is no concern of yours that I am
aware of."
Jane did not venture to reply, but went out muttering:--
"It's a shame, so it is, to put Master John upstairs in that poor room,
while Ben stays downstairs. He's a young reprobate, so he is, just for
all the world, like his mother."
The fact was, that John was a favorite in the house, and Ben was
not. The latter was in the habit of domineering over the servants,
and making all the trouble in his power, while John was naturally
considerate, and always had a pleasant word for them. However, Mrs.
Oakley's commands must be obeyed, and Jane, much against her will,
found herself obliged to remove John's things to the attic. She found
John already in his chamber.
"Excuse me, Master John," she said, "but I have orders to move your
things up to the attic."
"What!" exclaimed John, in amazement.
Jane repeated her words.
"Did Mrs. Oakley tell you to do that?"
"Yes, Master John, and a shame it is."
"Is Ben to go up into the attic too?"
"The mistress said no."
"Wait a minute, Jane; I'll go and speak to Mrs. Oakley."
John went downstairs, and found his stepmother in the room where he had
left her.
"May I speak to you a moment, Mrs. Oakley?" he said.
"Have you come to apologize for your impertinence to me, and your
rudeness to my son?"
"No, I have not," said John.
"Then I don't care to speak to you."
"Excuse me, Mrs. Oakley, but Jane tells me that you have ordered her to
remove my things to the attic."
"Well?"
"Is Ben to go into the attic too?"
"No, he is not."
"Then why are you driving me from my room?"
"You seem to forget that you are only a boy. This house is mine, and I
shall make what arrangements I please."
"The room in the attic is not nearly as good as my present room."
"It is good enough for you."
