fun. The girls all loved to play with Kathie, she 
was so good-natured. 
By and by she ran in the house to see how late it 
was, although Lucy protested she hadn’t been there 
an hour. 
“ Yes, and five minutes over ; I must surely go.” 
“ Just let us have one more good run,” pleaded 
Annie. 
“ If you ’ll run down to the corner with me.” 
“ I hope you will be as prompt and obedient when 
you go anywhere,” Mrs. Gardiner said to her little 
girls. “ Kathie, tell your mother that we shall 
have an abundance of strawberries, and some day 
she must send you over to pick a good pailful.” 
“ Thank you,” Kathie answered, with a delighted 
smile. 
 
The girls went to the corner and kissed her many 
times, just as if they were not going to see her at 
school the next morning. 
As she neared the cottage she felt quite curious to 
know what the gentleman could have wanted with 
her mother. All she could think of was some sew- 
ing. In spite of the misfortune of Eob’s sickness, 
they were going to have a new parlor carpet ; Kathie 
had earned a little money toward it herself. She had 
hemmed a dozen handkerchiefs for Mr. Darrell, who 
had insisted upon paying her very liberally, and then 
she had crocheted some edging. Only the day before 
she had persuaded her mother to go to the store and 
look at a very pretty one. So witli the carpet, the 
stranger, and some sewing quite mixed up in her 
brain, she ran through the little dooryard, entered 
the kitchen, but heard voices beyond in the parlor. 
“ Kathie ! ” her mother said. 
She threw off her hat and entered the room shyly. 
There sat the stranger with his arm around Aunt 
Euth, and her face quite hidden on his shoulder. 
Her mother had been crying, and in a moment Kathie 
was full of anxious fear. 
“ This is my little Kathie,” Mrs. Alston exclaimed, 
her voice still tremulous. 
 
What had happened ? What business had this 
stranger here making mamma unhappy ? 
“ Oh, I saw her before ; she directed me. Kathie, 
I ’ll give you three guesses to tell who I am.” 
That merry, mischievous twinkle in his eye was 
just like Rob’s. Oh, it couldn’t be ! 
“ Not Uncle Robert ! ” she said, with a cry. 
Aunt Ruth raised her face, still wet with tears, 
but it looked very happy. 
“ Come and kiss me, Kathie ; I wanted to take you 
up in my arms out there in the street. Uncle Rob- 
ert, to be sure ! ” 
Kathie glanced from one to the other. Was it 
really the truth ? She had fancied Uncle Robert 
coming home, but to have him actually here ! 
The strong arms drew her down to his breast, and 
the sweet little face was covered with kisses. 
“Why, Kathie,” he began, “Aunt Ruth was sure 
that you expected me.” 
“ But — we all thought — you were dead.” 
“ You find that I am not. Alive and well, and 
glad enough to see you all, though for years and 
years I ’ve thought you dead. I wonder I didn’t 
guess when I looked at your face. Aunt Ruth used 
to have golden curls.” 
 
“ Oh Aunt Ruth ! Mamma ! aren’t you glad ? Is 
it really Uncle Robert ? and will you stay with 
us always ? ” 
“ Always, I liope, while God spares me.” 
“ Why, I can’t believe it at all ; and it seemed to 
me that Uncle Robert would be quite old, — some- 
thing like Mr. Darrell.” 
“ Well, there are some white threads in my hair, 
and a few white whiskers, but I am not very ancient. 
I don’t seem to remember much about the ark, and 
can’t boast of an acquaintance with Noah.” 
That made Kathie laugh. “ Oh mamma, are you 
real glad ? You look so grave and — as if it could 
n’t be quite true. Why, I want to jump up and 
down, and shout as loud as I can, ‘ Uncle Rob ’s 
come home ! ’ ” 
Uncle Rob laughed then. Yes, his eyes were like 
Brother Rob’s, only merrier, and with a soft, tender 
expression. 
Mrs. Alston smiled, but the tears came in her eyes 
again ; and Kathie understood then just how she felt, 
— that her heart was so full she couldn’t speak. 
“ You didn’t know me, Uncle Robert ? ” Kathie 
went on ; “ and I never thought — Oh, wasn’t it 
 
queer that you should have asked me, and that t 
should have directed you ? I kept wondering what 
you could want with mamma. And Lucy Gardiner 
said maybe you were a Hungarian refugee, and was 
afraid you would kidnap me ! ” 
“I did have half a mind to. Of course I never 
supposed that it was my own little niece Kathie ; but 
I took a good look at your sweet face. I was so 
anxious to find you all, and it seemed as if I never 
should. I had called on several wrong Mrs. Alstons.” 
“ Wasn’t that funny ? When did you come 
home, Uncle Robert ? Have you told mamma and 
Aunt Kuth everything ? Oh, won’t Rob be delighted ? 
But where have you been all these years when we 
all thought you dead ? ” 
“ It ’s a long story, my little Kathie. I reached 
New York three weeks ago, after having been round 
the world.” 
“ But why didn’t you write ? ” 
“ I have written many times. It is so strange 
that no letter ever reached you, for I sent several 
to different friends. I ’ve been away over ten years, 
and yet the time appears very short to me. I ’m so 
glad to get back to you.” 
 
He kissed Aunt Ruth again fondly. “ My dear 
sisters,” he said, “ how you have waited and suffered ! 
My whole life shall be devoted to making amends for 
these years of absence.” 
There was a noisy raid at the kitchen door, and 
voices in high discussion. Mrs. Alston rose and 
went out. 
“ Mightn’t he let me have his top a teeny little 
while, mamma ? ” 
“ You don’t know how to spin it, Fred ; what ’s the 
use ? ” 
“ Hush, children. Freddy, wash your hands and 
face. There \s a great stranger in the parlor. Oh 
Rob ! ” Mrs. Alston’s voice quivered, and her eyes 
filled again. 
“Dear mother,” and Rob’s arms were around her 
neck, “ what has happened ? I’m sure we were poor 
enough, and have had our share of misfortunes — ” 
“ It ’s a wonderful joy, Rob. It has quite un- 
settled my nerves.” 
Rob kissed her and winked away a tear. Of late 
he had learned to love her better, and care for all her 
little anxieties. “ Well, if it ’s joy, I think I can 
stand it. But I don’t know of any one — ” 
 
“ It is dear Uncle Robert, whom we all thought 
dead.” 
“ Uncle Robert ! Hurrah ! Really and truly, 
mother ? Where is lie, — in the other room ? ” and 
Rob made a dash, then stopped suddenly. 
Uncle Robert came out. “ Here is the one I 
remember ; but he has changed, it must be confessed, 
from the wee baby with whom I used to frolic. 
Robert, my namesake, your mother ought to be 
proud of such a hue, manly boy.” 
Rob was seized with an unaccountable fit of shy- 
ness. This handsome great fellow, still young 
enough to be a boon companion in many things, was 
his own uncle ! He felt as if he had suddenly 
discovered a treasure. 
“ Me too, Uncle Robert,” said Fred, rushing in 
with a sublime disregard of grammar and a scorn of 
common introductions. 
“ He recalls poor Fred,” said Uncle Robert, taking 
him in his arms. “Dora, if the struggle has been 
hard, you have a nice family, and I ’m thankful they 
are all alive. While I live they shall have a father’s 
care.” 
Kathie came too. “ Oh Rob,” she exclaimed, “ I 
can’t make uncle seem a bit real. Doesn’t it sound 
like — like - — ” 
“ A fairy-story. Now, Katliie, here s a real live 
one. He ’s been in some enchanted palace seven 
years !” 
“ And I was playing with Lucy and Annie Gardi- 
ner when he came along, and he asked me the 
way.” 
“ Then I suppose he is your prince.” 
“ That’s just it,” said Uncle Eob. “She looked 
like a fairy out there on the hill, and she is to be 
mine. I ’ll build a castle for her — ” 
“ And take me too,” exclaimed Fred, enforcing his 
request with a thrust from his heel. 
“ Oh Freddy, don’t be so rough,” entreated Kathie. 
“ Uncle Eob, if you take me, all the rest will have 
to go.” 
“ Are you everybody’s good fairy ? ” 
“ Mine especially,” said her happy mother, passing 
her hand over Kathie’s shoulder. 
“ But, uncle,” began Eob, “ where have you been 
all these years ? You must have travelled a good 
deal.” 
“ I ’ve been half over the world, shipwrecked, 
murdered, taken prisoner, run away, hunted elephants 
in India, lions in Africa, dug gold in Australia — ” 
“ Oh Uncle Rob ! Mother, I want dreadfully to say 
' bully ’ for this once ! And you ’ll tell me all 
about it ? ” 
“ Let Uncle Robert get his breath. Don’t eat him 
quite up,” said their mother. 
“ I should be doubly unfortunate if, escaping all 
those dangers, I fall into the hands of cannibals 
now”; and Uncle Rob laughed as he kissed them 
all round. 
“ Katliie, we must be preparing some supper,” Mrs. 
Alston remarked. 
“We ’ll go entertain Aunt Ruth in the mean 
while ” ; and Uncle Rob marshalled the boys off to 
the parlor. It seemed as if everybody talked at once. 
“We ought to have something real nice,” Kathie 
said, reflectively. “ I ’ll make some biscuits.” 
“ If you will run to the store I ’ll attend to that.” 
Kathie found the basket, listened to her mother’s 
orders, and ran off cheerfully. Yet it was real hard 
to leave Uncle Rob, and she felt almost afraid that 
when she returned she would find it a dream. Just 
at the store door Miss Jessie passed her. 
 
“ Are they all well at home ? ” she asked. “ Why, 
you look bright as a rose.” 
“ Oh Miss Jessie, our Uncle Eobert that I once 
told you about has come back.” 
 
“Why, I thought he was dead!” and Miss Jessie 
looked puzzled. 
“ But he is n’t. He ’s come back alive and well 
and handsome, and I know you ’ll like him. He is 
going to stay with us always. It ’s just splen- 
did ! ” 
“ Indeed it is,” returned Miss Jessie, “ and I wish 
you joy.” 
Kathie hurried home, and in a little while the 
supper-table was ready. 
“ Mamma,” she said, with the last touch, “ if we 
are poor, I think we are the happiest people alive.” 
Her mother smiled a little oddly at this. 
Uncle Eobert had already told the boys about an 
elephant-hunt where two poor natives were killed. 
They pitied them, to be sure, but concluded that it 
made the story more interesting. 
“ But what I want to know most,” said Kathie, 
“ is how Uncle Eobert kept alive all the time, and 
came back at last ? ” 
 
“ We will have a good talk after supper. It does 
seem strange. I can hardly realize it. To find you 
after so many years ! ” 
Aunt Ruth and Mrs. Alston forgot how long and 
wearisome they had been. The future had brightened 
so much in a few hours. 
They had a gay time at the supper- table. Uncle 
Rob was very entertaining and amusing. Kathie 
stole shy glances at him, and received a bright smile 
in return. Aunt Ruth looked so pretty with a faint 
flush on her cheek and a tender light coming and 
going in her soft eyes. 
At last they were settled in the parlor, — Uncle 
Robert on the sofa with Aunt Ruth on one side, and 
Kathie on the other, and Fred on his knee. Rob 
brought a low chair as close as he could get it, and 
leaned his arm on his mother’s lap. 
Uncle Rob’s story was a long one. Most of it had 
been told over in the afternoon, but there would al- 
ways be freshly remembered incidents. He had left 
Bombay for a trip to Java, but deciding not to return, 
had sent for his letters. In some way they had 
missed him and been lost. He had waited awhile 
before writing, and then gone on a new tour to the 
 
adjacent islands, where lie and his party had been 
taken prisoners by a hostile tribe. Closely guarded 
as they were, escape proved almost impossible. He 
was seized with a fever and was ill for a long while, 
indeed, left to perish at last ; but Nature proved a 
skilful physician. After he began to improve lie met 
with an opportunity to go to Africa, and, thankful for 
any relief, he accepted at once. At the first availa- 
ble port he despatched a letter homeward, stating his 
intention of joining a company of explorers. Mrs. 
Alston having left the city, this also went astray. 
Having no knowledge of that fact he was quite easy 
in his mind, although it was a long while before he 
met with a chance to send again. Three years he 
spent in Africa, when he returned once more to 
India. No tidings there, and then he began to feel 
alarmed. He could hardly decide whether to go 
home at once or remain and try his fate a little 
longer. Then he resolved to go to Australia and 
make a fortune, and after that was achieved to come 
home and settle for life, unless those he loved were 
no longer living. 
Here Uncle Robert paused a moment. 
“ And was there any chance to make a fortune ? ” 
 
Eob uttered this in a slow, grave tone, and glanced 
up doubtfully. 
“ Oh,” exclaimed Fred, “ have you lots of money ? ” 
“ How much do you call lots ? ” 
“ Well,” said Freddy, meditatively, “ if you have a 
good deal, I ’d like to have a stunner of a present 
next Christmas.” 
“ Fred ! ” his mother exclaimed, in surprise. 
Uncle Eobert laughed. “ What do you call a stun- 
ner, Freddy ? ” he asked. 
“ I ’d like to have a sled bigger and handsomer 
than Charley Darrell’s. Wouldn’t I make her go 
down hill ! ” 
Kathie’s eyes suddenly grew large and luminous. 
She was glad to have Uncle Eobert just for himself, 
but what if he had come home rich ? Every pulse 
gave a quick throb. 
“ Well, Eobbie, what would you have done, — stayed 
and made a fortune ? ” asked his uncle. 
“ Wouldn’t I, though ! Just give me a chance to 
dig gold ! A pocketful of rocks wouldn’t be any- 
thing. What did you do ? ” 
Kathie leaned over breathlessly. Did such won- 
derful things ever happen to any one ? 
 
“ I made the fortune. It was difficult work, and 
I do not know as money would ever tempt me to 
undergo such hardships again ; hut it is over now, 
and I’m thankful that I have something to share 
with you all.” 
“ Hurrah ! ” shouted Rob ; “ Kathie, here ’s your 
prince, sure enough ! ” 
“ Was that what Kathie expected ?” 
“ She ’s death on fairy-stories, and this comes out 
exactly like one.” 
Uncle Robert turned her face around so that he 
could look into the eyes now downcast. 
“ And you wished for a fortune ? What would you 
do with it, Kathie ? ” 
“ Oh Uncle Robert, I never thought much about 
that, at least, not having it myself. I wanted to be a 
fairy and make everybody happy ; but I ’ve been learn- 
ing that there are a great many pleasant and good 
things besides money, though that is very nice. 
And we should be glad to have you even if you 
were — ever so poor.” 
“ My little darling, I am thankful for all your 
sakes that I can make the rest of life very delight- 
ful and happy. I think those who are cheerful and 
 
content in poverty will find, much to enjoy in a 
wider sphere. And I ’ll promise to be your prince, 
Kathie.” 
She smiled tenderly. 
“ This is better than the party, — isn’t it ? ” said 
Rob ; “ and I thought that splendid ! ” 
“ What about it ? ” asked Uncle Robert. 
Kathie colored and laughed, but was not very ready 
in answering. 
“ O, I ’ll tell you,” Rob began in great earnestness. 
“We have been poor all our lives, to be sure. If 
papa had lived it would have been different with us. 
I don’t know as I ’ve cared much about it, for I have 
managed to enjoy pretty good times, only now and 
then — ” 
Rob made so long a pause that his uncle said, 
“ The party was your text. Don’t let it get astray 
from your sermon.” 
“ Oh yes ! ” and Rob laughed. Then he went on 
quite graphically, describing his own delight at the 
promise of a new suit of clothes, and his sorrow, when 
lie came to think of it, that Kathie must go without ; 
last ol all the surprise. 
U v ^le Robert gave Kathie a liug. “That does 
 
sound wonderfully fairy-like,” be said. “ I remember 
the blue silk dress, for I took Aunt Ruth to a party 
the first time she wore it. I ’m glad so nice a thing 
happened to you, my little girl. Did you feel very 
grand ? ” 
“ Oh no ; I almost wished for my old scarlet dress, 
and then I played until I forgot all about it. We 
had such a lovely time. Mamma, I met Miss Jessie 
by the store and told her the good news. Uncle 
Robert, I want you to see Miss Jessie. She is the 
sweetest young lady in the world.” 
“ And they ’ve such lots of things, — a parrot that 
can say real words, just as funny as he can be. O 
Uncle Robert, could you get me a parrot ? ” 
Fred had been so quiet that they all thought him 
asleep, and they laughed at his sudden outburst. 
“ I guess we can find a parrot. Katliie, what will 
you have ? ” 
“I don’t know,” she answered, slowly. “I ’m 
afraid I shall want too many things.” 
“ If uncle will give us three wishes,” said Rob. 
“ Well, begin. Let us see what they are. Fred 
wants a sled and a parrot. What else ? You can 
have one more wish, Freddy.” 
K 
 
“ Can I have a pair of skates ? I think I ’m big 
enough.” 
“ Why, Fred, you are laying in a stock for next 
winter,” said his uncle, gayly. 
“ But I can have the parrot on rainy days, when I 
have to stay in the house.” 
“ Down in the cellar or up in the garret,” laughed 
Rob. “ You make so much noise that the addition 
of a parrot close by one ’s ears mightn’t always be 
agreeable. Or perhaps we can build you both a coop 
out in the garden.” 
“ And couldn’t I take my dinner there, mamma, 
and live ? Wouldn’t it be fun ? ” 
“ Now, Rob, let us hear yours ! ” 
“ Three yards of black pudding — ” 
“ Fast of your nose,” appended Kathie, merrily. 
“ Don’t interrupt me now, Kathie. It ’s serious 
business, and I must consider. First of all, I ’d like 
a beauty of a sail-boat. There ’s such a lovely river 
here, Uncle Robert.” 
“ Then you ’ll have to engage me as captain, and I 
shall ask a large salary.” 
“ But couldn’t you teach me to manage a boat ? ” 
“ In the course of time. What else ? ” 
 
“ A real fine, handsome horse. But Oh dear, only 
one more ! ” and Rob made a comical gesture of de- 
spair. “ Uncle, the purse of Fortunatus.” 
“ O Rob, that will break me. I can’t promise 
about that last. Kathie, it ’s your turn.” 
The child was silent some moments, then she said, 
slowly, “ I don’t know as you can give me what I 
would most like.” She put her arms up suddenly 
and drew Uncle Robert’s head nearer in range of her 
voice and whispered something in his ear. 
“ Oh, I heard, — a blue silk dress for Aunt Ruth, 
’cause she gave hers to Kathie ! ” shouted Fred. 
“ A miss that time, Freddy ” ; and a sweet serious- 
ness came over Uncle Robert’s face. “ I don’t know, 
Kathie ; you are a darling little girl to think of it 
first. That must be our secret, and we will talk it 
over to-morrow. Now another.” 
Rob looked as if he was trying to divine his sister’s 
wish, but his uncle’s face did not afford him the 
slightest clew. 
“ I ’d like to have a pretty little cottage, Uncle 
Robert, if it wouldn’t cost too much, and a lawn in 
front with beautiful flowers and trees.” 
“ We might compass that.” 
 
“ And a servant for mamma, so she will not have 
to work so hard.” 
“ Nothing for yourself, Kathie ? ” 
“ Why, it ’s all for me,” answered Kathie, in a sur~ 
prised tone. 
Uncle Robert kissed her. “Yon are a dear, gen- 
erous little girl,” he said, with deep feeling. 
“ And it ’s past eleven o’clock, so we must all go to 
bed,” announced Mrs. Alston. “ The rest will keep 
until to-morrow.” 
There was a protest against this, but Uncle Robert 
overruled it. Then the children made an onslaught 
upon him and kissed him nearly to pieces, he said. 
“ I am almost afraid to go to sleep, lest our castle 
tumbles down and Uncle Rob disappears,” Kathie 
said, as she nodded her golden-crowned head at the 
door. 
 
CHAPTER XI. 
THE PURSE OF FORTUNATUS. 
Kathie knelt a long while at the side of her little 
bed, for she had such a great number of mercies to 
acknowledge. Uncle Robert would have smiled if 
he had heard the last clause, — that she might find 
everything true to-morrow morning. She was so 
happy and so excited that she could hardly go to 
sleep. How good and kind God had been to her, 
and to them all ! 
It seemed to Katliie that she had had just one 
little nap when she opened her eyes and found the 
sun shining. Mrs. Alston was hardly dressed. 
“ O mamma, is it true that Uncle Robert came 
home ? ” 
“ Quite true, dear. And now if you will get up, 
for I have overslept myself.” 
Katliie was out of bed in a twinkling. She looked 
so merry and happy that Aunt Ruth fairly laughed. 
“ I do feel as if I couldn’t hardly stay in my 
 
skin,’ she said, gayly. “ It ’s so odd and strange, 
auntie. I do really believe in fairies.” 
Kathie ran down stairs to wait upon her mother a 
little, then she came back and helped Aunt Ruth 
dress. By that time Uncle Robert’s voice was heard, 
and he carried Aunt Ruth down in his strong arms. 
“We didn’t hear half last night,” Rob began ; 
“ I ’ve been wondering how you came home from 
Australia and found us out at last.” 
“We will have many a long talk about that, Rob,” 
said his uncle. “ I came to the conclusion, while I 
was in Australia, that you were all very happy and 
had forgotten about me. Now and then I used to 
write, always directing my letters to New York. 
When I was tired of Australia and satisfied with 
what I had made, I went to London. Putting my 
affairs in a good shape there, I decided to take a little 
