over* that way, and then gives two curls, so, 
and so ; and it takes a great while to do it. I 
almost wish I had chosen an easier pattern ; 
only this is so pretty." 
" But you promised, Maria." 
" I didn't promise to go and look up people, 
child. I only promised to do what I could. 
Besides, what have you got to do with it ? 
You did not promise at all." 
" I will go with you, if you will go up to 
the Dows'," said Matilda. 
" O, well ! don't worry, and I'll see about 
it." 
" But will you go ? Come, Maria, let us go." 
 
When ? " 
" Any afternoon. To-morrow." 
" What makes you want to go ? " said 
Maria looking at her. 
"I think you ought to go," Matilda answered 
demurely. 
" And I say, what have you got to do with 
it ? I don't see what particular concern of 
mine the Dows' are, anyhow." 
Matilda sat a long while thinking after this 
speech. She was on the floor, pulling off her 
stockings and unlacing her boots ; and while 
her fingers moved slowly, drawing out the 
laces, her cogitations were very busy. What 
concern ivere the Dows', of hers or Maria's ? 
They were not pleasant people to go near, 
she judged, from the look of their house and 
dooryard as she had seen it in passing ; and 
the uncombed, fly-away head of the little girl 
gave her a shudder as she remembered it. 
They were not people that were often seen in 
church ; they could not be good ; maybe they 
used bad language ; certainly they could not 
 
be expected to know how to " behave." Slowly 
the laces were pulled out of Matilda's boots, 
and her face grew into portentous gravity. 
" Aren't you coming to bed ? " said Maria. 
What can you be thinking of? " 
"I am thinking of the Dows' ? " 
" What about them ? I never thought 
about them three times in my life." 
" But oughtn't we to think about people, 
Maria ? " 
" Nice people." 
" I mean, people that are not nice." 
" It will be new times when you do," said 
Maria. " Come ! let the Dows' alone and 
come to bed." 
" Maria," said her little sister as she obeyed 
this request, " I was thinking, that Jesus 
thought about people that were not nice." 
"Well?" said Maria. "Do lie down! 
what is the use of getting into bed, if you 
are going to sit bolt upright like that and talk 
lectures ? I don't see what has got into you." 
" Maria, it seems to me, now I think of it, 
 
that those were the particular people he did 
care about." 
"Don't you think he cared about good 
people ? " said Maria indignantly. 
" But they were not good at first. Nobody 
was good at first till he made them good. 
He said he didn't come to the good people ; 
don't you remember ? " 
" Well, what do you mean by all that ? 
Are we not to care for anybody but the people 
that are not good? A nice life we should 
have of it ! " 
" Maria," said her little sister very thoughtfully, I wonder what sort of a life He had ? " 
" Tilly ! " said Maria, rising up in her turn, 
" what has come to you ? What book have 
you been reading ? I shall tell mamma." 
" I have not been reading any book," said 
Matilda. 
" Then lie down and quit talking. How do 
you expect I am going to sleep ? " 
" Let us go and see what we can do at the 
Dows', Maria ! to-morrow. Won't you ? " 
 
But Maria either did not or would not hear ; 
so the matter passed for that night. But the 
next day Matilda brought it up again. Maria 
found excuses to put her off. Matilda, however, was not to be put off permanently ; she 
never forgot ; and day after day the subject 
came up for discussion, until Maria at last 
consented. 
" I am going because you tease me so, 
Tilly," she said as they set forth from the 
gate. "Just for that and nothing else. I 
don't like it a bit." 
" But you promised." 
I didn't." 
" To bring in new scholars ? " 
" I did not promise I would bring the Dow 
children ; and I don't believe they'll come." 
The walk before the children was not long, 
and yet it almost took them out of the village. They passed the corner this time without turning, keeping the road, which was 
indeed part of the great high road which took 
Shadywalk in its way, as it took many another 
 
village. The houses in this direction soon 
began to scatter further apart from each other. 
They were houses of more pretension, too, 
with grounds and gardens and fruit trees about 
them ; and built in styles that were notable, if 
not according to any particular rule. Soon 
the ground began to descend sharply towards 
the bed of a brook, which brawled along with 
impetuous waters towards a mill somewhere 
out of sight. It was a full, fine stream, 
mimicking the rapids and eddies of larger 
streams, with all their life and fury given to 
its smaller current. The waters looked black 
and wintry in contrast w r ith the white snow 
of the shores. A foot-bridge spanned the 
brook, alongside of another bridge for car- 
riages ; and just beyond, the black walls of a 
ruin showed where another fine mill had once 
stood. That mill had been burnt. It was an 
old story ; the girls did not so much as think 
about it now. Matilda's glance had gone the 
other way, where ihe stream rushed along 
from under the bridge and hurried down a 
 
winding glen, bordered by a road that seemed 
well traversed. A house could be seen down 
the glen, just where the road turned in company with the brook and was lost to view. 
" I wonder who lives down there," said 
Matilda. 
" I don't know. Yes, I do, too ; but I have 
forgotten." 
" I wonder if they come to church." 
" I don't know that ; and I shall not go to 
ask them. Why Matilda, you never cared 
before whether people went to church." 
" Don't you care now ? " was Matilda's rejoinder. 
" No ! I don't care. I don't know those 
people. They may go to fifty churches, for 
aught I can tell." 
" But Maria," said her little sister. 
"What?" 
" I do not understand you." 
" Very likely. That isn't strange." 
"But Maria, you promised the other 
night O Maria, what things you promised ! " 
 
What then ? " said Maria. What do 
you mean ? What did I promise ? " 
" You promised you would be a servant of 
Christ," Matilda said anxiously. 
Well, what if I did ? " said Maria. Of 
course I did ; what then. Am I to find out 
whether everybody in Shadywalk goes to 
church, because I promised that? It is not 
my business." 
"Whose business is it?" 
" It is Mr. Richmond's business and Mr. 
Everett's business; and Mr. Schonflocker's 
business. I don't see what makes it mine." 
" Then you ought not to have said that 
you would bring new scholars to the school, 
I think, if you did not mean to do it ; and 
whom do you mean to carry the message to, 
Maria ? You said you would carry the message." 
" I don't know what carrying the message 
means," said Maria. 
Matilda let the question drop, and they 
went on their way in silence ; rising now by 
 
another steep ascent on the other side of the 
brook, having crossed the bridge. The hill was 
steep enough to give their lungs play without 
talking. At the top of the hill the road 
forked ; one branch turned off southwards ; 
the high road turned east ; the sisters followed 
this. A little way further, and both slackened 
their steps involuntarily as the house they 
were going to came full in view. 
It was like a great many others; brown 
with the weather, and having a certain forlorn look that a house gets when there are 
no loving eyes within it to care how it looks. 
The doors did not hang straight ; the windows had broken panes; a tub here and a 
broken pitcher there stood in sight of every 
passer by. A thin wreath of srnoke curled 
up from the chimney, so it was certain that 
people lived there ; but nothing else looked 
like it. The girls went in through the rickety 
gate. Over the house the bare branches of a 
cherry tree gave no promise of summery 
bloom ; and some tufts of brown stems standing up from the snow hardly suggested the 
gay hollyhocks of the last season. The two 
girls slackened their steps yet more, and 
seemed not to know very well how to go on. 
"I don't like it, Tilly," Maria said. "I 
have a mind to give it up." 
" O I wouldn't, Maria," the little one replied ; but she looked puzzled and doubtful. 
" Well, suppose they don't want to see us 
in here ? it don't look as if they did." 
" We can try, Maria ; it 'will do no harm 
to try." 
" I don't know that," said Maria. I'll 
never come such an errand again, Matilda; 
never! I give you notice of that. What 
shall I do? Knock?" 
" I suppose so." 
Maria knocked. The next minute the 
upper half of the door was opened and an 
oldish woman looked out. A dirty woman, 
with her hair all in fly-away order and her 
dress very slatternly as well as soiled. 
" What do you want ? " 
 
" Are there some children here ? " Maria 
began. 
" Children ? yes, there's children here. 
There's my children." 
" Do they go to school ? " 
" Has somebody been stealin' something 
and you want to know if it's my children 
have done it?" said the woman. "'Cos they 
don't go to no school that you ever see." 
" I did not mean any such thing," said 
Maria, quite taken aback. 
" Well, what did you mean ? " the woman 
asked sharply. 
" We want to see the children," Matilda 
put in. " May we come in and get warm, if 
you please ? " 
The woman still held the door in her hand, 
and looked at the last speaker from head to 
foot; then half reluctantly opened the door. 
" I don't know as it'll hurt you to come in," 
she said ; " but it won't do you much good ; 
the place is all in a clutter and it always is. 
Come along in, if you want to ! and shut the 
door ; 'tain't so warm here you'll need the 
wind in to help you. Want the children, did 
you say ? what do you want of 'em ? " 
Matilda thought privately that the wind 
would have been a good companion ; fter all ; 
no sooner was the door shut, than all remem- 
brance of fresh air faded away. An inexpressible atmosphere filled the house, in which 
frying fat, smoke, soapsuds, and the odour of 
old garments, mingled and combined in proportions known to none but such dwelling 
places. Yet it was not as bad as it might 
have been, by many degrees ; the house was 
a little frame house, open at the joints ; and 
it stood in the midst of heaven's free air ; all 
the winds that came from the mountains and 
the river swept over and around it ; came 
down the chimney sometimes, and breathed 
blessed breaths through every opening door 
and shackling window frame. But to Matilda 
it seemed as bad as could be. So it seemed 
to her eyes too. Nothing clean ; nothing 
comfortable ; nothing in order ; scraps of 
 
dinner on the floor ; scraps of work under the 
table ; a dirty cat in the corner by the stove ; 
a wash tub occupying the other corner. The 
woman had her sleeves rolled up, and now 
plung d her arms into the tub again. 
" Y >u can put in a stick of wood, if you 
want to," she said; " I guess the fire's got 
down. What did you come here for, hey ? 
I hain't heard that yet, and I'm in a takin' to 
find out." 
" We thought maybe your children might 
like to go to Sunday school," said Maria 
with a great deal of trepidation ; " and we 
just came to ask them. That's all." 
" How did ye know but they went al- 
ready ? " the woman asked, looking at Maria 
from the corner of her eye. 
" I didn't know. I just came to ask 
them." 
" Well, I just advise you not to mix yourself with people's affairs till you do know a 
little about 'em. What business is it o' yourn, 
hey, whether my children goes to Sunday 
 
school ? Sunday school ! what a poke it 
is!" 
" They did not come to our Sunday school," 
said Matilda, for her sister was nonplussed ; 
" and we would like to have them come ; un- 
less they were going somewhere else." 
" They may speak for themselves," said 
Mrs. Dow ; and she opened an inner door 
and called in a shrill voice " Araminty ! 
Jemimy ! Alexander ! come right along 
down, and if you don't I'll whip ye." 
She went back to her washing-tub, and 
Maria and Matilda looked to see three depressed specimens of young human life appear 
at that inner door ; but first tumbled down 
and burst in a sturdy, rugged young rascal 
of some eight or nine years ; and after him a 
girl a little older, with the blackest of black 
eyes and hair, the latter hanging straight over 
her face and ears. The eyes of both fastened 
upon their strange visiters, and seemed as if 
they would move no more. 
" Them girls is come to get you to their 
 
Sunday school," said the mother. "Don't 
you want for to go ? " 
No answer, and no move of the black eyes. 
Matilda certainly thought they looked as if 
they feared the lifting of no mortal hand, 
their mother's or any other. 
" Would you like to go to Sunday school ? " 
inquired Maria politely, driven to speak by 
the necessities of the silence. But she might 
as well have asked Mrs. Dow's wash tub. 
The mother laughed a little to herself. 
" Guess you might as well go along back 
the road ye come ! " she said. " You won't 
get my Araminty Jemimy into no Sunday 
school o' yourn this time. Maybe when she's 
growed older and wiser-like, she'll come and 
see you. She don' know what a Sunday 
school's like. She thinks it's some sort of a 
trap." 
" I ain't afraid ! " spoke out black eyes. 
" I didn't say you was," said her mother. 
" I might ha' said you was cunnin' enough to 
keep your foot out of it" 
It is not a trap," said Matilda boldly. It 
is a pleasant place, where we sing, and learn 
nice things." 
" My children don't want to learn none o' 
your nice things," said the woman. " I can 
teach 'em to home." 
" But you don't! " said black eyes. " You 
don't never learn us nothing I " 
There was not the slightest sweet desire 
of learning evidenced in this speech. It 
breathed nothing but defiance. 
" Alexander, won't you come ? " said 
Matilda timidly, as her sister moved to the 
door. For Maria's courage gave out. But 
at that question the young urchin addressed 
set up a roar of hoarse laughter, throwing 
himself down and rolling over on the floor. 
His mother shoved him out of her way with 
a push that was very like a kick, and his 
sister seizing a wringing wet piece of clothes 
from the wash tub, dropped it spitefully on 
his head. There was promise of a fight ; and 
Matilda and Maria hurried out. They hastened their steps through the garden, and even 
out in the high road they ran a little to get 
away from Mrs. Dow's neighborhood. 
" Well ! " said Maria, " what do you think 
now, Tilly? I hope you have got enough 
for once of this kind of thing. I promise you 
I have." 
" Hush ! " said Matilda. " Some one is 
calling." 
They stopped and turned. A shout was 
certainly sent after them from the gate they 
had quitted ; " Girls, hollo ! Sunday 
school girls, hollo ! " 
Do you hear ? " said Matilda. 
" Sunday school girls ! Come back ! " 
" What can they want ? " said Maria. 
" We must go see," said Matilda. 
So they went towards the gate again. By 
the gate they could soon see the shock head 
of Alexander ; he had got rid of the wash 
tub and his mother and his sister all three ; 
and he was waiting there to speak to them. 
The girls hurried .up again till they con- 
fronted his grinning face on the other side 
of the gate. 
" What do you want ? " said Maria. 
What do you call us back for? " 
" I didn't call you," said the boy. 
" Yes, you did ; you called us back ; and 
we have come back all this way. What do 
you want to say ? " 
Alexander's face was dull, even in his 
triumph. No sparkle or gleam of mischief 
prepared the girls for his next speech. 
" I say ain't you green ! " 
But another shout of rude laughter followed 
it; and another roll and tumble, though these 
last were on the snow. Maria and her sister turned and walked away till out of hearing. 
" I never heard of such horrible people ! " 
said Maria ; " never ! And this is what you 
get, Matilda, by your dreadful going after 
Sunday scholars and such things. I do hope 
you have got enough of it." 
But Matilda only drew deep sighs, one 
 
after another, at intervals, and made no 
reply. 
" Don't you see what a goose you are ? " 
persisted Maria. " Don't you see ? " 
No," said Matilda. I don't see that." 
" Well, you might. Just look at what a 
time we have had, only because you fancied 
there were two children at that house." 
Well, there are two children." 
Such children ! " said Maria, 
" I wish Mr. Richmond would go to see 
them," said Matilda. 
" It would be no use for Mr. Richmond or 
anybody to go and see them," said Maria. 
" They are too wicked." 
" But you cannot tell beforehand," said 
Matilda. 
" And so I say, Tilly, the only way is to 
keep out of such places. I hope you'll be 
content now." 
Matilda was hardly content ; for the sighs 
kept coming every now and then. So they 
went down the hill again, and over the bridge, 
 
past the glen and the burnt mill, and began 
to go up on the other side. Now across the 
way, at the top of the bank that overhung the 
dell, there stood a house of more than common size and elegance, in the midst of grounds 
that seemed to be carefully planted. A fine 
brick wall enclosed these grounds on the road- 
side, and at the top of the hill an iron gate 
gave entrance to them. 
O Tilly," exclaimed Maria, " the Lard- 
ners' gate is open. Look! Suppose we go 
in." 
" I should not like to go in," said the little 
one. 
" Why not ? There's nobody at home ; 
they haven't come yet ; and it's such a good 
chance. You know, Clarissa says that people 
have leave to go into people's great places 
and see them, in England, where she has 
been." 
" But this is not a great place, and we have 
not leave," urged Matilda. 
" O well, I'm going in. Come ! we'll just 
go in for a minute. It's no harm. Come' 
just for a minute." 
Matilda, however, stopped at the gate, and 
stood there waiting for her sister ; while Maria 
stepped in cautiously and made her way as 
far as the front of the house. Here she turned 
and beckoned to Matilda to join her; but 
the little one stood fast. 
" What does she want of you ? " a voice 
asked at her elbow. Matilda started. Two 
ladies were there. 
" She beckoned for me to go in where she 
is," said Matilda. 
" Well, why don't you go in ? " 
The voice was kindly ; the face of the lady 
was bending towards her graciously ; but who 
it was, Matilda did not know. 
" We have no leave to go in," she said. " I 
do not like to be there." 
" I dare say the people would let you come 
in, if they knew you wished it." 
" They do not know," said Matilda. 
" What a charming child ! " said the lady 
apart to her companion. " My dear," she 
went on to Matilda, " will you come in on 
my invitation ? This is my house, and you 
are welcome. I shall be as glad to see you as 
you to see the place. Come ! " 
And she took Matilda's hand and led her in. 
Just at the crown of the bank the house 
stood, and from here the view was very lovely, 
even now in winter. Over the wide river, 
which lay full in view with its ice covering, to 
the opposite shores and the magnificent range 
of mountains, which from Matilda's window 
at home she could just see in a little bit. The 
full range lay here before the eye, white with 
snow, coloured and brightened by the sinking 
sun which threw wonderful lights across them 
and revealed beautiful depths and shadows. 
Still, cold, high, far-off; their calm majesty 
held Matilda's eye. 
" Are you looking at the mountains ? " said 
the lady. " Yes, now come in and you shall 
look at my flowers. Your sister may come 
too," she added, nodding kindly to Maria; but 
she kept Matilda's hand, and so led her first 
upon the piazza, which was a single step above 
the ground, then into the hall. An octagon 
hall, paved with marble, and with large white 
statues holding post around its walls, and a 
vase of flowers on the balustrade at the foot 
of the staircase. But those were not the 
flowers the lady had meant; she passed on 
