"There is feed enough for the horses down on Bear River," said I.
"We will send them down there," added Lieutenant Pope. "I have no idea
that these Indians will assemble again."
"No: they are completely scattered, and they will make their way back
to their village."
"But they may cause some trouble."
"Very true; and, Phil, you must hurry to the island. If you have boats
enough, you may take half a dozen men."
"We have three boats," I replied.
I went for my team, and Lieutenant Pope ordered the men who had come
with him to remain at the breastwork, while those under Mr. Jackson
conducted the prisoners and the horses to the clearing. The senior
officer rode down with me, and on the way I told him all that had
occurred since I left him the night before. He informed me that his
force had followed the band of Indians, three or four miles in their
rear, till they heard the firing in front, when they had pressed
forward with all speed, and intercepted the enemy, as they retreated,
not more than a mile from the breastwork.
"I don't think you will have any more trouble with the Indians," said
he, in conclusion. "They have been severely punished for the murder
they committed. If I can find the man who shot your father, I shall
make an example of him."
"I think he was the first Indian that fell," I replied. "Kit Cruncher
dropped a redskin as soon as Matt Rockwood was hit. I don't think they
will need any more punishing."
"I hope not."
When we reached the Castle, we found that two of the guard had gone
over to the island to protect Mr. Gracewood's property. Dinner was
ready, and as we were now in no haste, we sat down with the reunited
family. Ella was up, and had been improving rapidly. The news of the
total defeat of the Indians seemed to quiet her fears in regard to the
future.
"She does not wish to go upon Paradise Island again," said her father.
"She need not go there," I added; "though your house is much better
than the Castle."
"I have been thinking the matter over for some time, Phil. I have
concluded that we had better move my house over to the clearing, if you
will let us locate on your land."
"On my land?"
"I believe in squatter sovereignty, Phil Farringford, and I regard this
as your farm. The house is put up with screws, and can be readily taken
down."
"What will you do with your piano, sir?" I inquired.
"I must get some passing steamer to transport that. The box in which it
was brought up from St. Louis is still on the island."
"Our men shall assist you in moving the house," said Lieutenant Pope.
"It can be done in a couple of days, with force enough," added Mr.
Gracewood.
"We will go to work upon it to-morrow."
After dinner, Morgan and I went over to the island, where we found the
two soldiers domiciled in the house. The wounded Indian was there with
them. He had crawled into the front room before their arrival, and I
was pleased to learn that they had fed him, and done what they could
for his wounds. They had put a big plaster on his nose, and bound up
the back of his head. An assistant surgeon belonged to the detachment,
but he was attending the wounded soldiers and Indians above the
breastwork. None of the troops had been killed; one was severely and
two slightly wounded.
Probably the presence of the two soldiers on the island had prevented
the Indians from returning. Leaving Morgan at the house, I returned to
the clearing. On my arrival I found that Lieutenant Pope, after serving
out rations to his prisoners, which they had greedily devoured, had
assembled them in the field, for the purpose of having a "big talk"
with them. Two or three of them spoke English enough to act as
interpreters.
"Why have you done this?" asked Mr. Pope. "Why did you come down here,
steal the horses, and then murder the owner of them?"
The spokesman charged us with stealing the Indian horses and killing
one of their chiefs.
"How's that, Phil?" asked the officer.
"They stole our horses, and when we found them, we took two other
horses belonging to the thieves," I replied. "But we returned them when
they came for them, the next day. They demanded more horses, besides
corn, meat, and whiskey, which we refused to give them, and they
threatened us. Then about a dozen Indians came on horseback; but we had
taken up the bridge, so that they could not cross over the brook. When
old Matt came down, they shot him dead, without a word of talk. Then
Kit Cruncher fired, and brought down the foremost Indian. The rest of
them ran away. We defended ourselves in the block-house, and they did
not dare to come near us, for Kit was sure of his man every time he
fired. Then some more of them came down to the island, and when we
drove them away from the house, they carried off Miss Ella. That's the
whole story. Mr. Gracewood was here all the time, and he will tell you
the same thing."
Lieutenant Pope repeated my statement to the Indians, and insisted that
it was the whole truth.
"These people have been your friends," said he. "They have often given
you meat and corn when you were hungry, and have lived in peace with
you for many years. Our great father the president will not permit his
children in the forest to be murdered. If you kill one white man, or
steal his property, you shall be punished as you have been to-day. We
bought your lands in fair bargain, and we give you every year money,
blankets, food, and all you need. If the white man wrongs you, he shall
be punished."
"No!" exclaimed the Indian, whose experience, perhaps, did not verify
this statement.
"If you complain of him, and we can find him, he shall be punished,"
repeated the officer.
He proceeded to show that the Indians had been the aggressors in the
present difficulty; that they had murdered one of the settlers without
provocation. He enlarged upon the terrible consequences which would
follow if the Indians persisted in waging war upon the white man. If
the lieutenant had proved that he was powerful on the war-path, he also
demonstrated that he was equally potent in an argument, and the savages
were as completely overwhelmed by his logic as by his arms.
"Will you have peace or war?" demanded he, sternly.
"We make peace," replied the spokesman.
"Then bring your chiefs to me, and we will smoke the pipe of peace. We
wish you well, and will be friends if you are willing; if not, we will
go to your country, and destroy you with fire and sword. You may go;
take your horses, and all that belongs to you."
The savages seemed to be astonished at this unexpected decree. Their
spirit was broken by the heavy losses they had sustained. Their horses,
some of which were fine animals, were driven up, and a detachment of
the troops conducted them to the fort in the forest, where they were
sent on their way. Probably those who had escaped were already on their
way to the north. As it was no longer necessary to maintain the camp in
the forest, it was removed to the clearing. A portion of the breastwork
near the river was taken away to open the road, the dead Indians were
buried, and the war was practically ended. From what I had heard of
these Indians, I was confident that we should have no further trouble,
though Lieutenant Pope intended to visit the Indian village, and have a
talk with the chiefs before he returned to the fort.
The next morning our three boats conveyed twelve soldiers to the island
to commence the removal of Mr. Gracewood's house. The wounded Indian
was placed on a bed under a tree, and the soldiers commenced their
task. After they had gone to work with knives and screw-drivers to take
down the house, I returned to the clearing for Lieutenant Jackson, who
was to superintend the operation.
CHAPTER XXII.
IN WHICH PHIL UNDERTAKES A HEAVY JOB.
"How big is this house, Phil?" asked Lieutenant Jackson, as I rowed him
up to Paradise Island.
"It is thirty feet long and fifteen wide."
"I haven't heard anything said about the manner of transporting it,"
added the officer.
"We must raft it down. We have taken up all the ropes we have. Mr.
Gracewood told me how to handle the grand piano."
"The grand piano," laughed Mr. Jackson. "That's a pretty plaything to
have away back here in the woods."
"Mr. Gracewood sets his life by that piano. He used to smoke and play
upon it by the hour together. He is very fond of music."
"I should think he must be, to bring a grand piano out here. How heavy
is it?"
"It weighs about eight hundred pounds. Mr. Gracewood told me to have it
put in the box, and leave it here till some steamer can be hired to
bring it down."
"Tho rain and dampness will spoil it."
"He told me to wrap it up in the oil-cloth that belongs with it; but,
if you are willing, Lieutenant Jackson, we will astonish him by taking
it down with us."
"I think it would astonish me as much as him to see it done."
"We can do it."
"I hear that you are an engineer, Phil," added my passenger. "Morgan
says you engineered the job of transporting the gun."
"The grand piano is not more than two or three hundred pounds heavier
than the twelve-pounder."
"That is adding a third, and the gun was on wheels."
"No matter for that; we had but three to do that, and now we have a
dozen."
"How will you do it, Phil?"
I explained my plan, and Mr. Jackson thought it was practicable.
"I suppose Mr. Gracewood and his family intend to remain at the
clearing after we have moved the house," continued my companion in the
barge.
"I don't know. I don't believe his wife and daughter will be content to
stay a great while in this lonely place. They may live here during the
summer; but in winter we don't see anybody or anything for months."
"What do you do in winter?"
"I have been studying for several years."
"I thought you talked very well for a boy brought up in the woods."
"I don't have anything to do for six months in the year but take care
of the horses, and do the housework. I read and study about twelve
hours a day in winter. I took up Latin and French last season."
"Indeed! You will make a learned man if you keep on. Have you no desire
to see more of the world?"
"Sometimes I have. I don't think I shall stay here many years longer."
"I shouldn't think you would. Why do you study Latin and French?"
"Only because I like them. It is a very great pleasure to me to puzzle
out the sentences. Mr. Gracewood is a great scholar, and has plenty of
books on the island. I believe I have read them all, except the
dictionaries. He had given me a lot of books, which he sent to St.
Louis for."
"I should think you would want to know something about your
family--your father and mother," added the lieutenant, to whom Mr.
Gracewood had related the substance of my history.
"I do, sometimes; but I am almost sure I should learn that one or both
of them were lost in the steamer."
"Perhaps not. Mr. Gracewood thinks your foster-father did very wrong in
not causing some inquiries to be made for your parents."
"I think so myself; but I can excuse him when I consider how much he
did for me, and the reason why he kept still," I replied, as I ran the
barge upon the shore at the lower end of the island.
"Have you any of the clothing, or other articles, found upon you?"
"I don't know of any."
"Almost every little child has a necklace, a ring, or some other
ornament upon it, especially when travelling."
"Matt Rockwood never said anything to me about such matters. He has a
chest at the Castle, which he always kept locked, and I don't know what
there is in it."
"Didn't you open it after he was killed?"
"No; the key was buried with him, and I did not exactly like to break
it open yet. Besides, I have been so driven about since we buried him
that I haven't had much time to think about it."
"I would open it, if I were you."
"I shall," I replied, as we walked up the slope towards the house.
"Perhaps there is something valuable in it."
"I know there is money in it, for we have sold a great deal of wood,
and he always put the gold into that chest."
"You may be a rich man yet, Phil."
"I don't know that the money belongs to me. I suppose Matt had friends
and relatives somewhere, though I don't know where they are."
"You have done as much as Matt, of late years, to earn this money, and
it would be a hard case to have it taken from you by his relations."
"I think it would. Matt did most of the chopping, and I did all the
hauling. But I meant to be honest, and the money shall go wherever it
belongs."
[Illustration: PHIL AND LIEUTENANT JACKSON GO TO PARADISE ISLAND.
Page 236.]
"Have you any idea how much there is?"
"Not the least; but I don't suppose there is a great deal," I replied,
as we reached the house.
"If I can help you, Phil, call upon me at any time. I shall be at the
fort above for a year or two, probably."
"Thank you, Mr. Jackson. You have been very kind to me. I shall always
remember you."
The soldiers had removed most of the boards on the sides of the house,
and were now taking off the roof. The lieutenant ordered some of his
men to bring up the piano box, which was in a rude shanty used as a
storehouse for supplies. All the force that could get hold of the piano
then placed it sidewise upon four chairs, and we took off the legs. The
instrument was then wrapped in the oil-cloth, and placed in the box,
where it could not be injured by a falling board or timber. Raising the
case upon three rollers, which I had prepared for the purpose, we
easily slid it out of the house on a track of boards.
"Now, Mr. Jackson, if you will let Morgan help me, we will move this
box down to the river," said I, when it was ready.
"But you want half a dozen men," added he.
"No, sir. Let all the rest of the men take down the house. We can do
this alone. It is a long job, and we must have it moving at once."
"Just as you say, Phil," laughed the officer.
The distance to the river was about eighty rods. The forest was open
enough, the greater part of the way, to permit the passage of the box,
and only near the river should we be obliged to cut away the young
trees. We demolished the old shanty, and taking half a dozen of the
boards, laid down a track towards the river. The ground was nearly
level for a short distance, and we used levers to propel the box
forward. As fast as one roller ran out in the rear, we placed it
forward, and thus managed to keep both ends of the box up all the time.
"Why couldn't we move the house without taking it to pieces, Phil?"
said the lieutenant, laughing, as he watched the operation.
"We could, sir, if the trees were not in the way. It would be more work
to cut a track through the woods wide enough for the house than to take
it to pieces and put it together."
"Do you really think you could move the house, without taking it to
pieces, if the trees were not in the way?"
"I know I could."
"You have a good deal of confidence in yourself."
"I was brought up in the woods, where we have to do our own thinking."
"How would you take it down the river?"
"There are hundreds of cotton-wood sticks, from forty to sixty feet
long, on the shore. We could make a raft of them, that would keep the
building right side up."
"But, after your raft got started, how could you stop it, and haul it
in at the mouth of Fish River? The current here is not less than four
miles an hour."
"That would be the greatest difficulty about the job. I should have
some sweeps on the raft, and a dozen men could crowd it over against
the north shore, where we could send a couple of ropes on shore, and
check it by catching a turn around the trees."
"Very likely you would do it, Phil; but it's lucky we haven't the job
on our hands."
"I wish we had, for I should enjoy the fun, if I were boss of the job."
We continued to roll the box on its way down to the river, carrying the
boards forward as we passed over them, until we came to the downward
slope, when the heavy weight was inclined to travel faster than was
safe for it. But I had a rope on the case, for I had already provided
for the emergency. Making it fast to the rear end of the box, I passed
it round a tree, and while Morgan eased it down the slope, I shifted
the rollers. When the whole length of the line had been run out, we
changed it to another tree.
As the descent increased, we found that the rope canted the box, so
that it was in danger of running off the board track. Morgan cut down a
tree about thirty foot high, and trimmed off its branches. We placed
the stick across the track behind the box, and above two trees. Passing
the rope around this timber, we had our purchase in the right place.
When we shifted the cross stick down the hill, the box was held by a
couple of props. In this manner we descended the slope. It was dinner
time then, and we halted in our triumphant progress to refresh
ourselves with boiled bacon and johnny-cake.
After dinner we resumed our labor. Taking the axes, we cleared a road
through the young wood near the river. We had occasionally been obliged
to use the shovels to level off the ground, and the axes to remove a
stump, or a small tree. Our course had been rather devious also, in
order to obtain the smoothest path. A couple of hours more enabled us
to reach the river. We placed the box near a convenient place to embark
it. We then prepared a dozen logs for the foundation of the great raft
we were to make of the lumber, and returned to the house.
I found the soldiers growling at the idea of lugging all the boards and
timbers down to the river.
"Don't do it," said I to Mr. Jackson.
"They must do it, or leave them here."
"No, sir, I think not. There is not a board nor a timber here that is
more than twelve feet long. We can make three or four piles of the
boards, and roll them down to the river, as we did the grand piano."
"Bully for you, Phil!" said a lazy soldier, in a low tone.
"You may try it, Phil," replied Mr. Jackson.
Morgan and I made a pile of boards eight feet long, three feet wide,
and three feet high. We were careful to "break joints" in laying up the
pile, and it was a compact mass when finished. We started it for the
river, on the rollers.
CHAPTER XXIII.
IN WHICH PHIL'S RECONSTRUCTION PLAN IS FULLY SET FORTH.
In moving the pile of lumber to the river, we followed the path chosen
for the piano box, and as the road was all ready, there was no delay.
Morgan superintended its progress, having three men to assist him.
Another pile was immediately made at the site of the house, and started
on its way with four men to handle it. A third and a fourth were piled
up, and by the time the last was ready, the first had arrived at its
destination. Slowly as the masses of lumber were moved, the
transportation was effected much sooner, and certainly with less labor,
than the building could have been carried down by the soldiers.
As soon as the last pile had been started, the lieutenant and myself
went down to the water. We had placed the dozen logs, intended for the
foundation of the raft, in the right place, where there was water
enough to float the structure after it was built, and the heavy piano
had been placed near it. When the second pile of lumber arrived, the
officer ordered the men who had come with it to prepare the timbers.
They were placed about a foot apart, and secured by nailing boards
across them. By the time the foundation was completed, the rest of the
lumber was on the spot, and all our force were ready for the work.
The frame of the house was laid upon the logs, and then the boards were
placed upon them, alternate layers crossing each other, so as to bind
the whole firmly together. The raft, when completed, was twenty-four
feet long, and fifteen wide. The most difficult task was yet to be
performed--the loading of the grand piano. We found it necessary to
remove the raft to a place where the bank was more shelving, so that
the shore side of the structure would rest on the ground, because the
weight of the piano on one side would cant it over so that we could not
work.
For skids we laid down a couple of smooth, water-soaked sticks of
timber, sliding the piano box upon them down to the raft. As soon as
the heavy body was on the raft, the side which floated settled down
before the box had reached the middle of the platform. The raft was
gradually pried off the shore with levers, and as it came to a level,
the box was moved farther upon it, till it had been placed in the
centre. Then the structure floated in all its parts, and I was glad to
see that its equilibrium had been correctly calculated. The piano was
not a heavy load for the raft, for it floated well out of water, and
had buoyancy enough to sustain the weight of a dozen men.
"What shall we do with that wounded Indian, Phil?" asked Mr. Jackson,
when we had completed the loading of the box. "He will starve to death
in time, if we leave him here."
"We must take him with us, of course," I replied. "There are a great
many things at the house to bring down."
The lieutenant sent his men back, and we followed them. The wheelbarrow
was loaded with small articles, and each took all he could carry. They
were sent down to the raft, and directed to return. While they were
absent, we talked with the wounded Indian, who had been observing all
our movements with apparent interest. Though he was in a high fever,
and must have suffered severely from his injuries, he exhibited no
signs of pain in our presence. I told him that we would take good care
of him till he was well, and that we must convey him to the clearing,
where the surgeon of the troops would attend to him.
"No hang me--kill me?" he said, with a smile.
"No; that is not the way the Christians serve their enemies," added Mr.
Jackson. "We feed them, and cure them if they are sick or wounded."
"Why did you attack us, and murder one of us?" I asked. "We have been
friends."
"Indian come back and say white man kill chief. Must kill white man
then."
It was the ancient philosophy of the Indians, that one injury must be
repaid by another; but he entirely ignored the fact that the savages
had been the aggressors. I told him of the battle of the day before;
that his people had been routed with severe loss, and that they had
fled to their reservation.
"Smoke pipe now; no fight again; peace always," said he.
"I hope so," I added.
"Me no fight. Me white man friend. Hunt for white man, work for white
man, fight for white man; good friend always."
I think he was grateful for the favor extended to him. When the
soldiers came back from the raft, four of them were directed to convey
the camp bedstead on which the Indian lay to the river, and the rest
carried down the remainder of Mr. Gracewood's goods. We walked down to
the lower end of the island with the bearers of the bedstead. It was
placed on the raft, and the other articles were stowed so as to
preserve the balance of the structure.
"We are ready for a start," said Morgan. "But we ought to have a
steamboat to tow the thing down."
"I think we have men enough to handle it," I replied. "It is almost
night, and we must hurry up, though it will not take us long after we
get started."
Two of our boats were bateau, and the other was Mr. Gracewood's barge.
Two men were placed in each, and the others upon the raft. I sat in the
stern of the barge to tend the drag-rope. Mr. Jackson was in one of the
bateaux. The lines were cast off, and the men, with their
setting-poles, pushed the raft from the shore. The current soon acted
upon it, carrying it over towards the north side of the river. We
followed the course taken by the raft on which we had transported the
twelve-pounder; and, profiting by the experience gained in that
enterprise, we guided our huge structure safely to the landing at the
mouth of Fish River. We landed our check-lines in season this time, and
everything worked entirely to our satisfaction. It was nearly dark now,
and we moored the raft to the shore for the night. The bed of the
wounded Indian was removed to the shanty, and the surgeon sent for.
The lieutenant and myself went to the Castle to report progress, while
the soldiers sought their camp. Mr. Gracewood staid in the house all
the time. He had hardly been out during the day. He was so rejoiced at
the reunion of his little family that he was not willing to leave his
loved ones even for a moment.
"I hope you left the piano where it will be safe on the island, Phil
Farringford," said Mr. Gracewood, when I had told him we had brought
over the house.
"No, sir; we did not."
"Did not? You know I love that instrument, and I hope, before the
summer is past, to hear Ella play upon it."
"We brought it with us, sir," I replied.
"Impossible!" exclaimed he.
"It is on the raft down at the landing."
"Phil is quite an engineer, and is entitled to all the credit of its
removal," added the lieutenant, who explained the means by which the
piano had been moved to the river, and floated to the landing.
"I am very glad, indeed, that you have brought it, Phil. We shall be
happy here this summer now," said Mr. Gracewood.
"Then you intend to stay here this summer."
"We have concluded to remain as long as Mrs. Gracewood and Ella can be
contented."
"I am afraid that will not be long," I added, glancing at Ella, who was
seated on Matt's chest.
"I am sure I shall be very happy here among such good friends," she
replied; and I could not help realizing how delighted I should be while
she was at the clearing.
"I will help you carry on your farm, Phil," continued Mr. Gracewood.
"We shall do well, I know."
I felt that paradise had been transported from the island to the
clearing, while, as we ate our supper, Ella told what a beautiful place
it was. It was so much pleasanter than the boundless prairies which
covered the greater portion of the country. It seemed as if
civilization had been transplanted to my field and forest as I looked
upon Mrs. Gracewood and her daughter. But I was sad when I thought that
the time must come, sooner or later, when they would leave me, and I
should be more desolate and lonely than ever before.
I slept in the barn again that night; but I hoped Mr. Gracewood's house
would be ready for the accommodation of his family by the next evening,
and that we should hear the melodious tones of the grand piano by the
following day, which would be Sunday. Ella was rapidly recovering from
the fatigues of her forced journey with the Indians; and I pictured to
myself the pleasure it would afford me to walk with her through the
forest, and sail with her on the river. When I went to sleep, I dreamed
that I went a fishing with her, and that a big gray trout pulled her
into the water, from which, of course, I had the satisfaction of
rescuing her.
The next morning Lieutenant Pope directed all his men to assist in the
erection of the house. We landed the big box, loaded it upon the wagon,
and hauled it up to the site which had been chosen for the new home of
the Gracewoods, not a hundred feet from the Castle. While a portion of
the troops carted the lumber, the others prepared the foundation of the
house. A series of posts were set in the ground, and sawed off on a
level about a foot above the sod, so as to make the lower floor dry and
comfortable. On those were laid the sills, and before noon the building
was up and half covered. All the boards and timbers were numbered, and
so many men made quick work of it. In the middle of the afternoon the
last board had been screwed on, the sides of the house had been banked
and sodded, and the structure was ready to receive the furniture.
Mr. Gracewood had used a ladder to reach the attic where he slept; but
Mr. Jackson thought he ought to have stairs for his wife and daughter.
I had a decided taste for carpenter's work, and promised to build them
as soon as possible. However, Mrs. Gracewood and Ella thought they
should like the ladder better, as it could be drawn up after them,
which would add to their safety in case the Indians should be
troublesome again.
The grand piano was taken from the box, and put in the front room.
While its owner was tuning it, I put up a couple of rude box bedsteads
in the attic, and filled them with clean hay. The cooking-stove was put
up in the rear apartment, and the whole building looked as though it
had never been disturbed, for everything had been placed as it was on
the island. I had the pleasure of conducting Ella to her new home,
where we passed a very pleasant evening.
CHAPTER XXIV.
IN WHICH PHIL AND HIS FRIENDS EXAMINE THE CONTENTS OF THE CHEST.
Lieutenants Pope and Jackson were of the pleasant party in the
reconstructed house. Both of them were good singers, and I experienced
a new sensation. Ella was able to sit up all day now, and she and her
mother sang. To the accompaniment of the grand piano, the party sang
what they called old and familiar tunes. I had never heard anything
which could be called singing before, and I was more delighted than I
can express. The instrument, highly as I had appreciated it before,
seemed to have a double power and a double melody.
The tunes were Old Hundred, Peterboro', Hamburg, and others like them,
which have since become familiar to me. They raised my soul from earth
to heaven, and inspired me with new love and new hope. I had read some
of the hymns they sang; but their musical interpretation gave them a
purer and loftier sentiment than their words could convey. Ella sang a
little song alone; and, as I listened to her sweet voice, I could
hardly restrain my tears, the melody was so new and strange, and withal
so heavenly. What would earth be if men and women could not sing!
It was a gloomy moment to me when the party separated. It was like
coming down from heaven to earth when the music ceased, and I heard
only the commonplace sounds which were familiar to me. I left the house
with the two officers; but it was still early in the evening, and I
