Santa Claus put down his pack. 
He worked and tugged at the straps, puffing and 
blowing, and they came apart at length with such an 
impetus that he almost sprawled on the floor, at which 
nearly every one laughed. Then he fumbled about, 
and at last drew forth a package. Here he had to 
stop and search his pockets for an enormous pair of 
green spectacles before he could read the name. 
George was first. He went up boldly, and bore off 
his gift in triumph. Then Willie WA? summoned 
who advanced rather cautiously. Two or three others, 
then Kathie Alston's name was called. She colored 
rather vividly, and went up with some shyness. 
" Open it," said George, " I 'll let you see mine." 
There were half a dozen papers at least, then a 
dainty velvet case. Inside a brooch, ear-rings, and 
sleeve-buttons of white onyx, very handsomely set. 
Two initials were on a card, " A. M." She glanced 
up at Mrs. Markham with a grateful smile. Ada 
came to inspect. 
" They are very pretty," she said, " only there are 
so many imitations of onyx." 
That did not spoil the pleasure for Kathie, however. 
There were a great many funny things in that 
wonderful pack of Santa Glaus. The children laughed, 
and so did the grown people. Dogs that would bark, 
cats that would mew, a comical little man who always 
would turn a somersault before he could settle him- 
self, and numberless oddities. And when he could 
find no more he turned it inside out and shook it, 
and then he came to the tree. 
There were numerous gifts for the elders here. 
Kathie was more than surprised to find herself 
remembered by  many friends. Mrs. Havens had 
 
sent a beautiful glove-box containing half a dozen 
pairs of gloves in different colors ; Mrs. Meredith, 
some pretty handkerchiefs with her initials embroi- 
dered in the corner ; from Mr. Edward Meredith a 
necklace and cross ; from Dr. Markham a set of books 
bound very handsomely, and, best of all, a dear re- 
membrance from mamma, that had come from the 
Christmas-tree ao Cedarwood. 
" Where is your uncle ? " asked Kathie of Ada 
presently. In the excitement and confusion she had 
but just missed him. 
Ada laughed and looked mysterious. 
" Oh ! " said Kathie, and then she smiled at the 
Santa Glaus, who was making a final speech aud bow- 
ing himself away. 
How odd that she had not suspected it, for it did 
not seem to. her that any one else could have been 
quite as amusing. 
Then all the children thronged round the tree.. 
The candies were crunched, the fruit divided, every- 
body laughed and talked, and declared that it had 
been most delightful. Kathie could only clasp the 
hands that were so fondly extended to her, and smile 
her thanks, for her heart was full. 
The younger children were dismissed to the nur- 
sery, as it was long past their bedtime. A few of 
the smaller visitors went home, and the rest had 
quite an amusing hour to themselves. Kathie was 
perfectly radiant with happiness. 
* The prettiest child here," said Dr. Markham, 
with pardonable pride, " and the best behaved. She 
acts like a little girl, not a fine lady, who must turn 
up her nose at everything. George's daughter is 
being spoiled as fast as possible. I wonder if her 
mother thinks such airs and affectations becoming ? 
Kathie will make a lovely woman, but Ada will be 
simply insufferable ! " 
There was more than one who admired Kathie. 
Ada was fairly jealous of the attention bestowed upon 
her. 
But Dr. Markham declared at last that they 
were steady old people, and not much used to dis- 
sipation, so they must travel off home. Kathie was 
quite bewildered with the hosts of kisses and fond 
good-bys. 
" I have ever so much more to tell you, so I shall 
come round," said Mr. Meredith to Kathie as they 
stood in the hall. 
 
" I shall shut Kathie in a band-box/' growled 
Dr. Markham. " I will not have the young men run- 
ning after her ! " 
" He is very cruel ! " said Uncle Edward, with a 
comical sigh. " If he bolts the doors I shall drop 
down the chimney." 
"The loveliest time in the world," whispered 
Kathie surreptitiously to Aunt Kuth. " It will take 
you all day to-morrow to look at my presents. I 
don't believe I could have been any happier at Cedar- 
wood, and I wonder why everybody is so kind and 
sweet to me. To be loved is the very best thing of 
all, dear Aunt Ruth." 
CHAPTER XII. 
CRUMBS OF COMFORT. 
AUNT EUTH really had begun to improve, there 
could be no mistake in the fact. Her appetite was 
better, her spirits more buoyant, and she was gaining 
strength ; indeed, she seemed much more like her olden 
self, hopeful and smiling. Dr. Markham was very 
much encouraged, and Kathie was brimful of delight. 
She had written home a very glowing account of 
her Christmas, and she felt so grateful for the two 
remembrances from those she loved best, mamma and 
Uncle Robert. She held her watch quite in awe, 
and was almost afraid to wind it, or even to wear it. 
On the first day of the new year Dr. Markham 
allowed Aunt Euth to try sitting up again in the re- 
clining-chair. It did not tire her as much as before. 
" I expect that we shall soon hear of your running 
away," he exclaimed, laughingly. 
Kathie came and sat by her, and held her hand in 
tender, wistful love. 
 
"I feel like giving thanks every moment/' she 
said. " It 's so delightful to think of your getting 
well." 
" Yes, my darling " ; and a thoughtful shade crossed 
Aunt Euth's face. 
" I was almost afraid " began Kathie ; but she 
stopped in a little awe, for there is always something 
solemn in the thought of death. 
Aunt Ruth's fingers tightened in their clasp. 
" I have been near to the brink of the dark river," 
she said, slowly. " I was weak, and full of repin- 
ings." 
" Why, Aunt Ruth ! " exclaimed Kathie, in surprise. 
" We all thought you very patient. T never heard 
you utter a complaint. But it seems to me that it 
would be hard to die now, when we are all so 
happy." 
" And that was the lesson I had to learn. I be- 
lieve I was not quite satisfied or resigned until the 
dawn of Christmas. When I gave up my will, God 
showed me his, which was better than my weak 
fears." 
" But did you really think that you would die ? ' 
" My dear child, I have had some dreary weeks 
lying here. . But for your tender care and bright, 
hopeful face, it seemed sometimes as if my slender 
hold on life must have ended. I can never tell you 
all the comfort you have been to me." 
Kathie guessed now why Dr. Markham had been 
so anxious to have her stay. Perhaps he had consid- 
ered Aunt Euth in a critical condition. 
" I don't know," she said, with a perplexed expres- 
sion, " how any one can be quite satisfied to die. Does 
God mean that we shall be glad to leave those we 
love and everything sweet and dear ? ' 
" He means us to be resigned to his will, and to 
try to be happy in it. When we were very poor and 
had few enjoyments he sent Uncle Robert to us. I 
suppose if I had been very ill before that, I should 
have felt quite satisfied to die, for I seemed only a 
burden in my helplessness." 
" Aunt Euth, it was so nice to have you then ! " 
* *j 
interrupted Kathie, eagerly. " Yet I want you just 
as much now and all the time." 
The invalid smiled. 
" Tell me what you thought of then, Kathie said, 
presently. 
" My darling, lying there in a hopeless mood, for I 
 
seemed to lose every day, I felt that death was not 
only possible, but near. And it appeared hard to die 
just when we had come to comfort and happiness. 
Then the second operation discouraged me a good 
deal. I am afraid I grew quite rebellious. I dreaded 
to be left alone even for a few days, so you see I was 
selfish." 
" But you did not speak of it. You were willing 
that I should go home." 
" Yes, I made myself so. I put a curb upon my 
tongue and kept silent, like the Psalmist, even from 
good words, for I did not want to have you stay 
against your will. And then your generosity taught 
me a lesson. I committed my ways into the Lord, 
and resolved to trust in him, to take life or death 
and be content. During the intervals, when I could 
not sleep, I prayed for resignation ; and though I can 
never tell quite how it was, as the morning dawned 
I felt satisfied that he would do what was best." 
" And God answered all our prayers," Kathie said, 
with sweet seriousness. " I know mamma and Uncle 
Eobert thought of it at home." 
' So you see, my love, we have to learn lessons 
over constantly, for we never get them perfect." 
 
Kathie was quiet and thoughtful for many mo- 
ments, then she said, in a low tone, "Aunt Euth, 
I have had a lesson to learn also." 
" What was it ? " with a sweet smile. 
" Being generous." 
"I fancied you made a great sacrifice in staying 
with me." 
" Oh, it wasn't that, Aunt Euth " ; and Kathie 
colored. " It did seem a little hard at first ; but 
after Dr. Markham thought it would be better for 
me to remain, I became quite content about it. I 
could see that you really did need me ; and when 
you had done so much for my pleasure and comfort, 
when you had even consented to be doctored because 
I wished it so very much, it was only right that I 
should stay." 
" What was the trouble then ? ' 
" It was not told to me as any secret," began 
Kathie, with a conscious blush, "but it is repeat- 
ing a story, and mamma, you know, never liked 
to have me do it. Aunt Euth, did you ever think 
that - Uncle Eobert would marry Miss Jessie 
Darrell?" 
Aunt Euth started in surprise. " Marry I ' she 
 
echoed, and Katliie saw that the idea was quite new 
new to her ; " why, child, what put that into your 
head ? " 
"Ada was talking about it. She said her 'mamma 
had been discussing it, and I suppose her Uncle 
Edward. He would be most likely to know." 
" Tell me what she said, Katliie," was Aunt Euth's 
grave question. 
Katliie repeated, the conversation very truthfully, 
though with some blushes and embarrassment. 
" And this troubles you ? ' A stray smile lurked 
about Aunt Euth's face. 
" Oh," exclaimed Katliie, imploringly, " do you 
think it would make such a difference ? Would 
we have to go away, and be poor again ? ' : 
" Suppose we did, my darling ? ' 
" I should be very sorry to lose Uncle Eobert, and 
to give up Cedarwood ; but the money is all his, and 
he has been so good already, - - and if he would love 
us a little afterward- Kathie's eyes filled with 
tears. 
" My dear child, Ada is quite mistaken. There 
will be no change for us at present." 
"But, Aunt Euth " 
" Kathie, isn't there another view of the case ? ' 
and Aunt Kuth's smile deepened. 
" That Miss Jessie could come to Cedarwood, and 
love us, and that we might all live together " 
" Not quite that either." 
Kathie looked bewildered. 
" I am glad you are not as sharp in these matters 
as Ada. When Uncle Eobert was here he made 
a guess or a surmise on better grounds, that Miss 
Jessie " 
" O Aunt Buth, you don't mean that it is Mr 
Meredith ? " exclaimed Kathie, as a light broke in 
upon her mind. 
"Ada's uncle instead of yours." 
" But Ada will not like it ! " 
" My dear Kathie, children's opinions on such 
subjects are not of much importance. I think it 
was very unkind in Ada to repeat anything like 
that to you, even if it had been true. I dislike a 
taste for gossip, especially if it is ill-natured, in 
little girls, or in any one, in fact. So your trouble 
is quite without foundation." 
Kathie still looked serious. 
" Do you not feel quite satisfied about it ? " asked 
her aunt. 
 
" I was thinking of Uncle Robert," returned Kathie, 
slowly. " I want him to be happy, and it almost 
seems as if I ought not feel very glad - 
" My dear child, set your mind at ease. What will 
happen when Uncle Eobert marries we can hardly 
tell, but I think it will not be until you children are 
grown a little older and more capable of caring for 
yourselves. It is very kind of him to take charge of 
us all in this loving, generous manner, and yet, sup- 
pose he had come home without a penny and in poor 
health, what would your mamma have done ? ' : 
" Oh, we should all have been kind to him, Aunt 
Ruth, and worked for him. I would have done any- 
thing that I could." 
" He knows this. Besides his generous heart, he 
has a great deal in his power, as people always have 
when they make a right use of money, and he is not 
one to begin a good work and then leave it before 
any result is accomplished. So we may enjoy our 
happiness without fear. But what conclusion had 
you reached ? " and Aunt Ruth, glanced encouragingly 
in the soft eyes. 
" I was a good deal troubled at first " ; and Kathie 
smiled a little at the bugbear, dwindling to a very 
small shadow indeed. "And then I guess I must 
have followed your plan, to look at the duties near 
by, and leave those a long way off until I came to 
them." 
" Like the man who never crossed a bridge until 
he reached it. But why did you not tell me of this 
before ? ' 
"Because you were so very poorly then, and Dr. 
Markham forbade your being excited about any- 
thing," was Kathie's simple answer. 
" You have been a brave and thoughtful girl, my 
darling, and I hope you will have your reward." 
Aunt Euth kissed the fair forehead with deep 
tenderness, and Kathie saw that there were tears in 
lier eyes. 
" I don't want you to think that I was very miser- 
able," she returned, smilingly. " Christmas was a 
happy time for me too, and it seems now as if God 
had been watching, and sent me all the best joys and 
gifts that any one could have. Everything is coming 
out just right." 
Kathie looked so bright and satisfied that her face 
was a perfect picture. 
" And now one word before we leave the subject. 
 
Do not mention this to Ada. If Mr. Meredith spoke 
of it to his sister-in-law, he may have some very 
good reason for evading publicity at present, and I 
should not like to have him trace any foolish stories 
to us." 
Kathie promised, though her kind heart would 
have kept her from any such triumph as that which 
Ada had delighted to make known. 
Mr. Edward Meredith had not taken part in the 
conversation, as Ada had led Kathie to understand. 
He had preserved a discreet silence whenever Miss 
Barrell's name was mentioned, though Mrs. Meredith 
had taken up the subject quite eagerly, and not been 
at all backward in giving her opinions. 
Kathie could not help feeling light-hearted. It 
seemed as if all her troubles had suddenly come to 
an end, and the path was brightest sunshine. Two 
months would soon pass, and then for dear, delightful 
home and the boys. 
But when Kathie went to her music that after- 
noon, her fingers were as full as her brain, and took 
unwarrantable liberties. 
" You are falling back into some of the old habits," 
Mrs. Gifford said, by way of a check. 
" People have to think every moment of the time 
if they want to do right/' - and an odd little smile 
crossed Kathie's face ; " but it is very hard when one 
is real happy." 
" Then you fancy that trouble and sorrow make 
one thoughtful?" 
" Yes, it is good to have had a little trouble," said 
Kathie, meditatively; and she went on with the 
soberest of fingering. She was doing very well 
indeed, though it seemed slow work to her. 
The second week in January Mrs. Alston came to 
the city. She had not mentioned any particular day, 
and Kathie had gone to have a little romp with the 
Meredith children. Florence wanted her to tend her 
beautiful Christmas doll, that was already growing 
rather the worse for wear ; but as it could open its 
eyes, and make an odd little sound, when you pressed 
it, that the children declared was saying, " Mamma," 
the child could hardly bear to have it out of her 
arms. Willie wanted to hear about the wonderful 
cat and little Eed Eiding-Hood ; and she must tell 
George about the rabbits and guinea-pigs that 
Freddy had in the barn ; and altogether it was 
quite late when she ran off home. In the dusk, 
 
she thought the lady sitting by the grate was Mrs. 
Markham. 
" Kathie ! ' : said a soft voice. 
" mamma, mamma ! " and the next instant she 
was in her mother's arms, actually crying for joy. 
Two months since she had kissed the dear lips or 
"been held to the warm heart ; and no one can ever 
be quite like a mother, as Kathie well knew. 
"But i I had imagined you were here I should 
have come direct from Mrs. Gifford's/' was her 
announcement. 
" Then I suppose Aunt Euth finds Ada quite a 
rival ? " her mamma asked. 
" Oh, this visit was to tlte children ; I have to call 
on Ada separate days. She doesn't like the nursery 
very much, and I do." 
Then Kathie was not getting spoiled by the com- 
panionship. 
Mrs. Alston was delighted to find Aunt Ruth so 
much improved, and with such a fair prospect of 
recovery ; but her joy was fully as complete and 
satisfactory in her little daughter. It had been 
quite an ordeal for Kathie. Most of the time Aunt 
Euth had been tdo ill to take any charge of her, 
or correct bad habits in their formation. That 
Kathie would be indulged and nattered Mrs. Alston 
well knew ; but she had hardly been prepared for the 
self-denial and strength that Aunt Ruth recounted 
of her. 
Kathie wanted to hear everything, just as if there 
had never been a letter from Cedarwood, and she had 
to rehearse all the holiday doings and display her 
numerous gifts. It was such a delight to catch 
mamma's smiles, and to hear the dear, familiar tones, 
though now and then some word brought the tears to 
Kathie' s eyes, to be laughed away the next moment. 
They were wonderfully happy, those three people. 
 
CHAPTER XIII. 
TAKING UP THE CROSS. 
FOR a week Kathie was filled with supremest 
content. The music practices were given up, and 
even the two lessons were something of a trial. It 
seemed to her that she had hardly known the 
pleasure of having 'a mother; indeed, she had not 
been as dear after her sojourn in the city as now. 
For during Kathie's period of housekeeping Uncle 
Robert had been her friend and adviser nearly all the 
time, but here she had been compelled to depend 
a great deal upon herself. 
It had not injured her in any respect. She was 
the same glad, happy, unaffected child, or if she had 
changed it was only to grow more considerate. 
" And you think you can stay contentedly until 
Aunt Ruth is able to be moved ? " her mother 
asked. 
"Oh yes," said Kathie. "Though I wonder when 
it will be ? " 
" Some time in March, the doctor says." 
" Mamma, I wish you were not going back so 
soon. Maybe it will be two months." 
" In all probability as long as that. I shall come 
down again at the last, but it is quite difficult to 
be spared from home. The boys always seem to 
go wrong." 
" Did you think they were very - - bad, when you 
went home ? ' asked Kathie, hesitatingly. 
" Eob had improved, I fancied, but Freddy gets 
astray rather easily ; then you were there to look 
after them a little, you know, and now Uncle Eobert 
has the whole charge. I don't like to put so much 
upon him very often." 
Kathie could see that it was right for her mother 
to go, and yet there was a faintness about her 
heart whenever she thought of the separation. 
" Is Eob doing well in his studies ? " 
" Quite nicely, I believe. But he is getting to 
be a large boy, and fancies himself of a great deal 
of importance. I believe I 'd like to keep you all 
little for a good many years to come." 
" mamma, I hope we shall be a comfort, instead 
of a trouble, as we grow larger." 
 
" My dear child, I feel certain that you will." 
" But Eob is as good as most boys, mamma, except 
Charlie Darrell." 
" And I suppose it is folly to wish him like any 
other boy, since he must be himself"; and Mrs. 
Alston smiled. " Mothers are always anxious. When 
one hears of bad men one trembles for the boys." 
" Mamma," said Kathie, with a sort of dainty shy- 
ness, " Aunt Kuth ' and I have given up carrying 
burdens." 
" And I ought, is that what you think ? " 
Kathie blushed rosy red. 
Mrs. Alston stooped to kiss her. "My darling," 
she said, "you have learned one very important 
lesson. It is folly to be so anxious about a future 
that is in God's hands. If we could be sure that we 
were doing our best, but when we look back, we 
see where we might have been wiser." 
This was beyond the reach of Kathie's reasoning, 
so she could only press mamma's hand and resolve 
that she would cause her as little pain as possible. 
And she breathed a fervent prayer that Eob might 
grow better every day. 
But Kathie woke one morning with a heavy heart. 
 
There was no storm, not a single cloud in the sky, so 
mamma must go home. Aunt Ruth, felt very sorry 
also. Kathie's heart kept swelling up to her throat, 
and it seemed as if every mouthful of breakfast would 
choke her. Dr. Markham was to take them to the 
station, and he was a little brusque and disposed to 
tease, as was very apt to be his way when those 
around him were on the verge of sentiment. Mrs. 
Alston and he had discussed Aunt Ruth's case, and 
now there appeared no probability of further trouble ; 
indeed, she had nothing to do but get well as fast as 
circumstances would admit. 
" Still, it has been quite a critical case," said the 
doctor. " She had much less strength than I thought 
for in the beginning, and at one time she quite lost 
heart. I find now that Kathie was the best ally we 
could have had. A grown person, more conscious of 
the danger, might have given way to discouraging 
forebodings ; but the child's faith was something 
exquisite. Because she wanted her to recover she 
would think of nothing against it, and her bright, 
happy temperament has been like sunshine, for all 
she is more thoughtful than most girls of her age. 
You hardly know what a treasure you have ! " 
 
It made Mrs. Alston very happy to hear Kathie so 
