with a sudden start.
"What is the matter, Mr. Farringford?"
"This business is wrong."
"Wrong?"
"Wrong! No living man has been, or shall ever be, able to say that
Edward Farringford stained his soul with a foul, dishonorable act."
"Do you think it would be wrong, sir?"
"It would be compounding a felony," he added, solemnly.
I did not know what he meant by this technical phrase, but I could
not see that it was wrong for me to get my money if I could. Mr.
Farringford asked me when, where, and in what manner I had been robbed;
and I related my adventure on the night I was at Leavenworth.
"You are the only witness, Philip, and it would be difficult to prove
the crime. I will see Lynch. I will charge him with the base deed, and
be governed, in my further proceedings, by the circumstances of the
case. Where do you live, Philip?"
I gave him the address of Mrs. Greenough, and told him where I was
at work. I was satisfied that the promised reward would stimulate
him to great activity in the pursuit of Lynch, and I had some hope
that he would be successful. Having disposed of the important part
of my business with my seedy companion, I was rather curious to know
more about him. I almost dared to believe that he could give me some
information in regard to the steamer which had been burned on the upper
Missouri, and from which I had been saved by my foster-father.
That steamer had borne the name of this man, and he had been her owner.
Of course he knew all about her, and it was possible, even probable,
that he knew who had lost a little child in the fearful calamity. I
actually trembled when I thought of it, when I considered that, at
the opening of this singular man's lips, I might be told who and what
my father was, and whether my parents had perished or not. It was an
anxious moment, and my heart was in my throat. I had not the courage to
ask the momentous question, and Farringford rose unsteadily from his
chair, to leave me.
"Stop a moment, Mr. Farringford, if you please," I interposed; and he
dropped back into his chair.
"Isn't our business finished, Philip?"
"Yes, sir; but I have been told that you were formerly a large
steamboat owner."
"Who told you so?"
"You did, for one. If you don't object, I should like to ask you
something about those steamers," I continued, with much embarrassment.
"Do you wish to go into the steamboat business, Philip? If you do,
some of my old captains are still on the river, and I can get you a
situation. But I must have one more drink before I say anything."
"I wouldn't take any more, sir," I ventured to say.
"It is a necessity of my being, Philip."
He rose from his chair, and went to the bar. I saw him drink another
half tumbler of whiskey. He tottered back to the table where I sat.
Such a wreck of a man I had never seen. Though his step was unsteady,
he was not overcome by the potions he had taken. His nerves, rather
than his brain, seemed to be affected.
"I haven't drank much to-day, Philip. I wasted half the dollar I
borrowed in getting something to eat," said he, dropping into his
chair. "It is a bad habit, my boy. Never take any whiskey, Philip: in
a word, never begin to drink liquor, and you will never have to leave
off; for it is a great deal harder to leave off than it is to begin.
This is disinterested advice: in a word, it is the counsel of one who
knows all about drinking."
"I would stop it if I were you, Mr. Farringford."
"If you were Edward Farringford, you could no more leave off drinking
liquor, and drinking all you could get, than you could leave off
eating. I can live without eating much, but I can't live without
drinking."
"I think you can leave off, sir; I hope you will try."
"You speak like a boy. You never drank any whiskey. You don't know what
a fiend it is. You don't know what a horrible necessity it is to a
man whose nerves are shaken, only to be steadied by this liquid fire;
whose stomach, chilled and frozen, can only be warmed by this blast
from Tartarus. You don't know anything about it. I hope you never will.
Philip, I hope you never will."
He covered his face with his hands, and when he raised his head, I saw
that he had been weeping. His eyes were filled with tears, and I pitied
him from the deepest depths of my heart.
"Beware, Philip! Beware!" said he, solemnly. "Never touch a drop of
whiskey, wine, or even ale,--not the tenth part of a drop,--if you are
dying for the want of it. Die, but don't touch it."
"I hope I never shall."
"Hope! Don't hope! Sign the pledge; swear on the Holy Bible; go down
on your knees, every morning and every night, and pray that Almighty
God will help you, and save you from the curse. Don't trifle with it,
Philip. Be in earnest, and when you feel weak, commend yourself to God,
and think of Edward Farringford."
He covered his face with his hands again, and wept so bitterly, that
the little table danced under the convulsive agony which shook his
frame.
"Look at me, Philip!" said he, raising his head again. "Behold the
wreck of a man! If there had been no whiskey in the world, or if I had
never tasted it, I could have welcomed you to the most elegant mansion
in St. Louis. I could have pointed you to a dozen steamers, on the
Missouri and Mississippi, which were all mine. I could have presented
you to my wife, the most beautiful and accomplished woman in the city,
now driven out from my presence. More than this, Philip, I could have
pointed you to my boy, my son, my only child, who perished in the cold
waters of the Missouri, because I was too drunk to save him!"
I need not say how startled, how thrilled I was by this agonizing
narrative. The bar-room was crowded, and noisy with the violent debates
of excited politicians, and the gabble of men warmed by their cups
into unusual hilarity, so that no one appeared to notice Farringford,
though he uttered his impressive warnings in a loud tone. But I was too
much moved and thrilled myself to heed what others said or did. The
toper wept, and then tried to shake off the remembrance of the past.
"Where was your son lost, Mr. Farringford?" I asked, choking with
emotion.
"On the upper Missouri. He was a child under three. His name was
Philip, like yours. He was named after my brother, who died ten years
ago. Enough of this. I am almost crazy When I think of it."
The broken-down toper was my father!
  CHAPTER XI.
  IN WHICH PHIL TAKES HIS FATHER TO HIS NEW HOME.
My father! I had found him; but the finding of him in such a miserable,
degraded, besotted being as he who was before me seemed to be the
greatest mishap, the most overwhelming misfortune, that could possibly
have overtaken me. He was the first white man I had ever seen really
intoxicated. I was mortified and disheartened as I looked at his pale,
thin face, and regarded his trembling limbs.
What should I do? I could not tell him that I was his son. I could not
throw myself into his arms and weep tears of joy, as I had imagined the
impressive scene, in case I should ever find either of my parents. I
wanted to weep; I wanted to give myself up to a transport of grief, if
not despair, as I realized the terrible truth that the degraded being
before me was my father.
"Philip, I've told you more than I ever uttered before. You looked into
my face, and seemed so interested that I was tempted to tell more than
I intended," said he, wiping away with his coat sleeve the tears that
stained his sunken cheeks. "No matter; we will be jolly now. I can
get another drink in a cheap grog-shop for the half dime I have in my
pocket."
To my surprise he laughed as easily as he had wept, and shook off, with
astonishing facility, the burden which had weighed him down. He rose
from his chair, and tottered towards the door. I followed him out into
the street.
"Where are you going now?" I asked.
"Going to get a cheap drink," he replied, with a kind of chuckle. "I
shall be all right then; and we'll go and look for Lynch."
"Don't drink any more to-night, Mr. Farringford," I pleaded, taking his
arm.
"I must!" said he, vehemently. "I might as well tell you not to eat
after you had been without food for a week, as you tell me not to
drink. I must have whiskey, or die."
"Then die!" I added, using his own words.
"Die?"
"That's what you said to me."
"I might do that, Philip," he replied, stopping suddenly in the street,
as if the idea impressed him favorably.
"Of course I did not mean that, sir," I interposed.
"But it would be better to die than live as I live. I have only one
cheap drink left--one glass of camphene whiskey, which seems to burn my
very soul. In a word, it is better to die than to live, for such as I
am."
"No; there is hope for you," I pleaded, leading him along through the
street.
"Hope? No more than for a man who is already dead, Philip. I shall
take my cheap drink, and then I shall be penniless again. It may be
twenty-four hours, perhaps forty-eight, before I can raise another
dollar or another drink. Then I shall suffer with horrors I cannot
describe, till I can get more whiskey."
"Where do you live?"
"Nowhere."
"Where do you board?"
"I don't board," he replied, with his usual chuckle.
"Where do you sleep?"
"Wherever I happen to drop. In the police station; on board a
steamboat; in a shed; anywhere or nowhere."
"But where were you going to-night?" I asked, shocked at this
revelation of misery, so horrible and strange to me.
"I was going to the gambling-houses to find Lynch."
"But after that?"
"Anywhere that my fancy leads me."
"Come with me," said I, unwilling to abandon him.
"Where?"
"To my house--where I board."
"No, Philip."
"You shall sleep with me to-night."
I knew that Mrs. Greenough would not wish such a lodger as he, but I
was determined to do what I could for him; and, if she would not permit
him to sleep with me, I would go out with my miserable parent. I
wanted to see him when he was sober. He had told me that his wife had
deserted him, and I wished to learn more about her. I could not allude
to a theme so sacred while he was in his present condition. Hopeless as
the task seemed to be, I intended to use all the powers which God had
given me in reforming him.
I led him in the direction of my boarding-house, and he seemed to be as
willing to go one way as another. After he had delivered himself of the
emotions which crowded upon him at the bar-room, he spoke lightly of
his misfortunes, and chuckled whenever he alluded to any circumstance
which was particularly degrading in his condition.
"Where do you obtain your meals, Mr. Farringford?" I asked, as much to
keep his attention occupied as to gratify my own curiosity.
"I don't obtain many," he replied, lightly.
"But you must eat."
"Not when I can drink. I don't average more than one meal a day. I
can't afford to waste my money, when I have any, in eating."
"Do you live on one meal a day?"
"I don't get that always."
"Where do you get that one?"
"Anywhere I can. They have meals on board the steamers lying at the
levee and waiting to start. They never turn me off when I sit down to
the table. If I'm very drunk, they give me my meal at a side-table; but
that don't happen often, for I don't want to eat when I can get plenty
to drink."
How insufferably miserable and degrading was the life he led! And he
was my father!
"How long have you led such a life?" I inquired, with a shudder.
"Not long, Philip. Do you know, my lad, that I'm telling you all this
to save you from whiskey? I'm not drunk now. I know what I'm about; and
I would go ten miles to-night to save any fellow-creature, even if it
was a nigger, from being as bad as I am. I would, Philip; upon my honor
and conscience I would."
"That proves that you have a kind heart," I replied; and even as he
revelled in his shame and misery, I was glad often to observe these
touches of fine feeling, for they assured me that, in his better
days, he had been a noble and generous man.
  [Illustration: PHIL INTRODUCES THE ELDER FARRINGFORD TO HIS
  LANDLADY. Page 130.]
"My heart is right, my boy. Like all drunkards--Yes, Philip, I'm a
drunkard. I know it; and I call things by their right names. Like all
drunkards, I've been growing worse and worse; but it's only a few
months since I went into the street, and had no home, no place to lay
my head at night."
I led him to Mrs. Greenough's house. He said nothing more about the
"cheap drink," for I had kept his mind busy on the way. I had a night
key, and I admitted him to the entry, where I asked him to wait until
I spoke with my landlady. In as few words as possible I informed her
of the discovery I had made, and distinctly added that my father was
intoxicated.
"Will you allow me to take care of him in my room, Mrs. Greenough?" I
asked.
"Yes, indeed!" she replied, with unexpected readiness. "Bring him into
the kitchen, and I will do everything I can for him."
"Thank you, Mrs. Greenough. You are very kind. I had no right to expect
this of you."
"I know how to pity such poor people, Phil," said she, shaking her
head sadly; and I afterwards learned that her late husband had been
a drunkard for a number of years, and had been saved by the great
Washingtonian movement.
"My father does not yet suspect that I am his son. Will you be so kind
as not to mention the fact to him?" I continued.
"Just as you wish, Phil," she answered, as I hastened down stairs.
Mrs. Greenough held the lamp in the entry while I conducted my
tottering companion up the stairs. I introduced him in due form to her.
"Madam, I am your very obedient servant," said he. "I am happy to make
your acquaintance--more happy than you can be to make mine."
"I'm very glad to see you; come in," she added, placing her
rocking-chair before the fire for him.
He seated himself, and glanced around the room. Mrs. Greenough asked if
he had been to supper. He had not, and he did not wish for any; but
the good lady insisted that he should have a cup of tea. In spite of
his answer, he ate heartily of the food set before him, and seemed to
be refreshed by it. For an hour he talked about indifferent subjects,
and then I took him to my room. Mrs. Greenough gave me some clean
clothes for him, which had belonged to her husband, declaring that she
was glad to have them put to so good use. He intimated, as he glanced
at the neat bed, that he should like to wash himself. I carried up a
pail of warm water, and leaving him to make his ablutions, I went down
to the kitchen again.
"I hope you will excuse me for bringing him here, Mrs. Greenough," said
I, feeling that I had been imposing upon her good nature.
"You did just exactly right, Phil. You had no other place to take him
to; and you didn't want to leave the poor creature in the street. I
will do everything I can for him."
"I am very much obliged to you, and as soon as Mr. Gracewood comes, I
will have something done for him."
"Are you sure he is your father?"
"I have no doubt of it, Mrs. Greenough. What he said assured me of the
fact; but he thinks I am dead."
"Where is your mother? Was she lost?"
"No; he says she was driven away from him by his bad conduct. I don't
know where she is."
My landlady was willing to take care of the sufferer for a few days,
if he could be induced to stay at the house; and we talked about the
matter till I thought he had gone to bed, when I went to my room.
By this time the effects of the liquor he had drank were hardly
perceptible; but his nerves were terribly shaken. Mrs. Greenough had
given me a dose of valerian, which she said would do him good. He drank
it without an objection, and soon went to sleep. I was tired enough to
follow his example, after I had put the room in order.
When I awoke in the morning, my father had dressed himself, and was
pacing the room, in the gloom of the early morning. He was entirely
sober now, and his frame shook as though he had been struck with palsy.
I was alarmed at his condition. He told me he must have whiskey, or he
should shake himself to pieces.
"Don't take any more, sir," I pleaded.
"Nothing but whiskey will quiet my nerves," said he, in trembling tones.
"You shall have some strong tea or coffee; or perhaps Mrs. Greenough
can give you something better."
"I don't want to drink, Philip; no, I don't," he replied, in piteous
tones; "but you cannot understand the misery of my present condition.
It is worse than death."
"But you will be better soon if you let liquor alone."
"I can't let it alone. Every instant is an hour of agony. Have you any
money?"
"Only five cents."
"I have five cents. I will get a cheap drink."
"No, don't!" I pleaded. "Wait here a little while. I will make a fire,
and see what can be done for you."
I went down stairs, and by the time I had made the fire Mrs. Greenough
appeared. I told her how much my poor father was suffering. She seemed
to understand the case exactly; and as soon as the tea-kettle boiled,
she made some strong wormwood tea, which I gave to our patient. I
had some hope when he declared that it had helped him. He ate a very
light breakfast, and appeared to have no appetite. My good landlady
spoke words of hope to him, and said she had taken care of one who was
precisely in his condition. If he would only be patient, and trust
her, she would cure him. He promised to stay in the house during the
forenoon; and I went to my work, hoping, but hardly expecting, to find
him there when I came home to dinner.
  CHAPTER XII.
  IN WHICH PHIL LISTENS TO A DISCUSSION, AND TAKES PART IN A STRUGGLE.
My work on the building was no lighter than it had been the day before;
but I had done so much hard labor in the field and forest that it did
not wear upon me. I observed everything that was done by the skilled
workmen, and endeavored to profit by what I saw. I felt that I was
learning something every hour, and I was pleased to know that Mr.
Clinch was entirely satisfied with me. At noon I hastened home, anxious
to know the condition of my father.
"How is your patient, Mrs. Greenough?" I asked, as I entered the
kitchen where she was cooking the dinner.
"I am sorry to tell you, Phil, that he is gone."
"Gone!"
"Yes; I had to go over to the provision store for something for
dinner. Mr. Farringford promised faithfully to remain in the house;
but when I came back he had left. I was not absent more than fifteen
minutes."
"I am very sorry for it; but it can't be helped," I replied, sadly.
"I am to blame, Phil. I ought to have locked the door, and taken the
key with me."
"Don't blame yourself at all, Mrs. Greenough," I interposed. "You have
been very kind to him and to me, and I am greatly obliged to you."
"Perhaps you will be able to find him again."
"I will try this evening. I'm sorry I have not more time to take care
of him."
"If you will get him back again I will do the best I can, and when I go
out I will lock the door."
"Perhaps it is no use to try to do anything for him," I added.
"He is your father, Phil; and you must do and keep doing for him. Let
us hope and pray that he may be saved."
After dinner I went to my work again; and that afternoon we finished
boarding the building.
"Can you lay shingles, Phil?" asked Mr. Clinch.
"I never did lay any, but I know I can after I have seen how it is
done."
"Conant shall show you how," he added.
I went upon the roof with my fellow-workman. As, in the short time I
had worked with him, I had carefully observed all his instructions, and
been obliging and respectful to him, Conant was very willing to show
me how to work. But the operation of laying shingles is very simple,
though it requires considerable care and skill in breaking joints, so
that the water shall not work through. I saw how it was done, and,
though I worked rather slowly at first, I was soon able to lay the
shingles to the satisfaction of my instructor. As I got the "hang of
the thing" I worked more rapidly, and before night I could lay as many
as Conant. We lined the length of the roof, and while he began at one
end, I began at the other. At first we came together pretty near my
end, but I gradually increased the distance until we met in the middle,
showing that I did as much work as my instructor.
"Well, Phil, how did you get along shingling?" asked Mr. Clinch, when I
went down the ladder at six o'clock.
"Pretty well, I think, sir," I replied. "I shall learn how in time."
"Learn how!" added Conant; "he can lay as many shingles in a day as I
can."
"If I can it is all because Conant showed me so well that I couldn't
help doing it," said I, wishing to acknowledge my obligations to my
kind instructor.
I saw that he was pleased with the compliment; and I have always found
that a pleasant word, even from a boy, helps things along amazingly
in this world. It was better and fairer to attribute a portion of my
success to Conant's careful and patient teaching than to claim all the
credit of it myself. It was doing justice to him without injuring me,
and was a cheap way to make a strong friend.
"I'm glad to have a fellow like you to work with, Phil," said Conant,
as we walked up the street together. "Clinch put that Morgan Blair into
my charge to show him how to work; but he knew so much more than I did
that I couldn't teach him anything. His head is made of wood."
"I'm always very thankful to any one who will show me how to do
anything."
"I see you are, Phil, and it's a real pleasure to teach you anything."
"Thank you; I think we shall agree together first rate."
"So do I; but I don't like these boys who know more than the law
allows."
We parted at the corner of the next street, and I went home to supper.
My father had not returned to the house, and I did not expect he would
do so. I was sorry I had not inquired about my mother when he was with
me; but I had no good opportunity, and was confident that I should see
him again. After supper I left the house, and went to the Planters'
Hotel, where I expected to find him; but it was only when he had a
dollar or two that he went there.
"Have you seen Mr. Farringford to-day?" I timidly asked one of the
bar-tenders, who was disengaged.
"He has been here two or three times to-day," replied the man.
"Do you know where he is now?"
"I haven't the least idea. He hangs round Forstellar's, I think."
"Where is that?"
"It is a gambling-house," he added, giving me the street and number.
"What does Mr. Farringford do?" I asked, rather startled at being
directed to a gambling-house.
"Do? Nothing," said the man, contemptuously. "He used to be a runner
for a gambling-house, and followed this business as long as he could
keep sober enough to do it."
"What is a runner?"
"One that ropes in customers to a gambling-saloon," laughed the
bar-tender. "Farringford used to make money enough to pay for his
liquor at it; but lately he keeps so drunk that no one will go with
him. What do you want of him?"
"I wanted to see him."
"Do you know him?"
"I did not know him till yesterday. He knows a man who has some money
that belongs to me," I replied.
But I was thankful that a customer came to prevent him from asking
me any more questions. I was shocked to hear that my father had been
connected with a gambling-house. He evidently did not think that the
business of a "runner" was disreputable, when he assured me that no
one could accuse him of a dishonest or a dishonorable deed. But he
was only the wreck of a man, and it would have been strange indeed
if his moral perception had not been impaired by his long course of
dissipation. I hastened to the place which had been described to me by
the bar-tender. The establishment had a bar-room on the lower floor,
with a private staircase to the apartments above, where games of chance
were played.
I went into the bar-room, and saw well-dressed gentlemen passing
through the private door to the stairs. I looked about the place a
short time. If my father was in the building, he was up stairs, and I
decided to attempt the passage. At the foot of the stairs a man stopped
me, and told me that no boys were allowed in the rooms above. I was
willing to believe that, considering the character of the house, this
was a very wholesome regulation; but I wished to find my father. I
asked the sentinel if Mr. Farringford was up stairs. He did not know;
if he was I couldn't see him. I inquired for Lynch then, but could
obtain no satisfaction. I insisted upon seeing one or both of these men
with so much zeal that the inside sentinel ordered me to leave the
premises. I gently and respectfully remonstrated; but the fellow took
me by the arm, and walked me out into the street. As I had no rights
there, I did not resist.
I was rather indignant at this treatment, though I ought not to
have expected decent conduct on the part of the officials of such
an establishment. I decided not to abandon my purpose, though any
satisfactory result was rather hopeless just then. I planted myself on
the opposite side of the street, and watched the house, taking note of
every one who went in or came out. I meant to stay there till midnight
if necessary, for I judged from the answers of the inside sentinel that
the persons for whom I had inquired were there.
My patience held out till the clock struck eight, when a policeman,
by some strange fatality, happened to pass the place. He was on the
other side of the street, and glanced into the bar-room as he passed.
I determined to walk at his side, and tell him my story, so far as it
related to the loss of my money. I crossed over for the purpose of
joining him, hoping to induce him to enter the gambling-house with me.
As I reached the front of the establishment, two men came out, both
of them making use of rather sharp language. Their voices attracted my
attention.
One of them was Lynch, and the other was Farringford.
"I will not have my steps dogged by such a fellow as you are?"
exclaimed the former, angrily.
"Don't make a noise, Lynch," said Farringford. "If you do, I'll refer
the matter to a policeman, and send for the boy."
"Nonsense! I've told you I know nothing about the boy or his money,"
added Lynch, moving down the street in the direction of the river.
Deeply interested in the discussion, I followed the parties closely
enough to hear every word they spoke. From what Lynch said I learned
that they had already discussed the subject at the gambling-house; and
I judged that the robber had fled in order to escape the importunity of
the other.
"The boy speaks the truth, and if you don't give his money back I will
make St. Louis too warm for your comfort," retorted Farringford,
warmly.
"I don't want to be bored with this matter any more," said Lynch. "If
you will clear out I will give you a dollar to get drunk upon."
"I ask no man to give me anything. That won't do; I want the money for
the boy."
"Why should you bother your head about the boy?"
"He's my boy, and I won't see him wronged by any one."
"Your boy!"
"Yes, my boy! He's my son," persisted Farringford.
"Nonsense! You have lost your wits."
I thought I had lost mine too. I could not believe that Farringford
intended to speak the truth when he said I was his son. He could not
possibly have known that I was his son. But my heart leaped up into
my throat when it flashed upon my mind that my father had opened the
bureau drawer in my room, where I had placed the locket and the little
clothes I had worn when I was picked up on the Missouri River. Yet this
was not probable, for I had locked the drawer, and put the key in a
safe place. I was more inclined to think that Farringford called me
his son in order to explain his interest in my affairs. I followed the
two men to the levee, where they suddenly halted near a street lamp. I
dodged out of their sight, and kept walking back and forth near them;
but, as I was a boy, they did not seem to notice me, or at least to
consider my presence of any importance.
"I am willing to get rid of you, Farringford, at any reasonable price,"
said Lynch. "I will not be dogged another foot farther."
"Then give me back the ninety-seven dollars and a half you stole from
my boy," added Farringford.
"Don't say that thing again to me. I will give you five dollars if you
will bore me no more."
"No; I want the whole."
"Once for all, then, will you clear out, or not?"
"Once for all, I will not till you give up the money you stole from my
boy."
"Then take the consequences," said Lynch, as he sprang upon the
tottling Farringford.
My blood boiled then, and leaping upon Lynch, I bore him to the ground.
He released his hold upon my father when he felt my grasp upon him.
