again. It will only make unpleasant feeling. Smooth it over if he says
anything more about it, and let the matter drop."
I was rather puzzled, but I went on with the bank account.
"And by the way, Phil, you needn't say anything to Mr. Collingsby about
those invoices," he added, a little while after.
"I shall not be likely to do so. He hardly ever speaks to me, and I
never do to him, unless it is to answer a question."
"He's very fussy and particular. It was careless in me to leave those
papers at home, but it is all right now. This is a fine day, Phil, and
we will take a sail about four o'clock if you like."
I did like; I always liked to take a sail. I had been with him a dozen
times already, and had been promoted to the position of able seaman on
board, for I had taken the helm, and actually worked the boat alone for
hours at a time. I had been out with the junior partner in some pretty
heavy blows, and enjoyed them too. In fact, I considered myself as
competent to handle the Florina as I was to make out a trial balance. I
looked into the theory of sailing a boat, and understanding the
principles, I found the practice easy.
After the business of the day was done, we embarked, and sailed with a
stiff breeze to the head of the lake. Mr. Whippleton was more than
usually kind and considerate, but he appeared to be thoughtful and
troubled. He gave me the helm, and went into the cabin as soon as we
were out of the river. He sat at the table, with a pencil and paper,
and seemed to be absorbed in some difficult calculation.
At dark we were off Indiana City. I reported to Mr. Whippleton, and he
came on deck. He told me to come about, and I did so without any
assistance from him. He talked a little about the business of the firm,
but soon relapsed into silence. His manner was somewhat strange, but I
attributed it to his ill health. We had an abundant supply of
provisions on board, such as crackers, sardines, lambs' tongues; and we
usually took our supper on board, as we did not return to the city till
nine or ten. Sometimes we cooked ham and eggs, beefsteak, or a mutton
chop, and made coffee. I was cook and steward generally, but this time
my employer brought up some eatables, and we took our supper in the
standing-room. I noticed that he had no appetite, and I was really
afraid that he would be seriously ill.
The next day I carried home all the papers relating to my trial
balance, and locked them up in my valise. Mr. Whippleton staid in the
counting-room all day for the next week, but nothing more was said of
my unfortunate attempt to prove my zeal. He did not, however, bring the
missing invoices, and I ventured to mention the matter again. He had
forgotten all about them, but would attend to it the next day.
Another week elapsed before he produced them. I looked them over, and
they appeared to be correct. They were in the ordinary forms, with the
printed headings of the establishments at which the lumber had been
purchased. As soon as he gave them to me I took up the lumber book.
"You needn't enter them on that book, Phil," said the junior partner;
"I don't believe in that book, and I won't have anything to do with it.
File them away, and don't say anything about them to any one."
Of course I obeyed my orders, but I confess that I began to think
something was wrong. The Whippleton idea of honesty was not very high.
The cash amounts of these invoices had been paid, and I supposed the
lumber had been received in the yard. But Mr. Whippleton was a partner
in the concern, and he could not mean to cheat himself. My curiosity
was excited, but as a clerk I had no right to meddle with what did not
concern me.
When I went to bed that night I could not sleep, for my mind would
dwell upon the mysterious invoices. I heard the clock on a church
strike twelve, and still I was awake. A few minutes later I heard a
knock at my door. Mrs. Whippleton had been sick for a week, and I found
that the summons came from her nurse. The landlady was worse, and she
wanted to see me at once. I hastily dressed myself, and went to her.
"Phil, I know you are honest; everybody says so. I want to see you,"
said she, as I entered.
I could not imagine what my honesty had to do with the matter, but I
waited for an explanation.
CHAPTER XI.
IN WHICH PHIL TAKES CHARGE OF MRS. WHIPPLETON'S EARTHLY TREASURE.
I had not seen Mrs. Whippleton for a week, during which time she had
been confined to her room, and I was surprised at the change which had
taken place in her during that time. She appeared to have lost one half
of her flesh, and her face was very thin and pale.
"I didn't like to call you up at this time of night, Philip, but I
wanted to see you very bad," said she, in feeble tones. "I'm a very
sick woman."
"I hope you will get better," I answered.
"I hope so too, but there's no knowin'."
"I didn't know you were very sick."
"Perhaps I hain't been till to-day. The doctor looked kind o' anxious
to-night when he came; and I've been a good deal worried."
"You must be calm, Mrs. Whippleton."
"I try to be, but I can't; and I don't think anybody could in my
situation. I don't know but I'm goin' to die."
"Let us hope not. But I trust you are prepared to die," I added, with
due solemnity; for I confess that the dreadful thing about her case was
the idea of being hurried into eternity with only the worldly wisdom
she had preached to me to sustain her in the trying ordeal.
"No, I'm not prepared to die. I've got thirty thousand dollars--"
"I wouldn't trouble myself about money, Mrs. Whippleton," I interposed.
"That's what I wanted to see you for," said she, looking at me with
apparent astonishment.
"Do not think of business while you are sick, Mrs. Whippleton."
"But I must think of it. I have felt so bad today, that I didn't know
as I should get well."
"So much the more need, then, of thinking of other things than money."
"I suppose you think I'm a very great sinner," she added.
"We are all sinners, Mrs. Whippleton; and we are all great sinners."
"Well, I ain't any worse'n the rest on 'em. But I don't want to talk
about them things now. I've got somethin' else on my mind. I've got
thirty thousand dollars--"
"But I would not think of that now."
"I must think on't. It worries me. I know you are an honest young man,
Philip; and I can't say that I know of another one in the whole world."
"That's a harsh judgment; but if I am honest, it is because I believe
in God and try to do his will."
"I suppose you are right, Philip. I wish I was better than I am; but as
I ain't, 'tain't no use to cry about it. I didn't send for you to
preach to me, though I hain't no kind o' doubt I need it as bad as any
on 'em. Ever since I fust see you in the steam car I believed you was
honest, and meant to do just about what's right. Set up a little closer
to me, for I don't want to tell the world what I'm goin' to say to you.
I believe I can trust you, Philip."
"I always try to do what is right, and I have no doubt I succeed better
than those that don't try at all," I replied, finding that it was
useless to attempt to talk to her of anything except money and
business; though I hoped, when these important topics were disposed of,
that she would be reasonable on matters of more consequence.
Certainly her appearance was very much altered, and she spoke of dying.
Young as I was, I had already been in the presence of death, and I
thought that matters of the soul's concern ought to be attended to
before anything else.
"You knew that my son Charles has been here to-night?" continued Mrs.
Whippleton.
"No, I have not seen him."
"He was; and he has been here every night for a week, pestering me
almost to death, when I'm sick. He's fretting what little life there is
left to me out of my body."
"Why, what's the matter with him?"
"He wants money--all I've got in the world, if I'll give it to him. He
says he shall be ruined if he can't get it."
"Indeed!"
"I don't know nothin' about it, but he says something's wrong in the
firm. He wants forty thousand dollars, and must have it, or be ruined
and disgraced. Don't you tell a soul what I'm saying to you, Philip."
A flood of light was suddenly cast in upon my perplexed understanding.
Forty thousand dollars! That was about the amount of the mysterious
invoices. After this revelation I had no difficulty in believing that
Mr. Whippleton had been using the money of the firm in his private land
speculations. The invoices were fictitious, and this explanation showed
me why the junior partner did not wish me to mention them to any one. I
even thought I comprehended the nature of Mr. Whippleton's sudden
illness when I showed him my trial balance. Now he was trying to get
the money from his mother to make good his accounts with the firm.
I was grieved and amazed at the revelation thus forced upon me. I
understood the old lady's principles, or rather her want of principles,
and granting that she had given him her code of worldly wisdom, as she
had to me, it was not strange that he should turn out to be a thief and
a swindler. However hard and disgusting it may seem, there was
something like poetic justice in his coming to her upon her sick bed,
perhaps her dying bed, to demand the means of repairing his frauds. I
pitied my landlady in her deep distress, but surely worldly wisdom
could produce no different result.
"See here, Philip," she continued, raising her head with difficulty
from the pillow, and taking from beneath it a great leather
pocket-book, distended by its contents. "There's seven thousand
dollars, besides notes and bonds for twenty-three thousand more, in
it."
"Why do you keep so much money in the house, Mrs. Whippleton? It isn't
safe."
"I know that; I had it in the bank till Charles began to pester me, and
then I drew it all out the very day I was taken sick."
"But it was safe in the bank."
"No, 'twan't. I was afraid Charles would forge a check and draw it."
"He wouldn't do such a thing as that."
"I hope he wouldn't, but I was afraid he would. This pocket-book was in
that bureau drawer till Charles came to-night. He went there and tried
to get it. I don't know but he would have got it if my nuss hadn't come
in. He said he was coming again to-morrow morning, and would have the
money; so I got up, and put the pocket-book under my pillow."
"Certainly he wouldn't take it away from you," I added, shocked at the
old lady's story.
"I don't know's he would, but I was afraid on't."
"But you haven't forty thousand dollars here."
"There's the bonds, which will sell for all they cost me, and more too,
besides the interest on 'em; and it would all come to over thirty
thousand. Charles offers to give me a mortgage on his lands worth three
times the amount, and pay me ten per cent. interest besides."
"Why don't you do it, then?"
"I don't believe in his lands. Because folks say he's got bit in his
lands, and can't sell for what he gin for 'em, though he says they will
fetch three times what they cost him. If they'd fetch what he gin for
'em he'd sell 'em. I almost know he's got bit on 'em. But he can't have
my money; he owes me ten thousand dollars now. I've worked hard for
what little I've got, and I ain't a goin' to have it fooled away in no
land speculation."
It seemed to me that the old lady understood her son's case perfectly;
and my own observation fully confirmed her statement. The junior
partner was certainly in a tight place.
"My two married daughters, that need the money more'n Charles does,
would never get a cent of my property if I should let him have it. I
ain't a goin' to do it, not if I should die afore mornin'."
"I don't think you are in any immediate danger, Mrs. Whippleton," I
replied; and I did not believe that one who could talk as fast as she
did was in any present peril.
"But Charles will pester the life out of me to get this money and these
papers. I'm afraid he's been doin' something that's wrong."
"What do you wish me to do for you?"
"I'll tell you, Philip. I know you're honest, and I will trust you just
as far as any human bein' can be trusted," she continued; but she
paused again, and I concluded that she was not quite satisfied to trust
even me.
"You believe I can trust you--don't you?" she added, taking the
valuable package from under the bed-clothes.
"You must be your own judge, Mrs. Whippleton."
"I know I can!" she exclaimed, suddenly. "You would not rob a poor
woman who is on her dying bed."
"I certainly would not."
"At any rate, I know Charles would rob me of every dollar I have in the
world, and think he was smart to do it; but I don't believe you would,"
said she, extending the package towards me.
"What do you wish me to do with it?" I replied, taking her
treasure--her only treasure, it seemed to me, either in earth or in
heaven.
It was only the treasure where thieves break through and steal; and the
thief was at hand--one whom she had trained up in the ways of worldly
wisdom.
"I don't know; only put it where Charles can't get it; that's all."
"But I have no safe place for it."
"You can put it somewhere. I feel better now it is out of my hands,"
she added, with a deep sigh.
"Really, Mrs. Whippleton, I can't take charge of this. I am afraid it
would make me as miserable as it has you."
"You must take it, Philip. You are the only honest man I know of. Keep
it safe, and when I'm gone,--if I'm goin' this time,--don't give it to
anybody but my administrator."
"I don't like to take it, Mrs. Whippleton."
"That's the very reason why I want you to take it. If you was more
willing, I shouldn't be so anxious to give it to you. I know you'll be
careful of it."
"I will tell you what I will do with it, if you are willing. I want to
go to St. Louis to see my father. If Mr. Whippleton will let me off
to-morrow, for a few days, I will go then. I will seal up the package,
and my father will keep it in his safe."
"Is your father honest?"
"He is."
"He must be if he is your father. Do as you think best. If he can put
the money out at interest for me, I should like it all the better."
"Very well. I will give you my receipt for this package, and that will
at least be evidence that I took it, and at your request."
I put the treasure in my pocket, and then led the conversation into
another channel. I tried to awaken in her mind an interest in that
other treasure, where thieves do not break through nor steal; but she
was tired, and said she wanted to rest. She had talked so much that she
was all worn out. She was a sad spectacle to me, and though she had
gathered together a considerable fortune, it seemed to me that her life
was a failure; she had not realized the true success.
I went to my room, opened the package, and made out a list of all the
valuable papers which it contained. I wrote a receipt for them and for
the money, and then, with the treasure under my pillow, I went to
sleep. The next morning I called upon the old lady, and gave her the
receipt. The nurse thought she was better, and said she had slept very
well after I left her. Mrs. Whippleton told me she was willing to pay
my expenses to St. Louis, and I might take the money for the purpose
from the package.
CHAPTER XII.
IN WHICH PHIL VISITS THE HOUSE OF MR. COLLINGSBY, AND SEES MISS MARIAN.
I went to the counting-room at an early hour. My first care was to tie
up the valuable package, which I had brought with me, in thick paper,
and to seal it very carefully. I wrote my own name upon it, and then
placed it in one of the drawers of the safe, the key of which was kept
in the desk. I hoped to obtain permission, when Mr. Whippleton came to
the counting-room, to visit St. Louis, especially as business was not
as driving as usual. I did all my routine work, and the junior partner
had not arrived. I was not anxious to see him for any other purpose
than to obtain leave of absence. Indeed, the idea of meeting him was
very embarrassing. After what his mother had said, I was satisfied that
Mr. Whippleton had been using the funds of the firm in his own private
speculations. It was evident that he had appropriated no less a sum
than forty thousand dollars, which was represented by the fictitious
invoices. I did not believe that he intended to purloin the money, but
would replace it when his land speculations yielded their returns. Mr.
Collingsby never examined the books thoroughly, and was not likely to
discover the fraud. I knew all about it, and it suddenly flashed upon
my mind that it would be wrong for me to be a party to a concealment.
I was not employed by Mr. Whippleton alone, but by the firm. My
obligations were to both the partners; and though Mr. Collingsby never
took any notice of me, my duty to him was just as urgent as to the
junior. The thought startled me. My soul revolted at the idea of any
treachery to Mr. Whippleton, who had always been very kind to me. But
on the other hand, my moral sense revolted at the thought of concealing
his fraud. I was troubled by the situation.
Mrs. Whippleton did not believe that her son's enterprise in real
estate was a success. In her own words, he "had been bitten." It seemed
to me that, in the end, there must be a fearful explosion. As I had the
whole charge of the books now, I did not see how I could avoid any
complicity with the fraud. In fact, I had already discovered it. I felt
that I had a duty to perform, and that, if I exposed the junior
partner, he, and not I, would be guilty of his fall. Was it meanness,
ingratitude, or treachery in me to put Mr. Collingsby on his guard? If
I could save Mr. Whippleton, I wished to do so. It was plain that he
had come to a realizing sense of his danger, and was persecuting his
mother to obtain the means of making good his deficit. But all the old
lady's money would not cover the deficiency, and it was also
impossible for him to obtain it. He had falsified the books, and he
could not undo that.
If I continued to cover up Mr. Whippleton's error, I became a party to
it. He was a bad man, and I could not fail to see my duty. I must
inform Mr. Collingsby of what I had discovered. But though my duty was
clear, my inclination rebelled. The junior partner had been kind and
considerate; the senior, lofty and distant. It seemed almost like
betraying my friend. While I was still considering the matter, Mr.
Whippleton came in. I had not reached any conclusion, except that I
would not be a party to the fraud by concealing it.
"Phil, do you know where Mr. Collingsby lives?" said the junior
partner, while I was still in this state of doubt and uncertainty.
"I do, sir."
"I wish you would go up and show him this list of lumber," continued
Mr. Whippleton, who seemed to be very much excited, and was very pale.
"Tell him I can buy the lot at a very low figure if I can pay cash at
one o'clock to-day."
"I wish you would send Robert," I replied, alluding to the new entry
clerk. "I want to speak to you about the books."
"Never mind the books," he answered. "I want you to go, for you can
tell him all about the cash of the concern. I heard just now that he
was not very well, and probably would not be here to-day."
By this time I had made up my mind what to do, and the conclusion
seemed to afford me the means of escaping both horns of the dilemma
into which I was plunged. I glanced at the memoranda which Mr.
Whippleton handed to me, and I saw that about twenty-five thousand
dollars would be required to make the purchase he contemplated. Our
cash balance in the bank was about six thousand, and Mr. Collingsby was
expected to furnish the rest. I did not care to go to the senior
partner upon such an errand, for I was afraid that the transaction the
junior meditated might include another fictitious invoice.
"Well, will you go?" demanded Mr. Whippleton, while I was looking at
the list.
"I would rather not, sir," I replied.
"What!"
"I have come to the conclusion that I should resign my place here," I
replied, finding that nothing but plain speech would answer my purpose.
"Resign!" exclaimed he.
He was paler than ever, and my words evidently startled him.
"What do you mean by that? Are you not satisfied with your salary? If
you are not, I will give you ten dollars a week, or twelve, or more, if
you desire."
"My salary is quite satisfactory."
"And you are engaged for a year."
"I know I am, but I hope you will let me off."
"No; I will not. This is a shabby trick, after I have taken the trouble
to break you in, and you know our books perfectly."
"I'm afraid I know them too well," I replied.
"What do you mean by that?" he asked; but he dropped into a chair,
apparently faint, as he had been on the preceding occasion.
"I believe in being fair and square, Mr. Whippleton. There is something
wrong about the books."
"Nonsense, Phil. That is only because there are some things about the
business which you don't understand."
"I want to go to St. Louis this afternoon to see my father."
"Very well; you can go. You can be absent a week, if you wish. Haven't
I used you well, Phil?"
"You have, sir,--very well, indeed; and I am grateful to you for all
your kindness."
"Then why should you leave? If you wish to see your father, go to St.
Louis for a week or two. Your salary shall be paid just the same as
though you were here."
"Thank you, sir; you are very kind, and you always are."
"Then why do you want to leave me?"
"It is because you have always used me well that I wish to go. I am
afraid my trial balance was more correct than I supposed at the time."
"What do you mean, Phil?" demanded he, springing to his feet with
sudden energy.
"Whether right or wrong, sir, I believe that you have taken about forty
thousand dollars out of the concern without the knowledge or consent of
your partner."
"Why, Phil!"
He dropped into his chair again, and I was satisfied that I had hit the
nail on the head. He gasped and trembled, but, fortunately for him, we
were alone in the counting-room.
"I have spoken just what I think, sir; but I hope I am mistaken."
"You are mistaken, Phil; most tremendously mistaken. I like you, Phil;
if I did not, I should kick you out of the counting-room without
another word. But I believe you mean to be honest, and that you have
made an honest blunder, though it is a very stupid one."
"Certainly the lumber included in those invoices you brought down from
your rooms was never entered in the lumber book."
"Confound the lumber book! Never mention the thing again to me! I have
told you that no reliance whatever can be placed upon it. I can
convince you of your mistake in one hour."
"I shall be very glad to be convinced."
"But we haven't the hour now to look up the matter. I will explain it
all to you this afternoon, and then, if you are not satisfied, I will
let you go, and pay you a year's salary, besides."
"I only want to know what became of the lumber billed to the firm in
those invoices," I answered, not at all satisfied with his proposition.
"I will show you this afternoon. Now, go up to Mr. Collingsby's and do
my errand. The firm may lose a good bargain, if I miss this trade."
I concluded to go to the senior partner's. I inquired particularly in
regard to the lumber Mr. Whippleton purposed to buy, but all the junior
said assured me that he was preparing for another movement. I took the
list, and a memorandum of the cash balance in the bank, and left the
office. Somehow, in spite of myself, I felt guilty. Even my resolve to
leave the service of the firm did not satisfy me. It would only leave
the senior partner to be swindled still more. I hastened to the house
of Mr. Collingsby, which I had never entered. I rang the bell, and was
admitted to the entry, where I was required to wait till the senior
partner could be informed of my desire to see him.
"It's a magnificent day to sail," said a gentleman in the parlor, near
the door of which I stood.
I recognized the voice of Mr. Waterford, the owner of the yacht which
was the twin sister of the Florina. He was generally called, by those
who knew him, Ben Waterford. He was reputed to have made a fortune in
real estate speculations, and was a young man of fine personal
appearance. I had often seen him when out sailing with Mr. Whippleton.
My own impression was not very favorable; for I regarded him as not
only rather fast, but as lacking in moral principle. As he spoke he
walked towards the door, and I saw that he was with a young lady of
seventeen or eighteen, a very beautiful and a very elegant girl in
style and manner.
"I should be delighted to go," said she; "but you give me very short
notice. You wish to leave in an hour."
"Of course we will wait till you are ready, Miss Collingsby."
It was the daughter of Mr. Richard Collingsby, and I had heard that her
name was Marian. Land Limpedon had rehearsed her charms to me, and with
no little disgust had added that Ben Waterford was "waiting upon her."
It seemed to me quite proper, therefore, that he should take her out to
sail.
"I will endeavor to be ready in an hour," she added. "But who is going
with you?"
"My sister and one or two others. We shall have a nice time. The lake
is still, and it is a splendid day. We shall have a good dinner, and I
know that you will enjoy it; only bring plenty of thick clothing, for
it may be chilly before we return."
"I always carry plenty of clothing when I go upon the water. But you
don't tell me who is going, Mr. Waterford."
"My sister and--"
"I never saw your sister. Is there any one I know?" asked Miss
Collingsby.
"I have invited four, and they all said they would go if they could. It
is short notice, but you see, Miss Collingsby, I never like to take out
any ladies without being sure of the weather."
"You are very wise and prudent, Mr. Waterford," laughed the beautiful
young lady; "I shall be there, for one."
"Thank you; then we shall be sure to have a pleasant time," added the
skipper.
"But I shall not go unless some of the rest of the party appear. I will
not go alone."
"Mr. Whippleton will be in the Florina, near us. We shall sail in
company, and he will have a party in his boat."
The young lady very properly repeated her stipulation that others
should join the party, and when the terms were duly arranged, Mr.
Waterford left the house. Miss Marian glanced at me, and that was all.
Probably she did not think I was worth noticing; but she changed her
mind before night, for it so happened that I was one of the party in
Mr. Waterford's yacht that day.
The servant showed me up stairs, where I found Mr. Collingsby
comfortably sick in his arm-chair.
CHAPTER XIII.
IN WHICH PHIL LOOKS INTO THE OPERATIONS OF THE JUNIOR PARTNER.
As I went up the stairs, I did not see how Mr. Whippleton was to sail a
party in his yacht on the lake, and still explain to me the difficulty
about the books of the firm. But then, what had been so mysterious in
the ways of the junior partner was now becoming more tangible. In
solving the problem of the invoices, all the rest of the trouble seemed
to be unravelled. Mr. Ben Waterford intimated that Mr. Whippleton was
to sail his boat with a party on the lake within an hour or two.
Perhaps he intended to complete his great purchase before that time.
I did not believe that he expected anything of the kind, however. I
found myself very suspicious of Mr. Charles Whippleton. He had
plundered the firm of a large sum of money, and it looked now as though
he intended to enlarge his operations in this direction, rather than
make good the deficit. I found it impossible to escape the
responsibility of my position, and it pressed heavily upon me.
"Well, young man," said Mr. Collingsby, as I entered the chamber, where
he was seated.
"Mr. Whippleton sent me to see you in regard to a transaction he wishes
to complete this forenoon," I replied, producing my papers.
"Why didn't he come himself?"
I could not help thinking there was a great deal of force in this
question, and it strengthened some vague resolves in my mind.
"I don't know, sir. He told me to show you this list of lumber, with
prices," I continued, explaining more fully the errand upon which I had
been sent.
"He should have come himself," added the senior partner, with a frown.
"What is the balance in the bank?"
"About six thousand dollars," I replied, handing him the memorandum I
had made.
"It ought to be thirty, if not fifty thousand. Don't you make any
collections now?"
"Yes, sir; about the same as usual."
"There is something very strange in the business. I am asked to furnish
twenty thousand dollars outside of the capital I have already invested
in the firm. Tell Mr. Whippleton to come and see me immediately."
"I will, sir;" and I turned to go.
"Stop a minute, young man. What's your name?" interposed the senior.
"Philip, sir."
"Do you keep the books now, Mr. Philips?"
My dignified uncle did not even know my name, and had made a mistake
which I did not think it necessary to correct, since he took so little
interest in the matter.
"I do most of the work now, sir, on them," I replied.
"Have you any list of debts due the concern?"
"No, sir: there is none at the counting-room."
"It seems to me that proper attention is not given to the matter of
credits and collections. We should have a much larger balance in the
bank."
"Shall I tell Mr. Whippleton you wish to see him?" I replied, edging
towards the door.
"Can you answer my question, Mr. Philips?" demanded the senior,
sternly.
"I cannot, sir; Mr. Whippleton has charge of the finances. When credits
