handsome," rather triumphantly. 
"If Greek brigands of the most impossible type were in my 
line, I should ask him to sit." 
Milnor laughed. He had done one or two small favors for 
Miss Lowndes in years gone by, and her gratitude being of the 
profuse and sentimental order, she had never forgotten it. He 
was one of those sweet-humored, sympathetic men who always 
look at a person on his or her best side, and manage to see 
virtues where the rest of the world are blind. So, to make up 
for Miss Lowndes' great disappointment, he had promised to 
visit her brother's studio, inventing some business on the spur 
of the moment to call him to Weareham. 
' ' How did you first meet with this hero of yours ?" and he 
looked from one to the other. 
" He used to come in and study the pictures. I'll give the 
fellow credit for good taste, and a love for art ; but that isn't 
eTerything. " 
"No." 
"And then he begged me to give him a few lessons. He's 
had one a week ; but even now he can hardly tell one color 
from another." 
  
' ' It's such a little while. Look how long you were, Alfred, 
before you painted anything." 
" It is not much, but he has been practising a long while, it 
seems, and he can't even make a correct outline. Then he 
has no patience." 
For now Alfred Lowndes, after the fashion of many others in 
success, would rather push down than help up the weak, cling 
ing steps. But he never had been very enthusiastic over his 
pupil. 
" You mentioned, I think, that he was employed at some 
thing ?" 
"He is a machinist," said Lowndes, coarsely; "he knows 
more about welding steel than mixing colors." 
' ' But I'm sure that ought not to be used to his disadvan 
tage," Miss Lowndes remarked, pathetically. " It shows that 
there is something in the man's soul, when he desires to leave 
behind the distasteful life." 
"Simply because it is distasteful?" queried Mr. Milnor. 
"There is a good deal of morbid theorizing on this subject 
now-a-days. " 
"The man is a good mechanic and can earn his four 
dollars a day. I've seen the time when I'd been glad to get 
it. I shall tell him when he comes to-morrow that painting, 
clearly, is not his vocation." 
" I should advise him to pursue some other walk in life," 
Milnor rejoined, slowly. " What about his education ? His 
father was a clergyman, I think you said ?" 
"A kind of missionary to the lower orders," with as much 
disgust as Alfred Lowndes could put in a tone. "I guess he 
had not much chance for education." 
Foolish and pretentious as Marcia Lowndes was, there was 
much more real delicacy in her than in her brother ; but perhaps 
they both seemed coarse and commonplace, by comparison, 
with the circle out of which Milnor chose his acquaintances, 
or even his protege's. And now he thought of this poor clergy- 
man's son, too indolent perhaps to study, but clinging to a 
false and sickly ambition. Better leave him in his place, as 
Gilliat had said. 
"I believe you are right, Mr. Lowndes ; I do not think the 
man will ever make an artist." 
"You see, Marcia," nodding his head triumphantly. 
Marcia was utterly humiliated. She would not have taken 
her rebuff so meekly but that she had a growing consciousness 
that her brother was fast merging into a great man, and 
instead of being the leading spirit, she must drop into the 
secondary place provided for all women when their work is 
done. He would want little advice, or counsel, or encourage 
ment from her, since his world had grown so much larger. 
And the poor woman sighed. 
But Mr. Milnor tried to comfort her by walking home with 
her and partaking of some cake and currant wine. She hated 
to give up her protege, but Mr. Milnor placed it in a strong, 
sensible light. 
"He may never be able to do anything really worth the 
effort, and it will only add another to the list of dissatisfied 
people, with whom the world already teems. I think your 
brother is right, Miss Lowndes." 
If she only dared she would like to have said : " He has 
more real genius than Alfred ;" but she was afraid to go against 
the world's opinion. 
Mr. Milnor was puzzling his brains over a problem he could 
not solve satisfactorily : how had these two people, with a very 
small modicum of talent in the beginning, succeeded in gain 
ing such a foothold in the world's esteem ? And so he lost 
sight of Victor Hurst altogether. 
Alfred Lowndes was well primed for his opinion the next 
day. Victor listened attentively. 
"I had decided the case for myself, Mr. Lowndes," he 
replied, quietly, quite in contrast with the other's pompous 
manner. "I have not the genius for a painter. Still, I 
 
do not regret the practice. I have learned some useful 
lessons. " 
He gathered the outlines and sketches, and replaced them in 
his portfolio, scarcely appearing surprised or disappointed. 
" The fellow has no nerves at all, no sensitiveness," thought 
Alfred Lowndes, who looked for an outburst. 
"And yourself do you feel amply repaid for your 
trouble?" 
"Why yes," in slow amaze. 
"Then all obligation is ended. Remember me kindly to 
your sister." 
"You'll drop in before we go?" with sudden cordiality. 
" My sister will want to say good-bye. We shall leave for New 
York in about a fortnight." 
"If it is possible." 
So they bade each other farewell in a courteous manner. 
Victor's self-control never relaxed as he walked down the street. 
He understood his place now with a desperate, wronged feel 
ing. And yet his aim had been good and high. To raise 
himself to the level of refinement and culture for which his 
soul longed, for which he might be fitted so easily, it seemed 
to him. 
But there he was in the gulf, with the curse of manual 
labor upon him, the brand of a slave. Ah, no wonder the 
old Romans were proud and esteemed their blood sacred. 
Society said because this man holding a father's place read 
your young life wrongly, mistook the germs of a noble 
ambition for foolish pride, and stained your hands with toil, 
there you must stay. Norcross, Baxter, that clean-blooded 
aristocrat Gilliat, and even these narrow-brained Lowndeses, 
concur in the same thing. Stay where you are, no matter how 
distasteful it may be. Crush out those aspirations you have 
no business with them. Money and leisure only can afford 
them. 
He took the pictures up to his room and thrust them into 
 
an old chest stored with rubbish. Some day he would make a 
bonfire of them, but he was too sad and sore now, and for his 
mother's sake he must keep brave. But he said that evening 
"Mr. Lowndes and his sister are going abroad next month." 
Anah Hurst started in secret dismay. 
" He has been very successful with a picture. I suppose he 
has genius. It is making itself felt and appreciated." 
"And you ?" with a kind of agonized apprehension. 
"I shall rest awhile." 
But his tone could not deceive her. She came over to his 
side and placed her hand nervously upon his shoulder. 
"You have given up all, Victor," with a faltering strand in 
the sad voice. 
"Not all, but that. Nay," taking the hand with which she 
was wont to shade her eyes lest the tears might spring too 
quickly, "I have convinced myself that I had no gift for it. 
So let it go." 
There was a fierce pang at her heart, a thousand tortures in 
one, keener because she could not bear them all for her child. 
And with it a touch of superstition she always bethought 
herself of some Scriptural parallel, and now the plagues of 
Pharaoh floated through her brain. Was it because she did 
not let her bondman go out of the land of Egypt ? 
Victor felt as if he had been worsted in the battle, pushed 
to the wall without a fair chance. In the depths of his 
soul there was as much genius as in Alfred Lowndes' narrow, 
conceited brain. But if he could not give it a voice ? 
Was there nothing for a man to do in the world except 
work and eat ? Why had he been born, then, with this rest 
less, hungry soul ? Did God give these higher instincts for 
some wise purpose, not manifest in his case ? or was the 
whole theory some far-fetched interpretation of the schoolmen 
to keep the world in order ? since in the case of poverty they 
were to be stamped out, or considered the result of sickly 
sentimentalism. 
  
The men who did not understand the kind of battle he had 
been fighting, watched him with suspicious eyes, resolving at 
last to make him take sides. If he was above them, let him 
find his higher level. 
Two or three of them stopped him one evening. Connor 
was spokesman. 
"Don't b'long to the Union, Hurst?" glancing furtively 
from under the shaggy brows. 
"The Union ?" vaguely. 
"Trades, you know." 
"No." 
Victor Hurst felt that there was a radical difference between 
himself and this man. Would he, when he had worked 
thirty years, be that stolid and blear-eyed ? 
' ' What'll you do about it ? All in this shop are on the 
right side. There's a talk of cuttin' down wages." 
For any principle involved, Victor Hurst would have let 
them go. But the subject of wages came nearer home. If 
a workman had no right to raise himself in the social scale, 
he had a right to make all the money he could. 
This group of men had taken what they termed his "airs" 
long enough, they thought. An apprentice onty'a few months 
ago, why should he put on a dignity and stateliness that they 
would hardly have tolerated in Baxter ? The main idea was 
to get him out of the shop. 
Fate had sent him over to this side of the question, which, 
like many important matters, was -settled more by existing 
circumstances than principle, or even desire. He disliked 
everything connected with this sphere of life as strongly as on 
the day of his first outbreak; but then he thought he had only 
to take one decisive step out of it, now he saw the many 
fine, strong chains that bound him hand and foot. 
"I'm on the side of the wages," he said, briefly. "If 
Unions serve to keep them up " 
"We'd never got what we have without 'em," one of. the 
 
group made answer. "Every man oughter stick to his side, 
I say." 
"And my side is the trade," with a bitter, derisive 
smile. 
The men glanced at each other. The manner was not cor 
dial, but the matter, if it went for them, was hardly to be 
disputed. 
"You're on the trade's side?" cautiously, eyeing him with a 
furtive gleam of suspicion. 
" Yes !" with a sharp ring in the voice, as if by that he ham 
mered some delicate longing out of sight into a thousand frag 
ments. "What do you want of me? Where shall I join?" 
Connor was completely taken aback. Not being able to 
read the man's soul in the clear-cut, scornful face, he laid his 
brawny hand on Hurst's shoulder. 
"Good grit at the last !" in sudden admiration. " I've been 
a little afeard o' you, youngster. Boys now-a-days take such 
high and mighty notions in their heads ; and knowing that a 
little of the parson's blood was in your veins " 
" Parson never was proud." 
 ' No matter about my blood, " with a bright, scarlet spot on 
each cheek, and a quiver of the lip that their dull eyes could 
not discern. "If .you want my hand on the union, there 
it is." 
He had been thrust over the narrow boundary, he said to 
himself, and fate forced him into the step. These men 
always made a great outcry about their wives and children 
starving. He had a helpless father. 
" Good for you, Hurst. I wouldn't hardly a' believed it ; and 
you such a fine gentleman, like." 
Victor experienced a qualm of disgust, and an almost irre 
pressible desire to shake off the contact of those grimy fingers 
Were his own any better ? 
"When and where do you hold your meeting?" 
"There'll be one to-morrow night Croft's Hall." 
  
" I know the place. I will be there." 
The men stood and gazed after him as he strode down the 
street. 
"You didn't get him out, Connor," with a rather irritating 
laugh. 
Connor rubbed his eyes in amazement. What inexplicable 
change had come over trie fellow ? 
" He's a chap that's hard to understand," shaking his head 
in a puzzled manner. "Now I'd a' said he'd be just the one 
to flare up and make a row. He's game, though, when you 
come to that. Carries it in his walk. " 
"And tricky, too, maybe." 
"We'll see." 
Opinion ran so high that two or three bets were made. 
Victor settled all doubts by appearing promptly, paying his 
initiation fee, and subscribing to the rules and regulations. 
Then he listened to a lengthy and rather disorderly discussion 
upon the necessity of keeping up wages, the rights of workmen, 
and a kind of confused jumble that he could not render at all 
intelligible to his senses or judgment. One thing only he felt 
he was committed to this side, and if he ever struck any blow, 
it would be against his oppressor as well as theirs the tyrant 
wealth, capital they termed it. 
To a great, hungry, untrained soul, some excitement was 
necessary. He had not the stimulus of intellectual life, and 
the lower estate was little to his taste. As a gentleman, he 
might have luxuriated upon elegant wines ; but the low drink 
ing and gambling-saloons were abominations. There were 
reading-rooms and libraries, one on the religious order, which he 
at this period deliberately eschewed. He had not made up his 
mind fully uppn the subject, and until he did, with the un 
reason of youth, he would not allow himself to be biased in 
its favor. It was well enough, perhaps, and yet, wherein had 
his father been the gainer ? Old, helpless, poor, and neglected, 
save by the few to whom he had endeared himself in some 
great strait like that of death. Where was the love and tender 
ness of Christianity ? 
It is so easy to doubt to rail. When Victor Hurst began to 
look about him and see that it was not truth which always suc 
ceeded, but rather falsehood ; that the purple, fine linen, and 
ease often passed through the world unscathed, while honest^, 
poverty was the Lazarus at the gate, refused even the crumbs in 
many instances, despised, and thrust out to perish or to sin. 
And then came the appalling fact that it was the poor who 
rilled the jails and almshouses, the poor from wretched homes 
that thronged the vile resorts and drank poisonous liquors. 
There were older and wiser men who beat their heads against 
the same rock wages. Victor, hearing the outcry, joined it 
with an intemperate zeal. But here were all the statistics. 
Rents, provision, clothes, were high, and now, in the winter, 
was added the increased price of fuel. In the face of this, 
employers talked of reducing wages. 
There was another side to the story. Of improvidence 
Victor Hurst knew but little : Mrs. Hurst had been a thrifty 
manager all her life, from the day her father had handed his 
small income, that ended with his death, over into her keep 
ing. She had managed on the missionary's scanty salary, and 
now Victor's money was expended as frugally. But there had 
been many sacrifices and small economies that those with fewer 
nice instincts would have been hardly willing to try. The 
extravagant Sunday meal the poor man's holiday feast ; the 
frequent sicknesses, when ignorant mothers, knowing noth 
ing concerning the bodies they had given their children, 
ran in frantic haste for the nearest doctor, and lavished their 
husbands' money on expensive drugs ; the general careless 
management, indolence, and waste, could hardly be taken into 
account by so young and inexperienced a philosopher. He 
was caught by the old cry money, education, pleasant and 
popular places of resort, more leisure, and the general lifting 
up of this lower stratum of society. 
  
That there are many wrongs, one must admit. But while 
men prefer to sip bad whiskey, to smoke until their brains are 
stupefied, and amuse themselves with greasy bits of painted 
pasteboard, or rehearse coarse stories, while opposite, the read 
ing-room languishes, it is not merely from lack of opportunity, 
but something deeper underlying it all, that not money alone 
can cure. If men and women in high places ever come to 
understand the deeper significance of the Saviour's new com 
mandment ; but hearts grow weary after a trial of eighteen 
hundred years. 
The autumn was raw and cold, with frequent storms, and 
winter set in early. As if in some spirit of secret unison with 
the depression of nature, trade began to languish, and with 
scarcity of work came the dreaded decrease in wages. 
But the Unions in Weareham were strong and powerful, as 
in the most of purely manufacturing towns. There were 
strikes, and processions, and violent harangues in halls and 
market-places, to say nothing of beer-shops, always the loudest 
mouthed. Idle men hung at the corners, thoughtful men 
walked slowly about studying the pavement and their own 
apprehensions, while the restless and discontented added their 
mite to the general dissatisfaction. 
Here, as in many other places, the trades had conquered, and 
were thereby strengthened and elated. But this was an inaus 
picious season. Orders were falling off, employers felt the 
necessity of economy and retrenchment, and, as usual, began it 
with their men. 
Oddly enough, Victor Hurst became a leader in the disaf 
fection. His own fancied wrongs still rankled in his soul, 
and the vengeful determination- to strike blow for blow was 
strong within him. One and another had found his place for 
him ; so he would take it now, and from this standing-point 
make them feel the power of the man they were so ready to 
discard from their ranks. 
He was a fluent and fiery speaker, the thing to take with 
 
unreasoning masses. He dealt powerful thrusts right and left, 
exhorted the men to stand to their principles, to resist these 
high-handed outrages on human rights. Let the rich make 
sacrifices as well. Did they give up their horses and carriages, 
their costly dinners and expensive wines, their balls and operas, 
their elegant houses, and silks and diamonds ? Rather they 
ground it out of the poor man. It was he who starved and 
felt the pinching blasts beside fireless hearths. It was his wife 
and children who went clothed in rags, while the others flaunted 
in satin and velvets. 
But when actual starvation came, when the funds of associa 
tions reached the lowest ebb, when shops were closed and 
employers still stood firm, some of these men with wives and 
children studied over the old adage, and began to think "half 
a loaf better than none." Capital had the advantage this time, 
and labor crouched for the next blow, when its stomach was 
fuller. 
CHAPTER XIV. 
So one night Victor Hurst sat by the fire, a beaten, misera 
ble, discouraged man. All his fine philosophies about raising 
his brethren had come to an ignoble end. 
Worse than that for him. When Norcoss opened his works 
again, in the latter part of January, he said to his foreman, 
throwing down a printed list 
"There are the prices of this place. If any man chooses to 
work for that, I'll take him on ; and I guess some will be 
starved to it. Any how, there are a few new hands from the 
neighboring towns to begin with. They will find that we are 
not to be overruled by their cheap and noisy fustian. But 
there are several exceptions. Powers, Hurst, and Connor, I 
won't have at any price. They'll find the town too hot to hold 
them, I'm thinking. A bad lot ! I expected better things of 
Hurst." 
"He always was a queer fellow," replied the foreman, 
gravely; "though the last one I should have said to take 
sides with such men as Connor." 
"Tainted with French socialism. Those fellows ought to 
found a community, eh, Baxter? and have all things in com 
mon. Poor devils ! Do they think that they can pull down 
social fabrics which existed before they were born, and will stand 
until the world is old and gray ?" 
Mr. Norcross gave a hearty, cheery laugh. He was well 
pleased at belonging to the victorious side. And though he 
had groaned a good deal about ruin, he still wore his elegant 
diamond pin, kept his fast horses, ate good dinners, and 
smoked expensive cigars. 
 
"You'll take back the others?" 
"Yes. It is only the ringleaders. We have resolved to 
extinguish them," with a pompous inflection on the "We," 
that spoke volumes. 
"It is a pity that men have so little sense. They were all 
good workmen." 
"They have had their frolic, now let them pay the piper." 
The leaders found themselves marked men. A few left the 
town, breathing threats of vengeance. Connor, an unsteady 
man at the best, hung around low groggeries, while his wife 
went out washing and his children to the factories; but Victor 
Hurst had as yet taken no decisive step. 
Going away seemed almost impossible ; for when it came to 
that, a strong man was needed in the house. John Hurst was 
better, and might live years ; but he had to be carried to 
and fro like a child. It was hardly possible for him ever to 
recover the use of his lower limbs, and a slender woman like 
Anah could not manage him. 
They had been poor many a time before. The prayer for 
daily bread proved no fanciful petition to the open-handed, 
self-denying clergyman. But there had always been a hope 
of something, a clinging to the provision made for the ravens 
when they cry, to the all-enduring promises of God ; yet with 
her morbid conscientiousness she hardly knew whether to pray 
or to accept meekly and silently the punishment for sin. 
She sat, knitting. It was her fancy never to be unemployed. 
But as she went through the continuous round of stitches, she 
watched her moody and dispirited son. 
It seemed, somehow, as if she was answerable for the wreck 
of his life. She had failed in some important duty or trust : 
been weak, when she should have been firm. With the capa 
bility of self-torture, found in so many women, she invented 
rack and scourge in endless questioning, and submitted 
patiently to the pain. 
" Will you go this evening?" she asked, at length, in a slow, 
 
 
hesitating tone, stirring the fire, glad to break the monot 
ony of the last half-hour. 
"I don't think I can, mother," in an unsteady tone, twitch 
ing nervously at his steel watch-chain. 
"Victor "her tone was lower and slower, "I spent our 
last dollar to-day." 
"I cannot beg of them. They would preach me a sermon 
and send me away empty-handed." 
"It is a just debt;" a rising color fluttering over her pale 
face. ' ' The laborer is worthy of his hire. I always believed 
that." 
" But he doesn't get it in spiritual any more than in carnal 
matters. It is the princes who feast and the laborers who 
starve, the world over. I wonder if there is a God to watch it 
all ?" 
She raised her eyes imploringly. 
" Here is my father, who, like some of the men of old, gave 
up everything for his religion. Has God restored tenfold? 
Even his brethren conspire to wrong him out of a paltry sum 
that was earned by the hardest " 
" No, you misjudge them. It has been neglect only. I dare 
say they think it is all paid." 
"They have had opportunities to go over their books in the 
course of the last eight months, one would imagine." 
"They sent part, you know ;" in a voice of gentle excuse. 
It was the old question of the salary that had never been 
wholly paid. 
"No," he said, crushing down some rising bitterness, "I 
can't ask them for it, I'd rather starve. But for you and him " 
"It is his just due." 
"Well, I'm in bad repute here, at Weareham. I've been 
thinking that I shall have to go after all. Ever}' shop is barred 
against me. I can get work elsewhere, I know ; and if a good 
strong woman could be found " 
She rose and went to the window. It was dark and lower- 
ing without : not a star visible, and bitter blasts moaning up 
and down, like forlorn ghosts. If she dared to go over to the 
trustee-meeting and ask for this pittance fifty odd dollars it 
would keep them a month longer, give her her son that while, 
and something might happen. 
But it was a long, lonesome walk, and suddenly she felt 
weak as if deserted by both God and man. 
"Yes," he went on huskily, "we may as well look the 
matter in the face. The luck is all against me here. I will 
go somewhere and take a fresh start at anything that offers. I 
will not set up for a genius or a philanthropist," with a fierce, 
scornful smile that was very sad in its desperation. "I'll make 
a new home and come for you then, for I shall never, never 
part with you." 
She came back to the fire, and standing behind him, clasped 
her arms around his neck. "God help me to give up this 
idol," she prayed inwardly, "this sin of Achan in the camp." 
"As you will," she returned, humbly. 
" It will not be for long '' hopefully. 
And yet he knew that business was dull everywhere, and 
that a stranger's chance was a slender one at best. 
" I will see that you have credit while I am gone. And if 
some one could help you care for him until " 
He felt the tear dropping on his cheek. With that he drew 
the head down and kissed the wet eyelids, and for many mo 
ments neither spoke. 
For their lives had come to such a dreary, desperate pass. 
He desiring to do the best had fallen upon the worst ; and yet 
had there not been foul selfishness within ? 
The wind swept up without in broad gusts. Even the fire 
seemed to burn dully. 
They paid little heed to the carriage going past over the 
frozen ground, making hollow echoes, nor even noticed that 
the h'orses were stopped, and voices raised rather high in con 
versation. 
 
Then some one strode up the path, and feet were vigorously 
