she never hoped or dreamed about it ; it might 
even be that the doggedness of her little brown 
face came over it or into it, and that it was not 
without a purpose that she neither dreamed nor 
hoped. Miss Kelso sometimes wondered. Dirk 
dully perplexed himself about her now and then. 
" I wish," said Sip, as they came into the yard 
of the damp stone house, " that you 'd look in at 
the window for me a minute, Dirk.'' 
" What shall I look at .' " said Dirk, stepping 
up softly to the low sill, " her? " 
Catty was in view from the window ; sitting on 
the floor with her feet crossed, stringing very 
large yellow beads ; she did this slowly, and with 
some hesitation ; now and then a kind of ill-tem- 
pered fright seemed to fall upon her repulsive 
face ; once or twice she dropped the toys, and 
once she dashed them with a little snarl like an 
annoyed animal's upon her lap. 
" I give them to her to try her," whispered Sip. 
" Do you see anything about her that is new ? 
anything, Dirk, that you never took a notice of 
before ? " 
" Why, no," said Dirk, " I don't see nothin' un- 
common. What 's the matter ? " 
" Nothing ! It 's nothing only a fear I had. 
Never mind ! " 
Sip drew a sudden long breath, and turned 
away. 
Now it was pleasant to Sip to share even a fear 
with Dirk. 
" Look in again," she said, with a low laugh, 
" over on the wall beyond Catty. Look what is 
hanging on the wall." 
" O, that big picture over to the left of the 
chiny-closet .' " Dirk pointed to the Beetho- 
ven dreaming wildly in the dingy little room. 
" A little to the left of the cupboard, — yes. 
One night I walked in and found it. Dirk ! She 
hung it there for me to walk in and find. I laid 
awake till three o'clock next morning, I laid and 
looked at it. I don't know anybody but you, 
Dirk, as could guess what a strangeness and a 
forgetting it makes about the room.'' 
Now it was very new to Sip to have a " 
forgetting " that she could share with even Dirk. 
" It looks like the Judgment Day," said Dirk, 
looking over Catty's head at the plunging dream 
and the solitary dreamer. 
There chanced that night two uncommon oc- 
currences ; for one, the watchman at the Old 
Stone was sleepy ; for another, Miss (Kelso was 
not. 
The regulations in Hayle and Kelso were inex- 
orable at night. Two fires and three drunken 
watchmen within the limits of a year had put it 
out of the question to temper justice with mercy. 
To insure the fidelity of the watch, he was 
required- to strike the hour with the factory bell 
from nine at night till four o'clock in the morning. 
Now upon the night in question Miss Kelso's 
little silver clock struck twelve, but the great 
tongue of the Old Stone did not. In perhaps 
twenty minutes, Old Stone woke up with a jerk, 
and rang in the midnight stoutly. 
To be exact, I should have said that there 
chanced that night three uncommon occurrences. 
For that a young lady should get up on a 
chilly and very dark spring midnight, dress her- 
self, steal down stairs, unlock the front door, and 
start off alone to walk a quarter of a mile, and 
save a sleepy young watchman from disgrace, is 
not, it must be allowed, so characteristic an 
event as naturally to escape note. 
It happened, furthermore, that it did not
escape the note of the new partner, coming out 
on precisely the same errand at the same time. 
They met at the lady's gate : she just passing 
through, he walking rapidly by ; she with a smile, 
he with a start. 
" Miss Kelso ! " 
" Mr. Garrick .? " 
" Is anything wrong .' " 
" With the watchman ? Yes, or will be. I had 
hoped I was the only person who knew that mid- 
night came in at twenty minutes past twelve." 
" And I had hoped that I was." 
" It was very thoughtful in you, Mr. Garrick," 
said Perley, heartily. 
He did not say that it was thoughtful in her. 
He turned and looked at her as she stood shiver- 
ing and smiling, with her hand upon the gate, — 
the bare hand on which the bruise had been. 
He would have liked to say what he thought 
it, but it struck him as a difficult thing to do. 
Graceful words came so hardly to him ; he felt 
this hardly at the moment. 
" I suppose I must leave the boy to you then," 
said Perley, slowly. 
" You are taking cold," said the mill-master, in 
his hard way. It was very dark where they 
stood, yet not so dark but that he could see, in 
bowing stiffly, how Miss Kelso, with her bruised 
hand upon the gate, shot after him a warm, sweet, 
impulsive woman's smile. 
Dirk was sitting ruefully upon an old boiler 
in the mill-yard. He rubbed his eyes when Mr. 
Garrick came up. When he saw who it was, the 
boy went white to the lips. 
" Burdock, the bell was not struck to-night at 
twelve o'clock." 
" Certainly, sir," said Dirk, desperately making 
his last throw. 
" Not at twelve o'clock." 
" Punctually, sir, you may be sure ; I never 
missed a bell in Hayle and Kelso yet." 
" The bell rang," observed Mr. Garrick, with 
quiet sternness, " at twenty-one minutes past 
midnight, exactly." 
" Mr. Garrick — " begged the watchman, but 
stammered and stopped. 
" Of course you know the consequences," said 
the master, more gently, sitting down upon the 
rusty boiler beside the man, " of a miss in the 
bell, — of a single miss in a bell." 
" I should think I 'd been in Hayle and Kelso 
long enough to know," said Dirk, with his head 
between his knees. " Mr. Garrick, upon my word 
and honor, I never slept on watch before. I was 
kind of beat out to-night." The truth was, that 
Dirk had been carrying in coal for Sip half the 
afternoon. " Hadn't so much sleep as common 
to-day ; but that 's no excuse for me, I know." 
He thought he would not say anything about 
the coal. " I wouldn't ha' cared so much about 
keepin' the place," broke forth the young man, 
passionately, " but for a reason I had, — I worked 
so hard for the place ! and so long, sir ! And, 
God knows, sir, I had such a reason for lookin' 
on to keep the place ! " 
" Infidelity on the part of a watchman, you see, 
Burdock," urged the master, " is not a matter that 
his employer can dally with." 
" I 'm no fool, sir," said the man ; " I see that. 
Of course I look to lose the place." 
" Suppose I were to offer to you, with a 
reprimand and warning, the trial of the place again .' " 
" Sir ! " Dirk's head came up like a diver's 
from between his knees. " You 're — your 're 
good to me, sir ! I — I didn't look for that, 
sir!" 
Mr. Garrick made no reply, but got up and 
paced to and fro between the boiler and a little 
old, disused cotton-house that stood behind it, 
absorbed in thought. 
" Mr. Garrick," said the watchman, suddenly, 
'' did you get out of bed and come over here to 
save the place for me .'' " 
" For some such reason, I believe." 
" Mr. Garrick, I didn't look to be treated like 
that. I thank you, sir. Mr. Garrick — " 
" Well .'' " said the master, stopping his walk 
between the boiler and the cotton-house. 
" I told you the first lie, sir, that I 've told any 
man since I lied sick to stay to home from the 
warping-room, when I wasn't much above that 
boiler there in highness. I think I 'd not have 
been such a sneak, sir, but for the reason that I 
had." 
It seemed that the master said " Well ? " again, 
though in fact he said nothing, but only stood 
between the boiler and the cotton-house, gravely 
looking at the man. 
" There 's a — girl I know," said Dirk, wiping 
rust from his hands upon his blue overalls, " I 
don't think, sir, there 's a many like her, I don't 
indeed." 
" Ah ! " said Stephen Garrick, restlessly pacing 
to and fro again, in the narrow limit that the 
boiler and the cotton-house shut in. 
" I don't indeed, sir. And I 've always looked 
to being somebody, and pushin' in the mills on 
account of her. And I should have took it very 
hard to lose the place, sir, — on account of her. 
There don't seem to be what you might call a 
fair chance for a man in the mills, Mr. Garrick." 
" No, not what might be called a fair chance, I 
think," said Mr. Garrick. 
" Not comparing with some other calls in life, 
! it don't seem to me,'' urged Dirk, disconsolately. 
' " The men to the top they stay to the top, and 
the men to the bottom they stay to the bottom. 
There isn't a many sifts up like yourself, sir. 
It 's like a strawberry-box packed for market, the 
factory trade is. And when there 's a reason, 
— and a girl comes into the account, it's none 
so easy." 
" No, it 's not easy, I grant you, Burdock. 
What a place this is to spend a night in ! " 
" A kind of a churchly place," said the young 
watchman, glancing over the cotton-house at the 
purple shadow that the mill made against the 
purple sky ; and at purple shadows that the si- 
lent village made, and the river, and the bridge. 
" Takin' in the screech of the dam, it 's a solemn 
place ; a place where if a man knows a reason, — 
or a girl, he thinks o' 't. It 's a place where, if a 
man has ever any longin's for things 't he can 
call hisn, — wife, and home, and children, and 
right and might to make 'em comfortable, you 
know, — he 'll consider of 'em. It is a kind of a 
surprising thing, sir, — the feelin's that a man 
will have for a good woman." 
"A surprising thing," said Stephen Garrick 
CHAPTER VII. 
CHECKMATE ! 
" I DO not love you, Maverick Hayle." 
May sweetness was in the breakfast-room ; 
broken, warm airs from the river ; a breath of 
yellow jonquils, and a shadow of a budding bough ; 
on a level with the low window-sill a narcissus 
with a red eye winked steadily. The little silver 
service was in the breakfast-room, in sharp 
rilievo against a mourning-dress and the curve of 
a womanly, warm arm. Maverick Hayle, struck 
dumb upon his feet, where he stood half pushing 
back his chair, was in the breakfast-room. 
On either side of the tiny teapot the man's 
face and the woman's lay reflected ; it was a 
smooth, octagonal little teapot, and the two faces 
struck upon it without distortion ; hung, like 
delicate engraving, as if cut into the pretty toy. 
There was something very cosey and homelike 
about this senseless little teapot, and there was 
something very lonely and cold about the man's 
face and the woman's, fixed and separated by the 
wee width of the polished thing. 
Both faces in the teapot were a trifle pale. 
Both faces out of the teapot were a trifle paler. 
" It is not possible ! " exclaimed the man, 
instinctively. 
" It is quite possible," explained the woman, 
calmly. 
His face in the teapot flushed now scorching 
red. Hers in the teapot only whitened visibly. 
The young man flung himself back into his 
chair and ground his teeth. The young woman 
sat and looked at the teapot and trembled. 
" I do not believe it, Perley ! " said her plighted 
husband, fiercely. 
" I do not love you, Maverick,'' repeated Perley, 
firmly. " I have been afraid of it for a long time. 
I am very certain of it now. Maverick, Maverick, 
I am very sorry ! I told you we should both be 
very sorry ! But you could not understand." 
" If it was your foolish furor over a parcel of 
factory-girls that I could not understand — " 
began Maverick. 
But Perley sternly stopped him. 
" Never mind about the poor little factory-girls, 
Maverick. It is you that I do not love." 
This was a thrust which even Maverick Hayle 
could not lightly parry ; he was fond of Perley 
and fond of himself, and he writhed in his chair 
as if it actually hurt him. 
" I do not know how it is nor why it is," said 
Perley, sadly, " but I feel as if there had been a 
growing away between us for a great while. It 
may be that I went away and you stood still ; or 
that we both went away and both in different 
ways ; or that we had never, Maverick, been in 
the same way at all, and did not know it. You 
kissed me, and I did not know it ! " 
" And if I kiss you again, you will not know 
it," said Maverick, with an argument of smoth- 
ered passion in his voice. 
" I would rather," said the lady, evenly, " that 
you did not kiss me again." 
Her face in the teapot shone as if a silver veil 
fell over it. His face in the teapot clouded and 
dropped. 
" We have loved each other for a long time, 
Perley," said the young man in a husky voice. 
" A long time," said Perley, sorrowfully. 
"And were very happy." 
" Very happy." 
" And should have had — I had thought we 
should have had such a pleasant life ! " 
" A miserable life, Maverick ; a most miserable 
life." 
" What in Heaven's name has come over you, 
Perley ! " expostulated the young man. " There 
is no other man — " 
" No other man," said Perley, thoughtfully, 
"could come between you and me. I do not see, 
Maverick, how I could ever speak of love to any 
other man." This she said with her head bent, 
and with grave, far-reaching eyes. " A woman 
cannot do that thing. I mean there 's nothing in 
me that understands how she can do it. I was 
very fond of you, Maverick." 
" That is a comfort to me now," said Maverick, 
bitterly. 
" I was fond of you, Maverick. I promised to 
be your wife. I do not think I could ever say that 
to another man. The power to say it has gone 
with the growing away. There was the love 
and the losing, and now there's only the sorrow. 
I gave you all I had to give. You used it up, I 
think. But the growing-away came just the 
same. I do not love you." 
" You women do not understand yourselves 
any better than you do the rest of the world ! " 
exclaimed the rejected lover with a bewildered 
face. " Why should we grow away ? You haven't 
thought how you will miss me." 
" I shall miss you," said Perley. " Of course I 
shall miss you, Maverick. So I should miss the 
piano, if it were taken out of the parlor." 
Maverick made no reply to this. He felt more 
humiliated than pained, as was natural. When 
a man becomes only an elegant piece of furniture 
in a woman's life, to be dusted at times, 
and admired at others, and shoved up garret at 
last by remorseless clean fingers that wipe the 
cobwebs of him off, it will be generally found 
that he endures the annoyance of neglected 
furniture — little more. The level that we strike in 
the soul that touches us most nearly is almost 
sure to be the high-water mark of our own. 
Now Maverick, it will be seen, struck no tide- 
mark in Perley. It had never been possible for 
him to say to the woman, " Thus far shalt thou 
go." Men say that to women, and women to 
men. The flood mistakes a nilometer for a 
boundary line, placidly. It is one of the bitter- 
sweet blunders of love, that we can stunt ourselves 
irretrievably for the loved one's sake, and 
be only a little sadder, but never the wiser, 
for it. 
Perley Kelso thus swept herself over and 
around her plighted husband ; and in her very 
fulness lay his content. He would probably 
have loved her without a question, and rested in 
her, without a jar, to his dying day. A man 
often so loves and so rests in a superior woman. 
He thinks himself to be the beach against which 
she frets herself; he is the wreck which she has 
drowned. 
Maverick Hayle, until this morning in the 
breakfast-room, had loved Perley in this unrea- 
sonable, unreasoning, and, I believe, irreclaimable 
masculine manner ; had accepted her as serenely 
as a child would accept the Venus de Milo for a 
ninepin. One day the ninepin will not roll. 
There is speculation in the beautiful dead eyes 
of the marble. The game is stopped. He 
gathers up his balls and sits down breathless. 
" But you love me ! " cries the player. " It 
mtist be that you love me at times. It must he 
that you will love me in moods and minutes, 
Perley. I cannot have gone forever out of all 
the moods and minutes of your life. I have 
filled it too long." 
He filled it, forsooth ! Perley slightly, slowly, 
sadly smiled. 
" If there is any love in the world, Maverick, 
that ought to be independent of moods and 
master of all moods, it is the love that people 
marry on. Now I 'm neither very old nor very 
wise, but I am old enough and wise enough to 
understand that it is only that part of me which 
gets tired, and has the blues, and minds an 
easterly storm, and has a toothache, and wants 
to be amused, and wants excitement, and — some- 
body the other side of a silver teapot — which 
loves you. I do not love you, Maverick Hayle J " 
" In that case," said Maverick, after a pause, 
" it is rather awkward for me to be sitting here 
any longer." 
" A little." 
" And I might as well take your blessing — 
and my hat." 
" Good by," said Perley, very sadly. 
"Good by," said Maverick, very stiffly. 
" You 'll tell your father ? " asked the young 
lady. 
" We 're in an awkward fix all around," said 
the young man, shortly. " I suppose we shall 
have to make up our minds to that." 
" But you and I need not be on awkward 
terms, — need we?" asked Perley. 
" Of course not. ' Mutual thing ; and part 
excellent friends,' " bitingly from Maverick. 
" But I shall always be — a little fond of you ! " 
urged the woman, with a woman's last clutch at 
the pleasantness of an old passion. 
" Perley," said Maverick, suddenly holding out 
his hand, " I won't be cross about it. I 've 
never deserved that you should be any more 
than a little fond of me. You 've done the hon- 
orable thing by me, and I suppose I ought to 
thank you." 
He shut the door of the breakfast-room upon a 
breath of yellow jonquils, and a shadow of a bud- 
ding bough, and the narcissus winking steadily ; 
upon the little silver service, and the curving, 
womanly, warm arm, and the solitary face that 
hung engraved upon the senseless little teapot. 
CHAPTER VIII. 
A TROUBLESOME CHARACTER. 
Bijah Mudge stepped painfully over a 
tub of yellow ochre and crossed the print-room 
at the overseer's beck. There had been an 
order of some kind, but he was growing deaf, and 
the heavy engines were on. The overseer repeated it. 
"Sir?" 
" I said your notice, didn't I .'' I say your 
notice, don't I ! You 'll work your notice, you 
will." 
"A-a-ah !" said Bijah, drawing a long breath. 
He stood and knotted his lean fingers together, 
watching the yellow dye drop off. 
" Is there a reason given, sir ." 
" No reason." 
" Folks my age ain't often ordered on notice 
(without reason," said the old man, feebly. 
" Folks your age should be more particular 
how they give satisfaction," said the overseer, 
significantly. 
" I 've known o' cases as where a boss has 
guessed at a reason, on his own hook, you know, 
Jim." 
Irish Jim was in the print-rooms at Hayle and 
Kelso at that time. Some said the new partner 
had a finger in getting him out of the weaving- 
room. It was a sharp fellow, and belonged some- 
where. Here he would be brutal to old men and 
little boys ; but there were no girls in the print- 
room. 
" On his own hook and at a guess," said the 
"boss," "a man might ask who testified to Boston 
on a recent little hour-bill as we know of." 
" I testified," cried the old man, shrilly, " 
before a committee of the Legislature of the State 
of Massachusetts. I 'd do it ag'in, Jim ! In the 
face of my notice, I 'd do it ag'in ! At the risk 
o' the poor-us, I 'd do it ag'in ! I call Hayle and 
Kelso to witness as I 'd do it ag'in ! In the name 
of the State of Massachusetts, I 'd do it ag'in ! " 
''Do it again ! " said Jim, with a brutal oath. 
" Who binders you .' " 
" But there were no reasons J " added the oyer- 
seer, sharply. " You fail to give satisfaction, 
that 's all ; there 's no reasons." 
" I am an old man to be turned out o' work 
sudden, sir." The thin defiance in Bijah's voice 
broke. He made an obsequious little bow to 
the Irishman, wringing his dyed hands dry, and 
lifting them weakly by turns to his mouth. 
" It 's not always easy for an old man to get 
work, sir." 
But Jim was at the other end of the print- 
room, having some trouble with the crippled 
tender, who always spilled the violet dye. The 
boy had cut himself upon a " doctor," it seemed, 
to-day. Bijah saw blood about, and felt faint, 
and slunk away. 
" Can I have work ? " 
" What can you do ? " 
" Anything." 
"Where from?" 
"Five Falls." 
" Hayle and Kelso t " 
"Yes, sir." 
"You talk like a man with a toothache." 
" Ay ? Folks has told me that before. An 
old habit, sir." 
" You have been printing ? " 
" Yes, sir." 
" For three months ? " 
" Just about, sir." 
" There 's yellow ochre on your clothes, I 
see." 
" I 've none better, sir. I — I 'd not have 
travelled in my working-close if I 'd had better ; I 'd 
not have done it once. But I 'm an old man, and 
out of work." 
" Your name is Bijah Mudge . " 
"I 'd not told you my name, sir." 
" No, you 'd not told your name ; but you 're 
Bijah Mudge. We 've got no work for you." 
" I am an old man, sir." 
"You're a troublesome character, sir." 
" I 'm quite out of work, sir." 
"You'll stay quite out as far as we're con- 
cerned. We 've got no place for you, I say, on 
this corporation." 
"Very well, sir," bowing with grim courtesy. 
"Good evening, sir. I can try elsewhere." 
