
game. You must fight. Just as I fight you. 
You ought to touch my ball now, if you can. 
I don't believe you can. You might try." 

Matilda tried, and hit it. The game went 
on prosperously. The sun got lower, and the 
sunbeams came more scattering, and the 
breeze just stirred over the lawn ; not enough 
to bend the little short blades of grass. Mrs. 
Laval's visiters went away, and she came out 
on the verandah to look at the children ; they 
were too much engaged to look at her. At 
last the hard fought battle came to an end. 
Norton brought out another plate of strawberries for himself along with Matilda's, and 
the two sat down on the bank under the 
locust trees to eat them. The sun was near 
going down beyond the mountains by this 
time, and his setting rays changed the purple 
mist into a bath of golden haze. 

" How nice and cold these are," said Matilda. 

" They have been in the ice. That makes 
things cold," observed Norton. 



 

" And being warm oneself makes them 
seem colder," said Matilda. 

" Why, are you warm, Pink ? " 

" Yes, indeed. I have had to fight you so 
hard, you know." 

" You did very well," said Norton in a 
satisfied tone. 

" Norton, how pretty it all is to-night." 

Norton eat strawberries. 

" Very different from Lilac lane," said 
Matilda looking at the china plate in her hand, 
on which the painting was very fine and 
delicate. 

" Rather different," said Norton. 

" Norton, I was thinking of what you said 
yesterday ; how odd it is that some people 
should be rich and others poor." 

" I am glad I am one of the first sort," said 
Norton, disposing of a very large strawberry. 

" But isn't it strange ? " 

" That is what I said, Pink." 

" It don't seem right," said Matilda thought 
fully 



" Yes, it does." 

" It doesn't to me." 

" How can you help it ? " 

" Why 7 cannot help it, Norton ; but if 
everybody that is rich chose, they could help 
it." 

"How?" 

" Don't you think they ought ? " 

" Well how, Pink ? If people were in 
dustrious and behaved right, they wouldn't 
be poor, you see." 

" O but, Norton, they would sometimes. 
There is Mrs. Eldridge, and there are the poor 
women at Mrs. Rogers' ; and a great many 
more like them." 

" Well if somebody hadn't behaved wrong," 
said Norton, " they wouldn't be so hard up." 

" O but that does not help them." 

Not much." 

" And they ought to be helped," said Matilda slowly, examining the painted flowers 
on the china in her hand, and remembering 
Mrs. Eldridge's cracked delf tea-cup. 



 

" That plate would buy up the whole concern where we were yesterday, wouldn't it? " 

Matilda looked up suddenly, at Norton's 
thus touching her thought ; but she did not 
like to pursue it. Norton however had no 
scruples. 

" Yes ; and these strawberries, I suppose, 
would feed her for a week the old woman, 
I mean. And one of our drawing room chairs 
would furnish her house, pretty near. Yes, I 
guess it would. And I really think one week 
of the coal we burned a few months ago 
would keep her, and Mrs. Rogers too, warm 
all winter. And I am certain one of mamma's dresses would clothe her for a year. 
Seems queer, don't it." 

" And she is cold and hungry and uncom 
fortable," said Matilda. The two looked at 
each other. 

" But then, you know, if mamma gave one 
of her dresses to clothe this old woman, sh'e 
would have to give another to clothe some 
other old woman ; and the end would be, she _ 



 

would have no dresses for herself. And if 
she tried to warm all the cold houses, she 
wouldn't have firing to cook her own dinner. 
You see it has to be so, Pink ; some rich and 
some poor. And suppose these strawberries 
had been changed into some poor somebody's 
dinner, I couldn't have had them to give to 
you. Do you see, Pink ? " 

" But O, Norton ! " Matilda began, and 
stopped. " These strawberries are very nice." 

" But you would rather turn them into 
mutton chops and give them away?" said 
Norton. " I dare say you would ! Wouldn't 
you ? " 

" Norton," said Matilda cautiously, " do 
you think anything I could have bought with 
that dollar would have given me so much 
pleasure as that tea-kettle yesterday?" 

" It was a good investment," said Norton. 
" But it is right to eat strawberries, Pink. 
Where are you going to stop ? " 

" I'll take Mrs. Eldridge some strawberries," 
said Matilda smiling, " when they get plenty." 






" Well, agreed," said Norton. " Let us 
take her some other things too. I've got 
money. Stop let me put these plates in 
the house and fetch a piece of paper ; then 
we'll see what we'll take her." 

Matilda sat while he was gone, looking at 
the golden mist on the mountains and dreaming. 

" Now," said Norton, throwing himself on 
the turf beside her, with his piece of paper, and 
thrusting his hand deep down in his pocket 
to get at his pencil, " now let us see what we 
will do." 

" Norton," said Matilda joyously, " this is 
better than croquet." 

Norton looked up with those bright eyes of 
his, but his reply was to proceed to business. 

" Now for it, Pink. What shall we do for 
the old lady ? What does she want  Pooh ! 
she wants everything ; but what to begin 
with ? " 

" Strawberries, you said." 

"Strawberries! Not at all. That's the 



 

last thing. I mean we'll fix her up, Pink. 
Now what does she want, to be comfortable. It is only one old woman ; but we 
shall feel better if she is comfortable. Or 
you will." 

" But what do you mean, Norton ? how 
much can we do ? " 

"Just as much as we've a mind to. I've 
got money, I tell you. Come ; begin. What 
goes down first ? " 

" Why Norton," said Matilda in an ecstasy, 
" it is like a fairy story." 

What ? " 

" This, that we are doing. It is like a fairy 
story exactly." 

" How is it like fairy stories ? " said Norton. 
"I don't know." 

" Did you never read fairy stories ? " 

" Never. What are they like ? " 

" Why some of them are just like this," 
said Matilda. " People are rich, and can do 
what they please; and they set out to get 
things together for a feast, or to prepare a 



 

palace for some princess ; and first one nice 
thing is got, and then another, and then something else ; until by and by you feel as if you 
had been at the feast, or seen the palace, or 
had done the shopping. I do." 

" This isn't for a princess," said Norton. 
, " No, nor a palace," said Matilda ; " but it 
seems just as good." 

" Go on, Pink ; let us quit princesses and 
get to the real business. What do you want 
to get, first thing ? " 

" First thing," said Matilda, " I think would 
be to get somebody to clean the house. 
There are only two little rooms. It wouldn't 
be much. Don't you think so, Norton ? " 

" As we cannot build a palace, and have it 
new, I should say the old one had better be 
cleaned." 

" Sabrina Rogers would do it, I dare say," 
Matilda went on ; " and maybe that would 
be something good for her." 

" Teach her to clean her own ? " said Norton. 



" Why no, Norton ; her own is clean. I 
meant, maybe she would be glad of the 
pay." 

" There's another princess, eh, that wants 
a palace ? " said Norton. " If we could, we 
would new build Lilac lane, wouldn't we ? 
But then, I should want to make over the 
people that live in it." 

" So should I ; and that is the hardest. 
But perhaps, don't you think the people 
would be different, if they had things different?" 

" I'm certain I should be different, if I
lived where they do," said Norton. " But go 
on, Pink ; let us try it on what's her name. 
We have only cleaned her house yet." 

" The first thing, then, is a bedstead, Norton." 

" A bedstead ! What does she sleep on ? " 

" On the floor; with rags and straw, and I 
think a miserable make-believe of a bed. No 
sheets, no blankets, nor anything. It is 
dreadful." 



 

" Rags and straw," said Norton. " Then 
a bedstead wants a bed on it, Pink ? and 
blankets or coverlets or something, and sheets, 
and all that." 

Matilda watched Norton's pencil as it 
noted the articles. 

" Then she wants some towels, and a basin 
of some sort to wash in." 

" Hm ! " said Norton. Herself, I hope ? " 

" Yes, I hope so. But she has nothing to 
make herself clean with." 

" Then a stand and basin and towels ; 
and a pitcher, Pink, I suppose, to hold 
water." 

" Yes, a pitcher or jug or something. We 
want to get the cheapest things we can. And 
soap." 

" Let's have plenty of that," said Norton, 
putting down soap. " Now then what 
next ? " 

" A little wooden table, Norton ? she has 
nothing but a chair to set her tea on." 

" A table. And a carpet ? " 



 

" O no, Norton ; that's not necessary. It 
is warm weather now. She does not want 
that. But she does want a pail for water. I 
have to take the tea-kettle to the pump." 

Norton at this laughed, and rolled over on 
the grass in his amusement. Having thus 
refreshed himself, he came back to business. 

" Has she got anything to go on her fire, 
except a tea-kettle ? " 

" Not much. A saucepan would be a very 
useful thing, and not cost much. I bought 
one the other day; so I know." 

" What's a saucepan ? " said Norton. " A 
pan to make sauce in ? " 

It was Matilda's turn to laugh. " Poor Mrs. 
Eldridge don't have many puddings, I guess
to make sauce for," she said. 

" Well Pink, now we come, don't we, to 
the eating line. We must stock her up." 

'' Put down a broom first, Norton." 

" A broom ! Here goes." 

" Yes, you can't think how much I have 
wanted a broom there. And a tea-pot. O 




yes, and a little milk pitcher, and sugar bowl. 
Can't we ? " 

" I should think we could," said Norton. 
Tea-cups ? 

" I guess not. She's got two ; and three 
plates. Now, Norton the eatables. What 
did you think of? " 

" I suppose there isn't anything in the 
house," said Norton. 

" Nothing at all except what we took 
there." 

u Then she wants everything." 

" But You see, Norton, she can't do any 
thing herself; she couldn't use some things. 
There would be no use." 

" No use in what ? " 

" Flour, for instance. She couldn't make 
bread." 

" I don't know anything about flour," said 
Norton. " But she can use bread when she 
sees it, I will take my affidavit." 

" O yes, bread, Norton. We will take her 
some bread ; and a little butter. And sugar. 




And tea. She has got some, but it won't 
last long." 

" And I said she should have a mutton 
chop." 

" I dare say she would like it." 

" I wonder if a bushel of potatoes wouldn't 
be the best thing of all." 

" Potatoes would be excellent," said Ma 
tilda delightedly. " I suppose she would be 
very glad of anything of that sort. Let's 
take her some cheese, Norton." 

" Cheese. And strawberries. And cake, 
Pink." 

" I am afraid we should be taking too much 
at once. We had better leave the cake to 
another time." 

" There's something we forgot," said Norton. " Mr. What's-his-name will not split up 
box covers for your fire every day ; we must 
send in a load of firing. Wood, I guess." 

" O how good!" said Matilda. " You see, 
Norton, she has had no wood to make a fire 
even to boil her kettle." 




" And no kettle to boil," added Norton. 

" So that she went without even tea. I 
don't know how she lived. Did you see how 
she enjoyed the tea yesterday ? " 

" Pink," said Norton, " do you expect to 
go there to make her fire every day?" 

" No, Norton, I cannot every day ; I can 
not always get away from home. But I was 
thinking I know some other girls that I 
guess would help ; and if there were several 
of us, you know, it would be very easy." 

" Well," said Norton, " we have fixed up 
this palace and princess now. What do you 
think of getting the princess a new dress or 
two ? " 

" O it would be very nice, Norton. She 
wants it." 

" Mamma will do that. Could you get it, 
Pink ? would you know how ? supposing 
your purse was long enough." 

" O yes, Norton. Of course I could ! " 

" Then you shall do it. Who will see to 
all the rest ? " 



 

" To buy the things, do you mean ? " 

" To buy them, and to choose them, and to 

get them to their place, and all that ? " 

" Why, you and I, Norton. Shan't we ? " 
" I think that is a good arrangement. The 

next question is, when? When shall we 

send the things there ? " 

" We must get the rooms cleaned. I will 

see about that. Then, Norton, the sooner 

the better ; don't you think so ? " 
