sentimentality,--call it wickedness if you like,--but I understand it,
and I forgive it from my soul.
They went first, of course, to the French cathedral, pausing on their
way to alight and walk through the Bonsecours Market, where the habitans
have all come in their carts, with their various stores of poultry,
fruit, and vegetables, and where every cart is a study. Here is a
simple-faced young peasant-couple with butter and eggs and chickens
ravishingly displayed; here is a smooth-checked, blackeyed, black-haired
young girl, looking as if an infusion of Indian blood had darkened the
red of her cheeks, presiding over a stock of onions, potatoes, beets,
and turnips; there an old woman with a face carven like a walnut,
behind a flattering array of cherries and pears; yonder a whole family
trafficking in loaves of brown-bread and maple-sugar in many shapes of
pious and grotesque device. There are gay shows of bright scarfs and
kerchiefs and vari-colored yarns, and sad shows of old clothes and
second-hand merchandise of other sorts; but above all prevails the
abundance of orchard and garden, while within the fine edifice are the
stalls of the butchers, and in the basement below a world of household
utensils, glass-ware, hard-ware, and wooden-ware. As in other Latin
countries, each peasant has given a personal interest to his wares, but
the bargains are not clamored over as in Latin lands abroad. Whatever
protest and concession and invocation of the saints attend the
transacting of business at Bonsecours Market are in a subdued tone. The
fat huckster-women drowsing beside their wares, scarce send their voices
beyond the borders of their broad-brimmed straw hats, as they softly
haggle with purchasers, or tranquilly gossip together.
At the cathedral there are, perhaps, the worst paintings in the world,
and the massive pine-board pillars are unscrupulously smoked to look
like marble; but our tourists enjoyed it as if it had been St. Peter’s;
in fact it has something of the barnlike immensity and impressiveness of
St. Peter’s. They did not ask it to be beautiful or grand; they desired
it only to recall the beloved ugliness, the fondly cherished hideousness
and incongruity of the average Catholic churches of their remembrance,
and it did this and more: it added an effect of its own; it offered
the spectacle of a swarthy old Indian kneeling before the high altar,
telling his beads, and saying with many sighs and tears the prayers
which it cost so much martyrdom and heroism to teach his race. “O, it is
only a savage man,” said the little French boy who was showing them
the place, impatient of their interest in a thing so unworthy as this
groaning barbarian. He ran swiftly about from object to object, rapidly
lecturing their inattention. “It is now time to go up into the tower,”
 said he, and they gladly made that toilsome ascent, though it is
doubtful if the ascent of towers is not too much like the ascent
of mountains ever to be compensatory. From the top of Notre Dame is
certainly to be had a prospect upon which, but for his fluttered nerves
and trembling muscles and troubled respiration, the traveller might well
look with delight, and as it is must behold with wonder. So far as the
eye reaches it dwells only upon what is magnificent. All the features
of that landscape are grand. Below you spreads the city, which has less
that is merely mean in it than any other city of our continent, and
which is everywhere ennobled by stately civic edifices, adorned by
tasteful churches, and skirted by full foliaged avenues of mansions and
villas. Behind it rises the beautiful mountain, green with woods and
gardens to its crest, and flanked on the east by an endless fertile
plain, and on the west by another expanse, through which the Ottawa
rushes, turbid and dark, to its confluence with the St. Lawrence. Then
these two mighty streams commingled flow past the city, lighting up
the vast Champaign country to the south, while upon the utmost southern
verge, as on the northern, rise the cloudy summits of far-off mountains.
As our travellers gazed upon all this grandeur, their hearts were
humbled to the tacit admission that the colonial metropolis was not only
worthy of its seat, but had traits of a solid prosperity not excelled
by any of the abounding and boastful cities of the Republic. Long before
they quitted Montreal they had rallied from this weakness, but they
delighted still to honor her superb beauty.
The tower is naturally bescribbled to its top with the names of those
who have climbed it, and most of these are Americans, who flock in great
numbers to Canada in summer. They modify its hotel life, and the objects
of interest thrive upon their bounty. Our friends met them at every
turn, and knew them at a glance from the native populations, who are
also easily distinguishable from each other. The French Canadians are
nearly always of a peasant-like commonness, or where they rise above
this have a bourgeois commonness of face and manner, and the English
Canadians are to be known from the many English sojourners by the effort
to look much more English than the latter. The social heart of the
colony clings fast to the mother-country, that is plain, whatever the
political tendency may be; and the public monuments and inscriptions
celebrate this affectionate union.
At the English cathedral the effect is deepened by the epitaphs of those
whose lives were passed in the joint service of England and her loyal
child; and our travellers, whatever their want of sympathy with the
sentiment, had to own to a certain beauty in that attitude of proud
reverence. Here, at least, was a people not cut off from its past, but
holding, unbroken in life and death, the ties which exist for us only in
history. It gave a glamour of olden time to the new land; it touched
the prosaic democratic present with the waning poetic light of the
aristocratic and monarchical tradition. There was here and there a title
on the tablets, and there was everywhere the formal language of loyalty
and of veneration for things we have tumbled into the dust. It is a
beautiful church, of admirable English Gothic; if you are so happy, you
are rather curtly told you may enter by a burly English figure in some
kind of sombre ecclesiastical drapery, and within its quiet precincts
you may feel yourself in England if you like,--which, for my part, I
do not. Neither did our friends enjoy it so much as the Church of the
Jesuits, with its more than tolerable painting, its coldly frescoed
ceiling, its architectural taste of subdued Renaissance, and its
black-eyed peasant-girl telling her beads before a side altar, just as
in the enviably deplorable countries we all love; nor so much even as
the Irish cathedral which they next visited. That is a very gorgeous
cathedral indeed, painted and gilded ‘a merveille’, and everywhere stuck
about with big and little saints and crucifixes, and pictures incredibly
bad--but for those in the French cathedral. There is, of course, a
series representing Christ’s progress to Calvary; and there was a very
tattered old man,--an old man whose voice had been long ago drowned
in whiskey, and who now spoke in a ghostly whisper,--who, when he saw
Basil’s eye fall upon the series, made him go the round of them, and
tediously explained them.
“Why did you let that old wretch bore you, and then pay him for it?”
 Isabel asked.
“O, it reminded me so sweetly of the swindles of other lands and days,
that I couldn’t help it,” he answered; and straightway in the eyes of
both that poor, whiskeyfied, Irish tatterdemalion stood transfigured to
the glorious likeness of an Italian beggar.
They were always doing something of this kind, those absurdly
sentimental people, whom yet I cannot find it in my heart to blame for
their folly, though I could name ever so many reasons for rebuking it.
Why, in fact, should we wish to find America like Europe? Are the ruins
and impostures and miseries and superstitions which beset the traveller
abroad so precious, that he should desire to imagine them at every step
in his own hemisphere? Or have we then of our own no effective shapes of
ignorance and want and incredibility, that we must forever seek an alien
contrast to our native intelligence and comfort? Some such questions
this guilty couple put to each other, and then drove off to visit the
convent of the Gray Nuns with a joyful expectation which I suppose the
prospect of the finest public-school exhibition in Boston could never
have inspired. But, indeed, since there must be Gray Nuns, is it not
well that there are sentimentalists to take a mournful pleasure in their
sad, pallid existence?
The convent is at a good distance from the Irish cathedral, and in going
to it the tourists made their driver carry them through one of the
few old French streets which still remain in Montreal. Fires and
improvements had made havoc among the quaint houses since Basil’s
first visit; but at last they came upon a narrow, ancient Rue Saint
Antoine,--or whatever other saint it was called after,--in which
there was no English face or house to be seen. The doors of the little
one-story dwellings opened from the pavement, and within you saw fat
madame the mother moving about her domestic affairs, and spare monsieur
the elderly husband smoking beside the open window; French babies
crawled about the tidy floors; French martyrs (let us believe Lalement
or Brebeuf, who gave up their heroic lives for the conversion of Canada)
sifted their eyes in high-colored lithographs on the wall; among the
flower-pots in the dormer-window looking from every tin roof sat and
sewed a smooth haired young girl, I hope,--the romance of each little
mansion. The antique and foreign character of the place was accented by
the inscription upon a wall of “Sirop adoucissant de Madame Winslow.”
Ever since 1692 the Gray Nuns have made refuge within the ample borders
of their convent for infirm old people and for foundling children, and
it is now in the regular course of sight-seeing for the traveller to
visit their hospital at noonday, when he beholds the Sisters at their
devotions in the chapel. It is a bare, white-walled, cold-looking
chapel, with the usual paraphernalia of pictures and crucifixes. Seated
upon low benches on either side of the aisle were the curious or the
devout; the former in greater number and chiefly Americans, who were now
and then whispered silent by an old pauper zealous for the sanctity
of the place. At the stroke of twelve the Sisters entered two by two,
followed by the lady-superior with a prayerbook in her hand. She clapped
the leaves of this together in signal for them to kneel, to rise, to
kneel again and rise, while they repeated in rather harsh voices their
prayers, and then clattered out of the chapel as they had clattered in,
with resounding shoes. The two young girls at the head were very pretty,
and all the pale faces had a corpse-like peace. As Basil looked at their
pensive sameness, it seemed to him that those prettiest girls might
very well be the twain that he had seen here so many years ago, stricken
forever young in their joyless beauty. The ungraceful gowns of coarse
gray, the blue checked aprons, the black crape caps, were the same; they
came and went with the same quick tread, touching their brows with holy
water and kneeling and rising now as then with the same constrained and
ordered movements. Would it be too cruel if they were really the same
persons? or would it be yet more cruel if every year two girls so young
and fair were self-doomed to renew the likeness of that youthful death?
The visitors went about the hospital, and saw the old men and the little
children to whom these good pure lives were given, and they could only
blame the system, not the instruments or their work. Perhaps they did
not judge wisely of the amount of self-sacrifice involved, for they
judged from hearts to which love was the whole of earth and heaven; but
nevertheless they pitied the Gray Nuns amidst the unhomelike comfort
of their convent, the unnatural care of those alien little ones. Poor
‘Soeurs Grises’ in their narrow cells; at the bedside of sickness and
age and sorrow; kneeling with clasped hands and yearning eyes before the
bloody spectacle of the cross!--the power of your Church is shown far
more subtly and mightily in such as you, than in her grandest fanes or
the sight of her most august ceremonies, with praying priests, swinging
censers, tapers and pictures and images, under a gloomy heaven
of cathedral arches. There, indeed, the faithful have given their
substance; but here the nun has given up the most precious part of her
woman’s nature, and all the tenderness that clings about the thought of
wife and mother.
“There are some things that always greatly afflict me in the idea of a
new country,” said Basil, as they loitered slowly through the grounds of
the convent toward the gate. “Of course, it’s absurd to think of men as
other than men, as having changed their natures with their skies; but a
new land always does seem at first thoughts like a new chance afforded
the race for goodness and happiness, for health and life. So I grieve
for the earliest dead at Plymouth more than for the multitude that
the plague swept away in London; I shudder over the crime of the first
guilty man, the sin of the first wicked woman in a new country;
the trouble of the first youth or maiden crossed in love there is
intolerable. All should be hope and freedom and prosperous life upon
that virgin soil. It never was so since Eden; but none the less I
feel it ought to be; and I am oppressed by the thought that among the
earliest walls which rose upon this broad meadow of Montreal were those
built to immure the innocence of such young girls as these and shut them
from the life we find so fair. Wouldn’t you like to know who was the
first that took the veil in this wild new country? Who was she, poor
soul, and what was her deep sorrow or lofty rapture? You can fancy her
some Indian maiden lured to the renunciation by the splendor of symbols
and promises seen vaguely through the lingering mists of her native
superstitions; or some weary soul, sick from the vanities and vices,
the bloodshed and the tears of the Old World, and eager for a silence
profounder than that of the wilderness into which she had fled. Well,
the Church knows and God. She was dust long ago.”
From time to time there had fallen little fitful showers during the
morning. Now as the wedding-journeyers passed out of the convent gate
the rain dropped soft and thin, and the gray clouds that floated through
the sky so swiftly were as far-seen Gray Sisters in flight for heaven.
“We shall have time for the drive round the mountain before dinner,”
 said Basil, as they got into their carriage again; and he was giving the
order to the driver, when Isabel asked how far it was.
“Nine miles.”
“O, then we can’t think of going with one horse. You know,” she
added, “that we always intended to have two horses for going round the
mountain.”
“No,” said Basil, not yet used to having his decisions reached without
his knowledge. “And I don’t see why we should. Everybody goes with one.
You don’t suppose we’re too heavy, do you?”
“I had a party from the States, ma’am, yesterday,” interposed the
driver; “two ladies, real heavy apes, two gentlemen, weighin’ two
hundred apiece, and a stout young man on the box with me. You’d ‘a’
thought the horse was drawin’ an empty carriage, the way she darted
along.”
“Then his horse must be perfectly worn out to-day,” said Isabel,
refusing to admit the pool fellow directly even to the honors of a
defeat. He had proved too much, and was put out of court with no hope of
repairing his error.
“Why, it seems a pity,” whispered Basil, dispassionately, “to turn this
man adrift, when he had a reasonable hope of being with us all day, and
has been so civil and obliging.”
“O yes, Basil, sentimentalize him, do! Why don’t you sentimentalize his
helpless, overworked horse?--all in a reek of perspiration.”
“Perspiration! Why, my dear, it’s the rain!”
“Well, rain or shine, darling, I don’t want to go round the mountain
with one horse; and it’s very unkind of you to insist now, when you’ve
tacitly promised me all along to take two.”
“Now, this is a little too much, Isabel. You know we never mentioned the
matter till this moment.”
“It’s the same as a promise, your not saying you wouldn’t. But I don’t
ask you to keep your word. I don’t want to go round the mountain. I’d
much rather go to the hotel. I’m tired.”
“Very well, then, Isabel, I’ll leave you at the hotel.”
In a moment it had come, the first serious dispute of their wedded life.
It had come as all such calamities come, from nothing, and it was on
them in full disaster ere they knew. Such a very little while ago, there
in the convent garden, their lives had been drawn closer in sympathy
than ever before; and now that blessed time seemed ages since, and
they were further asunder than those who have never been friends. “I
thought,” bitterly mused Isabel, “that he would have done anything
for me.” “Who could have dreamed that a woman of her sense would be
so unreasonable,” he wondered. Both had tempers, as I know my dearest
reader has (if a lady), and neither would yield; and so, presently, they
could hardly tell how, for they were aghast at it all, Isabel was
alone in her room amidst the ruins of her life, and Basil alone in
the one-horse carriage, trying to drive away from the wreck of his
happiness. All was over; the dream was past; the charm was broken. The
sweetness of their love was turned to gall; whatever had pleased them in
their loving moods was loathsome now, and the things they had praised a
moment before were hateful. In that baleful light, which seemed to dwell
upon all they ever said or did in mutual enjoyment, how poor and stupid
and empty looked their wedding-journey! Basil spent five minutes in
arraigning his wife and convicting her of every folly and fault. His
soul was in a whirl,
     “For to be wroth with one we love
     Doth work like madness in the brain.”
In the midst of his bitter and furious upbraidings he found himself
suddenly become her ardent advocate, and ready to denounce her judge as
a heartless monster. “On our wedding journey, too! Good heavens, what an
incredible brute I am!” Then he said, “What an ass I am!” And the pathos
of the case having yielded to its absurdity, he was helpless. In five
minutes more he was at Isabel’s side, the one-horse carriage driver
dismissed with a handsome pour-boire, and a pair of lusty bays with a
glittering barouche waiting at the door below. He swiftly accounted for
his presence, which she seemed to find the most natural thing that could
be, and she met his surrender with the openness of a heart that forgives
but does not forget, if indeed the most gracious art is the only one
unknown to the sex.
She rose with a smile from the ruins of her life, amidst which she
had heart-brokenly sat down with all her things on. “I knew you’d come
back,” she said.
“So did I,” he answered. “I am much too good and noble to sacrifice my
preference to my duty.”
“I didn’t care particularly for the two horses, Basil,” she said, as
they descended to the barouche. “It was your refusing them that hurt
me.”
“And I didn’t want the one-horse carriage. It was your insisting so that
provoked me.”
“Do you think people ever quarreled before on a wedding journey?” asked
Isabel as they drove gayly out of the city.
“Never! I can’t conceive of it. I suppose if this were written down,
nobody would believe it.”
“No, nobody could,” said Isabel, musingly, and she added after a pause,
“I wish you would tell me just what you thought of me, dearest. Did you
feel as you did when our little affair was broken off, long ago? Did you
hate me?”
“I did, most cordially; but not half so much as I despised myself the
next moment. As to its being like a lover’s quarrel, it wasn’t. It was
more bitter, so much more love than lovers ever give had to be taken
back. Besides, it had no dignity, and a lover’s quarrel always has. A
lover’s quarrel always springs from a more serious cause, and has an air
of romantic tragedy. This had no grace of the kind. It was a poor shabby
little squabble.”
“O, don’t call it so, Basil! I should like you to respect even a quarrel
of ours more than that. It was tragical enough with me, for I didn’t
see how it could ever be made up. I knew I couldn’t make the advances. I
don’t think it is quite feminine to be the first to forgive, is it?”
“I’m sure I can’t say. Perhaps it would be rather unladylike.”
“Well, you see, dearest, what I am trying to get at is this: whether we
shall love each other the more or the less for it. I think we shall get
on all the better for a while, on account of it. But I should have said
it was totally out of character it’s something you might have expected
of a very young bridal couple; but after what we’ve been through, it
seems too improbable.”
“Very well,” said Basil, who, having made all the concessions, could
not enjoy the quarrel as she did, simply because it was theirs; “let’s
behave as if it had never been.”
“O no, we can’t. To me, it’s as if we had just won each other.”
In fact it gave a wonderful zest and freshness to that ride round the
mountain, and shed a beneficent glow upon the rest of their journey. The
sun came out through the thin clouds, and lighted up the vast plain that
swept away north and east, with the purple heights against the eastern
sky. The royal mountain lifted its graceful mass beside them, and hid
the city wholly from sight. Peasant-villages, in the shade of beautiful
elms, dotted the plain in every direction, and at intervals crept up
to the side of the road along which they drove. But these had been
corrupted by a more ambitious architecture since Basil saw them last,
and were no longer purely French in appearance. Then, nearly every house
was a tannery in a modest way, and poetically published the fact by
the display of a sheep’s tail over the front door, like a bush at
a wine-shop. Now, if the tanneries still existed, the poetry of the
sheeps’ tails had vanished from the portals. But our friends were
consoled by meeting numbers of the peasants jolting home from market in
the painted carts, which are doubtless of the pattern of the carts first
built there two hundred years ago. They were grateful for the immortal
old wooden, crooked and brown with the labor of the fields, who abounded
in these vehicles; when a huge girl jumped from the tail of her cart,
and showed the thick, clumsy ankles of a true peasant-maid, they could
only sigh out their unspeakable satisfaction.
Gardens embowered and perfumed the low cottages, through the open doors
of which they could see the exquisite neatness of the life within. One
of the doors opened into a school-house, where they beheld with rapture
the school-mistress, book in hand, and with a quaint cap on her gray
head, and encircled by her flock of little boys and girls.
By and by it began to rain again; and now while their driver stopped to
put up the top of the barouche, they entered a country church which had
taken their fancy, and walked up the aisle with the steps that blend
with silence rather than break it, while they heard only the soft
whisper of the shower without. There was no one there but themselves.
The urn of holy water seemed not to have been troubled that day, and
no penitent knelt at the shrine, before which twinkled so faintly one
lighted lamp. The white roof swelled into dim arches over their heads;
the pale day like a visible hush stole through the painted windows; they
heard themselves breathe as they crept from picture to picture.
A narrow door opened at the side of the high altar, and a slender young
priest appeared in a long black robe, and with shaven head. He, too as
he moved with noiseless feet, seemed a part of the silence; and when
he approached with dreamy black eyes fixed upon them, and bowed
courteously, it seemed impossible he should speak. But he spoke, the
pale young priest, the dark-robed tradition, the tonsured vision of an
age and a church that are passing.
“Do you understand French, monsieur?”
“A very little, monsieur.”
“A very little is more than my English,” he said, yet he politely went
the round of the pictures with them, and gave them the names of the
painters between his crossings at the different altars. At the high
altar there was a very fair Crucifixion; before this the priest bent one
knee. “Fine picture, fine altar, fine church,” he said in English. At
last they stopped next the poor-box. As their coins clinked against
those within, he smiled serenely upon the good heretics. Then he bowed,
and, as if he had relapsed into the past, he vanished through the narrow
door by which he had entered.
Basil and Isabel stood speechless a moment on the church steps. Then she
cried,
“O, why didn’t something happen?”
“Ah, my dear! what could have been half so good as the nothing that
did happen? Suppose we knew him to have taken orders because of a
disappointment in love: how common it would have made him; everybody has
been crossed in love once or twice.” He bade the driver take them back
to the hotel. “This is the very bouquet of adventure why should we care
for the grosser body? I dare say if we knew all about yonder pale young
priest, we should not think him half so interesting as we do now.”
At dinner they spent the intervals of the courses in guessing the
nationality of the different persons, and in wondering if the Canadians
did not make it a matter of conscientious loyalty to out-English the
English even in the matter of pale-ale and sherry, and in rotundity of
person and freshness of face, just as they emulated them in the cut of
their clothes and whiskers. Must they found even their health upon the
health of the mother-country?
Our friends began to detect something servile in it all, and but
that they were such amiable persons, the loyally perfect digestion of
Montreal would have gone far to impair their own.
The loyalty, which had already appeared to them in the cathedral,
suggested itself in many ways upon the street, when they went out after
dinner to do that little shopping which Isabel had planned to do in
Montreal. The booksellers’ windows were full of Canadian editions of
our authors, and English copies of English works, instead of our pirated
editions; the dry-goods stores were gay with fabrics in the London taste
and garments of the London shape; here was the sign of a photographer to
the Queen, there of a hatter to H. R. H. the Prince of Wales; a barber
was “under the patronage of H. R. H. the Prince of Wales, H. E. the Duke
of Cambridge, and the gentry of Montreal.” ‘Ich dien’ was the motto of
a restaurateur; a hosier had gallantly labeled his stock in trade with
‘Honi soit qui mal y pense’. Again they noted the English solidity
of the civic edifices, and already they had observed in the foreign
population a difference from that at home. They saw no German faces on
the streets, and the Irish faces had not that truculence which they
wear sometimes with us. They had not lost their native simpleness and
kindliness; the Irishmen who drove the public carriages were as civil as
our own Boston hackmen, and behaved as respectfully under the shadow of
England here, as they would have done under it in Ireland. The problem
which vexes us seems to have been solved pleasantly enough in Canada.
Is it because the Celt cannot brook equality; and where he has not an
established and recognized caste above him, longs to trample on those
about him; and if he cannot be lowest, will at least be highest?
However, our friends did not suffer this or any other advantage of
the colonial relation to divert them from the opinion to which their
observation was gradually bringing them,--that its overweening loyalty
placed a great country like Canada in a very silly attitude, the
attitude of an overgrown, unmanly boy, clinging to the maternal skirts,
and though spoilt and willful, without any character of his own. The
constant reference of local hopes to that remote centre beyond seas,
the test of success by the criterions of a necessarily different
civilization, the social and intellectual dependence implied by traits
that meet the most hurried glance in the Dominion, give an effect of
meanness to the whole fabric. Doubtless it is a life of comfort, of
peace, of irresponsibility they live there, but it lacks the grandeur
which no sum of material prosperity can give; it is ignoble, like all
voluntarily subordinate things. Somehow, one feels that it has no basis
in the New World, and that till it is shaken loose from England it
cannot have.
It would be a pity, however, if it should be parted from the parent
country merely to be joined to an unsympathetic half-brother like
ourselves and nothing, fortunately, seems to be further from the
Canadian mind. There are some experiments no longer possible to us which
could still be tried there to the advantage of civilization, and we
were better two great nations side by side than a union of discordant
traditions and ideas. But none the less does the American traveller,
swelling with forgetfulness of the shabby despots who govern New York,
and the swindling railroad kings whose word is law to the whole land,
feel like saying to the hulling young giant beyond St. Lawrence and the
Lakes, “Sever the apron-strings of allegiance, and try to be yourself
whatever you are.”
Something of this sort Basil said, though of course not in apostrophic
phrase, nor with Isabel’s entire concurrence, when he explained to her
that it was to the colonial dependence of Canada she owed the ability to
buy things so cheaply there.
The fact is that the ladies’ parlor at the hotel had been after dinner
no better than a den of smugglers, in which the fair contrabandists had
debated the best means of evading the laws of their country. At heart
every man is a smuggler, and how much more every woman! She would have
no scruple in ruining the silk and woolen interest throughout the United
States. She is a free-trader by intuitive perception of right, and is
limited in practice by nothing but fear of the statute. What could be
taken into the States without detection, was the subject before that
wicked conclave; and next, what it would pay to buy in Canada. It seemed
that silk umbrellas were most eligible wares; and in the display of
such purchases the parlor was given the appearance of a violent
thunder-storm. Gloves it was not advisable to get; they were better
at home, as were many kinds of fine woolen goods. But laces, which you
could carry about you, were excellent; and so was any kind of silk.
Could it be carried if simply cut, and not made up? There was a
difference about this: the friend of one lady had taken home half a
trunkful of cut silks; the friend of another had “run up the breadths”
 of one lone little silk skirt, and then lost it by the rapacity of the
customs officers. It was pretty much luck, and whether the officers
happened to be in good-humor or not. You must not try to take in
anything out of season, however. One had heard of a Boston lady going
home in July, who “had the furs taken off her back,” in that inclement
month. Best get everything seasonable, and put it on at once. “And then,
you know, if they ask you, you can say it’s been worn.” To this black
wisdom came the combined knowledge of those miscreants. Basil could not
repress a shudder at the innate depravity of the female heart. Here were
virgins nurtured in the most spotless purity of life, here were virtuous
mothers of families, here were venerable matrons, patterns in society
and the church,--smugglers to a woman, and eager for any guilty
subterfuge! He glanced at Isabel to see what effect the evil
conversation had upon her. Her eyes sparkled; her cheeks glowed; all the
woman was on fire for smuggling. He sighed heavily and went out with her
to do the little shopping.
Shall I follow them upon their excursion? Shopping in Montreal is very
much what it is in Boston or New York, I imagine, except that the clerks
have a more honeyed sweetness of manners towards the ladies of our
nation, and are surprisingly generous constructionists of our revenue
laws. Isabel had profited by every word that she had heard in the
ladies’ parlor, and she would not venture upon unsafe ground; but her
tender eyes looked her unutterable longing to believe in the charming
possibilities that the clerks suggested. She bemoaned herself before the
corded silks, which there was no time to have made up; the piece-velvets
and the linens smote her to the heart. But they also stimulated her
invention, and she bought and bought of the made-up wares in real or
fancied needs, till Basil represented that neither their purses nor
their trunks could stand any more. “O, don’t be troubled about the
trunks, dearest,” she cried, with that gayety which nothing but shopping
