of them. Come, now, is not there something in that?”
“Well, I suppose,” said Harry, “that when Lillie and I were girl and
boy together, I did flatter her, sincerely that is. Her beauty made a
fool of me; and I helped make a fool of her.”
“And I dare say,” said Rose, “you told her that all she was made for
was to be charming, and encouraged her to live the life of a butterfly
or canary-bird. Did you ever try to strengthen her principles, to
educate her mind, to make her strong? On the contrary, haven’t you been
bowing down and adoring her for being weak? It seems to me that Lillie
is exactly the kind of woman that you men educate, by the way you look
on women, and the way you treat them.”
Harry sat in silence, ruminating.
“Now,” said Rose, “it seems to me it’s the most cowardly and unmanly
thing in the world for men, with every advantage in their hands, with
all the strength that their kind of education gives them, with all
their opportunities,—a thousand to our one,—to hunt down these poor
little silly women, whom society keeps stunted and dwarfed for their
special amusement.”
“Miss Ferguson, you are very severe,” said Harry, his face flushing.
“Well,” said Rose, “you have this advantage, Mr. Endicott: you know, if
I am, the world will not be. Everybody will take your part; everybody
will smile on you, and condemn her. That is generous, is it not? I
think, after all, Noah Claypole isn’t so very uncommon a picture of the
way that your lordly sex turn round and cast all the blame on ours.
You will never make me believe in a protracted flirtation between a
gentleman and lady, where at least half the blame does not lie on
his lordship’s side. I always said that a woman had no need to have
offers made her by a man she could not love, if she conducted herself
properly; and I think the same is true in regard to men. But then, as I
said before, you have the world on your side; nine persons out of ten
see no possible harm in a man’s taking every advantage of a woman, if
she will let him.”
“But I care more for the opinion of the tenth person than of the nine,”
said Harry; “I care more for what you think than any of them. Your
words are severe; but I think they are just.”
“O Mr. Endicott!” said Rose, “live for something higher than for what
I think,—than for what any one thinks. Think how many glorious chances
there are for a noble career for a young man with your fortune, with
your leisure, with your influence! is it for you to waste life in this
unworthy way? If I had your chances, I would try to do something worth
doing.”
Rose’s face kindled with enthusiasm; and Harry looked at her with
admiration.
“Tell me what I ought to do!” he said.
“I cannot tell you,” said Rose; “but where there is a will there is
a way: and, if you have the will, you will find the way. But, first,
you must try and repair the mischief you have done to Lillie. By your
own account of the matter, you have been encouraging and keeping up a
sort of silly, romantic excitement in her. It is worse than silly; it
is sinful. It is trifling with her best interests in this life and the
life to come. And I think you must know that, if you had treated her
like an honest, plain-spoken brother or cousin, without any trumpery of
gallantry or sentiment, things would have never got to be as they are.
You could have prevented all this; and you can put an end to it now.”
“Honestly, I will try,” said Harry. “I will begin, by confessing my
faults like a good boy, and take the blame on myself where it belongs,
and try to make Lillie see things like a good girl. But she is in bad
surroundings; and, if I were her husband, I wouldn’t let her stay there
another day. There are no morals in that circle; it’s all a perfect
crush of decaying garbage.”
“I think,” said Rose, “that, if this thing goes no farther, it will
gradually die out even in that circle; and, in the better circles of
New York, I trust it will not be heard of. Mrs. Van Astrachan and I
will appear publicly with Lillie; and if she is seen with us, and at
this house, it will be sufficient to contradict a dozen slanders.
She has the noblest, kindest husband,—one of the best men and truest
gentlemen I ever knew.”
“I pity him then,” said Harry.
“He is to be pitied,” said Rose; “but his work is before him. This
woman, such as she is, with all her faults, he has taken for better or
for worse; and all true friends and good people, both his and hers,
should help both sides to make the best of it.”
“I should say,” said Harry, “that there is in this no best side.”
“I think you do Lillie injustice,” said Rose. “There is, and must be,
good in every one; and gradually the good in him will overcome the evil
in her.”
“Let us hope so,” said Harry. “And now, Miss Ferguson, may I hope that
you won’t quite cross my name out of your good book? You’ll be friends
with me, won’t you?”
“Oh, certainly!” said Rose, with a frank smile.
“Well, let’s shake hands on that,” said Harry, rising to go.
Rose gave him her hand, and the two parted in all amity.
CHAPTER XXIII.
COMMON-SENSE ARGUMENTS.
HARRY went straightway from the interview to call upon Lillie, and
had a conversation with her; in which he conducted himself like a
sober, discreet, and rational man. It was one of those daylight,
matter-of-fact kinds of talks, with no nonsense about them, in which
things are called by their right names. He confessed his own sins, and
took upon his own shoulders the blame that properly belonged there;
and, having thus cleared his conscience, took occasion to give Lillie a
deal of grandfatherly advice, of a very sedative tendency.
They had both been very silly, he said; and the next step to being
silly very often was to be wicked. For his part, he thought she ought
to be thankful for so good a husband; and, for his own part, he should
lose no time in trying to find a good wife, who would help him to be
a good man, and do something worth doing in the world. He had given
people occasion to say ill-natured things about her; and he was sorry
for it. But, if they stopped being imprudent, the world would in time
stop talking. He hoped, some of these days, to bring his wife down to
see her, and to make the acquaintance of her husband, whom he knew to
be a capital fellow, and one that she ought to be proud of.
Thus, by the intervention of good angels, the little paper-nautilus
bark of Lillie’s fortunes was prevented from going down in the great
ugly maelstrom, on the verge of which it had been so heedlessly sailing.
Harry was not slow in pushing the advantage of his treaty of friendship
with Rose to its utmost limits; and, being a young gentleman of parts
and proficiency, he made rapid progress.
The interview of course immediately bred the necessity for at least a
dozen more; for he had to explain this thing, and qualify that, and,
on reflection, would find by the next day that the explanation and
qualification required a still further elucidation. Rose also, after
the first conversation was over, was troubled at her own boldness, and
at the things that she in her state of excitement had said; and so was
only too glad to accord interviews and explanations as often as sought,
and, on the whole, was in the most favorable state towards her penitent.
Hence came many calls, and many conferences with Rose in the library,
to Mrs. Van Astrachan’s great satisfaction, and concerning which Mr.
Van Astrachan had many suppressed chuckles and knowing winks at Polly.
“Now, pa, don’t you say a word,” said Mrs. Van Astrachan.
“Oh, no, Polly! catch me! I see a great deal, but I say nothing,” said
the good gentleman, with a jocular quiver of his portly person. “I
don’t say any thing,—oh, no! by no manner of means.”
Neither at present did Harry; neither do we.
CHAPTER XXIV.
SENTIMENT v. SENSIBILITY.
THE poet has feelingly sung the condition of
    “The banquet hall deserted,
     Whose lights are fled, and garlands dead,” &c.,
and so we need not cast the daylight of minute description on the
Follingsbee mansion.
Charlie Ferrola, however, was summoned away at early daylight, just
as the last of the revellers were dispersing, by a hurried messenger
from his wife; and, a few moments after he entered his house, he
was standing beside his dying baby,—the little fellow whom we have
seen brought down on Mrs. Ferrola’s arm, to greet the call of Mrs.
Follingsbee.
It is an awful thing for people of the flimsy, vain, pain-shunning,
pleasure-seeking character of Charlie Ferrola, to be taken at times,
as such people will be, in the grip of an inexorable power, and held
face to face with the sternest, the most awful, the most frightful
realities of life. Charlie Ferrola was one of those whose softness and
pitifulness, like that of sentimentalists generally, was only one form
of intense selfishness. The sight of suffering pained him; and his
first impulse was to get out of the way of it. Suffering that he did
not see was nothing to him; and, if his wife or children were in any
trouble, he would have liked very well to have known nothing about it.
But here he was, by the bedside of this little creature, dying in the
agonies of slow suffocation, rolling up its dark, imploring eyes, and
lifting its poor little helpless hands; and Charlie Ferrola broke out
into the most violent and extravagant demonstrations of grief.
The pale, firm little woman, who had watched all night, and in whose
tranquil face a light as if from heaven was beaming, had to assume the
care of him, in addition to that of her dying child. He was another
helpless burden on her hands.
There came a day when the house was filled with white flowers, and
people came and went, and holy words were spoken; and the fairest
flower of all was carried out, to return to the house no more.
“That woman is a most unnatural and peculiar woman!” said Mrs.
Follingsbee, who had been most active and patronizing in sending
flowers, and attending to the scenic arrangements of the funeral. “It
is just what I always said: she is a perfect statue; she’s no kind of
feeling. There was Charlie, poor fellow! so sick that he had to go to
bed, perfectly overcome, and have somebody to sit up with him; and
there was that woman never shed a tear,—went round attending to every
thing, just like a piece of clock-work. Well, I suppose people are
happier for being made so; people that have no sensibility are better
fitted to get through the world. But, gracious me! I can’t understand
such people. There she stood at the grave, looking so calm, when
Charlie was sobbing so that he could hardly hold himself up. Well, it
really wasn’t respectable. I think, at least, I would keep my veil
down, and keep my handkerchief up. Poor Charlie! he came to me at last;
and I gave way. I was completely broken down, I must confess. Poor
fellow! he told me there was no conceiving his misery. That baby was
the very idol of his soul; all his hopes of life were centred in it.
He really felt tempted to rebel at Providence. He said that he really
could not talk with his wife on the subject. He could not enter into
her submission at all; it seemed to him like a want of feeling. He said
of course it wasn’t her fault that she was made one way and he another.”
In fact, Mr. Charlie Ferrola took to the pink satin boudoir with a
more languishing persistency than ever, requiring to be stayed with
flagons, and comforted with apples, and receiving sentimental calls
of condolence from fair admirers, made aware of the intense poignancy
of his grief. A lovely poem, called “My Withered Blossom,” which
appeared in a fashionable magazine shortly after, was the out-come of
this experience, and increased the fashionable sympathy to the highest
degree.
Honest Mrs. Van Astrachan, however, though not acquainted with Mrs.
Ferrola, went to the funeral with Rose; and the next day her carriage
was seen at Mrs. Ferrola’s door.
“You poor little darling!” she said, as she came up and took Mrs.
Ferrola in her arms. “You must let me come, and not mind me; for I know
all about it. I lost the dearest little baby once; and I have never
forgotten it. There! there, darling!” she said, as the little woman
broke into sobs in her arms. “Yes, yes; do cry! it will do your little
heart good.”
There are people who, wherever they move, freeze the hearts of those
they touch, and chill all demonstration of feeling; and there are warm
natures, that unlock every fountain, and bid every feeling gush forth.
The reader has seen these two types in this story.
       *       *       *       *       *
“Wife,” said Mr. Van Astrachan, coming to Mrs. V. confidentially a day
or two after, “I wonder if you remember any of your French. What is a
liaison?”
“Really, dear,” said Mrs. Van Astrachan, whose reading of late years
had been mostly confined to such memoirs as that of Mrs. Isabella
Graham, Doddridge’s “Rise and Progress,” and Baxter’s “Saint’s Rest,”
“it’s a great while since I read any French. What do you want to know
for?”
“Well, there’s Ben Stuyvesant was saying this morning, in Wall Street,
that there’s a great deal of talk about that Mrs. Follingsbee and that
young fellow whose baby’s funeral you went to. Ben says there’s a
liaison between her and him. I didn’t ask him what ’twas; but it’s
something or other with a French name that makes talk, and I don’t
think it’s respectable! I’m sorry that you and Rose went to her party;
but then that can’t be helped now. I’m afraid this Mrs. Follingsbee is
no sort of a woman, after all.”
“But, pa, I’ve been to call on Mrs. Ferrola, poor little afflicted
thing!” said Mrs. Van Astrachan. “I couldn’t help it! You know how we
felt when little Willie died.”
“Oh, certainly, Polly! call on the poor woman by all means, and do all
you can to comfort her; but, from all I can find out, that handsome
jackanapes of a husband of hers is just the poorest trash going. They
say this Follingsbee woman half supports him. The time was in New York
when such doings wouldn’t be allowed; and I don’t think calling things
by French names makes them a bit better. So you just be careful, and
steer as clear of her as you can.”
“I will, pa, just as clear as I can; but you know Rose is a friend of
Mrs. John Seymour; and Mrs. Seymour is visiting at Mrs. Follingsbee’s.”
“Her husband oughtn’t to let her stay there another day,” said Mr.
Van Astrachan. “It’s as much as any woman’s reputation is worth to be
staying with her. To think of that fellow being dancing and capering at
that Jezebel’s house the night his baby was dying!”
“Oh, but, pa, he didn’t know it.”
“Know it? he ought to have known it! What business has a man to get
a woman with a lot of babies round her, and then go capering off?
’Twasn’t the way I did, Polly, you know, when our babies were young. I
was always on the spot there, ready to take the baby, and walk up and
down with it nights, so that you might get your sleep; and I always had
it my side of the bed half the night. I’d like to have seen myself out
at a ball, and you sitting up with a sick baby! I tell you, that if I
caught any of my boys up to such tricks, I’d cut them out of my will,
and settle the money on their wives;—that’s what I would!”
“Well, pa, I shall try and do all in my power for poor Mrs. Ferrola,”
said Mrs. Van Astrachan; “and you may be quite sure I won’t take
another step towards Mrs. Follingsbee’s acquaintance.”
“It’s a pity,” said Mr. Van Astrachan, “that somebody couldn’t put it
into Mr. John Seymour’s head to send for his wife home.
“I don’t see, for my part, what respectable women want to be
gallivanting and high-flying on their own separate account for, away
from their husbands! Goods that are sold shouldn’t go back to the
shop-windows,” said the good gentleman, all whose views of life were of
the most old-fashioned, domestic kind.
“Well, dear, we don’t want to talk to Rose about any of this scandal,”
said his wife.
“No, no; it would be a pity to put any thing bad into a nice girl’s
head,” said Mr. Van Astrachan. “You might caution her in a general way,
you know; tell her, for instance, that I’ve heard of things that make
me feel you ought to draw off. Why can’t some bird of the air tell
that little Seymour woman’s husband to get her home?”
The little Seymour woman’s husband, though not warned by any particular
bird of the air, was not backward in taking steps for the recall of his
wife, as shall hereafter appear.
CHAPTER XXV.
WEDDING BELLS.
SOME weeks had passed in Springdale while these affairs had been going
on in New York. The time for the marriage of Grace had been set; and
she had gone to Boston to attend to that preparatory shopping which
even the most sensible of the sex discover to be indispensable on such
occasions.
Grace inclined, in the centre of her soul, to Bostonian rather than
New-York preferences. She had the innocent impression that a classical
severity and a rigid reticence of taste pervaded even the rebellious
department of feminine millinery in the city of the Pilgrims,—an idea
which we rather think young Boston would laugh down as an exploded
superstition, young Boston’s leading idea at the present hour being
apparently to outdo New York in New York’s imitation of Paris.
In fact, Grace found it very difficult to find a milliner who, if left
to her own devices, would not befeather and beflower her past all
self-recognition, giving to her that generally betousled and fly-away
air which comes straight from the demi-monde of Paris.
We apprehend that the recent storms of tribulation which have beat
upon those fairy islands of fashion may scatter this frail and fanciful
population, and send them by shiploads on missions of civilization to
our shores; in which case, the bustle and animation and the brilliant
display on the old turnpike, spoken of familiarly as the “broad road,”
will be somewhat increased.
Grace however managed, by the exercise of a good individual taste,
to come out of these shopping conflicts in good order,—a handsome,
well-dressed, charming woman, with everybody’s best wishes for, and
sympathy in, her happiness.
Lillie was summoned home by urgent messages from her husband, calling
her back to take her share in wedding festivities.
She left willingly; for the fact is that her last conversation with her
cousin Harry had made the situation as uncomfortable to her as if he
had unceremoniously deluged her with a pailful of cold water.
There is a chilly, disagreeable kind of article, called common sense,
which is of all things most repulsive and antipathetical to all petted
creatures whose life has consisted in flattery. It is the kind of talk
which sisters are very apt to hear from brothers, and daughters from
fathers and mothers, when fathers and mothers do their duty by them;
which sets the world before them as it is, and not as it is painted by
flatterers. Those women who prefer the society of gentlemen, and who
have the faculty of bewitching their senses, never are in the way of
hearing from this cold matter-of-fact region; for them it really does
not exist. Every phrase that meets their ear is polished and softened,
guarded and delicately turned, till there is not a particle of homely
truth left in it. They pass their time in a world of illusions; they
demand these illusions of all who approach them, as the sole condition
of peace and favor. All gentlemen, by a sort of instinct, recognize the
woman who lives by flattery, and give her her portion of meat in due
season; and thus some poor women are hopelessly buried, as suicides
used to be in Scotland, under a mountain of rubbish, to which each
passer-by adds one stone. It is only by some extraordinary power of
circumstances that a man can be found to invade the sovereignty of a
pretty woman with any disagreeable tidings; or, as Junius says, “to
instruct the throne in the language of truth.” Harry was brought up
to this point only by such a concurrence of circumstances. He was in
love with another woman,—a ready cause for disenchantment. He was in
some sort a family connection; and he saw Lillie’s conduct at last,
therefore, through the plain, unvarnished medium of common sense.
Moreover, he felt a little pinched in his own conscience by the view
which Rose seemed to take of his part in the matter, and, manlike, was
strengthened in doing his duty by being a little galled and annoyed
at the woman whose charms had tempted him into this dilemma. So he
talked to Lillie like a brother; or, in other words, made himself
disagreeably explicit,—showed her her sins, and told her her duties
as a married woman. The charming fair ones who sentimentally desire
gentlemen to regard them as sisters do not bargain for any of this
sort of brotherly plainness; and yet they might do it with great
advantage. A brother, who is not a brother, stationed near the ear of
a fair friend, is commonly very careful not to compromise his position
by telling unpleasant truths; but, on the present occasion, Harry made
a literal use of the brevet of brotherhood which Lillie had bestowed
on him, and talked to her as the generality of real brothers talk
to their sisters, using great plainness of speech. He withered all
her poor little trumpery array of hothouse flowers of sentiment, by
treating them as so much garbage, as all men know they are. He set
before her the gravity and dignity of marriage, and her duties to her
husband. Last, and most unkind of all, he professed his admiration of
Rose Ferguson, his unworthiness of her, and his determination to win
her by a nobler and better life; and then showed himself to be a stupid
blunderer by exhorting Lillie to make Rose her model, and seek to
imitate her virtues.
Poor Lillie! the world looked dismal and dreary enough to her. She
shrunk within herself. Every thing was withered and disenchanted. All
her poor little stock of romance seemed to her as disgusting as the
withered flowers and crumpled finery and half-melted ice-cream the
morning after a ball.
In this state, when she got a warm, true letter from John, who always
grew tender and affectionate when she was long away, couched in those
terms of admiration and affection that were soothing to her ear, she
really longed to go back to him. She shrunk from the dreary plainness
of truth, and longed for flattery and petting and caresses once
more; and she wrote to John an overflowingly tender letter, full of
longings, which brought him at once to her side, the most delighted of
men. When Lillie cried in his arms, and told him that she found New
York perfectly hateful; when she declaimed on the heartlessness of
fashionable life, and longed to go with him to their quiet home,—she
was tolerably in earnest; and John was perfectly enchanted.
Poor John! Was he a muff, a spoon? We think not. We understand well
that there is not a woman among our readers who has the slightest
patience with Lillie, and that the most of them are half out of
patience with John for his enduring tenderness towards her.
But men were born and organized by nature to be the protectors of
women; and, generally speaking, the stronger and more thoroughly
manly a man is, the more he has of what phrenologists call the “pet
organ,”—the disposition which makes him the charmed servant of what is
weak and dependent. John had a great share of this quality. He was made
to be a protector. He loved to protect; he loved every thing that was
helpless and weak,—young animals, young children, and delicate women.
He was a romantic adorer of womanhood, as a sort of divine mystery,—a
never-ending poem; and when his wife was long enough away from him to
give scope for imagination to work, when she no longer annoyed him with
the friction of the sharp little edges of her cold and selfish nature,
he was able to see her once more in the ideal light of first love.
After all, she was his wife; and in that one word, to a good man, is
every thing holy and sacred. He longed to believe in her and trust her
wholly; and now that Grace was going from him, to belong to another,
Lillie was more than ever his dependence.
On the whole, if we must admit that John was weak, he was weak where
strong and noble natures may most gracefully be so,—weak through
disinterestedness, faith, and the disposition to make the best of the
wife he had chosen.
And so Lillie came home; and there was festivity and rejoicing. Grace
found herself floated into matrimony on a tide bringing gifts and
tokens of remembrance from everybody that had ever known her; for all
were delighted with this opportunity of testifying a sense of her
worth, and every hand was ready to help ring her wedding bells.
CHAPTER XXVI.
MOTHERHOOD.
IT is supposed by some that to become a mother is of itself a healing
and saving dispensation; that of course the reign of selfishness
ends, and the reign of better things begins, with the commencement of
maternity.
But old things do not pass away and all things become new by any such
rapid process of conversion. A whole life spent in self-seeking and
self-pleasing is no preparation for the most august and austere of
woman’s sufferings and duties; and it is not to be wondered at if the
untrained, untaught, and self-indulgent shrink from this ordeal, as
Lillie did.
The next spring, while the gables of the new cottage on Elm Street were
looking picturesquely through the blossoming cherry-trees, and the
smoke was curling up from the chimneys where Grace and her husband were
cosily settled down together, there came to John’s house another little
Lillie.
The little creature came in terror and trembling. For the mother had
trifled fearfully with the great laws of her being before its birth;
and the very shadow of death hung over her at the time the little new
life began.
Lillie’s mother, now a widow, was sent for, and by this event installed
as a fixture in her daughter’s dwelling; and for weeks the sympathies
of all the neighborhood were concentrated upon the sufferer. Flowers
and fruits were left daily at the door. Every one was forward in
offering those kindly attentions which spring up so gracefully in
rural neighborhoods. Everybody was interested for her. She was little
and pretty and suffering; and people even forgot to blame her for the
levities that had made her present trial more severe. As to John, he
watched over her day and night with anxious assiduity, forgetting every
fault and foible. She was now more than the wife of his youth; she was
the mother of his child, enthroned and glorified in his eyes by the
wonderful and mysterious experiences which had given this new little
treasure to their dwelling.
To say the truth, Lillie was too sick and suffering for sentiment. It
requires a certain amount of bodily strength and soundness to feel
emotions of love; and, for a long time, the little Lillie had to be
banished from the mother’s apartment, as she lay weary in her darkened
room, with only a consciousness of a varied succession of disagreeables
and discomforts. Her general impression about herself was, that she
was a much abused and most unfortunate woman; and that all that could
ever be done by the utmost devotion of everybody in the house was
insufficient to make up for such trials as had come upon her.
A nursing mother was found for the little Lillie in the person of a
goodly Irish woman, fair, fat, and loving; and the real mother had none
of those awakening influences, from the resting of the little head
in her bosom, and the pressure of the little helpless fingers, which
magnetize into existence the blessed power of love.
She had wasted in years of fashionable folly, and in a life led only
for excitement and self-gratification, all the womanly power, all the
capability of motherly giving and motherly loving that are the glory
of womanhood. Kathleen, the white-armed, the gentle-bosomed, had all
the simple pleasures, the tendernesses, the poetry of motherhood; while
poor, faded, fretful Lillie had all the prose—the sad, hard, weary
prose—of sickness and pain, unglorified by love.
John did not well know what to do with himself in Lillie’s darkened
room; where it seemed to him he was always in the way, always doing
something wrong; where his feet always seemed too large and heavy, and
his voice too loud; and where he was sure, in his anxious desire to
be still and gentle, to upset something, or bring about some general
catastrophe, and to go out feeling more like a criminal than ever.
The mother and the nurse, stationed there like a pair of chief
mourners, spoke in tones which experienced feminine experts seem to
keep for occasions like these, and which, as Hawthorne has said, give
an effect as if the voice had been dyed black. It was a comfort and
relief to pass from the funeral gloom to the little pink-ruffled
chamber among the cherry-trees, where the birds were singing and the
summer breezes blowing, and the pretty Kathleen was crooning her Irish
songs, and invoking the holy virgin and all the saints to bless the
“darlin’” baby.
“An’ it’s a blessin’ they brings wid ’em to a house, sir; the angels
comes down wid ’em. We can’t see ’em, sir; but, bless the darlin’, she
can. And she smiles in her sleep when she sees ’em.”
Rose and Grace came often to this bower with kisses and gifts and
offerings, like a pair of nice fairy godmothers. They hung over the
pretty little waxen miracle as she opened her great blue eyes with a
silent, mysterious wonder; but, alas! all these delicious moments, this
artless love of the new baby life, was not for the mother. She was not
strong enough to enjoy it. Its cries made her nervous; and so she kept
the uncheered solitude of her room without the blessing of the little
angel.
People may mourn in lugubrious phrase about the Irish blood in our
country. For our own part, we think the rich, tender, motherly nature
of the Irish girl an element a thousand times more hopeful in our
population than the faded, washed-out indifferentism of fashionable
women, who have danced and flirted away all their womanly attributes,
till there is neither warmth nor richness nor maternal fulness left
in them,—mere paper-dolls, without milk in their bosoms or blood in
their veins. Give us rich, tender, warm-hearted Bridgets and Kathleens,
whose instincts teach them the real poetry of motherhood; who can love
unto death, and bear trials and pains cheerfully for the joy that is
set before them. We are not afraid for the republican citizens that
such mothers will bear to us. They are the ones that will come to high
places in our land, and that will possess the earth by right of the
strongest.
Motherhood, to the woman who has lived only to be petted, and to be
herself the centre of all things, is a virtual dethronement. Something
weaker, fairer, more delicate than herself comes,—something for her to
serve and to care for more than herself.
It would sometimes seem as if motherhood were a lovely artifice of
the great Father, to wean the heart from selfishness by a peaceful
and gradual process. The babe is self in another form. It is so
interwoven and identified with the mother’s life, that she passes by
almost insensible gradations from herself to it; and day by day the
distinctive love of self wanes as the child-love waxes, filling the
heart with a thousand new springs of tenderness.
But that this benignant transformation of nature may be perfected, it
must be wrought out in Nature’s own way. Any artificial arrangement
that takes the child away from the mother interrupts that wonderful
system of contrivances whereby the mother’s nature and being shade off
into that of the child, and her heart enlarges to a new and heavenly
