road from the Concord fight; and there are some 
ancient houses yet standing that must have been 
filled with exultation at the same spectacle. Poor 
old revolutionaries I they would never have believed 
that their descendants would come to love the Eng- 
lish as we do. 

The season has advanced rapidly during my prog- 
ress irom Dublin to the Avenue ; and by the time I 
reach the famous old tavern, not far from the station, 
it is a Sunday morning of early summer, and the 
yellow sunlight falls upon a body of good comrades 
who are grooming a marvelous number of piebald 
steeds about the stable-doors. By token of these 
beasts — which always look so much more like works 
of art than of nature — I know that there is to be a 
circus somewhere very soon ; and the gay bills pasted 
all over the stable-front tell me that there are to be 
two performances at the Port on the morrow. The 
grooms talk nothing and joke nothing but horse at 
their labor ; and their life seems such a low, igno- 
rant, happy life, that the secret nomad lurking in 
every respectable and stationary personality stirs 
within me and struggles to strike hands of fellowship 
with them. They lead a sort of pastoral existence 
in our age of railroads ; they wander over the con- 



 

tinent with their great caravan, and everywhere 
pursue the summer from south to North and from 
North to South again ; in the mild forenoons they 
groom their herds, and in the afternoons they doze 
under their wagons, indifferent to the tumult of the 
crowd within and without the mighty canvas near 
them, — doze face downwards on the bruised, sweet- 
smelling grass ; and in the starry midnight rise and 
strike their tents, and set forth again over the still 
country roads, to take the next village on the mor- 
row with the blaze and splendor of their " Grand 
Entree." The triumphal chariot in which the musi- 
cians are borne at the head of the procession is com- 
posed, as I perceive by the bills, of four colossal gilt 
swans, set tail to tail, with lifted wings and curving 
necks j but the chariot, as I behold it beside the sta- 
ble, is mysteriously draped in white canvas, through 
which its gilding glitters only here and there. And 
does it inove thus shrouded in the company's wander- 
ings from place to place, and is the precious spottiness 
of the piebalds then hidden under envious drapery ? 
O happy grooms, — not clean as to shirts, nor espe- 
cially neat in your conversation, but displaying a 
Wealth of art in India-ink upon your manly chests 
and the swelling muscles of your arms, and speaking 
in every movement your freedom from all conven- 
tional gyves and shackles, " seid UTmchlungen ! " — 
in spirit ; for the rest, you are rather too damp, and 
seem to have applied your sudsy sponges too impar- 
tially to your own trousers and the horses' legs to 
receive an actual embrace from a dilettante vaga- 
bond. 



 

The old tavern is old only comparatively ; but in 
our new and change&l life it is already quaint. It 
is very long, and low-studded in either story, with a 
row of windows in the roof, and a great porch, fiir- 
nished with benches, running the whole length of 
the ground-floor. Perhaps because they take the 
dust of the street too freely, or because the guests 
find it more social and comfortable to gather in-doors 
in the wide, low-ceiled office, the benches are not 
worn, nor particularly whittled. The room has the 
desolate air characteristic of offices which have once 
been bar-rooms ; but no doubt, on a winter's night, 
there is talk worth listening to there, of flocks and 
herds and horse-trades, from the drovers and cattle- 
market men who patronize the tavern; and the 
artistic temperament, at least, could feel no regret if 
that sepulchrally penitent bar-room then developed 
a secret capacity for the wickedness that once boldly 
glittered behind the counter in rows of decanters. 

The house was formerly renowned for its suppers, 
of which all that was learned or gifted in the old 
college town of Charlesbridge used to partake ; and 
I have heard lips which breathe the loftiest song and 
the sweetest humor — let alone being "dewy with 
the Greek of Plato " — smacked regretfully over 
the memory of those suppers' roast and broiled. No 
such suppers, they say, are cooked in the world any 
more ; and I am somehow made to feel that their 
passing away is connected with the decay of good 
literature. 

I hope it may be very long before the predestined 

French-roof villa occupies the tavern's site, and turns 
into lawns and gardens its wide-spreading cattle-pens, 
and removes the great bam that now shows its broad, 
low gable to the street. This is yet older and 
quainter-looking than the tavern itself ; it is mighty 
capacious, and gives a still profounder impression of 
vastness with its shed, of which the roof slopes 
southward down almost to a man's height from the 
ground, and shelters a row of mangers, running 
back half the length of the stable, and serving in 
former times for the baiting of such beasts as could 
not be provided for within. But the halcyon days 
of the cattle-market are past (though you may still 
see the white horns tossing above the fences of the 
pens, when a newly arrived herd lands from the train 
to be driven afoot to Brighton), and the place looks 
now so empty and forsaken, spite of the circus bag- 
gage-wagons, that it were hard to believe these 
mangers could ever have been in request, but for 
the fact that they are all gnawed, down to the quick 
as it were, by generations of horses — vanished for- 
ever on the deserted highways of the past — impa- 
tient for their oats or hungering for more. 

The day must come, of course, when the mangers 
will all be taken from the stable-shed, and exposed 
for sale at that wonderful second-hand shop which 
stands over against the tavern. I am no more sur- 
prised than one in a dream, to find it a week-day 
afternoon by the time I have crossed thither from 
the circus-men grooming their piebalds. It is an 
enchanted place to me, and I am a frequent and 



 

unprofitable customer there, bujring only just enough 
to make good my footing with the custodian of its 
marvels, who is, of course, too true an American to 
show any desire to sell. Without, on either side of 
the doorway, I am pretty sure to find, among other 
articles of furniture, a mahogany and hair-cloth sofa, 
a family portrait, a landscape painting, a bath-tub, 
and a flower-stand, with now and then the variety 
of a boat and a dog-house ; while under an adjoin- 
ing shed is heaped a mass of miscellaneous mov- 
ables, of a heavier sort, and fearlessly left there night 
and day, being on all accounts undesirable to steal. 
The door of the shop rings a bell in opening, and 
ushers the customer into a room which Chaos her- 
self might have planned in one of her happier mo- 
ments. Carpets, blankets, shawls, pictures, mirrors, 
rocking-chairs, and blue overalls hang from the ' ceil- 
ing, and devious pathways wind amidst piles of ready- 
made clothing, show-cases filled with every sort of 
knick-knack and half hidden under heaps of hats 
and boots and shoes, bookcases, secretaries, chests of 
drawers, mattresses, lounges, and bedsteads, to the 
stairway of a loft similarly appointed, and to a back 
room overflowing with glassware and crockery. 
These things are not all second-hand, but they are 
all old and equally pathetic. The melancholy of 
ruinous auction sales, of changing tastes or changing 
fashions, clings to them, whether they are things that 
have never had a home and have been on sale ever 
since they were made, or things that have been asso- 
ciated with every phase of human hfe. 



 

Among other objects, certain large glass vases, 
omamented by the polite art of potichomanie, have 
long appealed to my fancy, wherein they capriciously 
allied themselves to the history of aging single 
women in lonely New England village houses, — 
pathetic sisters lingering upon the neutral ground 
between the faded hopes of marriage and the yet 
unrisen prospects of consumption. The work implies 
an imperfect yet real love of beauty, the leisure for 
it a degree of pecuniary ease : the thoughts of the 
sisters rise above the pickling and preserving that 
occupied their heartier and happier mother ; they are 
in fact in that aesthetic, social, and intellectual mean, 
in which single women are thought soonest to wither 
and decline. With a little more power, and in our 
later era, they would be writing stories full of ambi- 
tious, unintelligible, self-devoted and sudden collaps- 
ing young girls and amazing doctors ; but as they 
are, and in their time, they must do what they can. 
A sentimentalist may discern on these vases not only 
the gay designs with which they omamented them, 
but their own dim faces looking wan from the win- 
dows of some huge old homestead, a world too wide 
for the shrunken family. All April long the door- 
yard trees crouch and shudder in the sour east, all 
Jvme they rain canker-worms upon the roof, and 
then in autumn choke the eaves with a fall of tat- 
tered and hectic foliage. From the window the 
fading sisters gaze upon the unnatural liveliness of 
the summer streets through which the summer 
boarders are driving, or upon the death-white drifts 



of the intolerable winter. Their father, the captain, 
is dead ; he died with the Calcutta trade, having sur- 
vived their mother, and left them a hopeless compe- 
tency and yonder bamboo chairs ; their only brother 
is in California ; one, though she loved, had never 
a lover ; her sister's betrothed married West, whither 
he went to make a home for her, — and ah ! is it 
vases for the desolate parlor mantel they decorate, or 
faneral ums ? And when in time, they being gone, 
the Califomian brother sends to sell out at auction 
the old place with the household and kitchen furni- 
ture, is it withered rose-leaves or ashes that the pur- 
chaser finds in these jars ? 

They are empty now ; and I wonder how came they 
here ? How came the show-case of Dr. Merrifield, 
Surgeon-Chiropodist here? How came here yon 
Italian painting ? — a poor, silly, little affected Ma- 
donna, simpering at me from her dingy gilt frame 
till I buy her, a great bargain, at a dollar. From 
what country church or family oratory, in what revo- 
lution, or stress of private fortunes, — then from what 
various cabinets of antiquities, in what dear Vicenza, 
or Ferrara, or Mantua, camest thou, O Madonna? 
Whose likeness are you, poor girl, with your every- 
day prettiness of brows and chin, and your Kaphael- 
esque crick in the neck ? I think I know a part of 
your story. Tou were once the property of that 
ruined advocate, whose sensibilities would sometimes 
consent that a valet de place of uncommon delicacy 
should bring to his ancestral palace some singularly 
meritorious foreigner desirous of purchasing from his 



 

rare collection, — a collection of rubbish scarcely to be 
equaled elsewhere in Italy. You hung in that fam- 
ily-room, reached after passage through stately vesti- 
bules and grand stairways ; and O, I would be 
cheated to the bone, if only I might look out again 
from some such windows as were there, upon some 
such damp, mouldy, broken-statued, ruinous, en- 
chanted garden as lay below ! In that room sat the 
advocate's mother and hunchback sister, with their 
smoky sealdini and their snuffy priest; and there 
the wife of the foreigner, self-elected the taste of his 
party, inflicted the pang courted by the advocate, 
and asked if you were for sale. And then the mined 
advocate clasped his hands, rubbed them, set his head 
heart-brokenly on one side, took you down, heaved 
a sigh, shrugged his shoulders, and sold you — you! 
a family heirloom ! Well, at least yon are old, and 
you represent to me acres of dim, religious canvas in 
that beloved land ; and here is the dollar now asked 
for you : I could not have bought you for so little at 
home. 

The Madonna is neighbored by several paintings, 
of the kind called Grecian for a reason never re- 
vealed by the inventor of an art as old as poticho- 
manie itself. It was an art by which ordinary litho- 
graphs were given a ghastly transparency, and a tone 
as disagreeable as chromos ; and I doubt if it could 
have been known to the Greeks in their best age. 
But I remember very well when it passed over 
whole neighborhoods in some parts of this country, 
wasting the time of many young women, and disfig- 



 

uring parlor walls with the fruit of their accomplish- 
ment. It was always taught by Professors, a class 
of learned young men who acquired their title by 
abandoning the plough and anvil, and, in a suit of 
ready-made clothing, travelling about the country 
with portfolios under their arms. It was an experi- 
ence to make loafers for life of them ; and I fancy 
the girls who learnt their art never afterwards made 
so good butter and cheese. 

" Xon ragioniam di lor, ma guarda e paasa." 

Besides the Grecian paintings there are some mez- 
zotints ; full length pictures of presidents and states- 
men, chiefly General Jackson, Henry Clay, and 
Daniel Webster, which have hung their day in the 
offices or parlors of country politicians. They are all 
statesmanlike and presidential in attitude ; and I 
know that if the mighty Webster's lips had language, 
he would take his hand out of his waistcoat front, 
and say to his fellow mezzotints : " Venerable men ! 
you have come down to us from a former generation, 
bringing your household ftimiture and miscellaneous 
trumpery of all kinds with you." 

Some old-fashioned entry lanterns divide my inter- 
est -with, certain old willow chairs of an hour-glass pat- 
tern, which never stood upright, probably, and have 
now all a confirmed droop to one side, as from having 
been fallen heavily asleep in, upon breezy porches, of 
hot summer afternoons. In the windows are small 
vases of alabaster, fly-specked Parian and plaster fig- 
ures, and dolls with stifl" wooden limbs and papier- 
mache heads, a sort of dolls no longer to be bought 



 

in these days of modish, blue-eyed blondes of biscuit 
and sturdy india-rubber brunettes. The show-case 
is full of an incredible variety, as photograph albums, 
fishing-hooks, socks, suspenders, steel pens, cutlery 
of all sorts, and curious old colored prints of Ade- 
laide, and Kate, and Ellen. A rocking-horse is sta- 
bled near amid pendent lengths of second-hand car- 
peting, hat-racks, and mirrors ; and standing cheek- 
by-jowl with painted washstands and bureaus are 
some plaster statues, aptly colored and varnished to 
represent bronze. 

There is nothing here but has a marked character 
of its own, some distinct yet intangible trait ac- 
quired from former circumstances ; and doubtless all 
these things have that lurking likeness to former 
owners which clothes and furniture are apt to take 
on from long association, and which we should in- 
stantly recognize could they be confronted with 
their late proprietors. It seems, in very imaginative 
moments, as if the strange assemblage of incongrui- 
ties must have a consciousness of these latent resem- 
blances, which the individual pieces betray when 
their present keeper turns the key upon them, and 
abandons them to themselves at night ; and I have 
sometimes fancied such an effect in the late twilight, 
when I have wandered into their resting-place, and 
have beheld them in the unnatural glare of a kerosene 
lamp burning before a brightly polished reflector, and 
casting every manner of grotesque shadow upon the 
floor and walls. But this may have been an illusion ; 
at any rate I am satisfied that the bargain-driving 



 

capacity of the storekeeper is not in the least affected 
by a weird quality in his wares ; though they have 
not failed to impart to him something of their own 
desultory character. He sometimes leaves a neigh- 
bor in charge when he goes to meals, and then, if I 
enter, I am watchfully followed about from comer to 
corner, and from room to room, lest I pocket a mat- 
tress or slip a book-case under my coat. The store- 
keeper himself never watches me ; perhaps he knows 
that it is a purely professional interest I take in the 
collection ; that I am in the trade and have a second- 
hand shop of my own, full of poetical rubbish, and 
every sort of literary odds and ends, picked up at 
random, and all cast higgledy-piggledy into the same 
chaotic receptacle. His customers are as little like 
ordinary shoppers as he is like common tradesmen. 
They are in part the Canadians who work in the brick- 
yards, and it is surprising to find how much business 
can be transacted, and how many sharp bargains 
struck without the help of a common language. I 
am in the belief, which may be erroneous, that no- 
body is wronged in these trades. The taciturn store- 
keeper, who regards his customers ivith a stare of 
solemn amusement as Critturs bom by some extraor- 
dinary vicissitude of nature to the use of a lan- 
guage that practically amounts to deafiiess and dumb- 
ness, never suffers his philosophical interest in them 
to affect his commercial efficiency ; he drops them 
now and then a curt English phrase, or expressive 
Yankee idiom ; he knows very well when they 
mean to buy and when they do not ; and they, 



equally wary and equally silent, unswayed by the 
glib allurements of a salesman, judge of price and 
quality for themselves, make their solitary offer, and 
stand or fall by it. 

I am seldom able to conclude a pedestrian tour 
without a glance at the wonderful interior of this 
cheap store, and I know all its contents familiarly. 
I recognize wares that have now been on sale there 
for years ; I miss at first glance such accustomed 
objects as have been parted with between my fre- 
quent visits, and hail with pleasure the additions to 
that extraordinary variety. I can hardly, I suppose, 
expect the reader to sympathize with the joy I felt 
the other night, in discovering among the latter an 
adventurous and universally applicable sign-board 
advertising This House and Lot for Sale, and, inter- 
twined with the cast-off suspenders which long gar- 
landed a coffee-mill pendent from the roof, a newly 
added second-hand india-rubber ear-trumpet. Here 
and there, however, I hope a finer soul will relish, as 
I do, the poetry of thus buying and offering for sale 
the veiy most recondite, as well as the commonest 
articles of commerce, in the faith that one day the 
predestined purchaser will appear and carry off the 
article appointed him from the beginning of time. 
This faith is all the more touching, because the col- 
lector cannot expect to live until the whole stock is 
disposed of, and because, in the order of nature, 
much must at last fall to ruin unbought, unless the 
reporter's Devouring Element appears and gives a 
sudden tragical turn to the poem. 



 

It is the whistle of a train drawing up at the 
neighboring station that calls me away from the 
second-hand store ; for I never find myself able to 
resist the hackneyed prodigy of such an arrival. It 
cannot cease to be impressive. I stand beside the 
track while the familiar monster writhes up to the 
station and disgorges its passengers, — suburbanly 
packaged, and bundled, and bagged, and even when 
empty-handed somehow proclaiming the jaded char- 
acter of men that hurry their work all day to catch 
the evening train out, and their dreams all night to 
catch the morning train in, — and then I climb the 
station-stairs, and " hang with grooms and porters on 
the bridge," that I may not lose my ever-repeated 
sensation of having the train pass under my feet, 
and of seeing it rush away westward to the pretty 
blue hills beyond, — hills not too big for a man bom 
in a plain-country to love. Twisting and trembling 
along the track, it dwindles rapidly in the perspec- 
tive, and is presently out of sight. It has left the 
city and the suburbs behind, and has sought the 
woods and meadows ; but Nature never in the least 
accepts it, and rarely makes its path a part of her 
landscape's loveliness. The train passes alien through 
all her moods and aspects ; the wounds made in her 
face by the road's sharp cuts and excavations are 
slowest of all wounds to heal, and the iron rails 
remain to the last as shackles upon her. Yet when 
the rails are removed, as has happened with a non- 
paying track in Charlesbridge, the road inspires a 
real tenderness in her. Then she bids it take on 



 

the grace that belongs to all ruin ; the grass creeps 
stealthily over the scarified sides of the embank- 
ments ; the golden-rod, and the purple-topped iron- 
weed, and the lady's-slipper, spring up in the hollows 
on either side, and — I am still thinking of that de- 
serted railroad which runs through Charlesbridge — 
hide with their leafage the empty tomato-cans and 
broken bottles and old boots on the ash-heaps 
dumped there; Nature sets her velvety willows a 
waving near, and lower than their airy tops plans a 
vista of trees arching above the track, which is as 
wild and pretty and illusive a vista as the sunset 
ever cared to look through and gild a board fence 
beyond. 

Most of our people come from Boston on the 
horse-cars, and it is only the dwellers on the Avenue 
and the neighboring streets whom hurrying home- 
ward I follow away from the steam-car station. The 
Avenue is our handsomest street ; and if it were in 
the cosmopolitan citizen of Charlesbridge to feel any 
local interest, I should be proud of it. As matters 
are, I perceive its beauty, and I often reflect, with a 
pardonable satisfaction, that it is not only handsome, 
but probably the very dullest street in the world. It 
is magnificently long and broad, and is flanked nearly 
the whole way from the station to the colleges by 
pine palaces rising from spacious lawns, or from the 
green of trees or the brightness of gardens. The 
splendor is all very new ; but newness is not a fault 
that much afiects architectural beauty, while it is the 
only one that time is certain to repair : and I find an 


