She turned the hem of my brown towel, and basted it for me so nicely,
and then she took out some delicate ruffling that was her school work,
and I admired her bright, fine needle and fine thread, and the waxen
little finger crowned with a little brass thimble, as she sewed away
with an industrious steadiness. To me the brass was gold, and her hands
were pearl, and she was a little fairy princess!--yet every few moments
she turned her great blue eyes on me, and smiled and nodded her little
head knowingly, as much as to bid me be of good cheer, and I felt a
thrill go right to my heart, that beat delightedly under the checked
apron.
"Please, ma'am," said Susan, glibly, "mayn't Henry go out to play with
the girls? The big boys are so rough."
And Miss Bessie smiled, and said I might; and I was a blessed little boy
from that moment. In the first recess Susie instructed me in playing
"Tag," and "Oats, peas, beans, and barley, O," and in "Threading the
needle," and "Opening the gates as high as high as the sky, to let King
George and his court pass by"--in all which she was a proficient, and
where I needed a great deal of teaching and encouraging.
But when it came to more athletic feats, I could distinguish myself. I
dared jump off from a higher fence than she could, and covered myself
with glory by climbing to the top of a five-railed gate, and jumping
boldly down; and moreover, when a cow appeared on the green before the
school-house door, I marched up to her with a stick and ordered her off,
with a manly stride and a determined voice, and chased her with the
utmost vigor quite out of sight. These proceedings seemed to inspire
Susie with a certain respect and confidence. I could read in "readings,"
jump off from high fences, and wasn't afraid of cows! These were manly
accomplishments!
The school-house was a long distance from my father's, and I used to
bring my dinner. Susie brought hers also, and many a delightful picnic
have we had together. We made ourselves a house under a great
button-ball tree, at whose foot the grass was short and green. Our house
was neither more nor less than a square, marked out on the green turf by
stones taken from the wall. I glorified myself in my own eyes and in
Susie's, by being able to lift stones twice as heavy as she could, and a
big flat one, which nearly broke my back, was deposited in the centre of
the square, as our table. We used a clean pocket-handkerchief for a
table-cloth; and Susie was wont to set out our meals with great order,
making plates and dishes out of the button-ball leaves. Under her
direction also, I fitted up our house with a pantry, and a small room
where we used to play wash dishes, and set away what was left of our
meals. The pantry was a stone cupboard, where we kept chestnuts and
apples, and what remained of our cookies and gingerbread. Susie was fond
of ornamentation, and stuck bouquets of golden rod and aster around in
our best room, and there we received company, and had select society
come to see us. Susie brought her doll to dwell in this establishment,
and I made her a bedroom and a little bed of milkweed-silk to lie on. We
put her to bed and tucked her up when we went into school--not without
apprehension that those savages, the big boys, might visit our Eden with
devastation. But the girls' recess came first, and we could venture to
leave her there taking a nap till our play-time came; and when the girls
went in Susie rolled her nursling in a napkin and took her safely into
school, and laid her away in a corner of her desk, while the dreadful
big boys were having their yelling war-whoop and carnival outside.
"How nice it is to have Harry gone all day to school," I heard one of my
sisters saying to the other. "He used to be so in the way, meddling and
getting into everything"--"And listening to everything one says," said
the other, "Children have such horridly quick ears. Harry always listens
to what we talk about."
"I think he is happier now, poor little fellow," said my mother. "He
has somebody now to play with." This was the truth of the matter.
On Saturday afternoons, I used to beg of my mother to let me go and see
Susie; and my sisters, nothing loth, used to brush my hair and put on me
a stiff, clean, checked apron, and send me trotting off, the happiest of
young lovers.
How bright and fair life seemed to me those Saturday afternoons, when
the sun, through the picket-fences, made golden-green lines on the
turf--and the trees waved and whispered, and I gathered handfuls of
golden-rod and asters to ornament our house, under the button-wood tree!
Then we used to play in the barn together. We hunted for hens' eggs, and
I dived under the barn to dark places where she dared not go; and
climbed up to high places over the hay-mow, where she trembled to behold
me--bringing stores of eggs, which she received in her clean white
apron.
This daintiness of outfit excited my constant admiration. I wore stiff,
heavy jackets and checked aprons, and was constantly, so my sisters
said, wearing holes through my knees and elbows for them to patch; but
little Susie always appeared to me fresh and fine and untumbled; she
never dirtied her hands or soiled her dress. Like a true little woman,
she seemed to have nerves through all her clothes that kept them in
order. This nicety of person inspired me with a secret, wondering
reverence. How could she always be so clean, so trim, and every way so
pretty, I wondered? Her golden curls always seemed fresh from the brush,
and even when she climbed and ran, and went with me into the barn-yard,
or through the swamp and into all sorts of compromising places, she
somehow picked her way out bright and unsoiled.
But though I admired her ceaselessly for this, she was no less in
admiration of my daring strength and prowess. I felt myself a perfect
Paladin in her defense. I remember that the chip-yard which we used to
cross, on our way to the barn, was tyrannized over by a most
loud-mouthed and arrogant old turkey-cock, that used to strut and swell
and gobble and chitter greatly to her terror. She told me of different
times when she had tried to cross the yard alone, how he had jumped upon
her and flapped his wings, and thrown her down, to her great distress
and horror. The first time he tried the game on me, I marched up to him,
and by a dexterous pass, seized his red neck in my hand, and confining
his wings down with my arm, walked him ingloriously out of the yard.
How triumphant Susie was, and how I swelled and exulted to her, telling
her what I would do to protect her under every supposable variety of
circumstances! Susie had confessed to me of being dreadfully afraid of
"bears," and I took this occasion to tell her what I would do if a bear
should actually attack her. I assured her that I would get father's gun
and shoot him without mercy--and she listened and believed. I also
dilated on what I would do if robbers should get into the house; I
would, I informed her, immediately get up and pour shovelfuls of hot
coal down their backs--and wouldn't they have to run? What comfort and
security this view of matters gave us both! What bears and robbers were,
we had no very precise idea, but it was a comfort to think how strong
and adequate to meet them in any event I was.
Sometimes, of a Saturday afternoon, Susie was permitted to come and play
with me. I always went after her, and solicited the favor humbly at the
hands of her mother, who, after many washings and dressings and cautions
as to her clothes, delivered her up to me, with the condition that she
was to start for home when the sun was half an hour high. Susie was very
conscientious in watching, but for my part I never agreed with her. I
was always sure that the sun was an hour high, when she set her little
face dutifully homeward. My sisters used to pet her greatly during these
visits. They delighted to twine her curls over their fingers, and try
the effects of different articles of costume on her fair complexion.
They would ask her, laughing, would she be my little wife, to which she
always answered with a grave affirmative.
[Illustration: MATRIMONIAL PROPOSITIONS.
"Early marriages?" said my mother, stopping her knitting looking at me,
while a smile flashed over her thin cheeks: "what's the child thinking
of?"]
Yes, she was to be my wife; it was all settled between us. But when? I
didn't see why we must wait till we grew up. She was lonesome when I was
gone, and I was lonesome when she was gone. Why not marry her now, and
take her home to live with me? I asked her and she said she was willing,
but mamma never would spare her. I said I would get my mamma to ask her,
and I knew she couldn't refuse, because my papa was the minister.
I turned the matter over and over in my mind, and thought sometime when
I could find my mother alone, I would introduce the subject. So one
evening, as I sat on my little stool at my mother's knees, I thought I
would open the subject, and began:
"Mamma, why do people object to early marriages?"
"Early marriages?" said my mother, stopping her knitting, looking at me,
while a smile flashed over her thin cheeks: "what's the child thinking
of?"
"I mean, why can't Susie and I be married now? I want her here. I'm
lonesome without her. Nobody wants to play with me in this house, and if
she were here we should be together all the time."
My father woke up from his meditation on his next Sunday's sermon, and
looked at my mother, smiling. A gentle laugh rippled her bosom.
"Why, dear," she said, "don't you know your father is a poor man, and
has hard work to support his children now? He couldn't afford to keep
another little girl."
I thought the matter over, sorrowfully. Here was the pecuniary
difficulty, that puts off so many desiring lovers, meeting me on the
very threshold of life.
"Mother," I said, after a period of mournful consideration, "I wouldn't
eat but just half as much as I do now, and I'd try not to wear out my
clothes, and make 'em last longer." My mother had very bright eyes, and
there was a mingled flash of tears and laughter in them, as when the sun
winks through rain drops. She lifted me gently into her lap and drew my
head down on her bosom.
"Some day, when my little son grows to be a man, I hope God will give
him a wife he loves dearly. 'Houses and lands are from the fathers; but
a good wife is of the Lord,' the Bible says."
"That's true, dear," said my father, looking at her tenderly; "nobody
knows that better than I do."
My mother rocked gently back and forward with me in the evening shadows,
and talked with me and soothed me, and told me stories how one day I
should grow to be a good man--a minister, like my father, she hoped--and
have a dear little house of my own.
"And will Susie be in it?"
"Let's hope so," said my mother. "Who knows?"
"But, mother, ain't you sure? I want you to say it will be certainly."
"My little one, only our dear Father could tell us that," said my mother.
"But now you must try and learn fast, and become a good strong man, so
that you can take care of a little wife."
CHAPTER III.
OUR CHILD-EDEN.
My mother's talk aroused all the enthusiasm of my nature. Here was a
motive, to be sure. I went to bed and dreamed of it. I thought over all
possible ways of growing big and strong rapidly--I had heard the stories
of Samson from the Bible. How did he grow so strong? He was probably
once a little boy like me. "Did he go for the cows, I wonder," thought
I--"and let down very big bars when his hands were little, and learn to
ride the old horse bare-back, when his legs were very short?" All these
things I was emulous to do; and I resolved to lift very heavy pails full
of water, and very many of them, and to climb into the mow, and throw
down great armfulls of hay, and in every possible way to grow big and
strong.
I remember the next day after my talk with my mother was Saturday, and
I had leave to go up and spend it with Susie.
There was a meadow just back of her mother's house, which we used to
call the mowing lot. It was white with daisies, yellow with buttercups,
with some moderate share of timothy and herds grass intermixed. But what
was specially interesting to us was, that, down low at the roots of the
grass, and here and there in moist, rich spots, grew wild strawberries,
large and juicy, rising on nice high stalks, with three or four on a
cluster. What joy there was in the possession of a whole sunny Saturday
afternoon to be spent with Susie in this meadow! To me the amount of
happiness in the survey was greatly in advance of what I now have in the
view of a three weeks' summer excursion.
When, after multiplied cautions and directions, and careful adjustment
of Susie's clothing, on the part of her mother, Susie was fairly
delivered up to me; when we had turned our backs on the house and got
beyond call, then our bliss was complete. How carefully and
patronizingly I helped her up the loose, mossy, stone wall, all hedged
with a wilderness of golden-rod, ferns, raspberry bushes, and asters!
Down we went through this tangled thicket, into such a secure world of
joy, where the daisied meadow received us to her motherly bosom, and we
were sure nobody could see us.
We could sit down and look upward, and see daisies and grasses nodding
and bobbing over our heads, hiding us as completely as two young grass
birds; and it was such fun to think that nobody could find out where we
were! Two bob-o-links, who had a nest somewhere in that lot, used to
mount guard in an old apple tree, and sit on tall, bending twigs, and
say, "Chack! chack! chack!" and flutter their black and white wings up
and down, and burst out into most elaborate and complicated babbles of
melody. These were our only associates and witnesses. We thought that
they knew us, and were glad to see us there, and wouldn't tell anybody
where we were for the world. There was an exquisite pleasure to us in
this sense of utter isolation--of being hid with each other where nobody
could find us.
We had worlds of nice secrets peculiar to ourselves. Nobody but
ourselves knew where the "thick spots" were, where the ripe, scarlet
strawberries grew; the big boys never suspected them, we said to one
another, nor the big girls; it was our own secret, which we kept between
our own little selves. How we searched, and picked, and chatted, and
oh'd and ah'd to each other, as we found wonderful places, where the
strawberries passed all belief!
But profoundest of all our wonderful secrets were our discoveries in the
region of animal life. We found, in a tuft of grass overshadowed by wild
roses, a grass bird's nest. In vain did the cunning mother creep yards
from the cherished spot, and then suddenly fly up in the wrong place; we
were not to be deceived. Our busy hands parted the lace curtains of
fern, and, with whispers of astonishment, we counted the little
speckled, bluegreen eggs. How round and fine and exquisite, past all
gems polished by art, they seemed; and what a mystery was the little
curious smooth-lined nest in which we found them! We talked to the birds
encouragingly. "Dear little birds," we said, "don't be afraid; nobody
but we shall know it;" and then we said to each other, "Tom Halliday
never shall find this out, nor Jim Fellows." They would carry off the
eggs and tear up the nest; and our hearts swelled with such a
responsibility for the tender secret, that it was all we could do that
week to avoid telling it to everybody we met. We informed all the
children at school that we knew something that they didn't--something
that we never should tell!--something so wonderful!--something that
it would be wicked to tell of--for mother said so; for be it observed
that, like good children, we had taken our respective mothers into
confidence, and received the strictest and most conscientious charges as
to our duty to keep the birds' secret.
In that enchanted meadow of ours grew tall, yellow lilies, glowing as
the sunset, hanging down their bells, six or seven in number, from high,
graceful stalks, like bell towers of fairy land. They were over our
heads sometimes, as they rose from the grass and daisies, and we looked
up into their golden hearts spotted with black, with a secret, wondering
joy.
"Oh, don't pick them, they look too pretty," said Susie to me once when
I stretched up my hand to gather one of these. "Let's leave them to be
here when we come again! I like to see them wave."
And so we left the tallest of them; but I was not forbidden to gather
handfuls of the less wonderful specimens that grew only one or two on a
stalk. Our bouquets of flowers increased with our strawberries.
Through the middle of this meadow chattered a little brook, gurgling and
tinkling over many-colored pebbles, and here and there collecting itself
into a miniature waterfall, as it pitched over a broken bit of rock.
For our height and size, the waterfalls of this little brook were equal
to those of Trenton, or any of the medium cascades that draw the
fashionable crowd of grown-up people; and what was the best of it was,
it was our brook, and our waterfall. We found them, and we verily
believed nobody else but ourselves knew of them.
By this waterfall, as I called it, which was certainly a foot and a half
high, we sat and arranged our strawberries when our baskets were full,
and I talked with Susie about what my mother had told me.
I can see her now, the little crumb of womanhood, as she sat, gaily
laughing at me. "She didn't care a bit," she said. She had just as
lief wait till I grew to be a man. Why, we could go to school together,
and have Saturday afternoons together. "Don't you mind it, Hazzy Dazzy,"
she said, coming close up to me, and putting her little arms coaxingly
round my neck; "we love each other, and it's ever so nice now."
I wonder what the reason is that it is one of the first movements of
affectionate feeling to change the name of the loved one. Give a baby a
name, ever so short and ever so musical, where is the mother that does
not twist it into some other pet name between herself and her child. So
Susie, when she was very loving, called me Hazzy, and sometimes would
play on my name, and call me Hazzy Dazzy, and sometimes Dazzy, and we
laughed at this because it was between us; and we amused ourselves with
thinking how surprised people would be to hear her say Dazzy, and how
they would wonder who she meant. In like manner, I used to call her
Daisy when we were by ourselves, because she seemed to me so neat and
trim and pure, and wore a little flat hat on Sundays just like a daisy.
"I'll tell you, Daisy," said I, "just what I'm going to do--I'm going to
grow strong as Sampson did."
"Oh, but how can you?" she suggested, doubtfully.
"Oh, I'm going to run and jump and climb, and carry ever so much water
for Mother, and I'm to ride on horseback and go to mill, and go all
round on errands, and so I shall get to be a man fast, and when I get to
be a man I'll build a house all on purpose for you and me--I'll build it
all myself; it shall have a parlor and a dining-room and kitchen, and
bed-room, and well-room, and chambers"--
"And nice closets to put things in," suggested the little woman.
"Certainly, ever so many--just where you want them, there I'll put
them," said I, with surpassing liberality. "And then, when we live
together, I'll take care of you--I'll keep off all the lions and bears
and panthers. If a bear should come at you, Daisy, I should tear him
right in two, just as Sampson did."
At this vivid picture, Daisy nestled close to my shoulder, and her eyes
grew large and reflective. "We shouldn't leave poor Mother alone," said
she.
"Oh, no; she shall come and live with us," said I, with an exalted
generosity. "I will make her a nice chamber on purpose, and my mother
shall come, too."
"But she can't leave your father, you know."
"Oh, father shall come, too--when he gets old and can't preach any more.
I shall take care of them all."
And my little Daisy looked at me with eyes of approving credulity, and
said I was a brave boy; and the bobolinks chittered and chattered
applause as they sung and skirmished and whirled up over the meadow
grasses; and by and by, when the sun fell low, and looked like a great
golden ball, with our hands full of lilies, and our baskets full of
strawberries, we climbed over the old wall, and toddled home.
After that, I remember many gay and joyous passages in that happiest
summer of my life. How, when autumn came, we roved through the woods
together, and gathered such stores of glossy brown chestnuts. What joy
it was to us to scuff through the painted fallen leaves and send them
flying like showers of jewels before us! How I reconnoitered and marked
available chestnut trees, and how I gloried in being able to climb like
a cat, and get astride high limbs and shake and beat them, and hear the
glossy brown nuts fall with a rich, heavy thud below, while Susie was
busily picking up at the foot of the tree. How she did flatter me with
my success and prowess! Tom Halliday might be a bigger boy, but he could
never go up a tree as I could; and as for that great clumsy Jim Fellows,
she laughed to think what a figure he would make, going out on the end
of the small limbs, which would be sure to break and send him bundling
down. The picture which Susie drew of the awkwardness of the big boys
often made us laugh till the tears rolled down our cheeks. To this day I
observe it as a weakness of my sex that we all take it in extremely good
part when the pretty girl of our heart laughs at other fellows in a
snug, quiet way, just between one's dear self and herself alone. We
encourage our own dear little cat to scratch and claw the sacred
memories of Jim or Tom, and think that she does it in an extremely
cunning and diverting way--it being understood between us that there is
no malice in it--that "Jim and Tom are nice fellows enough, you
know--only that somebody else is so superior to them," etc.
Susie and I considered ourselves as an extremely forehanded, well-to-do
partnership, in the matter of gathering in our autumn stores. No pair of
chipmonks in the neighborhood conducted business with more ability. We
had a famous cellar that I dug and stoned, where we stored away our
spoils. We had chestnuts and walnuts and butternuts, as we said, to last
us all winter, and many an earnest consultation and many a busy hour did
the gathering and arranging of these spoils cost us.
Then, oh, the golden times we had when father's barrels of new cider
came home from the press! How I cut and gathered and selected bunches of
choice straws, which I took to school and showed to Susie,
surreptitiously, at intervals, during school exercises, that she might
see what a provision of bliss I was making for Saturday afternoons. How
Susie was sent to visit us on these occasions, in leather shoes and
checked apron, so that we might go in the cellar; and how, mounted up on
logs on either side of a barrel of cider, we plunged our straws through
the foamy mass at the bung-hole, and drew out long draughts of sweet
cider! I was sure to get myself dirty in my zeal, which she never did;
and then she would laugh at me and patronize me, and wipe me up in a
motherly sort of way. "How do you always get so dirty, Harry?" she
would say, in a truly maternal tone of reproof. "How do you keep so
clean?" I would say, in wonder; and she would laugh, and call me her
dear, dirty boy. She would often laugh at me, the little elf, and make
herself distractingly merry at my expense, but the moment she saw that
the blood was getting too high in my cheeks, she would stroke me down
with praises, as became a wise young daughter of Eve.
Besides all this, she had her little airs of moral superiority, and used
occasionally to lecture me in the nicest manner. Being an only darling,
she herself was brought up in the strictest ways in which little feet
could go; and the nicety of her conscience was as unsullied as that of
her dress. I was hot tempered and heady, and under stress of great
provocation would come as near swearing as a minister's son could
possibly do. When the big boys ravaged our house under the tree, or
threw sticks at us, I used to stretch every permitted limit, and scream,
"Darn you!" and "Confound you!" with a vigor and emphasis that made it
almost equal to something a good deal stronger.
On such occasions Susie would listen pale and frightened, and, when
reason came back to me, gravely lecture me, and bring me into the paths
of virtue. She used to rehearse to me the teachings of her mother about
all manner of good things.
I have her image now in my mind, looking so crisp and composed and neat
in her sobriety, repeating, for my edification, the hymn which contained
the good child's ideal in those days:
  "Oh, that it were my chief delight
    To do the things I ought,
  Then let me try with all my might
    To mind what I am taught.
  Whene'er I'm told, I'll freely bring
    Whatever I have got,
  And never touch a pretty thing,
    When mother tells me not.
  If she permits me, I may tell
    About my little toys,
  But if she's busy or unwell,
    I must not make a noise."
I can hear now the delicious lisp of my little saint, and see the
gracious gravity of her manner. To my mind, she was unaccountably well
established in the ways of virtue, and I listened to her little lectures
with a secret reverence.
Susie was especially careful in the observation of Sunday, and as that
is a point where children are apt to be particularly weak, she would
exhort me to rigorous exactitude.
I kept it, first, by thinking that I should see her at church, and by
growing very precise about my Sunday clothes, whereat my sisters winked
at each other and laughed slyly. Then at church we sat in great square
pews adjoining to each other. It was my pleasure to peep through the
slats at Susie. She was wonderful to behold then, all in white, with a
profusion of blue ribbons and her little flat hat over her curls--and a
pair of dainty blue shoes peeping out from her dress.
She informed me that little girls never must think about their clothes
in meeting, and so I supposed she was trying to be entirely absorbed
from earthly vanities, unconscious of the fixed and earnest stare with
which I followed every movement.
Human nature is but partially sanctified, however, in little saints as
well as grown up ones, and I noticed that occasionally, probably by
accident, the great blue eyes met mine, and a smile, almost amounting to
a sinful giggle, was with difficulty choked down. She was, however, a
most conscientious little puss and recovered herself in a moment, and
looked gravely upward at the minister, not one word of whose sermon
could she by any possibility understand, severely devoting herself to
her religious duties, till exhausted nature gave way. The little lids
would close over the eyes like blue pimpernel before a shower,--the head
would drop and nod, till finally the mother would dispense the little
Christian from further labors, by laying her head on her lap and drawing
her feet up comfortably upon the seat, to sleep out to the end of the
sermon.
When winter came on I beset my older brother to make me a sled. Sleds,
such as every boy in Boston or New York now rejoices in, were blessings
in our parts unknown; our sled was of rough, domestic manufacture.
My brother, laughing, asked if my sled was intended to draw Susie on,
and on my earnest response in the affirmative he amused himself with
painting it in colors, red and blue, most glorious to behold.
My soul was magnified within me when I first started with this stylish
establishment to wait on Susie.
What young fellow does not exult in a smart team when he has a girl whom
he wants to dazzle? Great was my joy and pride when I first stopped at
Susie's and told her to hurry on her things, for I had come to draw her
to school!
What a pretty picture she made in her little blue knit hood and mittens,
her bright curls flying and cheeks glowing with the keen winter air!
There was a long hill on the way to school, and seated on the sled
behind her, I careered gloriously down with exultation in my breast,
while a stream of laughter floated on the breeze behind us. That was a
winter of much coasting down hill, of red cheeks and red noses, of cold
toes, which we never minded, and of abundant jollity. Susie, under her
mother's careful showing, knit me a pair of red mittens, warming to the
heart and delightful to the eyes; and I piled up wood and carried water
for Mother, and by vigorous economy earned money enough to buy Susie a
great candy heart as big as my two hands, that had the picture of two
doves tied together by a blue ribbon on one side, and on the other two
very red hearts skewered together by an arrow.
No work of art ever gave greater and more unmingled delight. Susie gave
it a prominent place in her baby-house,--and though it was undeniably
sweet, as certain little nibbling trials on its edges had proved, yet
the artistic sense was stronger than the palate, and the candy heart was
kept to be looked at and rejoiced in.
Susie's mother was an intimate and confidential friend of my mother, and
a most docile and confiding sheep of my father's flock. She regarded her
minister's family, and all that belonged to it, as something set apart
and sacred. My mother had imparted to her the little joke of my
matrimonial wishes, and the two matrons had laughed over it together,
and then sighed, and said, "Ah! well, stranger things have happened."
Susie's mother told how she used to know her husband when he was a
little boy, and what if it should be! and then they strayed on to the
general truth that this was a world of uncertainty, and we never can
tell what a day may bring forth.
Our little idyl, too, was rather encouraged by my brothers and sisters,
who made a pet and plaything of Susie, and diverted themselves by the
gravity and honesty with which we devoted ourselves to each other. Oh!
dear ignorant days--sweet little child-Eden--why could it not last?
But it could not. It was fleeting as the bobolink's song, as the spotted
yellow lilies, as the grass and daisies. My little Daisy was too dear to
the angels to be spared to grow up in our coarse world.
The winter passed and spring came, and Susie and I rejoiced in the first
bluebird, and found blue and white violets together, and went to school
together, till the heats of summer came on. Then a sad epidemic began to
linger around in our mountains, and to be heard of in neighboring
villages, and my poor Daisy was scorched by its breath.
I remember well our last afternoon together in the meadow, where, the
year before, we had gathered strawberries. We went down into it in high
spirits; the strawberries were abundant, and we chatted and picked
together gaily, till Daisy began to complain that her head ached and her
throat was sore. I sat her down by the brook, and wet her curls with the
water, and told her to rest there, and let me pick for her. But pretty
soon she called me. She was crying with pain. "Oh! Hazzy, dear, I must
go home," she said. "Take me to Mother." I hurried to help her, for she
cried and moaned so that I was frightened. I began to cry, too, and we
came up the steps of her mother's house sobbing together.
When her mother came out the little one suppressed her tears and
distress for a moment, and turning, threw her arms around my neck and
kissed me. "Don't cry any more, Hazzy," she said; "we'll see each other
again."
Her mother took her up in her arms and carried her in, and I never saw
my little baby-wife again on this earth! Not where the daisies and
buttercups grew; nor where the golden lilies shook their bells, and the
bobolinks trilled; not in the school-room, with its many child-voices;
not in the old square pew in church--never, never more that trim little
maiden form, those violet blue eyes, those golden curls of hair, were to
be seen on earth!
My Daisy's last kisses, with the fever throbbing in her veins, very
nearly took me with her. From that time I have only indistinct
remembrances of going home crying, of turning with a strange loathing
from my supper, of creeping up and getting into bed, shivering and
