" We have just begun our visit," the latter an- 
swered. " Will not to-morrow do ? ' 
"You can begin over again," he said brusquely. 
" Beginnings are about the pleasantest events there 
are in life. Maybe Ada will not want her for more 
than ten minutes." 
So Kathie went for her hat, and gave Jessie an 
unobserved kiss. 
It was a warm afternoon, and Kathie missed the 
shady trees and fragrant country air. Mr. Meredith's 
 
house was in a pleasant row, to be sure, and here 
were other quiet squares, but everything looked 
parched and dusty in this midsummer heat. 
" Kathie," the Doctor exclaimed, abruptly, " you are 
a sort of missionary, are you not ? " 
" A missionary ! ' Kathie's face was scarlet. 
" Yes. Don't you suppose there are any this side 
of China ? " and he gave her an odd glance out of his 
shrewd eyes. 
" Why of course." 
" But you haven't taken your degree yet, is 
that it ? " 
Kathie's eyes drooped thoughtfully. 
" There is not the slightest need of Ada's dying. 
It will be a sort of slow, foolish suicide, and yet I 
don't know but she is bent upon it. And she surely 
will unless she is roused in time." 
" But what could I do ? " asked Kathie, perplexed. 
" I cannot tell exactly what ; only seeing you so 
bright and fresh brought the thing into my mind. 
What did you do to keep your Aunt Ruth alive ? " 
" It is so different, though." 
" Yes. She did not need to be taught anything. 
But Ada is like a baby, worse even in her igno- 
ranee. What is her education good for, her accom- 
plishments ? Why, she doesn't understand the com- 
monest principle of life, the commonest duty. She 
ought to be a comfort to both her parents ; instead, 
she is only an anxiety." 
" Dr. Markham," Kathie said, coming bravely to 
confession, " I do not think that Ada and I are 
true friends. There is always some gulf between 
us, and we cannot seem to get over it." 
" Who, you, or she ? ' and a kind of grim smile 
curved his lip. 
" Both, perhaps." 
" Don't you suppose the great Master saw the gulf 
as well ? And yet he went on." 
Kathie was revolving it in her mind. 
" What I mean is," she said, in a slower and lower 
tone, " that we don't quite suit. She doesn't like 
the things that I like, and I am afraid that I could 
not interest her in anything that was real earnest and 
true. If I could I would be very glad to." 
" I guess Ada has taken the lead heretofore. You 
stood a little in awe of her because they were very 
grand and fashionable, and you took her fine ways 
rather meekly. It was only on the outside, though, 
 
for I heard about your not singing there one Sunday 
evening, and how you stood in the front, exposed to 
all the fire, and never flinched." 
Kathie's curls drooped lower over her crimson face. 
" The world has changed with them, you see. Ada's 
line friends have dropped oft', and she had none be- 
side. Mrs. Meredith is learning a useful lesson as 
well, but she is older and has more resources. Still, 
she is much engrossed with her other children and 
her household cares, and perhaps understands Ada 
no better than you do. Are you going anywhere this 
summer ? ' 
Kathie hesitated, almost guessing what must come 
next. It would be so easy to plead a partial engage- 
ment, but she felt in her heart that they would not 
be likely to go to the White Mountains, after all. It 
looked mean to make it an excuse. 
" I think we shall be very likely to stay at home." 
" Going to the seaside will not do anything for 
Ada. She may bathe a little, but she will not get 
interested in any one, nor come out of the gray 
shadow of self. Indeed, she rather shrinks from 
the experiment. She said, a few days ago, she 
thought she should like to go to Brookside if her 
auntie went, and seeing you brought the thing into 
my mind. Suppose, between you both, you should 
try to entertain her for a month." 
" If I could do her any good 
"You can try. The world is full of poor, miser- 
able wretches who must be saved somehow, and most 
of them saved from themselves. And I do believe 
that a good many of these things come back to one. 
What is it, bread upon the waters ? I dare say 
you know more about it than I. Here we are." 
They had been driving very slowly, taking the 
shadiest streets. He paused before the door, and the 
two boys rushed out with a shout of joy. 
" O, it is Miss Kathie ! Why, you haven't been 
here ever and ever ! " declared Willie, jumping up the 
step and holding, a not over-clean face to be kissed. 
" There, don't eat her up. She has come to see 
Ada to-day. Give her a chance to step on the side- 
walk." 
" She always comes to see Ada," said George, rather 
discontentedly. " Only you did use to tell us stories. 
I have rememberer , all about the prince and the little 
white fairy until now. O, can't you stay down in 
the parlor ? Mamma and Florrie have gone out, and 
we will have a real good time." 
 
" Not to-day, little men," said the Doctor, shielding 
Kathie from the rapturous embraces. " We must see 
Ada instead. I would go out and play again, if I 
were you." 
Dr. Markham led Kathie up stairs. Ada was sit- 
ting in a rocking-chair by the window. 
" There, I have brought you some one as sweet and 
fresh as a June rose, or a whole garden of flowers. 
If you are not thankful, I will carry her off again !" 
Ada rose languidly. She had grown taller during 
the last six months, but was now very thin and 
seemed scarcely able to support herself. Her face 
was small and deathly pale, with purplish circles 
under her eyes, and a wan, feverish look in them. 
" Why, this is a surprise," she said, kissing Kathie 
with affection. " But I don't see how you came to 
stray in town when everybody else is straying out. 
You are not tired of green fields, surely ? ' 
Kathie explained. 
" Now," exclaimed the Doctor, looking at his watch, 
" I am going to leave you two girls for an hour or so, 
when I shall come back after Kathie, as I left Mrs. 
Jessie broken-hearted. So talk fast." 
Kathie was really shocked with the change in Ada, 
WHICH, - - HERSELF, OK HER NEIGHBOR V 
and the kind of wistful expression went to her heart 
at once. She did indeed look very delicate. Her 
fingers were slender enough for the most rigid re- 
quirements of fashion, and white enough, too, for that 
matter. 
The room was quite tidy and pleasant. Instead 
of the careless girl they had a very efficient woman, 
who rather admired Miss Ada, but considered her 
"not long for this world." 
" How glad I am to see you ! " Ada said, with much 
interest. " And so Bruce Mackenzie has gone off to 
have a visit with his new mother. How odd it seems 
that the General's wife should be your Aunt Ruth ! 
And you know you met him that night when you 
were at the opera with me. It is like a story-book, 
isn't it ? " 
" A good deal better," returned Kathie. " It is all 
real, and they are very happy." 
Ada sighed. " Everything has changed terribly 
since then. I only went to two operas last winter." 
" And I didn't go to any," said Kathie, cheerily. 
" But you were in Washington. Where will your 
uncle take you this summer ? ' : 
" Perhaps we shall not go anywhere." 
 
 
" Tell me about the Brookside girls and boys. It 
is so seldom that any one comes in to talk to me." 
Kathie described their graduating class and its 
success and Sue Coleman's little party. " They have 
planned a trip to the White Mountains,' she added. 
" I don't envy them. It seems such an undertak- 
ing to go climbing about ; though if one were well it 
would make a difference. I don't even want to go to 
the seaside." 
" Why ? " 
" I believe I begin to hate strange faces and all 
that. I would like to hide away where it was beau- 
tiful and quiet, and no one stared at me when I went 
to the table, and there was some one to talk with. I 
never feel well any more, you know, and I cannot 
stand the slightest exertion." 
" But if you could make a little " Kathie said, 
hesitatingly. 
" I can't. The least thing tires me to death. The 
only pleasure I should enjoy would be carriage rid- 
ing. I suppose you have your ponies yet ? ' 
" yes, and ever so much enjoyment with them." 
" You are a fortunate girl, Kathie Alston. I wish 
I had such health and spirits, yes, all, for it seems 
to me you cannot have a bit of pleasure if you are 
poor." 
" But a great many do," was the rather timid re- 
sponse. " And we were quite happy while we were 
poor." 
Ada glanced at her as if she was studying some- 
thing, and could hardly get at the central truth upon 
which the whole structure was reared. 
" I don't understand it," shaking her head. 
Kathie did not try to explain. She felt that it 
would be like planting seed before the ground was 
prepared. But she went on talking of matters that 
she fancied would not be uninteresting to Ada, and 
succeeded so well that Ada could hardly believe an 
hour and a half had elapsed since Dr. Markham left 
them. 
" How long are you going to stay ? " asked Ada. 
" Do come to-morrow and take lunch with us. I do 
hate to have you go away." 
Kathie promised. 
" I wouldn't mind taking you to the Park after- 
ward for a drive, if you will both promise to be very 
good." 
Kathie accepted eagerly, and Ada did not dissent. 
 
" I am not going to ask you what you think until 
to-morrow night,' said the Doctor. " You are a little 
bunch of sunshine, and if you don't go about bright- 
ening the world, you will certainly miss your voca- 
tion. So don't set up for a comet, with fancy stream- 
ers and zigzag ways." 
She laughed a little, and yet she was rather grave 
during the brief drive. Uncle Robert and Jessie 
were watching for her, and gave her a sweet, smiling 
welcome. " Little runaway, we thought we should 
have to set out on a search for you," he said. 
"As if she could stay away from the Prince for- 
ever," Jessie made answer, smilingly. 
 
CHAPTEE VI. 
SOWING ON STONY GROUND. 
KATHIE was considering how she could manage to 
have a good talk with Uncle Kobert, when he said, 
" It is a lovely moonlight evening. Would you not 
like to take a walk in the Park, or are you too tired ? " 
" no, I should be delighted." 
"I see that you are forgetting me rapidly," ex- 
claimed Mr. Meredith, in a make-believe injured 
tone, which sounded so real that Kathie started. 
" Quote to him ' Not that you love Caesar less, but 
Home more,' " appended Jessie, laughingly. 
" I do not mean to forget anybody," she said, with 
slow gravity. 
" My little friend, I think I know that " ; and he 
gave her the old sweet smile. Then, bending his 
head a little lower, he whispered, " I see you have 
something on your mind that Uncle Kobert only can 
settle ; so go get the tangle smoothed out of it." 
They walked quietly along a few squares, and then 
 
turned into the broad entrance. The winding roads 
looked like streams of silver in this tender light, and 
the trees rustled softly to the monotone of the south- 
wind. How beautiful it was ! How glorious the 
whole world was when God's love was seen in it and 
through it I The earth and all the fulness thereof 
was made for human souls, that they might gather 
the spiritual manna after the type of the old Israel- 
ites, never having any lack, and yet providing for the 
day only ; for to-morrow it would be flooded again 
with waves of light and glory and love. 
" How quiet you are ! " Uncle Eobert said, at length. 
" Am I ? I was thinking, and it puzzles me " ; 
with a slow accent on the last words. 
" I suppose the end is somewhere with which you 
can unravel it all." 
" It is about Ada. Uncle Eobert, would it be very 
foolish if I did not go to the White Mountains ? ' 
" Why, no, child, if there is anything pleasanter for 
you." 
" I don't know as it will be pleasanter for me or 
anybody. And I cannot tell whether I want to do it 
or not, even if you were all willing." 
" I think I understand the state of mind, but what 
is the project ? " 
 
" First, I will tell you about my call this afternoon, 
and my talk with Dr. Markham," she said, repeating 
it in her simple, straightforward manner. 
" So the vexed question is, whether you will invite 
Ada, and devote your summer to her, or choose some- 
thing that you would enjoy really better." 
" What would mamma think of it ? ' 
"I believe she doesn't care much about joining 
Mrs. Colernan's party, though she would for your 
sake." 
" I think I shall not go, then, whatever else I 
may do," she made answer, quietly. 
" And if you loved Ada very much this would be 
a great pleasure ; but at present it is a kind of duty 
for her welfare." 
" She doesn't want to go to the seaside. She is 
very nervous, and the children fret her, and she can- 
not bear the thought of being among strangers. Dr. 
Markham says she needs quiet and a little pleasant 
diversion and excitement, to be roused out of her- 
self. I don't know as I could do any of it, but " 
" Dr. Markham is a true physician, - - a healer of 
souls as well as bodies. We owe him something for 
his kind care of Aunt Euth. And if you were will- 
 
ing to undertake it, since the most troublesome 
part must fall upon you." 
" You do not think that mamma would object ? " 
" I will answer for her. But, Kathie, suppose it is 
a trouble and perplexity, and brings forth no good 
result, how shall you feel then ? " 
" I don't believe I am a bit sanguine, Uncle Eob- 
ert. It doesn't seem as if I could do anything much 
for Ada, for our thoughts and wishes and enjoyments 
are so different. Only there is the lovely place, the 
quiet house, the ponies, and no one very rich or grand 
to fret her. I would try to do my best." 
" Perhaps it is worth an effort. It is the poor and 
needy we are to save, and those from the lanes and 
by-ways that we are to ask in to our feasts. There 
may be great poverty of soul and much straying into 
perverse and crooked paths without absolute pecuni- 
ary indigence. I sometimes think the rich people 
need to have missionaries sent among them as well 
as the poorer ones." 
" Then I may do it, if it seems best ? Ada may 
not want to come, to be sure." 
" I would talk it over with Jessie to-morrow, and 
learn what she thinks." 
 
They had rambled to the lake by this time, and 
paused to study the clear waters that seemed alive 
with stars shining in the quivering depths. They 
both felt the beauty, but they had no heart to talk 
about it then ; and though Uncle Eobert understood 
better than she how truly generous her proposal was, 
praise would have marred the sweet, noble charity 
of it, 
By and by they turned and walked homeward. 
Jessie had spread out a cunning little quartette table 
with dainty China saucers and cream. After that 
Kathie played a game of backgammon with Mr. 
Meredith, and, as it was a rather tight squeeze, 
managed to beat him by a solitary one left on the 
board. 
Jessie and Kathie had their talk the next morning. 
" I cannot decide whether it is sheer perverseness 
in Ada, or not," Jessie said. " If I had proposed that 
she should go to Brookside, I dare say she would have 
thought the place insufferably dull, and declined. She 
is excessively 'notional, and in very poor health, 
brought about by her own indolence and selfishness. 
If we all made self the central figure, what a world it 
would be ! " 
 
This rather damped Kathie's ardor. 
" Perhaps I don't feel quite as patient as I should, 
since Ada has refused nearly every effort of mine to 
make her life a little brighter." 
" She may have come to a different mood," said 
Kathie. 
" Well, it is very sweet and generous of you to be 
willing to give up so much time for her entertain- 
ment. And that is where your duty comes out sun- 
bright." 
A lovely smile broke over Jessie's face as she ut- 
tered this. 
Kathie was thinking of the great Exemplar, " who 
pleased not himself." And life was not a mere mat- 
ter of gathering the rose that grew directly in one's 
way. 
So, when she was going over to Ada's, Jessie re- 
marked, " I will commission you to say anything 
that you can for me, and I will abide by it." 
Ada was very low-spirited at first. She had been 
crying half of the morning. It was a warm, rather 
sultry and depressing day, and she was in a state to 
suffer from everything while she kept thinking so 
steadily about herself. 
 
"I don't believe I ever shall get well," she said, 
despondingly. " No one realizes how my health is 
failing. To be sure, there doesn't seem much worth 
living for when you have to give up all the things 
that interest you. I sometimes think it would not 
be much harder to die." 
Kathie started at that. Life seemed such a blessed 
and glorious thing to her. 
" Isn't it cooler down stairs ? " she asked, presently. 
" It seems so warm up here, next door to the sun." 
" I seldom do go down before lunch-time. Mamma 
is out finishing up the shopping. I have heard about 
seaside until I am tired and sick of it." 
" We might go down to the parlor and look over 
some of the old books. I suppose you do not study 
any nowadays ? Have you given up the languages 
and everything ? ' 
" O, what is the use of bothering one's brains ! I 
shall never have occasion for them again. And I was 
getting along so beautifully in my Italian music ; but 
if one is to be shut out of the world forever " 
" I don't believe any one is compelled to be," said 
Kathie, gently. "There are always some nice peo- 
ple " 
 
" You do not know much about it here," Ada 
returned, with an air of dignified, world-weary expe- 
rience. " Country places are different." 
Kathie persuaded and entreated in her cunning 
fashion, which had in it so much sweetness that 
presently Ada was won into going down stairs. It 
was much cooler. The room was in very nice order, 
except that a glass of faded flowers stood on the 
centre-table. 
" dear," Ada exclaimed, fretfully, " papa brought 
them home for me. I dare say they never had a drop 
of fresh water yesterday. I asked Mary to bring 
them up to me, but she i? just as likely to forget as 
to remember. And mamma knows how fond I am 
of flowers." 
Why could she not have thought of it herself, if 
she valued the gift ? Kathie colored with conscious 
and perhaps unkind criticism in her thoughts. 
She rolled the tete-a-tete over by the window and 
arranged a pillow for Ada, chatting in a way that 
would have seemed very easy and unrestrained to a 
third person, but she did have to make a great effort 
to keep her voice so sunny and clear. 
Mary tapped at the door directly. 
 
" Miss Ada," she said, in a pleasant tone, " would 
you not like to have your lunch brought up here ? 
Your mamnia has not come home yet, and the chil- 
dren may be a trouble 
" That will be very pleasant, Mary. I am glad you 
thought of it." 
" How much better you look, Miss Ada ! ' and 
Mary smiled. " I wish you could have company 
every day." 
She arranged a small table in the back parlor, and 
brought up a few delicacies. Ada had but little 
appetite and merely tasted, and Kathie felt almost 
ashamed of her hunger, the result of perfect health 
and good habits. 
Afterward she read to Ada a long while. It 
seemed as if she had at last hit upon something 
satisfying. Mrs. Meredith dropped in and chatted 
a few minutes, gratified to find her daughter in so 
pleasant a mood. 
They were quite ready to go out when Dr. Mark- 
ham came. 
" Kathie has stolen my art," he declared, in bluff 
good-humor. " What has she done to you ? Why. 
if I am not careful, I shall lose my patient and have 
no one to drill me into good-mannered ways. You 
look as bright as a daisy." 
" But I can't have Kathie always," Ada said, with 
a little longing in her tone. " I believe I do feel 
better. You see, I get so very lonesome, not being 
able to go out any." 
" You must brighten up and find a young and 
handsome escort, not an old bear like me. Well, 
where are your traps ? Doctors don't have much 
time to waste upon compliments." 
" I will send Mary for them." 
" Let me go," exclaimed Kathie. It appeared to 
her that Mary had been up and down stairs a thou- 
sand times at least during the day. On the way she 
stopped to kiss Florence and give her a tender little 
squeeze. 
The ride was a success certainly. Ada even con- 
sented to go to dinner at Aunt Jessie's, though slit- 
was pretty tired when they reached the house. 
" I think you can do it," Dr. Markham whispered 
to Kathie, with a shrewd smile. 
It came out some way at the dinner- table, helped 
along a little by Uncle Eobert's kindly tact, that Ada 
should come to Brookside with her aunt and uncle, 
SOWING ON STONY GRulIND. Ill 
and then spend a few weeks with Kathie, not going 
to the seaside at all. 
" It would be much pleasanter," she said, " only I 
am afraid mamma will not agree to it." She had 
fallen into the habit of conjuring lions out of any 
little wayside shadow. 
" I will see to that," replied her uncle. 
He took her home later in the evening. 
" Kathie, you must have bewitched her," he said, 
afterward. " I have not seen Ada so like herself in 
a long while. I wish the child could get a little 
common sense in her head before it is altogether too 
late. But it is a grand moral conversion for her to 
want to go to Brookside. Last summer she held 
herself immeasurably above it." 
Kathie kept the Doctor's conspiracy to herself. 
He had only planned a little, set the wheels in 
motion, and the rest had come about itself. She 
sincerely hoped that it would all be for the best. 
They returned home the next day. 
" Dear, lovely Cedarwood," Kathie said, betwixt 
smiles and tears, " there isn't another place in all the 
wide world so beautiful and so dear ! " And then, in 
her mind, she ran over the greater events since their 
 
coming. Not one lasting, heartfelt sorrow, but O, so 
many joys ! Could she ever be thankful enough ? 
Sue was a good deal disappointed, much more than 
Kathie had thought possible. 
" You are such a sort of comfortable little midget 
