real traits, talents, dispositions, but the result of 
the synthesis is something that never was seen 
on earth before. 
THE FIRE-TENDER. O, a good character in 
fiction is an inspiration. We admit this in 
poetry. It is as true of such creations as 
Colonel Newcome, and Ethel, and Beatrix 
Esmond. There is no patchwork about them. 
THE YOUNG LADY. Why wasn't Thackeray 
ever inspired to create a noble woman ? 
THE FIRE-TENDER. That is the standing 
conundrum with all the women. They will 
not accept Ethel Newcome even. Perhaps we 
shall have to admit that Thackeray was a writer 
for men. 
HERBERT. Scott and the rest had drawn so 
many perfect women that Thackeray thought it 
was time for a real one. 
THE MISTRESS. That's ill-natured. Thack 
eray did, however, make ladies. If he had de 
picted, with his searching pen, any of us just 
 
as we are, I doubt if we should have liked it 
much. 
MANDEVILLE. That's just it. Thackeray 
never pretended to make ideals, and if the best 
novel is an idealization of human nature, then 
he was not the best novelist. When I was 
crossing the Channel 
THE MISTRESS. O dear, if we are to go to 
sea again, Mandevilie, I move we have in the 
nuts and apples, and talk about our friends. 
III. 
THERE is this advantage in getting back to 
a wood fire on the hearth, that you return to a 
kind of simplicity ; you can scarcely imagine 
any one being stiffly conventional in front of it. 
It thaws out formality, and puts the company 
who sit around it into easy attitudes of mind 
and body, lounging attitudes, Herbert said. 
And this brought up the subject of culture in 
America, especially as to manner. The back 
log period having passed, we are beginning to 
have in society people of the cultured manner, 
 
as it is called, or polished bearing, in which the 
polish is the most noticeable thing about the 
man. Not the courtliness, the easy simplicity 
of the old-school gentleman, in whose presence 
the milkmaid was as much at her ease as the 
countess, but something far finer than this. 
These are the people of unruffled demeanor, 
who never forget it for a moment, and never let 
you forget it. Their presence is a constant rebuke to society. They are never "jolly" ; their 
laugh is never anything more than a well-bred 
smile ; they are never betrayed into any enthu 
siasm. Enthusiasm is a sign of inexperience, 
of ignorance, of want of culture. They never 
lose themselves in any cause ; they never heart 
ily praise any man or woman or book ; they are 
superior to all tides of feeling and all outbursts 
of passion. They are not even shocked at vul 
garity. They are simply indifferent. They are 
calm, visibly calm, painfully calm ; and it is not 
the eternal, majestic calmness of the Sphinx 
either, but a rigid, self-conscious repression. 
You would like to put a bent pin in their chair 
when they are about calmly to sit down. 
A sitting hen on her nest is calm, but hope 
ful ; she has faith that her eggs are not china. 
These people appear to be sitting on china eggs. 
Perfect culture has refined all blood, warmth, 
flavor, out of them. We admire them without 
envy. They are too beautiful in their manners 
to be either prigs or snobs. They are at once 
our models and our despair. They are properly 
careful of themselves as models, for they know 
that if they should break, society would become 
a scene of mere animal confusion. 
MANDEVILLE. I think that the best-bred peo 
ple in the world are the English. 
THE YOUNG LADY. You mean at home. 
MANDEVILLE. That's where I saw them.* 
There is no nonsense about a cultivated English 
man or woman. They express themselves stur 
dily and naturally, and with no subservience to 
the opinions of others. There 's a sort of hearty 
sincerity about them that I like. Ages of cul 
ture on the island have gone deeper than the 
surface, and they have simpler and more natural 
* Mandeville once spent a week in London, riding about on 
the tops of omnibuses. 
 
manners than we. There is something good in 
the full, round tones of their voices. 
HERBERT. Did you ever get into a diligence 
with a growling Englishman who hadn't secured 
the place he wanted ? 
THE MISTRESS. Did you ever see an English 
exquisite at the San Carlo, and hear him cry 
" Bwavo " ? 
MANDEVILLE. At any rate, he acted out his 
nature, and wasn't afraid to. 
THE FIRE-TENDER. I think Mandeville is 
right, for once. The men of the best culture in 
England, in the middle and higher social classes, 
are what you would call good fellows, easy 
and simple in manner, enthusiastic on occasion, 
and decidedly not cultivated into the smooth 
calmness of indifference which some Americans 
seem to regard as the sine qna non of good 
breeding. Their position is so assured that they 
do not need that lacquer of calmness of which 
we were speaking. 
THE YOUNG LADY. Which is different from 
the manner acquired by those who live a great 
deal in American hotels? 
 
THE MISTRESS. Or the Washington manner? 
HERBERT. The last two are the same. 
THE FIRE-TENDER. Not exactly. You think 
you can always tell if a man has learned his 
society carriage of a dancing-master. Well, 
you cannot always tell by a person's manner 
whether he is a habitu/ of. hotels or of Washing 
ton. But these are distinct from the perfect 
polish and politeness of indifferentism. 
IV. 
DAYLIGHT disenchants. It draws one from the 
fireside, and dissipates the idle illusions of con 
versation, except under certain conditions. Let 
us say that the conditions are : a house in the 
country, with some forest-trees near, and a few 
evergreens, which are Christmas-trees all winter 
long, fringed with snow, glistening with ice-pen 
dants, cheerful by day and grotesque by night ; 
a snow-storm beginning out of a dark sky, fall 
ing in a soft profusion that fills all the air, its 
dazzling whiteness making a light near at hand, 
which is quite lost in the distant darkling spaces. 
 
If one begins to watch the swirling flakes and 
crystals, he soon gets an impression of infinity of 
resources that he can have from nothing else so 
powerfully, except it be from Adirondack gnats. 
Nothing makes one feel at home like a great 
snow-storm. Our intelligent cat will quit the 
fire and sit for hours in the low window, watch 
ing the falling snow with a serious and contented 
air. His thoughts are his own, but he is in ac 
cord with the subtlest agencies of Nature ; on 
such a day he is charged with enough electricity 
to run a telegraphic battery, if it could be util 
ized. The connection between thought and elec 
tricity has not been exactly determined, but the 
cat is mentally very alert in certain conditions 
of the atmosphere. Feasting his eyes on the 
beautiful out-doors does not prevent his atten 
tion to the slightest noise in the wainscot. 
And the snow-storm brings content, but not 
stupidity, to all the rest of the household. 
I can see Mandeville now, rising from his arm 
chair and swinging his long arms as he strides 
to the window, and looks out and up, with, 
" Well, I declare ! " Herbert is pretending to 
 
read Herbert Spencer's tract on the philosophy 
of style ; but he loses much time in looking at 
the Young Lady, who is writing a letter, holding 
her portfolio in her lap, one of her everlasting 
letters to one of her fifty everlasting friends. 
She is one of the female patriots who save the 
post-office department from being a disastrous 
loss to the treasury. Herbert is thinking of 
the great radical difference in the two sexes, 
which legislation will probably never change ; 
that leads a woman always to write letters on 
her lap and a man on a table, a distinction 
which is commended to the notice of the anti- 
suffragists. 
The Mistress, in a pretty little breakfast- cap, 
is moving about the room with a feather-duster, 
whisking invisible dust from the picture-frames, 
and talking with the Parson, who has just come 
in, and is thawing the snow from his boots on 
the hearth. The Parson says the thermometer 
is 15, and going down; that there is a snow 
drift across the main church entrance three feet 
high, and that the house looks as if it had gone 
into winter quarters, religion and all. There 
 
were only ten persons at the conference meeting 
last night, and seven of those were women ; he 
wonders how many weather-proof Christians 
there are in the parish, anyhow. 
The Fire-Tender is in the adjoining library, 
pretending to write ; but it is a poor day for 
ideas. He has written his wife's name about 
eleven hundred times, and cannot get any far 
ther. He hears the Mistress tell the Parson 
that she believes he is trying to write a lecture 
on the Celtic Influence in Literature. The 
Parson says that it is a first-rate subject, if 
there were any such influence, and asks why 
he doesn't take a shovel and make a path to 
the gate. Mandeville says that, by George ! he 
himself should like no better fun, but it wouldn't 
look well for a visitor to do it. The Fire-Ten 
der, not to be disturbed by this sort of chaff, 
keeps on writing his wife's name. 
Then the Parson and the Mistress fall to talk 
ing about the soup-relief, and about old Mrs. 
Crumples in Pig Alley, who had a present of 
one of Stowe's Illustrated Self-Acting Bibles on 
Christmas, when she hadn't coal enough in the 
 
house to heat her gruel ; and about a family be 
hind the church, a widow and six little children" 
and three dogs ; and he didn't .believe that any 
of them had known what it was to be warm in 
three weeks, and as to food, the woman said, she 
could hardly beg cold victuals enough to keep 
the dogs alive. 
The Mistress slipped out into the kitchen to 
fill a basket with provisions and send it some 
where ; and when the Fire-Tender brought in a 
new forestick, Mandeville, who always wants to 
talk, and had been sitting drumming his feet 
and drawing deep sighs, attacked him. 
MANDEVILLE. Speaking about culture and 
manners, did you ever notice how extremes 
meet, and that the savage bears himself very 
much like the sort of cultured persons we were 
talking of last night ? 
THE FIRE-TENDER. In what respect ? 
MANDEVILLE. Well, you take the North 
American Indian. He is never interested in 
anything, never surprised at anything. He has 
by nature that calmness and indifference which 
your people of culture have acquired. If he 
 
should go into literature as a critic, he would 
scalp and tomahawk with the same emotionless 
composure, and he would do nothing else. 
THE FIRE-TENDER. Then you think the red 
man is a born gentleman of the highest breeding ? 
MANDEVILLE. I think he is calm. 
THE FIRE-TENDER. How is it about the 
war-path and all that ? 
MANDEVILLE. O, these studiously calm and 
cultured people may have malice underneath. It 
takes them to give the most effective " little 
digs " ; they know how to stick in the pine-splin 
ters and set fire to them. 
HERBERT. But there is more in Mandeville's 
idea. You bring a red man into a picture-gal 
lery, or a city full of fine architecture, or into a 
drawing-room crowded with objects of art and 
beauty, and he is apparently insensible to them 
all. Now I have seen country people, and by 
country people I don't mean people necessarily 
who live in the country, for everything is mixed 
in these days, some of the best people in the 
world, intelligent, honest, sincere, who acted as 
the Indian would. 
 * 
THE MISTRESS. Herbert, if I didn't know you 
were cynical, I should say you were snobbish. 
HERBERT. Such people think it a point of 
breeding never to speak of anything in your 
house, nor to appear to notice it, however beau 
tiful it may be ; even to slyly glance around 
strains their notion of etiquette. They are like 
the countryman who confessed afterwards that 
,he could hardly keep from laughing at one of 
Yankee Hill's entertainments. 
THE YOUNG LADY. Do you remember those 
English people at our house in Flushing last 
summer, who pleased us all so much with their 
apparent delight in everything that was artis 
tic or tasteful, who explored the rooms and 
looked at everything, and were so interested ? 
I suppose that Herbert's country relations, many 
of whom live in the city, would have thought it 
very ill-bred. 
MANDEVILLE. It 's just as I said. The Eng 
lish, the best of them, have become so civilized that 
they express themselves, in speech and action, 
natiually, and are not afraid of their emotions. 
THE PARSON. I wish Mandeville would travel 
more, or that he had stayed at home. It 's won- 
*  
derful what a fit of Atlantic sea-sickness will do 
for a man's judgment and cultivation. He is pre 
pared to pronounce on art, manners, all kinds of 
culture. There is more nonsense talked about 
culture than about anything else. 
HERBERT. The Parson reminds me of an 
American country minister I once met walking 
through the Vatican. You couldn't impose 
upon him with any rubbish ; he tested every-, 
thing by the standards of his native place, and 
there was little that could bear the test. He 
had the sly air of a man who could not be de 
ceived, and he- went about with his mouth in 
a pucker of incredulity. There is nothing so 
placid as rustic conceit. There was something 
very enjoyable about his calm superiority to all 
the treasures of art. 
MANDEVILLE. And the Parson reminds me of 
another American minister, a consul in an Italian 
city, who said he was going up to Rome to have 
a thorough talk with the Pope, and give him a 
piece of his mind. Ministers seem to think that 
is their business. They serve it in such small 
pieces in order to make it go round. 
THE PARSON. Mandeville is an infidel. 
Jet 's have some music ; nothing else will keep 
him in good humor till lunch-time. 
THE MISTRESS. What shall it be ? 
THE PARSON. Give us the largJietto from Beet 
hoven's second symphony. 
The Young Lady puts aside her portfolio. 
Herbert looks at the young lady. The Parson 
composes himself for critical purposes. Mande- 
ville settles himself in a chair and stretches his 
long legs nearly into the fire, remarking that 
music takes the tangles out of him. 
After the piece is finished, 
lunch is announced. It 
is still snowing. 
is difficult to explain the attraction 
which the uncanny and even the hor 
rible have for most minds. I have 
seen a delicate woman half fascinated, but 
wholly disgusted, by one of the most unseemly 
of reptiles, vulgarly known as the " blowing 
viper " of the Alleghanies. She would look at it, 
and turn away with irresistible shuddering and the 
utmost loathing, and yet turn to look at it again 
and again, only to experience the same spasm of 
disgust. In spite of her aversion she must have 
relished the sort of electric mental shock that 
the sight gave her. 
I can no more account for the fascination 
for us of the stories of ghosts and " appear- 
 
ances," and those weird tales in which the dead 
are the chief characters ; nor tell why we 
should fall into converse about them when 
the winter evenings are far spent, the* embers 
are glazing over on the hearth, and the listener 
begins to hear the eerie noises in the house. 
At such times one's dreams become of impor 
tance, and people like to tell them and dwell 
upon them, as if they were a link between the 
known and unknown, and could give us a 
clew to that ghostly region which in certain 
states of the mind we feel to be more real than 
that we see. 
Recently, when we were, so to say, sitting 
around the borders of the supernatural late at 
night, MANDEVILLE related a dream of his which 
he assured us was true in every particular, and 
it interested us so much that we asked him to 
write it out. In doing so he has curtailed it, 
and to my mind shorn it of some of its more 
vivid and picturesque features. He might have 
worked it up with more art, and given it a finish 
which the narration now lacks, but I think 
best to insert it in its simplicity. It seems to 
me that it may properly be called, 
 
A NEW "VISION OF SIN." 
IN the winter of 1850 I was a member of one 
of the leading colleges of this country. I was in 
moderate circumstances pecuniarily, though I was 
perhaps better furnished with less fleeting riches 
than many others. I was an incessant and indis 
criminate reader of books. For the solid sciences 
I had no particular fancy, but with mental modes 
and habits, and especially with the eccentric and 
fantastic in the intellectual and spiritual opera 
tions, I was tolerably familiar. All the literature 
of the supernatural was as real to me as the lab 
oratory of the chemist, where I saw the continual 
struggle of material substances to evolve them 
selves into more volatile, less palpable and coarse 
forms. My imagination, naturally vivid, stimu 
lated by such repasts, nearly mastered me. At 
times I could scarcely tell where the material 
ceased and the immaterial began (if I may so 
express it) ; so that once and again I walked, as 
it seemed, from the solid earth onward upon an 
impalpable plain, where I heard the same voices, 
I think, that Joan of Arc heard call to her in the 
garden at Domremy. She was inspired, how 
ever, while I only lacked exercise. I do not 
mean this in any literal sense ; I only describe a 
state of mind. I was at this time of spare habit, 
and nervous, excitable temperament. I was am 
bitious, proud, and extremely sensitive. I cannot 
deny that I had seen something of the world, and 
had contracted about the average bad habits of 
young men who have the sole care of themselves, 
and rather bungle the matter. It is necessary to 
this relation to admit that I had seen a trifle 
more of what is called life than a young man 
ought to see, but at this period I was not only 
sick of my experience, but my habits were as cor 
rect as those of any Pharisee in our college, and 
we had some very favorable specimens of that 
ancient sect. 
Nor can I deny that at this period of my life I 
was in a peculiar mental condition. I well remember an illustration of it. I sat writing late 
one night, copying a prize essay, a merely man 
ual task, leaving my thoughts free. It was in 
June, a sultry night, and about midnight a wind 
arose, pouring in through the open windows, full 
 
of mournful reminiscence, not of this, but of 
other summers, the same wind that De Quincey 
heard at noonday in midsummer blowing through 
the room where he stood, a mere boy, by the side 
of his dead sister, a wind centuries old. As I 
wrote on mechanically I became conscious of a 
presence in the room, though I did not lift my 
eyes from the paper on which I wrote. Gradually 
I came to know that my grandmother dead so 
long ago that I laughed at the idea was in the 
room. She stood beside her old-fashioned spin 
ning-wheel, and quite near me. She wore a plain 
muslin cap with a high puff in the crown, a short 
woollen gown, a white and blue checked apron, 
and shoes with heels. She did not regard me, 
but stood facing the wheel, with the left hand 
near the spindle, holding lightly between the 
thumb and forefinger the white roll of wool 
which was being spun and twisted on it. In her 
right hand she held a small stick. I heard the 
sharp click of this against the spokes of the 
wheel, then the hum of the wheel, the buzz of 
the spindles as the twisting yarn was teased by 
the whirl of its point, then a step backwards, a 
 
pause, a step forward and the running of the 
yarn upon the spindle, and again a backward 
step, the drawing out of the roll and the droning 
and hum of the wheel, most mournful, hopeless 
sound that ever fell on mortal ear. Since child 
hood it has haunted me. All this time I wrote, 
and I could hear distinctly the scratching of the 
pen upon the paper. But she stood behind me 
(why I did not turn my head I never knew), 
pacing backward and forward by the spinning- 
wheel, just as I had a hundred times seen her in 
childhood in the old kitchen on drowsy summer 
afternoons. And I heard the step, the buzz and 
whirl of the spindle, and the monotonous and 
dreary hum of the mournful wheel. Whether her 
face was ashy pale and looked as if it might 
crumble at the touch, and the border of her 
white cap trembled in the June wind that blew, 
I cannot say, for I tell you I did NOT see her. 
But I know she was there, spinning yarn that 
had been knit into hose years and years ago by 
our fireside. For I was in full possession of my 
faculties, and never copied more neatly and legi 
bly any manuscript than I did the one that night. 
 
And there the phantom (I use the word out of 
deference to a public prejudice on this subject) 
most persistently remained until my task was 
finished, and, closing the portfolio, I abruptly 
rose. Did I see anything ? That is a silly and 
ignorant question. Could I see the wind which 
had now risen stronger, and drove a few cloud- 
scuds across the sky, filling the night, somehow, 
with a longing that was not altogether born of 
reminiscence ? 
In the winter following, in January, I made an 
effort to give up the use of tobacco, a habit 
in which I was confirmed, and of which I have 
nothing more to say than this : that I should 
attribute to it almost all the sin and misery in 
the world, did I not remember that the old 
Romans attained a very considerable state of 
corruption without the assistance of the Virginia 
plant. 
On the night of the third day of my absti 
nence, rendered more nervous and excitable than 
usual by the privation, I retired late, and later 
still I fell into an uneasy sleep, and, thus into a 
dream, vivid, illuminated, more real than any 
 
event of my life. I was at home, and fell sick. 
The illness developed into a fever, and then a 
delirium set in, not an intellectual blank, but a 
misty and most delicious wandering in places 
of incomparable beauty. I learned subsequently 
