is tired out, if not disgusted, at the end. The things to 
see and hear are Palm Sunday in St. Peter's ; singing 
of the miserere by the pope's choir on Wednesday, 
Thursday, and Friday in the Sistine Chapel ; washing 
of the pilgrims' feet in a chapel of St. Peter's, and serv- 
ing the apostles at table by the pope on Thursday, with 
a papal benediction from the balcony afterwards ; Easter 
Sunday, with the illumination of St. Peter's in the even- 
ing ; and fireworks (this year in front of St. Peter's in 
Montorio) Monday evening. Raised seats are built up 
about the high altar under the dome in St. Peter's, which 
will accommodate a thousand, and perhaps more, ladies ; 
and for these tickets are issued without numbers, and 
for twice as many as they will seat. Gentlemen who 
are in evening dress are admitted to stand in the re- 
served places inside the lines of soldiers. For th 
miserere in the Sistine Chapel tickets are also issued. As 
there is only room for about four hundred ladies, and a 
thousand and more tickets are given out, you may ima- 
gine the scramble. Ladies go for hours before the singing 
begins, and make a grand rush when the doors are open. 
I do not know any sight so unseemly and cruel as a 
crowd of women intent on getting in to such a ceremony : 
they are perfectly rude and unmerciful to each other. 
They push and trample one another under foot ; veils 
and dresses are torn ; ladies faint away in the scrim- 
mage, and only the strongest and most unscrupulous get 
in. I have heard some say, who have been in the pell- 
mell, that, not content with elbowing and pushing and 
pounding, some women even stick pins into those who 
are in the way. I hope this latter is not true ; but it is 
certain that the conduct of most of the women is brutal. 
A weak or modest or timid woman stands no more 
chance than she would in a herd of infuriated Campagna 
cattle. The same scenes are enacted in the efforts to 
see the pope wash feet, and serve at the table. For the 
possession of the seats under the dome on Palm Sunday 
and Easter there is a like crush. The ceremonies do 
not begin until half-past nine ; but ladies go between 
five and six o'clock in the morning, and when the pas- 
sages are open they make a grand rush. The seats, 
except those saved for the nobility, are soon all taken ; 
and the ladies who come after seven are lucky if they 
can get within the charmed circle, and find a spot to sit 
down on a camp-stool. They can then see only a part 
of the proceedings, and have a weary, exhausting time 
of it for hours. This year Rome is more crowded 
than ever before. There are American ladies enough 
to fill all the reserved places ; and I fear they are ener- 
getic enough to get their share of them. 
It rained Sunday ; but there was a steady stream of 
people and carriages all the morning pouring over the 
Bridge of St. Angelo, and discharging into the piazza 
of St. Peter's. It was after nine when I arrived on the 
ground. There was a crowd of carriages under the 
colonnades, and a heavy fringe in front of them ; but 
the hundreds of people moving over the piazza, and up 
the steps to the entrances, made only the impression of 
dozens in the vast space. I do not know if there*, are 
people enough in Rome to fill St. Peter's ; certainly there 
was no appearance of a crowd as we entered, although 
they had been pouring in all the morning, and still 
thronged the doors. I heard a traveller say that he fol- 
lowed ten thousand soldiers into the church, and then 
lost them from sight : they disappeared in the side 
chapels. He did not make his affidavit as to the num- 
ber of soldiers. The interior area of the building is not 
much greater than the square of St. Mark in Venice. 
To go into the great edifice is almost like going out doors. 
Lines of soldiers kept a wide passage clear from the front 
door away down to the high altar ; and there was a good 
mass of spectators on the outside. The tribunes for the 
ladies, built up under the dome, were, of course, filled 
with masses of ladies in solemn black ; and there was 
more or less of a press of people surging about in that 
vicinity. Thousands of people were also roaming about 
in the great spaces of the edifice ; but there was no- 
where else any thing like a crowd. It had very much 
the appearance of a large fair-ground, with little crowds 
about favorite booths. Gentlemen in dress-coats were 
admitted to the circle under the dome. The pope's 
choir was stationed in a gallery there opposite the high 
altar. Back of the altar was a wide space for the dig- 
nitaries ; seats were there, also, for ambassadors and 
those born to the purple ; and the pope's seat was on a 
raised dais at the end. Outsiders could see nothing of 
what went on within there ; and the ladies under the 
dome could only partially see, in the seats they had 
fought so gallantly to obtain. 
St. Peter's is a good place for grand processions and 
ceremonies ; but it is a poor one for viewing - them. A 
procession which moves down the nave is hidden by the 
soldiers who stand on either side, or is only visible by 
sections as it passes : there is no good place to get the 
grand effect of the masses of color, and the total of the 
gorgeous pageantry. I should like to see the display 
upon a grand stage, and enjoy it in a cowp d'(Eil. It is 
a fine study of color and effect, and the groupings are 
admirable ; but the whole affair is nearly lost to the mass 
of spectators. It must be a sublime feeling to one in the 
procession to walk about in such monstrous fine clothes ; 
but what would his emotions be if more people could see 
him ! The grand altar stuck up under the dome, not 
only breaks the effect of what would be the fine sweep 
of the nave back to the apse, but it cuts off all view of 
the celebration of the mass behind it, and, in effect, 
reduces what should be the great point of display in the 
church to a mere chapel. And, when you add to that 
the temporary tribunes erected under the dome for seat- 
ing the ladies, the entire nave is shut off from a view 
of the gorgeous ceremony of high mass. The effect 
would be incomparable if one could stand in the door, 
or anywhere in the nave, and, as in other churches, 
look down to the end upon a great platform, with the high 
altar and all the sublime spectacle in full view, with the 
blaze of candles and the clouds of incense rising in the 
distance. 
At half-past nine the great doors opened, and the pro- 
cession began, in slow and stately moving fashion, to 
enter. One saw a throng of ecclesiastics in robes and 
ermine; the white plumes of the Guard Noble; the 
pages and chamberlains in scarlet ; other pages, or what 
not, in black short-clothes, short swords, gold chains, 
cloak hanging from the shoulder, and stiff white ruffs ; 
thirty-six Isardinals in violet robes, with high, mitre- 
shaped white silk hats, that looked not unlike the paste- 
board "trainer-caps" that boys wear when they play 
soldier; crucifixes, and a blazoned banner here and 
there ; and, at last, the pope, in his red chair, borne on 
the shoulders of red lackeys, heaving along in a sea- 
sicky motion, clad in scarlet and gold, with a silver 
mitre on his head, feebly making the papal benediction 
with two upraised fingers, and moving his lips in blessing. 
As the pope came in, a supplementary choir of men and 
soprano hybrids, stationed near the door, set up a high, 
welcoming song, or chant, which echoes rather finely 
through the building. All the music of the day is 
vocal. 
The procession having reached its destination, and 
disappeared behind the altar of the dome, the pope dis- 
mounted, and took his seat on his throne. The blessing 
of the palms began, the cardinals first approaching, and 
afterwards the members of the diplomatic corps, the 
archbishops and bishops, the heads of the religious 
orders, and such private persons as have had permission 
to do so. I had previously seen the palms carried in by 
servants in great baskets. It is, perhaps, not necessary 
to say that they are not the poetical green waving palms, 
but stiff sort of wands, woven out of dry, yellow, split 
palm-leaves, sometimes four or five feet in length, braided 
into the semblance of a crown on top, — a kind of rough 
basket-work. The palms having been blessed, a proces- 
sion was again formed down the nave and out the door, 
all in it " carrying palms in their hands," the yellow color 
of which added a new element of picturesqueness to the 
splendid pageant. The pope was carried as before, 
and bore in his hand a short, braided palm, with gold 
woven in, flowers added, and the monogram I. H. S. 
worked in the top. It is the pope's custom to give this 
away when the ceremony is over. Last year he pre- 
sented it to an American lady, whose devotion attracted 
him : this year, I saw it go away in a gilded coach in 
the hands of an ecclesiastic. The procession disappeared 
through the great portal into the vestibule, and the door 
closed. In a moment, somebody knocked three times 
on the door : it opened, and the procession returned, 
and moved again to the rear of the altar, the singers 
marchinor with it and chanting. The cardinals then 
changed their violet for scarlet robes ; and high mass, for 
an hour, was celebrated by a cardinal priest : and I was 
told that it was the pope's voice that we heard, high and 
clear, singing the passion. The choir made the responses, 
and performed at intei'vals. The singing was not with- 
out a certain power ; indeed, it was marvellous how some 
of the voices really filled the vast spaces of the edifice, 
and the choruses rolled in solemn waves of sound through 
the arches. The singing, with the male sopranos, is not 
to my taste ; but it cannot be denied that it had a wild 
and strange effect. 
While this was going on behind the altar, the people 
outside were wandering about, looking at each other, and 
on the watch not to miss any of the shows of the day. 
People were talking, chattering, and greeting each other 
as they might do in the street. Here and there some- 
body was kneeling on the pavement, unheeding the 
passing throng. At several of the chapels, services were 
being conducted ; and there was a large congregation, an 
ordinary church full, about each of them. But the most 
of those present seemed to regard it as a spectacle only ; 
and, as a display of dress, costumes, and nationalities, it 
was almost unsurpassed. There are few more wonder- 
ful sights in this world than an Englishwoman in what 
she considers fiill dress. An English dandy is also a 
pleasing object. For my part, as I liaye hinted, I like 
almost as well as any thing the big footmen, — those in 
scarlet breeches and blue, gold-embroidered coats. I 
stood in front of one of the fine creations for some time, 
and contemplated him as one does the Farnese Hercules. 
One likes to see to what a splendor his species can come, 
even if the brains have all run down into the calves of 
the legs. There were also the pages, the officers of the 
pope's household, in costumes of the Middle Ages ; the 
pope's Swiss guard in the showy harlequin uniform de- 
signed by Michael Angelo ; the foot-soldiers in white 
short-clothes, which threatened to burst, and let them fly 
into pieces; there were fine ladies and gentlemen, 
loafers and loungers, from every civilized country, jabber- 
ing in all the languages ; there were beggars in rags, and 
boors in coats so patched, that there was probably none 
of the original material left ; there were groups of peas- 
ants from the Campagna, the men in short jackets and 
sheepskin breeches with the wool side out, the women 
with gay-colored folded cloths on their heads, and coarse, 
woollen gowns ; a squad of wild-looking Spanish gypsies, 
burning-eyed, olive-skinned, hair long, black, crinkled, 
and greasy, as wild in raiment as in face ; priests and 
friars. Zouaves in jaunty light gray and scarlet ; rags and 
velvets, silks and serge cloths, — a cosmopolitan gath- 
ering poured into the world's great place of meeting, — 
a fine religious Vanity Fair on Sunday. 
There came an impressive moment in all this con- 
fusion, a point of august solemnity. Up to that instant, 
what with chanting and singing the many services, and 
the noise of talking and walking, there was a wild Babel. 
But at the stroke of the bell and the elevation of the 
Host, down went the muskets of the guard with one 
clang on the marble ; the soldiers kneeled ; the multitude 
in the nave, in the aisles, at all the chapels, kneeled ; and 
for a minute in that vast edifice there was perfect stillness : 
if the whole great concourse had been swept from the 
earth, the spot where it lately was could not have been 
more silent. And then the military order went down 
the line, the soldiers rose, the crowd rose, and the mass 
and the hum went on. 
It was all over before one ; and the pope was borne 
out again, and the vast crowd began to discharge itself. 
But it was a long time before the carriages were all filled 
and rolled off". I stood for a half-hour watching the 
stream go by, — the pompous soldiers, the peasants and 
citizens, the dazzling equipages, and jaded, exhausted 
women in black, who had sat or stood half a day under 
the dome, and could get no carriage ; and the great 
state coaches of the cardinals, swinging high in the air, 
painted and gilded, with three noble footmen hanging 
on behind each, and a cardinal's broad face in the 
window. 
VESUVIUS. 
CLIMBING A VOLCANO. 
EVERYBODY who comes to Naples, — that is, 
everybody except the lady who fell from her 
horse the other day at Eesina, and injured her shoulder, 
as she was mounting for the ascent, — everybody, I say, 
goes up Vesuvius, and nearly every one writes impres- 
sions and descriptions of the performance. If you be- 
lieve the tales of travellers, it is an undertaking of great 
hazard, an experience of frightful emotions. How 
unsafe it is, especially for ladies, I heard twenty times 
in Naples before I had been there a day. Why, there 
was a lady thrown from her horse and nearly killed, 
only a week ago ; and she still lay ill at the next hotel, a 
witness of the truth of the story. I imagined her plunged 
down a precipice of lava, or pitched over the lip of the 
crater, and only rescued by the devotion of a gallant 
guide, who threatened to let go of her if she didn't pay 
him twenty francs instantly. This story, which will live 
and grow for years in this region, a waxing and never- 
waning peril of the volcano, I found, subsequently, had 
the foundation I have mentioned above. The lady did 
go to Resina in order to make the ascent of Vesuvius, 
mounted a horse there, fell off, being utterly unhorsewo- 
manly, and hurt herself; but her injury had no more 
to do with Vesuvius than it had with the entrance of 
Victor Emanuel into Naples, which took place a couple 
of weeks after. Well, as I was saying, it is the fashion 
to write descriptions of Vesuvius ; and you might as well 
have mine, which I shall give to you in rough outline. 
 
There came a day when the Tramontane ceased to 
blow down on us the cold air of the snowy Apennines, 
and the white cap of Vesuvius, which is, by the way, 
 worn generally like the caps of the Neapolitans, drifted 
inland instead of toward the sea. Warmer weather had 
come to make the bright sunshine no longer a mockery. 
For some days I had been getting the gauge of the 
mountain. With its white plume it is a constant quan- 
tity in the landscape : one sees it from every point of 
view ; and we had been scarcely anywhere that volcanic 
remains, or signs of such action, — a thin crust shaking 
under our feet, as at Solfatara, where blasts of sulphur- 
ous steam drove in our faces, — did not remind us that 
the whole ground is uncertain, and undermined by the sub- 
terranean fires that have Vesuvius for a chimney. All 
the coast of the bay, within recent historic periods, in 
different spots at different times, has risen and sunk and 
risen again, in simple obedience to the pulsations of the 
great fiery monster below. It puffs up or sinks, like the 
crust of a baking apple-pie. This region is evidently 
not done ; and I think it not unlikely it may have to be 
turned over again before it is. We had seen where Her- 
culaneum lies under the lava and under the town of Re- 
sina ; we had walked those clean and narrow streets of 
Pompeii, and seen the workmen picking away at the 
embedded gravel, sand, and ashes which still cover 
nearly two-thirds of the nice little, tight little Roman 
city ; we had looked at the black gashes on the moun- 
tain-sides, Avhere the lava streams had gushed and rolled 
and twisted over vineyards and villas and villages ; and 
we decided to take a nearer look at the immediate cause 
of all this abnormal state of things. 
In the morning when I awoke the sun was just rising 
behind Vesuvius ; and there was a mighty display of gold, 
and crimson in that quarter, as if the curtain was about 
to be lifted on a grand performance,   — say a ballet at 
San Carlo, which is the only thing the Neapolitans think 
worth looking at. Straight up in the air, out of the 
mountain, rose a white pillar, spreading out at the top 
like a palm-tree, or, to compare it to something I have 
seen, to the Italian pines, that come so picturesquely into 
all these Naples pictures. If you will believe me, that 
pillar of steam was like a column of fire, from the sun 
shining on and through it, and perhaps from the reflec- 
tion of the background of crimson clouds and blue and 
gold sky, spread out there and hung there in royal and 
extravagant profusion, to make a highway and a regal 
gateway, through which I could just then see coming the 
horses and the chariot of a southern perfect day. They 
said that the tree-shaped cloud was the sign of an erup- 
tion ; but the hotel-keepers here are always predicting 
that. The eruption is usually about two or three weeks 
distant ; and the hotel proprietors get this information 
from experienced guides, who observe the action of the 
water in the wells ; so that there can be no mistake about 
it. 
We took carriages at nine o'clock to Resina, a drive 
of four miles, and one of exceeding interest, if you wish 
to see Naples life. The way is round the curving bay 
by the sea; but so continuously built up is it, and so 
enclosed with high walls of villas, through the open 
gates of which the golden oranges gleam, that you seem 
never to leave the city. The streets and quays swarm 
with the most vociferous, dirty, multitudinous life. It is 
a drive through Rag Fair. The tall, whitey-yellow 
houses fronting the water, six, seven, eight stories high, 
are full as bee-hives ; people are at all the open windows ; 
garments hang from the balconies and from poles thrust 
out; up every narrow, gloomy, ascending street are 
crowds of struggling human shapes ; and you see how 
like herrings in a box are packed the over half a million 
people of Naples. In front of the houses are the mar- 
kets in the open air, — fish, vegetables, carts of oranges ; 
in the sun sit women spinning from distaffs or weaving 
fishing-nets ; and rows of children who were never washed 
and never clothed but once, and whose garments have 
nearly wasted away ; beggars, fishermen in red caps, 
sailors, priests, donkeys, fruit-venders, street-musicians, 
carriages, carts, two-wheeled break-down vehicles, — the 
whole tangled in one wild roar and rush and Babel, — a 
shifting, varied panorama of color, rags, — a pandemonium 
such as the world cannot show elsewhere, — thai is what 
one sees on the road to Resina. The drivers all drive 
in the streets here as if they held a commission from the 
Devil, cracking their whips, shouting to their horses, and 
dashing; into the thickest tangle with entire recklessness. 
They have one cry, used alike for getting more speed out 
of their horses or for checking them, or in warning to 
the endangered crowds on foot. It is an exclamatory 
grunt, which may be partially expressed by the letters 
" a-e-ugh." Everybody shouts it, — mule-driver, "coachee," 
or cattle driver; and even I, a passenger, fancied I could 
do it to disagreeable perfection after a time. Out of this 
throng in the streets I like to select the meek, patient, 
diminutive little donkeys, with enormous panniers that 
almost hide them. One would have a woman seated on 
top, with a child in one pannier and cabbages in the 
other ; another, with an immense stock of market-greens 
on his back, or big baskets of oranges, or with a row of 
wine-casks and a man seated behind, adhering, by some 
unknown law of adhesion, to the sloping tail. Then 
there was the cart drawn by one diminutive donkey, or 
by an ox, or by an ox and a donkey, or by a donkey and 
horse abreast, — never by any possibility a matched team. 
And, funniest of all, was the high, two-wheeled caCeche, 
with one seat, and top thrown back, with long thills and 
poor horse. Upon this vehicle were piled, Heaven knows 
how, behind, before, on the thills, and underneath the 
high seat, sometimes ten, and not seldom as many as 
eighteen people, — men, women, and children, — all in 
flaunting rags, with a colored scarf here and there, or a gay 
petticoat, or a scarlet cap, — perhaps a priest, with broad 
black hat, in the centre, — driving along like a comet, the 
poor horse in a gallop, the bells on his ornamented sad- 
die merrily jingling, and the wliole load in a roar of mer- 
riment. 
But we sliall never get to Vesuvius at this rate. I 
will not even stop to examine the macaroni manufacto- 
ries on the road. The long strips of it were hung out on 
poles to dry in the streets, and to get a rich color from 
the dirt and dust, to say nothing of its contact with the 
filthy people who were making it. I am very fond of 
macaroni. At Resina we take horses for the ascent. 
We had sent ahead for a guide and horses for our party 
of ten ; but we found besides, I should think, pretty 
nearly the entire population of the locality awaiting us, 
not to count the importunate beggars, the hags, male and 
female, and the ordinary loafers of the place. We were 
besieged to take this and that horse or mule, to buy 
walking-sticks for the climb, to purchase lava cut into 
charms, and veritable ancient coins, and dug-up cameos, 
— all manufactured for the demand. One wanted to 
hold the horse, or to lead it, to carry a shawl, or to show 
the way. In the midst of infinite clamor and noise, we 
at last got mounted, and, turning into a narrow lane 
between hiofh walls, beo;an the ascent, our cavalcade 
attended by a procession of rags and wretchedness up 
throuo;h the villao;e. Some of them fell off as we rose 
among the vineyards, and they found us proof against 
begging ; but several accompanied us all day, hoping 
that, in some unguarded moment, they could do us some 
slight service, and so establish a claim on us. Among 
these I noticed some stout fellows with short ropes, with 
which they intended to assist us up the steeps. If I looked 
away an instant, some urchin would seize my horse's bri- 
dle ; and when I carelessly let my stick fall on his hand, 
in token for him to let go, he would fall back with an 
injured look, and grasp the tail, from which I could only 
loosen him by swinging my staff and preparing to break 
his head. 
The ascent is easy at first between walls and the vine- 
yards which produce the celebrated Lachryma Christi. 
 
After a lialf-hour we readied and began to cross the 
lava of 1858, and the wild. desolation and gloom of the 
mountain began to strike us. One is here conscious of 
the Titanic forces at work. Sometimes it is as if a giant 
had ploughed the ground, and left the furrows without har- 
rowins: them to harden into black and brown stone. We 
could see again how the broad stream, flowing down, 
squeezed and squashed like mud, had taken all fantastic 
shapes, — now like gnarled tree-roots ; now like serpents 
in a coil ; here the human form, or a part of it, — a torso or 
a limb, — in agony ; now in other nameless convolutions 
and contortions, as if heaved up and twisted in fiery pain 
and suffering, — for there was almost a human feeling in 
it ; and again not unlike stone billows. We could see 
how the cooling crust had been lifted and split and 
turned over by the hot stream underneath, which, con- 
tinually oozing from the rent of the eruption, bore it 
down and pressed it upward. Even so low as the point 
where we crossed the lava of 1858 were fissures whence 
came hot air. 
An hour brought us to the resting-place called the' 
Hermitage, an osteria and observatory established by 
the Government. Standing upon the end of a spur, it 
seems to be safe from the lava, whose course has always 
been on either side ; but it must be an uncomfortable 
place in a shower of stones and ashes. We rode half 
an hour longer on horseback, on a nearly level path, to 
the foot of the steep ascent, the base of the great crater. 
This ride gave us completely the wide and ghastly deso- 
lation of the mountain, the ruin that the lava has 
wrought upon slopes that were once green with vine 
and olive, and busy with the hum of hfe. This black, 
contorted desert waste is more sterile and hopeless than 
any mountain of stone, because the idea of relentless 
destruction is involved here. This great, hummocked, 
sloping plain, ridged and seamed, was all about us, with- 
out cheer or relaxation of grim solitude. Before us rose, 
as black and bare, what the guides call the mountain, 
and whicli used to be the crater. Up one side is worked 
in the lava a zigzag path, steep, but not very fatiguing, 
if you take it slowly. Two-thirds of the way up, I saw 
specks of people climbing. Beyond it rose the cone of 
ashes, out of which the great cloud of sulphurous smoke 
rises and rolls night and day now. On the very edge of 
that, on the lip of it, where the smoke rose, I also saw 
human shapes ; and it seemed as if they stood on the 
brink of Tartarus and in momently, imminent peril. 
We left our horses in a wild spot, where scorched 
bowlders had fallen upon the lava bed ; and guides and 
boys gathered about us like cormorants : but, declining 
their offers to pull us up, we began the ascent, which 
took about three-quarters of an hour. We were then on 
the summit, which is, after all, not a summit at all, but an 
uneven waste, sloping away from the Cone in the centre. 
This sloping lava waste was full of little cracks, — not fis- 
sures with hot lava in them, or any thing of the sort, — out 
of which white steam issued, not unlike the smoke from 
a great patch of burned timber ; and the wind blew it 
along the ground -towards us. It was cool, for the sun 
was hidden by light clouds, but not cold. The ground 
under foot was slightly warm. I had expected to feel 
some dread, or shrinking, or at least some sense of inse- 
curity, but I did not the slightest, then or afterwards ; 
and I think mine is the usual experience. I had no 
more sense of danger on the edge of the crater than I 
had in the streets of Naples. 
We next addressed ourselves to the Cone, which is a 
loose hill of ashes and sand, — a natural slope, I should 
say, of about one and a half to one, offering no foothold. 
The climb is very fatiguing, because you sink in to the 
