out it being noticed at home, and I heard, incident 
ally, that his father and mother were getting very 
much troubled about him. I had some knowledge 
of his father a g od man, but not very highly gifted 
as a preacher. He was not in charge of any church, 
but was employed by a religious society in looking 
after the spiritual needs of certain poor people. He 
was a kind of city missionary, and was kept by those 
who employed him as close to starvation as was safe. 
He was a seedy-looking man, but with a counte 
nance so placid and resigned that you felt he was 
working in his hard, thankless office from a love of 
doing good. 
I had some knowledge of him, I said. It was a 
year or two before, and while I worked at my trade. 
One of our men who was very intemperate and spent 
half of his wages in drink was taken ill, and as he 
had worn out his constitution, there was little for 
nature to go and come on, and so he died. His 
poor forlorn-looking wife called at the bindery to 
say that he was very sick, and some of us felt that 
we were called upon to see after him. We made up 
a little collection, and I took charge of the sum 
thus raised. 
I found everything poor and wretched enough. 
 
 
The man lived with his wife and three helpless chil 
dren in two rooms on the second floor of a miserable 
house in a narrow, dirty street. There was little fur 
niture in the rooms. The sick man lay on a hard 
straw bed. His children, half clad and with pinched 
faces, looked at me hungrily out of their large 
eyes. 
It made me sick. I gave them what money I had 
brought, and promising to come again in a day or 
two, got off as quickly as I could. 
At the door I met the pale, tender, wasted face of 
Mr. Allen the preacher. 
" How is Mr. Hollis ?" he asked, in a sweet, earn 
est voice that was full of interest for the sick man 
he had called to visit. 
" In rather a bad way," I replied. 
" Do you know him ?" he asked. 
"Yes," I returned. "We have worked together 
for a year or two." 
" Oh ! Then I hope his fellow-workmen will look 
to it that his poor wife and children don 't  suffer while 
he is sick." 
" I have just left them some money," I answered. 
" We will see that they don 't  want for anything." 
" Oh, that is right. I am so glad of it," he said, 
with as much pleasure in his voice as if a favor had 
been done to himself. 
I met him two or three times afterward on my 
visits to the sick journeyman, and was more and more 
impressed with the simple beauty of his character 
 
and the unselfishness of his devotion to the poor and 
suffering. 
" This is thankless work for you, sir," I remem 
ber having said to him at one of our meetings, and 
I didn 't soon forget his reply, nor the look and tone 
with which it was given. My first thought when he 
began to speak was of cant. But it did not linger 
an instant in my mind. I felt that he was sincere. 
" If I looked for thanks or gain, my friend, I would 
look somewhere else. I am only God 's servant, 
trying to do his will. He went about doing good 
while upon earth, and I am trying humbly to walk 
in his footsteps. That is all, my friend. And I have 
my reward." 
A faint smile, but very sweet and tender, broke into 
his wasted face. 
" But, oh dear !" he added, and a shadow of pain 
swept across his countenance. " If men would not 
give themselves to this dreadful work of destroying 
souls and bodies just for gain ! It is drink, drink, 
drink, that makes nearly all of this suffering and 
poverty and crime that I have to meet and minister 
to, help and hinder, every day. It is drink that has 
impoverished this poor workman 's family and made 
the father 's death almost certain. It is drink that is 
cursing the poor. A deep and bitter cry has gone 
up, and still goes up, but the cry is yet in vain. 
God help the poor women and children, for there 
seems to be none in man !" 
He was strongly agitated now. The great con 
 
cern he evidently felt for the poor and wretched 
among whom he labored seemed to shake his very 
soul. The beaded sweat stood on his pale, pure fore 
head, and for a little while he trembled. 
But he grew calm in a few moments, saying, 
" We must work and be patient, my friend. God 
has his own good time, and he will bring it to pass. 
I have seen the wicked in great power, and spread 
ing himself like a green bay tree. Yet he passed 
away, and, lo, he was not. I sought him, but he 
could not be found. God is good and wise and 
strong, and his judgment sure. He will recom 
pense evil." 
I saw him again, after our fellow-workman died, 
trying as best he could to comfort the stricken ones 
who had been left in utter destitution, and once again 
when he came to the bindery to solicit help for the 
widow and orphans. And this was the man whose 
only son we were corrupting and depraving ! 
Very fast the evil work went on. Before the year 
was out, Ned Allen had fallen far away from the 
pure life he had known at the beginning. At first 
he had very little money, and oftener drank his glass 
of beer at another 's expense. John Ashley and he 
were very thick, and the former nearly always stood 
treat when they came to the bar together. But after 
a few months Ned had more pocket-money, and 
spent, to my knowledge, in drinking, theatre-going 
and in other ways, not less than three or four dollars 
a week. I wondered to myself sometimes where it 
 
all came from, but then it was none of my business, 
and I didn 't trouble my head about it. 
We kept open on Sundays, of course ; these were 
among our best days. There was a law against sell 
ing liquor on that day, but it was as much a dead 
letter as the law against selling to minors, or to 
persons known as common drunkards. There must 
be proof of the selling and drinking, and, as things 
were, this was not so easily done as might be 
thought. At any rate, there were from five to seven 
thousand places for selling liquor open every Sun 
day, and no one was called to account. The law lay 
dead upon the statute-book. 
Among our Sunday visitors we were pretty sure 
to have some of the boys. Ned got to coming 
in about church-time and staying until service was 
over, when he would go home, and pretend that he 
had been to church. 
The first time he came, one of our regular Sunday 
drinkers, who knew him and his father 's calling, said, 
half in surprise and half in reproof, 
" What brings you here, Ned Allen ? " 
" Came to Sunday-school," answered the boy, 
promptly, giving his questioner a knowing wink. 
At this, a loud laugh went through the bar-room. 
" He 'll do," said one. 
" Didn 't take him long to graduate," added 
another. 
" Go it while you re young, Ned," put in a third, 
slapping the boy on the shoulder as he spoke. 
 
 
Ned looked pleased at these compliments, and 
then said, nodding toward the door leading into the 
entry, 
" Has the class begun ?" 
"Yes," replied Lloyd. "The boys are in their 
places, and only waiting for their teacher." 
" All right : he 's on hand ;" and he went up 
stairs to join young Ashley and three or four others 
who had already come in. 
After that, scarcely a Sunday went over that Ned 
Allen did not visit us, sometimes spending hours in 
playing at cards, bagatelle or some other game, and 
drinking a glass or two of beer. He was always 
careful to go home just about the time church was 
out, and in this way managed to deceive his mother. 
His father had missionary work to do on Sundays 
that usually kept him away from home all day. 
So it went on for a good while, Ned running his 
downward course with unusual rapidity. He always 
seemed to have a good supply of money, at which 
I wondered. 
One afternoon, near the close of our first year, I 
sat reading a newspaper, no customers being in. 
Hearing the door open, I looked up and saw Ned 
Allen. His face was pale, and he had a scared look 
in his eyes. 
"What 's the matter?" I asked. 
" I feel kind of sick, Hiram," he answered, in a 
low, mumbling voice. " I'm going up stairs to lie 
down on the settee." 
 
" I'm sorry to hear it. Hadn 't you better take a 
little whisky or gin first?" I said. "It may make 
you feel better." 
" No, thank you ; I 'd rather not. I 'll just go up 
and lie down." 
"Very well, and if you want anything ring the 
bell." 
So he went up stairs, walking so silently that I 
scarcely heard the sound of his feet. I felt that 
there was something more than bodily sickness the 
matter. 
After a while a man came in from the bindery, 
and as he stood drinking, said, 
" Bad business in there." 
"What?" I asked. 
" They 've caught Ned Allen stealing." 
" Oh no ! That can t be," I returned. 
" Fact ! Ashley has suspected it for some time, 
but the young rascal was cunning as a fox, and kept 
him off the scent. It all came out to-day the proof 
so plain that there 's no getting over it. Mr. Ashley 
has sent for his father." 
" Where is Ned ?" I inquired. 
" Mr. Ashley sent him home, I believe ; for his 
father 's sake, he won t let the matter come into 
court. Poor old man ! It will go very hard with 
him. And he 's such a good man, and so kind to 
the poor." 
I had it on my tongue to say, " The young vil 
lain !" but could not get out the words, for the 
 
feeling came strong upon me that I had helped to 
make the wretched boy what he was. 
" He 's up stairs," I said. 
" He is ? What is he doing there ?" 
" He came in a short time ago, saying that he was 
sick and would like to lie down." 
" Sick ! I should think he would be !" returned 
the man. " He 'd better hang himself and be done 
with it." 
I went up stairs half an hour afterward to see what 
had become of young Allen, and found him lying 
face down upon a settee in one of the rooms. He 
lifted his head, turning it partly around as I opened 
the door. His face was still pale, and his eyes had 
the same scared look I had noticed when he came in. 
He did not speak, but looked at me anxiously. 
" I'm sorry to hear this about you," I said, not 
harshly, but with something of pity in my voice. 
He made no reply, but turned his face downward 
again, hiding it from me. I stood looking at him 
for a few moments, utterly at a loss what to say, and 
then went back to the bar-room. 
Ned remained up stairs until toward evening. At 
six o clock work ceased, and the men called in larger 
numbers than usual to get a drink before going home. 
Old Jacobs the pressman was among the first. The 
talk was all about young Allen. In the midst of it 
there came a hush, and I heard a person standing 
close to the bar say in a suppressed voice, 
" As I live, there 's his father !" 
 
It seemed as if I had been struck. There was not 
a man, dead or alive, that I wouldn 't rather have 
seen than Mr. Allen. 
I looked, and there he was, a step or two inside 
of the bar-room. Mr. Ashley was with him. It was 
nearly two years since I last saw the pure but wasted 
countenance of this good old man. The sweetness 
and tenderness, the patience and submission, I had 
marked before as something beautiful and touching, 
were all gone now. There was a look of suppressed 
anguish in his white face white almost as his hair 
that seemed to hurt my eyes as they rested upon 
it. He came up to where I stood behind the bar, 
and said, huskily how clear and sweet his voice was 
the last time it fell on my ears ! 
" Is there a lad here named Edward Allen ?" 
" You will find him up stairs," I replied, turning 
my face partly away, lest he should recognize me. 
But there was not much danger of that. 
"Which way?" he asked. 
I came from behind the bar, and led the way for 
Ned 's father and Mr. Ashley up to the room where 
the unhappy boy still lay on his face in a kind of 
dumb despair. Mr. Allen went over to the settee, 
and bending above him, said, in a voice strangely 
calm, but oh, so full of tenderness and pity, 
" My son !" 
I saw a start and quiver in the prostrate boy. 
That was all. 
The father then knelt down, and clasping his thin 
 
hands tightly together, turned upward his pale face 
and eyes wet with tears. 
" O Lord !" he said, hushing his voice to keep it 
steady, yet not able to repress the heartache that 
was killing him " O Lord ! have mercy on my poor 
boy !" 
No further word could he say. There was a mo 
ment or two of silence, and then, with a sob and cry 
of anguish, he fell forward upon his son. 
"Oh, father! Don 't! Don 't! I can t bear it! 
Oh, I wish I was dead!" cried the poor boy, in a 
wild, helpless way, as he endeavored to get up. But 
his father lay heavy upon him. 
"Father! Dear father! Oh, I 've killed my 
father !" and Ned struggled up. 
Mr. Allen was still on his knees, bowed over on 
the settee. He seemed to have lost all strength. 
" Father ! Oh, father !" the boy cried again, and 
then I saw him get his arms about his father 's neck 
and lay his pale face down softly on the white 
head bowed so low. " Dear father ! dear father !" he 
sobbed. 
Tears were running down Mr. Ashley 's face, and 
my eyes were dim. 
I began to be alarmed for Mr. Allen, as he did 
not stir, nor in any way respond to his son 's sorrow 
ful appeals. But in a little while I saw him slowly 
lift his bowed head, yet not rise from his knees. As 
Ned 's arm fell away from his father 's neck, the 
father 's arm was drawn about him. Then they knelt 
 
side by side, and were very still for a few moments, 
after which Mr. Allen again clasped his hands to 
gether in prayer, lifting his face upward. 
Again he said, " O Lord ! have mercy on my poor 
boy ! Pity him, and cause him to repent and turn 
away from sin. I have tried to nurture him for 
thee, but the devices of the wicked have been too 
strong. They have snared him and brought his 
soul into great peril. I am weak and broken and 
helpless, but in thee, O Lord ! is strength, and in thee 
is forgiveness." 
Then he got up, and taking his boy by the hand, 
went out with him, Mr. Ashley going at the same 
time. 
CHAPTER XII. 
ON returning to the bar-room I was beset with 
inquiries as to what had happened up stairs. 
I would rather have kept it all to myself, but this 
could not well be, so I told just what had taken 
place. 
" I wouldn 't have the ruin of that boy on my con 
science for all the world," said one of the men who 
had come in from the bindery. He spoke with 
much feeling. 
" If he hadn 't been a thief at heart, he wouldn 't 
have stolen," retorted Lloyd, who felt that the re 
mark was aimed at us. 
" Let him that is without sin cast the first stone," 
answered the other, with much bitterness of tone, 
and he looked steadily at Lloyd. 
"What do you mean by that?" demanded Lloyd, 
a flash in his eyes. 
" There are many ways of stealing besides taking 
a man 's goods or putting your hand in his pocket," 
was replied with a calm impressiveness that gave 
force to the speaker 's words. " If you deliberately 
corrupt and deprave a man, in order that you may 
get his money, by what name, I pray, do you call 
the act? Is it a fair and honorable and honest 
deed? That poor boy, I take it, was no more a 
thief at heart than you or I when he first began 
coming to this place." 
" I guess you re right there," came in old Jacobs, 
who never lost an opportunity to have his say. 
" He deserves our pity more than our execration," 
continued the other. " We should consider all the 
circumstances of the case." 
" Gammon !" retorted Lloyd. "As if a few glasses 
of beer were going to make a thief out of an honest 
person! You must all feel very much compli 
mented." 
" You can t turn it off in that way," said Jacobs, 
driving up against Lloyd, as he always did when a 
chance offered. " When Ned Allen came here first, 
he was as nice a boy as you could find in a hundred : 
I know that. But beer and bad talk hurt him in 
body and mind, and beer and games, the theatre, 
and maybe worse places, couldn 't be enjoyed with 
out money. The boy was not strong enough to 
swim against the stream on which he was floating, 
and so went down with the current. It is sad 
enough and bad enough. I am not trying to excuse 
him, but don 't  let all the blame and all the curses 
fall on his poor head. There are a good many dol 
lars of the money he took from his employers in 
your till, and you can t make it out any other way." 
I shut my teeth hard and kept silent. Lloyd 
boiled over and swore roundly at Jacobs, but it 
wasn 't of any use. The old pressman had the sym- 
 
 
pathy as well as the convictions of nearly all on his 
side. What he said had the effect of softening every 
one toward Ned Allen and turning harshness into 
pity. 
" If I was his father," was remarked on that same 
evening, but later the men from the bindery and 
printing-office could not get done talking about the 
affair " I 'd send him to the house of refuge at 
once. It 's the only way to save him." 
"Of whom are you speaking?" asked one of two 
well-dressed men who had come in a few minutes 
before and were standing at the bar. 
" Of a boy in 's bindery who was caught 
stealing to-day," was answered. , 
" Did you say his name was Allen ?" 
" Yes, sir Ned Allen. He 's the son of Rev. Mr. 
Allen, more 's the pity." 
The man started, a look of surprise and pain set 
tling over his face. 
" Oh, that can t be, surely !" he said. 
" It 's too true, sir. The thing 's been going on for 
some time, and to-day it all came out. They 'll 
probably hush it up for his father 's sake. But that 
won t save the poor boy from ruin, I'm afraid." 
The man then asked a great many questions, and 
drew out the whole story, which was related even to 
the scene that had occurred up stairs between Ned 
and his father. He seemed very much concerned 
about it, and he and the friend who was with him 
talked the matter over together for a good while. 
 
Once I heard him say, with a great deal of earnest 
ness, 
" I 'll do it for his father 's sake, if for nothing else. 
Dear, good old man ! My heart aches for him." 
" When a boy gets so far gone as that, there isn 't 
much hope for him," the other replied. " And then 
it 's a great risk to take a person whom you know to 
be dishonest." 
" I 'd rather run the risk of losing a few dollars 
than see him go to destruction without an effort 
being made to save him," was the firm answer. 
" Poor old Mr. Allen !" 
Then the two men went out together. One was 
a merchant, and the other was agent for an eastern 
insurance company doing a large business in the 
city. It was the latter who had expressed so deep 
an interest in Mr. Allen 's son. 
Mr. Ashley was very much excited over the mat 
ter, and even went so far as to go before the grand 
jury and try to get us indicted for something or 
other. But he was not able to put them in posses 
sion of any facts sufficiently well authenticated to 
warrant their finding a bill against us. 
One morning, about a week after the occurrence 
just related, I was reading a newspaper, when I 
came upon the following: 
" A GOOD MAN GONE TO HIS REWARD. In the rec 
ord of deaths this morning will be found that of the 
Rev. Edward Allen, who died yesterday. The poor 
and humble, among whom he has worked for so 
 
many years, will sadly miss his gentle face, his ten 
der voice and loving ministrations. Death will be 
his gain, but their irreparable loss. Like the Master 
in whose footsteps he walked, he went about doing 
good. Peace to his memory ! It will be precious 
to hundreds." 
I then turned to the list of deaths and read, 
" On the fourth instant, after a brief illness, Rev. 
Edward Allen, in his sixty-third year." 
And just below, 
" On the evening of the fourth instant, Jane Allen, 
wife of Rev. Edward Allen, in her fifty-eighth year. 
" He giveth his beloved sleep." 
For some minutes I seemed to be in a kind of 
maze. 
" Dead ! That good old man dead !" I said this 
in my thoughts, and kept on repeating it over and 
over. " It can t be possible !" I answered back, and 
lifting the paper, read again. I did not speak of it 
to any one, and tried to banish it from my mind, but 
that was not to be done. 
I missed from the bar-room, after this trouble with 
Ned Allen, several familiar faces. Among them was 
that of John Ashley. Most of the boys had kept 
away, at which -I was better pleased than otherwise. 
We got considerable out of them one week with an 
other, but there was a law against selling to minors, 
and here was about our only danger of getting trip 
ped. Besides, Ned Allen 's fall had caused a great 
deal of talking among the men, and one or two of 
 
them more than hinted that if we did not stop sell 
ing liquor to the lads complaint would be made. 
On the evening after a notice of the death of Mr. 
Allen and his wife appeared in the newspapers, we 
had in an unusual number of workmen from the 
bindery and printing-office. They came to talk 
about the matter, and to learn what they could 
about it from each other. It had caused, I found, a 
good deal of stir. Putting this and that together as 
it came out, I learned that when Mr. Allen got home 
with his son, and the mother came to know of their 
sorrow and disgrace, the poor old lady was stricken 
down as if dead, and did not come to for a long time. 
Adding the shock and alarm of this to the crushing 
weight under which he was trying to hold himself 
up was too much for the heart-broken father to bear, 
and nature kindly gave him ease in unconscious 
ness. 
Out of this he came at length, but in mind and 
body so weak that he seemed almost gone. He ral 
lied but little never sufficient to leave his bed. So 
he lingered on for a week. His wife came up better. 
Anxiety for her husband caused her strength to re 
turn, and she kept about him night and day, doing 
all in her power to save him. But in vain. Body, 
heart and brain had all been overworked too long, 
and there was not enough vitality left to meet the 
sudden and large demand this terrible shock had 
occasioned. And so he passed to his rest. It was 
