"I thought we should find her here," replied Mr. Hines. "He doesn't sail
that boat alone--does he?"
"No, sir; he has a nephew that lives with him; but he has gone to
Boston."
"Are you sure of that?"
"Captain Chinks says he has; that's all I know about it."
"How old is the nephew?"
"Almost twenty-one."
"In my opinion that nephew is here," added the custom-house official.
"That's so!" exclaimed Bobtail, as the Skylark passed the captain's
boat. "There he is now.--Hallo, Ben!"
"Is that you, Bobtail? Where did you pick up that boat?"
"Don't let on," interposed Mr. Hines; and the skipper did not answer the
question.
"Say! Where d'ye get her?" shouted Ben.
"She isn't mine."
"He knows all about her. Keep out of sight, Mr. Brooks. He knows you,
but not me," continued Mr. Hines.
The Skylark passed out of hearing of Ben's voice, but he immediately
jumped into his dory and pulled for the wharf. Bobtail ran the yacht up
to the landing-steps, and Mr. Brooks hastened on shore, so that Ben
Chinks should not recognize him.
"Say, Bob, where'd ye get this boat?" asked Ben, stepping upon the deck
of the Skylark.
"She don't belong to me," replied Bobtail.
"Don't you know the boat?" inquired Mr. Hines.
"Don't I know her?" repeated Ben.
"That's the question I asked."
"I cal'late I've seen her before; because she came into Bar Harbor about
ten days ago," replied Ben, cautiously.
"Exactly so," added the custom-house detective; "she was sold, and your
uncle or father bought her."
"Who told you all that?" asked Ben; and he did not seem to know whether
or not to admit the truth of the statement.
The detective whistled and looked about him as though he did not care
whether Captain Chinks bought her or not.
"Your uncle bought her dog cheap, too. I think Captain Chinks is a smart
man," added Mr. Hines.
"He's some," grinned Ben.
"But you and he drank a little too much of that liquor."
"What liquor? I don't drink liquor."
"You might as well own up. Captain Chinks and you were a little boozy
that day."
"What day?"
"Why, that day you sailed this boat up the bay."
"I didn't drink a drop," protested Ben, warmly.
"Then your uncle drank enough for both of you."
"No, he didn't, nuther. I didn't see him drink anything."
"Ah, it's no use to deny it," laughed Mr. Hines, as though he was only
indulging in a pleasantry.
"I wouldn't deny it if it was true; but it ain't."
"How did the boat get adrift, then?" queried Mr. Hines. "Both of you
must have been a little set up."
"Not a bit."
"The boat wouldn't have got adrift if you had either of you been all
right."
"Both of us were as straight as a gun."
"How did it happen, then?"
"It was blowing like Sam Hill, that day, you see--didn't Captain Chinks
tell you about it?"
"He didn't say you were both sober."
"Well, I was; and if he drank anything that day, I didn't see him do
it,' persisted Ben.
"But what in the world did you want to land your stuff in that place
for?"
"What place? What stuff?" demanded Ben.
"Those cases of brandy, of course. It's all right, my man. Captain
Chinks will be down here to-morrow. Little Bobtail here picked up the
yacht, and took her into Camden. The stuff was all landed in the night,
so that only two or three persons know anything about it--Little
Bobtail, myself, and a friend of mine."
"Who is he?"
"He's a friend of mine. We were on the lookout for this lot of brandy,
and we took it off Captain Chinks's hands, so that he won't have any
trouble in getting rid of it."
"Is that so? Who's the other man?"
"We don't call names in this business, you know," answered the
detective, mysteriously. "But I can't see what you wanted to land the
stuff in that place for. You would have been trapped if you had; for
there is a sharp detective over at Camden, looking out for cases of this
sort."
"Sho! Who is he?"
"His name's Hines."
"Hines? I never heard on him before."
"He's sharp."
Bobtail had to look overboard to keep from laughing.
"Ketch a weasel asleep!" grinned Ben. "Me'n my uncle's sharp enough to
whittle skewers with him. When he ketches Cap'n Chinks, he'll ketch a
weasel asleep, you bet! It was the cap'n's notion to land the stuff on
that island, and take it over, a little at a time, when we went out
fishing. We run the boat aground on a beach. You see, I found a hole in
the rocks--a kind of cave--that would hold the hull lot on't. We could
kiver up the mouth of the hole with rocks, so't no one'd ever think
anything was in it. The boat was on so hard we couldn't stir her, and we
went up to take a look at the hole. While we were gone, the tide riz,
and the wind blowed the boat off. The cap'n did some tall swearin' about
that time, you'd better believe; but it didn't do no good. The boat was
gone, and we couldn't git her. It was just dark, and I cal'lated the
wind would drive her on the rocks, and smash her all to pieces. It was
lucky Bob picked her up, for she might 'a been found by some feller
who'd made mischief out of that stuff in the cabin."
Bobtail had to tell the story of the picking up of the Skylark.
"She must have drifted up the bay, and then down, for the tide turned
not long after we lost her," said Ben. "We walked up to Islesboro', but
we didn't dare to say a word. The cap'n went over to Camden in the
packet, and I came down here. I took our boat here, and with a man to
help me, cruised all round Deer Island and Vinal Haven, to see if I
could find the Skylark; but I couldn't hear nothin' on her."
"What did the captain give for this boat?" asked Mr. Hines.
"Five hundred dollars."
"Didn't pay for her--did he?"
"Yes, he did; cash down. The man he bought her of 's up at one of the
hotels now."
"Is he?"
"Yes, he is;" and Ben described the house.
"If he has any more such boats to sell, I should like to buy one like
this at the same price. But when are you going out again?"
"Out where?"
"O, I understand all about this business; you needn't roll your eyes at
me," laughed the detective. "I know all about it; and when Captain
Chinks runs in another lot of brandy, I intend to take it off his hands,
if he isn't too sharp; and I want to know when to be on the lookout for
it."
"O, you do?" grinned Ben.
"When do you go?"
"I donno; you must ask the cap'n. When he gets a letter he will be off."
The conversation was continued till it was quite dark, and then Ben went
back to his boat. Little Bobtail laughed till his sides ached at the
tactics of Mr. Hines, as they walked up to the hotel, or boarding-house,
where the late owner of the Skylark lodged.
CHAPTER XVI.
THE CHASE.
Mr. Hines and Little Bobtail walked up to the hotel. The former had
possessed himself of sufficient evidence to convict Captain Chinks of
smuggling, and also of intense stupidity in employing a simpleton like
Ben Chinks in such a dangerous business, though rogues and villains
almost always leave a screw loose somewhere.
"We shall make a good case of it, Bobtail," said Mr. Hines.
"I could hardly keep from laughing while you were pumping Ben Chinks,"
replied the skipper. "The idea of your taking the stuff off Captain
Chinks's hands!"
"I did take it off his hands, and he will have no trouble now in getting
rid of it."
"I wouldn't have said anything if I had been Ben."
"Very likely you would, Bobtail; for with all the information I have
obtained from you, and from other sources, I spoke by the book, and he
had every reason to suppose I was in the captain's confidence."
"But do you really think Captain Chinks will come down here?" asked
Bobtail.
"I am almost sure of it."
"I should stay away, if I were him."
"He must come to unsnarl the tangle he has made here," replied the
detective. "He must have been more astonished and disconcerted when
Squire Gilfilian showed him the bill he had paid for the boat, than any
one else was. Very likely he will have another explanation to make to
show how he came by it, and he may trace it back to you in some way. But
we will keep an eye on him."
At the hotel they met Mr. Brooks, but the gentleman who had sold the
Skylark, being in feeble health, had retired early. Nothing could be
done, and Bobtail returned to the yacht, while his passengers took rooms
at the hotel, and slept like a rock till morning, for he had worked hard
all day. At sunrise the next morning he was on his feet again. The
Darwinian had more talent for sleeping than the skipper of the Skylark,
and did not turn out till half an hour later. Bobtail had scarcely shown
himself on deck before Ben Chinks pulled to the yacht.
"Say, Bob, who is that man with you?" asked he.
"You must ask him who he is?"
"Don't you know?"
"I never saw him till a few days ago. In his kind of business, he don't
always tell who he is. No doubt he will tell you before night who he is.
What have you been doing down here so long?" asked the skipper, wishing
to divert the conversation into some other channel.
"I have made a pile of money taking out parties to sail, while I'm
waiting."
"What are you waiting for?"
"Waiting for the old man. Didn't he tell you?"
"No; he didn't say much to me."
"What did he give you for picking up the boat?"
"He hasn't given me anything yet," replied Bobtail. "How much do you
charge a day for your boat and two hands?"
"Five dollars."
"I've taken some parties out in the boat, and I have been charging seven
and eight dollars a day."
"That's a better boat than the Eagle. If I had her I should charge eight
dollars a day. But how did you get that stuff out of the Skylark?"
"I ran over in the night, and landed it between one and two o'clock in
the morning, when no one was stirring in our part of the town. I hid it
away in the attic, and this man took it away in the night," replied
Bobtail, confining himself strictly to the facts, though of course he
was no less guilty of deception than if he had told a number of square
lies, except that the deception was in the interest of justice.
"It was lucky for the old man that you picked that boat up; but he's
mean if he don't give you something handsome," added Ben.
"I have had the use of the boat ever since I picked her up."
"Well, that's somethin'. There comes Monkey. Does he know anything about
this business?" whispered Ben.
"Not a thing."
This was a sufficient reason for saying nothing more about it, and Ben
soon returned to the Eagle. After breakfast, Bobtail went up to the
hotel, where his passengers lodged. In the course of the forenoon, the
deputy sheriff "interviewed" Mr. Gordon, the gentleman who had sold the
Skylark. He was sure he could identify the man who had paid him the five
hundred dollar bill. When the steamer from Portland, which touches at
Rockland, arrived, almost everybody went down to the wharf, Mr. Gordon
among the number.
"If you see the man who paid you the bill, point him out, if you please,
but don't say anything about it," said Mr. Brooks, as the gang plank of
the steamer was run out.
"There he is!" exclaimed Mr. Gordon, as Captain Chinks walked from the
boat to the wharf.
The deputy sheriff and Mr. Hines kept out of sight. Bobtail had been
sent away in the Skylark, that she might not attract the attention of
the smuggler, and was standing off and on a mile or more from the shore.
As soon as Captain Chinks landed, he was greeted by Ben, his nephew, who
was doubtless glad to see him.
"I s'pose you are tired of waiting--ain't you, Ben?" asked the captain,
who wore a troubled expression.
"Not a bit on't. I've been makin' five dollars a day, right along,
takin' parties out to sail," replied Ben, with a cheerful grin; "but I
had to pay a boy half a dollar a day to help me."
"That's pretty well."
"Why didn't you come down afore?"
"Because I didn't hear anything from St. John; and things are a little
mixed up to Camden."
"Mixed! Why, I thought everything had come out fust rate. You got the
Skylark and the stuff back as slick as a whistle."
"Who told you so?" demanded the captain, with a startled look.
"Why, Little Bobtail. He's here in the Skylark, and said you sent him."
Bobtail certainly had not said any such thing. Ben had inferred it from
what Mr. Hines had stated. It was not prudent to talk of these matters
in the midst of so many people, and the captain and his nephew hastened
on board of the Eagle.
"I didn't send him," said Captain Chinks, very much perplexed.
"You didn't?"
"No; the young villain picked up the boat, but I couldn't do anything
with him."
"Sho!" exclaimed Ben, who began to be worried himself. "Bobtail's here,
and that other man with him."
"What other man!" demanded the captain, savagely.
"That man that took the stuff off your hands."
"What stuff!"
"Why, the liquor that was in the Skylark."
"What do you mean, Ben?"
"Didn't Bob pick up the Skylark and land the stuff in the night; and
didn't you sell it to that other man? and didn't he move it out of Bob's
house in the night?"
"No!" roared Captain Chinks.
"That's what they said, anyhow," added Ben, stoutly.
"Who said so?"
"Why, the man that took the stuff off your hands."
"Who is he?"
"Well, don't you know?"
"No, I don't," gasped Captain Chinks.
"I'm sure I don't, then. He wouldn't tell me his name. He came down in
the Skylark with Bobtail yesterday."
The gentleman with a doubtful reputation uttered an exceedingly hard and
naughty expletive, and he did so with much emphasis. His face was very
red, and his lips quivered with wrath.
"Have you been talking with any one about this business, Ben Chinks?"
demanded the smuggler, shaking his clinched fist in the face of his
nephew.
"I didn't tell him nothin'; he told me, and he said he took that stuff
off your hands, and was goin' to have the next lot; he said you oughtn't
to land the stuff on that island, and wanted to know how we happened to
let the boat go adrift."
"And you told him?" gasped the captain.
"What was the use of my tellin' on him, when he knowed all about it? O,
he said you and I had both been takin' too much. He was kind o' jokin',
but I stuck to it that we was as sober as he was. I did tell him how
the boat got adrift; but he told me all the rest."
"Ben, you are a fool!"
"I tell you he knowed all about it," whined the nephew.
"You've made a pretty mess of it."
"I didn't do it. He knowed all about it afore, and I s'posed you told
him."
"I told him nothing. I never said a word to him. Don't you know the
man's name?"
"No, I don't. He wouldn't tell me, nor Bob nuther."
"Well, I know who he is," groaned Captain Chinks, pounding the trunk of
the cabin with his fist, and grating his teeth with rage.
"Who is he?"
"He's a custom-house officer."
"Sho! you don't say so!" cried Ben, with horror, for he regarded a
custom-house officer in about the same light that he did a hangman.
"You've told him all about it," added the Captain.
"I didn't tell him nothin'; he knowed it all before.'
"All we can do now is to get out of the way. Where is this man?"
"I don'no; I hain't seen him to-day. There's the Skylark," replied Ben,
pointing to the yacht.
"Is he on board of her?"
"No."
"Are you sure of it?"
"Sartain, I am. I see Bobtail start off in her alone."
"We must get out of the way, but I don't know where to go to," groaned
the captain. "I cal'late you've ruined me, Ben."
"I didn't do it," protested the nephew. "I keep a tellin' on you, he
knowed all about it in the fust on't."
"Get up your fore'n mainsail. We must get out of this as quick as we
can."
"You can't kerry the foresail. It blows like Sam Hill, and squally,
too."
"Hist the mainsail then."
This sail was set, but the moment they began to hoist it, Mr. Hines made
the signal agreed upon, by waving his handkerchief on the wharf, for the
return of the Skylark. The steamer had gone, and most of the people had
left the wharf by this time. Bobtail, who was on the lookout for the
signal, saw it immediately, and headed the yacht for the pier. As Ben
Chinks had remarked, it blew hard, and the wind came in heavy flaws. The
Skylark had a single reef in her mainsail, and the jib was furled, but
even with this short canvas she flew like a bird.
"There goes the Eagle," shouted Monkey from the forecastle.
"Who's on board of her?" asked Bobtail.
"I reckon it's Captain Chinks; it looks like him."
The skipper looked at the boat through the spy-glass, and identified the
captain.
"He's trying to get away," said he.
"What for?" asked Monkey, who was in blissful ignorance of the smuggling
operation of the captain.
"You will soon know," replied Bobtail.
The Eagle, under jib and mainsail, was standing out of the harbor, and
the Skylark had to pass her on her way to the wharf. Captain Chinks was
at the helm himself, and at that moment, as he gazed at Little Bobtail,
he was the maddest man on the waters of Maine. Both boats were going
free, and when they were nearly abreast of each other, and not a hundred
feet apart, the captain suddenly put up his helm, and the Eagle darted
towards the Skylark, as if she shared the spite of her skipper, and as
an eagle would pounce upon a skylark.
"Down with your helm!" shouted Bobtail, full of excitement, for the
danger of a collision was imminent.
If the Skylark had held on her course, she would have been struck
amidships by the bow of the Eagle; but Bobtail jammed his helm hard
down, the result of which was to throw the yacht up into the wind, and
bring her alongside the other craft. As it was, the Eagle's bow grated
along the quarter of the Skylark. Bobtail supposed that Captain Chinks
intended to board the yacht, and he instantly seized the spare tiller,
which he always carried in the standing-room when it blew hard, and
stood ready to "repel boarders." But the captain did not intend to
capture the Skylark. Probably he intended to sink her; but his purposes
were only known to himself. The sails of the Eagle were still full, and
she continued on her course.
"Keep out of the way next time!" shouted Captain Chinks.
Bobtail made no reply, but filled away again, and in a few minutes was
at the wharf. Mr. Hines and Mr. Brooks leaped on board.
"After him, Bobtail," cried the detective, earnestly, as he shoved off
the bow of the boat.
"He has heard all about it from Ben, and is going to run away. Hurry
up."
The Skylark was clear of the wharf, and coming about, was headed towards
the Eagle.
"Is Captain Chinks's boat fast?" asked Mr. Hines.
"Yes, sir; but it blows too hard for her to-day. She don't carry sail
worth a cent," replied Bobtail.
"How is it with the Skylark?"
"She is the ablest boat I know."
"Good! Then we have the advantage."
"Hoist the jib, Monkey," shouted the skipper.
"Are you sure she will carry it? It blows heavy outside, and the wind
comes in flaws," added Mr. Hines.
"I know her like a book. She will carry her jib and mainsail to-day, but
we have one reef in. The Eagle has two miles or more the start of us;
but we will give her a sweat," said Bobtail.
"She is hoisting her foresail now."
"She will have to take it in again when she gets clear of the land."
With her jib set, the Skylark occasionally put her scuppers under, but
she was as stiff as Mount Desert itself, and only heeled over just so
far, under any flaw that came.
"I didn't think the captain would run for it so soon," said Mr. Hines.
"He didn't even go to the hotel, where a letter is waiting for him. It
has the St. John postmark upon it, and I know what that means without
opening it."
"He tried to run me down," added Bobtail.
"I saw him do it. His game is nearly up. I intended to arrest him when
he came down from the hotel, but he took the alarm from what Ben told
him."
As the Eagle ran out from the land, it was evident that she could not
long carry her foresail. It was taken in very soon, but she sailed
faster without it than with it. The Skylark gained rapidly upon her. The
water--Frenchman's Bay--was studded with islands, but Mr. Hines, who had
taken the helm, was perfectly familiar with the navigation. As the race
began to be a desperate one for Captain Chinks, he dodged in among the
islands, tempting his pursuer to make short cuts over sunken ledges; but
in all these expedients he failed. The Eagle was a keel boat, and drew
more water than the Skylark, so that wherever the former went the
latter need not fear to follow. At last Captain Chinks appeared to have
given up the race, and Mr. Hines surmised that he was running for a
landing-place on one of the islands. But the Skylark was still gaining,
and was now almost abreast of the Eagle.
"All ready, Mr. Brooks," said the detective, as the bowsprit of the
sloop came up with the quarter of the schooner.
"I'm ready," replied the deputy sheriff, as he went forward to the bow
of the yacht.
"Stand by the sheets, Bobtail, for I don't know what he will do next."
"Ay, ay, sir!" responded the skipper. "Have a fender ready, Monkey."
"All right."
In a moment more, the forecastle of the Skylark was abreast, on the
weather side, of the Eagle, taking the wind out of her mainsail in part.
"Hard down," shouted Mr. Brooks, as he saw Captain Clunks jam down the
helm of the schooner.
Both boats came up into the wind alongside each other, and Monkey was
busy with his fender. The deputy sheriff leaped upon the deck of the
Eagle, and Mr. Hines, giving the helm to Bobtail, followed him. The
skipper permitted the yacht to come about, and she went clear of the
other boat.
"You are my prisoner, Captain Chinks," said Mr. Brooks.
"What for?" gasped the captain.
"For stealing that letter."
"I didn't steal it."
"That remains to be proved."
"We ain't in Knox County now."
"Never mind; I will take you for violating the revenue laws," added Mr.
Hines, as he took the helm of the schooner.
"I hain't done nothing," protested Captain Chinks.
"We will go over to Camden, and settle that point some other time."
The captain was obliged to give it up, and he groaned in bitterness of
spirit. To be charged with stealing the letter, and with violating the
revenue laws at the same time, was more than he had anticipated. On the
first, if convicted, he would be sentenced to imprisonment, and on the
other, to pay a heavy fine. His crimes brought loss of liberty and loss
of property.
Bobtail eased off his mainsheet, and waited for the Eagle to come up.
Mr. Hines had already decided to return to Camden in Captain Chinks's
boat, and when he had announced his purpose, the Skylark filled away
again. It was now about noon, and as the wind was contrary for at least
half the way back to Camden, the skipper hardly expected to reach his
destination that night. The yacht very soon ran away from the schooner,
and at six o'clock had made half the distance. She had come up with the
point which forms the south-eastern point of the town of Brooklyn, where
she started her sheets, and ran through the channel between Deer Island
and Sedgwick.
The wind was still unsteady, coming in heavy flaws; but now it was
beginning to haul more to the southward. This change was favorable, for
it enabled the Skylark to lay her course for Camden. But an awful sea
was rolling in from the ocean, and the yacht jumped like a galloping
horse. The wind freshened into a gale with the change, and the gusts
were more fitful and violent. The jib was taken in, and Monkey was
thoroughly ducked in the operation, for the Skylark occasionally slapped
the waves with her bowsprit. Great black clouds were rolling up off to
seaward, but Bobtail was confident that the yacht was equal to anything.
Under the lee of an island, the mainsail was close-reefed; but she flew
over the waves, and the skipper hoped to reach his destination by nine
in the evening. At eight o'clock, while it was still light, he
discovered a schooner working down the bay under jib and reefed mainsail
which he recognized as the Penobscot.
CHAPTER XVII.
THE WRECK OF THE PENOBSCOT.
"That's the Penobscot!" exclaimed Bobtail, as soon as he identified her.
"She is taking a nasty night to go to sea," added Monkey.
"She will put into Rockland or Camden. I suppose the colonel is in a
hurry to get to Newport for some race. He told me yesterday he should
sail to-day."
"She ain't going into Camden. If she was, she wouldn't be out there.
She's right off the ledges, and if she don't tack soon, she'll be on
'em," said the Darwinian.
"I think she's going into Rockland. She can make it in one more
stretch."
"She can get in behind Owl's Head, and lay as easy as if she was in a
mill pond."
"That's an awful sea out there, Monkey," said Bobtail. "See the
breakers on that lower ledge. If I was the captain of the Penobscot, I
should go in stays. There she goes!"
At this moment the sails of the large yacht shook, as her head came up
to the wind. But the next instant she fell off, heeled over, and drove
ahead again. Bobtail distinctly heard a shout from her, though she was a
mile distant. He watched her with his heart in his mouth, and his worst
fears were realized when he saw her lift her bow high up in the water.
She had run upon the ledge.
"By gracious! she is on the rocks!" cried Bobtail, wild with excitement
and anxiety.
"So she is!" gasped Monkey.
Then came a shriek in the tones of a woman's voice, whose piercing note
was heard above the roaring of the billows.
"That's Mrs. Montague," said Bobtail. "Get your warp-line out, Monkey.
We have got something to do to-night."
The Skylark flew on her mission of rescue, and her skipper watched the
Penobscot with intense interest. Her bow rose and fell at every sea, and
it was evident that she was crashing her timbers at every motion. In
five minutes from the time she struck, the smaller yacht came up with
her. She had gone upon the last ledge of the series that extends to the
southward from Islesboro'. Bobtail ran to the west of the ledges, and,
going entirely round to avoid gybing, he came up into the wind close
under the stern of the Penobscot. He heard her planks and timbers
grinding on the rocks. Monkey heaved the warp-line, which was caught by
the sailors on board of the wreck. The mainsail of the Skylark was
lowered.
By this time, though the waves still beat over the bow of the Penobscot,
she ceased to grind upon the rocks. The tide was going out, and less of
the weight of the vessel was supported by the water, and as the volume
of the waves diminished, their power lessened. In two or three hours the
yacht would be high and dry. She had gone upon the ledge in a direction
diagonal with the wind, so that under one of her quarters the water was
comparatively smooth. Bobtail and Monkey heaved on the warp-line till
they brought the Skylark alongside this lee quarter.
"No time to lose, sir!" shouted Bobtail to Colonel Montague, who was
supporting his wife and daughter on deck, for the cabin was flooded with
water. "I shall be aground in half an hour."
"Can your boat weather this blow?" asked the colonel, anxiously.
"Yes, sir; she can stand anything that any boat can."
Mrs. Montague and Grace were assisted on board of the Skylark, which,
even in this sheltered place, rolled, pitched, and tugged furiously at
the warp-line. The colonel and another gentleman, whom Bobtail had not
