Scotty Briggs, as a pall-bearor and a mourner, occupied a 
prominent place at the funeral, and when the sermon was 
finished and the last sentence of the prayer for the dead man's 
Boul ascended, he responded, in a low voice, but with feeling : 
" Amen. No Irish need apply." 
As the bulk of the response was without apparent relevancy 
it was probably nothing more than a humble tribute to the 
memory of the friend that was gone; for, as Scotty had once 
said, it was " his word." 
Scotty Briggs, in after days, achieved the distinction of be- 
coming the only convert to religion that was ever gathered 
from the Virginia roughs ; and it transpired that the man who 
had it in him to espouse the quarrel of the weak out of inborn 
nobility of spirit was no mean timber whereof to construct a 
Christian. The making him one did not warp his generosity 
or diminish his courage ; on the contrary it gave intelligent 
direction to 
the one and 
a broader field to the 
other. If 
his Sunday-school class 
progressed taster than 
the other 
classes was 
it matter for wonder ? I 
think not. He talked to 
his pioneer small-fry in a language they understood ! It was 
my large privilege, a month before he died, to hear him tell the 
beautiful story of Joseph and his brethren to his class " with- 
out looking at the book." I leave it to the reader to fancy 
what it was like, as it fell, riddled with slang, from the lips of 
that grave, earnest teacher, and was listened to by his little 
learners with a consuming interest that showed that they were 
as unconscious as he was that any violence was being done to 
the sacred proprieties ! 
THE first twenty-six graves in the Virginia cemetery were 
occupied by murdered men. So everybody said, so 
everybody believed, and so they will always say and believe. 
The reason why there was so much slaughtering done, wa«, 
that in a new mining district the rough element predomi- 
nates, and a person is not respected until he has " killed his 
man." That was the very expression used. 
If an unknown individual arrived, they did not inquire if 
he was capable, honest, industrious, but — had he killed his 
man ? If he had not, he gravitated to his natural and proper 
position, that of a man of small consequence ; if he had, the 
cordiality of his reception was graduated according to the 
number of his dead. It was tedious Mork struggling up to a 
position of influence with bloodless hands ; but when a man 
came with the blood of half a dozen men on his soul, his worth 
was recognized at once and his acquaintance sought. 
In Nevada, for a time, the lawyer, the editor, the banker, 
the chief desperado, the chief gambler, and the saloon keeper, 
occupied the same level in society, and it was the highest. 
The cheapest and easiest way to become an influential man 
and be looked up to by the community at large, was to stand 
behind a bar, wear a cluster-diamond pin, and sell whisky. I 
am not sure but that the saloon-keeper held a shade higher 
rank than any other member of society. His opinion had 
weight. It was his privilege to say how the elections should 
go. No great movement could succeed without the counte- 
nance and direction of the saloon-keepers. It was a high favor 
when the chief saloon-keeper consented to serve in the legislature 
or the board of aldermen. Youthful ambition hardly 
aspired so much to the honors of the law, or the army and 
navy as to the dignity of proprietorship in a saloon. 
To be a saloon-keeper and kill a man was to be illustrious. 
Hence the reader will not be surprised to learn that more 
than one man was killed in Kevada under hardly the pretext 
of provocation, so impatient was the slayer to achieve reputa- 
tion and throw off the galling sense of being held in indifferent 
repute by his associates. I knew two youths who tried to 
" kill their men " for no other reason — and got killed them- 
pelves for their pains. " There goes the man that killed Bill 
Adams " was higher praise and a sweeter sonnd in the ears of 
this sort of people than any other speech that admiring lips 
could utter. 
The men who murdered Virginia's original twenty-six 
cemetery -occupants M-ere never punished. Why ? Because 
Alfred the Great, when he invented trial by jury, and knew 
that he had admirably framed it to secure justice in his age of 
the world, was not aware that in the nineteenth century the 
condition of things would be so entirely changed that unless 
he rose from the grave and altered the jury plan to meet the 
emergency, it would ]U'ove the most ingenious and infallible 
agency for defeating justice that human wisdom could con- 
trive. For how could he imagine that we simpletons would 
go on using his jury plan after circumstances had stripped it 
of its usefulness, any more than he could imagine that we 
would go on using his candle-clock after we had invented 
chronometers? In his day news could not travel fast, and 
hence he could easily find a jury of honest, intelligent men 
who had not heard of the case they were called to try — but in 
our day of telegraphs and newsjapers his plan compels us to 
swear in juries composed of fools and rascals, because the 
system rigidly excludes honest men and men of brains. 
I remember one of those sorrowful farces, in Virginia, 
which we call a jury trial. A noted desperado killed Mr. B., 
a good citizen, in the most wanton and cold-blooded way. 
Of course the papers were full of it, and all men capable of 
reading, read about it. And of course all men not deaf and 
dumb and idiotic, talked about it. A jury-list was made out, 
and Mr. B. L., a prominent banker and a valued citizen, was 
questioned precisely as he would have been questioned in any 
court in America : 
" Have you heard of this homicide ? " 
" Yes." 
" Have you held conversations upon the subject ? " 
"Yes." 
" Have you formed or expressed opinions about it ? " 
"Yes."" 
"Have you read the newspaper accounts of it? " 
"Yes." 
"We do not want you." 
A minister, intelligent, esteemed, and greatly respected; 
& merchant of high character and known probity ; a mining 
superintendent of intelligence and unblemished reputation ; a 
quartz mill owner of excellent standing, were all questioned in 
the same way, and all set aside. Each said the public talk and 
the newspaper reports had not so biased his mind but that 
sworn testimony would overthrow his previously formed opin- 
ions and enable him to render a verdict without prejudice and 
in accordance with the facts. But of course such men could 
not be trusted with the case. Ignoramuses alone could mete 
out unsullied justice. 
When the peremptory challenges were all exhausted, a jury 
of twelve men was impaneled — a jury who swore they had 
neither heard, read, talked about nor expressed an opinion 
concerning a murder which the very cattle in the corrals, the 
Indians in the saoje-brush and the stones in the streets were 
cognizant of! It was a jury composed of two desperadoes, 
two low beer-house politicians, three bar-keepers, two ranchmen 
who could not read, and three dull, stupid, human donkeys ! 
It actually came out afterward, that one of these latter thought 
that incest and arson were the same thing. 
The verdict rendered by this jury was, IS'ot Guilty. What 
else could one expect ? 
The jury system puts a ban upon intelligence and honesty, 
and a premium upon ignorance, stupidity and perjury. It is 
a shame that we must continue to use a worthless systejn be- 
cause it was good a thousand years ago. In this age, when a 
gentleman of high social standing, intelligence and probity, 
swears that testimony given under solemn oath will outweigh, 
with him, street talk and newspaper reports based upon mere 
hearsay, he is worth a hundred jurymen who will swear to 
their own ignorance and stupidity, and justice would be far 
safer m his hands than in theirs. Why could not the jury law 
be so altered as to give men of brains and honesty an eqtial 
chance with fools and miscreants? Is it right to show the 
present favoritism to one class of men and inflict a disability 
on another, in a land whose boast is that all its citizens are 
free and equal ? I am a candidate for the legislature. I de- 
sire to tamper with the jury law. I wish to so alter it as to 
put a premium on intelligence and character, and close the 
jury box against idiots, blacklegs, and people who do not read 
newspapers. But no doubt I shall be defeated — every effort 
I make to save the country " misses fire." 
My idea, when I began this chapter, was to say some- 
thing about desperadoism in the "flush times" of Nevada. 
To attempt a portrayal of that era and that land, and leave 
out the blood and carnage, would be like portraying Mormon- 
dom and leaving out polygamy. The desperado stalked the 
streets with a swagger graded according to the number of his 
homicides, and a nod of recognition from him was sufficient 
to make a humble admirer happy for the rest of the day. 
The deference that was paid to a desperado of wide reputa- 
tion, and who "kept his private graveyard," as the phrase 
Ment, was marked, and cheerfully accorded. When he moved 
along the sidewalk in his excessively long-tailed frock-coat, 
shiny stump-toed boots, and with dainty little slouch hat 
tipped over left eye, the small-fry ronglis made room for his 
majesty ; when lie entered the restaurant, the waiters deserted 
bankers and merchants to overwhelm him with obsequious 
service ; when he shouldered his way , to a bar, the shoul- 
dered parties 
wlieeled indignantly, recognized him, and — apologized. They got 
a look in return that froze their 
marrow, and by that time a curled 
and breast-pinned bar keeper was 
beaming over the counter, proud of 
the established acquaintanceship that 
permitted such a familiar form of 'speech as : 
" How 're ye, Billy, old fel ? Glad to see you. What'U 
you take — the old thing?" 
The "old thing" meant his customary drink, of course. 
The best known names in the Territory of Nevada were 
those belonging to these long-tailed heroes of the revolver. 
Orators, Governors, capitalists and leaders of the legislature 
enjoyed a degree of fame, but it seemed local and meagre when 
contrasted with the fame of such men as Sam Brown, Jack 
Williams, Billy Mulligan, Farmer Pease, Sugarfoot Mike, 
Pock Marked Jake, El Dorado Johnny, Jack McNabb, Joe 
McGee, Jack Harris, Six-fingered Pete, etc., etc. There was 
a long list of them. They were brave, reckless men, and 
traveled with their lives in their hands. To give them their 
due, they did their killing principally among themselves, and 
seldom molested peaceable citizens, for they considered it 
small credit to add to their trophies so cheap a bauble as the 
death of a man who was " not on the shoot," as they phrased 
it. They killed each other on slight provocation, and hoped 
and expected to be killed themselves — for they held it almost 
shame to die otherwise than "with their boots on," as they 
expressed it. 
I remember an instance of a desperado's contempt for such 
small game as a private citizen's life. I was taking a late 
supper in a restaurant one night, with two reporters and a 
little printer named — Brown, for instance — any name will do. 
Presently a stranger with a long-tailed coat on came in, and 
not noticing Brown's hat, which was lying in a chair, sat down 
on it. Little Brown sprang up and became abusive in a 
moment. The stranger smiled, smoothed out the hat, and 
offered it to Brown with profuse apologies couched in caustic 
sarcasm, and begged Brown not to destroy him. Brown threw 
off his coat and challenged the man to fight — abused him 
threatened him, impeached his courage, and urged and even 
implored him t-o fight ; and in the meantime the smiling- 
stranger placed himself under our protection in mock distress. 
But presently he assumed a serious tone, and said : 
" Yery well, gentlemen, if we must fight, we must, I sup- 
pose. But don't rush into danger and then say I gave you no- 
warning. I am more than a match for all of you when I get 
started. I will give you proofs, and then if my friend here 
still insists, I will try to accommodate him." 
The table we were sitting at was about five feet long, and 
unusually cumbersome and heavy. He asked us to put our 
hands on the dishes and hold them in their places a moment 
— one of them was a large oval dish with a portly roast on it. 
Then he sat down, tilted up one end of the table, set two of 
the legs on his knees, took the end of the table between his 
teeth, took his hands away, and pulled down with his teeth till 
the table came up to a level position, dishes and all ! He said 
he could lift a keg of nails with his teeth. He picked up a 
common glass tumbler and bit a semi-circle out of it. Then 
he opened his bosom and showed ns a net-work of knife and 
bullet scars ; showed us more on his arms and face, and 
said he beheved he had bullets enough in his body to make a 
ipig of lead. He was armed to the teeth. He closed with the 
remark that he was Mr. of Cariboo — a celebrated name 
whereat we shook in our shoes. I would publish the name, 
but for the suspicion that he might come and carve me. He 
finally inquired if Brown still thirsted for blood. Brown 
turned the thing over in his mind a moment, and then — asked 
him to supper. 
With the permission of the reader, I will group together, 
in the next chapter, some samples of life in our small moun- 
tain village in the old days of desperadoism. I was there at 
the time. The reader will observe peculiarities in our official 
society ; and he will observe also, an instance of how, in new 
countries, murders breed murders. 
CHAPTER XLIX. 
AN extract or two from the newspapers of the day will 
furnish a photograph that can need no embellishnient : 
Fatal Shooting Affray. — An affray occurred, last evening, in a billiard 
saloon on C street, between Deputy Marshal Jack Williams and Wm. Brown, 
which resulted in the immediate death of the latter. There had been some 
difficulty between the parties for several months. 
An inquest was immediately held, and the following testimony adduced : 
Officer Geo. Bikdsall, sworn, says : — I was told Wm. Brown was drunk 
and was looking for Jack Williams ; so soon as I heard that I started for the 
parties to prevent a collision ; went into the billiard saloon ; saw Billy Brown 
running around, saying if anybody had anything against him to show cause ; 
he was talking in a boisterous manner, and officer Perry took him to the 
other end of the room to talk to him ; Brown came back to me ; remarked 
to me that he thought he was as good as anybody, and knew how to take 
care of himself ; he passed by me and went to the bar ; don't know whether 
he drank or not ; Williams was at the end of" the billiard-table, next to the 
stairway ; Brown, after going to the bar, came back and said he was as good 
as any man in the world ; he had then walked out tc the end of the first 
billiard-table from the bar; I moved closer to them, supposing there would 
be a figl.t ; as Brown drew his pistol I caught hold of it ; he had firod one 
shot at Williams ; don't know the effect of it ; caught hold of him with one 
hand, and took hold of the pistol and turned it up ; think he fired once after 
I caught hold of the pistol ; I wrenched the pistol from him ; walked to the 
end of the billiard-table and told a party that I had Brown's pistol, and to 
stop shooting ; I think four shots were fired in all ; after walking out, Mr. 
Foster remarked that Brown was shot dead. 
Oh, there was no excitement about it — he merely "remarked " the small circumstance ! 
Four months later the following item appeared in the same 
paper (the Enterprise). In this item the name of one of the 
city officers above referred to {Deputy Marshal Jack Wih 
Hams) occurs again : 
Robbery and Desperate Affray. — On Tuesday night, a German named 
Charles Hurtzal, engineer in a mill at Silver City, came to this place, and 
visited the hurdy-gurdy house on B street. The music, dancing and Teu- 
tonic maidens awakened memories of Faderland until our German friend 
was carried away with rapture. He evidently had money, and was spend- 
ing it freely. Late in the evening Jack Williams and Andy Blessington 
invited him down stairs to take a cup of coffee. Williams proposed a game 
of cards and went up stairs to procure a deck, but not finding any returned. 
On the stairway he met the German, and drawing his pistol knocked him 
down and rifled his pockets of some seventy dollars. Hurtzal dared give 
no alarm, as he was told, with a pistol at his head, if he made any noise or 
exposed them, they would blow his brains out. So effectually was he 
frightened that he made no complaint, until his friends forced him. Yester- 
day a warrant was issued, but the culjirits had disajpeared. 
This efficient city officer, Jack Williams, had the common 
reputation of being a burglar, a highwayman and a desperado. 
It was said that he had several times drawn his revolver and 
levied money contributions on citizens at dead of night in the 
public streets of Virginia. 
Five months after the above item appeared, Williams was 
assassinated while sitting at a card table one night; a gun was 
thrust through the crack of the door and Williams dropped 
from his chair riddled with balls. It was said, at the time, 
that Williams had been for some time aware that a party 
of his own sort (desperadoes) had sworn away his life ; and 
it was generally believed among the people that Williams's 
friends and enemies would make the assassination memorable — 
and useful, too — by a wholesale destruction of each other.* 
* However, one prophecy was verified, at any rate. It was asserted bj 
the desperadoes that one of their brethren (Joe McGee, a specud policeman) 
was known to be the conspirator chosen by lot to assassinate Williams ; and 
they also asserted that doom had been pronounced against McGee, and that 
lie would be assassinated in exactly the same manner that had been adopted 
for the destruction of Williams — a prophecy which came true a year later. 
After twelve months of distress (for McGee saw a fancied assassin in every 
man that approached him), he made the last of many efforts to get out of 
the country unwatched. He went to Carson and eat down in a saloon to 
wait for the stage — it would leave at four in the morning. But as the night 
It did not so happen, but still, times were not dull during the 
next twenty- four hours, for within that time a woman was killed 
by a pistol shot, a man was brained with a slung shot, and a 
man named E-eeder was also disposed of permanently. Some 
matters in the Enterprise account of the killing of Eeeder are 
worth noting — especially the accommodating complaisance of a 
Virginia justice of the peace. The italics in the following nar- 
rative are mine : 
Moke Cutting and Shootixg. — The devil seems to have again broken 
loose in our town. Pistols and guns explode and knives gleam In our streets 
as in early times. When there has been a long season of quiet, people are 
slow to wet their hands in blood ; but once blood is spilled, cutting and 
shooting come easy. Night before last Jack Williams was assassinated, 
and yesterday forenoon we had more bloody work, growing out of the kill- 
ing of Williams, and on the same street in which he met his death. It 
appears that Tom Reeder, a friend of Williams, and George Gumbert were 
talking, at the meat market of the latter, about the killing of Williams the 
previous night, when Reeder said it was a most cowardly act to shoot a man 
in such a way, giving him " no show." Gumbert said that Williams had 
" as good a show as he gave Billy Brown," meaning the man killed by Wil- 
liams last March. Reeder said it was a d — d lie, that Williams had no show 
at all. At this, Gumbert drew a knife and stabbed Reeder, cutting him in 
two places in the back. One stroke of the knife cut into the sleeve of 
Reeder's coat and passed downward in a slanting direction through his 
clothing, and ent-ered his body at the small of the back ; another blow 
struck more squarely, and made a much more dangerous wound. Gumbert 
gave himself up to the officers of justice, and was shortly after discharged 
by Justice At will, on his own recognizance, to appear for trial at six o'clock 
in the evening. In the meantime Reeder had been taken into the office of 
Dr. Owens, where his wounds were properly dressed. One of his wounds was 
considered quite dangerous, and it was thought by many that it would prove 
waned and the crowd thinned, he grew uneasy, and told the bar-keeper that 
assassins were on his track. The bar-keeper told him to stay in the middle 
of the room, then, and not go near the door, or the window by the stove. 
But a fatal fascination seduced him to the neighborhood of the stove every 
now and then, and repeatedly the bar-keeper brought him back to the middle 
of the room and warned him to remain there. But he could not. At three in 
the morning he again returned to the stove and sat down by a stranger. Be- 
fore the bar-keeper could get to him with another warning whisper, some 
one outside fired through the window and riddled McGee's breast with 
slugs, killing him almost instantly. By the same discharge the stranger at 
McGee's side also received attentions which proved fatal in the course ot 
two or three days. 
fatal. But being considerably under the influence of liquor, Eeeder did not 
feel Ms wounds as he otherwise icould, and lie got up and tcent into the street. 
He went to the meat market and renewed his quarrel with Gumbert, threat- 
ening his life. Friends tried to interfere to put a stop to the quarrel and 
get the parties away from each other. In the Fashion Saloon Reeder made 
threats against the life of Gumbert, saying he would kill him, and it is 
said that 7ie requested the officers not to arrest Gumbert, as he intended to kill 
him. After these threats Gumbert went off and procured a double-barreled 
shot gun, loaded with buck-shot or revolver balls, and went after Reeder. 
Two or three persons were assisting him along the street, trying to get him 
home, and had him j ust in front of the store of Klopstock & Harris, when 
Gumbert came across toward him from the opposite side of the street with 
his gun. He came up within about ten or fifteen feet of Reeder, and called out 
to those with him to " look out ! get out of the way ! " and they had only time to 
heed the warning, when he fired. Reeder was at the time attempting to screen 
himself behind a large cask, which stood against the awning post of Klop- 
stock & Harris's store, but some of the balls took effect in the lower part of 
his breast, and he reeled around forward and fell in front of the cask. Gum- 
bert then raised his gun and fired the second barrel, which missed Reeder 
and entered the ground. At the time that this occurred, there were a great 
many persons on the street in the vicinity, and a number of them called out 
to Gumbert, when they saw him raise his gun, to " hold on," and " don't 
shoot ! " The cutting took place about ten o'clock and the shooting about 
twelve. After the shooting the street was instantly crowded with the in- 
habitants of that part of the town, some appearing much excited and laugh- 
ing — declaring that it looked like the " good old times of '60." Marshal 
Perry and oflScer Birdsall were near when the shooting occurred, and Gum- 
bert was immediately arrested and his gun taken from him, when he was 
marched off to jail. Many persons who were attracted to the spot where this 
bloody work had just taken place, looked bewildered and seemed to be asking 
themselves what was to happen next, appearing in doubt as to whether the 
killing mania had reached its climax, or whether we were to turn in and 
have a grand killing spell, shooting whoever might have given us offence. 
It was whispered around that it was not all over yet — five or six more were 
to be killed before night. Reeder was taken to the Virginia City Hotel, 
and doctors called in to examine his wounds. They found that two or three 
balls had entered his right side; one of them appeared to have passed 
through the substance of the lungs, while another passed into the liver. 
Two balls were also found to have struck one of his legs. As some of the 
balls struck the cask, the wounds in Reeder's leg were probably from these, 
glancing downwards, though they might have been caused by the second 
shot fired. After being shot, Reeder said when he got on his feet — smiling 
as he spoke — " It will take better shooting than that to kill me." The doc- 
tors consider it almost impossible for him to recover, but as he has an 
excellent constitution lie may survive, notwithstanding the number and 
dangerous character of the wounds he has received. The town appears to 
be perfectly quiet at present, as though the late stonny times had cleared 
our moral atmosphere ; but who cau tell in what quarter clouda are lowering 
or plots ripening ? 
Nothing was ever done with Gumbert. 
Reeder — or at least what was left of him- wounds two days! 
Trial by jnry is the palladium of our liberties. I do not 
know what a palladium is, having never seen a palladium, but 
it is a good thing no doubt at any rate. Not less than a hun- 
dred men have been murdered in Nevada — perhaps I would 
be within bounds if I said three hundred — and as far as I can 
learn, only two persons have suffered the death penalty there. 
However, four or five who had no money and no political influ- 
ence have been punished by imprisonment — one languished in 
prison as much as eight months, I think. However, I do not 
desire to be extravagant — it may have been less. 
OHAPTEE L. 
THESE murder and jury statistics remind me of a certain 
very extraordinary trial and execution of twenty years 
ago ; it is a scrap of history familiar to all old Californians, 
iind worthy to be known by other peoples of the earth that 
love simple, straightforward justice unencumbered with non- 
siense. I would apologize for this digression but for the fact 
that the information I am about to oiier is apology enough in 
itself. And since I digress constantly anyhow, perhaps it is 
as well to eschew apologies altogether and thus prevent their 4 
growing irksome. 
Capt. Ned Blakely — that name will answer as well as any 
other lictitious one (for he was still with the living at last ac- 
counts, and may not desire to be famous) — sailed ships out of 
the harbor of San Francisco for many years. He was a stal- 
wart, warm-hearted, eagle-eyed veteran, who had been a sailor 
nearly fifty years — a sailor from early boyhood. He was a 
rough, honest creature, full of pluck, and just as full of hard- 
headed simplicity, too. He hated trifling conventionalities — . 
" business " was the word, with him. He had all a sailor's 
vindictiveness against the quips and quirks of the law, and 
steadfastly believed that the first and last aim and object of the 
law and lawyers was to defeat justice. 
He sailed for the Chincha Islands in command of a guano 
ship. He had a fine crew, but his negro mate was his pet —  
on him he had for years lavished his admiration and esteem. 
It was Capt. Ned's first A-oyage to the Chinchas, but his fame 
had gone before him — the fame of being a man who would fi 
fight at the dropping of a handkerchief, when imposed upon, 
and would stand no nonsense. It was a lame well earned. 
Arrived in the islands, he found that the staple of conversation 
was the exploits of one Bill Noakes, a bully, the mate of a 
trading ship. This man had created a small reign of terror 
there. At nine o'clock at night, Capt. Xed, all alone, was 
pacing his deck in the starlight. A form ascended the side, 
and approached him. Capt. [Ned said : 
" Who goes there ? " 
" I'm Bill Noakes, the best man in the islands." 
" What do you want aboard this ship ? " 
"I've heard of Capt. Jed Blakely, and one of us is a better 
man than 'tother— I'll know which, before I go ashore." 
"You've come to the right shop— I'm your man. I'll
learn you to come aboard this ship without an mvite." 
Ho seized Noakes, backed Inm against the mainmast, 
pounded his face to a pulp, and then threw him overboard 
Koakes was not convinced. He returned the next night, 
got the pulp renewed, and went overboard head first, as before. 
He was satisfied. 
A week after this, while Noakes was carousing with a sailor 
crowd on shore, at noonday, Capt. Ned's colored mate came 
along, and Noakes tried to pick a quarrel with him. The 
negro evaded the trap, and tried to get away. IS'oakes fol- 
lowed him up ; the negro began to run ; Noakes fired on him 
with a revolver and killed him. Half a dozen sea-captains 
witnessed the whole affair. Noakes retreated to the small 
after-cabin of his ship, with two other bullies, and gave out 
that death would be the portion of any man that intruded 
there. There was no attempt made to follow the villains ; 
there was no disposition to do it, and indeed very little thought 
of such an enterprise. There were no courts and no officers ; 
there was nongovernment ; the islands belonged to Peru, and 
Peru was far away ; she had no official representative on the 
ground ; and neither had any other nation. 
However, Capt. Ned was not perplexing his head about 
such things. They concerned him not. He was boiling with 
rage and furious for justice. At nine o'clock at night he 
loaded a double-barreled gun with slugs, fished out a pair of 
handcuffs, got a ship's lantern, summoned his quartermaster, 
and went ashore. Ke said : 
'• Do you see that ship there at the dock? " 
"Ay-ay, sir." 
" It's the Yenus." 
"Ay-ay, sir." 
" You — you know meP 
" Ay-ay, sir." 
" Yery well, then. Take the lantern. Carry it just under 
your chin. I'll walk behind you and rest this gun-barrel on 
