did. It was horrid to do so. He was very obtuse, too, not to see that
girls can't always be so certain of themselves as men, or, if they are,
don't know they are as soon as they're asked."

"Yes," interrupted Mrs. Ellison, "that's the way with girls. I do
believe that most of them--when they're young like you, Kitty--never
think of marriage as the end of their flirtations. They'd just like the
attentions and the romance to go on forever, and never turn into
anything more serious; and they're not to blame for that, though they
do get blamed for it."

"Certainly," assented Kitty, eagerly, "that's it; that's just what I was
saying; that's the very reason why girls must have time to make up their
minds. You had, I suppose."

"Yes, two minutes. Poor Dick was going back to his regiment, and stood
with his watch in his hand. I said no, and called after him to correct
myself. But, Kitty, if the romance had happened to stop without his
saying anything, you wouldn't have liked that either, would you?"

"No," faltered Kitty, "I suppose not."

"Well, then, don't you see? That's a great point in his favor. How much
time did you want, or did he give you?"

"I said I should answer before we left Quebec," answered Kitty, with a
heavy sigh.

"Don't you know what to say now?"

"I can't tell. That's what I want you to help me think out."

Mrs. Ellison was silent for a moment before she said, "Well, then, I
suppose we shall have to go back to the very beginning."

"Yes," assented Kitty, faintly.

"You did have a sort of fancy for him the first time you saw him, didn't
you?" asked Mrs. Ellison, coaxingly, while forcing herself to be
systematic and coherent, by a mental strain of which no idea can be
given.

"Yes," said Kitty, yet more faintly, adding, "but I can't tell just what
sort of a fancy it was. I suppose I admired him for being handsome and
stylish, and for having such exquisite manners."

"Go on," said Mrs. Ellison. "And after you got acquainted with him?"

"Why, you know we've talked that over once already, Fanny."

"Yes, but we oughtn't to skip anything now," replied Mrs. Ellison, in a
tone of judicial accuracy which made Kitty smile.

But she quickly became serious again, and said, "Afterwards I couldn't
tell whether to like him or not, or whether he wanted me to. I think he
acted very strangely for a person in--love. I used to feel so troubled
and oppressed when I was with him. He seemed always to be making himself
agreeable under protest."

"Perhaps that was just your imagination, Kitty."

"Perhaps it was; but it troubled me just the same."

"Well, and then?"

"Well, and then after that day of the Montgomery expedition, he seemed
to change altogether, and to try always to be pleasant, and to do
everything he could to make me like him. I don't know how to account for
it. Ever since then he's been extremely careful of me, and behaved--of
course without knowing it--as if I belonged to him already. Or maybe
I've imagined that too. It's very hard to tell what has really happened
the last two weeks."

Kitty was silent, and Mrs. Ellison did not speak at once. Presently she
asked, "Was his acting as if you belonged to him disagreeable?"

"I can't tell. I think it was rather presuming. I don't know why he did
it."

"Do you respect him?" demanded Mrs. Ellison.

"Why, Fanny, I've always told you that I did respect some things in
him."

Mrs. Ellison had the facts before her, and it rested upon her to sum
them up, and do something with them. She rose to a sitting posture, and
confronted her task.

"Well, Kitty, I'll tell you: I don't really know what to think. But I
can say this: if you liked him at first, and then didn't like him, and
afterwards he made himself more agreeable, and you didn't mind his
behaving as if you belonged to him, and you respected him, but after all
didn't think him fascinating--"

"He is fascinating--in a kind of way. He was, from the beginning. In a
story his cold, snubbing, putting-down ways would have been perfectly
fascinating."

"Then why didn't you take him?"

"Because," answered Kitty, between laughing and crying, "it isn't a
story, and I don't know whether I like him."

"But do you think you might get to like him?"

"I don't know. His asking brings back all the doubts I ever had of him,
and that I've been forgetting the past two weeks. I can't tell whether I
like him or not. If I did, shouldn't I trust him more?"

"Well, whether you are in love or not, I'll tell you what you are,
Kitty," cried Mrs. Ellison, provoked with her indecision, and yet
relieved that the worst, whatever it was, was postponed thereby for a
day or two.

"What!"

"You're--"

But at this important juncture the colonel came lounging in, and Kitty
glided out of the room.

"Richard," said Mrs. Ellison, seriously, and in a tone implying that it
was the colonel's fault, as usual, "you know what has happened, I
suppose."

"No, my dear, I don't; but no matter: I will presently, I dare say."

"O, I wish for once you wouldn't be so flippant. Mr. Arbuton has offered
himself to Kitty."

Colonel Ellison gave a quick, sharp whistle of amazement, but trusted
himself to nothing more articulate.

"Yes," said his wife, responding to the whistle, "and it makes me
perfectly wretched."

"Why, I thought you liked him."

"I didn't like him; but I thought it would be an excellent thing for
Kitty."

"And won't it?"

"She doesn't know."

"Doesn't know?"

"No."

The colonel was silent, while Mrs. Ellison stated the case in full, and
its pending uncertainty. Then he exclaimed vehemently, as if his
amazement had been growing upon him, "This is the most astonishing thing
in the world! Who would ever have dreamt of that young iceberg being in
love?"

"Haven't I told you all along he was?"

"O yes, certainly; but that might be taken either way, you know. You
would discover the tender passion in the eye of a potato."

"Colonel Ellison," said Fanny with sternness, "why do you suppose he's
been hanging about us for the last four weeks? Why should he have stayed
in Quebec? Do you think he pitied me, or found you so very
agreeable?"

"Well, I thought he found us just tolerable, and was interested in the
place."

Mrs. Ellison made no direct reply to this pitiable speech, but looked a
scorn which, happily for the colonel, the darkness hid. Presently she
said that bats did not express the blindness of men, for any bat could
have seen what was going on.

"Why," remarked the colonel, "I did have a momentary suspicion that day
of the Montgomery business; they both looked very confused, when I saw
them at the end of that street, and neither of them had anything to say;
but that was accounted for by what you told me afterwards about his
adventure. At the time I didn't pay much attention to the matter. The
idea of his being in love seemed too ridiculous."

"Was it ridiculous for you to be in love with me?"

"No; and yet I can't praise my condition for its wisdom, Fanny."

"Yes! that's like men. As soon as one of them is safely married, he
thinks all the love-making in the world has been done forever, and he
can't conceive of two young people taking a fancy to each other."

"That's something so, Fanny. But granting--for the sake of argument
merely--that Boston has been asking Kitty to marry him, and she doesn't
know whether she wants him, what are we to do about it? I don't like
him well enough to plead his cause; do you? When does Kitty think she'll
be able to make up her mind?"

"She's to let him know before we leave."

The colonel laughed. "And so he's to hang about here on uncertainties
for two whole days! That is rather rough on him. Fanny, what made you
so eager for this business?"

"Eager? I wasn't eager."

"Well, then,--reluctantly acquiescent?"

"Why, she's so literary and that."

"And what?"

"How insulting!--Intellectual, and so on; and I thought she would be
just fit to live in a place where everybody is literary and
intellectual. That is, I thought that, if I thought anything."

"Well," said the colonel, "you may have been right on the whole, but I
don't think Kitty is showing any particular force of mind, just now,
that would fit her to live in Boston. My opinion is, that it's
ridiculous for her to keep him in suspense. She might as well answer him
first as last. She's putting herself under a kind of obligation by her
delay. I'll talk to her--"

"If you do, you'll kill her. You don't know how she's wrought up about
it."

"O well, I'll be careful of her sensibilities. It's my duty to speak
with her. I'm here in the place of a parent. Besides, don't I know
Kitty? I've almost brought her up."

"Maybe you're right. You're all so queer that perhaps you're right.
Only, do be careful, Richard. You must approach the matter very
delicately,--indirectly, you know. Girls are different, remember, from
young men, and you mustn't be blunt. Do maneuver a little, for once in
your life."

"All right, Fanny; you needn't be afraid of my doing anything awkward or
sudden. I'll go to her room pretty soon, after she is quieted down, and
have a good, calm old fatherly conversation with her."

The colonel was spared this errand; for Kitty had left some of her
things on Fanny's table, and now came back for them with a lamp in her
hand. Her averted face showed the marks of weeping; the corners of her
firm-set lips were downward bent, as if some resolution which she had
taken were very painful. This the anxious Fanny saw; and she made a
gesture to the colonel which any woman would have understood to enjoin
silence, or, at least, the utmost caution and tenderness of speech. The
colonel summoned his finesse and said, cheerily, "Well, Kitty, what's
Boston been saying to you?"

Mrs. Ellison fell back upon her sofa as if shot, and placed her hand
over her face.

Kitty seemed not to hear her cousin. Having gathered up her things, she
bent an unmoved face and an unseeing gaze full upon him, and glided from
the room without a word.

"Well, upon my soul," cried the colonel, "this is a pleasant,
nightmarish, sleep-walking, Lady-Macbethish little transaction. Confound
it, Fanny this comes of your wanting me to maneuver. If you'd let me
come straight at the subject,--like a man--"

"Please, Richard, don't say anything more now," pleaded Mrs. Ellison
in a broken voice. "You can't help it, I know; and I must do the best I
can, under the circumstances. Do go away for a little while, darling! O
dear!"

As for Kitty, when she had got out of the room in that phantasmal
fashion, she dimly recalled, through the mists of her own trouble, the
colonel's dismay at her so glooming upon him, and began to think that
she had used poor Dick more tragically than she need, and so began to
laugh softly to herself; but while she stood there at the entry window a
moment, laughing in the moonlight, that made her lamp-flame thin, and
painted her face with its pale lustre, Mr. Arbuton came down the attic
stairway. He was not a man of quick fancies; but to one of even slower
imagination and of calmer mood, she might very well have seemed unreal,
the creature of a dream, fantastic, intangible, insensible, arch, not
wholly without some touch of the malign. In his heart he groaned over
her beauty as if she were lost to him forever in this elfish
transfiguration.

"Miss Ellison!" he scarcely more than whispered.

"You ought not to speak to me now," she answered, gravely.

"I know it; but I could not help it. For heaven's sake, do not let it
tell against me. I wished to ask if I should not see you to-morrow; to
beg that all might go on as had been planned, and as if nothing had been
said to-day."

"It'll be very strange," said Kitty. "My cousins know everything now.
How can we meet before them!"

"I'm not going away without an answer, and we can't remain here without
meeting. It will be less strange if we let everything take its course."

"Well."

"Thanks."

He looked strangely humbled, but even more bewildered than humbled.

She listened while he descended the steps, unbolted the street door, and
closed it behind him. Then she passed out of the moonlight into her own
room, whose close-curtained space the lamp filled with its ruddy glow,
and revealed her again, no malicious sprite, but a very puzzled,
conscientious, anxious young girl.

Of one thing, at least, she was clear. It had all come about through
misunderstanding, through his taking her to be something that she was
not; for she was certain that Mr. Arbuton was of too worldly a spirit to
choose, if he had known, a girl of such origin and lot as she was only
too proud to own. The deception must have begun with dress; and she
determined that her first stroke for truth and sincerity should be most
sublimely made in the return of Fanny's things, and a rigid fidelity to
her own dresses. "Besides," she could not help reflecting, "my
travelling-suit will be just the thing for a picnic." And here, if the
cynical reader of another sex is disposed to sneer at the method of her
self-devotion, I am sure that women, at least, will allow it was most
natural and highly proper that in this great moment she should first
think of dress, upon which so great consequences hang in matters of the
heart Who--to be honest for once, O vain and conceited men!--can deny
that the cut, the color, the texture, the stylish set of dresses, has
not had everything to do with the rapture of love's young dream? Are not
certain bits of lace and knots of ribbon as much a part of it as any
smile or sidelong glance of them all? And hath not the long experience
of the fair taught them that artful dress is half the virtue of their
spells? Full well they know it; and when Kitty resolved to profit no
longer by Fanny's wardrobe, she had won the hardest part of the battle
in behalf of perfect truth towards Mr. Arbuton. She did not, indeed,
stop with this, but lay awake, devising schemes by which she should
disabuse him of his errors about her, and persuade him that she was no
wife for him.




XII.

THE PICNIC AT CHATEAU-BIGOT.


"Well," said Mrs. Ellison, who had slipped into Kitty's room, in the
morning, to do her back hair with some advantages of light which her own
chamber lacked, "it'll be no crazier than the rest of the performance;
and if you and he can stand it, I'm sure that we've no reason to
complain."

"Why, I don't see how it's to be helped, Fanny. He's asked it; and I'm
rather glad he has, for I should have hated to have the conventional
headache that keeps young ladies from being seen; and at any rate I
don't understand how the day could be passed more sensibly than just as
we originally planned to spend it. I can make up my mind a great deal
better with him than away from him. But I think there never was a more
ridiculous situation: now that the high tragedy has faded out of it, and
the serious part is coming, it makes me laugh. Poor Mr. Arbuton will
feel all day that he is under my mercilessly critical eye, and that he
mustn't do this and he mustn't say that, for fear of me; and he can't
run away, for he's promised to wait patiently for my decision. It's a
most inglorious position for him, but I don't think of anything to do
about it. I could say no at once, but he'd rather not."

"What have you got that dress on for?" asked Mrs. Ellison, abruptly.

"Because I'm not going to wear your things any more, Fanny. It's a case
of conscience. I feel like a guilty creature, being courted in another's
clothes; and I don't know but it's for a kind of punishment of my deceit
that I can't realize this affair as I ought, or my part in it. I keep
feeling, the whole time, as if it were somebody else, and I have an
absurd kind of other person's interest in it."

Mrs. Ellison essayed some reply, but was met by Kitty's steadfast
resolution, and in the end did not prevail in so much as a ribbon for
her hair.

It was not till well into the forenoon that the preparations for the
picnic were complete and the four set off together in one carriage. In
the strong need that was on each of them to make the best of the affair,
the colonel's unconsciousness might have been a little overdone, but
Mrs. Ellison's demeanor was sublimely successful. The situation gave
full play to her peculiar genius, and you could not have said that any
act of hers failed to contribute to the perfection of her design, that
any tone or speech was too highly colored. Mr. Arbuton, of whom she took
possession, and who knew that she knew all, felt that he had never done
justice to her, and seconded her efforts with something like cordial
admiration; while Kitty, with certain grateful looks and aversions of
the face, paid an ardent homage to her strokes of tact, and after a few
miserable moments, in which her nightlong trouble gnawed at her heart,
began, in spite of herself, to enjoy the humor of the situation.

It is a lovely road out to Château-Bigot. First you drive through the
ancient suburbs of the Lower Town, and then you mount the smooth, hard
highway, between pretty country-houses, toward the village of
Charlesbourg, while Quebec shows, to your casual backward-glance, like a
wondrous painted scene, with the spires and lofty roofs of the Upper
Town, and the long, irregular wall wandering on the verge of the cliff;
then the thronging gables and chimneys of St. Roch, and again many
spires and convent walls; lastly the shipping in the St. Charles, which,
in one direction, runs, a narrowing gleam, up into its valley, and in
the other widens into the broad light of the St. Lawrence. Quiet, elmy
spaces of meadow land stretch between the suburban mansions and the
village of Charlesbourg, where the driver reassured himself as to his
route from the group of idlers on the platform before the church. Then
he struck off on a country road, and presently turned from this again
into a lane that grew rougher and rougher, till at last it lapsed to a
mere cart-track among the woods, where the rich, strong odors of the
pine, and of the wild herbs bruised under the wheels, filled the air. A
peasant and his black-eyed, open-mouthed boy were cutting withes to bind
hay at the side of the track, and the latter consented to show the
strangers to the château from a point beyond which they could not go
with the carriage. There the small habitant and the driver took up the
picnic-baskets, and led the way through pathless growths of underbrush
to a stream, so swift that it is said never to freeze, so deeply sprung
that the summer never drinks it dry. A screen of water-growths bordered
it; and when this was passed, a wide open space revealed itself, with
the ruin of the château in the midst.

The pathos of long neglect lay upon the scene; for here were evidences
of gardens and bowery aisles in other times, and now, for many a year,
desolation and the slow return of the wilderness. The mountain rising
behind the château grounds showed the dying flush of the deciduous
leaves among the dark green of the pines that clothed it to the crest; a
cry of innumerable crickets filled the ear of the dreaming noon.

The ruin itself is not of impressive size, and it is a château by grace
of the popular fancy rather than through any right of its own; for it
was, in truth, never more than the hunting-lodge of the king's
Intendant, Bigot, a man whose sins claim for him a lordly consideration
in the history of Quebec, He was the last Intendant before the British
conquest, and in that time of general distress he grew rich by
oppression of the citizens, and by peculation from the soldiers. He
built this pleasure-house here in the woods, and hither he rode out from
Quebec to enjoy himself in the chase and the carouses that succeed the
chase. Here, too, it is said, dwelt in secret the Huron girl who loved
him, and who survives in the memory of the peasants as the murdered
sauragesse; and, indeed, there is as much proof that she was murdered
as that she ever lived. When the wicked Bigot was arrested and sent to
France, where he was tried with great result of documentary record, his
château fell into other hands; at last a party of Arnold's men wintered
there in 1775, and it is to our own countrymen that we owe the
conflagration and the ruin of Château-Bigot. It stands, as I said, in
the middle of that open place, with the two gable walls and the stone
partition-wall still almost entire, and that day showing very
effectively against the tender northern sky. On the most weatherward
gable the iron in the stone had shed a dark red stain under the lash of
many winter storms, and some tough lichens had incrusted patches of the
surface; but, for the rest, the walls rose in the univied nakedness of
all ruins in our climate, which has no clinging evergreens wherewith to
pity and soften the forlornness of decay. Out of the rubbish at the foot
of the walls there sprang a wilding growth of syringas and lilacs; and
the interior was choked with flourishing weeds, and with the briers of
the raspberry, on which a few berries hung. The heavy beams, left where
they fell a hundred years ago, proclaimed the honest solidity with which
the château had been built, and there was proof in the cut stone of the
hearths and chimney-places that it had once had at least the ambition of
luxury.

While its visitors stood amidst the ruin, a harmless garden-snake
slipped out of one crevice into another; from her nest in some hidden
corner overhead a silent bird flew away. For the moment,--so slight is
the capacity of any mood, so deeply is the heart responsive to a little
impulse,--the palace of the Cæsars could not have imparted a keener
sense of loss and desolation. They eagerly sought such particulars of
the ruin as agreed with the descriptions they had read of it, and were
as well contented with a bit of cellar-way outside as if they had really
found the secret passage to the subterranean chamber of the château, or
the hoard of silver which the little habitant said was buried under it.
Then they dispersed about the grounds to trace out the borders of the
garden, and Mr. Arbuton won the common praise by discovering the
foundations of the stable of the château.

Then there was no more to do but to prepare for the picnic. They chose a
grassy plot in the shadow of a half-dismantled bark-lodge,--a relic of
the Indians, who resort to the place every summer. In the ashes of that
sylvan hearth they kindled their fire, Mr. Arbuton gathering the sticks,
and the colonel showing a peculiar genius in adapting the savage flames
to the limitations of the civilized coffee-pot borrowed of Mrs. Gray.
Mrs. Ellison laid the cloth, much meditating the arrangement of the
viands, and reversing again and again the relative positions of the
sliced tongue and the sardines that flanked the cold roast chicken, and
doubting dreadfully whether to put down the cake and the canned peaches
at once, or reserve them for a second course; the stuffed olives drove
her to despair, being in a bottle, and refusing to be balanced by
anything less monumental in shape. Some wild asters and red leaves and
green and yellowing sprays of fern which Kitty arranged in a tumbler
were hailed with rapture, but presently flung far away with fierce
disdain because they had ants on them. Kitty witnessed this outburst
with her usual complacency, and then went on making the coffee. With
such blissful pain as none but lovers know, Mr. Arbuton saw her break
the egg upon the edge of the coffee-pot, and let it drop therein, and
then, with a charming frenzy, stir it round and round. It was a picture
of domestic suggestion, a subtle insinuation of home, the unconscious
appeal of inherent housewifery to inherent husbandhood. At the crash of
the eggshell he trembled; the swift agitation of the coffee and the egg
within the pot made him dizzy.

"Sha'n't I stir that for you, Miss Ellison?" he said, awkwardly.

"O dear, no!" she answered in surprise at a man's presuming to stir
coffee; "but you may go get me some water at the creek, if you please."

She gave him a pitcher, and he went off to the brook, which was but a
minute's distance away. This minute, however, left her alone, for the
first time that day, with both Dick and Fanny, and a silence fell upon
