orange; to which the writers will find answers, so far as we can give
them, when we come to speak of the orange-orchards up the river.
A lady writes to ask if we know any way of preserving figs.
Practically, we know nothing about the fig-harvest, having never been
here when they were ripe. Our friends tell us that they are not
successful in preserving them in cans. They make a delicious though
rather luscious preserve done in the ordinary way, like peaches. But we
will give our inquiring friend the benefit of a piece of information
communicated to us by an old native Floridian, who professed to have
raised and prepared figs as fine as those in Turkey. His receipt was as
follows: "Prepare a lye from the ashes of the grape-vine; have a kettle
of this kept boiling hot over the fire; throw in the figs, and let them
remain two minutes; skim them out and drain them on a sieve, and
afterwards dry in the sun." Such was his receipt, which we have never
tried. Probably any other strong lye would answer as well as that from
the grape-vine.
As to those who have asked for flowers from Florida, we wish it were in
our power to grant their requests; but these frail beauties are not
transferable. We in our colony have taxed the resources of our postal
arrangements to carry to our friends small specimens, but with no very
encouraging results.
We have just been making the grand round, or tour up the St. John's to
Enterprise, across to St. Augustine, and back; which is necessary to
constitute one an accomplished Floridian sight-seer: and it had been our
intention to devote this letter to that trip; but there is so much to
say, there are so many wonders and marvels to be described, that we
must give it a letter by itself. No dreamland on earth can be more
unearthly in its beauty and glory than the St. John's in April.
Tourists, for the most part, see it only in winter, when half its
gorgeous forests stand bare of leaves, and go home, never dreaming what
it would be like in its resurrection-robes. So do we, in our darkness,
judge the shores of the river of this mortal life up which we sail,
ofttimes disappointed and complaining. We are seeing all things in
winter, and not as they will be when God shall wipe away all tears, and
bring about the new heavens and new earth, of which every spring is a
symbol and a prophecy. The flowers and leaves of last year vanish for a
season; but they come back fresher and fairer than ever.
This bright morning we looked from the roof of our veranda, and our
neighbor's oleander-trees were glowing like a great crimson cloud; and
we said, "There! the oleanders have come back!" No Northern ideas can
give the glory of these trees as they raise their heads in this their
native land, and seem to be covered with great crimson roses. The poor
stunted bushes of Northern greenhouses are as much like it as our
stunted virtues and poor frost-nipped enjoyments shall be like the bloom
and radiance of God's paradise hereafter. In April they begin to bloom;
and they bloom on till November. Language cannot do justice to the
radiance, the brightness, the celestial calm and glory, of these spring
days. There is an assurance of perpetuity in them. You do not say, as at
the North, that a fine day is a "weather-breeder," and expect a week of
storms to pay for it. Day after day passes in brightness. Morning after
morning, you wake to see the same sunshine gilding the tops of the
orange-trees, and hear the same concert of birds. All the forest-trees
stand in perfected glory; and the leaves have sprung forth with such
rapidity and elastic vigor as gives the foliage a wondrous brightness.
The black-jack oaks--trees which, for some reason or other, are apt to
be spoken of as of small account--have now put forth their large,
sharply-cut, oak-shaped leaves. We say this because it is the only one
of the oak species here that at all resembles the oaks we have been
accustomed to see. The pawpaw-bushes are all burst out in white fringes
of blossom; and the silver bells of the sparkle-berry are now in their
perfection. Under foot, a whole tribe of new flowers have come in place
of the departed violets. The partridge-berry or squaw-berry of the North
grows in the woods in dense mats, and is now white with its little
starry blossoms. Certain nameless little golden balls of flowers twinkle
in the grass and leaves like small constellations. We call them, for
lack of botanic language, "sun-kisses." Our party, the other night,
made an expedition to the "second branch," and brought home long vines
of purple wisteria, red trumpet-creeper, and some sprays of white
blossoms unknown to us: so that our house still is a flower-show. Spring
is as much a pomp and a glory here as in Northern States; for although
the winter is far more endurable, and preserves far more beauty, yet the
outburst of vividness and vigor when the sun begins to wax powerful is
even greater and more marked than at the North. The roses are now in
perfection. Ours have not thriven as they might have done were it not
for the all-devouring orange-trees; but still they give us every
morning, with our breakfast, a comforting assortment. La Marque, Giant
of Battles, Hermosa, a little cluster rose, and a dozen more, have
brightened our repast. This is the land to raise roses, however; and we
mean yet to have a rose-garden at a safe distance from any
orange-trees, and see what will come of it. Here are no slugs or
rose-bugs or caterpillars to make rose-culture a burden and a vexation.
Finally, as we have had so many letters asking information of us, we
wish somebody who is wise enough would write one, and give us some on a
certain point. One of our orange-trees has become an invalid. The case
may be stated as follows: Early in the season, Mr. F., in looking over
the grove, found this tree, then loaded with fruit, dropping its leaves;
the leaves curling, or, as they say here, "rolling," as is the fashion
of orange-trees when suffering from drought. Immediately he took all the
fruit from the tree, pruned it, dug about the roots, and examined them
to find something to account for this. For a while, by careful tending,
the tree seemed to be coming to itself; but, when the blossoming-time
came round, half its leaves fell, and it burst into blossoms on every
spray and twig in the most preternatural manner. It reminded us of some
poor dear women, who, when they lose their health, seem resolved to kill
themselves in abundant good works. It was really blossoming to death.
Now, we ask any wise fruit-growers, What is this disease? and how is it
to be treated? We have treated it by cutting off all the blossoms,
cutting back the branches, watering with water in which guano and lime
have been dissolved; and the patient looks a little better. A negro
workman testified that a tree in a similar state had been brought back
by these means. Can any fruit-grower give any light on this subject?
  [Illustration]
MAGNOLIA WEEK.
      April 20.
It is vain to propose and announce subjects from week to week. One must
write what one is thinking of. When the mind is full of one thing, why
go about to write on another?
The past week we have been engrossed by magnolias. On Monday, our friend
D----, armed and equipped with scaling-ladders, ascended the glistening
battlements of the great forest palaces fronting his cottage, and bore
thence the white princesses, just bursting into bud, and brought them
down to us. Forthwith all else was given up: for who would take the
portrait of the white lady must hurry; for, like many queens of earth,
there is but a step between perfected beauty and decay,--a moment
between beauty and ashes.
We bore them to our chamber, and before morning the whole room was
filled with the intoxicating, dreamy fragrance; and lo! while we slept,
the pearly hinges had revolved noiselessly, and the bud that we left the
evening before had become a great and glorious flower. To descend to
particulars, imagine a thick, waxen-cupped peony of the largest size,
just revealing in its centre an orange-colored cone of the size of a
walnut. Around it, like a circlet of emeralds, were the new green
leaves, contrasting in their vivid freshness with the solid, dark-green
brilliancy of the old foliage. The leaves of the magnolia are in
themselves beauty enough without the flower. We used to gather them in a
sort of rapture before we ever saw the blossom; but all we can say of
the flower is, that it is worthy of them.
We sat down before this queen of flowers, and worked assiduously at her
portrait. We had, besides the full blossom, one bud of the size and
shape of a large egg, which we despaired of seeing opened, but proposed
to paint as it was. The second morning, our green egg began to turn
forth a silver lining; and, as we worked, we could see it slowly opening
before us. Silvery and pearly were the pure tips; while the outside was
of a creamy yellow melting into green. Two days we kept faithful watch
and ward at the shrine; but, lo! on the morning of the third our
beautiful fairy had changed in the night to an ugly brownie. The petals,
so waxen fair the night before, had become of a mahogany color; and a
breeze passing by swept them dishonored in showers on the floor. The
history of that magnolia was finished. We had seen it unfold and die.
Our pearly bud, however, went on waxing and opening till its day came
for full perfection.
The third day, our friend again brought in a glorious bouquet. No
ordinary flower-vase would hold it. It required a heavy stone jar, and a
gallon of water; but we filled the recess of our old-fashioned Franklin
stove with the beauties, and the whole house was scented with their
perfume.
Then we thought of the great lonely swamps and everglades where
thousands of these beauties are now bursting into flower with no earthly
eye to behold them.
The old German legends of female spirits inhabiting trees recurred to
us. Our magnolia would make a beautiful Libussa. A flower is commonly
thought the emblem of a woman; and a woman is generally thought of as
something sweet, clinging, tender, and perishable. But there are women
flowers that correspond to the forest magnolia,--high and strong, with a
great hold of root and a great spread of branches; and whose pulsations
of heart and emotion come forth like these silver lilies that illuminate
the green shadows of the magnolia-forests.
Yesterday, our friend the Rev. Mr. M---- called and invited us to go with
him to visit his place, situated at the mouth of Julington, just where
it flows into the St. John's. Our obliging neighbor immediately proposed
to take the whole party in his sailing-yacht.
An impromptu picnic was proclaimed through the house. Every one dropped
the work in hand, and flew to spreading sandwiches. Oranges were
gathered, luncheon-baskets packed; and the train filed out from the two
houses. The breeze was fresh and fair; and away we flew. Here, on the
St. John's, a water-coach is more to the purpose, in the present state
of our wood-roads, than any land-carriage; and the delight of sailing is
something infinitely above any other locomotion. On this great,
beautiful river you go drifting like a feather or a cloud; while the
green, fragrant shores form a constantly-varying picture as you pass.
Yesterday, as we were sailing, we met a little green, floating island,
which seemed to have started out on its own account, and gone to seek
its fortune. We saw it at first in the distance,--a small, undulating
spot of vivid green. Our little craft was steered right alongside, so
that we could minutely observe. It was some half-dozen square yards of
pickerel-weed, bonnet, water-lettuce, and other water-plants, which, it
would seem, had concluded to colonize, and go out to see the world in
company. We watched them as they went nodding and tilting off over the
blue waters, and wondered where they would bring up.
But now we are at the mouth of Julington, and running across to a point
of land on the other side. Our boat comes to anchor under a grove of
magnolia-trees which lean over the water. They are not yet fully in
blossom. One lily-white bud and one full-blown flower appear on a low
branch overhanging the river, and are marked to be gathered when we
return. We go up, and begin strolling along the shore. The
magnolia-grove extends along the edge of the water for half a mile. Very
few flowers are yet developed; but the trees themselves, in the vivid
contrast of the new leaves with the old, are beauty enough. Out of the
centre of the spike of last year's solemn green comes the most vivid,
varnished cluster of fresh young leaves, and from the centre of this
brilliant cluster comes the flower-bud. The magnolia, being an
evergreen, obeys in its mode of growth the law which governs all
evergreens. When the new shoots come out, the back-leaves fall off. This
produces in the magnolia a wonderfully-beautiful effect of color. As we
looked up in the grove, each spike had, first, the young green leaves;
below those, the dark, heavy ones; and below those still, the decaying
ones, preparing to fall. These change with all the rich colors of
decaying leaves. Some are of a pure, brilliant yellow; others yellow,
mottled and spotted with green; others take a tawny orange, and again a
faded brown.
The afternoon sun, shining through this grove, gave all these effects of
color in full brightness. The trees, as yet, had but here and there a
blossom. Each shoot had its bud, for the most part no larger than a
walnut. The most advanced were of the size of an egg, of white tinted
with green. Beneath the trees the ground was thickly strewn with the
golden brown and mottled leaves, which were ever and anon sailing down
as the wind swayed them.
Numbers of little seedling magnolias were springing up everywhere about
us; and we easily pulled up from the loose yielding soil quite a number
of them, wrapping their roots in the gray moss which always lies at hand
for packing-purposes.
The place had many native wild orange-trees, which had been cut off and
budded with the sweet orange, and were making vigorous growth. Under the
shade of the high live-oaks Mr. M---- had set out young orange and lemon
trees through quite an extent of the forest. He told us that he had two
thousand plants thus growing. It is becoming a favorite idea with
fruit-planters here, that the tropical fruits are less likely to be
injured by frosts, and make a more rapid and sure growth, under the
protecting shadow of live-oaks. The wild orange is found frequently
growing in this way; and they take counsel of Nature in this respect.
After wandering a while in the wood, we picnicked under a spreading
live-oak, with the breeze from the river drawing gratefully across us.
Our dinner over, Mr. M---- took us through his plantations of grapes,
peaches, and all other good things. Black Hamburg grapes grafted upon
the root of the native vine had made luxuriant growth, and were setting
full of grapes. There were shoots of this year's growth full six and
seven feet in length. In the peach-orchard were trees covered with young
peaches, which Mr. M---- told us were only three years from the seed.
All the garden vegetables were there in fine order; and the string-beans
appeared to be in full maturity.
It is now five years since Mr. M---- bought and began to clear this
place, then a dense forest. At first, the letting-in of the sun on the
decaying vegetation, and the upturning of the soil, made the place
unhealthy; and it was found necessary to remove the family. Now the work
is done, the place cleared, and, he says, as healthy as any other.
Mr. M---- is an enthusiastic horticulturist and florist, and is about to
enrich the place with a rose-garden of some thousands of choice
varieties. These places in Florida must not in any wise be compared with
the finished ones of Northern States. They are spots torn out of the
very heart of the forest, and where Nature is rebelling daily, and
rushing with all her might back again into the wild freedom from which
she has been a moment led captive.
But a day is coming when they will be wonderfully beautiful and
productive.
We had one adventure in conquering and killing a formidable-looking
black-snake about seven feet in length. He had no fangs, and, Mr. M----
told us, belonged to a perfectly respectable and harmless family, whose
only vice is chicken-stealing. They are called chicken-snakes, in
consequence of the partiality they show for young chickens, which they
swallow, feathers and all, with good digestion and relish. He informed
us that they were vigorous ratters, and better than either terrier or
cat for keeping barns clear of rats; and that for this purpose they were
often cherished in granaries, as they will follow the rats to retreats
where cats cannot go. Imagine the feelings of a rat when this dreadful
visitor comes like grim death into his family-circle!
In regard to snakes in general, the chance of meeting hurtful ones in
Florida is much less than in many other States. Mr. M----, who in the
way of his mission has ridden all through Florida, never yet met a
rattlesnake, or was endangered by any venomous serpent. Perhaps the
yearly burnings of the grass which have been practised so long in
Florida have had some effect in checking the increase of serpents by
destroying their eggs.
As the afternoon sun waxed low we sought our yacht again, and came back
with two magnolia-flowers and several buds.
This week, too, the woods are full of the blossoms of the
passion-flower.
Our neighbor Mr. C---- has bought the beautiful oak-hammock, where he is
preparing to build a house. Walking over to see the spot the other
evening, we found a jungle of passion-flowers netted around on the
ground, and clinging to bush and tree. Another neighbor also brought us
in some branches of a flowering-shrub called the Indian pipe, which
eclipses the sparkleberry. Like that, it seems to be a glorified
variety of high huckleberry or blueberry. It has the greatest profusion
of waxen white bells fringing every twig; and, blasé as we have been
with floral displays, we had a new sensation when it was brought into
the house.
Thus goes the floral procession in April in the wild-woods. In the
gardens, the oleanders, pink, white, and deep crimson, are beginning
their long season of bloom. The scarlet pomegranate, with its vivid
sparks of color, shines through the leaves.
We are sorry for all those who write to beg that we will send by mail a
specimen of this or that flower. Our experience has shown us that in
that way they are not transferable. Magnolia-buds would arrive dark
and dreadful; and it is far better to view the flowers ever fresh and
blooming, through imagination, than to receive a desolate, faded,
crumpled remnant by mail.
  [Illustration]
BUYING LAND IN FLORIDA.
      May 2.
We have before us a neat little pile of what we call "Palmetto
letters,"--responses to our papers from all States in the Union. Our
knowledge of geography has really been quite brightened by the effort to
find out where all our correspondents are living. Nothing could more
mark the exceptional severity of the recent winter than the bursts of
enthusiasm with which the tidings of flowers and open-air freedom in
Florida have come to those struggling through snow-drifts and
hail-storms in the more ungenial parts of our Union. Florida seems to
have risen before their vision as the hymn sings of better shores:--
      "On Jordan's stormy banks I stand,
        And cast a wistful eye
      To Canaan's fair and happy land."
Consequently, the letters of inquiry have come in showers. What is the
price of land? Where shall we go? How shall we get there? &c.
We have before advertised you, O beloved unknown! who write, that your
letters are welcome, ofttimes cheering, amusing, and undeniably nice
letters; yet we cannot pledge ourselves to answer, except in the gross,
and through "The Christian Union." The last inquiry is from three
brothers, who want to settle and have homes together at the South. They
ask, "Is there government land that can be had in Florida?" Yes, there
is a plenty of it; yet, as Florida is the oldest settled State in the
Union, and has always been a sort of bone for which adventurers have
wrangled, the best land in it has been probably taken up. We do not
profess to be land-agents; and we speak only for the tract of land lying
on the St. John's River, between Mandarin and Jacksonville, when we say
that there are thousands of acres of good land, near to a market, near
to a great river on which three or four steamboats are daily plying,
that can be had for five dollars per acre, and for even less than that.
Fine, handsome building-lots in the neighborhood of Jacksonville are
rising in value, commanding much higher prices than the mere productive
value of the land. In other words, men pay for advantages, for society,
for facilities afforded by settlements.
Now, for the benefit of those who are seriously thinking of coming to
Florida, we have taken some pains to get the practical experience of men
who are now working the land, as to what it will do. On the 2d of May,
we accepted the invitation of Col. Hardee to visit his pioneer nursery,
now in the fourth year of its existence. Mr. Hardee is an enthusiast in
his business; and it is a department where we are delighted to see
enthusiasm. The close of the war found him, as he said, miserably poor.
But, brave and undiscouraged, he retained his former slaves as free
laborers; took a tract of land about a mile and a half from
Jacksonville; put up a house; cleared, planted, ploughed, and digged:
and, in the course of four years, results are beginning to tell
handsomely, as they always do for energy and industry. He showed us
through his grounds, where every thing was growing at the rate things do
grow here in the month of May. Two things Mr. Hardee seems to have
demonstrated: first, that strawberry-culture may be a success in
Florida; and, second, that certain varieties of Northern apples and
pears may be raised here. We arrived in Florida in the middle of
January; and one of the party who spent a night at the St. James was
surprised by seeing a peck of fresh, ripe strawberries brought in. They
were from Mr. Hardee's nursery, and grown in the open air; and he
informed us that they had, during all the winter, a daily supply of the
fruit, sufficient for a large family, and a considerable overplus for
the market. The month of May, however, is the height of the season; and
they were picking, they informed us, at the rate of eighty quarts per
day.
In regard to apples and pears, Mr. Hardee's method is to graft them upon
the native hawthorn; and the results are really quite wonderful. Mr.
Hardee was so complaisant as to cut and present to us a handsome cluster
of red Astrachan apples about the size of large hickory nuts, the result
of the second year from the graft. Several varieties of pears had made a
truly astonishing growth, and promise to fruit, in time, abundantly. A
large peach-orchard presented a show of peaches, some of the size of a
butternut, and some of a walnut. Concerning one which he called the
Japan peach, he had sanguine hope of ripe fruit in ten days. We were not
absolute in the faith as to the exact date, but believe that there will
undoubtedly be ripe peaches there before the month of May is out. Mr.
Hardee is particularly in favor of cultivating fruit in partially-shaded
ground. Most of these growths we speak of were under the shade of large
live-oaks; but when he took us into the wild forest, and showed us
peach, orange, and lemon trees set to struggle for existence on the
same footing, and with only the same advantages, as the wild denizens of
the forest, we rather demurred. Was not this pushing theory to extremes?
Time will show.
Col. Hardee has two or three native seedling peaches grown in Florida,
of which he speaks highly,--Mrs. Thompson's Golden Free, which commences
ripening in June, and continues till the first of August; the "Cracker
Cart," very large, weighing sometimes thirteen ounces; the Cling Yellow;
and the Japan, very small and sweet, ripening in May.
Besides these, Mr. Hardee has experimented largely in vines, in which he
gives preference to the Isabella, Hartford Prolific, and Concord.
He is also giving attention to roses and ornamental shrubbery. What
makes the inception of such nurseries as Mr. Hardee's a matter of
congratulation is that they furnish to purchasers things that have been
proved suited to the climate and soil of Florida. Peach-trees, roses,
and grapes, sent from the North, bring here the habit of their Northern
growth, which often makes them worthless. With a singular stubbornness,
they adhere to the times and seasons to which they have been accustomed
farther North. We set a peach-orchard of some four hundred trees which
we obtained from a nursery in Georgia. We suspect now, that, having a
press of orders, our nurseryman simply sent us a packet of trees from
some Northern nursery. The consequence is, that year after year, when
all nature about them is bursting into leaf and blossom, when peaches of
good size gem the boughs of Florida trees, our peach-orchard stands
sullen and leafless; nor will it start bud or blossom till the time for
peaches to start in New York. The same has been our trouble with some
fine varieties of roses which we took from our Northern grounds. As yet,
they are hardly worth the ground they occupy; and whether they ever
will do any thing is a matter of doubt. Meanwhile we have only to ride a
little way into the pine-woods to see around many a rustic cabin a
perfect blaze of crimson roses and cluster roses, foaming over the
fences in cascades of flowers. These are Florida roses, born and bred;
and this is the way they do with not one tithe of the work and care that
we have expended on our poor Northern exiles. Mr. Hardee, therefore, in
attempting the pioneer nursery of Florida, is doing a good thing for
every new-comer; and we wish him all success. As a parting present, we
received a fine summer squash, which, for the first of May, one must
admit is good growth. And now, for the benefit of those who may want to
take up land in Florida, we shall give the experience of some friends
and neighbors of ours who have carried through about as thorough and
well-conducted an experiment as any; and we give it from memoranda which
they have kindly furnished, in the hope of being of use to other
settlers.
  [Illustration]
OUR EXPERIENCE IN CROPS.
A few years ago, three brothers, farmers, from Vermont, exhausted by the
long, hard winters there, came to Florida to try an experiment. They
bought two hundred and seventy-five acres in the vicinity of Mandarin at
one dollar per acre. It was pine-land, that had been cut over twice for
timber, and was now considered of no further value by its possessor, who
threw it into the hands of a land-agent to make what he could of it. It
was the very cheapest kind of Florida land.
Of this land they cleared only thirty-five acres. The fencing cost two
hundred dollars. They put up a large, unplastered, two-story house, with
piazzas to both floors, at a cost of about a thousand dollars. The
additional outlay was on two mules and a pair of oxen, estimated at four
hundred dollars. The last year, they put up a sugar-mill and
establishment at a cost of five hundred dollars.
An orange-grove, a vineyard, and a peach-orchard, are all included in
the programme of these operators, and are all well under way. But these
are later results. It is not safe to calculate on an orange-grove under
ten years, or on a vineyard or peach-orchard under four or five.
We have permission to copy verbatim certain memoranda of results with
which they have furnished us.
CABBAGES.
First Year.--Sowed seed in light sandy soil without manure. Weak
plants, beaten down by rain, lost.
Second Year.--Put out an acre and a half of fine plants: large part
turned out poorly. Part of the land was low, sour, and wet, and all
meagrely fertilized. Crop sold in Jacksonville for two hundred and fifty
dollars.
Third Year.--Three acres better, but still inadequately manured, and
half ruined by the Christmas frost: brought about eight hundred dollars.
Fourth Year (1871-72.)--Two acres better manured; planted in low land,
on ridges five feet apart: returned six hundred dollars. In favorable
seasons, with good culture, an acre of cabbages should yield a gross
return of five hundred dollars, of which three hundred would be clear
profit.
CUCUMBERS.
First Year.--Planted four acres, mostly new, hard, sour land,
broad-casting fifty bushels of lime to the acre, and using some weak,
half-rotted compost in the hills: wretched crop. The whole lot sent
North: did not pay for shipment.
Second Year.--An acre and a half best land, heavily manured with
well-rotted compost worked into drills eight feet apart: yielded fifty
bushels, which brought two hundred and fifty dollars in New York. More
would have been realized, except that an untimely hail-storm spoiled the
vines prematurely.
Third Year.--An acre and a half, well cultivated and manured, yielded
four hundred bushels, and brought a gross return of thirteen hundred
dollars.
TOMATOES.
First Year.--Lost many plants through rain and wet, and insufficient
manure. Those we got to the New-York market brought from four to six
dollars per bushel.
Second Year.--Manured too heavily in the hill with powerful
unfermented manures. A heavy rain helped ruin the crop. Those, however,
which we sent to market, brought good prices.
Third Year.--None planted for market; but those for family use did so
well as to put us in good humor with the crop, and induce us to plant
for this year.
SWEET-POTATOES.
Every year we have had pretty good success with them on land well
prepared with lime and ashes. We have had three hundred and fifty
bushels to the acre.
SUGAR-CANE
Has done very respectably on one-year-old soil manured with ashes only;
while mellow land, well prepared with muck, ashes, and fish-guano, has
yielded about twenty barrels of sugar to the acre.
IRISH POTATOES.
We have found these on light soil, with only moderate fertilizing, an
unprofitable crop at four dollars, but on good land, with very heavy
manuring, decidedly profitable at two dollars per bushel. Fine potatoes
rarely are less than that in Jacksonville. They will be ready to dig in
April and May.
PEAS
May be extraordinarily profitable, and may fail entirely. A mild winter,
without severe frosts, would bring them early into market. The
Christmas freeze of 1870 caught a half-acre of our peas in blossom, and
killed them to the ground.
Planted in the latter part of January, both peas and potatoes are pretty
sure. We have not done much with peas; but a neighbor of ours prefers
them to cabbages. He gets about three dollars per bushel.
As a general summary, our friend adds,--
"For two years in succession, we have found our leading market-crops
handsomely remunerative. The net returns look well compared with those
of successful gardening near New York. Cabbages raised here during the
fall and winter, without any protection, bear as good price as do the
spring cabbages which are raised in cold-frames at the North; and early
cucumbers, grown in the open air, have been worth as much to us as to
Northern gardeners who have grown them in hot-beds.
"The secret of our success is an open one; but we ourselves do not yet
come up to our mark, and reduce our preaching to practice. We have
hardly made a good beginning in high manuring. We did not understand at
first, as we now do, the difference between ordinary crops and early
vegetables and fruits. Good corn may be raised on poor land at the rate
of five or ten bushels to the acre; but, on a hundred acres of
scantily-fertilized land, scarcely a single handsome cabbage can be
grown. So with cucumbers: they will neither be early, nor fit for
market, if raised on ordinary land with ordinary culture. Most of the
