bye ! " said Hugh, as he finished the little book ; 
" you know I dislike formal leave-takings in the 
presence of all the family." 

" Good-bye, my dear boy ! " said Aunt Faith, 
with a motherly embrace. " May God bless you 
and keep you in all your ways, in danger,- sick- 
ness, temptation and perplexity, for the sake of 
His dear Son, our Saviour Jesus Christ. Oh, 
Hugh, can you not gladden my heart by saying 
those two sentences before you go, — you know 
what I mean ?"  

" I will try to say them soon, aunt. I feel 
that I have changed lately, but I want to know 
that it is not the mere excitement of parting and 
anticipation of a new life which has affected me. 
I am going to try hard to be a good man, — in- 
deed I am ; and if I find that these new feelings 
outlast my present excitement, I will write you 
word. Sometimes I almost feel as though I 
could make my public profession of faith now ; 
but the next two months will show me the exact 
truth, and perhaps, Aunt Faith, the time of 
Sibyl's wedding will also be the time when I 
shall come forward to join the church." 

" God be thanked," said Aunt Faith, fervent- 
ly; " the feelings will last, Hugh, for they are 
holy and true. Go, my boy ; I give you up 
freely now, for you are virtually enrolled in the 
army of the Lord, and He will aid you in all 
times of trial if you call upon Him." 

A little before six all the family, together with 
Mr. Leslie, assembled in the sitting-room ; there 
was an undercurrent of sadness in their minds, 



 

but Hugh would allow no melancholy words or 
looks. 

" First we will have tea, then Bessie shall play 
Bonnie Dundee ' for us, then we will all make 
a triumphal arch of flowers through which I shall 
pass, in token of the grand success which awaits 
me in the mercantile world, and then I shall go. 
No one must accompany me to the boat ; I want 
to see you all on the piazza as the carriage drives 
away, and if there is so much as one tear-drop, 
I shall know it and be ready to inflict condign 
punishment therefor," said Hugh, laying down 
the law with a magisterial air. 

Tea was soon over, and then Bessie with 
trembling fingers managed, with severe self-con- 
trol, to play ' Bonnie Dundee ' to the end without 
a tear. Another note, however, she could not 
play, but replaced the cover of her harp in 
silence. Then Tom and Gem brought in from 
the garden all the flowers they could find, and a 
long wreath was made and twined around and 
over the two pillars of the front piazza. 



 

" There comes the carriage ! " said Tom, 
" and there come the B. B.'s, too. Here, boys, 
form on both sides of the walk ; Hugh's going 
in a minute." 

The trunk was carried out, and Hugh took up 
his coat and valise. " Now I want you all to 
come out on the piazza," he said. " Aunt Faith, 
here is your chair. Gem, you stand by Aunt 
Faith's side. Sibyl and John, please stand opposite
to them ; and Tom, — where is Tom ? " 

" Here I am ! " answered Tom from the back 
of the house ; " I'm getting the dogs together 
for the group." 

" That's right, the dogs by all means, for they 
are an important part of the family," said Hugh, 
laughing. " Sit over that side, Tom, and keep 
them by you. Bessie, I want you to stand in 
the centre just under the arch ; there, that is 
perfect. I shall turn round and look at you all 
when I reach the gate." So saying, Hugh bent 
down and kissed Bessie's pale cheek, and then 
passing under the arch, walked rapidly down 



 

the long garden- walk. The B. B.'s in martial 
array on either side, gave him three cheers as he 
passed, and when he reached the gate he turned 
and looked back with a smile, waving his hat in 
token of farewell. In another moment he was 
gone, then the carriage rolled down the street 
out of sight, and Aunt Faith, rising, said 
solemnly, u May God bless our dear Hugh, now 
and forever." 

" Amen," said Mr. Leslie. 

Bessie had disappeared. 





CHAPTER X. 



THE HOME-COMING. 




FORLORN, gloomy day," said Bessie 

at the breakfast-table the next morning, 

" and I'm glad of it ! " 

" I don't know that I care," said Tom. 

" When a fellow has got to go to school, it don't 

make much difference." 

" It must have rained very hard in the night," 

said Sibyl, looking out into the garden where the 

vine-leaves were strewed all over the ground. 

" It rained, but there was not much wind," 

replied Aunt Faith ; " I was awake part of the 

night and listened to the storm. There was not 


wind enough to make any sea, and Hugh is pro- 
bably in B by this time." 

" What a jolly ride he will have on the cars 
to-day, whirling through the country and getting 
nearer to New York every mile, while I am dig- 
ging away at these old books," said Tom dis- 
contentedly. 

" Hurry, children ! " said Aunt Faith, looking 
at the clock ; " you must not be late the very 
first clay of school." 

" Here comes Mr. Leslie ! " called out Tom, 
slinging his books over his shoulder. 

" John is very early this morning," said Sibyl, 
going out to meet him as he came up the walk. 

" That is the way it will be all the time now, 
I suppose," said Bessie with some irritation ; 
" Hugh gone, and Sibyl so absorbed that she is 
good for nothing as a companion. Aunt Faith, 
you and T are like the last roses of summer left 
blooming alone." 

" Aunt Faith smiled. She was very gentle 
with Bessie this morning ; she remembered her 



 

promise to Hugh, and she saw also that the 
young girl was suffering under her share of the 
sorrow of parting, a sorrow always heavier for 
the one that stays than for the one who goes. 

" I shall go upstairs and paint," said Bessie 
after a pause ; " I succeeded at last in giving 
the right expression to Hugh's eyes. You may 
see the picture, now, Aunt Faith ; it is so like 
him." 

At this moment Mr. Leslie came into the 
sitting-room, but Sibyl was not with him ; his 
face was pale, he went up to Aunt Faith and 
took her hand with tender solemnity. 

" What is it ? " she asked, sinking into a 
chair ; her voice was quiet, she had too often 
endured affliction not to recognize its messenger 
at a glance. Mr. Leslie, in his ministration in 
times of trouble, had learned never to hide or 
alter the plain truth. 

" The morning boat from B has just come 

in," he said. " The captais reports that the 
evening boat of the same line, the America, 




which left Westerton last night, collided with a 
schooner off Shoreton about midnight, and sank 
in ten minutes. The night was very dark, but 
many of the passengers were picked up by the 
 Empire ' as she came along two hours after- 
ward, some clinging to fragments of the wreck, 
and some in one of the America's small boats. 
The other boats are missing, but there is hope 
that they are safe, as the storm was not severe, 
and the lake is now quite calm. The rescued 
passengers think that some may have been 
picked up by a propeller whose lights they saw 
in the distance." 

" You have come to tell us that Huedi is 
among the rescued," said Aunt Faith in a faint 
voice, hoping against hope. 

" Hugh is drowned ! " said Bessie with hard, 
cold distinctness ; then she sat down by the 
table and buried her face in her hands. 

" Hugh is not among those brought back by 
the 4 Empire,' " said Mr. Leslie, " but I have 
strong hope that he is safe. Tugs have already 



 

started for the scene of the accident, the water 
is still at summer heat, and besides, among the 
many vessels and propellers constantly passing 
over that very spot, there is every probability 
that many have been picked up before this time. 
Hugh is very strong, and an excellent swimmer, 
also." 

" Hugh is drowned ! " said Bessie in the same 
hard voice ; " He will never come back to us 
alive." 

" Bessie, Bessie ! " cried Sibyl, rushing into the 
room, " you shall not, you dare not say such 
cruel words ! " Sibyl's face was discolored with 
violent weeping, and her whole frame shook with 
agitation ; she and her cousin seemed to have 
changed places, for Bessie did not shed a tear. 

" I say what is true," she answered ; " Hugh 
is drowned ! Hugh is dead ! " 

Mr. Leslie went over to her, and took her 
cold hand ; " Bessie," he said gently, " why do 
you give up all hope ? There are a great many 
chances for Hugh." 



" Go away ! " said Bessie in the same dull mon- 
otone ; " Hugh is dead, I tell you ! Go put 
crape on the door ! " 

" She is ill," said Mr. Leslie in a low tone to 
Aunt Faith ; " you had better take her upstairs." 

Aunt Faith roused herself from her own grief ; 
;t come, dear," she said, rising. 

" I shall not go," said Bessie ; " T shall wait 
here for Hugh." 

At this moment Tom and Gem ran into the 
room. 

" Oh, Aunt Faith ! what is it?" began Tom. 
" We met some boys and they told us that the 
America was run into last night." 

Gem looked at Bessie and Sibyl, and then 
without a word, she sat down in her little chair 
and began to cry bitterly. Aunt Faith could 
not answer Tom, the sound of Gem's violent 
weeping, and Sibyl's sobs, seemed to choke the 
words on her lips. 

" I don't believe a word of it ! " cried Tom in- 
dignantly. " Hugh can swim better than any 



 

one in Wester ton, and lie's as strong as a lion ! 
I'm going right down to the dock, and you'll see 
him coming back with me before night. " 

" Hugh is dead ! " said Bessie again ; " Hugh 
is dead ! " 

The hours passed slowly in those long min- 
utes of weary waiting in which young hearts 
grow into old age in a single day. Friends and 
neighbors flocked into the old stone house, and 
their voices were hushed as they came and went 
with kindly but useless sympathy. Mr. Leslie 
had gone to the scene of the accident on a fast 
tug, accompanied by some of Hugh's young com- 
panions, and as, during the day, different vessels 
came into port, they were boarded by anxious 
friends and the latest reports eagerly sought. 
The bank of the lake was thronged, people stood 
there with glasses, in spite of the steady rain, 
scanning the eastern horizon in the hope of dis- 
covering the smoke of approaching propellers. 
Others had friends on board the America be- 
sides the family at the old stone house. But 



 

Hugh was well known and well liked, and his 
was the only young life among those still missing 
from Westerton ; the others were middled-aged 
or old, and with that universal sympathy which 
the death of a bright vigorous youth always 
awakens, the whole town mourned for Hugh, and 
stories of his generous, manly nature, flew from 
mouth to mouth, until even strangers felt that 
they knew him, 

At five o'clock a tug returned bringing a man 
and wife exhausted with twelve hours in the 
water lashed to floating spars ; but they soon re- 
vived, and the good news flew through the city, 
and friends told it to the family in the old stone 
house, clustered together around Bessie, who had 
not changed her attitude or tasted food since 
morning. "If they were saved, why not Hugh ? " 
they said hopefully. 

" Hugh is dead ! " repeated Bessie ; " they will 
bring him home, poor drowned Hugh ! " Sibyl 
broke forth into violent weeping, and Aunt Faith 
shuddered at Bessie's words. " Can you not 



 

persuade Bessie to go upstairs and lie down ? " 
said a lady friend, looking apprehensively at the 
young girl's fixed eyes. 

Aunt Faith shook her head. " We must leave 
her to herself for the present," she answered sad- 
ly ; " her grief is beyond expression now." 

Later in the day, the tug Mr. Leslie had taken 
was sighted from the bank, and a crowd assem- 
bled on the dock, with the feeling that suspense 
would soon be over. 

" They would not have come back so soon un- 
less they had found him," said one ; " they would 
have cruised around there for a day^or two as 
long as there was any hope." 

" But they don't hoist any signal," said anoth- 
er ; " they must know we are Avaiting here." 

The little tug came rapidly in, watched by 
hundreds of eyes, and when at last she ap- 
proached the dock, the anxiety grew intense. 
There came no shout from those on board, the 
quiet was ominous, and, chilled by a sudden awe, 
the crowd stepped back, and awaited the result 




in silence. The boat was made fast, and then, 
after a short delay, the young men came forth 
bearing the shrouded form of their late compan- 
ion, now still in death. Hugh was dead, then ? 
Yes, Hugh was dead ! 

But he had not died in vain, and the story of 
his death was repeated from mouth to mouth 
throughout the city ; women heard it and sobbed 
aloud, as they held their darlings closer ; men 
heard it and spoke a few brief words of praise 
and regret to which their wet eyes gave empha- 
sis. 

About half-past eleven the previous night, the 
America had been struck amidships by an 
unknown schooner driving down unseen in the 
intense darkness of the storm. Most of the 
passengers had gone to their state-rooms, but 
Hugh was still in the cabin ; rushing out on 
deck he saw and heard that the boat would sirik, 
and, accompanied by the captain, ran back 
through the cabin, arousing the passengers and 
telling them of the danger. In an instant all 



 

was confusion, agony, and despair ; some of the 
men leaped overboard, buc the women with their 
instinctive shrinking from the dark water, could 
not be persuaded to leave the deck. A few 
passengers and part of the crew got off in one 
of the small boats, but the other boats were 
swamped by the rush into them ; a cry went up 
that the steamer was sinking, and Hugh was 
seen to jump overboard with a little child in his 
arms, a baby whose mother had held it implor- 
ingly towards him, as he tried to persuade her to 
take the dangerous leap. " Take the child," 
she said ; " I will follow you," and then as they 
disappeared, with a wild cry the poor woman 
flunsf herself over after them. In the mean 
time the captain and some of the hands and pas- 
sengers had ascended to the hurricane deck, 
and when the America sank, the force of the 
waves separated the deck from the hull, and it 
floated off, a frail support for the little group it 
carried. The lake was strewn with fragments, 
spars and barrels, and to these many persons 
were clinging. Hugh had managed to secure a 

piece of broken mast with spars attached, and 

with its aid he supported the mother and child 

until an iron-bound cask, caught in the cordage, 

struck him heavily in the darkness. The mother 

heard him groan, and his grasp loosened. 

" Quick ! " he said hoarsely- ; " I cannot hold 

you. I must fasten you with these floating 

ropes ; I am badly hurt, but I think I can hold 

the child." 

He bound the ropes and rigging about her, 

and told her how she could best support herself ; 

then he was silent, but every now and then she 

heard him moaning as though in pain. How 

long they floated in this way the mother could 

not tell ; it seemed to her many hours, — it was, 

in reality, less than four. They saw the lights of 

the Empire in the distance, but they could not 

make themselves heard, although they shouted 

with all their strength. At the first glimmering 

of dawn they discovered the hurricane deck not 

far distant, and Hugh said, " shout with all your 
 

might. I cannot hold on much longer, my head 
is on fire ! " So the mother exerted all her 
strength in a piercing scream, and to her joy, an 
answering cry came back through the rain. 
Hugh made an effort to steer the spars towards 
