trial trip in the new craft. The party went down the bay as far as Seal
Harbor; but the wind was rather light for her, and she had no
opportunity to show her sailing qualities, though with her gaff-topsail
and the balloon-jib, she walked by everything afloat that day.
"I am entirely satisfied with her, Don John," said Mr. Rodman, as the
Maud approached the city on her return. "I think she will sail well."
"I hope she will, sir," replied Donald. "To-morrow will prove what there
is in her."
"She is well built and handsomely finished, and whether she wins the
race or not I shall be satisfied. I never looked upon a handsomer yacht
in my life. You have done your work admirably, Don John."
"Mr. Kennedy did the joiner work," said Donald, willing to have his
foreman, as he called him, share the honors of the day.
"He did it well."
"I only did just what my boss ordered me to do," laughed Kennedy; "and
I want to say, that I didn't do the first thing towards planning any
part of her. Don John hasn't often asked for any advice from me. He is
entitled to all the credit."
"I have no doubt you did all you could to make the job a success," added
Mr. Rodman.
"I did; and so did Walker," said Kennedy, indicating the other ship
carpenter. "Both of us did our very best, never idling a moment, or
making a bad joint; and I can say, there isn't a better built craft in
the United States than this yacht. Not a knot or a speck of rot has been
put into her. Everything has been done upon honor, and she will be stiff
enough to cross the Atlantic in mid-winter. I'd rather be in her than in
many a ship I've worked on."
"I'm glad to know all this," replied Mr. Rodman. "Now, Don John, if the
firm of Ramsay & Son is ready to deliver the Maud, I will give you a
check for the balance due on her."
Donald was all ready, and after the yacht had been moored off the wharf
where she had been completed, the business was transacted in the shop. A
bill of sale was given, and the boat-builder received a check for four
hundred dollars, which he carried into the house and showed to his
mother. Of course the good lady was delighted with the success of her
son, and Barbara laughed till she shook her curls into a fearful snarl.
"You have done well, Donald," said Mrs. Ramsay. "I thank God that you
have been so successful."
"I have paid nearly all my bills, and I shall make about two hundred and
fifty dollars on the job," added the young boat-builder. "I think I can
build the next one for less money."
"You may not get another one to build, my son."
"That depends upon the race to-morrow. If I beat the Skylark, I'm sure
of one."
"Don't be too confident."
"I am to sail the Maud to-morrow, and if there is any speed in her, as I
think there is, I shall get it out of her. To-morrow will be a big day
for me; but if I lose the race, the firm of Ramsay & Son is used up."
Donald put the check in his wallet, and went out to the shop again,
where he found Samuel Rodman looking for him. The owner of the Maud was
so delighted with the craft, that he could not keep away from her, and
he wanted to go on board again.
"Bob Montague is going to give you a hard pull to-morrow, Don John,"
said Rodman, as they got into the tender.
"I hope he will do his best; and the harder the pull, the better,"
replied Donald.
"If we only beat him," suggested Rodman.
"I expect to beat him; but I may be mistaken."
"Bob hauled up the Skylark on the beach this afternoon, and rubbed her
bottom with black lead."
"I am glad to hear it."
"Glad? Why?"
"It proves that he means business."
"Of course he means business."
"I wonder if he knows I am to build a yacht for Mr. Norwood, in case I
win this race."
"I don't believe he does. I never heard of it till you told me."
"He is such a splendid fellow, that I was afraid he would let me beat
him, if he knew I was to make anything by it."
"I think it very likely he would."
"But I want to beat the Skylark fairly, or not at all."
"There comes Laud Cavendish," said Rodman, as the Juno came up the bay,
and bore down upon the Maud. "He was blackballed in the club the other
day, and he don't feel good. Let's go ashore again, and wait till he
sheers off, for I don't want to see him. He will be sure to go on board
of the yacht if we are there, for he is always poking his nose in where
he is not wanted."
Donald, who was at the oars, pulled back to the shore. The Juno ran
close up to the Maud, tacked, and stood up the bay.
"He is gone," said Rodman. "I don't want him asking me why he was
blackballed. He is an intolerable spoony."
"Don John!" called some one, as he was shoving off the tender.
Donald looked up, and saw Mr. Beardsley, the deputy sheriff, who had
been working up the tin box case with Captain Patterdale.
"I want to see you," added the officer.
Donald wondered if Mr. Beardsley wanted to see him officially; but he
was thankful that he was able to look even a deputy sheriff square in
the face.
He jumped out of the tender, and Rodman went off to the yacht alone. We
are somewhat better informed than the young boat-builder in regard to
the visit of the sheriff, and we happen to know that he did come
officially; and in order to explain why it was so, it is necessary to go
back to the point where we left Mr. Laud Cavendish. He slept in the
cabin of the Juno after he left the house of Captain Shivernock. He did
not sleep any better than Donald Ramsay that night; and the long surges
rolled in by the paddle-wheels of the steamer Richmond, as she came into
the harbor early the next morning, awoke him.
The first thing he thought of was his visit to the house of the strange
man; the next was his breakfast, and he decided to go on shore, and get
the meal at a restaurant. The Juno was moored near the steamboat wharf,
where the Portland boat made her landings. This was a convenient place
for him to disembark, and he pulled in his tender to the pier. As he
approached the landing steps, he saw Captain Shivernock hastening down
the wharf with a valise in his hand. It was evident that he was going up
the river, perhaps to Bangor. Laud did not like the idea of the
captain's going away just at that time. Donald had told Captain
Patterdale that the mended bill came from him, and of course the owner
of the tin box would immediately come to him for further information.
"Then, if I tell him Captain Shivernock gave it to me, he will want to
see him; and he won't be here to be seen," reasoned Laud. "I can't
explain why the captain gave me the money, and in his absence I shall be
in a bad fix. I must take care of myself."
Laud went to the restaurant, and ate his breakfast; after which he
returned to the Juno. He took care of himself by getting under way, and
standing over towards Castine, where he dined that day. Then he
continued his voyage down the bay, through Edgemoggin Reach to Mount
Desert, where he staid several days, living upon "the fat of the land"
and the fish of the sea, which go well together. When he was confident
that Captain Shivernock had returned, he sailed for Belfast, and arrived
after a two days' voyage. The strange man had not come back, and Laud
thought it very singular that he had not. Then he began to wonder why
the captain had laughed so unreasonably long and loud when he told him
to say that he had given him the mended bill. Laud could not see the
joke at the time; but now he concluded that the laugh came in because
he was going away on a long journey, and would not be in town to answer
any questions which Captain Patterdale might propose.
Mr. Cavendish was disturbed, and felt that he was a victim of a
practical joke, and he determined to get out of the way again.
Unfortunately for him, he had shown himself in the city, and before he
could leave he was interviewed by Captain Patterdale and Mr. Beardsley.
The white cross of Denmark was pleasantly alluded to again by the
former, and exhibited to Laud. Did he know that bill? Had he ever seen
it before?
He did not know it; had never seen it.
It was no use to say, in the absence of that gentleman, that Captain
Shivernock had given him the bill. It would be equally foolish to tell
the Haddock Ledge story in the absence of the generous stranger, who had
declined to give his name, though he was kind enough to say that he had
spent a few days in Belfast. Since neither of these fictions was
available in the present emergency, Laud "went back" on Donald Ramsay.
He did not love the boat-builder, and so it was not a sacrifice of
personal feeling for him to do it. On the contrary, he would rather
like to get his "rival," as he chose to regard him, out of the way.
"But you paid him a considerable sum of money some two months ago,"
suggested Captain Patterdale.
"Not a red!" protested Laud. "I never paid him any money in my life."
"You bought the Juno of him."
"No, sir; nor of any one else. She don't belong to me."
"But you are using her all the time."
"Captain Shivernock got tired of her, and lets me have the use of her
for taking care of her."
"Didn't you say you owned her, and that you were going to change her
name from Juno to Nellie?" demanded the captain, sternly.
"I did; but that was all gas," replied Laud, with a sickly grin.
"If you would lie about one thing, perhaps you would about another,"
said the captain.
"I was only joking when I said I owned the Juno. If you will go up to
Captain Shivernock's house, he will tell you all about it."
That was a plain way to solve the problem, and they went to the strange
man's house. Laud knew the captain was not at home; but his persecutors
gave him the credit of suggesting this step. Sykes and his wife were at
home. They did not know whether or not Captain Shivernock had given Laud
the use of the Juno, but presumed he had, for the young man was in the
house with him half the night, about ten days before. Thus far
everything looked well for Laud; and the Sykeses partially confirmed his
statements.
"Now, Captain Patterdale, I have answered all your questions, and I wish
you would answer mine. What's the matter?" said Laud, putting on his
boldest face.
"Never mind what the matter is."
"Well, I know as well as you do. I used to think Don John was a good
fellow, and liked him first rate. I didn't think he would be mean,
enough to shove his own guilt upon me," replied Laud.
"What do you mean by that?" demanded Captain Patterdale.
"Though I knew about it all the time, I didn't mean to say a word."
"About what?"
"About your tin trunk. We didn't keep any such in our store! I knew what
you meant all the time; but I didn't let on that Don John had done it."
"Done what?"
"Stolen it. That day I was in the library with Don John and Hasbrook, I
was discharged from Miller's, because I wanted to go away to stay over
Sunday. I had a boat down by Ramsay's shop, and I went there to get off.
Well, captain, I saw Don John have the same tin trunk I saw in your
library."
"Are you telling the truth?"
"Of course I am. I wouldn't go back on Don John if he hadn't tried to
lay it to me. If you search his house and shop, I'll bet you'll find the
tin trunk, or some of the money and papers."
Captain Patterdale was intensely grieved, even to believe Laud's
statement was possibly true; but he decided to have the boat-builder's
premises searched before he proceeded any further against Laud. Mr.
Beardsley was to do this unpleasant duty, and for this purpose he called
on Donald the night before the great race.
The deputy sheriff did his work thoroughly, in spite of the confidence
of Donald and the distress of his mother and sister. Perhaps he would
not have discovered the four fifty-dollar bills concealed in the bureau
if Donald had not assisted him; but he had no help in finding a lot of
notes and other papers hidden under a sill in the shop. The boat-builder
protested that he knew nothing about these papers, and had never seen
them before in his life.
Mrs. Ramsay and Barbara wept as though their hearts would break; but
Donald was led away by the sheriff.
That night Captain Shivernock returned by the train from Portland.
CHAPTER XVI.
SATURDAY COVE.
Mr. Beardsley, the deputy sheriff, conducted Donald to the elegant
mansion of Captain Patterdale. Perhaps no one who saw them walking
together suspected that the boat-builder was charged with so gross a
crime as stealing the tin box and its valuable contents. Some persons do
not like to walk through the streets with sheriffs and policemen; but
Donald was not of that sort, for in spite of all the evidence brought
against him, he obstinately refused to believe that he was guilty. Even
the fact that several notes and other papers had been found in the shop
did not impair his belief in his own innocence. Captain Patterdale was
in his library nervously awaiting the return of the officer, when they
arrived.
"Don John, I hope you will come out of this all right," said he, as they
entered.
"I have no doubt I shall, sir," replied Donald. "If I don't, it will be
because I can't prove what is the truth."
Mr. Beardsley reported the result of the search, and handed the captain
the four fifty-dollar bills with the papers.
"I have no doubt all these were in the tin box," said the nabob, sadly.
"The bills are like those paid me by Hasbrook, and these notes are
certainly mine. I don't ask you to commit yourself, Don John, but--"
"Commit myself!" exclaimed Donald, with a look of contempt, which, in
this connection, was sublime. "I mean to speak the truth, whether I am
committed or not."
"Perhaps you will be able to clear this thing up," added Captain
Patterdale. "I wish to ask you a few questions."
"I will answer them truly. The only wrong I have done was to conceal
what I thought there was no harm in concealing."
"It is not wise to do things in the dark."
"You will excuse me, sir, but you have done the same thing. If I had
known that your tin box was stolen, I should have understood several
things which are plain to me now."
"What, for instance?"
"If I had known it, I should have brought these bills to you as soon as
Laud paid them to me, to see if they belonged to you. And I should have
known why Laud was digging clams on Turtle Head."
"Laud says he paid you no money."
"He paid me three hundred and fifty dollars for the Juno--these four
bills and the three I paid Mr. Leach."
"He persists that he don't own the Juno, and says that Captain
Shivernock lets him have the use of her for taking care of her,"
continued the nabob.
Donald's face, which had thus far been clouded with anxiety, suddenly
lighted up with a cheerful smile, as he produced the cover of an old
tuck-diary, which contained the papers of Ramsay & Son. He opened it,
and took therefrom the bill of sale of the Juno, in the well-known
writing of Captain Shivernock.
"Does that prove anything?" he asked, as he tossed the paper on the
desk, within reach of the inquisitor.
"It proves that Captain Shivernock sold the Juno to you, and
consequently he has not owned her since the date of this bill," replied
the nabob, as he read the paper.
"Is it likely, then, that Captain Shivernock lets Laud have the use of
her for taking care of her?" demanded Donald, warmly.
"Certainly not."
"Is it any more likely that, if I own the Juno, I should let Laud use
her for nothing, for he says he never paid me a dollar?"
"I don't think it is."
"Then you can believe as much as you please of the rest of Laud's story,
which Mr. Beardsley related to me as we walked up," added Donald.
"He says he saw you have the tin box, Don John."
"And I saw him digging clams in the loam on Turtle Head."
"What do you mean by that?"
"I think he buried the tin box there. I saw where he had been digging,
but I didn't know any tin box had been stolen then, and thought nothing
of it," answered Donald.
At this moment there was a tremendous ring at the door bell, a ring
that evidently "meant business." Captain Patterdale opened the door
himself, and Captain Shivernock stalked into the room as haughtily as
though he owned the elegant mansion. He had been to Newport and Cape May
to keep cool, and had arrived a couple of hours before from Portland.
Mrs. Sykes had told him all the news she could in this time, and among
other things informed him that Captain Patterdale and the deputy sheriff
had called to inquire whether Laud had the use of the boat for taking
care of her. By this he knew that the tin trunk matter was under
investigation. He was interested, and possibly he was alarmed; at any
rate, he went to his safe, put the roll of fifty-dollar bills in his
pocket, and hastened over to Captain Patterdale's house.
"When people come to my house, and I'm not at home, I don't like to have
them talk to my servants about my affairs," blustered the strange man.
"I don't think we meddled with your affairs any further than to ask if
Laud Cavendish had the use of the Juno for taking care of her,"
explained Captain Patterdale.
"It don't concern you. Laud Cavendish does have the use of the Juno for
taking care of her."
"Indeed!" exclaimed the good nabob, glancing at Donald.
"Indeed!" sneered the wicked nabob. "You needn't indeed anything I
say. I can speak the truth better than you psalm-singers."
"I am very glad you can, Captain Shivernock, for that is what we are in
need of just now," laughed the good nabob. "And since we have meddled
with your affairs in your absence, it is no more than right that we
should explain the reason for doing so. A tin box, containing nearly
fourteen hundred dollars in bills, and many valuable papers, was stolen
from this room. Three persons, Jacob Hasbrook, Laud Cavendish, and Don
John here, passed through the library when they left the house."
"Hasbrook stole it; he is the biggest scoundrel of the three," added the
wicked nabob.
"Perhaps not," continued the good nabob. "A bill which I can identify
came back to me the other day. Don John paid it to Mr. Leach, and he to
me. Don John says Laud Cavendish paid him the bill."
"And so he did," protested Donald, as the captain glanced at him.
"And I gave it to Laud Cavendish," added Captain Shivernock; thus
carrying out the programme which had been agreed upon the night before
he went on his journey.
Possibly, if Mr. Laud Cavendish had known that the wicked nabob had
returned, he would have hastened to see him, and inform him of the
change he had made in the programme. If he had done so, their stories
might have agreed better. Captain Patterdale, Mr. Beardsley, and Donald
were astonished at this admission.
"For what did you pay it to him?" asked the good nabob.
"None of your business what I paid it to him for. That's my affair,"
bluffed the wicked nabob.
"But this bill was in the box."
"But how do you know it was? I suppose you will say next that I stole
the box."
"I hope you will assist me in tracing out this matter," said the good
nabob, as he produced the mended bill. "This is the one; I call it the
white cross of Denmark."
Captain Shivernock picked up the bill, and took from his pocket his own
roll of fifties.
"You must admit that the bill is peculiar enough to be easily
identified," added Captain Patter dale.
"I don't admit it," said the strange man, as he threw the four mended
bills together on the desk.
"Now, which is it?"
The wicked nabob laughed and roared in his delight when he saw the
confusion of the good nabob.
"They are very like," said the good.
"But three of them are mine, and haven't been out of my hands since the
'white cross of Denmark' was put upon them," added the wicked, still
shaking his sides with mirth.
"Still I can identify the one that was in the box. That is it;" and
Captain Patterdale held up the right one. "This has been folded, while
yours have simply been rolled, and have not a crease in them. Hasbrook
paid me the money that was stolen."
"The villain swindled it out of me," growled the wicked.
"But he folded his money, however he got it," continued the good.
"I can bring you a dozen bills with the white cross on them," blustered
the wicked, "and all of them folded like that one."
"Can you tell where you got it, captain?"
"From the bank," replied he, promptly; and then more to have his hit at
the missionaries than to explain the white cross, he told how the bills
were torn. "That's all I have to say," he added; and he stalked out of
the house, in spite of the host's request for him to remain, without
giving a word or even a look to Donald.
"I am astonished," said Captain Patterdale. "Can it be possible that he
paid that bill to Laud?"
Perhaps this was the joke of the strange man--simply to confuse and
confound a "psalm-singer."
"It looks as though we had lost the clew," said the deputy sheriff. "At
any rate, Don John's story is confirmed."
"Why should the captain give Laud so much money?" mused the nabob.
"I know," said Donald. "I told you, in the first place, that I knew
where Laud got the money to pay for the Juno; but it was a great secret
affecting another person, and he wished me not to tell."
"I remember that, Don John," added the captain.
"He told me that Captain Shivernock gave him the money; but he would not
tell me why he gave it to him; but I knew without any telling, for the
captain gave me sixty dollars, besides the Juno, for holding my tongue."
"About what?" asked the nabob, deeply interested in the narrative.
"I don't understand the matter myself; but I will state all the facts,
though Captain Shivernock threatened to kill me if I did so. On the
morning after the Hasbrook outrage, while I was waiting on Turtle Head
for the Yacht Club to arrive, the captain came to the Head, saying he
had walked over from Seal Harbor, where he had got aground in his boat.
I sailed him down, and on the way he gave me the money. Then he said I
was not to mention the fact that I had seen him on Long Island, or
anywhere else. I didn't make any promises, and told him I wouldn't lie
about it. Then he gave me the Juno, and took my boat, which he returned
that night. After I went up in the Juno, I met Laud, and offered to sell
him the boat. When we parted, he stood over towards the Northport shore,
where Captain Shivernock had gone, and I thought they would meet; but I
lost sight of them."
"Then you think the captain paid Laud the money when they met."
"That was what I supposed when Laud paid me for the boat. I believed it
was all right. I had a talk with Laud afterwards about it, and I told
him how he got the money. He did not deny what I said."
"This was the morning after the Hasbrook outrage--was it?" asked Mr.
Beardsley.
"Yes, it was; but I knew nothing about that till night."
"We can easily understand why the captain did not want to be seen near
Lincolnville," added the sheriff. "It was he who pounded Hasbrook for
swindling him."
"No, sir; I think not," interposed Donald. "I inquired into that matter
myself. Mr. Sykes and his wife both told me, before the captain got
home, that he left his house at four o'clock in the morning."
"I am afraid they were instructed to say that," said the nabob.
"They shall have a chance to say it in court under oath," added the
officer; "for I will arrest the captain to-morrow for the outrage. I
traced the steps of a man over to Saturday Cove, in Northport, and that
is where he landed."
"Was it the print of the captain's boot?" asked the nabob.
"No; but I have a theory which I shall work up to-morrow. Don John's
evidence is the first I have obtained, that amounts to anything."
"If he pounded Hasbrook, why should he run over to Seal Harbor, when he
had a fair wind to come up?" asked Donald.
"To deceive you, as it seems he has," laughed Mr. Beardsley. "Probably
getting aground deranged his plans."
"But he ran over to Northport after we parted."
"Because it was a better place to conceal himself during the day. Sykes
says he went down to Vinal Haven that day. I know he did not. Now, Don
John, we must go to Turtle Head to-night, and see about that box."
"I am ready, sir."
"I will go with you," added Captain Patterdale; "and we will take the
Sea Foam."
Donald was permitted to go home and comfort his mother with the
assurance that he was entirely innocent of the crime with which he was
charged; and great was the joy of his mother and sister. The mainsail of
the Sea Foam was hoisted when he went on board. The wind was rather
light, and it was midnight before the yacht anchored off Turtle Head.
The party went ashore in the tender, the sheriff carrying a lantern and
a shovel. Donald readily found the place where the earth had been
disturbed by Laud's clam-digger. Mr. Beardsley dug till he came to a
rock, and it was plain that no tin box was there.
"But I am sure that Laud had been digging here, for I saw the print of
his clam-digger," said Donald.
"This hole had been dug before," added the sheriff.
"Even Laud Cavendish would not be fool enough to bury the box in such an
exposed place as this," suggested Captain Patterdale.
"I know he came down here on the day the box was stolen," said Donald,
"and that he was here with his clam-digger on the day I met Captain
Shivernock. He must have put those papers in the shop."
"If the box was ever buried here, it has been removed," added the
captain.
"Just look at the dirt which came out of the hole," continued Mr.
Beardsley, pointing to the heap, and holding the lantern over it. "What
I threw out last is beach gravel. That was put in to fill up the hole
after he had taken out the box. When he first buried it, he had to carry
off some of the yellow loam. In my opinion, the box has been here."
"It is not here now, and we may as well return," replied Captain
Patterdale. "I am really more desirous of finding the papers in the box
than the money."
"He has only chosen a new hiding-place for it," said the sheriff. "If we
say nothing, and keep an eye on him for a few days, we may find it."
As this was all that could be done, the party returned to the city; and
early in the morning Donald went to bed, to obtain the rest he needed
before the great day. Possibly Mr. Beardsley slept some that night,
though it is certain he was at Saturday Cove, in Northport, the next
forenoon. He had a "theory;" and when a man has a theory, he will
sometimes go without his sleep in order to prove its truth or its
falsity. Jacob Hasbrook was with him, and quite as much interested in
the theory as the officer, who desired to vindicate his reputation as a
detective. He had driven to the house of the victim of the outrage, and
looked the matter over again in the light of the evidence obtained from
the boat-builder.
"I have been trying to see Donald Ramsay," said Hasbrook. "I have been
to his shop four times, but he's always off on some boat scrape. You say
he saw Captain Shivernock the next morning."
"Yes; and the captain didn't want to be seen, which is the best part of
the testimony. If it was he, it seems to me you would have known him
when he hammered you."
"How could I, when he was rigged up so different, with his head all
covered up?" replied Hasbrook, impatiently. "The man was about the
captain's height, but stouter."
"He was dressed for the occasion," added the sheriff, as he walked to
the shore, where the skiff lay.
They dragged it down to the water,--for it was low tide,--and got into
it. Beardsley had traced to the cove the print of the heavy boot, which
first appeared in some loam under the window where the ruffian had
entered Hasbrook's house. He found it in the sand on the shore; and he
was satisfied that the perpetrator of the outrage had arrived and
departed in a boat. He had obtained from the captain's boot-maker a
description of his boots, but none corresponded with those which had
made the prints in Northport and Lincolnville.
At the cove all clew to the ruffian had been lost; but now it was
regained.
The sheriff paddled the skiff out from the shore in the direction of
Seal Island. The water was clear, and they could see the bottom, which
they examined very carefully as they proceeded.
"I see it," suddenly exclaimed Hasbrook, as he grasped the boat-hook.
"Lay hold of it," added the sheriff. "I knew I was right."
"I have it."
Hasbrook hauled up what appeared to be a bundle of old clothes, and
deposited it in the bottom of the skiff. Mr. Beardsley had worked up his
case very thoroughly, though it was a little singular that he had not
thought to ask Donald any questions; but these investigations had been
made when the boat-builder was at home all the time, and the detective
did not like to talk about the case any more than was necessary. He had
ascertained that Captain Shivernock wore his usual gray suit when Donald
saw him after the outrage, and he came to the conclusion that the
ruffian had been disguised, for Hasbrook would certainly have known him,
even in the dark, in his usual dress. They returned to the shore; and
the bundle was lifted, to convey it to the beach.
"It is very heavy," said Hasbrook. "I suppose there is a rock in it to
sink it."
"Open it, and throw out the rock," added the sheriff.
Instead of a rock, the weight was half a pig of lead, which had
evidently been chopped into two pieces with an axe.
"That's good evidence, for the ballast of the Juno is pig lead," said
Beardsley, as he stepped on the beach with the clothes in his hand.
They were spread on the sand, and consisted of a large blue woolen
frock, such as farmers sometimes wear, a pair of old trousers of very
large size, and a pair of heavy cow-hide boots.
"Now I think of it, the man had a frock on," exclaimed Hasbrook.
"That's what made him look stouter than the captain," added Beardsley,
as he proceeded to measure one of the boots, and compare it with the
