the one going regretfully out of a place that her inmost soul 
told her she never should have filled, the other understand- 
ing the deeper joy and blessedness which she might have 
entered into with the keen and high spirit-appreciation be- 
longing to her nature, all the tender and satisfying expe- 
riences May had missed. Yet she had to shut her eyes 
upon them, to put them out of her reach and out of her 
thoughts before any passionate grief or longing made it a 
a sin. 
She had thrust it out bravely. In all the after life, what- 
ever came, there would be no stain, no shame, in remember- 
ing this summer. She had learned to have faith and pa- 
tience in God's way, instead of her own impulsive desires. 
She would not even be tempted to dream over the future. 
In her hand she held the last note the trembling fingers 
had written. " At peace ! " it said, " waiting for the final 
summons, a little happier if she could have seen her deal 
 
friend's face once more, but content to go. That all thorns 
should be taken out of the past was her constant prayer, 
and that some day Madge would come to think of her 
as a sister, forgiven, but not forgotten." 
There was some mention of the generous love which 
had so blessed her'life, although she had not come in at the 
door, but climbed up some other way. Neither would 
grudge her the memory of this in the years to come. Her 
life must have been brief in any event. 
Did Mrs. Westlake's conscience rise up in judgment a& 
she took her last glance at the sweet, cold face ? Had her 
falsehood and treachery worked any blessing or benefit ? 
The fortune on which she had cast such longing eyes fallen 
to a helpless, motherless child, for Charles had steadily re- 
fused to share it. Her son, grave and sad beyond his years, 
restless in spirit, ready to leave the shadowed home, and 
plunge into any business that promised distraction of 
thought; her money and offers refused, herself lonely, 
wearied with the frivolities of life, and with no peaceful 
refuge, no children rising up to call her blessed. Had she 
wrought wisely? 
Madge dropped some sorrowful tears. It was sad to 
have lives wrenched from their first foundation, to grow 
over gnarled places which had once been keenest wounds, 
and put forth green leaves and blossoms for the world. Is 
it for the world alone ? Does there not come a blessed 
consciousness of something higher? Do not pains and 
sufferings, and even temptations, bring us nearer to the 
One who bore them with His own heavenly patience? 
Has He not promised to watch and to remember in the day 
when He makes up his jewels ? Is it waiting his time for 
recognition that is so difficult for us ? 
The bell ceased its mournful sound. A moment later it 
would be " dust to dust, ashes to ashes." In the redun- 
dance of physical health and strength, the thought sent a 
ihher over Madge. She put on her hat, and wandered 
slowly down the road. Unconsciously the Home had come 
to be a place of rest and refreshing for her, and thither sh 
wended her steps. 
Miss Hetty was sitting in the wide hall, swaying gently 
to and fro in her low rocker. At Mrs. Rachel's request, 
ehe had not worn mourning, and through the summer she 
kept to the old-fashioned lawns and fine ginghams that 
had done duty in past days. She felt best in them, just 
as she always loved best to walk among the beds of sweet- 
william, lavender, rosemary, and marjoram, the garden 
ornaments of a past generation. 
She looked cool and quaint, a bit of in-doore lying against 
the brilliant sunshine, and making a fine contrast. 
She was singing, too, in her cheery voice, that had an 
underlying sweetness in spite of the quavers that broke 
it now and then. Madge listened. 
"The Lord into his garden comes, 
The spices yield their rich perfume, 
The lilies grow and thrive. 
Refreshing showers of grace divine 
From Jesus flow to every vine, 
And make the dead revive." 
She saw the flutter of a dress, and paused in her sing- 
ing, leaning out a little, her face breaking into a glad 
smile. 
" O, Madge, my dear child, I was thinking of you a few 
moments ago. Come in." 
" I'll sit here a little while, Miss Hetty, in the doorway, 
after the fashion of children. How are all the invalids ? " 
"Very comfortable indeed. It has been quite an idle 
day. And you are all well ? " 
Yes." 
Madge leaned her face on her hand and fell into a little 
reverie. They were both very beautiful to Miss Hetty, 
the slender, shapely hand in its whiteness, the soft, peachy 
 
cheek, the waves of bronze-brown hair, and the eyes with 
their lustrous tenderness. Sometimes, in her elder-woman's 
way, she wondered a little about the young girl. But what 
never had been, would be in the days to come. It was not 
likely that one so sweet, and bright, and winsome would 
miss the centre that she was born to grace. 
"My dear," she said again, softly, " does anything trouble 
you? But there, I might have known ! It's Miss Jessie 
and the baby going away, and your brother. But then 
it isn't like a long separation." 
Madge roused herself, thankful there was some excuse 
for her gravity. 
" The break will come hard at first, I suppose," she re- 
plied, while a faint smile drifted about her face. " But 
then we have Rose and Clement." 
" I never saw just such a family. Mr. Graham is like 
an own brother, and you have taken in Clement's wife 
with the same kind of love. Some folks can hardly agree 
with their blood relations." 
"But they are both so lovely in themselves. It is an 
easy matter to be pleasant when every one is good to 
you." 
" Most people see the faults so much sooner than the 
virtues! If there was love enough in the world to keep 
the wheels running smoothly ! Or if they would try half 
as hard to be generous and out-giving, as they do to be 
sharp, and queer, and selfish ! As if the Lord did not make 
the whole world for each one just the same sunshine, and 
sweet smells, and pictures, green fields and running waters ! 
And when He sets children in a family, they have only to 
reach out their arms like the trees, to make a pleasant 
shade about, or sift the sunshine through. There are the 
spring and the buds, the summer and the growth, the 
ripening autumn and the fruit. God minds all that; so 
why should we be afraid to give out the sweetness ? There 
will be more to-morrow. It is like the manna. Just 
for to-day, and no lack. We need not be afraid of wear 
ing out love." 
w No." Madge smiled at the quaintness. " But I think, 
Miss Hetty, that real and great sorrows often bring people 
nearer together, and make them less captious and critical. 
When they try to help each other they find out the under 
current of tenderness and affection. When all the world 
seems a desert, they cling the more closely together. 
I sometimes feel that we should never have knowu how 
grand and lovely Eleanor was but for the bitter trouble." 
"And she is coming to a better happiness. I often 
think a young girl's first love is not always the true test of 
her nature. It looks reasonable that a woman whose 
judgment has matured, who is stronger, wiser, and nobler 
for her experience, could love in a more worthy fashion, 
if it come while life is still sweet to her. And if two people 
ever were made for each other, it is Eleanor and Mr. Wy- 
verne. And Miss Clara hasn't a bit of grudging jealousy. 
She is too grand for that. They'll bring many a happy 
moment in her life. And so, my dear, you will be very 
glad to have Mrs. Clement." 
" We have always been glad since we understood hei a 
little better. Indeed, she is just like a younger sister. I 
wonder now how we did without her so long." 
" It has all come about like a story. I often wish 
sister could have lived to see it. But I suppose it is best. 
I could not have thought so much of these poor souls if I'd 
had her to love. When the Lord takes one thing away> 
he restores tenfold. And that reminds me why, I've 
the strangest thing to tell you it has hardly been out of 
my mind till just now. I couldn't have dreamed of such a 
surprise if I had tried." 
" Another donation, or another patient ? " 
" A donation ; but you never would guess ! I was that 
much astonished that I could not believe it at first. It la 
the Lord's hand, my dear; I see that as plain as the day 
Til go and get it." 
 
In the familiar room which opened on tht hall, the room 
with its old furnishings and antique Indian secretary that 
Madge always remembered so well, Miss Bright has laid 
her treasure. 
A plain white envelope, with her name in a bold, clear 
hand, that sent a tremor through Madge's whole frame. It 
was well that Miss Hetty was so engrossed that her agi- 
tation passed unremarked. 
"You would hardly believe it, but I knew it for God's 
own work Mr. Westlake came last night, just in the 
edge of the evening. I scarcely recognized him at first. 
I should as soon have expected the king." 
By this time Miss Hetty had the envelope open. There 
was a check, with a paper folded around it on which was 
written " For Miss Bright's Home. To be devoted to 
the sick and the needy as she thinks best. The gift of a 
dying woman May Westlake." 
"O!" and the tears filled Madge's eyes. She under- 
stood it even better than the recipient. 
"It is for a thousand dollars! I never had such a sur- 
prise in my life. I should as soon have looked for the 
moon to fall right into my lap. He talked a long while 
about her, and said she had been so much interested in 
Jenny Yates's death, though at that time she could hardly 
resign herself to a thought of the great change coming to 
her. I used to think her a foolish, flighty little thing, but 
I take it all back now. She changed a good deal in the 
last two months, he said, and at last saw her way quite 
clearly. Mr. Maurice had visited her, and I am sure an 
angel from heaven couldn't make things plainer than he 
does. A few days before she died, she wrote this out, and 
asked him to bring it to me as soon as he could, and tell 
me that she began to understand the worth of useful lives. 
He wanted it done before she was buried." 
" It was thoughtful and generous of her," Madge re 
turned, softly, trying to still the great throbbing at her 
heart. 
" He asked me so many questions about the house, and 
how I came to think of having a hospital. He wanted to 
hear about Miss Jessie's fortune too, and how you all came 
back to Home Nook. It may be an old woman's fancy, 
but I do believe he cared a great deal for Miss Jessie, and 
it just flashed into my mind if the fortune had been 
hers sooner " 
" It couldn't have helped or hindered," said Madge, with 
a gasp. "And Jessie never " 
"No, that comforted me again. And she loves Mr. 
Graham so very dearly ! You can see it in her eyes when- 
ever she speaks of him. But somehow I do believe the 
young man's life has had a gnarl or a tangle in it I 
can't quite make out. The madam, you know, was very 
proud and haughty, but he is noble and good to the very 
core. He sat here and called me Miss Hetty just like the 
old times. It is plain to see that his heart is not in the 
money or the grandeur, for he thinks of going away some- 
where and trying business. And there's his poor little 
motherless girl! I declare it made the tears come into my 
foolish old eyes. After all, youth seems the time to be 
happy, and I can't help fancying that he has missed some 
of the sweetest. Maybe the Lord will make it up to him 
in the end." 
Mrs. Farrand was coming down the stairs just then, and 
Madge was thankful for the interruption. Her heart waa 
too full to take up indifferent topics ; so, as soon as she could 
politely, she bade the ladies adieu, in spite of their entrea- 
ties that she would remain to supper. 
Once out of sight of questioning eyes, she gave way to 
her long-repressed feelings. It was seldom that she allowed 
herself the luxury of tears, but now they flowed forth un- 
restrained, and were a relief. She understood and appre- 
ciated the delicacy that had led Charles Westlake to keep 
her name in the background. It was strange, indeed, that 
Miss Hetty's clear sight had been so led astray in the 
 
earlier days. Madge was doubly grateful now, for com- 
ment on this point would be the one thing she could not 
endu?e. 
If they thought of it at home, no one made any sign, un- 
less it was to be tenderer to Madge. And at this juncture 
there was so much to divide attention ! Philip was pre- 
paring for his college terra, and Jessie made daily journeys 
to the city, often taking Madge for a companion. The 
new house was being furnished, and Madge declared that 
she luxuriated in extravagance, enjoying every dollar that 
Jessie spent. Her fortune had been re-invested very prof- 
itably, but she felt there was no necessity for her to be 
adding to it, and it seemed, with all the abundance, that it 
was no more than right to share some of her blessings 
with the household. And in her home they were to be no 
strangers. Clement and Rose were to be chief house- 
holders at Home Nook. Nellie would be married and 
gone by another spring, in all probability, and dear mamma 
would be in demand at every home. 
"For I cannot imagine our forgetting and falling apart, 
as some households do," Jessie said, as she sat in her 
mother's room the evening before Philip's departure. " If 
it is our troubles, and sorrows, and struggles that have 
bound us so closely together, I am almost ready to welcome 
them, now that we have come to sunshine once more." 
" I am thankful that we have had these pleasant weeks 
with each other," Philip replied, " for I suppose it will 
never be quite the same again. But, mother dear, where 
you are will be the rally ing-point for us all. I am glad 
that Clement and Rose have so planned that it will alwaya 
be here." 
" Dear Clement," said the mother, fondly. " And yet 
each one of you has borne the burden and heat of the day. 
I cannot tell you, my dear children, how doubly sweet 
your sympathy and assistance have been. Amid the losses 
and perplexities, each one has won something for this 
%nd I trust for the life to come." 
" Sorrow may endure for a night, but joy does come in 
the morning, some morning when we are not looking 
for it," said Jessie. " And it has come blessedly to us." 
"Yes," returned Philip. "Our gains have not been 
small. God has given us beauty for ashes, and the oil of 
joy for mourning. I sometimes look over the path by which 
we have been led, and its lessons sink deeply into my soul, 
We have learned that no wrong or thoughtless act stops 
between God and our own conscience, but bears its fatal 
fruit wide spread." 
"And causes misery to many innocent souls," said Madge. 
" It is not true that he who sins always bears the heaviest 
punishment." 
" It seems to me that God desires to teach us by this 
one indisputable fact, that humanity is linked together 
from this brief life to the far-reaching one that is to come 
after, and that while we make any compromise with wrong, 
we are rendered just that far incapable of decisions which 
are pure and honest." 
"And yet it does seem hard to suffer from the faults of 
others. I cannot make out how far any one has a right;" 
and Madge paused, one of the old troubled looks crossing 
her face. 
" My dear," said her mother, " we are not asked to make 
it out. We puzzle our heads over judgments and punish- 
ments as if we could find out all of God's ways, when He 
simply asks us to bear something for His sake, to prove 
our love and devotion. He, being innocent, suffered for the 
many, and I think, besides the grand doctrine of the atone- 
ment, it was to teach us that lesson, also. Wherein we 
Lave suffered innocently, we have followed a little in His 
footsteps." 
"I had not thought of that." 
" And we become the more careful of our own actions. 
Every relation of life has its own responsibility. We may 
hurt and hinder others through some selfish aggrandize- 
ment of our purposes that may look fair enough to our- 
 
selves from the outside. But we are to go deeper than 
that. We are to sift our motives. For He reads those." 
" And to learn that charity comes to mean, in daily life, 
a wise, tender, and generous forbearance, a helpful heart 
and ready hand; that holiness is no mystic, far-fetched 
quality, but an ever-living power, penetrating both soul 
and body, bringing humility, righteousness, and faith in 
its train. For close to us all is this living presence of God. 
We have only to reach out and take." 
" But you have so much faith, Philip. You see things 
so clearly !" 
" I have left the darkness behind ! I remember the day 
I enlisted. I said, I am here to do whatever God wills. If 
He open no other door, I will walk in this path, fulfilling its 
duties to the uttermost. And when He set my feet on 
high, how could I help but believe and trust?" 
" And my happiness came through that," said Jessie 
with a sound of tremulous joy in her voice. 
They thought of another cloud that had brought ik, 
silver lining to the day. No one remembered it now with 
:my sense of wrong. Rose's tenderness would have shamed 
them all if they had. 
"And we have learned that duties and blessings abound 
in the lowly paths of life as well as the loftiest," said Mrs. 
Ashburton ; " that brothers and sisters, parents and chil- 
dren, can bring forth good fruit in the simplest of daily 
work. And you, my children, have done this. It is not 
only high heroic deeds that bring a sweet reward. And 
when we comprehend how really grand a thing it is to 
live, we desire to give back to God the fruit of our prog- 
ress, our growth in the graces of spiritual life. And now, 
my darlings, good night." 
"I shall often miss the dear old home," said Philip, lin- 
gering at the door. " But I know that I shall keep my place 
in your hearts, and one of my happiest thoughts will be the 
reunions to come." 
On the morrow they said farewell to him. What a 
manly soul his was ! Truth and honor were ineffaceably 
stamped on his countenance. There would be no weak 
shipwrecks for him. He had been tried already " as by 
fire." 
Then Jessie began her preparations. A few trunks and 
boxes to be packed, for the furniture was to remain, 
part for Madge, and the rest for her mother. After she 
was fairly settled, Mr. and Mrs. Ashburton were to pay her 
a long visit. 
They missed the baby wonderfully, for Greta had been 
nearly taken possession of by Miss Wyverne. Hardly a day 
passed that either Madge or Eleanor did not make a flying 
call at the new house to have a glimpse of Jessie in all the 
glory of her pretty matronly ways. Mr. Graham insisted 
that presently they meant to take possession of Madge, 
adopt her and her genius legally. 
Mr. Wyverne would fain have had his marriage before 
the holidays, and pleaded earnestly that it might be so. 
Why Eleanor desired to wait until spring, was not very 
clear to herself. 
" There have been so many changes and leave takings ! " 
she said. " We must become a little used to these first, 
and not have too many vacant places at once.'* 
"But you will be so near! It is only such a very little 
change," he pleaded. " And you are quite sure of your 
own heart this time ? " 
" So sure that if aught came between us, my love would 
Btill be yours. It seems as if it must have begun with 
my very life. Do you know I sometimes feel afraid of 
its power and strength ? Have I been growing in vehe- 
mence ? " 
He glanced into the eloquent, dark eyes. She was a 
very beautiful woman in this full maturity, and appealed 
atrongly to his aesthetic sense. He watched her as one 
would a rare flower. 
 
"You seem to be unfolding into a fuller, freer life, my 
darling; aiid I am glad to think that it is through me, 
and for me. Because our sympathies are BO in unison, our 
tastes and feelings so much alike, I long to begin the new 
life with you. I am not afraid to dare it with my com- 
parative poverty." 
"As if you did not know how little these things move 
me now ; " and she smiled radiantly. " I am no romantic 
girl, as you are well aware, and yet the life with you would 
still be a pleasure to me if it were toil and sacrifice. If you 
were sick or unfortunate, I would gladly take your place : 
if any sorrow came, Heaven only knows how ready I should 
be to share it." 
" Why do you think of such things ? You have had 
enough of them in your life. It will be my whole study 
to shut them out. While I cannot give you luxury, I can 
bestow upon you comfort and the tenderest love." 
" Perhaps it is because I want to make myself sure of 
my affection that I try it by such tests." 
"I think sometimes that you are morbidly conscien- 
tious. When you have had years of happiness, you will 
smile over this." 
Eleanor repeated part of the conversation to Madge 
afterwards. 
" I think you have a curious feeling about it also. But, 
Nelly, there can be no mistake this time ; " and she studied 
her questioningly. 
" If you mean about the love, no, I would go to him 
to-morrow, any time he might ask. I never dreamed of 
loving any one in this manner. Is it making idols ? " 
" No, Nelly, not while we feel that the loved one is 
worthy, and that God holds all in the hollow of His hand. 
It must be right to give of our best, when we have 
the highest in return, as well. God doesn't weigh and 
measure to us. And though I came to sad and sorrowful 
times, it used to comfort me to think the love was so sweel 
I had it. I am glad that you can be happy, my 
dear sister." 
" Perhaps it is because I feel that I deserve so little of 
it," returned Eleanor, wiping away a few tears. 
" Nelly," began Madge, after a pause, " we can both take 
a lesson from Jessie. She didn't worry about what had 
been and what was to be. She took the joy that came to 
her, and was exceedingly thankful, and she bore the trials 
with a sweet patience. I think the secret was, that she 
lived in to-day, and found it broad enough and high 
enough for her. And God means that we shall enjoy what 
He sends us, even if it is taken away presently. Doubt 
is sometimes as bad as positive ingratitude." 
The girls kissed each other fondly. Madge felt a secret 
sympathy with Eleanor's past suffering, that was deeper 
than Jessie's joy. They two were growing into peculiar 
kinship, although they had appeared most antagonistic in 
the beginning. 
Had Eleanor Copland some vague presentiment that 
held her back fi Dm entering fully into the promised en- 
joyment? "In the spring," she said; and there she re- 
mained impregnable. If God meant that this great happiness 
should be hwfB, he would take it then thankfully. 
 
CHAPTER XXVII. 
CBOWNBD WITH THORNS. 
"A LETTEE for Eleanor," said Clement, on his return 
from the city one afternoon. 
" She and Greta are in the garden with Miss Wyverne ; " 
and Rose ran eagerly to carry the message. 
Eleanor opened it with careless haste, as her correspon- 
dence was generally mere business notes. 
A long, closely-written letter in a hand whose familiar- 
ity made her shiver. She cast one quick, frightened glance 
at the signature. 
" O, Eleanor ! " 
For it seemed at the first moment as if she would fall 
to the ground. Miss Wyverne clasped her arms around 
the swaying figure. 
" Let me go in," she entreated, faintly. 
Her face was deadly pale, and swift, shivering spasma 
ran through every nerve. Clara Wyverne supported her 
to the steps. 
" Not bad news, Nelly ? " queried Clement, in astonish- 
ment. 
"Strange news, at least," she replied, shudderingly. 
" Excuse me." 
How she found her way up stairs she never knew. The 
blackness of darkness seemed around her in thick clouds. 
She threw herself upon the bed with a cry of anguish. 
Mrs. Ashburton, hearing the sound, went to her. 
" You are ill, my child," she exclaimed, in alarm. 
" 
Is there no end to pain and trial ? " 
My darling ! " 
"You do not know;" in a weak, wandering voice, 
" He has corae back is in New York." 
"He! Who?" 
For it appeared as if Eleanor's senses were deserting 
her. The lips were quivering and bloodless, the eyes 
wild and appealing, as if vainly searching for help, refuge. 
M Gerald Copeland ! O, mother, mother ! " 
Mrs. Ashbnrton was speechless from surprise. Eleanor 
crushed the still unread letter in her hand. 
"O," she moaned, "how could he let me think him 
dead all these years, and then return ! It is cruel." 
Eleanor's strong, impatient sense of justice burst out 
there. Perhaps, too, the terrible consciousness that she 
no longer loved him, and was still his wife. 
" My child, it cannot be ! " 
" It is too true. I have not read the letter, but it begins, 
* My dear wife,' and is signed with his name. O, Heaven, 
how bitter ! " 
Mrs. Ashburton bent over her child. What could she 
gay in this hour of anguish, when all human comfort 
seemed unavailing? For she realized with a mother's 
keen pain and sorrow that this was no ordinary trial, no 
even tolerable surprise. 
