grassy yard, with paling fence painted white — in fair 
repair; brick walk from gate to door; big, square, 
two-story “ frame ” house, painted white and porticoed 
like a Grecian temple — with this difference, that the 
imposing fluted columns and Corinthian capitals were a 
pathetic sham, being made of white pine, and painted; 
iron knocker; brass door knob — discolored, for lack 
of polishing. Within, an uncarpeted hall, of planed 
boards; opening out of it, a parlor, fifteen feet by 
fifteen — in some instances five or ten feet larger; 
ingrain carpet; mahogany center-table; lamp on it, 
with green-paper shade — standing on a gridiron, so to 
speak, made of high-colored yarns, by the young ladies 
of the house, and called a lamp-mat; several books, 
piled and disposed, with cast-iron exactness, according 
to an inherited and unchangeable plan; among them , 
Tupper, much penciled; also, “Friendship’s Offer- 
ing,” and “Affection’s Wreath,” with their sappy 
inanities illustrated in die-away mezzotints; also, Os- 
sian ; Alonzo and Melissa ’; maybe ‘ 4 Ivanhoe 9 ’ ; 
also “Album,” full of original “poetry” of the 
Thou-hast-wounded - the - spirit-that-loved-thee breed ; 
two or three goody-goody works — “Shepherd of 
Salisbury Plain,” etc.; current number of the chaste 
and innocuous “ Godey’s Lady’s Book,” with painted 
fashion-plate of wax-figure women with mouths all 
alike — lips and eyelids the same size — each five-foot 
woman with a two-inch wedge sticking from under her 
dress and letting-on to be half of her foot. Polished 
-air-tight stove (new and deadly invention), with pipe 
passing through a board which closes up the discarded 
good old fireplace. On each end of the wooden 
mantel, over the fireplace, a large basket of peaches 
and other fruits, natural size, all done in plaster, 
rudely, or in wax, and painted to resemble the 
originals — which they don’t. Over middle of mantel,
engraving — Washington Crossing the Delaware; on the 
wall by the door, copy of it done in thunder-and- 
lightning crewels by one of the young ladies — work of 
art which would have made Washington hesitate about 
crossing, if he could have foreseen what advantage was 
going to be taken of it. Piano — kettle in disguise — 
with music, bound and unbound, piled on it, and on a 
stand near by: Battle of Prague; Bird Waltz; 
Arkansas Traveler; Rosin the Bow; Marseillaise Hymn; On 
a Lone Barren Isle (St. Helena); The Last Link Is 
Broken; She Wore a Wreath of Roses the Night When 
Last We Met; Go, Forget Me, Why Should Sorrow 
o’er That Brow a Shadow Fling; Hours There Were 
to Memory Dearer; Long, Long Ago; Days of Ab- 
sence; A Life on the Ocean Wave, a Home on the 
Rolling Deep ; Bird at Sea ; and spread open on the 
rack, where the plaintive singer has left it, j?tf-holl on, 
silver moo-hoon, guide the trav-e 1-err on his way, etc. 
Tilted pensively against the piano, a guitar — guitar 
capable of playing the Spanish fandango by itself, if 
you give it a start. Frantic work of art on the wall — 
pious motto, done on the premises, sometimes in 
colored yarns, sometimes in faded grasses : progenitor 
of the “ God Bless Our Home ” of modern commerce. 
Framed in black mouldings on the wall, other works of 
art, conceived and committed on the premises, by the 
young ladies; being grim black-and-white crayons; 
landscapes, mostly: lake, solitary sailboat, petrified 
clouds, pre-geological trees on shore, anthracite 
precipice; name of criminal conspicuous in the corner. 
Lithograph, Napoleon Crossing the Alps. Lithograph, 
The Grave at St. Helena. Steel-plates, Trumbull* s 
Battle of Bunker Hill, and the Sally from Gibraltar. 
Copper-plates, Moses Smiting the Rock, and Return 
of the Prodigal Son. In big gilt frame, slander of the 
family in oil: papa holding a book (“ Constitution of 
the United States”); guitar leaning against mamma, 
blue ribbons fluttering from its neck; the young ladies, 
as children, in slippers and scalloped pantalettes, one 
embracing toy horse, the other beguiling kitten with 
ball of yarn, and both simpering up at mamma, who 
simpers back. These persons all fresh, raw, and 
red — apparently skinned. Opposite, in gilt frame, 
grandpa and grandma, at thirty and twenty-two, stiff, 
old-fashioned, high-collared, puff-sleeved, glaring 
pallidly out from a background of solid Egyptian night. 
Under a glass French clock dome, large bouquet of 
stiff flowers done in corpsy white wax. Pyramidal 
what-not in the corner, the shelves occupied chiefly 
with bric-a-brac of the period, disposed with an eye to 
best effect: shell, with the Lord’s Prayer carved on it; 
another shell — of the long-oval sort, narrow, straight 
orifice, three inches long, running from end to end — 
portrait of Washington carved on it; not well done; 
the shell had Washington’s mouth, originally — artist 
should have built to that. These two are memorials of 
the long-ago bridal trip to New Orleans and the 
French Market. Other bric-a-brac : Californian specimens ”
— quartz, with gold wart adhering; old Guinea- 
gold locket, with circlet of ancestral hair in it; Indian 
arrow-heads, of flint; pair of bead moccasins, from 
uncle who crossed the Plains; three “ alum” baskets 
of various colors — being skeleton-frame of wire, 
clothed-on with cubes of crystallized alum in the rock- 
candy style — works of art which were achieved by the 
young ladies ; their doubles and duplicates to be found 
upon all what-nots in the land; convention of desic- 
cated bugs and butterflies pinned to a card ; painted 
toy-dog, seated upon bellows-attachment — drops its 
under jaw and squeaks when pressed upon; sugar- 
candy rabbit — limbs and features merged together, 
not strongly defined ; pewter presidential-campaign 
medal; miniature cardboard wood-sawyer, to be at- 
tached to the stovepipe and operated by the heat; 
small Napoleon, done in wax; spread-open daguerreo- 
types of dim children, parents, cousins, aunts, and 
friends, in all attitudes but customary ones ; no tem- 
pled portico at back, and manufactured landscape 
stretching away in the distance — that came in later, 
with the photograph ; all these vague figures lavishly 
chained and ringed — metal indicated and secured from 
doubt by stripes and splashes of vivid gold bronze ; all 
of them too much combed, too much fixed up; and 
all of them uncomfortable in inflexible Sunday clothes 
of a pattern which the spectator cannot realize could 
ever have been in fashion ; husband and wife generally 
grouped together — husband sitting, wife standing, with 
hand on his shoulder — and both preserving, all these 
fading years, some traceable effect of the daguerreo- 
typist’s brisk “ Now smile, if you please!” Bracketed 
over what-not — place of special sacredness — an out- 
rage in water-color, done by the young niece that came 
on a visit long ago, and died. Pity, too; for she 
might have repented of this in time. Horsehair 
chairs, horsehair sofa which keeps sliding from under 
you. Window-shades, of oil stuff, with milkmaids and 
ruined castles stenciled on them in fierce colors. 
Lambrequins dependent from gaudy boxings of beaten 
tin, gilded. Bedrooms with rag carpets; bedsteads of 
the “ corded sort, with a sag in the middle, the cords 
needing tightening; snuffy feather-bed — not aired 
often enough ; cane-seat chairs, splint-bottomed rocker ; 
looking-glass on wall, school-slate size, veneered frame; 
inherited bureau; wash-bowl and pitcher, possibly — 
but not certainly; brass candlestick, tallow candle, 
snuffers. Nothing else in the room. Not a bathroom 
in the house ; and no visitor likely to come along who 
has ever seen one. 
That was the residence of the principal citizen, all 
the way from the suburbs of New Orleans to the edge 
of St. Louis. When he stepped aboard a big fine 
steamboat, he entered a new and marvelous world : 
chimney-tops cut to counterfeit a spraying crown of 
plumes — and maybe painted red; pilot-house, hurri- 
cane-deck, boiler-deck guards, all garnished with white 
wooden filigree work of fanciful patterns; gilt acorns 
topping the derricks ; gilt deer-horns over the big bell ; 
gaudy symbolical picture on the paddle-bpx, possibly ; 
big roomy boiler-deck, painted blue, and furnished 
with Windsor arm-chairs ; inside, a far-receding snow- 
white “cabin ,, ; porcelain knob and oil-picture on 
every state-room door ; curving patterns of filigree- 
work touched up with gilding, stretching overhead all 
down the converging vista ; big chandeliers every little 
way, each an April shower of glittering glass-drops; 
lovely rainbow-light falling everywhere from the colored 
glazing of the skylights; the whole a long-drawn, 
resplendent tunnel, a bewildering and soul-satisfying 
spectacle ! in the ladies’ cabin a pink and white Wilton 
carpet, as soft as mush, and glorified with a ravishing 
pattern of gigantic flowers. Then the Bridal Chamber 
— the animal that invented that idea was still alive and 
unhanged, at that day — Bridal Chamber whose pre- 
tentious flummery was necessarily overawing to the 
now tottering intellect of that hosannahing citizen. 
Every stateroom had its couple of cosey clean bunks, 
and perhaps a looking-glass and a snug closet; and 
sometimes there was even a washbowl and pitcher, 
and part of a towel which could be told from mosquito 
netting by an expert — though generally these things 
were absent, and the shirt-sleeved passengers cleansed 
themselves at a long row of stationary bowls in the 
barber-shop, where were also public towels, public 
combs, and public soap. 
Take the steamboat which I have just described, and 
you have her in her highest and finest, and most 
pleasing, and comfortable, and satisfactoiy estate. 
Now cake her over with a layer of ancient and ob- 
durate dirt, and you have the Cincinnati steamer awhile 
ago referred to. Not all over — only inside; for she 
was ably officered in all departments except the 
steward’s. 
But wash that boat and repaint her, and she would 
be about the counterpart of the most complimented 
boat of the old flush times : for the steamboat architec- 
ture of the West has undergone no change; neither 
has steamboat furniture and ornamentation undergone 
any. 
CHAPTER XXXIX. 
MANUFACTURES AND MISCREANTS 
WHERE the river, in the Vicksburg region, used to 
be corkscrewed, it is now comparatively straight 
— made so by cut-off; a former distance of seventy 
miles is reduced to thirty- five. It is a change which 
threw Vicksburg's neighbor, Delta, La., out into the 
country and ended its career as a river town. Its 
ivhole river-frontage is now occupied by a vast sand- 
bar, thickly covered with young trees — a growth 
which will magnify itself into a dense forest, by and 
by, and completely hide the exiled town. 
In due time we passed Grand Gulf and Rodney, of 
war fame, and reached Natchez, the last of the beauti- 
ful hill-cities — for Baton Rouge, yet to come, is not 
on a hill, but only on high ground. Famous Natchez- 
under-the-hill has not changed notably in twenty 
years ; in outward aspect — judging by the descriptions 
of the ancient procession of foreign tourists — it has 
not changed in sixty; for it is still small, straggling, 
and shabby. It had a desperate reputation, morally, 
in the old keel-boating and early steamboating times — 
plenty of drinking, carousing, fisticuffing, and killing 
there, among the riff-raff of the river, in those days. 
But Natchez-on-top-of-the-hill is attractive ; has always 
been attractive. Even Mrs. Trollope (1827) had to 
confess its charms : 
At one or two points the wearisome level line is relieved by bluffs, as 
they call the short intervals of high ground. The town of Natchez is beau- 
tifully situated on one of those high spots. The contrast that its bright 
green hill forms with the dismal line of black forest that stretches on every 
side, the abundant growth of the paw-paw, palmetto, and orange, the copious 
variety of sweet-scented flowers that flourish there, all make it appear like 
an oasis in the desert. Natchez is the furthest point to the north at which 
oranges ripen in the open air, or endure the winter without shelter. With 
the exception of this sweet spot, I thought all the little towns and villages 
we passed wretched-looking in the extreme. 
Natchez, like her near and far river neighbors, has 
railways now, and is adding to them — pushing them 
hither and thither into all rich outlying regions that are 
naturally tributary to her. And like Vicksburg and 
New Orleans, she has her ice-factory ; she makes thirty 
tons of ice a day. In Vicksburg and Natchez, in my 
time, ice was jewelry; none but the rich could wear it. 
But anybody and everybody can have it now. I 
visited one of the ice-factories in New Orleans, to see 
what the polar regions might look like when lugged 
into the edge of the tropics. But there was nothing 
striking in the aspect of the place. It was merely a 
spacious house, with some innocent steam machinery 
in one end of it and some big porcelain pipes running 
here and there. No, not porcelain — they merely 
seemed to be; they were iron, but the ammonia which 
was being breathed through them had coated them to 
the thickness of your hand with solid milk-white ice. 
It ought to have melted; for one did not require 
winter clothing in that atmosphere: but it did not 
melt; the inside of the pipe was too cold. 
Sunk into the floor were numberless tin boxes, a 
foot square and two feet long, and open at the top 
end. These were full of clear water ; and around each 
box, salt and other proper stuff was packed; also, the 
ammonia gases were applied to the water in some way 
which will always remain a secret to me, because I was 
not able to understand the process. While the water 
In the boxes gradually fi;oze, men gave it a stir or two 
with a stick occasionally — to liberate the air-bubbles, 
I think. Other men were continually lifting out boxes 
whose contents had become hard frozen. They gave 
the box a single dip into a vat of boiling water, to melt 
the block of ice free from its tin coffin, then they shot 
the block out upon a platform car, and it was ready 
for market. These big blocks were hard, solid, and 
crystal-clear. In certain of them, big bouquets of 
fresh and brilliant tropical flowers had been frozen-in; 
in others, beautiful silken-clad French dolls, and other 
pretty objects. These blocks were to be set on end in 
a platter, in the center of dinner-tables, to cool the 
tropical air; and also to be ornamental, for the flowers 
and things imprisoned in them could be seen as 
through plate glass. I was told that this factory could 
retail its ice, by wagon, throughout New Orleans, in 
the humblest dwelling-house quantities, at six or seven 
dollars a ton, and make a sufficient profit. This being 
the case, there is business for ice-factories in the 
North; for we get ice on no such terms there, if one 
take less than three hundred and fifty pounds at a 
delivery. 
The Rosalie Yarn Mill, of Natchez, has a capacity 
of 6,000 spindles and 160 looms, and employs 100 
hands. The Natchez Cotton Mills Company began 
operations four years ago in a two-story building of 
50x190 feet, with 4,000 spindles and 128 looms; 
capital $105,000, all subscribed in the town. Two 
years later, the same stockholders increased their 
capital to $225,000; added a third story to the mill, 
increased its length to 317 feet; added machinery to 
increase the capacity to 10,300 spindles and 304 looms. 
The company now employ 250 operatives, many of 
whom are citizens of Natchez, “The mill works 
5 ,000 bales of cotton annually and manufactures the 
best standard quality of brown shirtings and sheetings 
and drills, turning out 5,000,000 yards of these goods 
per year.”* A close corporation — stock held at 
$5,000 per share, but none in the market. 
The changes in the Mississippi River are great and 
strange, yet were to be expected ; but I was not ex- 
pecting to live to see Natchez and these other river 
towns become manufacturing strongholds and railway 
centers. 
Speaking of manufactures reminds me of a talk upon 
that topic which I heard — which I overheard — on 
board the Cincinnati boat. I awoke out of a fretted 
sleep, with a dull confusion of voices in my ears. I 
listened — two men were talking; subject, apparently, 
the great inundation. I looked out through the open 
transom. The two men were eating a late breakfast; 
sitting opposite each other ; nobody else around. They 
closed up the inundation with a few words — having 
used it, evidently, as a mere ice-breaker and acquaint- 
anceship-breeder — then they dropped into business. 
It soon transpired that they were drummers — one 
belonging in Cincinnati, the other in New Orleans. 
Brisk r. m, energetic of movement and speech; the 
dollar bieir god, how to get it their religion. 
“Now as to this article * said Cincinnati, slashing 
into the ostensible butter and holding forward a slab of 
it on his knife-blade, “it's from our house ; look at it 
— smell of it — taste it. Put any test on it you want 
to. Take your own time — no hurry — make it 
thorough. There now — what do you say? butter, 
ain’t it? Not by a thundering sight — it’s oleomar- 
garine! Yes, sir, that’s what it is — oleomargarine. 
You can’t tell it from butter; by George, an expert 
can’t! It’s from our house. We supply most of the 
boats in the West; there’s hardly a pound of butter 
on one of theni. We are crawling right along — jump- 
ing right along is the word. We are going to haye 
that entire trade. Yes, and the hotel trade, too. You 
are going to see the day, pretty soon, when you can’t 
find an ounce of butter to bless yourself with, in any 
hotel in the Mississippi and Ohio Valleys, outside of 
the biggest cities. Why, we are turning out oleomar- 
garine now by the thousands of tons. And we can 
sell it so dirt-cheap that the whole country has got to 
take it — can’t get around it, you see. Butter don’t 
stand any show — there ain’t any chance for competi- 
tion. Butter’s had its day — and from this out, butter 
goes to the wall. There’s more money in oleomar- 
garine than — why, you can’t imagine the business we 
do. I’ve stopped in every town, from Cincinnati to 
Natchez; and I’ve sent home big orders from every 
one of them.” 
And so forth and so on, for ten minutes longer, in 
the same fervid strain. Then New Orleans piped up 
and said : 
" Yes, it’s a first-rate imitation, that’s a certainty; 
but it ain’t the only one around that’s first-rate. For 
instance, they make olive-oil out of cotton-seed oil, 
nowadays, so that you can’t tell them apart.” 
“Yes, that’s so,” responded Cincinnati,  and it 
was a tip-top business for a while. They sent it over 
and brought it back from France and Italy, with the 
United States custom-house mark on it to indorse it 
for genuine, and there was no end of cash in it; but 
France and Italy broke up the game — of course they 
naturally would. Cracked on such a rattling impost 
that cotton-seed olive-oil couldn’t stand the raise; had 
to hang up and quit.” 
“ Oh, it did , did it? You wait here a minute.” 
Goes to his state-room, brings back a couple of long 
bottles, and takes out the corks — says: 
“There now, smell them, taste them, examine the 
bottles, inspect the labels. One of ’m’s from Europe, 
the other’s never been out of this country. One’s 
European olive-oil, the other’s American cottonseed 
olive-oil. Tell ’m apart? ’Course you can’t. No- 
body can. People that want to, can go to the expense 
and trouble of shipping their oils to Europe and back 
— it’s their privilege; but our firm knows a trick 
worth six of that. We turn out the whole thing — 
clean from the word go — in our factory in New 
Orleans: labels, bottles, oil, everything. Well, no, 
not labels : been buying them abroad — get them dirt- 
cheap there. You see there’s just one little wee 
speck, essence, or whatever it is, in a gallon of cotton- 
seed oil, that gives it a smell, or a flavor, or some- 
thing — get that out, and you’re all right — perfectly 
easy then to turn the oil into any kind of oil you want 
to, and there ain’t anybody that can detect the true 
from the false. Well, we know how to get that one 
little particle out — and we’re the only firm that does. 
And we turn out an olive-oil that is just simply per- 
fect — undetectable! We are doing a ripping trade, 
too — as I could easily show you by my order-book 
for this trip. Maybe you’ll butter everybody’s bread 
pretty soon, but we’ll cotton-seed his salad for him 
from the Gulf to Canada, that’s a dead-certain thing.’’ 
Cincinnati glowed and flashed with admiration. The 
two scoundrels exchanged business-cards, and arose. 
As they left the table, Cincinnati said: 
“But you have to have custom-house marks, don’t 
you? How do you manage that?” 
I did not catch the answer. 
We passed Port Hudson, scene of two of the most 
terrific episodes of the war — the night-battle there 
between Farragut’s fleet and the Confederate land 
batteries, April 14, 1863; and the memorable land 
battle, two months later, which lasted eight hours, — 
eight hours of exceptionally fierce and stubborn fight- 
ing, — and ended, finally, in the repulse of the Union 
forces with great slaughter. 
CHAPTER XL 
CASTLES AND CULTURE 
B ATON ROUGE was clothed in flowers, like a 
bride — no, much more so; like a greenhouse. 
For we were in the absolute South now — no modifica- 
tions, no compromises, no half-way measures. The 
magnolia trees in the Capitol grounds were lovely and 
fragrant, with their dense rich foliage and huge 
snowball blossoms. The scent of the flower is very sweet, 
but you want distance on it, because it is so powerful. 
They are not good bedroom blossoms — they might 
suffocate one in his sleep. We were certainly in the 
South at last; for here the sugar region begins, and 
the plantations — vast green levels, with sugar-mill and 
negro quarters clustered together in the middle dis- 
tance — were in view. And there was a tropical sun 
overhead and a tropical swelter in the air. 
And at this point, also, begins the pilot’s paradise: 
a wide river hence to New Orleans, abundance of water 
from shore to shore, and no bars, snags, sawyers, or 
wrecks in his road. 
Sir Walter Scott is probably responsible for the 
Capitol building; for it is not conceivable that this 
little sham castle would ever have been built if he had 
not run the people mad, a couple of generations ago, 
with his mediseval romances. The South has not yet 
recovered from the debilitating influence of his books. 
Admiration of his fantastic heroes and their grotesque 
"chivalry " doings and romantic juvenilities still sur- 
vives here, in an atmosphere in which is already per- 
ceptible the wholesome and practical nineteenth- 
century smell of cotton factories and locomotives ; and 
traces of its inflated language and other windy hum- 
buggeries survive along with it. It is pathetic enough 
that a whitewashed castle, with turrets and things, — 
materials all ungenuine within and without, pretending 
to be what they are not, — should ever have been built 
in this otherwise honorable place ; but it is much more 
pathetic to see this architectural falsehood undergoing 
restoration and perpetuation in our day, when it would 
have been so easy to let dynamite finish what a 
charitable fire began, and then devote this restoration- 
money to the building of something genuine. 
Baton Rouge has no patent on imitation castles, 
however, and no monopoly of them. The following 
remark is from the advertisement of the Female 
Institute '  of Columbia, Tenn.: 
The Institute building has long been famed as a model of striking and 
beautiful architecture. Visitors are charmed with its resemblance to the 
old castles of song and story, with its towers, turret ed walls, and ivy- 
mantled porches. 
Keeping school in a castle is a romantic thing; as 
romantic as keeping hotel in a castle. 
By itself the imitation castle is doubtless harmless, 
and well enough; but as a symbol and breeder and 
sustainer of maudlin Middle-Age romanticism here in 
the midst of the plainest and sturdiest and infinitely 
greatest and worthiest of all the centuries the world has 
seen, it is necessarily a hurtful thing and a mistake. 
Here is an extract from the prospectus of a Ken- 
tucky " Female College," Female college sounds well 
enough; but since the phrasing it in that unjustifiable 
way was done purely in the interest of brevity, it 
seems to me that she-college would have been still 
better — because shorter, and means the same thing: 
that is, if either phrase means anything at all : 
The president is Southern by birth, by rearing, by education, and by 
sentiment; the teachers are all Southern in sentiment, and with the 
exception ot those bom in Europe were bom and raised in the South. Believing 
the Southern to be the highest type of civilization this continent has seen' 
the young ladies are trained according to the Southern ideas of delicacy, 
refinement, womanhood, religion, and propriety; hence we offer a first-class 
female college for the South and solicit Southern patronage. 
What, warder, ho ! the man that can blow so com- 
placent a blast as that, probably blows it from a castle. 
From Baton Rouge to New Orleans, the great sugar 
plantations border both sides of the river all the way, 
Illustrations of it thoughtlessly omitted by the advertiser: 
“Knoxville, Tenn., October 19. — This morning, a few minutes after 
ten o’clock. General Joseph A. Mabry, Thomas O’Connor, and Joseph A. 
Mabry, Jr., were killed in a shooting affray. The difficulty began yesterday 
afternoon by General Mabry attacking Major O’Connor and threatening to 
kill him. This was at the fair grounds, and O’Connor told Mabry that it 
was not the place to settle their difficulties. Mabry then told O’Connor he 
should not live. It seems that Mabry was armed and O’Connor was not. 
The cause of the difficulty was an old feud about the transfer of some prop- 
erty from Mabry to O’Connor. Later in the afternoon Mabry sent word to 
O’Connor that he would kill him on sight. This morning Major O’Connor 
was standing in the door of the Mechanics’ National Bank, of which he was 
president. General Mabry and another gentleman walked down Gay' Street 
on the opposite side from the bank. O’Connor stepped into the bank, got 
a shotgun, took deliberate aim at General Mabry and fired. Mabry fell 
dead, being shot in the left side. As he fell O’Connor fired again, the shot 
taking effect in Mabry’s thigh. O’Connor then reached into the bank and 
