ranges between the island and the light, one way, and in line with the
dead tree and Jones's barn on the north shore, the other way. Twenty
feet from this position, nothing that looks like a head can be seen.
Probably this coffin works by the same rule. If it don't, it is strange
that I have never noticed it. Now I will walk in the direction that
Harvey Barth did, and if there is any coffin here I shall see it."
The bright flashes of lightning still illuminated the cliffs, as Leopold
walked slowly towards the Hole in the Wall, scrutinizing the rocks with
the utmost care. By the rising of the tide his line of march was now
within ten feet of the cliff, and the beach was of about the same width
as when the shipwrecked party had sought a refuge upon it; but the sea
was comparatively calm, and there was no peril on its smooth sands.
Leopold had gone about one third of the length of the beach, when his
eye rested upon a formation in the cliff, which, as the lightning played
upon it, assured him he had found what he sought. The view he had
obtained of it was only for an instant. He halted, waiting again till
the lightning again, enabled him to see the rock.
"That's it, as sure as I live!" exclaimed the boatman.
Again and again he saw it, as the lightning glared upon it; and the
resemblance to a coffin was certainly very striking. Harvey Barth was
justified again, and Leopold acknowledged to himself the correctness of
the description in the diary. Thrusting the oar down into the sand on
the spot where he was, so as not to loose the locality, he stood for
some time observing the phenomenon on the rocks. He understood now why
he had not seen it before. In his previous search, he had walked on the
beach twenty feet farther out from the cliff. Changing his position by
wading into the water, the shape of the coffin on the rock was lost
before he had moved ten feet from the oar. From this point it assumed a
new form, looking like nothing in particular but a mass of rock.
Leopold returned to the stake which he had set up, and then walked from
it to the cliff. When he stopped, the projecting rock was directly over
his head. He knew the spot very well. He had baked clams there for
Rosabel Hamilton during one of his visits to High Rock with her; and he
had dug over every foot of sand beneath it, in search of the hidden
treasure, without finding it. But Harvey Barth was so correct in regard
to his description of the locality that the boatman was more disposed to
rely upon his statements in other matters than he had ever been before.
He gathered a pile of stones to mark the place, and then gave himself up
to a careful consideration of the circumstances of the case. He could
not now escape the conclusion that the money was actually buried beneath
the projecting rock--"Coffin Rock" he had already named in his own mind;
and he proceeded to inquire why he had not found it, when he dug the
ground all over.
"Miss Liverage told me the hole which Wallbridge dug was not more than a
foot deep; and Harvey Barth's diary contained the same statement," said
the boatman to himself. "I dug a foot down, and the money was not there.
I remember I found a piece of boat-hook, with the iron on it about that
distance below the surface. What does that prove? How happened that
piece of a boat-hook, to be a foot under ground? On the top of the
cliffs the sand and gravel, with a little soil on top, is six feet
deep, and this beach is formed by the caving down of the earth. There is
no beach beyond the Hole, because the rocks are all bare on the top of
the cliff. I suppose the sand keeps dropping down, and the roll of the
sea has spread it out as it fell. I have no doubt that the hurricane
piled the sand up a foot or more next to the cliff. That's the reason I
didn't find the money. I will dig deeper now."
Satisfied with this reasoning, Leopold waded off to the Rosabel which
the tide had swung in towards the beach again. In the cuddy he had a
lantern,--for use when he was out after dark,--which he lighted. As he
was obliged to supply bait for parties who went out fishing with him, he
kept under the seat in the standing-room a boy's shovel, which his
father had given him years before, with which he dug clams on the
beaches. Letting out the cable, the boat drifted still nearer to the
beach, and the skipper landed, with his lantern and shovel. Throwing off
his wet coat, he began to dig under Coffin Rock. He allowed considerable
latitude in marking out the size of the hole, to allow for any possible
want of accuracy in Harvey Barth's observation.
It was pitch dark after the shower, for the sky and the stars were
obscured by dense clouds. Leopold had only the light of his lantern to
enable him to work, and his task was gloomy enough to satisfy the
veriest money-digger that ever delved into the earth for hidden
treasure. In half an hour, more or less, he had dug the hole a foot
deep, and then felt that he had reduced this part of the beach to its
former elevation, at the time of the wreck of the Waldo. A descent of
another foot would decide whether or not the treasure had an existence,
save in the brain of the sick man.
It was hard work, after a full day's labor at the hotel; but Leopold
redoubled his exertions after he had removed the first foot of sand. As
he proceeded, he examined every stone he threw out of the hole, to
assure himself that he did not miss the bag of gold. The task began to
be somewhat exciting, as the solution of the problem drew nearer.
The hole which he had laid out was six feet square; and when he had
thrown out all the sand and gravel to this depth, in order to save any
unnecessary labor he began to dig in the middle of the excavation, for
this was directly under the centre of the projecting rock. If Harvey
Barth's statement was exactly correct, the bag would be found where
Leopold was now at work. Faster and faster he plied the shovel, the
deeper he went, and, when he judged that the lower hole was nearly a
foot deep, his excitement of mind was intense. He had come to the last
layer of sand he had to remove in making the second foot in depth.
Placing his heel upon the shovel, he attempted to force it down the
length of the blade; but something impeded his progress. It was not a
rock, for it yielded slightly, and gave forth no sharp sound. Scraping
out the sand with the shovel, Leopold began to paw it away with his
hands. Presently he felt something which was neither sand nor gravel. He
drew it forth from the hole, and held it up where the light of the
lantern struck upon it.
It was the hidden treasure.
The bag was just what Harvey Barth had described, and it weighed at
least the four pounds and a half Avoirdupois which he had made it by his
calculations. Leopold was tremendously excited, as he seated himself on
the brink of the hole, with the shot-bag in his hand.
"Hallo, Le! Is that you?" shouted a voice from the water.
It was Stumpy in Leopold's old boat.
CHAPTER X.
DOUBTS AND DEBTS.
Leopold was terribly startled when he heard the voice of Stumpy. He was
the possessor of a mighty secret, and he felt that he had been very
imprudent in exposing it to discovery. It would have been better to dig
up the hidden treasure in the daytime, when the light would have enabled
him to observe the approach of an intruder. But he was glad it was
Stumpy, rather than any other person, who had detected him in his
strange and unseasonable labor. If need be, he could reveal the great
secret to his friend, which he would have been very unwilling to do to
any one else. But he did not wish to say a word about the hidden
treasure even to Stumpy.
He was startled when he heard the voice of his friend, and, without
deciding at that moment upon his future course, he dropped the shot-bag
into the hole from which he had taken it, and hastily covered it with
sand to the depth of a foot, in fact, filling up the smaller hole he had
made. This was the work of a moment; and before Stumpy had time to
approach the spot, Leopold, with the lantern in his hand, walked to the
place where his friend had landed.
"What are you doing here in the dark?" demanded Stumpy, as Leopold
approached him.
"Lighting up the darkness," replied the money-digger, lightly.
"What were you doing with that shovel?" added Stumpy, as his friend
stepped into the old boat, the bow of which rested on the beach.
"Digging, of course," answered the possessor of the mighty secret, not
yet decided whether or not to reveal what he knew, and what he had been
doing.
"I don't think there is much fun in digging down here where it is as
dark as a stack of black cats."
"I was not digging for the fun of it. But what brought you down here in
the darkness, Stumpy?" asked Leopold, willing to change the subject.
"I wanted to see you, and went over to the Sea Cliff House. Your father
told me you had gone out in your boat just at dark; and, as a smart
squall had just stirred up the bay, he was somewhat worried about you."
"Was he? I didn't know that he ever worried about me when I was on the
water. I think I know how to take care of myself."
"No doubt you do; but the smartest boatmen get caught sometimes. I think
we had better hurry back, for the longer you are out, the more anxious
your folks will be about you."
"That's so," replied the considerate Leopold. "But we have two boats
here, and we can't both return in the Rosabel."
"Can't we tow the old boat?"
"We can, but I don't like to do it, for the old boat will be sure to
bump against the Rosabel, and scrape the paint off. Now, Stumpy, if you
will take the new boat, and sail back in her, I will follow you in the
old tub. You will get to the house long before I do, and you can tell
the folks I am right side up."
"Why don't you go in the Rosabel, and tell them yourself?" suggested
Stumpy.
Just at this point Leopold was bothered. If Stumpy reached the hotel
first, he would tell Mr. Bennington where he had found his son, on the
beach under High Rock, with a lantern and shovel in his hand. Of course
his father would wish to know what he was doing there; and under present
circumstances this would be a hard question, for Leopold was deeply
indoctrinated with the "little hatchet" principle. In a word, he could
not tell a deliberate lie. He could not place himself in a situation
where a falsehood would be necessary to extricate himself from a
dilemma. Unhappily, like thousands of other scrupulous people, he could
"strain at a gnat, and swallow a camel;" for it was just as much a lie
to deceive his father by his silence as it was by his speech.
But, after all Leopold's motive was good. He was afraid his father would
use the hidden treasure to relieve his embarrassments in money matters,
and he was not willing to subject him to this temptation. The young man
was still firm in his faith that the money belonged to somebody, and
just as firm in the belief that it was his duty to seek out the owner
thereof, which he had not yet done, or had time to do.
He had thought a great deal about the ownership of the treasure; and,
arguing the question as he might to himself, he always reached the same
conclusion--that the money did not belong to him, and that it did belong
to somebody else. He had considered the possibility of finding the
proprietor of the twelve hundred dollars in gold through the owners of
the Waldo, and the consignees or agents of the brig in Havana. This was
before he found the old shot-bag; and, now that he had held it in his
hand, this conclusion was even more forcible than before. Satisfied that
the secret would be safer in the possession of Stumpy than of his
father, he was tempted to tell him the whole story.
"After all, I guess we will go back in the Rosabel, Stumpy," added
Leopold, when he had considered the matter. "You can keep your eye on
the old boat, and see that she don't do any harm."
"I can keep her from doing any mischief," said Stumpy.
Leopold asked his companion to haul the Rosabel up to the beach, and,
shoving off the old boat, he returned to the spot under Coffin Rock
where he had been digging. Using his shovel vigorously for a few
moments, he filled up the excavation he had made, and levelled off the
sand and gravel, so that no chance visitor at the place should discover
the traces of his labor.
By the time he had finished the work, the Rosabel had been hauled up to
the beach, and the painter of the old boat attached to her stern. In a
few moments the money-digger and his friend were under way, standing
towards the mouth of the river.
"I don't see why my father should be worried about me," said Leopold, as
he seated himself at the tiller.
"You don't very often go out in the night, and in a thunder-storm, too.
I was worried about you myself, Le, for any fellow might be caught in a
squall. Without saying anything to your father, or any other person, I
took the old boat, and stood out of the river. I shouted to you with all
my might. When I got out beyond the point, I saw the light on the beach,
under High Rock, and went for it."
"Well, I'm much obliged to you for the trouble you have taken," added
Leopold.
"But what in the world were you doing on the beach with the lantern and
the shovel?" asked Stumpy. "You couldn't catch any clams under the rocks
where you were."
"I didn't catch any. When you sung out, I was sitting on the beach. I
had anchored the Rosabel, with a long cable, and when the squall came,
it blew her off so far from the shore that I could not get on board of
her without swimming."
"O, that's it--was it?" exclaimed Stumpy, entirely satisfied with this
explanation.
Certainly every word which Leopold had uttered was strictly and
literally true; but Stumpy's deception was as complete as though it had
been brought about by a lie. The money-digger was not quite satisfied
with himself, though he had an undoubted right to "keep his own
counsel," if he chose to do so. But while he was thus bothered about the
situation, his friend changed the topic.
"I wanted to see you," said Stumpy, after he had accepted his
companion's explanation.
"What for?"
"That old hunks had gone and done it!" added Stumpy, whose chief
emotion seemed to be a violent indignation.
"What old hunks?"
"Why, grandad."
"What has he done?"
"Taken possession of our house; or, what amounts to the same thing, has
notified my mother that she must move out on the first of August, if the
mortgage note is not paid."
"That's rough," added Leopold.
"Rough! That isn't the word for it," protested Stumpy, warmly. "It is
mean, rascally, contemptible, infamous, infernal! I should bust the
dictionary if I expressed myself in full. If Squire Wormbury was a poor
man, or really needed the money, it would be another thing; or if he
would wait till houses and land are worth something in Rockhaven. But he
takes the time when the war has knocked everything into a cocked hat;
and nobody knows whether we are going to have any country much longer,
and nobody dares to buy a house. Confound him! he takes this time, when
the place won't fetch anything! He knows it will bring two thousand
dollars just as soon as the clouds blow over. He intends to make money
by the operation."
"Well, I don't see that you can help yourself, hard as the case is."
"I don't know that I can; but I have been trying to do something."
"What?"
"I have asked two or three to take the mortgage; but I haven't found
anybody yet. Nobody down here has any money except my grandad, and it
might as well be buried in the sea as to be in his trousers' pocket."
"Did you want to see me about this business?" asked Leopold.
"Yes."
"Do you think I could help you out?"
"That was my idea."
"That's good!" laughed Leopold. "My father can hardly keep his head
above water now. He don't know where he shall get the money to pay the
interest on his mortgage, due on the first of July. I should not be much
surprised if your grandfather had to foreclose on the Sea Cliff House."
"Of course I don't expect you to find the money for us, only to help me
in another way. But what you said about your father reminds me of
something I was going to tell you, when I saw you."
"What's that?"
"If my grandad was a decent man, I wouldn't say anything about it,"
replied Stumpy, apparently troubled with a doubt in regard to the
propriety of the revelation he was about to make.
"If there is anything private about it, don't say anything," added
Leopold, whose high sense of honor would not permit him to encourage his
friend to make an improper use of any information in his possession.
"The conversation I heard was certainly not intended for my ear,"
continued Stumpy, thoughtfully.
"Then don't mention it."
"I think I ought to tell you, Le, for the business concerns your
father."
"No matter whom it concerns, if the information don't belong to you,"
said Leopold. "If I hear my father and Jones talking about Smith in a
private way, I don't think I have any right to go and tell Smith what
they say. It makes trouble, and it's none of my business."
"I think you are right in the main, Le; but let me put the question in
another form. Suppose you heard two scallawags in your hotel talking
about setting my mother's house on fire; suppose you knew the plan they
had formed to burn the cottage; would you say it was none of your
business, because you happened to hear them, and the conversation was
not intended for your ears?"
"I don't believe I should say or think any such thing. These men would
be plotting to commit a crime and it would be my duty to tell you,"
replied Leopold.
"My sentiments exactly. A crime! That's just my opinion of what my
grandad is doing."
"If you think so, it is perfectly proper for you to let on."
"I do think so and I shall let on," added Stumpy. "As you said just now,
the interest on the mortgage note which your father owes Squire Moses
will be due on the first day of July; and that's only ten days ahead.
The squire thinks your father won't be able to raise the money, because
he has been to him to ask the old skin flint to let him up a little."
"Yes; I know all that," replied Leopold, sadly, for he dreaded the first
of July almost as a condemned convict dreads the day of execution.
"I went up to grandad's the other day, to carry his spectacles, which he
left on the table when he came to tell mother that she must move out on
the first of August. I wanted to give the spectacles into his own hands,
and to say a word to him about the place, if I got a chance. I went into
the kitchen, where the old man stays when he's in the house. He wasn't
there; but I heard his voice in the next room where he keeps his papers,
and I sat down to wait till he came out. There was no one in the kitchen
but myself, for the women folks had gone up stairs to make the beds."
"But whom was Squire Moses talking to?" asked Leopold, much interested.
"I was going to tell you all about it, Le; but I wanted to say, in the
first place, that I didn't go into the kitchen to listen, and I didn't
want to break in on the old man when he was busy. Squire Moses did most
of the talking, and it was some time before I found out who was with
him. But after a while the other man spoke, and I knew it was Ethan."
"Ethan Wormbury you mean?" asked Leopold.
"Yes my uncle Ethan, that keeps the Island Hotel. Your father's new
house, Le, has scared him half out of his wits. I can't remember half I
heard them say; but the substance of it was, that if your father don't
pay his interest money on the very first day of July, the old man means
to foreclose the mortgage just as quick as the law will let him. That's
the upshot of all that was said."
"That's too bad!" exclaimed Leopold, indignantly.
"Just what I thought, and that's the reason why I wanted to tell you.
Squire Moses said your father's furniture was mortgaged, and that would
have to be sold too. The plan of the old hunks is to get the hotel, and
put Ethan into it as landlord. If he can't do it this summer, he means
to do it as soon as he can. He thought if he got the house, he could buy
the furniture, and set Ethan up by the middle of July, or the first of
August."
"It's a mean trick," muttered Leopold.
"That's what I say; but it isn't any meaner than a thousand other things
the old man does. Only think of his turning his son's wife, with three
children, out of house and home! But you can tell your father all about
it, Le, and perhaps he may be able to get an anchor out to windward,"
continued Stumpy, whose sympathy for his friend was hardly less than his
fear for his mother's future.
"I'm much obliged to you for telling me, Stumpy; but I don't know that
my father will be able to do anything to help himself, desperate as the
case is," added Leopold.
"I hope he will."
"So do I but I have my doubts. Father said to-day that he had six calls
for every dollar he got. He has mortgaged everything, so that he can't
raise anything more. He said there was money enough in the large cities;
that they had picked up after the first blow of the war, and some men
were getting rich faster than ever; but down here everything was at a
stand-still; no business, and no money. The rich folks will come down
to the hotel by and by; and father says a good week, with the Sea Cliff
House full, would set him all right; but he can't expect to do anything
more than pay expenses, and hardly that, till the middle of July."
"It's a hard case, and Squire Moses knows it. He said if he couldn't get
the house on the first of July payment, he was afraid he should not be
able to get it at all for Ethan. I hope your father will be able to do
something."
"I hope so. If I could find any one who would give me a hundred and
fifty dollars for this boat, I would sell her quick, and hand the money
over to father. It would pay his interest, into thirty dollars, and
perhaps he could raise the rest, though he says he has not had twenty
dollars in his hand at one time for a month. I can't exactly see why it
is that when men are making money hand over fist in some parts of the
country, everything is so dead in Rockhaven. The quarries have all
stopped working, and the fishermen have gone to the war," said Leopold,
as the Rosabel reached her landing place near the hotel, where she was
carefully moored; and the boys went on shore.
"By the way, Stumpy," continued the skipper, as they walked up the steep
path towards the road, "you said I might be able to do something to help
your mother out of her trouble. If I can, I'm sure I should be glad to
do so."
"I don't know that I will say anything about it now. Your case is rather
worse than mine, if anything, and you have enough to think of without
bothering your head with my mother's troubles," replied Stumpy.
"Of course I can't raise any money to help her out; but if I can do
anything else, nothing would please me more."
"If you have any friends, you ought to use them for your father."
"What do you mean by friends? I haven't any friends."
"Yes, you have; but I don't know that you have the cheek to call upon
them. I suppose it will do no harm to tell you what I was thinking
about, Le," added Stumpy, when they reached the road, and halted there.
"Your boat is called the Rosabel. You gave her that name."
"Of course I did. What has that to do with this matter?" demanded
Leopold, puzzled by the roundabout manner in which his friend approached
his subject.
"You named the boat after somebody," continued Stumpy, with something
like a chuckle in his tones.
"I named her after Miss Rosabel Hamilton, whose father has been one of
the best customers of the hotel. Perhaps I had my weather eye open when
I christened the sloop."
"Certainly you had," ejaculated Stumpy.
"But it was only to please the family, and induce them to stay longer at
the hotel."
"Perhaps it was," added Stumpy, placing a wicked emphasis on the first
word.
"O, I know it was!" protested Leopold.
"But I used to think you were rather sweet on Miss Rosabel, when I was
in the boat with you."
"Nonsense, Stumpy!" replied Leopold; and if there had been light enough,
perhaps his companion might have distinguished a slight blush upon his
brown face. "I never thought of such a thing. Why, her father has been
a member of Congress, and they say he is worth millions."
"I don't care anything about Congress or the millions; you would have
jumped overboard and drowned yourself for the girl at any minute."
"Perhaps I would; I don't know. She's a nice girl," mused Leopold.
"That's not all, either."
"Well, what else?"
"If Rosabel didn't like you better than she did the town pump, I don't
guess any more," chuckled Stumpy.
"I think she did like me, just as she would any fellow that did his best
to make her comfortable and happy."
"More than that."
"I don't believe it. But what has all this to do with your mother's
case, or my father's?"
"I won't mix things any longer. Her father is as rich as mud. I was
going to ask you if you wouldn't write to Mr. Hamilton, and ask him to
take the mortgage on my mother's house."
Leopold did not like the idea, but he promised to consider it.
"If I were you, Le, I should mention my father's case to him," added
Stumpy.
But Leopold did not like this idea any better than the other; and they
separated.
CHAPTER XI.
IN THE FOG.
Leopold parted with his friend opposite the Sea Cliff House. He entered
the office, where his father was busy in conversation with one of the
guests. Luckily the landlord, satisfied with the safety of his son, did
not ask him where he had been; for his absence on the water was too
common an event to excite any remark, and Leopold went to bed as soon as
he had shown himself to his mother, and told her that the squall had not
harmed him. It is one thing to go to bed, and quite another to sleep.
Leopold was tired enough to need rest, yet his future action in regard
to the hidden treasure did not allow him to do anything but think,
think, think, till he heard the church clock strike twelve. That was the
last he heard that night. But with all his thinking, his opinion was
just the same as before. The money did not belong to him, and it did
belong to somebody else. He could not escape these two conclusions, and
whether his father failed or not, he could see no way by which he could
honestly bring the twelve hundred dollars in gold to his aid.
Coming events pressed so heavily upon the minds of his father and
Stumpy, that neither of them had questioned him very closely in regard
to his business on the beach in the storm and the darkness. As he had
thus far escaped without telling any direct lies, he decided to keep his
own secret for the present; but he intended, the very next time he went
to Rockland, to visit the owners of the Waldo, and inquire about the
passenger who had perished in the wreck of the brig. Very likely this
man had a wife and children, a father, or brothers and sisters, who
needed this money. His wife and little children might at that moment be
suffering for the want of it. It belonged to them, and they ought to
have it. Even if his father failed, and lost all he had, Leopold felt
that it would be better for him to do his whole duty. The secret was
with himself alone, and there was no one to applaud his noble decision;
nay, if he had told his friends and neighbors, and perhaps even his
father, they would probably have laughed at him, called him a fool,
declared that he was more nice than wise, and insisted that it was his
duty to save the Sea Cliff House from the avaricious grasp of Squire
Moses Wormbury.
In spite of his noble conclusion, he was still terribly worried about
the financial troubles of his father. The Rosabel was well worth two
hundred dollars, and she was almost the only piece of property in the
family which was not covered by a mortgage. It was early in the season,
when a boat is more salable than later in the year; and before he went
to sleep, Leopold had decided to run over to Rockland the next day, if
possible, and endeavor to find a purchaser for her, even at three
fourths of her value. It would be a happy moment for him if he could put
one hundred and fifty dollars into his father's hands, and thus enable
him to make up his interest money. There must be some one in Rockland
who wanted a boat, and who would be willing to pay him this price for
so fast and stiff a craft as the Rosabel. With this pleasant
anticipation in his mind, Leopold went to sleep.
He usually got up between four and five o'clock in the morning; but he
did not wake till he heard his father's voice in his chamber. He had
been so tired after the hard work he had done on the beach, and lying
awake till after midnight, he had overslept himself.
"Come, Leopold; it is after seven o'clock," said Mr. Bennington, in the
rather sad and gloomy tones which the misery of his financial trials had
imposed upon him.
"Seven o'clock!" exclaimed Leopold, leaping from the bed. "I didn't go
to sleep till after midnight, and that's the reason I didn't wake up."
"You needn't get up if you don't feel able to do so," added the
landlord.
"O, I'm able enough," protested Leopold, half dressed by this time.
"I should like to have you go down and see if you can get some fish for
dinner," added his father.
"All right. I will get some, if there is any in the sea," answered the
young man, as he finished his primitive toilet.
In fifteen minutes more, he had eaten his breakfast, and was descending
the steep path to the river, where the Rosabel was moored. The weather
was cloudy, and out at sea it looked as if the fog would roll in, within
a short time, as it often did during the spring and summer. Indeed, the
one bane of this coast, as a pleasure resort, is the prevalence of dense
and frequently long-continued fog. Sometimes it shrouds the shores for
several days at a time; and it has been known to last for weeks. It is
cold, penetrating, and disagreeable to the denizen of the city, seeking
ease and comfort in a summer home.
When the sloop passed Light House Point, Leopold saw that the dense fog
had settled down upon the bay, and had probably been there all night.
But he did not bother his head about the fog, for he knew the sound
which the waves made upon every portion of the shore. As one skilled in
music knows the note he hears, Leopold identified the swash or the roar
of the sea when it beat upon the rocks and the beaches in the vicinity.
By these sounds he knew where he was, and he had a boat-compass on board
of the Rosabel, which enabled him to lay his course, whenever he
obtained his bearings.
Before the sloop had gone a quarter of a mile she was buried in the fog,
and Leopold could see nothing but the little circle of water of which
the Rosabel was the centre. With the compass on the floor of the
standing-room, he headed the sloop for the ledges, outside of which he
expected to find plenty of cod and haddock. The wind was rather light,
but it was sufficient to give the Rosabel a good headway, and in half an
