tipped her chair over; "I s'spose you ought to 
be congratulated." (She always put your in 
the word, and always said egwmomical, regard- 
less of Noah Webster.) "What does the Bible 
say about a man having his quiver full of olive 
branches ? or is it that they sit round the table ? 
now I disremember. I don't go much according 
to Old Testament. It was well enough for them 
heathenish Jews and the old times ; but I want 
the livin' breathin' gospel. What you goin' to 
caU her?" 
Papa smiled, at the absurd transition, I sup- 
pose. Fan said Aunt Letty had only one re- 
semblance to a dictionary she .changed her 
subjects without any warning. 
"Would Kereii-happuch do?' papa asked, 
with a droll twinkle in his eye. 
"O, now, Mr. Endicott ! " 
"It's a nice little thing," put in Mrs. Downs. 
"Favors its mar I think." 
"Come and see it, Rose. May we, Mrs. 
Whitcomb?" 
" O, yes, indeed," with her sweet smile. 
She led me to the corner of the room, be- 
tween the stove and mamma's door. There, on 
two chairs, was a tiny bed, and under the 
blanket a tiny baby with a broad forehead, 
black, silky hair, a cunning little mouth, but no 
nose to speak of. Yet she was pretty. I thought 
I should like to squeeze her to a jelly, and 
cover her with kisses, though I don't know as 
that would be orthodox jelly-cake for any but a 
cannibal , 
Pupa glanced at her with a tender smile, then 
sighed. Perhaps he was thinking of the long 
way the little feet would have to travel. It is 
a great journey, after all, from the City of De- 
struction to the New Jerusalem. Something in 
the baby-face brought to mind Christiana and the 
children. 
" Great pity 'tisn't a boy," persisted Aunt 
Letty. 
" O, I don't know about that. They are so 
handy to take one another's clothes," said papa, 
humorously. 
"To be sure. But yours could be cut over," 
returned the literal woman. 
"I am afraid that I shall always need mine 
to the last thread. I have lost the trick of out- 
growing them. O, have you heard that Mrs. 
Bowers's sister has come from the west ? Arrived 
last evening." 
" Land sakes alive ! Why, I guess I'll run 
right over. Sally and me was thick as peas in 
our young days. And her husband's been a 
what you call it out there, senate, or consti- 
tution, or something." 
" Member of the legislature," corrected father, 
quietly. 
" O, yes. Some folks do get' along. There's 
the middle of my needle. I should knit there 
if the house was afire ! ' 
She brushed down her skirts, put her knitting 
in her satchel, jerked her shawl up, and pinned 
it, and settled her old black bonnet more askew 
than ever. Mrs. Whitcomb kindly pulled it 
straight for her. 
" Thank' ee. If you want any help, Mrs. Wliit- 
comb, send rio-ht straight over. Ministers are 
always the chosen of the Lord, and I feel as if 
one ought to come at their call." 
"I am much obliged," returned Mrs. Whit- 
comb, in her quiet, lady-like way. 
Mrs. Downs took her departure at the same 
moment. There was a great bustle, and talking ; 
but father finally succeeded in getting them to 
the porch. When Aunt Letty was safely off the 
steps, she turned and said,- 
" I'm glad you are so well satisfied, Mr. Endi- 
"cott. It's a sure sign of grace to take thank- 
fully what the Lord sends." 
"O, dear," said papa, with a sigli ; "I am 
afraid I don't give thanks for quite everything. 
'Tribulation worketh patience.' But didn't those 
women almost set you crazy? If I thought 
another sermon on bridling the tonmie would do
any good; I should preach it next Sunday." 
Mrs. Whitcomb smiled and said, in her cool, 
silvery voice, 
"It takes a great deal of powder and shot to 
kill a man in battle, and it takes a great deal 
of preaching to save a soul." 
"Yes. I get almost discouraged when I find 
how strong the old Adam is in human souls." 
I looked at papa rather reproachfully ; but just 
then he opened the door of mamma's room, and 
called me thither. 
Mamma was very sweet and lovely. She kissed 
me many times, and hoped I would prove a 
trusty housekeeper, and see that papa had every- 
thing he needed, especially to notice that his 
cuffs and handkerchiefs were clean, and that he 
was in nice order on Sunday. 
"And did I like the baby?" She asked it 
almost bashfully. 
"It is just as sweet as it can be. I only wish 
it was large enough to hold and to carry about." 
'' Thank you , de ar . '
Years afterwards I knew what that meant. 
I went out to the kitchen to see about the 
dinner. We never had regular servants like 
other people. It was the lame, and the halt, 
and the blind, and the ignorant, metaphorically 
speaking. Papa brought them home and mamma 
took pity on them. Now it was Becky Sill, a 
great, overgrown girl of sixteen, whose intem- 
perate father had just died in the poorhouse, 
where the three younger children boys were 
waiting for a chance to be put out to the farmers. 
"Look at this 'ere floor, Miss Rose! I've 
scrubbed it white as snow. And I've been a 
peelin' of pertaters." 
" This floor is sufficient, Becky ; and peeling, 
and potatoes" 
" O, law, you're just like your mother. Some 
people are born ladies and have fine ways. I 
wasn't." 
"You have been very industrious," I returned, 
cheerfully ; and then I went at the dinner. 
The hungry, noisy troop came home from 
school. What if they were all boys ! 
Do you want a photograph of us ? I was 
past seventeen, not very tall, with a round sort 
of figure, and dimples everywhere in my face, 
where one could have been put by accident or 
design. My skin was fair, my hair- -that was 
my sore point. I may as well tell the truth ; 
it iv as red, a sort of deep mahogany red, and 
 
curled. My features were just passable. So, 
you see, I was not likely to set up for a beauty. 
Fan was sixteen, taller than I, slender, blonde, 
with saucy blue eyes and golden hair, and given 
to rather coquettish ways. Nelly was fourteen, 
almost as tall as I, with papa's gray eyes,' only 
hers had a violet tint, and mamma's dark hair. 
Daisy was next, eleven, and on the blonde order. 
Lily, whose name was Elizabeth, and Tim, aged 
seven. Her real cognomen was Gertrude ; but 
we began to call her Tiny Tim, and the name, 
somehow stuck to her. What a host of girls, 
to be sure ! 
"Papa," I said that evening, going to the 
study for a good night kiss, where he was writ- 
ing in the quiet, "papa, are you sorry to have 
so many girls ? ' 
I had been exercised on the subject all day, 
and I wanted to dispose of it before I slept. 
" Why, my dear ! no ; ' with a sweet gravity. 
"But, papa," and I stumbled a little, "it 
isn't likely that that we shall all get married''' 
I could not proceed any farther, and hid nay 
face on Ins shoulder. 
" Married ! What ever put such an absurd 
idea into your head, Rosalind ? A parcel of 
children married ! ' 
I knew papa was displeased, or he would never 
have called me Rosalind ? 
" O, dear papa, don't be angry ! ' I cried. 
" I was not thinking of being married, I'm sure. 
I don't believe any one will ever like me very 
much, because my hair is red, and I may be fat 
as Mrs. Downs. And if I should be an old 
maid, --and I know I shall, I want you to 
love me a little ; and if I'm queer and fussy, 
and all that, you must be patient with me. I will 
try to do my best always." 
" My dear darling ! what a foolish little thing 
you are ! Some of the old women have been 
talking to you, I know. I shall certainly have 
to turn the barrel upside down, and find the 
sermon on bridling the tongue. You are all 
little girls, and I will not have the bloom rudely 
rubbed off of my peaches. There don't cry about 
it ; ' and he kissed my wet face so tenderly that 
I did cry more than ever. 
" My little girl, I want us to have a good 
many years of happiness together," he said, with 
solemn tenderness. Put all these things out of 
your head, and love your mother and me, and do 
your duty in that state of life to which it shall 
please God to call 3on. I want you to be like 
Martin Luther's bird, who sat on the tree and 
sang, and let God think for him. And now, 
run to bed, for I wish to finish this sermon 
while I am in the humor." 
I kissed him many, many times. I was so 
sure of Ms sweet, never-failing love. And I
suppose fathers and mothers never do get tired 
of us! 
CHAPTER II. 
IT was a bright June morning. The windows 
were all open ; the birds were sing- 
ing, and the air was sweet with out-of-door 
smells. Waving grasses, hosts of flowers, rose 
and honeysuckle out on the porch in the very 
height of riotous living, each trying to outblooin 
the other. 
We were at breakfast. We never had this 
meal very early at the Rectory. On summer 
mornings papa loved to get up and take a stroll, 
and botanize a little. Mamma rose, looked after 
Becky, and took a quiet supervision of us all. 
I helped dress the three younger children, for 
Fan usually had some lessons on hand, as she 
was still in school. By the time we were ready 
papa would be back. Then we sang a verse or 
two of a hymn, said the Lord's prayer together, 
and papa pronounced the greater benediction 
 
over us. It was so short, simple, and enjoyable ! 
Somehow I do not think children take naturally 
to prayers, unless they are rendered very sweet 
and attractive. We were allowed sufficient time 
to get wide awake before coming to breakfast. 
Mamma was at the head of the table again, 
looking as sweet as a new pink. Papa's place 
was at the foot. Fan and I sat opposite each 
other, about half way down. She poured the 
water and the milk. I had the three younger 
children on my side, and spread their bread or 
biscuits for them. I used to think of Goethe's 
Charlotte, only she had brothers as well as sis- 
ters. 
It was nearly eight o'clock. Lemmy Collins 
came up with the mail. There had been a 
shower the evening before, and none of us had 
gone for it. 
 'Ah!' exclaimed papa, "we are bountifully 
supplied this morning. One for Nelly, two for 
mamma, and two for me." 
" O, what elegant writing ! ' said Nell, leaning 
over to look at papa's. 
" Yes ; ' slowly. " I cannot think ; ' and papa 
fell into a brown study. 
"Why don't you open it?' asked bright-eyed 
Daisy; "then vou won't have to think." 
 
"To be sure, little wisdom ! ' and papa 
smiled. "I will look over tins thin one first, 
though." 
That was only an invitation to a meeting with
the clergy. We were all watching to see him 
open the letter par excellence. He took out his 
penknife and cut round the seal, which he 
handed to Tim. 
"Why!' lengthening the word out in- 
definitely. "From Stephen Duncan ! ' Then he 
read on in thoughtful silence, now and then 
knitting his brows. 
Mamma's letters were from an aunt and a 
cousin, with some kindly messages for us all. 
"Girls," said father, with a sudden start, 
"would you like to have some, brothers lanre 
enough to keep their hands and faces clean, and 
strong enough to help you garden ? ' 
"Boys are a nuisance ! ' declared Nell. 
"Well, I have an offer of two. One is some- 
thing of an invalid, though. My wards, I sup- 
pose, for that matter ; though I have never con- 
sidered myself much of a guardian, since Stephen 
was old enough to look after the boys. Then I 
always thought their uncle, James Duncan, was 
annoyed at my being put in at all. It seems he 
 
died very suddenly, a month ago, in London. 
Stephen has to go over and settle his affairs, 
and he wants me to keep the boys. Rose, pass 
this letter up to your mother." 
" How old are they ? ' asked Fan. 
" Well, I can't say. Louis is ready to enter 
college, but has studied himself out, and will 
have to go to the country. Stuart is a boy, I 
suppose. I have not seen them since their father 
died." 
"Poor boys!' said mamma. "And Stephen 
is coming. Why, he will be here to-morrow 
afternoon. This letter has been delayed on its 
way ; ' and mamma glanced at the date and the 
postmark. 
The children were through, and we rose from 
the table. There was a perfect hubbub of ques- 
tions then. Lily swung on father's arm, while 
Tim took a leg, and they were all eagerness to 
know about the brothers. 
"Mamma will have to consider the subject," 
he said. "Come, let us go out and look at the 
flower-beds. I dare say the rain brought up a 
regiment of weeds last night." 
Fanny went to put her room in order ; Nelly 
had some buttons to sew on her school dress, 
and followed mamma to the nursery. Becky 
came in and helped take the dishes to the 
kitchen ; while I went to my chambers up stairs. 
I hurried a little, I must confess. Then I 
bundled the youngsters off to school, and ran 
into the nursery. Mamrna was washing and 
dressing baby. 
"What about the boys?" I asked. "Will 
they really come ? Should you like to have 
them ? " 
"Perhaps it would be as well for you to read 
the letter, Rose. You are old enough to be 
taken into family council. It seems so odd, too ! 
Only last evening papa and I were talking 
about - 
Mamma made so long a pause that I glanced 
up from the letter, having only read the preface, 
as one might say. There was a perplexed look 
on the sweet face. 
" What is it, mamma ? ' and I knelt beside 
her, kissing baby's fat cheek. 
"My dear, I resolved long ago never to bur- 
den my girls with cares and worries before their 
time. And yet, it would be so delightful to 
have you for a friend ! A clergyman's wife has 
to be doubly discreet on sonic points. Now, if 
 
I was to say to two or three good friends in 
the parish, 4 Our circumstances are somewhat 
straightened by the recent expenses,' they would, 
no doubt, seek to make it up in some way. 
But I have a horror of anything that looks like 
begging." 
"O, yes, mamma. Aunt Letty Perkins won- 
dered, the day after the baby was born, if there 
would not be a donation visit," 
Mamma's sweet face flushed. 
"We have managed so far," she said;' "and 
everything has gone very pleasantly. Papa is 
well loved, and we have a delightful home. 
This great old house and garden are worth a 
good deal. But I am wandering from my text 
into byways and highways. I feel that I should 
sometimes like to have a friend to talk to who 
would be a sort of second self ' 
" O, mamma take me ! ' I cried. 
"I have always wanted to be like an elder 
sister to my girls as they grew to womanhood." 
I wanted to cry, and I was resolved not to. 
Mamma's tone was so sweet that it went to my 
heart. But to stop myself, I laughed, and ex- 
claimed, 
"Fan would say that your hands would be 
 
pretty full if you were going to be a sister to 
each one of us. Or you would have to be 
divided into infinitesimal pieces." 
^'And fourteen girls might not be desirable, 
if their father was a clergyman," she answered, 
smilingly. 
" So, let us be the best of friends, mamma, 
dearest, and you shall tell me your troubles. It 
is being so poor, for one, I know." 
"Yes, dear. Poverty is not always a delight- 
ful guest. Last evening we were resolving ways 
and means, and papa proposed to give up the 
magazines, and be very careful about his jour- 
neys. But I cannot bear to have him pinch. 
And, you see, if we took these boys, the extra 
living would not cost us anything to speak of. 
Ten weeks would be two hundred dollars." 
" O, mamma ! ' 
" It is riiHit that I should consult you about 
the work. It will make your duties more ardu- 
ous. Then taking strangers into your family is 
never quite so pleasant. But go on with the 
letter. We will discuss it afterwards." 
I felt drawn so near to mamma by the talk 
in id the confidence, that at first I could hardly 
U;ke the sense of what I was reading. But I 
will tell you the story more briefly. 
 
Papa and Mr. Duncan had been very dear 
friends for many years ; in fact, I believe, since 
papa's boyhood. When Mr. Duncan died he left 
papa a small legacy, and some valuable books 
and pictures, besides associating him with his 
brother in the guardianship of his three boys. 
Mr. James Duncan, who was an exceedingly 
proud and exclusive man, seemed to resent this, 
and treated papa rather coolly. Their business 
was done in writing, and papa had never seen 
his wards since their father's funeral. 
Stephen had spent one summer at our house 
when he was quite a boy. It seemed now that 
he preserved the liveliest recollection of my moth- 
er's kindness and care, and desired very much 
to see my father. The taking of the boys he 
asked as a great favor, since he would have to 
spend all the summer in England ; and he ap- 
peared to feel the responsibility of his brothers 
very keenly. It was such a nice, kind, gentle- 
manly letter, evincing a good deal of thought- 
fulness, and respect for papa ; and even where 
he spoke of the terms, he did it with so much 
delicacy, as if he were fearful that it would not 
be sufficient compensation, and proposed to come 
and talk the matter over, as he should, no doubt* 
 
need a good deal of advice from papa in the 
course of the next few years. 
"What a good, sweet letter this is, mamma, ' 
I said. "It makes me think of papa." 
" Yes ; I liked it exceedingly. Papa is greatly 
interested with the plan. He thinks it will 
help us to straighten up matters, so that we can 
begin next fall quite easy in our minds. The 
only other thing he could do would be to take 
some boys to prepare for college. That is very 
wearing. In this we could all help." 
"I hope the boys will be nice," I said, with 
a little misgiving. 
"They will be out of doors a great deal, and 
certainly ought to behave like gentlemen, since 
they have been at the best of schools. You will 
have to keep their room in order ; there will be 
rather more in the way of cooking and deserts ; 
but Fanny must help a little during vacation. 
You see, baby is going to take up much of my 
time. But if I thought it would be uncomfortable 
for you girls " 
" O, mamma, it will only last such a little 
while, after all ! And the two hundred dol- 
lars" 
We must not be mercenary, little one. 
Before we had finished, papa came in again. 
We were all on the "boys' side, I could plainly 
see. 
The next morning I aired the large spare 
room, brought out fresh towels, and arranged 
some flowers in the vases. There was matting 
on the floor, a maple bureau, wash-stand, and 
bedstead. The curtains were thin white mus- 
lin, with green blinds outside, which gave the 
apartment a pretty, pale tint. 
I didn't mean to put the two boys in this 
room when they came. There was another, 
opposite, not quite so nice, plenty good enough 
for rollicking boys. 
Papa went over to the station for Stephen. 
Mr. Duncan, I mean. I wondered why I should 
have such an inclination to call him by his 
Christian name a perfect stranger, too. But 
when I saw him I was as formal as you please. 
As tall as papa, and somewhat stouter, with 
a grave and rather impressive air, eyes that 
could look you through, a firm mouth, that, 
somehow, seemed to me, might be very stern 
and pitiless. He had a broad forehead, with 
a good deal of fine, dark hair ; but, what I 
thought very singular, blue eyes, which reminded 
you of a lake in the shade. His side-whiskers 
and mustache gave him a very stylish look, and 
he was dressed elegantly. Poor papa looked 
shabby beside him. 
Mamma and the baby, Fanny and I, were on 
the wide porch, while the children were play- 
ing croquet on the grassy lawn, though I do so 
much like the old-fashioned name of "door- 
yard." Papa introduced him in his home-like, 
cordial fashion, and he shook hands in a kind 
of stately manner that didn't seem a bit like his 
letter. 
He came to me last. I knew he did not liko 
.me. I think you can always tell when any one 
is pleased with you. He studied me rather 
sharply, and almost frowned a little. I felt that 
it was my red hair. And then I colored all 
over, put out my hand awkwardly, and wished 
I was anywhere out of sight. 
"And all the small crowd out there," said 
papa, in so gay a voice that it quite restored 
me to composure. 
"Really, friend Endicott, I was not prepared 
for this. Why, Mrs. Endicott, how have you
kept your youth and bloom ? Why, I am sud- 
denly conscience-smitten that I have proposed to 
add to your cares. " 
" You will feel easy when you see the inside 
of the house. There is plenty of room, plen- 
ty ; ' and papa laughed. 
"You had only a small nest when I visited 
you before," Mr. Duncan said to mother. "But 
how very lovely the whole village is ! I am so 
glad to find such a place for Louis. I hope my 
boys will not worry you to death, Mrs. Endicott, 
for, somehow, I do not know as I can give up 
the idea of sending them here, especially as Mr. 
Endicott is their guardian. I think it will do 
