green-houses, nor the stables, nor the gardens could 
rouse him from the listless daze in which he moved, 
though Ferris found them all as wonderful as he 
had said. Amidst this heavy embarrassment no one 
seemed at ease but the author of it. She did not, 
to be sure, speak to Don Ippolito, but she followed 
her mother as usual with her assiduous cares, and 
she appeared tranquilly unconscious of the sarcastic 
civility with which Ferris rendered her any service. 
It was late in the afternoon when they got back 
to their boat and began to descend the canal to 
wards Venice, and long before they reached Fusina 
the day had passed. A sunset of melancholy red, 
streaked with level lines of murky cloud, stretched 
across the flats behind them, and faintly tinged 
with its reflected light the eastern horizon which 
the towers and domes of Venice had not yet begun 
to break. The twilight came, and then through 
the overcast heavens the moon shone dim ; a light 
blossomed here and there in the villas, distant voices 
called musically ; a cow lowed, a dog barked ; the 
ricli, sweet breath of the vernal land mingled its 
odors with the sultry air of the neighboring lagoon. 
The wayfarers spoke little ; the time hung heavy 
on all, no doubt ; to Ferris it was a burden almost 
intolerable to hear the creak of the oars and the 
breathing of the gondoliers keeping time together. 
At last the boat stopped in front of the police-sta 
tion in Fusina ; a soldier with a sword at his side 
and a lantern in his hand came out and briefly par 
leyed with the gondoliers ; they stepped ashore, 
and he marched them into the station before him. 
" We have nothing left to wish for now," said 
Ferris, breaking into an ironical laugh. 
" What does it all mean? " asked Mrs. Vervain. 
" I think I had better go see." 
"We will go with you," said Mrs. Vervain. 
" Pazienza ! " replied Ferris. 
The ladies rose ; but Don Ippolito remained 
seated. "Aren t you going too, Don Ippolito?" 
asked Mrs. Vervain. 
" Thanks, madama; but I prefer to stay here." 
Lamentable cries and shrieks, as if the prisoners 
had immediately been put to the torture, came Irom 
the station as Ferris opened the door. A lamp of 
petroleum lighted the scene, and shone upon the fig 
ures of two fishermen, who bewailed themselves un 
intelligibly in the vibrant accents of Chiozza, and 
from time to time advanced upon the gondoliers, and 
shook their heads and beat their breasts at them. 
A few police-guards reclined upon benches about 
the room, and surveyed the spectacle with mild im 
passibility. 
Ferris politely asked one of them the cause of 
the detention. 
" Why, you see, signore," answered the guard 
amiably, " these honest men accuse your gondoliers 
of having stolen a rope out of their boat at Dolo." 
" It was my blood, you know ! " howled the elder 
of the fishermen, tossing his arms wildly abroad, 
" it was my own heart," he cried, letting the last 
vowel die away and rise again in mournful refrain, 
while he stared tragically into Ferris's face. 
" What is the matter ? " asked Mrs. Vervain, 
putting up her glasses, and trying with graceful fu 
tility to focus the melodrama. 
"Nothing," said Ferris; "our gondoliers have 
had the heart's blood of this respectable Dervish ; 
that is to say, they have stolen a rope belonging to 
him." 
" Our gondoliers ! I don 't believe it. They've 
no right to keep us here all night. Tell them 
you're the American consul." 
" I d rather not try my dignity on these under 
lings, Mrs. Vervain ; there's no American squadron 
here that I could order to bombard Fusina, if they 
didn 't mind me. But I'll see what I can do 
farther in quality of courteous foreigner. Can you 
perhaps tell me how long you will be obliged to de 
tain us here ? " he asked of the guard again. 
" I am very sorry to detain you at all, signore. 
 
But what can I do? The commissary is unhappily 
absent. He may be here soon." 
The guard renewed his apathetic contemplation 
of the gondoliers, who did not speak a word ; the 
windy lamentation of the fishermen rose and fell fit 
fully. Presently they went out of doors and poured 
forth their wrongs to the moon. 
The room was close, and with some trouble Fer 
ris persuaded Mrs. Vervain to return to the gondola, 
Florida seconding his arguments with gentle good 
sense. 
It seemed a long time till the commissary came, 
but his coming instantly simplified the situation. 
Perhaps because he had never been able to befriend 
a consul in trouble before, he befriended Ferris to 
the utmost. He had met him with rather a brow 
beating air ; but after a glance at his card, he gave 
a kind of roar of deprecation and apology. He had 
the ladies and Don Ippolito in out of the gondola, 
and led them to an upper chamber, where he made 
them all repose their honored persons upon his sofas. 
He ordered up his housekeeper to make them coffee, 
which he served with his own hands, excusing its 
hurried feebleness, and he stood by, rubbing his 
palms together and smiling, while they refreshed 
themselves. 
" They need never tell me again that the Aus- 
trians are tyrants," said Mrs. Vervain in undertone 
to the consul. 
It was not easy for Ferris to remind his host of 
 
the malefactors ; but he brought himself to this un 
graciousness. The commissary begged pardon, and 
asked him to accompany him below, where he con 
fronted the accused and the accusers. The tragedy 
was acted over again with blood-curdling effective 
ness by the Chiozzotti ; the gondoliers maintaining 
the calm of conscious innocence. 
Ferris felt outraged by the trumped-up charge 
against them. 
" Listen, you others the prisoners," said the com 
missary. " Your padrone is anxious to return to 
Venice, and I wish to inflict no further displeasures 
upon him. Restore their rope to these honest men, 
and go about your business." 
The injured gondoliers spoke in low tones to 
gether ; then one of them shrugged his shoulders 
and went out. He came back in a moment and 
laid a rope before the commissary. 
" Is that the rope ? " he asked. " We found it 
floating down the canal, and picked it up that we 
might give it to the rightful owner. But now I 
wish to heaven we had let it sink to the bottom of 
the sea." 
" Oh, a beautiful story ! " wailed the Chiozzoti. 
They flung themselves upon the rope, and lugged 
it off to their boat ; and the gondoliers went out, 
too. 
The commissary turned to Ferris with an amiable
smile. u I am sorry that those rogues should 
escape," said the American. 
" Oh," said the Italian, " they are poor fellows ; 
it is a little matter ; I am glad to have served 
you." 
He took leave of his involuntary guests with 
effusion, following them with a lantern to the gon 
dola. 
Mrs. Vervain, to whom Ferris gave an account 
of this trial as they set out again on their long-hind 
ered return, had no mind save for the magical effect 
of his consular quality upon the commissary, and 
accused him of a vain and culpable modesty. 
" Ah," said the diplomatist, " there's nothing 
like knowing just wJien to produce your dignity. 
There are some officials who know too little, 
like those guards ; and there are some who know 
too much, like the commissary's superiors. But 
he is just in that golden mean of ignorance where 
he supposes a con.nl is a person of importance/ 
Mrs. Vervain deputed this, and Ferris submitted 
in silence. Presently, as they skirted the shore to 
get their bearings for the route across the lagoon, a 
fierce voice in Venetian shouted from the darkness, 
"Indrio, wdrio!" (Back, back!) and a gleam of 
the moon through the pale, watery clouds revealed 
the figure of a gendarme on the nearest point of 
land. The gondoliers bent to their oars, and sent 
the boat swiftly out into the lagoon. 
" There, for example, is a person who would be 
quite insensible to my greatness, even if I had the 
consular seal in my pocket. To him we are possi- 
 
ble smugglers ; l and I must say," he continued, tak 
ing out his watch, and staring hard at it, " that if I 
were a disinterested person, and heard his suspi 
cion met with the explanation that we were a little 
party out here for pleasure at half past twelve p. M., 
I should say he was right. At any rate we won 't 
engage him in controversy. Quick, quick!" he 
added to the gondoliers, glancing at the receding 
shore, and then at the first of the lagoon forts which 
they were approaching. A dim shape moved along 
the top of the wall, and seemed to linger and scru 
tinize them. As they drew nearer, the challenge, 
" Wer da?" rang out, 
The gondoliers eagerly answered with the one 
word of German known to their craft, " Freunde" 
and struggled to urge the boat forward ; the oar of 
the gondolier in front slipped from the high row 
lock, and fell out of his hand into the water. The 
gondola lurched, and then suddenly ran aground on 
the shallow. The sentry halted, dropped his gun 
from his shoulder, and ordered them to go on, while 
the gondoliers clamored back in the high key of 
fear, and one of them screamed out to his passen 
gers to do something, saying that, a few weeks 
before, a sentinel had fired upon a fisherman and 
killed him. 
" What's that he's talking about ? " demanded 
Mrs. Vervain. u If we don 't get on, it will be that 
Under the Austrians, Venice was a free port, but everything carried 
thence to the mainland was liable to dutv. 
 
man's duty to fire on us ; he has no choice," she 
said, nerved and interested by the presence of this 
danger. 
The gondoliers leaped into the water and tried to 
push the boat off. It would not move, and without 
warning, Don Ippolito, who had sat silent since 
they left Fusina, stepped over the side of the gon 
dola, and thrusting an oar under its bottom lifted it 
free of the shallow. 
" Oh, how very unnecessary ! " cried Mrs. Ver 
vain, as the priest and the gondoliers clambered 
back into the boat. " He will take his death of 
cold." 
" It's ridiculous, " said Ferris. " You ought to 
have told these worthless rascals what to do, Don 
Ippolito. You've got yourself wet for nothing. 
It's too bad ! " 
" It's nothing," said Don Ippolito, taking his 
seat on the little prow deck, and quietly dripping 
where the water would not incommode the others. 
" Oh, here ! " cried Mrs. Vervain, gathering 
some shawls together, " make him wrap those about 
him. He'll die, I know he will with that reek 
ing skirt of his. If you must go into the water, I 
wish you had worn your abbate's dress. How could 
you, Don Ippolito ? " 
The gondoliers set their oars, but before they 
had given a stroke, they were arrested by a sharp 
" Halt ! " from the fort. Another figure had 
joined the sentry, and stood looking at them. 
 
" Well," said Ferris, " now what, I wonder ? 
That's an officer. If I had a little German about 
me, I might state the situation to him." 
He felt a light touch on his arm. " I can speak 
German," said Florida timidly. 
" Then you had better speak it now," said Fer 
ris. 
She rose to her feet, and in a steady voice briefly 
explained the whole affair. The figures listened 
motionless ; then the last comer politely replied, 
begging her to be in no uneasiness, made her a 
shadowy salute, and vanished. The sentry re 
sumed his walk, and took no further notice of them. 
" Brava ! " said Ferris, while Mrs. Vervain bab 
bled her satisfaction, " I will buy a German Ollen- 
dorff to-morrow. The language is indispensable to 
a pleasure excursion in the lagoon." 
Florida made no reply, but devoted herself to re 
storing her mother to that state of defense against 
the discomforts of the time and place, which the 
common agitation had impaired. She seemed to 
have no sense of the presence of any one else. Don 
Ippolito did not speak again save to protect himself 
from the anxieties and reproaches of Mrs. Vervain, 
renewed and reiterated at intervals. She drowsed 
after a while, and whenever she woke she thought 
they had just touched her own landing. By fits it 
was cloudy and moonlight ; they began to meet 
peasants boats going to the Rialto market ; at last, 
they entered the Canal of the Zattere, then they 
 
slipped into n narrow way, and presently stopped 
at Mrs. Vervain's gate ; this time she had not ex 
pected it. Don Ippolito gave her his hand, and 
entered the garden with her, while Ferris lingered 
behind with Florida, helping her put together the 
wraps strewn about the gondola. 
" Wait ! " she commanded, as they moved up the 
garden walk. " I want to speak with you about 
Don Ippolito. What shall I do to him for my 
rudeness ? You must tell me you shall" she 
said in a fierce whisper, gripping the arm which 
Ferris had given to help her up the landing-stairs. 
"You are older than I am ! " 
" Thanks. I was afraid you were going to say 
wiser. I should think your own sense of justice, 
your own sense of " 
Decency. Say it, say it ! " cried the girl 
passionately; "it was indecent, indecent that 
was it ! " 
" would tell you what to do, I concluded the 
painter dryly. 
She flung away the arm to which she had been 
clinging, and ran to where the priest stood with her 
mother at the foot of the terrace stairs. " Don 
Ippolito," she cried, " I want to tell you that I am 
sorry ; I want to ask your pardon how can you 
ever forgive me ? for what I said." 
She instinctively stretched her hand towards him. 
" Oh ! " said the priest, with an indescribable, 
long, trembling sigh. He caught her hand in his, 
 
held it tight, and then pressed it for an instant 
against his breast. 
Ferris made a little start forward. 
" Now, that's right, Florida," said her mother, as 
the four stood in the pale, estranging moonlight. 
" I'm sure Don Ippolito can 't cherish any resent 
ment. If he does, he must come in and wash it out 
with a glass of wine that's a good old fashion. 
I want you to have the wine at any rate, Don Ip 
polito ; it'll keep you from taking cold. You 
really must." 
 Thanks, madama ; I cannot lose more time, 
now ; I must go home at once. Good night." 
Before Mrs. Vervain could frame a protest, or lay 
hold of him, he bowed and hurried out of the land- 
gate. 
" How perfectly absurd for him to get into the 
water in that way," she said, looking mechanically 
in the direction in which he had vanished. 
"Well, Mrs. Vervain, it isn t best to be too 
grateful to people," said Ferris, " but I think we 
must allow that if we were in any danger, sticking 
there in the mud, Don Ippolito got us out of it by 
putting his shoulder to the oar." 
" Of course," assented Mrs. Vervain. 
" In fact," continued Ferris, " I suppose we may 
say that, under Providence, we probably owe our 
lives to Don Ippolito's self-sacrifice and Miss Ver 
vain's knowledge of German. At any rate, it's 
what I shall always maintain. 
 
" Mother, don 't you think you had better go 
in ? " asked Florida, gently. Her gentleness ig 
nored the presence, the existence of Ferris. " I'm 
afraid you will be sick after all this fatigue." 
" There, Mrs. Vervain, it'll be no use offering 
me a glass of wine. I'm sent away, you see," said 
Ferris. " And Miss Vervain is quite right. Good 
night." 
"Oh good night, Mr. Ferris," said Mrs. Ver 
vain, giving her hand. " Thank you so much." 
Florida did not look towards him. She gath 
ered her mother's shawl about her shoulders for the 
twentieth time that day, and softly urged her in 
doors, while Ferris let himself out into the campo. 
IX. 
FLORIDA began to prepare the bed for her 
mother's lying down. 
" What are you doing that for, my dear? " asked 
Mrs. Vervain. " I can 't go to bed at once." 
"But mother " 
" No, Florida. And I mean it. You are too 
headstrong. I should think you would see yourself 
how you suffer in the end by giving way to your 
violent temper. What a day you have made for 
us!" 
" I was very wrong," murmured the proud girl, 
meekly. 
" And then the mortification of an apology ; you 
might have spared yourself that." 
" It didn 't mortify me ; I didn 't care for it." 
"No, I really believe you are too haughty to 
mind humbling yourself. And Don Ippolito had 
been so uniformly kind to us. I begin to believe 
that Mr. Ferris caught your true character in that 
sketch. But your pride will be broken some day, 
Florida." 
" won 't you let me help you undress, mother ? 
You can 'talk to me while you're undressing. You 
must try to get some rest." 
"Yes, I am all unstrung. Why could n t you 
 
have let him come in and talk awhile ? It would 
have been the best way to get me quieted down. 
But no ; you must always have your own way. 
don 't twitch me, my dear ; I \l rather undress my 
self. You pretend to be very careful of me. I 
wonder if you really care for me." 
" Oh, mother, you are all I have in the world ! " 
Mrs. Vervain began to whimper. " You talk as 
if I were any better off. Have I anybody besides 
you? And I have lost so many." 
" don 't think of those things now, mother." 
Mrs. Vervain tenderly kissed the young girl. 
" You are good to your mother. Don Ippolito 
was right ; no one ever saw you offer me disrespect 
or unkindness. There, there ! don 't cry, my dar 
ling. I think I had better lie down, and I'll let 
you undress me." 
She suffered herself to be helped into bed, and 
Florida went softly about the room, putting it in 
order, and drawing the curtains closer to keep out 
the near dawn. Her mother talked a little while, 
and presently fell from incoherence to silence, and 
so to sleep. 
Florida looked hesitatingly at her for a moment, 
and then set her candle on the floor and sank 
wearily into an arm-chair beside the bed. Her 
hands fell into her lap; her head drooped sadly 
forward ; the light flung the shadow of her face 
grotesquely exaggerated and foreshortened upon 
the ceiling. 
By and by a bird piped in the garden ; the shriek 
of a swallow made itself heard from a distance ; 
the vernal day was beginning to stir from the light, 
brief drowse of the vernal night. A crown of angry 
red formed upon the candle wick, which toppled over 
in the socket and guttered out with a sharp hiss. 
Florida started from her chair. A streak of sun 
shine pierced shutter and curtain. Her mother 
was supporting herself on one elbow in the bed, 
arid looking at her as if she had just called to her. 
" Mother, did you speak? " asked the girl. 
Mrs. Vervain turned her face away ; she sighed 
deeply, stretched her thin hands on the pillow, and 
seemed to be sinking, sinking down through the 
bed. She ceased to breathe and lay in a dead 
faint. 
Florida felt rather than saw it all. She did not 
cry out nor call for help. She brought water and 
cologne, and bathed her mother's face, and then 
chafed her hands. Mrs. Vervain slowly revived ; 
she opened her eyes, then closed them ; she did not 
speak, but after a while she began to fetch her 
breath with the long and even respirations of sleep. 
Florida noiselessly opened the door, and met 
the servant with a tray of coffee. She put her 
finger to her lip, and motioned her not to enter, 
asking in a whisper : " What time is it, Nina ? I 
forgot to wind my watch." 
" It's nine o clock, signorina ; and I thought 
you would be tired this morning, and would like 
 
your coffee in bed. Oh, misericordia ! " cried the 
girl, still in whisper, with a glance through the 
doorway, " you haven 't been in bed at all ! " 
" My mother doesn 't seem well. I sat down 
beside her, and fell asleep in my chair without 
knowing it." 
" Ah, poor little thing ! Then you must drink 
your coffee at once. It refreshes." 
" Yes, yes," said Florida, closing the door, and 
pointing to a table in the next room, "put it down 
here. I will serve myself, Nina. Go call the gon 
dola, please. I am going out, at once, and I want 
you to go with me. Tell Checa to come here and 
stay with my mother till I come back." 
She. poured out a cup of coffee with a trembling 
hand, and hastily drank it ; then bathing her eyes, 
she went to the glass and bestowed a touch or two 
upon yesterday's toilet, studied the effect a moment, 
and turned away. She ran back for another look, 
and the next moment she was walking down to 
the water-gate, where she found Nina waiting her 
in the gondola. 
A rapid course brought them to Ferris's landing. 
" Ring," she said to the gondolier, u and say that 
one of the American ladies wishes to see the con 
sul." 
Ferris was standing on the balcony over her, 
where he had been watching her approach in mute 
wonder. " Why, Miss Vervain," he called down, 
" what in the world is the matter ? " 
 
"I don 't know. I want to see you," said Flor 
ida, looking up with a wistful face. 
" I'll come down." 
" Yes, please. Or no, I had better come up. 
Yes, Nina and I will come up." 
Ferris met them at the lower door and led them 
to his apartment. Nina sat down in the outer 
room, and Florida followed the painter into his stu 
dio. Though her face was so wan, it seemed to 
him that he had never seen it lovelier, and he had 
a strange pride in her being there, though the 
disorder of the place ought to have humbled him. 
She looked over it with a certain childlike, timid 
curiosity, and something of that lofty compassion 
with which young ladies regard the haunts of men 
when they come into them by chance ; in doing 
this she had a haughty, slow turn of the head that 
fascinated him. 
" I hope," he said, " you don 't mind the smell," 
which was a mingled one of oil-colors and tobacco- 
smoke. " The woman's putting my office to rights, 
and it's all in a cloud of dust. So I have to brino- 
you in here." 
Florida sat down on a chair fronting the easel, 
and found herself looking into the sad eyes of Don 
Ippolito. Ferris brusquely turned the back of the 
canvas toward her. u I didn 't mean you to see 
that. It isn 't  ready to show, yet," he said, and 
then he stood expectantly before her. He waited 
for her to speak, for he never knew how to take 
 
Miss Vervain ; he was willing enough to make light 
of her grand moods, but now she was too evidently 
unhappy for mocking ; at the same time he did not 
care to invoke a snub by a prematurely sympathetic 
demeanor. His mind ran on the events of the day 
before, and he thought this visit probably related 
somehow to Don Ippolito. But his visitor did not 
