sionaries to America, she begged to go, although but 
a burden ; the sea voyage restored her health ; she 
grew, she said, in strength and in grace, and her 
heart was as the heart of a lion. Word came to her 
from on high that she should come up into the north- 
ern lake-country and preach the gospel there.; the 
band were going to the verdant prairies. She left 
them in the night, taking nothing but her clothing; 
a friendly vessel carried her north ; she had preached 
the gospel everywhere. At the Sault the priests had 
driven her out, but nothing fearing, she went on into 
the wilderness, and so, coming part of the way in 
 
 
canoes, part of the way along-shore, she had reached 
our far island. Marvellous kindness had she met 
with, she said ; the Indians, the half-breeds, the 
hunters, and the trappers had all received her, and 
helped her on her way from camp to camp. They 
had listened to her words also. At Portage they had 
begged her to stay through the winter, and offered to 
build her a little church for Sunday services. Our 
men looked at each other. Portage was the worst 
camp on the lake, notorious for its fights ; it was a 
mining settlement. 
" ' But I told them I must journey on towards the 
west/ continued our Lady. ' I am called to visit every 
camp on this shore before the winter sets in ; I must 
soon leave you also.' 
" The men looked at each other again ; the Doctor 
was spokesman. ' But, my Lady,  he said, ' the next 
post is Fort William, two hundred and thirty-five 
miles away on the north shore.' 
" ' It is almost November ; the snow will soon be 
six and ten feet deep. The Lady could never travel 
through it, could she, now ? ' said Black Andy, who 
had begun eagerly, but in his embarrassment at the 
sound of his own voice, now turned to Frenchy and 
kicked him covertly into answering. 
"'Nevare!' replied the Frenchman; he had in- 
tended to place his hand upon his heart to give 
emphasis to his word, but the Lady turned her calm 
 
eyes that way, and his grimy paw fell, its gallantry 
wilted. 
" ' I thought there was one more camp, at Burnt- 
Wood Eiver/ said our Lady in a musing tone. The 
men looked at each other a third time; there was a 
camp there, and they all knew it. But the Doctor 
was equal to the emergency. 
"'That camp, my Lady,' he said gravely, 'that 
camp no longer exists ! ' Then he whispered hurried- 
ly to the rest of us, ' It will be an easy job to clean it 
out, boys. We 'll send over a party to-night; it 's 
only thirty-five miles.' 
"We recognized superior genius; the Doctor was 
our oldest and deepest sinner. But what struck us 
most was his anxiety to make good his lie. Had it 
then come to this, that the Doctor told the truth ? 
"The next day we all went to work to build our 
Lady a churchy in a week it was completed. There 
goes its last cross-beam now into the fire; it was a 
solid piece of work, wasn't it? It has stood this 
climate thirty years. I remember the first Sunday 
service: we all washed, and dressed ourselves in the 
best we had ; we scarcely knew each other, we were 
so fine. The Lady was pleased with the church, but 
yet she had not said she would stay all winter; we 
were still anxious. How she preached to us that 
day ! We had made a screen of young spruces set 
in boxes, and her figure stood out against the dark 
 
green background like a thing of light. Her silvery 
voice rang through the log-temple, her face seemed 
to us like a star. She had no color in her cheeks 
at any time ; her dress, too, was colorless. Although 
gentle, there was an iron inflexibility about her slight, 
erect form. We felt, as we saw her standing there, 
that if need be she would walk up to the lion's 
jaws, the cannon's mouth, with a smile. She took a 
little book from her pocket and read to us a hymn, 
' O come, all ye faithful,' the old ' Adeste Fideles.' 
Some of us knew it; she sang, and gradually, shame- 
facedly, voices joined in. It was a sight to see 
Nightingale Jack solemnly singing away about / choirs 
of angels'; but it was a treat to hear him, too, 
what a voice he had ! Then our Lady prayed, kneel- 
ing down on the little platform in front of the ever- 
greens, clasping her hands, and lifting her eyes to 
heaven. We did not know what to do at first, but 
the Doctor gave us a severe look and bent his head, 
and we all followed his lead. 
" When service was over and the door opened, we 
found that it had been snowing ; we could not see out 
through the windows because white cloth was nailed 
over them in place of glass. 
" ' Now, my Lady, you will have to stay with us,' said 
the Doctor. We all gathered around with eager faces. 
" ' Do you really believe that it will be for the good 
of your souls ? ' asked the sweet voice. 
 
The Doctor believed for us all. 
" ' Do you really hope ? ' 
" The Doctor hoped. 
" ' "Will you try to do your best ? ' 
" The Doctor was sure he would. 
" ' I will,' answered the Flying Dutchman, earnest- 
ly. 'I moost not fry de meat any more; I moost 
broil ! ' 
" For we had begged him for months to broil, and 
he had obstinately refused ; broil represented the good, 
and fry the evil, to his mind; he came out for the 
good according to his light ; but none the less did we 
fall upon him behind the Lady's back, and cuff him 
into silence. 
"She stayed with us all winter. You don't know 
what the winters are up here ; steady, bitter coM for 
seven months, thermometer always below, the snow 
dry as dust, the air like a knife. We built a com- 
pact chimney for our Lady, and we cut cords of wood 
into small, light sticks, easy for her to lift, and stacked 
them in her shed ; we lined her lodge with skins, and 
we made oil from bear's fat and rigged up a kind of 
lamp for her. We tried to make candles, I remember, 
but they would not run straight ; they came out hump- 
backed and sidling, and burned themselves to wick in 
no time. Then we took to improving the town. We 
had lived in all kinds of huts and lean-to shanties ; 
now nothing would do but regular log-houses. If it 
 
had been summer, I don't know what we might not 
have run to in the way of piazzas and fancy steps ; 
but with the snow five feet deep, all we could accom- 
plish was a plain, square log-house, and even that took 
our whole force. The only way to keep the peace was 
to have all the houses exactly alike ; we laid out the 
three streets, and built the houses, all facing the 
meeting-house, just as you found them." 
" And where was the Lady's lodge ? " I asked, for I 
recalled no stockaded fortress, large or small. 
My companion hesitated a moment. Then he said 
abruptly, " It was torn down." 
" Torn down ! " I repeated. " Why, what " 
Keufren waved his hand with a gesture that silenced 
me, and went on with his story. It came to me then 
for the first time, that he was pursuing the current 
of his own thoughts rather than entertaining me. I 
turned to look at him with a new interest. I had 
talked to him for two weeks, in rather a patronizing 
way; could it be that affairs were now, at this last 
moment, reversed? 
" It took us almost all winter to build those houses," 
pursued Eeuben. "At one time we neglected the 
hunting and trapping to such a degree, that the Doc- 
tor called a meeting and expressed his opinion. Ours 
was a voluntary camp, in a measure, but still we had 
formally agreed to get a certain amount of skins ready 
for the bateaux by early spring; this agreement was 
 
about the only real bond of union between us. Those 
whose houses were not completed scowled at the 
Doctor. 
" ' Do you suppose I 'm going to live like an Injun 
when the other fellows has regular houses ? ' inquired 
Black Andy, with a menacing air. 
" ' By no means,' replied the Doctor, blandly. ' My 
plan is this: build at night.' 
"'At night?' 
" ' Yes ; by the light of pine fires.' 
" We did. After that, we faithfully went out hunt- 
ing and trapping as long as daylight lasted, and then, 
after supper, we built up huge fires of pine logs, 
and went to work on the next house. It was a 
strange picture: the forest deep in snow, black with 
night, the red glow of the great fires, and our mov- 
ing figures working on as complacently as though 
daylight, balmy air, and the best of tools were ours. 
" The Lady liked our industry. She said our new 
houses showed that the 'new cleanliness of our inner 
man required a cleaner tabernacle for the outer.' I 
don't know about our inner man, but our outer was 
certainly much cleaner. 
"One day the Flying Dutchman made one of his 
unfortunate remarks. 'De boys t'inks you 'll like 
dern better in nize houses,' he announced when, hap- 
pening to pass the fortress, he found the Lady stand- 
ing at her gate gazing at the work of the preceding 
 
night. Several of the men were near enough to hear 
him, but too far off to kick him into silence as 
usual ; but they glared at him instead. The Lady 
looked at the speaker with her dreamy, far-off eyes. 
" ' De boys t'inks you like dem,' began the Dutch- 
man again, thinking she did not comprehend; but 
at that instant he caught the combined glare of the 
six eyes, and stopped abruptly, not at all knowing 
what was wrong, but sure there was something. 
" ' Li TCP, them/ repeated the Lady, dreamily; 'yea, I 
do like them. Nay, more, I love them. Their souls 
are as dear to me as the souls of brothers.' 
" ' Say, Frenchy, have you got a sister ? ' said Night- 
ingale Jack, confidentially, that evening. 
"'Mais oui,' said Frenchy. 
" ' You think all creation of her, I suppose ? ' 
" ' We fight like four cats and one dog ; she is the 
cats,' said the Frenchman concisely. 
" ' You don't say so ! ' replied Jack. ' Now, I never 
had a sister, but I thought perhaps ' He paused, 
and the sentence remained unfinished. 
" The Nightingale and I were house-mates. "We sat 
late over our fire not long after that ; I gave a gigantic 
yawn. ' This lifting logs half the night is enough to 
kill one,' I said, getting out my jug. ' Sing something, 
Jack. It 's a long time since I 've heard anything but 
hymns.' 
"Jack always went off as easily as a music-box: 
 
you had only to wind him up ; the jug was the key. 
I soon had him in full blast. He was giving out 
' The minute gun at sea, the minute gun at sea,' 
with all the pathos of his tenor voice, when the door 
burst open and the whole population rushed in upon 
us. 
" ' What do you mean by shouting this way, in the 
middle of the night ? ' 
" ' Shut up your howling, Jack.' 
" ' How do you suppose any one can sleep ? ' 
" ' It 's a disgrace to the camp ! ' 
" ' Now then, gentlemen,' I replied, for my blood was 
up (whiskey, perhaps), ' is this my house, or isn't it ? 
If I want music, I 'll have it. Time was when you 
were not so particular.' 
" It was the first word of rebellion. The men 
looked at each other, then at me. 
" ' I 'll go and ask her if she objects,' I continued, 
boldly. 
" ' No, no. You shall not.' 
" ' Let him go,' said the Doctor, who stood smoking 
his pipe on the outskirts of the crowd. ' It is just as 
well to have that point settled now. The Minute Gun 
at Sea is a good moral song in its way, a sort of 
marine missionary affair.' 
" So I started,, the others followed ; we all knew that 
the Lady watched late ; we often saw the glimmer of 
 
her lamp far on towards morning. It was burning 
now. The gate was fastened, I knocked; no answer. 
I knocked again, and yet a third time; still, silence. 
The men stood off at a little distance and waited. 
' She shall answer/ I said angrily, and going around 
to the side where the stockade came nearer to the 
wall of the lodge, I knocked loudly on the close-set 
saplings. For answer I thought I heard a low moan ; 
I listened, it came again. My anger vanished, and 
with a mighty bound I swung myself up to the top 
of the stockade, sprung down inside, ran around, and 
tried the door. It was fastened ; I burst it open and 
entered. There, by the light of the hanging lamp, I 
saw the Lady on the floor, apparently dead. I raised 
her in my arms ; her heart was beating faintly, but she 
was unconscious. I had seen many fainting fits ; this 
was something different ; the limbs were rigid. I laid 
her on the low couch, loosened her dress, bathed her 
head and face in cold water, and wrenched up xrae of 
the warm hearth-stones to apply to her feet. I did 
not hesitate ; I saw that it was a dangerous case, 
something like a trance or an 'ecstasis.' Somebody 
must attend to her, and there were only men to choose 
from. Then why not I ? 
" I heard the others talking outside ; they could 
not understand the delay; but I never heeded, and 
kept on my work. To tell the truth, I had studied 
medicine, and felt a genuine enthusiasm over a rare 
 
case. Once my patient opened her eyes and looked 
at me, then she lapsed away again into unconscious- 
ness in spite of all my efforts. At last the men. 
outside came in, angry and suspicious ; they had 
broken down the gate. TJH'xre we all stood, the whole 
forty of us, around the deathlike form of our Lady. 
" What a night it was ! To give her air, the men 
camped outside in the snow with a line of pickets 
in whispering distance from each other from the bed 
to their anxious group. Two were detailed to help 
me, the Doctor (whose title was a sarcastic D. D.) 
and Jimmy, a gentle little man, excellent at band- 
aging broken limbs. Every vial in the camp was 
brought in, astonishing lotions, drops, and balms ; 
each man produced something; they did their best, 
poor fellows, and wore out the night with their 
anxiety. At dawn our Lady revived suddenly, 
thanked us all, and assured us that she felt quite 
well again; the trance was over. 'It was my old 
enemy,' she said, 'the old illness of Scotland, which 
I hoped had left me forever. But I am thankful 
that it is no worse; I have come out of it with a 
clear brain. Sing a hymn of thankfulness for me, 
dear friends, before you go.' 
"Now, we sang on Sunday in the church; but 
then she led us, and we had a kind of an idea that 
after all she did not hear us. But now, who was 
to lead us ? We stood awkwardly around the bed 
 
and shuffled our hats in our uneasy fingers. The 
Doctor fixed his eyes upon the Nightingale; Jack 
saw it and cowered. 'Begin/ said the Doctor in a 
soft voice; but gripping him in the back at the 
same time with an ominpys, clutch. 
" ' I don't know the words/ faltered the unhappy 
Nightingale. 
" 'Now thank we all our God, 
With hearts and hands and voices,' 
began the Doctor, and repeated Luther's hymn with 
perfect accuracy from beginning to end. 'What will 
happen next ? The Doctor knows hymns ! ' we 
thought in profound astonishment. But the Night- 
ingale had begun, and gradually our singers joined 
in ; I doubt whether the grand old choral was ever 
sung by such a company before or since. There was 
never any further question, by the way, about that 
minute gun at sea ; it stayed at sea as far as we 
were concerned. 
"Spring came, the faltering spring of Lake Supe- 
rior. I won't go into my own story, but such as it 
was, the spring brought it back to me with new 
force. I wanted to go, and yet I did n't. ' "Where/ 
do you ask ? To see her, of course, a woman, the 
most beautiful, well, never mind all that. To be 
brief, I loved her ; she scorned me ; I thought I had 
learned to hate her but I wasn't sure about it 
now. I kept myself aloof from the others and gave 
 
up my heart to the old sweet, bitter memories ; I 
did not even go to church on Sundays. But all the 
rest went ; our Lady's influence was as great as ever. 
I could hear them singing; they sang better now 
that they could have the door open; the pent-up 
feeling used to stifle them. The time for the ba- 
teaux drew near, and I noticed that several of the 
men were hard at work packing the furs in bales, 
a job usually left to the voyageurs who came with 
the boats. ' What 's that for ? ' I asked. 
"'You don't suppose we're going to have those 
bateaux rascals camping on Little Fishing, do you?' 
said Black Andy, scornfully. 'Where are your wits, 
Eeub ? ' 
" And they packed every skin, rafted them all over 
to the mainland, and waited there patiently for days, 
until the train of slow boats came along and took off 
the bales ; then they came back in triumph. ' Now 
we 're secure for another six months,' they said, and 
began to lay out a park, and gardens for every house. 
The Lady was fond of flowers ; the whole town burst 
into blossom. The Lady liked green grass; all the 
clearing was soon turfed over like a lawn. The men 
tried the ice-cold lake every day, waiting anxiously 
for the time when they could bathe. There was no end 
to their cleanliness; Black Andy had grown almost 
white again, and Frenchy's hair shone like oiled silk. 
"The Lady stayed on, and all went well But, 
 
gradually, there came a discovery. The Lady was 
changing, had changed ! Gradually, slowly, but 
none the less distinctly to the eyes that knew her 
every eyelash. A little more hair was visible over the 
white brow, there was a faint color in the cheeks, a 
quicker step ; the clear eyes were sometimes downcast 
now, the steady voice softer, the words at times fal- 
tering. In the early summer the white cap vanished, 
and she stood among us crowned only with her golden 
hair; one day she was seen through her open door 
sewing on a white robe! The men noted all these 
things silently ; they were even a little troubled as at 
something they did not understand, something beyond 
their reach. Was she planning to leave them ? 
" ' It 's my belief she 's getting ready to ascend right 
up into heaven,' said Salem. 
" Salem was a little ' wanting,' as it is called, and the 
men knew it ; still, his words made an impression. 
They watched the Lady with an awe which was almost 
superstitious ; they were troubled, and knew not why. 
But the Lady bloomed on. I did not pay much atten- 
tion to all this ; but I could not help hearing it. My 
heart was moody, full of its own sorrows ; I secluded 
myself more and more. Gradually I took to going off 
into the mainland forests for days on solitary hunting 
expeditions. The camp went on its way rejoicing; the 
men succeeded, after a world of trouble, in making a 
fountain which actually played, and . they glorified 
 
themselves exceedingly. The life grew quite pastoral. 
There was talk of importing a cow from the East, and 
a messenger was sent to the Sault for certain choice 
supplies against the coming winter. But, in the late 
summer, the whisper went round again that the Lady 
had changed, this time for the worse. She looked ill, 
she drooped from day to day; the new life that had 
come to her vanished, but her former life was not re- 
stored. She grew silent and sad, "she strayed away by 
herself through the woods, she scarcely noticed the men 
who followed her with anxious eyes. Time passed, 
and brought with it an undercurrent of trouble, sus- 
picion, and anger. Everything went on as before ; not 
one habit, not one custom was altered; both sides 
seemed to shrink from the first change, however slight. 
The daily life of the camp was outwardly the same, but 
brooding trouble filled every heart. There was no open 
discussion, men talked apart in twos and threes ; a 
gloom rested over everything, but no one said, ' What 
is the matter ? ' 
"There was a man among us, I have not said 
much of the individual characters of our party, but this 
man was one of the least esteemed, or rather liked ; 
there was not much esteem of any kind at Little 
Fishing. Little was known about him ; although the 
youngest man in the camp, he was a mooning, brooding 
creature, with brown hair and eyes and a melancholy 
face. He wasn't hearty and whole-souled, and yet he 
 
wasn't an out-and-out rascal ; he wasn't a leader, and 
yet he wasn't follower either. He wouldn't be ; he 
was like a third horse, always. There was no goodness 
about him ; don't go to fancying that that was the rea- 
son the men did not like him, he was as bad as they 
were, every inch ! He never shirked his work, and 
they couldn't get a handle on him anywhere ; but he 
was just unpopular. The why and the wherefore 
are of no consequence now. Well, do you know what 
was the suspicion that hovered over the camp ? It 
was this : our Lady loved that man ! 
" It took three months for all to see it, and yet never 
a word was spoken. All saw, all heard ; but they 
might have been blind and deaf for any sign they 
gave. And the Lady drooped more and more. 
"September came, the fifteenth; the Lady lay on 
her couch, pale and thin; the door was open and a 
tell stood beside her, but there was no line of pickets 
whispering tidings of her state to an anxious group 
outside. The turf in the three streets had grown 
yellow for want of water, the flowers in the little 
gardens had drooped and died, the fountain was choked 
with weeds, and the interiors of the houses were all 
untidy. It was Sunday, and near the hour for service ; 
but the men lounged about, dingy and unwashed. 
" ' A'n't you going to church ? ' said Salem, stopping 
at the door of one of the houses ; he was dressed in his 
best, with a flower in his button-hole. 
 
"'See him now! See the fool,' said Black Andy. 
' He 's going to church, he is ! And where 's the min- 
ister, Salem ? Answer me that ! ' 
"Why, in the church, I suppose,' replied Salem, 
vacantly. 
" ' No, she a'n't ; not she ! She 's at home, a-weep- 
ing, and a-wailing, and a-ger-nashing of her teeth,' 
replied Andy with bitter scorn. 
" ' What for ? ' said Salem. 
"'What for? Why, that's the joke! Hear him, 
boys ; he wants to know what for ! ' 
" The loungers laughed, a loud, reckless laugh. 
" ' Well, I 'm going any way,' said Salem, looking 
wonderingly from one to the other ; he passed on and 
entered the church. 
" ' I say, boys, let 's have a high old time,' cried 
Andy, savagely. ' Let 's go back to the old way and 
have a jolly Sunday. Let's have out the jugs and 
the cards and be free again ! ' 
"The men hesitated; ten months and more of law 
and order held them back. 
"'What are you afraid of?' said Andy. 'Not of a 
canting hypocrite, I hope. She 's fooled us long 
enough, I say. Come on ! ' He brought out a table 
and stools, and produced the long-unused cards and 
a jug of whiskey. 'Strike up, Jack,' he cried; 'give 
us old Fiery-Eyes.' 
" The Nightingale hesitated. Fiery-Eyes was a rol- 
 
licking drinking song ; but Andy put the glass to his 
lips and his scruples vanished in the tempting arorna. 
He began at the top of his voice, partners were chosen, 
and, trembling with excitement and impatience, like 
prisoners unexpectedly set free, the men gathered 
around, and made their bets. 
" ' What born fools we 've been,' said Black Andy, 
laying down a card. 
" ' Yes,' replied the Flying Dutchman, ' porn fools ! ' 
And he followed suit. 
" But a thin white hand came down on the bits of 
colored pasteboard. It was our Lady. With her hair 
disordered, and the spots of fever in her cheeks, she 
stood among us again ; but not as of old. Angry eyes 
confronted her, and Andy wrenched the cards from 
her grasp. 'No, my Lady,' he said, sternly; 'never 
again ! ' 
" The Lady gazed from one face to the next, and so 
all around the circle ; all were dark and sullen. Then 
she bowed her head upon her hands and wept aloud. 
"There was a sudden shrinking away on all sides, 
the players rose, the cards were dropped. But the 
Lady glided away, weeping as she went ; she entered 
