 
your stitches. I want you to hear this speech of 
Landolf ' s. It is very fine. 
" * " In the name of God, the Father, the Son, and 
the Holy Ghost, the only true God. Amen. Men 
and brethren hear my words. One hundred years 
ago " (A. D. 960, according to the chronicle), " came 
two pious Christian priests to you, to make known 
to your fathers the Gospel of Christ, the true God ; 
they were the dark and the fair Ewald. They were 
your own relations, they came from England ; they 
were your friends, they had left England and come 
over the sea for the love of you; they were your 
guests, they had been sheltered in your houses. 
They wanted to let you know that God has be 
come your Brother, that he might deliver you from 
your sins. You would not let them preach in your 
land ; you were free not to do that ; but you murdered them; here on these stones you slew them 
in honour of Woden; your brothers, your friends, 
your guests, you murdered, who had done you no 
evil. Since that time, the true God, the God of the 
Christians, has been angry with you. You number as many as the Franks do; you are just as 
brave as they. Yet Charlemagne, the Frank, has 
conquered and subdued you. How is that ? God 
fought with Charlemagne ; He loved him ; he is a 
Christian. God fought against you, for you have 
killed his priests ; you are murderers. You can kill 
me too. Do it ; I am not afraid of death ; I am the 
servant of God; if you kill me, God will take me 
up to heaven. God's anger will not depart from 
 
you, unless you become Christians. Why will you 
not become Christians? Your gods are good for 
nothing ; they cannot help you ; they have not been 
able to stand -before the Christian's God. Where 
is your Irrriensul? Charlemagne has broken it to 
pieces." (Irmensul was an idol image that stood at 
Hildesheim). " Where is your Wodensaak? Charle 
magne has cut it down." (This Woden's oak stood 
at Verden on the Aller). "Where is your Helawohrt ? Charlemagne has destroyed it." (The sa 
cred place of the goddess Hela was on the Aller, in 
what is now the suburb Heelen at Celle). "Where 
are your brave leaders, Wittekind and Albion ? 
They have become Charlemagne's friends and vassals; they are Christians. Do you think it was 
Charlemagne that subdued them? No, a greater 
One, the God of the Christians has subdued them. 
Charlemagne indeed often overthrew them; but 
the Christian's God has conquered them. Do you 
know how that came about? I have heard in 
Munster, and I will tell you. 
'"After the last battle they lost you know 
about that, your young men bled there too before 
peace was concluded, the brave Wittekind said to 
his brother in arms, Albion, ' Come, let us go ! we 
will pay a visit to Charlemagne in his fortress, and 
take a look at his power; for he is the greatest in 
the land.' So the bold heroes set forth; hiding 
their strong frames under the dress of beggars; 
for they wished to remain unknown, and to see and 
prove for themselves. Fear was not in their brave 
 
hearts. They travelled and travelled for days and 
days; and wherever they came, Christians gave 
them food. Then they questioned with one another ' Is this what Christians are ? ' They were 
many nights on their journeyings, and wherever 
they came the Christians took them in, although 
they were beggars. Then they asked one another, 
 Is this what Christians are ? ' Many a time they 
lost their way, in cities, villages, and fields; the 
Christians set them right, and they said to each 
other in astonishment, ' Is this what the Christians 
are?' At last they came to Ingelheim." (The 
chronicle names Ingelheim, and not Aix-la-Chapelle.) "They went through the city, admiring the 
handsome houses and magnificent streets, till they 
came to a large house, the largest of all they had 
hitherto seen. ' This must be Charlemagne's dwelling,' said they; 'for certainly he is the greatest man 
among his people?' They went in; they heard 
singing, that sounded as if it came down from 
heaven. They went further in; there stood up in 
the chancel a man in a white dress (it was a priest 
in white church robes) who was speaking: 'Hear, 
you who believe the glad message ; the great God 
in heaven loves you. He loves you so much that 
he sent his dear son Jesus Christ to you. Jesus 
Christ came down from heaven; God's son became 
your brother, so little and poor that he lay in a manger in the stall for cattle. When he was grown up, 
he preached everywhere and said, Sinners, turn, and 
I will save you. He made the lame to go and the 
 
blind to see, and healed the sick, and raised up the 
dead that lay in their graves. He shed his blood 
for sinners; sinners put him to death. He was 
still kind to them in his death, and prayed for his 
murderers, Father forgive them ! for they know not 
what they do. They buried him. But can God 
stay in the grave ? Lo ! after three days the earth 
quaked and the rocks rent; Jesus rose up out of 
the grave, Jesus went up to heaven, and sits now 
again upon the throne of his Father, God. He 
reigns; he commands: Eepent and I will save you, 
you shall come into my heaven and reign with me.' 
" '"So preached the priest. There stood the two 
heroes in astonishment, but they were to be yet 
more astonished. Lo! a tall man steps forward 
through the church up to the altar, where the 
priest was standing; and a crown was upon his 
head. It was the King Charlemagne. The two 
heroes knew him, and yet they did not know him. 
Was this the mighty hero, whose flashing sword 
in battle struck and slew? Was this the man 
whose eyes blazed with the fire of battle? He 
wears no sword here ; his eyes sparkle peacefully ; 
as he stands before the altar, he humbly takes his 
crown off and sets it on the ground; then he bows 
his knee upon the steps of the altar and prays to 
Jesus Christ, the God of the Christians; and all 
the people fall upon their knees, and the heavenly 
music of them who are singing praises swells out 
again ' Glory to God in the highest ; and on earth 
peace, good-will to men.' Then Charlemagne rises 
 
and sits down in a chair, and the man in white 
clothing preaches of Jesus, who came to save sinners ; and Charlemagne bows his high head so 
often as the name of Jesus is named. Then the 
priest blesses the congregation ; the service is over. 
'""It was not Charlemagne's house, in which 
they were; it was God's house, in which Charlemagne had been praying. God is greater than Charlemagne, and so must God's house be the biggest in 
the city. The brothers in arms went forth of the 
church. Before the church door there was a great 
crowd of beggars, in garments like their own. 
Gentle and kind, Charlemagne goes to the poor 
people, giving each one a piece of money and say 
ing, ' God bless it to you, my children ; pray for 
me too.' 'Is that King Charlemagne?' the he 
roes asked each other by their astonished looks. 
Then the king steps up to them, looks at them 
graciously, and says 'You have never been here 
before, my friends; come into my house, and I 
will give you your portion.' He goes on and they 
follow him. They come into his house, which 
was smaller than God's house. They go into his 
apartment; there he dismisses the attendants, goes 
up to Wittekind and Albion, offers them his hand 
like a brother and says : ' Welcome to my citadel, you brave Saxon heroes ! God has heard my 
prayer ; my foes are becoming my friends. Put off 
your rags. I will dress you as princes should be 
dressed ! ' And he had princely robes put upon 
them, and said further 'Now you are my guests; 
 
and soon I hope, the guests of the Lord my God 
also.' The two heroes had not expected this, that 
Charlemagne should know them in their disguise; 
much less, that he would treat them so nobly, and 
brotherly. Fourteen days later, the priest in white 
garments baptized them in the name of God the 
Father, the Son, and the Holy Ghost; and they 
swore allegiance to the Saviour, Jesus Christ. 
"'You men, this is the way that your heroes 
have led the way for you. Saxons, will you for 
sake your dukes? The curse of sin has been cleared 
away from them. Now I have come to you ; I too 
am a priest of Jesus Christ: I would gladly teach 
you and clear the curse of sin away from you, that 
you may be saved and come to heaven. Say, shall 
I preach among you? or will you kill me too, as 
you killed the two Ewalds? Here I am; but in 
the midst of you I am also in God's hand." 
"  Landolf ceased. The whole assembly had 
heard him in silence; even the heathen priests 
had listened. Then the Billing lifted up his voice 
and spoke : " Landolf, my guest and friend, thou 
hast spoken well, and thou hast been a good man 
in my house; I will hear thee further. Brothers, 
let us decide that Landolf shall be free to go about 
in our country and preach. It is no dishonour to 
bow the knee before that God who is Charle 
magne's God and the God of the Christians; it is 
no shame to pray to that God who has conquered 
our brave heroes. Decide ! " 
"'Then stepped forth an old man with white 
 
hair, who was the oldest man in the assembly, and 
spoke: " Cast the lot!" 
"'The young men made ready seven little sticks, 
square-cornered, of oak wood, marked on the upper 
side with sacred signs. One of the heathen priests, 
the chronicle calls him Walo, shook them in his 
hands and then threw them up in the air. During this time, Landolf was upon his knees, crying, 
" Lord, Lord, give the victory, that this noble people may come to know thee ! " Then the sticks 
fall to earth, and behold ! six of them lie with the 
signs up, and only one with the signs down. This 
is announced, and then the whole assembly cries 
out "The Christian's God has won!" and the Billing shakes Landolf by the hand and says, " Now 
go in and out through the whole land; nobody 
will hinder you from preaching the name of your 
God. But do not pass my house by; come back 
with me; I will become a Christian." And now the 
assembly broke up; everybody went home to his 
house, Landolf accompanying the Billing. When 
they were again passing the stone of sacrifice at 
the Deep Moor, Landolf said "Billing, that is your 
altar-stone; is it not?" "It belongs to me and 
my house." " There my first church shall stand," 
said Landolf glad and strong in faith. "May I 
build it?" "Build it my brother," answered the 
Billing; "and when it is ready I will be the first 
to be baptized in it. But the stone of sacrifice we 
will throw into the moor, that the remembrance of 
it may be lost." 
 
"'Now did Landolf go to work joyfully ; by day 
he wrought, and at night he preached, and taught 
in the Billing's house, and in all the country round. 
No longer than three months after, the little wood 
en church was done ; the first in this whole region ; 
and the same day that Landolf consecrated it, Harm 
the Billing with five sons and three daughters, and 
the greater part of the friends of his family and 
of his farm servants received holy baptism, the wa 
ter for which was fetched out of the neighbouring 
Oerze. Now, of course, that church is no longer 
standing; it was burnt down afterwards by the 
heathen Wends, and in its place the large stone 
church in Hermannsburg was built. But to this 
day the field where that first church stood belongs 
to the Hermannsburg parsonage, and is still called 
the cold church. 
" 'This was the foundation of the Christian church 
in our valley of the Oerze; and as Landolf had 
come from Minden, the whole Oerze valley was 
attached to the see of Minden, while the rest of 
the Luneburg country came to belong to the see 
of Verden. 
" 'Now the faithful Landolf laboured on indefatigably. He sent one of his new converts to Minden 
and Munster, to get more helpers from thence for his 
work. Twelve came, who were put under Landolf; 
and now for the first time the work could be taken 
hold of vigorously. Landolf must have lived and 
laboured until 830 or 840, and so blessed was his 
agency that the whole country of the Horzsahzen 
 
was converted to Christianity. It is brought for 
ward as a proof of this, that at the great May diets 
held at the stone-houses the following laws were 
unanimously enacted; no more horse's flesh to be 
eaten; no more human sacrifices to be brought; 
no more dead to be burned ; and all Woden's oaks 
to be hewn down. And in truth these laws do 
shew the dominance of Christianity, for precise 
ly these things named were the peculiar marks 
of heathenism. Of the interior condition of Christianity, little is told ; only it is remarked that the 
entire change in the country was so great and 
manifest, that the bishops Willerich of Bremen, 
and Helingud of Verden sent priests to convince 
themselves with their own eyes whether what they 
had heard with their ears was true ; and these 
messengers had found not a single heathen left 
in the whole region. As a good general, Landolf 
moreover understood how everywhere to seize the 
right points where with the most effect heathenism might be grappled with and overthrown. He 
always went straight to the heart of the old religion. We have already seen how his first church 
was built by the Billing's sacrifice stone. Westward from Hermannsburg is what is called the 
Winkelberg, upon which was the burying-place of 
the heathen priests, for the most part cultivated 
land now, but the twice seven so-called Huhnen 
graves are still to be seen there. At the foot of 
this hill he established what was called the Pfarrwohrt, where the spiritual courts should be holden ; 
 
and close by this place he laid the foundation stone 
of the Quanenburg, a house surrounded with a 
moat, in which the young girls of the country 
might be taught and educated (Quilne or Kwane 
meant a young girl). Both places, Pfarrvvohrt and 
Quanenburg, are arable fields now, still belonging 
to the parsonage. 
"'An hour above Hermannsburg the two rivers Oerze and Wieze flow into each other. At 
that place, in an oak wood, the idol Thor was worshipped. There Landolf was equally prompt to 
build a chapel, that the idol worship might be banished. As he had consecrated the church in Hermannsburg to Peter and Paul, so he consecrated 
this chapel to Lawrence. Around this chapel the 
village Miiden sprang up, so called because the two 
rivers there flow into one another, or munden. 
Then he went further up the Oerze and erected 
a cloister and a chapel at a place which was sacred 
to the goddess Freija. At that time a cloister was 
called a munster. The village of Munster grew up 
around this cloister. In the same way he went 
further up the Wieze, where there was a wood 
sacred to Hertha. In its neighbourhood he built 
a chapel which was consecrated to Bartholomew. 
Around this chapel Wiezendorf arose. About an 
hour and a half distant from Hermannsburg, there 
was a very large, magnificent wood of oaks and 
beeches; such a forest was then called a wohld. 
In this forest the heathen priests, the so-called 
Druids, were specially at home; there too, they 
 
kept the white horses which were used in sooth 
saying. The wood extended for hours in length 
and breadth. He could not give that the go-by; 
and that he might dash right into the midst of 
it, he built at the spot where it was narrowest a 
chapel on the one side to Mary in valle, and on the 
other side a chapel to Mary in monte. The first 
means Mary in the valley, the second, Mary on the 
hill. The villages Wo hide and Bergen have thence 
arisen. So he grappled with heathenism just there 
where its strongest points were; and always, by 
God's grace, got the victory; for the Lord indeed 
says: "My glory will I not give to another, neither 
my praise to graven images." And as once the 
Philistine's idol Dagon fell speechless upon the 
ground before the ark of the covenant of God, so 
in our Oerze valley everywhere fell the altars of 
the idols before the sign of the Cross. 
"'Besides all this, Landolf and his companions 
were skilled husbandmen ; who themselves shunned 
no manual labour nor painstaking, and who knew 
right well how to eat their bread in the sweat of 
their brow. So they introduced agriculture universally, of which our forefathers at that time knew 
little or nothing ; and thus they were not only the 
spiritual but also the material benefactors of the 
whole district. How much a single man can do, 
who is wholly given to the Lord, and who is moved 
by burning love to the Lord and to his fellows! 
God give all preachers and teachers, and especially 
all messengers to the heathen, such a mind, such a 
 
brave heart, such a single eye, such will to work! 
that some good may be done. 
"'About the next hundred years I have found 
nothing said in the chronicle. Probably things 
went on in such a quiet way that there was nothing particular to say concerning them. But then 
comes the relation of a noteworthy occurrence.'" 
Meredith shut up his book. 
 " Well, aren't you going on ? " said Maggie. 
"Presently. I want to run down to the shore 
and see how the water looks." 
" Why it always looks just the same way," said 
Esther. 
" Does it ? I am afraid something must be the 
matter with your eyes." 
" 0, of course sometimes it blows, and sometimes 
it is smooth; but what is that? " 
"Just according to your eyes." 
"Aren't all eyes alike?" 
"Not exactly. Some see." 
"What do you see in the water?" 
"There is one peculiarity of eyes," said Meredith. "You cannot see through another person's. 
Come, Maggie, let us stretch ourselves a bit." 
Taking hold of hands, the two ran and scram 
bled down the steep, rocky pitch of the hill, to the 
edge of the river. The wind was not blowing to 
day ; soft and still the water lay, with a mild gleam 
under the October sun, sending up not even a ripple 
to the shore. There was a warm, spicy smell in the 
woods; there was a golden glow here and there 
 
from a hickory; the hills were variegated and rich- 
hued in the distance and near by. Meredith sat 
down on a stone by the water and looked out on 
the view. But he was graver than Maggie liked. 
"Ditto," she said after a while, "you are think 
ing of something." 
"Of a good many things, Maggie. How good 
the world is ! and men are not ! "  
"What then, Ditto?" 
"One ought to do something to make them 
better." 
"What can you do?" 
" What could Landolf the Saxon ? I do not know, 
Maggie; but one ought to be as ready as Landolf 
was, to do any thing. And I think I am." 
"Then God will shew you what to do, Ditto." 
Meredith bent down and kissed the earnest little 
face. "You are the only friend I have got, Maggie, that thinks and feels as I do." 
"0 Ditto! Uncle Eden?" 
"Well, I suppose Mr. Murray would do me the 
honour to let me call him my friend," said Meredith. 
" And papa ? " 
"Mr. Candlish is very good to me; but you see, 
I do not know him so well, Maggie." 
"Well, he thinks just as you do. And papa goes 
and preaches in the streets when he is in New 
York; in those dreadful places where the people 
live that never go to church." 
" That's like Landolf," said Meredith. "I almost 
envy men like that old monk." 
 
"Why?" 
"All his strength laid out for something worth 
while all his life. And think how much he did ! 
And I fret to be doing nothing, and yet I don't 
know what to do." 
"You can ask Uncle Eden when he comes." 
" I hope he'll come ! NOAV don't think any more 
0bout it, Maggie. This is the prettiest place I 
ever saw in my life. I want to get out on that 
water." 
"Now?" 
"Not now. Some time." 
"0 we'll all go," said Maggie joyfully. "We 
might go in the boat somewhere and take our book 
and our dinner, and have a grand time, Ditto ! " 
Meredith laughed and said it was all "grand 
times"; and then he got up and strolled along by 
the water, picking up flat stones and making ducks 
and drakes on the smooth, river surface. This was 
a new pastime to Maggie, and so pleasant to both 
that they forgot the book and the girls left on the 
height, and delighted their eye with the dimpling 
water and ricochetting stones time after time, and 
could not have enough. At last flat stones began to grow scarce, and Maggie and Meredith remounted to the rest of the party. 
"Well!" said Flora, "you've come in good time. 
We are going home." 
" Home ! " echoed Maggie. 
"To be sure. Don't you think we want dinner 
some time?" said Esther; "and we are tired sitting here. And it is growing late besides. Just 
look where the sun is." 
There was nothing to be said to the sun ; and the 
books and work being stowed again in the cart, 
Meredith took his place as porter and the little company returned to the house. 
 
CHAPTEK V. 
A little tired and not a little hungry, it was very 
good now to have a change, and be at home. The 
girls went to dress for dinner; while Meredith, 
whose toilet was sooner made, sat on the terrace 
in the mellow October light and dreamed. Dinner went off merrily. After dinner, when it began 
to be dark, they all repaired to the library. A little fire was kindled here, for the pleasure of it rather than from the need. The afghan and worsted 
embroidery came out again under the bright lamp 
light ; but Meredith sat idly tending the fire. 
"Ditto," said Maggie, "can't we see about all 
those Saxon gods now ? or don't you want to ? " 
" Of course I want to see about them," said Meredith, springing up and and going to the bookcases. 
"I want to know myself, Maggie." 
"Were they different from the Roman and Grecian gods ? " Flora asked. 
"It is safe for people who can not keep their 
ears open, to refrain from questions," Meredith answered. 
" Why I heard all you read," said Flora, pouting 
 
a little; "but how should I know but those were 
the same as the Roman gods, only under different 
names ? " 
" If you please to recollect, you will remember 
that the two nations had nothing to do with one 
another except at the spear's point. But if I can 
find what I want, I will enlighten you and myself 
too," said Meredith, rummaging among the book 
shelves. " Here it is, I believe ! " And with a volume in his hand he came back to the table and 
the lamp; but then became absorbed in study. 
Worsted needles flew in and out. Maggie watched 
Meredith's face and the leaves of his book as they 
were turned over. 
" Well, Ditto ? " she said after a while. 
"What?" 
"Yes, ivliat?" said Maggie laughing. "Have 
you found any thing?" 
" To be sure ! " said Meredith straightening himself up. "Yes, Maggie, it's all here in a some 
what brief fashion." 
" Well, who was Woden ? " 
"Woden was the principal deity. He was the 
god of the moving air, and of the light." 
" Like Apollo," said Flora. 
"Yes more like Zeus or Jupiter. He was the 
all-father the universally present spirit; above all 
the other gods. He was the god of the sky. They 
represented him with two ravens that sat on his 
shoulders, which every morning brought him news 
of whatever was going on in Midgard" 
 
" What's Midgard?" 
"Our lower earth. And the abode of the gods 
was called Asgard." 
"We did not read any thing about Midgard and 
Asgard to-day." 
"No, but I thought you might like to know. 
And then Walhalla was the place where Odin put 
half of the brave men who were slain in battle." 
"What became of the other half?" said Flora. 
"The goddess Freija took care of them. What 
she did with them, this book does not say. I have 
read before of the 'halls of Walhalla,' I am glad 
to know what it means." 
" Who was Freija ? " 
"Wait a bit; I have not got through with Woden, or Odin. His two ravens were called Hunin 
and Munin which means, Thought and Memory. 
That's pretty ! Woden is painted also as attended 
by two dogs. He was the chief and head of the 
gods ; you understand. Now Freija was one of his 
wives. Naturally, she was the goddess of good 
weather and harvests a fair kind of goddess gen 
erally. Also the dead were in her care ; the other 
half of the heroes slain in battle came into her 
hands. She is painted riding in a chariot drawn 
by two cats." 
" But, Ditto, if Woden was the sky god, I don't 
see why those old Saxons should have fancied he 
would like such cruel sacrifices. Sunlight looks 
bright and cheerful." 
Meredith mused. 
