asked me to hold him up in bed while he wrote himself, and I said he
could never, never do such a thing. But he seemed to have a kind of
terror that gave him strength. I found a pencil in the room and a piece
of paper and a book, and I put the paper on the book and the pencil into
his hand, and moved the candle near him. You will think all this very
strange, sir; and very strange it was. The strangest part of it was that
I believed he was dying, and that I was eager to help him to write. I
sat on the bed and put my arm round him, and held him up. I felt very
strong; I believe I could have lifted him and carried him. It was a
wonder how he wrote, but he did write, in a big scratching hand; he
almost covered one side of the paper. It seemed a long time; I suppose
it was three or four minutes. He was groaning, terribly, all the while.
Then he said it was ended, and I let him down upon his pillows and he
gave me the paper and told me to fold it, and hide it, and give it to
those who would act upon it. ‘Whom do you mean?’ I said. ‘Who are those
who will act upon it?’ But he only groaned, for an answer; he couldn’t
speak, for weakness. In a few minutes he told me to go and look at the
bottle on the chimney-piece. I knew the bottle he meant; the white
stuff that was good for his stomach. I went and looked at it, but it was
empty. When I came back his eyes were open and he was staring at me; but
soon he closed them and he said no more. I hid the paper in my dress;
I didn’t look at what was written upon it, though I can read very well,
sir, if I haven’t any handwriting. I sat down near the bed, but it was
nearly half an hour before my lady and the count came in. The marquis
looked as he did when they left him, and I never said a word about his
having been otherwise. Mr. Urbain said that the doctor had been
called to a person in childbirth, but that he promised to set out for
Fleurières immediately. In another half hour he arrived, and as soon as
he had examined the marquis he said that we had had a false alarm. The
poor gentleman was very low, but he was still living. I watched my lady
and her son when he said this, to see if they looked at each other, and
I am obliged to admit that they didn’t. The doctor said there was no
reason he should die; he had been going on so well. And then he wanted
to know how he had suddenly fallen off; he had left him so very hearty.
My lady told her little story again--what she had told Mr. Urbain and
me--and the doctor looked at her and said nothing. He stayed all the
next day at the château, and hardly left the marquis. I was always
there. Mademoiselle and Mr. Valentin came and looked at their father,
but he never stirred. It was a strange, deathly stupor. My lady was
always about; her face was as white as her husband’s, and she looked
very proud, as I had seen her look when her orders or her wishes had
been disobeyed. It was as if the poor marquis had defied her; and the
way she took it made me afraid of her. The apothecary from Poitiers kept
the marquis along through the day, and we waited for the other doctor
from Paris, who, as I told you, had been staying at Fleurières. They had
telegraphed for him early in the morning, and in the evening he arrived.
He talked a bit outside with the doctor from Poitiers, and then they
came in to see the marquis together. I was with him, and so was Mr.
Urbain. My lady had been to receive the doctor from Paris, and she
didn’t come back with him into the room. He sat down by the marquis;
I can see him there now, with his hand on the marquis’s wrist, and Mr.
Urbain watching him with a little looking-glass in his hand. ‘I’m sure
he’s better,’ said the little doctor from Poitiers; ‘I’m sure he’ll come
back.’ A few moments after he had said this the marquis opened his eyes,
as if he were waking up, and looked at us, from one to the other. I saw
him look at me very softly, as you’d say. At the same moment my lady
came in on tiptoe; she came up to the bed and put in her head between me
and the count. The marquis saw her and gave a long, most wonderful moan.
He said something we couldn’t understand, and he seemed to have a kind
of spasm. He shook all over and then closed his eyes, and the doctor
jumped up and took hold of my lady. He held her for a moment a bit
roughly. The marquis was stone dead! This time there were those there
that knew.”
Newman felt as if he had been reading by starlight the report of highly
important evidence in a great murder case. “And the paper--the paper!”
 he said, excitedly. “What was written upon it?”
“I can’t tell you, sir,” answered Mrs. Bread. “I couldn’t read it; it
was in French.”
“But could no one else read it?”
“I never asked a human creature.”
“No one has ever seen it?”
“If you see it you’ll be the first.”
Newman seized the old woman’s hand in both his own and pressed it
vigorously. “I thank you ever so much for that,” he cried. “I want to
be the first, I want it to be my property and no one else’s! You’re the
wisest old woman in Europe. And what did you do with the paper?” This
information had made him feel extraordinarily strong. “Give it to me
quick!”
Mrs. Bread got up with a certain majesty. “It is not so easy as that,
sir. If you want the paper, you must wait.”
“But waiting is horrible, you know,” urged Newman.
“I am sure I have waited; I have waited these many years,” said Mrs.
Bread.
“That is very true. You have waited for me. I won’t forget it. And yet,
how comes it you didn’t do as M. de Bellegarde said, show the paper to
someone?”
“To whom should I show it?” answered Mrs. Bread, mournfully. “It was not
easy to know, and many’s the night I have lain awake thinking of it.
Six months afterwards, when they married Mademoiselle to her vicious old
husband, I was very near bringing it out. I thought it was my duty to do
something with it, and yet I was mightily afraid. I didn’t know what
was written on the paper or how bad it might be, and there was no one
I could trust enough to ask. And it seemed to me a cruel kindness to do
that sweet young creature, letting her know that her father had written
her mother down so shamefully; for that’s what he did, I suppose. I
thought she would rather be unhappy with her husband than be unhappy
that way. It was for her and for my dear Mr. Valentin I kept quiet.
Quiet I call it, but for me it was a weary quietness. It worried me
terribly, and it changed me altogether. But for others I held my tongue,
and no one, to this hour, knows what passed between the poor marquis and
me.”
“But evidently there were suspicions,” said Newman. “Where did Mr.
Valentin get his ideas?”
“It was the little doctor from Poitiers. He was very ill-satisfied, and
he made a great talk. He was a sharp Frenchman, and coming to the house,
as he did day after day, I suppose he saw more than he seemed to see.
And indeed the way the poor marquis went off as soon as his eyes fell on
my lady was a most shocking sight for anyone. The medical gentleman from
Paris was much more accommodating, and he hushed up the other. But for
all he could do Mr. Valentin and Mademoiselle heard something; they knew
their father’s death was somehow against nature. Of course they couldn’t
accuse their mother, and, as I tell you, I was as dumb as that stone.
Mr. Valentin used to look at me sometimes, and his eyes seemed to shine,
as if he were thinking of asking me something. I was dreadfully afraid
he would speak, and I always looked away and went about my business. If
I were to tell him, I was sure he would hate me afterwards, and that I
could never have borne. Once I went up to him and took a great liberty;
I kissed him, as I had kissed him when he was a child. ‘You oughtn’t to
look so sad, sir,’ I said; ‘believe your poor old Bread. Such a gallant,
handsome young man can have nothing to be sad about.’ And I think he
understood me; he understood that I was begging off, and he made up
his mind in his own way. He went about with his unasked question in
his mind, as I did with my untold tale; we were both afraid of bringing
dishonor on a great house. And it was the same with Mademoiselle. She
didn’t know what happened; she wouldn’t know. My lady and Mr. Urbain
asked me no questions because they had no reason. I was as still as
a mouse. When I was younger my lady thought me a hussy, and now she
thought me a fool. How should I have any ideas?”
“But you say the little doctor from Poitiers made a talk,” said Newman.
“Did no one take it up?”
“I heard nothing of it, sir. They are always talking scandal in these
foreign countries you may have noticed--and I suppose they shook their
heads over Madame de Bellegarde. But after all, what could they say? The
marquis had been ill, and the marquis had died; he had as good a right
to die as anyone. The doctor couldn’t say he had not come honestly by
his cramps. The next year the little doctor left the place and bought a
practice in Bordeaux, and if there has been any gossip it died out.
And I don’t think there could have been much gossip about my lady that
anyone would listen to. My lady is so very respectable.”
Newman, at this last affirmation, broke into an immense, resounding
laugh. Mrs. Bread had begun to move away from the spot where they were
sitting, and he helped her through the aperture in the wall and
along the homeward path. “Yes,” he said, “my lady’s respectability is
delicious; it will be a great crash!” They reached the empty space in
front of the church, where they stopped a moment, looking at each
other with something of an air of closer fellowship--like two sociable
conspirators. “But what was it,” said Newman, “what was it she did to
her husband? She didn’t stab him or poison him.”
“I don’t know, sir; no one saw it.”
“Unless it was Mr. Urbain. You say he was walking up and down, outside
the room. Perhaps he looked through the keyhole. But no; I think that
with his mother he would take it on trust.”
“You may be sure I have often thought of it,” said Mrs. Bread. “I
am sure she didn’t touch him with her hands. I saw nothing on him,
anywhere. I believe it was in this way. He had a fit of his great pain,
and he asked her for his medicine. Instead of giving it to him she went
and poured it away, before his eyes. Then he saw what she meant, and,
weak and helpless as he was, he was frightened, he was terrified. ‘You
want to kill me,’ he said. ‘Yes, M. le Marquis, I want to kill you,’
says my lady, and sits down and fixes her eyes upon him. You know my
lady’s eyes, I think, sir; it was with them she killed him; it was
with the terrible strong will she put into them. It was like a frost on
flowers.”
“Well, you are a very intelligent woman; you have shown great
discretion,” said Newman. “I shall value your services as housekeeper
extremely.”
They had begun to descend the hill, and Mrs. Bread said nothing until
they reached the foot. Newman strolled lightly beside her; his head was
thrown back and he was gazing at all the stars; he seemed to himself to
be riding his vengeance along the Milky Way. “So you are serious, sir,
about that?” said Mrs. Bread, softly.
“About your living with me? Why of course I will take care of you to the
end of your days. You can’t live with those people any longer. And you
oughtn’t to, you know, after this. You give me the paper, and you move
away.”
“It seems very flighty in me to be taking a new place at this time of
life,” observed Mrs. Bread, lugubriously. “But if you are going to turn
the house upside down, I would rather be out of it.”
“Oh,” said Newman, in the cheerful tone of a man who feels rich in
alternatives. “I don’t think I shall bring in the constables, if that’s
what you mean. Whatever Madame de Bellegarde did, I am afraid the law
can’t take hold of it. But I am glad of that; it leaves it altogether to
me!”
“You are a mighty bold gentleman, sir,” murmured Mrs. Bread, looking at
him round the edge of her great bonnet.
He walked with her back to the château; the curfew had tolled for the
laborious villagers of Fleurières, and the street was unlighted and
empty. She promised him that he should have the marquis’s manuscript in
half an hour. Mrs. Bread choosing not to go in by the great gate, they
passed round by a winding lane to a door in the wall of the park, of
which she had the key, and which would enable her to enter the château
from behind. Newman arranged with her that he should await outside the
wall her return with the coveted document.
She went in, and his half hour in the dusky lane seemed very long. But
he had plenty to think about. At last the door in the wall opened and
Mrs. Bread stood there, with one hand on the latch and the other holding
out a scrap of white paper, folded small. In a moment he was master of
it, and it had passed into his waistcoat pocket. “Come and see me in
Paris,” he said; “we are to settle your future, you know; and I will
translate poor M. de Bellegarde’s French to you.” Never had he felt so
grateful as at this moment for M. Nioche’s instructions.
Mrs. Bread’s dull eyes had followed the disappearance of the paper, and
she gave a heavy sigh. “Well, you have done what you would with me, sir,
and I suppose you will do it again. You must take care of me now. You
are a terribly positive gentleman.”
“Just now,” said Newman, “I’m a terribly impatient gentleman!” And he
bade her good-night and walked rapidly back to the inn. He ordered his
vehicle to be prepared for his return to Poitiers, and then he shut
the door of the common salle and strode toward the solitary lamp on the
chimney-piece. He pulled out the paper and quickly unfolded it. It was
covered with pencil-marks, which at first, in the feeble light, seemed
indistinct. But Newman’s fierce curiosity forced a meaning from the
tremulous signs. The English of them was as follows:--
“My wife has tried to kill me, and she has done it; I am dying, dying
horribly. It is to marry my dear daughter to M. de Cintré. With all my
soul I protest,--I forbid it. I am not insane,--ask the doctors, ask
Mrs. B----. It was alone with me here, to-night; she attacked me and put
me to death. It is murder, if murder ever was. Ask the doctors.
“HENRI-URBAIN DE BELLEGARDE”
CHAPTER XXIII
Newman returned to Paris the second day after his interview with Mrs.
Bread. The morrow he had spent at Poitiers, reading over and over again
the little document which he had lodged in his pocket-book, and thinking
what he would do in the circumstances and how he would do it. He would
not have said that Poitiers was an amusing place; yet the day seemed
very short. Domiciled once more in the Boulevard Haussmann, he walked
over to the Rue de l’Université and inquired of Madame de Bellegarde’s
portress whether the marquise had come back. The portress told him that
she had arrived, with M. le Marquis, on the preceding day, and further
informed him that if he desired to enter, Madame de Bellegarde and her
son were both at home. As she said these words the little white-faced
old woman who peered out of the dusky gate-house of the Hôtel de
Bellegarde gave a small wicked smile--a smile which seemed to Newman
to mean, “Go in if you dare!” She was evidently versed in the current
domestic history; she was placed where she could feel the pulse of the
house. Newman stood a moment, twisting his moustache and looking at her;
then he abruptly turned away. But this was not because he was afraid
to go in--though he doubted whether, if he did so, he should be able
to make his way, unchallenged, into the presence of Madame de Cintré’s
relatives. Confidence--excessive confidence, perhaps--quite as much as
timidity prompted his retreat. He was nursing his thunderbolt; he loved
it; he was unwilling to part with it. He seemed to be holding it aloft
in the rumbling, vaguely-flashing air, directly over the heads of his
victims, and he fancied he could see their pale, upturned faces. Few
specimens of the human countenance had ever given him such pleasure
as these, lighted in the lurid fashion I have hinted at, and he was
disposed to sip the cup of contemplative revenge in a leisurely fashion.
It must be added, too, that he was at a loss to see exactly how he could
arrange to witness the operation of his thunder. To send in his card to
Madame de Bellegarde would be a waste of ceremony; she would certainly
decline to receive him. On the other hand he could not force his way
into her presence. It annoyed him keenly to think that he might be
reduced to the blind satisfaction of writing her a letter; but he
consoled himself in a measure with the reflection that a letter might
lead to an interview. He went home, and feeling rather tired--nursing a
vengeance was, it must be confessed, a rather fatiguing process; it
took a good deal out of one--flung himself into one of his brocaded
fauteuils, stretched his legs, thrust his hands into his pockets, and,
while he watched the reflected sunset fading from the ornate house-tops
on the opposite side of the Boulevard, began mentally to compose a cool
epistle to Madame de Bellegarde. While he was so occupied his servant
threw open the door and announced ceremoniously, “Madame Brett!”
Newman roused himself, expectantly, and in a few moments perceived upon
his threshold the worthy woman with whom he had conversed to such good
purpose on the starlit hill-top of Fleurières. Mrs. Bread had made for
this visit the same toilet as for her former expedition. Newman was
struck with her distinguished appearance. His lamp was not lit, and as
her large, grave face gazed at him through the light dusk from under
the shadow of her ample bonnet, he felt the incongruity of such a person
presenting herself as a servant. He greeted her with high geniality and
bade her come in and sit down and make herself comfortable. There was
something which might have touched the springs both of mirth and of
melancholy in the ancient maidenliness with which Mrs. Bread endeavored
to comply with these directions. She was not playing at being fluttered,
which would have been simply ridiculous; she was doing her best to carry
herself as a person so humble that, for her, even embarrassment would
have been pretentious; but evidently she had never dreamed of its being
in her horoscope to pay a visit, at night-fall, to a friendly single
gentleman who lived in theatrical-looking rooms on one of the new
Boulevards.
“I truly hope I am not forgetting my place, sir,” she murmured.
“Forgetting your place?” cried Newman. “Why, you are remembering it.
This is your place, you know. You are already in my service; your wages,
as housekeeper, began a fortnight ago. I can tell you my house wants
keeping! Why don’t you take off your bonnet and stay?”
“Take off my bonnet?” said Mrs. Bread, with timid literalness. “Oh, sir,
I haven’t my cap. And with your leave, sir, I couldn’t keep house in my
best gown.”
“Never mind your gown,” said Newman, cheerfully. “You shall have a
better gown than that.”
Mrs. Bread stared solemnly and then stretched her hands over her
lustreless satin skirt, as if the perilous side of her situation were
defining itself. “Oh, sir, I am fond of my own clothes,” she murmured.
“I hope you have left those wicked people, at any rate,” said Newman.
“Well, sir, here I am!” said Mrs. Bread. “That’s all I can tell you.
Here I sit, poor Catherine Bread. It’s a strange place for me to be. I
don’t know myself; I never supposed I was so bold. But indeed, sir, I
have gone as far as my own strength will bear me.”
“Oh, come, Mrs. Bread,” said Newman, almost caressingly, “don’t make
yourself uncomfortable. Now’s the time to feel lively, you know.”
She began to speak again with a trembling voice. “I think it would be
more respectable if I could--if I could”--and her voice trembled to a
pause.
“If you could give up this sort of thing altogether?” said Newman
kindly, trying to anticipate her meaning, which he supposed might be a
wish to retire from service.
“If I could give up everything, sir! All I should ask is a decent
Protestant burial.”
“Burial!” cried Newman, with a burst of laughter. “Why, to bury you now
would be a sad piece of extravagance. It’s only rascals who have to be
buried to get respectable. Honest folks like you and me can live our
time out--and live together. Come! Did you bring your baggage?”
“My box is locked and corded; but I haven’t yet spoken to my lady.”
“Speak to her, then, and have done with it. I should like to have your
chance!” cried Newman.
“I would gladly give it you, sir. I have passed some weary hours in my
lady’s dressing-room; but this will be one of the longest. She will tax
me with ingratitude.”
“Well,” said Newman, “so long as you can tax her with murder--”
“Oh, sir, I can’t; not I,” sighed Mrs. Bread.
“You don’t mean to say anything about it? So much the better. Leave that
to me.”
“If she calls me a thankless old woman,” said Mrs. Bread, “I shall have
nothing to say. But it is better so,” she softly added. “She shall be my
lady to the last. That will be more respectable.”
“And then you will come to me and I shall be your gentleman,” said
Newman; “that will be more respectable still!”
Mrs. Bread rose, with lowered eyes, and stood a moment; then, looking
up, she rested her eyes upon Newman’s face. The disordered proprieties
were somehow settling to rest. She looked at Newman so long and so
fixedly, with such a dull, intense devotedness, that he himself might
have had a pretext for embarrassment. At last she said gently, “You are
not looking well, sir.”
“That’s natural enough,” said Newman. “I have nothing to feel well
about. To be very indifferent and very fierce, very dull and very
jovial, very sick and very lively, all at once,--why, it rather mixes
one up.”
Mrs. Bread gave a noiseless sigh. “I can tell you something that will
make you feel duller still, if you want to feel all one way. About
Madame de Cintré.”
“What can you tell me?” Newman demanded. “Not that you have seen her?”
She shook her head. “No, indeed, sir, nor ever shall. That’s the
dullness of it. Nor my lady. Nor M. de Bellegarde.”
“You mean that she is kept so close.”
“Close, close,” said Mrs. Bread, very softly.
These words, for an instant, seemed to check the beating of Newman’s
heart. He leaned back in his chair, staring up at the old woman. “They
have tried to see her, and she wouldn’t--she couldn’t?”
“She refused--forever! I had it from my lady’s own maid,” said Mrs.
Bread, “who had it from my lady. To speak of it to such a person my lady
must have felt the shock. Madame de Cintré won’t see them now, and now
is her only chance. A while hence she will have no chance.”
“You mean the other women--the mothers, the daughters, the sisters; what
is it they call them?--won’t let her?”
“It is what they call the rule of the house,--or of the order, I
believe,” said Mrs. Bread. “There is no rule so strict as that of the
Carmelites. The bad women in the reformatories are fine ladies to them.
They wear old brown cloaks--so the femme de chambre told me--that you
wouldn’t use for a horse blanket. And the poor countess was so fond of
soft-feeling dresses; she would never have anything stiff! They sleep on
the ground,” Mrs. Bread went on; “they are no better, no better,”--and
she hesitated for a comparison,--“they are no better than tinkers’
wives. They give up everything, down to the very name their poor old
nurses called them by. They give up father and mother, brother and
sister,--to say nothing of other persons,” Mrs. Bread delicately added.
“They wear a shroud under their brown cloaks and a rope round their
waists, and they get up on winter nights and go off into cold places to
pray to the Virgin Mary. The Virgin Mary is a hard mistress!”
Mrs. Bread, dwelling on these terrible facts, sat dry-eyed and pale,
with her hands clasped in her satin lap. Newman gave a melancholy
groan and fell forward, leaning his head on his hands. There was a long
silence, broken only by the ticking of the great gilded clock on the
chimney-piece.
“Where is this place--where is the convent?” Newman asked at last,
looking up.
“There are two houses,” said Mrs. Bread. “I found out; I thought you
would like to know--though it’s poor comfort, I think. One is in the
Avenue de Messine; they have learned that Madame de Cintré is there. The
other is in the Rue d’Enfer. That’s a terrible name; I suppose you know
what it means.”
Newman got up and walked away to the end of his long room. When he came
back Mrs. Bread had got up, and stood by the fire with folded hands.
“Tell me this,” he said. “Can I get near her--even if I don’t see her?
Can I look through a grating, or some such thing, at the place where she
is?”
It is said that all women love a lover, and Mrs. Bread’s sense of the
pre-established harmony which kept servants in their “place,” even
as planets in their orbits (not that Mrs. Bread had ever consciously
likened herself to a planet), barely availed to temper the maternal
melancholy with which she leaned her head on one side and gazed at
her new employer. She probably felt for the moment as if, forty years
before, she had held him also in her arms. “That wouldn’t help you, sir.
It would only make her seem farther away.”
“I want to go there, at all events,” said Newman. “Avenue de Messine,
you say? And what is it they call themselves?”
“Carmelites,” said Mrs. Bread.
“I shall remember that.”
Mrs. Bread hesitated a moment, and then, “It’s my duty to tell you
this, sir,” she went on. “The convent has a chapel, and some people are
admitted on Sunday to the mass. You don’t see the poor creatures that
are shut up there, but I am told you can hear them sing. It’s a wonder
they have any heart for singing! Some Sunday I shall make bold to go. It
seems to me I should know her voice in fifty.”
Newman looked at his visitor very gratefully; then he held out his hand
and shook hers. “Thank you,” he said. “If anyone can get in, I will.”
 A moment later Mrs. Bread proposed, deferentially, to retire, but he
checked her and put a lighted candle into her hand. “There are half a
dozen rooms there I don’t use,” he said, pointing through an open door.
“Go and look at them and take your choice. You can live in the one
you like best.” From this bewildering opportunity Mrs. Bread at first
recoiled; but finally, yielding to Newman’s gentle, reassuring push, she
wandered off into the dusk with her tremulous taper. She remained absent
a quarter of an hour, during which Newman paced up and down, stopped
occasionally to look out of the window at the lights on the Boulevard,
and then resumed his walk. Mrs. Bread’s relish for her investigation
apparently increased as she proceeded; but at last she reappeared and
deposited her candlestick on the chimney-piece.
“Well, have you picked one out?” asked Newman.
“A room, sir? They are all too fine for a dingy old body like me. There
isn’t one that hasn’t a bit of gilding.”
“It’s only tinsel, Mrs. Bread,” said Newman. “If you stay there a while
it will all peel off of itself.” And he gave a dismal smile.
“Oh, sir, there are things enough peeling off already!” rejoined Mrs.
Bread, with a head-shake. “Since I was there I thought I would look
about me. I don’t believe you know, sir. The corners are most dreadful.
You do want a housekeeper, that you do; you want a tidy Englishwoman
that isn’t above taking hold of a broom.”
Newman assured her that he suspected, if he had not measured, his
domestic abuses, and that to reform them was a mission worthy of her
powers. She held her candlestick aloft again and looked around the salon
with compassionate glances; then she intimated that she accepted the
mission, and that its sacred character would sustain her in her rupture
with Madame de Bellegarde. With this she curtsied herself away.
She came back the next day with her worldly goods, and Newman, going
into his drawing-room, found her upon her aged knees before a divan,
sewing up some detached fringe. He questioned her as to her leave-taking
with her late mistress, and she said it had proved easier than she
feared. “I was perfectly civil, sir, but the Lord helped me to remember
that a good woman has no call to tremble before a bad one.”
“I should think so!” cried Newman. “And does she know you have come to
me?”
“She asked me where I was going, and I mentioned your name,” said Mrs.
Bread.
“What did she say to that?”
“She looked at me very hard, and she turned very red. Then she bade me
leave her. I was all ready to go, and I had got the coachman, who is an
Englishman, to bring down my poor box and to fetch me a cab. But when I
went down myself to the gate I found it closed. My lady had sent orders
to the porter not to let me pass, and by the same orders the porter’s
wife--she is a dreadful sly old body--had gone out in a cab to fetch
home M. de Bellegarde from his club.”
Newman slapped his knee. “She is scared! she is scared!” he cried,
exultantly.
“I was frightened too, sir,” said Mrs. Bread, “but I was also mightily
vexed. I took it very high with the porter and asked him by what right
he used violence to an honorable Englishwoman who had lived in the house
for thirty years before he was heard of. Oh, sir, I was very grand, and
I brought the man down. He drew his bolts and let me out, and I promised
the cabman something handsome if he would drive fast. But he was
terribly slow; it seemed as if we should never reach your blessed door.
I am all of a tremble still; it took me five minutes, just now, to
thread my needle.”
Newman told her, with a gleeful laugh, that if she chose she might
have a little maid on purpose to thread her needles; and he went away
murmuring to himself again that the old woman was scared--she was
scared!
He had not shown Mrs. Tristram the little paper that he carried in
his pocket-book, but since his return to Paris he had seen her several
times, and she had told him that he seemed to her to be in a strange
way--an even stranger way than his sad situation made natural. Had his
disappointment gone to his head? He looked like a man who was going to
be ill, and yet she had never seen him more restless and active. One day
he would sit hanging his head and looking as if he were firmly resolved
never to smile again; another he would indulge in laughter that was
almost unseemly and make jokes that were bad even for him. If he was
trying to carry off his sorrow, he at such times really went too far.
She begged him of all things not to be “strange.” Feeling in a measure
responsible as she did for the affair which had turned out so ill
for him, she could endure anything but his strangeness. He might be
melancholy if he would, or he might be stoical; he might be cross and
cantankerous with her and ask her why she had ever dared to meddle
with his destiny: to this she would submit; for this she would make
allowances. Only, for Heaven’s sake, let him not be incoherent. That
would be extremely unpleasant. It was like people talking in their
sleep; they always frightened her. And Mrs. Tristram intimated that,
taking very high ground as regards the moral obligation which events
had laid upon her, she proposed not to rest quiet until she should have
confronted him with the least inadequate substitute for Madame de Cintré
that the two hemispheres contained.
“Oh,” said Newman, “we are even now, and we had better not open a new
account! You may bury me some day, but you shall never marry me. It’s
too rough. I hope, at any rate,” he added, “that there is nothing
incoherent in this--that I want to go next Sunday to the Carmelite
chapel in the Avenue de Messine. You know one of the Catholic
ministers--an abbé, is that it?--I have seen him here, you know; that
motherly old gentleman with the big waistband. Please ask him if I need
a special leave to go in, and if I do, beg him to obtain it for me.”
Mrs. Tristram gave expression to the liveliest joy. “I am so glad you
have asked me to do something!” she cried. “You shall get into the
chapel if the abbé is disfrocked for his share in it.” And two days
