“Upon my word, Olivia, you are in an ominously prophetic mood. I hear a
carriage; and, as I am invisible to all eyes but your gifted ones,
pardon me if I unceremoniously leave the priestess on her tripod.”
And the curtain dropped between them as suddenly as it had been lifted,
depriving the woman of the one troubled joy of her life,—companionship
with him.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                  IV.
“Felix, are you asleep?”
“No, sir, only resting.”
“Have you been at work?”
“Decidedly; I rowed across the lake and back.”
“Alone?”
“Gladys went with me, singing like a mermaid all the way.”
“Ah!”
Both men were lounging in the twilight; but there was a striking
difference in their way Of doing it. Canaris lay motionless on a couch,
his head pillowed on his arms, enjoying the luxury of repose, with the
dolce far niente only possible to those in whose veins runs Southern
blood. Helwyze leaned in a great chair, which looked a miracle of
comfort; but its occupant stirred restlessly, as if he found no ease
among its swelling cushions; and there was an alert expression in his
face, betraying that the brain was at work on some thought or purpose
which both absorbed and excited.
A pause followed the brief dialogue, during which Canaris seemed to
relapse into his delicious drowse, while Helwyze sat looking at him with
the critical regard one bestows on a fine work of art. Yet something in
the spectacle of rest he could not share seemed to annoy him; for,
suddenly turning up the shaded lamp upon his table, he dispelled the
soft gloom, and broke the silence.
“I have a request to make. May I trouble you to listen?”
There was a tone of command in the courteously worded speech, which made
Canaris sit erect, with a respectful—
“At your service, sir.”
“I wish you to marry,” continued Helwyze, with such startling abruptness
that the young man gazed at him in mute amazement for a moment. Then,
veiling his surprise by a laugh, he asked lightly,—
“Isn’t it rather soon for that, sir? I am hardly of age.”
“Geniuses are privileged; and I am not aware of any obstacle, if I am
satisfied,” answered Helwyze, with an imperious gesture, which seemed to
put aside all objections.
“Do you seriously mean it, sir?”
“I do.”
“But why such haste?”
“Because it is my pleasure.”
“I will not give up my liberty so soon,” cried the young man, with a
mutinous flash of the eye.
“I thought you had already given it up. If you choose to annul the
agreement, do it, and go. You know the forfeit.”
“I forgot this possibility. Did I agree to obey in all things?”
“It was so set down in the bond. Entire obedience in return for the
success you coveted. Have I failed in my part of the bargain?”
“No, sir; no.”
“Then do yours, or let us cancel the bond, and part.”
“How can we? What can I do without you? Is there no way but this?”
“None.”
Canaris looked dismayed,—and well he might, for it seemed impossible to
put away the cup he had thirsted for, when its first intoxicating
draught was at his lips.
Helwyze had spoken with peculiar emphasis, and his words were full of
ominous suggestion to the listener’s ear; for he alone knew how much
rebellion would cost him, since luxury and fame were still dearer than
liberty or honor. He sprung up, and paced the room, feeling like some
wild creature caught in a snare.
Helwyze, regardless of his chafing, went on calmly, as if to a willing
hearer, eying him vigilantly the while, though now his own manner was as
persuasive as it had been imperative before.
“I ask no more than many parents do, and will give you my reasons for
the demand, though that was not among the stipulations.”
“A starving man does not stop to weigh words, or haggle about promises.
I was desperate, and you offered me salvation; can you wonder that I
clutched the only hand held out to me?” demanded Canaris, with a world
of conflicting emotions in his expressive face, as he paused before his
master.
“I am not speaking of the first agreement, that was brief as simple. The
second bargain was a more complicated matter. You were not desperate
then; you freely entered into it, reaped the benefits of it, and now
wish to escape the consequences of your own act. Is that fair?”
“How could I dream that you would exact such obedience as this? I am too
young; it is a step that may change my whole life; I must have time,”
murmured Canaris, while a sudden change passed over his whole face, his
eye fell before the glance bent on him, as the other spoke.
“It need not change your life, except to make it freer, perhaps happier.
Hitherto you have had all the pleasure, now I desire my share. You often
speak of gratitude; prove it by granting my request, and, in adding a
new solace to my existence, you will find you have likewise added a new
charm to your own.”
“It is so sudden,—I do desire to show my gratitude,—I have tried to do
my part faithfully so far,” began Canaris, as if a look, a word, had
tamed his high spirit, and enforced docility sorely against his will.
“So far, I grant that, and I thank you for the service which I desire to
lessen by the step you decline to take. I have spoilt you for use, but
not for ornament. I still like to see you flourish; I enjoy your
success; I cannot free you; but I can give you a mate, who will take
your place and amuse me at home, while you sing and soar abroad. Is that
sufficiently poetical for a poet’s comprehension?” and Helwyze smiled,
that satiric smile of his, still watching the young man’s agitated
countenance.
“But why need I marry? Why cannot”—there Canaris hesitated, for he
lacked the courage to make the very natural suggestion Olivia had done.
Helwyze divined the question on his lips, and answered it with stern
brevity.
“That is impossible;” then added, with the sudden softening of tone
which made his voice irresistibly seductive, “I have given one reason
for my whim: there are others, which affect you more nearly and
pleasantly, perhaps. Little more than a year ago, your first book came
out, making you famous for a time. You have enjoyed your laurels for a
twelvemonth, and begin to sigh for more. The world has petted you, as it
does any novelty, and expects to be paid for its petting, else it will
soon forget you.”
“No fear of that!” exclaimed the other, with the artless arrogance of
youth.
“If I thought you would survive the experiment, I would leave you to
discover what a fickle mistress you serve. But frost would soon blight
your budding talent, so we will keep on the world’s sunny side, and
tempt the Muse, not terrify her.”
Nothing could be smoother than the voice in which these words were said;
but a keen ear would have detected an accent of delicate irony in it,
and a quick eye have seen that Canaris winced, as if a sore spot had
been touched.
“I should think marriage would do that last, most effectually,” he
answered, with a scornful shrug, and an air of great distaste.
“Not always: some geniuses are the better for such bondage. I fancy you
are one of them, and wish to try the experiment. If it fails, you can
play Byron, to your heart’s content.”
“A costly experiment for some one.” Canaris paused in his impatient
march, to look down with a glance of pity at the dead lily still knotted
in his button-hole.
Helwyze laughed at the touch of sentiment,—a low, quiet laugh; but it
made the young man flush, and hastily fling away the faded flower, whose
pure loveliness had been a joy to him an hour ago. With a half docile,
half defiant look, he asked coldly,—
“What next, sir?”
“Only this: you have done well. Now, you must do better, and let the
second book be free from the chief fault which critics found,—that,
though the poet wrote of love, it was evident he had never felt it.”
“Who shall say that?” with sudden warmth.
“I, for one. You know nothing of love, though you may flatter yourself
you do. So far, it has been pretty play enough, but I will not have you
waste yourself, or your time. You need inspiration, this will give it
you. At your age, it is easy to love the first sweet woman brought near
you, and almost impossible for any such to resist your wooing. An early
marriage will not only give heart and brain a fillip, but add the new
touch of romance needed to keep up the world’s interest in the rising
star, whose mysterious advent piques curiosity as strongly as his work
excites wonder and delight.”
Composure and content had been gradually creeping back into the
listener’s mien, as a skilful hand touched the various chords that
vibrated most tunefully in a young, imaginative, ardent nature. Vivid
fancy painted the “sweet woman” in a breath, quick wit saw at once the
worldly wisdom of the advice, and ambition found no obstacle impassable.
“You are right, sir, I submit; but I claim the privilege of choosing my
inspirer,” he said, warily.
“You have already chosen, if I am not much mistaken. A short wooing, but
a sure one; for little Gladys has no coquetry, and will not keep you
waiting for her answer.”
“Gladys is a child,” began Canaris, still hesitating to avow the truth.
“The fitter mate for you.”
“But, sir, you are mistaken: I do not love her.”
“Then, why teach her to love you?”
“I have not: I was only kind. Surely I cannot be expected to marry every
young girl who blushes when I look at her,” he said, with sullen
petulance, for women had spoilt the handsome youth, and he was as
ungrateful as such idols usually are.
“Then, who?—ah! I perceive; I had forgotten that a boy’s first
tendresse is too often for a woman twice his age. May I trouble you?”
and Helwyze held up the empty glass with which he had been toying while
he talked.
Among the strew of books upon the table at his elbow stood an antique
silver flagon, coolly frosted over by the iced wine it held. This
Canaris obediently lifted; and, as he stooped to fill the rosy bowl of
the Venetian goblet, Helwyze leaned forward, till the two faces were so
close that eye looked into eye, as he said, in one swift sentence, “It
was to win Olivia for yourself, then, that you wooed Gladys for me,
three hours ago?”
The flagon was not heavy, but it shook in the young man’s grasp, and the
wine overflowed the delicate glass, dyeing red the hand that held it.
One face glowed with shame and anger; the other remained unmoved, except
a baffling smile upon the lips, that added, in mild reproach,—
“My Ganymede has lost his skill; it is time I filled his place with a
neat-handed Hebe. Make haste, and bring her to me soon.”
Mutely Canaris removed all traces of the treacherous mishap, inwardly
cursing his imprudent confidences, wondering what malignant chance
brought within ear-shot one who rarely left his own apartments at the
other end of the villa; and conscious of an almost superstitious fear of
this man, who read so surely, and dragged to light so ruthlessly, hidden
hopes and half-formed designs.
Vouchsafing no enlightenment, Helwyze sipped the cool draught with an
air of satisfaction, continuing the conversation in a tone of
exasperating calmness.
“Among other amusing fables with which you beguiled poor Gladys, I think
you promised counsel and comfort. Keep your word, and marry her. It is
the least you can do, after destroying her faith in the one friend she
possessed. A pleasant, but a dangerous pastime, and not in the best
taste; let me advise you to beware of it in future.”
There was a covert menace in the tone, a warning in the significant grip
of the pale fingers round the glass, as if about to snap its slender
stem. Canaris was white now with impotent wrath, and a thrill went
through his vigorous young frame, as if the wild creature was about to
break loose, and defy its captor.
But the powerful eye was on him, with a spark of fire in its depths, and
controlled till words, both sweet and bitter, soothed and won him.
“I know that any breath of tenderness would pass by Olivia as idly as
the wind. You doubt this, and a word will prove it. I am not a tyrant,
though I seem such; therefore you are free to try your fate before you
gratify my whim and make Gladys happy.”
“You think the answer will be ‘No?’” and Canaris forgot every thing but
the hope which tempted, even while reason told him it was vain.
“It always has been; it always will be, if I know her.”
“Will be till you ask.”
“Rest easy; I am done with love.”
“But if she answers ‘Yes’?”
“Then bid good-bye to peace,—and me.”
The answer startled the young lover, and made him shrink from what he
ardently desired; for the new passion was but an enthralment of the
senses, and he knew it by the fine instinct which permits such men to
see and condemn their lower nature, even while yielding to its sway.
But pride silenced doubt, and native courage made it impossible to shun
the trial or accept the warning. His eye lit, his head rose, and he
spoke out manfully, though unconsciously he wore the look of one who
goes to lead a forlorn hope,—
“I shall try my fate to-night, and, if I fail, you may do what you like
with me.”
“Not a coward, thank Heaven!” mused Helwyze, as he looked after the
retreating figure with the contemptuous admiration one gives to any
foolhardy enterprise bravely undertaken. “He must have his lesson, and
will be the tamer for it, unless Olivia takes me at my word, and humors
the boy, for vengeance’ sake. That would be a most dramatic
complication, and endanger my winter’s comfort seriously. Come, suspense
is a new emotion; I will enjoy it, and meantime make sure of Gladys, or
I may be left in the lurch. A reckless boy and a disappointed woman are
capable of any folly.”
------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                   V.
Helwyze folded black velvet paletôt about him, stroked the damp hair
off his forehead, and, with hands loosely clasped behind his back, went
walking slowly through the quiet house, to find the bright drawing-room
and breezy balcony already deserted.
No sound of voice or step gave him the clew he sought; and, pausing in
the hall, he stood a moment, his finger on his lip, wondering whither
Gladys had betaken herself.
“Not with them, assuredly. Dreaming in the moonshine somewhere. I must
look again.”
Retracing his noiseless steps, he glanced here and there with eyes which
nothing could escape, for trifles were significant to his quick wit; and
he found answers to unspoken queries in the relics the vanished trio
left behind them. Olivia’s fan, flung down upon a couch, made him smile,
as if he saw her toss it there when yielding half-impatiently to the
entreaties of Canaris. An ottoman, pushed hastily aside, told where the
young lover sat, till he beguiled her out to listen to the pleading
which would wax eloquent and bold under cover of the summer night. The
instrument stood open, a favorite song upon the rack, but the glimmering
keys were mute; and the wind alone was singing fitfully. A little hat
lay in the window, as if ready to be caught up in glad haste when the
summons came; but the dew had dimmed the freshness of its azure ribbons,
and there was a forlorn look about the girlish thing, which told the
story of a timid hope, a silent disappointment.
“Where the deuce is the child?” and Helwyze cast an ireful look about
the empty room; for motion wearied him, and any thwarting of his will
was dangerous. Suddenly his eye brightened, and he nodded, as if well
pleased; for below the dark drapery that hung before an arch, a fold of
softest white betrayed the wearer.
“Now I have her!” he whispered, as if to some familiar; and, parting the
curtains, looked down upon the little figure sitting there alone, bathed
in moonlight as purely placid as the face turned on him when he spoke.
“Might one come in? The house seems quite deserted, and I want some
charitable soul to say a friendly word to me.”
“Oh, yes! What can I do, sir?” With the look of a suddenly awakened
child, Gladys rose up, and involuntarily put out her hand as if to heap
yet more commodiously the pillows of the couch which filled the alcove;
then paused, remembering what Canaris had told her of the invalid’s
rejection of all sympathy, and stood regarding him with a shy, yet
wistful glance, which plainly showed the impulse of her tender heart.
Conscious that the surest way to win this simple creature was by
submitting to be comforted,—for in her, womanly compassion was stronger
than womanly ambition, vanity, or interest,—Helwyze shed a reassuring
smile upon her, as he threw himself down, exclaiming, with a sigh of
satisfaction, doubly effective from one who so seldom owned the
weariness that oppressed him,—
“Yes: you shall make me comfortable, if you kindly will; the heat
exhausts me, and I cannot sleep. Ah, this is pleasant! You have the gift
of piling pillows for weary heads, Gladys. Now, let the moonlight make a
picture of you, as it did before I spoilt it; then I shall envy no man.”
Pleased, yet abashed, the girl sank back into her place on the wide
window ledge, and bent her face over the blooming linden spray that lay
upon her lap, unconsciously making of herself a prettier picture than
before.
“Musing here alone? Not sorrowfully, I hope?”
“I never feel alone, sir, and seldom sorrowful.”
“‘They never are alone that are accompanied with noble thoughts;’ yet it
would not be unnatural if you felt both sad and solitary, so young, so
isolated, in this big, bad world of ours.”
“A beautiful and happy world to me, sir. Even loneliness is pleasant,
because with it comes—liberty.”
The last word fell from her lips involuntarily; and, with a wonderfully
expressive gesture, she lifted her arms as if some heavy fetter had
newly dropped away.
Ardent emphasis and forceful action both surprised and interested
Helwyze, confirming his suspicion that this girlish bosom hid a spirit
as strong as pure, capable of deep suffering, exquisite happiness,
heroic effort. His eye shone, and he gave a satisfied nod; for his first
careless words had struck fire from the girl, making his task easier and
more attractive.
“And how will you use this freedom? A precious, yet a perilous, gift for
such as you.”
“Can any thing so infinitely sweet and sacred be dangerous? He who
planted the longing for it here, and gave it me when most needed, will
surely teach me how to use it. I have no fear.”
The bent head was erect now; the earnest face turned full on Helwyze
with such serene faith shining in it, that the sneer died off his lips,
and something like genuine compassion touched him, at the sight of such
brave innocence tranquilly confronting the unknown future.
“May nothing molest, or make afraid. While here, you are quite safe;—you
do, then, think of going?” he added, as a quick change arrested him.
“I do, sir, and soon. I only wait to see how, and where.”
It was difficult to believe that so resolute a tone could come into a
voice so gentle, or that lips whose shape was a smile could curl with
such soft scorn. But both were there; for the memory of that other
woman’s story embittered even gratitude, since in the girl’s simple
creed disloyalty to love was next to disloyalty to God.
Helwyze watched her closely, while his fingers fell to tapping idly on
the sofa scroll; and the spark brightened under the lids that contracted
with the intent expression of concentrated sight.
“Perhaps I can show you how and when. May I?” he asked, assuming a
paternal air, which inwardly amused him much.
Gladys looked, hesitated, and a shade of perplexity dimmed the clear
brightness of her glance, as if vaguely conscious of distrust, and
troubled by its seeming causelessness.
Helwyze saw it, and quickly added the magical word which lulled
suspicion, roused interest, and irresistibly allured her fancy.
“Pardon me; I should not have ventured to speak, if Felix had not hinted
that you began to weary of dependence, as all free spirits must; your
own words confirm the hint; and I desired to share my cousin’s pleasure
in befriending, if I might, one who can so richly repay all obligation.
Believe me, Gladys, your voice is a treasure, which, having discovered,
we want to share between us.”
If the moonlight had been daybreak, the girl’s cheek could not have
shown a rosier glow, as she half-averted it to hide the joy she felt at
knowing Canaris had taken thought for her so soon. Her heart fluttered
with tender hopes and fears, like a nestful of eager birds; and,
forgetting doubt in delight, she yielded to the lure held out to her.
“You are most kind: I shall be truly grateful if you will advise me,
sir. Mrs. Surry has done so much, I can ask no more, but rather hasten
to relieve her of all further care of me.”
“She will be loth to lose you; but the friend of whom I am about to
speak needs you much, and can give you what you love better even than
kindness,—independence.”
“Yes: that is what I long for! I will do any thing for daily bread, if I
may earn it honestly, and eat it in freedom,” leaning nearer, with
clasped hands and eager look.
“Could you be happy to spend some hours of each day in reading, singing
to, and amusing a poor soul, who sorely needs such pleasant comforting?”
“I could. It would be very sweet to do it; and I know how, excellently
well, for I have had good training. My father was an invalid, and I his
only nurse for years.”
“Fortunate for me in all ways,” thought Helwyze, finding another reason
for his purpose; while Gladys, bee-like, getting sweetness out of
bitter-herbs, said to herself, “Those weary years had their use, and are
not wasted, as I feared.”
“I think these duties will not be difficult nor distasteful,” continued
Helwyze, marking the effect of each attraction, as he mentioned it with
modest brevity. “It is a quiet place; plenty of rare books to read, fine
pictures to study, and music to enjoy; a little clever society, to keep
wits bright and enliven solitude; hours of leisure, and entire liberty
to use them as you will. Would this satisfy you, Gladys, till something
better can be found?”
“Better!” echoed the girl, with the expression of one who, having asked
for a crust, is bidden to a feast. “Ah, sir, it sounds too pleasant for
belief. I long for all these lovely things, but never hoped to have
them. Can I earn so much happiness? Am I a fit companion for this poor
lady, who must need the gentlest nursing, if she suffers in the midst of
so much to enjoy?”
“You will suit exactly; have no fear of that, my good child. Just be
your own happy, helpful self, and you can make sunshine anywhere. We
will talk more of this when you have turned it over in that wise young
head of yours. Olivia may have some more attractive plan to offer.”
But Gladys shook “the wise young head” with a decided air, as piquante
as the sudden resolution in her artless voice.
“I shall choose for myself; your plan pleases me better than any Mrs.
Surry is likely to propose. She says I must not work, but rest and enjoy
myself. I will work; I love it; ease steals away my strength, and
pleasure seems to dazzle me. I must be strong, for I have only myself to
lean upon; I must see clearly, for my only guide is my own conscience. I
will think of your most kind offer, and be ready to accept it whenever
you like to try me, sir.”
“Thanks; I like to try you now, then; sit here and croon some drowsy
song, to show how well you can lull wakeful senses into that blessed
oblivion called sleep.”
As he spoke, Helwyze drew a low seat beside the couch, and beckoned her
to come and take it; for she had risen as if to go, and he had no mind
to be left alone yet.
“I am so pleased you asked me to do this, for it is my special gift.
Papa was very stubborn, but he always had to yield, and often called me
his ‘sleep compeller.’ Let me drop the curtain first, light is so
exciting, and draws the insects. I shall keep them off with this pretty
fan, and you will find the faint perfume soothing.”
Full of the sweetest good-will, Gladys leaned across the couch to darken
the recess before the lullaby began. But Helwyze, feeling in a mood for
investigation and experiment, arrested the outstretched hand, and,
holding it in his, turned the full brilliance of his fine eyes on hers,
asking with most seductive candor,—
“Gladys, if I were the friend of whom we spoke, would you come to me?
You compel truth as well as sleep, and I cannot deceive you, while you
so willingly serve me.”
A moment she stood looking down into the singular countenance before her
with a curious intentness in her own. A slight quickening of the breath
was all the sign she gave of a consciousness of the penetrative glance
fixed upon her, the close grasp of his hand; otherwise unembarrassed as
a child, she regarded him with an expression maidenly modest, but quite
composed. Helwyze keenly enjoyed these glimpses of the new character
with which he chose to meddle, yet was both piqued and amused by her
present composure, when the mere name of Felix filled her with the
delicious shamefacedness of a first love.
It was a little curious that during the instant the two surveyed each
other, that, while the girl’s color faded, a light red tinged the man’s
pale cheek, her eye grew clear and cold as his softened, and the small
hand seemed to hold the larger by the mere contact of its passive
fingers.
Slow to arrive, the answer was both comprehensive and significant, but
very brief, for three words held it.
“Could I come?”
Helwyze laughed with real enjoyment.
“You certainly have the gift of surprises, if no other, and it makes you
charming, Gladys. I fancied you as unsophisticated as if you were eight,
instead of eighteen, and here I find you as discreet as any woman of the
world,—more so than many. Where did you learn it, child?”
“From myself; I have no other teacher.”
“Ah! ‘instinct is a fine thing, my masters.’ You could not have a
better guide. Rest easy, little friend, the proprieties shall be
preserved, and you can come, if you decide to do me the honor. My old
housekeeper is a most decorous and maternal creature, and into her
keeping you will pass. Felix pleased me well, but his time is too
valuable now; and, selfish as I am, I hesitate to keep for my own
comfort the man who can charm so many. Will you come, and take his
place?”
Helwyze could not deny himself the pleasure of calling back the
tell-tale color, for the blushes of a chaste woman are as beautiful as
the blooming of a flower. Quickly the red tide rose, even to the brow,
the eyes fell, the hand thrilled, and the steady voice faltered
traitorously, “I could not fill it, sir.”
Still detaining her, that he might catch the sweet aroma of an opening
heart, Helwyze added, as the last temptation to this young Eve, whom he
was beguiling out of the safe garden of her tranquil girlhood into the
unknown world of pain and passion, waiting for womankind beyond,—
“Not for my own sake alone do I want you, but for his. Life is full of
perils for him, and he needs a home. I cannot make one for him, except
in this way, for my house is my prison, and he wearies of it naturally.
But I can give it a new charm, add a never-failing attraction, and
make it homelike by a woman’s presence. Will you help me in this?”
“I am not wise enough; Mrs. Surry is often with you: surely she could
make it homelike far better than I,” stammered Gladys, chilled by a
sudden fear, as she remembered Canaris’ face as he departed with Olivia
an hour ago.
“Pardon; that is precisely what she cannot do. Such women weary while
they dazzle, the gentler sort win while they soothe. We shall see less
of her in future; it is not well for Felix. Take pity on me, at least,
and answer ‘Yes.’”
“I do, sir.”
“How shall I thank you?” and Helwyze kissed the hand as he released it,
leaving a little thorn of jealousy behind to hoodwink prudence,
stimulate desire, and fret the inward peace that was her best
possession.
Glad to take refuge in music, the girl assumed her seat, and began to
sing dreamily to the slow waving of the green spray. Helwyze feigned to
be courting slumber, but from the ambush of downcast lids he stole
sidelong glances at the countenance so near his own, that he could mark
the gradual subsiding of emotion, the slow return of the repose which
made its greatest charm for him. And so well did he feign, that
presently, as if glad to see her task successfully ended, Gladys stole
away to the seclusion of her own happy thoughts.
Busied with his new plans and purposes, Helwyze waited till his patience
was rewarded by seeing the face of Canaris appear at the window, glance
in, and vanish as silently as it came. But one look was enough, and in
that flash of time the other read how the rash wooing had sped, or
thought he did, till Olivia came sweeping through the room, flung wide
the curtains, and looked in with eyes as brilliant as if, they had
borrowed light of the fire-flies dancing there without.
“A fan, a cigarette, a scarlet flower behind the ear, and the Spanish
donna would be quite perfect,” he said, surveying with lazy admiration
the richly colored face, which looked out from the black lace, wrapped
mantilla-wise over the dark hair and whitely gleaming arms.
“Is the snowdrop gone? Then I will come in, and hear how the new
handmaid suits. I saw her at her pleasing task.”
“So well that I should like to keep her at it long and often. Where is
Felix?”
His words, his look, angered Olivia, and she answered with smiling
ambiguity,—
“Out of his misery, at last.”
“Cruel as ever. I told him it would be so.”
“On the contrary, I have been kind, as I promised to be.”
“Then his face belied him.”
“Would it please you, if I had ventured to forestall your promised gift,
and accepted all Felix has to offer me, himself. I have my whims, like
you, and follow them as recklessly.”
Helwyze knit his brows, but answered negligently, “Folly never pleases
me. It will be amusing to see which tires first. I shall miss him; but
his place is already filled, and Gladys has the charm of novelty.”
“You have spoken, then?”
“Forewarned, forearmed; I have her promise, and Felix can go when he
likes.”
