
Constance, with a flash of resentment : " No ; 
thanks." Then with a lapse into her morbid self- 
abasement : " I shall not touch it again. Mam- 
ma!" 

Mrs. Wyatt: "Yes, Constance." Mrs. Wyatt 
and Cummings, both intent on Bartlett and Con- 
stance, have been heroically feigning a polite in- 
terest in each other, from which pretense they 
now eagerly release themselves. 

Constance : " Oh nothing. I can get it of 
Mary. I won't trouble you." She goes toward 
the door. 

Mrs. Wyatt : " Mary isn't up from her breakfast, 
yet. If you want anything, let me go with you, 
dear." She turns to follow Constance. u Good 
morning, Mr. Cummings ; we shall see you at din- 
ner. Good morning," with an inquiring glance 
at Bartlett. Constance slightly inclines towards 



 

the two gentlemen without looking at them, in 
going out with her mother ; and Cummings moves 
away to the piano, and affects to examine the 
sheet-music scattered over it. Bartlett remains in 
his place near the easel. 



III. 

BARTLETT and CUMMINGS. 

Bartlett, harshly, after a certain silence which 
his friend is apparently resolved not to break : 
" Sail in, Cummings ! " 

Gummings : " Oh, I Ve got nothing to say." 

Bartlett: "Yes, you have. You think I'm a 
greater fool and a greater brute than you ever 
supposed in your most sanguine moments. Well, 
I am ! What then ? " 

Gummings, turning about from the music at 
which he has been pretending to look, and facing 
Bartlett, with a slight shrug : " If you choose to 
characterize your own behavior in that way, I shall 
not dispute you at any rate." 

Bartlett : " Go on ! " 

Gummings: "Go on? You saw yourself, I 
suppose, how she hung upon every syllable you 
spoke, every look, every gesture ? " 



 

Bartlctt: "Yes, I saw it." 

Cummings : " You saw how completely crushed 
she was by your tone and manner. You 're not 
blind. Upon my word, Bartlett, if I didn't know 
what a good, kind-hearted fellow you are, I should 
say you were the greatest ruffian alive." 

Bartlett) with a groan : " Go on ! That 's some- 
thing like." 

Cummings : " I couldn't hear what was going 
on I 'll own I tried but I could see ; and to 
see the delicate amende she was trying to offer 
you, in such a way that it should not seem an 
amende, a perfect study of a woman's gra- 
cious, unconscious art, and then to see your sour 
refusal of it all, it made me sick." 

Bartlett with a desperate clutch at his face, like 
a man oppressed with some stifling vapor : " Yes, 
yes ! I saw it all, too ! And if it had been for me, 
I would have given anything for such happiness. 
Oh, gracious powers ! How dear she is ! I would 
rather have suffered any anguish than give her 
pain, and yet I gave her pain ! I knew how it 
entered her heart : I felt it in my own. But 




what could I do ? If I am to be myself, if I am 
not to steal the tenderness meant for another 
man, the love she shows to me because I 'in like 
somebody else, I must play the brute. But have a 
little mercy on me. At least, I 'm a baited brute. 
I don't know which way to turn, I don't know 
what to do. She 's so dear to me, so dear in 
every tone of her voice, every look of her eyes, 
every aspiration or desire of her transparent soul, 
that it seems to me my whole being is nothing but 
a thought of her. I loved her helplessness, her 
pallor, her sorrow ; judge how I adore her return 
to something like life ! Oh, you blame me ! You 
simplify this infernal perplexity of mine and label 
it brutality, and scold me for it. Great heaven ! 
And yet you saw, you heard how she entered this 
room. In that instant the old illusion was back 
on her, and I was nothing. All that I had been 
striving and longing to be to her, and hoping and 
despairing to seem, was swept out of existence ; I 
was reduced to a body without a soul, to a shadow, 
a counterfeit! You think I resented it? Poor 
girl, I pitied her so ; and my own heart all the 



 

time like lead in my breast, a dull lump of ache! 
I swear, I wonder I don't go mad. I suppose 
why, I suppose I am insane. No man in his senses 
was ever bedeviled by such a maniacal hallucina- 
tion. Look here, Cummings: tell me that this 
damnable coil isn't simply a matter of my own 
fancy. It'll be some little relief to know that it's 
real. 

Cummings: "It's real enough, my dear fellow. 
And it is a trial, more than I could have be- 
lieved such a fantastic thing could be." 

Bartlett: " Trial? Ordeal by fire! Torment! I 
can't stand it any longer." 

Cumminys, musingly : " She is beautiful, isn't 
she, with that faint dawn of red in her cheeks, 
not a color, but a colored light like the light that 
hangs round a rose-tree's boughs in the early 
spring! And what a magnificent movement, what 
a stately grace ! The girl must have been a god- 
dess!" 

Bartlett: "And now she's a saint for sweet- 
ness and patience! You think she 's had nothing 
to suffer before from me ? You know me better ! 
Well, I 'm going away." 



 

Cummings: Perhaps it will be the best. You 
can go back with me to-morrow." 

Bartlett: "To morrow? Go back with you to- 
morrow? What are you talking about, man?" 
Cummings smiles. "I can't go to-morrow. I 
can't leave her hating me." --. 

Cummin gs: " I knew you never meant to go. 
Well, what will you do ? " 

Bartlett: "Don't be so cold-blooded! What 
would you do ? " 

Cummings: "I would have it out, somehow." 

Bartlett : " Oh, you talk ! How ? " 

Cummings: "I am not in love with Miss 
Wyatt." 

Bartlett : " Oh, don't try to play the cynic with 
me ! It doesn't become you. I know I Ve used 
you badly at times, Cummings. I behaved abomi- 
nably in leaving you to take the brunt of meeting 
General Wyatt that first day ; I said so then, and 
f shall always say it. But I thought you had for- 
given that." 

Cummings, with a laugh : " You make it hard to 
treat you seriously, Bartlett. What do you want 



 

me to do ? Do you want me to go to Miss Wyatt, 
and explain your case to her?" 

Bartlett, angrily: "No!" 

Gumming s : "Perhaps to Mrs. Wyatt?" 

Bartlett, infuriate : " No ! " 
, Cummings : " To the General ? " 

Bartlett, with sudden quiet: "You had better 
go away from here, Cummings while you can." 

Cummings : " I see you don't wish me to do 
anything, and you 're quite right. Nobody can do 
anything but yourself." 

Bartlett : " And what would you advise me to 
do?" 

Cummings: "I've told you that I would have 
it out. You can't make matters worse. You can't 
go on in this way indefinitely. It's just possible 
that you might find yourself mistaken, that Miss 
Wyatt cares for you in your own proper identity." 

Bartlett: "For shame!" 

Cummings: "Oh, if you like!" 

Bartlett, after a pause: "Would you would 
you see the General?" 

Cummings: "If I wanted to marry the General. 



 

Come, Bartlett; don't be ridiculous. You know 
you don't want my advice, and I haven't any to 
give. I must go to my room a moment." 

Bartlett: "Well, go! You're of no advantage 
here. You 'd have it out, would you ? Well, then, 
I wouldn't. I 'm a brute, I know, and a fool, but 
I 'm not such a brute and fool as that ! " Cum- 
mings listens with smiling patience, and then goes 
without reply, while Bartlett drops into the chair 
near the easel, and sulkily glares at the picture. 
Through the window at his back shows the mel- 
low Indian summer landscape. The trees have all 
dropped their leaves, save the oaks which show 
their dark crimson banners among the deep green 
of the pines and hemlocks on the hills; the mead- 
ows, verdant as in June, slope away toward the 
fringe of birches and young maples along the 
borders of the pond ; the low-blackberry trails like 
a running fire over the long grass limp from the 
first frosts, which have silenced all the insect voices. 
No sound of sylvan life is heard but the harsh 
challenge of a jay, answered from many trees of the 
nearest wood-lot. The far-off hill-tops are molten 
 



 

in the soft azure haze of the season ; the nearer 
slopes and crests sleep under a grayer and thinner 
veil. It is to this scene that the painter turns 
from the easel, with the sullen unconsciousness in 
which he has dwelt upon the picture. Its beauty 
seems at last to penetrate his mood ; he rises and 
looks upon it ; then he goes out on the gallery, and, 
hidden by the fall of one of the curtains, stands 
leaning upon the rail and rapt in the common 
revery of the dreaming world. While he lingers 
there, Cummings appears at the door, and looks 
in ; then with an air of some surprise, as if wonder- 
ing not to see Bartlett, vanishes again, to give 
place to General Wyatt, who after a like research 
retires silently and apparently disconcerted. A 
few moments later Mrs. Wyatt comes to the thresh- 
old, and calling gently into the room, "Con- 
stance!" waits briefly and goes away. At last, 
the young girl herself appears, and falters in the 
doorway an instant, but finally comes forward and 
drifts softly and indirectly up to the picture, at 
which she glances with a little sigh. At the same 
moment Bartlett's voice, trolling a snatch of song, 
comes from the gallery without: 



 



ROMANCE. 



Here apart our paths, then, lie : 
This way you wend, that way I ; 
Speak one word before you go : ' 
Do not, do not leave me so ! 

n. 

What is it that I should say ? 
Tell me quick ; I cannot stay ; 
Quick ! I am not good at guessing : 
Night is near, and time is pressing. 



Nay, then, go ! But were I you, 

I will tell you what I 'd do : 

Rather than be baffled so, 

I would never, never go ! " 

As the song ends, Bartlett reappears at the gallery 
door giving into the parlor, and encounters Con- 
stance turning at his tread from the picture on 
which she has been pensively gazing while he 
sang. He puts up a hand on either side of the 
door. 



IV. 
BARTLETT and CONSTANCE. 

Bartlett: "I didn't know you were here." 
Constance: "Neither did I know you were, 
till I heard you singing." 

Bartlett, smiling ironically: "Oh, you didn't 
suppose I sang ! " 

Constance, confusedly: "I I don't know" 
Bartlett: " Ah, you thought I did! I don't. I 
was indulging in a sort of modulated howling 
which I flatter myself is at least one peculiarity 
that 's entirely my own. I was baying the land- 
scape merely for my private amusement, and I 'd 
not have done it, if I 'd known you were in hear- 
ing. However, if it's helped to settle the fact 
one way or other, concerning any little idiosyncrasy 
of mine, I shan't regret it. I hope not to disappoint 
you in anything, by and by." He drops his hands 



 

from the doorposts and steps into the room, while 
Constance, in shrinking abeyance, stands trembling 
at his harshness. 

Constance, in faltering reproach: "Mr. Bart- 
lett!" 

Bartlett: " Constance ! " 

Constance, struggling to assert herself, but break- 
ing feebly in her attempt at hauteur: "Constance? 
What does this mean, Mr. Bartlett?" 

Bartlett, with a sudden burst: "What does it 
mean ? It means that I 'm sick of this nightmare 
masquerade. It means that I want to be some- 
thing to you all the world to you in and for 
myself. It means that I can't play another man's 
part any longer and live. It means that I love 
you, love you, love you, Constance!" He starts 
involuntarily toward her with outstretched arms, 
from which she recoils with a convulsive cry. 

Constance: "You love me? Me? Oh, no, no! 
How can you be so merciless as to talk to me of 
love?" She drops her glowing face into her hands. 

Bartlett: "Because I 'm a man. Because love 
is more than mercy better, higher, wiser. Listen 



 

to me, Constance! yes, I will call you so now, 
if never again : you are so dear to me that I must 
say it at last if it killed you. If loving you is 
cruel, I 'm pitiless ! Give me some hope, tell me 
to breathe, my girl ! " 

Constance: "Oh go, while I can still forgive 
you." 

Bartlett : " I won't go ; I won't have your for- 
giveness ; I will have all or nothing ; I want your 
love ! " 

Constance, uncovering her face and turning its 
desolation upon him ; " My love ? I have no love 
to give. My heart is dead." 

Bartlett: "No, no! That's part of the ugly 
trance that we 've both been living in so long. 
Look ! You 're better now than when you came 
here ; you 're stronger, braver, more beautiful. 
My angel, you 're turned a woman again ! Oh 
you can love me if you will ; and you will ! Look 
at me, darling ! " He takes her listless right hand 
in his left, and gently draws her toward him. 

Constance, starting away : " You 're wrong ; 
you're all wrong! You don't understand; you 
don't know Oh, listen to me ! " 



 

Bartlett, still holding her cold hand fast : " Yes, 
a thousand years. But you must tell me first that 
I may love you. That first ! " 

Constance : " No ! That never ! And since you 
speak to me of love, listen to what it 's my right 
you should hear!' 

Bartlett, releasing her : " I don't care to hear. 
Nothing can ever change me. But if you bid me, 
I will go ! " 

Constance : " You shall not go now till you 
know what despised and hated and forsaken thing 
you Ve offered your love to." 

Bartlett, beseechingly : " Constance, let me go 
while I can forgive myself. Nothing you can say 
will make me love you less ; remember that ; but 
I implore you to spare yourself. Don't speak, my 
love." 

Constance: "Spare myself? Not speak? Not 
speak what has been on my tongue and heart and 
brain, a burning fire, so long ? Oh, I was a happy 
girl once ! The days were not long enough for 
my happiness ; I woke at night to think of it. I 
was proud in my happiness and believed myself, 




poor fool, one to favor those I smiled on ; and I 
had my vain and crazy dreams of being the hap- 
piness of some one who should come to ask for 
what you ask now. Some one came. At first 
I didn't care for him, but he knew how to make 
me. He knew how to make my thoughts of him 
part of my happiness and pride and vanity till he 
was all in all, and I had no wish, no hope, no life 
but him ; and then he left me ! " She buries 
her face in her hands again, and breaks into a low, 
piteous sobbing. 

Bartlett, with a groan of helpless fury and com- 
passion : " The fool, the sot, the slave ! Constance, 
I knew all this, I knew it from the first." 

Constance, recoiling in wild reproach : " You 
knew it? " 

Bartlett, desperately : " Yes, I knew it in 
spite of myself, through my own stubborn fury I 
knew it, that first day, when I had obliged my 
friend to tell me what your father had told him, 
before I would hear reason. I would have given 
anything not to have known it then, when it was 
too late, for I had at least the grace to feel the 



 

wrong, the outrage of my knowing it. You can 
never pardon it, I see ; but you must feel what a 
hateful burden I had to bear, when I found that I 
had somehow purloined the presence, the looks, 
the voice of another man- a man whom I would 
have joyfully changed myself to any monstrous 
shape not to resemble, though I knew that my 
likeness to him, bewildering you in a continual 
dream of him, was all that ever made you look at 
me or think of me. I lived in the hope Heaven 
only knows why I should have had the hope ! 
that I might yet be myself to you; that you might 
wake from your dream of him and look on me in 
the daylight, and see that I was at least an honest 
