reproof for being late. A sick child was the ex 
cuse; and as he looked into his clerk 's face, he 
saw that it was pale with trouble and watching. 
Mr. Edwards sighed. The pressure on his 
feelings was heavier. Everything, during that 
day, seemed to possess a strange power of annoy 
ance ; and to the failure to lift a pearl from his 
feet in the morning, was added many failures of a 
like character. 
" "Will you please to buy an almanac ?" said a 
childish voice, near him. 
" No, I do not please," was the gruff reply of 
Mr. Edwards. He spoke as he looked up, on the 
moment 's impulse. The timid, half frightened 
face of a tender child, scarcely a year older than 
his darling at home, glanced upon him for an 
instant, and then he saw only the retreating 
form of a little girl. Before his better feelings 
prompted a recall of his repellant words, she was 
in the street, and out of sight. 
This was a little thing in itself, but it told 
sharply on the feelings of Mr. Edwards, who was 
naturally a kind-hearted man. He sat very still 
for a little while, then, sighing again, went on 
with the letter he wa,s writing when the little 
 
almanac-seller disturbed him at his work. An 
other "now" had passed, leaving a shadow, in 
stead of the sunshine it might have bestowed. 
"Can you help me out, to-day? I have a 
large note falling due." 
" I cannot," replied Mr. Edwards. 
The neighbor looked disappointed, and went 
away. 
Now that neighbor had many times obliged 
Mr. Edwards in a similar way. Our merchant 
had no balance over in bank. That may be said 
for him. But he had money out on call, and 
could, without inconvenience, have helped his 
neighbor. He remembered this after it was too 
late. The "now" had passed again, and left 
upon his memory another burden of unquiet 
thought. 
And so the hours of that day passed, each one 
leaving some "now" unimproved some pearl 
lying by the wayside some offered blessing un 
touched ; and when, at a later period than usual, 
Mr. Edwards turned his steps homeward, he felt 
as if he had lost instead of gained a day. 
Dear Louis ! Away, faster than his feet could 
carry him, went the heart of Mr. Edwards, to 
wards his darling boy. Somehow, the father 's 
imagination would present no other image of the 
child but that which showed him in grief for the 
kiss denied that morning. 
" Where is Louis ?" were the first words 
spoken by Mr. Edwards, as he entered the room 
where his wife was sitting. It was at least an 
hour after nightfall. 
" In bed, and asleep," was the answer. 
At another time, this answer would have pro 
duced no unpleasant feelings ; now, it was felt 
almost like a painful shock. 
Mr. Edwards went to the chamber where Louis 
lay, in his little bed. The gas was burning low ; 
he turned it up, so that the light would fall upon 
his face. How beautiful it was, in its childish 
innocence ! How placid ! And yet, the father 's 
eyes saw, looking, as they did, through the mo- 
 
dium of a troubled state, a touch of grief upon 
the lips, and a shade of rebuking sadness on the 
brow of his darling. 
" Precious one !" he said, as he bent to kiss the 
pure forehead. " I wronged both your heart and 
mine." 
It seemed to him, after the kiss and confession, 
that the sleeper 's face took on a more peaceful, 
loving aspect. For many minutes, he stood 
gazing down upon his unconscious boy; then, 
murmuring to himself " It shall not be so 
again, sweet one !" lowered the gas to a taper 
flame, and went with noiseless footsteps, from the 
room. 
For the gain of half a minute to business, in 
the morning, what a loss had there been to love, 
and peace, and comfort, for the space of hours. 
Let us take care of our nows and our to-days; for 
herein lies the true secret of happiness, and the 
true philosophy of life. 
 
XVI. 
A LESSON IN LIFE. 
" T WILL stop now," said Mr. Fanshaw, at 
forty-five, pausing in his life-work, and 
looking back over the broad fields through which 
he had been reaping for years, and then at his 
barns and store-houses, that were filled to over 
flowing. " Having enough and to spare, why 
toil on, eagerly and anxiously, for more? Having 
borne the burden and heat of the day, why not 
accept the rest that a liberal competence oifers? 
Let others work now; my part is done. If I add 
to the wealth already accumulated, can I enter 
more into its enjoyments ? Then why strive on ? 
No ; I will stop now, and take the good life has 
to offer. Only a few years remain to me at best ; 
why waste them in this dull round of simple 
money-making ?" 
 
Mr. Fanshaw was a philosopher, in his own 
estimation. He pondered this view of the case at 
intervals which grew briefer and briefer, seeing 
it in a stronger and stronger light, until the pro 
position was fully accepted, and he calmly ar 
ranged to withdraw from all active participation 
in business. With the very first step in this ar 
rangement came a shadow of misgiving. Then 
he went all over the argument by which he had 
been influenced to retire " r &gt;m active life, but 
could discover no flaw therein. He had ample 
wealth, yielding an income beyond what, even in 
luxurious living, he could spend. Why, then, 
dig and delve ? Why gather in more, and lay it 
up for others to scatter ? Why waste his energies 
for naught ? 
Mr. Fanshaw regarded the argument as conclu 
sive, and notwithstanding the shadow of misgiving 
which, at the very first movement, crept over his 
feelings, he walked steadily to the result in view. 
It took him over a year to get disentangled from 
the many business connections in which he was 
 
involved, during all. of which time that faint sha 
dow kept growing more and more palpable, and 
when,- at last, freed from cares and duties, he sat 
down in the sunshine of his prosperity to simply 
enjoy, he could perceive little or no warmth in 
that sunshine. He looked up, doubting and 
questioning, into the sky that bent over him. It 
was not blue, and bright, and sparkling to the 
eye, but had a kind of leaden dullness that left its 
hue upon his feelings. A strange unrest began 
to disturb his spirit. Wearily the days passed, 
and the nights became more and more sleepless. 
" Go into the country," said a friend, who saw, 
in the face and manner of Mr. Fanshaw, the evi 
dences of a growing life- weariness. " Build your 
self a handsome villa, and surround it with all 
the charms of nature made more beautiful by 
art." 
But Mr. Fanshaw had no taste for rural life or 
landscape gardening. His mind had received no 
cultivation in that direction ; and there were no 
early associations to draw him back to woods and 
 
 
fields. A city boy, he had grown up among city 
scenes, and the city 's hard features were stamped 
upon him. For over twenty-five years all inte 
rest had been absorbed in bales and boxes of 
goods; in stocks and bills; in mortgages, bonds 
and money securities. And now, that he no 
longer cared for these things, what came in to 
take their places and hold his restless thoughts ? 
"Visit Europe," suggested another friend, who 
saw the growing discontent of Mr. Fanshaw. 
This was conned over. A year in London, 
Paris, Florence and Rome looked promising. 
He went, and enjoyed to the degree a man of his 
education and habits of life is capable of enjoy 
ing; but found the annoyances incident to tra 
veling abroad in excess of the pleasure. So he 
came home, to find home drearier than when he 
went away. There was a time when Mr. Fan 
shaw enjoyed the daily newspaper; but then he 
took a lively interest in cotton and grain, and the 
prioi of leading stocks. Political affairs had also 
a certain attraction; for the political world was in 
 
close connection with the business world. He 
moved about, too, among live men, all on the 
alert, like himself, and ambition, as well as inte 
rest, kept him posted in common affairs, so as to 
stand their equals. But now he had ruled him 
self out of the current movements of the day, and 
gradually losing the " run of things," lost the old 
desire for his newspaper no, we err not the old 
desire, but the old enjoyment. The newspaper 
was resorted to as before, with a certain pleasura 
ble anticipation ; but rarely did its columns yield 
the honey he would find. Dry and unprofitable 
all. Daily the sheet was thrown aside in disap 
pointment. 
Out of the live current, Mr. Fanshaw was 
moving in a small, sluggish eddy, round and 
round. Vitality was departing every day. Mind 
was growing weaker through an impotent ex 
haustion of itself; and as it grew weaker he grew 
unhappier. Plainly, Mr. Fanshaw had made a 
mistake in retiring from business. So one ven 
tured to say. 
 
" I know that," was his answer. " I didn 't 
understand myself." 
" Go into business again," was suggested. 
But Mr. Fanshaw shook his head, answering, 
" No ; I am out of the current, and have not the 
boldness to venture in again. Nearly three years 
of idleness have reduced the old vigor of mind. 
I feel that T should be unequal to the require 
ments. A business life, as the M r orld goes now, 
is a different thing from floating with the tide. 
There is no success but for those who strain 
every muscle pulling against the stream." 
And this was the simple truth. Ease, idleness, 
and loss of mental vigor through sluggishness of 
mind, had robbed Mr. Fanshaw of strength to 
such a degree that he dared not venture again out 
upon the waters where he had once held his place 
among the boldest and most vigorous. 
Two years more of a fruitless life, and then, 
without warning, down from a summer sky fell a 
desolating storm, sweeping from hundreds and 
thousands, all over the land, the gathered wealth 
 
of years. While it raged, a bolt struck the fair 
edifice which Mr. Fanshaw had builded, and it 
fell in hopeless ruin to the ground. Of all its 
goodly stones, scarcely one remained unbroken ot 
in its place. 
Stunned at first; then appalled by the disaster; 
and then quickened into a fearful sense of his 
helplessness and hopelessness, Mr. Fanshaw 's first 
state of mind was one of bitter complaints. He 
called this misfortune a hard and cruel dispensa 
tion ; and when a wiser one. than himself drew 
near, and sought to lift his thoughts into a purer 
atmosphere, where he could see stars shining in 
the midnight sky, he rejected his offered words 
of instruction, and called God cruel and unjust. 
"Nay, my friend, say not so," was answered. 
" God is good, and just, and wise. Out of this 
darkness, he will, in his own good time, I trust, 
bring you into marvelous light. His ways are 
not as our ways, but they lead upwards ; he sees 
not as we see; but in his purposes are eternal feli 
city. I think that he has work for you yet in this 
 
world, Mr. Fanshaw ; work that only your hands 
can aright perform." 
But Mr. Fanshaw rejected the proposition. 
Worldly wealth had been the greatest good in his 
eyes. Through long years he had toiled for it 
with an unabating ardor. And now, it was 
swept from his grasp. 
It so happened that, a few days afterwards, 
Mr. Fanshaw was in the house of this wiser 
friend, to whom in remembrance of warm expres 
sion of interest and sympathy, he had come again, 
moved by the bitterness of a state that began 
searching about for relief. While they sat talk 
ing, a child was engaged in building a toy castle. 
He had blocks of all sizes and shapes, adapted to 
his purpose, and steadily rose wall and buttress, 
tower and battlement, growing under his hand in 
symmetry, fitness and beauty, into what seemed 
in his eyes, like a very creation of his will, until 
the goodly edifice was completed. 
The friend called Mr. Fanshaw 's attention to 
the child, and they observed, with interest, the 
entire cheerful absorption of his mind in what lie 
was doing, each well-considered piece going into 
its place to the murmur of a song that issued in a 
continuous flow from his lips. 
" Pie is building as men build," said the 
friend, "happy in his work. The mental ac 
tivity required, gives an exhilarant tone to his 
feelings, and he sings as he toils." 
At last, the castle was completed, and the child 
stood and surveyed it, now looking from one 
point of view, and now from another, and now 
walking round and round. 
" Observe," said the friend ; " he is silent now. 
No music is floating through his lips. The work 
is done, and he is beholding it with satisfaction ; 
but is he as happy in contemplating his work as 
he was in doing it ?" 
After a few minutes, the child ceased inspecting 
his castle from all sides, and going to a sofa, threw 
himself thereon with a sigh that went audibly 
through the room. There he lay, for some time, 
listlessly, but with his eyes upon his finished 
 
work. Then he manifested signs of restlessness, 
got up and walked around his goodly edifice 
again sighed, and went to the farther end of the 
room then came back, and renewed the inspec 
tion. But he did not sing any more. 
" Do you understand the case ?" asked the 
friend. 
Mr. Fanshaw had a dawning perception of its 
meaning; yet answered with the shake of the 
head. 
" The child 's experiences are the man 's in mini 
ature. He is growing restless for a lack of em 
ployment. Most earnestly his thought went into 
the construction of that castle, and he looked to 
the beautiful form he was creating, as something 
in which he would find happiness. But, the 
building is completed, and he is not happy. His 
mind has fallen away from its strain ; the warmth 
of friction is felt no longer ; thought is dull, and 
he has a foretaste of that aching void in the heart, 
of which so few men understand the meaning, or 
for which so few who experience it ever find the 
 
cure. Now, let me throw down his castle, and 
see what the result will be." 
" Oh, no, no," answered Mr. Fanshaw, inter 
posing ; " that would be cruel." 
" Cruel only on the outside, but with a sweet 
nut of kindness in the centre," was the almost 
tenderly spoken answer, for it was the father who 
said this ; and rising, he moved past the toy build 
ing, touching it as if by accident. A crash, and 
the blocks lay a mass of shapeless ruins on the 
floor. With the crash, rang out a cry of pain, 
and the child, who had worked through a whole 
hour to erect this goodly castle, flung himself in 
grief across a chair. His sobs and tears went to 
the heart of Mr. Fanshaw, and he said, aside, to 
his friend 
" That was not well done." 
"We shall see," was the answer. 
A few minutes passed in a silence only broken 
by the child 's sorrow. 
" My son." The father spoke in tenderness, 
yet firmly. There came no answer. 
 
" Come to me, Alfred." 
The boy came, slowly, great drops glistening 
on his eyelashes, and wetting his cheeks. 
" That was a fine castle, my son." 
The child answered with a sob. He saw, yet, 
only the ruins. 
"A beautiful castle," added the father, "and 
you builded it." 
Out of the ruins began to arise, in the child 's 
mind, the fair creation which he had wrought 
only a little while before. His quivering lip 
grew firmer, a glimmer of light shone through 
his tears. 
"And you can build it again. Be a brave, 
strong boy. Clear away the ruins, as we do after 
a fire, and set the foundations once more." 
Only a word or two beyond these were needed. 
The child was soon at his castle-building again, 
all absorbed in the work; and soon the low music 
of his happy heart came murmuring through his 
lips. 
"There was a sweet nut within that bitter 
 
husk, Mr. Fanshaw," said the friend; "and if 
you will take a lesson from a child, and go to 
building again, you will find a sweet nut in your 
misfortune also." 
And doubtless he found the rich and juicy ker 
nel, for in a little while afterwards, under the 
spur of necessity, he was out in the busy world, 
and at work, trying to build once more. 
 
XVII. 
AN HOUR WITH MYSELF. 
" I DON 'Tthink you know yourself, Mr. Self- 
complacency." 
I had been speaking, a little boastfully, of my 
good qualities ; particularly of my disinterested 
ness and integrity, when the individual with 
whom I was conversing, threw that wet blanket 
over me. 
"Not know myself?" so I said to myself, 
after parting, a little coldly, with my plain-spoken 
friend, "that 's a good joke! If I, Mr. Self-com 
placency, don 't know myself, pray who does know 
me ? Certainly, not you, Mr. Freespeech !" 
I was piqued at Mr. Freespeech, and could not 
get over his remark, which involved a great deal 
that was not very flattering to my self-esteem. It 
annoyed me like a mote in the eye. 
 
"Not know myself?" I kept repeating the 
words, every now and then, all day ; and when I 
sat down alone in my room at night, they came in 
to disturb the hours that usually passed with me 
in calm self-satisfaction. 
"Not know myself?" What did he mean by 
that? I saw by his eye and voice, that he was 
in earnest. Somebody has been talking about 
me, and putting wrong constructions on my acts, 
and Mr. Freespeech has been more ready to be 
lieve evil than good. He d better examine into 
his own quality ; and I ll say so to him the next 
time we meet. 
But I couldn 't ease my mind by thoughts of 
this character. My self-esteem was wounded. 
"Not know myself?" I repeated for the hun 
dredth time. "What did I say to Mr. Freespeech 
that led him to make so uncharitable a remark ? 
Why, that in voting for Mr. Cleveland, I only 
looked to the public good, as I hoped I would 
always look in everything, and did look. I con 
sidered, and still consider him the best man for 
the place. He wanted to elect Mr. Grant ; but 
I don 't like Grant. He is capable enough no 
doubt ; but our views differ widely in many par 
ticulars." 
And here came in the questions, as if I were 
talking with another, who asked 
"Why don 't you like Mr. Grant? Why do 
you prefer Mr. Cleveland ?" 
I went down into myself to get an answer to 
these queries, and after groping about for some 
time, came up, feeling a little more uncomfortable 
than when I went down. Why? What had I 
discovered ? Just this : the impression that, as 
President of the Bank, Mr. Cleveland would be 
far more likely to favor my interests than Mr. 
Grant; and here was the reason why I preferred 
him above the other, and had voted for him at 
the meeting of stockholders. 
"Very disinterested, indeed, Mr. Self-complacency !" 
said I, two warm spots glowing on my 
cheeks. I felt them, as if lighted candles were 
held near my face. "I wonder if Mr. Free- 
 
speech really suspected this? The two warm 
spots burned. 
It seemed very probable, so clearly did the 
truth stand out before me. I tried to cover it 
up, to hide the mean fact; but it stood there, 
looking at me with a sinister leer. So this was 
my disinterestedness ; this my regard for the pub 
lic good? There had been some very favorable 
testimony on the side of Mr. Grant; and Mr. 
Freespeech had strongly urged his fitness for the 
place, on the ground of his known inflexible cha 
racter. " Make him President," he said, " and 
there will be no partial administration of affairs ; 
no individual preference on discount days; no 
leaning towards personal friends." Now, I, Mr. 
Self-complacency, standing in occasional need of 
bank facilities, and having experienced many un 
comfortable disappointments on discount days, 
had, away back in my thought or purpose, the 
desire to secure an interested friend near the 
source of bank favors. So I had voted for Mr. 
Cleveland. 
" I'm ust own up in this case," said I, feeling 
something like a culprit. "The real motive is 
plain enough now, but it was removed so far 
away out of sight that I didn 't suspect its exist 
ence. And I don 't believe Mr. Freespeech saw 
it. How could he? It was nothing but spleen, 
on his part, growing out of disappointment. And 
his language and manner had so sweeping a signi 
fication, as if I \vere the most selfish man in the 
world ; as if I never acted from purely disinte 
rested motives ! He forgets how I refused to 
take advantage of his ignorance in regard to the 
price of an article, by which I'm ight have gained 
an advantage over him of several hundred dol 
lars." 
This thought restored, in a measure, my good 
opinion of myself; but only for a little while. I 
took another plunge down amid the more hidden 
things of my mind, and saw that I had not been 
influenced in this act by any regard for my neigh 
bor 's good whatever that his interest had not 
been in all my thoughts ; but only the desire to 
 
gain for myself a good reputation, which I con 
sidered of more value than the few hundred dol 
lars I would make in a transaction, that a day or 
two would expose as a bit of sharp practice in 
trade. I could even recall the processes of 
thought by which I was influenced at the time. 
How I had pictured to myself the way he would 
talk about me among certain persons, with whom, 
above all things, I wished to stand well; the con 
tempt they would feel for me, and even the pecu 
niary injury I'm ight sustain. While on the other 
hand, the refusal, on my part, to accept an advan 
tage over my neighbor 's ignorance and I was 
careful to let Mr. Freespeech understand all 
about the matter would be told to my honor 
and benefit. 
I actually covered my face with my hands, 
when close self-examination gave me this picture, 
and said, "For shame, Mr. Self-complacency!" 
