
“Ophelia,” suggested Mr. Sargent. 

“Oh, yes ! But she wasn’t half as good as Miss Ophe- 
lia in ‘ Uncle Tom’s Cabin.’ Now, there’s a play that has 
something to it. You laugh and you cry, and you feel in 
the end as if you had the worth of your money.” 

I dare say my annoyance was plainly visible in my face. 
I could have cried with mortification. But oh the grace 
with which Mr. Sargent took him off my hands, and talked 
to his capacity ! At length the car stopped. I was 
tucked under Mr. Miller’s arm quite as if I belonged to 
him. 

“ I won’t insult you by asking you in at this time of 
night,” I said gayly. “ But when you have nothing 
better on hand, Mr. Sargent, we shall be glad to listen to 
a little Shaksperian reading, if you will be so good to us.” 

“ Thank you. I shall take an early opportunity to paj 
my respects.” 

“Very well done!” laughed Theo as we entered the 
hall, turned out the gas, and marched straight to our 
own room. 

“ I certainly did not mean that Mr. Miller should havC. 
an excuse to come in.” 

“ Chris,” said Theo as I stood before the glass, putting 
a wisp of hair in crimping-pins (my hair was a soft light 
brown, straight as a stick, except when assisted by art), 
— “ Chris, do you know what James Miller means? ” 





I colored violently. Yes, I did know what he meant, 
although I sometimes persuaded myself that it might only 
be a suggestion of vanity. 

“O Chris! could you marry him? He acted to-night 
quite as if you were engaged.” 

I turned around. “ No, Theo,” I replied honestly, “ I 
don’t believe I could. He is good, and in many wayS 
generous, and would love a woman ever so much ; but 
somehow ” — 

“Aunt Hetty would say, ‘Has something of his own, 
and will make a rich man.’ She was talking about it a 
day or two ago, and wanted mother to — well, at least to 
advise you to marry him. But if I didn’t mean to ” — 

“ Theo, I’ll tell you how it is ; ” and I sat down on the 
edge of the bed. “ It would be what the greater part of 
the world would call a good marriage for me. Father is 
not very rich, nor are we high up in social position ; and 
I am a school-teacher, not from any grand and holy pur- 
pose, but because I feel the need of earning some money. 
As Mrs. Miller, I should have a nice home and be well 
provided for, dress very handsomely, for that is the one 
thing James is fond of. Then as he prospered he would 
have a finer house and showy furniture ; but a twenty-five 
dollar painting bought at some cheap store in New York 
would be just as good to him as a Church or Gifibrd, and 
a minstrel troupe better than an opera. There is such a 
pecuhar, thick-skinned self-complacency about him ! He 
feels quite as good as anybody else. He wouldn’t care 
to be improved or refined ; and, oh, if he belonged to me, 
how could I endure his talking as he did to Mr. Sargent 
this evening I I never should be able to bring him up to 
my standard ; and, oh I I couldn’t go down to Martha’s 
level. I have been trying to like him, and I am afraid 
I’m foolish and nonsensical and romantic.” 

“ You don’t love him,” Theo said in her cool, clear, de- 
cisive voice ; and I knew then that I never should, even 
if I were his wife half a century. 


 


“ So I would be careful.*’ 

We both laughed there, kissed each other, and tumbled 
into bed as the clock was striking twelve. 

Now, pretty little Theo was quite entitled to discuss 
love-matters, as she had been the heroine of two serious 
affairs of the rather romantic order. One was the son of 
a neighbor. Theo and Alfred Dayion had played to- 
gether, coasted down hill, skated, and been fast friends. 
Mrs. Da}i;on was a widow, with limited means, two daugh- 
ters considerably older than Alfred, who was a big, clumsy 
boy until sixteen, and then shot up to man’s estate in a 
year or two. He was very spooney on Theo, amusingly 
so to us. His mother had set her heart on his becoming 
a minister, and, when he graduated at the institute, had 
settled upon the theological school he was to enter. He 
protested against this. He wanted to go into business, 
make some money of his own, and marry Theo Durant. 

Mother and sisters were horrified. The Misses Dayion 
were what we, in the flaunting arrogance of our youth, 
termed “ old maids.” 

That little tomboy, Theo Durant! We knew just how 
they must have held up their hands, and gazed in each 
other’s eyes. Mrs. Dayton flew over to our house, and 
laid the case before mother quite as if Theo had been a 
criminal of the darkest dye. That roused mamma. 

“Mrs. Da}i:on,” she said, “we certainly cannot help 
what Alfred chooses to confess to you. Theo is a mere 
child, and no such idea has entered her head. Moreover 
I very much object to having any such idea thrust there.” 

But to have poor Alfred broken up in his studies, and 
his life blighted, and all their plans set at nought ; for 
they couldn’t consent to a long engagement. 

Theo had come down stairs with her hat on, ready 
to do an errand for mamma. She paused at the sound of 
the angry voice, then walked into the room stately as a 
queen, her head erect, her eyes black as night. 





“ Mrs. Dayton,’ she began, to mamma’s utter aston- 
ishment, “ I could not help hearing what you said. It 
was about Alfred and me. Will you please let me set 
your heart quite at rest ? I like Alfred ever so much, 
just as if he were my brother. To me he seems only an 
overgrown boy, quite one’s equal ; not a man to love and 
respect, and perhaps feel a little afraid of, as I should like 
when I had a real lover. I do not want to marry him ; I 
do not even think I should want to when I am a woman 
of twenty. I don’t desire to spoil his life, nor yours, 
when you love him so. Please tell him for me that I 
shouldn’t ever marry him, and there is no use thinking 
of it.” 

Mrs. Dayton was thunderstruck, mamma said : there 
was no other word to express her surprise. She looked 
at Theo, growing redder and redder in the face. 

“You need not be afraid of Theo after that,” said 
mamma proudly. “ You can trust her.” 

“ You can trust me,” returned Theo, “ because, if I did 
love him in that way, I would not be willing to give him 
up for anybody ; and I respect him and you all too much 
to want to tease you with any make-believe regard. And 
now, mamma, please give me your errands, and I will leave 
you and Mrs. Dayton to finish your talk.” 

Theo went her way royally. Mrs. Dayton was quite 
extinguished. It was one thing to break up a love-affair, 
and refuse to have that tomboy, Theo Durant, thrust into 
your family ; but it was quite another to have it declined 
by the aforesaid young lady. Alfred insisted upon seeing 
Theo, who was tender and sisterly, but firm. It came to 
be quite a neighborhood talk, to the great mortification of 
the Daytons. Alfred found himself a place in a real- 
estate office, and was very spunky for a while ; but in the 
fall they persuaded him to consent to their plans. 

Theo’s next serious episode commenced with what might 
have been an accident. She had been spending several 


 


days with a school-friend at the house of the latter’s 
grandmother, and the hired boy started to drive them 
home. On the way they were run into, and the wagon 
badly damaged, though neither was hurt. Just then 
another carriage came along, going to North wood ; and 
the two occupants insisted upon taking them home. One 
was a fine-looking, middle-aged man ; the other an ex- 
quisite young Frenchman, dressed with the perfection of 
neatness, and with hands and feet small enough for a girl. 

Papa had been out with the wagon, and stopped for 
some supper. He was just going away as they reached 
the door. Theo introduced him, and explained the acci- 
dent. Both gentlemen were strangers in North wood, and 
going to take the next train for New York. 

About three weeks afterward, the second Sunday we 
were without Archie, we both staid at home in the even- 
ing. Theo’s head ached, and I had been reading. As it 
grew dusk, I closed my book, but did not get a light. 

“ Theo,” I said suddenly, “ I want you to look at that 
gentleman over opposite. He has been walking up and 
down, then disappears long enough to go around the 
square. There ! He has turned : now wait until he comes 
back.” 

She looked earnestly. Then she leaned back in her 
chair, and gave a funny little laugh. 

“ What is the matter, Theo? You haven’t ” — 

“ I haven’t done any thing but to be picked up in the 
middle of a dusty road by two gentlemen, and brought 
home, and forget that something might come of it. That 
is surely my Frenchman ! ” 

“ O Theo ! ” I cried, astonished, and in a little nervous 
flurry. “You don’t suppose — why, what if he should 
call?” 

“ Such longing, lingering looks portend something 
surely.” 

“ And we two all alone ! ” 





“ He won’t eat us up, I am quite sure. It would be too 
funny for any thing.” 

“To be eaten up? ” 

‘ ‘ O Chris ! ’ ’ and she laughed merrily. 

“ Theo, you are always getting into some — some 
difficulty.” 

“Why, no; only about Alfred Dayton. Why will 
mothers and sisters always imagine that innocent-minded 
young women are forever planning to entrap their dar- 
lings? It is a great relief to me to have him away,” and 
she gave a healthy, vigorous, unsentimental sigh. “I 
wonder if his mother and sisters will pick out his wife.” 

“ She will have to be a paragon. O Theo ! there he is 
again. Suppose he should take to following you about.” 

‘ ‘ I think he is too gentlemanly for that. But if he did 
I should just stop and tell him some day how very much 
he was annoying me ; and, if that did not answer, a police- 
man might settle the rest.” 

And there our hero appeared at intervals until it grew 
dark. Theo had been sitting a little in the shade, and 
made no motion, or sign of recognition. I rose presently, 
lighted a lamp in the sitting-room, and closed the inside 
blinds. Theo came and lay on the sofa. 

There was a ring at the door. 

“ Will you go? ” she asked in a half-frightened tone. 

I opened it with a resolute face. 

“Ah, good-evening!” with a most polite bow. “Is 
Monsieur Durant at home ? ’ ’ 

“ He is not,” I answered concisely. 

“ Is Miss Theo Durant within, then, and could I see her 
a moment? It is a matter of much importance to me. 
Please inform her — Monsieur Beguillan.” 

What I might have said I do not know ; but something 
in the fair, frank, respectful face, would have kept me 
from rudeness. Theo came forward, however. 

“ Ah, Mr. Beguillan ! ” she said with her stateliest nod 


 


of recognition. “Allow me to introduce my sister, Miss 
Durant.” 

“It is a great pleasure,” and he bowed over me. 
“ Then you are Miss Theo ! Permit me to apologize for 
presenting myself in this manner. In my country a gen- 
tleman makes his first call on a lady in the daytime. But 
I was anxious to know if you escaped any indisposition on 
account of the accident. And I would like so much to be 
allowed to visit you. I wish to inquire of your father ; ” 
and he colored as he glanced around with some embar- 
rassment. “But you do things so differently in Ameri- 
ca ! ” 

“ Will you walk in? ” I say blunderingly, feeling that I 
am Miss Durant, and elder sister, and that something is 
expected of me. 

“Oh, no, thank you ! not till I have permission of your 
father. Will it be agreeable to you that I should ask 
him? ” questioning her with his eyes. 

“ Why, yes,” returned Theo, smiling in an amused 
manner. 

“ Then I will wish you both a very good evening. To- 
morrow I will call on your father. Your graciousness has 
made me most happy.” 

With that he bowed himself out. We stood and looked 
at each other in amaze. 

“ O Theo ! ” I cry, “ haven’t you done wrong, after all? 
French people are really betrothed lovers before they com- 
mence their courtship.” 

“ Courtship ! Chris, you are a goose ! ” 

“ But he seems in such solemn earnest ! ” and I laugh 
at the ludicrous aspect, while Theo turns pale. 

“ I don’t want him to fall in love with me ; but it would 
be very nice, Chris, to have him for a friend. We might 
rub up our fragments of French, and parlez a little. It’s 
very funny anyhow ; ” and she laughs again. 

We keep talking about it until father, mother, and the 





two children come home. Father seems wonderfully 
amused, mother looks grave. 

“ What shall I tell him when he calls, Theo?” asks 
father. 

“ Why,y and a rift of that bewitching color over- 
spreads Theo’s face, — “why, I’d like to see him, papa, 
— as a friend.” 

“Theo,” says mother, “I can’t bear that a daughter 
of mine should be called a flirt.” 

“But what is one to do, mamma dear? How can one 
tell whether one will like a gentleman or not, just by first 
sight. I don’t want ever to break any one’s heart, though 
poor Alfred believes his is broken. I do think I am hon- 
est and loyal, almost rude sometimes. Why do people 
hke me so well, and so quickly? ” 

I did not wonder at it as she stood there so sweet and 
beguiling, that little, pleading, deprecating smile half 
parting her lips. 

“ You are so young, Theo ! ” 

“ But I grow older every year, mamma ; and sometimes 
it seems as if I must have lived centuries, I feel so wise 
and so tired.” 

Papa laughed at this. 

The next day M. Beguillan called at the store. He 
was very much attracted by Miss Theo, and his intentions 
were strictly honorable. In this country he believed a 
young lady was always consulted in the disposal of her 
hand ; and he wanted papa’s permission to address Made- 
moiselle Theo on the subject. He had brought letters 
of recommendation from parties in New York. He was a 
watch-maker, and held a position in a large establishment, 
at a salary of fifteen hundred a year. Beside this, he 
owned a little property in France, — a cottage and garden 
at Brignolles, that was entailed, and must go to his chil- 
dren. Mr. Durant could also inquire at his lawyers, 
Marcel & Pallotier, who were foreign real-estate agents as 


 


well. Having placed all his credentials in father’s hands, 
he begged to be allowed to pay his respects to Madame 
Durant a week hence, if Mr. Durant would be kind enough 
to permit. 

Father did inquire at the lawyers, and they gave M. 
Beguillan a most excellent character. He had learned his 
trade in Paris, was very respectably connected, and had 
been in this country two years. He was honest, sober, 
and industrious, and would make a very good husband. 

We were all a good deal amused at Theo’s lover, as we 
began to call him. Father was much interested, it was 
plain to be seen. So M. Beguillan received permission 
to call, and paid his respects to Madame Durant that very 
afternoon. Mother was charmed with his quaint, un- 
American deference. He would come over on Sunday to 
see Mam’selle Theo ; but most of his calls would have to 
be made in the evening, as he was employed during the 
day, and could not well be spared. Then he kissed ma- 
dame’s hand with the utmost gallantry. 

Theo was very gay over it at first. The oddness, the 
formal respect, the delicate, Frenchy enthusiasm, and the 
gifts of exquisite bouquets, were enough to charm any 
young girl. 

But alas ! M. Beguillan did not mean to trifle. He was 
really in love with Theo. In a month he wished to be 
formally affianced, and proceed with a regular courtship. 
This frightened Theo. 

“ I don’t know how much I could love him, mamma,” 
she said in explanation ; “ but, if I was really engaged to 
him, I should feel it my duty, and be trying to make my- 
self, and that would kill the kind of love I believe in, — the 
tender, spontaneous regard, that grows like a fern in the 
dark and quiet, and presently sends up tiny, faint green 
fronds that are shyly rolled up, and unfold day after day. 
But I am not sure that I can love him. I believe I do 
not like French courtships, after all, though M. Beguillan 





is so polite and well-bred. I am sorry now, that I let him 
come. He doesn’t understand how a man can be simple 
friends with a young woman ; and he feels as if she ought 
to take what her friends consider best for her, and O 
mamma ! I don’t believe I ever can marry anybody. The 
thought frightens me. The love and all that seem de- 
lightful ; but to give yourself quite away — to do what you 
can never undo.” 

With that Theo clasped her arms about mamma’s neck, 
and cried in a half hysterical way. 

“ My darling,” returned mamma, kissing the wet cheek, 
“ it will not do to marry without this highest of all love : 
there are so many trials to most lives, nights of pain and 
days of darkness, troubles, perplexities, that only the 
highest faith, the purest love, can meet. Your father and 
I like Mr. Beguillan very much ; but you are too young to 
promise to marry any one at present, unless your whole 
soul assents. So I think you had better not be bound.” 

I wondered afterward what would have been the con- 
sequence if mother had advised differently. Theo would 
have tried very hard to love him, and perhaps have been 
spared all the pain and anguish that afterward made such 
havoc with her sunny young life. There is a theory, I 
know, which teaches that souls are made perfect through 
suffering. Cannot perfection be a product of happiness 
as well ? for pure and unalloyed happiness is so divine a 
thing in itself, as we know by the brief moments vouch- 
safed to us. And, if that is to be the supreme delight of 
another life, why not admit that it may be a blessing here ? 

So Theo bravely told Mr. Beguillan how she felt. He 
could not understand her scruples. He adored her : she 
would surely learn to love him. They might be affianced 
two years, if she liked. 

She was resolute now. Mr. Beguillan might call occa- 
sionally as a friend. 

“ What would it avail to come and see you, to look 


 


into your lovely eyes, and watch your sweet lips, if I 
knew they could never be mine? It would be greater 
pain than pleasure. No, Miss Theo, it will be best for me 
to go quite away. I should be jealous and miserable. I 
hope you will miss me so much, that you may repent and 
wish me back. You surely will not be ashamed to say so, 
— you speak the truth so honorably. And if you sent 
me a note with only one little word, ‘ Come,’ I would be 
glad to fly to you. I shall hope.” 

“I almost repented,” said Theo as she repeated the 
conversation to mamma. “ And yet he is not my ideal at 
all. Were you quite satisfied with papa from the very 
beginning ? ” 

Mamma blushed girlishly, but said there had never 
been a time, she believed, when she did not love him. She 
had never cared for any other, even as a little girl. If she 
had not married him, she would never have married any- 
