felt dead to all but pain, and the impression came back 
with sharp torture that once she used to be alive. So as 
the shadow of the elm branches fell over her now, it hurt 
her inexpressibly. She was alive when she had dwelt 
 
under them ; yes, she and Evan too. She hurried her steps 
and went in at the lean-to door. 
It was now long past mid-day. The noon meal was 
over, apparently, and every sign of it cleared away. The 
kitchen was in spotless order ; but beside the table sat 
Mrs. Starling, doing nothing; an unheard-of state of affairs. 
Diana came further in. 
' Mother ' 
' Well, Diana,' said Mrs. Starling looking up. ' What's 
brought you now ? ' 
' I've been down to see Mrs. Bartlett she sent for me 
and I thought I would stop in as I went by. Mr. Masters is outside.' 
' Well, I've no objection,' said Mrs. Starling ambiguously. 
' How do you do ? ' 
' Middling.' 
' Is all getting on well with the farm and the dairy ? ' 
' I don't let it be no other way.' 
Diana saw that something was wrong, but knew also 
that if she were to find it out it would be by indirect ways. 
' May I go into the pantry and get some milk ? I've 
been a good while from home, and I'm hungry.' 
' Go along,' said her mother ungraciously. ' I should 
think likely, if you are hungry, your baby is too. That's a 
new way of doing things. 'Twarn't ever my way. A woman 
that's got a baby, ought to attend to it. An' if she don't, 
her husband ought to make her.' 
' I've not been gone so long as all that comes to,' said 
Diana ; and she went into the pantry, her old domain. The 
pans of milk looked friendly at her ; the sweet clean smell 
of cream carried her back it seemed ages to a time when 
she was as sweet and clean. ' Yet it is not my fault ' 
 
she said to herself, ' it is tier's all her's.' She snatched 
a piece of bread and a glass of milk, and swallowed it hastily. Then, as she came out she saw that one of her mother's 
hands lay bandaged up, in her lap under the table. 
'Mother, what's the matter with. your hand ? ' 
' O not much.' 
'But what ? It's all tied up. Have you burned it ? ' 
'No.' 
' What then ? Cut yourself ? ' 
' I should like to know how I should go to work to cut 
my right hand ! Don't make a fuss about nothing, Diana. 
It's only scalded.' 
' Scalded ! How ? ' 
' I shall never be able to tell that, to the end of my days,' 
said Mrs. Starling. 'If pots and kettles and that could be 
possessed, I should know what to think. I was makin 
strawberry preserve and the kettle was a 'most full, and 
it was first rate preserve, and boiling and almost done, 
and I had just set it down on the hearth ; and then, I don't 
know how to this day, I stumbled I don't know over 
what and my arm soused right in.' 
' Boiling sweetmeat ! ' cried Diana. ' Mother, let me 
see. It must be dreadfully burned.' 
' It's all done up,' said Mrs. Starling coldly. ' I was 
real put out about my preserves.' 
' Have you had dinner ? ' 
' I never found I could live 'thout eating.' 
' Who got dinner for you, and cleared away ? ' 
' Nobody. I did it myself.' 
' For the men and all ! ' 
' Well they don't count to live without eatin', no mor'n 
I do,' said Mrs. Starling with a short laugh. 
' And you did it with one hand ! ' 
 
' Did you ever know me to stop in anything I had to 
do, for want of a hand ? ' said Mrs. Starling scornfully. 
No, thought Diana to herself ; nor for want of anything 
else, even though it were right or conscience. Aloud she 
only said, 
' I must go home to baby' 
' You had better, I should think,' her mother broke in. 
' Can I do anything for you first ? ' 
' You can see for yourself, there is nothing to do.' 
' Shall I come back and stay with you to-night ? ' 
' You had better ask the Dominie. 
' Mother, he never wants me to do anything but just 
what is right,' Diana said seriously. Mrs. Starling lifted up 
her head and gave a curious searching look into her daugh- 
ter's face. What was she trying to find ? 
' That's one turtle dove,' she said. And are you another, and always bob your head when he bobs his'n ? ' 
Diana wondered at this speech ; it seemed to her her 
mother was losing ground even in the matter of language. 
No thought of irritation crossed her ; she was beyond trifles 
now. She made no answer; she merely bade her mother 
good-bye, and hurried out. And for a long while the drive 
was again in silence. Then, when the grey horse was 
walking up a hill, Diana spoke in a meditative sort of way. 
' Basil you said enjoyment was not the end of life ' 
' Did I ? ' he answered gravely. 
' If you didn't, it was Mother Bartlett. You do say so 
I suppose ? ' 
' Yes. It is not the end of life.' 
' What is then ? ' 
' To do the will of God. And by and by, if not sooner, 
enjoyment comes that way too, Diana. And when it comes 
that way, it stays ; and lasts.' 
 
' How long ? ' 
' For ever and ever ! ' 
Diana waited a few minutes and then spoke again. 
' Basil I want to consult you.' 
' Well, do it' 
' Ought I to leave my mother to live alone, as she is ? 
.She is not young now.' 
' What would you do ? ' 
' If I knew, Basil, I would like it to do what I ought to 
do.' 
' Would you take her to live with you ? ' 
' If you would ? and she would.' 
Basil put his arm round his wife and bent down and 
kissed her. He would not have done it if he could have 
guessed how she shrank. 
' If you will take life on those terms,' he said, ' then it 
will be true for you, that " Sorrow may endure for a night, 
but joy cometh in the morning." ' 
It will be the morning of the resurrection, then, thought 
Diana ; but she only replied, 
' What " terms," Basil, do you mean ? ' 
' Doing the Lord's will. His will is always good, Diana, 
and brings sweet fruit ; only you must wait till the fruit is 
ripe, nay child.' 
' Then what about mother ? ' 
' I do not believe she would come to us.' 
' Nor I. Suppose she would let us come to her? ' 
' Then I would, go, if you wished it.' 
' I don't wish it, Basil. I was thinking, if I could bear 
it ? But the thought will not out of my head, that she ought 
not to be alone.' 
' Then do what is in thine heart,' the minister said cheerfully.' 
CHAPTER XXXI. 
A JUNE DAY. 
MRS. STARLING hesitated, when Diana proposed her 
plan ; she would think of it, she said. But when she began to 
think of it, the attractions were found irresisible. To have 
her grandchild in the house beside her, perhaps with a vague 
thought of making up to her daughter in some unexplained 
way for the wrong she had done ; at any rate, to have voices 
and life in the house again, instead of the bare silence ; 
voices of people that belonged to her own blood; Mrs. 
Starling found that she could not give up the idea, once it 
got into her head. Then she objected that the house was 
too small. 
The minister said he would put up an addition of a 
couple of rooms for himself and Diana, and Diana's old 
room could serve as a nursery. 
Who wants a nursery ? Mrs. Starling demanded. Her 
idea of a nursery, was the whole house and all out of doors. 
The minister laughed and said that was not his idea ; and 
Mrs. Starling was fain to let it pass. She was human, 
though she was not a good woman ; and Diana's proposal 
to come back to her had, though she would never allow it 
even to herself, touched both her heart and her conscience. 
Somewhere very deep down and out of sight, nevertheless 
it was true ; and it was true that she had been very lonely ; 
and she let the minister have his own way, undisputed, 
about the building. 
 
The carpenters were set to work at once, and at home 
Diana quietly made preparations for a removal in the 
course of a few months. She buried herself in business as 
much as ever she could, to still thought and keep her nerves 
quiet; for constantly, daily and nightly now, the image of 
Evan was before her, and the possibility that he might any 
day present himself in very flesh and blood. No precau- 
tions were of any avail ; if he chose to seek her out, Diana 
could not escape him unless by leaving Pleasant Valley ; 
and that was not possible. Would he come ? She looked 
at that question from every possible point of the compass, 
and from every one the view that presented itself was that 
he would come. Nay, he ought not ; it would be worse 
than of no use for them to see each other ; and yet, something in Diana's recollections of him, or, it might be, something in the consciousness of her own nature, made her say 
to herself that he would come. How should she bear it ? 
She almost wished that Basil would forbid it and take 
measures to make it impossible ; but the minister went his 
way unmoved and quiet as usual ; there was neither fear 
nor doubt on his broad fair brow. Diana respected him 
immensely ; and at times felt a great pang of grief that his 
face should wear such a shade of gravity as was habitual 
to it now. Knowing him so well as she did by this time, she 
could guess that though the gravity never degenerated into 
gloom, the reason was to be found solely and alone in the 
fact that Basil's inner life was fed by springs which were 
beyond the reach of earthly impoverishing or disturbing. 
How much better she thought him than herself ! as she 
looked at the calm, steadfast beauty of his countenance, 
which matched his daily life and walk. No private sorrow 
touched that. Never thinking of himself nor seeking his 
own, he was busy from morning till night with the needs of 
 
others ; going from house to house, carrying help, shewing 
light, bringing comfort, guiding into the way, pointing out 
the wrong ; and at home, Diana knew with what glad re- 
sort he went to his Bible and prayer for his own help and 
wisdom, and wrought out the lessons that were to be given 
openly in the little hillside church. Diana knew too what 
flowers of blessings were springing up along hjs path ; 
what fruits of good. The " angel of the church " in Pleasant Valley he was, in a sense most true and lovely, although 
that be not the original bearing of the phrase in the Reve- 
lation, where Alford thinks and I think, no human angels 
are intended. Nevertheless, that was Basil here ; and his 
wife, who did not love him, honoured him to the bottom of 
her heart. 
And in her self-reproach and her humility, Diana wrote 
bitterer things against herself than there was any need. 
For she too was doing her daily work with a lovely truth 
of aim and simpleness of purpose. With all the joys of life 
crushed out, she was walking the way which had become so 
weary with a steady foot and with hands ready and diligent 
to do all they found to do. In another sort from her husband, the fair, calm, grave woman was the angel of her 
household. I can never tell you how beautiful Diana was 
now. If the careless light glance of the girl wa gone, 
there was now, instead, the deeper beauty of a nature that 
has loved and suffered ; that ripening process of humanity, 
without which it never comes to its full bloom and fruitage ; 
though that be a very material image for the matter in 
hand. And there was besides in Diana the dignity of 
bearing of one who is lifted above all small considerations 
of every kind ; that is, not above small duties, but above 
petty interests. Therefore in this woman, who had never 
seen and scarcely imagined courts, even in the minister's 
house in Pleasant Valley, there was the calm poise and 
grace which we associate in our speech and thoughts with the 
highest advantages of social relations. So extremes sometimes meet. In Diana it was due to her inborn nobility of 
nature and the sharp discipline of sorrow ; in aid of which 
practically came also her perfection of physical health and 
form. It must be remembered too, that she had been now 
for a good while in the close companionship of a man of 
great refinement and culture, and that both study and conversation had lifted her by this time far out of the intellectual sphere in which the beginning of our story found 
her. 
The carpenters were going on vigorously with their 
work on the new rooms adding to Mrs. Starling's house ; 
and Diana was making, as she could from time to time, her 
little preparations for the removal, which however could not 
take place yet for some time. It was in the beginning of 
July. Diana was up stairs one day, looking over the con- 
tents of a trunk and cutting up pieces for patchwork. Windows were open, of course, and the scent of new hay came 
in with the warm air. Hay-making was going on all over 
Pleasant Valley. By and by Miss Collins put her head in. 
' Be you fixed to see folks ? ' 
' Who wants me ? ' 
'Well, there's somebody comin'; and I reckon its one 
or other o' them fly-aways -from Elmfield.' 
' Here ? ' said Diana starting up and trembling. 
' Wall, there's one of 'em comin ' I guess I see the 
carriage and I thought maybe you warn't ready to see no 
one. When one gets into a trunk it's hard to get out again. 
So I thought I'd jes' come and tell ye. There, she is 
comin' up the walk. Hurry, now.' 
Down went Miss Collins to let the visiter in, and Diana 
 
did hurry and changed her dress. What can she be coma 
for ? she questioned with herself meanwhile ; for it was 
Mrs. Reverdy, she had seen. No good ! no good ! But 
nobody would have guessed that Diana had ever been in 
a hurry, that saw her entrance the next minute upon her 
visiter. That little lady felt a sort of imposing effect, and 
did not quite know how to do what she had come for. 
' I always think there has come some witchery over my 
eyes,' she said with her invariable little laugh of ingratiation, 'when I see you. I always feel a kind of new 
surprise. Is it the minister that has changed you so ? 
What's he done ? ' 
' Changed me ? ' Diana repeated. 
' Why yes ; you are changed. You are not like what 
you were two years ago three years ago how long is it. 
' It is three years ago,' said Diana trying to smile. ' I 
am three years older.' 
' O it isn't that.  three years older. I suppose I 
didn't see enough of you then to find you out. It was my 
fault. But if you had married somebody belonging to me, 
I can tell you, I should have been very proud of my sister- 
in-law.' 
She laughed at the compliment she was making, laugh- 
ed lightly ; while Diana inwardly shook, like a person who 
has received a sudden sharp blow and staggers in danger 
of losing his footing. Did she waver visibly before her adversary's eyes, she wondered ? She was sure her colour 
did not change. She found nothing to say, in any case ; and 
after a moment her vision cleared and she had possession 
of herself again. 
' I am saucy,' said Mrs. Reverdy smiling, ' but nobody 
thinks of minding anything I say. That's the good of be- 
ing little and insignificant, as I am.' 
Diana was inclined to wish her visiter would not presume upon her harmlessness. 
' I should as soon think of being rude to a duchess,' 
Mrs. Revercly went on. ' Or to a princess. I don't see how 
Evan ever made up his mind to go away and leave you.' 
' Is it worse to be rude to a duchess than to other people ? ' Diana asked, seizing the first part of this speech as 
a means to get over the last. 
' I never tried,' said Mrs. Reverdy ; ' I never had the 
opportunity, you know. I might have danced with the 
Prince of Wales perhaps when he was here. I know a 
lady who did. and she said she wasn't afraid of him. If 
you had been there, I am sure she would not have got the 
chance.' 
' You forget, I am not a dancer.' 
' O not now, of course but then you wouldn't have 
been a minister's wife.' 
' Why should not a minister's wife dance as well as 
other people ? ' 
' O, I don't know ! ' said Mrs. Reverdy lightly ; ' but 
they never do, you know. They are obliged to set an example.' 
' Of what ? ' 
' Of everything that is proper, I suppose. Don't you 
feel that everybody's eyes are upon you, always, watching 
everything you do ? ' 
A good reminder ! But Diana answered simply that 
she never thought about it. 
' Don't you ! Isn't the minister always reminding you 
of what people will think ? ' 
' No. It isn't his way.' 
' Doesn't he ? Why, without being a minister, that is 
what my husband used always to be doing to me. I was 
a little giddy, you know,' said Mrs. Reverdy laughing ; ' I 
was very young ; and I used to have plenty of admonitions.' 
' I believe Mr. Masters thinks we should only care 
about God's eyes,' Diana said quietly. 
Mrs. Reverdy startled a little at that, and for a moment 
looked grave. From Diana she had not expected this 
turn. 
' I never think about anything ! ' she said then with a 
laugh, that looked as if it were meant to be one of childlike, 
ingenuousness. ' Don't think me very bad. Everybody 
can't be good and discreet like you and Mr. Masters.' 
' Very few people are like Mr. Masters,' Diana as- 
sented. 
' We all know that. And in the daily beholding of his 
superiority, have you quite forgotten everything else? 
your old lover and all ? ' 
'Whom do you mean ? ' Diana asked, with a calm coldness at which she wondered herself. 
' I mean Evan, to be sure. You know he was your old 
lover. He wants to see you. He has not forgotten you, 
at any rate. Have you entirely forgotten him ? Poor fellow ! he has had a hard time of it.' 
' I have not forgotten Mr. Knowlton at all,' Diana said 
with difficulty, for it seemed to her that her throat was 
suddenly paralyzed. 
' You have not forgotten him ? I may tell him that ? 
Do you know, he raves about you. I wish you could hear 
him once. He is Captain Knowlton now, you must understand ; he has got his advancement early; but one or two 
people died and somebody else was removed out of his 
way ; and so he stepped into his captaincy. Lucky fellow ! he always has been lucky ; except just in one thing ; 
 
and he thinks that spoils all. May he come and see you, 
Diana ? He has given me no peace until I would come 
and ask you ; and he will never have any peace, that I can 
see, if you refuse him. Poor fellow ! there he is out there 
all this time, champing the bit worse than the horses.' 
And the woman said it all, with her little civil smile 
and laugh, as if she were talking about sugar plums ! 
' Is he here?' cried Diana. 
' With the horses waiting to know the success of my 
mission ; and I have been afraid to ask you, for fear you 
should say no ; and I cannot carry back such an answer to 
him. May I tell him to come in ? ' 
' Why should not he come to see me, as well as any 
other friend ? ' said Diana. But the quiver in her voice 
gave the answer to her own question. 
' Of course ! ' said Mrs. Reverdy rising with a satisfied 
face. ' There is no reason in the world why he should not, 
if you have kindness enough left for him to let him come. 
Then I'll go out and tell him to come in ; for the poor fellow is sitting on sword's points all this while.' And laughing at her supposed happy professional allusion, the lady 
withdrew. 
Diana flew up the stairs to her own room. She did 
not debate much the question whether she ought to see 
Evan ; it came to her rather as a thing that she must do ; 
there was no question in the case. However, perhaps the 
question only lay very deep down in her consciousness, for 
the justification presented itself, that to refuse to see him, 
would be to confess both to his sister and himself that there 
was danger in it. Diana never could confess that, what- 
ever the fact. So answering dumbly the doubt that was 
as wordless, without stopping a moment she caught up her 
sleeping baby out of its cradle, and drawing the cradle after her went into her husband's study. Basil was there, 
she knew, at work. He looked up as she came in. Diana 
drew the cradle near to him, and carefully laid the still 
sleeping, fair and fat little bundle from her arms down in 
it again j this was done gently and deliberately enough ; 
no hurry and no perturbation. Then she stood upright. 
' Basil, will you take care of her ? He is come.' 
The minister looked up into his wife's face ; he knew 
what she meant. And he felt as he looked at her, how far 
she was from him. There was no smile on Diana's lips 
indeed ; on the contrary an intensity of feelings that were 
not pleasurable ; and yet, and yet he who has looked for 
the light of love in an eye and missed it long, knows it 
when he sees it, even though it be not for him. The four 
eyes met each other steadily. 
' ' Shall I see him ? ' Diana asked. 
Basil stretched out his hand to her. ' I can trust you, 
Diana.' 
She put her cold hand in his for a minute and hurried 
away. Then, as she reached the other room, she heard in 
the hall below a step, the step she had not heard for years ; 
and her heart made one spring back over the interval. In 
the urgency of action, Diana's colour had hardly changed 
until now ; now she turned deadly white, and for one in- 
stant sank on her knees by her bedside with her heart full 
of a mute unformed prayer for help. It was fearful to go on, 
but she must go on now ; she must see Evan ; he was there ; 
questions were done ; and as she went down stairs, while 
her face was white, and pain almost confused her senses, 
there was a stir of keen joy at her heart ; fierce, like 
that of a wild beast which has been robbed of its prey but 
has got it again. She tried for self-command, and as one 
mean towards it forced herself to go deliberately. No hasty 
 
steps should be heard on the stairs or in the floor. Even 
so, the way was short ; a moment, and she had entered 
the room, and she and Evan were face to face once more. 
Face to face, and yet, neither dared look at the other. 
He was standing, waiting for her ; she came a few paces 
into the room and stood still opposite him ; they did not 
touch each other's hands ; they made no show of greeting. 
How should they ? in each other's presence indeed they 
were, with but a small space of transparent air between, to 
the sense ; and yet, a barrier mountains high, of impassible 
ice, to the mind's apprehension. You could have heard a 
pin drop in the room ; the two stood there, a few yards 
apart, not even looking at each other, yet intensely conscious each all the while of the familiar outlines and traits 
so long unseen, so well known by heart. Breathing the air 
of the same room again, and nevertheless miles and miles 
apart ; that was what they were feeling. The miles could 
not be bridged over ; what use to tiy to bridge over the 
yards. Diana was growing whiter, if whiter could be ; 
Evan's head sank lower. At last the man succumbed ; sat 
down ; buried his head in his hands, and groaned aloud. 
Diana stood like a statue, but looking at him now. 
What is it in little things which has such power over 
us ? As Diana stood there looking, it was little things 
which stabbed her as if each were a sharp sword. The set 
of Evan's shoulders, the waves of his hair, the very gold 
shoulder straps on the well remembered blue uniform un- 
dress ; his cap which lay on her table, with its service symbols. Is it that the sameness of these material trifles seems 
to assert that nothing is changed, and so makes the change 
more incredible and dreadful ? I cannot describe the 
woeful pain which the sight of these things gave Diana. 
With them came the fresh remembrance of all the manly 
 
beauty and grace of Evan in which she had once sunned 
herself, and the contrast of her husband. Not that Basil's 
personal appearance was ever to be despised, any more 
than himself ; his figure 'was good and his face had a beauty 
of its own, possibly a higher kind of beauty ; but it was not 
the type of a hero of romance ; and Evan's, to Diana's fancy, 
was ; and it had been her romance. She stood still, motionless, breathless. If anybody spoke, it must be he. But at 
last she trembled too much to stand, and she sat down too. 
' How has it happened, Diana ? ' Evan asked without 
looking up. 
' I don't know ' she said just above her breath. 
' How could you do so ? ' 
Well, it suited him well to reproach her ! What matter ? 
Things could not be more bitter than they were. She did 
not try to answer. 
' You have ruined both our lives. Mine is ruined ; I 
am ruined. I shall never be worth anything now. I don't 
care what becomes of me.' 
As she still did not answer, he looked up, and their eyes 
met. Once meeting, they could not quit each other. 
Diana's gaze was sad enough, but eager with the eagerness 
of long hunger. His was sharp with pain at first, keen 
with unreasonable anger ; one of the mind's resorts from 
unbearable torment. Then as he looked it changed and 
grew soft ; and finally, springing up, he went over to where 
she sat, dropped on his knees before her, and seizing her 
hands kissed them one after the other till tears began to 
mingle with the kisses. She was passive ; she could not 
drive him off ; she felt that she and he must have this one 
moment to bury their past in ; it was only when her hands 
were growing wet with his tears that she roused herself to 
an effort. 
' Evan Evan listen to me I You mustn't remember, 
I am a man's wife.' 
' How could you ? ' 
' I did not know what I was doing.' 
' Have you given up loving me ? ' 
' What is the use of talking of it, Evan ? I am another 
man's wife.' 
' But there are such things as divorces.' 
' Hush ! Do not speak of such a thing.' 
' I must speak of it. Whom do you love ? tell me that first.' 
' No one has a right to ask me such a question.' 
' I have a right,' cried the young man ; 'for I have been 
deceived, cheated, robbed of my own ; and I have a right 
to get back my own. Diana, speak! do you love me less 
than you used to do ? Tell me that.' 
' I do not change, Evan.' 
' Then you have no business to be anybody's wife but 
mine. Nothing can hinder that, Diana.' 
' Stop. You are not to speak so. I will not hear it.' 
'You are mine, Diana.' 
' I was yours, Evan ! ' she said tenderly, bending her 
head over him till her lips touched his hair. 'We have 
been parted, and it is over over for this world. You 
must go your way, and I must go mine. And you must 
not say, I am ruined.' 
' Do not you say it ? ' 
