sunny day. The shades of green and brown are in- 
finite ; the dull red of the hemlock bark glows in the 
sun, the russet of the changing moose-bush becomes 
brilliant ; there are silvery openings here and there ; 
and everywhere the columns rise up to the canopy of 
tender green which supports the intense blue sky and 
holds up a part of it from falling through in frag- 
ments to the floor of the forest. Decorators can learn 
here how Nature dares to put blue and green in juxta- 
position : she has evidently the secret of harmonizing 
all the colors. 

The way, as we ascended, was not all through open 
woods ; dense masses of firs were encountered, jagged 
spurs were to be crossed, and the going became at 
length so slow and toilsome that we took to the rocky 




bed of a stream, where bowlders and flumes and cas- 
cades offered us sufficient variety. The deeper we 
penetrated, the greater the sense of savageness and 
solitude ; in the silence of these hidden places one 
seems to approach the beginning of things. AVe 
emerged from the defile into an open basin, formed 
by the curved side of the mountain, and stood silent 
before a waterfall coming down out of the sky in the 
centre of the curve. I do not know anything exactly 
like this fall, which some poetical explorer has named 
the Fairy-Ladder Falls. It appears to have a height 
of something like a hundred and fifty feet, and the 
water falls obliquely across the face of the cliff from 
left to right in short steps, which in the moonlight 
might seem like a veritable ladder for fairies. Our 
impression of its height was confirmed by climbing 
the very steep slope at its side some three or four 
hundred feet. At the top we found the stream flow, 
ing over a broad bed of rock, like a street in the wil- 
derness, slanting up still towards the sky, and bor- 
dered by low firs and balsams, and bowlders com- 
pletely covered with moss. It was above the world 
and open to the sky. 

On account of the tindery condition of the woods 
we made our fire on the natural pavement, and se- 
lected a smooth place for our bed near by on a flat 
rock, with a pool of limpid water at the foot. This 
granite couch we covered with the dry and springy 
moss, which we stripped off in hesivj fleeces a foot 
thick from the bowlders. First, however, we fed 
upon the fruit that was offered us. Over these hills 
of moss ran an exquisite vine with a tiny, ovate, green 
leaf, bearing small, delicate berries, oblong and white 
as wax, having a faint flavor of wintergreen and the 





sKglitest acid taste, the very essence of the wilder- 
ness ; fairy food, no doubt, and too refined for pal- 
ates accustomed to coarser viands. There must ex- 
ist somewhere sinless women who could eat these ber- 
ries without being reminded of the lost purity and 
delicacy of the primeval senses. Every year I doubt 
not this stainless berry ripens here, and is unplucked 
by any knight of the Holy Grail who is worthy to eat 
it, and keeps alive, in the prodigality of nature, the 
tradition of the unperverted conditions of taste before 
the fall. We ate these berries, I am bound to say, 
with a sense of guilty enjoyment, as if they had been 
a sort of shew-bread of the wilderness, though I can- 
not answer for the chaplain, who is by virtue of his 
office a little nearer to these mysteries of nature than 
I. This plant belongs to the heath family, and is first 
cousin to the blueberry and cranberry. It is com- 
monly called the creeping snowberry, but I like better 
its official title of chiogenes, — the snow-born. 

Our mossy resting-place was named the Bridal 
Chamber Camp, in the enthusiasm of the hour, after 
darkness fell upon the woods and the stars came out. 
AYe were two thousand five hundred feet above the 
common world. We lay, as it were, on a shelf in the 
sky, with a basin of illimitable forests below us and 
dim mountain-passes in the far horizon. 

And as we lay there courting sleep which the blink- 
ing stars refused to shower down, our philosopher dis- 
coursed to us of the principle of fire, which he holds, 
with the ancients, to be an independent element that 
comes and goes in a mysterious manner, as we see 
flame spring up and vanish, and is in some way vital 
and indestructible, and has a mysterious relation to 
the source of all things. " That flame," he says, 




"you have put out, but where has it gone?" We 
could not say, nor whether it is anything like the 
spirit of a man which is here for a little hour, and 
then vanishes away. Our own philosophy of the cor- 
relation of forces found no sort of favor at that eleva- 
tion, and we went to sleep leaving the principle of fire 
in the apostolic category of " any other creature." 

At daylight we were astir, and having pressed the 
principle of fire into our service to make a pot of tea, 
we carefully extinguished it or sent it into another 
place, and addressed ourselves to the climb of some- 
thing over two thousand feet. The arduous labor of 
scaling an Alpine peak has 'a compensating glory; 
but the dead lift of our bodies up Nipple-Top had no 
stimulus of this sort. It is simply hard work, for 
which the strained muscles only get the approbation 
of the individual conscience that drives them to the 
task. The pleasure of such an ascent is difficult to 
explain on the spot, and I suspect consists not so 
much in positive enjoyment as in the delight the 
mind experiences in tyrannizing over the body. I do 
not object to the elevation of this mountain, nor to the 
uncommonly steep grade by which it attains it, but 
only to the other obstacles thrown in the way of the 
climber. All the slopes of Nipple-Top are hirsute 
and jagged to the last degree. Granite ledges inter- 
pose ; granite bowlders seem to have been dumped 
over the sides with no more attempt at arrangement 
than in a rip-rap wall ; the slashes and windfalls of a 
century present here and there an almost impenetra- 
ble chevalier des arhres ; and the steep sides bristle 
with a mass of thick balsams, with dead, protruding 
spikes, as unyielding as iron stakes. The mountain 
has had its own way forever, and is as untamed as a 





wolf ; or rather the elements, the frightful tempests, 
the frosts, the heavy snows, the coaxing sun, and the 
avalanches have had their way with it until its surface 
is in hopeless confusion. We made our way very 
slowly ; and it was ten o'clock before we reached what 
appeared to be the summit, a ridge deeply covered 
with moss, low balsams, and blueberry bushes. 

I say, appeared to be ; for we stood in thick fog or 
in the heart of clouds which limited our dim view to a 
radius of twenty feet. It was a warm and cheerful 
fog, stirred by little wind, but moving, shifting, and 
boiling as by its own volatile nature, rolling up black 
from below and dancing in silvery splendor overhead. 
As a fog it could not have been improved ; as a me- 
dium for viewing the landscape it was a failure ; and 
we lay down upon the Sybarite couch of moss, as in a 
Russian bath, to await revelations. 

We waited two hours without change, except an oc- 
casional hopeful lightness in the fog above, and at 
last the appearance for a moment of the spectral 
sun. Only for an instant was this luminous promise 
vouchsafed. But we watched in intense excitement. 
There it was again ; and this time the fog was so 
thin overhead that we caught sight of a patch of blue 
sky a yard square, across which the curtain was in- 
stantly drawn. A little wind was stirring, and the 
fog boiled up from the valley caldrons thicker than 
ever. But the spell was broken. In a moment more 
Old Phelps was shouting, " The sun ! " and before 
we could gain our feet there was a patch of sky over- 
head as big as a farm. '' See ! quick ! " The old 
man was dancing like a lunatic. There was a rift in 
the vapor at our feet, down, down, three thousand feet 
into the forest abyss, and lo ! lifting out of it yonder 





the tawny side of Dix, — the vision of a second, 
snatched away in the rolling fog. The play had just 
begun. Before we could turn, there was the gorge of 
Caribou Pass, savage and dark, visible to the bottom. 
The opening shut as suddenly ; and then, looking 
over the clouds, miles away we saw the peaceful farms 
of the Ausable Valley, and in a moment more the 
plateau of Xorth Elba and the sentinel mountains 
about the grave of John Brown. These glimpses 
were as fleeting as thought, and instantly we w^ere 
again isolated in the sea of mist. The expectation of 
these sudden strokes of sublimity kept us exultingly 
on the alert ; and yet it was a blow of surprise when 
the curtain was swiftly withdrawn on the west, and 
the lonof rido:e of Colvin, seemin^^lv ^"ithin a stone's 
throw, heaved up like an island out of the ocean, and 
was the next moment ino'ulfed. We waited lono-er 
for Dix to show its shapely peak and its glistening 
sides of rock o;ashed bv avalanches. The fantastic 
clouds, torn and streaming, hurried uj) from the south 
in haste, as if to a witch's rendezvous, hiding and dis- 
closing the great summit in their flight. The mist 
boiled up from the valley, whirled over the summit 
where we stood, and plunged again into the depths. 
Objects were forming and disappearing, shifting and 
dancing, now in sun and now gone in fog, and in the 
elemental whirl we felt that we were " assistino; " in 
an original process of creation. The sun strove, and 
his very striving called up new vapors ; the wind 
rent away the clouds, and brought new masses to 
surge about us ; and the spectacles to right and left, 
above and below, changed with incredible swiftness. 
Such o'lorv of abvss and summit, of color and form 
and transformation, is seldom granted to mortal eyes. 





For an hour we watched it until our vast mountain 
was revealed in all its bulk, its long spurs, its abysses 
and its savagery, and the great basins of wilderness 
with their shining lakes, and the giant peaks of the 
region, were one by one disclosed, and hidden and 
again tranquil in the sunshine. 

Where was the cave? There was ample surface in 
which to look for it. If we could have flitted about, 
like the hawks that came circling round, over the 
steep slopes, the long spurs, the jagged precipices, I 
have no doubt we should have found it. But moving 
about on this mountain is not a holiday pastime ; and 
we were chiefly anxious to discover a practicable mode 
of descent into the great wilderness basin on the 
south, which we must traverse that afternoon before 
reaching the hospitable shanty on Mud Pond. It was 
enough for us to have discovered the general where- 
abouts of the Spanish Cave, and we left the fixing of 
its exact position to future explorers. 

The spur we chose for our escape looked smooth in 
the distance ; but we found it bristling with obstruc- 
tions, dead balsams set thickly together, slashes of 
fallen timber, and every manner of woody chaos ; and 
when at length we swung and tumbled off the ledge 
to the general slope, we exchanged only for more dis- 
agreeable going. The slope for a couple of thousand 
feet was steep enough ; but it was formed of granite 
rocks all moss-covered, so that the footing could not 
be determined, and at short intervals we nearly went 
out of sight in holes under the treacherous carpeting. 
Add to this that stems of great trees were laid longi- 
tudinally and transversely and criss-cross over and 
among the rocks, and the reader can see that a good 
deal of work needs to be done to make this a practi- 
cable highway for anything but a squirrel. 





We had had no water since our daylight breakfast *, 
our lunch on the mountain had been moistened only 
by the fog. Our thirst began to be that of Tantalus, 
because we could hear the water running deep down 
among the rocks, but we could not come at it. The 
imagination drank the living stream, and we realized 
anew what delusive food the imagination furnishes in 
an actual strait. A good deal of the crime of this 
world, I am convinced, is the direct result of the un- 
licensed play of the imagination in adverse circum- 
stances. This reflection had nothing to do with our 
actual situation ; for we added to our imagination 
patience, and to our patience long-suffering, and prob- 
ably all the Christian virtues would have been devel- 
oped in us if the descent had been long enough. 
Before we reached the bottom of Caribou Pass, the 
w^ater burst out from the rocks in a clear stream that 
was as cold as ice. Shortly after, we struck the roar- 
ing brook that issues from the Pass to the south. It 
is a stream full of character, not navigable even for 
trout in the upper part, but a succession of falls, cas- 
cades, flumes, and pools, that would delight an artist. 
It is not an easy bed for anything except water to de- 
scend ; and before we reached the level reaches, where 
the stream flows with a murmurous noise through 
open woods, one of our party began to show signs of 
exhaustion. 

This was Old Phelps, whose appetite had failed the 
day before, — his imagination being in better working 
order than his stomach : he had eaten little that day, 
and his legs became so groggy that he was obliged to 
rest at short intervals. Here was a situation ! The 
afternoon was wearing away. We had six or seven 
miles of unknown wilderness to traverse, a portion of 





it swampy, in which a progress of more than a mile 
an hour is difficult, and the condition of the guide 
compelled even a slower march. What should we do 
in that lonesome solitude if the guide became disabled ? We couldn't carry him out ; could we find 
our own way out to get assistance ? The guide himself had never been there before ; and although he 
knew the general direction of our point of egress, and 
was entirely adequate to extricate himself from any 
position in the woods, his knowledge was of that occult 
sort possessed by woodsmen which it is impossible to 
communicate. Our object was to strike a trail that 
led from the Au Sable Pond, the other side of the 
mountain range, to an inlet on Mud Pond. We knew 
that if we travelled southwestward far enough we 
must strike that trail, but how far ? No one could tell. 
If we reached that trail, and found a boat at the inlet, 
there would be only a row of a couple of miles to the 
house at the foot of the lake. If no boat was there, 
then we must circle the lake three or four miles far- 
ther through a cedar-swamp, with no trail in partic- 
ular. The prospect was not pleasing. We were short 
of supplies, for we had not expected to pass that 
night in the woods. The pleasure of the excursion 
began to develop itself. 

We stumbled on in the general direction marked 
out, through a forest that began to seem endless as 
hour after hour passed, compelled as we were to make 
long detours over the ridges of the foot-hills to avoid 
the swamp, which sent out from the border of the lake 
long tongues into the firm ground. The guide became 
more ill at every step, and needed frequent halts and 
long rests. Food he could not eat ; and tea, water, 
and even brandy, he rejected. Again and again the 





old philosopher, enfeebled by excessive exertion and 
illness, would collapse in a heap on the ground, an 
almost comical picture of despair, while we stood and 
waited the waning of the day, and peered forward in 
vain for any sign of an open country. At every brook 
we encountered, we suggested a halt for the night, 
while it was still light enough to select a camping- 
place, but the plucky old man wouldn't hear of it i 
the trail might be only a quarter of a mile ahead, and 
we crawled on again at a snail's pace. His honor as 
a guide seemed to be at stake ; and, besides, he con- 
fessed to a notion that his end was near, and he didn't 
want to die like a dog in the woods. And yet, if this 
was his last journey, it seemed not an inappropriate 
ending for the old woodsman to lie down and give up 
the ghost in the midst of the untamed forest and the 
solemn silences he felt most at home in. There is a 
popular theory, held by civilians, that a soldier likes 
to die in battle. I suppose it is as true that a woods- 
man would like to " pass in his chips," — the figure 
seems to be inevitable, — struck down by illness and 
exposures in the forest solitude, with heaven in sight 
and a tree-root for his pillow. 

The guide seemed really to fear that, if we did not 
get out of the woods that night, he would never go 
out ; and, yielding to his dogged resolution, we kept 
on in search of the trail, although the gathering of 
dusk over the ground warned us that we might easily 
cross the trail without recognizing it. AYe were trav= 
elling by the light in the upper sky, and by the forms 
of the tree-stems, which every moment grew dimmer. 
At last the end came. We had just felt our way over 
what seemed to be a little run of water, when the old 
man sunk down, remarking, " I might as well die hero 
as anywhere," and was silent. 





Suddenly night fell like a blanket on us. We 
could neither see the guide nor each other. We be- 
came at once conscious that miles of night on all sides 
shut us in. The sky was clouded over : there wasn't 
a gleam of light to show us where to step. Our first 
thought was to build a fire, which would drive back 
the thick darkness into the woods, and boil some 
water for our tea. But it was too dark to use the axe. 
We scraped together leaves and twigs to make a 
blaze, and, as this failed, such dead sticks as we could 
find by groping about. The fire was only a tempo- 
rary affair, but it sufficed to boil a can of water. 
The water we obtained by feeling about the stones of 
the little run for an opening big enough to dip our 
cup in. The supper to be prepared was fortunately 
simple. It consisted of a decoction of tea and other 
leaves which had got into the pail, and a part of a loaf 
of bread. A loaf of bread which has been carried in 
a knapsack for a couple of days, bruised and handled 
and hacked at with a hunting-knife, becomes an unin- 
teresting object. But we ate of it with thankfulness, 
washed it down with hot fluid, and bitterly thought of 
the morrow. Would our old friend survive the 
night? Would he be in any condition to travel in 
the morning ? How were we to get out with him or 
without him? 

The old man lay silent in the bushes out of sight, 
and desired only to be let alone. We tried to tempt 
him with the offer of a piece of toast : it was no temp- 
tation. Tea, we thought, would revive him ; he re- 
fused it. A drink of brandy would certainly quicken 
his life : he couldn't touch it. We were at the end of 
our resources. He seemed to think, that, if he were 
at home, and could get a bit of fried bacon, or a piece 







of pie, he should be all right. We knew no more 
how to doctor him than if he had been a sick bear. 
He withdrew within himself, rolled himself up, so to 
speak, in his primitive habits, and waited for the heal- 
ing power of nature. Before our feeble fire disap- 
peared, we smoothed a level place near it for Phelps 
to lie on, and got him over to it. But it didn't suit
it was too open. In fact, at the moment some drops 
of rain fell. Eain was quite outside of our pro- 
gramme for the night. But the guide had an instinct 
about it ; and, while we were groping about some yards 
distant for a place where we could lie down, he 
crawled away into the darkness, and curled himself 
up amid the roots of a gigantic pine, very much as a 
bear would do, I suppose, with his back against the 
trunk, and there passed the night comparatively dry 
and comfortable ; but of this we knew nothing until 
morning, and had to trust to the assurance of a voice 
out of the darkness that he was all right. 

Our own bed where we spread our blankets was 
excellent in one respect, — there was no danger of 
tumbling out of it. At first the rain pattered gently 
on the leaves overhead, and we congratulated ourselves 
on the snugness of our situation. There was some- 
thing cheerful about this free life. We contrasted 
our condition with that of tired invalids who were 
tossing on downy beds, and wooing sleep in vain. 
Nothing was so wholesome and invigorating as this 
bivouac in the forest. But, somehow, sleep did not 
come. The rain had ceased to patter, and began to 
fall with a steady determination, a sort of soak, soak, 
all about us. In fact, it roared on the rubber blanket, 
and beat in our faces. The wind began to stir a 
little, and there was a moaning on high. Not contented with dripping, the rain was driven into our 
faces. Another suspicious circumstance was no- 
ticed. Little rills of water got established along 
the sides under the blankets, cold, undeniable 
streams, that interfered with drowsiness. Pools 
of water settled on the bed ; and the chaplain had 
a habit of moving suddenly, and letting a quart or 
two inside, and down my neck. It began to be 
evident that we and our bed were probably the wet- 
test objects in the woods. The rubber was an excel- 
lent catch-all. There was no trouble about ventila- 
tion, but we found that we had established our quar- 
ters without any provision for drainage. There was 
not exactly a wild tempest abroad ; but there was a 
degree of liveliness in the thrashing limbs and the 
creaking of the tree-branches which rubbed against 
each other, and the pouring rain increased in volume 
and power of penetration. Sleep was quite out of the 
question, with so much to distract our attention. In 
fine, our misery became so perfect that we both broke 
out into loud and sarcastic laughter over the absurd- 
ity of our situation. We had subjected ourselves to 
all this forlornness simply for pleasure. Whether 
Old Phelps was still in existence, we couldn't tell : 
we could get no response from him. With daylight, 
if he continued ill and could not move, our situation 
would be little improved. Our supplies were gone, 
we lay in a pond, a deluge of water was pouring down 
on us. This was summer recreation. The whole 
thing was so excessively absurd, that we laughed 
again, louder than ever. We had plenty of this sort 
of amusement. 

Suddenly through the night we heard a sort of 
reply that started us bolt upright. This was a prolonged squawk. It was like the voice of no beast or 
bird with which we were familiar. At first it was 
distant, but it rapidly approached, tearing through the 
night and apparently through the tree-tops, like the 
harsh cry of a web-footed bird with a snarl in it ; in 
fact, as I said, a squawk. It came close to us, and 
then turned, and as rapidly as it came, fled away 
through the forest, and we lost the unearthly noise far 
up the mountain-slope. 
