in America as might be desired ; still, he con 
tinued, you could generally get it by paying for 
it ; in fact, you could get every thing in America 
nowadays by paying for it. American life was 
certainly growing a great deal more private ; it 
was growing very much like England. Every 
thing at Newport, for instance, was thoroughly 
private ; Lord Lambeth would probably be struck 
with that. It was also represented to the strangers that it mattered very little whether their 
hotel was agreeable, as every one would want 
them to make visits ; they would stay with other 
people, and, in any case, they would be a great 
deal at Mrs. Westgate's. They would find that 
very charming; it was the pleasantest house in 
Newport. It was a pity Mr. Westgate was al 
ways away ; he was a man of the highest ability 
very acute, very acute. lie worked like a 
horse, and he left his wife well, to do about as 
she liked. He liked her to enjoy herself, and 
she seemed to know how. She was extremely 
brilliant, and a splendid talker. Some people 
preferred her sister; but Miss Alden was very 
different ; she was in a different style altogether. 
Some people even thought her prettier, and, certainly, she was not so sharp. She was more in 
the Boston style ; she had lived a great deal in 
Boston, and she was very highly educated. Boston girls, it was propounded, were more like 
English young ladies. 

' Lord Lambeth had presently a chance to test 
the truth of this proposition, for on the company rising in compliance with a suggestion from 
their hostess that they should walk down to the 
rocks and look at the sea, the young Englishman 
again found himself, as they strolled across the 
grass, in proximity to Mrs. Westgate 's sister. 
Though she was but a girl of twenty, she appeared to feel the obligation to exert an active hospitality ; and this was, perhaps, the more to be 
noticed as she seemed by nature a reserved and 
retiring person, and had little of her sister 's fraternizing quality. She was perhaps rather too 
thin, and she was a little pale ; but as she moved 
slowly over the grass, with her arms hanging at 
her sides, looking gravely for a moment at the 
sea and then brightly, for all her gravity, at him, 
Lord Lambeth thought her at least as pretty as 
Mrs. Westgate, and reflected that if this was the 
Boston style the Boston style was very charming. 
He thought she looked very clever; he 
could imagine that she was highly educated ; but 
at the same time she seemed gentle and graceful. 
For all her cleverness, however, he felt that she 
had to think a little what to say; she didn 't say 
the first thing that came into her head ; he had 
come from a different part of the world and 
from a different society, and she was trying to 
adapt her conversation. The others were scattering themselves near the rocks ; Mrs. Westgate had charge of Percy Beaumont. 

" Very jolly place, isn't it ?" said Lord Lambeth. 
" It 's a very jolly place to sit." 

" Very charming," said the young girl. " I often sit here ; there are all kinds of cozy corners 
as if they had been made on purpose." 

" Ah ! I suppose you have had some of them 
made," said the young man. 

Miss Alden looked at him a moment. " Oh no, 
we have had nothing made. It 's pure nature." 

" I should think you would have a few little 
benches rustic seats and that sort of thing. It 
might be so jolly to sit here, you know," Lord 
Lambeth went on. 

" I am afraid we haven 't so many of those things 
as you," said the young girl, thoughtfully. 

" I dare say you go in for pure nature, as you 
were saying. Nature over here must be so grand, 
you know." And Lord Lambeth looked about him. 

The little coast-line hereabouts was very pretty, but it was not at all grand, and Miss Aldeu 
appeared to rise to a perception of this fact. " I 
am afraid it seems to you very rough," she said. 
"It 's not like the coast scenery in Kingsley 's 
novels." 

"Ah, the novels always overdo it, you know," 
Lord Lambeth rejoined. " You must not go by 
the novels." 

They were wandering about a little on the rocks, 
and they stopped and looked down into a narrow 
chasm where the rising tide made a curious bellowing sound. It was loud enough to prevent 
their hearing each other, and they stood there for 
some moments in silence. The young girl looked 
at her companion, observing him attentively, but 
covertly, as women, even when very young, know 
how to do. Lord Lambeth repaid observation; 
tall, straight, and strong, he was handsome as certain young Englishmen, and certain young English 
men almost alone, are handsome; with a perfect 
finish of feature and a look of intellectual repose 
and gentle good temper which seemed somehow 
to be consequent upon his well-cut nose and chin. 
And to speak of Lord Lambeth 's expression of intellectual repose is not simply a civil way of say 
ing that he looked stupid. He was evidently not 
a young man of an irritable imagination ; he was 
not, as he would himself have said, tremendously 
clever; but though there was a kind of appealing dullness in his eye, he looked thoroughly reasonable and competent, and his appearance pro 
claimed that to be a nobleman, an athlete, and an 
excellent fellow was a sufficiently brilliant combination of qualities. The young girl beside him, 
it may be attested without further delay, thought 
him the handsomest young man she had ever seen ; 
and Bessie Alden 's imagination, unlike that of her 
companion, was irritable. He, however, was also 
making up his mind that she was uncommonly 
pretty. 

" I dare say it 's very gay here, that you have 
lots of balls and parties," he said ; for, if he was 
not tremendously clever, he rather prided himself 
on having, with women, a sufficiency of conversation. 

" Oh yes, there is a great deal going on," Bessie Alden replied. " There are not so many balls, 
but there are a good many other things. You will 
see for yourself ; we live rather in the midst of 
it." 

" It 's very kind of you to say that. But I thought 
you Americans were always dancing." 

" I suppose we dance a good deal ; but I have 
never seen much of it. We don 't do it much, at 
any rate, in summer. And I am sure," said Bessie 
Alden, " that we don 't have so many balls as 
you have in England." 

" Really !" exclaimed Lord Lambeth. " Ah, in 
England it all depends, you know." 

"You will not think much of our gayeties," 
said the young girl, looking at him with a little 
mixture of interrogation and decision which was peculiar to her. The interrogation seemed earnest and the decision seemed arch ; but the mixture, at any rate, was charming. " Those things, 
with us, are much less splendid than in Eng 
land." 

" I fancy you don 't mean that," said Lord Lam 
beth, laughing. 

" I assure you I mean every thing I say," the 
young girl declared. " Certainly, from what I 
have read about English society, it is very different." 

"Ah well, you know," said her companion, 
" those things are often described by fellows who 
know nothing about them. You mustn't mind 
what you read." 

" Oh, I shall mind what I read !" Bessie Alden 
rejoined. " When I read Thackeray and George 
Eliot, how can I help minding them ?" 

"Ah well, Thackeray, and George Eliot," said 
the young nobleman ; " I haven 't read much of 
them." 



  

" Don 't you suppose they know about society ?" 
asked Bessie Alden. 

" Oh, I dare say they know ; they were so very 
clever. But these fashionable novels," said Lord 
Lambeth, " they are awful rot, you know." 

His companion looked at him a moment with 
her dark blue eyes, and then she looked down in 
the chasm where the water was tumbling about. 
" Do you mean Mrs. Gore, for instance ?" she said, 
presently, raising her eyes. 

" I am afraid I haven 't read that, either," was 
the young man 's rejoinder, laughing a little and 
blushing. " I am afraid you'll think I am not 
very intellectual." 

" Reading Mrs. Gore is no proof of intellect. 
But I like reading every thing about English 
life even poor books. I am so curious about 
it." 

"Aren't ladies always curious?" asked the 
young man, jestingly. 

But Bessie Alden appeared to desire to answer 
his question seriously. "I don 't think so I 
don 't think we are enough so that we care 
about many things. So it 's all the more of a 
compliment," she added, " that I should want to 
know so much about England." 

The logic here seemed a little close ; but Lord 
Lambeth, made conscious of a compliment, found 
his natural modesty just at hand. " I am sure 
you know a great deal more than I do." 

"I really think I know a great deal for a 
person who has never been there." 

"Have you really never been there?" cried 
Lord Lambeth. " Fancy !" 

"Never except in imagination," said the 
young girl. 

."Fancy!" repeated her companion. "But I 
dare say you'll go soon, won 't you ?" 

" It 's the dream of my life !" declared Bessie 
Alden, smiling. 

" But your sister seems to know a tremendous 
lot about London," Lord Lambeth went on. 

The young girl was silent a moment. "My 
sister and I are two very different persons," she 
presently said. " She has been a great deal in 
Europe. She has been in England several times. 
She has known a great many English people." 

"But you must have known some, too," said 
Lord Lambeth. 

"I don 't think that I have ever spoken to one 
before. You are the first Englishman that to 
my knowledge I have ever talked with." 

Bessie Alden made this statement with a certain gravity almost, as it seemed to Lord Lambeth, an impressiveness. Attempts at impressiveness 
always made him feel awkward, and he 

now began to laugh and swing his stick. " Ah, 
you would have been sure to know !" he said. 
And then he added, after an instant, "I'm sorry I am not a better specimen." 

The young girl looked away ; but she smiled, 
laying aside her impressiveness. " You must remember that you are only a beginning," she said. 
Then she retraced her steps, leading the way 
back to the lawn, where they saw Mrs. Westgate 
come toward them with Percy Beaumont still at 
her side. " Perhaps I shall go to England next 
year," Miss Alden continued ; " I want to, immensely. My sister is going to Europe, and she 
has asked me to go with her. If we go, I shall 
make her stay as long as possible in London." 

" Ah, you must come in July," said Lord Lam 
beth. " That 's the time when there is most go 
ing on." 

" I don 't think I can wait till July," the young 
girl rejoined. " By the first of May I shall be 
very impatient. They had gone further, and 
Mrs. Westgate and her companion were near 
them. " Kitty," said Miss Alden, " I have given 
out that we are going to London next May. So 
please to conduct yourself accordingly." 

Percy Beaumont wore a somewhat animated 
even a slightly irritated air. He was by no 
means so handsome a man as his cousin, although 
in his cousin 's absence he might have 
passed for a striking specimen of the tall, muscular, fair-bearded, clear-eyed Englishman. Just 
now Beaumont 's clear eyes, which were small 
and of a pale gray color, had a rather troubled 
light, and, after glancing at Bessie Alden while 
she spoke, he rested them upon his kinsman. 
Mrs. Westgate meanwhile, with her superfluously pretty gaze, looked at every one alike. 

"You had better wait till the time comes," 
she said to her sister. " Perhaps next May you 
won 't care so much about London. Mr. Beaumont and I," she went on, smiling at her companion, "have had a tremendous discussion. 
We don 't agree about any thing. It 's perfectly 
delightful." 

" Oh, I say, Percy !" exclaimed Lord Lambeth. 

"I disagree," said Beaumont, stroking down 
his back hair, " even to the point of not thinking 
it delightful." 

" Oh, I say !" cried Lord Lambeth again. 

" I don 't see any thing delightful in my disagreeing with Mrs. Westgate," said Percy Beaumont. 

" Well, I do !" Mrs. Westgate declared ; and 
she turned to her sister. " You know you have 
to go to town. The phaeton is there. You had 
better take Lord Lambeth." 



At this point Percy Beaumont certainly looked 
straight at his kinsman ; he tried to catch his 
eye. But Lord Lambeth would not look at him ; 
his own eyes were better occupied. " I shall be 
very happy," cried Bessie Alden. "I am only 
going to some shops. But I will drive you about 
and show you the place " 

" An American woman who respects herself," 
said Mrs. Westgate, turning to Beaumont with 
her bright expository air, " must buy something 
every day of her life. If she can not do it herself, she must send out some member of her family for the purpose. So Bessie goes forth to fulfill my mission." 

The young girl had walked away, with Lord 
Lambeth by her side, to whom she was talking 
still ; and Percy Beaumont watched them as they 
passed toward the house. " She fulfills her own 
mission," he presently said ; " that of being a 
very attractive young lady." 

" I don 't know that I should say very attractive," Mrs. Westgate rejoined. "She is not so 
much that as she is charming when you really 
know her. She is very shy." 

" Oh, indeed !" said Percy Beaumont. 

"Extremely shy," Mrs. Westgate repeated. 
" But she is a dear good girl ; she is a charming 
species of girl. She is not in the least a flirt; 





that isn't at all her line ; she doesn 't know the 
alphabet of that sort of thing. She is very simple, very serious. She has lived a great deal in 
Boston, with another sister of mine the eldest 
of us who married a Bostonian. She is very 
cultivated, not at all like me ; I am not in the 
least cultivated. She has studied immensely and 
read every thing ; she is what they call in Boston  thoughtful. " 

"A rum sort of girl for Lambeth to get hold 
of !" his lordship 's kinsman privately reflected. 

"I really believe," Mrs. Westgate continued, 
"that the most charming girl in the world is a 
Boston superstructure upon a New York fonds ; 
or perhaps a New York superstructure upon a 
Boston fonds. At any rate, it 's the mixture," 
said Mrs. Westgate, who continued to give Percy 
Beaumont a great deal of information. 

Lord Lambeth got into a little basket-phaeton 
with Bessie Alden, and she drove him down the 
long avenue, whose extent he had measured on 
foot a couple of hours before, into the ancient 
town, as it was called in that part of the world, 
of Newport. The ancient town was a curious af 
fair a collection of fresh-looking little wooden 
houses, painted white, scattered over a hill-side 
and clustered about a long straight street, paved 
with enormous cobble-stones. There were plenty 
of shops a large proportion of which appeared 
to be those of fruit vendors, with piles of huge 
water-melons and pumpkins stacked in front of 
them ; and, drawn up before the shops, or bump 
ing about on the cobble-stones, were innumera 
ble other basket-phaetons freighted with ladies 
of high fashion, who greeted each other from 
vehicle to vehicle, and conversed on the edge of 
the pavement in a manner that struck Lord Lambeth as demonstrative, with a great many "Oh, 
my dears," and little quick exclamations and 
caresses. His companion went into seventeen 
shops he amused himself with counting them 
and accumulated at the bottom of the phaeton 
a pile of bundles that hardly left the young Englishman a place for his feet. As she had no 
groom nor footman, he sat in the phaeton to hold 
the ponies, where, although he was not a par 
ticularly acute observer, he saw much to entertain him especially the ladies just mentioned, 
who wandered up and down with the appearance 
of a kind of aimless intentness, as if they were 
looking for something to buy, and who, tripping 
in and out of their vehicles, displayed remarkably pretty feet. It all seemed to Lord Lambeth 
very odd, and bright, and gay. Of course, before 
they got back to the villa, he had had a great 
deal of desultory conversation with Bessie Alden. 





The young Englishmen spent the whole of that 
day and the whole of many successive days in 
what the French call the intimite of their new 
friends. They agreed that it was extremely jolly, that they had never known any thing more 
agreeable. It is not proposed to narrate minutely the incidents of their sojourn on this charming shore ; though if it were convenient I might 
present a record of impressions none the less 
delectable that they were not exhaustively ana 
lyzed. Many of them still linger in the minds of 
our travellers, attended by a train of harmonious 
images images of brilliant mornings on lawns 
and piazzas that overlooked the sea ; of innumerable pretty girls ; of infinite lounging and 
talking and laughing and flirting and lunching 
and dining ; of universal friendliness and frankness ; of occasions on which they knew every one 
and every thing, and had an extraordinary sense 
of ease ; of drives and rides in the late afternoon 
over gleaming beaches, on long sea-roads, beneath a sky lighted up by marvellous sunsets ; 
of suppers, on the return, informal, irregular, 
agreeable ; of evenings at open windows or on 
the perpetual verandas, in the summer star 
light, above the warm Atlantic. The young 
Englishmen were introduced to every body, entertained by every body, intimate with every 



  

body. At the end of three days they had removed their luggage from the hotel, and had 
gone to stay with Mrs. Westgate a step to 
which Percy Beaumont at first offered some conscientious opposition. I call his opposition conscientious, because it was founded upon some talk 
that he had had, on the second day, with Bessie 
Alden. He had indeed had a good deal of talk 
with her, for she was not literally always in conversation with Lord Lambeth. He had medita 
ted upon Mrs. Westgate 's account of her sister, 
and he discovered for himself that the young 
lady was clever, and appeared to have read a 
great deal. She seemed very nice, though he 
could not make out that, as Mrs. Westgate had 
said, she was shy. If she was shy, she carried it 
off very well. 

" Mr. Beaumont," she had said, " please tell 
me something about Lord Lambeth 's family. 
How would you say it in England his position ?" 

" His position ?" Percy Beaumont repeated. 

"His rank, or whatever you call it. Unfor 
tunately we haven 't got a Peerage, like the 
people in Thackeray." 

" That 's a great pity," said Beaumont. " You 
would find it all set forth there so much better 
than I can do it." 

" He is a peer, then ?" 





" Oh yes, he is a peer." 

" And has he any other title than Lord Lainbeth ?" 

"His title is the Marquis of Lambeth," said 
Beaumont ; and then he was silent. Bessie Alden 
appeared to be looking at him with interest. 
" He is the son of the Duke of Bayswater," he 
added, presently. 

" The eldest son ?" 

" The only son." 

" And are his parents living ?" 

" Oh yes ; if his father were not living he 
would be a duke." 

" So that when his father dies," pursued Bessie 
Alden, with more simplicity than might have 
been expected in a clever girl, " he will become 
Duke of Bayswater ?" 

" Of course," said Percy Beaumont. " But his 
father is in excellent health." 

" And his mother ?" 

Beaumont smiled a little. "The Duchess is 
uncommonly robust." 

" And has he any sisters ?" 

" Yes, there are two." 

" And what are they called ?" 

" One of them is married. She is the Countess 
of Pimlico." 

"And the other?" 



  

"The other is unmarried; she is plain Lady 
Julia." 
