" That is the last thing they would do," said 
Gertrude. 
Felix stared at her a moment, with his lifted 
eyebrows. " Je n'y comprends rien ! " he ex- 
claimed ; then his eyes followed for a while the 
retreating figures of this critical pair. " You may 
say what you please," he declared ; " it is evident 
to me that your sister is not indifferent to her 
clever companion. It is agreeable to her to be 
walking there with him. I can see that from 
here." And in the excitement of observation 
Felix rose to his feet. 
Gertrude rose also, but she made no attempt to 
emulate her companion's discovery ; she looked 
rather in another direction. Felix's words had 
struck her; but a certain delicacy checked her. 
" She is certainly not indifferent to Mr. Brand ; 
she has the highest opinion of him." 
" One can see it one can see it," said Felix, 
in a tone of amused contemplation, with his head 
on one side. Gertrude turned her back to the op- 
   
posite shore; it was disagreeable to her to look, 
but she hoped Felix would say something more. 
" Ah, they have wandered away into the wood," 
he added. 
Gertrude turned round again. " She is not in 
love with him," she said ; it seemed her duty to 
say that. 
" Then he is in love with her ; or if he is not, 
he ought to be. She is such a perfect little woman 
of her kind. She reminds me of a pair of old- 
fashioned silver sugar-tongs ; you know I am very 
fond of sugar. And she is very nice with Mr. 
Brand ; I have noticed that; very gentle and 
gracious." 
Gertrude reflected a moment. Then she took 
a great resolution. " She wants him to marry 
me," she said. " So of course she is nice." 
Felix's eyebrows rose higher than ever. " To 
marry you ! Ah, ah, this is interesting. And you 
think one must be very nice with a man to induce 
him to do that ? " 
Gertrude had turned a little pale, but she went 
on, " Mr. Brand wants it himself." 
Felix folded his arms and stood looking at her. 
" I see I see," he said quickly. " Why did you 
never tell me this before?" 
"It is disagreeable to me to speak of it even 
now. I wished simply to explain to you about 
Charlotte." 
 
" You don't wish to marry Mr. Brand, then ? " 
" No," said Gertrude, gravely. 
" And does your father wish it ? " 
" Very much." 
" And you don't like him you have refused 
him?" 
" I don't wish to marry him." 
"Your father and sister think you ought to, 
eh?" 
" It is a long story," said Gertrude. " They 
think there are good reasons. I can't explain it. 
They think I have obligations, and that I have en- 
couraged him." 
Felix smiled at her, as if she had been telling 
him an amusing story about some one else. " I 
can't tell you how this interests me," he said. 
" Now you don't recognize these reasons these 
obligations ? " 
k ' I am not sure ; it is not easy." And she 
picked up her parasol and turned away, as if to 
descend the slope. 
" Tell me this," Felix went on, going with her : 
" are you likely to give in to let them persuade 
you?" 
Gertrude looked at him with the serious face 
that she had constantly worn, in opposition to his 
almost eager smile. " I shall never marry Mr. 
Brand," she said. 
" I see ! " Felix rejoined. And they slowly de- 
   
scended the hill together, saying nothing till they 
reached the margin of the pond. " It is your 
own affair," he then resumed ; " but do you know, 
I am not altogether glad ? If it were settled that 
you were to marry Mr. Brand I should take a cer- 
tain comfort in the arrangement. I should feel 
more free. I have no right to make love to you 
myself, eh ? " And he paused, lightly pressing his 
argument upon her. 
" None whatever," replied Gertrude quickly 
too quickly. 
" Your father would never hear of it ; I have n't 
a penny. Mr. Brand, of course, has property of 
his own, eh ? " 
" I believe he has some property ; but that has 
nothing to do with it." 
" With you, of course not ; but with your father 
and sister it must have. So, as I say, if this were 
settled, I should feel more at liberty." 
*' More at liberty ? " Gertrude repeated. " Please 
unfasten the boat." 
Felix untwisted the rope and stood holding it. 
" I should be able to say things to you that I can't 
give myself the pleasure of saying now," he went 
on. "I could tell you how much I admire you, 
without seeming to pretend to that which I have 
no right to pretend to. I should make violent 
love to you," he added, laughing, " if I thought 
you were so placed as not to be offended by it." 
 
" You mean if -I were engaged to another man ? 
That is strange reasoning ! " Gertrude exclaimed. 
" In that case you would not take me seri- 
ously." 
" I take every one seriously," said Gertrude. 
And without his help she stepped lightly into the 
boat. 
Felix took up the oars and sent it forward. 
" Ah, this is what you have been thinking about ? 
It seemed to me you had something on your mind. 
I wish very much," he added, " that you would 
tell me some of these so-called reasons these ob- 
ligations." 
" They are not real reasons good reasons," 
said Gertrude, looking at the pink and yellow 
gleams in the water. 
" I can understand that ! Because a handsome 
girl has had a spark of coquetry, that is no rea- 
son." 
" If you mean me, it 's not that. I have not 
done that." 
" It is something that troubles you, at any 
rate," said Felix. 
" Not so much as it used to," Gertrude re- 
joined. 
He looked at her, smiling always. " That is 
not saying much, eh ? " But she only rested her 
eyes, very gravely, on the lighted water. She 
   
seemed to him to be trying to hide the signs of 
the trouble of which she had just told him. Felix 
felt, at all times, much the same impulse to dissi- 
pate visible melancholy that a good housewife feels 
to brush away dust. There was something he 
wished to brush away now ; suddenly he stopped 
rowing and poised his oars. " Why should Mr. 
Brand have addressed himself to you, and not to 
your sister ? " he asked. " I am sure she would 
listen to him." 
Gertrude, in her family, was thought capable of 
a good deal of levity; but her levity had never 
gone so far as this. It moved her greatly, how- 
ever, to hear Felix say that he was sure of some- 
thing ; so that, raising her eyes toward him, she 
tried intently, for some moments, to conjure up 
this wonderful image of a love-affair between her 
own sister and her own suitor. We know that 
Gertrude had an imaginative mind ; so that it is 
not impossible that this effort should have been 
partially successful. But she only murmured, "Ah, 
Felix! ah, Felix!" 
" Why should n't they marry ? Try and make 
them marry ! " cried Felix. 
" Try and make them ? " 
" Turn the tables on them. Then they will 
leave you alone. I will help you as far as I can." 
Gertrude's heart began to beat ; she was greatly 
 
excited ; she had never had anything so interest- 
ing proposed to her before. Felix had begun to 
row again, and he now sent the boat home with 
long strokes. " I believe she does care for him ! " 
said Gertrude, after they had disembarked. 
" Of course she does, and we will marry them 
off. It will make them happy ; it will make every 
one happy. We shall have a wedding and I will 
write an epithalamium." 
" It seems as if it would make me happy," said 
Gertrude. 
" To get rid of Mr. Brand, eh ? To recover 
your liberty ? " 
Gertrude walked on. " To see my sister mar- 
ried to so good a man." 
Felix gave his light laugh. " You always put 
things on those grounds ; you will never say any- 
thing for yourself. You are all so afraid, here, of 
being selfish. I don't think you know how," he 
went on. " Let me show you ! It will make me 
happy for myself, and for just the reverse of what 
I told you a while ago. After that, when I make 
love to you, you will have to think I mean it." 
" I shall never think you mean anything," said 
Gertrude. " You are too fantastic." 
" Ah," cried Felix, " that 's a license to say 
everything ! Gertrude, I adore you ! " 
 
VIII. 
CHARLOTTE and Mr. Brand had not returned 
when they reached the house ; but the Baroness 
had come to tea, and Robert Acton also, who now 
regularly asked for a place at this generous repast 
or made his appearance later in the evening. 
Clifford Wentworth, with his juvenile growl, re- 
marked upon it. 
" You are always coming to tea nowadays, Rob- 
ert," he said. " I should think you had drunk 
enough tea in China." 
" Since when is Mr. Acton more frequent ? " 
asked the Baroness. 
" Since you came," said Clifford. " It seems 
as if you were a kind of attraction." 
" I suppose I am a curiosity," said the Bar- 
oness. " Give me time and I will make you a 
salon." 
" It would fall to pieces after you go ! " ex- 
claimed Acton. 
" Don't talk about her going, in that familiar 
way," Clifford said. " It makes me feel gloomy." 
Mr. Wentworth glanced at his son, and taking 
 
note of tliese words, wondered if Felix had been 
teaching him, according to the programme he had 
sketched out, to make love to the wife of a Ger- 
man prince. 
Charlotte came in late with Mr. Brand ; but 
Gertrude, to whom, at least, Felix had taught 
something, looked in vain, in her face, for the 
traces of a guilty passion. Mr. Brand sat down 
by Gertrude, and she present^ asked him why 
they had not crossed the pond to join Felix and 
herself. 
" It is cruel of you to ask me that," he an- 
swered, very softly. He had a large morsel of 
cake before him ; but he fingered it without eat- 
ing it. " I sometimes think you are growing 
cruel," he added. 
Gertrude said nothing ; she was afraid to speak. 
There was a kind of rage in her heart ; she felt as 
if she could easily persuade herself that she was 
persecuted. She said to herself that it was quite 
right that she should not allow him to make her 
believe she was wrong. She thought of what 
Felix had said to her ; she wished indeed Mr. 
Brand would marry Charlotte. She looked away 
from him and spoke no more. Mr. Brand ended 
by eating his cake, while Felix sat opposite, de- 
scribing to Mr. Wentworth the students' duels at 
Heidelberg. After tea they all dispersed them- 
   
selves, as usual, upon the piazza and in the gar- 
den ; and Mr. Brand drew near to Gertrude again. 
" I did n't come to you this afternoon because 
you were not alone," he began ; " because you 
were with a newer friend." 
" Felix ? He is an old friend by this time." 
Mr. Brand looked at the ground for some mo- 
ments. "I thought I was prepared to hear you 
speak in that way," he resumed. " But I find it 
very painful." 
" I don't see what else I can say," said Ger- 
trude. 
Mr. Brand walked beside her for a while in 
silence; Gertrude wished he would go away. 
" He is certainly very accomplished. But I think 
I ought to advise you." 
" To advise me ? " 
" I think I know your nature." 
" I think you don't," said Gertrude, with a soft 
laugh. 
" You make yourself out worse than you are 
to please him," Mr. Brand said, gently. 
" Worse to please him ? What do you 
mean ? " asked Gertrude, stopping. 
Mr. Brand stopped also, and with the same soft 
straightforwardness, " He doesn't care for the 
things you care for the great questions of life." 
Gertrude, with her eyes on his, shook her head. 
 
" I don't care for the great questions of life. They 
are much beyond me." 
" There was a time when you did n't say that," 
said Mr. Brand. 
" Oh," rejoined Gertrude, " I think you made 
me talk a great deal of nonsense. And it de- 
pends," she added, " upon what you call the great 
questions of life. There are some things I care 
for." 
" Are they the things you talk about with your 
cousin ? " 
" You should not say things to me against my 
cousin, Mr. Brand," said Gertrude. 4t That is 
dishonorable." 
He listened to this respectfully ; then he an- 
swered, with a little vibration of the voice, 4t I 
should be very sorry to do anything dishonorable. 
But I don't see why it is dishonorable to say that 
your cousin is frivolous." 
" Go and say it to himself ! " 
" I think he would admit it," said Mr. Brand. 
" That is the tone he would take. He would not 
be ashamed of it." 
" Then I am not ashamed of it ! " Gertrude 
declared. " That is probably what I like him for. 
I am frivolous myself." 
" You are trying, as I said just now, to lower 
yourself." 
   
" I am trying for once to be natural ! " cried 
Gertrude passionately. u I have been pretend- 
ing, all my life ; I have been dishonest ; it is you 
that have made me so! " Mr. Brand stood gaz- 
ing at her, and she went on, " Why should n't I 
be frivolous, if I want ? One has a right to be 
frivolous, if it 's one's nature. No, I don't care 
for the great questions. I care for pleasure for 
amusement. Perhaps I am fond of wicked things ; 
it is very possible ! " 
Mr. Brand remained staring ; he was even a 
little pale, as if he had been frightened. " I don't 
think you know what you are saying ! " he ex- 
claimed. 
" Perhaps not. Perhaps I am talking nonsense. 
But it is only with you that I talk nonsense. I 
never do so with my cousin." 
" I will speak to you again, when you are less 
excited," said Mr. Brand. 
" I am always excited when you speak to me. 
I must tell you that even if it prevents you 
altogether, in future. Your speaking to me irri- 
tates me. With my cousin it is very different. 
That seems quiet and natural." 
He looked at her, and then he looked away, 
with a kind of helpless distress, at the dusky gar- 
den and the faint summer stars. After which, 
suddenly turning back, " Gertrude, Gertrude ! " 
he softly groaned. "Am I really losing you ? " 
 
She was touched she was pained ; but it had 
already occurred to her that she might do some- 
thing better than say so. It would not have alle- 
viated her companion's distress to perceive, just 
then, whence she had sympathetically borrowed 
this ingenuity. " I am not sorry for you," Ger- 
trude said ; " for in paying so much attention to 
me you are following a shadow you are wast- 
ing something precious. There is something else 
you might have that you don't look at some- 
thing better than I am. That is a reality ! " And 
then, with intention, she looked at him and tried 
to smile a little. He thought this smile of hers 
very strange ; but she turned away and left him. 
She wandered about alone in the garden won- 
dering what Mr. Brand would make of her words, 
which it had been a singular pleasure for her to 
utter. Shortly after, passing in front of the house, 
she saw at a distance two persons standing near 
the garden gate. It was Mr. Brand going away 
and bidding good-night to Charlotte, who had 
walked down with him from the house. Gertrude 
saw that the parting was prolonged. Then she 
turned her back upon it. She had not gone very 
far, however, when she heard her sister slowly 
following her. She neither turned round nor 
waited for her; she knew what Charlotte was 
going to say. Charlotte, who at last overtook 
   
her, in fact presently began ; she had passed her 
arm into Gertrude's. 
" Will you listen to me, dear, if I say something 
very particular ? " 
" I know what you are going to say," said Ger- 
trude. " Mr. Brand feels very badly." 
" Oh, Gertrude, how can you treat him so ? '" 
Charlotte demanded. And as her sister made no 
answer she added, " After all he has done for 
you ! " 
" What has he done for me ? " 
" I wonder you can ask, Gertrude. He has 
helped you so. You told me so yourself, a great 
many times. You told me that he helped you to 
struggle with your your peculiarities. You told 
me that he had taught you how to govern your 
temper." 
For a moment Gertrude said nothing. Then, 
" Was my temper very bad? " she asked. 
" I am not accusing you, Gertrude," said Char- 
lotte. 
" What are you doing, then ? " her sister de- 
manded, with a short laugh. 
" I am pleading for Mr. Brand reminding you 
of all you owe him." 
" I have given it all back," said Gertrude, still 
with her little laugh. " He can take back the 
virtue he imparted ! I want to be wicked again." 
 
Her sister made her stop in the path, and fixed 
upon her, in the darkness, a sweet, reproachful 
gaze. " If you talk this way I shall almost be- 
lieve it. Think of all we owe Mr. Brand. Think 
of how he has always expected something of you. 
Think how much he has been to us. Think of 
his beautiful influence upon Clifford." 
" He is very good," said Gertrude, looking at 
her sister. " I know he is very good. But he 
should n't speak against Felix." 
" Felix is good," Charlotte answered, softly but 
promptly. " Felix is very wonderful. Only he 
is so different. Mr. Brand is much nearer to us. 
I should never think of going to Felix with a 
trouble with a question. Mr. Brand is much 
more to us, Gertrude." 
" He is very very good," Gertrude repeated. 
" He is more to you ; yes, much more. Charlotte," 
she added suddenly, " you are in love with him ! " 
" Oh, Gertrude ! " cried poor Charlotte ; and 
her sister saw her blushing in the darkness. 
Gertrude put her arm round her. " I wish he 
would marry you ! " she went on. 
Charlotte shook herself free. " You must not 
say such things ! " she exclaimed, beneath her 
breath. 
" You like him more than you say, and he likes 
you more than he knows." 
   
" This is very cruel of you ! " Charlotte Went- 
worth murmured. 
But if it was cruel Gertrude continued pitiless. 
" Not if it 's true," she answered. " I wish he 
would marry you." 
" Please don't say that." 
" I mean to tell him so ! " said Gertrude. 
" Oh, Gertrude, Gertrude ! " her sister almost 
moaned. 
" Yes, if he speaks to me again about myself. 
I will say, ' Why don't you marry Charlotte ? 
She 's a thousand times better than I.' ' 
" You are wicked ; you are changed ! " cried her 
sister. 
" If you don't like it you can prevent it," said 
Gertrude. " You can prevent it by keeping him 
from speaking to me ? " And with this she walked 
away, very conscious of what she had done ; meas- 
uring it and finding a certain joy and a quickened 
sense of freedom in it. 
Mr. Wentworth was rather wide of the mark in 
suspecting that Clifford had begun to pay unscru- 
pulous compliments to his brilliant cousin ; for the 
young man had really more scruples than he re- 
ceived credit for in his family. He had a certain 
transparent shamefacedness which was in itself a 
proof that he was not at his ease in dissipation. 
His collegiate peccadilloes had aroused a domestic 
 
murmur as disagreeable to the young man as the 
creaking of his boots would have been to a house- 
breaker. Only, as the house-breaker would have 
simplified matters by removing his chaussures, it 
had seemed to Clifford that the shortest cut to 
comfortable relations with people relations which 
should make him cease to think that when they 
spoke to him they meant something improving 
was to renounce all ambition toward a nefari- 
ous development. And, in fact, Clifford's ambition 
took the most commendable form. He thought of 
himself in the future as the well-known and much- 
liked Mr. Wentworth, of Boston, who should, in 
the natural course of prosperity, have married 
his pretty cousin, Lizzie Acton ; should live in a 
wide-fronted house, in view of the Common ; and 
should drive, behind a light wagon, over the damp 
autumn roads, a pair of beautifully matched sorrel 
horses. Clifford's vision of the coming years was 
very simple ; its most definite features were this 
element of familiar matrimony and the duplication 
of his resources for trotting. He had not yet asked 
his cousin to marry him ; but he meant to do so 
as soon as he had taken his degree. Lizzie was 
serenely conscious of his intention, and she had 
made up her mind that he would improve. Her 
brother, who was very fond of this light, quick, 
competent little Lizzie, saw on his side no reason 
   
to interpose. It seemed to him a graceful social 
law that Clifford and his sister should become en- 
gaged ; he himself was not engaged, but every one 
else, fortunately, was not such a fool as he. He 
was fond of Clifford, as well, and had his own 
way of which it must be confessed he was a little 
ashamed of looking at those aberrations which 
had led to the young man's compulsory retirement 
from the neighboring seat of learning. Acton had 
seen the world, as he said to himself ; he had been 
to China and had knocked about among men. 
He had learned the essential difference between a 
nice young fellow and a mean young fellow, and 
was satisfied that there was no harm in Clifford. 
He believed although it must be added that he 
had not quite the courage to declare it in the 
