Remove the fat from the surface of your cold “stock,” pour off without
disturbing the sediment, and heat to a boil. Skim as long as the scum
rises; then stir in the beaten white of an egg, and simmer, skimming
well until it has brought up with it all the impurities, leaving the
soup clear. Add half a cup of German sago, previously soaked two hours
in a little water, and cook gently until this is melted; then serve.
LARDED SHOULDER OF MUTTON.
Cut half a pound of salt fat pork into narrow, long lardoons. Roll
them in a mixture of pepper, allspice and vinegar. If you have no
larding-needle, make incisions in the shoulder of mutton with a
thin, narrow-bladed knife, and thrust in the strips of pork, leaving
about a quarter of an inch projecting on the upper side. Put into a
dripping-pan, pour two cupfuls of boiling water over it, in which has
been mixed a glass of claret. Cover with another pan, and cook two
hours, if the shoulder be of full size. Baste frequently—for an hour
and a half with its own gravy—then three times with a mixture of melted
butter and currant jelly, leaving off the upper pan that the meat may
brown. Dish the meat; thicken the strained gravy with browned flour,
and after one boil, serve in a boat. To save labor and time on Sunday,
lard the meat over night.
SCALLOPED TOMATOES.
Skin and slice. Cover the bottom of a pie-dish (buttered) with dry
crumbs; lay tomatoes over them. Season with pepper, salt, sugar and
butter. Put alternate layers of crumbs and seasoned tomatoes until the
dish is full, having crumbs on top. Bake, covered, half an hour, and
brown slightly.
BOILED CORN.
Please see Thursday, Fourth Week in June.
NEW POTATOES—STEWED.
Rub or scrape off the skins; boil in hot salted water until done. Turn
off the water and dry out on the range. Then crack each one by steady
pressure with the back of a spoon, and drop into a saucepan containing
a cup of hot milk, pepper, salt, chopped parsley, and a great spoonful
of butter cut up in flour. Simmer five minutes, and pour into a
vegetable dish.
RASPBERRY AND CURRANT JELLY WITH WHIPPED CREAM.
  1 quart of red currants and the same of red raspberries.
  2 cups of white sugar.
  1 package Coxe’s gelatine, soaked in one cup of cold water.
  1 cup of boiling water.
  1 pint of whipped cream.
Crush the fruit and strain out every drop of juice through coarse
muslin. Stir sugar, soaked gelatine, and boiling water together. When
clear, strain into the fruit juice. Strain again through a flannel bag.
Pour into a wet mould that has a cylinder in the centre. Do this on
Saturday, and bury in the ice. On Sunday, turn out into a glass dish,
fill the open centre with whipped cream, and pile more about the base.
  First Week.      Monday.
  ——
  Jugged Soup.
  Potato Batter Pudding.      Mashed Squash.
  Chopped Corn and Potatoes.      Currant Jelly.
  Corn-starch Custard.
  ——
JUGGED SOUP.
Early in the day put on the cracked bones from which you have cut the
cold mutton, with refuse bits of skin, crisped meat, etc., into a
soup-pot with three quarts of water, and boil at the back of the range
down to two quarts. Strain; let the liquid cool to throw up the fat,
and remove this. Have ready in a stone jar, with a top, six parboiled
potatoes, sliced, laid upon slices of streaked pork, cut very thin;
upon this a sliced onion; next, three sliced tomatoes; then a sliced
turnip; on this a cupful of green peas; three more tomatoes; then a
quarter-cup of raw rice; cover this with a grated carrot, and this with
another layer of sliced pork. Sprinkle a little salt and pepper, and
a few dots of butter upon each layer of vegetables, and put upon the
pork some chopped sweet herbs. Pour the cooled broth over all; put on
the jar lid, with a paste of flour and water around the edge to exclude
the air and keep in the steam, and set in a pan of boiling water in the
oven. Leave it there as long as possible—four hours at the least. Pour
into the tureen without further preparation.
POTATO BATTER PUDDING.
Mince and season your cold mutton, wet it with the remains of
yesterday’s gravy and put into a bake-dish. Mash six boiled potatoes
soft with butter; beat in two eggs; a heaping tablespoonful of prepared
flour, and a cup of milk. Mix well, and pour over the mutton. Bake to
a good brown in a moderate oven. One hour will be needed to cook it
properly.
MASHED SQUASH.
See Receipt for Saturday of Third Week in June.
CHOPPED CORN AND POTATOES.
Cut the corn from the cobs left cold from yesterday and chop the cold
new potatoes, also left over. Have ready in a frying pan a large
spoonful of good dripping, well seasoned, and hot. Stir in corn and
potatoes, and toss about until hot and glazed, but not browned. Serve
in a deep dish.
CORN-STARCH CUSTARD PUDDING.
  4 tablespoonfuls of corn-starch.
  1 quart of milk.
  4 beaten eggs.
  1 cup of sugar.
  Nutmeg and cinnamon.
  1 tablespoonful of butter.
Heat the milk; stir in the corn-starch wet up in cold milk, and cook in
a farina-kettle three minutes. Take from the fire; beat in the butter,
and let it cool. When cold, beat in the eggs and sugar, with the spice.
Whip two minutes, and bake in a buttered dish until lightly browned and
well set. Eat cold, with sugar sifted over it.
  First Week.      Tuesday.
  ——
  Veal Broth.
  Beefsteak.      Boiled Onions.
  Mashed Potatoes Moulded.      String-Beans Sautés.
  Raspberries, Cream, and Cake.
  ——
VEAL BROTH.
  3 lbs. scrag of veal—the meat chopped and bones splintered.
  1 onion.
  1 cup of raw rice.
  Chopped parsley, pepper and salt.
  Some salt-pork bones and rind, if convenient.
  1 turnip.
  3 quarts of water.
Put meat, bones, and vegetables, with the water, over the fire, and
cook slowly three hours. Strain the broth and pulp the vegetables. Take
off the fat; season the broth, add the rice, and stew gently until this
is soft.
BEEFSTEAK.
See Tuesday of Third Week in June.
BOILED ONIONS.
Top, tail, and skim. Cook fifteen minutes in boiling water. Drain this
off and throw it away. Replenish the pot with boiling water, put in a
little salt, and stew tender. Drain, dish, season well with pepper and
salt, and butter liberally.
MASHED POTATOES—MOULDED.
Mash smooth, but not too soft, with butter and milk. Wet a jelly-mould,
fill with the potatoes, pressed in firmly. Shake gently out upon a flat
dish, set one minute in the hot oven, and serve.
STRING-BEANS SAUTÉS.
Trim, cut in short pieces, and cook tender in boiling salted water.
Meanwhile, take half a cup of broth from your soup, season well, boil,
and skim for fifteen minutes; then add a tablespoonful of butter. While
these are boiling stir in the beans; shake and stir for three minutes,
add a teaspoonful of vinegar, and pour out.
RASPBERRIES, CREAM, AND CAKE.
When you can give an uncooked dessert, which is more palatable and
more wholesome than a cooked one, and that costs no more, it is wise
policy to avail yourself of the consequent lightening of your labors,
especially in hot weather. Except when it is necessary to deviate from
the rule in order to secure the requisite variety, let cold desserts
be the order of the day in your bills of fare, while the “heated term”
lasts.
  First Week.      Wednesday.
  ——
  French Potage.
  Beef à la Mode.      Macaroni with Tomato Sauce.
  Lima Beans.      Fried Cucumbers.
  ——
  Lemon Trifle.
  ——
FRENCH POTAGE.
  2 lbs. lean beef.
  2 lbs. of lean veal.
  ¼ lb. of lean ham.
  1 sliced onion.
  Chopped sweet herbs.
  12 large prunes.
  Pepper and salt.
  2 tablespoonfuls of butter.
  2 tablespoonfuls soaked granulated tapioca.
  5 quarts of water.
Put the veal, cut into strips, and the sliced onion, into a soup-pot
with the butter, and simmer, stirring constantly, until they are coated
with a brown glaze. They must not scorch. Now pour in one quart of
boiling water; cover, and stew half an hour. Check the boil suddenly
with a gallon of cold water, and put in beef, ham, and herbs. Cover
again, and boil gently three hours. Take out the strips of veal, beef,
and ham, when you have strained off the water, and pulp the onion.
Set aside half the stock, highly seasoned, with the meat in it, for
to-morrow. Skim the fat from the rest, season, and put back over the
fire with the prunes, stoned, and cut into thirds, after being well
washed. Simmer half an hour, put in the tapioca; cook until this is
clear, and pour out.
BEEF À LA MODE.
For full and explicit directions concerning this dish please refer—to
spare me work, time, and space—to Sunday, Second Week in May.
MACARONI WITH TOMATO SAUCE.
Break half a pound of macaroni into inch-lengths, and cook twenty
minutes in boiling salted water. Meantime, take a cup of broth from
your soup; strain, boil, and skim it, and slice into it four ripe
tomatoes. Stew tender, and strain through net or tarlatan, into a
saucepan. Season well; stir into it a great spoonful of butter rolled
in flour. Simmer five minutes; put the macaroni into a deep dish,
sprinkling grated cheese over each layer, and pour the hot sauce over
it, opening the mass with a fork, to let it reach the lower layers.
LIMA BEANS.
Shell, lay in cold water fifteen minutes, and cook from twenty-five to
thirty minutes in salt boiling water. Drain well; season with pepper,
salt, and butter.
FRIED CUCUMBERS.
Pare, cut into lengthwise slices, more than a quarter of an inch thick,
and lay for half an hour in ice-water. Wipe each piece dry; sprinkle
with pepper and salt, and dredge with flour. Fry to a light brown in
good dripping or butter. Drain well, and serve hot.
LEMON TRIFLE.
  1 large sliced sponge cake.
  1 quart of milk.
  3 eggs.
  5 heaping tablespoonfuls of sugar.
  1 teaspoonful extract of lemon.
  1 lemon—all the juice and half the rind finely grated.
Heat the milk, stir in four tablespoonfuls of sugar into the beaten
yolks and pour the hot milk upon it, by degrees, stirring well. Return
to the custard-kettle, and stir until it begins to thicken. Flavor,
and pour, quite hot, upon the sliced cake laid in the bottom of a deep
dish. If the dish be of glass, roll it in hot water before cake and
custard go in. Put a heavy saucer on the cake to keep it from rising,
and let it cool. When perfectly cold, heap upon it a méringue of the
beaten whites, whipped up with the other tablespoonful of sugar, the
lemon-juice and rind. Set on ice until wanted.
  First Week.      Thursday.
  ——
  Italian Paste Soup.
  Cold Beef à la Mode.      Broiled Spanish Mackerel.
  Mashed Potatoes.      Green Peas.
  Raw Tomatoes.
  ——
  Cream Raspberry Pie.
  ——
ITALIAN PASTE SOUP.
Take the fat from your cold soup-stock; pour off from the sediment;
boil and skim, adding a tablespoonful of walnut or mushroom catsup.
When the scum ceases to rise, put in a quarter of a pound of Italian
paste—i. e., something like macaroni cut into small figures, letters,
stars, and the like. Simmer twenty minutes and pour out.
BROILED SPANISH MACKEREL.
Clean, wash, and wipe dry. Split, so that when laid flat the backbone
will be in the middle. Sprinkle with salt and lay, inside down, upon a
buttered gridiron, over a clear fire, until it is nicely colored, then
turn. When done, put upon a hot dish, butter plentifully and pepper.
Put a hot cover over it and send to table.
COLD BEEF À LA MODE.
Smooth the round on the top and garnish with pickled beets and parsley.
Shave off horizontal slices in carving.
MASHED POTATOES.
Pass with the fish, and, if you like, again when the meat comes on.
GREEN PEAS.
Shell, lay in cold water fifteen minutes; cook from twenty to
twenty-five minutes in boiling salt water, adding a lump of sugar
unless they are just gathered. Drain very well, dish, pepper, salt, and
butter.
RAW TOMATOES.
Pare and slice with a sharp knife. Lay in a glass dish and pour over
them a dressing made thus: Rub a teaspoonful of sugar, half as much
each of salt, pepper, and made mustard, into two tablespoonfuls of oil.
Beat into this the yolk of a raw egg, and then, a few drops at a time,
five tablespoonfuls of vinegar.
CREAM RASPBERRY PIE.
Line a pie-dish with puff paste, and fill with raspberries, sweetened
bountifully. Cover with a paste-crust, but do not pinch this down at
the edges. Also rub the edge of the lower crust with butter to prevent
adhesion. Bake in a good oven. While it is cooking, heat a small cup of
rich milk, putting in a pinch of soda—stir into it half a teaspoonful
of corn-starch, wet in cold milk, one tablespoonful of white sugar, and
cook three minutes. Take it off, and beat in the frothed whites of two
eggs. Whip to a cream, and let it get cold. When the pie comes out of
the oven, lift the top crust and pour in the mixture. Replace the crust
and set aside to cool. Sift sugar upon the top before serving.
  First Week.      Friday.
  ——
  Tomato Soup without Meat.
  Chicken, Stewed Whole.      Baked Squash.
  Rice Croquettes.      Potato Omelette.
  ——
  Cherry Bread Pudding.
  ——
TOMATO SOUP WITHOUT MEAT.
  12 large red tomatoes, peeled and sliced.
  1 small onion, sliced.
  2 tablespoonfuls nice dripping.
  1 tablespoonful chopped parsley.
  2 tablespoonfuls of butter rolled in flour.
  Pepper and salt.
  1 teaspoonful of sugar.
  1 small cupful of hot boiled rice.
  1 quart of boiling water.
Fry the onion in the soup-pot in the dripping. When they are of a
reddish-brown, add the tomatoes and stir all up until very hot, when
put in the boiling water and parsley. Stew half an hour, and strain,
rubbing the tomato through a sieve into the hot liquid. Return to the
pot, season, and when boiling again, stir in the floured butter, and a
minute later the rice. Simmer ten minutes and pour out.
CHICKEN—STEWED WHOLE.
Truss as for roasting; but do not stuff it. Put a layer of fat salt
pork in the bottom of a saucepan; then, some sliced onion and parsley.
Lay in the chicken and put in a cupful of gravy made by boiling the
feet and giblets, and, when these are taken out, add a good spoonful
of butter to the weak broth. Cover the saucepan closely, and stew
one hour, slowly. Turn the fowl, and stew one hour more, keeping
it covered. Take it out of the pot; lay upon a dish, and thicken the
gravy, after straining it, with a little browned flour. Pepper, also,
to taste, and pour over the fowl, which should be so tender as to fall
apart under the carver’s knife.
BAKED SQUASH.
Boil, mash, and let it get cold. Then, beat up light with a
tablespoonful of melted butter, two raw eggs; three tablespoonfuls of
milk, with pepper and salt to liking. Put into a buttered bake-dish;
sift dry crumbs over the top, and bake in a quick oven.
RICE CROQUETTES.
Boil a cup of rice soft; work into it, while hot, a tablespoonful of
butter, one of grated cheese, pepper, salt, and a beaten egg. Spread
out to cool. Chop the boiled giblets of your chicken fine with a slice
or so of your cold beef, wet with a little gravy, but not too soft.
Make the cold rice into square, flat cakes. Lay in the centre of each
a teaspoonful of the mince. Close the cakes so as to have this in
the middle; mould into oval balls; dip in beaten egg; then, roll in
cracker-crumbs and grated cheese, and fry in good dripping, or lard.
Drain well, and heap upon a hot dish.
POTATO OMELETTE.
  6 eggs.
  ½ cup of milk.
  1 small cup mashed potato, seasoned with pepper and salt.
  Butter for frying.
Beat yolks and whites together. Thin the potato with the milk, and
strain through a colander. Stir into the eggs, have the butter warm
in the pan, pour in the mixture; shake, and loosen with a spatula,
and when nearly done, hold it under the red-hot grate to brown the
upper side. Invert the pan above a very hot dish, and turn out without
folding. Serve at once, as it soon falls.
CHERRY BREAD PUDDING.
  1 quart of milk, with a pinch of soda stirred in.
  Loaf of stale baker’s bread, pared and sliced.
  Butter to spread the bread.
  4 eggs.
  1 cup of sugar.
  1 full cup of stoned cherries.
Butter the bread on both sides. Put a layer into a buttered bake-dish;
pour upon it a little raw custard, made of the eggs, sugar, and milk.
Strew over this some of the cherries, and lay in more buttered bread.
Proceed in this order until the dish is full. The upper layer should be
bread particularly well-buttered and soaked. Cover the dish closely;
set in a dripping-pan full of boiling water, and cook one hour; then
uncover, and brown delicately. Turn out upon a plate, and eat hot with
sauce.
  First Week.      Saturday.
  ——
  Consommé Soup.
  Braised Veal.      Cauliflower with Sauce.
  Raw Cucumbers.      Green Corn Pudding.
  ——
  Cottage Puffs.
  ——
CONSOMMÉ SOUP.
  1 old chicken.
  3 lbs. of lean beef.
  1 onion.
  1 turnip.
  2 carrots.
  Bunch of sweet herbs.
  7 quarts of cold water.
  ½ cup sago, soaked in cold water.
  Pepper and salt.
Cut the beef into strips, and joint the chicken. Slice the vegetables,
chop the herbs, and put on all with the water, to cook slowly for six
hours. Take out the chicken and beef; salt and pepper and put into a
jar. Strain the soup, pulping the vegetables through a colander. Season
and divide it; pouring half upon the meat in the jar, and setting in a
pot of hot water to cook, covered, two hours more. Heat the rest, and
skim; put in the sago, and simmer for half an hour; then pour out.
When the two hours have elapsed, pour out the stock into a bowl, and,
when cold, put upon ice.
BRAISED VEAL.
The breast is a good piece for this purpose. Put three or four
spoonfuls of sweet dripping in a broad saucepan, and when hot, lay in
the veal and fry on both sides. Pour over it two cupfuls of broth,
taken from your soup; a minced onion and a couple of sliced tomatoes.
Cover and stew forty-five minutes. Take out the veal and keep warm,
while you strain and skim the gravy, and return to the pot with pepper,
salt, and minced summer savory, also, a pinch of mace, a lump of
sugar, and a pinch of grated lemon-peel. Put back the meat, and stew
half an hour more. Lay on a dish, thicken the gravy, boil once, and
pour over the veal.
CAULIFLOWER, WITH SAUCE.
  1 head of cauliflower.
  1 cup of drawn butter.
  Juice of a lemon.
Tie the cauliflower in a net and boil in hot, salted water from
thirty-five to fifty minutes, in proportion to its size. Take up, undo
the net, lay in a deep dish, blossom upward, and pour over it a cup of
rich drawn butter, with the juice of a lemon stirred in.
RAW CUCUMBERS.
See Saturday, Fourth Week in June.
GREEN CORN PUDDING.
  Grated corn of 12 large ears.
  1 quart of milk.
  3 eggs.
  2 tablespoonfuls of melted butter.
  1 tablespoonful of sugar.
  A little salt.
Beat the yolks well; then add the corn, the butter and salt, and stir
up hard with your “beater.” Then comes the milk, next the sugar;
lastly, the whites. Bake in a greased pudding-dish, covered, one hour.
Then brown well. Serve hot in the bake-dish.
COTTAGE PUFFS.
  1 cup of milk and one of cream.
  4 beaten eggs.
  1 tablespoonful of butter, rubbed into the flour.
  A little salt.
  4 cups of prepared flour, or enough for cake batter.
Mix the whipped yolks with the milk and cream; then the salt and the
whites; lastly, the flour. Beat fast and well, and bake in “gem” pans.
The oven should be quick. Eat hot, with sauce.
  Second Week.      Sunday.
  ——
  Béchamel Soup.
  Boiled Mutton.      Chicken Rissoles.
  String Beans.      Green Peas.
  Raw Tomatoes.
  ——
  Self-freezing Ice-Cream.
  ——
BÉCHAMEL SOUP.
Take the fat from the jellied stock in your refrigerator; dip it out
carefully from the meat—taking care of the chicken—and heat in a
saucepan. Scald a quart of milk in another vessel, and stir into it a
large spoonful of corn-starch, wet with cold milk. Pepper and salt to
taste (the milk should have had a pinch of soda in it), and pour into
the tureen. Add the boiling soup, stir up well, and serve.
BOILED MUTTON.
The leg is best for this purpose, and will look much nicer when served,
if it has been tied up in very coarse, thin muslin, or in white
mosquito-netting. Put on in plenty of boiling salted water, and cook
a quarter of an hour to the pound. Unwrap when done, brush all over
with butter, and serve with a boat of drawn butter, in which have been
stirred two dozen capers or pickled nasturtium-seed. Take care of the
liquor.
CHICKEN RISSOLES.
Cut the chicken, boiled in your soup, from the bones, and chop fine.
Add to it a cupful of mashed potato, whipped to a cream, a beaten egg,
pepper and salt; wet soft with a little of the soup, and heat in a
frying-pan, in which has been melted a little butter. Stir until very
hot, and let it get perfectly cold. You can see that this is done
before morning service, if you have an early dinner on Sunday. When
cold, make into bails; roll in egg, then in cracker-crumbs, and fry to
a light brown in lard or nice dripping. Drain off the fat, and serve
hot upon a folded napkin.
STRING-BEANS.
See Monday of Fourth Week in June.
GREEN PEAS AND RAW TOMATOES.
See Thursday of First Week in July.
SELF-FREEZING ICE-CREAM.
  1 quart of rich milk.
  8 beaten eggs.
  3 pints of rich, sweet cream.
  4 cups of sugar.
  1 vanilla bean, broken in two, and boiled in the custard, or 5
          teaspoonfuls of vanilla essence.
Heat the milk; pour it upon the eggs and sugar. Cook, stirring steadily
fifteen minutes, or until it has thickened well. When perfectly cold,
add the cream. Make the custard on Saturday, and set on ice. Early
Sunday morning, beat in the cream, and put all in an old-fashioned
upright freezer, set in its pail. Put a block of ice within a stout
sack, or between the folds of a piece of carpeting, and beat small
with a hammer. Put a thick layer into the outer part, then one of
rock-salt. Fill the pail in this order, and, before covering the
freezer with ice, beat the custard for five minutes with a flat stick
or ladle. Shut tightly; pack pounded ice and salt over it, and put a
folded carpet over all. In an hour and a half, open the freezer, first
wiping off the salt from about the top. Dislodge the frozen custard
from sides and bottom with a long knife, and beat and stir with your
stick, faithfully, until the custard is a smooth paste. Replace the
cover; let off the water, and pack more pounded ice and salt about it,
completely concealing the freezer. Put back the folded carpet. The
cream will take care of itself for three hours, and more, and you can,
if you like, leave it all day, with a visit of three minutes every few
hours, to let off the water and pack in more salt and ice. Do not open
the freezer until you are ready for the cream. Then take it out, wipe
it off, wrap a towel wrung out in hot water about the lower part, and
invert it upon a flat dish. Should the weather be very hot, you may
have to let off the water oftener than once in three hours; but this
seldom happens if the freezer be set in a cool cellar.
  Second Week.      Monday.
  ——
  Brown Soup.
  Ragoût of Mutton.      Squash à la Crême.
  Mashed Potatoes.      Lettuce Salad.
  ——
  Raspberries, Cream, and Cake.
  Iced Coffee.
  ——
BROWN SOUP.
½ lb. lean bacon; 2 onions; 2 tablespoonfuls of butter; 1 scant
teaspoonful mixed allspice and cloves; 2 tablespoonfuls browned flour;
liquor in which your mutton was boiled; pepper.
Cut the bacon into strips, and slice the onions. Put the butter into
your soup-pot with these, and simmer, stirring often, until they are
browned, but not scorched. Add the flour, wet up in cold water, and
stir until very hot. Then, having taken the fat from the top of your
mutton “pot-liquor,” pour it in, with pepper and parsley. Add by
degrees, stirring well, not to lump the flour. Cover, and set at the
back of the range to simmer for two hours—more would not hurt it. When
ready for it, strain into the tureen.
RAGOÛT OF MUTTON.
Slice even, rather thick slices, without skin or fat, from your boiled
mutton, and lay in a deep dish. Pour a good glass of claret wine over
them, and cover for an hour. Make a gravy of the bones and refuse
portions with a quart of cold water. When this has boiled down to a
pint, strain it off. Let it cool, and take off the fat. Put into a
saucepan with a little minced onion, pepper, salt, and a tablespoonful
of tomato catsup, and boil down to a large cupful. Then stir in a
