Much was gained, however, and it was all clear gain; and forthwith
the little fanciful head proceeded to make the most of it, thinking
over every feature of the wonder. The child had a vibrating, musical
organization, and the sway and rush of the chanting still sounded in
her ears and reminded her of that wonderful story in the "Pilgrim's
Progress," where the gate of the celestial city swung open, and
there were voices that sung, "Blessing and honor and glory and power
be unto Him who sitteth on the throne." And then that wonderful
star, that shone just as if it were a real star--how could it be!
For Miss Ida Lewis, being a young lady of native artistic genius,
had cut a little hole in the center of her gilt paper star, behind
which was placed a candle, so that it gave real light, in a way most
astonishing to untaught eyes. In Dolly's simple view it verged on
the supernatural--perhaps it was the very real star read about in
the gospel story. Why not? Dolly was at the happy age when anything
bright and heavenly seemed credible, and had the child-faith to which
all things were possible. She had even seriously pondered at times
the feasibility of walking some day to the end of the rainbow to look
for the pot of gold which Nabby had credibly assured her was to be
found there; and if at any time in her ramblings through the wood a
wolf had met her and opened a conversation, as in the case of little
Red Riding Hood, she would have been no way surprised, but kept up
her part of the interview with becoming spirit.
"I wish, my dear," said Mrs. Cushing, after they were retired to
their room for the night, "that to-morrow morning you would read the
account of the birth of Christ in St Matthew, and give the children
some good advice upon the proper way of keeping Christmas."
"Well, but you know we don't keep Christmas; nobody knows anything
about Christmas," said the Doctor.
"You know what I mean, my dear," replied his wife. "You know that my
mother and her family do keep Christmas. I always heard of it when
I was a child; and even now, though I have been out of the way of it
so long, I cannot help a sort of kindly feeling towards these ways. I
am not surprised at all that the children got drawn over last night
to the service. I think it's the most natural thing in the world, and
I know by experience just how attractive such things are. I shouldn't
wonder if this Episcopal church should draw very seriously on your
congregation; but I don't want it to begin by taking away our own
children. Dolly is an inquisitive child; a child that thinks a good
deal, and she'll be asking all sorts of questions about the why and
wherefore of what she saw last night."
"Oh, yes, Dolly is a bright one. Dolly's an uncommon child," said the
Doctor, who had a pardonable pride in his children--they being, in
fact, the only worldly treasure that he was at all rich in.
"And as to that little dress-up affair over there," he continued, "I
don't think any real harm has been done as yet. I have my eyes open.
I know all about it, and I shall straighten out this whole matter
next Sunday," he said, with the comfortable certainty of a man in the
habit of carrying his points.
"I don't feel so very sure of that," said his wife; "at the same time
I shouldn't want anything like an open attack on the Episcopalians.
There are sincere good people of that way of thinking--my mother, for
instance, is a saint on earth, and so is good old Madam Lewis. So
pray be careful what you say."
"My dear, I haven't the least objection to their dressing their
church and having a good Christian service any day in the year if
they want to, but our people may just as well understand our own
ground. I know that the Democrats are behind this new move, and they
are just using this church to carry their own party purposes--to
break up the standing order and put down all the laws that are left
to protect religion and morals. They want to upset everything that
our fathers came to New England to establish. But I'm going to head
this thing off in Poganuc. I shall write a sermon to-morrow, and
settle matters."
Now, there is no religious organization in the world in its genius
and history less likely to assimilate with a democratic movement than
the Episcopal Church. It is essentially aristocratic in form, and, in
New England, as we have already noticed, had always been on the side
of monarchical institutions.
But, just at this point in the history of New England affairs, all
the minor denominations were ready to join any party that promised to
break the supremacy of the State Church and give them a foothold.
It was the "Democratic party" of that day that broke up the exclusive
laws in favor of the Congregational Church and consequently gained
large accessions to their own standard. To use a brief phrase, all
the outs were Democrats, and all the ins Federalists. But the
Democratic party had, as always, its radical train. Not satisfied
with wresting the scepter from the hands of the Congregational
clergyman, and giving equal rights and a fair field to other
denominations, the cry was now to abolish all laws in any way
protective of religious institutions, or restrictive of the fullest
personal individualism; in short, the cry was for the liberty of
every man to go to church or not, to keep the Sabbath or not, to
support a minister or not, as seemed good and proper in his own eyes.
This was in fact the final outcome of things in New England, and
experience has demonstrated that this wide and perfect freedom is
the best way of preserving religion and morals. But it was not given
to a clergyman in the day of Dr. Cushing, who had hitherto felt that
a state ought to be like a well-governed school, under the minister
for schoolmaster, to look on the movements of the Democratic party
otherwise than as tending to destruction and anarchy. This new
movement in the Episcopal Church he regarded as but a device by
appeals to the senses--by scenic effects, illuminations and music--to
draw people off to an unspiritual and superficial form of religion,
which, having once been the tool of monarchy and aristocracy, had now
fallen into the hands of the far more dangerous democracy; and he
determined to set the trumpet to his mouth on the following Sabbath,
and warn the watchmen on the walls of Zion.
He rose up early, however, and proceeded to buy a sugar dog at the
store of Lucius Jenks, and when Dolly came down to breakfast he
called her to him and presented it, saying as he kissed her,
"Papa gives you this, not because it is Christmas, but because he
loves his little Dolly."
"But isn't it Christmas?" asked Dolly, with a puzzled air.
"No, child; nobody knows when Christ was born, and there is nothing
in the Bible to tell us when to keep Christmas."
And then in family worship the doctor read the account of the birth
of Christ and of the shepherds abiding in the fields who came at the
call of the angels, and they sung the old hymn:
    "While shepherds watched their flocks by night."
"Now, children," he said when all was over, "you must be good
children and go to school. If we are going to keep any day on account
of the birth of Christ, the best way to keep it is by doing all our
duties on that day better than any other. Your duty is to be good
children, go to school and mind your lessons."
Tom and Bill, who had been at the show the evening before and
exhausted the capabilities of the scenic effects, were quite ready
to fall in with their father's view of the matter. The candles were
burnt out, the play over, for them, and forthwith they assumed to
look down on the whole with the contempt of superior intelligence.
As for Dolly, she put her little tongue advisedly to the back of her
sugar dog and found that he was very sweet indeed--a most tempting
little animal. She even went so far as to nibble off a bit of the
green ground he stood on--yet resolved heroically not to eat him
at once, but to make him last as long as possible. She wrapped him
tenderly in cotton and took him to the school with her, and when her
confidential friend, Bessie Lewis, displayed her Christmas gifts,
Dolly had something on her side to show, though she shook her curly
head wisely and informed Bessie in strict confidence that there
wasn't any such thing as Christmas, her papa had told her so--a
heresy which Bessie forthwith reported when she went home at noon.
"Poor little Presbyterian--and did she say so?" asked gentle old
Grandmamma Lewis. "Well, dear, you mustn't blame her--she don't know
any better. You bring the little thing in here to-night and I'll give
her a Christmas cookey. I'm sorry for such children."
And so, after school, Dolly went in to see dear old Madam Lewis, who
sat in her rocking-chair in the front parlor, where the fire was
snapping behind great tall brass andirons and all the pictures were
overshadowed with boughs of spruce and pine. Dolly gazed about her
with awe and wonder. Over one of the pictures was suspended a cross
of green with flowers of white everlasting.
"What is that for?" asked Dolly, pointing solemnly with her little
forefinger, and speaking under her breath.
"Dear child, that is the picture of my poor boy who died--ever so
many years ago. That is my cross--we have all one--to carry."
Dolly did not half understand these words, but she saw tears in the
gentle old lady's eyes and was afraid to ask more.
She accepted thankfully and with her nicest and best executed
courtesy a Christmas cookey representing a good-sized fish, with fins
all spread and pink sugar-plums for eyes, and went home marveling yet
more about this mystery of Christmas.
As she was crossing the green to go home the Poganuc stage drove in,
with Hiel seated on high, whipping up his horses to make them execute
that grand entrée which was the glory of his daily existence.
Now that the stage was on runners, and slipped noiselessly over the
smooth frozen plain, Hiel cracked his whip more energetically and
shouted louder, first to one horse and then to another, to make
up for the loss of the rattling wheels; and he generally had the
satisfaction of seeing all the women rushing distractedly to doors
and windows, and imagined them saying, "There's Hiel; the stage is
in!"
"Hulloa, Dolly!" he called out, drawing up with a suddenness which
threw the fore-horses back upon their haunches. "I've got a bundle
for your folks. Want to ride? You may jest jump up here by me and
I'll take you 'round to your father's door;" and so Dolly reached up
her little red-mittened hand, and Hiel drew her up beside him.
"'Xpect ye want a bit of a ride, and I've got a bundle for Widder
Badger, down on South Street, so I guess I'll go 'round that way to
make it longer. I 'xpect this 'ere bundle is from some of your ma's
folks in Boston--'Piscopals they be, and keeps Christmas. Good sized
bundle 'tis; reckon it'll come handy in a good many ways."
So, after finishing his detour, Hiel landed his little charge at the
parsonage door.
"Reckon I'll be over when I've put up my hosses," he said to Nabby
when he handed down the bundle to her. "I hain't been to see ye much
lately, Nabby, and I know you've been a pinin' after me, but fact
is--"
"Well, now, Hiel Beers, you jest shet up with your imperence," said
Nabby, with flashing eyes; "you jest look out or you'll get suthin."
"I 'xpect to get a kiss when I come round to-night," said Hiel,
composedly. "Take care o' that air bundle, now; mebbe there's glass
or crockery in 't."
"Hiel Beers," said Nabby, "don't give me none o' your saase, for I
won't take it. Jim Sawin said last night you was the brassiest man
he ever see. He said there was brass enough in your face to make a
kettle of."
"You tell him there's sap enough in his head to fill it, any way,"
said Hiel. "Good bye, Nabby, I'll come 'round this evenin'," and he
drove away at a rattling pace, while Nabby, with flushed cheeks and
snapping eyes, soliloquized,
"Well, I hope he will come! I'd jest like a chance to show him how
little I care for him."
Meanwhile the bundle was soon opened, and contained a store of
treasures: a smart little red dress and a pair of red shoes for
Dolly, a half dozen pocket-handkerchiefs for Dr. Cushing, and
"Robinson Crusoe" and "Sanford and Merton," handsomely bound, for the
boys, and a bonnet trimming for Mrs. Cushing. These were accompanied
by a characteristic letter from Aunt Debby Kittery, opening as
follows:
  "DEAR SISTER:
  "Mother worries because she thinks you Presbyterians won't get any
  Christmas presents. I tell her it serves you right for being out of
  the true church. However, this comes to give every one of you some
  of the crumbs which fall from the church's table, and Mother says
  she wishes you all a pious Christmas, which she thinks is better
  than a merry one. If I didn't lay violent hands on her she would
  use all our substance in riotous giving of Christmas presents to
  all the beggars and chimney sweeps in Boston. She is in good health
  and talks daily of wanting to see you and the children; and I hope
  before long you will bring some of them, and come and make us a
  visit.
  "Your affectionate sister,
  "DEBBY KITTERY."
There was a scene of exultation and clamor in the parsonage as these
presents were pulled out and discussed; and when all possible joy was
procured from them in the sitting-room, the children rushed in a body
into the kitchen and showed them to Nabby, calling on her to join
their acclamations.
And then in the evening Hiel came in, and Nabby prosecuted her
attacks upon him with great vigor and severity, actually carrying
matters to such a length that she was obliged, as a matter of pure
Christian charity, to "kiss and make up" with him at the end of the
evening. Of course Hiel took away an accurate inventory of every
article in the bundle, for the enlightenment of any of his particular
female friends who had a curiosity to know "what Mis' Cushin's folks
sent her in that air bundle from Boston."
On the whole, when Dolly had said her prayers that night and thought
the matter over, she concluded that her Christmas Day had been quite
a success.
CHAPTER VI.
VILLAGE POLITICIANS.
We have traced our little Dolly's fortunes, haps and havings through
Christmas day, but we should not do justice to the situation did we
not throw some light on the views and opinions of the Poganuc people
upon this occasion.
The Episcopal church had been newly finished. There was held on
this day, for the first time in open daylight, the full Christmas
Service. The illumination and services of the evening before had been
skillfully designed to make an impression on the popular mind, and to
draw in children and young people with all that floating populace who
might be desirous of seeing or hearing some new things.
It had been a success. Such an audience had been drawn and such a
sensation produced that on Christmas day everybody in the village was
talking of the church; and those who did not go ran to the windows
to see who did go. A week-day church service other than a fast, and
thanksgiving, and "preparatory lecture" was a striking novelty; and
when the little bell rang out its peal and the congregation began to
assemble it was watched with curious eyes from many a house.
The day was a glorious one. The bright, cold sun made the icicles
that adorned the fronts of all the houses glitter like the gems of
Aladdin's palace, and a well-dressed company were seen coming up from
various points of the village and thronging the portals of the church.
The little choir and their new organ rang out the Te Deum with
hearty good-will, and many ears for the first time heard that
glorious old heroic poem of the early church. The waves of sound
rolled across the green and smote on the unresponsive double row of
windows of the old meeting-house, which seemed to stare back with a
gaze of blank astonishment. The sound even floated into the store of
Deacon Dickenson, and caused some of the hard-handed old farmers who
were doing their trading there, with their sleds and loads of wood,
to stop their discourse on turnips, eggs and apple-sauce, and listen.
To them it bore the sound as of a challenge, the battle-cry of an
opposing host that was rising up to dispute the ground with them; and
so they listened with combative ears.
"Seem to be a hevin' it all their own way over there, them
'Piscopals. Carryin' all before 'em," said one.
"How they are a gettin' on!" said another.
"Yes," said Deacon Dickenson; "all the Democrats are j'inin' them,
and goin' to make a gen'l push next 'lection. They're goin' clean
agin everything--Sunday laws and tiding-man and all."
"Wal," said Deacon Peasley, a meek, mournful little man, with a bald
top to his head, "the Democrats are goin' to carry the state. I feel
sure on 't."
"Good reason," said Tim Hawkins, a stout two-fisted farmer from one
of the outlying farms. "The Democrats beat 'cause they're allers
up and dressed, and we Fed'lists ain't. Why, look at 'em to town
meetin! Democrats allers on time, every soul on 'em--rag, tag and
bobtail--rain or shine don't make no difference with them; but it
takes a yoke of oxen to get a Fed'list out, and when you've got
him you've got to set down on him to keep him. That's just the
difference."
"Wal," said Deacon Peasley in a thin, querulous voice, "all this 'ere
comes of extending the suffrage. Why, Father says that when he was
a young man there couldn't nobody vote but good church members in
regular standin', and couldn't nobody but them be elected to office.
Now it's just as you say, 'rag, tag and bobtail' can vote, and you'll
see they'll break up all our institutions. They've got it so now
that folks can sign off and go to meetin' anywhere, and next they'll
get it so they needn't go nowhere--that's what'll come next. There's
a lot of our young folks ben a goin' to this 'ere 'lumination."
"Wal, I told Parson Cushing about that air 'lumination last night,"
said Deacon Dickenson, "and he didn't seem to mind it. But I tell
you he'll hev to mind. Both his boys there, and little Dolly,
too, runnin' over there after she was put to bed; he'll hev to do
somethin' to head this 'ere off."
"He'll do it, too," said Tim Hawkins. "Parson Cushing knows what he's
about, and he'll come out with a sarmon next Sunday, you see if he
don't. There's more in Parson Cushing's little finger than there is
in that Sim Coan's hull body, if he did come right straight down from
the 'Postles.
"I've heard," said Deacon Peasley, "that Mis' Cushing's folks in
Boston was 'Piscopal, and some thought mebbe she influenced the
children."
"Oh, wal, Mis' Cushing, she did come from a 'Piscopal family," said
Deacon Dickenson. "She was a Kittery, and her gran'ther, Israel
Kittery, was a tory in the war. Her folks used to go to the old North
in Boston, and they didn't like her marryin' Parson Cushing a grain;
but when she married him, why, she did marry him. She married his
work, and married all his pinions. And nobody can say she hain't been
a good yoke-fellow; she's kept up her end, Mis' Cushing has. No,
there's nobody ought to say nothin' agin Mis' Cushing."
"Wal, I s'pose we shall hear from the doctor next Sunday," said
Hawkins. "He'll speak out; his trumpet won't give an unsartin sound."
"I reely want ter know," said Deacon Peasley, "ef Zeph Higgins has
reely come down with his folks to-day, givin' up a hull day's work!
I shouldn't 'a' thought Zeph'd 'a' done that for any meetin'?"
"Oh, laws, yis; Zeph 'll do anything he sets his will on, particular
if it's suthin' Mis' Higgins don't want to do--then Zeph 'll do it,
sartin. I kind o' pity that air woman," said Hawkins.
"Oh, yis," said the deacon; "poor Mis' Higgins, she come to my wife
reely mournin' when Zeph cut up so about them water-pipes, and says
she, 'Mis' Dickenson, I'd rather 'a' worked my fingers to the bone
than this 'ere should 'a' happened; but I can't do nothin',' says
she; 'he's that sort that the more you say the more sot he gets,'
says she. Wal, I don't wish the 'Piscopals no worse luck than to get
Zeph Higgins, that's all I've got to say."
"Wal," said Tim Hawkins, "let 'em alone. Guess they'll find out what
he is when they come to pass the hat 'round. I expect keepin' up
that air meetin' 'll be drefful hard sleddin' yit--and they won't get
nothin' out o' Zeph. Zeph's as tight as the bark of a tree."
"Wonder if that air buildin's paid fer? Hiel Jones says there's a
consid'able debt on't yit," said Deacon Peasley, "and Hiel gen'ally
knows."
"Don't doubt on't," said Deacon Dickenson. "Squire Lewis he's in for
the biggest part on't, and he's got money through his wife. She was
one of them rich Winthrops up to Boston. The squire has gone off now
to Lucius Jenks's store, and so has Colonel Danforth and a lot more
of the biggest on 'em. I told Hiel I didn't mind, so long as I kep'
Colonel Davenport and Judge Belcher and Judge Peters and Sheriff
Dennie. I have a good many more aristocracy than he hez."
"For my part I don't care so very much for these 'ere town-hill
aristocracy," said Tim Hawkins. "They live here in their gret houses
and are so proud they think it's a favor to speak to a farmer in
his blue linsey shirt a drivin' his team. I don't want none on 'em
lookin' down on me. I am as good as they be; and I guess you make as
much in your trade by the farmers out on the hills as you do by the
rich folks here in town."
[Illustration: CASTE.
"O yis, sartin," said Deacon Dickenson, making haste to
propitiate.... "I'd rather see your sled a-standin' front o' my door
than the finest carriage any on 'em drives."--p. 67.]
"Oh, yis, sartin," said Deacon Dickenson, making haste to
propitiate. "I don't want no better trade than I get out your way,
Mr. Hawkins. I'd rather see your sled a standin' front o' my door
than the finest carriage any of 'em drives. I haint forgot Parson
Cushing's sarmon to the farmers, 'The king himself is sarved by the
field.'"
"I tell you that was a sarmon!" said Hawkins "We folks in our
neighborhood all subscribed to get it printed, and I read it over
once a month, Sundays. Parson Cushing 's a good farmer himself. He
can turn in and plow or hoe or mow, and do as good a day's work as I
can, if he does know Latin and Greek; and he and Mis' Cushing they
come over and visit 'round 'mong us quite as sociable as with them
town-hill folks. I'm jest a waitin' to hear him give it to them air
'Piscopals next Sunday. He'll sarve out the Democrats--the doctor
will."
"Wal," said Deacon Dickenson, "I don't think the doctor hed reely got
waked up when I spoke to him 'bout that 'lumination, but I guess his
eyes are open now, and the doctor 's one o' that sort that's wide
awake when he is awake. He'll do suthin' o' Sunday."
CHAPTER VII.
THE DOCTOR'S SERMON.
Poganuc was a pretty mountain town in Connecticut. It was a county
seat, and therefore of some considerable importance in the vicinity.
It boasted its share of public buildings--the great meeting-house
that occupied the central position of the village green, the tavern
where the weekly stage put up, a court-house, a jail, and other
defenses of public morals, besides the recently added Episcopal
church.
It was also the residence of some stately and dignified families of
comfortable means and traditions of ancestral importance. Of these,
as before stated, a few had availed themselves of the loosening
of old bonds and founded an Episcopal church; but it must not be
supposed that there was any lack of dignified and wealthy old
families in the primitive historic church of Poganuc, which had so
long borne undisputed sway in the vicinity. There were the fine old
residences of Judge Gridley and Judge Belcher adorning the principal
streets. Conspicuous in one of the front pews of the meeting-house
might be seen every Sunday the stately form of Col. Davenport,
who had been a confidential friend of General Washington and an
active commander during the revolutionary war, and who inspired
awe among the townspeople by his military antecedents. There might
be seen, too, the Governor of the State and the High Sheriff of
Poganuc County, with one Mr. Israel Deyter, a retired New York
merchant, gifted, in popular belief, with great riches. In short, the
meeting-house, for a country town, had no small amount of wealth,
importance and gentility. Besides these residents, who encamped about
the green and on the main street, was an outlying farming population
extending for miles around, whose wagons conveying their well-dressed
wives, stalwart sons and blooming daughters poured in from all
quarters, punctual as a clock to the ringing of the second bell every
Sunday morning.
Not the least attentive listeners or shrewd critics were to be found
in these hardy yeomanry who scanned severely all that they paid for,
whether temporal or spiritual. As may have been noticed from the
conversation at Deacon Dickenson's store, Dr. Cushing had rather a
delicate rôle to maintain in holding in unity the aristocracy and
the democracy of his parish; for in those days people of well-born,
well-bred families had a certain traditional stateliness and
punctiliousness which were apt to be considered as pride by the
laboring democracy, and the doctor, as might be expected, found
it often more difficult to combat pride in homespun than pride in
velvet--perhaps having no very brilliant success in either case.
The next Sunday was one of high expectation. Everybody was on tiptoe
to hear what "our minister" would have to say.
The meeting-house of Poganuc was one of those square, bald,
unsentimental structures of which but few specimens have come down
to us from old times. The pattern of those ancient edifices was
said to be derived from Holland, where the Puritans were sheltered
before they came to these shores. At all events, they were a marked
departure in every respect from all particulars which might remind
one of the graceful ecclesiastical architecture and customs of
the Church of England. They were wide, roomy, and of a desolate
plainness; hot and sunny in summer, with their staring rows of
windows, and in winter cold enough in some cases even to freeze the
eucharistic wine at the communion.
It was with great conflict of opinion and much difficulty that
the people of Poganuc had advanced so far in the ways of modern
improvement as to be willing to have a large box stove set up
in the middle of the broad aisle, with a length of black pipe
extending through the house, whereby the severity of winter sanctuary
performances should be somewhat abated. It is on record that, when
the proposal was made in town meeting to introduce this luxurious
indulgence, the zeal of old Zeph Higgins was aroused, and he rose and
gave vent to his feelings in a protest:
"Fire? Fire? A fire in the house o' God? I never heard on't. I never
heard o' hevin' fire in a meetin'-house."
Sheriff Dennie here rose, and inquired whether Mrs. Higgins did not
bring a foot-stove with fire in it into the house of God every Sunday.
It was an undeniable fact not only that Mrs. Higgins but every
respectable matron and mother of a family brought her foot-stove to
church well filled with good, solid, hickory coals, and that the
passing of this little ark of mercy from one frozen pair of feet to
another was among the silent motherly ministries which varied the
hours of service.
So the precedent of the foot-stove carried the box-stove into the
broad aisle of the meeting-house, whereby the air was so moderated
that the minister's breath did not freeze into visible clouds of
vapor while speaking, and the beards and whiskers of the brethren
were no longer coated with frost during service time.
Yet Poganuc was a place where winter stood for something. The
hill, like all hills in our dear New England, though beautiful for
situation in summer was a howling desolation for about six months
of the year, sealed down under snow and drifted over by winds that
pierced like knives and seemed to search every fiber of one's
garments, so that the thickest clothing was no protection.
The Sunday in question was one of those many when the thermometer
stood any number of degrees below zero; the air clear, keen and
cutting; and the bright, blooming faces of the girls in the singers'
seat bore token of the frosty wind they had encountered. All was
animation through the church, and Mr. Benjamin Davis, the leader of
the singing, had selected old "Denmark" as a proper tune for opening
the parallels between them and the opposing forces of ritualism. Ben
had a high conceit of his own vocal powers, and had been heard to
express himself contemptuously of the new Episcopal organ. He had
been to Doctor Cushing with suggestions as to the tunes that the
singers wanted, to keep up the reputation of their "meetin'-house."
So after "Denmark" came old "Majesty," and Ben so bestirred himself
beating time and roaring, first to treble and then to counter and
then to bass, and all the singers poured forth their voices with such
ringing good-will, that everybody felt sure they were better than
any Episcopal organ in the world.
And as there is a place for all things in this great world of ours,
so there was in its time and day a place and a style for Puritan
music. If there were pathos and power and solemn splendor in the
rhythmic movement of the churchly chants, there was a grand wild
freedom, an energy of motion, in the old "fuguing" tunes of that day
that well expressed the heart of a people courageous in combat and
unshaken in endurance. The church chant is like the measured motion
of the mighty sea in calm weather, but those old fuguing tunes were
like that same ocean aroused by stormy winds, when deep calleth unto
deep in tempestuous confusion, out of which at last is evolved union
and harmony. It was a music suggestive of the strife, the commotion,
the battle cries of a transition period of society, struggling onward
toward dimly-seen ideals of peace and order. Whatever the trained
musician might say of such a tune as old "Majesty," no person of
imagination and sensibility could ever hear it well rendered by a
large choir without deep emotion. And when back and forth from every
side of the church came the different parts shouting,
    "On cherubim and seraphim
      Full royally he rode,
    And on the wings of mighty winds
      Came flying all abroad"--
there went a stir and a thrill through many a stern and hard nature,
until the tempest cleared off in the words,
    "He sat serene upon the floods,
      Their fury to restrain,
    And he, as sovereign Lord and King,
      Forever more shall reign."
And when the doctor rose to his sermon the music had done its work on
