name is Ebenezer Onthank, from Green Mountain Mills, in Vermont. My
father is deacon of the Baptist Church at home."

"I suppose you will take his place when you get older," said Tom,
gravely.

"No, I guess not. I wonder what Susan Jones would say to my bein' a
deacon!" and Ebenezer burst into a loud laugh.

"Is Miss Jones a particular friend of yours?" asked Tom, slyly.

"I should say she was. Why, I expect to marry her when I get home."

"I congratulate you."

"Don't be too fast. We ain't hitched yet. Say, boy, where do you come
from?"

"From Vernon, in New Hampshire."

"You don't say! Why, that ain't more'n fifty miles from Green Mountain
Mills; cu'rus we should meet so fur away from hum, ain't it? When did
you start?"

"Seven or eight months ago."

"I've been in California six months. Does that gentleman come from your
town?"

"My friend," answered the Scotchman, not without a touch of pride, "I am
not an American; I am from the Highlands of Scotland."

"You be? Sho! Well, of course you can't help that."

"Help it, sir? I am proud of hailing from the land of Scott and Burns."

"Well, I guess it's a pretty nice sort of country," said Mr. Onthank,
patronizingly. "I guess you'll like America best, though."

"I am by no means sure of that, my friend," said Ferguson, a little
nettled. "America's all very well, but--"

"Why, you could put Scotland into its waist-coat pocket, and there'd be
plenty of room left," said Ebenezer, energetically.

"I admit that, as regards size, Scotland cannot compare with this
country."

"Say, have you got mountains as high as them, or trees as high as that?"
pointing to a gigantic redwood.

"No; but size is not everything."

"That's so. Vermont is a little State, but she's smart, I tell you. But
you haven't told me your names yet."

"I am called Donald Ferguson, Mr. Onthank. My young friend here answers
to the name of Thomas Nelson."

"Commonly called Tom," added our hero, smiling.

"Why, I've got a brother Tom," said Mr. Onthank. "Cu'rus, isn't it?"

Considering that Tom is by no means an uncommon name, it could hardly be
called very remarkable, but Tom politely assented.

"Is he older than I am?" he inquired.

"Yes, my brother Tom is twenty-one years old. I expect he voted at the
last town-meeting. I'm four years older than Tom."

"Have you been fortunate so far in California, Mr. Onthank?"

"Can't say I have. I guess I've wandered round too much. Been a sort of
rollin' stone; and my granny used to say that a rollin' stone gathers no
moss. I've got about enough money to get me to San Francisco, and I own
this animal; but I haven't made a fortune yet. What luck have you two
had?"

"Pretty fair, but it will take a good while to make our fortunes. We own
this team, and that's about all we do own."

"A sort of an express wagon, isn't it?"

"Yes."

"Ain't goin' into the express business, be you?"

"Probably not. We bought it on speculation."

"That reminds me of old Sam Bailey in our town. He was always tradin'
horses. Sometimes he made money, and then again he didn't. How much did
you give?"

Tom told him.

"That was a pretty stiff price, wasn't it?"

"It would be considered so at home, but we hope to get a good deal more,
when we come to sell it."

Their new friend kept on with them, amusing them with his homely
sayings, and original views of things. His conversation beguiled the
tedium of the journey, so that all were surprised when the shadows
deepened, and supper-time came. Selecting a favorable place they
encamped for the night.




CHAPTER XV.

A GRIZZLY BEAR.


Ebenezer Onthank was an early riser. He had been brought up on a farm,
where, during a part of the year it was the custom for the "menfolks" to
rise between four and five o'clock in the morning to begin the labors of
the day. His old habit clung to him, and at five o'clock, when Tom and
Ferguson were yet asleep, Mr. Onthank sprang from his leafy couch
refreshed and vigorous.

Seeing his companions yet sleeping, he concluded to take a walk.

"It'll give me an appetite for breakfast," thought he, "and a chance to
see something of the country."

As to the appetite, Ebenezer was generally well provided. Indeed,
latterly his appetite had exceeded his means of gratifying it, and more
than once he had longed to be back at his old home in the Vermont
farm-house, where the table was always generously, if not elegantly,
furnished. If Ebenezer had a special weakness it was for doughnuts,
which he called nut-cakes.

"If I only had a few of marm's nut-cakes," he had said the night before
to his new-found friends, "I'd be a happy man."

"What are nut-cakes?" asked the Scotchman, puzzled.

"Don't you know what nut-cakes are?" inquired Ebenezer, astonished at
Ferguson's ignorance.

"I never heard of them before," said Ferguson.

"Well, I declare! I thought everybody knew what nut-cakes are,"
ejaculated the Yankee. "Don't you ever make 'em in Scotland?"

"Not that I ever heard."

"Then you don't know what is good. You know what they are, Tom?"

"Oh, yes," said Tom, smiling. "We often have them at home. Perhaps Mr.
Ferguson would understand better if he heard them called doughnuts or
crullers."

Thus defined Mr. Ferguson acknowledged that he had heard of them, and he
thought he had once tasted one. Scotland, however, fell considerably in
the estimation of Mr. Onthank, when he learned that his favorite article
of food was almost unknown in that distant country.

"You Scotchmen don't know what is good," he said. "If you ever come to
Green Mountain Mills, I'll get marm to fry a batch of nut-cakes, and
you'll say they're goloptious."

This last word was not familiar to Ferguson, but the smack of the lips
with which it was accompanied made it sufficiently intelligible. He
assured Ebenezer politely that he hoped some day to accept his kind
invitation.

When Ebenezer left the camp he had no definite plan of exploration.
Everything was alike new to him, and it mattered little in what
direction his steps led him. It was a charming morning. The sun had
risen, and hill and valley were glorified by its slanting rays. The air
was bracing, and Ebenezer, though neither a poet nor a sentimentalist,
felt his spirits rise, as with vigorous steps he strode on, letting his
eyes wander at will over the landscape.

"Looks kinder han'some," he said to himself. "I wish Susan Jones was
with me now. Gals like to walk round and look at scenery, and pick
flowers, and so on. As for me, a good field of corn suits me better than
all the flowers in the world. They're only good to smell of; out here
though I'd like a good 'claim' best. It seems cu'rus to think how much
money you can get sometimes from a hole in the ground. Beats cornfields
for profit, by a great sight, if you only get hold of the right place. I
just wish I could find a big nugget, as big as my head. I guess it would
make me the richest man in Green Mountain Mills. I'd be a bigger man
than the old deacon. They'd be glad to make me selectman, and perhaps
send me to Montpelier after a while to make laws. Well, there's no
knowin' what may turn up. Why shouldn't I light on a nugget as well as
the next man?"

In this pleasant channel the thoughts of our Yankee adventurer were
running as he strode over the uneven ground, with all the vigor gained
by his hardy training. But his walk was destined to be interrupted in a
decidedly unpleasant manner. All at once he became conscious of a huge
object, scarcely thirty yards distant, whose attention he had already
attracted. Mr. Onthank had been long enough in California to recognize
in the huge, unwieldy figure--a grizzly bear!

Ebenezer Onthank was no coward, but it must be admitted that when he saw
the eyes of the grizzly fixed upon him he turned pale, and his limbs
trembled. He had heard from fellow-miners stories of the great strength
and ferocity of this most formidable beast. The grizzly bear shows no
fear of man. He is always ready to make an attack, even when not
stimulated by hunger. Even the lion is crafty and cunning, and likes to
attack his enemy unawares; but the grizzly boldly advances to the attack
without seeking to surprise his adversary. If out of humor it makes no
account of odds, but will as readily attack a party as a single foe.
Col. Albert S. Evans, the author of an interesting volume, containing
sketches of life in California, says, "I am satisfied that an average
grizzly could at any time whip the strongest African lion in a fair
stand-up fight, while a full-grown bull is no more to him than a rat is
to the largest house-cats."

Twenty-five years ago the grizzly was to be found in various parts of
California. As the State has become settled his haunts have become
contracted, but even now, as the writer just quoted assures us, he is
still found in great numbers in the Coast Range Mountains from San Diego
to Del Norte. In describing Samson, a famous specimen once on exhibition
in San Francisco, we are told that "his strength was that of an
elephant, and his claws, eight inches in length, curved like a rainbow
and sharp as a knife, would enable him to tear open anything made of
flesh and blood as you or I would open a banana."

Such was the new acquaintance who confronted Mr. Onthank, and barred
his progress.

"Jerusalem!" ejaculated the surprised and dismayed Yankee, and he
instinctively felt for his rifle. But, alas! he had left it in the camp.
It was thoughtless and imprudent to venture out unarmed; but the scene
was so quiet and peaceful that no thought of danger had entered the mind
of our unlucky friend.

The bear sat upon his haunches, and stared at the intruder. Ebenezer,
brought to a stand-still, returned his gaze. They were less than a
hundred feet apart, and the situation was decidedly critical.

"I guess he wants to chaw me up for his breakfast," thought Ebenezer,
despairingly, "and I don't see what I can do to prevent it."

The bear, however, seemed in no hurry to commence the attack. He
surveyed our Yankee with dignified gravity, conscious that he had him at
advantage. When Ebenezer felt for his rifle he uttered a low growl,
being possibly aware of his purpose. Possibly he laughed in his sleeve
(some of my young critics may suggest that bears have no sleeves) at his
failure.

Ebenezer looked about him despairingly. No man will surrender at
discretion to a grizzly, for he can hope for no mercy. But what could be
done? Once subjected to the terrible hug, and the life would be crushed
out of him in less than a minute.

"If Ferguson and Tom were only here!" thought poor Ebenezer.

But the camp was at least two miles away, and his two companions,
unconscious of his terrible peril, were calmly sleeping, and not likely
to awaken till he was a crushed and bleeding corpse.

In great crises the mind travels rapidly. I shall not attempt to record
the thoughts that chased one another through the mind of the luckless
adventurer. But they were by no means pleasant.

"I shall never see Green Mountain Mills again," he thought, with an
inward groan. "I shall never marry Susan Jones, or eat any of marm's
nut-cakes. If I only had my rifle here, I'd make one effort for my life.
I'd spoil the beauty of that ugly devil anyhow."

Still, as if charmed, he stood staring open-eyed at the grizzly.

Bruin, deciding that this had lasted long enough, began in a slow and
dignified manner to approach the intruder upon his solitude.

This broke the charm. With a wild shout Ebenezer Onthank took to his
heels and flew over the ground at a rate of speed which Weston, the
champion runner, would scarcely be able to equal.

The grizzly accepted the challenge, and increased his own speed,
developing an activity hardly to be expected of his huge and unwieldy
form.

It was man against beast, with the odds decidedly in the favor of the
latter.




CHAPTER XVI.

UP A TREE.


The race between the Yankee and the bear was an exciting one, to the
former at least. He was fleet of foot, and in a hundred yards' dash
would have won without great difficulty; but in wind and endurance the
grizzly excelled him. So, as the race continued, Mr. Onthank, looking
back from time to time, was painfully conscious that his enemy was
gaining upon him. The perspiration came out upon his face in large
drops, and he panted painfully. He felt that the chances were against
him, and he could almost feel in advance the fatal hug which would
slowly press the life out of him. As he felt his strength failing he
looked around him despairingly. Just before him was a moderate-sized
tree. Though he knew that bears can climb, he gathered his remaining
strength, seized a low hanging branch, and swung himself up just in
time to avoid his persistent foe, who was close upon his heels. He did
not tarry where he was, but climbed higher up, until from a height of
twenty feet he could look down upon the bear.

Bruin looked up placidly, but did not begin to climb at once. Probably
he was fatigued with his race. Moreover he knew that his intended victim
could not get away. The latter was emphatically and literally "treed."
The bear sat upon his haunches and complacently regarded the Yankee.

Ebenezer Onthank made himself as comfortable as he could under the
circumstances. He was by no means easy in mind, however. He was "holding
the fort," it is true; but the enemy was in force outside, and evidently
intended to remain. Worse still, he would probably after a while climb
the tree, and this would bring matters to a crisis.

"You pesky critter! Why don't you go along about your business?"
exclaimed the unhappy adventurer, shaking his fist at the foe.

Bruin deigned no reply, but continued to survey him with steady,
unwinking eyes.

"If I only had a gun, I'd pepper you," continued Ebenezer. "I should
like to put a bullet into that impudent eye of yours."

Though the bear had never received an English education, his instinct
probably enabled him to understand the feelings of his intended victim,
but he remained as placid as ever.

So an hour passed. At the end of that time the situation remained
unchanged. The unfortunate Yankee was getting hungry, as well as tired
of his somewhat constrained position. Bears probably have more patience
than the human family, for Bruin had scarcely moved, except occasionally
to wag his great head. He felt that in the game that was being played it
was his adversary's turn to make the next move.

"I wish Tom and the Scotchman would find me out," thought Onthank. "What
on earth makes them sleep so late?" he continued, irritably. "They must
be naturally lazy."

He may be excused for feeling irritated, though there was no particular
reason to expect his two friends to curtail their hours of slumber
because he had done so. But he was not in a position where it is easy to
be reasonable, and in his situation every minute seemed to him as long
as five.

Meanwhile, in the camp, a mile away, Tom and Ferguson had awakened.

"How did you sleep, Tom?" asked the Scotchman.

"Tip-top. Did you rest well?"

"I have a gift of sleep," replied Ferguson. "But where is our Yankee
friend?"

"I suppose he has taken an early walk," said Tom. "He will be back
before long, I guess. We'd better not wait breakfast for him. I'm hungry
for one."

The two friends proceeded to break their fast, washing down the rather
stale provisions with water from a spring near by.

"I wish it were coffee," said Tom. "I'm tired of cold water."

"Doubtless the coffee would be more gratifying to the palate, Tom; but
it's likely the water is better for the health."

"I suppose you would refuse a cup of hot coffee, Mr. Ferguson, if it
were offered you," said Tom, smiling.

"I don't say that, Tom. I would risk its effect upon my health for once.
But, as we haven't got it, we may as well make the best of what we
have."

Soon after their simple meal, which did not consume much time, Tom
suggested to his companion that they set out in search of Mr. Onthank.
He did not suspect that their missing companion was in trouble, but he
thought that it would be pleasant to take a walk.

"You can go, if you like, Tom," said Ferguson, with characteristic
caution. "I will remain behind to look after the camp."

"All right, Mr. Ferguson. I'll soon be back."

"Don't go too far away, my lad; and mind your bearings, so that you can
find your way back."

"Never fear, Mr. Ferguson. It wouldn't be very easy to be lost here.
I'll keep my eyes open, and bring Mr. Onthank back with me if I see him
anywhere."

Ferguson sat down, and indulged himself in reading, probably for the
hundredth time, Walter Scott's Marmion, of which he had a small pocket
edition; while Tom went on his way.

A fortunate chance directed our hero by an almost straight course to the
very tree where Ebenezer Onthank was still perched with the grizzly
standing guard beneath. From time to time he looked about him anxiously,
in the hope of seeing the approach of one of his travelling companions.

It was with a feeling of joy, not wholly unmingled with anxiety, that he
descried Tom descending a hillock not many rods away. As yet it was
evident that our hero had not caught sight of the bear and his prisoner.
It was very necessary to put him on his guard.

"Tom!" shouted Mr. Onthank, at the top of his voice.

Tom heard the call in spite of the distance, and looked about him, but
did not immediately catch sight of the speaker. It did not occur to him
to look upwards.

"Tom!" shouted the Yankee again. "Here I am. Look up in the tree."

That time Tom's glance detected his companion, and, not yet having
discovered the bear, he was led to wonder why Mr. Onthank had climbed
the tree. As he was advancing incautiously, Onthank shouted again,
"There's a cursed grizzly under the tree. Don't come too near."

Tom saw the bear, and he paused suddenly. He was startled in truth, for
he had been long enough in California to be aware that it was a
dangerous beast.

"Isn't Ferguson with you?" asked Onthank, anxiously, for he knew that a
boy of sixteen, even if armed, was no match for the king of the
California sierras.

"No, he's behind in the camp," shouted Tom, in reply.

By this time the bear became aware that there was a second intruder
within his precincts. He turned his head deliberately and surveyed our
hero. It is not within the range of the author to read the thoughts of a
grizzly, but, from the indifference with which he turned away and
resumed his watch, it may be inferred that he considered Tom too small
game to merit his attention. This was rather satisfactory to our young
hero, who was not ambitious to come in close quarters with so formidable
an antagonist.

Startled as he was, Tom maintained his ground. He wanted to help
Onthank; but he did not know how to do it.

"What can I do to help you, Mr. Onthank?" shouted Tom.

"Blamed if I know," answered the Yankee, helplessly. "I wish Ferguson
were here. It won't do for you to attack the beast single-handed."

"Shall I go back for Ferguson?" asked Tom.

"I don't know; how far away is the camp?"

"It must be as much as a mile."

"While you are away the brute may take it into his head to climb the
tree, and then I am gone up."

"Haven't you any weapon?"

"No."

"I'll fire at the bear if you say so."

"It would be of no use. If you missed, or only grazed him, he would make
for you."

"I wish you had my rifle," said Tom.

"So do I. I'd let him have it straight in the eye. Have you had
breakfast?"

"Yes."

"I'm as hungry as a bear--as this bear who probably wants me for his
breakfast. O Tom, if I was only back at Green Mountain Mills once more,
I'd be content to live and die there, and all the gold in California
wouldn't bring me out here again."

Tom stood silent and perplexed. While he was considering whether he
could do anything to help his friend, the bear slowly rose, approached
the tree, and, grasping it between his paws, prepared to climb. He was
evidently tired of waiting.

"He's coming, Tom!" shouted Onthank. "O Lord, what shall I do?"




CHAPTER XVII.

AN EXCITING PURSUIT.


Mr Onthank's reflections when the grizzly was slowly but steadily
climbing the tree were by no means pleasant.

"If he once grips me, I am gone," he said, despairingly.

"Shall I shoot?" asked Tom, looking on in excitement.

"You might hit me," said Ebenezer, who knew nothing of Tom's skill as a
