gravely to the young lady. “I have the honor to inform mademoiselle that
luncheon is upon the table.”

Miss Miller slowly rose. “See here, Eugenio!” she said; “I’m going to
that old castle, anyway.”

“To the Chateau de Chillon, mademoiselle?” the courier inquired.
“Mademoiselle has made arrangements?” he added in a tone which struck
Winterbourne as very impertinent.

Eugenio’s tone apparently threw, even to Miss Miller’s own apprehension,
a slightly ironical light upon the young girl’s situation. She turned
to Winterbourne, blushing a little--a very little. “You won’t back out?”
 she said.

“I shall not be happy till we go!” he protested.

“And you are staying in this hotel?” she went on. “And you are really an
American?”

The courier stood looking at Winterbourne offensively. The young man,
at least, thought his manner of looking an offense to Miss Miller; it
conveyed an imputation that she “picked up” acquaintances. “I shall have
the honor of presenting to you a person who will tell you all about me,”
 he said, smiling and referring to his aunt.

“Oh, well, we’ll go some day,” said Miss Miller. And she gave him a
smile and turned away. She put up her parasol and walked back to the inn
beside Eugenio. Winterbourne stood looking after her; and as she moved
away, drawing her muslin furbelows over the gravel, said to himself that
she had the tournure of a princess.

He had, however, engaged to do more than proved feasible, in promising
to present his aunt, Mrs. Costello, to Miss Daisy Miller. As soon as the
former lady had got better of her headache, he waited upon her in her
apartment; and, after the proper inquiries in regard to her health, he
asked her if she had observed in the hotel an American family--a mamma,
a daughter, and a little boy.

“And a courier?” said Mrs. Costello. “Oh yes, I have observed them. Seen
them--heard them--and kept out of their way.” Mrs. Costello was a widow
with a fortune; a person of much distinction, who frequently intimated
that, if she were not so dreadfully liable to sick headaches, she would
probably have left a deeper impress upon her time. She had a long, pale
face, a high nose, and a great deal of very striking white hair, which
she wore in large puffs and rouleaux over the top of her head. She had
two sons married in New York and another who was now in Europe. This
young man was amusing himself at Hamburg, and, though he was on his
travels, was rarely perceived to visit any particular city at the moment
selected by his mother for her own appearance there. Her nephew, who had
come up to Vevey expressly to see her, was therefore more attentive than
those who, as she said, were nearer to her. He had imbibed at Geneva the
idea that one must always be attentive to one’s aunt. Mrs. Costello
had not seen him for many years, and she was greatly pleased with him,
manifesting her approbation by initiating him into many of the secrets
of that social sway which, as she gave him to understand, she exerted in
the American capital. She admitted that she was very exclusive; but, if
he were acquainted with New York, he would see that one had to be. And
her picture of the minutely hierarchical constitution of the society of
that city, which she presented to him in many different lights, was, to
Winterbourne’s imagination, almost oppressively striking.

He immediately perceived, from her tone, that Miss Daisy Miller’s place
in the social scale was low. “I am afraid you don’t approve of them,” he
said.

“They are very common,” Mrs. Costello declared. “They are the sort of
Americans that one does one’s duty by not--not accepting.”

“Ah, you don’t accept them?” said the young man.

“I can’t, my dear Frederick. I would if I could, but I can’t.”

“The young girl is very pretty,” said Winterbourne in a moment.

“Of course she’s pretty. But she is very common.”

“I see what you mean, of course,” said Winterbourne after another pause.

“She has that charming look that they all have,” his aunt resumed. “I
can’t think where they pick it up; and she dresses in perfection--no,
you don’t know how well she dresses. I can’t think where they get their
taste.”

“But, my dear aunt, she is not, after all, a Comanche savage.”

“She is a young lady,” said Mrs. Costello, “who has an intimacy with her
mamma’s courier.”

“An intimacy with the courier?” the young man demanded.

“Oh, the mother is just as bad! They treat the courier like a familiar
friend--like a gentleman. I shouldn’t wonder if he dines with them.
Very likely they have never seen a man with such good manners, such
fine clothes, so like a gentleman. He probably corresponds to the young
lady’s idea of a count. He sits with them in the garden in the evening.
I think he smokes.”

Winterbourne listened with interest to these disclosures; they helped
him to make up his mind about Miss Daisy. Evidently she was rather wild.
“Well,” he said, “I am not a courier, and yet she was very charming to
me.”

“You had better have said at first,” said Mrs. Costello with dignity,
“that you had made her acquaintance.”

“We simply met in the garden, and we talked a bit.”

“Tout bonnement! And pray what did you say?”

“I said I should take the liberty of introducing her to my admirable
aunt.”

“I am much obliged to you.”

“It was to guarantee my respectability,” said Winterbourne.

“And pray who is to guarantee hers?”

“Ah, you are cruel!” said the young man. “She’s a very nice young girl.”

“You don’t say that as if you believed it,” Mrs. Costello observed.

“She is completely uncultivated,” Winterbourne went on. “But she is
wonderfully pretty, and, in short, she is very nice. To prove that I
believe it, I am going to take her to the Chateau de Chillon.”

“You two are going off there together? I should say it proved just the
contrary. How long had you known her, may I ask, when this interesting
project was formed? You haven’t been twenty-four hours in the house.”

“I have known her half an hour!” said Winterbourne, smiling.

“Dear me!” cried Mrs. Costello. “What a dreadful girl!”

Her nephew was silent for some moments. “You really think, then,” he
began earnestly, and with a desire for trustworthy information--“you
really think that--” But he paused again.

“Think what, sir?” said his aunt.

“That she is the sort of young lady who expects a man, sooner or later,
to carry her off?”

“I haven’t the least idea what such young ladies expect a man to do. But
I really think that you had better not meddle with little American girls
that are uncultivated, as you call them. You have lived too long out of
the country. You will be sure to make some great mistake. You are too
innocent.”

“My dear aunt, I am not so innocent,” said Winterbourne, smiling and
curling his mustache.

“You are guilty too, then!”

Winterbourne continued to curl his mustache meditatively. “You won’t let
the poor girl know you then?” he asked at last.

“Is it literally true that she is going to the Chateau de Chillon with
you?”

“I think that she fully intends it.”

“Then, my dear Frederick,” said Mrs. Costello, “I must decline the honor
of her acquaintance. I am an old woman, but I am not too old, thank
Heaven, to be shocked!”

“But don’t they all do these things--the young girls in America?”
 Winterbourne inquired.

Mrs. Costello stared a moment. “I should like to see my granddaughters
do them!” she declared grimly.

This seemed to throw some light upon the matter, for Winterbourne
remembered to have heard that his pretty cousins in New York were
“tremendous flirts.” If, therefore, Miss Daisy Miller exceeded the
liberal margin allowed to these young ladies, it was probable that
anything might be expected of her. Winterbourne was impatient to see her
again, and he was vexed with himself that, by instinct, he should not
appreciate her justly.

Though he was impatient to see her, he hardly knew what he should say
to her about his aunt’s refusal to become acquainted with her; but he
discovered, promptly enough, that with Miss Daisy Miller there was
no great need of walking on tiptoe. He found her that evening in the
garden, wandering about in the warm starlight like an indolent sylph,
and swinging to and fro the largest fan he had ever beheld. It was ten
o’clock. He had dined with his aunt, had been sitting with her since
dinner, and had just taken leave of her till the morrow. Miss Daisy
Miller seemed very glad to see him; she declared it was the longest
evening she had ever passed.

“Have you been all alone?” he asked.

“I have been walking round with mother. But mother gets tired walking
round,” she answered.

“Has she gone to bed?”

“No; she doesn’t like to go to bed,” said the young girl. “She doesn’t
sleep--not three hours. She says she doesn’t know how she lives. She’s
dreadfully nervous. I guess she sleeps more than she thinks. She’s gone
somewhere after Randolph; she wants to try to get him to go to bed. He
doesn’t like to go to bed.”

“Let us hope she will persuade him,” observed Winterbourne.

“She will talk to him all she can; but he doesn’t like her to talk
to him,” said Miss Daisy, opening her fan. “She’s going to try to get
Eugenio to talk to him. But he isn’t afraid of Eugenio. Eugenio’s a
splendid courier, but he can’t make much impression on Randolph! I don’t
believe he’ll go to bed before eleven.” It appeared that Randolph’s
vigil was in fact triumphantly prolonged, for Winterbourne strolled
about with the young girl for some time without meeting her mother. “I
have been looking round for that lady you want to introduce me to,” his
companion resumed. “She’s your aunt.” Then, on Winterbourne’s admitting
the fact and expressing some curiosity as to how she had learned it, she
said she had heard all about Mrs. Costello from the chambermaid. She was
very quiet and very comme il faut; she wore white puffs; she spoke to no
one, and she never dined at the table d’hote. Every two days she had a
headache. “I think that’s a lovely description, headache and all!” said
Miss Daisy, chattering along in her thin, gay voice. “I want to know her
ever so much. I know just what YOUR aunt would be; I know I should like
her. She would be very exclusive. I like a lady to be exclusive; I’m
dying to be exclusive myself. Well, we ARE exclusive, mother and I. We
don’t speak to everyone--or they don’t speak to us. I suppose it’s about
the same thing. Anyway, I shall be ever so glad to know your aunt.”

Winterbourne was embarrassed. “She would be most happy,” he said; “but I
am afraid those headaches will interfere.”

The young girl looked at him through the dusk. “But I suppose she
doesn’t have a headache every day,” she said sympathetically.

Winterbourne was silent a moment. “She tells me she does,” he answered
at last, not knowing what to say.

Miss Daisy Miller stopped and stood looking at him. Her prettiness was
still visible in the darkness; she was opening and closing her enormous
fan. “She doesn’t want to know me!” she said suddenly. “Why don’t you
say so? You needn’t be afraid. I’m not afraid!” And she gave a little
laugh.

Winterbourne fancied there was a tremor in her voice; he was touched,
shocked, mortified by it. “My dear young lady,” he protested, “she knows
no one. It’s her wretched health.”

The young girl walked on a few steps, laughing still. “You needn’t be
afraid,” she repeated. “Why should she want to know me?” Then she paused
again; she was close to the parapet of the garden, and in front of her
was the starlit lake. There was a vague sheen upon its surface, and in
the distance were dimly seen mountain forms. Daisy Miller looked out
upon the mysterious prospect and then she gave another little laugh.
“Gracious! she IS exclusive!” she said. Winterbourne wondered whether
she was seriously wounded, and for a moment almost wished that her sense
of injury might be such as to make it becoming in him to attempt to
reassure and comfort her. He had a pleasant sense that she would be very
approachable for consolatory purposes. He felt then, for the instant,
quite ready to sacrifice his aunt, conversationally; to admit that she
was a proud, rude woman, and to declare that they needn’t mind her.
But before he had time to commit himself to this perilous mixture
of gallantry and impiety, the young lady, resuming her walk, gave an
exclamation in quite another tone. “Well, here’s Mother! I guess she
hasn’t got Randolph to go to bed.” The figure of a lady appeared at a
distance, very indistinct in the darkness, and advancing with a slow and
wavering movement. Suddenly it seemed to pause.

“Are you sure it is your mother? Can you distinguish her in this thick
dusk?” Winterbourne asked.

“Well!” cried Miss Daisy Miller with a laugh; “I guess I know my own
mother. And when she has got on my shawl, too! She is always wearing my
things.”

The lady in question, ceasing to advance, hovered vaguely about the spot
at which she had checked her steps.

“I am afraid your mother doesn’t see you,” said Winterbourne.
“Or perhaps,” he added, thinking, with Miss Miller, the joke
permissible--“perhaps she feels guilty about your shawl.”

“Oh, it’s a fearful old thing!” the young girl replied serenely. “I told
her she could wear it. She won’t come here because she sees you.”

“Ah, then,” said Winterbourne, “I had better leave you.”

“Oh, no; come on!” urged Miss Daisy Miller.

“I’m afraid your mother doesn’t approve of my walking with you.”

Miss Miller gave him a serious glance. “It isn’t for me; it’s for
you--that is, it’s for HER. Well, I don’t know who it’s for! But mother
doesn’t like any of my gentlemen friends. She’s right down timid. She
always makes a fuss if I introduce a gentleman. But I DO introduce
them--almost always. If I didn’t introduce my gentlemen friends to
Mother,” the young girl added in her little soft, flat monotone, “I
shouldn’t think I was natural.”

“To introduce me,” said Winterbourne, “you must know my name.” And he
proceeded to pronounce it.

“Oh, dear, I can’t say all that!” said his companion with a laugh. But
by this time they had come up to Mrs. Miller, who, as they drew near,
walked to the parapet of the garden and leaned upon it, looking intently
at the lake and turning her back to them. “Mother!” said the young
girl in a tone of decision. Upon this the elder lady turned round. “Mr.
Winterbourne,” said Miss Daisy Miller, introducing the young man very
frankly and prettily. “Common,” she was, as Mrs. Costello had pronounced
her; yet it was a wonder to Winterbourne that, with her commonness, she
had a singularly delicate grace.

Her mother was a small, spare, light person, with a wandering eye,
a very exiguous nose, and a large forehead, decorated with a certain
amount of thin, much frizzled hair. Like her daughter, Mrs. Miller was
dressed with extreme elegance; she had enormous diamonds in her ears.
So far as Winterbourne could observe, she gave him no greeting--she
certainly was not looking at him. Daisy was near her, pulling her shawl
straight. “What are you doing, poking round here?” this young lady
inquired, but by no means with that harshness of accent which her choice
of words may imply.

“I don’t know,” said her mother, turning toward the lake again.

“I shouldn’t think you’d want that shawl!” Daisy exclaimed.

“Well I do!” her mother answered with a little laugh.

“Did you get Randolph to go to bed?” asked the young girl.

“No; I couldn’t induce him,” said Mrs. Miller very gently. “He wants to
talk to the waiter. He likes to talk to that waiter.”

“I was telling Mr. Winterbourne,” the young girl went on; and to the
young man’s ear her tone might have indicated that she had been uttering
his name all her life.

“Oh, yes!” said Winterbourne; “I have the pleasure of knowing your son.”

Randolph’s mamma was silent; she turned her attention to the lake. But
at last she spoke. “Well, I don’t see how he lives!”

“Anyhow, it isn’t so bad as it was at Dover,” said Daisy Miller.

“And what occurred at Dover?” Winterbourne asked.

“He wouldn’t go to bed at all. I guess he sat up all night in the public
parlor. He wasn’t in bed at twelve o’clock: I know that.”

“It was half-past twelve,” declared Mrs. Miller with mild emphasis.

“Does he sleep much during the day?” Winterbourne demanded.

“I guess he doesn’t sleep much,” Daisy rejoined.

“I wish he would!” said her mother. “It seems as if he couldn’t.”

“I think he’s real tiresome,” Daisy pursued.

Then, for some moments, there was silence. “Well, Daisy Miller,” said
the elder lady, presently, “I shouldn’t think you’d want to talk against
your own brother!”

“Well, he IS tiresome, Mother,” said Daisy, quite without the asperity
of a retort.

“He’s only nine,” urged Mrs. Miller.

“Well, he wouldn’t go to that castle,” said the young girl. “I’m going
there with Mr. Winterbourne.”

To this announcement, very placidly made, Daisy’s mamma offered no
response. Winterbourne took for granted that she deeply disapproved of
the projected excursion; but he said to himself that she was a simple,
easily managed person, and that a few deferential protestations would
take the edge from her displeasure. “Yes,” he began; “your daughter has
kindly allowed me the honor of being her guide.”

Mrs. Miller’s wandering eyes attached themselves, with a sort of
appealing air, to Daisy, who, however, strolled a few steps farther,
gently humming to herself. “I presume you will go in the cars,” said her
mother.

“Yes, or in the boat,” said Winterbourne.

“Well, of course, I don’t know,” Mrs. Miller rejoined. “I have never
been to that castle.”

“It is a pity you shouldn’t go,” said Winterbourne, beginning to feel
reassured as to her opposition. And yet he was quite prepared to find
that, as a matter of course, she meant to accompany her daughter.

“We’ve been thinking ever so much about going,” she pursued; “but it
seems as if we couldn’t. Of course Daisy--she wants to go round. But
there’s a lady here--I don’t know her name--she says she shouldn’t think
we’d want to go to see castles HERE; she should think we’d want to wait
till we got to Italy. It seems as if there would be so many there,”
 continued Mrs. Miller with an air of increasing confidence. “Of course
we only want to see the principal ones. We visited several in England,”
 she presently added.

“Ah yes! in England there are beautiful castles,” said Winterbourne.
“But Chillon here, is very well worth seeing.”

“Well, if Daisy feels up to it--” said Mrs. Miller, in a tone
impregnated with a sense of the magnitude of the enterprise. “It seems
as if there was nothing she wouldn’t undertake.”

“Oh, I think she’ll enjoy it!” Winterbourne declared. And he desired
more and more to make it a certainty that he was to have the privilege
of a tete-a-tete with the young lady, who was still strolling along
in front of them, softly vocalizing. “You are not disposed, madam,” he
inquired, “to undertake it yourself?”

Daisy’s mother looked at him an instant askance, and then walked forward
in silence. Then--“I guess she had better go alone,” she said simply.
Winterbourne observed to himself that this was a very different type of
maternity from that of the vigilant matrons who massed themselves in the
forefront of social intercourse in the dark old city at the other end of
the lake. But his meditations were interrupted by hearing his name very
distinctly pronounced by Mrs. Miller’s unprotected daughter.

“Mr. Winterbourne!” murmured Daisy.

“Mademoiselle!” said the young man.

“Don’t you want to take me out in a boat?”

“At present?” he asked.

“Of course!” said Daisy.

“Well, Annie Miller!” exclaimed her mother.

“I beg you, madam, to let her go,” said Winterbourne ardently; for
he had never yet enjoyed the sensation of guiding through the summer
starlight a skiff freighted with a fresh and beautiful young girl.

“I shouldn’t think she’d want to,” said her mother. “I should think
she’d rather go indoors.”

“I’m sure Mr. Winterbourne wants to take me,” Daisy declared. “He’s so
awfully devoted!”

“I will row you over to Chillon in the starlight.”

“I don’t believe it!” said Daisy.

“Well!” ejaculated the elder lady again.

“You haven’t spoken to me for half an hour,” her daughter went on.

“I have been having some very pleasant conversation with your mother,”
 said Winterbourne.

“Well, I want you to take me out in a boat!” Daisy repeated. They had
all stopped, and she had turned round and was looking at Winterbourne.
Her face wore a charming smile, her pretty eyes were gleaming, she was
swinging her great fan about. No; it’s impossible to be prettier than
that, thought Winterbourne.

“There are half a dozen boats moored at that landing place,” he said,
pointing to certain steps which descended from the garden to the lake.
“If you will do me the honor to accept my arm, we will go and select one
of them.”

Daisy stood there smiling; she threw back her head and gave a little,
light laugh. “I like a gentleman to be formal!” she declared.

“I assure you it’s a formal offer.”

“I was bound I would make you say something,” Daisy went on.

“You see, it’s not very difficult,” said Winterbourne. “But I am afraid
you are chaffing me.”

“I think not, sir,” remarked Mrs. Miller very gently.

“Do, then, let me give you a row,” he said to the young girl.

“It’s quite lovely, the way you say that!” cried Daisy.

“It will be still more lovely to do it.”

“Yes, it would be lovely!” said Daisy. But she made no movement to
accompany him; she only stood there laughing.

“I should think you had better find out what time it is,” interposed her
mother.

“It is eleven o’clock, madam,” said a voice, with a foreign accent, out
of the neighboring darkness; and Winterbourne, turning, perceived the
florid personage who was in attendance upon the two ladies. He had
apparently just approached.

“Oh, Eugenio,” said Daisy, “I am going out in a boat!”

Eugenio bowed. “At eleven o’clock, mademoiselle?”

“I am going with Mr. Winterbourne--this very minute.”

