would not dislike it; and I went down stairs contented. As I stepped out into the porch, Mr. Iredell met me, bringing me a rose. 
"Are you all ready?" said he, touching the rose 
first to one of my cheeks and then to the other; a 
movement suggested, I suppose, by some similarity 
of hue at the moment. 
" Quite ready, and so is breakfast." 
" What do you suppose Mrs. Bowdoin will say 
to you, for stealing a march upon her ? " 
" I cannot tell. I must write to her." 
" We will write from New York." 
The breakfast was rather silent; Miss PolTy being 
speechless, and the other two probably preoccupied. 
Then the wagon drove up ; I ran in to take leave of 
Aretlmsa, who was fast asleep, and so she and I 
missed that; I put on my bonnet, kissed Miss Polly, 
who was now speechless for another reason, and 
in another minute I had left my old home. 
It was going to be another hot day ; but for the 
present the weather had all the possible loveliness 
of a summer morning; fresh, dewy, scented, va- 
pourous, every stir of the light breeze shaking 
down rain drops left from last night. I noted and 
tasted every variety of the loveliness, in the acute 
way one does at times of peculiar interest or excitement. Not that I felt excited, though perhaps 
I was, without knowing it. The drive to the par 
sonage lasted a few minutes only. I marched in, 
preceding Mr. Iredell. 
They were all ready for us there, and all unready. I saw that at a glance, and knew it be 
fore I saw it. Mrs. Macartney pressed my hand 
silently, just keeping herself from bursting into 
tears. Her husband looked at me severely. The 
room was in particular order; the children wait 
ing in their best dresses; even a dish of flowers 
was on the table ; a very festive sign indeed. Bui 
the people it must be confessed did not look festive. 
"Is it true, Desire, Mr. Macartney began sol 
emnly, "is it possible you are going to forsake 
us? to forsake Chesterfield?" 
I saw a little lurking smile dn Mr. Iredell's face, 
and was at my wits I end what to say. 
" She can't help it, Mr. Macartney," said his 
wife. "You needn't scold. Women can't help 
these things." 
"But I think her place is Jiere" persisted the 
minister. "What is the Sunday school to do with 
out her? or the Teachers meeting? or the Sewing 
circle? or Chesterfield generally, in fact? When a 
human being has found his place or her place " 
" Desire is just finding her place^ my dear," put 
in his wife." 
"I don't believe it," he returned stiffly. "She 
will never find a place where she will be more use 
ful, or more welcome, than she is here. I regard it 
as a public calamity, what I have to do now!" 
This was an experience ! Mr. Iredell stood by, 
perfectly quiet, and I knew intensely amused; he 
did not give me any help. Poor Mrs. Macartney 
would, but truly her voice almost failed her. And 
 
I, for my part, was so much in sympathy with the 
ludicrous side of the question, that I was afraid to 
trust mine for the very opposite reason. But in 
deed I wished the scene at an end and myself well 
out of the parsonage. Then Mr. Iredell looked at 
his watch. 
"In the case of a public calamity," said he, "the 
best to be hoped for is that it should as soon as 
possible become a thing of tne past. As I regard 
this one as inevitable, perhaps Mr. Macartney will 
be so good as to let it pass " 
There was no gafhsaying this request, and Mr. 
Macartney proceeded to his task; rather grimly 
however; and Mrs. Macartney's tears burst forth 
in real earnest. She kept wiping them away while 
the words were spoken; the few words which do 
such a great work ; but then, after the minister had 
given a frigid touch of his lips to my forehead, she 
wrapped me in her arms with genuine sobs. I 
was thankful to Mr. Iredell for rescuing me. The 
children had still to be kissed even then. 
" We told nobody, Desire," Mr. Macartney said, 
" because we understood that you wished it so. I 
expect people will be very angry with us. You 
would have had the whole town here, early as it is." 
What would have become of me, I thought ! if 
it was so hard to say good bye to only two. How 
ever, I thought the minister's face looked very 
considerably brighter after the "public calamity" 
than before; and I also guessed what the reason 
might be. 
Just as I was leaving the room, Mrs. Macartney 
overcame her tears and started forward. "She has 
got no bouquet!" she exclaimed. "A bride with 
out a bouquet ! that will never do. Wait, Desire, 
wait it is all I can do for you " 
And she took the large bunch of roses and honeysuckles which stood in the dish on the table, and 
hastily wrapping the wet ends of the stalks in a 
piece of white paper, presented it to me. I received it -there was no help for it, Mr. Ireclell 
put me and the flowers into the wagon, and at last 
we drove off. 
"A bride with a bouquet! " I must be very un 
like other brides, if that is their notion of the desirable; for me, what I wanted was to get rid of 
mine. How to do it ? Luckily the drive to the 
station was long, a good four miles. I must be 
guilty of nothing which could be observed and 
carried back for a piece of news to Chesterfield; 
so caution was necessary. One by one I dropped 
a rose over the wagon side as we drove along, or 
cast a head of honeysuckle into the hedge rows 
when nobody was looking. One by one my great 
bouquet lessened and vanished away; so that when 
I got to the station I was as like simple Desire 
Burgoyne, in her travelling dress and old straw 
bonnet, going back to attend on Mrs. Bowdoin, as 
ever I could be; with no distinguishing mark about 
me at all. Except, what to be sure distinguished 
me mightily in my own eyes, the presence beside
me, and the watchful, thoughtful care which he 
 
bestowed upon all my movements. I had seen 
Mr. Ireclell take care of Olive; I knew how ho 
could do it; but I had never felt the like myself, 
unless just a touch of it in the old, old time; and 
tliis was still different. This was very unlike what 
Desire Burgoyne had ever been used to, so long 
accustomed to depend on myself and take care of 
myself as I had been, and never expecting any 
thing  else. It filled my heart with an unspeakable 
feeling of gladness and thankfulness; it made that 
day's long ride in the cars a going over enchanted 
ground, or through a blessed dreamland; only I 
knew it was no dream, and that the enchantment 
was a sober and lasting reality. I suppose any 
outsider would have said we were both very sober; 
I think we were too happy to be anything else; 
and the cars made too much of a rattle for us to 
talk a great deal. I was not sorry even for that. 
A word now and then, or a look, gave me as much 
as I could stand. 
New York, July 15. 
THE next day, going on to New York, we had a 
drawing-room car, were in quiet and by our 
selves; and the day was a long delight of talk, 
about work doing and work done and work to do, 
together with plans for our European journey. I 
expected that Mr. Iredell would press on to Philadelphia that same afternoon; but instead of that 
he took me to one of the large hotels, bespoke a 
pleasant sitting room, and proposed to me to get 
rid of travelling dust and have dinner. I liked 
what he liked; and besides, such an establishment 
as this hotel is a new experience to me and amus 
ing. I had not much choice in the matter of dresses ; 
a white muslin was the most respectable thing I 
could find, and I put on that. As I came out, Mr. 
Iredell met me with a beautiful rose which he must 
have been out to some neighbouring greenhouse to 
get, and fastened it himself in my dress. Then his 
eyes met mine and he smiled. I saw in the smilo 
the answer to a question I would have liked to put; 
I knew he was contented with my appearance. 
That made me contented, and so we went down 
to dinner. 
The dinner was an entertainment to me. In an 
enormous hall or dining room, lofty and cool and 
very handsome, we had a little table to ourselves. 
Other people were dining at other little tables. It 
was a novel strange scene. The dinner served 
was excellent, and Mr. Iredell fell into a vein of 
quiet talk, after his usual fashion, which gave 
my ears even more to do than my eyes found. 
We were far enough from other diners to be ut 
terly free and unconstrained. It was all better 
than a play ; even if I had not been so happy as 
I was. 
When we came back to our sitting room, Mr. 
Iredell put me in a chair just in front of the open 
window, from which the breeze was now flowing 
 
in refreshingly from the sea; and standing there, 
asked me if I would not like to send wedding pres 
ents to my friends at Chesterfield ? 
"Presents!" I echoed, and my heart jumped. 
"But, Mr. Iredell, my friends in Chesterfield are 
numerous." 
"Well?" 
"It would be difficult, you know, to send presents 
to some, without the others feeling slighted." 
"What then?" said he, sitting down beside me 
and looking very unmoved. " I am not proposing 
to you to slight anybody. What do you think of a 
black silk for that nice, quiet minister's wife, who 
was so sorry to have you go away ? " 
" Mrs. Macartney ! " I exclaimed, fairly out of 
breath with delight. " But, Max " 
"Well?" said he, taking one of my hands. 
"There are a great many of my friends in Chesterfield. And if you began with a black silk to 
Mrs. Macartney there must be a proportion in 
things, you know?" 
"I know. And I am not going to begin any 
thing. You are to do it. And I do not see the 
difficulty yet." 
My thoughts flew, and my pulses beat. I could 
think in a minute of ever so many people to whom 
this or that particular thing would be a great, 
hitherto unattainable boon. But there were so 
many of them ! 
"There is all my Sunday school class," I went 
on. "That is not so much; they are young. But 
 
there is all the Teachers meeting; and then there 
are friends and friends! " 
Mr. Iredell began to laugh at me. 
"Begin and tell me the names," said he, taking 
his note-book from his pocket. " We will get the 
names together, and then we will see what shall 
stand opposite to each name. And then, we shall 
know what we have got to do. Item. Mrs. Ma 
cartneyblack silk. Will that do ? " 
" yes ! But but Max, it will take a great deal 
of money." 
" I think not. But suppose it." 
"Is it right, to spend so much for such a 
reason ? " 
" Yes. The reasons for spending money are, to 
do good or to get good. I think the present case 
falls under the first head." 
" It would give a great deal of pleasure " I said 
doubtfully. 
" That is one of the ways of doing good," said 
Mr. Iredell smiling. "Don't you see, it will be useful that your friends at Chesterfield should know 
you have not forgotten them ? and they must have 
tangible proof of it. It is right to comfort them up 
a bit, too, for the loss of you; and I think all the influence of your past life among them will be height 
ened and established by this remembrance of them 
now. So go on, and let us have the names. It is 
no virtue in me to give money, Desire ; all my life it 
has been, that where I laid down one dollar for the 
Lord's service, he gave me two. Ask yourself only 
the question, what in each case would give the 
most lasting benefit and pleasure. Now let us 
see." 
What an evening's work that was ! what a time 
of delight unmixed and unalloyed! I knew, taking 
the names one by one, I knew what would just 
meet a long -felt want here, or supply an un 
dreamed-of delectation there. Mr. Iredell took 
every scruple from me at last, and we made up 
our list royally. Mrs. Macartney's black silk led 
off; and there was a large Bagster's Bible, with ref 
erences, for Deacon Parsons; and Hugh Miller's 
writings for Mr. Chandler; and Taylor Lewis's 
works for Mr. Binnacle; while to their wives went 
dress patterns and caps and shawls. .Here a work- 
box, fitted up ; there a writing-desk ditto. To all 
the Teachers meeting people, Bagster's Bibles of 
the octavo edition. . An edition I knew only by 
Mr. Iredell's own, which I had seen long ago in 
the library in Poulteney Place once or twice; indeed it w r as there also, in Olive's room, that I had 
seen and studied the larger edition, which I des 
tined for Deacon Parsons. Then there were poorer 
houses, where the gifts were a little different. A 
carpet in one; a tea-service in another; and for one 
poor man who had lost his horse, and could not, I 
knew, afford to replace the loss, I laughingly confessed that I wanted some old Dobbin or other. Mr. 
Iredell's lips took a certain set at that, and the entry went down in his note-book, I thought, with 
significant energy. Ah what an evening we had! 
 
For indeed it took the evening; there was so much 
to discuss. 
" When are we going to do all this ? " I asked 
with a sudden wondering scruple, after we had got 
through. 
"To-morrow." - 
" Can we do it in one day ? " 
"I think so. If you know what you want, and 
know where to get it, there is no need to be long 
about such business unless you are an undecided 
character. What do you think you want for your 
self, Desire ? " 
"For myself?" I looked down at my white 
dress, almost the only thing I had which could 
pass muster anywhere but at Chesterfield; and yet 
the sense of want could not get any prominence 
in my mind. " I suppose I ought to have a few things," I went on. "My old straw bonnet is hardly fit to go about with you." 
"You will learn some day that the wearer makes 
the bonnet," Mr. Iredell said with a contented ex 
pression. 
That satisfied me. If he did not care, I did not 
care certainly; and I remembered Olive's words 
once spoken, that Mr. Iredell did not notice how 
people dressed. I had not believed them at the 
time; and I found now, the next day, that I had 
boeri quite right in not believing them. I found an 
other thing; that I was myself the centre of the day's 
business. The Chesterfield things were attended 
to, well and duly, no doubt; yet that was done as
 
it were by the way ; and Mr. Iredell's special pleasure and care were expended in supplying me with 
every imaginable thing which I could be even supposed to want. He knew, doubtless, that my little 
old trunk did not hold much. That trunk was 
destined now to go back to Chesterfield with stores 
for Arethusa and Mrs. Quick; and not one but two 
magnificent leather packing cases were provided 
for the accommodation of my belongings. We did 
an enormous amount of business that day. I 
found we were served with a quick readiness and 
submissiveness which ensured us against unnecessary loss of time; Mr. Iredell had a quiet way 
of doubling my orders, which was impressive; and 
at any rate, without that, it was enough for him to 
shew himself anywhere to gain immediate and obsequious attention. My old bonnet, in such com 
pany, fared as well as if it had been a coronet. But 
Mr. Iredell's attention came round to that too, in 
due course, and he took me where it was to be exchanged for another; or rather, for others. And I 
found he was not easily suited. I would have 
made a short business of it, to spare his time; 
but that would not do. I was getting nothing 
splendid or showy; it made no difference; I was 
made to try on one bonnet after another, till those 
were found which perfectly suited his taste and 
which perfectly fitted me. I learned a lesson, 
quietly, in that milliner's shop. Indeed I never 
thought otherwise, but that a person so fond of all 
the refinements of beauty and propriety would care 
 
for them also in his wife and in all that concerned 
her. 
Do what we could, however, we were not able to 
accomplish all our business in one day. We must 
take part of another; and so came a queer rencounter. 
The evening of this day was spent in writing 
notes to go to Chesterfield, whither the various 
packages had been despatched by express. Happy writing ! I ought to have been very tired ; but 
pleasure I think prevents that sometimes. I wrote 
notes busily, and Mr IredelL directed them; distracting me a little, I confess, by talking the while. 
In the midst of this, came one of the waiters of the 
hotel with a card on a salver which he brought to 
me. I read, bewildered, the name of "Mrs. St. 
Ives " and handed the card to Mr. Iredell. He 
studied it a minute. . 
" Is the lady here ? " he asked. 
" Yes, sir. In the parlour, sir." 
" Will you see her, Desire ? It is a very unwar 
rantable intrusion!" Mr. Iredell said in a low voice. 
" Will you receive her?" 
"If you please," I said. "Yes. I do not care. 
It is only her way." 
" I will go to her," said Mr. Iredell. " Perhaps 
there is some mistake. Sit still; I will bring her 
to you, if necessary." 
I guessed there was no mistake. Ernestine was 
following her old rule, of doing what she had a 
mind to do, irrespective of the rights of the case or 
the rights of other people. I was more amused than 
 
anything else. Presently I heard voices, the door 
opened, and in she came, Mr. Iredell following her. 
It is impossible to describe, the air of mingled 
LiTuce, graciousness, and spitefulness, with which 
she came towards me. On her good behaviour, as 
she was, and afraid of betraying herself, yes, and 
wishing to practise ingratiation ; but clever as she 
is, she could not manage everything at once. Her 
black eyes snapped, while her mouth smiled. 
" I knew it," she exclaimed, " I knew it ! I 
knew it was you. I .was certain of it. I saw you 
once, and thought I might be mistaken; then the 
next time I saw your bonnet, and I knew it could 
be nobody but you." 
" Which bonnet?" said Mr. Iredell. 
Mrs. St. Ives faced him with a look of such 
doubtful perplexity that I smiled. I could not 
help it. 
" Has she got more than one ? " she asked. 
It was Mr. Iredell's turn now, and he laughed. 
" You see, I know Desire Burgoyne," she went on. 
" You mean, you have known her." 
" Exactly. I hope she is going to let me know 
Iter in the future. ^What are all these? cards? Are 
you sending out cards ? " 
" No," said I. 
" Does Mrs. Bowdoin know ? What ever made 
you steal a march upon everybody in this way, Mr. 
Iredell?" 
" It seems that you do not know me as well aa 
you know my wife," he answered. 
 
" Your wife ! " she repeated. " Desire Burgoyne 
your wife ! "- and she said it with the oddest accent, in which all was not concealed that she wished 
concealed. " I cannot believe it now I have seen 
it. Desire is too good for you, Mr. Iredell." 
He bowed. 
" It is too much for one house. It is out of pro 
portion. Desire ought to have married another 
sort of man, that needed her to keep him straight. 
You don't need anybody. I consider you have 
done somebody a great wrong, Mr. Iredell." 
" Unconsciously." 
" I thought you were going to Egypt." 
"I am." 
" Are you going to take her ? " 
"Yes." 
" dear ! I wish I was your bridesmaid, Desire, 
and was going along ! But you ought not to take 
her to Egypt, Mr. Iredell ; she ought to go to Paris, 
and Rome." 
"I mean to take her to Rome." 
" But what are you going to Egypt for, at all ? " 
" A mingling of business and pleasure. Egypt 
is one of the most enjoyable lands to visit, if you 
go in the right way. May I ask How did you 
know we were here ? " 
" Your name is in the book." 
"Yes; but may I ask further, how you came to 
find out that fact?" 
" Why, I looked for it," said Ernestine bravely. 
" I told you, I saw Desire I saw her at Constable's ; there was such a crowd I could not get near 
her. I saw you too, a minute after; and that raised 
a fear in me; and when I got home I looked in the 
papers, at the lists of arrivals." 
Mr. Iredell's lips twitched suspiciously. 
"Of course, I know I have no business to be 
here," Ernestine went on. "But you know, I 
must take a great interest, Mr. Iredell; and you 
have known me a long time, and I thought you 
would forgive me." 
" What did you think Desire would do ? " 
If Ernestine had dared, she would have made 
I saw, one of her old speeches. It quivered on her 
lips; but she did not dare. She hesitated, putting 
down the impromptu that was so ready, and finally 
uttered a very different set of words. 
" I thought I knew Mrs. Iredell well enough to 
trust that she would forgive me. If she does not, 
[ will ask her pardon." 
" I do " I said smiling. " There is no need." 
" And will you let me come and see you, when 
you get back from Egypt ? sometimes ? " 
" Certainly. With pleasure." 
"Then I'm satisfied," said she rising; "and I've 
done all I can do in one evening call. Good bye. 
Please forgive me, Mr. Iredell/ 
She offered her mouth to kiss me. It was the 
first time certainly ; but I accepted the kiss cordial 
ly, and the lady tripped away. I knew her eyes 
had run all over me, while she was talking to Mr. 
Iredell, examining me from top to toe; and though 
 
my dress was simple, I knew too that, mistress 
of the art as she was, she had given it her silent 
approval. I had put on one of the fresh muslins 
Mr. Iredell had got for me that day, with a knot 
of lace at my throat which also had not been in 
my possession a day before. Mrs. St. Ives had 
never been so plainly attired in her life; and yet 
I had a secret satisfaction in knowing that she 
confessed I looked as Mr. Iredell's wife ought to 
look. Mr. Iredell came back seeming amused. 
"You have made a conquest, JDesire," he said. 
"I think not." 
"But you were quite right in letting her come 
in. It is good never to lose a thread of influence 
by which you hold any one. You never can tell 
what, some time, a little thread may draw after it. 
I have such a thread of influence with her, I think; 
and now at least, so have you." 
I saw Mr. Iredell understood the little woman. 
At the Mansion. July 17. 
MR. IREDELL would -not get to Philadelphia 
late Saturday evening. So we staid over the 
Sunday where we were, and took an early train 
Monday. The plan was to rest in Poulteney Place 
during the heat of the day, and drive out to the 
Mansion when it grew cooler towards evening. 
For the weather continued very warm. I had 
shrunk a little, in my thoughts, from Poulteney 
Place. 
Mr. Iredell had written, and everything was in 
order for ITS ; Sam waiting at the station with the 
carriage, and Harry ready to open the door with a 
face of delight. Mr. Iredell led me at once up stairs 
to the rooms prepared for me; not Olive's room, of 
which I was glad; these were in a different part 
of the house. Here Mr. Iredell took me in his 
arms and gave me a welcome, grave and glad, 
which I could hardly answer in any way without 
a sob, and did not answer at all. It is good that 
silence speaks sometimes. When he left me, I sat 
down to get rid of a tear or two which came in 
the midst of my gladness, perhaps because of my 
gladness. 
I think Mr. Iredell had been willing to put me 
at once at home in my place, and so had arranged 
to spend part of a day in Poulteney Place. His 
manner seemed to tell me that. And I owned that 
he was right now; right to bring me to my lovely 
home and make me feel that it was mine, before I 
went anywhere else; my two homes, indeed, this 
and the Mansion. But I was glad not to be in 
Olive's room; and these, full of comfort as they 
were, were full also of the old time quaint pleasant 
