his; she will give her whole soul to the work. Is he worth the best
there is in such a woman as Sylvie Barry?"

"No; and we never go by our deserts when a woman loves us," said Jack,
with frank honesty.

"I am quite sure you will marry a woman I shall hate," returned Maverick
testily.

Jack laughed. "Marrying has not been much in my thoughts;" and yet his
fair face flushed. "I have to fight Hope Mills out to the end first."

But just now there did not seem much of a prospect for fighting, though
he firmly believed he should always be on guard after this.

There was one other person in this little circle, who was of much
interest to the others, even if it was for the most part unspoken.
Maverick had tried to rouse Irene Lawrence from her lethargy by appeals
of different kinds. She certainly was not an intellectual woman, though
she had a strong and well-cultivated mind, and was accomplished in many
ways,--society accomplishments, with a view to the admiration they might
win. He could seem to strike no electric spark, though he succeeded in
restoring her to health. Every week of her stay at Depford Beach, she
had improved; but there was the old, dreary, listless life. She used to
think herself, if some shock like that of an earthquake could lift her
completely out of it! but none came.

For it could not be said that Miss Barry's illness was any shock to her.
People were sick, and died, and their perplexity was at an end. A
generous, kindly life like this of Miss Barry's would have its
reward--if any life ever was rewarded. She did not doubt so much: she
had never really believed.

As she said to Sylvie, something stronger than herself had sent her that
night,--one of those powerful, impelling influences that few can resist.
And Sylvie was wise enough not to lose her hold. She drew her in very
gently, she preached no sermon, she asked favors frankly.

"I want you to take my pony-carriage," she said one day, after their
return to Yerbury. "I ought to go out every day, and if you come with it
I shall; but if I am left to my own fancies, there will be so much to
occupy me. Then, too, companionship is always very tempting."

"I should be glad to do any thing for you," was the quiet, unemotional
reply.

So the carriage was brought every morning to the door. It seemed so odd,
the day she first drove around Yerbury! Unconsciously the old
stateliness returned. Her heart swelled with contradictory phases of
thought and feeling. She was too really proud to suffer from the stings
of petty vanity. She knew there were people who stared at Miss Lawrence;
and she allowed them to stare with the serenity of a queen, going her
way unmoved.

She and Sylvie went through lanes and by-ways this gorgeous October day.
Her heart was strangely touched by the glory, by the odorous air, the
softened sounds, and brooding tenderness. Sylvie had a few errands to
some old parishioners of her aunt's; and, while she went in cottages,
Irene sat with the reins idly in her hands. There was much in the world
she had never seen, though she had climbed Alps, and wandered in sunny
vales. The ripeness and perfection of this midday was exhilarating. They
talked in little snatches, and then were silent.

Coming back they drove through the town: it was nearer. Crossing over to
Larch Avenue, a tall figure confronted them. Sylvie bowed, and looked
straight on, remembering such a rencounter years agone. Irene Lawrence
turned her head with its proudest poise, but her face flushed scarlet
under her veil. She would have made the amende honorable then, if it
had taken all the strength of her soul.

She and Jack Darcy had met occasionally through the summer. Mrs.
Lawrence rather liked to talk mill affairs with him, and his name was
quite a familiar one in their household. Now that it had come, she was
rather glad to offer this wordless apology for a crime against
good-breeding, that only a rude young girl could be guilty of, to one
she considered her inferior.

She had wondered more than once, why that long-ago evening at Sylvie's
should haunt her,--the talk of costumes, the bright chat, the dainty
ripples of laughter, and that face with its cool, steady power. If it
had been that of any other man, she would have pitted herself against
it, and conquered, she fancied. Now conquests were things of the past.
She was not one of your soft, maudlin women, who sigh for a little love.
She looked straight into the coming years, and saw herself always alone,
with no feeling of pity or regret.

As for Jack Darcy, when they had passed, he turned and looked after
them,--after her, in her state and dignity. He held one secret of her
life that she would never know. He had questioned Maverick, who learned
that she had no remembrance of going out that night. He had bound Fred
over to a most willing secrecy.

Ah, Jack! any remembrance that you can carry so guardedly in your soul
is a dangerous thing,--a spark that may kindle a great fire "that many
waters cannot quench!"

Sylvie did not relinquish her own outside interests. The school that had
had so small a beginning was now merged into a regular enterprise, and
been re-christened an Industrial School. It had a permanent teacher, and
occupied the whole house, the rent being paid by some benevolent
gentlemen. A committee of ladies assisted in the different classes. The
store was kept open, one side being reserved for articles of clothing
or fancy goods made by the pupils, the other as a bakery on a limited
scale, and a lunch-counter. It certainly was doing a good work. Some
young girls, after being trained, had been provided with service places,
and had given excellent satisfaction. Irene went through it one day with
Sylvie, and was oddly interested.

"I wish I had a genius of some kind," she said abruptly to Sylvie
afterward. "If I could write a book, or paint a picture, or design
exquisite adornments, or if I could hold the world spell-bound by my
voice"--

"You do sing," returned Sylvie. "Auntie was speaking of it yesterday.
She said, 'How I should like to hear Miss Lawrence sing some of her
pathetic old ballads!'"

"You know all the sweet and tender ones."

"I sing mine over daily," and Sylvie laughed with a dainty inflection.

Irene went home, and opened her piano. It might have made jarring
discord, but for Fred's thoughtfulness. She found it was in perfect
tune.

Was it the music that brought a curious intensity to her after all these
long, dreary months? Her fingers seemed a little stiff at first, and
some things had gone out of her mind. Then she dropped her face into her
hands, and thought.

"It is my only gift," she said slowly. "When they are married I will not
be a burthen on them: I can make my way. I shall never try to think of
marriage again;" and she shuddered.

"I declare, you are quite like yourself," said her mother that evening.

The weeks went on. Miss Barry was making plans for her niece. She could
not live here alone, even for a few months. And she longed to see her
married. Though the others had almost forgotten how surely her days were
numbered, she had not.

Fred assented delicately to her proposal.

"It is not as if there were only your income," she said with a touch of
pride. "Sylvie will have enough to keep the old house as it is kept now,
and your mother and sister have some claims on you. Still, for her
sake"--

Sylvie would fain have put it off, but she was gently overruled. The
wedding-garments were ordered, the day appointed. A quiet marriage in
the pretty parlor, with only a few friends. They brought Miss Barry down
stairs, and she listened while her darling reverently repeated her vows.
They kissed the new bride while the tears were shining in her eyes, and
sent her on a brief wedding-journey with heartfelt blessings. Maverick
was to telegraph to them every day.

Fred Lawrence could hardly believe his happiness. They were like two
children out on a pleasure-excursion, not needing to realize the gravity
of life in these golden days. What cared they for pale winter suns and
shivering blasts!

Long ago he had planned a brilliant tour to Europe for her. He had gone
over it all, and would only have been bored; but it was the thing to do,
and he might enjoy her fresh delight in it. But to both of them--to him
especially--had come the higher revelations of life. It is the
aggregation of individual characteristics that makes the sum-total of
national character; and though at first retrenchment and economy seemed
hideous words to the pleasure-loving, easy-going, self-indulgent souls
nursed in the lap of prosperity, there was coming a realization to those
who had fought their way valiantly across the yawning gulf, that the hot
race for show, the desire to exceed one another, was not a lofty aim for
an immortal soul, hardly for a cultured nature.

They both understood that beauty and grandeur were not far-off, hardly
attained ideals, and that the great pleasures were set in the world
rather as incentives and rewards, than highly seasoned daily food which
must inevitably produce satiety. Some time, when they had earned this
glorious vacation, they would take it hungering with the healthy
appetite of a well-trained soul. At present the duty was to deny one's
self firmly and contentedly, to round off the sharp corners, to shape
the daily living to high, pure purposes; so that the greater excellences
of Art should not despise the minor forms, the steps whereby true
perfection was attained, the tangled threads that often required more
real genius to comprehend than the one great moment of inspiration.

They came home again fresh and bright, with the peculiar fragrance of a
new life about them, just as you shall smell spring in the woods on some
mild, sunny February day. Fred fluctuated between office and city, quite
a prophet of household art, welcomed warmly back to the old circles
which had so quietly dropped him for a while. Is there not a great deal
of this unconscious proving of the fine metal of souls in the world? We
cry out as we are thrust aside, or given some hard task to do; we wonder
people do not hold out kindly hands, smile with sympathetic eyes; and
yet their very help might weaken us. When we have beaten our way across
with the roar of the distant waves still in our ears, the shadows of the
black, fierce, jagged cliff hardly faded, the taste of the brackish
spray still lingering on our lips, an exultant thrill speeds through
every nerve as we clasp a hand that has had to buffet through the same
fateful current.

Early in April Miss Barry had another seizure, a fatal stroke this time.
For a few days she lay in sweet content; and then dropped peacefully out
of existence.

It seems always a mystery, why such earnest, useful souls, doing that
highest of all work,--a pure, unselfish charity,--should be taken away,
and the slothful, dependent, ease-loving, selfish ones left. The Darcys
felt that Mrs. Lawrence could have been spared much more easily, and
served a higher economy in point of usefulness. But God, who sees every
end from the beginning, and is all-wise, judges differently. Miss Barry
had done her work, no light life-task either. Only God knew what it had
been, days of toil and nights of watching and prayer, such pain as only
a strong soul could have kept to itself, and smiled over. Yet she had
her exceeding sweet reward in this world,--years of peace and comfort,
the child-love she had missed in one way, supplied in another, the hope
of her days crowned more wisely by the waiting.

They did not think it worth while to keep up the two households; indeed,
Mrs. Lawrence would not have been separated from her son: so she and
Irene brought their worldly possessions over to Larch Avenue. The old
house was large enough. Sylvie was a courteous and charming mistress;
though Fred realized, with the sensitiveness of true tender love, the
burthen he had brought to her.

"It is not without its wise compensation," she said, tears in her sunny
brown eyes. "You see, I shall miss auntie so much less! She would not
desire me to grieve despairingly for her, and here is the new claim to
take her place. Beside," with a sad yet arch smile, "we shall have to
strive against the temptation to selfishness that besets newly married
people, when their pursuits are identical, as ours are. It will give a
greater breadth, a purer tone, to our lives."




CHAPTER XXV.


HOPE MILLS passed through a very prosperous six months. With some new
processes, invented by the combined energy and ingenuity of the men,
they made a new line of goods which was a perfect success. Interest and
discount vanished; and there was a snug balance in the bank, of which
every man was duly proud. They were beginning, too, to take a great
interest in the finances of the country, and to see that a stable
currency and wise economy and honesty were the best friends to
commercial and industrial prosperity. One little incident made them
exceedingly jubilant.

They had been undersold, in the same line of goods, with quite a large
customer. Winston was rather blue about it at first, then laughed it off
as one of the fluctuations of trade. To his great surprise, six months
after, he received the largest order for goods that had yet been sent.

          "We have been much deceived in the quality of
          cloths from Yates, Collins, & Co.," ran the note.
          "They do not stand wear, though they resemble
          yours so closely. Our customers have made numerous
          complaints, and desire the old stock, which we are
          glad to order again.

                                   "MILES, CHAMBERS, & CO."

This was put up on the bulletin-board, and discussed with much pride at
the club. Every man had an interest in it, and an ambition to excel in
his particular branch. It paid in the long-run to be honest; and, though
there might be a higher principle than remuneration, that was not a bad
test, after all.

So the third summer opened brilliantly. Yardley, Gilman, and four others
drew up an agreement for a co-operative store. They hired one man who
had been a very successful buyer for a large grocery-firm, which had
failed, and took with it his small invested capital. He was to keep the
books, take orders, and do the buying, subject to the advisement of the
managers. A certain low per cent of profits was agreed upon, just
enough, they calculated, to pay expenses; and the goods were to be
offered as low as possible for cash. The superior quality and reduced
price, they decided, would be more agreeable to most of the men than a
small balance at the end of the year. An account was to be kept with
every member, and the agreement to remain in force one year from date.

And yet there are shoals and quicksands for prosperity, as well as
yawning abysses for adversity. There were people in Yerbury--not bad
souls either--who were not content to allow the world to revolve on any
axis but their own. They could see their neighbors' planets go to
destruction with equanimity--following some law of nature or ethics that
regulated supply and demand of any force, in their estimation; but when
some bright particular star flashed out of the orbit they had set for
it, of course it was beyond the pale of safety. There has always been a
great deal of just such obstinacy in the world, just such narrow
prescribing, and yet--"it does move."

One of the favorite objections of these wiseacres was, that Hope Mills
was founded on a wrong basis. Who knew just exactly what amount of
goods Winston sold? Well, there was the amount manufactured,--the amount
on hand every six months. True,--with a disbelieving shake of the
head,--but he was up in the ways of the world; and what would hinder
him, Ananias-like, from keeping back part of the price? When this was
shown to be an utter impossibility, they still were quite sure Winston
harbored in his secret soul some plan for cheating the workmen at the
last. Here would be all this accumulation of capital, and by some
successful coup-d'état Winston and Darcy would swoop down upon it, and
take the lion's share. They were very much afraid that the workmen were
going to be wronged in some underhand way. A defaulting cashier,
unprincipled managers, thieves and forgers, committed their crimes in an
out-and-out way; but there was going to be a profound mystery about
this--the most simple and above-board management, when every man knew,
every six months, the best and the worst of the details.

Employment was becoming more general all through the country. Everybody
drew a long breath, and decided that the grinding times of depression
had passed. We would soon be back to the brilliant era of past
prosperity.

And then there arose a new light in the labor horizon, a prophet who had
discovered the magic key to the workingmen's paradise, and it had only
to be turned by themselves, to gain entrance. Wherever he went, he was
hailed with acclamation.

It was the old, old war upon capital, the old seductive science of
equalizing things, values, money. Every poor man in the country had a
better right to a cottage and garden and a few hours of leisure, than
these few magnates to grasp every thing in their own hands, to roll in
luxury, to feast in magnificence, to clothe their daughters in silks,
velvets, and diamonds--it was to be noted that Mr. McPherson wore an
immense diamond, but it was to be presumed that his wife or daughter did
not. Everywhere one could see the rich growing richer, the poor
poorer, the workman trodden down, brought to the level of slavery with
his long hours and scanty wages. Where was it to end but in a nation of
paupers, of thieves, of criminals of every grade? for, when you made a
brute of a man, there came a time when he turned a brute's hand against
you. This had been the underlying cause of all the world's great
struggles: it had uncrowned kings, it had razed thrones, it had swept
states. There were bits of distorted historical facts, fallacious but
brilliant reasoning, and much bombast.

They heard of him in this city and that, and there was a great deal said
about the cordiality with which he greeted "the horny-handed son of
toil." No town was so small that he disdained it, no city so great that
he feared it. There had been "demonstrations," but he seemed proud of
his defiance of danger.

Men who could not altogether approve of him admitted that he was
"smart," that he uttered a good many truths, half-truths they were,
dressed up in specious falsehoods, all the more dangerous, since the
world does pay homage to virtue and truth. They were troublesome
questions: the great difficulty was the haste made in settling them. A
balance will finally adjust itself, though there may be many vibrations
at first.

It was a fact much to be regretted, that with returning prosperity the
gin-mills and beer-shops of Yerbury had, as a general thing, increased
in their business. A notable instance to the contrary, however, was
Keppler's saloon. It had depended a good deal on the men from Hope Mills
and the iron-works. The latter had been closed so long; and, although
the coffee-house did not seem much of a rival at first, it had gone on
steadily, and given the men time to think. It was not simply the one
glass of beer they took to wash down their midday lunch, but the
treating when a crowd gathered, the many drinks during a heated
discussion of an evening. Not half a dozen of the mill-hands went there
now, so occupied had their minds become with other matters. Keppler's
lease was not out, and his rent was high for the times; he had lost
money and customers, and felt sore over it; he had a grudge against
Jack Darcy as the exponent of a system that interfered with his profits.

McPherson was discussed over pipes and ale one warm June evening, with
brains cleared, of course, by frequent potations and stifling smoke. It
was proposed that he should be invited to lecture at Yerbury.

"I like to see fair play!" cried Keppler. "These fellows over
here"--nodding toward the mill--"have had it all their own way because
they took up a lot of starving men in dull times. That was all well
enough,--praise-worthy--praise-w-o-r-thy," with a long accent. "But
things have changed now,--changed!" with a confident nod. "I'd like to
hear what the man has to say. You see, he has come up from the ranks, he
has been poor himself!"

So the ball was put in motion. McPherson's speech at Millville, a great
laboring-centre, was read aloud with frequent cheering. And the
laboring-men at Yerbury began to wonder why wages were not higher, when
so many shops were running on full time! Somebody was making a great
deal of money: they could barely live. Bread and meat had not fallen
in the ratio of wages. It was still next door to starvation.

Finally some self-constituted labor-committee sent the letter of
invitation, and received a cordial and flattering reply. Mr. McPherson
had heard of Yerbury. He would be only too glad to come among them in
his humble capacity, and shed what light he could upon the side of right
and truth; raise his voice for the oppressed against the oppressor. And
he mentioned that open-air meetings were generally more successful.

They put up a platform on the Common, the largest park in Yerbury. The
day was very fine, not too hot, and a shower the evening before had laid
the dust. At precisely four, a deputation awaited Mr. McPherson and his
party at the station, escorted them to the Bedell House to refresh, and
then to the grand hall of nature, with its waving arches of glistening
green overhead.

Already a great concourse had assembled. Mr. McPherson mounted his
rostrum, and, after a few preliminary flourishes, began in a clear,
strong tone, that had the power of concentrating the attention of his
audience. He went back centuries, and proved that from the very
beginning of all industries there had been the desire to oppress, that
the working-classes had to combine and fight for every advantage gained,
to wrest from kings, peers, masters, even equals, the privileges they
held to-day. Plainly, capital was a tyrant fattening on unpaid toil.
"Were not the rich always in the ranks of capital, always against the
poor man? They squeezed him to the utmost when they had need, then they
flung him away. Did it matter to them if his wife and children starved?
If he stole a loaf of bread to appease the pangs of hunger, he was sent
to prison; but if a bank president stole half a million, he went
to--Europe! [Laughter and applause.] Does the capitalist employ the
laborer in order that there shall be fewer starving men in the country?
It comes in the market, and buys at the lowest price, solely for its own
benefit. It does not concern capital, whether this man can support wife
and children on such a pittance: what business has he with wife and
children! If the man drops at the work-bench, the victim of long hours,
exhaustive toil, insufficient food, the town will thrust him into a
pauper's grave, and another will fill his place. Even negro-slavery was
more noble than this: it was to the master's interest that the slave
should be well fed. Capital was shrewd, selfish, experienced, astute,
strong: labor was kept in ignorance lest it might learn its worth, its
rights; it was half-starved that it might be weak; it was driven from
pillar to post with a more cruel than slave-driver's whip, that it might
never be able to perfect a successful organization."

And so on and on. The crowd increased. The six-o'clock bells rang, and
the procession from shops wended their way thither, many from curiosity,
some from a hope of a new truth, and not a few filled with a secret
sense of wrong and dissatisfaction. Mr. McPherson was still belaboring
capital. Now he had declared it "a stupendous fraud, a hollow bubble, a
reputation for wealth where no wealth existed, a fictitious claim for
what was not, but which still managed to hold the workman in its iron
grasp; the concentrated labor of the men, not the lawful working
interest of money. Some way this system of evil was going to be uprooted
by men standing firm, refusing the wages of sweat and blood; and in the
general overturn by legislation of state and country, every man was to
have a farm or a factory, to quit work in the middle of the afternoon,
and sit with folded hands on his own door-step, his own master, a free
man!" [Great shouting and applause.]

He talked until seven, and wound up at last with a desperate but covert
onslaught on Hope Mills. "No two men or six men, or company of any kind,
had a right to band together to starve not only the men in their own
town, but the laborers throughout the world, by so reducing wages for
their own sole benefit; and every workman who submitted to have these
chains forged around body and soul, no matter by what specious
expedient, was a worse traitor, a more cruel oppressor of wife and
children, than the red-handed capital that stood ready to make him a
slave!"

There was an immense deal of cheering and applause. Mr. McPherson was
invited to supper at the Bedell House by a deputation of working-men,
though I think there were few horny-handed ones among them. Liquors
flowed freely, and the feast was rather noisy. A purse was handed to him
when he went away--he was too noble to make any charge when he spoke in
behalf of a cause so near his heart.

The seed was sown, and it is too true that "foul weeds grow apace."
There were club-meetings and union-meetings. The shoe-factory, which had
struggled hard to get on its legs again, soon became a hotbed of
discontent. The hatters held meetings, the paper-makers were aroused,
and then began preparation for another grand strike. The weavers from
Coldbridge and Stilford sent over a deputation to Hope Mills, warning,
exhorting, and threatening. "No system," said they, "should interfere
with mutual strength and protection."

And this was not all. It seemed as if Yerbury meant to make them the
scape-goat of every thing. Robert Winston was broadly caricatured; and
there was a bit of insulting abuse, calling them traders in their
brethren's blood, pasted up on the gate-post. "The Evening Transcript"
went over the system of co-operation, and showed to its own
satisfaction, that it was a system full of errors and miscalculations
based on the credulity of workmen. It hinted that the same mysterious
cause which reduced profits last year would reduce them again next year,
that at the end of the five years the bread and cheese would come out
just even, although there had been a great deal more bread than cheese,
as everybody knew. If the corporation were working for the best
interests of the men, why had they not sold off stock when every one
knew prices were going permanently down, instead of waiting to sell it
below cost? Why had they paid exorbitant prices for wool when the market
was flooded with it? Why had they not done this or that? until one
wondered why, understanding the woollen-business so well, and being able
to see just where enormous profits could be made, and losses avoided,
they had not all gone into it themselves. The article wound up with a
covert and insulting insinuation. Human nature was the same, the world
over. Men of the highest probity and honor had succumbed to temptation:
these men who had never really been in any responsible position had yet
to be proved. If men like David Lawrence and Horace Eastman could not
make a stand against fluctuations and difficulties, it was hardly likely
success would crown any such abnormal undertaking.

Jack did not see the paper until the next day. Some one laid it
surreptitiously on his desk. His face flushed darkly at the attack upon
his honesty, and for a moment all the belligerency of his boyhood rose
to the surface. He had half a mind to hunt up the writer of the article,
and pound him to a jelly with his two fists. But presently he laughed to
himself, and then made a tour of the mills in his cheeriest fashion. He
saw with grief that the seed had found root. There were some sullen
faces and short answers.

