" Yes," exulted the boy ; " they 're for two per- 
sons' things. The captain's daughters, they both 
had this room. Pretty good sized too ; a good deal 
the captain's build. You won't find a better state- 
room than this on a steamer. I 've been on 'em." 
The boy climbed up on the edge of the upper 
drawer, and pulled open the window at the top of 
the wall. " Give you a little air, I guess. If you 
want I should, the captain said I was to bear a 



 

hand helping you to stow away what was in your 
trunks." 

"No," said Lydia, quickly. "I'd just as soon 
do it alone." 

" All right," said the boy. " If I was you, I 'd 
do it now. I don't know just when the captain 
means to sail ; but after we get outside, it might 
be rough, and it 's better to have everything pretty 
snug by that time. I 'll haul away the trunks 
when you 've got 'em empty. If I shouldn 't hap- 
pen to be here, you can just call me at the top of 
the gangway, and I 'll come. My name 's Thomas," 
he said. He regarded Lydia inquiringly a moment 
before he added : " If you 'd just as lives, I rather 
you 'd call me Thomas, and not steward. They 
said you 'd call me steward," he explained, in a 
blushing, deprecating confidence ; " and as long as 
I 've not got my growth, it kind of makes them 
laugh, you know, — especially the second officer." 

" I will call you Thomas," said Lydia. 

" Thank you." The boy glanced up at the 
round clock screwed to the cabin wall. " I guess 
you won't have to call me anything unless you 
hurry. I shall be down here, laying the table for 
supper, before you 're done. The captain said I 
was to lay it for you and him, and if he didn 't get 
back in time you was to go to eating, any way. 
Guess you won't think Captain Jenness is going 
to starve anybody." 

u Have you been many voyages with Captain 



 

Jenness before this? " asked Lydia, as she set open 
her trunk, and began to lay her dresses out on the 
locker. Homesickness, like all grief, attacks in 
paroxysms. One gust of passionate regret had 
swept over the girl; before another came, she could 
occupy herself almost cheerfully with the details of 
unpacking. 

" Only one before," said the boy. " The last 
one, when his daughters went out. I guess it was 
their coaxing got mother to let me go. My father 
was killed in the war." 

" Was he ? " asked Lydia, sympathetically. 

" Yes. I didn 't know much about it at the 
time ; so little. Both your parents living ? " 

" No,'  said Lydia. " They're both dead. They 
died a long while ago. I 've always lived with my 
aunt and grandfather." 

" I thought there must be something the matter, 
— your coming with your grandfather," said the 
boy. " I don't see why you don't let me carry in 
some of those dresses for you. I 'm used to help- 
ing about." 

" Well, you may," answered Lydia, " if you 
want." A native tranquil kindness showed itself 
in her voice and manner, but something of the ha- 
bitual authority of a school-mistress mingled with 
it. " You must be careful not to rumple them if I 
let you." 

" I guess not. I 've got older sisters at home. 
They hated to have me leave. But I looked at it 



 

this way : If I was ever going to sea — and I was 
— I couldn 't get such another captain as Cap- 
tain Jenness, nor such another crew ; all the men 
from down our way ; and I don't mind the second 
mate's jokes much. He don't mean anything by 
them ; likes to plague, that 's all. He 's a first-rate 
sailor." 

Lydia was kneeling before one of the trunks, and 
the boy was stooping over it, with a hand on either 
knee. She had drawn out her only black silk dress, 
and was finding it rather crumpled. " I shouldn 't 
have thought it would have got so much jammed, 
coming fifty miles," she soliloquized. " But they 
seemed to take a pleasure in seeing how much they 
could bang the trunks." She rose to her feet and 
shook out the dress, and drew the skirt several times 
over her left arm. 

The boy's eyes glistened. " Goodness ! " he said. 
" Just new, ain't it? Going to wear it any on 
board?" 

" Sundays, perhaps," answered Lydia thought- 
fully, still smoothing and shaping the dress, which 
she regarded at arm's-length, from time to time, 
with her head aslant. 

" I suppose it 's the latest style ? " pursued the 
boy. 

" Yes, it is," said Lydia. " We sent to Boston 
for the pattern. I hate to pack it into one of those 
drawers," she mused. 

"You needn't," replied Thomas. "There's a 
whole row of hooks." 



 

" I want to know!" cried Lydia. She followed 
Thomas into her state-room. " Well, well ! They 
do seem to have thought of everything ! " 

"I should say so," exulted the boy. "Look 
here ! " He showed her a little niche near the head 
of the berth strongly framed with glass, in which a 
lamp was made fast. " Light up, you know, when 
you want to read, or feel kind of lonesome." Lydia 
clasped her hands in pleasure and amaze. " Oh, I 
tell you Captain Jenness meant to have things about 
right. The other state-rooms don't begin to come 
up to this." He dashed out in his zeal, and opened 
their doors, that she might triumph in the superi- 
ority of her accommodations without delay. These 
rooms were cramped together on one side ; Lydia's 
was in a comparatively ample corner by itself. 

She went on unpacking her trunk, and the boy 
again took his place near her, in the same attitude 
as before. "I tell you," he said, U I shall like to 
see you with that silk on. Have you got any other 
nice ones ? " 

"No; only this I'm wearing," answered Lydia, 
half amused and half honest in her sympathy with 
his ardor about her finery. " They said not to bring 
many clothes ; they would be cheaper over there." 
She had now reached the bottom of her trunk. She 
knew by the clock that her grandfather could hardly 
have left the city on his journey home, but the in- 
terval of time since she had parted with him seemed 
vast. It was as if she had started to Boston in a 



 

former life ; the history of the choosing and cutting 
and making of these clothes was like a dream of 
preexistence. She had never had so many things 
new at once, and it had been a great outlay , but 
her aunt Maria had made the money go as far as 
possible, and had spent it with that native taste, that 
genius for dress, which sometimes strikes the summer 
boarder in the sempstresses of the New England hills. 
Miss Latham's gift was quaintly unrelated to her- 
self. In dress, as in person and manner, she was 
uncompromisingly plain and stiff. All the more 
lavishly, therefore, had it been devoted to the grace 
and beauty of her sister's child, who, ever since she 
came to find a home in her grandfather's house, had 
been more stylishly dressed than any other girl in 
the village. The summer boarders, whom the keen 
eye of Miss Latham studied with unerring sense of 
the best new effects in costume, wondered at Lydia's 
elegance, as she sat beside her aunt in the family 
pew, a triumph of that grim artist's skill. Lydia 
knew that she was well dressed, but she knew that 
after all she was only the expression of her aunt's in- 
spirations. Her own gift was of another sort. Her 
father was a music-teacher, whose failing health had 
obliged him to give up his profession, and who had 
taken the traveling agency of a parlor organ manu- 
factory for the sake of the out-door life. His busi- 
ness had brought him to South Bradfield, where he 
sold an organ to Deacon Latham's church, and fell 
in love with his younger daughter. He died a few 




years after his marriage, of an ancestral consumption, 
bis sole heritage from the good New England stock of 
which he came. His skill as a pianist, which was con- 
siderable, had not descended to his daughter, but 
her mother had bequeathed her a peculiarly rich and 
flexible voice, with a joy in singing which was as 
yet a passion little affected by culture. It was this 
voice which, when Lydia rose to join in the terrible 
hymning of the congregation at South Bradfield, took 
the thoughts of people off her style and beauty ; and 
it was this which enchanted her father's sister when, 
the summer before the date of which we write, that 
lady had come to America on a brief visit, and heard 
Lydia sing at her parlor organ in the old homestead. 
Mrs. Erwin had lived many years abroad, chiefly in 
Italy, for the sake of the climate. She was of deli- 
cate health, and constantly threatened by the he- 
reditary disease that had left her the last of her gen- 
eration, and she had the fastidiousness of an invalid. 
She was full of generous impulses which she mistook 
for virtues ; but the presence of some object at once 
charming and worthy was necessary to rouse these 
impulses. She had been prosperously married when 
very young, and as a pretty American widow she 
had wedded in second marriage at Naples one of those 
Englishmen who have money enough to live at ease 
in Latin countries ; he was very fond of her, and 
petted her. Having no children she might long be- 
fore have thought definitely of poor Henry's little 
girl, as she called Lydia but she had lived very 



 

comfortably indefinite in regard to her ever since 
the father's death. Now and then she had sent the 
child a handsome present or a sum of money. She 
had it on her conscience not to let her be wholly a 
burden to her grandfather ; but often her conscience 
drowsed. When she came to South Bradfield, she 
won the hearts of the simple family, which had 
been rather hardened against her, and she professed 
an enthusiasm for Lydia. She called her pretty 
names in Italian, which she did not pronounce 
well ; she babbled a great deal about what ought 
to be done for her, and went away without doing 
anything; so that when a letter finally came, di- 
recting Lydia to be sent out to her in Venice, they 
were all surprised, in the disappointment to which 
they had resigned themselves. 

Mrs. Erwin wrote an epistolary style exasperat- 
ingly vacuous and diffuse, and, like many women of 
that sort, she used pencil instead of ink, always 
apologizing for it as due now to her weak eyes, and 
now to her weak wrist, and again to her not being 
able to find the ink. Her hand was full of foolish 
curves and dashes, and there were no spaces be- 
tween the words at times. Under these conditions 
it was no light labor to get at her meaning ; but 
the sum of her letter was that she wished Lydia to 
come out to her at once, and she suggested that, as 
they could have few opportunities or none to send 
her with people going to Europe, they had better 
let her come the whole way by sea. Mrs. Erwin 



 

remembered — in the space of a page and a half — 
that nothing had ever done her so much good as a 
long sea voyage, and it would be excellent for 
Lydia, who, though she looked so strong, probably 
needed all the bracing up she could get. She had 
made inquiries, — or, what was the same thing, Mr. 
Erwin had, for her, — and she found that vessels 
from American ports seldom came to Venice ; but 
they often came to Trieste, which was only a few 
hours away ; and if Mr. Latham would get Lydia 
a ship for Trieste at Boston, she could come very 
safely and comfortably in a few weeks. She gave 
the name of a Boston house engaged in the Medi- 
terranean trade to which Mr. Latham could apply 
for passage ; if they were not sending any ship 
themselves, they could probably recommend one to 
him. 

This was what happened when Deacon Latham 
called at their office a few days after Mrs. Er win's 
letter came. They directed him to the firm dis- 
patching the Aroostook, and Captain Jenness was 
at their place when the deacon appeared there. 
The captain took cordial possession of the old man 
at once, and carried him down to the wharf to look 
at the ship and her accommodations. The matter 
was quickly settled between them. At that time 
Captain Jenness did not know but he might have 
other passengers out; at any rate, he would look 
after the little girl (as Deacon Latham always said 
in speaking of Lydia) the same as if she were his 
own child. 




Lydia knelt before her trunk, thinking of the re 
mote events, the extinct associations of a few min- 
utes and hours and days ago ; she held some cuffs 
and collars in her hand, and something that her 
aunt Maria had said recurred to her. She looked 
up into the intensely interested face of the boy, 
and then laughed, bowing her forehead on the back 
of the hand that held these bits of linen. 

The boy blushed. " What are you laughing 
at?" he asked, half piteously, half indignantly, 
like a boy used to being badgered. 

" Oh, nothing," said Lydia. " My aunt told me 
if any of these things should happen to want doing 
up, I had better get the stewardess to help me." 
She looked at the boy in a dreadfully teasing way, 
softly biting her lip. 

" Oh, if you 're going to begin that way ! " he 
cried in affliction. 

" I 'm not," she answered, promptly. " I like 
boys. I 've taught school two winters, and I like 
boys first-rate." 

Thomas was impersonally interested again. 
" Time ! You taught school ? " 

« Why not ? " 

" You look pretty young for a school-teacher ! " 

" Now you 're making fun of me" said Lydia, 
astutely. 

The boy thought he must have been, and was 
consoled. " Well, you began it," he said. 

a I oughtn 't to have done so," she replied with 



 

humility ; " and I won't any more. There ! " she 
said, " I 'in not going to open my bag now. You 
can take away the trunk when you want, Thomas." 

" Yes, ma'am," said the boy. The idea of a 
school-mistress was perhaps beginning to awe him 
a little. " Put your bag in your state-room first." 
He did this, and when he came back from carrying 
away her trunk he began to set the table. It was 
a pretty table, when set, and made the little cabin 
much cosier. When the boy brought the dishes 
from the cook's galley, it was a barbarously abun- 
dant table. There was cold boiled ham, ham and 
eggs, fried fish, baked potatoes, buttered toast, tea, 
cake, pickles, and watermelon ; nothing was want- 
ing. " I tell you," said Thomas, noticing Lydia's 
admiration, " the captain lives well lay-days." 

" Lay-days ? " echoed Lydia. 

" The days we 're in port," the boy explained. 

" Well, I should think as much ! " She ate with 
the hunger that tranquillity bestows upon youth 
after the swift succession of strange events, and the 
conflict of many emotions. The captain had not 
returned in time, and she ate alone. 

After a while she ventured to the top of the 
gangway stairs, and stood there, looking at the 
novel sights of the harbor, in the red sunset light, 
which rose slowly from the hulls and lower spars of 
the shipping, and kindled the tips of the high- 
shooting masts with a quickly fading splendor. A 
delicate flush responded in the east, and rose to 



 

meet the denser crimson of the west ; a few clouds, 
incomparably light and diaphanous, bathed them- 
selves in the glow. It was a summer sunset, por- 
tending for the land a morrow of great heat. But 
cool airs crept along the water, and the ferry-boats, 
thrust shuttlewise back and forth between either 
shore, made a refreshing sound as they crushed a 
broad course to foam with their paddles. People 
were pulling about in small boats ; from some the 
gay cries and laughter of young girls struck sharply 
along the tide. The noise of the quiescent city 
came off in a sort of dull moan. The lamps be- 
gan to twinkle in the windows and the streets on 
shore ; the lanterns of the ships at anchor in the 
stream showed redder and redder as the twilight 
fell. The homesickness began to mount from 
Lydia's heart in a choking lump to her throat; 
for one must be very happy to endure the sights 
and sounds of the summer evening anywhere. She 
had to shield her eyes from the brilliancy of the 
kerosene when she went below into the cabin. 



IV. 

Lydia did not know when the captain came on 
board. Once, talking in the cabin made itself felt 
through her dreams, but the dense sleep of weary 
youth closed over her again, and she did not fairly 
wake till morning. Then she thought she heard 
the crowing of a cock and the cackle of hens, and 
fancied herself in her room at home ; the illusion 
passed with a pang. The ship was moving, with a 
tug at her side, the violent respirations of which 
were mingled with the sound of the swift rush of 
the vessels through the water, the noise of feet on 
the deck, and of orders hoarsely shouted. 

The girl came out into the cabin, where Thomas 
was already busy with the breakfast table, and 
climbed to the deck. It was four o'clock of the 
summer's morning ; the sun had not yet reddened 
the east, but the stars were extinct, or glimmered 
faint points immeasurably withdrawn in the vast 
gray of the sky. At that hour there is a hovering 
dimness over all, but the light on things near at 
hand is wonderfully keen and clear, and the air has 
an intense yet delicate freshness that seems to 
breathe from the remotest spaces of the universe, 
— a waft from distances beyond the sun. On the 
land the leaves and grass are soaked with dew; 



 

the densely interwoven songs of the birds are like a 
fabric that you might see and touch. But here, 
save for the immediate noises on the ship, which 
had already left her anchorage far behind, the' 
shouting of the tug's escape-pipes, and the huge, 
swirling gushes from her powerful wheel, a sort of 
spectacular silence prevailed, and the sounds were 
like a part of this silence. Here and there a small 
fishing schooner came lagging slowly in, as if be- 
lated, with scarce wind enough to fill her sails ; 
now and then they met a steamboat, towering 
white and high, a many-latticed bulk, with no one 
to be seen on board but the pilot at his wheel, 
and a few sleepy passengers on the forward prom- 
enade. The city, so beautiful and stately from 
the bay, was dropping, and sinking away behind. 
They passed green islands, some of which were 
fortified : the black guns looked out over the neatly 
shaven glacis ; the sentinel paced the rampart. 

" Well, well ! " shouted Captain Jenness, catch- 
ing sight of Lydia where she lingered at the cabin 
door. " You are an early bird. Glad to see you 
up ! Hope you rested well ! Saw your grand- 
father off all right, and kept him from taking the 
wrong train with my own hand. He 's terribly ex- 
citable. Well, I suppose I shall be just so, at his 
age. Here ! " The captain caught up a stool and 
set it near the bulwark for her. " There ! You 
make yourself comfortable wherever you like. 
You 're at home, you know." He was off again in 



 

a moment. Lydia cast her eye oyer at the tug. 
On the deck, near the pilot-house, stood the young 
man who had stopped the afternoon before, while 
she sat at the warehouse door, and asked her grand- 
father if she were not ill. At his feet was a sub- 
