Mr. Wright, and that he would not return for another 
week. 
" You had better stay," she presently added, as if 
Gordon's continued absence were an added reason. 
" I don't know," said Bernard. " It is sometimes 
difficult to say what one had better do." 
I hesitate to bring against him that most inglorious 
of all charges, an accusation of sentimental fatuity, 
of the disposition to invent obstacles to enjoyment 
so that he might have the pleasure of seeing a pretty 
girl attempt to remove them. But it must be ad- 
mitted that if Bernard really thought at present that 
he had better leave Baden, the observation I have 
just quoted was not so much a sign of this conviction 
as of the hope -that his companion would proceed to 
gainsay it. The hope was not disappointed, though 
I must add that no sooner had it been gratified than 
Bernard began to feel ashamed of it. 
"This certainly is not one of those cases," said 
Angela. " The thing is surely very simple now." 
" What makes it so simple ?" 
She hesitated a moment. 
" The fact that I ask you to stay." 
" You ask me ? " he repeated, softly. 
"Ah," she exclaimed, "one doesn 't say those things 
twice!" 
She turned away, and they went hack to her 
mother, who gave Bernard a wonderful little look of 
half urgent, half remonstrant inquiry. As they left 
the garden he walked beside Mrs. Vivian, Angela 
going in front of them at a distance. The elder lady 
began immediately to talk to him of Gordon Wright. 
" He 's not coming back for another week, you 
know," she said. " I am sorry he stays away so long." 
" Ah yes," Bernard answered, " it seems very long 
indeed." 
And it had, in fact, seemed to him very long. 
" I suppose he is always likely to have business," 
said Mrs. Vivian. 
" You may be very sure it is not for his pleasure 
that he stays away." 
" I know he is faithful to old friends," said Mrs. 
Vivian. " I am sure he has not forgotten us." 
" I certainly count upon that," Bernard exclaimed 
—"remembering him as we do !" 
Mrs. Vivian glanced at him gratefully. 
" Oh yes, we remember him — we remember him 
daily, hourly. At least, I can speak for my daughter 
and myself. He has been so very kind to us." Ber- 
nard said nothing, and she went on. " And you have 
been so very kind to us, too, Mr. Longueville. I 
want so much to thank you." 
 IM 
"Oh no, don't!" said Bernard, frowning. "I 
would rather you shouldn 't." 
" Of course," Mrs. Vivian added, " I know it 's all 
on his account ; hut that makes me wish to thank 
you all the more. Let me express my gratitude, in 
advance, for the rest of the time, till he comes back. 
That's more responsibility than you bargained for," 
she said, with a little nervous laugh. 
" Yes, it 's more than I bargained for. I am think- 
ing of going away." 
Mrs. Vivian almost gave a little jump, and then 
she paused on the Baden cobble-stones, looking up at 
him. 
" If you must go, Mr. Longueville — don't sacrifice 
yourself ! " 
The exclamation fell upon Bernard's ear with a 
certain softly mocking cadence which was sufiicient, 
however, to make this organ tingle. 
" Oh, after all, you know," he said, as they walked 
on — " after all, you know, I am not like Wright — 
I have no business." 
He walked with the ladies to the door of their 
lodging. Angela kept always in front. She stood 
there, however, at the little confectioner's window 
until the others came up. She let her mother pass 
in, and then she said to Bernard, looking at him — 
" Shall I see you again ? " 
" Some time, I hope." 
" I mean — are you going away ? " 
Bernard looked for a moment at a little pink sugar 
cherub — a species of Cupid, with a gilded bow — 
which figured among the pastry-cook's enticements. 
Then he said — 
" I will come and tell you this evening." 
And in the evening he went to tell her ; she had 
mentioned during the walk in the garden of the 
Schloss that they should not go out. As he ap- 
proached Mrs. Vivian's door he saw a figure in a 
light dress standing in the little balcony. He stopped 
and looked up, and then the person in the light dress, 
leaning her hands on the railing, with her shoulders 
a little raised, bent over and looked down at him. It 
was very dark, but even through the thick dusk he 
thought he perceived the finest brilliancy of Angela 
Vivian's smile. 
" I shall not go away," he said, lifting his voice a 
little. 
She made no answer ; she only stood looking down 
at him through the warm dusk and smiling. He 
went into the house, and he remained at Baden-Baden 
till Gordon came back. 
XIV. 
Gordon asked him no questions for twenty-four 
hours after his return, then suddenly he began : 
" Well, haven 't you something to say to me ? " 
It was at the hotel, in Gordon's apartment, late in 
the afternoon. A heavy thunder-storm had broken 
over the place an hour before, and Bernard had been 
standing at one of his friend's windows, rather idly, 
with his hands in his pockets, watching the rain- 
torrents dance upon the empty pavements. At last 
the deluge abated, the clouds began to break — there 
was a promise of a fine evening. Gordon Wright, 
while the storm was at its climax, sat down to write 
letters, and wrote half a dozen. It was after he had 
sealed, directed and affixed a postage-stamp to the 
last of the series that he addressed to his companion 
the question I have just quoted. 
" Do you mean about Miss Vivian ? " Bernard 
asked, without turning round from the window. 
"About Miss Vivian, of course." Bernard said 
nothing and his companion went on. "Have you 
nothing to tell me about Miss Vivian ? " 
Bernard presently turned round looking at Gordon 
and smiling a little. 
" She 's a delightful creature ! " 
" That won't do — you have tried that before," said 
Gordon. " No," he added in a moment, " that won't 
do." Bernard turned back to the window, and Gor- 
don continued, as he remained silent. " I shall have 
a right to consider your saying nothing a proof of an 
unfavorable judgment. You don't like her ! " 
Bernard faced quickly about again, and for an 
instant the two men looked at each other. 
" Ah, my dear Gordon," Longueville murmured. 
"Do you lile her then?" asked Wright, getting up. 
" No ! " said Longueville. 
" That 's just what I wanted to know, and I am 
much obliged to you for telling me." 
" I am not obliged to you for asking me. I was in 
hopes you wouldn 't." 
" You dislike her very much then ? " Gordon ex- 
claimed, gravely. 
" Won't disliking her, simply, do ? " said Bernard. 
"It will do very well. But it will do a little 
better if you will tell me why. Give me a reason or 
two." 
" Well," said Bernard, " I tried to make love to her 
and she boxed my ears." 
" The devil ! " cried Gordon. 
" I mean morally, you know." 
Gordon stared ; he seemed a little puzzled. 
" You tried to make love to her morally ? " 
" She boxed my ears morally," said Bernard, laugh- 
ing out. 
" Why did you try to make love to her ? " 
This inquiry was made in a tone so expressive of 
an unbiassed truth-seeking habit that Bernard's mirth 
was not immediately quenched. Nevertheless, he re- 
plied with sufficient gravity — 
"To test her fidelity to you. Could you have 
expected anything else? You told me you were 
afraid she was a latent coquette. You gave me a 
chance, and I tried to ascertain." 
" And you found she was not. Is that what you 
mean ? " 
" She 's as firm as a rock. My dear Gordon, Miss 
Vivian is as firm as the firmest of your geological 
formations." 
Gordon shook his head with a strange positive 
persistence. 
" You are talking nonsense. You are not serious. 
You are not telling me the truth. I don't believe 
that you attempted to make love to her. You 
wouldn't have played such a game as that. It 
wouldn't have been honorable." 
Bernard flushed a little ; he was imtated. 
"Oh come, don't make too much of a point of 
that ! Didn 't you tell me before that it was a great 
opportunity ? " 
" An opportunity to be wise — not to be foolish ! " 
" Ah, there is only one sort of opportunity," cried 
Bernard. "You exaggerate the reach of human 
wisdom." 
" Suppose she had let you make love to her," said 
Gordon. " That would have been a beautiful result 
of your experiment." 
"I should have seemed to you a rascal, perhaps, 
but I should have saved you from a latent coquette. 
You would owe some thanks for that.'' 
"And now you haven't saved me," said Gordon, 
with a simple air of noting a fact. 
" You assume — in spite of what I say — that she 
is a coquette ! " 
" I assume something because you evidently con- 
ceal something. I want the whole truth." 
Bernard turned back to the window with increasing 
irritation. 
" If he wants the whole truth he shall have it," he 
said to himself 
He stood a moment in thought and then he looked 
at his companion again. 
" I think she would marry you — but I don't think 
she cares for you." 
Gordon turned a little pale, but he clapped his 
hands together. 
" Very good," he exclaimed. " That 's exactly how 
I want you to speak." 
" Her mother has taken a great fancy to your for- 
tune and it has rubbed off on the girl, who has made 
up her mind that it would be a pleasant thing to 
have thirty thousand a year, and that her not caring 
for you is an unimportant detail." 
" I see — I see," said Gordon, looking at his friend 
with an air of admiration for his frank and lucid way 
of putting things. 
Now that he had begun to be frank and lucid, 
Bernard found a charm in it, and the impulse under 
which he had spoken urged him almost violently 
forward. 
"The mother and daughter have agreed together 
to bag you, and Angela, I am sure, has made a vow 
to be as nice to you after marriage as possible. Mrs. 
Vivian has insisted upon the importance of that ; 
Mrs. Vivian is a great moralist." 
Gordon kept gazing at his friend ; he seemed posi- 
tively fascinated. 
"Yes, I have noticed that in Mrs. Vivian," he 
said. 
" Ah, she 's a very nice woman ! " 
" It 's not true, then," said Gordon, " that you tried 
to make love to Angela ? " 
Bernard hesitated a single instant. 
" No, it isn 't true. I calumniated myself, to save 
her reputation. You insisted on my giving you a 
reason for my not liking her — I gave you that one." 
" And your real reason — " 
" My real reason is that I believe she would do 
you what I can't help regarding as an injury." 
" Of course ! " and Gordon, dropping his interested 
eyes, stared for some moments at the carpet. " But 
it isn 't true, then, that you discovered her to be a 
coquette ? " 
" Ah, that 's another matter." 
" You did discover it all the same ? " 
" Since you want the whole truth — I did ! " 
" How did you discover it ? " Gordon asked, cling- 
ing to his right of interrogation. 
Bernard hesitated. 
"You must remember that I saw a great deal of her." 
" You mean that she encouraged you ? " 
" If I had not been a very faithful friend I might 
have thought so." 
Gordon laid his hand appreciatively, gratefully, on 
Bernard's shoulder. 
" And even that didn' t make you like her ? " 
" Confound it, you make me blush ! " cried Ber- 
nard, blushing a little in fact. " I have said quite 
enough ; excuse me from drawing the portrait of too 
insensible a man. It was my point of view ; I kept 
thinking of you." 
Gordon, with his hand still on his friend's arm, 
patted it an instant in response to this declaration ; 
then he turned away. 
" I am much obliged to you. That 's my notion of 
friendship. Yoa have spoken out like a man." 
" Like a man, yes. Eemember that. Not in the 
least like an oracle." 
" I prefer an honest man to all the oracles," said 
Gordon. 
" An honest man has his impressions ! I have 
given you mine — they pretend to he nothing more. 
I hope they haven 't offended you." 
" Not in the least." 
" Nor distressed, nor depressed, nor in any way 
discomposed you ? " 
" For what do you take me ? I asked you a favor 
— a service ; I imposed it on you. You have done 
the thing, and my part is simple gratitude." 
" Thank you for nothing," said Bernard, smiling. 
" You have asked me a great many questions ; there 
is one that in turn I have a right to ask you. What 
do you propose to do in consequence of what I have 
told you ? " 
" I propose to do nothing." 
This declaration closed the colloquy, and the young 
men separated. Bernard saw Gordon no more that 
evening; he took for granted he had gone to Mrs. 
Vivian's. The burden of Longueville's confidences 
was a heavy load to carry there, but Bernard ven- 
tured to hope that he would deposit it at the door. 
He had given Gordon his impressions, and the latter 
might do with them what he chose — toss them out 
of the window, or let them grow stale with heedless 
keeping. So Bernard meditated, as he wandered 
about alone for the rest of the evening. It was use- 
less to look for Mrs. Vivian's little circle, on the 
terrace of the Conversation-house, for the storm in the 
afternoon had made the place so damp that it, was 
almost forsaken of its frequenters. Bernard spent 
the evening in the gaming-rooms, in the thick of the 
crowd that pressed about the tables, and by way of a 
change — he had hitherto been almost nothing of a 
gambler — he laid down a couple of pieces at roulette. 
He had played but two or three times, without win- 
ning a penny ; but now he had -the agreeable sensa- 
tion of drawing in a small handful of gold. He 
continued to play, and he continued to win. His 
luck surprised and excited him — so much so that 
after it had repeated itself half a dozen times he left 
the place and walked about for half an hour in the 
outer darkness. He felt amused and exhilarated, but 
the feeling amounted almost to agitation. He, never- 
theless, returned to the tables, where he again found 
success awaiting him. Again and again he put his 
money on a happy number, and so steady q, run of 
luck began at last to attract attention. The rumor 
of it spread through the rooms, and the crowd about 
the roulette received a large contingent of spectators. 
Bernard felt that they were looking more or less 
eagerly for a turn of the tide; but he was in the 
humor for disappointing them, and he left the place, 
while his luck was still running high, with ten 
thousand francs in his pocket. It was very late 
when he returned to the inn — so late that he for- 
.bore to knock at Gordon's door. But though he 
betook himself to his own quarters, he was far from 
finding, or even seeking, immediate rest. He knocked 
about, as he would have said, for half the night — 
not because he was delighted at having won ten 
thousand francs, but rather because all of a sudden 
he found himself disgusted at the manner in which 
he had spent the evening. It was extremely char- 
acteristic of Bernard Longueville that his pleasure 
should suddenly transform itself into flatness. What 
he felt was not regret or repentance. He had it not 
in the least on his conscience that he had given 
countenance to the reprehensible practice of gaming. 
It was annoyance that he had passed out of his own 
control — that he had obeyed a force which he was 
unable to measure at the time. He had been drunk 
and he was turning sober. In spite of a great mo- 
mentary appearance of frankness and a lively relish 
of any conjunction of agreeable circumstances exert- 
ing a pressure to which one could respond, Bernard 
had really little taste for giving himself up, and he 
never did so without very soon wishing to take him- 
self back. He had now given himself to something 
that was not himself, and the fact that he had gained 
ten thousand francs by it was an insufficient salve to 
an aching sense of having ceased to be his own 
master. He had not heen playing — he had been 
played with. He had been the sport of a blind, 
brutal chance, and he felt humihated by having been 
favored by so rudely-operating a divinity. Good 
luck and bad luck ? Bernard felt very scornful of 
the distinction, save that good luck seemed to him 
rather the more vulgar. As the night went on his 
disgust deepened, and at last the weariness it brought 
with it sent him to sleep. He slept very late, and. 
woke up to a disagreeable consciousness. At firstj 
before collecting his thoughts, he could not imagine 
what he had on his mind — was it that he had spoken 
ill of Angela Vivian ? It brought him extraordinary 
relief to remember that he had gone to bed in extreme 
ill-humor with his exploits at roulette After he had 
dressed himself and just as he. was leaving his room, 
a servant brought him a note superscribed in Gor- 
don's hand — a note of which the following prov«d to 
be the contents. 
" Seven- o'clock, A. M. 
" My deab Beknabd : dircumstances have determined me 
to leave Baden immediately, and I shall take the train that 
starts an hour hence. I am told that you came in very late 
last night, so I viron't disturb you for a painful parting at this 
unnatural hour. I came to this decision last evening, and I 
put up my things ; so I have nothing to do but to take my- 
self oflf. I shall go to Basel, but after that I don't know where, 
and in 80-comfortless-an uncertainty I don't ask you to follow 
me. Perhaps I shall go to America ; but in ay case I shall 
see you sooner or later. Meanwhile, my dear Bernard, be as 
happy as your brilliant talents should properly malie you, and 
believe me yours ever, G. W. 
" P. S. It is perhaps as well that I should say that I am 
leaving in consequence of something that happened last even- 
ing, but not — by any traceable process —   in consequence of 
the talk we had together. I may also add that I am in very 
good health and spirits.'* 
Bernard lost no time in learning that his friend 
had in fact departed by the eight o'clock train — the 
morning was now well advanced ; and then, over his 
breakfast, he gave himself up to meditative surprise. 
What had happened during the evening — what had 
happened after their conversation in Gordon's room ? 
He had gone to Mrs. Vivian's — what had happened 
there ? Bernard found it difficult to believe that he" 
had gone there simply to notify her that, having 
talked it over with an intimate friend, he gave up her 
daughter, or to mention to the young lady herself 
that he had ceased to desire the honor of her hand. 
Gordon alluded to some definite occurrence, yet it 
was inconceivable that he should have allowed him- 
self to be determined by Bernard's words — his diffi- 
dent and irresponsible impression. Bernard resented 
this idea as an injury to himself, yet it was difficult 
to imagine what else could have happened. There 
was Gordon's word for it, however, that there was no 
" traceable " connection between the circumstances 
which led to his sudden departure and the informa- 
tion he had succeeded in extracting from his friend. 
What did he mean by a " traceable " connection ? 
Gordon never used words idly, and he meant to make 
of this point an intelligible distinction. It was this 
sense of his usual accuracy of expression that assisted 
Bernard in fitting a meaning to his late companion's 
letter. He intended to intimate that he had come 
back to Baden with his mind made up to relinquish 
his suit, and that he had questioned Bernard simply 
 from moral curiosity — for the sake of intellectual 
satisfaction. Nothing was altered by the fact that 
Bernard had told him a sorry tale ; it had not modi- 
fied his behavipr — that effect would have been trace- 
able. It had simply affected his imagination, which 
was a consequence of the imponderable sort. This 
view of the case was supported by Gordon's mention 
of his good spirits. A man always had good spirits 
when he had acted in harmony with a conviction. 
Of course, after renouncing the attempt to make 
himself acceptable to Miss Vivian, the only possible 
thing for Gordon had been to leave Baden. Bernard, 
continuing to meditate, at last convinced himself 
that there had been no explicit rupture, that Gordon's 
last visit had simply been a visit of farewell, that its 
character had sufficiently signified his withdrawal, 
and that he had now gone away because, after giving 
the girl up, he wished very naturally not to meet her 
again. This was, on Bernard's part, a sufficiently 
coherent view "of the case; but nevertheless, an hour 
afterward, as he strolled along the Lichtenthal 
Alley, he found himseK stopping suddenly and 
exclaiming under his breath — " Have I done her 
an injury ? Have I affected her prospects ? " Later 
in the day he said to himself half a dozen times 
that he had simply warned Gordon against an incon- 
gruous union. 
XV. 
Now that Gordon was gone, at any rate, gone for 
good, and not to return, he felt a sudden and singulai 
sense of freedom. It was a feeling of unbounded 
expansion, quite out of proportion, as he said to him- 
self, to any assignable cause. Everything suddenly 
appeared to have become very optional ; but he was 
quite at a loss what to do with his liberty. It 
seemed a harmless use to make of it, in the afternoon, 
to go and pay another visit to the ladies who lived 
at the confectioner's. Here, however, he met a 
reception which introduced a fresh element of per- 
plexity into the situation that Gordon had left behind 
him. The door was opened to him by Mrs. Vivian's 
maid-servant, a sturdy daughter of the Schwartzwald, 
who informed him that the ladies — with much regret 
— were unable to receive any one. 
" They are very busy — and they are ill," said the 
young woman, by way of explanation. 
Bernard was disappointed, and he felt like arguing 
the case. 
"Surely," he said, "they are not both ill and 
busy ! When you make excuses, you should make 
them agree with each other." 
The Teutonic soubrette fixed her round blue eyes 
a minute upon the patch of blue sky revealed to 
her by her open door. 
" I say what I can, lieber Herr. It 's not my fault 
if I 'm not so clever as a French mamsell. One of 
the ladies is busy, the other is ill. There you have 
it." 
" Not quite," said Bernard. " You must remember 
that there are three of them." 
" Oh, the little one — the little one weeps." 
" Miss Evers weeps ! " exclaimed Bernard, to whom 
the vision of this young lady in tears had never pre- 
sented itself 
" That happens to young ladies when they are un- 
happy," said the girl ; and with an artless yet signifi- 
cant smile she carried a big red hand to the left side 
of a broad bosom. 
" I am sorry she is unhappy ; but which of the 
other ladies is ill ? " 
" The mother is very busy;" 
" And the daughter is ill ?." 
The young woman looked at him an instant, smil- 
ing again, and the light in her little blue eyes indi- 
cated confusion, but not perversity. 
" No, the mamma is ill," she exclaimed, " and the 
daughter is very busy. They are preparing to leave 
Baden." 
" To leave Baden ? When do they go ? " 
