the people from the window, and at last Tim made his 
appearance, and treated her to a walk, and some straw- 
berries. 
Mell came home in high spirits. It was evident to Tim 
and his father that she had been drinking, but Nora only 
felt that she shrank in disgust from something, and dreaded 
to have the fierce eyes turned upon her, with their 
threatening aspect. 
The next morning Mell washed and ironed Nora's white 
dress, sadly changed indeed from its pristine snowiness. 
Gentleman Chaffy hung around the house until after din- 
ner, deciding that Mell was quite reasonable, and offering 
to take her to a dance that evening. She might almost 
have relented in her evil purpose, but he stooped to kiss 
the child, and then her resolve was sealed. 
" So Tim h'aint found ye'r Maggie yet ! " Mell said, with 
a leer. 
" But I think he will, sometime," and Nora's lip quivered, 
as she averted her face. 
" Wouldn't yer like to take a look yerself ' Now what's 
to hinder us both a-goin' out over to Broadway? We'd 
see the fine swells anyhow, an' we could look in the win- 
ders, they don't charge nothin' for that." 
" Oh, could we go, really ? " and the little face glowed. 
"To be sure we could. Here's yer clean frock, an' 
mebbe I'd best comb out yer hair. Looks nice like, and 
Bhinin'." 
Mrs. Rooney had tucked it into a net. Nora had tried a 
little to curl it, but with poor success. Mell's ungentle 
hands made Nora cry out with pain now and then, it was 
such a mass of neglected tangles. But after a while it 
was made more presentable, and then she was dressed. 
Mell looked out of the window. It was very hot, and 
the street was well-nigh deserted. She put on her bonnet, 
and the child followed her obediently. 
" Now you jest run up to the corner, quick. I want to 
tell Mrs. Rooney where we're goin', so's yer new daddy 
wont get in a tantrum. n 
"But I'll wait here for you." 
"No, go up to the corner. Go quick, or I won't stir a 
step." 
"You do mean to come? You will not leave me all 
alone ? " and the child's eyes were wild with a new 
terror. 
"You little fool! Couldn't yer find yer way back? 
Go quick ! " and she gave her a push. 
Nora started. Mell ran back up-stairs. 
"Mrs. Rooney!" she called, "I'm goin' out, and the 
child's at play in the street. Will ye jist keep an eye on 
her, for the old man 'ud be tearing if anything happened 
to her; an' ye'll tell him, if he comes home first. I want 
to get a bit o' finery for the dance to-night, and to see a 
friend." 
"Yes," answered Mrs. Rooney, crooning her baby to 
sleep. 
Mell took a glance at the street door. Nora was look- 
ing back longingly. She walked along at a rapid pace, not 
even noticing the child's outstretched hand, and plunged 
down a side street. 
"Oh, wait! wait!" cried Nora. 
" Shet yer head, 'r I'll knock it off! There, none o' yer 
bawlin', or yer !! march straight back home. Come along 
quiet." 
Try her best, Nora could not keep up. She was in wild 
affright lest Mother Mell meant to lose her. But she 
paused suddenly. 
" We're goin' to get in this ere car. Here's some pen- 
nies for yer fare when the man comes along. Now don't 
say nothin' to me." 
Nora's heart beat with unwonted fear. She hardly 
dared look at Mell until the car stopped, and they were 
let ont. But Mell hailed another in a moment, and as 
there were but few passengers she unbent a little. 
" We'll be there afore very long," she said ; " an' you'll 
be glad to see Maggie." 
"Oh, shall I see her, truly?" and Nora's face was all 
one eager flush. " Do you know where she is ? " 
" She's at a house where I'm goin'. She's been sick." 
" Oh, has she ? " My dear, dear Maggie ? Is she sick 
now ? Who found her for you ? " 
" I found her myself; " with a confident nod. 
Little Nora was in a maze. She could hardly believe it. 
She wanted to go on asking questions, but the hard face 
before her was not encouraging. Presently they stopped 
again. 
Mell took her by the hand now, and they walked a few 
blocks, stopping before a small groggery. She led the way 
up an alley, and entered at a side door, a bell sounding to 
announce them. The room was large, with a sanded floor, 
a few card-tables with chairs around them, some pictures 
of fast horses and several rather notorious characters. A 
large dog lay in one corner, who raised his head and 
growled, but took no further notice of them. Then an- 
other door opened, and a man entered. 
Nora clung closer to Mother Mell, and grasped her 
hand. 
The new comer was a most repulsive-looking person. 
Barely average size, he had a stoop in the shoulders that 
gave him a crouching appearance. His eyes were small, 
black, and keen ; his grizzled hair fell over a low forehead ; 
his mouth was wide, with dull, swollen lips, and his ragged 
teeth looked like fangs. A foreigner, evidently; but it 
seemed as if all nationalities had resolved, by the absence 
of any distinctive features, to disown him. French, Ger- 
man, and Italian languages he knew equally, and had 
grafted a patois of all upon the English. Insignificant as he 
and his place seemed, they were well known to the " fancy," 
and had been more than once suspected by the police, bnt 
the most vigorous search had failed to bring anything to 
light. And yet there went in and out of the den property 
of the most valuable kind, and Louis Retzer seemed able 
to negotiate almost everything, from stolen diamonds to a 
lady's lap-dog. 
" Ah," he said, rubbing his hands and showing his teeth, 
" good-day, Madame ! Is zis ze little girl ? " 
"Yes; she has come to see Maggie," and Mell gave 
the man a wink. " Stand up, child ! Don't lean agin me 
BO. Nobody's goin' to eat you up!" and she gave her a 
little push. 
" Ah h ; " and he took a survey of the trembling child. 
"Zis hair is all real!" taking the silken mass in his hands. 
"Oh, don't! don't!" screamed Nora, springing away 
like a frightened fawn. 
Mell laughed loudly. " She won't be so techy in a few 
years," she said. " Yes, it's the true stuff, and all fast in 
her head. Why, that's worth a sight of money." 
"Does ze little girl dance or sing?" 
" She could learn, I s'pose," said Mell, shortly. " There's 
her hansum face in her favor. I'm sure she could be hired 
out o' nights ; but she's come to see Maggie. Mebbe yer 
better send her up-stairs. Maggie 's sick in bed, and can't 
come down;" and Mell put on a queer, knowing look. 
Nora glanced wildly from one to the other. Young as 
she was, she distrusted them both. 
" Come with me," said Retzer. 
Nora's heart swelled up to her throat, and her slight 
frame trembled. Should she refuse? 
" If you don't want to go and see Maggie, we may as 
well go back then," said Mell, rising. 
" Oh, I do ! I do ! " the child cried, convulsively. " But 
come with me. I don't like him. I am afraid " 
" Ze little lady need not be afraid of me," said Retzer, 
with hideous blandness. " Come up-stairs to poor Maggie, 
who is sick in ze bed, and who want her little girl. She 
haf orange and sugar-plum." 
He opened the door. Nora gave one questioning glance 
at Mell, but the stony face repulsed her. Then she fol- 
lowed up the well-worn stairs. She had grown so used to 
dingy holes and vile smells that she scarcely noticed this. 
"Here!" 
She walked timidly into the room. The door was closed 
and locked behind her. Retzer took a stride or two down 
the stairs, chuckling. 
"Well," exclaimed the woman, "ain't she a picter?" 
" Ze little girl is very fair, and haf beautiful hair, and 
nice, very nice legs. But she do not know how to dance, 
and she will be wild like a cat." 
" You can tame her easy enough. A few lashes will do 
up the bizness ; and she'll soon learn to dance. Gals allus 
take to it naterally. She'd do for stage bizness j" and 
a coarse laugh ended the sentence. 
"Well, what you take for zis child, ha?" 
" Fifty dollars," answered Mell, complacently. 
"Feefty dollars! Feefty devils I Why, sao never y- 
worth that money, nevarel She know noting- sbr ' 
cross and sick, maybe, and I get iryse. r ;ror.Oie. Per- 
haps zis Maggie make a search." 
Mell laughed long and loud. "Maggie! Well, she 
hasn't put in any claim, so far, nor even her precious self; 
and my Tim, he's scoured the place all round. She 
dropped the brat. The mammy's dead, y' see, and the 
daddy's missin', and the gal didn't want to keep her. I d'n 
know, I might find some folks to 'dopt her, seein' she's 
so hansum ; or I could send her to the island. But I 
thought ther' might be some money in the brat, and we 
might both do a bit of bizness. Ther' ain't a mite o' risk, 
and ef you'll do things square, you may have her; if not, 
Fll take her, and be goin'." 
But Retzer would not hear to this. He insisted that if 
he put the child out he would not make more than a dollai 
a week, and there would be the chance of her dying before 
she had paid for herself. They haggled and argued, and 
finally Mell consented to take forty dollars, and the money 
was counted out, both confederates swearing secrecy. 
Mell stopped on her way home and purchased some 
tawdry finery and a new gilt necklace. Then, as an after 
thought, she bought a calico slip for the child, and a box 
of gaily colored candies, the better to ward off suspicion. 
Tim confronted her on the doorstep. 
"Did you take Nora? " he cried. " She's never been in 
the house, and Mrs. Rooney 's not seen a sight of her. An' 
if yer didn't, she's lost agin." 
"Lost!" and Mell stopped suddenly. "Lost! Yer 
don't mean the child? Oh, Tim, whatever will yer daddy 
say ? Run up an' down the street and find her afore 
he gets in. An' I've bought her a new gown an' some 
goodies." 
" I've run, and run ! No one is seen her. She ain't been 
playin' with no children. And there's the guv'ner." 
He was coming down the street with his swaggering 
step, his tall, brawny figure the more conspicuous among 
the dwarfed and half-starved denizens of this section. A 
triumphant smile crossed Mell's face as she thought how 
slyly she had outwitted him. 
" Tim, yer don't think she could have gone out over to 
Broadway after her Maggie?" 
" Well, I hain't thought o' that, but I guess she has, arter 
all. Why didn't I run over there first. Oh, won't the guv- 
'ner swear ! " 
They both began with the bad news in a breath. Mell 
displayed the gown and said Nora coaxed so to be let out 
in the street a while ; that she had seen her on the corner 
last, and then she rushed up to Mrs. Rooney and be- 
rated her for her carelessness. Dennis, being home, took 
hie wife's part and ordered Mell out of bis sight, and the 
affair ended in a fracas of blows. Gentleman Chaffy was 
rather sullen afterward, and refused to accompany Mell 
to the dance, but, nothing daunted, she went alone. 
" Ye may as well look for a needle in a haystack as that 
gal ! You'll never set eyes on her again," muttered Mell 
as she strode up the street. 
Tim searched the next day, but it was of no avail, and 
then he philosophically concluded the young 'un had been 
all plague and no profit. So he plied his daily avocations 
with a light heart. Carrying a gentleman's valise late one 
afternoon, he found himself, when he had finished his 
errand, face to face with a policeman, and his arm in a 
tight grasp. 
" I've been looking for a chap of your size and capabili- 
ties," began McBride quizically. " Just step over here, and 
let's have a little talk." 
" I hain't done nothing but turn an honest penny, so yer 
lem'me be ! Yer hain't got no show to jug a feller for 
that." 
And yet Tim's heart misgave him a little for past deeds, 
and his keen eye glanced furtively around for a chance of 
escape. 
" Ha ! ha  laughed McBride. A guilty conscience is it, 
my lad ? You know you deserve it. But this time it 
isn't an old gent who has lost his wallet. It's a chance for 
you to make a little money." 
" Hi ! I'm yer chap, then I " and his stolid, sullen ex> 
pression quickly changed to one of interest. 
" Here. I daren't let go of you tricky eels," and the 
man brought him up in a corner by a turn of his jacket 
collar. " Now, I want you to tell me the solemn truth, 
if you don't I'll have you caged for a little matter of a 
month or so ago, that I know all about;" and there was 
a confident nod given to emphasize the statement. " You 
are the chap that was bothering about a lost child, and a 
girl named Maggie ? " 
"Yes," cried Tim eagerly." Oh, have you found her?" 
a That we have. She was run over and taken to a ho& 
pital." 
" Oh, she wasn't killed, was she ? The guv'ner took an 
awful likin' to her, and 'dopted her. Tell yer, wasn't he 
swearin' mad when Ann Rooney let her go out and get 
lost. An' I'm mighty glad ! " 
" What are you talking about ? " asked McBride. 
"Why, the little gal, Nora." 
" That's just the one I do want to know about. The 
woman 's in the hospital, and a gentleman wants to find 
the child. He has offered a reward. Come now, take me 
to the place." 
"A reward. Dang it! that's jist my luck!" and he 
slapped his ragged knee. " I'm never in at the hangin', 
 when <fouc dot!ie are handed round. The gal is gone, 
-ust agin . 
" Oh -cine now, that's gammon. You know where the 
cnild is," said McBride confidently. 
"I wish I did," and he uttered a glib oath. " An' a 
reward? How much?" 
" More than you'll get by keeping back the truth. Come 
now, own up. The child cannot be of any account to 
you." 
" But I tell you she is gone. Las' Friday 'twas. Mother 
Mell went out an' left her playin' on the sidewalk, and 
Ann Rooney was to keep an eye on her. An' by night 
she was gone. I'm tellin' a gospel truth ; " though what a 
gospel truth was would have puzzled Tim fully as much as 
Nora's disappearance. 
McBride did not believe a word. He was well versed 
in the tricks of street arabs. These people would want to 
make the best bargain possible, and haggle all night about 
a sixpence. He would nip this in the bud. 
" Tell me where you live, my lad." 
" Over on the east side, Water Street." 
"Now the number, and your father's name, if you possess 
such an article." 
Tim complied with a little hesitation. 
" Now, my lad, you must march off to the station for a 
few hours. I shall send over to see whether you have 
told the truth or not. And this Mr. Byington wants to have 
an interview with you. If you know anything about this 
lost girl you had better make a clean breast of it, or it will 
be worse for you." 
" I don't know nothing" rejoined Tim, angrily, feeling 
that he had somehow been outwitted ; and he was not sure 
what was behind it all. 
"
CHAPTER VL 
BAFFLED. 
MR. BYINGTON found Tim at the station, rather sulky, 
and a good deal frightened. A detective had been de- 
spatched to the abode of the paternal Chafney, and he 
awaited the result with much anxiety, meanwhile drawing 
the whole story from Tim, who, being positively assured of 
his safety, became more communicative. 
The story certainly bore the impress of truth. Neither 
was it wonderful that people in their position should have 
missed the advertisement. Gentleman Chaffy's literary in- 
terest was bounded by a Police Gazette, or some low sport- 
ing sheet, Mell never read anything, and Tim had never once 
imagined that any one was looking up the little stray. If 
it had been a wallet with valuable papers, now ; but in his 
brief experience children were very plenty, and not much 
sought after, rather at a discount, indeed. Then Nora had 
no rich jewelry, or clothes, that spoke of grand connections. 
Maggie had hesitated no little between a natural love of 
finery and a sense of propriety. Real ladies never wore 
jewels or gay attire, though Mrs. Waldeburgh had said, 
" Don't put any mourning on my dear darling, Maggie. 
I don't want her last remembrance of me to be one of 
gloom." Still the girl had felt there must be some token. 
So she had dressed her in her plainest clothes, and com- 
promised matters by a black sash-ribbon. She could hardly 
be taken for a rich man's daughter, and her simple story 
brought no vision of friends and rewards. But Tim felt, 
now, that his first impression of her was correct ; that the 
nameless grace of refinement he could neither understand 
nor explain connected her with wealth in some mysterious 
manner. 
The detective returned about nine in the evening. He 
had interviewed everybody, questioned everybody, and 
learned nothing. The whole street had seen the child on 
the sidewalk, or thought they had, and from this point con- 
jecture ran wild. An old woman was enticing her down 
the street; a mysterious man had beguiled her into a 
horse-car ; she had followed a group of children ; in short, 
everything probable and improbable. 
" That was Friday," said Mr. Byington, " and to-day is 
Tuesday. I think we will take another search among the 
various Homes and Institutions, and continue the advertise- 
ment. And now, Tim, my lad, look your very, sharpest. 
I will make the reward a thousand dollars to whoever finds 
the child. You would know her anywhere?" 
" That I would, sir. You don't mean all that money, 
sir ? Why, it would be a fortin' ! " 
" All that. And here is a five-dollar bill to start you 
with. Here is my business address, also. Come to me 
with the least tidings." 
" Thank 'ee, sir. I'll do my best for so gen'rous a gent, 
sir. An' may I go now ? " 
" There is no charge against the boy ? w 
"Oh, of course not." 
Tim pulled the ragged rim of his hat, flew around the 
corner like the wind, stood on his head, gave a wild whoop, 
and executed a double-shuffle in quick succession. A 
thousand dollars! Could the guv'ner snivy on it, he 
wondered ? And how would it do to go West somewhere, 
and buy out a gold mine at once ? 
Mother Mell was astounded at the amount of the re- 
ward. She kept her own counsel, however, and the next 
morning had an important errand "'cross town," so afraid 
was she of Tim suspecting her. After a roundabout jour- 
ney she reached the abode of Louis Retzer. 
He received her with that half-suspicious suavity that so 
characterized him, and his astute eyes expressed the 
wonder that he would not allow to pass his lips. 
" Yer main amazed to see me, no doubt, so soon agen, 
but the boss, he wor awful mad about th' little gal. I 
didn't know he had his heart so sot upon her. An' now 
he's raisin' blue blazes, an' stirin' up the place right an' 
left. I only said she wor lost, an' so I've come to git her 
Iback agen. I'll give yer money and add a ten spot to it, 
good enough interest, I'm sure." 
He rubbed his grimy hands with provoking blandness, 
and eyed her with suspicious cunning. 
"I am sorry, madame. Ze child was taken away ze 
same evening, I believe to to Canada." 
" Canada? Is it far off? Couldn't yer write ? " 
"Ze man I do not know. He wanted ze little girl to 
adopt," and Retzer grinned. "You say it was a little 
beggar wis no home, and no folks, and so I zink it of 
not much importance, so zat ze little girl have a good 
home." 
He looked sharply at her, as if he would solve the mean- 
ing of this sudden change. Mell Chafney had come from 
no feeling of pity for Nora. She caught at the reward 
with all the greed of ignorance and brutal selfishness. If 
she confessed to Retzer, he could not only claim it himself 
but demand the money he had paid her. 
She laughed loudly. " That's a good 'un, that is, but it 
don't go down. I know the gal's in this shanty." 
"Madame may search if she chooses," and the man gave 
a provoking leer. 
"I'll have a peeler here, that I will," and she rose 
angrily. If yer don't give up that child double quick it 
'll be wus for yer ! " 
" How can I when I have not got it. If madame had 
said ze child was so precious. But madame would hardly 
have ze house searched." 
The rough woman lost her bravado under the fixed look. 
There were too many secrets between them, and he might 
trick her at last. 
She laughed again, hoarsely, " Come, Retzer, we've been 
good pals, and that there was said in fun. But the boss 'll 
beat me black an' blue if I don't find that child. Say 
what yer'll take. Would a hundred do now ? Not as I 
knows where I could get so much sudden like, but I would 
do it. Did I ever go back on my word ? An' I've been a 
good customer ; come now, ain't I ? " 
" If I could get back ze child I would. Perhaps zis Mag- 
gie know something," and he put on a thoughtful air. 
" Maggie ! Oh, I ain't such a flat as to b'lieve in Maggie. 
She shipped the young 'un off too neat, she did. An' 
'twouldn't be anything to me then. Why, if Maggie 
turned up yer see the guv'ner couldn't keep her." 
She was an adept in lying, this woman, and now she de- 
ceived even her shrewd accomplice. Louis Retzer guessed 
that she had been offered a higher price for the child, and 
chuckled inwardly at his own bargain. But he was too 
wise to quarrel with his customers. 
"I might wait and see. If zis man comeback but it 
might be one long while." 
" Well, then you can't. I'm awful sorry. I was a bit 
jealous at first because the boss was so took with her, but 
when he come to make such a row I thought Pd try her 
agen. She was a main purty brat, now warn't she ?" 
"Ze man who took her, he zink so. But zare are many 
pretty children in ze street." 
Mell rose, feeling that she had been outwitted, and that 
she had herself largely to blame. If she could not have 
the reward, then good-bye to all further trouble. And she 
might get herself into some scrape, so it was best to keep 
on the safe side. 
Retzer considered a while after she was gone. He had 
heard the child's story, and did not think it remarkable. 
She had been used to no very great degree of wealth and 
luxury, that was evident. No rich relatives were likely 
to come to light, and she had not been stolen. He had 
passed on children for various purposes, he had even held 
some for rewards. We have all wept over the horrors of 
African Slavery, but can we never realize that there is a 
still more barbarous system of slavery in our midst ? In- 
nocent children, in the hands of unprincipled ruffians who 
claim them soul and body, who hire them out in dens of 
thieves, in low gin-mills, and that for beauty there is still 
a lower depth ! God help a poor, pretty female child ; bet- 
ter a thousand times that she had never been born. No, 
the race of slave-stealers, of buyers and sellers, are not yet 
extinct. And the drifting city waifs are but so much flot- 
sam and jetsam in their hands. 
The thousand dollars might have moved even Retzer's 
stolid nature, but it did not reach him. Truly no place is 
so safe for misdeeds as a great city. But he had made a 
very good bargain, and rubbed his hands in a glow of satis- 
faction. 
Meanwhile Tim was indefatigable. He peered into the 
face of every yellow-haired match-vender, crossing-sweeper, 
or street-musician. Often his heart beat high with cer- 
tainty, but a second look brought bitter disappointment. 
Mrs. Byington lingered in the city, held by a spell of 
sympathy, interest, and pity. She had much ado to com- 
fort poor Maggie, who had been plunged from hope to the 
black depths of despair. 
" I am sure she cannot be living," the girl would ex- 
claim. "You see she is old enough to know her own name 
and story, and some one would hear it. Oh, my poor, poor 
darling! how can I ever answer to your father for my 
carelessness!" 
Maggie was recovering rapidly now, though her face 
wore a strained and anxious look, and every new voice 
startled her. Ellen Brown was a frequent visitor until 
Maggie was well enough to be removed to her cousin's 
house. 
"There is one thing you could do for me," she said to 
Mrs. Byington. "There must be a letter from Nora's 
father. I will give you the address, and if Mr. Byington 
would take the trouble to get it. I do not feel quite strong 
enough to venture out." 
" He will be glad to do it, I am sure." 
The letter had come. Mr. Waldeburgh was in passionate 
grief at the tidings of his wife's death. His business 
was progressing favorably, and by spring he would be able 
to return for his little girl, whom he charged Maggie to 
guard with the best of care, and desired her to obtain a 
nice, quiet boarding-place, where she could devote herself 
entirely to little Nora. He enclosed a check for their 
immediate expenses, and promised to send more. 
" Oh, what shall I do ! How can I ever tell him? " and 
Maggie wrung her hands in anguish. 
" Perhaps I might better answer the letter, Maggie," ex- 
claimed Mrs. Byington. " Do you not think it would be as 
well not to say anything about the child's loss at present. 
We may find her. I cannot seem to give her up. I might 
just state your accident, and that you were in good hands; 
that friends would do everything that was possible for you 
and Nora. That, you see, would give us about two months 
again." 
