once and back again." 
The docile little Sister obeyed ; she always did immedi 
ately whatever they told her to do. 
" I want you to listen now ; stand still and listen listen 
to the sea," said Keith, when they had turned the point and 
stood alone on the shore. " Try to think only of the pure, 
deep, blue water, and count how regularly the sound rolls up 
 
in long, low chords, dying away and then growing louder, 
dying away and then growing louder, as regular as your own 
breath. Do you not hear it ? " 
" Yes," said the little Sister timorously. 
" Keep time, then, with your hand, and let me see whether 
you catch the measure." 
So the small brown hand, nerveless and slender, tried to 
mark and measure the roar of the great ocean surges, and at 
last succeeded, urged on by the alternate praises and rebukes 
of Keith, who watched with some interest a faint color rise in 
the pale oval face, and an intent listening look come into the 
soft, unconscious eyes, as, for the first time, the mind caught 
the mighty rhythm of the sea. She listened, and listened, 
standing mute, with head slightly bent and parted lips. 
" I want you to listen to it in that way every day," said 
Keith, as he led the way back. "It has different voices: 
sometimes a fresh, joyous song, sometimes a faint, loving 
whisper; but always something. You will learn in time to 
love it, and then it will sing to you all day long." 
" Not at the dear convent ; there is no ocean there," 
" You want to go back to the convent ? " 
" Oh, could I go ! could I go ! " said the Sister, not impa 
tiently, but with an intense yearning in her low voice. " Here, 
so lost, so strange am I, so wild is everything. But I must 
not murmur " ; and she crossed her hands upon her breast 
and bowed her head. 
The two young men led a riotous life ; they rioted with the 
ocean, with the winds, with the level island, with the sunshine 
and the racing clouds. They sailed over to the reef daily and 
plunged into the surf ; they walked for miles along the beach, 
and ran races over its white floor ; they hunted down the cen 
ter of the island, and brought back the little brown deer who 
lived in the low thicket on each side of the island's backbone. 
The island was twenty miles long and a mile or two broad, 
with a central ridge of shell-formed rock about twenty feet in 
height, that seemed like an Appalachian chain on the level 
waste ; below, in the little hollows on each side, spread a low 
tangled thicket, a few yards wide ; and all the rest was barren 
sand, with movable hills here and there hills a few feet in 
height, blown up by the wind, and changed in a night. The 
only vegetation besides the thicket was a rope-like vine that 
crept over the sand, with few leaves far apart, and now and 
then a dull purple blossom a solitary tenacious vine of the 
desert, satisfied with little, its growth slow, its life monoto 
nous ; yet try to tear it from the surface of the sand, where its 
barren length seems to lie loosely like an old brown rope 
thrown down at random, and behold, it resists you stub 
bornly. You find a mile or two of it on your hands, clinging 
and pulling as the strong ivy clings to a stone wall ; a giant 
could not conquer it, this seemingly dull and half-dead thing ; 
and so you leave it there to creep on in its own way, over the 
damp, shell-strewn waste. One day Carrington came home 
in great glory ; he had found a salt marsh. " Something be 
sides this sand, you know a stretch of saw-grass away to 
the south, the very place for fat ducks. And somebody has 
been there before us, too, for I saw the mast of a sail-boat 
some distance down, tipped up against the sky." 
" That old boat is ourn, I guess," said Melvyna. " She 
drifted down there one high tide, and Pedro he never would 
go for her. She was a mighty nice little boat, too, ef she was 
cranky." 
Pedro smiled amiably back upon his spouse, and helped 
himself to another hemisphere of pie. He liked the pies, al 
though she was obliged to make them, she said, of such out 
landish things as figs, dried oranges, and pomegranates. " If 
you could only see a pumpkin, Pedro," she often remarked, 
shaking her head. Pedro shook his back in sympathy; but, 
in the mean time, found the pies very good as they were. 
Let us go down after the boat," said Carrington. " You 
have only that old tub over at the inlet, Pedro, and you rcalh 
need another boat." (Carrington always liked to imagine 
 
that he was a constant and profound help to the world at 
large.) " Suppose anything should happen to the one you 
have ? " Pedro had not thought of that ; he slowly put down 
his knife and fork to consider the subject. 
" We will go this afternoon," said Keith, issuing his orders, 
" and you shall go with us, sen ora." 
" And Pedro, too, to help you," said Melvyna. " I 've al 
ways wanted that boat back, she was such a pretty little 
thing : one sail, you know, and decked over in front ; you sat 
on the bottom. I'd like right well to go along myself; but I 
suppose I'd better stay at home and cook a nice supper for 
you." 
Pedro thought so, decidedly. 
When the February sun had stopped blazing down directly 
overhead, and a few white afternoon clouds had floated over 
from the east to shade his shining, so that man could bear it, 
the four started inland toward the backbone ridge, on whose 
summit there ran an old trail southward, made by the fierce 
Creeks three centuries before. Right up into the dazzling 
light soared the great eagles straight up, up to the sun, their 
unshrinking eyes fearlessly fixed full on his fiery ball. 
"It would be grander if we did not know they had just 
stolen their dinners from the poor hungry fish-hawks over 
there on the inlet," said Carrington. 
Sister St. Luke had learned to walk quite rapidly now. 
Her little black gown trailed lightly along the sand behind 
her, and she did her best to " step out boldly," as Keith di 
rected ; but it was not firmly, for she only succeeded in mak 
ing a series of quick, uncertain little paces over the sand like 
bird-tracks. Once Keith had taken her back and made her 
look at her own uneven footsteps. " Look no two the same 
distance apart," he said. The little Sister looked and was 
very much mortified. " Indeed, I will try with might to do 
better," she said. And she did try with might; they saw 
her counting noiselessly to herself as she walked, " One, two ; 
one, two." But she had improved so much that Keith now 
 
devoted his energies to teaching her to throw back her head 
and look about her. " Do you not see those soft banks of 
clouds piled up in the west ? " he said, constantly directing 
her attention to objects above her. But this was a harder 
task, for the timid eyes had been trained from childhood to 
look down, and the head was habitually bent, like a pendant 
flower on its stem. Melvyna had deliberately laid hands 
upon the heavy veil and white band that formerly encircled 
the small face. " You can not breathe in them," she said. 
But the Sister still wore a light veil over the short dark hair, 
which would curl in little rings upon her temples in spite of 
her efforts to prevent it ; the cord and heavy beads and cross 
encircled her slight waist, while the wide sleeves of her nun's 
garb fell over her hands to the finger-tips. 
" How do you suppose she would look dressed like other 
women?" said Carrington one day. The two men were 
drifting in their small yacht, lying at case on the cushions, 
and smoking. 
" Well," answered Keith slowly, " if she was well dressed 
very well, I mean, say in the French style and if she had 
any spirit of her own, any vivacity, you might, with that dark 
face of hers and those eyes you might call her piquant." 
"Spirit? She has not the spirit of a fly," said Carring 
ton, knocking the ashes out of his pipe and fumbling in an 
embroidered velvet pouch, one of many offerings at his shrine, 
for a fresh supply of the strong aromatic tobacco he affected, 
Keith meanwhile smoking nothing but the most delicate ciga 
rettes. " The other day I heard a wild scream ; and rushing 
down stairs I found her half fainting on the steps, all in a 
little heap. And what do you think it was ? She had been 
sitting there, lost in a dream mystic, I suppose, like St. Agnes 
Deep on the convent roof the snows 
Are sparkling to the moon : 
My breath to heaven like vapor goes. 
May my soul follow soon 
and that sort of thing." 
" No," said Keith, " there is nothing mystical about the 
Luke maiden ; she has never even dreamed of the ideal ec 
stasies of deeper minds. She says her little prayers simply, 
almost mechanically, so many every day, and dwells as it 
were content in the lowly valleys of religion." 
" Well, whatever she was doing," continued Carrington, 
" a great sea crab had crawled up and taken hold of the toe 
of her little shoe. Grand tableau crab and Luke maiden ! 
And the crab had decidedly the better of it." 
" She is absurdly timid," admitted Keith. 
And absurdly timid she was now, when, having crossed 
the stretch of sand and wound in and out among the low 
hillocks, they came to the hollow where grew the dark green 
thicket, through which they must pass to reach the Appala 
chian range, the backbone of the island, where the trail gave 
them an easier way than over the sands. Carrington went 
first and hacked out a path with his knife ; Keith followed^ 
and held back the branches ; the whole distance was not 
more than twelve feet ; but its recesses looked dark and 
shadowy to the little Sister, and she hesitated. 
" Come, said Carrington ; " we shall never reach the salt 
marsh at this rate." 
" There is nothing dangerous here, sefiora," said Keith. 
" Look, you can see for yourself. And there are three of us 
to help you." 
" Yes," said Pedro " three of us." And he swung his 
broad bulk into the gap. 
Still she hesitated. 
" Of what are you afraid ? " called out Carrington impa 
tiently. 
" I know not, indeed," she answered, almost in tears over 
her own behavior, yet unable to stir. Keith came back, and 
saw that she was trembling not violently, but in a subdued, 
helpless sort of way which was pathetic in its very causeless- 
ness. 
"Take her up, Pedro," he ordered ; and, before she could 
 
object, the good-natured giant had borne her in three strides 
through the dreaded region, and set her down safely upon 
the ridge. She followed them humbly now, along the safe 
path, trying to step firmly, and walk with her head up, as 
Keith had directed. Carrington had already forgotten her 
again, and even Keith was eagerly looking ahead for the first 
glimpse of green. 
"There is something singularly fascinating in the stretch 
of a salt marsh," he said. " Its level has such a far sweep 
as you stand and gaze across it, and you have a dreamy feel 
ing that there is no end to it. The stiff, drenched grasses 
hold the salt which the tide brings in twice a day, and you 
inhale that fresh, strong, briny odor, the rank, salt, invigorat 
ing smell of the sea ; the breeze that blows across has a tang 
to it like the snap of a whip-lash across your face, bringing 
the blood to the surface, and rousing you to a quicker pace. 
" Ha ! " said Carrington ; " there it is. Don't you see the 
green? A little farther on, you will see the mast of the 
boat." 
"That is all that is wanted, "said Keith. "A salt marsh 
is not complete without a boat tilted up aground somewhere, 
with its slender dark mast outlined against the sky. A boat 
sailing along in a commonplace way would blight the whole 
thing ; what we want is an abandoned craft, aged and desert 
ed, aground down the marsh with only its mast rising above 
the waste." 
" Bienl there it is," said Carrington ; " and now the ques 
tion is, how to get to it." 
" You two giants will have to go," said Keith, finding a 
comfortable seat. " I see a mile or two of tall wading be 
fore us, and up to your shoulders is over my head. I went 
duck-shooting with that man last year, sefiora. Come on, 
he cried splendid sport ahead, old fellow; come on. 
" Is it deep ? I asked from behind. I was already up 
to my knees, and could not see bottom, the water was so 
dark. 
" Oh, no, not at all ; just right, he answered, striding 
ahead. Come on. 
" I came ; and went in up to my eyes." 
But the sefiora did not smile. 
" You know Carrington is taller than I am," explained 
Keith, amused by the novelty of seeing his own stories fall flat. 
" Is he ? " said the Sister vaguely. 
It was evident that she had not observed whether he was 
or not. 
Carrington stopped short, and for an instant stared blankly 
at her. What every one noticed and admired all over the 
country wherever he went, this little silent creature had not 
even seen ! 
" He will never forgive you," said Keith laughing, as the 
two tall forms strode off into the marsh. Then, seeing that 
she did not comprehend in the least, he made a seat for her 
by spreading his light coat on the Appalachian chain, and, 
leaning back on his elbow, began talking to her about the 
marsh. " Breathe in the strong salt," he said, " and let your 
eyes rest on the green, reedy expanse. Supposing you were 
painting a picture, now does any one paint pictures at your 
convent ? " 
" Ah, yes," said the little nun, rousing to animation at 
once. " Sister St. James paints pictures the most beautiful 
on earth. She painted for us Santa Inez with her lamb, and 
Santa Rufina of Sevilla, with her palms and earthen vases." 
" And has she not taught you to paint also ? " 
" Me ! Oh, no. I am only a Sister young and of no gifts. 
Sister St. James is a great saint, and of age she has seventy 
years." 
" Not requisites for painting, either of them, that I am 
aware," said Keith. " However, if you were painting this 
marsh, do you not see how the mast of that boat makes the 
feature of the landscape the one human element ; and yet, 
even that abandoned, merged as it were in the desolate wild- 
ness of the scene ? " 
The Sister looked over the green earnestly, as if trying to 
see all that he suggested. Keith talked on. He knew that 
he talked well, and he did not confuse her with more than 
one subject, but dwelt upon the marsh ; stories of men who 
had been lost in them, of women who had floated down in 
boats and never returned ; descriptions clear as etchings ; 
studies of the monotone of hues before them one subject 
pictured over and over again, as, wishing to instruct a child, 
he would have drawn with a chalk one letter of the alphabet 
a hundred times, until the wandering eyes had learned at last 
to recognize and know it. 
" Do you see nothing at all, feel nothing at all ? " he said. 
" Tell me exactly." 
Thus urged, the Sister replied that she thought she did 
feel the salt breeze a little. 
" Then take off that shroud and enjoy it," said Keith, ex 
tending his arm suddenly, and sweeping off the long veil by 
the corner that was nearest to him. 
" Oh ! " said the little Sister " oh ! " and distressfully she 
covered her head with her hands, as if trying to shield herself 
from the terrible light of day. But the veil had gone down 
into the thicket, whither she dared not follow. She stood ir 
resolute. 
" I will get it for you before the others come back," said 
Keith. " It is gone now, however, and, what is more, you 
could not help it ; so sit down, like a sensible creature, and 
enjoy the breeze." 
The little nun sat down, and confusedly tried to be a sen 
sible creature. Her head, with its short rings of dark hair, 
rose childlike from the black gown she wore, and the breeze 
swept freshly over her ; but her eyes were full of tears, and 
her face so pleading in its pale, silent distress, that at length 
Keith went down and brought back the veil. 
" See the cranes flying home," he said, as the long line 
clotted the red of the west. " They always seem to be flying 
right into the sunset, sensible birds ! " 
The little Sister had heard that word twice now ; evidently 
the cranes were more sensible than she. She sighed as she 
fastened on the veil ; there were a great many hard things 
out in the world, then, she thought. At the dear convent it 
was not expected that one should be as a crane. 
The other two came back at length, wet and triumphant, 
with their prize. They had stopped to bail it out, plug its 
cracks, mend the old sail after a fashion, and nothing would 
do but that the three should sail home in it, Pedro, for whom 
there was no room, returning by the way they had come. 
Carrington, having worked hard, was determined to cany out 
his plan ; and said so. 
" A fine plan to give us all a wetting," remarked Keith. 
" You go down there and work an hour or two yourself, 
and see howjw/ like it," answered the other, with the irrele 
vance produced by aching muscles and perspiration dripping 
from every pore. 
This conversation had taken place at the edge of the 
marsh where they had brought the boat up through one of 
the numerous channels. 
" Very well," said Keith. " But mind you, not a word 
.about danger before the Sister. I shall have hard enough 
work to persuade her to come with us as it is." 
He went back to the ridge, and carelessly suggested returning home by water. 
" You will not have to go through the thicket then," he 
said. 
Somewhat to his surprise, Sister St. Luke consented im 
mediately, and followed without a word as he led the way. 
She was mortally afraid of the water, but, during his absence, 
she had been telling her beads, and thinking with contrition 
of two obstinacies in one day that of the thicket and that of 
the veil she could not, she would not have three. So, com 
mending herself to all the saints, she embarked. 
" Look here, Carrington, if ever you inveigle me into such 
danger again for a mere fool's fancy, I will show you what I 
 
think of it. You knew the condition of that boat, and I did 
not," said Keith, sternly, as the two men stood at last on the 
beach in front of the lighthouse. The Sister had gone 
within, glad to feel land underfoot once more. She had sat 
quietly in her place all the way, afraid of the water, of the 
wind, of everything, but entirely unconscious of the real dan 
ger that menaced them. For the little craft would not mind 
her helm ; her mast slipped about erratically ; the planking at 
the bow seemed about to give way altogether ; and they were 
on a lee shore, with the tide coming in, and the surf beating 
roughly on the beach. They were both good sailors, but it 
had taken all they knew to bring the boat safely to the light 
house. 
" To tell the truth, I did not think she was so crippled," 
said Carrington. "She really is a good boat for her size." 
" Very," said Keith sarcastically. 
But the younger man clung to his opinion ; and, in order to 
verify it, he set himself to work repairing the little craft. You 
would have supposed his daily bread depended upon her be 
ing made seaworthy, by the way he labored. She was made 
over from stem to stern : a new mast, a new sail ; and, finally, 
scarlet and green paint were brought over from the village, 
and out she came as brilliant as a young paroquet. Then 
Carrington took to sailing in her. Proud of his handy work, 
he sailed up and down, over to the reef, and up the inlet, and 
even persuaded Melvyna to go with him once, accompanied 
by the meek little Sister. 
" Why shouldn't you both learn how to manage her? " he 
said in his enthusiasm. "She's as easy to manage as a 
child" 
" And as easy to tip over," replied Melvyna, screwing up 
her lips tightly and shaking her head. " You don't catch me 
out in her again, sure's as my name's Sawyer." 
For Melvyna always remained a Sawyer in her own mind, 
in spite of her spouse's name ; she could not, indeed, be any 
thing else noblesse oblige. But the Sister, obedient as usual, 
 
bent her eyes in turn upon the ropes, the mast, the sail, and 
the helm, while Carrington, waxing eloquent over his favorite 
science, delivered a lecture upon their uses, and made her ex 
periment a little to see if she comprehended. He used the 
simplest words for her benefit, words of one syllable, and un 
consciously elevated his voice somewhat, as though that would 
make her understand better ; her wits seemed to him always 
of the slowest. The Sister followed his directions, and 
imitated his motions with painstaking minuteness. She did 
very well until a large porpoise rolled up his dark, glistening 
back close alongside, when, dropping the sail-rope with a 
scream, she crouched down at Melvyna's feet and hid her face 
in her veil. Carrington from that day could get no more pas 
sengers for his paroquet boat. But he sailed up and down 
alone in his little craft, and, when that amusement palled, he 
took the remainder of the scarlet and green paint and adorned 
the shells of various sea-crabs and other crawling things, so 
that the little Sister was met one afternoon by a whole proces 
sion of unearthly creatures, strangely variegated, proceeding 
gravely in single file down the beach from the pen where they 
had been confined. Keith pointed out to her, however, the 
probability of their being much admired in their own circles 
as long as the hues lasted, and she was comforted. 
They strolled down the beach now every afternoon, some 
times two, sometimes three, sometimes four when Melvyna 
had no cooking to watch, no bread to bake ; for she rejected 
with scorn the omnipresent hot biscuit of the South, and kept 
her household supplied with light loaves in spite of the 
difficulties of yeast. Sister St. Luke had learned to endure the 
crabs, but she still fled from the fiddlers when they strayed 
over from their towns in the marsh ; she still went carefully 
around the great jelly-fish sprawling on the beach, and regarded from a safe distance the beautiful blue Portuguese 
men-of-war, stranded unexpectedly on the dangerous shore, 
all their fair voyagings over. Keith collected for her the bril 
liant sea-weeds, little flecks of color on the white sand, and 
 
showed her their beauties ; he made her notice all the varieties 
of shells, enormous conches for the tritons to blow, and beds 
of wee pink ovals and cornucopias, plates and cups for the 
little web-footed fairies. Once he came upon a sea-bean. 
" It has drifted over from one of the West Indian islands," 
he said, polishing it with his handkerchief "one of the 
islands let us say Miraprovos a palmy tropical name, bring 
ing up visions of a volcanic mountain, vast cliffs, a tangled 
gorgeous forest, and the soft lapping wash of tropical seas. 
Is it not so, sefiora?" 
But the sefiora had never heard of the West Indian 
Islands. Being told, she replied : " As you say it, it is so. 
There is, then, much land in the world ? " 
"If you keep the sea-bean for ever, good will come," said 
Keith, gravely presenting it ; " but, if after having once ac 
cepted it you then lose it, evil will fall upon you." 
The Sister received the amulet with believing reverence. 
" I will lay it up before the shrine of Our Lady," she said, 
carefully placing it in the little pocket over her heart, hidden 
among the folds of her gown, where she kept her most pre 
cious treasures a bead of a rosary that had belonged to some 
saint who lived somewhere some time, a little faded prayer 
copied in the handwriting of a young nun who had died some 
years before and whom she had dearly loved, and a list of her 
own most vicious faults, to be read over and lamented daily ; 
crying evils such as a perverse and insubordinate bearing, a 
heart froward and evil, gluttonous desires of the flesh, and a 
spirit of murderous rage. These were her own ideas of her 
self, written down at the convent. Had she not behaved her 
self perversely to the Sister Paula, with whom one should be 
always mild on account of the affliction which had sharpened 
her tongue ? Had she not wrongfully coveted the cell of the 
novice Felipa, because it looked out upon the orange walk ? 
Had she not gluttonously longed for more of the delectable 
marmalade made by the aged Sanchita? And, worse than 
all, had she not, in a spirit of murderous rage, beat the yellow 
 
cat with a palm-branch for carrying off the young doves, her 
especial charge ? " Ah, my sins are great indeed," she sighed 
daily -upon her knees, and smote her breast with tears. 
Keith watched the sea-bean go into the little heart-pocket 
almost with compunction. Many of these amulets of the 
sea, gathered during his winter rambles, had he bestowed 
with formal warning of their magic powers, and many a fair 
hand had taken them, many a soft voice had promised to 
keep them " for ever." But he well knew they would be mis 
laid and forgotten in a day. The fair ones well knew it too, 
and each knew that the other knew, so no harm was done. 
But this sea-bean, he thought, would have a different fate 
laid up in some little nook before the shrine, a witness to the 
daily prayers of the simple-hearted little Sister. " I hope they 
may do it good," he thought vaguely. Then, reflecting that 
even the most depraved bean would not probably be much 
affected by the prayers, he laughed off the fancy, yet did not 
quite like to think, after all, that the prayers were of no use. 
Keith's religion, however, was in the primary rocks. 
Far down the beach they came upon a wreck, an old and 
long hidden relic of the past. The low sand-bluff had caved 
away suddenly and left a clean new side, where, imbedded in 
the lower part, they saw a ponderous mast. " An old Span 
ish galleon," said Keith, stooping to examine the remains. " I 
know it by the curious bolts. They ran ashore here, broad 
side on, in one of those sudden tornadoes they have along 
this coast once in a while, I presume. Singular ! This was 
my very place for lying in the sun and letting the blaze scorch 
me with its clear scintillant splendor. I never imagined I was 
lying on the bones of this old Spaniard." 
" God rest the souls of the sailors ! " said the Sister, mak 
ing the sign of the cross. 
" They have been in wherever they are, let us say, for 
about three centuries now," observed Keith, " and must be 
used to it, good or bad." 
" Nay ; but purgatory, senor." 
 
" True. I had forgotten that," said Keith. 
One morning there came up a dense, soft, southern-sea 
fog, " The kind you can cut with a knife," Carrington said. 
It lasted for days, sweeping out to sea at night on the land 
breeze, and lying in a gray bank low down on the horizon, 
and then rolling in again in the morning enveloping the water 
and the island in a thick white cloud which was not mist and 
did not seem damp even, so freshly, softly salt was the feeling 
it gave to the faces that went abroad in it. Carrington and 
Keith, of course, must needs be out in it every moment of 
the time. They walked down the beach for miles, hearing 
the muffled sound of the near waves, but not seeing them. 
They sailed in it not knowing whither they went, and they 
drifted out at sunset and watched the land breeze lift it, roll it 
up, and carry it out to sea, where distant ships on the horizon 
line, bound southward, and nearer ones, sailing northward 
with the Gulf Stream, found themselves enveloped and both 
ered by their old and baffling foe. They went over to the reef 
every morning, these two, and bathed in the fog, coming back 
