points with that offered in these pages. " He was 
terribly violent," Morris wrote, " but you know my 
self-control. I have need of it all when I remem- 
ber that I have it in my power to break in upon 
your cruel captivity." Catherine sent him, in answer 
to this, a note of three lines. " I am in great trou- 
ble ; do not doubt of my affection, but let me wait 
a little and think." The idea of a struggle with 
her father, of setting up her will against his own, 
was heavy on her soul, and it kept her quiet, as a 
great physical weight keeps us motionless. It never 
entered into her mind to throw her lover off; but 
from the first she tried to assure herself that there 
would be a peaceful way out of their difficulty. 
The assurance was vague, for it contained no ele- 
ment of positive conviction that her father would 
change his mind. She only had an idea that if she 
should be very good, the situation would in some 
mysterious manner improve. To be good she must 
be patient, outwardly submissive, abstain from judg- 
ing her father too harshly, and from committing any 
act of open defiance. He was perhaps right, after all, 
to think as he did ; by which Catherine meant not 
in the least that his judgment of Morris's motives 
in seeking to marry her was perhaps a just one, but 
that it was probably natural and proper that con- 
scientious parents should be suspicious and even un- 
just. There were probably people in the world as 
bad as her father supposed Morris to be, and if there 
were the slightest chance of Morris being one of 
these sinister persons, the Doctor was right in taking 
it into account. Of course he could not know what 
she knew how the purest love and truth were seat- 
ed in the young man's eyes ; but Heaven, in its time, 
might appoint a way of bringing him to such knowl- 
edge. Catherine expected a good deal of Heaven, 
and referred to the skies the initiative, as the French 
say, in dealing with her dilemma. She could not 
imagine herself imparting any kind of knowledge 
to her father ; there was something superior even in 
his injustice, and absolute in his mistakes. But she 
could at least be good, and if she were only good 
enough, Heaven would invent some way of recon- 
ciling all things the dignity of her father's errors 
and the sweetness of her own confidence, the strict 
performance of her filial duties, and the enjoyment 
of Morris Townsend's affection. 
Poor Catherine would have been glad to regard 
Mrs. Penniman as an illuminating agent, a part which 
this lady herself, indeed, was but imperfectly pre- 
pared to play. Mrs. Penniman took too much sat- 
isfaction in the sentimental shadows of this little 
drama to have, for the moment, any great interest 
in dissipating them. She wished the plot to thicken, 
and the advice that she gave her niece tended, in 
her own imagination, to produce this result. It was 
rather incoherent counsel, and from one day to an- 
other it contradicted itself ; but it was pervaded by 
an earnest desire that Catherine should do something 
striking. " You must act, my dear ; in your situa- 
tion the great thing is to act," said Mrs. Penniman, 
who found her niece altogether beneath her oppor- 
tunities. Mrs. Penniman's real hope was that the 
girl would make a secret marriage, at which she 
should officiate as bride'swoman or duenna. She had 
a vision of this ceremony being performed in some 
subterranean chapel; subterranean chapels in New 
York were not frequent, but Mrs. Penniman's im- 
agination was not chilled by trifles ; and of the guilty 
couple she liked to think of poor Catherine and her 
suitor as the guilty couple being shuffled away in 
a fast-whirling vehicle to some obscure lodging in 
the suburbs, where she would pay them (in a thick 
veil) clandestine visits ; where they would endure a 
period of romantic privation ; and when ultimately, 
after she should have been their earthly providence, 
their intercessor, their advocate, and their medium 
of communication with the world, they would be 
reconciled to her brother in an artistic tableau, in 
which she herself should be somehow the central 
figure. She hesitated as yet to recommend this 
course to Catherine, but she attempted to draw an 
attractive picture of it to Morris Townsend. She 
was in daily communication with the young man, 
whom she kept informed by letters of the state of 
affairs in Washington Square. As he had been ban- 
ished, as she said, from the house, she no longer saw 
him ; but she ended by writing to him that she long- 
ed for an interview. This interview could take 
place only on neutral ground, and she bethought 
herself greatly before selecting a place of meeting. 
She had an inclination for Greenwood Cemetery, but 
she gave it up as too distant; she could not absent 
herself for so long, as she said, without exciting sus- 
picion. Then she thought of the Battery, but that 
was rather cold and windy, besides one's being ex- 
posed to intrusion from the Irish emigrants who at 
this point alight, with large appetites, in the New 
World ; and at last she fixed upon an oyster saloon 
in the Seventh Avenue, kept by a negro an es- 
tablishment of which she knew nothing save that 
she had noticed it in passing. She made an appoint- 
ment with Morris Townsend to meet him there, and 
she went to the tryst at dusk, enveloped in an im- 
penetrable veil. He kept her waiting for half an 
hour he had almost the whole width of the city to 
traverse but she liked to wait, it seemed, to inten- 
sify the situation. She ordered a cup of tea, which 
proved excessively bad, and this gave her a sense 
that she was suffering in a romantic cause. When 
Morris at last arrived, they sat together for half an 
hour in the duskiest corner of the back shop ; and 
it is hardly too much to say that this was the hap- 
piest half-hour that Mrs. Penniman had known for 
years. The situation was really thrilling, and it 
scarcely seemed to her a false note when her com- 
panion asked for an oyster stew, and proceeded to 
consume it before her eyes. Morris, indeed, need- 
ed all the satisfaction that stewed oysters could give 
him, for it may be intimated to the reader that he 
regarded Mrs. Penniman in the light of a fifth wheel 
to his coach. He was in a state of irritation natural 
to a gentleman of fine parts who had been snubbed 
in a benevolent attempt to confer a distinction upon 
a young woman of inferior characteristics, and the 
insinuating sympathy of this somewhat desiccated 
matron appeared to offer him no practical relief. 
He thought her a humbug, and he judged of hum- 
bugs with a good deal of confidence. He had listen- 
ed and made himself agreeable to her at first, in or- 
der to get a footing in Washington Square ; and at 
present he needed all his self-command to be decent- 
ly civil. It would have gratified him to tell her that 
she was a fantastic old woman, and that he would 
like to put her into an omnibus and send her home. 
We know, however, that Morris possessed the virtue 
of self-control, and he had moreover the constant 
habit of seeking to be agreeable ; so that, although 
Mrs. Pen ni man's demeanor only exasperated his al- 
ready unquiet nerves, he listened to her with a 
sombre deference in which she found much to ad- 
mire. 
XYI. 
THEY had of course immediately spoken of Cath- 
erine. " Did she send me a message, or or any- 
thing?" Morris asked. He appeared to think that 
she might have sent him a trinket or a lock of her 
hair. 
Mrs. Penniman was slightly embarrassed, for she 
had not told her niece of her intended expedition. 
" Not exactly a message," she said ; " I didn't ask 
her for one, because I was afraid to to excite her." 
"I am afraid she is not very excitable." And 
Morris gave a smile of some bitterness. 
" She is better than that she is steadfast, she is 
true." 
" Do you think she will hold fast, then?" 
" To the death !" 
" Oh, I hope it won't come to that," said Morris. 
" We must be prepared for the worst, and that is 
what I wish to speak to you about." 
u What do you call the worst ?" 
" Well," said Mrs. Penniman, " my brother's hard, 
intellectual nature." 
" Oh, the devil !" 
" He is impervious to pity," Mrs. Penniman add- 
ed, by way of explanation. 
" Do you mean that he won't come round ?" 
" He will never be vanquished by argument. I 
have studied him. He will be vanquished only by 
the accomplished fact." 
" The accomplished fact ?" 
" He will come round afterward," said Mrs. Pen- 
niman, with extreme significance. " He cares for 
nothing but facts he must be met by facts." 
" Well," rejoined Morris, " it is a fact that I wish 
to marry his daughter. I met him with that the 
other day, but he was not at all vanquished." 
Mrs. Penniman was silent a little, and her smile 
beneath the shadow of her capacious bonnet, on the 
edge of which her black veil was arranged curtain- 
wise, fixed itself upon Morris's face with a still more 
tender brilliancy. " Marry Catherine first, and meet 
him afterward !" she exclaimed. 
"Do you recommend that?" asked the young 
man, frowning heavily. 
She was a little frightened, but she went on with 
considerable boldness. " That is the way I see it : 
a private marriage a private marriage." She re- 
peated the phrase because she liked it. 
" Do you mean that I should carry Catherine off ? 
What do they call it elope with her ?" 
" It is* not a crime when you are driven to it," 
said Mrs. Penniman. " My husband, as I have told 
you, was a distinguished clergyman one of the 
most eloquent men of his day. He once married a 
young couple that had fled from the house of the 
young lady's father; he was so interested in their 
story. He had no hesitation, and everything came 
out beautifully. The father was afterward recon- 
ciled, and thought everything of the young man. 
Mr. Penniman married them in the evening, about 
seven o'clock. The church was so dark you could 
scarcely see, and Mr. Penniman was intensely agi- 
tated he was so sympathetic. I don't believe he 
could have done it again." 
"Unfortunately, Catherine and I have not Mr. 
Penniman, to marry us," said Morris. 
" No, but you have me !" rejoined Mrs. Penniman, 
expressively. " I can't perform the ceremony, but 
I can help you ; I can watch !" 
" The woman's an idiot !" thought Morris ; but he 
was obliged to say something different. It was not, 
however, materially more civil. " Was it in order 
to tell me this that you requested I would meet you 
here ?" 
Mrs. Penniman had been conscious of a certain 
vagueness in her errand, and of not being able to 
offer him any very tangible reward for his long 
walk. " I thought perhaps you would like to see 
one who is so near to Catherine," she observed, 
with considerable majesty ; " and also," she added, 
"that you would value an opportunity of sending 
her something." 
Morris extended his empty hands with a melan- 
choly smile. " I am greatly obliged to you, but I 
have nothing to send." 
"Haven't you a word?" asked his companion, 
with her suggestive smile coming back. 
Morris frowned again. " Tell her to hold fast," 
he said, rather curtly. 
"That is a good word a noble word: it will 
make her happy for many days. She is very touch- 
ing, very brave," Mrs. Penniman went on, arranging 
her mantle and preparing to depart. While she 
was so engaged she had an inspiration ; she found 
the phrase that she could boldly offer as a vindica- 
tion of the step she had taken. " If you marry Cath- 
erine at all risks," she said, "you will give my brother 
a proof of your being what he pretends to doubt." 
" What he pretends to doubt ?" 
" Don't you know what that is ?" Mrs. Penniman 
asked, almost playfully. 
" It does not concern me to know," said Morris, 
grandly. 
" Of course it makes you angry." 
" I despise it," Morris declared. 
" Ah, you know what it is, then ?" said Mrs. Pen- 
niman, shaking her finger at him. " He pretends 
that you like you like the money." 
Morris hesitated a moment ; and then, as if he 
spoke advisedly, "I do like the money !" 
"Ah, but not but not as he means it. You 
don't like it more than Catherine ?" 
He leaned his elbows on the table and buried his 
head in his hands. "You torture me!" he mur- 
mured. And, indeed, this was almost the effect of 
the poor lady's too importunate interest in his situ- 
ation. 
But she insisted in making her point. " If you 
marry her in spite of him, he will take for granted 
that you expect nothing of him, and are prepared to 
do without it; and so he will see that you are dis- 
interested." 
Morris raised his head a little, following this argu- 
ment. " And what shall I gain by that ?" 
" Why, that he will see that he has been wrong in 
thinking that you wished to get his money." 
"And seeing that I wish he would go to the deuce 
with it, he will leave it to a hospital. Is that what 
you mean ?" asked Morris. 
" No, I don't mean that ; though that would be 
very grand," Mrs. Penniman quickly added. " I 
mean that, having done you such an injustice, he 
will think it his duty, at the end, to make some 
amends." 
Morris shook his head, though it must be confess- 
ed he was a little struck with this idea. "Do you 
think he is so sentimental ?" 
" He is not sentimental," said Mrs. Penniman ; 
" but, to be perfectly fair to him, I think he has, in 
his own narrow way, a certain sense of duty." 
There passed through Morris Townsend's mind a 
rapid wonder as to what he might, even under a re- 
mote contingency, be indebted to from the action of 
this principle in Doctor Sloper's breast, and the in- 
quiry exhausted itself in his sense of the ludicrous. 
" Your brother has no duties to me," he said pres- 
ently, " and I none to him." 
"Ah, but he has duties to Catherine." 
" Yes ; but you see, on that principle Catherine 
has duties to him as well." 
Mrs. Penniman got up with a melancholy sigh, as 
if she thought him very unimaginative. " She has 
always performed them faithfully ; and now do you 
think she has no duties to you?" Mrs. Penniman 
always, even in conversation, italicized her personal 
pronouns. 
" It would sound harsh to say so. I am so grate- 
ful for her love," Morris added. 
" I will tell her you said that. And now, remem- 
ber that if you need me I am there." And Mrs. 
Penniman, who could think of nothing more to say, 
nodded vaguely in the direction of Washington 
Square. 
Morris looked some moments at the sanded floor 
of the shop ; he seemed to be disposed to linger a 
moment. At last, looking up with a certain abrupt- 
ness, " It is your belief that if she marries me he 
will cut her off ?" he asked. 
Mrs. Penniman stared a little, and smiled. ""Why, 
I have explained to you what I think would happen 
that in the end it would be the best thing to do." 
" You mean that, whatever she does, in the long- 
run she will get the money ?" 
" It doesn't depend upon her, but upon you. 
Venture to appear as disinterested as you are," said 
Mrs. Penniman, ingeniously. Morris dropped his 
eyes on the sanded floor again, pondering this, and 
she pursued : " Mr. Penniman and I had nothing, 
and we were very happy. Catherine, moreover, 
has her mother's fortune, which, at the time my sis- 
ter-in-law married, was considered a very handsome 
one." 
" Oh, don't speak of that !" said Morris ; and in- 
deed it was quite superfluous, for he had contem- 
plated the fact in all its lights. 
"Austin married a wife with money why 
shouldn't you ?" 
" Ah ! but your brother was a doctor," Morris ob- 
jected. 
" Well, all young men can't be doctors." 
" I should think it an extremely loathsome pro- 
fession," said Morris, with an air of intellectual in- 
dependence ; then, in a moment, he went on rather 
inconsequently, " Do you suppose there is a will al- 
ready made in Catherine's favor ?" 
" I suppose so even doctors must die ; and per- 
haps a little in mine," Mrs. Penniman frankly added. 
"And you believe he would certainly change it 
as regards Catherine ?" 
" Yes ; and then change it back again." 
" Ah, but one can't depend on that," said Morris. 
" Do you want to depend on it ?" Mrs. Penniman 
asked. 
Morris blushed a little. " Well, I am certainly 
afraid of being the cause of an injury to Cathe- 
rine." 
"Ah! you must not be afraid. Be afraid of 
nothing, and everything will go well." 
And then Mrs. Penniman paid for her cup of tea, 
and Morris paid for his oyster stew, and they went 
out together into the dimly -lighted wilderness of 
the Seventh Avenue. The dusk had closed in com- 
pletely, and the street lamps were separated by wide 
intervals of a pavement in which cavities and fis- 
sures played a disproportionate part. An omnibus, 
emblazoned with strange pictures, went tumbling 
over the dislocated cobble-stones. 
" How will you go home ?" Morris asked, follow- 
ing this vehicle with an interested eye. Mrs. Pen- 
niman had taken his arm. 
She hesitated a moment. " I think this manner 
would be pleasant," she said; and she continued to 
let him feel the value of his support. 
So he walked with her through the devious ways 
of the west side of the town, and through the bustle 
of gathering nightfall in populous streets, to the 
quiet precinct of Washington Square. They lin- 
gered a moment at the foot of Doctor Sloper's white 
marble steps, above which a spotless white door, 
adorned with a glittering silver plate, seemed to fig- 
ure for Morris the closed portal of happiness ; and 
then Mrs. Penniman's companion rested a melan- 
choly eye upon a lighted window in the upper part 
of the house. 
" That is my room my dear little room !" Mrs. 
Penniman remarked. 
Morris started. " Then I needn't come walking 
round the Square to gaze at it." 
" That's as you please. But Catherine's is be- 
hind ; two noble windows on the second floor. I 
think you can see them from the other street." 
" I don't want to see them, ma'am." And Morris 
turned his back to the house. 
" I will tell her you have been here, at any rate," 
said Mrs. Penniman, pointing to the spot where they 
stood ; " and I will give her your message that she 
is to hold fast." 
" Oh yes ; of course. You know I write her all 
that." 
"It seems to say more when it is spoken. And 
remember, if you need me, that I am there" and Mrs. 
Penniman glanced at the third floor. 
On this they separated, and Morris, left to him- 
self, stood looking at the house a moment ; after 
which he turned away, and took a gloomy walk round 
the Square, on the opposite side, close to the wooden 
fence. Then he came back, and paused for a min- 
ute in front of Doctor Sloper's dwelling. His eyes 
travelled over it; they even rested on the ruddy 
windows of Mrs. Penniman's apartment. He thought 
it a devilish comfortable house. 
XYII. 
MRS. PENNIMAN told Catherine that evening the 
two ladies were sitting in the back-parlor that she 
had had an interview with Morris Townsend ; and 
on receiving this news the girl started with a sense 
of pain. She felt angry for the moment; it was 
almost the first time she had ever felt angry. It 
seemed to her that her aunt was meddlesome ; and 
from this came a vague apprehension that she would 
spoil something. 
"I don't see why you should have seen him. I 
don't think it was right," Catherine said. 
" I was so sorry for him it seemed to me some 
one ought to see him." 
" No one but I," said Catherine, who felt as if she 
were making the most presumptuous speech of her 
life, and yet at the same time had an instinct that 
she was right in doing so. 
" But you wouldn't, my dear," Aunt Lavinia re- 
joined ; " and I didn't know what might have be- 
come of him." 
" I have not seen him because my father has for- 
bidden it," Catherine said, very simply. 
There was a simplicity in this, indeed, which 
fairly vexed Mrs. Penniman. " If your father for- 
bade you to go to sleep, I suppose you would keep 
awake !" she commented. 
Catherine looked at her. "I don't understand 
you. You seem to me very strange." 
" Well, my dear, you will understand me some 
day !" And Mrs. Penniman, who was reading the 
evening paper, which she perused daily from the 
first line to the last, resumed her occupation. She 
wrapped herself in silence; she was determined 
Catherine should ask her for an account of her in- 
terview with Morris. But Catherine was silent for 
so long that she almost lost patience; and she was 
on the point of remarking to her that she was very 
heartless, when the girl at last spoke. 
" What did he say ?" she asked. 
" He said he is ready to marry you any day, in 
spite of everything." 
Catherine made no answer to this, and Mrs. Pen- 
niman almost lost patience again ; owing to which 
she at last volunteered the information that Morris 
looked very handsome, but terribly haggard. 
" Did he seem sad ?" asked her niece. 
" He was dark under the eyes," said Mrs. Penni- 
man. " So different from when I first saw him ; 
though I am not sure that if I had seen him in this 
condition the first time, I should not have been even 
more struck with him. There is something brilliant 
in his very misery." 
This was, to Catherine's sense, a vivid picture, 
and though she disapproved, she felt herself gazing 
at it. " Where did you see him ?" she asked, pres- 
ently. 
" In in the Bowery ; at a confectioner's," said 
Mrs. Penniman, who had a general idea that she 
ought to dissemble a little. 
" Whereabouts is the place ?" Catherine inquired, 
after another pause. 
" Do you wish to go 1 there, my . dear ?" said her 
aunt. 
" Oh no." And Catherine got up from her seat 
and went to the fire, where she stood looking awhile 
at the glowing coals. 
" Why are you so dry, Catherine ?" Mrs. Penniman 
said at last. 
"So dry?" 
" So cold so irresponsive." 
The girl turned very quickly. " Did he say that ?" 
Mrs. Penniman hesitated a moment. " I wilj: tell 
you what he said. He said he feared only one thing 
that you would be afraid." 
" Afraid of what ?" 
" Afraid of your father." 
Catherine turned back to the fire again, and 
then, after a pause, she said, "I am afraid of my 
father." 
Mrs. Penniman got quickly up from her chair and 
approached her niece. " Do you mean to give him 
up, then ?" 
Catherine for some time never moved ; she kept 
her eyes on the coals. At last she raised her head 
and looked at her aunt. "Why do you push me 
so ?" she asked. 
" I don't push you. When have I spoken to you 
before ?" 
" It seems to me that you have spoken to me sev- 
eral times." 
" I am afraid it is necessary, then, Catherine," said 
Mrs. Penniman, with a good deal of solemnity. " I 
am afraid you don't feel the importance" she 
paused a little ; Catherine was looking at her " the 
importance of not disappointing that gallant young 
heart !" And Mrs. Penniman went back to her 
