OMELETTE WITH HAM, TONGUE, OR CHICKEN. 
Make precisely as above; but when it is done, scatter thickly over the
surface some minced ham, tongue, or seasoned chicken, slip your broad
knife under one side of the omelette and double in half, enclosing the
meat. Then upset the frying-pan upon a hot dish.
Or,
You can stir the minced meat into the omelette after all the
ingredients are put together, adding, if you like, some chopped parsley.
CAULIFLOWER OMELETTE.
Chop some cold cauliflower very fine, and mix in when your omelette is
ready to go into the pan. Season highly with cayenne pepper and salt.
ASPARAGUS OMELETTE. 
Is made of the tops only, minced and seasoned, and stirred in as is
the cauliflower. Tomato omelette has stewed tomato spread over the
surface, and is then doubled in half.
EGG-BALLS FOR SOUP. 
Rub the yolks of three or four hard-boiled eggs to a smooth paste with
a very little melted butter, pepper, and salt. To these add two raw
ones, beaten light, and enough flour to hold the paste together. Mince
into balls with floured hands and set in a cool place until just before
your soup comes off, when put in carefully and boil one minute.
OMELETTE AUX FINES HERBES.
After the yolks and whites are mixed together with the milk, stir in,
with two or three strokes of the spoon or whisk, two tablespoonfuls of
chopped parsley, green thyme, and sweet marjoram, with pepper and salt.
Fry instantly.
CHEESE OMELETTES.
Grate some rich old cheese, and having mixed the omelette as usual,
stir in the cheese with a swift turn or two of the whisk, and at the
same time some chopped parsley and thyme. If you beat long the cheese
will separate the milk from the eggs. Cook at once.
Or,
Make the omelette in the usual way; grate cheese upon it and fold it
over.
SWEET OMELETTES.
Omelette Soufflée—(Fried.)
    6 eggs.
    4 tablespoonfuls sugar (powdered.)
    1 teaspoonful of vanilla.
    2 tablespoonfuls butter.
Beat the whites and yolks separately. Add the sugar to the yolks, a
little at a time, beating very thoroughly, until they are smooth and
thick. The whites should stand alone. Put two tablespoonfuls of butter
in a frying-pan, heat to boiling, and when you have added the vanilla
to the omelette, pour it in and cook very quickly, as you would a plain
one. Slip the knife frequently under it, to loosen from the sides and
bottom. It is more apt to scorch than an omelette without sugar. Turn
out upon a very hot dish, sift powdered sugar over the top, and serve
instantly, or it will fall and become heavy.
Omelette Soufflée—(Baked.)
    6 eggs.
    6 tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar.
    Juice of a lemon and half the peel, grated.
Beat yolks and whites separately and very well. Add to the yolks
by degrees the powdered sugar, and beat until it ceases to froth,
and is thick and smooth. The whites should be stiff enough to cut
with a knife. Stir together lightly with the seasoning, pour into a
well-buttered dish, and bake in a quick oven five or six minutes. The
dish should be warmed when it is buttered, not to chill the eggs. Send
around with a spoon, and let each one help himself before it can fall.
APPLE OMELETTE. 
    6 large pippins.
    1 tablespoonful butter.
    8 eggs.
    5 or 6 tablespoonfuls sugar.
    Nutmeg to taste.
    1 teaspoonful rose-water.
Stew the apples, when you have pared and cored them, as for
apple-sauce. Beat them very smooth while hot, adding the butter, sugar,
and nutmeg. When perfectly cold, put with the eggs, which should be
whipped light, yolks and whites separately. Put in the yolks first,
then the rose-water, lastly the whites, and pour into a deep bake-dish,
which has been warmed and buttered. Bake in a moderate oven until it
is delicately browned. Eat warm—not hot—for tea, with Graham bread.
It is better for children—I say nothing of their elders—than cake and
preserves.
OMELETTE WITH JELLY.
    Currant or other tart jelly.
    5 eggs.
    4 tablespoonfuls cream, or the same of milk, thickened with
        a teaspoonful of rice-flour or arrow-root.
    2 tablespoonfuls powdered sugar.
    1 teaspoonful bitter almond or vanilla flavoring.
Beat whites and yolks separately, adding to the latter the sugar and
milk after they are thick and smooth. Next, chop in the seasoning;
lastly, stir in the whites with a few swift strokes. Put a large
spoonful of butter in the frying-pan, and, when it is hot, pour in
the omelette. Spread upon it when done, which will be in a very few
minutes, some nice jelly. Take the pan from the fire to do this, spread
quickly, slip your knife or tin spatula under one-half of the omelette,
and double it over. Turn over on a hot platter, sift powdered sugar
upon it, and eat at once.
MILK, BUTTER, CHEESE, ETC.
A cool cellar is the best place in which to keep milk, if you have
no dairy or milk-room. Strain it into broad shallow pans, which are
lukewarm from recent scalding. You can get them made in one piece, with
no seams in which sour cream or dirt may lurk unsuspected. Set upon
swing shelves, to avoid the possibilities of drowned mice, and keep the
cellar dark to save it from flies. In twelve hours skim for the table,
and, unless you have need of the milk, let it stand twelve hours more
for the second rising of cream. Put this into the stone jar or crock
in which the cream is kept for churning. Even in butter-making, I have
found it a good plan to take off at night the cream clean from the
morning churning, instead of letting it stand twenty-four hours, as is
the usual custom. The “second rising” will repay one for the additional
trouble. Churn as soon as convenient after the cream “loppers” or
thickens. If it stands too long, it becomes bitter or musty. The churn
should be well scalded and aired between the churnings. Scrupulous
cleanliness should be the unbending rule of dairy arrangements. All
strongly-flavored substances must be kept from the neighborhood of milk
and butter. They are ready absorbents, and when they contract odor or
taste, never get rid of it. Have earthen and tin milk vessels, and
never allow them to be put to any other use.
Scald the churn, and cool with ice or spring water; pour in the thick
cream. Churn rather fast, until the butter-flakes, left by the dasher
upon the top, show that the end to be gained is near—then more slowly.
The motion should always be regular. In warm weather pour a little
cold water into the churn, should the butter come slowly. Take it up
with the perforated dasher, turning it dexterously just below the
surface of the butter-milk, to catch every stray bit. Have ready some
clean, very cold water, in a deep wooden tray, and into this plunge
the dasher when you draw it from the churn. The butter will float off,
leaving the dasher free. Having collected every particle, gather behind
a wooden butter-shovel and drain off the water, squeezing and pressing
the butter with the shovel. Set in a cool place for an hour to harden—a
necessary measure in summer—then work and knead it with a wooden
ladle until not another drop of water exudes, and the butter is like
yellow marble in polish and closeness of pores. When you have worked
out the butter-milk, add by degrees fine salt in the proportion of a
dessertspoonful to every pound. Then set aside for some hours, always
in a cool place. The last working is a slight affair, comparatively.
Still using the paddle, and never, from beginning to end of the
operation, touching with your hands, mould into rolls or pound “pats.”
Mark with grooves or checkers with the ladle, or stamp with a print.
Wrap each roll in a clean wet linen cloth, which has no touch of soap
or starch about it, and pack in a stone jar, sprinkling a little salt
between the layers.
If you wish to keep it a long time, work with especial care, and pack
down hard in a perfectly clean stone jar. Do not, above all things,
take one that has ever been used for pickles. You may not detect the
faintest odor lingering about it, but the butter will, and absorb it,
too. Some cover the butter with strong brine, but a better way is to
press a fine linen cloth closely to the surface, and cover this with a
thick layer of clean fine salt. Set in a cool, dry place, and keep the
cloth over it all the time; also a tightly-fitting lid. When you begin
to use it, take out enough to last a week, and re-cover. If you admit
the air every day, it is apt to grow strong. A pretty plate of butter
for the table is made of balls half the size of an egg, rolled in the
little fluted paddles sold for the purpose.
BONNY-CLABBER, OR LOPPERED-MILK. 
Set a china or glass dish of skimmed milk away in a warm place,
covered. When it turns—i. e., becomes a smooth, firm, but not tough
cake, like blanc-mange—serve in the same dish. Cut out carefully with a
large spoon, and put in saucers, with cream, powdered sugar, and nutmeg
to taste. It is better, if set on the ice for an hour before it is
brought to table. Do not let it stand until the whey separates from the
curd.
Few people know how delicious this healthful and cheap dessert can
be made, if eaten before it becomes tart and tough, with a liberal
allowance of cream and sugar. There are not many jellies and creams
superior to it.
RENNET.
Clean the stomach of a calf (or have your butcher do it for you) as
soon as it is killed, scouring inside and out with salt. When perfectly
clean, tack upon a frame to dry in the sun for a day. Cut in squares,
and pack down in salt, or keep in wine or brandy. When you wish to
use the salted, soak half an hour in cold water, wash well, and put
into the milk to be turned, tied to a string, that it may be drawn
out without breaking the curd. The liquor rennet sold by druggists is
sometimes good, quite as often worthless. You can, however, get the
dried or salted in the markets, and often in the drug-stores.
MOUNTAIN CUSTARD, OR JUNKET. 
Take a piece of rennet an inch long, or a teaspoonful of the wine in
which rennet is kept, to each quart of milk. Season with vanilla or
lemon, a little nutmeg, and a tablespoonful of sugar to each part. More
will retard the formation. Set in a warm place—near the fire, or on
the kitchen table—closely covered. Look at it from time to time, and
if, in the course of an hour, there are no signs of stiffening, add
more rennet. When it is firm, like blanc-mange, and before the whey
separates from the curd, remove the rennet, and set upon ice until it
is wanted. Serve with powdered sugar and cream.
THICKENED MILK.
Boil a quart of milk, add a very little salt, and two tablespoonfuls
of rice or wheat flour wet in cold milk. Stir in smoothly, and let it
thicken in a vessel of boiling water, keeping the outer saucepan at a
hard boil for half an hour. Eat with butter and sugar, or with cream
and sugar. For invalids, or children who are suffering with summer
disorders, boil at least an hour, stirring very often.
CHEESE.
I have doubted the utility of inserting a receipt for regular
cheese-making. The apparatus necessary for the manufacture is seldom,
if ever, found in a private family, while cheese can be had in every
country store at one-third the expense to an amateur of making it. But,
remembering that it may be a pleasant, if not profitable experiment,
for the mistress of many cows to make at her odd moments, I have
secured what purports to be an exact description of “cheese-making on a
small scale.”
To each gallon of milk warm from the cow, add a piece of rennet six
inches long and three wide, or two tablespoonfuls rennet water—i. e.,
water in which rennet has been boiled. Cover, and set in a warm place
until it becomes a firm curd; this should be, at the most, not more
than three-quarters of an hour. When the whey has separated entirely,
and looks clear and greenish, wash your hands very clean, and with
them gently press all the curd to one side of the pan or tub, while an
assistant dips out the whey. Have ready a stout linen bag, pour the
curd into it, and hang it up to dry until not another drop of whey
can be pressed out; then put the curd into a wooden dish, and chop it
fine. Empty into a finer bag, and put into a small cheese-box, or other
circular wooden box with a perforated bottom, and a lid that slides
down easily but closely on the inside. Your bag should be as nearly
as possible the same shape and size as this box. Lay heavy weights
upon the top, in lack of a cheese-press, and let it stand an hour. The
cloth should be wet inside as well as out, before you put the curds
in. At the end of the hour, take out the cheese and chop again, adding
salt this time. Have ready a fresh wet cloth; pack in the curd hard.
There should be a circular cover for this bag, which must be basted all
around, and very smooth on top. Scald the box and cover, then rinse
with cold water, and put the cheese again under press for twelve hours.
Next day, take it out, rub all over with salt, and fit on a clean wet
cloth. Look at it sixteen hours later, pare off the rough edges, and
scrape the sides of inequalities before returning to the press for the
last time. Let it remain under the weights for twenty-four hours. Strip
off the cloth, rub the cheese well with butter, and lay upon a clean
cloth spread on a shelf in a cool, dry place. A wire-safe is best. Wipe
clean; then rub every day with butter for a week, and turn also every
twenty-four hours. At the end of the week, omit the greasing, and rub
hard with a coarse cloth. Do this every day for a month. Your cheese
will then be eatable, but it will be much finer six months later.
Stilton cheeses—renowned over the world—are buried in dry heather
when they are firm enough to remove from the shelves, and kept there a
month. This is called “ripening.”
COTTAGE CHEESE.
Heat sour milk until the whey rises to the top. Pour it off, put the
curd in a bag and let it drip six hours, without squeezing it. Put in a
wooden bowl, chop fine with a wooden spoon, salt to taste, and work to
the consistency of soft putty, adding a little cream and butter as you
proceed. Mould with your hands into round “pats” or balls, and keep in
a cool place. It is best when fresh.
CREAM CHEESE.
Stir a little salt into a pan of “loppered” cream. Pour into a linen
bag, and let it drain three days, changing the bag every day. Then pack
into a wooden cup or mould with holes in the bottom, and press two
hours. Wet the mould with cold water before putting in the cream-curd.
Wrapped in soft white paper—two or three folds of tissue paper will
do—to exclude the air, they will keep in a cool place for a week.
This is the cheese sold in this country under the name of Neufchatel.
BREAD.
If eminence of importance entitled a subject to pre-eminence of
position, that of which we are now about to speak should have stood
foremost in this work. It is not a pleasant thing to think or write
about, but it is a stubborn fact, that upon thousands of tables, in
otherwise comfortable homes, good bread is an unknown phenomenon. I
say phenomenon, because it would indeed be a marvellous estrangement
of cause and effect were indifferent flour, unskillfully mixed with
flat yeast, badly risen and negligently baked, to result in that pride
of the notable housekeeper—light, sweet, wholesome bread. I know a
household where sour, stiff bread is the rule, varied several times
during the week by muffins scented and colored with soda, clammy
biscuit, and leathery griddle-cakes; another where the bread is
invariably over-risen, and consequently tasteless, sometimes slightly
acid; yet another in which home-made bread is not used at all because
it is “so troublesome and uncertain,” the mistress preferring to feed
her family, growing children and all, upon the vari-colored sponges
bought at the bakers—sponges inflated with sal volatile, flavorless,
and dry as chips when a day old, and too often betraying, in the dark
streaks running through the interior of the loaf, want of cleanliness
in the kneader. Yet these are all well-to-do people, who submit to
these abominations partly because they do not know how badly off they
are—chiefly because it is their way of doing, and they see no reason
for changing. “I have been a housekeeper for thirty years, and have
always mixed my bread just so,” retorted a mistress once, when I mildly
set forth the advantages of “setting a sponge” over-night. “I put in
flour, yeast, and milk if I have it, and give them a good stir; then
set the dough down to rise. Our folks don’t fancy very light bread.
There don’t seem to be any substance in it—so to speak. Mine generally
turns out pretty nice. It’s all luck, after all, about bread.”
“I’m told you have a receipt for making bread,” laughed another to me;
“I never heard of such a thing in my life, and I’ve been keeping house
eighteen years. So I thought I’d call and ask you for it—just as a
curiosity, you know. I want to see what it is like.”
I wisely kept my thoughts to myself, and dictated the receipt, which
she jotted down in a memorandum-book laughing all the while at the
“excellent joke.”
“You really use this?” she demanded, when this was done.
“I do. I have used no other for many years.”
“And the bread I ate upon your table, the other night, was made
according to this?”
Again an affirmative answer.
“I guess your cook could tell another story,” rejoined the skeptic.
“You can’t make me believe that bread is made by rule. I put my
materials together anyhow, and I have as good luck as most of my
neighbors.”
I regarded my visitor as an impertinent simpleton; but I have been
amazed, in subsequent years, at finding that her creed is that of
hundreds of housewives more or less sensible. “Luck” rules the baking,
and upon the shoulders of this Invisible are laid the deficiencies
of the complacent cook. Cheap flour and laziness are at the bottom
of more mishaps in the bread line than any other combination of
circumstances. From the inferior grades of flour, it is possible to
make tolerable biscuit, crumpets, and muffins, plain pastry, and
very good griddle-cakes. You cannot, by any stretch of art, produce
excellent bread from poor flour. It is no economy to purchase it for
this purpose. It is judicious to lay in two barrels at a time, and to
use the best only for the semi- or tri-weekly baking.
Chiefest then among the conditions to good bread, I place good
“family” flour—dry, elastic, and odorless. Whiteness is a secondary
consideration, although, to American eyes, this is a recommendation.
A little experience will teach you to detect the signs that foretell
satisfactory baking-days, and vice versâ. If in handling the flour
you discern a heaviness like that of ground plaster; if in squeezing
a handful tightly you discover that it retains the imprint of palm
and fingers, and rolls back into the tray a compact ball or roll;
if it is in the least musty, or sour, use it very sparingly in your
trial-baking, for the chances are as ten to one that you will head the
barrel up again and return it to your grocer.
Sometimes new flour can be ripened for use by sifting enough for each
baking into a large tray, and exposing it to the hot sun for some
hours, or by setting it upon the kitchen hearth for the same time.
And it not unfrequently happens that flour improves greatly after
the barrel has been open for several days or weeks. It dries out and
becomes lighter, more elastic. Next in importance to the quality of
the flour is that of the yeast. This should be light in color and
lively, effervescing easily when shaken, and emitting an odor like weak
ammonia. If dull or sour, it is bad. In cities it is easiest, perhaps
cheapest, to buy yeast from a brewery or bakery, exercising your
discrimination as to quality. Unless you can satisfy yourself in this
regard, you had better make your own. I can confidently recommend the
receipts given in this work as easy and safe, having tried them in my
own family.
Novices in bread-making, and many who should have learned better by
long experience, fall into a sad mistake in the consistency of the
dough. It should be mixed as soft as it can be handled. Bread will
rise sooner and higher, be lighter and more digestible, and keep fresh
much longer, if this rule be followed. Stiff bread is close in texture,
often waxy to the teeth, and after a day or so becomes very hard.
Set the dough to rise in a moderately warm place, and keep it in an
even temperature. There is force in the old lament—“My bread took cold,
last night.” Cold arrests the process of fermentation. There is a
chance, should this occur, that a removal to a more genial atmosphere
and careful nursing may cure the congestion, should it be only partial.
Too much heat carries forward the work too rapidly. In this case,
you will find your dough puffy and sour. Correct the latter evil by
dissolving a little soda or saleratus in hot water, and working it well
in.
Knead your bread faithfully and from all sides, until it rebounds like
india-rubber after a smart blow of the fist upon the centre of the mass.
The oven should not be too hot. If you cannot hold your bare arm within
it while you count thirty, it is too quick. Keep the heat steady after
the bread goes in. Too much fire at first, and rapidly cooling, produce
the effect upon the bread which is technically called “slack-baked,”
i. e., the inside of the loaf is never properly done. Practice
and intelligent observation will, in time, make you an adept in the
management of your ovens. If the bread rises rapidly while baking, and
the crust begins to form before the lower part of the loaf is baked,
cover the top with clean paper until you are ready to brown it.
Grate away the burned portions of the crust, should there be such. This
is better than chipping with a knife. One of the best bread-makers I
know bakes in round pans, each loaf by itself, and grates the whole
outer surface, top, bottom, and sides, quickly and lightly, toning down
the brown to a uniform and pleasing tint. Tilt your loaves upon the
edge, the lower part resting upon the table, the upper supported by the
wall or other upright object, and throw a coarse dry cloth over them
until they cool. This position allows the air to get at all sides, and
prevents “sweating.” A tin bread-box is best, with a cloth at bottom
and enwrapping the loaves.
YEAST (Hop.) 
    4 large potatoes, or six small.
    2 quarts cold water.
    Double handful hops, tied in a coarse muslin bag.
    4 tablespoonfuls flour.
    2 tablespoonfuls white sugar.
Peel the potatoes, and put them with the hop-bag into a saucepan
containing two quarts cold water. Cover and boil until the potatoes
break and fall apart. Take these out with a perforated skimmer, leaving
the water still boiling, mash them fine with a potato-beetle, and work
in the flour and sugar. Moisten this gradually with the boiling
hop tea, stirring it to a smooth paste. When all the tea has been
mixed in, set it aside to cool. While still slightly warm, add four
tablespoonfuls of lively yeast, and turn all into a large open vessel
to “work.” Keep this in a warm place until it ceases to bubble up, or
until next day. In summer it will work well in a few hours. When quite
light, put in earthen jars with small mouths, in which fit corks, or
bottle it, and remove to ice-house or cellar. It will keep good for a
fortnight—longer in winter.
When you wish to use it for baking, send a small vessel to the cellar
for the desired quantity, and re-cork at once. A half-hour in a hot
kitchen may spoil it.
YEAST (Self-working).
    8 potatoes.
    2 ounces hops.
    4 quarts cold water.
    1 lb. flour.
    ½ lb. white sugar.
    1 tablespoonful salt.
Tie the hops in a coarse muslin bag, and boil one hour in four quarts
of water. Let it cool to lukewarmness before removing the bag. Wet
with the tepid liquor—a little at a time—the flour, making to a smooth
paste. Put in the sugar and salt, beat up the batter three minutes
before adding the rest of the tea. Set it away for two days in an open
bowl covered with a thin cloth, in a closet which is moderately and
evenly warm.
On the third day peel, boil, and mash the potatoes, and when entirely
free from lumps and specks, stir in gradually the thickened hop-liquor.
Let it stand twelve hours longer in the bowl, stirring often, and
keeping it in the warm kitchen. Then bottle or put away in corked jars,
which must be perfectly sweet and freshly scalded. This will keep a
month in a cool cellar. It is more troublesome to make it than other
kinds of yeast, but it needs no other “rising” to excite fermentation,
and remains good longer than that made in the usual way.
YEAST (Potato.) 
    6 potatoes.
    2 quarts cold water.
    4 tablespoonfuls flour.
    2 tablespoonfuls white sugar.
Peel and boil the potatoes until they break. Leaving the water on the
fire, take them out and mash fine with the flour and sugar, wetting
gradually with the hot water until it is all used. When lukewarm, add a
gill of good yeast, and set aside in an open vessel and warm place to
ferment. When it ceases to effervesce, bottle and set in ice-house.
This yeast is very nice and white, and is preferred by many who dislike
the bitter taste of hops. It is also convenient to make when hops
cannot be obtained.
YEAST CAKES. 
    2 quarts water (cold.)
    1 quart pared and sliced potatoes.
    Double-handful hops, tied in coarse muslin bag.
    Flour to make stiff batter.
    1 cup Indian meal.
Boil the potatoes and hop-bag in two quarts of water for three-quarters
of an hour. Remove the hops, and while boiling hot, strain the potatoes
and water through a cullender into a bowl. Stir into the scalding
liquor enough flour to make a stiff batter. Beat all up well; add two
tablespoonfuls lively yeast and set in a warm place to rise. When
light, stir in a cup of Indian meal, roll into a sheet a quarter of an
inch thick, and cut into round cakes. Dry these in the hot sun, or in
a very moderate oven, taking care they do not heat to baking. It is
best to put them in after the fire has gone down for the night, and
leave them in until morning. When entirely dry and cold, hang them up
in a bag in a cool, dry place.
Use one cake three inches in diameter for a loaf of fair size; soak in
tepid water until soft, and add a pinch of soda or saleratus, then mix.
These cakes will remain good a month in summer, two in winter.
BAKING POWDERS.
    1 ounce super-carbonate soda.
    7 drachms tartaric acid—(in powder.)
Roll smoothly and mix thoroughly. Keep in a tight glass jar or bottle.
Use one teaspoonful to a quart of flour.
Or,
    12 teaspoonfuls carb. soda.
    24 teaspoonfuls cream tartar.
Put as above, and use in like proportion.
BREAD SPONGE (Potato.) 
    6 potatoes, boiled and mashed fine while hot.
    6 tablespoonfuls baker’s yeast.
    2 tablespoonfuls white sugar.
    2 tablespoonfuls lard.
    1 even teaspoonful soda.
    1 quart warm—not hot—water.
    3 cups flour.
Mash the potatoes, and work in the lard and sugar. Stir to a cream,
mixing in gradually a quart of the water in which the potatoes were
boiled, which should have been poured out to cool down to blood warmth.
Beat in the flour, already wet up with a little potato-water to
prevent lumping, then the yeast, lastly the soda. Cover lightly if the
weather is warm, more closely in winter, and set to rise over night in
a warm place.
BREAD SPONGE (Plain.) 
    1 quart warm water.
    6 tablespoonfuls baker’s yeast.
    2 tablespoonfuls lard.
    2 tablespoonfuls white sugar.
    1 teaspoonful soda.
    Flour to make a soft batter.
Melt the lard in the warm water, add the sugar, then the flour by
degrees, stirring in smoothly. A quart and a pint of flour will usually
be sufficient if the quality is good. Next comes the yeast, lastly the
soda. Beat up hard for several minutes, and set to rise as above.
Bread mixed with potato-sponge is more nutritious, keeps fresh longer,
and is sweeter than that made with the plainer sponge, But there
are certain seasons of the year when good old potatoes cannot be
procured, and new ones will not do for this purpose.
The potato-sponge is safer, because surer for beginners in the
important art of bread-making. After using it for fifteen years, I
regard it as almost infallible—given the conditions of good flour,
yeast, kneading, and baking.
FAMILY BREAD (White.) 
Having set your sponge over night, or, if you bake late in the
afternoon, early in the morning, sift dry flour into a deep bread-tray,
and strew a few spoonfuls of fine salt over it. The question of the
quantity of flour is a delicate one, requiring judgment and experience.
Various brands of flour are so unequal with respect to the quantity
of gluten they contain, that it is impossible to give any invariable
rule on this subject. It will be safe, however, to sift two quarts and
a pint, if you have set the potato-sponge; two quarts for the plain.
This will make two good-sized loaves. Make a hole in the middle of the
heap, pour in the risen sponge (which should be very light and seamed
in many places on the top), and work down the flour into it with your
hands. If too soft, add more flour. If you can mould it at all, it is
not too soft. If stiff, rinse out the bowl in which the sponge was set
with a little lukewarm water, and work this in. When you have it in
