quickly at the thought. 
" I don't believe she has suffered ; on the contrary, she has 
enjoyed. Osmond's marriage has given Pansy a great lift. 
Before that she lived in a hole. And do you know what the 
mother thought? That you might take such a fancy to the 
child that you would do something for her. Osmond, of course 
 
could never give her a portion. Osmond was really extremely 
poor; but of course you know all about that. Ah, my dear," 
cried the Countess, " why did you ever inherit money?" She 
stopped a moment, as if she saw something singular in Isabel's 
face. " Don't tell me now that you will give her a dowry. 
You are capable of that, but I shouldn't believe it. Don't try 
to be too good. Be a little wicked, feel a little wicked, for once 
in your life ! " 
"It's very strange. I suppose I ought to know, but I am 
sorry," Isabel said. " I am much obliged to you." 
" Yes, you seem to be ! " cried the Countess, with a mocking 
laugh. " Perhaps you are perhaps you are not. You don't 
take it as I should have thought." 
" How should I take iU " Isabel asked. 
" Well, I should say as a woman who has been made use of." 
Isabel made no answer to this ; she only listened, and the 
Countess went on. " They have always been bound to each 
other ; they remained so even after she became proper. But 
he has always been more for her than she has been for him. 
When their little carnival was over they made a bargain that 
each should give the other complete liberty, but that each should 
also do everything possible to help the other on. You may ask 
me how I know such a thing as that. I know it by the way 
they have behaved. Now see how much better women are than 
men ! She has found a wife for Osmond, but Osmond has never 
lifted a little finger for her. She has worked for him, plotted 
for him, suffered for him ; she has even more than once found 
money for him ; and the end of it is that he is tired of her. 
She is an old habit ; there are moments when he needs her ; but 
on the whole he wouldn't miss her if she were removed. And, 
what's more, to-day she knows it. " So you needn't be jealous ! " 
the Countess added, humorously. 
Isabel rose from her sofa again ; she felt bruised and short of 
breath ; her head was humming with new knowledge. " I am 
much obliged to you," she repeated. And then she added, 
abruptly, in quite a different tone " How do you know 
all this?"
This inquiry appeared to ruffle the Countess more than Isabel's 
expression of gratitude pleased her. She gave her companion a 
bold stare, with which " Let us assume that I have invented 
it! " she cried. She too, however, suddenly changed her tone, 
md, laying her hand on Isabel's arm, said softly, with her sharp, 
bright smile " Now will you give up your journey?" 
Isabel started a little ; she turned away. But she felt weak 
and in a moment had to lay her arm upon the mantel-shelf for 
support. She stood a minute so, and then upon her arm she 
dropped her dizzy head, with closed eyes and pale lips. 
" I have done wrong to speak I have made you ill ! " the 
Countess cried. 
" Ah, I must see Ralph ! " Isabel murmured ; not in resent- 
ment, not in the quick passion her companion had looked for ; 
but in a tone of exquisite far-reaching sadness. 
THERE was a train for Turin and Paris that evening ; and 
After the Countess had left her, Isabel had a rapid and decisive 
conference with her maid, who was discreet, devoted, and active. 
After this, she thought (except of her journey) of only one thing. 
She must go and see Pansy ; from her she could not turn away. 
She had not seen her yet, as Osmond had given her to under- 
stand that it was too soon to begin. She drove at five o'clock 
to a high door in a narrow street in the quarter of the Piazza 
Navona, and was admitted by the portress of the convent, a 
genial and obsequious person. Isabel had been at this institution 
before ; she had come with Pansy to see the sisters. She knew 
they were good women, and she saw that the large rooms were 
clean and cheerful, and that the well-used garden had sun for 
winter and shade for spring. But she disliked the place, and it 
made her horribly sad ; not for the world would she have spent 
a night there. It produced to-day more than before the impres- 
sion of a well-appointed prison ; for it was not possible to pretend 
that Pansy was free to leave it. This innocent creature had 
been presented to her in a new and violent light, but the 
secondary effect of the revelation was to make Isabel reach out 
her hand to her. 
The portress left her to wait in the parlour of the convent, 
while she went to make it known that there was a visitor for 
the dear young lady. The parlour was a vast, cold apartment, 
with new-looking furniture ; a large clean stove of white porce- 
lain, unlighted ; a collection of wax-flowers, under glass ; and a 
series of engravings from religious pictures on the walls. On 
the other occasion Isabel had thought it less like Eome than 
like Philadelphia; but to-day she made no reflections; the 
apartment only seemed to her very empty and very soundless. 
The portress returned at the end of some five minutes, ushering 
in another person. Isabel got up, expecting to see one of the 
ladies of the sisterhood ; but to her extreme surprise she found 
herself confronted with Madame Merle. The effect was strange, 
for Madame Merle was already so present to her vision that her 
appearance in the flesh was a sort of reduplication. Isabel had 
been thinking all day of her falsity, her audacity, her ability, 
her probable suffering ; and these dark things seemed to flash 
with a sudden light as she entered the room. Her being there 
at all was a kind of vivid proof. It made Isabel feel faint ; if 
it had been necessary to speak on the spot, she would have been 
quite unable. But no such necessity was distinct to her; it 
seemed to her indeed that she had absolutely nothing to say to 
Madame Merle. In one's relations with this lady, however, 
there were never any absolute necessities ; she had a manner 
which carried off not only her own deficiencies, but those of 
other people. But- she was different from usual ; she came in 
slowly, behind the portress, and Isabel instantly perceived that 
she was not likely to depend upon her habitual resources. For 
her, 4;oo, the occasion was exceptional, and she had undertaken 
to treat it by the light of the moment. This gave her a peculiar 
gravity; she -did not even pretend to smile, and though Isabel 
saw that she was more than ever playing a part, it seemed to 
her that on the whole the wonderful woman had never been so 
natural. She looked at Isabel from head to foot, but not 
harshly nor defiantly; with a cold gentleness rather, and an 
absence of any air of allusion to their last meeting. It was as 
if -she had wished to mark a difference ; she had been irritated 
then she was reconciled now. 
" You can leave us alone," she said to the portress ; " in five 
minutes this lady will ring for you." And then she turned to 
Isabel, who, after noting what has just been mentioned, had 
ceased to look at her, and had let her eyes wander as far as the 
limits of the room would allow. She wished never to look at 
Madame Merle again. " You are surprised to find me here, and 
I am afraid you are not pleased," this lady went on. " You 
don't see why I should have come ; it's as if I had anticipated 
you. I confess I have been rather indiscreet I ought to have 
isked your permission." There was none of the oblique move- 
ment of irony in this ; it was said simply and softly ; but Jsabel, 
far afloat on a sea of wonder and pain, could not have told her- 
self with what intention it was uttered. " But I have not been 
sitting long," Madame Merle continued ; " that is, I have not 
been long with Pansy. I came to see her because it occurred to 
oie this afternoon that she must be rather lonely, and perhaps 
even a little miserable. It may be good for a young girl ; I 
know so little about young girls, I can't tell. At any rate it's a 
little dismal. Therefore I came on the chance. I knew of 
course that you would come, and her father as well ; still, I had 
not been told that other visitors were forbidden. The good 
woman what's her name ? Madame Catherine made no objec- 
tion whatever. I stayed twenty minutes with Pansy ; she has a 
charming little room, not in the least conventual, with a- piano 
and flowers. She has arranged it delightfully ; she has so much 
taste. Of course it's all none of my business, but I feel happier 
since I have seen her. She may even have a maid if she likes ; 
but of course she has no occasion to dress. She wears a little 
black dress ; she looks so charming. I went afterwards to see 
Mother Catherine, who has a very good room too ; I assure you 
I don't find the poor sisters at all monastic. Mother Catherine 
has a most coquettish little toilet-table, with something that looked 
uncommonly like a bottle of eau-de-Cologne. She speaks 
delightfully of Pansy ; says it's a great happiness for them to 
have her. She is a little saint of heaven, and a model to 'the 
oldest of them. Just as I was leaving Madame Catherine, the 
portress came to say to her that there was a lady for the Signorina. 
Of course I knew it must be you, and I asked her to let me go 
and receive you in her place. She demurred greatly I must 
tell you thatand said it was her duty to notify the Superior ; 
it was of such high importance that you should be treated with 
respect. I requested her to let the poor Superior alone, and 
asked her how she supposed I would treat you ! " 
So Madame Merle went on, with much of the brilliancy of a 
woman who had long been a mistress of the art of conversation. 
But there were phases and gradations in her speech, not one of 
which was lost upon Isabel's ear, though her eyes were absent 
from her companion's face. She had not proceeded far before 
Isabel noted a sudden rupture in her voice, which was in itself a 
complete drama. This subtle modulation marked a momentous 
discovery the perception of an entirely new attitude on the part 
of her listener. Madame Merle had guessed in the space of an 
instant that everything was at end between them, and in the 
space of another instant she had guessed the reason why. The 
person who stood there was not the same one she had seen 
hitherto ; it was a very different person a person who knew her 
secret. This discovery was tremendous, and for the moment she 
made it the most accomplished of women faltered and lost her 
courage. But only f or that moment. Then the conscious stream 
of her perfect manner gathered itself again and flowed on as 
smoothly as might be to the end. But it was only because she 
had thft end in view that she was able to go on. She had been 
touched with a point that made her quiver, and she needed all 
the alertness of her will to repress her agitation. Her only safety 
was in not betraying herself. She did not betray herself ; but 
the startled quality of her voice refused to improve she couldn't 
help it while she heard herself say she hardly knew what. The 
tide of her confidence ebbed, and she was able only just to glide 
into port, faintly grazing the bottom. 
Isabel saw all this as distinctly as if it had been a picture on 
the wall. It might have been a great moment for her, for it 
might have been a moment of triumph. That Madame Merle 
had lost her pluck and saw before her the phantom of exposure 
this in itself was a revenge, this in itself was almost a symptom 
of a brighter day. And for a moment while she stood apparently 
looking out of the window, with her back half turned, Isabel 
enjoyed her knowledge. On the other side of the window lay 
the garden of the convent ; but this is not what Isabel saw ; she 
saw nothing of the budding plants and the glowing afternoon. 
She saw, in the crude light of that revelation which had already 
become a part of experience and to which the very frailty of the 
vessel in which it had been offered her only gave an intrinsic 
price, the dry, staring fact that she had been a dull un-reverenced 
tool. All the bitterness of this knowledge surged into her soul 
again ; it was as if she felt on her lips the taste of dishonour. 
There was a moment during which, if she had turned and spoken, 
she would have said something that would hiss like a lash. But 
she closed her eyes, and then the hideous vision died away 
What remained was the cleverest woman in the world, standing 
there within a few feet of her and knowing as little what to 
think as the meanest. Isabel's only revenge was to be silent 
..still to leave Madame Merle in 'this unprecedented situation. 
She left her there for a period which must have seemed long to 
this lady, who at last seated herself with a movement which was 
in itself a confession of helplessness. Then Isabel turned her 
eyes and looked down at her. Madame Merle was very pale ; 
her own eyes covered Isabel's face. She might see what she 
would, but her danger was over. Isabel would never accuse her, 
never reproach her ; perhaps because she never would give her 
the opportunity to defend herself. 
" I am come to bid Pansy good-bye," Isabel said at last. " I 
am going to England to-night." 
" Going to England to-night ! " Madamo Merle repeated 
sitting there and looking up at her 
 
" I am going to Gardencourt. Kalph Touchett is dying." 
" Ah, you will feel that." Madame Merle recovered herself ; 
she had a chance to express sympathy. "Do you go alone ?" 
sh.e asked. 
" Yes ; without my. husband." 
Madame Merle gave a low, vague murmur ; a sort of recogni- 
tion of the general sadness of things. 
" Mr. Touchett never liked me ; but I am sorry he is dying. 
Shall you see his mother ? " 
" Yes ; she has returned from America." 
" She used to be very kind to me ; but she has changed. 
Others, too, have changed," said Madame Merle, with a quiet, 
noble pathos. She paused a moment, and then she said, " And 
you will see dear old Gardencourt again ! " 
" I shall not enjoy it much," Isabel answered. 
" Naturally in your grief. But it is on the whole, of all 
the houses I know, and I know many, the one I should have 
liked best to live in. I don't venture to send a message to the 
people," Madame Merle added ; " but I should like to give my 
love to the place." 
Isabel turned away. 
" I had Better go to Pansy," she said. " I have not much 
time." 
And while she looked about her for the proper egress, the 
door opened and admitted one of the ladies of the house, who 
advanced with a discreet smile, gently rubbing, under her long 
loose sleeves, a pair of plump white hands. Isabel recognised 
her as Madame Catherine, whose acquaintance she had already 
made, and begged that she would immediately let her see Miss 
Osmond. Madame Catherine looked doubly discreet, but smiled 
very blandly and said  
" It will be good for her to see you. I will take you to her 
myself." Then she directed her pleasant, cautious little eye 
towards Madame Merle. 
" Will you let me remain a little ? " this lady asked. "It is 
so good to be here." 
"You may remain always, if you "like!" And the good 
sister gave a knowing laugh. 
She led Isabel out of the room, through several corridors, and 
up a long staircase. All these departments were solid and bare, 
light and clean ; so, thought Isabel, are the great penal establish- 
ments. Madame Catherine gently pushed open the door of 
Pansy's room and ushered in the visitor ; then stood smiling 
with folded hands, while the two others met and embraced. 
 
" She is glad to see you," she repeated ; " it will do her good." 
And she placed the best chair carefully for Isabel. But she 
made no movement to seat herself ; she seemed ready to retire. 
" How does this dear child look ? " she asked of Isabel, lingering 
a moment. 
" She looks pale," Isabel answered. 
" That is the pleasure of seeing you. She is very happy. 
Elle eclair e la maison" said the good sister. 
Pansy wore, as Madame Merle had said, a little black dress ; 
it was perhaps this that made her look pale. 
" They are very good to me they think of everything ! " she 
exclaimed, with all her customary eagerness to say something 
agreeable. 
" We think of you always you are a precious charge," 
Madame Catherine remarked, in the tone of a woman with whom 
benevolence was a habit, and whose conception of duty was the 
acceptance of every care. It fell with a leaden weight upon 
Isabel's ears ; it seemed to represent the surrender of a person- 
ality, the authority of the Church. 
When Madame Catherine had left them together, Pansy 
kneeled down before Isabel and hid her head in her stepmother's 
lap. So she remained some moments, while Isabel gently stroked 
her hair. Then she got up, averting her face and looking about 
the room. 
" Don't you think I have arranged it well ? I have everything 
I have at home." 
" It is very pretty ; you are very comfortable." Isabel scarcely 
knew what she could say to her. On the one hand she could 
not let her think she had come to pity her, and on the other 
it would be a dull mockery to pretend to rejoic,e with her. So 
she simply added, after a moment, " I have come to bid you 
good-bye. I am going to England." 
Pansy's white little face turned red. 
" To England ! Not to come back ? " 
" I don't know when I shall come back." 
" Ah ; I'm sorry," said Pansy, faintly. She spoke as if she 
had no right to criticise; but her tone expressed a depth of 
disappointment. 
" My cousin, Mr. Touchett, is very ill ; he will probably die. 
I wish to see him," Isabel said. 
" Ah, yes ; you told me he vvoidd die. Of course you must 
go. And will papa go ? " 
"No; I shall go alone." 
For a moment, Pansy said nothing. Isabel had often wondered 
 
wliat she thought of the apparent lelations of her father with 
his wife j but never by a glance, by an intimation, had she let it 
be seen that she deemed them deficient in the quality of intimacy. 
She made her reflections, Isabel was sure ; and she must have 
had a conviction that there were husbands and wives who were 
more intimate than that. But Pansy was not indiscreet even in 
thought ; she would as little have ventured to judge her gentle 
stepmother as to criticise her magnificent father. Her heart may 
almost have stood still, as it would have done if she had seen 
two of the saints in the great picture in the convent-chapel 
turn their painted heads and shake them at each other ; but 
as in this latter case she would (for very solemnity's sake), 
never have mentioned the awful phenomenon, so she put 
away all knowledge of the secrets of larger lives than her 
own. 
" You will be very far away," she said presently. 
" Yes ; I shall be far away. But it will scarcely matter," 
Isabel answered ; " for so long as you are here I am very far 
away from you." 
" Yes ; but you can come and see me ; though you have not 
come very .often." 
" I have not come because your father forbade it. To-day I 
bring nothing with me. I can't amuse you." 
"I am not to be amused. That's not what papa wishes." 
" Then it hardly matters whether I am in Kome or in 
England." 
" You are not happy, Mrs. Osmond," said Pansy. 
" Not very. But it doesn't matter." 
" That's what I say to myself. What does it matter?But I 
should like to come out." 
" I wish indeed you might." 
" Don't leave me here," Pansy went on, gently. 
Isabel was silent a moment ; her heart beat fast. 
" Will you come away with me now? " she asked. 
Pansy looked at her pleadingly. 
" Did papa tell you to bring me? " 
" No ; it's my own proposal." 
" I think I had better wait, then. Did papa sjend me no 
message ? " 
" I don't think he knew I was coming." 
_" He thinks I have not had enough," said Pansy. " But I 
have. The ladies are very kind to me, and the little girls come 
to see me. There are some very little ones such charming 
children. Then my room you can. see for yourself. All that 
 
is very delightful. But I liave had enough. Papa wished me 
to think a little and I have thought a great deal." 
" What have you thought? " 
" Well, that I must never displease papa." 
" You knew that before." 
" Yes ; but I know it better. I will do anything I will do 
anything," said Pansy. Then, as she heard her own words, a 
deep, pure blush came into her face. Isabel read the meaning 
of it ; she saw that the poor girl had been vanquished. It was 
well that Mr. Edward Rosier had kept his enamels ! Isabel 
looked into her eyes and saw there mainly a prayer to be treated 
easily. She laid her hand on Pansy's, as if to let her know that 
her look conveyed no diminution of esteem ; for the collapse of 
the girl's momentary resistance (mute and modest though it 
had been), seemed only her tribute to the truth of things. She 
didn't presume to judge others, but she had judged herself ; she 
had seen the reality. She had no vocation for struggling with 
combinations ; in the solemnity of sequestration there was some- 
thing that overwhelmed her. She bowed her pretty head to 
authority, and only asked of authority to be merciful. Yes ; it 
was very well that Edward Rosier had reserved a few articles ! 
Isabel got up ; her time was rapidly shortening. 
" Good-bye, then," she said ; " I leave Rome to-night." 
Pansy took hold of her dress ; there was a sudden change in 
the girl's face. 
" You look strange ; you frighten me." 
" Oh, I am very harmless," said Isabel. 
" Perhaps you won't come back? " 
" Perhaps not. I can't tell" 
" Ah, Mrs. Osmond, you won't leave me ! " 
Isabel now saw that she had guessed everything. 
"My dear child, what can I do for you? " she asked. 
" I don't know but I am happier when I think of you." 
" You can always think of me." 
" Not when you are so far. I am a little afraid," said Pansy. 
" What are you afraid of?" 
" Of papa a little. And of Madame Merle. She has just 
been to see me." 
" You must not say that," Isabel observed. 
" Oh, I will do everything they want. Only if you arc here 
I shall do it more easily." 
Isabel reflected a little. 
" I won't desert you," she said at last. " Good-bye, my 
Child,", 
 
Then they held each other a moment in a silent embrace, like 
two sisters ; and afterwards Pansy walked along the corridor 
with. her visitor to the top of the staircase. 
" Madame Merle has been here," Pansy remarked as they 
went ; and as Isabel answered nothing she added, abruptly, " I 
don't like Madame Merle ! " 
Isabel hesitated a moment ; then she stopped. 
" You must never say that that you don't like Madame 
Merle." 
Pansy looked at her in wonder ; but wonder with Pansy had 
never been a reason for non-compliance. 
" I never will again," she said, with exquisite gentleness. 
At the top of the staircase they had to separate, as it appeared 
to be part of the mild but very definite discipline under which 
Pansy lived that she should not go down. Isabel descended, 
and when she reached the bottom the girl was standing above. / 
" You will come back?" she called out in a- voice that Isabel 
remembered afterwards. 
" Yes I will come back." 
Madame Catherine met Isabel below, and conducted her to 
the door of the parlour, outside of which the two stood talking a 
minute. 
" I won't go in," said the good sister. " Madame Merle is 
waiting for you." 
At this announcement Isabel gave a start, and she was on the 
point of asking if there were no other egress from the convent. 
But a moment's reflection assured her that she would do well 
not to betray to the worthy nun her desire to avoid Pansy's 
other visitor. Her companion laid her hand very gently on her 
arm, and fixing her a moment with a wise, benevolent eye, said 
to her, speaking French, almost familiarly 
" Eh bien, chere Madame, qu'en pensez-vous ? " 
" About my step-daughter? Oh, it would take long to tell 
you." 
" We think it's enough," said Madame Catherine, signifi- 
cantly. And she pushed open the door of the parlour. 
Madame Merle was sitting just as Isabel had left her, like a 
woman so absorbed in thought that she had not moved a little- 
finger. As Madame Catherine closed the door behind Isabel, 
she got up, and Isabel saw that she had been thinking to some 
purpose. She had recovered her balance ; she was in full pos- 
session of her resources. 
" I found that I wished to wait for you," she said, urbanely. 
" But it's not to talk about Pansy." 
 
Isabel wondered what it could be to talk about, and in spite 
of Madame Merle's declaration she answered after a moment- 
" Madame Catherine says it's enough." 
" Yes ; it also seems to me enough. I wanted to ask you 
another word about poor Mr. Touchett," Madame Merle added. 
" Have you reason to believe that he is really at his last ? " 
" I have no information but a telegram. Unfortunately it 
only confirms a probability." 
" I am going to ask you a strange question," said Madame 
Merle. " Are you very fond of your cousin? " And she gave 
a smile as strange as her question. 
" Yes, I am very fond of him. But I don't understand, you." 
Madame Merle hesitated a moment. 
" It is difficult to explain. Something has occurred to me 
which may not have occurred to you, and I give you the benefit 
of my idea. Your cousin did you once a great service. Have 
you never guessed it? " 
" He has done me many services." 
" Yes ; but one was much above the rest. He made you a 
rich woman." 
" He made me ? " 
Madame Merle appeared to see herself successful, and she 
went on, more triumphantly 
" He imparted to you that extra lustre which was required to 
make you a brilliant match. At bottom, it is him that you have 
to thank." She stopped; there was something in Isabel's 
eyes. 
" I don't understand you. It was my uncle's money." 
" Yes ; it was your uncle's money ; but it was your cousin's 
idea. He brought his father over to it. Ah, my dear, the sum 
was large ! " 
Isabel stood staring; she seemed to-day to be living in a 
world illumined by lurid flashes. 
" I don't know why you say such things ! I don't know 
what you know." 
" I know nothing but what I IK ve guessed. But I have 
guessed that." 
Isabel went to the door, and when she had opened it stood a 
moment with her hand on the latch. Then she said it was her 
only revenge 
" I believed it was you I had to thank ! " 
Madame Merle dropped her eyes ; she stood there in a kind 
of proud penance. 
" You are very unhappy, I know. But I am more so." 
 
" Yes ; I can believe that. I think I should like never to see 
you again." 
Madame Merle raised her eyes. 
" I shall go to America," she announced, while Isabel passed 
out. 
MIL 
IT was not with surprise, it was with a feeling which in other 
