this parting they still kept up its outward forms, and 
the Athertons took part in the rejoicings with which 
the Hallecks celebrated Ben 's return. His meet 
ing with the lawyer was the renewal of the old con 
flict on terms of novel and hopeless degradation. He 
had mistaken for peace that exhaustion of spirit which 
comes to a man in battling with his conscience ; he 
had fancied his struggle over, and he was to learn now 
that its anguish had just begun. In that delusion 
his love was to have been a law to itself, able to loose 
and to bind, and potent to beat down all regrets, all 
doubts, all fears, that questioned it ; but the words 
with which Marcia met him struck his passion dumb. 
 
" Oh, I am so glad you have come back ! " she said. 
" Now I know that we can find him. You were such 
friends with him, and you understood him so well, that 
you will know just what to do. Yes, we shall find 
him now, and we should have found him long ago if 
you had been here. Oh, if you had never gone away ! 
But I can never be grateful enough for what you said 
to me that night when you would not come in with 
me. The words have rung in my ears ever since ; they 
showed that you had faith in him, more faith than I 
had, and I 've made them my rule and my guide. No 
one has been my refuge from him, and no one ever 
shall be. And I thank you yes, I thank you on my 
bended knees for making me go into the house 
alone ; it 's my one comfort that I had the strength to 
come back to him, and let him do anything he would 
to me, after I had treated him so ; but I 've never 
pretended it was my own strength. I have always 
told everybody that the strength came from you ! " 
Halleck had brought Olive with him ; she and 
Marcia 's father listened to these words with the 
patience of people who had heard them many times 
before ; but at the end Olive glanced at Halleck 's 
downcast face with fond pride in the satisfaction she 
imagined they must give him. The old man ruminated 
upon a bit of broom straw, and absently let the little 
girl catch by his hands, as she ran to and fro between 
him and her mother while her mother talked. Hal 
leck made a formless sound in his throat, for answer, 
and Marcia went on. 
" I 've got a new plan now, but it seems as if father 
took a pleasure in discouraging all my plans. I know 
that Bartley 's shut up, somewhere, in some asylum, 
and I want them to send detectives to all the asylums 
in the United States and in Canada, you can 't tell 
how far off he would wander in that state, and in 
quire if any stray insane person has been brought to 
 
them. Doesn 't it seem to you as if that would be th&lt; 
right way to find him ? I want to talk it all over witl 
you, Mr. Halleck, for I know you can sympathize witt 
me ; and if need be I will go to the asylums myself 
I will walk to them, I will crawl to them on HP 
knees ! When I think of him shut up there amom 
those raving maniacs, and used as they use people ir 
some of the asylums Oh, oh, oh, oh ! " 
She broke out into sobs, and caught her little gir 
to her breast. The child must have been accustomec 
to her mother 's tears ; she twisted her head round 
and looked at Halleck with a laughing face. 
Marcia dried her eyes, and asked, with quivering 
lips, " Isn 't she like him ? " 
" Yes," replied Halleck huskily. 
" She has his long eyelashes exactly, and his hai: 
and complexion, hasn 't she ? " 
The old man sat chewing his broom straw ir 
silence ; but when Marcia left the room to get Bartley ! 
photograph, so that Halleck might see the child ; 
resemblance to him, her father looked at Halleck fron 
under his beetling brows : " I don 't think we neec 
trouble the asylums much for Bartley Hubhard. Bin 
if it was to search the States prisons and the jails 
the rum-holes and the gambling-hells, or if it was t( 
dig up the scoundrels who have been hung undei 
assumed names during the last two years, I shoulc 
have some hopes of identifying him." 
Marcia came back, and the old man sat in cast-iror 
quiet, as if he had never spoken ; it was clear thai 
whatever hate he felt for Bartley he spared her ; anc 
that if he discouraged her plans, as she said, it was 
because they were infected by the craze in which she 
canonized Bartley. 
" You see how she is," said Olive, when they canu 
away. 
" Yes, yes, yes," Halleck desolately assented. 
 
" Sometimes she seems to me just like a querulous, 
vulgar, middle-aged woman in her talk ; she repeats 
herself in the same scolding sort of way ; and she 's so 
eager to blame somebody besides Bartley for Bartley 's 
wickedness that, when she can 't punish herself, she 
punishes her father. She 's merciless to that wretched 
old man, and he 's wearing his homesick life out here 
in the city for her sake. You heard her just now, 
about his discouraging her plans ? " 
" Yes," said Halleck, as before. 
" She 's grown commoner and narrower, but it 's 
hardly her fault, poor thing, and it seems terribly 
unjust that she should be made so by what she has 
suffered. But that 's just the way it has happened. 
She 's so undisciplined, that she couldn 't get any good 
out of her misfortunes ; she 's only got harm : they 've 
made her selfish, and there seems to be nothing left 
of what she was two years ago but her devotion to 
that miserable wretch. You mustn 't let it turn 
you against her, Ben ; you mustn 't forget what she 
might have been. She had a rich nature ; but how 
it 's been wasted, and turned back upon itself ! Poor, 
untrained, impulsive, innocent creature, my heart 
aches for her ! It 's been hard to bear with her at 
times, terribly hard, and you 'll  find it so, Ben. But 
you must bear with her. The awfulest thing about 
people in trouble is that they are such bores; they 
tire you to death. But you 'll  only have to stand her 
praises of what Bartley was, and we had to stand 
them, and her hopes of what you would be if you were 
only at home, besides. I don 't know what all she 
expects of you ; but you must try not to disap 
point her ; she worships the ground you tread on, and 
I really think she believes you can do anything you 
will, just because you 're good." 
Halleck listened in silence. He was indeed helpless 
to be otherwise than constant. With shame and &lt;mef 
 
in his heart, he could only vow her there the greater 
fealty because of the change he found in her. 
He was doomed at every meeting to hear her glorify 
a man whom he believed a heartless traitor, to plot 
with her for the rescue from imaginary captivity of 
the wretch who had cruelly forsaken her. He actually 
took some of the steps she urged ; he addressed in 
quiries to the insane asylums, far and near; and in 
these futile endeavors, made only with the desire of 
failure, his own reason seemed sometimes to waver. 
She insisted that Atherton should know all the steps 
they were taking; and his sense of his old friend 's 
exact and perfect knowledge of his motives was a 
keener torture than even her father 's silent scorn of 
his efforts, or the worship in which his own family 
held him for them. 
 
XXXVII. 
HALLECK had come home in broken health, and 
had promised his family, with the self-contempt that 
depraves, not to go away again, since the change had 
done him no good. There was no talk for the present 
of his trying to do anything but to get well ; and for 
a while, under the strong excitement, he seemed to be 
better. But suddenly he failed ; he kept his room, 
and then he kept his bed ; and the weeks stretched 
into months before he left it. 
When the spring weather came, he was able to go 
out again, and he spent most of his time in the open 
air, feeling every day a fresh accession of strength. 
At the end of one long April afternoon, he walked 
home with a light heart, whose right to rejoice he 
would not let his conscience question. He had met 
Marcia in the Public Garden, where they sat down 
on a bench and talked, while her father and the little 
girl wandered away in the restlessness of age and the 
restlessness of childhood. 
" We are going home to Equity this summer," she 
said, " and perhaps we shall not come back. No, we 
shall not come back. I  have given tip. I have 
waited, hoping hoping. But now I know that it is 
no use waiting any longer : he is dead." She spoke 
in tearless resignation, and the peace of accepted 
widowhood seemed to diffuse itself around her. 
Her words repeated themselves to Halleck, as he 
walked homeward. He found the postman at the 
door with a newspaper, which he took from him with 
 
a smile at its veteran appearance, and its probable 
adventures in reaching him. The wrapper seemed to 
have been several times slipped off, and then slit up ; 
it was tied with a string, now, and was scribbled with 
rejections in the hands of various Hallocks and Hal- 
letts, one of whom had finally indorsed upon it, " Try 
97 Riimford Street." It was originally addressed, as 
he made out, to " Mr. B. Halleck, Boston, Mass.," and 
he carried it to his room before he opened it, with a 
careless surmise as to its interest for him. It proved 
to be a flimsy, shabbily printed country newspaper, 
with an advertisement marked in one corner. 
State of Indiana, ) 
Tecumseh County j SS 
In Tecumseh Circuit Court, April Term, 1879. 
BARTLEY J. HUBBARD } 
vs. &gt; Divorce. No. 5793. 
MARCIA G. HUBBARD. ) 
It appearing by affidavit this day filed in the office of the 
Clerk of the Tecumseh Circuit Court, that Marcia G. Hubbard, 
defendant in the above entitled action for divorce on account 
of abandonment and gross neglect of duty, is a non-resi 
dent of the State of Indiana, notice of the pendency of such 
action is therefore hereby given said defendant above named, 
and that the same will be called for answer on the llth day of 
April, 1879, the same being the 3d judicial day of the April 
term of said court, for said year, which said term of said court 
will begin on the first Monday in April, 1879, and will be held 
at the Court House, in the town of Tecumseh, in said County 
and State, said llth day of April, 1879, being the time fixed 
by said plaintiff by indorsement on his complaint, at which 
said time said defendant is required to answer herein. 
Witness my hand and the seal of the said Court, this 4th day 
of March, 1879. 
* * AUGUSTUS H. HAWKINS, 
SEAL Clerk. 
Milikin & Ayres, Att ys for PL?. 
 
Halleck read this advertisement again and again, 
with a dull, mechanical action of the brain. He 
saw the familiar names, but they were hopelessly 
estranged by their present relation to each other ; the 
legal jargon reached no intelligence in him that could 
grasp its purport. 
When his daze began to yield, he took evidence of 
his own reality by some such tests as one might in 
waking from a long faint. He looked at his hands, 
his feet ; he rose and looked at his face in the glass. 
Turning about, he saw the paper where he had left 
it on the table ; it was no illusion. He picked up 
the cover from the floor, and scanned it anew, 
trying to remember the handwriting on it, to make 
out who had sent this paper to him, and why. Then 
the address seemed to grow into something different 
under his eye : it ceased to be his name ; he saw now 
that the paper was directed to Mrs. B. Hubbard, and 
that by a series of accidents and errors it had failed to 
reach her in its wanderings, and by a final blunder 
had fallen into his hands. 
Once solved, it was a very simple affair, and he 
had now but to carry it to her ; that was very simple, 
too. Or he might destroy it ; this was equally simple. 
Her words repeated themselves once more : " I have 
given up. He is dead." Why should he break the 
peace she had found, and destroy her last sad illusion ? 
Why should he not spare her the knowledge of this 
final wrong, and let the merciful injustice accomplish 
itself? The questions seemed scarcely to have any 
personal concern for Halleck ; his temptation wore a 
heavenly aspect. It softly pleaded with him to for 
bear, like something outside of himself. It was when, 
he began to resist it that he found it the breath in 
his nostrils, the blood in his veins. Then the mask 
dropped, and the enemy of souls put forth his power 
against this weak spirit, enfeebled by long strife and 
defeat already acknowledged. 
At the end Halleck opened his door, and called, 
" Olive, Olive ! " in a voice that thrilled the girl with 
strange alarm where she sat in her own room. She 
came running, and found him clinging to his door 
post, pale and tremulous. "I want you want you 
to help me," he gasped. " I want to show you some 
thing Look here ! " 
He gave her the paper, which he had kept behind 
him, clutched fast in his hand as if he feared it might 
somehow escape him at last, and staggered away to a 
chair. 
His sister read the notice. " Oh, Ben ! " She 
dropped her hands with the paper in them before her, 
a gesture of helpless horror and pity, and looked at 
him. " Does she know it ? Has she seen it ? " 
" No one knows it but you and I. The paper was 
left here for me by mistake. I opened it before I saw 
that it was addressed to her." 
He panted forth these sentences in an exhaustion 
that would have terrified her, if she had not been too 
full of indignant compassion for Marcia to know any 
thing else. She tried to speak. 
"Don 't you understand, Olive? This is the 
notice that the law requires she shall have to come 
and defend her cause, and it has been sent by the 
clerk of the court, there, to the address that villain 
must have given in the knowledge that it could reach 
her only by one chance in ten thousand." 
" And it has come to you ! Oh, Ben ! Who sent 
titoyou?" The brother and sister looked at each 
other, but neither spoke the awestricken thought that 
was in both their hearts. " Ben," she cried in a solemn 
ecstasy of love and pride, " I would rather be you this 
minute than any other man in the world !" 
" Don 't ! " pleaded Halleck. His head dropped, and 
then he lifted it by a sudden impulse. "Olive!" 
But the impulse failed, and he only said, " I want you 
  
to go to Atlierton with me. We mustn 't lose time. 
Have Cyrus get a carriage. Go down and tell them 
we 're going out. I 'll  be ready as soon as you are." 
But when she called to him from below that the 
carriage had come and she was waiting, he would 
have refused to go with her if he durst. He no 
longer wished to keep back the fact, but he felt an 
invalid 's weariness of it, a sick man 's inadequacy to 
the farther demands it should make upon him. He 
crept slowly down the stairs, keeping a tremulous 
hold upon the rail ; and he sank with a sigh against the 
carnage cushions, answering Olive 's eager questions 
and fervid comments with languid monosyllables. 
They found the Athertons at coffee, and Clara 
would have them come to the dining-room and join 
them. Halleck refused the coffee, and while Olive 
told what had happened he looked listlessly about the 
room, aware of a perverse sympathy with Bartley, 
from Bartley 's point of view : Bartley might never 
have gone wrong if he had had all that luxury ; and 
why should he not have had it, as well as Atlierton ? 
What right had the untempted prosperity of such a 
man to judge the guilt of such men as himself and 
Bartley Hubbard ? 
Olive produced the newspaper from her lap, where 
she kept both hands upon it, and opened it to the ad 
vertisement in dramatic corroboration of what she had 
been telling Atherton. He read it and passed it to 
Clara. 
" When did this come to you ? " 
Olive answered for him. "This evening, just 
now. Didn 't I say that ? " 
" No," said Atfyerton ; and he added to Halleck, 
gently : " I beg your pardon. Did you notice the 
dates?" 
" Yes," answered Halleck, with cold refusal of 
Atherton 's tone of reparation. 
 
" The cause is set for hearing on the llth," said 
Atherton. " This is the th. The time is very 
short." 
" It 's long enough," said Halleck, wearily. 
" Oh, telegraph ! " cried Clara. " Telegraph them 
instantly that she never dreamt of leaving him ! 
Abandonment ! Oh, if they only knew how she had 
been slaving her fingers off for the last two years to 
keep a home for him to come back to, they d give 
her the divorce ! " 
Atherton smiled and turned to Halleck : " Do 
you know what their law is, now ? It was changed 
two years ago." 
" Yes," said Halleck, replying to the question Ath 
erton had asked and the subtler question he had 
looked, " I have read up the whole subject since I 
came home. The divorce is granted only upon proof, 
even when the defendant fails to appear, and if this 
were to go against us," he instinctively identified 
himself with Marcia 's cause, " we can have the 
default set aside, and a new trial granted, for cause 
shown." 
The women listened in awe of the legal phrases ; 
but when Atherton rose, and asked, " Is your carriage 
here ? " his wife sprang to her feet. 
" Why, where are you going ? " she demanded, 
anxiously. 
" Not to Indiana, immediately," answered her hus 
band. " We 're first going to Clover Street, to see 
Squire Gaylord and Mrs. Hubbard. Better let me 
take the paper, dear," he said, softly withdrawing it 
from her hands. 
" Oh, it 's a cruel, cruel law ! " she moaned, de 
prived of this moral support. " To suppose that such 
a notice as this is sufficient ! Women couldn 't have 
made such a law." 
" No, women only profit by such laws after they 're 
 
made : they work both ways. But it 's not such a 
bad law, as divorce laws go. We do worse, now, in 
some New England States." 
They found the Squire alone in the parlor, and, 
with a few words of explanation, Atherton put the 
paper in his hands, and he read the notice in emo 
tionless quiet. Then he took off his spectacles, and 
shut them in their case, which lie put back into his 
waistcoat pocket. " This is all right," he said. He 
cleared his throat, and, lifting the fierce glimmer of 
his eyes to Atherton s, he asked, drily, " What is the 
law, at present ? " 
Atherton briefly recapitulated the points as he had 
them from Halleck. 
" That 's good," said the old man. " We will fight 
this, gentlemen." He rose, and from his gaunt height 
looked down on both of them, with his sinuous lips 
set in a bitter smile. " Bartley must have been dis 
appointed when he found a divorce so hard to get in 
Indiana. He must have thought that the old law 
was still in force there. He 's not the fellow to swear 
to a lie if he could help it ; but I guess he expects to 
get this divorce by perjury." 
Marcia was putting little Flavia to bed. She heard 
the talking below ; she thought she heard Bartley 's 
name. She ran to the stairs, and came hesitantly 
down, the old wild hope and wild terror fluttering her 
pulse and taking her breath. At sight of the three 
men, apparently in council, she crept toward them, 
holding out her hands before her like one groping his 
way. " What what is it ? " She looked from 
Atherton 's face to her father 's ; the old man stopped, 
and tried to smile reassuringly ; he tried to speak ; 
Atherton turned away. 
It was Halleck who came forward, and took her 
wandering hands. He held them quivering in his 
own, and said gravely and steadily, using her name 
for the first time in the deep pity which cast out all 
tear and shame, " Marcia, we have found your hus 
band." 
" Dead ? " she made with her lips. 
" He is alive," said Halleck. " There is something 
in this paper for you to see, something you must 
see " 
" I can bear anything if he is not dead. Where 
what is it ? Show it to me " The paper shook in 
the hands which Halleck released ; her eyes strayed 
blindly over its columns ; he had to put his finger on 
the place before she could find it. Then her tremor 
ceased, and she seemed without breath or pulse 
while she read it through. She fetched a long, deep 
sigh, and passed her hand over her eyes, as if to clear 
them ; staying herself unconsciously against Halleck 's 
breast, and laying her trembling arm along his arm 
till her fingers knit themselves among his fingers, she 
read it a second time and a third. Then she dropped 
the paper, and turned to look up at him. " Why ! " 
she cried, as if she had made it out at last, while an 
awful, joyful light of hope flashed into her face. " It is 
a mistake ! Don 't you see ? He thinks that I never 
came back ! He thinks that I meant to abandon him. 
That I that I But you know that I came back, 
you came back with me ! Why, I wasn 't gone an 
hour, a half-hour, hardly. Oh, Bartley, poor Bart- 
ley ! He thought I could leave him, and take his 
child from him ; that I could be so wicked, so heart 
less Oh, no, no, no ! Why, I only stayed away that 
little time because I was afraid to go back ! Don 't 
you remember how I told you I was afraid, and 
wanted you to come in with me ? : Her exaltation 
broke in a laugh. " But we can explain it now, and it 
will be all right. He will see he will understand 
I will tell him just how it was Oh, Flavia, Flavia, 
we 've found papa, we 've found papa  Quick I " 
 
She whirled away toward the stairs, but her father 
caught her by the arm. " Marcia ! " he shouted, in 
his old raucous voice, " You 've got to understand ! 
This " he hesitated, as if running over all terms of 
opprobrium in his mind, and he resumed as if he had 
found them each too feeble " Hartley hasn 't acted 
under any mistake." 
He set the facts before her with merciless clearness, 
and she listened with an audible catching of the 
breath at times, while she softly smoothed her fore 
head with her left hand. " I don 't believe it," she 
said when he had ended. " Write to him, tell him 
what I say, and you will see." 
The old man uttered something between a groan and 
a curse. " Oh, you poor, crazy child ! Can nothing 
make you understand that Bartley wants to get rid of 
you, and that he 's just as ready for one lie as another? 
He thinks he can make out a case of abandonment 
with the least trouble, and so he accuses you of that, 
but he d just as soon accuse you of anything else. 
Write to him ? You Ve got to yo to him ! You 've 
got to go out there and light him in open court, with 
facts and witnesses. Do you suppose Bartley Hubbard 
wants any explanation from you ? Do you think 
he 's been waiting these two years to hear that you 
didn 't really abandon him, but came back to this 
house an hour after you left it, and that you 've waited 
for him here ever since ? When he knows that, will 
he withdraw this suit of his and come home? He 'll  
want the proof, and the way to do is to go out 
there and let him have it. If I had him on the stand 
for five minutes," said the old man between his set 
teeth, "just five minutes, I d undertake to convince 
him from his own lips that lie was wrong about you ! 
But I am afraid he wouldn 't mind a letter ! You 
think I say so because I hate him ; and you don 't be- 
lieve me. Well, ask either of these gentlemen here 
whether I 'm telling you the truth." 
She did not speak, but, with a glance at their avert 
ed faces, she sank into a chair, and passed one hand 
over the other, while she drew her breath in long, 
shuddering respirations, and stared at the floor with 
knit brows and starting eyes, like one stifling a deadly 
pang. She made several attempts to speak before she 
could utter any sound ; then she lifted her eyes to her 
father 's : " Let us let us go home ! Oh, let us 
go home ! I will give him up. I had given him up 
already ; I told you," she said, turning to Halleck, 
and speaking in a slow, gentle tone, " only an hour 
ago, that he was dead. And this this that 's hap 
pened, it makes no difference. Why did you bring 
the paper to me when you knew that I thought he 
was dead ? " 
" God knows I wished to keep it from you." 
"Well, no matter now. Let him go free if he 
wants to. I can 't help it." 
" You can help it," interrupted her father. "You Ve 
got the facts on your side, and you Ve got the wit 
nesses ! " 
