" I do not know why it should affect you that way," 
returns Christmas in a dry and rather caustic tone ; but it 
is lost upon Dolly, who rattles on, — 
"He has grown ever so much handsomer. Is there 
something in the air of Glen Ormiston? He was describ- 
ing it most enthusiastically to Helen, and he has been 
painting it. You must know that, among his many accom- 
plishments, he is an artist, and he plays divinely. The 
perfect monster ! " And Dolly laughs. 
Christmas is silent. A curious flush of indignation 
heats her face and throbs in her pulses. He has taken 
the supreme right. He can live there with his friend ; he 
can wander about the most sacred haunts, while she is an 
exile. He can even transcribe them and take them away, 
and she has no right to complain. Was it for this her 
father toiled and suffered? 
The next morning she and Dolly are requested to 
iq)pear at luncheon. Usually when there are guests, or 
when the family is away, they take their meals in a pretty 
little room that at its utmost would only accommodate a 
 
 
 
quartette. Dolly complains loudly ; but Christinas is not 
fond of the state with which Mrs. Allaire likes to be 
surrounded. 
There is a rather elegant party assembled at Meadow- 
croft. Mr. and Mrs. Stannard, the clerical uncle and his 
wife, his wife's sister, who makes some pretensions to lit- 
erature, and who has just returned from the Orient; a 
lady artist, who paints merely for the love of it, but at 
the same time demands high prices ; and several fashion- 
able friends. Dolly is in such haste : she always hurries 
as if the number of her days would be brief and she 
was anxious to crowd them fuU, and she drags Christmas 
down the very instant the bell rings. They are both in 
white. Dolly's embroidered muslin full of little butterfly 
bows; Miss Ormiston's cashmere severely plain, with a 
cluster of red roses at her belt. 
Certainly she has changed since St. George saw her. 
She looks taller, but that may be her clinging gown ; she 
holds her head with a regal sort of dignity. Her complex- 
ion has cleared up, — it is delicate and creamy ; her eyes 
have softened to a kind of twilight hue. He remarks for 
the first time her abundant unglossy hair, in its peculiar 
shade of light-brown, worn in a great coil at the back, 
loosely twisted, not unlike a Greek statue. The slope of 
the neck and the tinted ear are perfect. She is not hand- 
some like Helen ; well, perhaps she is rather plain, or is 
it her dress and her hair brushed straight across her fore- 
head? There is a curious coldness about her, as if she 
stood, and was proud of standing, quite alone. That is 
not a feminine attribute to his mind. 
He comes forward and speaks briefly, for he is to take 
Helen in, and she is waiting. Mrs. Allaire motions her 
novices a little to her left, and Dolly pouts a moment, 
then smiles and dimples her rosy cheeks at some bright 
sally. No one addresses Christmas in particular ; she is 
rather silent generally, and she likes to listen, to watch. 
 
 
has grown fond of the pictoreBque side ot romety. 
It is so different from Mrs. Treverton's noisy) riiowy 
entertainments. When she is mistress of a honfie, she 
would wish to be refined, elegant, not quite as punctilious 
as Mrs. Allaire ; she would like to have more real heart, 
she thinks ; not be confined to invisible rigid lines, even if 
they were harmonious ; but she has come this early to hare 
a horror of fiorid vulgarity. 
For state, the meal might really be a dinner. There is 
some delightful conversation about Europe and the East, 
which Dolly afterwards declares a horrid bore ; but Christ- 
mas is strangely interested in it. They aU linger over 
their fruit as if the world held nothing but leisure ; and 
afterward they saunter out on the fragrant piazza, or 
through the shady lawn. Miss Ormiston passes by the 
outspread century plant in its marble vase, and thinks of 
the legend of its blossoming. How many things seem to 
have a greater reach than human lives, if there were no 
hereafter I 
Mr. St. George has allowed Mrs. Allaire to arrange th# 
trip in the most orthodox manner, and he understand! 
that to escort Miss Ormiston himself would be quite oul 
of the proper course. He is wondering a little how he
shall lead Mrs. Donaldson to enjoy the new plan, sinctf 
she is rather timid with extreme society people. 
He crosses the gravelled path to Christmas, and she 
glances up quietly. 
" I am glad to see you so content,'' he says. *< Miss 
Allaire gives an excellent account of you ; but are you 
sure you are not studying too severely? There is a whole 
long life for acquiring knowledge." 
" Miss Clement makes it very entertaining. I never 
had any one before, and my studies have been so dis- 
jointed that I have much to make up," she answers with a 
kind of girlish abruptness. 
" I used to enjoy Meadowcroft wonderfully when I vas 
 
 
of your age ; it represented to me the most lovely home 
I ever saw." 
"It is beautifnl with wealth and refinement, —yes"; 
and yet it is not qnite her ideal, though she cannot tell 
just what it lacks. 
Miss Ormiston Ib not easy to get on with. There is 
something uncompromising in her individuality. 
After a silence, he begins again : — 
''It may interest you to know that my friends, the 
Donaldsons, find Glen Ormiston delightful. Mrs. Donald- 
son has so far improved in her health that perfect recovery 
is no longer considered doubtful. I am charged with a 
message from her to you. She remembers that it is your 
home as well, and thinks you might like to visit it. Mrs. 
Allaire will be happy to bring you." 
The slender fingers interlace each other with a nervous 
clasp, then the faint pink fades out of her cheek, and the 
outlines of face and figure grow rigid. 
"I cannot come that way," and there is a sound of 
repressed emotion in her voice ; '' I do not want to come 
again until — until I have the right to stay." 
St. George glances at her in amazement. 
"You cannot understand how I feel. The process of 
being transplanted against one's will is not pleasant ; but 
to be torn up again and carried around, — no, I will wait." 
She ends apruptly. 
" You know last winter — " 
" Yes, I know," she interrupts. " I was a child then ; 
a crude, passionate child, with but one idea, ~ that I had 
a right to the home that was doubly mine. I understand 
the wisdom of your course ; it was all you could do ; it 
was right and wisest. An operation may be necessary to 
save one's life, but that does not prevent it from being 
painful." 
''You are not dissatisfied?" with secret consternation. 
" You must know that Mrs. Allaire — " 
 
 
*< I have no fault to find," with a Blight gestore of the 
hand. " I like them all. They are living theiif lives, and 
I am preparing to live mine, which is different. It is like 
reading a book ; you enjoy some pages, you tire of others ; 
you catch up a truth here or there and revolve it in your 
mind, but you do not all at once see its many-sidedness. I 
do not want anything changed until I can be my own mis- 
tress. And I want you to know that I appreciate what 
you are doing at Camley. I believe there are only a few 
who would have undertaken such a task." 
" It was the plainest of duties. Is it so strange for one 
to see that ? " he says with some warmth. 
" The duty on the other side does not always look so 
clear. There are so many doubts and evasions when one 
stops to ponder. And I do know that you could have 
evaded." 
" And despised myself forever." 
" Is it aU settled?" inquires the sweet, trained voice of 
Mrs. Allaire. " I know you will be glad. Miss Ormiston." 
"It is settled," Christmas replies gravely. " I told 
Mr. St. George that I did not care to go." 
" Not care to go? Why, I thought your whole heart 
was at Glen Ormiston," Mrs. Allaire replies in a tone 
that savors of remonstrance. 
Christmas turns a trifle. She has an ungirlish manner 
of holding one at bay, she has learned ere this that silence 
is one of the best of defences. 
Mrs. Allaire could have shaken her, but she says, 
" Dolly is looking for you to play lawn tennis. I would 
not allow her to interrupt Neither of you need go back 
to the school-room this afternoon. You must have a holi- 
day, now and then." 
Christmas goes to join the younger members of the 
party. She likes lawn tennis and is an excellent player, 
and this is the perfection of days to be out of doors. 
Mrs. Allaire is really disappointed. Since Glen Ormis* 
 
 
ton is likely to emerge from the shadow of ruin, and St 
George has taken this unaccountable fancy to it, she 
would like in some manner to be identified with it. Does 
Christmas inherit some of her father's obstinate prejudices ? 
Down in her heart she does not really care for the girl, 
but she does care for St. George, and here are Lucia and 
Dolly. If Lucia only would see. But to her Leighton is 
too grave, and if she is not as volatile as Dolly, she likes 
gayety in the opposite sex. 
There is no further conference of any kind with Mr. 
St. George. Christmas bids him a courteous good-by, for 
he goes before the party breaks up. There are others that 
follow. Then some summer journeying while Miss Clem- 
ent takes her vacation, spending it with a widowed sister. 
Christmas elects to stay alone at Meadowcroft, and is 
deaf to all persuasions. She will not be under obligation 
to Mrs. Allaire, and her income is not large enough for 
pleasures of that kind, even if she wanted to go, which she 
does not. 
So they leave her behind, and she draws a long, long 
breath of freedom. For, though she has no fault to find, 
there is a curious oppression in the Allaires. She knows 
she cannot, would not, be like them, yet she admits that 
they are admirable. The trouble is within herself, no 
doubt ; her suspicion, her half -disbelief in the surface of 
things and people as well. Dolly is very trying at times, 
but she never asks for any belief, so tiiey get on fairly 
well. Mrs. Allaire has but one measure for womanhood, 
Helen, still her favorite ; and for manhood, Leighton St. 
George. Christmas is tired of both ideals. 
The days are long but never lonely. She reads, she 
practises her music, she sings, she takes long walks and 
spends her evenings in dreaming of what Glen Ormiston 
shall be presently. She has learned so much in this house 
beautiful, though she can never transform that gray old 
keep, but she can add touches to make it less gloomy. 
 
 
Then there will be other duties. She can never spend her 
years in the wearisome round of pleasure. If Helen 
Stannard is the woman all her friends affect to believe, 
how can it satisfy her? 
All too soon the joyous month ends. The others come 
home tired, really cross, it seems to Christmas. Is this 
the result of their pleasure seeking? Miss Clement, too, 
makes her appearance, and the young girl emerges from 
her lawless double to proper Miss Ormiston. 
There are rumors of another wedding in the air. Lucia 
has captured a travelling Englishman, second in succession 
to a title, and with a fair fortune of his own if he never 
reaches the other rent rolls. He is very much in love, and 
. he must return in the course of a few months, so he pleads 
for an early marriage. There is a pang in the mother's 
heart, and yet she feels that Lucia never could make such 
a man as St. George happy. She is not intellectual, in the 
sense in which Helen shines in society ; she is too worldly, 
too commonplace. She will make a successful woman for 
aU that, and she is very much admired. She will hold 
her own in the gay world, weigh her friends, and never 
carry along any dead weights. So then there remains but 
Dolly. As strange unions as that have occurred. Indeed, 
Dolly could love such a man extravagantly; the only 
drawback, the mother admits in her secret heart, is that 
she could love any other man just as extravagantly. 
But for Miss Ormiston, Miss Clement would feel that 
her services had reached their limit. Dolly manages to 
be away so much of the time, her mother smiling leniently. 
St. George is in the city frequently, and he drops into 
the old friendly position with the Allaires. There is no 
especial sympathy between him and Ward, yet they are 
together a good deal. " I like to have "Ward with you," 
the mother says, " for I feel then that he is safe." Ward 
Allaire has no vices, at least, no viciousness ; his is an 
indolent, negative sort of character, and it stings Mrs. 
 
Allaire's ftmbitioas hopes. She longs to haye him carry 
weight, not merely drift. 
The holidays are extremely gay ; but Christmas keeps 
her birthday quite alone, not from necessity, for Mrs. 
Stannard has kindly urged her to join the family at her 
house. A few weeks afterward Lucia is married, and 
sets sail for the Old World. Mrs. Allfl,ire finds herself 
strangely tired and worn by her devotion to society. 
Surely now she can pause and take breath. Helen will 
be able to matronize Dolly; Christmas will not enter 
society properly until the following autumn. So she lets 
Dolly go to Newport with her sister, and takes Christmas 
to a quiet mountain resort. The girl has really grown 
quite companionable. Though a year older than Dolly, 
and very much more grave, she seems in some things 
younger. Perhaps, indeed, truth, integrity, and honesty 
have in them the seeds of eternal youth and freshness. 
St. George is summering at Newport. Society cannot 
afford to overlook him, and now that time has softened 
his sorrow and cleared away many of the perplexities that 
beset him, he takes his olden place. Other mammas be- 
side Mrs. Allaire eye him covetously. There is a whisper 
that he has been very generous and noble in some way, 
concerning a dead friend's estate, and it lends an heroic 
glamour ; but certainly he has virtues enough of his own, 
with all the elegances refined society demands. 
This autumn Miss Clement does not return. Miss 
Ormiston has an elegant reception given her at Mrs. Stan- 
nard's, and is introduced quite as a family connection. 
There is something a little unusual about her ; her statu- 
esque figure and poses almost rival Mrs. Stannard. She 
never wUl be as handsome, but people comment on a cer- 
tain resemblance. 
Truth to tell, Christmas is a good deal interested in this 
experiment. She wants to know what the real world is 
like before she gives it up for that other life marked oat 
 
 
by her father. The pleastires dazzle, the gayeties stir her 
youthful blood. How often she recalls her leaning over 
the baluster at Meadowcrof t and watchmg that brilliant 
panorama, — the glimpse of quite another life I 
She and Ward have been very fair friends. To do 
Mrs. Allaire justice, she has kept a watchful eye on her 
son through the most dangerous period, for she wanted no 
entanglements with Miss Ormiston until business showed 
a prosperous side. But she need not have been so care- 
ful ; Christmas was too utterly honest to flirt, and mar- 
riage was not among her dreams* 
 
 
Leiohtok St. Gboboe'b rooms in the city are quite the 
admiration and envy of his friends of both sexes. His 
long sojonm in Europe has enabled him to collect many 
choice treasures. His father had a mania for china and 
rare old books. There are cabinets for which he has 
been offered fabulous sums, but their contents are dearer 
to him for the sake of the dead. The pictures are not 
only fine, but beautiful. He is extremely fond of har- 
mony, of soft suggestiyeness rather than rough force. 
His marbles have been chosen in this manner also, yet 
there is nothing confessedly feminine or weak. It is the 
temper of fine old steel with the grand lights in the 
arabesques. 
Ward Allaire is sitting with him this evening playing 
chess. There is a blazing fire of cannel-coal, and a large 
soft-haired dog in yellowish brown, with long silky ears, 
stretched before it, the picture of comfort. The light 
shines on an easel containing a weird scene of night fish- 
ing with the red glow of the torches shining strongly in 
the men's faces. 
<' I shall sweep yon off the board presently," declares 
St. Greorge, rather annoyed. Ward is usually an excellent 
player. " What is the matter this evening? Have you 
your first intricate case, or is it the face of some pretty 
woman stealing your wits ? " 
As Allaire glances up he flushes, then his eyes suddenly 
drop to the dog. Hertha flicks an ear. 
"I believe I am stupid to-night. There, take your 
game and I will have my revenge some other evening 
 
 
when yoa are not so bright. What wonld you say if I 
confessed to the pretty woman?'' 
"They are such ordmary events in your life, Ward," is 
the careless answer. 
"St. George," he begins, "in your impressionable 
days did you ever know any one who suddenly appeared 
to you in such a new and unusual light that you could but 
wonder at your blindness ? I believe I have been hard hit, 
that I am in love." 
St. George laughs, though he is a little nettled at the 
allusion to such long-past youthfulness. Surely he is 
not growing old ! 
"You haven't any faith in me!" Ward shrugs his 
shoulders with a humorous, spoiled-child air. 
"Not where love is concerned, I must confess. You 
young people " — he has his fling now — " are forever try- 
ing on impressions and fancies, and how will you be able 
to distinguish the real passion?" 
"By Jove! easily enough. I've seen women and 
women, and passed and repassed this one until this after- 
noon. We were at Kneller's. She was studying a picture, 
and I glanced at her across the room, as she seemed to 
stand out from everything else. I never even saw the hand- 
some Helen pose so strikingly. She had an indescribable, 
inwrapped air that generaUy passes for coldness. It is 
because she will not allow herself to be roused by every 
stray whiff of sentiment." 
"I am quite in the dark as to your paragon. Have a 
cigar, it may help to clear your brain." 
"In the dark!" Ward Allaire seems struck with a 
momentary astonishment. "Oh, I forgot! you were not 
with us this afternoon. Well, it was Christmas Ormiston. 
Has she changed so much, or have we never held her in 
quite the right light? I remember when she first came to 
us, dropped down on the eve of some party or other, and I 
caught her in the hall when the dancing was going on, 
 
 
 
her great shy eyes alight with delicious wonder. They all 
thought her plain, and I accepted the verdict. But she 
was beautiful this afternoon with the kind of severe sim- 
plicity that distinguishes her, that really lifts her above 
the rabble. Be lenient, O father confessor, while I unfold 
to you — " 
"Get to the end of your rhodomontade. Ward," says 
the elder, impatiently, and rising, begins to pace the floor. 
"Well, like Benedict I have resolved to marry. Like 
him too, I will listen to nothing the world can say against 
it. I've floated from flower to flower long enough ; how 
much honey I 've extracted I cannot tell, never having 
stored up any ; luckily, since one woman is always jealous 
of another's remembered sweetness. I suppose I ought 
to address you as Miss Ormiston's guardian for permis- 
sion to woo and win. There, is that all orthodox, old fel- 
low ? " And Ward tilts back in his chair. 
"You think you are in earnest?" St. Greorge has a 
peculiar feeling of responsibility. 
" In deliberate earnest. I have given it four hours of 
steady thought. I don't know of any one I should really 
respect and admire more. She is none of your ripe- 
peach people, and I shall set myself to work in earnest." 
" In what light will your mother view this matter? " 
"Oh I madame mbre will not take it unkindly, I think. 
She has always expected me to marry an heiress." 
"You know the conditions of her father's will? You 
would have to take the business and the name. It is all 
pretty securely tied up to her and her children." 
"Ormistonis not a bad name, and I really need not 
be the actual head of a paper mill, if I did not choose. 
We could spend the summers at Glen Ormiston, and the 
winters in town, and have a good man of business to keep 
matters from falling to pieces. Well, is there any objec- 
tion? State it now, and forever after — " 
Ward Allaire ends with a laughing gesture. 
Is ihore any objection? Leighton St. George casts
about as if he were ready to seize on anything that would 
militate against such a concession. What business has 
he to settle her soul's destiny, to take everything in his 
hands? TMs young fellow using life in a jaunty fashion, 
sipping the cream, content to float on the surface, nay, 
more delighted with the surface, bubbles and all. Christ- 
mas Ormiston's serious, questioning face rises before him. 
Can a man like this answer her soul's highest needs? 
"Ton 're not going back on me, St. George," Ward 
cries, rather beseechingly. " I 'm not a bad fellow. My 
sins are follies rather than crimes. And there are no 
Bayards nowadays." 
<'I really have nothing to say. Mr. Ormiston has 
placed no restrictions upon his daughter's choice. She is 
the one to decide." 
"Well, you can wish me success? " 
"Tes," St. George responds rather reluctantly. 
" Thanks, old fellow." 
There is a long silence. St. George paces restlessly. 
Hertha rises and joins her master and looks at him with 
great, questioning, sympathetic eyes. Why is he dissat- 
isfied? Miss Ormiston will marry some one, and it is for 
her to choose. If she elects this light, careless fellow, 
who is authority on fashions, and who graces a dinner 
elegantly, who shall say her nay? It is not so much 
Miss Ormiston, with her rather unusual ideals, higher and 
finer than ordinary life, but the grand old house, the mas- 
sive woods, the solemn haunts in their grandeur of beauty, 
that he grudges to Ward Allaire. He has seen it mag- 
nificent in blinding winter storms ; he has seen pictures in 
the snow that Europe can hardly rival. The measure of 
the man would be too small for the place. If it could be 
sold — But no, it is doubly secured ; guarded so tightly 
that it was proof against even Treverton's trickery. 
"Well," breaks in Ward, rising slowly, " I seem to 
 
 
have amazed yon by my daring. Sleep npon it, old 
fellow, and you will find it a stnbbom fact. I can be in 
earnest and I am really in love. Good night.' 
" Good night," responds St. George, courteously, and 
turns the key after his guest. Then he sweeps the chess- 
men into the drawer, turns the light low, settles himself 
in his easy-chair, while Hertha lays her long slim nose on 
his knee. Does she know he is perplexed? 
He has never considered marriage in any near degree. 
His father had just the nature to absorb and satisfy Ms. 
There were many delicate womanly ways that have borne 
fruit in his son, and made him more ezigeant, more im- 
passible. No longing for other love had ever entered his 
life ; the old had sufficed, and when that was laid in the 
grave, he went mourning with a widowed heart. To have 
sought out a new affection would have seemed sacrilege. 
But he has an ardent longing for a real home. K there 
were any sister or relative — 
Then he falls to speculating upon Miss Ormiston. 
That she will accept Ward he has scarcely a doubt. She 
is twenty now, and in a year's time he hands everything 
over to her. He can have one more summer at Glen 
Ormiston ; for if they marry. Ward will take her abroad. 
And what then? For the first time, and he is nine-and- 
twenty now;, a shiver of loneliness creeps over him. Can 
it be that youth is gone? Is it this that makes Ward 
Allaire seem frivolous? There really is no one of his 
very own, and in a strange pang of longing he wishes his 
father back again. 
Ward Allaire walks homeward with a buoyant step. 
He can manage his mother, he really has no doubt of 
Christmas. Then he remembers the glimpse of her this 
afternoon that crystallized his wandering thoughts into 
shape. Her proud, slender figure, instinct with grace in 
its dark cloth dress, with less of furbelows than most 
women indulge in ; her clear-cut, rather resolute face, with 
 
 
 
ItB broad, full brow and ahnond-shaped eyes that sug- 
gested Orientaliam. Heavens ! what execution she might 
do if she only knew how to use them. He smiles a little 
at her rare unconsciousness. The contrast between her 
and Dolly was so marked,— Dolly, who was all dazzling, 
rapid, rippling brilliancy. Everybody chatted and laughed 
with her ; they bowed to Miss Ormiston. He was rather 
proud of this exdusiveness, this self-poise, this mental 
as well as physical stamina. Not to rack one's brains 
continually for soft and silly phrases would be a treat. 
Women could stand such a surfeit of sweetness ; but after 
one had gone the rounds half a dozen years, the very 
repetition rendered it insipid. 
The next day St. Greorge suddenly betook himself to 
Camley. The matter should settle itself without any 
intervention on his part. 
