surprised and suspicious glance at the youth, and 
asked; 
“Where is he?” 
A mocking laugh was his answer. The king was 
in a rage in a moment; he seized a billet of wood 
and was in the act of charging upon the youth when 
another mocking laugh fell upon his ear. It was 
from the lame ruffian, who had been following at a 
distance. The king turned and said angrily: 
“Who art thou? What is thy business here?” 
“Leave thy foolery,” said the man, “and quiet 
thyself. My disguise is none so good that thou 
canst pretend thou knowest not thy father through 
it.” 
“Thou art not my father. I know thee not. I 
am the king. If thou hast hid my servant, find him 
for me, or thou shalt sup sorrow for what thou hast 
done.” 
John Canty replied, in a stem and measured 
voice: 
“It is plain thou art mad, and I am loath to ptm- 
ish thee; but if thou provoke me, I must. Thy 
prating doth no harm here, where there are no eais 
that need to mind thy follies, yet is it well to 
practise thy tongue to wary speech, that it may do no 
hurt when our quarters change. I have done a 
murder, and may not tarry at home — neither shalt 
thou, seeing I need thy service. My name is 
changed, for wise reasons; it is Hobbs — John 
Hobbs; thine is Jack — charge thy memory accordingly.
Now, then, speak. Where is thy mother? 
Where are thy sisters? They came not to the place 
appointed — knowest thou whither they went?” 
The king answered, sullenly: 
"Trouble me not with these riddles. My mother 
is dead; my sisters are in the palace.” 
The youth near by burst into a derisive laugh, 
and the king would have assaulted him, but Canty — 
or Hobbs, as he now called himself — prevented 
him, and said; 
"Peace, Hugo, vex him not; his mind is astray, 
and thy ways fret him. Sit thee down. Jack, and 
quiet thyself; thou shalt have a morsel to eat, 
anon.” 
Hobbs and Hugo fell to talking together, in low 
voices, and the king removed himself as far as he 
could from their disagreeable company. He with- 
drew into the twilight cf the farther end of the bam, 
where he found the earthen floor bedded a foot deep 
with straw. He lay down here, drew straw over 
himself in lieu of blankets, and was soon absorbed 
in thinking. He had many griefs, but the minor 
caies were swept almost into forgetfulness by the 
supreme one, the loss of his father. To the rest of 
tire world the name of Henry VIII. brought a shiver, 
aid suggested an ogre whose nostrils breathed de- 
stiuction and whose hand dealt scourgings and 
death; but to this boy the name brought only sen- 
satons of pleasure, the figure it invoked wore a 
countenance that was all gentleness and affection. 
He called to mind a long succession of loving pas- 
sages between his father and himself, and dwelt 
fondly upon them, his unstinted tears attesting how 
deep and real was the grief that possessed his heart. 
As the afternoon wasted away, the lad, wearied with 
his troubles, sunk gradually into a tranquil and heal- 
ing slumber. 
After a considerable time — he could not tell how 
long — his senses struggled to a half-consciousness, 
and as he lay with closed eyes vaguely wondering 
where he was and what had been happening, he 
noted a murmurous soimd, the sullen beating of rain 
upon the roof. A snug sense of comfort stole over 
him, which was rudely broken, the next moment, 
by a chorus of piping cackles and coarse laughter. 
It startled him disagreeably, and he unmuffled his 
head to see whence this interruption proceeded. A 
grim and unsightly picture met his eye. A bright 
fire was burning in the middle of the floor, at the 
other end of the bam; and around it, and lit weirdly 
up by the red glare, lolled and sprawled the mothest 
company of tattered gutter-scum and ruffians, of 
both sexes, he had ever read or dreamed of. There 
were huge, stalwart men, brown with exposure, long- 
haired, and clothed in fantastic rags; the were 
middle-azed youths, of truculent countenance, and 
similarly dad; there were blind mendicants, with 
patched or bandaged eyes; crippled ones, with 
wooden legs and crutches; there was a villain- 
iooking peddler with his pack; a knife-grinder, a 
tinker, and a barber-surgeon, wnth the implements 
of their trades; some of the females were hardly 
grown girls, some were at prime, some were old and 
wrinlded hags, and all were loud, brazen, foul- 
mouthed; and all soiled and slatternly; there were 
three sore-faced babies; there were a couple of 
starveling curs, with strings about their ned, whose 
office w'as to lead the blind. 
The night was come, the gang had just finished 
feasting, an orgy was beginning, the can of liquor 
was passing from mouth to mouth. A general cry 
broke forth: 
“A song! a song from the Bat and Dick Dot- 
and-go-One!” 
One of the blind men got up, and made ready by 
casting aside the patches that sheltered his excdlent 
eyes, and the pathetic placard which recited the 
cause of his calamity. Dot-and-go-One disencum- 
bered himself of his timber leg and took his place, 
upon sound and healthy limbs, beside his fellow- 
rascal; then they roared out a rollicking ditty, and 
were reinforced by the whole crew, at the end of 
each stanza, in a rousing chorus. By the time the 
last stanza was reached, thehalf-drunken enthusiasm 
had risen to such a pitch that everybody joined in 
and sang it dear through from the beginning, pro- 
ducing a volume of villainous sound that made the 
rafters quake. These were the inspiring words: 
“Bien Daxkmans then, Bouse Mort and Ken, 
The bien Coves bings awast, 
On Chates to trine by Ronae Coves dine 
For his long lib at last. 
Bing’d out bien Morts and toure, and toure, 
Bing out of the Rome vile bine. 
And toure the Cove that cloy’d yoirr duds. 
Upon the Chates to trine.”* 
Conversation followed; not in the thieves’ dialect 
of the song, for that was only used in talk when 
unfriendly ears might be listening. In the course of 
it it appeared that Hobbs” was not altogether 
a new recruit, but had trained in the gang at some 
former time. His later history was called for, and 
when he said he had “accidentally” Idiled a man, 
considerable satisfaction was expressed; when he 
added that the man was a priest, he was rotmdly 
applauded, and had to take a drink with everybody. 
Old acquaintances welcomed him joyously, and new 
ones were proud to shake him by the hand. He 
was asked why he had “tarried away so many 
months.” He answered: 
“London is better than the country, and safer 
these late years, the laws be so bitter and so
diligently enforced. An I had not had that accident, 
I had stayed there. I had resolved to stay, and 
nevemxore venture countrywards — but the accident 
had epded that.” 
He inquired how many persons the gang numbered 
now. The “Rufler,” or chief, answered: 
“Five and twenty sturdy bpdges, bulks, files, 
dapperdogeons and maunders, counting the dells 
* From “The Erlisb Rogue”: London, 1665. 
and doxies and other morts.* Most are here, the 
rest are wandering eastward, along the winter lay. 
We follow at dawn.” 
“I do not see the Wen among the honest folk 
about me. Where may he be?” 
“Poor lad, his diet is brimstone now, and over 
hot for a delicate taste. He was killed in a brawl, 
somewhere about midsummer.” 
“I sorrow to hear that; the Wen was a capable 
man, and brave.” 
“That was he, truly. Black Bess, his dell, is 
of us yet, but absent on the eastward tramp; a 
fine lass, of nice ways and orderly conduct, none 
ever seeiag her drunk above four dass in the seven.” 
“She was ever strict — remember it well — a 
goodly wench and worthy all commendation. Her 
mother was more free and less particular; a 
troublesome and ugly-tempered beldame, but furnished with 
a wit above the common.” 
“We lost her through it. Her gift of palmistry 
and othffl* sorts of fortune-telling begot for her at 
last a witch’s name and fame. The law roasted her 
to death at a slow fire. It did touch me to a sort of 
tenderness to see the gallant way she met her lot — 
cursing and reviling all the crowd that gaped and 
gazed around her, whilst the flames licked upward 
toward her face and catched her thin locks and 
crackled about her old gray head — cursing them, 
said I? — cursing them! why an thou shouldst live 
a thousand years thou’dst never hear so masterful 
a cursing. Alack, her art died with her. There 
be base and weakling imitations left, but no true 
blasphemy.” 
The Ruffler sighed; the listeners sighed in sympathy; 
a general depression fell upon the company 
for a moment, for even hardened outcasts like these 
are not wholly dead to sentiment, but are able to 
feel a fleeting sense of loss and affliction at wide 
intervals and under peculiarly favoring circum- 
stances — as in cases like to this, for instance, when 
genius and culture depart and leave no heir. However, 
a deep drink all round soon restored the spirits 
of the mourners. 
“Have any other of our friends fared hardly?” 
asked Hobbs. 
“Some — yes. Particularly new-comers — such as 
small husbandmen turned shiftless and hungry upon 
the world because their farms were taken from them 
to be changed to sheep-ranges. They begged, and 
were whipped at the cart’s tail, naked from the girdle 
up, tin the blood ran; then set in the stocks to be 
pelted; they begged again, were whipped again, and 
deprived of an ear; they begged a third time — poor 
devils, what else could they do? — and were branded 
on the cheek with a red-hot iron, then sold for slaves; 
they ran away, were hunted down, and hanged. ’Tis 
a brief tale, and quickly told. Others of us have 
fared less hardly. Stand forth, Yokel, Bums, and 
Hodge — show your adornments!” 
These stood up and stripped away scane of their 
rags, exposing their badss, crisscrossed with ropy old 
welts left by the lash; one turned up his hair and 
showed the place where a left ear had once been; 
another showed a brand upon his shoulder the 
letter V — and a mtiltilated ear; the third said: 
‘T am Yokel, once a farmer and prosperous, with 
loving wife and kids — now am I somewhat different 
in estate and calling; and the wife and kids are 
gone; mayhap they are in heaven, mayhap in in 
the other place — but the kindly God be thanked, 
they bide no more in England! My good old 
blameless mother strove to earn bread by nursing 
the sick; one of these died, the doctors knew not 
how, so my mother was biuned for a witch, whilst 
my babes looked on and wailed. English law I — 
up, all, with your cups!— now all together and with 
a cheer! — drink to the merciful English law that 
delivered her from the English hell! Thank you, 
mates, one and all. I begged, from house to house 
— and the wife — bearing with us the hungry 
kids — but it was crime to be hungry in England — 
so they stripped us and lashed us through three 
towns. Drink ye all again to the merciful English 
law! — for its lash drank deep of my Mary's blood 
and its blessed deliverance came quick. She lies 
there, in the potter’s field, safe from all harms. 
And the kids — well, whilst the law lashed me from 
town to town, they starved. Drink lads — only a 
drop — a drop to the poor kids, that never did any 
creature harm. I begged again. — begged for a 
crust, and got the stocks and lost an ear — see, 
here bides the stump; I begged again, and here is 
the stump of the other to keep me minded of it. 
And still I begged again, and was sold for a dave — 
here on my cheek under this stain, if I washed it 
off, ye might see the red S the branding-iron left 
there! A slave! Do ye understand that word! 
An English slave! — that is he that stands before 
ye. I have run from my master, and when I am 
found — the heavy curse of heaven fall on the law of 
the land that hath commanded it! — shall hang!” 
A ringing voice came through the murky air: 
“Thou shalt not ! — and this day the end of that 
law is come!” 
AH turned, and saw the fantastic figure of the 
little king approaching hurriedly; as it emerged into 
the light and was clearly revealed, a general explo- 
sion of inquiries broke out: 
“Who is it? What is it? Who art thou, manikin?” 
The boy stood unconfused in the midst of all 
those surprised and questioning eyes, and answered 
with princely dignity: 
“I am Edward, king of England.” 
A wild burst of laughter followed, partly of 
derision and partly of delight in the excellence of 
the joke. The king was stung. He said sharply: 
“Ye mannerless vagrants, is this your recognition 
of the royal boon I have promised?” 
He said more, with angry voice and excited 
gesture, but it was lost in a whirlwind of laughter 
and mo cking exdamations. “John Hobbs” made 
several attempts to make himself heard above the 
din, and at last succeeded — saving: 
Mates, he is my son, a dreamer, a fool, and 
stark mad — mind him not — he thinketh he is the 
Mng.” 
“I am the king,” said Edward, turning toward 
him, "as thou shalt know to thy cost, in good time. 
Thou hast confessed a murder — thou shalt swing 
for it.” 
“Thoti'll betray me ! — thouf An I get my hands 
upon thee — ” 
"Tut-tut!” said the burly RufHer, interposing in 
time to save the king, and emphasizing this service 
by knocking Hobbs down with his fist, "hast respect 
for neither kings nor RufiSers? An thou insult 
my presence so again, I’ll hang thee up myself.” 
Then he said to his majesty, "Thou must make no 
threats against thy mates, lad; and thou must guard 
thy tongue from saying evil of them elsewhere. Be 
long, if it please thy mad humor, but be not harmful 
in it. Sink the title thou hast uttered — ’tis 
treason; we be bad men, in some few trifling ways, 
but none among us is so base as to be traitor to his 
king; we be loving and loyal hearts, in that regard. 
Note if I speak truth. Now — all together: ‘Long 
live Edward, king of England!’” 
"Long live Edward, Ejng of England!” 
The response came with such a thunder-gust from 
the motley crew that the crazy building vibrated to 
the sound. The little king’s face lighted with pleas- 
ure for an instant, and he slightly inclined his head 
and said with grave simplicity: 
“I thank you, my good people.” 
This unexpected result threw the company into 
convulsions of merriment. When something like 
qmet was presently come again, the Ruffler said, 
firmly, but with an accent of good nature; 
“Drop it, boy, ’tis not wise, nor well. Humor 
thy fancy, if thou must, but choose some other 
title.” 
A tinker shrieked out a suggestion: 
“Foo-foo the First, king of the Mooncalves!’ 
The title “took” at once, every throat responded, 
and a roaring shout went up, of: 
“Long live Foo-foo the First, king of the Moon- 
calves!” followed by hootings, cat-calls, and peals 
of laughter. 
“Hale him forth, and crown himl” 
“Robe himl” 
“Scepter him!” 
“Throne him!” 
These and twenty other cries broke out at once; 
and almost before the poor little victim could draw 
a breath he was crowned with a tin basin, robed in a 
tattered blanket, throned upon a barrel, and sceptered 
with the tinker’s soldering-iron. Then all flung 
themselves upon their knees about him and sent up 
a chorus of ironical wailings, and mocking supplica- 
tions, while they swabbed their eyes with their soiled 
and ragged sleeves and aprons: 
“Be gracious to us, O sweet king!” 
“Trample not upon thy beseeching worms, 0 
noble majesty!” 
“Pity thy slaves, and comfort them with a royal 
kick!” 
“Cheer us and warm us with thy gracious rays, 
O flaming sun of sovereignty!” 
“Sanctify the ground with the touch of thy foot, 
that we may eat the dirt and be ennobled!” 
“Deign to spit upon us, O sire, that our children’s 
children may tell of thy princely condescension, and 
be proud and happy forever!” 
But the humorous tinker made the “hit” of the 
evening and carried off the honors. Kneeling, he 
pretended to kiss the long’s foot, and was indignantly 
spumed; whereupon he went about begging 
for a rag to paste over the place upon his face which 
had been touched by the foot, saying it must be 
preserved from contact with the vulgar air, and that 
he should make his fortune by going on the highway 
and exposing it to view at the rate of a hundred 
shillings a sight. He made himself so Idllingly 
funny that he was the envy and admiration of the 
whole mangy rabble. 
Tears of shame and indignation stood in the little 
monarch’s eyes; and the thought in his heart was, 
“Had I offered them a deep wrong they could not 
be more cruel — yet have I proffered naught but to 
do them a kindness — and it is thus they use me 
for it!” 
CHAPTER XVIII 
THE PRINCE WITH THE TRAMPS 
The troop of vagabonds turned out at early 
dawn, and set forward on their march. There 
was a lowering sky overhead, sloppy ground under 
foot, and a winter chiH in the air. All gaiety was 
gone from the company; some were sullen and 
silent, some were irritable and petulant, none were 
gentle-humored, all were thirsty. 
The Ruffler put “Jack” in Hugo’s charge, with 
some brief instructions, and commanded John 
Canty to keep away from him and let him alone; 
he also warned Hugo not to be too rough with 
the lad. 
After a while the weather grew milder, and the 
clouds lifted somewhat. The troop ceased to shiver, 
and their spirits began to improve. They grew 
more and more cheerful, and finally began to chaff 
each other and insult passengers along the highway. 
This showed that they were awaking to an apprecia- 
tion of life and its joys once more. The dread in 
which their sort was held was apparent in the fact 
that everybody gave them the road, and took their 
ribald insolences mfeekty, without venturing to talk 
back. They snatched Hnen from the hedges, occasionally, 
in full view of the owners, who made no 
protest, but only seemed grateful that they did not 
take the hedges, too. 
By and by they invaded a smaE farmhouse and 
made themselves at home while the trembling farmer 
and his people swept the larder clean to furnish a 
breakfast for them. They chucked the housewife 
and her daughters under the chin while receiving the 
food from their hands, and made coarse jests about 
them, accompanied with insulting epithets and 
bursts of horse-laughter. They threw bones and 
vegetables at the farmer and his sons, kept them 
dodging all the time, and applauded uproariously 
when a good hit was made. They ended by butter- 
ing the head of one of the daughters who resented 
some of their familiarities. When they took their 
leave they threatened to come back and bum the 
house over the heads of the family if any report of 
their doings got to the ears of the authorities. 
About noon, after a long and weary tramp, the 
gang came to a halt behind a hedge on the outskirts 
of a considerable village. An hour was allowed 
for rest, then the crew scattered themselves abroad 
to enter the village at different points to ply them 
various trades. ‘ ‘ Jack ” was sent with Hugo. They 
wandered hither and thither for some time, Hugo 
watching for opportunities to do a stroke of busi- 
ness but finding none — so he fimally said: 
“I see naught to steal ; it is a paltry place. WTiere- 
fore we will beg.” 
“We, forsooth! Follow thy trade — it bdSts thee. 
But I will not beg.” 
"Thou’lt not beg!” exclaimed Hugo, eying the 
king with surprise. “Prithee, since when hast thou 
reformed?” 
“What dost thou mean?” 
“Mean? Hast thou not begged the streets of 
London all thy life?” 
“I? Thou idiot!” 
“Spare thy compliments — thy stock will last the 
longer. Thy father says thou hast begged all thy 
days. Mayhap he lied. Peradventure you will even 
make so bold as to say he Hed,” scoffed Hugo. 
“Him ym call my father? Yes, he lied.” 
“Come, play not thy merry game of madman 
so far, mate; use it for thy amusement, not thy 
hurt. An I tell him this, he will scorch thee finely 
for it.” 
“Save thyself the trouble. I will tell him.” 
“I like thy spirit, I do in truth; but I do not ad- 
mire thy judgment. Bone-rackmgs and bastings be 
plenty enow in this life, without going out of one’s 
way to invite them. But a truce to these matters; 
I believe your father. I doubt not he can lie; I 
doubt not he doth lie, upon occasion, for the best of 
us do that; but there is no occasion here. A wise 
man does not waste so good a commodity as lying 
for naught. But come; sith it is thy htunor to give 
over begging, wherewithal shall we busy oursdves? 
With robbing kitchens?” 
Hie king said, impatiently; 
“Have done with this folly — you weary me!” 
Hugo replied, with temper: 
“Now harkee, mate; you will not beg, you will 
not rob; so be it. But I will tell you what you mil 
do. You mil play decoy whilst I beg. Refuse, an 
you think you may ventiire!” 
The king was about to reply contemptuously, 
when Hugo said, interrupting: 
“Peace! Here comes one with a kindly face. 
Now will I fall down in a fit. When the stranger 
runs to me, set you up a wail, and fall upon your 
knees, seeming to weep; then cry out as if all the 
devils of misery were in your belly, and say, ‘Oh, 
sir, it is my poor afflicted brother, and we be friendless; 
o’ God’s name cast through your merciful eyes 
one pitiful look upon a sick, forsaken, and most 
miserable wretch; bestow one little penny out of 
thy riches upon one smitten of God and ready to 
perish!’ — and mind you, keep you on wailing, and 
abate not till we bilk him of his peniiy, else shall 
you rue it.” 
Then immediately Hugo began to moan, and 
groan, and roll his eyes, and reel and totter about; 
and when the stranger was dose at hand, down he 
sprawled before him., with a shriek, and began to 
writhe and wallow in the dirt, in seeming agony. 
“0 dear, 0 dear!” cried the benevolent stranger. 
“Oh, poor soul, poor soul, how he doth suffer! 
There — let me help thee up.’’ 
“O, noble sir, forbear, and God love you for a 
princely gentleman — but it giveth me cruel pain to 
touch me when I am taken so. My brother there 
will tell your worship how I am racked with anguish 
when these fits be upon me. A penny, dear sir, a 
penny, to buy a little food; then leave me to my 
sorrows.” 
“A penny! thou shalt have three, thou hapless 
creature” — and he fumbled in his pocket with 
nervous haste and got them out. “There, poor 
lad, take them, and most welcome. Now come 
hither, my boy, and help me carry thy stricken 
brother to yon house, where — ” 
“I am not his brother,” said the king, interrupting. 
‘ ‘ What ! not his brother ?’ ’ 
“Oh, hear him!” groaned Hugo, then privately 
ground his teeth. “He denies his own brother — and 
he with one foot in the grave!” 
“Boy, thou art indeed hard of heart, if this is thy 
brother. For shame! — and he scarce able to move 
hand or foot. If he is not thy brother, who is 
he, then?” 
“A beggar and a thief! He has got your money 
