"Yes, papa, but you wouldn't, if there was only one tailor you liked." 
"Isn't there more than one mantua-maker for all this big city?" 
"My dear, Miss Hubbell suits me, and is uncommonly reasonable, for the 
quality of her work; and she has so much custom, we cannot get her 
without speaking long beforehand." 
"Why don't you speak, then?" 
"When was Mr. Digby--Mr. Southwode here, aunt Serena?" Rotha began again. 
"A few nights ago. I do not recollect. Mr. Busby, as you go down town 
will you stop at Dubois's and order the piano tuner? The piano is quite 
out of tune. And I wish you would order me a bag of coffee, if you say 
you can get it more reasonably at your down town place." 
"Very well, my dear." The words used to amuse Rotha, they rolled out so, 
brisk and sharp, like the discharge from a gun. To-day she was impatient. 
"Aunt Serena, I have been wanting to see Mr. Southwode very much." 
No answer. Mrs. Busby attended to her breakfast as if she did not hear. 
"When can I?" Rotha persisted. 
"I am sure, I cannot say. Mr. Busby, I will trouble you for a little of 
that sausage." 
"This sausage has too much pepper in it, mamma." 
"And too little of something else," added Mr. Busby. 
"Of what, Mr. Busby?" 
"That I do not know, my dear; it belongs to your department." 
"But even the Chaldean magicians could not interpret the dream that was 
not told to them," Mrs. Busby suggested, with smiling satisfaction. "How 
can I have the missing quality supplied, if you cannot tell me what it is 
you miss?" 
"You can divine, my dear, quite as well as the Chaldean magicians." 
"Then if that is true, aunt Serena," Rotha put in desperately, "will you 
please tell me where Mr. Southwode is?" 
"Her divining rod is not long enough for that," said Mr. Busby. "Mr. 
Southwode is on the high seas somewhere, on his way to England." 
"On the high seas!" Rotha repeated slowly. 
"There was no occasion to mention that, Mr. Busby," said his wife. "Mr. 
Southwode's movements are nothing to us." 
"Seem to be something to Rotha," said the gentleman. 
"You knew that," said Rotha, steadily. "Why did you keep it from me, aunt 
Serena?" 
"I did not keep it from you," Mrs. Busby returned, bridling. "The papers 
are open. I did not speak of it, because Mr. Southwode and his affairs 
are no concern of yours, or of mine, and therefore are not interesting." 
"Of yours? No! But they are all I have in the world!" said Rotha, with 
fire in her cheeks and in her eyes. Mrs. Busby went on with her breakfast 
and avoided looking at her. But Antoinette cried out. 
"All she has in the world! Mr. Southwode! Pretty well for a young lady! 
Mamma, do you hear that? Mr. Southwode is all she has in the world." 
"Once hearing a silly thing is quite enough. You need not repeat it, 
Antoinette." 
"Didn't he come to say good bye?" asked Rotha, her eyes blazing. 
"I do not answer questions put in that tone," said Mrs. Busby, coldly. 
"I know he did," said Rotha. "What did he go to England for, Mr. Busby?" 
"Mr. Busby," said his wife, "I request you not to reply. Rotha is 
behaving improperly, and must be left to herself till she is better-
mannered." 
"I don't know, my dear," said the gentleman, rising and gathering his 
newspapers together, previous to taking his departure. "'Seems to me 
that's an open question--public, as you say. I do not see why you should 
not tell Rotha that Mr. Southwode is called home by the illness and 
probable death of his father. Good-morning, my dear!" 
"Did you ever see anything like papa!" said Antoinette with an appealing 
look at her mother, as the door closed. "He don't mind you a bit, mamma." 
Mrs. Busby's slight air of the head was more significant than words. 
"He is the only fraction of a friend I have in this house," said Rotha. 
"But you needn't think, aunt Serena, that you can do what you like with 
Mr. Southwode and me. I belong to him, not to you; and he will come back, 
and then he will take me under his own care, and I will have nothing to 
do with you the rest of my life. I know you now. I thought I did before, 
and now I know. You let mamma want everything in the world; and now 
perhaps you will let me; but Mr. Southwode will take care of me, sooner 
or later, and I can wait, for I know him too." 
Rotha left the room, unconsciously with the air of a tragedy queen. Alas, 
it was tragedy enough with her! 
"Mamma!" said Antoinette. "Did you ever see anything like that?" 
"I knew it was in her," Mrs. Busby said, keeping her composure in 
appearance. 
"What will you do with her?" 
"Let her alone a little," said Mrs. Busby icily. "Let her come to her 
senses." 
"Will you go to get her cloak to-day?" 
"I don't know why I should give myself any trouble about her. I will let 
her wait till she comes to her senses and humbles herself to me." 
"Do you think she ever will?" 
"I don't care, whether she does or not. It is all the same to me. You let 
her alone too, Antoinette." 
"I will," said Antoinette. "I don't like spitfires. High! what a
powder-magazine she is, mamma! Her eyes are enough to set fire to things 
sometimes." 
"Don't use such an inelegant word, Antoinette. 'High!' How can you? Where 
did you get it?" 
"You send me to school, mamma, to learn; and so I pick up a few things. 
But do you think it is true, what she says about Mr. Southwode?" 
"What?" 
"That he will come and take her away from you." 
"Not if I don't choose it," 
"And you will not choose it, will you?" 
"Don't be foolish, Antoinette. Rotha will never see Mr. Southwode again. 
She has defied me, and now she may take the consequences." 
"But he will come back, mamma? He said so." 
"I hope he will." 
"Then he'll find Rotha, and she'll tell him her own story." 
"Will you trust me to look after my own affairs? And get yourself ready 
to go out with me immediately." 
CHAPTER XIV. 
IN SECLUSION. 
Rotha climbed the three flights of stairs from the breakfast room, 
feeling that her aunt's house, and the world generally, had become a 
desert to her. She went up to her own little room, being very sure that 
neither in the warm dressing room on the second floor, nor indeed in any 
other, would she be welcome, or even perhaps tolerated. How should she 
be, after what had taken place? And how could she breathe, anyhow, in any 
atmosphere where her aunt was? Imprudent? had she been imprudent? Very 
possibly; she had brought matters to an unmanageable point, inconvenient 
for all parties; and she had broken through the cold reserve which it had 
been her purpose to maintain, and lost sight wholly of the principles by 
which it had Been Mr. Digby's wish that she should be guided. Rotha had a 
mental recognition of all this; but passion met it with simple defiance. 
She was not weeping; the fire at her heart scorched all tender moisture, 
though it would not keep her blood warm. The day was wintry indeed. Rotha 
pulled the coverlet off her bed and wrapped herself in it, and sat down 
to think. . 
Thinking, is too good a name to give to what for some time went on in 
Rotha's mind. She was rather looking at the procession of images which 
passion called up and sent succeeding one another through the chambers of 
her brain. It was a very dreary time with the girl. Her aunt's treachery, 
her cousin's coldness, Mr. Digby's pitiless desertion, her lonely, lonely 
place in the world, her unendurable dependence on people that did not 
love her; for just now her dependence on Mr. Digby had failed; it all 
rushed through and through Rotha's head, for all the world like the 
changing images in a kaleidoscope, which are but new combinations, 
eternally renewed, of the same changeless elements. At first they went 
through Rotha's head in a kind of storm; gradually, for very weariness, 
the storm laid itself, and cold reality and sober reason had the field. 
But what could reason do with the reality? In other words, what step was 
now to take? What was to be done? Rotha could not see. She was at present 
at open war with her aunt. Yes, she allowed, that had not been exactly 
prudent; but it would have had to come, sooner or later. She could not 
live permanently on false social grounds; as well break through them at 
once. But what now? What ground did she expect to stand and move on now? 
She could not leave her aunt's house, for she had no other home to go to. 
How was she to stay in it, if she made no apology or submission? And I 
cannot do that, said the girl to herself. Apology indeed! It is she who 
ought to humble herself to me, for it is she who has wronged me, 
bitterly, meanly. Passion renewed the storm, for a little while. But by 
degrees Rotha came to be simply cold and tired and miserable. What to do 
she did not know. 
Nobody was at home to luncheon. She knew this, and got some refreshment 
from Lesbia, and also warmed herself through at the dressing-room fire. 
But when the door bell announced the return of her aunt and cousin, she 
sped away up stairs again and wrapped herself in her coverlet, and 
waited. She waited till it grew dark. She was not called to dinner, and 
saw that she would not be. Rotha fed upon indignation, which furnished 
her a warm meal; and then somebody knocked softly at her door. Lesbia had 
brought a plate with some cold viands. 
"I'll fetch it agin by and by," she whispered. "I'm allays agin seein' 
folks starve. What's the matter, Miss Rotha?" 
Lesbia had heard one side down stairs, and impartially was willing now to 
hear the other. Rotha's natural dignity however never sought such solace 
of her troubles. 
"Thank you, Lesbia," she simply said. "My aunt is vexed with me." 
"She's vexed worse'n ever I seen her. What you gone and done, Miss 
Rotha?" 
"It can't be helped," said Rotha. "She and I do not think alike." 
"It's convenientest not to quarrel with Mrs. Busby if you live in the 
house with her," said Lesbia. "She's orful smart, she is. But she and me 
allays thinks just alike, and so I get on first rate with her." 
"That's a very good way, for you," said Rotha. 
She went to bed, dulled that night with pain and misery, and slept the 
night through. When the light of a bright Sunday morning awoke her, she 
opened her eyes again to the full dreariness of her situation. So 
terribly dreary and cold at heart Rotha had never felt. Deserted by her 
one friend--and with that thought Rotha broke down and cried as if she 
would break her heart. But hearts are tough, and do not break so easily. 
The necessity of getting dressed before breakfast obliged her to check 
her passion of grief and dry her eyes; though that she did not; the 
tears kept dripping on her hands and into her basin of water; but she 
finished dressing, and then queried what she should do about going to the 
breakfast-table. She was very uncertain whether she would be allowed 
there. However, it was disagreeable, but the attempt must be made; she 
must find out whether it was war to the knife or not. And although the 
thought choked her, she was hungry; and be it the bread of charity, and 
her aunt's charity to boot, she could not get along without it. She went 
down stairs, rather late. The family were at breakfast. 
Her aunt did not look at her. Antoinette stared at her. Mr. Busby, as 
usual, took no notice. Rotha came up to the side of the table and stood 
there, changing colour somewhat. 
"I do not know," she said, "if I am to be allowed to come to breakfast. I 
came to see." 
Mrs. Busby made no answer. 
"Polite--" said Antoinette. 
"Eh?" said Mr. Busby looking up from a letter, "what's that? Sit down, my 
dear, you are late. Hold your plate--" 
As nobody interfered, Rotha did so and sat down to her meal. Mrs. Busby 
said nothing whatever. Perhaps she felt she had pushed matters pretty 
far; perhaps she avoided calling her husband's attention any further to 
the subject. She made no remark about anything, till Mr. Busby had left 
the room; nor then immediately. When she did speak, it was in her hard, 
measured way. 
"As you present yourself before me this morning, Rotha, I may hope that 
you are prepared to make me a proper apology." 
"What have I done, aunt Serena?" 
"Do you ask me? You have forgotten strangely the behaviour due from you 
to me." 
"I did not forget it--" said Rotha slowly. 
"Will you give me an excuse for your conduct, then?" 
"Yes," said Rotha. "Because, aunt Serena, you had forgotten so utterly 
the treatment due from you to me." 
Mrs. Busby flushed a little. Still she commanded herself She always did. 
"Mamma, she's pretty impudent!" said Antoinette. 
"I always make allowances, and you must learn to do so, Antoinette, for 
people who have never learned any manners." 
Rotha was stung, but she confessed to herself that passion had made her 
overleap the bounds which she had purposed, and Mr. Digby had counselled, 
her behaviour should observe. So she was now silent. 
"However," Mrs. Busby went on, "it is quite necessary that any one living 
in my family and sheltered by my roof, should pay me the respect which 
they owe to me." 
"I will always pay all I owe," said Rotha deliberately, "so far as I have 
anything to pay it with." 
"And in case the supply fails," said Mrs. Busby, her voice trembling a 
little, "don't you think you had better avoid going deeper into debt?" 
"What do I owe you, aunt Serena?" asked the girl. 
Mrs. Busby saw the gathering fire in the dark eyes, and did not desire to 
bring on another explosion. She assumed an impassive air, looked away 
from Rotha, rose and began to put her cups together on the tea-board, and 
rang for the tub of hot water. 
"I leave that to your own sense to answer," she said. "But if you are to 
stay in my house, I beg you to understand, you must behave yourself to me 
with all proper civility and good manners. Else I will turn you into the 
street." 
Rotha recognized the necessity for a certain decency of exterior form at 
least, if she and her aunt were to continue under one roof; and so, 
though her tongue was ready with an answer, she did not at once make it. 
She rose, and was about quitting the room, when the fire in her blazed up 
again. 
"It is where mother would have been, if it had not been for other 
friends," she said. 
She opened the door as she spoke, and toiled up the long stairs to her 
room; for when the heart is heavy somehow one's feet are not light. She 
went to her cold little room and sat down. The sunshine was very bright 
outside, and church bells were ringing. No going to church for her, nor 
would there have been in any case; she had no garments fit to go out in. 
Would she ever have them? Rotha queried. The church bells hurt her heart; 
she wished they would stop ringing; they sounded clear and joyous notes, 
and reminded her of happy times past. Medwayville, her father, her 
mother, peace and honour, and latterly Mr. Southwode, and all his 
kindness and teaching and his affection. It was too much. The early 
Sunday morning was spent by Rotha in an agony of weeping and lamentation; 
silent, however; she made no noise that could be heard down stairs where 
Mrs. Busby and Antoinette were dressing to go to church. The intensity of 
her passion again by and by wore itself out; and when the last bells had 
done ringing, and the patter of feet was silenced in the streets, Rotha 
crept down to the empty dressing room, feeling blue and cold, to warm 
herself. She shivered, she stretched her arms to the warmth of the fire, 
she was chilled to the core, with a chill that was yet more mental than 
physical Alone, and stripped of everything, and everybody gone that she 
loved. What was she to do? how was she to live? She was struggling with a 
burden of realities and trying to make them seem unreal, trying for an 
outlook of hope or comfort in the darkness of her prospects. In vain; Mr. 
Digby was gone, and with him all her strength and her reliance. He was 
gone; nobody could tell when he would come back; perhaps never; and she 
could not write to him, and his letters would never get to her. Never; 
she was sure of it. Mrs. Busby would never let them get further than her 
own hands. So everything was worse than she had ever feared it could be. 
Sitting there on the rug before the fire, and with her teeth chattering, 
partly from real cold and partly from the nervous exhaustion, there came 
to her suddenly something Mr. Digby had once said to her. If she should 
come to see a time when she would have nobody to depend on; when her 
world would be wholly a desert; all gone that she had loved or trusted. 
It has come now!--she thought to herself; even he, who I thought would 
never fail me, he has failed. He said he would not fail me, but he has 
failed. I am alone; I have nobody any more. Then he told me---- 
She went back and gathered it up in her memory, what he had told her to 
do then. Then if she would seek the Lord, seek him with her whole heart, 
she would find him; and finding him, she would find good again. The poor, 
sore heart caught at the promise. I will seek him, she suddenly said; I 
will seek till I find; I have nothing else now. 
The resolve was as earnest as it was sudden. Doubtless the way had been 
preparing for it, in her mother's and her father's teachings and prayers 
and example, and in Mr. Digby's words and kindness and his example; she 
remembered now the look of his eyes as he told her the Lord Jesus would 
do all she trusted him to do. Yet the determination was extremely sudden 
to Rotha herself. And as the meeting of two currents, whether in the 
waters or in the air or the human mind, generally raises a commotion, so 
this flowing in of light and promise upon the midst of her despair almost 
broke Rotha's heart. The tears shed this time, however, though abundant, 
were less bitter; and Rotha raised her head and dashed the drops away, 
and ran up stairs to fetch her mother's Bible and begin her quest upon 
the spot. Lying there upon the rug in her aunt's dressing room, she began 
it. 
She began with a careful consideration of the three marked passages. The 
one in John especially held her. "He that hath my commandments and 
keepeth them, he it is that loveth me."--I do not love Him, thought 
Rotha, for I do not know Him; but I must begin, I suppose, with keeping 
his commandments. Now the thing is, to find out what.--
She opened her book at hap hazard, lying on the rug there with it before 
her. A leaf or two aimlessly turned,--and her eye fell on these words: 
"And in that day shall the deaf hear the words of the book, and the eyes 
of the blind shall see out of obscurity and out of darkness. The meek 
also shall increase their joy in the Lord, and the poor among men shall 
rejoice in the Holy One of Israel." 
I am poor enough, thought Rotha, while soft warm tears streamed afresh 
from her eyes;--and deaf enough, and blind enough too, I have been; but 
meek?--I guess I'm not meek. 
Turning over a leaf or two, her eyes were caught by the thirty fifth 
chapter of Isaiah, and she read it all. There was the promise for the 
deaf and the blind again; Rotha applied that to herself unhesitatingly; 
but the rest of the chapter she could not well understand. Except one 
thing; that the way of the blessed people is a "way of holiness." And 
also the promise in the last verse, which seemed to be an echo of those 
words of Jesus--"He that cometh to me shall never hunger, and he that 
believeth on me shall never thirst." And Rotha was so hungry, and so 
thirsty! She paused just there, and covering her eyes with her hand, made 
one of the first real prayers, perhaps, she had ever prayed. It was a 
dumb stretching out of her hands for the food she was starving for; not 
much more; but it was eagerly put in the name of Christ, and such cries 
he hears. She turned over a few more leaves and stopped. 
"I the Lord have called thee in righteousness, and will hold thine hand, 
and will keep thee, and give thee for a covenant of the people, for a 
light of the Gentiles; to open the blind eyes, to bring out the prisoners 
from the prison, and them that sit in darkness out of the prison house." 
Who could that be? Rotha knew enough to guess that it could mean but one, 
even the great Deliverer. And a little further on she saw other words 
which encouraged her. 
"I will bring the blind by a way that they know not; I will lead them in 
paths they have not known; I will make darkness light before them, and 
crooked things straight. These things will I do unto them, and not 
forsake them." 
So many promises to the blind, Rotha said to herself; and that means me. 
I don't think I am meek, but I know I am blind.--Then on the very next 
leaf she read-- 
"I have blotted out, as a thick cloud, thy transgressions, and as a cloud 
thy sins; return unto me; for I have redeemed thee." 
Redeemed, that means, bought back, said Rotha; and I know who has done 
it, too. I suppose that is how he delivered the prisoners out of the 
prison house. Well, if he has redeemed me, I ought to belong to him,--and 
I will! I do not know much, but there is another promise; he will bring 
the blind by a way they have not known, and will make darkness light 
before them. Now what I have to do,--yes, I am redeemed, and I will be 
redeemed; and I belong to him who has redeemed me, of course. "He that 
hath my commandments and keepeth them"--what are they? 
She thought she must look in the New Testament for them; and not knowing 
where to look in particular, she turned to the first chapter. It did not 
seem to contain much that concerned her, till she came to the 21st verse. 
"And she shall bring forth a son, and thou shalt call his name JESUS: for 
he shall save his people from their sins." 
Rotha put that together with the "way of holiness," but it seemed to her 
unspeakably wonderful. In fact, it was hard to believe. Save her from 
her sins? from pride and anger and self-will and self-pleasing? why, they 
were inborn; they were in her very blood; they came like the breath of 
her breathing. Could she be saved from them? Mr. Digby was like that. But 
a Rotha without anger and pride and self-will--would she know herself? 
would it be Rotha? and was she quite sure that she desired to be the 
subject of such a transformation? Never mind; desire it or not, this was 
the "way of holiness," and there was no other. But about commandments?--
She read the second chapter with an interest that hitherto she had never 
given to it; so also the third, without finding yet what she was looking 
for. The second verse, John the Baptist's cry to repentance, she answered 
by saying that she had repented; that step was taken; what next? In the 
fourth chapter she paused at the 10th verse. I see, she said, one is not 
to do wrong even for the whole world; but what must I do that is right? 
She startled a little at the 19th verse; concluded however that the 
command to "follow him" was directed only to the people of that time, the 
apostles and others, who were expected literally to leave their callings 
and accompany Jesus in his wanderings. The beatitudes were incipient 
commands, perhaps. But she did not quite understand most of them. At the 
16th verse she came to a full pause. 
"Let your light so shine"--That is like Mr. Digby. Everything he does is 
just beautiful, and shews one how one ought to be. Then according to 
that, I must not do any wrong at all!--
ust here Rotha heard the latch key in the house door, and knew the 
family were coming home from church. She seized her Bible and ran off up 
stairs. There it was necessary to wrap herself in her coverlet again; and 
shivering a little she put her book on the bed side and knelt beside it. 
But presently poor Rotha was brought up short in her studies. She had 
been saying comfortably to herself, reading v. 22,--I have not been 
"angry without a cause"; and I have not called anybody "Raca," or "Thou 
fool"; but then it came--
"If thou bring thy gift to the altar, and there rememberest that thy 
brother hath ought against thee, leave there thy gift... go thy way...
first be reconciled... then offer thy gift." 
Rotha felt as if she had got a blow. Her aunt had "something against 
her." But, said Rotha to herself, not the thousandth part of what I 
have against her. No matter, conscience objected; her charge remains the 
same, although you may have a larger to set off against it. Then am I to 
go and make it up with her? I can't do it, said Rotha. I do not wish to 
do it. I wish her to know that I am angry, and justly angry; if I were to 
go and ask her pardon for my way of speaking, she would just think I want 
to make it up with her so that she may get me my new cloak and other 
things.? And Rotha turned hot and cold at the thought. Yet conscience 
pertinaciously presented the injunction?"first be reconciled to thy 
brother." It was a dead lock. Rotha felt that her prayers would not be 
acceptable or accepted, while a clear duty was knowingly left undone; and 
do it she would not. At least not now; and how ever, that she could not 
see. Her heart which had been a little lightened, sank down like lead. O, 
thought she, is it so hard a thing to be a Christian? Did Mr. Digby ever 
have such a fight, I wonder, before he got to be as he is now? He does 
not look as if he ever had fights. But then he is strong. 
And Rotha was weak. She knew it. She let her eye run down the page a 
little further; and it came to these words-- 
"If thy right eye offend thee, pluck it out, and cast it from thee."...
"If thy right hand offend thee, cut it off."...
Duty was plain enough. This luxury of anger at her aunt was a forbidden 
pleasure; it must be given up; and at the thought, Rotha clutched it the 
more warmly. So the bell rang for dinner, always early on Sunday. She 
would rather not have gone down, and did linger; then she heard it rung 
the second time and knew that was to summon the stragglers. She went 
down. The rest were at table. 
"Mamma," Antoinette was saying, "you must get a new bonnet." 
"Why?" 
"Mrs. Mac Jimpsey has got a new one, and it is handsomer than yours." 
"What does that signify?" was asked in Mr. Busby's curious husky tones 
and abrupt utterance. 
"O papa, you don't understand such things." 
"Nor you neither. You are a little goose." 
"Papa! don't you want mamma and me to be as nice as anybody?" 
"You are." 
"O but Mrs. Mac Jimpsey's bonnet was fifty times handsomer than mamma's. 
You don't know, but it was." 
"Nevertheless, your mamma is fifty times handsomer than Mrs. Mac 
Jimpsey." 
"O papa! but that isn't the thing." 
"And Mr. Mac Jimpsey's pocket is some fifty dollars or so emptier than 
mine. You see, we have a hundred times the advantage, to say the least." 
"Papa, gentlemen never understand such things." 
"Better for them if the ladies didn't." 
"My dear," said Mrs. Busby smoothly, "you do not consider dress a subject 
of small importance?" 
"I have no occasion to think about it, my dear, I am aware." 
"Why do you say that, Mr. Busby?" 
"It receives such exhaustive consideration from you." 
"It cannot be done without consideration; not properly. Good dressing is 
a distinction; and it requires a careful regard to circumstances, to keep 
up one's appearance properly." 
"What do you think about it, Rotha?" said Mr. Busby. 
Rotha was startled, and flushed all over. To answer was not easy; and yet 
answer she must. "I think it is comfortable to be well dressed," she 
said. 
"Well dressed! but there is the question. What do you mean by 'well 
dressed'? You see, Antoinette means by it simply, handsomer things than 
Mrs. Mac Jimpsey." 
Antoinette pouted, much incensed at this speech and at the appeal to 
Rotha generally; and Mrs. Busby brought her lips into firmer compression; 
though neither spoke. Mr. Busby went on, rather kindly. 
"What's the matter, that you didn't go to church to-day? Is Antoinette's 
bonnet handsomer than yours?" 
"It ought to be, Mr. Busby," said the lady of the house here. 
"Ought it? Rotha might put in a demurrer. May I ask why?" 
"Circumstances are different, Mr. Busby. That is what I said. Proper 
dressing must keep a due regard to circumstances." 
"Mine among the rest. Now I don't see why a bonnet fit for Antoinette's 
cousin isn't good enough for Antoinette; and the surplus money in my 
pocket." 
"And you would have your daughter dress like a poor girl?" 
"Couldn't do better, in my opinion. That's the way not to become one. 
Fetch me your bonnet, Rotha, and let us see what it is like." 
Rotha coloured high and sat still. Indeed her aunt said, "Nonsense! do no 
such thing." But Mr. Busby repeated, "Fetch it, fetch it. We are talking 
in the abstract; I cannot convict anybody in the abstract." 
"But it is Sunday, Mr. Busby." 
"Well, my dear, what of that? The better day, the better deed. I am 
trying to bring you and Antoinette to a more Christian mind in respect of 
bonnets; that's good work for Sunday. Fetch your bonnet, Rotha." 
"Do no such thing, Rotha," said her aunt. "Mr. Busby is playing; he does 
not mean his words to be taken literally. You would not send her up three 
pair of stairs to gratify your whim, when another time would do just as 
well?" 
"My dear, I always mean my words to be taken literally. I do not 
understand your arts of rhetoric. I will send Rotha up stairs, if she 
will be so obliging as to gratify my whim." 
He looked at Rotha as he spoke, and Rotha half rose from her seat; when 
Antoinette suddenly dashed past her, saying, "I will fetch it"--and ran 
off up stairs. Rotha sat down again, much confounded at this benevolence, 
and wondering what that was not benevolent might lie beneath it. Mrs. 
Busby pursed up her mouth and looked at nobody. Presently Antoinette came 
down again. In her hand she held a little grey plush hat, somewhat worn 
but very jaunty, with a long grey feather, curled round it. This hat she 
held out on the tips of her fingers for her father's inspection. Rotha's 
eyes grew large with astonishment. Mrs. Busby's lips twitched. Antoinette 
looked daring and mischievous. Mr. Busby innocently surveyed the grey 
plush and feather. 
"So that is what you call a hat for a poor girl?" he said. "It seems to 
me, if I remember, that is very like one you used to wear, Nettie." 
"Yes, papa, it is; but this is Rotha's." 
"Mrs. Busby, was this your choice?" 
"Yes, Mr. Busby." 
"Then of course this is proper for Rotha. Now will you explain to me why 
it is not equally proper for Antoinette? But this is not what I should 
have called a hat for a poor girl, my dear." 
"Mr. Busby, while Rotha lives with us, it is necessary to have a certain 
conformity--there cannot be too much difference made." 
"Hum--ha!" said the bewildered man. Rotha by this time had got her 
breath. 
"That is not my hat however, Mr. Busby," she said, with cheeks on fire. 
"Yes, it is your hat," said Antoinette. "Do you think I am saying what is 
not true? It is your hat, and nobody else's." 
"It is your hat. I have seen you wear it." 
"I have given it to you. It is your hat." 
"I don't take it," said Rotha. "Your things do not suit me, as your 
mother has just said. You may do what you like with it; but you do not 
give it to me!" 
Mr. Busby looked from one to the other. 
