fellow."
Though he did not quite understand why Ben and Jake Bradley did not
present themselves, he felt sure that they were close at hand, and that
his unwelcome visitors would very soon find it getting hot for them.
"Look here, you yellow baboon!" said Bill Mosely, angrily, "you know
what I mean. This man here didn't free you from the tree. Anyway, you
were a fool to come back. Do you know what I am going to do with you?"
Ki Sing shook his head placidly.
"I am going to tie you hand and foot and roll you down hill. You'd
better have stayed where you were."
"No want loll down hillee," said the Chinaman, without, however,
betraying any fear.
"I sha'n't ask whether you like it or not. But stop! Perhaps you can
help us. Do you know where the gold-dust is?"
"Yes," answered Ki Sing.
Bill Mosely's face lighted up with pleasure. He thought he saw the way
out of his difficulty.
"That's the very thing!" he cried, turning to his partner--"eh, Tom?"
"I should say so, Bill."
"Just show us where it is, and we won't do you any harm."
"If my fliend, Dickee Dewee, tell me to, I will," said Ki Sing.
Dewey, thus appealed to, said, "No, Ki Sing; they only want to rob me,
and I am not willing to have you show them."
"You'd better shut up, Dewey," said Mosely, insolently; "you're a dead
duck, and you're only gettin' this foolish heathen into trouble. We've
got tired of waitin' 'round here, and--"
"I am ready to excuse you any time," said Dewey. "Don't stay on my
account, I beg. In fact, the sooner you leave the better it will please
me."
Bill Mosely, who didn't fancy Dewey's sarcasm, frowned fiercely and
turned again to Ki Sing. "Will you show us or not?" he demanded.
"Velly solly," said Ki Sing, with a childish smile, "but Dickee Dewee
won't let me."
With an oath Mosely sprang to the doorway and tried to clutch the
Chinaman, when the latter slid to one side and Jake Bradley confronted
him.
"You'd better begin with me, Bill Mosely," he said.
CHAPTER IX.
BRADLEY'S SIGNAL VICTORY.
Bill Mosely started back as if he had seen a rattlesnake, and stared at
Jake Bradley in mingled surprise and dismay.
"You didn't expect to see me, I reckon?" said Bradley, dryly.
Mosely still stared at him, uncertain what to say or what to do.
"I take it very kind of you to bring back the hosses you borrowed a few
weeks since. You took 'em rather sudden, without askin' leave; it was a
kind of oversight on your part."
"I don't know what you mean," answered Mosely, determined to brazen it
out and keep the horses if possible, for he was lazy and a pedestrian
tramp would not have suited him very well.
"You know what I mean well enough, Bill Mosely. If you don't, them
mustangs outside may refresh your recollection. They look kinder fagged
out. You've worked 'em too hard, Mosely."
"Those mustangs are ours. We bought 'em," said Mosely, boldly.--"Didn't
we, Tom?"
"I should say so," remarked Hadley, with striking originality.
"That's a lie, Tom," remarked Bradley, calmly, "and you know it as well
as I do."
"Are we goin' to stand that, Tom?" blustered Mosely, whose courage was
beginning to revive, as he had thus far only seen Bradley, and
considered that the odds were two to one in his favor. Of course the
Chinaman counted for nothing.
Tom Hadley looked a little doubtful, for he could see that the enemy,
though apparently single-handed, was a man of powerful frame and
apparently fearless even to recklessness. He had a strong suspicion that
Bill Mosely was a coward and would afford him very little assistance in
the event of a scrimmage.
"If you can't stand it," said Bradley, "sit down, if you want to."
Thus far, Richard Dewey had remained silent, but he wished to
participate in the defence of their property if there should be need,
and of course must be released first.
"Jake," said he, "these fellows have tied me hand and foot. They
couldn't have done it if I had not been partially disabled. Send in Ki
Sing to cut the cords."
"They dared to tie you?" said Bradley, sternly.--"Mosely, what was that
for?"
"To remove one obstacle in the way of plunder," Dewey answered for them.
"They're not only hoss-thieves, but thieves through and through. Since
they tied you, they must untie you.--Mosely, go and cut the cords."
"I am not a slave to be ordered round," returned Mosely, haughtily.
"What are you, then?"
"A gentleman."
"Then you'll be a dead gentleman in less than a minute if you don't do
as I tell you."
As he spoke he drew out his revolver and levelled it at Mosely.
The latter turned pale. "Don't handle that we'pon so careless,
stranger," he said. "It might go off."
"So it might--as like as not," answered Bradley, calmly.
"Put it up," said Mosely, nervously.--"Tom, just cut them cords."
"Tom, you needn't do it.--Mosely, you're the man for that duty. Do you
hear?"
Bill Mosely hesitated. He didn't like to yield and be humiliated before
the man over whom he had retained so long an ascendency.
"You'd better be quick about it," said Bradley, warningly. "This here
we'pon goes off terrible easily. I don't want to shoot you, but there
might be an accident. I've killed twenty-one men with it already. You'll
be the twenty-second."
That was hint enough. Pride gave way, and Bill Mosely knelt down and cut
the cords which confined Dewey, and the invalid, with a sense of relief,
sat up on his pallet and watched the conference.
"There! are you satisfied?" asked Mosely, sullenly.
"It'll do as far as it goes, Mosely," said Bradley. "I wouldn't advise
you to try any more of them tricks."
He lowered his weapon, and was about to replace it, when Mosely, who had
made a secret sign to his companion, sprang forward simultaneously with
Tom Hadley and seized the intrepid Bradley.
The attack was sudden, and also unexpected, for Bradley had such a
contempt for the prowess of William Mosely that he had not supposed him
capable of planning or carrying out so bold an attack. It must be
admitted that he was taken at disadvantage, and might have been
temporarily overpowered, for Tom Hadley was strong, and Mosely, though a
coward, was nerved by desperation.
Richard Dewey saw his friend's danger, but, unhappily, he had no weapon
at hand.
But help was not long in coming.
Concealed by the walls of the cabin, Ben had heard all that had been
said, and observed the attack upon his comrade.
He did not hesitate a moment, but sprang forward and showed himself at
Bradley's side.
"Let him go, or I'll shoot," he exclaimed in a tone of command, pointing
at Mosely the twin brother of the revolver which Bradley owned.
"Confusion!" ejaculated Mosely, in fresh dismay.
"Let go," repeated Ben, firmly.
Bill Mosely released Bradley, and the latter threw off the grasp of Tom
Hadley.
"Now," said he, as standing side by side with Ben he confronted the two
thieves, "shall we shoot?"
"No, no," said Mosely, nervously.
"Serve you right if we did. So you thought you'd got me, did you? You
didn't know about Ben, there. He ain't half your size, but he's got
twice the courage.--Ben, what shall we do with them?"
Bill Mosely turned toward Ben, anxious to hear what our hero would say.
He was entirely in the power of the two friends, as he realized.
"Serve them as they served Ki Sing," suggested Ben.
"That's a good idea, that is!--Here, you two rascals, trot out here."
Following directions, the two men emerged from the cabin and stood on
one side of the doorway, feeling that they would gladly be in some other
part of California at that precise moment.
"Mosely, do you see that tree?"
"Yes."
"Go to it."
Bill Mosely slowly and unwillingly proceeded to do as he was told.
"Ki Sing," said Jake Bradley to the Chinaman, who was standing near at
hand, his face wearing a bland and contented smile, "have you any cord
in your pocket?"
"Yes," answered the Celestial.
"Tie that man to the tree."
Ki Sing approached to follow instructions, when Bill Mosely shouted,
"I'll brain you, you yaller heathen, if you dare to touch me!"
"Just as you say, squire," said Bradley, nonchalantly raising his
revolver; "if you'd prefer to be shot I'm a very accommodatin' man, and
I'll oblige you. I guess it'll be better, as we'll save all trouble."
"Stop! stop!" cried Mosely, in dismay. "He can tie me."
"You've changed your mind. I thought you would," said Bradley.--"Ki
Sing, go ahead."
With native dexterity, and not without a feeling of satisfaction easily
understood under the circumstances, Ki Sing proceeded to tie his former
captor, but present captive, to a stout sapling.
"Is it strong?" asked Bradley.
"Velly stlong," answered the Chinaman, with a satisfied look.
"That's good.--Now, Tom, it's your turn. There's your tree! Annex
yourself to it."
Tom Hadley saw the futility of resistance, and quietly allowed himself
to be confined in the same manner as his companion.
When both were thus disposed of Jake Bradley turned to the Chinaman:
"Now, Ki Sing, let us have some supper as soon as possible. We've been
doin' considerable business, Ben and I, and we're as hungry as
bears.--Good-night, Mosely. Hope you'll have a good night's rest!"
"You are not going to leave us here all night, are you?" said Bill
Mosely, uneasily.
"That's just what I'm goin' to do. I'll let you go in the mornin' if you
behave yourself. Still, if you'd rather be shot I can accommodate you."
"What a bloodthirsty brute!" ejaculated the unhappy Mosely as Bradley
disappeared within the doorway.
"I should say so!" echoed Tom Hadley from the other tree.
CHAPTER X.
"THE BEST OF FRIENDS MUST PART."
Mosely and his companion continued in captivity through the night. Some
of my readers may consider the punishment a severe one, and it must be
admitted that it was attended with no small share of discomfort. But for
that time it was an exceedingly mild penalty for the offence which the
two men had committed. In the early days of California, theft was
generally punished in the most summary manner by hanging the culprit
from a limb of the nearest tree, and that, in the majority of cases,
would have been the fate of Bill Mosely and Tom Hadley.
But neither Bradley nor Ben was willing to go to such extremes. Jake
Bradley had had rough experiences, and he was no soft-hearted
sentimentalist, but he had a natural repugnance to taking the life of
his fellow-creatures.
"Money," he said on one occasion to Ben, "ain't to be measured ag'in a
man's life. I don't say I wouldn't kill a man for some things, though I
should hate to mightily, but it wouldn't be on account of robbery. I
wouldn't have a man's blood on my conscience for such a thing as that."
It is needless to say that our young hero, whose heart was warm and
humane, agreed fully with his older companion.
When the two friends got up in the morning and went out of the cabin,
they found their two captives in the same position in which they had
left them. They looked weary and were stiff in the limbs, as well they
might be.
"Well, my friends," said Bradley, "I hope you've passed a pleasant
night."
"I'm almost dead," growled Bill Mosely. "I feel as if I'd been here a
week."
"Do you feel the same way?" inquired Bradley, addressing Tom Hadley.
"I should say so," answered Hadley, in a voice of intense disgust.
"It was your own choice, Mosely," said Jake Bradley. "It was either all
night braced up against a tree, or to be shot at once and put out of
your misery."
"Who wants to be shot?" returned Mosely. "That would be worse than
stayin' here all night. You might have let us go last night."
"So I might, but I wanted to teach you a lesson. You know very well,
Bill Mosely, you'd have fared a good deal worse with some men. You'd
have been swingin' from the nearest bough, and so would your friend.
You'll come to that some time, but I'd rather some one else would hang
you. It ain't a job I hanker after."
"Are you goin' to set us free?" asked Mosely, impatiently, not enjoying
Bradley's prediction as to his future fate.
"Yes, I think I will--on one condition."
"Go ahead! I'll agree to anything."
"That you'll leave this part of California and not come back. I don't
want you to cross my path ag'in."
"You can bet I don't mean to," said Mosely; and there is no doubt he was
entirely in earnest.
"Do you make the same promise, Tom?" asked Bradley, turning to Hadley.
"I should say so," returned Hadley; and there is no reason to doubt his
sincerity also.
"You see, my friends, you don't appear to know the difference between
your property and mine, particularly when it comes to hosses. It is an
unfortunate little peculiarity of yours that will bring your life to an
untimely end some of these days. If you should ever reform and set up as
respectable men, I might be willin' to know you, but there's about as
much chance of that, accordin' to my reckonin', as of water runnin' up
hill."
While he was expressing himself thus he was cutting the cords of his
prisoners, and they took the first chance to stretch their cramped
limbs.
"Feel better, don't you?" asked Bradley, smiling.
"I should say so," answered Hadley.
"Couldn't you give us something to eat?" asked Mosely; "I haven't eaten
a mouthful since yesterday noon, and I feel faint."
"Ki Sing," said Bradley, "bring out some victuals. These men are not
particular friends of mine, but we won't send them away hungry. I've
known what it is to fast for thirty-six hours at a stretch, and I
understand how it feels."
Ki Sing brought out some cold meat and other plain food, which the two
adventurers ate as if they were famished. Their long fast and exposure
during the night had sharpened their appetites and lent a keener zest to
their enjoyment of the meal.
When they had finished Jake Bradley pointed down the mountain. "You've
had your breakfast," he said, "and now there is only one thing more. I
want to see you travel."
Bill Mosely looked askance at the two mustangs, which were tied only a
few rods off.
Jake Bradley caught the direction of his glance. "It's no go, my
friend," he said. "You don't borrow our mustangs this time. We shall
have occasion to use them ourselves. It won't do you any harm to try
your own legs for a while."
Bill Mosely wasn't easily abashed. He was lazy, and the prospect of
tramping all day was by no means agreeable to him. Thanks to his last
robbery, he and his companion were tolerably well supplied with
gold-dust, which was a common circulating medium in California at that
time. An idea struck him, which he lost no time in carrying out. "What
value do you set on them horses?" he asked.
"What makes you ask?" inquired Jake Bradley, with some curiosity.
"We'll buy 'em if you'll take a fair price."
"Buy our mustangs! Have you got the money?"
"We've got gold-dust."
"Where did you get it? I'll warrant you didn't work for it."
"That's our business," answered Mosely, stiffly. "The question is, Do
you want to sell?"
"No, I don't; and if I did I should want to know whose money I was
takin'."
Bill Mosely was disappointed. In that lonely neighborhood it was hardly
likely there would be any other opportunity of obtaining horses, and
there was nothing for it but to walk.
"You haven't got any other business, have you, Mosely?" asked Bradley.
"No.--Tom, come on."
"Good-bye, then. Our acquaintance has been brief, Mosely, but I know
you as well as if we'd lived in the same town for years. You're a fine
man, you are, and an ornament to your native State; but if you ain't a
little more careful you'll be likely to die young, and the world will
lose a man who in his line can't be beat."
Bill Mosely did not attempt any reply to this farewell, but strode down
the sloping path, closely followed by Tom Hadley.
When he had got out of hearing of his late captors he turned to Hadley
and said, "I hate that man! He has put a stain on my honor; he has
insulted and outraged me."
"I should say so," observed Tom Hadley.
"He has treated you just as badly, Hadley; that stain must be washed out
in blood."
"When?" inquired his companion, in a matter-of-fact manner.
"I don't know. Some time. He has had the advantage over us this time,
but we shall meet again. Do you hear that, Tom Hadley?" continued
Mosely, in a theatrical tone, raising his voice at the same time--"we
shall meet again."
"I don't want to meet him again," said Hadley.
"You don't comprehend me. When we meet it will be our turn to deal with
him."
"Just as you say," returned Tom Hadley, varying his usual formula.
"It's very unlucky we went up to that cabin," said Bill, after a pause.
"I should say so," chimed in Tom, very emphatically.
"It was cursed ill-luck, but how could we know that that dare-devil was
a friend of Dewey's? If we'd let well enough alone, we shouldn't have
lost our horses and been compelled to tramp on foot over these
mountains."
"Where are we going?" asked Tom Hadley.
"Down hill," answered Mosely briefly.
This answer did not appear to Tom Hadley to contain much information,
but his mind was not active enough to frame another question, and the
two plodded along in silence.
CHAPTER XI.
PLANS FOR DEPARTURE.
The recovery of the horses was in one respect especially fortunate.
Richard Dewey was anxious to leave the mountain-cabin as soon as
possible and make his way to San Francisco, where, as we know, his
promised wife was anxiously awaiting him. But there was considerable
danger that his ankle, which had been severely sprained, would not be in
a condition for travelling for a considerable time yet. The rough
mountain-paths would have tried it, and perhaps a second sprain would
have resulted.
Now, however, he would be able to ride on one of the horses, and need
not walk at all if he pleased.
This idea occurred to Jake Bradley, who suggested it to Richard Dewey.
Dewey's face brightened up, for he was secretly chafing over the delay
made necessary by his accident. "But, my friend," he said, "it would be
selfish in me to take your horse and leave you to go on foot."
"Look here, Dick Dewey," said Bradley: "what do you take me for? Do you
think I'm so delicate I can't walk? I wasn't brought up in no such way.
I can do my regular share of trampin', whether on the prairie or on the
mountain. I ain't no tender-foot."
"I don't doubt your strength and endurance, friend Bradley," said Dewey,
"but a man doesn't always like to do what he is fully able to do."
"Then we needn't say no more about it. There's a gal--I beg your pardon,
a young lady--in 'Frisco that's pinin' to see you, Dick Dewey, and that
hoss'll get you there sooner'n if you waited till you could walk."
"I am too selfish to resist your arguments, my good friend," said Dewey.
"I think I can venture to start within a week, as I am to ride."
"No doubt of it."
"You'd better let me buy your horse, and then if we don't meet again,
or anything happens to it, you won't be the loser."
"'If we don't meet again'?" repeated Bradley, puzzled. "You don't mean
to say you are goin' to set out alone?"
"I don't want to take you and Ben away from your claim. It isn't half
exhausted yet."
"Then let somebody else exhaust it," returned Bradley. "You don't
suppose, Dick, we are goin' to let you go off alone?"
"I shall not be alone. My faithful attendant, Ki Sing, will be with me."
"And what good would Ki Sing be in case you fell in with a grizzly? I
want to know that," asked Bradley. "I don't say anything against the
heathen; he's squarer than many a white man I've met with, and he's
worth a dozen such men as Bill Mosely and Tom Hadley; but, all the same,
he wouldn't be much in a scrimmage. Them Chinamen are half women,
accordin' to my reckonin'. They look like it and speak like it. No, Ben
and I go when you do, and the first man that comes along is welcome to
the claim."
"I shall certainly be delighted to have you both with me," said Richard
Dewey. "You're a good fellow, Jake Bradley, and I trust you more than
any man I have met since I came to California. Ben acted as escort to
Florence, and I owe him a debt for that which I hope some day to repay."
"Then it's all fixed," said Bradley, in a tone of satisfaction. "We four
are to keep together till we see you within reach of 'Frisco. When you
and your young lady meet you won't need us any more."
Richard Dewey smiled. "Florence will wish to thank you for your kind
care of me, Bradley," he said.
"I've no objection to that. You can invite me to the weddin', Dick."
"I give you that invitation now, and hope you may not have long to wait
for the occasion. All difficulties are not yet removed, but I hope they
may vanish speedily. I get impatient sometimes, but I try to curb my
impatient feeling."
"I reckon I would feel so myself if I was in your fix," observed
Bradley.
"I hope you may be, Jake."
Bradley shook his head.
"I'm a cross-grained old bachelor," he said, "and I reckon no gal would
look at me twice."
CHAPTER XII.
THE PROFITS OF MINING.
A few evenings later Ben and Bradley were sitting just outside the cabin
as the twilight deepened.
"It doesn't seem as if this was our last night in the old shanty," said
Jake Bradley, taking the pipe from his mouth. "It ain't a palace, but I
shall kinder hate to leave it."
"I've got to feel very much at home here myself, Jake; still, I should
like to get somewhere where it isn't quite so far out of the world."
"There's something in that, Ben."
"I haven't heard anything from home for a good many weeks; I wish I knew
whether my uncle's family are all well."
"How many is there in the family, Ben?"
"There's Uncle Job and Aunt Hannah and Cousin Jennie."
"That's just what I thought," said Jake.
"I don't understand you," said Ben, puzzled. "What did you think?"
"I thought there was a Cousin Jennie."
Our hero laughed, and, it may be, blushed a little. "What made you think
that?"
"There generally is, I notice," said Mr. Bradley, eagerly. "Is Cousin
Jennie pretty?"
"To be sure she is."
"I thought that too, Ben."
"What are you driving at, Jake?"
"I was sure there was some one besides the old folks that you was
anxious about."
"Well, you happen to be right," said Ben, laughing. "But I must tell you
that Jennie is only fourteen, and I am only sixteen."
"You'll both of you be older some day, Ben. But there's a matter that we
must settle before we go."
"What's that?"
"About the gold we have found since we've been here. We must have some
arrangement about dividin' it."
"We sha'n't quarrel about that, Jake."
"No, there's no danger of that. That'll be easy enough. We'll divide it
into two piles, one for you, and the other for me."
"Jake, I have no right to half of it. You ought to have two-thirds."
"I'd like to argy that matter, Ben. Why should I have two-thirds?"
"Because you earned it. You understood mining better than I."
"We're equal partners, Ben. I stick to that, and I mean to have my way.
I've been making a little calculation, and I reckon there's nigh on to a
thousand dollars for the two of us."
"As much as that, Jake?" said Ben, eagerly.
"I reckon there is, though I can't justly tell."
"It doesn't seem possible I can be worth five hundred dollars," said
Ben, thoughtfully. "We've only been here four weeks. That makes a
hundred and twenty-five dollars a week."
"So it does. That's pretty high pay for a boy."
"Before I left home," said Ben, "there was an old farmer, Deacon
Pitkins, who wanted to hire me for a year. What do you think he offered
me?"
"How much?"
"Twenty dollars a year and board," answered Ben.
"I reckon you did better to come to Californy."
"It looks so now. How the old deacon would stare if he knew how I had
been prospering at the mines! I wish there was any way of sending part
of this money home. I would like to make a present to Uncle Job."
"When you get to 'Frisco you won't have any trouble about sendin' it."
"Uncle Job thought it was very risky for a boy like me to leave home and
seek my fortune in California. I would like to prove to him that I
didn't make a mistake."
"It's likely you haven't, Ben," said Bradley cautiously, "but you ain't
out of the woods yet. I hope things will go on as well as they have, and
you'll be able to carry a pile home. But we've got to start in good
season to-morrow, and we may as well turn in and go to sleep."
CHAPTER XIII.
KI SING'S RIDE.
The next morning after breakfast the party got off. Fortunately, there
were no trunks or heavy luggage to carry. California pioneers had no
occasion for Saratoga trunks, and the amount of clothing they carried in
addition to what they had on was very small.
"Ki Sing," said Bradley, jocosely, "I am afraid we can't carry your
trunk with us."
"'Tlunk'!" repeated the Chinaman, looking puzzled.
"Yes, trunk, or 'tlunk,' as you call it. Haven't you a trunk to carry
your clothes?"
"Got clothes on," said Ki Sing, pointing to his blouse and wide pants.
"I see," said Bradley, laughing. "We're all about in the same fix. The
clothes of the whole party wouldn't half fill a trunk."
The two horses were brought out and saddled.
Bradley assisted Richard Dewey to mount one, and motioned to Ben to
mount the other. "Get on, Ben," he said. "It's time the procession was
moving."
Ben shook his head. "No, Jake," he said. "You are older than I am. It is
proper that you should ride."
"If I'm older than you," said Bradley, "I am stronger than you, and am
better able to walk."
"I am strong enough, Jake. I sha'n't get tired."
"One of us ought to ride. There's no use in havin' a horse if you ain't
going to use him."
"Suppose," suggested Ben, laughing, "we let Ki Sing ride?"
Bradley saw that a joke was intended, and he turned gravely to the
Chinaman. "Ki Sing," he said, "come here and mount this mustang. We are
goin' to let you ride."
An expression of alarm overspread the Chinaman's broad face. He had
never been on a horse's back in his life, but he knew something of the
Californian mustangs. More than once he had seen them buck and throw
the ill-fated riders over their heads, and, not being of a daring or
venturesome nature, he preferred to walk rather than trust himself to
mount the back of so treacherous an animal.
"Ki Sing no wantee lide," he said, starting back in alarm.
"But, Ki Sing, you will get tired tramping over these hills. It will be
much easier to ride on a mustang."
"No likee mustang--mustang buckee," objected the Chinaman.
"You are right, Ki Sing. They do buck sometimes, but this animal is as
mild and peaceful as a lamb. However, we won't insist on your riding
now. Some other day, when you have found out how safe he is, you shall
try him."
The Chinaman seemed much relieved at the privilege accorded him of
walking, and with his small bundle prepared to take his place in the
procession.
"Ben," said Bradley, "the best way for us to arrange will be to take
turns in riding. I'd a good deal rather walk half the way. My legs get
cramped when I am on horseback too long. You remember I used to get off
and lead the horse when we had one apiece. You may take your turn first,
and as you are riding I will give you a bag to carry. Mind you don't
lose it, for it contains our store of gold-dust."
"All right, Jake. I'll ride first, if you say so." In truth, Ben was
pleased to find himself once more on the back of a horse. He had not had
much practice in riding at the East, but the practice he had had in
California had already made him a good rider, and even if the mustang
had taken a fancy to buck he would have found it rather hard to dislodge
our young hero. The animal he bestrode, however, was very well-behaved,
especially when he felt that his rider had the mastery over him. Any
horse, with any spirit, is apt to take advantage of a timid or
unpractised rider, and the animal is very quick to learn when this is
