Louis Quinze, but only of Doctor Zay, who had a 
pleasant room and lived there. 
 
It affected Yorke strongly to meet his doctor 
here, a lady, like other ladies, in a shelter, 
among little lovely things, quiet and set apart, 
protected from encroachments, forgetful of care. 
He was glad that the patients were never allowed 
to come into that room. He felt dizzy with his 
own privilege. 
He leaned his head back against his boldly mod 
ern but proportionally easy-chair, and watched 
her, while they chatted pleasantly. They talked of 
Boston, of books, of people, of well things. Left 
to herself, he noticed that she avoided all patholog 
ical subjects with a rigor which in itself was all 
that reminded him of their existence. She made 
no inquiries about the state of his prevailing 
sensations, nor alluded in any way to his relation as a 
patient to herself. She had a fine tact in this, 
which made him feel as if he were a well man 
again. He rested in her dainty vicinity, the quiet 
things she said, the sound of her voice, the delicacy 
of her dress, in herself. He forgot for one de 
licious hour the real and rugged world in which 
she lived. Or rather, perhaps, if he analyzed his 
feeling, he had a vague sense of mastery, as 
stimulating as it was unprecedented, as if he himself 
were the agent, not the subject, of a new experience, 
in which he drew her from a consecration to 
a dream. 
 
He asked her to play to him. 
" No," she said, " you are a Bostonian." 
" But not a critic." 
" Impossible ! You approve the Handel and 
Haydn, and patronize the Symphony. You do 
your duty by the prevailing artists ; hold them at 
arm 's length as I do my last new babies, with 
about the same complacency in their existence, as 
if the Creator had an obligation to you for the 
fact. You are like the man who declined to be a 
vegetarian on the ground that pdte defoie gras 
was good enough for him. I had a patient once 
who abandoned smoking because his taste had de 
veloped so fastidious a quality that he could find 
no tobacco fine enough for him." 
"I am still a crude smoker. Play to me; 
please ! " 
"I know two tunes: one is China, and the 
other isn't . Which will you have ? " 
" The other one. Play to me ! " 
" It is a Scotch song. Do you like Scotch 
" Do you sing ? " 
" Not in the least. I can play you the accom 
paniment." 
He made a little movement of impatience. He 
was by nature of a restless, not to say an imperious 
temper which his illness (or perhaps it would 
be more precise to say, his physician) had subdued 
rather than excited. 
Her ready merriment came to her eyes. 
 "You cannot make me believe," he insisted, 
" that you are not musical. Physicians are." 
" That is true enough," she answered, quickly 
warming to the subject. " Science is harmony. 
Music ancl science are twins. Music is the femi 
nine, though, I think." 
" It is a fine marriage. Oh, you call them 
twins, though." 
" You are not so far out of the way. There is 
nn element of twinship in all absolute marriage." 
This was said with her scientific expression, as if 
she were dissecting a radial artery. 
" How many absolute marriages have you 
known ? " asked Yorke, as nearly as possible in 
the same tone. 
" Just three," said Dr. Doctor Zay. 
" In all your experience ? Only three that 
would that you would have been satisfied 
with ? " 
" It is not a question of what would satisfy one 's 
self," she said, freezing swiftly and slightly, like 
thin November ice. "It is a matter of psychological 
investigation." 
 
" What a horrible advantage over mankind 
your -profession gives ! " said Yorke, between his 
teeth. She nodded gravely. 
" It is unmatched, I believe. Even the clergy : 
have a poor one beside us. We stand at an eter 
nal confessional, in which the chance of moral 
escape or evasion is reduced to a minimum. It is 
holding human hearts to count their beats. When 
you add the control of life and death, you have a 
position unique in human relations. When I be 
gan, it seemed to me like God 's. My mother 
used to " She stopped. 
" What did your mother do ? " asked Yorke, 
gently. 
" She encouraged that feeling," said Doctor 
Zay. " She said no one was fit to enter the 
profession who did not have it." 
"I wish I had known your mother," he ventured. 
" You would have loved her," said the doctor, 
simply. 
"And I wish you knew mine! " continued the 
young man, fatuously. 
" She would not be interested in me," returned 
Doctor Zay, coldly. It was good, honest Decem 
ber ice now. He could have skated on the barrier 
she had thrust between them, he neither knew 
how nor why. 
"Oh, you don't know her" he began. At 
this moment the office-bell rang. Handy answered 
it, and knocked at the parlor door to announce 
(with evident pleasure) the presence of a patient 
who " was in an Ananias V Sapphiry hurry. 
Guessed it was somebody dyin or smushed." 
The doctor rose leisurely, too used to these in 
terruptions to expend nerve force on little haste 
or premature excitement, and went into the reception-room. She did not excuse herself to her 
visitor. She left the doors ajar, and he could hear 
her hearty voice : 
" Ah, Mr. Beckwith ! What now ? " 
" Wall," replied the man 's voice that Yorke 
had heard on his first office-call, " Puella, you see, 
she 's bad. She 's took screechin bad ag in, and 
don't give none of us no peace. She wants you 
right away. She made me tackle up so 's to bring 
you myself. I told her, says I, t was a kind of 
shame ! you 'd be all beat out, this time o night. 
But, Doctor," plaintively, "it ain't no use to tell 
Puella things." 
" Anything new, Mr. Beckwith ? Any serious 
change in the case ? What are the symptoms ? " 
"Wall," said Mr. Beckwith slowly, "I can't 
 
say 's it 's so very noo. It 's that same crookedness 
in her mind. She suffers a sight," solemnly, 
"from crookedness in the mind, Doctor." 
" I 'll send her something," said the doctor 
kindly. " I do not think it necessary for me to 
go to-night. There ! One powder dry on the 
tongue, if you please, every two hours. I will 
look in to-morrow." 
" I told her you wouldn't  come," said Mr. Beck- 
with, triumphantly. " And what 's more, I said, 
says I, Puella, I wouldn't  if I was her, says I. 
But says she, You don't none of you know what 
it is to have crookedness into your mind." 
Silence succeeded. The doctor returned, clos 
ing the doors as she came. She made no com 
ments on the interruption. She drifted into the 
quiet room, past the green and golden lamps, in 
her violet dress, and resumed her chair in silence. 
Yorke looked at her without speaking. 
" What are you thinking ? " she asked abruptly. 
There was a dash of something which he could 
almost have dared to call friendly freedom in the 
tone of the question. 
" I was thinking that you harmonize with your 
environment." 
" That would be the acquisition, as it is the as 
piration, of one 's life-time. The compliment is 
too large for the occasion." 
 
For answer, he glanced about the room and 
back at herself. She smiled, not without a touch 
of scorn, or it might have been of bitterness. 
" But then," he continued dreamily, "you are 
of course an exception, not a representative, among 
women who adopt your vocation." 
" You only exhibit your ignorance by such a 
remark," said the young lady quietly. " Among 
the thousand of us now practicing medicine in 
this country, there are many more successful than 
I, and abroad there is some superb work done. I 
should like to give you the figures some time. 
They are very interesting. But I won't bore you 
now. It would be like putting sermons in a 
novel." 
"What is the proportion of ladies in the profes 
sion ? " asked Yorke, with a slight shrug. 
" What is the proportion of gentlemen in the 
profession ? " 
" Except that I really know nothing about it, I 
should suppose it is larger." 
" It probably is a little. Until recently it needed 
force rather than fineness to bring a woman to the 
surface of a great progressive movement. We are 
coming to a point where both are to be absolutely 
necessary to success in the art of healing. A union 
of these qualities will be demanded of women, because 
they are women, such as has never been ex 
pected of men, or perhaps been possible to them. 
We have a complex task before us." 
" It seems a dreary one to me," said Yorke, 
rather sadly. " And yet you find it " 
" Bright ! " she said quickly ; " bright, bright ! " 
Her earnest face fired. 
" You really seem happy," he urged. 
" I am happy ! " she cried, in her resonant, joy 
ous tone. 
" I wonder if I could say as much, if I had done 
as much ? " queried the sick man. 
Her whole expression changed instantly. Both 
felt what neither said, that they had approached 
difficult and delicate ground. 
" I do not take as dark a view of your case as 
you do," she said. 
" In other words, I am not lost to your respect, 
because I have not become an eminent jurist at the 
age of I am only twenty-eight, after all," he 
added. 
" I am a year older than that," she smiled. " I 
ought to have done more. What is the trouble, 
Mr. Yorke ? Don't you get any clients ? " She 
took unconsciously the professional tone she had 
so long assumed to him, as if she had asked, 
" Doesn't  your dinner agree with you ? " 
 
" I had one divorce case last winter ; I lost it." 
" You resent my asking questions. You ought 
not to." 
" I feel it. I do not resent it." 
" That is kind in you, and discriminating. You 
silence me." 
" No, go on. Say what you think of me. Tell 
me, I can stand it. What a consummate don 
key a man of my sort must seem to a woman of 
yours ! And yet I'm not a donkey ; I am really 
a very good sort of fellow." 
" You are rudimentary," said the doctor, with 
an inscrutable look. 
" Hum um urn." 
" Honestly, Mr. Yorke, my diagnosis of you is 
different from It is my own, at any rate, be it 
worth little or much." 
" You have had some chance to form one, I 'll 
admit," said Yorke. " Let me make a guess at it: 
Inherited inertia. Succumbed to his environment. 
Corrosion of Beacon Street upon what might, in a 
machine-shop, for instance, or a factory, have been 
called his brain. Native indolence, developed by 
acquired habit. Hopeless correlation of predes 
tined forces. Atrophied ambition. Paralyzed as 
piration. No struggle for existence. Destitute of 
scientific basis. Reductio ad absurdum, Labo- 
 
rare est orare, Facilis descensus. No correspond 
ent in the Materia Medica. Hahnemann knew 
not of him. (JHe was mobbed for a great cause.) 
The Organon foresaw him not. There is no divine 
remedy for him. Give him sac. lac. powders, 
and send him back to Beacon Street. By the way, 
Doctor, did you ever give me a sugar powder?" 
" Once." 
" When was that ? I 'll know, or I 'll never for 
give you." 
" The day you disobeyed me about going out 
doors, and caused me an unnecessary call." 
" On your honor, is that the only time ?" 
" By my diploma ! the only time." 
" You did not say whether I had hit the diagno 
sis, Doctor Zay." 
She did not answer him at once, and when she 
spoke he felt, rather than saw, that it was with 
her guarded look. 
"I do not make it a case of paralysis, exactly. 
I should rather call it one of hypercesthesia." 
" Hyperses that was what was the matter 
with me when I couldn't  let Mrs. Butter well shut 
a door, or drop a thimble ; when the horses kept 
me awake, stamping in the barn. You mean that 
you do me the honor to infer that I have ideals, 
despite my failure to give an inquiring world evidence 
of the fact, and that (if I do not strain your 
goodness) the idealizing fibre is not without super 
fluous sensitiveness ? " 
"Superfluous, and therefore injurious, sensitive 
ness. You experience a certain scorn of the best 
into which- you know yourself capable of resulting. 
You cherished this scorn, at one time, as a silent 
proof of superiority of nature, patent only to your 
self, and the more precious, like family lace or 
jewels worn out of sight. You were met at the 
outset of life by the conviction that you were 
without extraordinary gifts, and it struck you as 
original to snub the ordinary ones, as if it were 
their fault. I am not sure that it was even origi 
nal ; it certainly was not admirable. But you 
have outgrown that. I recognize now a genuine 
modesty at root of your inertia. Your self-estimate 
is calculably less than that of almost any 
other Boston man I ever met. I prognosticate 
that the next phase of experience will be a health 
ier and haughtier one. I think you capable of 
service." The young lady uttered these sentences 
slowly, with palliative pauses between them ; she 
had an absorbed and studious look. 
" I always thought I might have made a good 
head-waiter," said the young man grimly. 
" Take me as you please," persisted the doctor. 
 
" I have paid you a compliment ; my first and 
last. Cut yourself with it, if you want to. It 
would be malpractice, but I am not the surgeon." 
Yorke made no reply. He sat and watched her, 
thinking that he would not have borne from any 
other woman in the world what came like a fine 
intoxication from her ; he drank her noble severity 
like gleaming wine. 
" You are not a great man," she urged gently, 
as if she had to say, " You have a spinal injury," 
" but you have uncommon qualities, perhaps I 
should say quality ; you have hardly taken the 
trouble, as yet, to indicate what your qualities 
are. You could be successful if you chose. The 
difficulty has been that you have not respected 
what we are in the habit of calling success." 
" Frankly, no ; it has never seemed worth 
while." 
" The Christians have a phrase," said Doctor 
Zay, "which expresses the deficiency in most of 
our standards. They talk of consecration. It 
means something, I find." 
" Are you a Christian ? " asked Yorke. 
" I do not know yet," she answered, gravely. 
" Now, I have always thought I was," he said, 
smiling sadly. 
" Are you? " She looked at him wistfully. 
 
" At least I was confirmed once, to please my 
mother. It may belong to that pervasive weak 
ness of nature, which you classify so indulgently 
as sensitiveness, that I never have grown away as 
far from all that as many fellows I know. There, 
now, is an ideal ! Where in history or philosophy 
can it be mated ? Faith is beauty. I should like 
to hold on to my faith, if I can, if I had no 
other reason, just as I should wish to keep my 
paintings or bronzes. But I know it is harder for 
a camel to go through the knee of an idol, as the 
little boy said, than for a student of science to 
enter the kingdom of heaven. Are you one of the 
two atheists, in the historic three doctors ? " 
" God forbid ! " she cried. " I am a seeker, still. 
That is all I mean to say. And I know I must 
seem " She paused, stricken by an unprece 
dented and beautiful blushing embarrassment. 
" What must you seem ? " 
" It was nothing, a foolish speech. It is time 
for you to go home, Mr. Yorke, and go to bed." 
" What must it make you seem ? I will go 
when I know. Tell me, you shall ! Indulge 
me, please." He limped over towards her ; his 
words fell over each other ; his figure towered 
above her. 
She gave one glance at his agitated face, and 
 
collected herself by a movement swift and secre 
tive as the opening of a water-lily. 
"I only meant to say that a woman usually 
naturally, perhaps is the guide in matters of 
belief. Spiritual superiority belongs to her histor 
ically, and prophetically too, I do not dispute. It 
occurred to me, at that moment, how it must strike 
a man, if she were below him on that basis; if 
she had no power to heighten or deepen his ideal, 
that was all. Good-night, Mr. Yorke. If you 
don't sleep, take that powder marked Cham. 5 
m. Now go ! " 
"You heighten and deepen every other ideal I 
have," said the young man, solemnly. "You can 
not fail me there. It will not be possible to you." 
His agitation had urged itself upon her now, 
against her will; he was half shocked, half trans 
ported, to see that a slow pallor advanced like a 
spirit towards him, over her resolute face. He 
watched it with a kind of awe, and made a gesture 
with one of his thin hands, as if to check an invisible
presence which he was not strong enough to 
meet. It was the movement of a sick man whose 
physical strength was spent by emotion. The 
physician perceived this instantly. 
" There is the office-bell," she said, in her
business tone. " I will answer it as I help you out." 
 
He made no reply, and they left the parlor in 
uneasy silence. He had tried to come on one 
crutch that night ; now, weakened with excite 
ment, he made bad work of the experiment. 
" Put your hand on my shoulder," ordered Doc 
tor Zay. 
"You are not tall enough," he objected. 
" I am strong enough," she insisted. 
He obeyed her, and thus came limping to the 
front door between the lady and the crutch. The 
patient who had rung the office-bell stood in the 
doorway. It was a man. It was a gentleman. It 
was a stranger. At sight of him Doctor Zay col 
ored with impulsive pleasure. She said : 
" Why, Doctor ! " 
The stranger answered : 
" Good-evening, Doctor." 
Yorke found this dialogue monotonous, and removed his hand from the violet muslin shoulder. 
"Walk in," said the lady, turning heartily to 
her guest. " Go right through into the parlor. I 
will be with you in a moment." 
The stranger, bowing slightly to Yorke, stepped 
in and passed them. By the sharp light of the 
kerosene entry lamp Yorke perceived a man of 
years and dignity ; in fact, a person of distin 
guished appearance. 
 
" I will not trouble you to go any farther with 
me," said Doctor Zay 's patient, stiffly. 
" Nonsense ! " 
The soft, warm shoulder presented itself with a 
beautiful it seemed to Yorke a terrible un 
consciousness, leaning towards him like a violet 
indeed. 
" No, no," he said, roughly ; " I don't want it. 
It won't help me. Don't you understand a man 
better than that ? " 
As soon as the words were uttered, he would 
have given, let us say, his sound ankle to recall 
them. She shrank all over, as if, indeed, he had 
stepped on a flower, and, gathering herself with a 
grave majesty, swept away from him. 
IX. 
YOEKE limped back to his room, and sank into 
the first chair that presented itself. It happened 
to be the high rocker, and he put his head back, 
and thrust his hands into his pockets, and got 
his ankle across another chair, and for a few 
moments occupied himself in a savage longing for 
a smoke. His physician had forbidden him his 
cigars, pending the presence of certain spinal 
symptoms which she was pleased to consider of 
importance to her therapeutic whims. A good 
square disobedience would have relieved him. He 
would have liked nothing better than that the 
odor of the tobacco should steal around through 
her parlor windows, while she sat there in that 
trailed gown making herself lovely to that fellow. 
Was it possible she knew Tie was coming when 
she put the thing on ? ... 
Yorke found himself engulfed in a chasm of feel 
ing, across which, like a bridge whereon he had 
missed his footing, ran one slender thought : 
" I ought to have gone home three weeks ago." 
It was quarter past nine when she sent him to 
 
his room. He sat in the big rocker, in the dark, 
without moving, till ten. No sound had come 
from the doctor 's side of the house. Acting upon 
a sudden impulse, of which he was half ashamed, 
half defensive, and which he owned himself wholly 
disinclined to resist, he groped for his crutches and 
got out upon the piazza, where he could see the 
light from her windows making a great radiance 
upon the acacia-tree, and showing the outlines of 
the short, wet grass. A honeysuckle clambered 
over the nearest window. When the curtain drifted 
in the warm wind, the long-necked flowers seemed 
to look in. The subdued sound of voices came to 
his ear. He went back, and got upon the lounge. 
As he lay there, the lumbermen returned, singing.
" Thus with the man, thus with the tree, 
Sharp at the root the axe must be." 
Mrs. Butterwell came in to say good-night. She 
held a candle, which made fickle revelations of her 
black silk dress and sallow cheeks. She expressed 
surprise at finding her lodger in the dark, and 
lighted his Japanese lantern assiduously. She 
thought Mr. Yorke had been calling on the doctor. 
" She sent me to bed," said Yorke. " She has 
another fellow there." 
"They will come at all hours," replied Mrs. 
Butterwell, serenely. " More blame to em ! " 
 
" Who will come at all hours? " gasped Yorke. 
"Why, patients, of course. Who else? " 
" This isn't  a patient. This is a gentleman." 
" I want to know ! " said Mrs. Butterwell, put 
ting down the light. 
"And so do I," said Yorke, grimly. 
" A tall, dark-complected gentleman ? Wears 
a crush felt hat and gray gloves, a beautiful 
fit?" 
" I didn't  notice his gloves, savagely. 
" A handsome man, wasn't  he ? " pursued Mrs. 
Butterwell, cruelly. "Splendid figure and great 
blue eyes " 
" How should I know about his eyes ? " groaned 
Yorke. 
" Oh, it must be he," returned Mrs. Butterwell, 
placidly. " I wonder I didn't  see him in the stage. 
