"It is the side the weather is on, of course," replied Corny.
"It is the side from which the wind comes," added Thad, who thought it
was not quite fair to make fun of the remarks of the skipper when he was
doing his best to have them understand the difficulty with the Goldwing.
"And what do you call the other side?" asked Dory.
"The lee side, I think," answered Thad.
"Right, Thad; and Corny was not so far out of the way as he meant to
be, for to a sailor the wind is about all there is of the weather. When
a flaw comes, and you have to carry the tiller to the weather side of
the boat to keep her on her course, that is a weather helm," Dory
proceeded.
"I see it!" exclaimed Nat Long, as though he had made a great discovery.
"I don't believe you do, Nat," interposed the skipper. "Suppose you
don't carry the tiller to the weather side, what will happen then?"
"I don't know that any thing will happen," answered Nat, rather abashed
at his own ignorance.
"That's the point of all that has been said," added Dory.
"Well, what will happen? Will she tip over?" asked Nat.
"That is the very thing she won't do; and that's the reason why a boat
ought to carry a weather helm, so that she won't tip over if the
helmsman don't happen to have his eyes wide open tight. If you don't put
the helm to the weather side, the head of the boat will come up to the
wind. As she comes up into the wind, it spills the sail."
"Spills the sail!" exclaimed Corny, who could hold in no longer. "I have
heard of spilling the milk, but not of spilling a sail."
"It means to spill the wind out of the sail," added Dory. "In other
words, it takes the wind out of the sail, and it don't press against the
sail any longer. And, if the wind don't press against the sail, of
course it won't tip the boat over."
"That's plain enough. I understand that first-rate," said Thad. "If a
puff brings the boat up into the wind, then the wind don't bear hard on
the sail, and it won't upset the boat."
"Now let us see how it works when a boat carries a lee helm. Instead of
coming up into the wind when a flaw strikes the sail, some boats go the
other way. The flaw crowds them off from the wind. The more she falls
off, the harder the wind presses against the sail. If the puff throws
the head of the boat far enough from the wind, it will blow square
against it; and, if there is enough of it, it will upset any boat. Then,
if you have to put the helm away from the wind in order to keep the
course, that's a lee helm; and it's a dangerous thing in any boat,
though it can generally be easily corrected if the skipper understands
the matter."
"I see it," said Thad. "I suppose the owner of this boat did not
understand it."
"They say he was obstinate about it, and would not take the advice of
those who did understand the matter," added Dory. "I have shifted the
ballast; and I think the Goldwing will work all right now, though I wish
the foremast was in the old hole."
The members of the club declared that they understood the matter
perfectly. They were willing to return to Burlington in the Goldwing if
it could be shown that she carried a weather helm. When the skipper had
finished his explanation, he went forward, and took another look at the
hole which had been stopped. He found a shingling hatchet in the cuddy,
and with this he attempted to drive out the filling of the mast-hole.
After a deal of pounding, he succeeded in the attempt.
He lost no time in demolishing the locker in the head which Mr. Lapham
had fitted there. For an hour he worked very diligently, assisted by all
the other members of the club; and the foremast was transferred to the
hole the builder had intended it should occupy. The stays were adjusted
again with the greatest care on the part of the skipper, and made
strong enough for the heavy weather that prevailed on the lake.
"Isn't there any thing to eat on board, Dory?" asked Thad. "We are
almost starved."
There was not a morsel of food on board, but Dory said he would go over
to the town if he could.
CHAPTER X.
THE MISSISQUOI IN PURSUIT.
Of course Dory Dornwood had no suspicion of what had transpired on shore
since he departed in the Goldwing. The hunger of the other members of
the club reminded him that he might make a long passage to Burlington,
or that he might be compelled to lie at anchor for a whole day before it
was safe to cross the lake in the present state of the weather. He might
be hungry himself as well as his companions, and he had not thought to
lay in a stock of provisions for the voyage.
For this reason he was all the more willing to land at Plattsburgh. He
hoisted the reefed mainsail again, and directed a couple of the party to
get up the anchor. The Goldwing darted off at a furious rate, as she had
before, when the fresh breeze filled her sails. She took the wind on her
quarter at first; but Dory soon braced her up as she rounded the
southerly beacon at the end of the breakwater, and headed the boat for
the main shore.
"How does she work now, Dory?" asked Thad when the boat was on her
course. "Does she carry a lee helm?"
"Not at all. It takes all my strength to keep her from luffing up,"
replied the skipper.
"There's another new word," added Corny Minkfield. "What in the world
does 'luffing up' mean?"
"'To luff' is to come into the wind. I mean by that, to turn the head of
the boat in the direction from which the wind comes," replied Dory. "But
what she does under her present sail don't settle the question. I took
the bonnet off the jib before I left the wharf this morning."
"The bonnet!" shouted Corny. "Does the boat wear a bonnet?"
"Of course she does. You never made the mistake of putting a boat in the
masculine gender. You always say 'she' in speaking of a boat; and of
course she wears a bonnet when she goes out."
"But when the weather is bad you take the bonnet off; and that is not
the way the ladies do," suggested Thad.
"In rough weather the bonnet makes it all the rougher," added Dory. "The
bonnet is a continuation of the jib, laced to the lower part of the
sail. Taking off the bonnet amounts to the same thing as reefing the
sail."
"Reefing the sail is taking in a part of the sheet by tying it up in a
fold," said Nat Long, looking very wise.
"Not much!" answered the skipper.
"That's what my father told me; and he is a deck-hand on board of the
Champlain," persisted Nat.
"I don't believe he said any thing of the kind, Nat. Taking up a part of
the sheet by tying it into a fold would be a queer operation. Do you run
away with the idea that the jib is a sheet?"
"I don't run away with the idea; but of course a sail is a sheet."
"Not at all. This is a sheet," answered Dory, raising the main sheet,
the end of which he held in his left hand, while he steered with his
right.
"How can that be a sheet when it is a rope?" demanded Nat incredulously.
"You are thinking of the sheets between which you sleep. In a boat all
sheets are ropes. This is the main sheet, because it is fastened to the
main boom,--the stick at the lower part of the sail. This is the jib
sheet," continued Dory, indicating the rope attached to the lower part
of the jib, which led aft into the standing-room, where the helmsman
could haul it in or let it off as occasion required.
"There is a man hailing us from the shore," said Thad, as Pearl
Hawlinshed called to Dory from the railroad.
"I don't want to see that man," said Dory, recognizing the voice of the
disagreeable man from whom he had fled when he left the wharf.
"Do you know him?" asked Thad.
"I never saw him until this morning. He bid against me for this boat,
and he is mad because he didn't get it," replied the skipper. "I think
he means to do me mischief if he can, and he can't if I keep out of his
way."
He could not answer any questions without endangering his great secret.
He was on the point of tacking when he heard the call. To go up to the
wharf would be to fall into the company of Pearl, and he decided not to
do it. Instead of coming about, he let off the sheets, and headed the
Goldwing to the southward.
"You are going the wrong way, Dory," said Thad.
"I don't care about going on shore at Plattsburgh again, fellows; but we
will get something to eat at Port Jackson," replied Dory, without
explaining his reason for not wishing to land at the town.
"But we shall starve to death before you get there," protested Corny.
"We have not had a mouthful of any thing to eat to-day. Captain Vesey
said we might go with him if we would be on board at five o'clock in the
morning, and we had no chance to get any breakfast."
"I am sorry I can't do any thing for you just now; but it is only six
miles to Port Jackson, and I think we shall be there in about an hour,"
replied Dory. "I think the fellow that hailed me is wicked enough to get
this boat away from me if he can; and I don't care about meeting him
again."
The members of the Goldwing Club settled down in the most comfortable
places they could find. A couple of them took possession of the berths
in the cuddy, and two others stretched themselves on the seats in the
standing-room. They were not so wild as Captain Vesey had reported them
to be on the passage from Burlington. They were faint and hungry; for it
was now nearly noon, and the voyagers in the Missisquoi had fasted the
greater part of twenty-four hours.
The Goldwing was under the lee of the land, where there was no sea; but
the wind came in very sharp puffs, as the openings in the shore exposed
the boat to the unsteady blast. But she carried so little sail that she
went along very easily, and showed no more tendency to upset than any
well-built boat would in such puffy weather. The party on board saw
nothing in her behavior to warrant the bad reputation she had
established.
Three miles brought the boat to Bluff Point; and the shore was so
elevated here, that the skipper stood farther out into the lake so that
he might not lose the wind. The Goldwing behaved so well, that Dory was
beginning to have a great deal of confidence in her, so that he did not
hesitate to venture farther from the shore.
The schooner appeared to be making about six miles an hour. Passing
between Valcour's Island and the main land, the Goldwing arrived at
Port Jackson inside of an hour; but, before the boat entered the little
bay on which the port is situated, the boys had another sensation. Dory
had hardly thought of looking astern in the run of the Goldwing down
from Plattsburgh.
"There's a steamer coming down the same way we did," said Dick Short, as
he rose from his place on the seat, just as the schooner was going into
the port. "It looks just like the Missisquoi."
"It is the Missisquoi," added Thad, after he had surveyed the boat.
"It certainly looks like her," said Dory, who was trying to make out
what this appearance meant.
His companions had told him the destination of the Missisquoi; and he
was satisfied that she could have no business in this part of the lake,
as she was to be used in towing lumber in the north. He had seen the
little steamer go up to the wharf where the Goldwing lay. He could not
get rid of the idea that her present trip to the southward was in some
way connected with him, and that Pearl Hawlinshed was on board of her.
But he could not disappoint the hungry clubbists again, and he ran the
schooner into the bay. He immediately informed his passengers that he
could remain at the port but a few minutes. He was going up to the store
to obtain provisions for the boat, and would give them something to eat
as soon as she was under way again. Then it appeared that only one of
them had any money,--Corny Minkfield, whose mother had given him
permission to make the trip over to Plattsburgh,--and he had only half a
dollar.
Corny went with Dory to the store. They bought a large supply of bread
and crackers, a salt fish, and finally the storekeeper offered to part
with a ham he had cooked for the use of his own family. Half a small
cheese was added to the stock of provisions, which Dory paid for, and
they hastened back to the wharf.
"Have you seen any thing of that steamer?" asked Dory, as he came within
hailing distance of his companions.
"She has not shown herself yet," replied Thad.
"We have been gone longer than I intended, for the boiled ham took more
time than all the rest of the things," replied Dory, as he and Corny
deposited their joint burden on the forward deck of the Goldwing. "The
Missisquoi was this side of Crab Island when I saw her, and she can't be
far off."
"What do we care for the Missisquoi now?" asked Corny.
"Cast off that bow line, Dick Short," added Dory, without answering the
question.
The skipper shoved the schooner off from the wharf, and told Dick to
hoist the jib. Heading the Goldwing to the eastward, Dory stood out of
the harbor. The boat was hardly under way before the Missisquoi put in
an appearance at the northern entrance of the bay. Dory kept on his
course after he had calculated the point at which the steamer was likely
to come nearest to him.
"There she is!" exclaimed several of the club in the same breath. "She
is striking in ahead of us."
The Missisquoi was less than a quarter of a mile from the Goldwing. It
could plainly be seen that there were two men in her pilot-house; and
Dory was confident that Pearl Hawlinshed was one of them. His intentions
were certainly very serious if he had gone to the expense of hiring a
steamer to chase him. Probably he had found some way to break up the
sale of the Goldwing. But, whatever his mission, the skipper did not
want to see him. He was too closely connected with the secret of the
night before to come any nearer to him. He decided, that, if the son of
his liberal friend succeeded in "interviewing" him, he would have to run
for it.
"I don't understand what that fellow wants of you, Dory," said Corny
Minkfield.
"And I don't understand it any better than you do," replied Dory. "All I
have to say about it is, that I don't like the looks of the fellow, and
I mean to keep out of his way. Pass round the grub, Corny."
Dory thought the food would stop their mouths, and it did. His
fellow-voyagers asked no more questions, for they were too busy with the
provisions to give attention to any thing else.
As the Goldwing went out from the land, she began to feel the force of
the wind, and she darted ahead under the influence of the sharp puffs. A
few minutes later the Goldwing passed the bow of the Missisquoi not more
than forty rods from her.
CHAPTER XI.
THE BEGINNING OF THE CHASE.
"Goldwing, ahoy!" shouted Pearl Hawlinshed from the bow of the
Missisquoi. "I want you, Dory Dornwood!"
The skipper of the Goldwing decided to take no notice of the dangerous
man. The other members of the club were so deeply interested in filling
their empty stomachs that they gave no attention to the call of Pearl.
The provisions had been taken into the cuddy, and Corny was helping his
companions. Those who were not in the cabin were sitting on the floor of
the standing room, and they could not see the Missisquoi.
"Don't you hear me? I say, I want to see you, Dory Dornwood!" shouted
Pearl again with all his might.
Dory could see that those in charge of the Missisquoi were not managing
the chase very well. Instead of steering the steamer to a point ahead
of the Goldwing, Captain Vesey had run her directly for her. If the
schooner had come to when directed to do so, as the captain of her
evidently expected, it would have been all right. As it was, the
Goldwing had made the eighth of a mile by the blunder.
Dory had practically intimated to his pursuer, that, if he wanted him,
he must come after him. He knew that the steamer could not make more
than eight miles an hour at her best, and she was not likely to do as
well as this in the heavy sea of the lake out from the shore. The
skipper of the Goldwing did not expect to outsail the Missisquoi under
his present short sail.
When Pearl saw that Dory had no intention of coming to and waiting for
him to go on board of the schooner, he called to Captain Vesey to follow
the Goldwing. Instead of doing so, he rang his bell to stop the engine.
Dory could not hear what passed between the captain and his passenger;
but he was aware that an animated discussion was in progress on board of
the steamer.
The Goldwing was certainly behaving very well for a boat with such a bad
reputation. Dory had been gaining confidence in her ability every
moment of the time since she left the breakwater. It was evident to him
that sailing on the wind was her weak point, or rather her dangerous
one. But she had the wind on her port quarter at present; and Dory did
not care to run her directly before the wind, as he would have been
obliged to do if he had taken a direct course for Burlington.
The skipper no longer doubted the ability of the Goldwing to cross the
lake, violent as the sea was at a distance from the shore. He headed her
for Garden Island, nearly half a mile south of Valcour's Island, which
sheltered the boat from the full force of the strong wind. From Garden
Island to Providence Island, off the south-western extremity of South
Hero, it was only two miles and a half. Not more than half of this
distance would be through the roughest water; for Valcour's sheltered a
considerable portion of the course.
Dory wondered what the discussion between the captain and the passenger
of the Missisquoi was all about. He judged that the master of the
steamer was not willing to follow the Goldwing any farther. He hoped
they would continue the dispute for a while longer. If they did, he
should be out of their reach in a short time; for he was confident the
schooner was making at least six miles an hour.
But the skipper was not to be fully gratified; for the next time he
looked about at the steamer, she was under way again, and with her bow
pointed to the Goldwing. She was half a mile astern of the schooner, and
this was a considerable distance for her to gain. But Dory began to feel
the excitement of the race, for it was evident that there was to be a
race.
The high land at the southern end of Valcour's Island was making it
altogether too mild for the Goldwing, for the Missisquoi was evidently
gaining very rapidly upon her. Dory started the sheets, and ran to the
southward, where he could get more wind. The steamer promptly changed
her course, and followed the schooner. It was plain that Captain Vesey
or Pearl Hawlinshed, whichever was managing the steamer, had no idea of
using any thing like tact or stratagem in the chase. Probably the pilot
did not consider that any thing of the kind was necessary, and that the
steamer ought to overhaul the sailboat simply by outsailing her.
By this time the other members of the Goldwing Club had eaten all they
could, and their occupation became uninteresting. Corny put the
provisions into a locker in the cabin, and there was enough left for two
or three meals more. First one stood up, and then another, until all had
taken a view of the Missisquoi.
"The steamer is chasing you, Dory," said Thad, as though he had made a
discovery. "She is following us with all her might."
"I know it," replied Dory, looking behind him at the steamer.
"What is she chasing us for?" asked Corny.
"She wants to catch us," added Dory.
"Is it to find out whether she can beat the Goldwing?" asked Nat. "She's
a steamer, and she ought to beat her every time."
"Perhaps she ought to, but I don't intend that she shall."
"You don't expect to run away from a steamer, do you, Dory?" said Dick
Short.
"I don't expect to let her catch us; but it will depend upon how fast
that steamer can go," added Dory.
"But what does she want to catch us for, Dory?" persisted Corny,
repeating the question he had put before.
"I thought I told you about it. The man in the bow wanted to buy the
Goldwing. I bid over him, and got the boat. That made him mad. This is
all I know about the reason for his chasing us. He is a wicked fellow,
and I think he means to do me harm. All I want to do is to keep out of
his way," replied Dory. "I don't know what he wants of me, and you are
just as wise as I am. We won't say any thing more about that matter."
"Of course he will catch you," added Thad. "Who ever heard of such a
thing as a sailboat running away from a steamer?"
"No matter whether we ever heard of such a thing or not, we are going to
try it now," replied Dory. "But I can't have you fellows flying about
all over the boat any longer. Two of you sit on each side of me, and I
think there will be fun in this thing before we get through with it."
"All right, Dory: you are the captain of this ship, and we will do just
what you say," replied Corny.
The boys disposed of themselves as the skipper directed, and sat as
still as they could, which was not saying much. But Dory was satisfied
that they would keep still enough as soon as the boat got a little more
to the eastward, where she would feel the full force of the strong
breeze.
"She is gaining on us, Dory," said Thad; and he and his companions were
watching the Missisquoi all the time. They were beginning to get excited
over the race, though they seemed to be sure that it would soon come to
an end by the steamer overtaking the Goldwing.
"I expect her to gain on us while we are here in still water; but I
think she will roll a great deal more than the Goldwing when we get out
into the lake," replied Dory.
"Creation! didn't she roll coming over from Burlington?" exclaimed
Corny. "I thought she was going to roll clear over. Mr. Button the
engineer said Captain Vesey did not know how to handle her."
"Don't you expect that the Goldwing will roll in the big waves?" asked
Thad.
"Of course she will; but she sits lighter on the water than that
steamer, and she won't dive into the waves so deep. But wait, and we
shall soon see what we can do," replied Dory. "You fellows have eaten
all you can, and I have not had any thing since my breakfast early this
morning."
"I will steer for you, Dory, while you eat your dinner," proposed Corny.
"Did you ever steer a sailboat, Corny?" asked Dory with a smile.
"I never did; but I think I can do it," replied the volunteer.
"I would rather have you make a beginning when it don't blow quite so
hard. If the Goldwing is going to upset, I want to know how it is done."
No one in the party had ever sailed a boat, and the skipper was not
willing to resign the helm to any of them. At his request Corny brought
him something to eat, and he disposed of it while he kept his place at
the helm. By the time he had finished his first slice of ham, and a
corresponding portion of bread and cheese, the Goldwing was up with
Garden Island. The skipper, for his own purposes, had run to the west of
it. Although he felt like disposing of another slice of ham, he was too
much interested in his occupation to attend further to the question of
rations just then.
Dory did not tell his companions what he had been thinking about; but he
hoped to leave the Missisquoi at this point, or to get a better start of
her. He preferred to explain his plan after he had carried it out if it
were a success, or to keep silent if it were a failure. He watched the
Missisquoi very closely, for his own movements would depend upon hers.
There was plenty of water to the northward of the island, but there was
a shoal to the southward.
If the captain of the steamer had been wise, if he had had his eyes
open, he would have kept to the eastward; but he followed directly in
the wake of the Goldwing, and was within less than a quarter of a mile
of her.
"Do you know how much water the Missisquoi draws, Thad?" asked Dory, as
the Goldwing came up with the island.
"I heard Captain Vesey say that she drew six feet when she had her coal
in," replied Thad.
"I heard him say so when we were off Apple-Tree Shoal," added Corny. "I
asked him why he didn't go close up to the buoy; and he said there was
not more than six feet of water on the shoal, and the boat might touch
bottom."
"I thought she didn't draw over five feet. If she draws six, so much the
better," added Dory.
"Why is it so much the better, Dory?" asked Thad.
"Hold on all, and don't ask any more questions!" said Dory, laughing. "I
have business on my hands just now, and I will tell you all about it in
about ten minutes."
The skipper had gybed the boat under the lee of Valcour's; but the wind
was too fresh where he was now to repeat the manoeuvre. It was a gale
in this part of the lake, and the Goldwing worked very lively.
"Corny, I want you to handle that jib-sheet," said he when he was ready
for his next move.
"But I don't know how," pleaded Corny.
"Do what I tell you, and do it in a hurry when I give the word. This is
the jib-sheet, fast to this cleat. When I shift the helm, the jib will
shake. Haul in upon it as fast as you can, and get all you can, and keep
it when you get it. I shall do the same with the main-sheet."
The skipper put the helm down.
CHAPTER XII.
A ROUGH TIME OF IT.
The instant the helm was put down, the head of the boat promptly swung
up in the direction of the wind. Both of the sails began to flap and
bang in the fierce gale.
"Now haul in, Corny!" said Dory, as he did the same by the main-sheet.
"No, Thad! He don't want any help. Let him alone! Take a turn on the
cleat," added the skipper, when one of the party wanted to help.
It was necessary only to take in the slack line of the sheet, and no
hard pulling was required. The boat was now headed to the westward,
which was the opposite course from that which she had been sailing when
he headed her to the southward.
"Now we are on the wind, which is said to be the dangerous course in the
Goldwing's sailing," added the skipper; and this was the first time he
had her close-hauled.
He watched her with the most intense interest, but he had no fault to
find with the boat. It took all his strength at the long tiller to keep
her from coming up into the wind. There was no lee helm now, with only a
jib and mainsail; though she might exhibit this failing when she had all
sail on. In fact, she carried too much weather helm; for it impeded her
progress.
"She works like a lady!" exclaimed Dory with enthusiasm.
Having satisfied himself in regard to the working of the boat, he turned
his attention to the Missisquoi again. He saw that Pearl Hawlinshed was
at the wheel of the steamer. He had evidently learned wisdom from the
movements of the Goldwing. He had turned the helm of the steamer, so
that she was now headed to the westward.
Probably Pearl had begun to do some reasoning by this time. Instead of
running directly for the schooner, he had taken a course to intercept
her when she attempted to go to the northward, as he doubtless believed
she intended to do.
The Goldwing was now on the starboard tack; and the Missisquoi was
running abreast of her, towards the west shore of the lake. Dory
contrived to cramp her so that she did not make much headway, and the
steamer gained so rapidly on her that she was soon a considerable
distance ahead of her.
"Now, Dick Short, we are going about. When Corny lets go of the weather
jib-sheet, I want you to haul on the lee-sheet," said the skipper when
he was ready for the next move.
"Where are we going next, Dory?" asked Thad, confused by the many
movements of the skipper.
"No questions now, Thad. Keep your eyes wide open, and you will see for
yourself. Let go, and haul! Let go the sheet, Corny! Haul in, Dick! Be
lively about it! You must get the sheet in while the sail is shaking, or
you can't do it at all," said Dory sharply, as he put the helm down.
The Goldwing whirled around like a top, when her helm went down. The
hands in charge of the jib-sheets were zealous to do their duty
promptly, and in an instant the sails were drawing on the port tack.
But this did not give the course the skipper wanted. He handled the
boat very cautiously on account of her bad reputation.
Gradually he let off the main-sheet, while Dick was directed to do the
same with the jib-sheet. At the same time Dory kept the helm up, and the
boat fell off until she was headed for the southern side of Garden
Island. She took the wind over her port quarter. It came in heavy gusts,
the Goldwing careening until her gunwale went under at every flaw.
"I don't know about this," said Thad.
"About what, Thad?" asked Dory quietly.
"We are about half under water. This is shaky sailing, in my opinion,"
added Thad, as a wave broke against the side of the boat, and drenched
most of the members of the club to the skin.
"We may get wholly under water before we get through with this trip,"
replied Dory. "But she will come up every time she goes down. For my
part, I never saw a boat work any better than the Goldwing is doing."
"But you will drown the whole of us, Dory!" protested Thad.
"She is working first-rate, Thad; and this isn't more than half as
lively as it will be before we get across the lake."
"Are you going across the lake now, Dory?" asked Corny.
"Certainly I am. We are bound for Burlington, aren't we? Didn't you want
me to take you home?"
"But we don't want you to drown us, and this boat has a bad habit of not
keeping on the top of the water."
"She will keep on the top of the water most of the time, and the worst
you have to fear is a wet jacket."
Just as the schooner was going in under the lee of Garden Island,
another wave broke against her side, and about half a barrel of water
dropped into the standing-room.
"There it is again!" exclaimed Thad.
"That's all right," added Dory. "No boat can keep all the water on the
outside of her in such a sea as this. But she is working beautifully. Do
you see that rope, Thad?" continued the skipper, pointing to the line by
which the centre-board was handled.
"I see it, but I haven't the least idea what it is for."
"I want you and Nat to haul up the centre-board, for we don't need quite
so much of it while we are going free."
The two boys named cast off the line, and pulled with all their might;
but they could not start the board, as Dory did not suppose they could
while the whole force of the wind was acting against it. The two hands
at the line did not know what the centre-board was, or where it was; but
the skipper thought, as they seemed to be a little concerned about their
safety, that it was better for them to be employed.
"It's no use!" cried Thad. "I don't know what we are pulling at; but,
