voted friend and servant. Preoccupied as he was, he 
was able to observe that expectation, with Roderick, 
took a form which seemed singular even among his char 
acteristic singularities. If redemption Roderick seemed 
to reason was to arrive with his mother and his affianced 
bride, these last moments of error should be doubly 
erratic. He did nothing ; but inaction, with him, took 
on an unwonted air of gentle gaiety. He laughed and 
whistled and went often to Mrs. Light 's ; though Row 
land failed to guess in what fashion present circumstances 
had modified his relations with Christina. The month 
ebbed away, and Rowland daily expected to hear from 
Roderick that he had gone to Leghorn to meet the ship. 
He heard nothing, and late one evening, not having seen 
his friend in three or four days, he stopped at Roderick 's 
lodging to assure himself that he had gone at last. A 
cab was standing in the street, but as it was a couple of 
doors off he hardly heeded it. The hall at the foot of 
the staircase was dark, like most Roman halls, and he 
paused in the open doorway on hearing the advancing 
footstep of a person with whom he wished to avoid com 
ing into collision. While he did so he heard another 
footstep behind him, and turning round found that 
Roderick himself had just overtaken him. At the same 
moment a woman 's figure advanced from within, into the 
light of the street lamp, and a face, half startled, glanced 
at him out of the darkness. He gave a cry it was the 
 
face of Mary Garland. Her glance flew past him to 
Roderick, and in a second a startled exclamation broke 
from her own lips. It made Rowland turn again. 
Roderick stood there, pale, apparently trying to speak, 
but saying nothing. His lips were parted, and he was 
wavering slightly with a strange movement the move 
ment of a man who has drunk too much. Then Row 
land 's eyes met Miss Garland 's again, and her own, 
which had rested a moment on Roderick s, were formid 
able. 
XVII. 
How it occurred that Roderick had failed to be at Leg 
horn at the moment of his mother 's arrival was never 
clearly ascertained ; for he undertook to give no elaborate 
explanation of his fault. He never indulged in pro 
fessions (touching personal conduct) as to the future, or 
in remorse as to the past, and as he would have asked 
no praise if he had travelled night and day to embrace 
Mrs. Hudson as she set foot on shore, he made (in 
Rowland 's presence at least) no apology for having left 
her to come in search of him. It was to be said that, 
thanks to an unprecedentedly fine season, the voyage of 
the two ladies had been surprisingly rapid, and that, 
according to common probabilities, if Roderick had left 
Rome on the morrow (as he declared that he had intended) 
he would still have had a day or two of waiting at Leg 
horn. Rowland 's silent inference was that Christina 
Light had beguiled him into letting the time slip, and it 
was accompanied with a silent inquiry whether she had 
done so unconsciously or maliciously. He had told her 
presumably that his mother and his cousin were about to 
arrive ; and it was pertinent to remember hereupon that 
she was a young lady of mysterious impulses. Rowland 
   
heard in due time the story of the adventures of the two 
ladies from Northampton. Mary Garland 's wish, at 
Leghorn, on finding they were left to their own devices, 
had been to telegraph to Roderick and await an answer ; 
for she knew that their arrival was a trifle premature. 
But Mrs. Hudson 's maternal heart had taken the alarm. 
Roderick 's sending for them was, to her imagination, a 
confession of illness, and his not being at Leghorn a 
proof of it ; an hour 's delay was therefore cruel both to 
herself and to him. She insisted on immediate departure ; 
and, unskilled as they were in the mysteries of foreign (or 
even of domestic) travel, they had hurried in trembling 
eagerness to Rome. They had arrived late in the even 
ing, and knowing nothing of inns, had got into a cab and 
proceeded to Roderick 's lodging. At the door poor 
Mrs. Hudson 's trepidation had overcome her, and she 
had sat quaking and crying in the vehicle. Mary had 
bravely gone in, groped her way up the dusky staircase, 
reached Roderick 's door and, with the assistance of such 
acquaintance with the Italian tongue as she had culled 
from a phrase-book during the calm hours of the voyage, 
had learned from the old woman who had her cousin 's 
household economy in charge, that he was in the best of 
health and spirits, and had gone forth a few hours before 
with his hat on his ear per divertirsi. 
These things Rowland learned during a visit he paid 
the two ladies the evening after their arrival. Mrs. 
Hudson spoke of them at great length, and with an 
air of clinging confidence in Rowland which told him 
that he was now enshrined in her innermost favour. 
But her fright was over, though she was still catching 
her breath a little, like a person dragged ashore out of 
waters uncomfortably deep. She was excessively be 
wildered and confused, and seemed more than ever to 
demand a tender handling from her friends. Before her 
companion Rowland was distinctly conscious that he 
trembled. He wondered extremely what was going on 
 
in this young lady 's mind j what was her silent com 
mentary on the incidents of the night before. He 
wondered all the more because he immediately perceived 
that she was now an altered woman, and that the differ 
ence was not an injury. She was older, easier, more 
free, she had more of the manner of society. She had 
more beauty as well, inasmuch as her beauty before had 
been the quality of her expression, and the sources 
from which this beauty was fed had in these two years 
evidently not wasted themselves. Rowland felt almost 
instantly he could hardly have said why ; it was in her 
voice, in her tone, in the air that a total change had 
passed over her attitude towards himself. She trusted 
him now absolutely ; whether or no she liked him, she 
believed in his solidity. He felt that during the coming 
weeks he should need to be solid. Mrs. Hudson was 
at one of the smaller hotels, and her sitting-room was 
frugally lighted by a couple of candles. Rowland made 
the most of this dim illumination to try to detect the 
afterglow of that frightened flash from Mary 's eyes the 
night before. It had been but a flash, for what pro 
voked it had instantly vanished. Rowland, on this 
occasion, seeing Roderick instantly perceive what had 
happened, had given him a silent blessing. If Roderick 
had been drinking, its gravity sobered him on the spot ; 
in a single moment he collected his wits. The next 
moment, with a ringing jovial cry, he was folding the 
young girl in his arms, and the next he was beside his 
mother 's carriage, half smothered in her sobs and caresses. 
Rowland had recommended an hotel close at hand, and 
had then discreetly retired. Roderick was at this time 
doing his part superbly, and Mary Garland 's brow was 
serene. It was serene now, twenty-four hours later; 
but nevertheless her alarm had lasted an appreciable 
moment. What had become of it? It had dropped 
down deep into her memory, and it was lying there for 
the present in the shade. But from one day to another, 
 
Rowland said to himself, it would hold up its head it 
would begin to watch and listen it would stand there 
confronting him. Meanwhile he made the most of the 
hours he passed them in the consciousness of being 
near her. The two ladies had spent the day within 
doors, resting from the fatigues of travel. The younger 
traveller, Rowland suspected, was not so fatigued as she 
suffered it to be assumed. She had remained with Mrs. 
Hudson to attend to her personal wants, which the latter 
seemed to think, now that she was in a foreign land with 
a southern climate and a Catholic religion, would forth 
with become very complex and formidable, though as yet 
they had simply resolved themselves into a desire for a 
great deal of tea, and for a certain extremely familiar old 
black and white shawl across her feet, as she lay on the 
sofa. But the sense of novelty was evidently strong 
upon Mary, and the light of expectation was in her eye. 
She was restless and excited ; she moved about the 
room and went often to the window ; she was observing 
keenly ; she watched the Italian servants as they came 
and went ; she had already had a long colloquy with the 
French chambermaid, who had expounded her views on 
the Roman question ; she noted the small differences in 
the furniture, in the cookery, in the sounds that came in 
from the street. Rowland was sure that she observed 
to good purpose, that she only needed opportunity, and 
that she would gather impressions as thickly clustered as 
the purple bunches of a vintage. He wished immensely 
he might have a hand in it ; he wished he might show 
her Rome. That, of course, would be Roderick 's office. 
But he promised himself at least to take advantage of 
off-hours. 
"It behoves you to appreciate your good fortune," he 
said to her. "To be young and elastic, and yet old 
enough and wise enough to discriminate and reflect, and 
to come to Italy for the first time that is one of the 
greatest pleasures that life has to offer us. It is but right 
 
to remind you of it, so that you may make the most of 
your chances and may not accuse yourself later of having 
wasted the precious season." 
Mary looked at him, smiling intently, and went to 
the window again. "I expect to enjoy it," she said. 
" don 't be afraid j I am not wasteful." 
"I am afraid we are not qualified, you know," said 
Mrs. Hudson. " We are told that you must know so 
much, that you must have read so many books. Our 
taste has not been cultivated. When I was a young lady 
at school I remember I had a medal with a pink ribbon 
for proficiency in ancient history the seven kings, or 
is it the seven hills? and Quintus Curtius and Julius 
Caesar, and and that period, you know. I believe I 
have my medal somewhere in a drawer now, but I have 
forgotten all about the kings. But after Roderick came 
to Italy we tried to learn something about it. Last 
winter Mary used to read Corinne to me in the evenings, 
and in the mornings she used to read another book to 
herself. What was it, Mary, that book that was so long, 
you know in fifteen volumes ? " 
"It was Sismondi 's Italian Repitblics" said Mary, 
simply. 
Rowland could not help laughing ; whereupon Mary 
blushed. " Did you finish it ?" he asked. 
"Yes, and began another a shorter one Roscoe 's 
Leo the Tenth" 
"Did you find them interesting?" 
"Oh yes." 
" Do you like history ?" 
"Some of it." 
" That 's a woman 's answer ! And do you like art ?" 
She paused a moment. " I have never seen it ! " 
"You have great advantages now, my dear, with 
Roderick and Mr. Mallet," said Mrs. Hudson. " I am 
sure no young lady ever had such advantages. You come 
straight to the highest p.uthorities. Roderick, I suppose, 
 
will show you the practice of art, and Mr. Mallet, perhaps, 
if he will be so good, will show you the theory. As an 
artist 's wife you ought to know something about it." 
" One learns a good deal about it here by simply living," 
said Rowland ; "by going and coming about one 's daily 
avocations." 
"Dear, dear, how wonderful that we should be here 
in the midst of it ! " murmured Mrs. Hudson. "To think 
of art being out there in the streets ! We didn 't see 
much of it last evening as we drove from the station. But 
the streets were so dark, and we were so frightened ! 
But we are very easy now ; are we not, Mary ?" 
"I am very happy," said Mary, gravely, wandering 
back to the window again. 
Roderick came in at this moment and kissed his mother, 
and then went over and joined his betrothed. Rowland 
sat with Mrs. Hudson, who evidently had a word which 
she deemed of some value for his private ear. She 
followed Roderick with intensely earnest eyes. 
" I wish to tell you, sir," she said, " how very grateful 
how very thankful what a happy mother I am ! I 
feel as if I owed it all to you. To find my poor boy so 
handsome, so prosperous, so elegant, so famous and 
ever to have doubted of you ! What must you think of 
me ? You are our guardian angel, sir. I often say so 
to Mary." 
Rowland wore in response to this speech a rather in 
scrutable countenance. He could only murmur that he 
was glad she found Roderick looking well. He had, of 
course, promptly asked himself whether it would be the 
best policy just to give her a word of warning turn the 
handle of the door through which, later, disappointment 
might enter. But he had determined to say nothing, and 
simply to wait for Roderick to find effective inspiration 
in those confidently expectant eyes. It was to be supposed 
that he was seeking for it now ; he remained some time 
at the window with his cousin. But at last he turned 
 
away and came over to the fireside with a contraction of 
the eyebrows which seemed to intimate that the young 
girl 's influence was, for the moment at least, not soothing. 
She presently followed him, and for an instant Rowland 
observed her watching him as if she thought him strange. 
" Strange enough," thought Rowland, "he may seem to 
her if he will !" Roderick directed his glance to his 
friend with a certain peremptory air which roughly in 
terpreted was equivalent to a request to share the intel 
lectual expense of entertaining the ladies. Heaven help 
us !" Rowland cried within himself; "is he already tired 
of them?" 
"To-morrow, of course, we must begin to put you 
through the mill," Roderick said to his mother. " And 
be it hereby known to Mallet that we count upon him to 
turn the wheel." 
" I will do as you please, my son," said Mrs. Hudson. 
So long as I have you with me I don 't care where 
I go. We must not take up too much of Mr. Mallet 's 
time. " 
" His time is inexhaustible ; he has nothing under the 
sun to do. Have you, Rowland ? If you had seen the 
big hole I have been making in it ! Where will you go 
first ? You have your choice from the Scala Santa to 
the Cloaca Maxima." 
" Let us take things in order," said Rowland. " We 
will go first to Saint Peter 's. Miss Garland, I hope you 
are impatient to see Saint Peter 's." 
" I should like to go first to Roderick 's studio," said 
Miss Garland. 
"It 's a veiy nasty place," said Roderick. "But do 
what you like." 
" Yes, we must see your beautiful things before we can 
look contentedly at anything else," said Mrs. Hudson. 
"I have no beautiful things," said Roderick. "You 
may see what there is ! What makes you look so odd ?" 
This inquiry was abruptly addressed to his mother, 
 
who in response glanced appealingly at Mary, and raised 
a startled hand to her smooth hair. 
"No, it 's your face," said Roderick. What has 
happened to it these two years? It has changed its 
expression." 
"Your mother has prayed a great deal," said Mary, 
simply. 
" I didn 't suppose, of course, it was from doing anything 
bad ! It makes you a very good face very interesting, 
very solemn. It has very fine lines in it ; something 
might be done with it." And Roderick held one of the 
candles near the poor lady 's head. 
She was covered with confusion. " My son, my son," 
she said, with dignity, "I don 't understand you." 
In a flash all his old alacrity had come to him. " I 
suppose a man may admire his own mother !" he cried. 
" If you please, madam, you will sit to me for that head. 
I see it, I see it ! I will make something that a queen 
can't get done for her." 
Rowland respectfully urged her to assent ; he saw 
Roderick was in the vein, and would probably do some 
thing eminently original. She gave her promise at last, 
after many soft inarticulate protests and a frightened 
petition that she might be allowed to keep her knitting. 
Rowland returned the next day, with plenty of zeal 
for the part Roderick had assigned to him. It had been 
arranged that they should go to Saint Peter 's. Roderick 
was in high good-humour, and in the carriage was watch 
ing his mother with a fine mixture of filial and profes 
sional interest. Mrs. Hudson looked up mistrustfully 
at the tall shabby houses, and grasped the side of the 
barouche in her hand, as if she were in a sail -boat in 
dangerous waters. Rowland sat opposite to Miss Gar 
land. She was totally oblivious of her companions ; 
from the moment the carriage left the hotel she sat 
gazing wide-eyed and absorbed at the objects about them. 
If Rowland had felt disposed he might have made a joke 
 
of her intense seriousness. From time to time he told 
her the name of a place or a building, and she nodded 
without looking at him. When they emerged into the 
great square between Bernini 's colonnades she laid her 
hand on Mrs. Hudson 's arm and sank back in the 
carriage, staring up at the vast yellow facade of the 
church. Inside the church Roderick gave his arm to 
his mother, and Rowland constituted himself the especial 
guide of the younger lady. He walked with her slowly 
everywhere, and made the entire circuit, telling her all 
he knew of the history of the building. This was a 
great deal, but she listened attentively, keeping her eyes 
fixed on the dome. To Rowland himself it had never 
seemed so radiantly sublime as at these moments ; he 
felt almost as if he had designed it himself, and had a 
right to be proud of it. He left Mary Garland a while 
on the steps of the choir, where she had seated herself 
to rest, and went to join their companions. Mrs. 
Hudson was watching a great circle of tattered contadini, 
who were kneeling before the image of Saint Peter. 
The fashion of their tatters fascinated her ; she stood 
gazing at them in a sort of terrified pity, and could not 
be induced to look at anything else. Rowland went 
back to Mary and sat down beside her. 
"Well, what do you think of Europe?" he asked, 
smiling. 
" I think it 's dreadful !" she said, abruptly. 
"Dreadful?" 
"I feel so strangely I could almost cry." 
" How is it that you feel ?" 
" So sorry for the poor past, that seems to have died 
here in my heart in an hour ! " 
"But, surely, you are pleased you are interested." 
" I am overwhelmed. Here in a single hour every 
thing is changed. It is as if a wall in my mind had 
been knocked down at a stroke. Before me lies an 
immense new world, and it makes the old one, the poor 
 
little narrow familiar one I have always known, seem 
pitiful. " 
"But you didn 't come to Rome to keep your eyes 
fastened on that narrow little world. Forget it, turn 
your back on it, and enjoy all this." 
"I want to enjoy it ; but as I sat here just now, 
looking up at that golden mist in the dome, I seemed to 
see in it the vague shapes of certain people and things 
at home. To enjoy, as you say, as these things demand 
of one to enjoy them, is to break with one 's past. And 
breaking is a pain !" 
"don 't mind the pain, and it will cease to trouble 
you. Enjoy, enjoy ; it is your duty. Yours especially !" 
" Why mine especially ?" 
" Because I am very sure that you have a mind 
formed to do justice to everything interesting and beauti 
ful. You are extremely intelligent." 
" You don 't know," said the girl, simply. 
" In that matter one feels. I really think that I know 
better than you. I don 't want to seem patronising, but 
I suspect that you are a capital subject for development. 
Give yourself the best company, trust yourself, let 
yourself go !" 
She looked away from him for some moments, down 
the gorgeous vista of the great church. " But what you 
say," she said at last, "means change!" 
" Change for the better !" cried Rowland. 
" How can one tell? As one stands one knows the 
worst. It seems to me very frightful to develop," she 
added, with her complete smile. 
" One is in for it in one way or another, and one might 
as well do it with a good grace as with a bad ! Since one 
can't escape life, it is better to take it by the hand." 
" Is this what you call life ?" she asked. 
" What do you mean by this ?" 
" Saint Peter 's all this splendour, all Rome pictures, 
ruins, statues, beggars, monks." 
 
"It is not all of it, but it is a large part of it. All 
these things are impregnated with life ; they are the 
results of an old and complex civilisation. " 
" An old and complex civilisation : I am afraid I don 't 
like that." 
"don 't conclude on that point just yet. Wait till 
you have tested it. While you wait you will see an 
immense number of very beautiful things things that 
you are made to understand. They won't leave you as 
they found you ; then you can judge. don 't tell me I 
know nothing about your understanding. I have a right 
to count, upon it." 
Mary gazed a while aloft into the dome. " I am not 
sure I understand that," she said, nodding upward. 
" I hope at least that at a cursoiy glance it pleases 
you," said Rowland. "You needn 't be afraid to tell 
the truth. What strikes some people is that it is so 
remarkably small." 
" Oh, it 's large enough ; it 's very wonderful. There 
are things in Rome, then," she added in a moment, 
turning and looking at him, " that are very, very 
beautiful ?" 
"Lots of them." 
" Some of the most beautiful things in the world ?" 
" Unquestionably." 
"What are they? which things have most beauty?" 
" That is according to taste. I should say the antique 
sculpture." 
" How long will it take to see it all; to know at least 
something about it?" 
" You can see it all, as far as mere seeing goes, in a 
fortnight. But to know it is a thing for one 's leisure. 
The more time you spend in the midst of it, the more 
you care for it." After a moment 's hesitation he went 
on, "Why should you grudge time? It 's all in your 
way, since you are to be an artist 's wife." 
" I have thought of that," she said. " It may be that 
 
I shall always live here, among the most beautiful things 
in the world ! " 
"Very possibly ! I should like to see you ten years 
hence." 
"I daresay I shall seem greatly altered. But I am 
sure of one thing." 
"Of what?" 
"That for the most part I shall be quite the same. I 
ask nothing better than to believe the fine things you 
say about my understanding, but even if they are true it 
won't matter. I shall be what I was made, what I am 
now a young woman from the country ! The fruit of a 
civilisation not old and complex, but new and simple." 
" I am delighted to hear it; that 's an excellent basis." 
" Perhaps if you show me anything more you will 
grow rather tired of my basis. Therefore I warn you. " 
" I am not frightened. I should like extremely to 
make a request of you. Be what you are, be what you 
choose ; but do, sometimes, as I tell you. " 
If Rowland was not frightened, neither perhaps was 
his companion ; but she seemed at least slightly dis 
turbed. She proposed that they should join the others. 
Mrs. Hudson spoke under her breath ; she could not 
be accused of the want of reverence sometimes attributed 
to Protestants in the great Catholic temples. "Mary, 
dear," she whispered, "suppose we had to kiss that 
dreadful brass toe. If I could only have kept our door 
knocker at Northampton as bright as that ! I think it 's 
so heathenish ; but Roderick says he thinks it 's sublime. " 
Roderick had evidently grown a trifle perverse. "It 's 
sublimer than anything that your religion asks you to 
do !" he exclaimed. 
" Surely our religion sometimes gives us very difficult 
duties," said Mary. 
"The duty of sitting in a whitewashed meeting-house 
and listening to a nasal Puritan ! I admit that 's difficult. 
But it 's not sublime. I am speaking of ceremonies, of 
 
forms. It is in my line, you know, to make much of 
forms. I think this is a very beautiful one. Couldn 't 
you do it?" he demanded, looking at his cousin. 
She looked back at him intently, and then shook her 
head. " I think not ! " 
 Why not?" 
" I don 't know ; I couldn 't !" 
During this little discussion our four friends were 
standing near the venerable image of Saint Peter, and a 
squalid, savage-looking peasant, a tattered ruffian of the 
most orthodox Italian aspect, had been performing his 
devotions before it. He turned away crossing himself, 
and Mrs. Hudson gave a little shudder of horror. 
"After that," she murmured, "I suppose he thinks 
he is as good as any one ! And here is another. Oh, 
what a beautiful person !" 
A young lady had approached the sacred effigy, after 
having wandered away from a group of companions. 
She kissed the brazen toe, touched it with her forehead, 
and turned round facing our friends. Rowland then 
