She drew a long breath. She knew how a man felt who 
had been reprieved from a terrible doom. Yet she told 
herself she had no right to experience this relief. 
" And we are both young. I like my work ; I am not 
sure but it would please me best to remain in it another 
year. We can wait and see. You shall belong to Uncle 
Robert until you do want to give yourself to me." 
There was a great revulsion in her soul. She loved him 
with the old love again, and was at peace. He read it in 
the clear, exultant tone of her voice when she spoke. 
Yet to the man was coming a larger outlook than had 
been visible to the boy's eyes. There were so many deli- 
cate mixed motives, so many surprising conclusions to the 
impressions one had felt quite sure about. The hidden 
meanings must all prove themselves before one could hold 
fast. 
The old tranquil happiness returned to them. They 
did not worry at the wound to see if it was healing. If 
there was to be any change from the old interest it must 
come from clear seeing. 
Uncle Robert understood that the something had been 
made up or laid aside. There was no word about a mar- 
riage. 
Once Mrs. Alston said, " Kathie, do you think it was a 
wise thing to give up that lovely parish of Edgewater? 
Mrs. Treherne has a sister living there, and she says the 
church society is delightful, and the house a perfect gem. 
Charlie is so refined and cultivated that I should fancy it 
would have just suited him." 
" He decided himself," in a gentle, apologizing tone. 
'* But the home will be a great deal to you?" 
" I am not homeless, though." And she ran to catch 
Bertie, who was trailing over the flower beds. 
The boys returned, brimming over with enthusiasm, and 
for a few days the house was quite as of yore. Even Rob 
admitted that Eugene Collamore was a capital good 
fellow, and asked him over to tea, which invitation some- 
how was made to include Mrs. Collamore and Fay. 
" It was so delightful to have j r our two boys," Mrs. 
Collamore said to Mrs. Alston. " I have always wished 
Eugene had a brother. He admires Robert so very much, 
and I don't see how one could help feeling proud of him, 
and Fred is a real mother boy. It will do the young 
people good to be together, for we think Eugene rather 
too grave for his years." 
They all knew Rob's story. Mrs. Alston, too, under- 
stood what could never be, and bridged over her longing 
with delicate, motherly ways that accepted the hard fact 
of fate. 
Fred Lauriston had stayed four years in South America, 
instead of three, and brought home with him a pretty, dark- 
eyed wife, whose gift of music and piquante brilliancy 
attracted them all. Rob's Sunday at home was the great 
treat of his life, and Saturday evening there was always 
some social engagement for him. He could not help 
being very happy, and no one felt quite like checking the 
exuberance. 
A long, glowing autumn that went almost up to Christ- 
mas, with little incidents, but no great event. Comings 
and goings, friendly neighborhood life, musical evenings, 
often on Saturday night, intellectual gatherings, interest 
in churches and charities, and homes for the poor ; there 
were few outcasts in Brookside. 
Fred Lauriston obtained a fine position in the city, and 
added one more to the group of friends. Emma was de- 
lighted and happy with the pictures and little sou added to 
her household. 
Just after Christmas another offer came to Charlie Dar- 
rell : the assistantship in a church whose rector was his 
warm, admiring friend, and not less earnest in mission 
work than the young man. 
Rob brought the tidings first. 
" I hope he will take it," was the earnest exclamation. 
" The salary is very fair, and Charlie has some means of 
his own, so you won't be reduced to a meal a day, Miss 
Kathie ; but I do not believe he could be induced to leave 
the other work. You would be surprised to see the influ- 
ence he has over those half- drunken wretches ; and he 
never puts himself down to any lower level. He seems 
just to draw them up to himself. I don't understand." 
No, he had not come to the understanding yet. 
Kathie waited for her letter. She had not been to the 
city all the fall, and, though strongly urged by Jessie to 
come for Christmas, found herself too deeply engrossed with 
home affairs. 
Deeply engrossed, also, with herself, searching, asking, 
comparing, with great humility. She did not truly know 
of anything else she wanted, and a less conscientious 
worn would have resolved once for all, would have taken, 
and lived it out afterward. Another lover might have 
urged, hastened. He was too noble to be satisfied with 
anything less than her perfect giving; he had seen so 
many mistakes already. He could satisfy himself in mak- 
ing her happy ; but if he could not satisfy her? And with 
her the case was reversed. 
She could come no nearer. Sometimes for a few days 
she said she did, then fell back to comradeship. The very 
calmness of the awaiting startled her, as if, somehow, the 
end was planned from the beginning, and she had to go on 
before she could see. 
Yet it gave her quite a thrill of joy when Charlie wrote 
that he had accepted, and found much pleasure promised in 
all that pertained to it. 
He had not appealed to her this time for a decision. 
Something had moved him to a clear certainty. 
She had been reading her letter in the library. Uncle 
Kobert was in his arm-chair beside the glowing grate fire, 
a little indisposed with a cold. He watched her face light- 
ing up, the satisfaction that shone a moment in her eyes. 
" It is good news ? " he said in soft inquiry. 
"I think it is good. Charlie is so satisfied about the 
position. He has taken it. I am glad, for now he seems 
to have a friend and a home." 
"A home?" There was a grave, questioning smile. 
Mr. Conover leaned back in his chair, studying the young 
face. 
" My little girl," he began, " have you no confidence for 
me ? It seems so long since and I am a rather jealous 
old fellow. Is there to be a home for two? " 
The old, grave expression returned. She came and 
seated herself on the footstool and put both her hands in 
his. 
" I have been trying to decide," and the voice had an un- 
dercurrent of tremulousness in it, " what I must do, what 
is best and right. It has perplexed me sorely, but I have 
been keeping it between God and my own soul. Uncle 
Robert, is it right to marry a man with anything less than 
the greatest love ? " 
She did not know how much of her soul she put unwit- 
tingly into her eyes. It was, then, as he had feared. Oh, 
sad, end mistake ! 
"Kathie!" 
She buried her face in her hands on his knee. 
"I am not going to blame, my child ; so let us look at 
the trouble calmly." 
She gave a long sigh, but she was not crying. 
" How did you come to find out this mistake? " 
" I can't quite tell. I feel now as if I had been trying 
all the time to fit myself where I did not entirely belong, 
but where I wanted to belong. And I cannot get in to the 
very heart of things. It has all been sweet, and tender, 
and lovely. I think I must be wicked, or hard-hearted, or 
cold. Do you suppose there ever was any one, a woman 
I mean, capable of friendship only?" 
Her face, as she raised it now, was full of such simple, 
genuine distress, that, though he bowed to kiss it, he 
smiled. 
' ' How can she tell if she never compared it with a love ? " 
There was no color, no dropping of the eyes. 
" I don't quite understand," she answered slowly. " If 
everything had been friendship, and they were all alike " 
She was innocent then of any double meaning in her 
soul. 
" I am afraid friendship is not quite the foundation- 
stone for marriage, although excellent structures have 
been reared upon it. I cannot tell why, yet I have felt 
afraid of this from the very first, that you did not know 
your own heart sufficiently. You were too young." 
" Yet, why could I not grow into it? I have tried, so 
hard. And now what ought I to do? For the heart I 
have taken is all mine. How can I reward it with a half- 
love? And yet how dare I give it up? Will not the pain 
of his life be as great a suffering in God's sight as any pain 
of mine ? Ought I not use my utmost endeavor ? " 
The tears gathered then and beaded her long lashes. 
"My dear," he said gently, " go over it from the begin- 
ning, the first doubt." 
She had not been much given to introspection. He 
could see the surprise to herself when the truth had 
dawned upon her slowly, at no precise epoch, but made 
itself manifest at length. The tender conscience had 
striven up to every point of duty. There has been no 
going after forbidden gods. And, though there was sor- 
sow and penitence, there was no shame. 
"It is because I know what it will be to him," she 
cried, with remorseful tenderness. " He loves me so ! He 
would take the half-love and be content, trusting for it to 
grow and blossom. How can I make myself fit and 
worthy ? What must I do ? " 
She asked it in all earnestness. He knew how reso- 
lutely she would go at her task if he decided it was her 
duty, but she could do no more than she had already done 
out of her pure heart. It was a sad mistake for both. 
He seemed almost unable to counsel 
" There is only one thing," he said presently ; " waiting. 
Some light may come. But it would be a sin to marry 
this way, unless it were an expiation. If you had tried 
for this love, if you had detached it from some other joy 
It might have had, you would owe it a solemn duty. Such 
debts have been paid, and the soul has come to a higher 
living through sacrifice. But I cannot see that this would 
be }T>ur duty." 
She was weeping softly now. What havoc these young 
people had made with their lives ! 
But he comforted her and bade her be patient with what 
was to come. The way would be made plain. 
Charlie Darrell waited as well. If this would bring her 
nearer ; if the outgrowth of it all could be such love as a 
man had a right to expect ! But her answer, touching 
and tender as it was, gave him no thread for a nearer 
hope. 
What if it was a greater thing than a love to hold for 
his own comforting and delight, a love to give away some 
time? 
He said at first, as youth is prone to cry out in the dark- 
ness and sense of bitter loss, that he could not, that God 
would not have placed this lovely blossom in his garden 
only to be transplanted. Some other thing, some other 
cross to bear ; another duty to test his ready obedience, 
not the sacrifice of the first dear object. 
But she gave no sign of drawing nearer. Tender, sym- 
pathetic, interested, saying so many comforting things to 
make up for the loss of the one thing she could not say in 
highest truth to herself. He read through the lines as 
well, missing keenly what was not there. 
CHAPTER XXV. 
' UOBERT," Mrs. Conover said one evening, as she sat 
sewing some dainty trifle for baby Bertie, who had come to 
be a great favorite with her grandmother, ' ' have you any 
idea that matters are not quite as they should be between 
Charlie andKathie?" 
Mr. Conover glanced up from his book, then down again, 
rather perplexed for an answer. 
" I fancy something is wrong. Kathie will not talk 
about it, but seems to evade it at every turn. I think," 
in a slightly wounded tone, " I am entitled to my child's 
confidence in this matter. Has she said anything to you ? " 
" We discussed a few points of duty, one morning," in 
a slow tone. It was a delicate matter. He could see just 
the lack of fine agreement on which Kathie and her mother 
would miss. 
" She has grown so so different; I should say grave, 
only she is bright and interested in all other matters. Yet 
a young girl's marriage one would think might be a great 
event to her, touching, as it does, all the deep chords of the 
soul." 
''It will be to her." 
He was thinking how he could smooth the way for his 
darling, for he could foresee there would be rough places. 
" Has it been put off for any cause? " 
" I do not know, Dora, that they have come near the 
real thing, the marriage." 
" But Charlie is settled, as one may say. And he could 
have been before if Kathie had cared." 
It must come some time The mother would be sadly 
hurt, angered, perhaps. Since the engagement, and the 
coming of baby Bertie, she had held her own child with 
a loose clasp, so to speak, ready to transfer her rights to 
another, the other she loved so well. 
" I believe the young people have made a mistake, and 
time only can right it. I was a little afraid from the 
beginning." 
"The engagement is not broken?" Mrs. Alston let 
her work fall, and her hands held themselves nerveless, 
while varied expressions seemed to flash over her face. 
' ' The engagement stands just as it did, for aught I 
know. But it seems to me Kathie is coming no nearer 
the vital joy and anticipation. I doubt if she is as near as 
on that first night. I suppose the question with her, with 
any thoughtful person, would be whether this is the love 
with which to prove a lifetime, to make the sum of all joys 
come right." 
" You never did cordially like it, Robert, and you will 
encourage her to give it up. Why, T wonder?" And the 
tears stood in Mrs. Alston's eyes. 
"My dear Dora, you are mistaken m some points. I 
was surprised, and a little afraid that it might be nearness, 
the tender feeling of the boy and girl who had always been 
friends, and whose hopes, beliefs, and aims were much 
alike. I think she could choose no better man if she 
searched the world over. And if it had gone on to com- 
plete fruition " 
"You don't think the winter with Aunt Ruth, with 
Bruce, changed anything?" she interrupted. 
" I do not think it consciously changed anything. I do 
not believe Kathie has any thought of Bruce in her heart 
that she could not show the whole world, and if Bruce 
cared deeply he kept his feelings well under control. 
Besides, he grew very fond of Charlie ; but we will let all 
that alone. The only point to be considered is, whether 
Kathie loves Charlie sufficiently to maKe a happy, con- 
tented marriage." 
"But, Robert, are these feverish, extravagant loves to 
be preferred ? Look at poor Rob's sad mistake ; yet I sup- 
pose he thought he loved Miss Weeks madly." 
" I have no more faith in mad loves, certainly." And a 
rather sad smile crossed his face. 
" What do you want, then ? What does Kathie want ? " 
she asked rather sharply. 
" What Kathie wants is to love with her whole heart and 
soul, which she has not done yet. Think a little of all this 
time of probation. Even that first year a girl in love 
would have found many shy, sweet ways of seeing her 
lover alone a moment." 
"But they were both very true and honest. I liked it 
in him," she answered decisively. 
"It was extremely honorable in him. Yet we should 
have forgiven Kathie some little aside, a quick blush, or a 
girl's longing. This troubled me, I must confess. And 
when they came to the time of declared lovers it was just 
the same. They are near and tender friends * but her heart 
does not beat or her pulse quicken when he comes. No 
sweet, tell-tale blood flushes her face. There is no steal- 
ing away into corners for a word, no lingering as if the 
moments were precious. Dora, go back to your own girl- 
hood and remember what it was to you." 
Her face softened and a delicate flush stole over it, while 
the eyes drooped almost girlishly. 
" But Kathie is different." 
" What should make her so different? She is a sweet, 
fond, ardent girl, quickly moved by her emotions, tender, 
responsive, capable of much that is highest and best in 
life, in joy, in enduring happiness. Why should she not 
taste the brimming cup of that sweet satisfaction ? " 
" And if she should be deceived in her ideal? In Char- 
lie she cannot be deceived. His life is open, and pure, and 
sacred. Why can she not love him when the life with him 
would suit and satisfy ? " 
" I suppose a woman must love a man for what he is to 
her, not what he is to other people. Kathie has loved her 
friend all her life, and loves him still. We give to others 
the measure of love they are capable of creating in us. 
Why is it that some will kindle in you a fine and exalted 
enthusiasm, and yet you never quite fuse spirit with spirit. 
I think Kathie's entire nature has never been kindled. She 
misses in some dim way the sacred fire on the altar. Yet 
so slightly does the balance vibrate that if she was advised 
to make herself content, to believe this were all, I think 
she would act unshrinkingly. It would always be beside, 
never within the holy of holies " 
"But if she had married him? " 
" She would grope about pained and confused awhile, 
then settle herself to duty, and leave the perplexing mys- 
teries to be cleared up at the last day, when all crooked 
things are made straight. It is just here where she 
stands. She has a vague, beautiful vision of something. 
Shall she follow it until the angel really does appear, or 
shall she give up the intangible thing here and now, and 
take the duty work that comes first." 
''But Charlie, does no one think of him?" cried Mrs. 
Alston, with a pang. u Has he, too, made a blind and 
ignorant mistake ? " 
" She thinks of him constantly. Instead of going for- 
ward in joyous anticipation natural to one so }x>ung, she 
halts in fear lest she shall pain him as much if she takes 
the life as if she leaves it. She might sacrifice herself for 
his sake if it was clearly her duty, but do we dare tell her 
that it is?" 
Mrs. Alston gave a long sigh. 
'' Then I think the engagement might as well be giveu 
up if she feels this way about it. It is a great disappoint- 
ment to me, and certainly to us all. The Darrells have 
been so perfectly satisfied with it, and they always were 
so good to her. I do not understand why she cannot love 
him when she likes him so much, but it is unfair to 
him." 
"I am not certain but the settlement of the affair 
ought to be left to him. He is sufficiently clear-judging 
to understand, and he is daily witnessing the issue of so 
many mistakes as well as sins. We have no right to hurry 
either of them." 
Mrs. Alston wiped away a few tears and took up her 
sewing again, but it was only a pretence. She was bit- 
terly disappointed. Her son's fate had its tragic side, 
but in her estimation there was nothing to redeem this. 
A simple confession that a foolish girl had not known her 
own mind, and accepted a wrong love. 
And, though no word was exchanged on the subject, 
there was something in her mother's wounded demeanor 
that pained Kathie and filled her with a peculiar sense of 
shame. Why could she not make this matter seem right 
and joyous, as Emma's marriage had been, or as Sarah 
Strong's ? She should never shrink from the work. She 
was in some measure fitted for it by all her life-long ex- 
perience. 
She went up to spend a few days with Sarah, who was 
always so glad to see her. She could not drag her soul 
out for her friend's inspection, or ask if any one knew why 
this must be so. But in the simple, truthful atmosphere 
she did gain some strength. They two were growing in 
knowledge . in tender, reverent wisdom, and exquisite hap- 
piness. One day the friends spoke of this. 
" I think it is because we just suit," said Sarah, with a 
bright glow in her eyes. ' % I can take his best without 
any misgiving because I can give him mine without any 
reserve. It is the one perfect soul that marriage should 
be, the faint, imperfect type of the other great love.' 
Could Kathie compare hers with the other great love? 
No, it was blurred and imperfect. 
After this there was quite a diversion. Fay Collamore 
went to the city to be bridesmaid for a cousin. Jessie 
came up on a brief visit to her mother, and insisted that 
Kathie should return with her. 
" I think I had better go," she said, with a curious decis- 
ion quite new to her. For her duty must be plainly and 
clearly settled. She could not go on living between, with 
the ache and misgiving so near the surface that every 
little touch made her shrink. 
Everybody was glad to have her back. She and Fay 
went to one of Mrs. Garnier's evenings, Rob had told 
Miss Collamore about them, and out of this grew other 
little meetings, and a grand concert for which Rob bought 
tickets. He was so ready to take her anywhere, and some- 
how she always found herself inviting Fay. 
Charlie saw it in his quiet way, and yet it had no real 
meaning for Kathie, being mostly of Rob's planning. She 
was thinking of him always. How could she give back the 
life that had so shaped itself to hers ? how could she go 
on and perhaps mar both ? 
The friendliness was still friendly. The grief was that 
she could come so near and not belong, heart and soul. 
Her very trying gave him an exquisite pain, the blended 
joy and bitterness of a possibility he had taken to his 
heart, a live and real thing, and watched it growing dim- 
mer, not dying, but living by some high, self -judging 
resolve. 
She should not so torment and vex her soul. He would 
set her quite free. If any late regret or repentance should 
blossom into a new trust for him, God would surely return 
it fourfold. 
He told her this one evening, one of the rare times 
through the visit that they were quite alone. She was 
not to speak of it to Jessie ; he would make that all 
straight and pleasant. They would go back to the old 
friendship, and have no break or coldness. He had schooled 
himself to this for her sake. Only a high, passion pure 
love could have done so, but his soul was too purely noble 
to be satisfied with anything less than a perfect self-for- 
getting. 
She sobbed out her sorrow in tender, broken sentences, 
but he would not listen to her condemnation. There was 
a better ordering in it than they could see to-night. God 
had some true lesson and meaning in all this that would be 
made manifest in the years to come. She was not to 
shadow her life with vain regrets, but to go on with her 
duties and her pleasures until God should send peace. 
But the first one after her return to Cedarwood was 
very painful. She must explain all to her mother ; she 
owed her this respect. 
" Mamma," she began the morning afterward, ' k there 
is something I must tell you." And the voice struggled 
against the great throbbing in heart and throat, while the 
sweet face crimsoned with abasement and genuine grief. 
"Charlie and I that is, I mean I have O mamma, 
pity and forgive me for paining you so much, but I did 
make a great mistake ! I could not go on ; and Charlie 
gave me back my freedom." 
Her arms were around her mother's neck, and the soft, 
wet face pressed close against her cheek in fervent peni- 
tence. 
" Kathie," her mother made answer, " you have pained 
the noblest, sweetest soul that ever loved a woman. You 
had no right to treat it so. You should have known," in 
a tone of remonstrance. 
" But it was so strange and new that evening. Because 
nothing in my soul warned me then, I thought it was quite 
right. And he was so good ; you all liked him so well. 
When I tried with all my heart, why could I not make 
myself come nearer to him ? " 
The pitiful asking touched the mother. Had she been 
blameless ? Had not her satisfaction been one important 
factor in the engagement. Ought she not have guided the 
youthful heart to its own sure examination ? 
" I am very sorry, and there will be some other judg- 
ments to meet, Kathie." The mother could not soften all 
at once. " I don't know what the Darrells will say, and 
Mr. and Mrs. Meredith will be bitterly disappointed. 
Think of Jessie's goodness to you, years ago ! Why, it 
will seem " 
" Ungrateful! Yes, mamma," in her meek, touching 
way. " I have hurt everybody, and now it seems as if I 
had better have wounded only myself. But Charlie under- 
stood. He would not let it be anything but perfect free- 
dom ; only, if I should see my way clear in the years to 
come, I have only to go back." 
" I don't understand it at all," said Mrs. Alston, wearily. 
" Perhaps we had better not talk it over now; it is too 
near and too full of pain. Of course I shall always love 
you, Kathie ; a mother's heart is not easily turned aside. 
Only I do not seem very fortunate in my children in this 
respect." 
Kathie kissed her, realizing how deep the pain had gone 
in the kindly heart. Why must she have given it a stab 
as well as Robert? 
She turned slowly from the room, but instead of going 
to her own, walked up to Fred's little den, where Uncle 
Robert often amused himself with scientific experiments, 
and she had seen him go thither some time before. Kathie 
paused in the doorway, and he caught sight of the flushed 
and tearful face. 
" O my darling! " he exclaimed in quick, tender sym- 
pathy, folding her in his arms. 
She had the rest of her cry out on his shoulder. Now 
and then he kissed her throbbing brow with his cool lips, 
but did not speak again until her sobs had ceased a little. 
" O Uncle Robert, what shall I do? I have been so 
weak and selfish, and made everybody so unhappy ! " 
" We will talk that over presently. I suppose, then, it 
is all settled between you and Charlie ? Of course, Kathie, 
your mother is sorely disappointed. I think," with a 
