She was ill, perhaps, and tired. That was why 
 
she looked pale ; but she knew that the first day of 
freedom would make her as beautiful as ever. She 
spent the morning hours in her rooms ; but when she 
heard the gates close, she fancied herself alone in the 
great house, and went down into the sunny courtyard, 
to breathe the air, and to give certain instructions to 
her faithful man. She sent him to my house, to speak 
with me ; and that was all the message he had, for 
the present. However, he knew well enough what he 
was to do. There was a strong smell of bank-notes 
in the air, and the man kept his nose up. 
Having dispatched this important business, Hedwig set herself to walk up and down the paved quad 
rangle, on the sunny side. There was a stone bench 
in a warm corner, which looked inviting. She entered 
the house, and brought out a book, with which she 
established herself to read. She had often longed to 
sit there in the afternoon and watch the sun creeping 
across the flags, pursued by the shadow, till each small 
bit of moss and blade of grass had received its daily 
portion of warmth. For though the place had been 
cleared and weeded, the tiny green things still grew 
in the chinks of the pavement. In the middle of 
the court was a well, with a cover and yoke of old- 
fashioned twisted iron, and a pulley to draw the 
water. The air was bright and fresh outside the 
castle, but the reverberating rays of the sun made 
the quiet courtyard warm and still. 
Sick with her daily torture of mind, the fair, 
pale girl rested here at last, and, dreaming of liberty, 
drew strength from the soft stillness. The book fell 
on her lap, her head leaned back against the rough 
 
stones of the wall, and gradually, as she watched from 
beneath her half-closed lids the play of the stealing 
sunlight, she fell into a sweet sleep. 
She was soon disturbed by that indescribable uneasiness that creeps through our dreams when we are 
asleep in the presence of danger. A weird horror 
possesses us, and makes the objects in the dream 
appear unnatural. Gradually the terror grows on us 
and thrills us, and we wake, with bristling hair and 
staring eyes, to the hideous consciousness of unexpected peril.
Hedwig started and raised her lids, following the 
direction of her dream. She was not mistaken. Opposite her stood her arch-horror, Benoni. He leaned 
carelessly against the stone well, and his bright brown 
eyes were riveted upon her. His tall, thin figure was 
clad, as usual, in the extreme of all fashion, and one 
of his long, bony hands toyed with his watch-chain. 
His animated face seemed aglow with the pleasure of 
contemplation, and the sunshine lent a yellow tinge 
to his snowy hair. 
" An exquisite picture, indeed, countess," he said, 
without moving. " I trust your dreams were as sweet 
as they looked?" 
" They were sweet, sir," she answered coldly, after 
a moment's pause, during which she looked steadily 
toward him. 
" I regret that I should have disturbed them," he 
said with a deferential bow ; and he came and sat by 
her side, treading as lightly as a boy across the flags. 
Hedwig shuddered, and drew her dark skirts about 
her, as he sat down. 
 
" You cannot regret it more than I do," she said, in 
tones of ice. She would not take refuge in the house, 
for it would have seemed like an ignominious flight. 
Benoni crossed one leg over the other, and asked per 
mission to smoke, which she granted by an indifferent 
motion of her fair head. 
"So we are left all alone to-day, countess," remarked Benoni, blowing rings of smoke upon the 
quiet air. 
Hedwig vouchsafed no answer. 
" We are left alone," he repeated, seeing that she 
was silent, " and I make it hereby my business and my 
pleasure to amuse you." 
" You are good, sir. But I thank you. I need no 
entertainment of your devising." 
"That is eminently unfortunate," returned the 
baron, with his imperturbable smile, " for I am universally considered to be the most amusing of mortals, 
if, indeed, I am mortal at all, which I sometimes 
doubt." 
"Do you reckon yourself with the gods, then?" 
asked Hedwig scornfully. " Which of them are you ? 
Jove ? Dionysus ? Apollo ? " 
" Nay, rather Phaethon, who soared too high " 
" Your mythology is at fault, sir, he drove too 
low; and besides, he was not immortal." 
"It is the same. He was wide of the mark, as 
I am. Tell me, countess, are your wits always so 
ready ? " 
" You, at least, will always find them so," she an 
swered bitterly. 
" You are unkind. You stab my vanity, as you 
have pierced my heart." 
 
At this speech, Hedwig raised her eyebrows, and 
stared at him in silence. Any other man would have 
taken the chilling rebuke, and left her. Benoni put 
on a sad expression. 
"You used not to hate me as you do now," he 
said. 
" That is true. I hated you formerly because I 
hated you." 
" And now ? " asked Benoni, with a short laugh. 
" I hate you now because I loathe you." She ut 
tered this singular saying indifferently, as being part 
of her daily thoughts. 
" You have the courage of your opinions, countess," 
he replied, with a very bitter smile. 
"Yes? It is the only courage a woman need 
have." 
There was a pause, during which Benoni puffed 
much smoke and stroked his white moustache. Hedwig turned over the leaves of her book, as though 
hinting to him to go. But he had no idea of that. 
A man who will not go because a woman loathes him 
will certainly not leave her for a hint. 
" Countess," he began again, at last, " will you 
listen to me ? " 
" I suppose I must. I presume my father has left 
you here to insult me at your noble leisure." 
" Ah, countess, dear countess," she shrank away 
from him, " you should know me better than to 
believe me capable of anything so monstrous. I 
insult you? Gracious Heaven! I, who adore you; 
who worship the holy ground whereon you tread; 
who would preserve the precious air you have 
 
breathed, in vessels of virgin crystal; who would 
give a drop of my blood for every word you vouch 
safe me, kind or cruel, I, who look on you as the 
only divinity in this desolate heathen world, who 
reverence you and do you daily homage, who adore 
you" 
" You manifest your adoration in a singular man 
ner, sir," said Hedwig, interrupting him with some- 
thing of her father's severity. 
" I show it as best I can," the old scoundrel pleaded, 
working himself into a passion of words. " My life, 
my fortune, my name, my honour, I cast them at 
your feet. For you I will be a hermit, a saint, dwell 
ing in solitary places and doing good works ; or I will 
brave every danger the narrow earth holds, by sea 
and land, for you. What? Am I decrepit, or bent, 
or misshapen, that my white hair should cry out 
against me? Am I hideous, or doting, or half-witted, 
as old men are ? I am young ; I am strong, active, 
enduring. I have all the gifts, for you." 
The baron was speaking French, and perhaps these 
wild praises of himself might pass current in a foreign language. But when Nino detailed the conversation to me in our good, simple Italian speech, it 
sounded so amazingly ridiculous that I nearly broke 
my sides with laughing. 
Hedwig laughed also, and so loudly that the foolish 
old man was disconcerted. He had succeeded in 
amusing her sooner than he had expected. As I 
have told you, the baron is a most impulsive person, 
though he is poisoned with evil from his head to his 
heart. 
 
"All women are alike," he said, and his manner 
suddenly changed. 
" I fancy," said Hedwig, recovering from her merriment, " that if you address them as you have 
addressed me you will find them very much alike 
indeed." 
" What good can women do in the world ? " 
sighed Benoni, as though speaking with himself. 
" You do nothing but harm with your cold calculations and your bitter jests." Hedwig was silent. 
"Tell me," he continued presently, "if I speak 
soberly, by the card as it were, will you listen to 
me?" 
" Oh, I have said that I will listen to you I " cried 
Hedwig, losing patience. 
" Hedwig von Lira, I hereby offer you my fortune, 
my name, and myself. I ask you to marry me of 
your own good-will and pleasure." Hedwig once 
more raised her brows. 
" Baron Benoni, I will not marry you, for your 
fortune, your name, nor yourself, nor for any other 
consideration under heaven. And I will ask you not 
to address me by my Christian name." 
There was a long silence after this speech, and 
Benoni carefully lighted a second cigarette. Hedwig 
would have risen and entered the house, but she felt 
safer in the free air of the sunny court. As for Be 
noni, he had no intention of going. 
" I suppose you are aware, countess," he said at 
last, coldly eyeing her, " that your father has set his 
heart upon our union ? " 
" I am aware of it." 
 
" But you are not aware of the consequences of 
your refusal. I am your only chance of freedom. 
Take me, and you have the world at your feet. Re 
fuse me, and you will languish in this hideous place 
so long as your affectionate father pleases." 
" Do you know my father so little, sir," asked 
Hedwig very proudly, " as to suppose that his 
daughter will ever yield to force ? " 
" It is one thing to talk of not yielding, and it is 
quite another to bear prolonged suffering with constancy," returned Benoni coolly, as though he were 
discussing a general principle instead of expounding 
to a woman the fate she had to expect if she refused 
to .marry him. " I never knew any one who did not 
talk bravely of resisting torture until it was applied. 
Oh, you will be weak at the end, countess, believe 
me. You are weak now, and changed, though perhaps you would be better pleased if I did not notice 
it. Yes, I smile now, I laugh. I can afford to. 
You can be merry over me because I love you, but 
I can be merry at what you must suffer if you will 
not love me. Do not look so proud, countess. You 
know what follows pride, if the proverb lies not." 
During this insulting speech Hedwig had risen to 
her feet, and in the act to go she turned and looked 
at him in utter scorn. She could not comprehend 
the nature of a man who could so coldly threaten 
her. If ever any one of us can fathom Benoni's 
strange character, we may hope to understand that 
phase of it along with the rest. He seemed as 
indifferent to his own mistakes and follies as to the 
sufferings of others. 
 
"Sir," she said, "whatever may be the will of 
my father, I will not permit you to discuss it, still 
less to hold up his anger as a threat to scare me. 
You need not follow me." she added, as he rose. 
"I will follow you, whether you wish it or not, 
countess," he said fiercely; and as she fled across 
the court to the door he strode swiftly by her side, 
hissing his words into her ear. " I will follow you 
to tell you that I know more of you than you think, 
and I know how little right you have to be so proud. 
I know your lover. I know of your meetings, your 
comings and your goings " They reached the 
door, but Benoni barred the way with his long arm, 
and seemed about to lay a hand upon her wrist, so 
that she shrank back against the heavy doorpost, in 
an agony of horror and loathing and wounded pride. 
" I know Cardegna, and I knew the poor baroness, 
who killed herself because he basely abandoned her. 
Ah, you never heard the truth before ? I trust it is 
pleasant to you. As he left her, he has left you. 
He will never come back. I saw him in Paris three 
weeks ago. I could tell tales not fit for your ears. 
And for him you will die in this horrible place, 
unless you consent. For him you have thrown away 
everything, name, fame, and happiness, unless 
you will take all these from me. Oh, I know, you 
will cry out that it is untrue ; but my eyes are good, 
though you call me old ! For this treacherous boy, 
with his curly hair, you have lost the only thing that 
makes woman human, your reputation ! " 
Benoni laughed that horrid laugh of his, till the 
court rang again, as though there were devils in every 
corner and beneath every eave, and everywhere. 
 
People who are loud in their anger are sometimes 
dangerous, for it is genuine while it lasts. People 
whose anger is silent are generally either incapable 
of honest wrath or cowards. But there are some in 
the world whose passion shows itself in few words 
but strong ones, and proceeds instantly to action. 
Hedwig had stood back against the stone casing 
of the entrance, at first, overcome with the intensity 
of what she suffered. But as Benoni laughed she 
moved slowly forwards till she was close to him, 
and only his outstretched arm barred the doorway. 
"Every word you have spoken is a lie, and you 
know it. Let me pass, or I will kill you with my 
hands!" 
The words came low and distinct to his excited ear, 
like the tolling of a passing bell. Her face must have 
been dreadful to see, and Benoni was suddenly fasci 
nated and terrified at the concentrated anger that 
blazed in her blue eyes. His arm dropped to his side, 
and Hedwig passed proudly through the door, in all 
the majesty of innocence, gathering her skirts, lest 
they should touch his feet or any part of him. She 
never hastened her step as she ascended the broad 
stairs within and went to her own little sitting-room, 
made gay with books and flowers and photographs 
from Rome. Nor was her anger followed by any passionate outburst of tears. She sat herself down by 
the window and looked out, letting the cool breeze 
from the open casement fan her face. 
Hedwig, too, had passed through a violent scene 
that day, and, having conquered, she sat down to 
think over it. She reflected that Benoni had but 
 
used the same words to her which she had daily heard 
from her father's lips. False as was their accusation, 
she submitted to hearing her father speak them, for 
she had no knowledge of their import, and only 
thought him cruelly hard with her. But that a 
stranger above all, a man who aspired, or pretended 
to aspire, to her hand should attempt to usurp the 
same authority of speech was beyond all human endurance. She felt sure that her father's anger would all 
be turned against Benoni when he heard her story. 
As for what her tormentor had said of Nino, she 
could have killed him for saying it, but she knew 
that it was a lie ; for she loved Nino with all her heart, 
and no one can love wholly without trusting wholly. 
Therefore she put away the evil suggestion from 
herself, and loaded Benoni with all its burden of 
treachery. 
How long she sat by the window, compelling her 
strained thoughts into order, no one can tell. It 
might have been an hour, or more, for she had lost 
the account of the hours. She was roused by a knock 
at the door of her sitting-room, and at her bidding the 
man entered who, for the trifling consideration of 
about a thousand francs, first and last, made communication possible between Hedwig and myself. 
This man's name is Temistocle, Themistocles, no 
less. All servants are Themistocles, or Orestes, or 
Joseph, just as all gardeners are called Antonio. 
Perhaps he deserves some description. He is a type, 
short, wiry, and broad-shouldered, with a cunning eye, 
a long, hooked nose, and plentiful black whiskers, and 
coarse, closely cropped black hair. His motions are 
 
servile to the last degree, and he addresses every one 
in authority as " excellency," on the principle that it 
is better to give too much titular homage than too 
little. He is as wily as a fox, and so long as you have 
money in your pocket, as faithful as a hound and as 
silent as the grave. I perceive that these are precisely the epithets at which the baron scoffed, say 
ing that a man can be praised only by comparing him 
with the higher animals, or insulted by comparison 
with himself and his kind. We call a man a fool, an 
idiot, a coward, a liar, a traitor, and many other 
things applicable only to man himself. However, I 
will let my description stand, for it is a very good 
one ; and Temistocle could be induced, for money, 
to adapt himself to almost any description, and he 
certainly had earned, at one time or another, most of 
the titles I have enumerated. 
He told me, months afterwards, that when he 
passed through the courtyard, on his way to Hed- 
wig's apartment, he found Benoni seated on the stone 
bench, smoking a cigarette and gazing into space, 
so that he passed close before him without being 
noticed. 
 
CHAPTER XIX. 
TEMISTOCLE closed the door, then opened it again, 
and looked out, after which he finally shut it, and 
seemed satisfied. He advanced with cautious tread 
to the window where Hedwig sat. 
"Well? What have you done?" she inquired, 
without looking at him. It is a hard thing for a 
proud and noble girl to be in the power of a servant. 
The man took Nino's letter from his pocket, and 
handed it to her upon his open palm. Hedwig tried 
hard to take it with indifference, but she acknowledges that her fingers trembled and her heart beat 
fast. 
"I was to deliver a message to your excellency, 
from the old gentleman," said Temistocle, coming 
close to her and bending down. 
" Ah ! " said Hedwig, opening the envelope. 
"Yes, excellency. He desired me to say that it 
was absolutely and most indubitably necessary that 
your excellency should be at the little door to-night 
at twelve o clock. Do not fear, Signora Contessina ; 
we can manage it very well." 
"I do not wish to know what you advise me to 
fear, or not to fear," answered Hedwig, haughtily ; 
for she could not bear to feel that the man should 
counsel her or encourage her. 
 
"Pardon, excellency ; I thought" began Temistocle humbly ; but Hedwig interrupted him. 
" Temistocle," she said, "I have no money to give 
you, as I told you yesterday. But here is another 
stone, like the first. Take it, and arrange this 
matter as best you can." 
Temistocle took the jewel and bowed to the ground, 
eyeing curiously the little case from which she had 
taken it. 
"I have thought and combined everything," he 
said. " Your excellency will see that it is best you 
should go alone to the staircase; for, as we say, a 
mouse makes less noise than a rat. When you have 
descended, lock the door at the top behind you; 
and when you reach the foot of the staircase, keep 
that door open. I shall have brought the old gentleman, by that time, and you will let me in. I shall 
go out by the great gate." 
"Why not go with me?" inquired Hedwig. 
"Because, your excellency, one person is less 
likely to be seen than two. Your excellency will 
let me pass you. I will mount the staircase, unlock 
the upper door, and change the key to the other 
side. Then I shall watch, and if any one comes I 
will lock the door and slip away till he is gone." 
"I do not like the plan," said Hedwig. "I would 
rather let myself in from the staircase." 
"But suppose any one were waiting on the inside, 
and saw you come back?" 
"That is true. Give me the keys, Temistocle, 
and a taper and some matches." 
"Your excellency is a paragon of courage," replied 
 
the servant, obsequiously. "Since yesterday I have 
carried the keys in my pocket. I will bring you the 
taper this evening." 
" Bring it now. I wish to be ready." 
Temistocle departed on the errand. When he 
returned, Hedwig ordered him to give a message to 
her father. 
"When the count comes home, ask him to see 
me," she said. Temistocle bowed once more, and 
was gone. 
Yes, she would see her father, and tell him plainly 
what she had suffered from Benoni. She felt that 
no father, however cruel, would allow his daughter 
to be so treated, and she would detail the conversation to him. 
She had not been able to read Nino's letter, for 
she feared the servant, knowing the writing to be 
Italian and legible to him. Now she hastened to 
drink in its message of love. You cannot suppose 
that I know exactly what he said, but he certainly 
set forth at some length his proposal that she should 
leave her father, and escape with her lover from the 
bondage in which she was now held. He told her 
modestly of his success, in so far as it was necessary 
that she should understand his position. It must 
have been a very eloquent letter, for it nearly persuaded her to a step of which she had wildly dreamed, 
indeed, but which in her calmer moments she re 
garded as impossible. 
The interminable afternoon was drawing to a 
close, and once more she sat by the open window, 
regardless of the increasing cold. Suddenly it all 
 
carne over her, the tremendous importance of the 
step, if she should take Nino at his word, and really 
break from one life into another. The long-restrained 
tears, that had been bound from flowing through all 
Benoni's insults and her own anger, trickled silently 
down her cheek, no longer pale, but bright and flushed 
at the daring thought of freedom. 
At first it seemed far off, as seen in a magician's 
glass. She looked, and saw herself as another person, acting a part only half known and half under 
stood. But gradually her own individual soul entered 
into the figure of her imagination; her eager heart 
beat fast ; she breathed and moved and acted in the 
future. She was descending the dark steps alone, 
listening with supernatural perception of sound for 
her lover's tread without. It came ; the door opened, 
and she was in his arms, in those strong arms that 
could protect her from insult and tyranny and cruel 
wooing ; out in the night, on the road, in Rome, 
married, free and made blessed for ever. On a sudden 
the artificial imagery of her labouring brain fell away, 
and the thought crossed her mind that henceforth she 
must be an orphan. Her father would never speak to 
her again, nor ever own for his a daughter that had 
done such a deed. Like icy water poured upon a 
fevered body, the idea chilled her and woke her to 
reality. 
Did she love her father? She had loved him, 
yes, until she crossed his will. She loved him still, 
since she could be so horror-struck at the thought 
of incurring his lasting anger. Could she bear it ? 
Could she find in her lover all that she must re- 
 
nounce of a father's care and a father's affection, 
stern affection, that savoured of the despot, but 
could she hurt him so ? 
The image of her father seemed to take another 
shape, and gradually to assume the form and features of the one man of the world whom she hated, 
converting itself little by little into Benoiii. She hid 
her face in her hands, and terror staunched the tears 
that had flown afresh at the thought of orphanhood. 
A knock at the door. She hastily concealed the 
crumpled letter. 
" Come in ! " she answered boldly ; and her father, 
moving mechanically, with his stick in his hand, 
entered the room. He came as he had dismounted 
from his horse, in his riding boots, and his broad felt 
hat caught by the same fingers that held the stick. 
" You wished to see me, Hedwig," he said coldly, 
depositing his hat upon the table. Then, when he 
had slowly sat himself down in an armchair, he 
added, " Here I am." Hedwig had risen respectfully, and stood before him in the twilight. " What 
do you wish to say?" he asked in German. "You 
do not often honour your father by requesting his 
society." 
Hedwig stood one moment in silence. Her first 
impulse was to throw herself at his feet, and implore 
him to let her marry Nino. The thought swept away 
for the time the remembrance of Benoni and of what 
she had to tell. But a second sufficed to give her the 
mastery of her tongue and memory, which women 
seldom lose completely, even at the most desperate 
moments. 
 
" I desired to tell you," she said, " that Baron 
Benoni took advantage of your absence to-day to 
insult me beyond my endurance." She looked boldly 
into her father's eyes as she spoke. 
" Ah ! " said he, with great coolness. " Will you 
be good enough to light one of those candles on the 
table, and to close the window ? " 
Hedwig obeyed in silence, and once more planted 
