flectively. "Though there are far finer woods there 
than this. We have miles and miles of woods." 
"I might chop down trees," said Rowland. "That 
is, if you allow it." - 
"Allow it? Why, where should we get our fire- wood?" 
Then noticing that he had spoken jestingly she glanced 
at him askance, though with no visible diminution of 
her gravity. Don't you know how to do anything ? 
Have you no profession ?" 
Rowland shook his head. Absolutely none. " 
" What do you do all day ?" 
" Nothing worth relating. That 's why I am going to 
 
Europe. There at least if I do nothing I shall see a 
great deal ; and if I am not a producer I shall at any 
rate be an observer." 
"Can't we observe everywhere?" 
"Certainly; and I really think that in that way I 
make the most of my opportunities. Though I confess," 
he continued, that I often remember there are things to 
be seen here to which I probably have not done justice. 
I should like, for instance, to see West Nazareth. " 
She looked round at him, open-eyed ; not apparently 
that she exactly supposed he was jesting, for the expres 
sion of such a desire was not necessarily facetious ; but 
as if he must have spoken with an ulterior motive. In 
fact, he had spoken from the simplest of motives. The 
girl beside him pleased him immensely, and suspecting 
that her charm was essentially her own and not reflected 
from social circumstance, he wished to give himself the 
satisfaction of contrasting her with the meagre influences 
of her education. Miss Garland 's second movement was 
to take him at his word. " Since you are free to do as 
you please, why don't you go there?" 
" I am not free to do as I please now. I have offered 
your cousin to bear him company to Europe, he has 
accepted with enthusiasm, and I can't back out." 
" Are you going to Europe simply for his sake ?" 
Rowland hesitated for a moment. I think I may 
almost say so." 
Mary Garland walked along in silence. "Do you 
mean to do a great deal for him?" she asked at last. 
" What I can. But my power of helping him is very 
small beside his power of helping himself." 
For a moment she was silent again. " You are very 
generous," she said, almost solemnly. 
" No, I am simply very shrewd. Roderick will repay 
me. It 's a speculation. At first, I think," he added 
shortly afterwards, "you would not have paid me that 
little compliment. You didn't believe in me." 
 
She made no attempt to deny it. "I didn't see why 
you should wish to make Roderick discontented. I 
thought you were rather frivolous." 
" You did me injustice. I don't think I am that." 
" It was because you are unlike other men those at 
least whom I have seen." 
"In what way?" 
" Why, as you describe yourself. You have no duties, 
no profession, no home. You live for your pleasure." 
"That 's all very true. And yet I maintain I am not 
frivolous." 
" I hope not," said Maiy Garland, simply. They had 
reached a point where the wood -path forked and put 
forth two divergent tracks which lost themselves in a 
verdurous tangle. The young girl seemed to think that 
the difficulty of choice between them was a reason for 
giving them up and turning back. Rowland thought 
otherwise, and detected agreeable grounds for preference 
in the left-hand path. As a compromise, they sat down 
on a fallen log. Looking about him, Rowland espied a 
curious wild shrub, with a spotted crimson leaf ; he went 
and plucked a spray of it and brought it to his companion. 
He had never observed it before, but she immediately 
called it by its name. She expressed surprise at his not 
knowing it ; it was extremely common. He presently 
brought her a specimen of another delicate plant, with a 
little blue -streaked flower. " I suppose that 's common 
too," he said, "but I have never seen it or noticed it 
at least." She answered that this one was rare, and 
meditated a moment before she could remember its name. 
At last she recalled it, and expressed surprise at his having 
found the plant in the woods ; she supposed it grew only 
in the marshes. Rowland complimented her on her fund 
of useful information. 
" It 's not especially useful," she answered ; "but I like 
to know the names of plants as I do those of my acquaint 
ances. When we walk in the woods at home which 
 
we do so much it seems as unnatural not to know 
what to call the flowers as it would be to see some one 
in the town with whom we should not be on speaking 
terms." 
"Apropos of frivolit) ," Rowland said, "I am sure 
you yourself have very little of it, unless at West Naza 
reth it is considered frivolous to walk in the woods and 
nod to the nodding flowers. Do kindly tell me a little 
about yourself." And to compel her to begin, " I know 
you come of a race of theologians," he went on. 
" No," she replied, deliberating ; " they are not theo 
logians, though they are ministers. We don't take a 
very firm stand upon doctrine ; we are practical rather. 
We write sermons and preach them, but we do a great 
deal of hard work besides." 
"And of this hard work what has your share been ?" 
"The hardest part doing nothing." 
"What do you call nothing?" 
" I taught some small children their lessons once ; I 
must make the most of that. But I confess I didn't like 
it. Otherwise, I have only done little things at home, 
as they turned up." 
"What kind of things?" 
" Oh, every kind. If you had seen my home you 
would understand." 
Rowland would have liked to make her specify ; but 
he felt a sort of luxurious pleasure in being discreet. 
"To be happy, I imagine," he contented himself with 
saying, "you need to be occupied. You need to have 
something to expend yourself upon." 
"That is not so true as it once was ; now that I am 
older I am sure I am less impatient of leisure. Certainly 
these two months that I have been with Mrs. Hudson I 
have had a terrible amount of it. And yet I have liked 
it ! And now that I am probably to be with her all the 
while that her son is away, I look forward to more with 
dreadful resignation. " 
 
"It is settled, then, that you are to remain with your 
cousin ?" 
" It depends upon their writing from home that I may 
stay. But that is probable. Only I must not forget," 
she said, rising, " that the ground for my doing so is that 
she shall not be left alone." 
" I am glad to know that I shall probably often hear 
about you. I assure you I shall often think about you ! " 
These words of Rowland 's were half impulsive, half 
deliberate. They were the simple truth, and he had 
asked himself why he should not tell her the truth. And 
yet they were not all of it ; her hearing the rest would 
depend upon the way she received this. She received 
it not only, as Rowland foresaw, without a shadow of 
coquetry, of any apparent thought of listening to it grace 
fully, but with a slight movement of nervous deprecation 
which seemed to betray itself in the quickening of her 
step. Evidently, if Rowland was to take pleasure in 
hearing about her, it would have to be a highly disin 
terested pleasure. She answered nothing, and Rowland 
too, as he walked beside her, was silent ; but as he 
looked along the shadow-woven wood-path what he was 
really facing was a level three years of disinterested 
ness. He ushered them in by talking composed civility 
until he had brought Miss Garland back to her com 
panions. 
He saw her but once again. He was obliged to be 
in New York a couple of days before sailing, and it was 
arranged that Roderick should overtake him at the last 
moment. The evening before he left Northampton he 
went to say farewell to Mrs. Hudson. The ceremony 
was brief. Rowland soon perceived that the poor little 
lady was in the melting mood, and, as he dreaded her 
tears, he compressed a multitude of solemn promises 
into a silent hand -shake, and took his leave. Mary 
Garland, she had told him, was in the back garden 
with Roderick ; he might go out to them. He did so, 
 
and as he drew near he heard Roderick 's high-pitched 
voice ringing behind the shrubbery. In a moment, 
emerging, he found the girl leaning against a tree, with 
her cousin before her talking with great emphasis. He 
asked pardon for interrupting them, and said he wished 
only to bid her good-bye. She gave him her hand, and 
he held it an instant, saying nothing. "Don't forget," 
he said to Roderick, as he turned away. "And don t, 
in this company, repent of your bargain." 
" I shall not let him," said Mary Garland, with some 
thing very like gaiety. " I shall see that he is punctual. 
He must go ! I owe you an apology for having doubted 
that he ought to go !" And, in spite of the dusk, Row 
land could see that she had even a sweeter smile than 
he had supposed. 
Roderick was punctual, eagerly punctual, and they 
went. Rowland for several days was occupied with 
material cares, and lost sight of his sentimental per 
plexities. But they only slumbered, and they were 
sharply awakened. The weather was fine, and the two 
young men always sat together upon deck late into the 
evening. One night, towards the last, they were at the 
stern of the great ship, watching her grind the solid 
blackness of the ocean into phosphorescent foam. They 
talked on these occasions of everything conceivable, and 
had the air of having no secrets from each other. But 
it was on Roderick 's conscience that this air belied him, 
and he was too frank by nature, moreover, for permanent 
reticence on any point. 
"I must tell you something," he said at last. "I 
should like you to know it, and you will be so glad to 
know it. Besides, it 's only a question of time ; three 
months hence probably you would have guessed it. I 
am engaged to Mary Garland." 
Rowland sat staring ; though the sea was calm it 
seemed to him that the ship gave a great dizzying lurch. 
But in a moment he contrived to answer coherently 
 
" Engaged to Mary Garland ! I never supposed I 
never imagined " 
" That I was in love with her ?" Roderick interrupted. 
" Neither did I until this last fortnight. But you came 
and put me into such ridiculous good humour that I felt 
an extraordinary desire to tell some woman that I adored 
her. Mary Garland is a magnificent girl ; you know 
her too little to do her justice. I have been quietly 
learning to know her these past three months, and have 
been falling in love with her without suspecting it. It 
appeared when I spoke to her that she thought me a 
charming fellow ! So the thing was settled. I must, of 
course, make some money before we can marry. It 's rather 
awkward, certainly, to engage one 's self to a girl whom 
one is going to leave for years the next day. We shall 
be condemned for some time to come to do a terrible 
deal of abstract thinking about each other. But I 
wanted her blessing, and I couldn't help asking for it. 
Unless a man is unnaturally selfish he needs to work for 
some one else than himself, and I am sure I shall run a 
smoother and swifter course for knowing that that capital 
creature is waiting at Northampton for news of my great 
ness. If ever I am a dull companion, and over-addicted 
to moping, remember in justice to me that I am in 
love, and that my sweetheart is five thousand miles 
away. " 
Rowland listened to all this with a feeling that fortune 
had played him an elaborately - devised trick. It had 
lured him out into mid-ocean, and smoothed the sea 
and stilled the winds and given him a singularly-sym 
pathetic comrade, and then it had turned and delivered 
him a thumping blow in mid-chest. "Yes," he said, 
after an attempt at the usual formal congratulation, 
"you certainly ought to do better with Miss Garland 
waiting for you at Northampton !" 
Roderick, now that he had broken ground, was elo 
quent, and rung a hundred changes on the assurance 
  
that he was a veiy happy man. Then at last, suddenly, 
his climax was a yawn, and he declared that he must go 
to bed. Rowland let him go alone, and sat there late 
between sea and sky. 
V. 
ONE warm, still day, late in the Roman autumn, our 
two young men were sitting beneath one of the high- 
stemmed pines of the Villa Ludovisi. They had been 
spending an hour in the mouldy little garden-house 
where the colossal mask of the famous Juno looks out 
with blank eyes from that dusky corner which must seem 
to her the last possible stage of a lapse from Olympus. 
Then they had wandered out into the gardens, and were 
lounging away the morning under the spell of their 
magical picturesqueness. Roderick declared that he 
would go nowhere else ; that after the Juno it was a 
profanation to look at anything but sky and trees. 
There was a fresco of Guercino, to which Rowland, 
though he had seen it on his former visit to Rome, went 
dutifully to pay his respects. But Roderick, though he 
had never seen it, declared that it couldn't be worth a 
fig, and that he didn't care to look at ugly things. He 
remained stretched on his overcoat, which he had spread 
on the grass, while Rowland went off envying the intel 
lectual comfort of genius, which can arrive at serene 
conclusions without disagreeable processes. When the 
latter came back, his friend was sitting with his elbows 
on his knees and his head in his hands. Rowland, in 
the geniality of a mood attuned to the mellow charm of 
a Roman villa, found a good word to say for the Guercino ; 
but he chiefly talked of the view from the little belvedere 
on the roof of the casino, and how it looked like the 
prospect from a castle turret in a fairy tale. 
 
" Very likely," said Roderick, throwing himself back 
with a yawn. " But I must let it pass. I have seen 
enough for the present ; I have reached the top of the hill. 
I have an indigestion of impressions ; I must work them 
off before I go in for any more. I don't want to look at 
any more of other people 's works for a month not even 
at Nature 's own. I want to look at Roderick Hudson 's ! 
The result of it all is that I am not afraid. I can but try, 
as well as the rest of them ! The fellow who did that 
gazing goddess yonder only made an experiment. The 
other day, when I was looking at Michael Angelo 's Moses, 
I was seized with a kind of defiance a reaction against 
all this mere passive enjoyment of grandeur. It was a 
rousing great success, certainly, that sat there before me, 
but somehow it was not an inscrutable mystery, and it 
seemed to me, not perhaps that I should some day do as 
well, but that at least I might ! " 
"As you say, you can but try," said Rowland. 
" Success is only passionate, effort." 
" Well, the passion is blazing; we have been piling on 
fuel handsomely. It came over me just now that it is 
exactly three months to a day since I left Northampton. 
I can't believe it ! " 
"It certainly seems more." 
"It seems like ten years. What an exquisite ass I 
was !" 
" Do you feel so wise now?" 
" Verily ! Don't I look so? Surely I haven't the same 
face. Haven't I a different eye, a different expression, 
a different voice?" 
" I can hardly say, because I have watched the trans 
formation. But it 's very likely. You are, in the literal 
sense of the word, more civilised. I daresay," added 
Rowland, "that Miss Garland would think so." 
" That 's not what she would call it ; she would say I 
am corrupted." 
Rowland asked few questions about Mary Garland, but 
 
he always listened narrowly to his companion 's voluntary 
observations. " Are you very sure ?" he replied. 
" Why, she 's a stern moralist, and she would infer from 
my appearance that I had become a gilded profligate." 
Roderick had in fact a Venetian watch-chain round his 
neck and a magnificent Roman intaglio on the third 
finger of his left hand. 
"Shall you think I take a liberty," asked Rowland, 
" if I say you judge her superficially ?" 
" For heaven 's sake," cried Roderick laughing, " don't 
tell me she 's not a moralist ! It was for that I fell in 
love with her and with rigid virtue in her person." 
" She is a moralist, but not, as you imply, a narrow one. 
That 's more than a difference in degree ; it 's a difference 
in kind. I don't know whether I ever mentioned it, but 
I have a great notion of Miss Garland. There is nothing 
narrow about her but her experience ; everything else is 
large. My impression of her is that she is very intelligent, 
but that she has never had a chance to prove it. Some 
day or other I am sure she will judge fairly and wisely 
of everything. " 
"Stay a bit !" cried Roderick; "you are a better 
Catholic than the Pope. I shall be content if she judges 
fairly of me of my merits, that is. The rest she must 
not judge at all. She 's a grimly devoted little creature ; 
may she always remain so ! Changed as I am, I adore 
her none the less. What becomes of all our emotions, 
our impressions," he went on after a long pause, "all the 
material of thought that life pours into us at such a rate 
during such a memorable three months as these? There 
are twenty moments a week a day, for that matter, some 
days that seem supreme, twenty impressions that seem 
ultimate, that appear to form an intellectual era. But 
others come treading on their heels and sweeping them 
along, and they all melt like water into water and settle 
the question of precedence among themselves. The 
curious thing is that the more the mind takes in, the 
more it has space for, and that all one 's ideas are like the 
Irish people at home who live in the different corners of 
a room and take boarders." 
" I fancy it is our peculiar good luck that we don't see 
the limits of our minds," said Rowland. " We are 
young, compared with what we may one day be. That 
belongs to youth ; it is perhaps the best part of it. They 
say that old people do find themselves at last face to face 
with a solid blank wall and stand thumping against it in 
vain. It resounds, it seems to have something beyond 
it, but it won't move ! That 's only a reason for living 
with open doors as long as we can ! " 
" Open doors?" murmured Roderick. "Yes, let us 
close no doors that open upon Rome. For this, for the 
mind, is eternal warm weather ! But though my doors 
may stand open to-day," he presently added, "I shall see 
no visitors. I want to pause and breathe ; I want to 
dream of a statue. I have been working hard for three 
months ; I have earned a right to a reverie." 
Rowland, on his side, was not without provision for 
reflection, and they lingered on in gentle desultory gossip. 
Rowland felt the need for intellectual rest, for a truce to 
present care for churches, statues, and pictures, on even 
better grounds than his companion, inasmuch as he had 
really been living Roderick 's intellectual life the past three 
months as well as his own. As he looked back on these 
animated weeks he drew a long breath of satisfaction 
almost of relief. Roderick so far had justified his con 
fidence and flattered his perspicacity ; he was giving a 
splendid account of himself. He was changed even 
more than he himself suspected ; he had stepped without 
faltering into his birthright, and was spending money, 
intellectually, as lavishly as a young heir who has just 
won an obstructive lawsuit. Roderick 's glance and voice 
were the same, doubtless, as when they enlivened the 
summer dusk on Cecilia 's verandah, but in his person 
generally there was an indefinable expression of experience 
 
rapidly and easily assimilated. Rowland had been struck 
at the outset with the instinctive quickness of his obser 
vation and his free appropriation of whatever might serve 
his purpose. He had not been, for instance, half an hour 
on English soil before he perceived that he was dressed 
provincially, and he had immediately reformed his toilet 
with the most unerring tact. His appetite for novelty 
was insatiable, and for everything characteristically foreign, 
as it presented itself, he had an extravagant greeting ; but 
in half an hour the novelty had faded, he had guessed the 
secret, he had plucked out the heart of the mystery and 
was clamouring for a keener sensation. At the end of a 
month he presented a puzzling spectacle to his companion. 
He had caught instinctively the keynote of the Old World. 
He observed and enjoyed, he criticised and rhapsodised, 
but though all things interested him and many delighted 
him, none surprised him ; he invented short cuts and anti 
cipated the unexpected. Witnessing the rate at which 
he did intellectual execution on the general spectacle of 
European life, Rowland at moments felt vaguely uneasy 
for the future ; the boy was living too fast, he would have 
said, and giving alarming pledges to ennui in his later 
years. But we must live as our pulses are timed, and 
Roderick 's struck the hour very often. He was by ima 
gination, though he never became in manner, a natui al 
man of the world ; he had intuitively, as an artist, what 
one may call the historic consciousness. He asked Row 
land questions which this halting dilettante was quite un 
able to answer, and of which he was equally unable to 
conceive where he had picked up the data. Roderick 
ended by answering them himself, tolerably to his satisfac 
tion, and in a short time he had almost turned the tables, 
and become in their walks and talks the accredited foun 
tain of criticism. Rowland took a generous pleasure in. 
his companion 's confident coup'd ceil ; Roderick was so 
much younger than he himself had ever been ! Surely ]; 
youth and genius hand in hand were the most beautiful 
sight in the world. Roderick added to this the charm of 
his more immediately personal qualities. The vivacity of 
his perceptions, the audacity of his imagination, the pic- 
turesqueness of his phrase when he was pleased and even 
more when he was displeased his abounding good - 
humour, his candour, his unclouded frankness, his unfail 
ing impulse to share every emotion and impression with 
his friend ; all this made comradeship a high felicity, and 
interfused with a deeper amenity the wanderings and con 
templations that beguiled their pilgrimage to Rome. 
They had gone almost immediately to Paris, and had 
spent their days at the Louvre and their evenings at the 
theatre. Roderick was divided in mind as to whether 
Titian or Mademoiselle Delaporte were the greater artist. 
They had come down through France to Genoa and 
Milan, had spent a fortnight in Venice and another in 
Florence, and had now been a month in Rome. Roderick 
had said that he meant to spend three months in simply 
looking, absorbing, and reflecting, without putting pencil 
to paper. He looked indefatigably, and certainly saw 
great things things greater doubtless at times than the 
intention of the artist. And yet he made few false steps, 
and wasted little time in theories of what he ought to like 
and to dislike. He judged instinctively and passionately, 
but never vulgarly. At Venice for a couple of days he 
had half a fit of melancholy over the pretended discovery 
that he had missed his way, and that the only proper 
vestment of plastic conceptions was the colouring of 
Titian and Paul Veronese. Then one morning the two 
young men had themselves rowed out to Torcello, and 
Roderick lay back for a couple of hours watching a 
brown-breasted gondolier making superb muscular move 
ments, in high relief, against the sky of the Adriatic, and &lt; 
at the end jerked himself up with a violence that nearly ] 
swamped the gondola, and declared that the only thing 
worth living for was to make a colossal bronze and set 
it aloft in the light of a public square. In Rome his first 
 
care was for the Vatican ; he went there again and again. 
But the old imperial and papal city altogether delighted 
him ; only there he really found what he had been look 
ing for from the first the complete contradiction of 
Northampton. And indeed Rome is the natural home 
of those spirits with which we just now claimed fellow 
ship for Roderick the spirits with a deep relish for the 
artificial element in life and the infinite superpositions of 
history. It is the immemorial city of convention ; and 
in that still recent day the most impressive convention in 
all history was visible to men 's eyes in the reverberating 
streets, erect in a gilded coach drawn by four black horses. 
Roderick 's first fortnight was a high aesthetic revel. He 
declared that Rome made him feel and understand more 
things than he cculd express ; he was sure that life must 
have there for all one 's senses an incomparable fineness ; 
that more interesting things must happen to one there 
than anywhere else. And he gave Rowland to under 
stand that he meant to live freely and largely and be as 
interested as occasion demanded. Rowland saw no 
reason to regard this as a menace of grossness, because 
in the first place there was in all dissipation, refine it as 
one might, a vulgarity which would disqualify it for 
Roderick 's favour ; and because in the second the young 
sculptor was a man to regard all things in the light of his 
art, to hand over his passions to his genius to be dealt 
with, and to find that he could live largely enough with 
out exceeding the circle of pure delights. Rowland took 
immense satisfaction in his companion 's lively desire to 
transmute all his impressions into production. Produc 
tion indeed was not always working at a clay model, but 
the form it sometimes took was none the less a safe one. 
He wrote frequent long letters to Mary Garland ; when 
Rowland went with him to post them he thought wistfully 
of the fortune of the large loosely-written missives, which 
cost Roderick unconscionable sums in postage. He re 
ceived punctual answers of a more frugal shape, written in 
