Floyd was sent to college, but the idea of the castle grew in Aunt
Marcia's brain. Towns and villages were spreading up the river, and one
day she was offered what seemed a fabulous sum for her old home of
rocky woodlands. She was still shrewd, if she had come to fourscore,
and offered them half, on her own terms, holding off with the most
provoking indifference until they came to an agreement. Then she
announced her intention of building a home for Floyd, who was to be her
heir.

"The property ought to be yours, James," Mrs. Grandon said, with some
bitterness. "Why should she set Floyd above all the rest?"

"My dear,--as if it really made any difference!"

But the mother did look on with a rather jealous eye. Floyd came home,
and they discussed plans, viewed every foot of soil, selected the
finest spot, had the different kinds of rock examined, and finally
discovered the right place for a quarry. There was so much preliminary
work that they did not really commence until the ensuing spring, and
the foundation only had been laid when Floyd's vacation came around
again. Meanwhile, houses below them seemed to spring up as if by magic.
The mystery and fame of the "castle" helped. No one knew quite what it
was going to be, and the strange old lady intensified the whole.

There was no special haste about it, though Floyd was so interested
that he had half a mind to throw up his last year at college, but Aunt
Marcia would not agree, and he graduated with honors. Meanwhile the
house progressed, and if it did not quite reach the majesty of a
castle, it was a very fine, substantial building. Floyd threw himself
into the project now with all his energy. They would be quite detached
from their neighbors by the little grove Aunt Marcia had left standing.
There were walks and drives to build, lawns to lay out, new gardens to
plan, but before it was all completed Aunt Marcia, who had been a
little ailing for several weeks, dropped suddenly out of life, fondly
loved and deeply regretted by her grand-nephew.

Her will showed that she had planned not to have her name perish with
her. The house and several acres of ground were to constitute the
Grandon estate proper. This was to be used by Floyd during his life and
then to descend to his eldest son living. If he left no sons, and
Eugene should have a male descendant, he was to be the heir. If neither
had sons, it was to go in the female line, provided such heir took the
name of Grandon. The rest of the property was left unconditionally to
Floyd, with the exception of one thousand dollars apiece to the
children.

Floyd was at this period two-and-twenty, a rather grave and reserved
young man, with no special predilection for society. And yet, to the
great surprise of his mother, Irene Stanwood captured him and rather
cruelly flaunted her victory in the faces of all the Grandons. Yet
there really could be no objection. She was a handsome, well-educated
girl, with some fortune of her own and a considerable to come from her
mother.

Mrs. Stanwood and her daughter went abroad, where Floyd was to meet
them presently, when whatever they needed for foreign adornment of
their house would be selected. They heard of Miss Stanwood being a
great success at Paris, her beauty and breeding gaining her much favor.
And then, barely six months later, an elegant Parisian count presented
a temptation too great to be resisted. Miss Stanwood threw over Floyd
Grandon and became Madame la Comtesse.

Essentially honest and true himself, this was a great shock to Floyd
Grandon, but he learned afterward that principle and trust had been
more severely wounded than love. His regard had been a young man's
preference rather than any actual need of loving. Indeed, he was rather
shocked to think how soon he did get over the real pain, and how fast
his views of life changed.

Meanwhile Gertrude lived out a brief romance. A fascinating lover of
good family and standing, a little gay and extravagant, perhaps, but
the kind to win a girl's whole soul, and Gertrude gave him every
thought. While the wedding day was being considered, a misdeed of such
magnitude came to light that the young man was despatched to China with
all possible haste to avoid a worse alternative, and Gertrude was left
heart-broken. Then Marcia, young and giddy, half compromised herself
with an utterly unworthy admirer, and Mrs. Grandon's cup of bitterness
was full to overflowing.

Floyd leased his quarry on advantageous terms, and offered to take his
mother and two sisters abroad. This certainly was some compensation.
Marcia soon forgot her griefs, and even Gertrude was roused to
interest. At some German baths the ladies met Madame la Comtesse, and
were indebted to her for an act of friendliness. At Paris they met her
again, and here Floyd had occasion to ask himself with a little caustic
satire if he had really loved her? She had grown handsomer, she was
proud of her rank and station and the homage laid at her feet.

The Grandons returned home and took possession of Floyd's house. He
went on to Egypt, the Holy Land, and India. He was beginning to take
the true measure of his manhood, his needs and aims, to meet and mingle
with people who could stir what was best in him, and rouse him to the
serious purposes of life, when another incident occurred that might
have made sad havoc with his plans.

While at an English army station he met a very charming widow, with a
young step-daughter, who was shortly to return to England. Cecil
Trafford admired him with a girl's unreason, and at last committed such
an imprudence that the astute step-mother, seeing her opportunity,
proposed the only reparation possible,--marriage. Cecil was a bright,
pretty, wilful girl, and he liked her, yet he had a strong feeling of
being outgeneralled.

That she loved him he could not doubt, and they were married, as he
intended to return to England. But her fondness was that of a child,
and sometimes grew very wearisome. She was petulant, but not
ill-tempered; the thing she cried for to-day she forgot to-morrow.

She had one sister much older than herself, married to a clergyman and
settled in Devonshire. Floyd sought them out, and found them a most
charming household. Mr. Garth was a strongly intellectual man, and his
house was a centre for the most entertaining discussions. Mrs. Garth
had a decided gift for music, and was a well-balanced, cultivated
woman. They lingered month after month, gravitating between London and
the Garths', until Cecil's child was born. A few weeks later Cecil's
imprudence cost her life. Floyd Grandon came down from London to find
the eager, restless little thing still and calm as any sculptured
marble. He was so glad then that he had been indulgent to her whims and
caprices.

He was quite at liberty now to join an expedition to Africa that he had
heroically resisted before. Mrs. Garth kept the child. Announcing his
new plans to his mother, he set off, and for the next four years
devoted himself to the joys and hardships of a student traveller.

He was deep in researches of the mysterious lore of Egypt when a letter
that had gone sadly astray reached him, announcing his father's death
and the necessity of his return home. Leaving a friend to complete one
or two unfinished points, he reluctantly tore himself away, and yet
with a pang that after all it was too late to be of any real service to
his father, that he could never comfort his declining years as he had
Aunt Marcia's.

He had some business in Paris, and crossing the channel he met Madame
Lepelletier. She was a widow and childless. The title and estate had
gone to a younger son, though she had a fair provision. She had
received the announcement of Mr. Grandon's death and the notice of
settlement, and was on her way to America. A superbly handsome woman
now, but Grandon had seen many another among charming society women. He
was not in any sense a lady's man. His little taste of matrimony had
left a bitter flavor in his mouth.

She admitted to herself that he was very distinguished looking. The
slender fairness of youth was all outgrown. Compact, firm, supple, with
about the right proportion of flesh, bronzed, with hair and beard
darker than of yore, and that decisive aspect a man comes to have who
learns by experience to rely upon his own judgment.

"I am on my way thither," he announced, in a crisp, business-like
manner. "It is high time I returned home, though a man with no ties
could spend his life amid the curiosities of the ancient civilizations.
But my mother needs me, and I have a little girl in England."

"Ah?" with a faint lifting of the brows that indicated curiosity.

"I was married in India, but my wife died in England, where our child
was born," he said briefly, not much given to mysteries. "An aunt has
been keeping her. She must be about five," he adds more slowly.

Madame Lepelletier wondered a little about the marriage. Had the grief
at his wife's death plunged him into African wilds?

They spent two or three days in London, and she decided to wait for the
next steamer and go over with him, as he frankly admitted that he knew
nothing about children, except as he had seen them run wild. So he
despatched a letter home, recounting the chance meeting and announcing
their return, little dreaming of the suspicions it might create.

Floyd Grandon found a lovely fairy awaiting him in the old Devonshire
rectory. Tall for her age, exquisitely trained, possessing something
better than her mother's infantile prettiness. Eyes of so dark a gray
that in some lights they were black, and hair of a soft ripe-wheat
tint, fine and abundant. But the soul and spirit in her face drew him
toward her more than the personal loveliness. She was extremely shy at
first, though she had been taught to expect papa, but the strangeness
wore off presently.

They were very loth to give her up, and Mrs. Garth exacted a promise
that in her girlhood she might have her again. But when they were
fairly started on their journey Cecil was for a while inconsolable.
Grandon was puzzled. She seemed such a strange, sudden gift that he
knew not what to do. At Liverpool they met Madame Lepelletier, but all
her tenderness was of no avail. Cecil did not cry now, but utterly
refused to be comforted by this stranger.

It was to her father that she turned at last. That night she crept into
his arms of her own accord, and sobbed softly on his shoulder.

"Can I never have Auntie Dora again?" she asked, pitifully.

"My little darling, in a long, long while. But there will be new
aunties and a grandmamma."

"I don't want any one but just you." And she kissed him with a
trembling eagerness that touched his heart. Suddenly a new and
exquisite emotion thrilled him. This little morsel of humanity was all
his. She had nothing in the world nearer, and there was no other soul
to which he could lay entire claim.

After that she was a curious study to him. Gentle, yet in some respects
firm to obstinacy, with a dainty exclusiveness that was extremely
flattering, and that somehow he came to like, to enjoy with a certain
pride.

As for Madame Lepelletier, she was rather amused at first to have her
advances persistently repelled, her tempting bonbons refused, and
though she was not extravagantly fond of children, she resolved to
conquer this one's diffidence or prejudice, she could not quite decide
which.

One day, nearly at the close of their journey, she teased Cecil by her
persistence until the child answered with some anger.

"Cecil!" exclaimed Mr. Grandon, quickly.

The pretty child hung her head.

"Go and kiss Madame Lepelletier and say you are sorry. Do you know that
was very rude?" said her father.

"I don't want to be kissed. I told her so," persisted the child,
resolutely.

"It is such a trifle," interposed madame, with a charming smile. "And I
am not sure but we ought to train little girls to be chary of their
kisses. There! I will not see her teased." And the lady, rising, walked
slowly away.

"Cecil!" the tone was quietly grave now.

The large eyes filled with tears, but she made no motion to relent.

"Very well," he said. "I shall not kiss my little girl until she has
acted like a lady."

Cecil turned to Jane with a swelling heart. But an hour or two
afterward the cunning little thing climbed her father's knee, patted
his cheek with her soft fingers, parted the brown mustache, and pressed
her sweet red lips to his with arch temptation.

He drew back a trifle. "Do you remember what papa said, Cecil? Will you
go and kiss madame?"

The lip quivered. There was a long, swelling breath, and the lashes
drooped over the slightly flushed cheeks.

"Papa doesn't love me!" she uttered, like a plaint. "He wouldn't want
to give away my kisses if he did."

He took the little face in his hands, and said with a traitorous
tenderness, "My little darling, I do hate to lose any of your kisses.
You see you are punishing me, too, by your refusal. I think you ought
to do what is right and what papa bids you."

"But I can't love to kiss her." And there was a great struggle in the
little soul.

"But you can be sorry that you were rude."

The entreaty in the eyes almost melted him, but he said no more. She
slipped down very reluctantly, and went across to where madame was
playing chess.

"I am sorry I was rude," she said slowly. "I will kiss you now."

"You are a darling!" But for all that Madame Lepelletier longed to
shake her.

Her father received her with open arms and rapturous caresses. She gave
a little sob.

"You won't ask me again!" she cried. "I don't want anybody but just
you, now that Auntie Dora is away."

"And I want you to love me best of all. Heaven knows, my darling, how
dear you are!"

He spoke the truth. In this brief while he had grown to love her
devotedly.

Madame Lepelletier was very sweet, but she did not consider it wise to
rouse the child's opposition, since no one else could beguile favors
from her.

Before they reached New York she had allowed herself to be persuaded to
go at once to Grandon Park, and Floyd telegraphed, a little
ambiguously, used as he was to brief announcements. Madame Lepelletier
had made a half-resolve, piqued by his friendly indifference, that he
should own her charm. She would establish a footing in the family.

And now, in the quiet of the guest-chamber, where everything is more
luxurious than she has imagined, she resolves that she will win Floyd
Grandon back. She will make the mother and sisters adore her. She has
not been schooled in a French world for nothing, and yet it was not a
very satisfactory world. She will have more real happiness here; and
she sighs softly as she composes herself to sleep.

Floyd Grandon kisses his darling for the last time, then shutting his
door, sits down by the window and lights a cigar. He does not want to
sleep. Never in his life has he felt so like a prince. He has this
lovely house, and his child to watch and train, and, mayhap, some
little fame to win. He makes no moan for the dead young mother in her
grave, for he understands her too truly to desire her back, with all
her weakness and frivolity. He cannot invest her with attributes that
she never possessed, but he can remember her in the child, who shall be
true and noble and high of soul. They two, always.

Laura has fallen asleep over visions of bridal satin and lace that are
sure now to come true, but Gertrude tosses restlessly and sighs for her
lost youth. Twenty-nine seems fearfully old to-night, for the next will
be thirty. She does not care for marriage now; but she has an impending
dread of something,--it may be a contrast with that beautiful, blooming
woman.

"For I know she will try to get Floyd," she says, with a bitter sigh.

This fear haunts the mother's pillow as well. Many aims and hopes of
her life have failed. She loves her younger son with a tender fervor,
but she does not desire to have the elder wrested out of her hands, and
become a guest in the home where she has reigned mistress.

Truly they are not all beds of roses.




CHAPTER III.

"Let the world roll blindly on,
Give me shadow, give me sun,
  And a perfumed day as this is."


It is hardly dawn as yet, and the song of countless robins wakes Floyd
Grandon. How they fling their notes back at one another, with a merry
audacity that makes him smile! Then a strange voice, a burst of higher
melody, a warble nearer, farther, fainter, a "sweet jargoning" among
them all, that lifts his soul in unconscious praise. At first there is
a glimmer of mystery, then he remembers,--it is his boyhood's home.
There were just such songs in Aunt Marcia's time, when he slept up
under the eaves of the steeply peaked roof.

The dawn flutters out, faint opal and gray, then rose and yellow, blue
and a sort of silvery haze. It does not burst into sudden glory, but
dallies in translucent seas, changing, fading, growing brighter, and
lo, the world is burnished with a faint, tender gold. The air is sweet
with dewy grasses, the spice of pines, rose, and honeysuckle, and the
scent of clover-blooms, that hint of midsummer. There is the river,
with its picturesque shores, and purple blue peaks opposite; down
below, almost hidden by the grove, the cluster of homes, in every
variety of beauty, that are considered the par excellence of Grandon
Park. Mrs. Grandon would fain destroy the grove, since she loves to be
seen of her neighbors; but Floyd always forbade it, and his father
would not consent, so it still stands, to his delight.

"If this is the home feeling, so eloquently discoursed upon, it has not
been overrated," he says softly to himself. "Home," with a lingering
inflection.

"Papa! papa!" The fleet bare feet reach him almost as soon as the
ringing voice. "I was afraid you were not here. Is this truly home?"

"Truly home, my darling."

He lifts her in his arms, still in her dainty nightdress, and kisses
the scarlet lips, that laugh now for very gladness.

"Can I stay with you always?"

"Why, yes," in half surprise. "You are the nearest and dearest thing in
all the world." Yes, he is quite sure now that he would rather part
with everything than this baby girl he has known only such a little
while.

Then he stands her on the floor. "Run to Jane and get dressed, and we
will go out on the lawn and see the birds and flowers."

While she is engaged, he gives a brush to his flowing beard and
slightly waving hair that is of a rather light brown, and puts on a
summer coat. A fine-looking man, certainly, with a rather long, oval
face, clearly defined brows, and sharply cut nose and mouth; with a
somewhat imperious expression that gives it character. The eyes are a
deep, soft brown, with curious lights rippling through them like the
tints of an agate. Generally they are tranquil to coldness, so far as
mere emotion is concerned, but many things kindle them into interest,
and occasionally to indignation. Health and a peculiar energy are in
every limb, the energy that sets itself to conquer and is never lost in
mere strife or bustle.

"Papa!"

"Yes, dear."

"You will wait for me?" entreatingly.

He comes to the door with a smile. Jane is brushing the fair, shining
hair that is like a sea of ripples, and Cecil stretches out her hand
with pretty eagerness, as if she shall lose him, after all.

"Suppose I tie it so, and curl it after breakfast," proposes Jane.
"Miss Cecil is so impatient."

"Yes, that will do." It is beautiful, any way, he thinks. Then she
dances around on one foot until her dress is put on, when she gives a
glad bound.

"But your pinafore! American children do wear them," says Jane, in a
rather uncertain tone.

"I am a little English girl," is the firm rejoinder.

"Then of course you must," responds papa.

"And your hat! The sun is shining."

Cecil gives a glad spring then, and almost drags her father down the
wide stairs. A young colored lad is brushing off the porch, but the two
go down on the path that is speckless and as hard as a floor. The lawn
slopes slowly toward the river, broken by a few clumps of shrubbery, a
summer-house covered with vines, and another resembling a pagoda, with
a great copper beech beside it. There are some winding paths, and it
all ends with a stone wall, as the shore is very irregular. There is a
boat-house, and a strip of gravelly beach, now that the tide is out.

Grandon turns and looks toward the house. Yes, it is handsome, grand.
Youth and age together did not make any blunder of it. There is the
tower, that was to be his study and library and place of resort
generally. What crude dreams he had in those days! Science and poesy,
art and history, were all a sad jumble in his brain, and now he has
found his life-work. He hopes that he may make the world a little
wiser, raise some few souls up to the heights he has found so
delightful.

Cecil dances about like a fairy. She is at home amid green fields once
more, for the ocean was to her a dreary desert, and the many strange
faces made her uncomfortable. She is oddly exclusive and delicate, even
chary about herself, but alone with her father she is all childish
abandon.

There is a stir about the house presently, and Grandon begins to
retrace his steps.

"Don't go," entreats Cecil.

"My dear, we must have breakfast. Grandmamma and the aunties will be
waiting."

"Are they going to live there always!" with an indication of the fair
head.

"Yes, some of them."

"And are we going to live there for ever and ever?"

He laughs gayly.

"I hope we will live there to a good old age."

"And madame--must she stay there, too?"

"Madame will stay for a little while. And Cecil must be kind and
pleasant----"

"I can't like her!" interrupts the child, petulantly.

He studies her with some curiosity. Why should the gracious, beautiful
woman be distasteful to her?

"I don't really suppose she will care much," he replies, in a rather
teasing spirit.

"But if she doesn't, why should she want me to kiss her?"

"I do not believe she will ask you again. You must not be rude to any
one. And you must kiss grandmamma or the aunties if they ask you."

Cecil sets her lips firmly, but makes no reply. Grandon wonders
suddenly what charm Aunt Dora possessed, and how people, fathers and
mothers, govern children! It is a rather perplexing problem if they
turn naughty.

They walk back to the great porch, where Mrs. Grandon comes out and
wishes her son a really fond good morning. Cecil submits quietly to a
caress with most unchildlike gravity. Marcia comes flying along; she is
always flying or rustling about, with streamers somewhere, and a very
young-girlish air that looks like affectation at twenty-seven, but she
will do the same at forty-seven. She is barely medium height, fair,
with light hair, which by persistent application she makes almost
golden. It is thin and short, and floats about her head in artistic
confusion. Her eyes are a rather pale blue-gray, and near-sighted, her
features small, her voice has still the untrained, childish sound of
extreme youth. She is effusive and full of enthusiasms, rather
unbalanced, Floyd decides in a day or two.

"Good morning!" exclaims the bright voice of Eugene. "Upon my word, you
make quite an imposing paterfamilias, and Cecil, I dare say, has
found the weak place and tyrannizes over you. Come to me, little lady,"
pinching her lovely pink cheek.

But Cecil almost hides behind her father, and is proof against the
