face was malicious now. 
" I want you for my true wife," said Oswald, fervent- 
ly. " I thought you loved me enough to brave the 
world for me." 
" Yes, so I do, but first you must do something for 
me. Take me to your house to-night and introduce me 
to her." 
" Have you quite lost your wits ? Come away ! let 
me get you home ! " cried Oswald, aghast. 
" I dare say my wits are gone," she said, with the same 
composure. " But you must do it, or I swear I never 
will speak to you again. What harm can it do, if you 
have told me the truth ! ' 
For the time being, she was quite insane. Oswald 
saw it, and felt hopeless of controlling her. A tempt- 
ation shot through him. It was harder to win her 
than he anticipated. Why not let her do this ? 
There were chances enough in his favor ; Victoria 
might find her senses before they should reach the 
house ; Elizabeth might not be waiting for him. Or, 
 
if he dared play at such an uncertain game, why not 
bring the woman he loved into the presence of the 
woman who was in his way, as an inducement for the 
latter to take things into her own hands ? In any case, 
it became very evident that Victoria could not be man- 
aged unless he should begin with concession. 
' Well, come if you must," he said, doggedly, having 
made his resolution. Victoria threw her cloak about 
her and hurried down to the carriage. 
' For heaven's sake, go back and change your dress," 
said Oswald. But she only laughed and ran on before 
him. It was the soft white robe that had shrouded her 
in the tomb. Her long hair had fallen in bright waves, 
and her neck and arms were bare. Oswald gave the 
order and they drove away. He was trusting himself 
to fate and cursing unlucky chances, possibly by way 
of a spell. Victoria laughed and talked in high 
gayety. 
" You can tell her I am eccentric, and prefer to call 
at eleven of the clock. Tell her, that being an actress, 
I am quite ignorant of social restrictions." 
' I wish you wouldn't make me so unhappy," as a 
last effort, attempting at the same time to take her hand, 
which she snatched away. 
' Never, sir, till you have your wife's permission. 
Unhappy ? How foolish you are ! you might walk 
through comedy, at least, with a gay heart." 
The carriage stopped, and Oswald stepped out say- 
ing hurriedly, 'Wait, please, till I make inquiries." 
He was growing frightened ; the scene must be 
ended, and that could only be done by diplomacy. He 
opened the door with his latch-key, and was about 
 
shutting it again to turn back and say his wife could 
not receive her, when there was a light touch on his 
arm. Victoria had followed him. 
" You were going to deceive me again ! ' she said, 
with a wicked reproachfulness. " I shall take matters 
into my own hands." 
James was waiting in the hall, and came forward. 
" Is Mrs. Craig in ? " asked Victoria, with careful 
decorum. 
" Yes'm. She said," turning to Oswald, ' that you 
was to go into the library." 
" Yes," answered Victoria, for him. ' She will see 
me, of course. Show me the way, please. Ah, this 
door at the right ? ' 
That night Elizabeth was feeling only the weariness 
that comes after struggling. She put the thought of 
Felix away, but only as something holy. If his attitude 
toward her was not that which any loyal wife might suf- 
fer, it was his supreme misfortune, a sin that had 
stolen upon him like a thief. And the thought that 
his saintly knighthood would be strong enough to con- 
quer any danger, upheld her like sacramental wine. 
That Oswald could suspect a vulgar attachment filled 
her with aversion. She shrank from his suggestion, as 
something base. Perhaps it was one step towards 
shrinking from him; she was afraid of that. She 
had come to the point of promising herself to make one 
more effort the harder because there would be no 
heart in it. If she should win her husband's love 
again, she began to be dimly conscious that her whole 
life would be a struggle in keeping it. An extreme of 
outside observance becomes the natural thing, when 
 
the inward spirit has failed ; she fixed upon making 
preparations for his supper, just as she had done in the 
first days of their marriage. She had begun to dread 
his coming, wondering what she should say when he 
should come. A few minutes after eleven there was a 
light tap at the door, followed by its opening. She 
was in an easy-chair, one hand over her eyes. Look- 
ing up with a start, what strange and beautiful vision 
met her gaze ! Victoria stood there, still mocking and 
conscious of her beauty. Elizabeth bent forward, her 
heart in her eyes. She knew Victoria ; her coming 
seemed to involve some fresh calamity. 
' Your husband will introduce us," said the actress, 
turning to bring Oswald into view, and sweeping the 
soft folds of her dress about her feet, where they clung, 
making her still more like a beautiful statue. It was 
the awkward moment of Oswald's life. 
' Elizabeth, Miss Landor is anxious to know you." 
While Elizabeth was gravely acknowledging the words, 
the actress had taken in the whole scene with her 
quick eye for effect. The little table was all ready, 
with its delicate cups waiting for the chocolate by the 
fire. Elizabeth, in her gray wrapper, a simple ruffle 
about her throat, was excellently dressed for the do- 
mestic goddess, destined alike for homely cares and 
sweet, sacred offices. The mocking spirit died out in 
Victoria. She bitterly repented her coming. If, by 
clever acting, she could save the sweet woman of 
whom she was jealous, it must be done. 
' Please sit down," said Elizabeth. " Let me give 
you some chocolate. I have been keeping it hot for 
my husband." 
" I thank you, no," said Victoria, sweetly, not taking 
the chair. "I must apologize before going. You 
know we people of the stage "she glanced at Oswald, 
smiling with some bitterness, " have a taste for Bohe- 
mian adventure. Your husband was behind the 
scenes to-night, and I begged him to take me here to 
call on you. It was not in good taste, but I hope you 
forgive it." 
Her beauty and gentleness impressed Elizabeth. 
" Please do not apologize," she said, still gravely. 
" I wish to entertain my husband's friends." 
" But if I tire you, it will be carrying my freak too 
far. Good night. Thank you, Mr. Craig, you may 
see me to my carriage. No further," she added stern- 
ly, as they stepped out of Elizabeth's hearing. 
" I am going home with you." 
"You shall not," said Victoria, pausing on the last 
step and turning to face him. " I will not enter the 
carriage to-night, unless you leave me." 
Oswald waited in stolid patience. The coachman 
sat discreetly unobservant of their low tones. 
" I promise to see or write to you to-morrow," said 
Victoria, anxious only to escape. 
" Very well," said Oswald, after a moment's thought. 
" I shall call in the morning." 
' Not in the morning ; I will send you a message 
first," and she was driven away. Oswald went slowly 
back into the house, mentally cursing Elizabeth for 
having assumed the air that balked his plans. He 
actively hated only the things which stood in his way ; 
consequently, as circumstances were usually kind to 
him, he had, in his own mind, quite a reputation for 
 
amiability. He went into the library and sat down 
opposite Elizabeth, who still stood. The masculine 
attitude, when one indulges in stretching out his feet 
and dropping his brows, does not invite remonstrance. 
It is to be doubted whether Elizabeth thought of that. 
; ' Oswald, what did she come here for ? " she said, 
trying to control her quivering voice. 
'"She told you." 
' Yes, but why did you bring her here ? Why did 
you look so ? Oswald, are you in love with her ? " 
Yes," said her husband, harrowing his gaze slightly, 
as he looked at her and wondered whatever led him 
into marriage with this plain and commonplace woman. 
Please remember that his answers were not meant to 
be cruel. Not being in love with her, it did not occur 
to him that he might still retain the power of wound- 
ing her. 
"Oswald," cried Elizabeth, something sharp and 
vibrating in her voice. '' I won't be exacting I will 
try not to worry you but remember we are married " 
' Yes, worse luck," said her husband, coldly disgust- 
ed. " You needn't remind me what a damned theatri- 
cal ass I made of myself, that year." He strode off 
up-stairs. Not to their own room ; it seemed to him, in 
his irritation, that nothing could be worse than hearing 
her speak again. 
Elizabeth carefully set the chocolate aside and turn- 
ed off the gas. Then she crept back into the easy- 
chair. 
CHAPTER XXVII. 
THE early train to Stratford took Elizabeth with 
it, flying to cover where she could at least hide 
her wounds. Oswald had gone out early, without see- 
ing her. She heard his step pass the library where she 
had lain all night, too negligent of herself to change 
her position, and where the morning light found her 
stiff and cramped. As soon as the door closed behind 
him, she ran up to her dressing-room, made her toilet 
and went down to breakfast. It was unnecessary to 
interest the servants in the fact that something unusual 
had happened. So she gave an order for Oswald's 
lunch, and told Ward she might be away some little time. 
Writing on a sheet of paper, " I have gone to Strat- 
ford," she left it in a sealed envelope on her husband's 
table. There was no need of reproaches or tragic 
farewells. Besides, she did not even know whether her 
present step was a final one or not, her only clear de- 
cision being that she must have rest and quiet, away 
from him. Her preparations made, she hurried away, 
with a feverish joy in action. How could she breathe, 
even, until miles lay between her and the place where 
she had been so wronged ! Pride had no part in her 
great suffering. Gossip and prying eyes in Stratford 
seemed far less to bear than this mockery of attempting 
a duty where none existed. As she stepped from the 
car at Sto\ve, Si's face was the first to greet her. 
 
" Lord ! do they do it as quick as this ! ' was his 
awe-struck exclamation. ' I ain't spoke to the girl 
even ! ' 
Elizabeth bowed and smiled, and was about passing 
him, when Si placed himself in her way and went on, 
'Your mother sent me up here to telegraft." 
" What ? ' :l said Elizabeth, a quick fear shooting into 
life. " What has happened ? " 
" Philip. He ain't very well. They thought you'd 
better come," answered Si, with the brevity that comes 
of evasion. ;< I've got the Sea View buggy. Climb 
right in." 
So Elizabeth, alive with the instinct of haste, entered 
the demoralized vehicle. 
'You must tell me just what it is," she said, when 
they were fairly on their rattling way. ' Don't try to 
make me more comfortable by deceiving me." 
'The doctor says it's only pneumony," said Si, 
soothingly, using the whip with emphasis. ' You see, 
Philip's acted like a crazed one, lately. He got a 
master cold coughin' and barkin' round for a week, he 
was and then he took to staying out doors and hanging
round the shore till he got powerful bad. An' I guess 
he had a hard row to fetch his breath last night." 
Elizabeth's came in one quick sob ; all other sorrow 
was effaced, and nothing seemed real and vital but her 
old devotion to Philip, as it had been when there was no 
paramount affection to overshadow it. Her life re- 
bounded a year, to the absorption of old ties. 
Mrs. Nye, like most women who endure and are 
patient, was a marvel of self-possession in illness. The 
habit of silence helped her there. But the unexpected 
sight of Elizabeth broke up her calmness ; her face 
changed, convulsively. 
" How is he, mother ? ' whispered Elizabeth, when 
they could both speak. 
;< Bad, very bad. You mustn't expect any thing." 
The girl felt her heart die within her at the hopeless 
tone. Taking off her hat, she went in to see him, and 
Philip, painfully struggling for breath, was at once 
radiant. A slight quiver passed over Grandmother's 
face. Older, her countenance more deeply lined, she 
sat by the bedside, slowly waving a large palm-leaf 
fan. She gave her place to Elizabeth, and the day's 
watching went on. Philip was not quite himself. The 
suffocation of the disease so oppressed him that he 
could not waste effort in speech or looks. Once he 
whispered, painfully, ( Betty, my play is almost ready. 
Could you finish copying it ?" 
'Yes, dear," said Elizabeth, feeling her own throat 
aching with the tears that must not come. 
The story of a sickness to death is always the same 
in substance, and need never be told. Philip died 
that night in an agony of struggle. 
When it was over, and they looked into one another's 
eyes across the bed, the supreme cup of solemn grief 
seemed to have touched their lips. Elizabeth had 
suffered keenly, but how was that rage of jealous 
anger to affect her life like this sweet and solemn 
mystery ? We step out of our earthly garments in the 
presence of death, and make holy resolves to live hence- 
forth in the shadow of its wonder. 
In her first calm moment, she repented that she had 
not meant to stay with her husband and be at her best, 
 
in spite of the worst circumstances. How, she did not 
know, but great things seem easy at great moments. 
That lesson of tenderness taught always by the dead 
prompted her to telegraph Oswald at once. 
" Philip is dead. Will you come ? ' 
Perhaps he would think she had been called home 
by the event ; it might be better so. She was sorcy 
for even the just resentment of her life. 
There were neighbors in the kitchen when Philip 
died, sitting like mute statues of country life, now 
and then exchanging a subdued whisper. That was a 
custom in Stratford. . It was the custom, too, at such 
times, to throng the room of the dying, watching the 
failing breath with mournful interest. But Elizabeth 
had steadily kept them out. Nobody should enter 
that inner circle who had not the right of love. 
It was Mrs. Nye who first remembered to rise from 
the watch no longer needed. 
' Grandmother," Elizabeth said in a whisper, touch- 
ing her shoulder. :< Come." 
The old lady looked up with a face carrying dread 
to the two who had never before seen it moved, except 
by anger. 
: Thirty years ago," she said, in a moaning voice, 
" Jeremiah died, and it's all brought back again." 
Elizabeth led her away with a tenderness she did not 
resent, perhaps because she saw nothing but shadows 
from the past and heard only the echoes of their 
voices. 
Sha'n't we send for Mr. Kewe ? ' asked Mrs. Nye, 
when preparations were being made for the funeral. 
;< I think not, mother. He is very busy." 
Oswald neither came nor wrote. There was much 
" thinking strange " of it in Stratford. People augured 
ill for Elizabeth's happiness. Grandmother asked no 
questions, and Mrs. Nye was roused to interest by no 
earthly circumstance. She seemed stricken, and lean- 
ed heavily on Elizabeth, who, it mercifully happened, 
had to think constantly of others. 
CHAPTER XXVIII. 
BEFORE Victoria was half way home she began to 
JD hate Elizabeth as much as she pitied her. Do 
not mistake her motive in denying Oswald, for one 
higher than it really was. It was nothing more than 
generosity. If she could have been convinced that he 
had made an unfortunate and mistaken marriage, one 
that his wife regretted as much as he, she would 
have said, in all honor and honesty, ' Come with me 
and be true to me. You have been deluded by a show 
and a phantom. If there are reasons why the laws of 
your country will not release you nay, if you choose 
not to ask their interposition trust as I do in the leg- 
islation of our own souls. Choose, in the face of the 
world, what is higher than the world." 
You may have known at least one instance of such 
arrogance of truth, of one to whom the spirit is so im- 
measurably superior to the letter of the law that this 
last is ignored. Face to face with her embodied 
theories, Victoria stopped, aghast. When Oswald said 
" Come ! " her heart cried, " I follow." It would still 
own its allegiance, in spite of the sorely perplexed and 
tortured conscience, but in the way stood the pale, 
sweet woman" whom she must wrong. And she would 
wrong no one. Nay, to do so was to destroy the very 
right she had of obeying her heart. In the first days 
that followed, she did not consider whether Oswald 
was to be blamed or not, for deceiving her. They both 
seemed so wretchedly unfortunate, that perhaps she 
tacitly allowed him, too, to have been deceived. 
The night after she left him was first a blank staring 
of life in the face, then a haste of packing and making 
ready to be away in the morning, before he should come. 
She knew he would come, though she had forbidden 
it ; she shivered with fear at the thought of again hav- 
ing to withstand his entreaties. It was not dread of 
further suffering. Any thing would be easier to bear 
than silence and forgetfulness, but she feared herself. 
Instinctively, she knew that his voice and eyes could 
put a new construction on what she felt to be irre- 
vocable, and she shrank from the unnecessary pain of 
having to cling to her convictions against his will and 
her own heart. She saw the barrier between them, 
and to deny him when he urged her to leap that bar- 
rier with him, would demand more strength than the 
poor young creature felt herself possessed of. Sup- 
pose fair Ellen's conscience had been inconveniently 
active, would young Lochinvar's telegraphic persuasion 
have proved an unmitigated relief to her ? 
Early that morning, she went with her trunks to a 
hotel at the other end of the city, anxious to be as far 
as possible from the place where he would expect to 
find her. Then she wrote two notes, one to Mr. 
Rose, giving her present address, and, with no reason, 
charging him to keep it a secret. The shorter the word 
she had promised Oswald, the more easily could it be 
written. Pity and love begged to be heard, but she- 
thrust them back. 
" You must never come near me or write to me. 
 
cannot be changed, so do not trouble me. You must 
make her happy. It hurts me most to think how we 
have wronged her." 
Oswald, as she had expected, did not wait for 
a message, but was early at her rooms. Daylight 
had simplified matters for him. Nothing looked 
as tragic as it had, the night before. He did not 
feel himself as hopelessly at the mercy of two 
jealous women, and, as a result of having been so, he 
was aware of a touch of provocation that acted as a 
wonderful tonic. Victoria's delirium would have 
cooled, as his own had done. And his wife ? He had 
not yet reached the point of deciding upon her dis- 
posal. He was in the habit of feeling that if a rela- 
tion had ceased to be necessary to him, it had ceased 
to exist. Inconvenient encumbrances always dropped 
away of themselves, like dead leaves. He would not 
waste thought on the manner of their going. The 
morning was fine, and with the accompanying courage 
which attends an access of keener animal vigor, he felt 
himself master of the situation. He thought of Vic- 
toria and the strait she had put him in, with a half- 
resentful pride in her. Fierce, beautiful creature ! Do 
you, sir, think the worse of your horse because he cur- 
vets and shies occasionally, if you are convinced that 
his neck is thereby arched and his nostrils dilated, 
even when you know your own bones are in some slight 
danger ? When Oswald reached the door on Tremont 
Street, he found the janitor sweeping down the stairs. 
' She's gone away," said that functionary, laconic- 
ally, stooping for a paper that kept blowing beyond his 
reach. 
u Gone away ? " echoed Oswald, stopping short, but 
only connecting the words with an absence of minutes. 
" Do you know when she will be in ? ' 
" Not yet awhile, I guess. She took her trunks with 
her." 
No questioning could elicit more. Did he know 
where her trunks had been sent ? No, he hadn't 
heard. Oswald hurried away, with his belief in the 
general amiability of events somewhat shattered. So 
she meant to elude him ! . Too thoroughly alarmed for 
anger, he went home first, to see if any letters had been 
delivered. There were none, and as he only stopped 
to open the hall-door and ask the question, no one 
thought to mention his wife's going. He went to the 
theater to find Rose, who received him coolly. The 
manager had Victoria's note in his pocket, and, little 
as it told, he suspected much. Quite ignorant of the 
nature of the wrong, he knew it lay somewhere, and all 
his honest heart was alive with indignation. Victoria's 
general fearlessness put him out of patience. He had 
a strong desire to say, " I told you you'd come to 
grief," but remembered her mother, and the watch- 
dog instinct rose in him. 
" Good morning, Rose," said Oswald, dropping into 
a saunter, and trying to assume the coolness that was 
never so far from his control as at the moment. 
" I called for Miss Lander's address. She neglected 
to give it me." 
" Did she ? " said the manager, looking at him stead- 
ily. " That isn't odd, for she told me nobody was 
to have it." 
Oswald saw he was on the defensive. It annoyed 
 
him to meet a counter-check from so insignificant a 
quarter. 
" Ah ? But she would except me, I think. It will 
be safe with me." 
' It's safer where it is." 
''' Has she gone out of town ? " asked Oswald, pleas- 
antly. 
' Yes," said the watch-dog, lying without the slightest 
compunction. 
" And it's of no use " 
' No," said Rose, advancing ominously, though his 
intentions embraced nothing more serious than an en- 
counter of words. :< And I want to speak to you " 
" Another time, then," answered Oswald, lifting his 
hat and walking away. He had no idea of being called 
to account by a fellow who was generous with his neg- 
atives and sparing of various advantages afforded by 
the English language. 
Going home again, he found the notes written by 
the two women. Victoria's was opened first. So she 
was likely to give him trouble enough, well worth it as 
she was ! Little sympathy as he had with her scruples, 
he felt, at every turn in the pursuit that hid her from 
him, an increasing admiration of her. 
All the trouble she gave him only added to his grow- 
ing bitterness against his wife, for having existed at all. 
But her written line seemed a solution. Courage ! she 
had taken herself away. The probabilities being 
against his inviting her back, she would doubtless have 
the good-sense not to come. When he left Rose that 
morning, it was with a smile on his face. Rose had 
betrayed himself. If Victoria were out of town it was 
at Rose's own house in Birchwood. Nothing was more 
simple. She had no other friend ; the manager's very 
glance showed that she had confided in him, and that 
he had constituted himself her guardian. It was quite 
evident that she feared pursuit. He smiled again at that 
and the thought that she would find herself mistaken. 
Oswald had reduced the subjugation of woman to a 
science. He knew that, under most trying circum- 
stances, a judicious letting alone was a maneuver not 
to be despised. The most untamable easily suc- 
cumbed after she had been left in the dark to sob her- 
self sick. Victoria should have plenty of time for re- 
flection. He would not entreat again, but await the 
rapture of seeing this proud creature creeping toward 
his arms. So he made himself busy that day, to 
avoid thought ; attended to some money matters 
which had been hanging on for weeks, invited Grim- 
wald to lunch, trying to be amused by his rampant 
criticism on certain late music, and at night took 
the boat for New York. Arrived in that gay and busy 
city, he threw himself into its arms and said, ' Enter- 
tain me." The first day passed and he went to the 
theater. The curtain, lights, even the indescribable 
smell of the place musty, but delicious to the theater- 
goercast him back into Boston and before ^j.he stage 
where he had seen her walk so of ten. ? TheT.- comedy 
faded out. Other people about him laughed and ap- 
plauded, but before his eyes moved only ^ white 
vision. Her great worth, his great desire of posses- 
sion, surged up again, and overthrew his interest in 
