"I will be more than watchful," Manuel declared; "I will be determined!"
"I play a wretched game," said the northern lady, warningly.
"And if you should play the best in the world, I should never know it,
absorbed as I should be in your personal presence," replied the youth,
with ardor.
Mrs. Harold laughed. Winthrop (listening to Mrs. Thorne's remarks upon
Emerson) glanced towards their little group.
"People do not talk in that way at the North. That is why she laughs,"
said Garda, explanatorily.
"And do I care how they talk in their frozen North!" cried Manuel. "I
talk as my heart dictates."
"Do so," said Garda, "but later. At present, go and cheer up poor Mr.
Torres; he is fairly shivering with loneliness over there in his
corner."
Manuel, who, in spite of his studied attitude at the feet of Mrs.
Harold, was evidently the slave of whatever whim Garda chose to express,
rose to obey. "But do not in the least imagine that Adolfo needs
cheering," he explained, still posing a little as he stood before them
with his guitar. "He entertains himself perfectly, always; he is never
lonely, he has only to think of his ancestors. Adolfo is, in fact, a
very good ancestor already. As to his shivering--that shows how little
you know him; he is a veritable volcano, that silent one! Still, I obey
your bidding, I go."
"What do you think of him?" said Garda, as he crossed the room towards
the solitary Cuban.
"Mr. Torres?"
"No; Mr. Ruiz."
"I know him so slightly, I cannot say I have formed an opinion."
Garda looked at the two young men for a moment; then, "They are both
boys," she said, dismissing them with a little wave of her hand.
"But Mr. Winthrop is not a boy," she went on, her eyes returning to the
northern lady's face. "How old is Mr. Winthrop?"
"I don't know."
"Isn't he your cousin?"
"Mr. Winthrop is the nephew of Mrs. Rutherford, who is only my aunt by
marriage."
"But if you have always known him, you must know how old he is."
"I have not always known him. I suppose he is thirty-four or five."
"That is just what he said," remarked Garda, reflectively.
"That I was thirty-four or five?"
"No; but he began in the same way. He said that he did not know; that
you were not his cousin; that you were the niece of Mr. Rutherford; and
that he supposed you to be about twenty-seven or eight."
"I am twenty-six," said Margaret.
"And he is thirty-five," added Garda.
"I suppose they both seem great ages to you," observed Margaret,
smiling.
"It's of very little consequence in a man--his age," replied the young
girl. "I confess that I thought you older than twenty-six; but it's not
because you look old, it's because you look as if you did not care
whether people thought you old or not, and generally it's only women who
are really old, you know, over thirty, like mamma and Mrs. Carew, who
have that expression--don't you think so? And I fancy you don't care
much about dress, either," she went on. "Everything you wear is very
beautiful; still, I don't believe you care about it. Yet you would carry
it off well, any amount of it, you are so tall."
"I think you are as tall as I am," said Margaret, amused by these
unconventional utterances.
"Come and see," replied Garda, suddenly. She took Margaret's hand and
rose.
"What is it we are to do?" inquired Margaret, obeying the motion without
comprehending its object.
"Come," repeated Garda.
They passed into the back drawing-room, and Garda led the way towards a
large mirror.
"But we do not wish to survey ourselves in the presence of all this
company," said Margaret, pausing.
"Yes, we do. They will not notice us, they are talking; it's about our
height, you know," answered the girl. She held Margaret's hand tightly,
and drew her onward until they both stood together before the long
glass.
Two images gazed back at them. One was that of a young girl with bright
brown hair curling low down over wonderful dark eyes. A white rose was
placed, in the Spanish fashion, on one side above the little ear. This
image in the mirror had a soft warm color in its cheeks, and a deeper
one still on its slightly parted lips; these lips were very lovely in
outline, with short, full, upward-arching curves and a little downward
droop at the corners. The rich beauty of the face, and indeed of the
whole figure, was held somewhat aloof from indiscriminate appropriation,
by the indifference which accompanied it. It was not the indifference of
experience, there was no weariness in it, no knowledge of life; it was
the fresh indifference rather of inexperience, like the indifference of
a child. It seemed, too, as if it would always be there, as if that face
would never grow eager, no matter how much expansion of knowledge the
years might bring to it; very possibly, almost certainly, this beautiful
girl would demand more of life in every way, year by year, as it passed;
but this would not make her strive for it, she would always remain as
serenely careless, as unconcerned, as now.
The mirror gave back, also, the second image. It was that of a woman
older--older by the difference that lies between sixteen years and
twenty-six. This second image was tall and slender. It had hair of the
darkest brown which is not black--hair straight and fine, its soft
abundance making little display; this hair was arranged with great
simplicity, too great, perhaps, for, brushed smoothly back and closely
coiled behind, it had an air of almost severe plainness--a plainness,
however, which the perfect oval of the face, and the beautiful forehead,
full and low, marked by the slender line of the dark eyebrows, with the
additional contrast of the long dark eyelashes beneath, could bear. The
features were regular, delicate; the complexion a clear white, of the
finest, purest grain imaginable, the sort of texture which gives the
idea that the bright color will come and go through its fairness. This
expectation was not fulfilled; the same controlled calm seemed to hold
sway there which one perceived in the blue eyes and round the mouth.
As Winthrop had said, Margaret Harold was considered handsome. By that
was meant that she was in possession of a general acknowledgment that
the shape and poise of her head were fine, that her features were
well-cut, that her tall, slender form was charmingly proportioned, her
movements graceful. Winthrop would have stated, as his own opinion, that
she was too cold and formal to be beautiful--too restricted; it was true
that in one thing she was not restricted (this was also his own
opinion), namely, in the high esteem she had for herself.
She had undoubtedly a quiet reserved sort of beauty. But other women
were not made jealous by any especial interest in her, by discussions
concerning her, by frequent introduction of her name. She was thought
unsympathetic; but as she never said the clever, cutting things which
unsympathetic women sometimes know how to say so admirably, she was not
thought entertaining as well--as they often are. Opinion varied,
therefore, as to whether she could say these things, but would not, or
whether it was the contrary, that she would have said them if she had
been able, but simply could not, having no endowment of that kind of
wit; one thing alone was certain, namely, that she continued not to say
them.
Her dress, as seen in the mirror, had much simplicity of aspect; but
this was owing to the way she wore it, and the way in which it was made,
rather than to the materials, which were ample and rich. The soft silk,
Quakerish in hue, lay in folds over the carpet which Garda's scanty
skirt barely touched; it followed the lines of the slender figure
closely, while Garda's muslin, which had been many times washed, was
clumsy and ill-fitting. The gray robe came up smoothly round the throat,
where it was finished by a little ruff of precious old lace, while the
poor Florida gown, its fashion a reminiscence of Mrs. Thorne's youth,
ended at that awkward angle which is neither high nor low.
But all this made no difference as regarded the beauty of Garda. Of most
young girls it can be said that richness of attire spoils them, takes
from their youthfulness its chief charm; but of Garda Thorne it could
easily be believed that no matter in what she might be clad, poor garb
as at present, or the most sumptuous, she herself would so far outshine
whichever it happened to be, that it would scarcely be noticed.
"You are the taller," said Garda. "I knew it!" The outline of the head
with the smooth dark hair was clearly above that crowned by the curling
locks.
"You are deceptive," said Margaret, "you look tall, yet I see now that
you are not. Are there many more such surprises about you?"
"I hope so," answered Garda, "I love surprises. That is, short ones; I
don't like surprises when one has to be astonished ever so long, and
keep on saying 'oh!' and 'dear me!' long after it's all over. But
everything long is tiresome, I have found that out."
Winthrop had watched them pass into the second room. He now left his
place, and joined them.
"We came to see which was the taller," said Garda, as his face appeared
in the mirror behind them. Margaret moved aside; but as Garda still held
her hand, she could not move far. Winthrop, however, was not looking at
her, his eyes were upon the reflection of the younger face; perceiving
this, her own came back to it also.
"You two are always so solemn," said Garda, breaking into one of her
sweet laughs; "standing between you, as I do, I look like Folly itself.
There was an old song of Miss Pamela's:
    "'Reason and Folly and Beauty, they say,
      Went on a party of pleasure one day--'
Here they are in the glass, all three of them. Mrs. Harold is Beauty."
"I suppose that means that I am that unfortunate wretch, Reason," said
Winthrop. "Didn't he get a good many cuffs in the song? He generally
does in real life, I know--poor fellow!"
Garda had now released Mrs. Harold's hand, and that lady turned away.
She found herself near an interesting collection of Florida paroquets,
enclosed in a glass case, and she devoted her attention to ornithology
for a while; the birds returned her gaze with the extremely candid eyes
contributed by the taxidermist. Presently Dr. Kirby came to conduct her
to the whist-table. Pompey had arranged these tables with careful
precision upon the exact figures of the old carpet which his mistress
had pointed out beforehand; but though Pompey had thus arranged the
tables, the players were not arranged as Garda had predicted. Mrs.
Rutherford, Dr. Kirby, Mrs. Thorne, and the Rev. Mr. Moore formed one
group. At the other table were Mrs. Harold, Manuel Ruiz, and Mrs. Carew,
with a dummy. Evert Winthrop did not play.
This left him with Garda. But Torres was also left; the three walked up
and down in the broad hall for a while, and then went out on the piazza.
Here there was a hammock, towards which Garda declared herself
irresistibly attracted; she arranged it as a swing, and seated herself.
Winthrop found a camp-chair, and placed himself near her as she slowly
swayed in her hanging seat to and fro. But Torres remained standing,
according to his method; he stood with folded arms in the shadow, close
to the side of the house, but without touching it. As he stood there for
an hour and a half, it is possible that he found the occupation
tedious--unless indeed the picture of Garda in the moonlight was a
sufficient entertainment; certainly there was very little else to
entertain him; Garda and Winthrop, talking English without intermission,
seemed to have forgotten his existence entirely.
"Adolfo," said Manuel, on their way home, giving a rapier-like thrust in
the air with his slender cane, "that northerner, that Wintup, is
unendurable!"
"He is a matter of indifference to me," replied Torres.
"What--when he keeps you out there on the piazza for two hours in
perfect silence? I listened, you never spoke one word; he talked all the
time to Garda himself."
"That--I suffered," said Torres, with dignity.
"Suffered? I should think so! Are you going to 'suffer' him to buy East
Angels, too?"
"He may buy what he pleases. He cannot make himself a Spaniard."
"How do you know Garda cares so much for Spaniards?" said Manuel,
gloomily. "I suppose you remember that the mother, after all, is a
northerner?"
"I remember perfectly," replied the Cuban. "The señorita will always
do--"
"What her mother wishes?" (Manuel was afraid of Mrs. Thorne.)
"--What she pleases," answered Torres, serenely.
CHAPTER VI.
"I think you very wonderful," said Garda. "And I think you very
beautiful too, though no one seems to talk about it. That in itself is a
wonder. But everything about you is wonderful." She was sitting on the
floor, her hands crossed on Margaret Harold's knee, her chin resting on
her hands; her eyes were fixed on that lady's face.
"You are easily pleased," said Margaret.
"No," replied Garda, with the leisurely utterance which took from her
contradictions all appearance of opposition; "I am not easily pleased at
all, it's the contrary. I see the goodness of all my friends, I hope; I
love them very much. But they do not please me, as you please me, for
instance, just because they are good, or because I love them; to be
pleased as I am now, to admire as I admire you, is a very different
thing."
Margaret said nothing, and Garda, as if wishing to convince her, went
on; "I love my dear Dr. Reginald, I love him dearly; but don't you
suppose I see that he is too stout and too precise? I love my dear Mr.
Moore, I think him perfectly adorable; but don't you suppose I see that
he is too lank and narrow-shouldered, and that his dear good little eyes
are too small for his long face--like the eyes of a clean, thin, white
pig? Mrs. Carew is my kindest friend; that doesn't prevent me from
seeing that she is too red. Mr. Torres is too dark, Mr. Winthrop too
cold; and so it goes. But you--you are perfect."
"You have left out Mr. Ruiz," suggested Margaret, smiling.
"Manuel is beautiful; yes, in his face, Manuel is very beautiful," said
Garda, consideringly. "But you have a beautiful nature, and Manuel has
only an ordinary one. It's your having a beautiful face and beautiful
nature too which makes you such a wonder to me, because people with
beautiful natures are so apt to have ugly faces, or at least thin,
wrinkled, and forlorn ones, or else they are invalids; and if they
escape that, they are almost sure to have such dreadful clothes. But
you have a beautiful nature, and a beautiful face, and beautiful
clothes--all three. I could never be like you, I don't want to be; but I
admire you more than any one I have ever known, and I hope you will let
me be with you as often as I can while you stay here; I don't know what
I shall do when you go away!"
Margaret smiled a second time; the young girl seemed to her very young
indeed as she uttered these candid beliefs.
"Mamma too admires you so much," continued Garda; "I have never known
mamma to admire any one (outside of our own family) so completely as she
admires you; for generally mamma has her reservations, you know. But it
is your intellect which mamma admires, and I do not care so much for
intellect; of course it's all very well for a foundation, but one
doesn't want to be all foundation."
"Mrs. Rutherford would like to see you for a moment, Miss Margaret, if
you please," said a voice which seemed startlingly near them, though no
one was in sight.
It was Celestine; she had opened the door noiselessly the sixteenth part
of an inch, delivered her message with her lips close to the crack, and
then closed it again with the soundless abruptness which characterized
all her actions.
"That is the fourth time Mrs. Rutherford has sent a message since I
came, an hour ago," remarked Garda. "She depends upon you for
everything."
"Oh no; upon Celestine," said Margaret, as she left the room.
When she came back, fifteen minutes later, "You are mistaken," Garda
answered, as though there had been no interruption; "she depends upon
Celestine for her clothes, her hair, her medicine, and her shawls; but
she depends upon you for everything else."
"Have you been thinking about it all this time?" Margaret asked.
       *       *       *       *       *
"How good you are! Why didn't you say, 'Is there anything else?' But I
have noticed that you never say those things. Have I been thinking about
it all this time? No, it doesn't require thinking about, any one can see
it; what I have been thinking about is you." She had taken her former
place, her arms crossed on Margaret's knee. "You have such beautiful
hands," she said, lifting one and spreading it out to look at it.
"My dear Miss Thorne, your own are much more beautiful."
"Oh, I do very well, I know what I am; but I am not you. I don't believe
there is any one like you; it would be too much."
"Too much perfection?" said Margaret, laughing.
"Yes," answered Garda, her seriousness unbroken. "For you take
quantities of trouble for other people--I can see that. And the persons
who do so are hardly ever happy--thoroughly happy; it seems such a pity,
but it's true. Now I am always happy; but then I never take any trouble
for any one, not a bit."
"I haven't observed that," said Margaret.
"No one observes it," responded Garda, composedly; "but it is quite
true. And I never intend to take any trouble, whether they observe it or
not. But with you it is different, you take a great deal; partly you
have taught yourself to do it, and partly you were made so."
"Since when have you devoted your attention to these deep subjects, Miss
Thorne?" said Margaret, smiling down upon the upturned face of the girl
before her.
Garda rose to her knees. "Oh, don't call me Miss Thorne," she said,
pleadingly, putting her arms round her companion. "I love you so
much--please never say it again."
"Very well. I will call you Garda."
"I like it when you are cold like that--oh, I like it!" said Garda, with
enthusiasm. "All you say when I tell you I adore you is, 'Very well; I
will call you Garda;' you do not even say 'my dear.' That is beautiful,
because you really mean it; you mean nothing more, and you say nothing
more."
"Do you praise me simply because I speak the truth?" said Margaret.
"Yes; for nothing is more rare. I speak the truth myself, but my truth
is whatever happens to come into my head; your truth is quiet and real,
as you yourself are. I could never be like you, I don't want to be; but
I admire you--I admire you."
"I don't know that I am much complimented, if you keep on insisting, in
spite of it all, that you don't want to be like me," said Margaret,
laughing again.
"Well," replied Garda, "I don't; what's the use of pretending? For I
wish to be happy, and I mean to be happy. You are a sort of an angel;
but I have never heard that angels had very much of a good time
themselves, or that anybody did anything especial for their pleasure;
they are supposed to be above it. But I am not above it, and never shall
be." And leaning forward, she kissed Margaret's cheek. "It's because
you're so wonderful," she said.
"I am not wonderful at all," answered Margaret, rather coldly,
withdrawing a little from the girl's embrace.
"And if you didn't answer in just that way, you wouldn't be, of course,"
said Garda, delightedly; "that is exactly what I mean--you are so cold
and so true. You think I exaggerate, you do not like to have me talk in
this way about you, and so you draw back; but only a little, because you
are too good to hurt me, or any one. But I don't want to be 'any one' to
you, Mrs. Harold. Do let me be some one."
Now came again the ventriloquistic voice at the door, "phaeton's ready,
Miss Margaret."
"Why doesn't Mr. Winthrop drive out with Mrs. Rutherford?" said Garda,
watching Margaret put on her bonnet.
"He is probably occupied."
"He is never occupied. Do you call it occupied to be galloping over the
pine barrens in every direction, and stopping at East Angels? to be
exploring the King's Road, and stopping at East Angels? to be sailing up
and down the Espiritu, and stopping at East Angels? to be paddling up
all the creeks, and stopping at East Angels?"
"I should call that being very much occupied indeed," said Margaret,
smiling.
"I don't then," replied Garda; "that is, not in your sense of the word.
It's being occupied with his own pleasure--that's all. But the truth is
Mrs. Rutherford takes you, always you, because no one else begins to
make her so comfortable; you not only see that she has everything as she
likes it, but that she has nothing as she doesn't like it, which is even
more delightful. Yet apparently she doesn't realize this in the least; I
think that so very curious."
"Do you fancy that you understand Mrs. Rutherford on so short an
acquaintance?" asked Margaret, rather reprovingly.
"Yes," responded Garda, in her calm fashion, her attention, however, not
fixing itself long upon the subject, which she seemed to consider
unimportant. "I wish you would get a palmetto hat like mine," she went
on with much more interest; "your bonnet is lovely, but it makes you
seem old."
"But I am old," said Margaret, as she left the room.
She did not apologize for leaving her guest; the young girl was in the
habit of bestowing her presence upon her so often now, that ceremony
between them had come to an end some time before. She took her place in
the phaeton, which was waiting at the foot of the outside stairway, Mrs.
Rutherford, enveloped in a rich shawl, having already been installed by
Celestine. Telano, in his Sunday jacket of black alpaca, held the bridle
of the mild old horse with great firmness. He had put on for the
occasion his broad-brimmed man-of-war hat, which was decorated with a
blue ribbon bearing in large gilt letters the inscription Téméraire.
Telano had no idea what Téméraire meant (he called it Turmrer); he had
bought the hat of a travelling vender, convinced that it would add to
the dignity of his appearance--as it certainly did. For there was
nothing commonplace or horizontal in the position of that hat; the
vender had illustrated how it was to be worn, but Telano, fired by the
new ambitions of emancipation, had practised in secret before his glass
until he had succeeded in getting the Turmrer so far back on his curly
head that it was not on the top at all, but applied flatly and
perpendicularly behind, so that the gazer's mind lost itself in
possibilities as to the methods of adhesion which he must have employed
to keep it in place. His mistresses seated, Telano sprang to the little
seat behind them, where, with folded arms, he sat stiffly erect,
conscious of the Turmrer, showing the whites of his eyes, happy.
Margaret lifted the reins, and smiling a good-bye to Garda, who was
standing on the outside stairway, drove down Pacheco Lane into the
plaza, and out of sight.
Garda still leaned on the balustrade; though left alone, she did not
take her departure. After a while she sat down on a step, and leaned her
head back against the railing; her eyes were fixed indolently upon the
sea.
"Looking across to Spain?" said Evert Winthrop's voice, ten minutes
later. He had come down the lane, his step making no sound on the mat of
low, thick green.
"No," Garda answered, without turning her eyes from the water. "If I
want Spain, I have only to send for Mr. Torres; he's Spain in person."
"Are you here alone? Where are the others?"
"Gone out to drive; I wish you had never sent for that phaeton!"
Several weeks had passed since the arrival of the northern ladies; but
it seemed more like several months, if gauged by the friendship which
had been bestowed upon them. The little circle of Gracias society had
opened its doors to them with characteristic hospitality--the old-time
hospitality of the days of better fortune; its spirit unchanged, though
the form in which it must now manifest itself was altered in all save
its charming courtesy. Mrs. Rutherford was a friend of Mrs. Carew's,
that was enough; they were all friends of Mrs. Rutherford in
consequence. Mrs. Kirby, the active little mother of Dr. Reginald,
invited them to dine with her. Mrs. Penelope Moore, the rector's wife,
though seldom able to leave her sofa, did not on that account consider
herself exempt from the present privilege of entertaining them. Madame
Ruiz, the mother of Manuel, insisted upon several visits at her
residence on Patricio Point. Madame Giron, the aunt of Adolfo Torres,
came up the Espiritu in her broad old boat, rowed by four negro boys, to
beg them to pass a day with her at her plantation, which was south of
East Angels. Mrs. Thorne did what she could in the way of afternoon
visits at her old Spanish mansion, with oranges, conversation, and
Carlos Mateo. And good Betty Carew moved in and out among these gentle
festivities with assiduous watchfulness, ready to fill any gaps that
might present themselves with selections from her own best resources;
the number of times she invited her dearest Katrina to lunch with her,
to spend the day with her, to pass the evening with her, to visit the
orange groves with her, to play whist, to go and see the rose gardens,
and to "bring over her work" in the morning and "sit on the piazza and
talk," could not be counted. Mrs. Rutherford, who never had any work
beyond the holding of a fan sometimes to screen her face from the fire
or sun, was amiably willing to sit on the piazza (Betty's) and
talk--talk with the peculiar degree of intimacy which embroidery (or
knitting) and piazzas, taken together, seem to produce. Especially was
she willing as, without fail, about eleven o'clock, Pompey appeared with
a little tray, covered with a snowy damask napkin, upon which reposed a
small loaf of delicious cake, freshly baked, two saucers (of that old
blue china whose recent nicks owed their origin to emancipation), a
glass dish heaped with translucent old-fashioned preserves, and a little
glass pitcher of rich cream. Mrs. Rutherford thought this "so
amusing--at eleven o'clock in the morning!" But it was noticed that she
never refused it.
If Katrina had no work, Betty had it in abundance. It was not
embroidery--unless mending could be called by that name. But Betty did
not accomplish as much as she might have done, owing to the fact that
about once in ten minutes she became aware of the loss of her scissors,
or her spool of thread, and was forced to get up, shake her skirts, or
dive to the bottom of her pocket in search of them. For her pocket had a
wide mouth, which was not concealed by a superfluous overskirt; it was a
deep comfortable pocket going well down below the knee, its rotund
outline, visible beneath the skirt of the gown, suggesting to the
experienced eye a handkerchief, a battered porte-monnaie, a large bunch
of keys, two or three crumpled letters, a pencil with the stubby point
which a woman's pencil always possesses, a half-finished stocking and
ball of yarn, a spectacle-case, a paper of peppermint drops, and a
forgotten pair or two of gloves.
These little entertainments hospitably given for the northern ladies
succeeded each other rapidly--so rapidly that Margaret began to fear
lest, mild as they were in themselves, they should yet make inroads on
Mrs. Rutherford's strength.
"You needn't be scairt, Miss Margaret," was Celestine's reply to this
suggestion, a remote gleam of a smile lighting up for a moment her grim
face; "a little gentlemen-talk is very strengthenin' to yer aunt at
times; nothin' more so."
During these weeks Garda Thorne had manifested a constantly increasing
devotion to Margaret Harold; that, at least, was what they called it in
the little circle of Gracias society, where it was considered an
interesting development of character. These good friends said to each
other that their little girl was coming on, that they should soon be
obliged to think of her as something more than a lovely child.
Mrs. Rutherford had another name for it; she called it curiosity. "That
little Thorne girl (who is quite pretty)," she remarked to Winthrop,
"seems to be never tired of looking at Margaret, and listening to what
she says. Yet Margaret certainly says little enough!" Mrs. Rutherford
never went beyond "quite pretty" where Garda was concerned. It was her
superlative for young girls, she really did not think they could be
more.
"You wish that I had never sent for that phaeton? Would you, then,
deprive my poor aunt of her drives?" Winthrop had said, in answer to
Garda's remark.
"Do you care much for your poor aunt?" she inquired.
"I care a great deal."
"Then why do you never drive out with her yourself?"
"I do; often."
"I have been here every afternoon for a week, and every afternoon
Margaret has had to leave me, because Mrs. Rutherford sends word that
the phaeton is ready."
"Well, perhaps for the past week--"
"I don't believe you have been for two; I don't believe you have been
for three," pursued the girl. "You are willing to go, probably you
suppose you do go; but in reality it is Margaret, always Margaret. Do
you know what I think?--you do not half appreciate Margaret."
"I am glad at least that you do," Winthrop answered. "Do you prefer that
step to a chair?"
"Yes; for I ought to be going back to the Kirbys, and sitting here is
more like it. Not that I mean to hurry, you know."
"It's pleasant, staying with the Kirbys, isn't it?" said Winthrop. He
was standing on a step below hers, leaning against the side of the house
in the shade.
"No," answered Garda, "it isn't; that is, it isn't so pleasant as
staying at home. I like my own hammock best, and Carlos Mateo is funnier
than any one I know. But by staying in town I can see more of Margaret,
and that is what I care for most; I don't know how I can endure it when
she goes away!"
"You had better persuade her not to go."
"But she must go, unless Mrs. Rutherford should take a fancy to stay,
which is not at all probable; Mrs. Rutherford couldn't get on without
Margaret one day."
"I think you exaggerate somewhat my aunt's dependence upon Mrs. Harold,"
observed Winthrop, after a pause.
"I was waiting to hear you say that. You are all curiously blind. Mrs.
Rutherford is so handsome that I like to be in the same room with her;
but that doesn't keep me from seeing how much has to be done for her
constantly, and in her own particular way, too, from important things
down to the smallest; and that the person who attends to it all, keeps
it all going, is--"
"Minerva Poindexter," suggested Winthrop.
"Is Margaret Harold; I cannot imagine how it is that you do not see it!
But you do not any of you comprehend her--comprehend how unselfish she
