boat. At the mouth of the river the Gildrock was half a dozen lengths
ahead of him, and her crew seemed to be exerting themselves to widen the
distance between the two barges. The boys of the leading boat could see
the other all the time, while the Winooskis could not, for no rower was
allowed to look behind him.
"The Gildrock is half a mile ahead of us!" exclaimed Life Windham, the
stroke oarsman of the Winooski; for the other boat had changed her
course to the southward, and a side glance had enabled him to see her.
"Not so bad as that, Life," replied Dory, with a smile.
"Don't let them beat us, Dory," added Ned Bellows, on the next thwart.
"They have been getting ready to whip us," said Dick Short. "They have
been at work by themselves for the last week."
"They have got about all the older and stouter fellows in the school,
and we must expect that they will beat us sometimes," replied Dory
philosophically. "But we have also been in training, and if they beat us
they have got to work for it."
"But they are beating us!" exclaimed Life, as he got another glance at
the Gildrock. "Matt Randolph has been putting in some extra New York
touches, and it is all up with us."
"Not yet," answered Dory quietly. "We have been taking it easy, and they
have been using their muscle. Wait a little."
By this time every boy in the Winooski was aware that the Gildrock was
running away from them, and the fact vexed and annoyed them. If they
were beaten, even in a "scrub race," Dory would lose a portion of his
popularity. The coxswain watched the other boat, but he did nothing to
increase the speed of the Winooski. Some of the boys in the boat began
to grumble, though conversation was not allowed while rowing.
"No talking in the boat, if you please, fellows," the coxswain
interposed, and the grumbling ceased.
Dory could see that the Gildrocks were straining themselves to run away
from the Winooski. The first class fellows were not so far off that he
could not read the expression of their faces, and see the smiles of
satisfaction with which they regarded their advantage. He permitted them
to enjoy their victory, as they evidently regarded it, until they were
at least twenty-five lengths ahead. Matt Randolph frequently looked
behind him to note the position of his rival.
All at once the oars of the Gildrock ceased to move, but every blade was
in proper position. Then came three rousing cheers from her crew, with a
tiger at the end. This was certainly crowing over the victory: The
Winooskis, except the coxswain, were vexed, and even angry. Some of them
began to grumble again; but Dory laughed, and called for silence in the
boat. The crew obeyed the order, for they had come to believe that Dory
knew what he was about "every time."
His crew soon knew what he was about, for he straightened up his wiry
little frame, and then began to sway it back and forward to regulate the
stroke of the rowers. In a few minutes every muscle was strained up to
its utmost tension. The Winooski began to fly through the water. There
was quite a smart sea on the lake, which Dory took into account, and
humored the boat as it met the waves.
The Gildrocks saw what Dory was doing, and Matt set his crew on the
strain again. At the end of a quarter of an hour the Gildrock was less
than a length ahead. The crew of the first class boat were in a terrible
state of excitement. They could see the other boat, and the effect upon
them was bad when the Winooski began to gain on them. The Gildrocks were
demoralized.
In three minutes more the Winooski had passed the other barge.
"Stand by to toss!" said Dory quietly.
The complimentary salute was given, but the coxswain declined to call
for three cheers.
CHAPTER III.
DORY DORNWOOD ARGUES THE QUESTION.
"How did we do it, Dory?" asked Life Windham, utterly astonished at the
result of the impromptu race, as were all the other members of the crew.
"We did it by minding our own business," replied the coxswain, as much
pleased as though he had won a rich prize.
"Can't we give them three cheers, Dory?" inquired Ben Ludlow.
"No cheers, fellows," replied Dory, shaking his head to emphasize his
decision.
"But the Gildrocks cheered when they got ahead of us," suggested Ben
Ludlow.
"No matter if they did; it was bad taste, and they crowed before they
were out of the woods."
"But I don't understand how it was that we happened to beat them,"
persisted Life Windham. "As you said, they have most of the older and
stouter fellows in their crew."
"They ought to beat us every time," added Ned Bellows.
"Age and strength alone won't make the best rowers," replied Dory
sagely. "Some of the fellows in the other boat are rather heavy and
clumsy, and, without boasting, I believe they have not got the knack of
rowing well yet."
"Do you think we have got the knack, Dory?" asked Phil Gawner.
"I think we have got it better than the fellows in the other boat,
though we have a good deal to learn yet. You have more spring,
elasticity, than the other fellows. But, fellows, we beat them by
discipline. You grumble because I don't want you to talk and look behind
you; but you obeyed orders, and that's what did the business."
"The first class fellows didn't talk or look behind them," said Life.
"They had no occasion to look behind them, for they could see our boat
without," replied the coxswain. "When they saw us gaining on them they
were excited, and in a little while they got demoralized. You couldn't
see them, and you did your very best."
"Matt Randolph is making a speech at them," said Dick Short, laughing.
"He knows why he was beaten, and he is telling his crew about it,"
added Dory.
The coxswain of the Gildrock was certainly talking as though he "meant
business," for his words and his gestures were very earnest. He and Dory
had talked about the subject upon which Matt was at this moment
eloquent. Both agreed that if all the oarsmen could be blindfolded they
would do better in a race. It was the province of discipline to keep
them unmindful of success or defeat.
"Stand by to lay on your oars!" called Dory suddenly, while his crew
were still watching the gesticulations of Matt Randolph.
The crew of the Winooski, who had been pulling very leisurely for some
minutes, gave attention to their officer at once.
"Oars!" added Dory: and, the moment he gave the word, the oars were
levelled at right angles with the length of the boat, with the blades
feathered.
All the crew looked at the coxswain, wondering what was coming, for they
had taken a rest after the Gildrock was beaten, and were not in need of
another. This was the usual position of the crew when the officer had
anything to say, or any announcement to make.
"Now you may look behind you, if you wish," continued Dory, with a
meaning smile.
Every rower believed there was something to be seen, or the permission
would not have been given, and they all availed themselves of the
opportunity.
"The kid-glovers afloat!" shouted Thad Glovering, in the bow.
"Gentility on the wave!" exclaimed Life Windham.
"The dudes in the spray!" added Jim Alburgh.
"The exquisites on a racket!" cried Nat Long.
"Dandies on the brine!" chuckled Ben Ludlow.
"Fresh-water brine," added Dory.
"They are pulling towards Sandy Beach," said Corny Minkfield.
All these sarcastic remarks were called forth by the appearance ahead of
two barges, similar to those belonging to the Beech Hill school. They
were very gaily painted, and, whatever their merits for speed and
ability, they were quite as handsome as the Gildrock and Winooski.
"Twig the uniform!" exclaimed Ned Bellows.
"But that's only a boat uniform," replied Life Windham, who was one of
the incipient rebels. "None of our fellows object to the uniform they
wear on board of the Sylph."
The uniform of the Chesterfields--for there was no doubt as to the
identity of the occupants of the barges--was blue flannel, trimmed with
white. It was very fanciful, and rather a sensational costume.
"I suppose every one of them wears an eyeglass, and has a cane under his
thwart," laughed Phil Gawner.
"And every one parts his hair in the middle, so as to keep the boats on
an even keel," added Lick Milton.
"Anything more?" inquired Dory.
"I wonder if they row in kid gloves," said Ben Ludlow.
The boys seemed to have exhausted their terms applicable to the young
gentlemen of the Collegiate Institute, and a silence followed. There
could be no mistaking the sentiment of the crew of the Winooski. They
were disposed to ridicule and lampoon the young gentlemen without mercy.
Possibly there was some justification or palliation for the
manifestation of this spirit, for the Chesterfields had applied
offensive terms to them on several occasions.
"Now, fellows, I should like to have you hear me for a moment," said
Dory, when the crew appeared to have exhausted their supply of taunts.
"All right, Dory: propel," answered Phil Gawner.
"Those boats seem to be going to Sandy Beach; but that is no reason why
we should not go there also."
"Of course it isn't!" exclaimed Ben Ludlow. "We have as much right at
Sandy Beach as they have, and if they want to prevent us from going
there, there will be music in the air."
"It is not at all likely that they will try to prevent us from going
there," added Dory. "Those fellows claim to be gentlemen, and Colonel
Buckmill claims it for them."
"The proof of the pudding is in eating the bag," said Ben Ludlow.
"This is a baked pudding, and there isn't any bag," returned Dory. "If
those fellows are gentlemen they have made some slips, to put it in the
softest way we can. They have yelled at us, and called us 'tinkers,'
which is not a gentlemanly way to do things."
"That's it; and we will give them some of the same sauce," said Phil
Gawner, with a threatening shake of the head.
"That's the very thing we will not do!" exclaimed Dory, with very heavy
emphasis. "If the Chesterfields behave in an ungentlemanly manner, there
is not the slightest reason why we should do so."
"Do you mean to let them call us names?" demanded Lick Milton, with a
great show of indignation.
"I am not responsible for what they do: only for what I do myself,"
answered the coxswain, with dignity enough for the principal of a high
school.
"But we are not going to shut our mouths and let them insult us,"
protested Ben Ludlow.
"What do you mean by insulting you, Ben?" asked Dory quietly.
"They call us members of the 'Tinkers' Institute;' and that is an insult
to the school to which we belong. For one, I won't stand it!"
"What do you intend to do about it?"
"I mean to pay them back in their own coin."
"Call them dudes, kid-glovers, exquisites, dandies, milksops, and
anything else we can think of," added Ned Bellows.
"Will calling them all these names wipe out the insult?" asked the
dignified coxswain; but it should be said, to his credit, that he was
dignified only when he was discussing great moral questions as the
officer in command of the barge.
"We shall get even with them in that way," answered Ben Ludlow.
"If one of them should steal your watch, Ben, it would make him a
thief--would it not?"
"No doubt of that."
"Then you would steal his watch, and thus get even with him, would you?"
continued Dory, pressing his point with vigor.
"I don't say that I would," replied Ben.
"You would certainly get even with him in that way. I should like to
have you answer the question, Ben."
"I should serve him right if I did steal his watch after he had taken
mine," replied the cornered oarsman.
"That don't answer the question, and, after what you say, I must take it
for granted that you would steal his watch."
"I didn't say I would."
"If you did steal his watch, would you, or would you not be a thief?"
Ben Ludlow did not like to answer this question, and he was silent.
"Of course he would be a thief!" exclaimed Life Windham; and half a
dozen others took this view of the question.
"If the owner of the watch should prosecute you, would the judge decide
that taking the watch was not stealing because the owner of it had
stolen your watch before you did it?"
"Stealing is stealing, of course," answered Ben Ludlow.
"Then you would both be thieves," added Dory clinching his argument.
"There is no getting away from that conclusion," said Ned Bellows; and
the rest of the crew indorsed his opinion.
"I suppose one who calls names is a blackguard. When the students of the
Collegiate Institute call us 'tinkers' 'greasy mechanics' or any other
offensive names, they are blackguards," continued Dory.
"No doubt of that, the blackguards!" exclaimed Dick Short.
"Good! We proceed to call them 'dudes,' 'kid-glovers,' 'exquisites' and
such terms, and straightway we become blackguards also."
"I don't think stealing and hitting back are the same thing," growled
Ben Ludlow, who felt that he was thoroughly beaten in the argument.
"But what makes a thief or a blackguard on one side of the lake makes a
thief or a blackguard on the other side," added Dory.
"Now, fellows, you have just won a victory by holding your tongues and
minding your own business. I want you to obey orders, and win another
victory in the same way."
"All right, Dory; we will obey orders, for you get us through every time
when we do," said Corny Minkfield.
"But I think we ought to give them some if they are saucy to us,"
persisted Ben Ludlow.
"We will give them some--some instruction in gentlemanly behavior if
they need it," replied Dory. "Give way!"
Ben Ludlow raised no farther objection, and the boat went ahead again in
the direction of Sandy Beach.
CHAPTER IV.
THE CHESTERFIELDS HANG OUT THEIR BANNERS.
"Not a fellow will speak without orders," said Dory Dornwood, as the
Winooski approached Sandy Beach.
The coxswain of the barge felt that a great responsibility rested upon
him. He had no doubt the young gentlemen of the Chesterfield Collegiate
Institute would indulge in epithets when they came within hail of the
Beech Hill boat, for they never failed to do it whenever the opportunity
was presented. Matt Randolph was still laying down the law to his crew,
and the Gildrock was not within a mile of the little cove at the head of
which was Sandy Beach.
If the crew of the Winooski retorted, as they were disposed to do, there
would be a war of epithets, and the affair would not be likely to end
without a fight. No one on board questioned the coxswain's pluck. Some
of them called him a "conundrum," because they could not understand him.
Oscar Chester had the reputation of being the greatest fighting
character in the school, though he had earned his name in other fields.
Yet Dory had "knocked him out" in the twinkling of an eye. But the
coxswain always did his best to avoid a quarrel of any sort, and never
bullied or crowded anyone.
Now he would not allow his crew to retaliate upon the Chesterfields,
whatever they said, or however abusive they became. The crew of the
second class boat had never seen a fellow like him. But he had proved
that he was able to take care of himself and of them, and they were
disposed to follow his lead.
The three boats were approaching the cove, the course of the Winooski
being at right angles with that of the Institute boats. They were now
near enough to enable Dory to take the measure of the rival craft, and
their crews. Under the lee of the west shore the water was quite smooth,
so that the Chesterfields had no sea to contend against.
To the experienced eyes of the coxswain of the Winooski it was plain at
a glance that the gentlemanly oarsmen had no skill in rowing, and had
had no proper instruction in the art. A few days' practice enabled them
to pull together; but this was about all that could be said of their
operations. As it was understood on board of the Beech Hill barges,
there was no such thing as discipline in them. The crew were turning and
twisting about on the thwarts, all of them engaged in noisy
conversation.
The Chesterfields were staring with all their eyes at the Winooski, and
their remarks evidently applied to her. They were out for a good time,
and they seemed to be having it. Dory's crew had put themselves on their
good behavior, and not one of them looked to the right or the left, much
less behind him. They pulled a very easy stroke, and they all worked as
though they were parts of the same machine. But those in the other boats
did not seem to be at all impressed by the ease and grace of their
movements.
The three boats came to the mouth of the cove at the same time. The
attention of every student in the Chesterfield boats was directed
towards the Winooski. They were giving more thought to the Beech Hill
craft than to their own.
"Go it, Tinkers," yelled one of them, as the boats came within hailing
distance.
"Put her through, Chip-splitters," shouted another.
"Let her drive, Cog-greasers," yelled a third.
"Shove her along, Shaving-makers," screamed a fourth; and all of them
cried as though they meant to be heard.
The blood of the Beech Hillers boiled in their veins; but when they
looked at the coxswain, and saw a smile upon his face, they repressed
their indignation as well as they could, and tried to be as cool as Dory
Dornwood. The two barges came nearer, and the offensive epithets were
repeated, with many new ones added. Still Dory Dornwood smiled serenely
in the consciousness that he and his companions had not yet become
blackguards.
"Stand by to toss!" called the coxswain, while the disagreeable names
were still showered upon them.
Tossing the oars is a complimentary naval salute; and Dory was
determined to treat the young gentlemen of the Collegiate Institute
politely, whether they deserved it or not. Probably the crew of the
Winooski did not relish this idea of "turning the other cheek also," but
they had promised to obey orders, and they meant to do it this time, if
it killed them.
"Toss!" added Dory, at the proper time; and the twelve oars went into
the air as though the oarsmen were in love with the Chesterfields.
"The Greasers are showing off!" exclaimed some one in the leading barge.
"Set them up again!" cried another.
"Let fall!" said Dory, giving no heed to the shouts.
The oars dropped into the water all as one, and Dory added the order to
give way.
"They don't understand the salute," said the coxswain, as the boys
resumed their stroke with as much precision as though there had been
nothing to divert their attention.
The steady pulling on board of the Winooski set her into the cove some
distance ahead of the two barges, and by this time the crew could see
the occupants of the other craft without breaking the rule. When they
saw the awkward rowing of the Chesterfields, they could hardly repress
their mirth, but they succeeded in confining it to smiles, in some cases
exaggerated into broad grins, but not one of them uttered the shouts of
derision that were at the ends of their tongues.
On the bow of the leading boat Dory saw the name Dasher, and a glance at
the other showed that she was the Racer. As these names had no doubt
been selected by the gentlemanly students themselves,--for Colonel
Buckmill would certainly have chosen classic appellations,--they
conveyed some idea of the boating views of their crews. Racer was
suggestive of trials of speed, and they would not have been boys if they
had not desired and expected to beat something. Dasher was hardly less
suggestive, and perhaps took in the additional idea of breaking
something.
The Dashers and the Racers had given so much attention to the Winooski
that they lost sight of their own beautiful craft; and they began to
"catch crabs," punch each other with the handles of the oars, and allow
things generally to fall out of joint, so that they were soon in a sweet
snarl. The crew of the Winooski were on the very point of breaking out
into a roar of derision, for the sight was too much for them.
"Steady, fellows," said Dory, in a mild tone. "Keep her just as she is."
The words restored the crew to their self-possession, and they
straightened their faces with a hard struggle. The coxswain of the
Dasher spoke a few sharp words to his crew, and restored order in his
boat.
"I say, Greasers," shouted he, a moment later, making a gesture as if
beckoning to the Winooski.
Dory did not heed the call or the sign.
"Halloo! I say, you fellows from the Tinkers' Institute!" yelled Wash
Barker, coxswain of the Dasher, as his name and style were afterwards
found to be.
The crew of the Winooski still pulled their easy stroke, and Dory took
no notice of the offensive hail.
"I say, you Chip-makers! Are you all deaf? Don't you hear me?" screamed
Wash Barker in a still louder tone.
But Dory would not have heard him if his voice had been an earthquake
while he mixed an epithet into his remark.
"Don't you want to race with us, Tinkers?" called Mad Twinker, the
coxswain of the Racer, which had now come up abreast of the Dasher.
"Steady, fellows," said Dory in a low tone.
"I should like to try a race with those fellows," added Life Windham;
and half a dozen others indorsed the wish.
"It would be no race at all; if we should give them a mile, we could
beat them in going two," replied Dory.
"It will do them good to beat them," suggested Ned Bellows.
"While they call us names I shall have nothing to say or do with them,"
added the coxswain.
"I should like to get even with them in some way," said Ben Ludlow; for,
"though beaten, he could argue still."
"I don't want to get even with them. We are a long way ahead of them in
gentlemanly conduct, and we should have to fall back a long distance to
be even with them," answered the coxswain.
This remark satisfied most of the crew, and was even comforting to Ben
Ludlow. The Chesterfields continued to yell at the Winooski, exercising
their inventing powers in inventing new terms of derision to apply to
the Beech Hill students. Dory maintained his policy of silence to the
end, and very likely the collegiate gentlemen thought they were treated
with contempt.
The Winooski ran up to the beach at the head of the cove, and her crew
landed. The Gildrock was not yet in sight, and it was apparent that Matt
Randolph was taking his defeat very much to heart, and was training his
crew. The second class boat was carefully secured, and in a few minutes
more the crew were swimming at some distance from the shore, for they
had to go out at least ten rods to find water that was over their heads.
The boys were enthusiastic in this recreation, as they were in the
boats, and they soon forgot the scenes in which the Chesterfields had
taken part. They had received plenty of instruction in swimming, and
what they needed now was abundant practice. But by this time there was
not a single one of them who could not sustain himself and make fair
progress in the deep water.
The Dasher and the Racer had also run to the beach, and their crews had
landed. Dory supposed they were going into the water, and he hardly gave
a thought to them. For a time they gathered in knots on the shore, and
seemed to be busy talking together. Then they began to walk about, and
extended their ramble to a considerable distance. They did not go into
the water, and at the end of half an hour they embarked in their boats
and pulled out of the cove.
But they did not go a great way. At the entrance to the cove, half a
mile distant, they lay upon their oars. Thus far the Winooskis had been
so busy with their sports in the water that they hardly heeded the
Chesterfields. The young gentlemen had departed, and the skirmishing
for that day appeared to be at an end.
"What are those fellows about?" shouted Corny Minkfield, when the
operations of the Chesterfields attracted his attention.
Every member of the Winooski's crew glanced in the direction from which
the two barges had been last seen. The boats were at rest at the
entrance of the cove; but their crews were not laying on their oars.
Each one of them had raised something like a flag or a rag on his blade.
They were all yelling like maniacs, and flaunting these banners in the
air. The Winooskis swam to shallow water, and stood upon their feet. It
was time to go out, and they went ashore.
The Chesterfields had stolen their clothes; and these garments were the
banners they flaunted.
CHAPTER V.
JUST BEFORE THE BATTLE.
"They have stolen our clothes!" shouted Ben Ludlow, who was the first to
discover the mischief that had been done.
"Shall we steal theirs if we can get hold of them?" asked Dory.
"We can't get hold of them," replied Ben, who was not disposed to renew
the former discussion.
"Perhaps we can; we know where they are, and all we have to do is to go
and take them," added the coxswain, with a smile and a shrug of the
shoulders.
"But the fellows have them on," Ben objected.
"That has nothing to do with the right and wrong of the question,"
continued Dory.
"I think we had better get back our own clothes before we talk of
stealing theirs," said Ben. "I am cold now I have come out of the water,
and I want my shirt and trousers."
"We are all in the same pickle," laughed Dory, as he glanced at the
boats of the Chesterfields.
The collegiate gentlemen seemed to be afraid the Beech Hillers would
not know what had become of their garments, and they were flaunting them
in the air as a matter of information to their rivals. And they seemed
to be enjoying the situation hugely, and the shouts of derision and the
roars of laughter came across the waters thick enough to stir up all the
bad blood in the veins of the Winooskis.
"We are in a pretty fix," exclaimed Phil Gawner, as he extended his arms
as an athlete would exhibit his muscles.
The principal required every student to wear trunks when he bathed, and
was very strict in enforcing the rule. When the second class came out of
the water, they were certainly in uniform, though it was rather unique
in style. It was a cool day, and cooler on the shore than it was in the
water. Most of the boys began to shiver as they stood on the beach, and
the situation was very uncomfortable as well as very annoying, so far as
the proprieties of society were concerned.
"I shall freeze to death," said Lick Milton, his teeth chattering like
those of a person with the ague.
"So shall I! And we shall all catch our death of cold," added Jim
Alburgh.
"I have one cold now, and I shall have another on top of it," shivered
Corny Minkfield.
"All the crew in the boat!" shouted Dory, with a vim that showed he was
determined to do something.
"All aboard!" cried half a dozen others, as they tumbled into the barge.
Half the crew were required to shove her off before they took their
places; but in a minute they were all afloat, wondering what the brisk
coxswain intended to do.
"We can get warm if we can't do anything else," said Dory, as he took
the tiller lines in his hands, "Up oars! Shove off! Let fall! Give way!"
The last order was given when the boat had been shoved clear of the
sands of the beach, and had come about so that it was headed out into
the lake.
The unclothed rowers bent to their oars, and the Winooski began to spin
through the water. The exercise was in the highest degree exhilarating
under the circumstances. Dory had the worst of it for he had no oar to
pull; but he swayed his body with more than usual vigor, and the wind of
the crew was not likely to last a great while under the rapid movements
required of them.
The coxswain shook up his frame and muscles all he could, and he soon
ceased to shiver. A couple of minutes were enough to send a glow through
the veins of the rowers, and they were soon as warm as though they had
been clothed in their overcoats.
The Dasher and the Racer continued to flaunt their banners in the air,
and to send their shouts of derision over the water, until the Winooski
had reached her highest speed. Very likely Wash Barker and Mad Twinker
had some idea of the rapidity with which the Beech Hill barge was
approaching them. At any rate they hauled down their banners, and got
their oars into the water.
In spite of their present semi-nude condition, the Winooskis were still
under the influence of the usual discipline, and they did not attempt to
look behind them, or otherwise to inquire into the movements of the
Chesterfields. But the coxswain knew that the curiosity of a boy is
almost as strong as his love of fun, and he was in the habit of giving
his companions all the information that would interest them.
"The Chesterfields have taken down the clothes and are pulling with all
their might to keep out of our reach," said he, when he was warm enough
to use his organs of speech without stammering.
"That is not saying much," replied Life Windham.
"We shall overhaul them in about three minutes," added Dory.
"What then, Dory?" asked Ben Ludlow, but his wind was so nearly gone
that he could hardly speak.
"I don't know, that depends," answered the coxswain.
"If they don't choose to give us back our clothes, I don't see that we
can do anything," said Life Windham.
"Perhaps we can, we will see."
But Dory was very anxious in regard to the situation, and he found it
very difficult to decide what to do. True to his antecedents, he wished
to avoid a quarrel, or even a dispute, with the members of the
Collegiate Institute. If he went near them there was sure to be trouble;
but it would be impossible to recover the clothes without approaching
them.
There were only two courses open to him: one was to return to Beech Hill
with his naked crew, and the other was to confront the Chesterfields;
and a meeting might result in their being obliged to go back to the
