"I said 'Yes, Joe,' and then--well, never mind that bit;--we were
married in June, and I spun and wove my wedding things afterward.
Dreadful slack, my mother thought, but I didn't care. My wedding gown
was white lutestring, full trimmed with old lace. Hair over a cushion
with white roses, and the pearl necklace, just as you see up there. Joe
wore his uniform, and I tied up his hair with a white satin ribbon. He
looked beautiful,--and so did I."
At this artless bit of vanity, the girls smiled, but all agreed that
grandma was right, as they looked at the portraits with fresh interest.
"I call that a pretty good story," said Walt, with the air of an
accomplished critic.
"'Specially the wolf part. I wanted that longer," added Geoff.
"It was quite long enough for me, my dear, and I didn't hear the last of
it for years. Why, one of my wedding presents was four hams done up
elegantly in white paper, with posies on 'em, from the Major. He loved a
joke, and never forgot how well we fought with the pigs' legs that
night. Joe gave me a new sleigh, the next Christmas, with two wolf-skin
robes for it,--shot the beasts himself, and I kept those rugs till the
moths ate the last bit. He kept the leavings of my slippers, and I have
them still. Fetch 'em, Minnie--you know where they are."
Grandma pointed to the tall secretary that stood in a corner, and Minnie
quickly took a box from one of the many drawers. All the heads clustered
around grandma, and the faded, ragged shoes went from hand to hand,
while questions rained upon the story-teller till she bade them go to
bed.
Nothing but the promise of more tales would appease them; then, with
thanks and kisses, the young folks trooped away, leaving the old lady to
put the little wheel to rights, and sit thinking over her girlhood, in
the fire-light.
[Illustration]
TABBY'S TABLE CLOTH
The storm kept on all night, and next morning the drifts were higher,
the wind stronger, and the snow falling faster than ever. Through the
day the children roved about the great house, amusing themselves as best
they could; and, when evening came, they gathered around the fire again,
eager for the promised story from grandmamma.
"I've a little cold," said the old lady, "and am too hoarse for talking,
my dears; but Aunt Elinor has looked up a parcel of old tales that I've
told her at different times and which she has written down. You will
like to hear her reading better than my dull way of telling them, and I
can help Minnie and Lotty with their work, for I see they are bent on
learning to spin."
The young folk were well pleased with grandma's proposal; for Aunt Nell
was a favorite with all, being lively and kind and fond of children, and
the only maiden aunt in the family. Now, she smilingly produced a faded
old portfolio, and, turning over a little pile of manuscripts, said in
her pleasant way:--
"Here are all sorts, picked up in my travels at home and abroad; and in
order to suit all of you, I have put the names on slips of paper into
this basket, and each can draw one in turn. Does that please my
distinguished audience?"
"Yes, yes. Geoff's the oldest, let him draw first," cried the flock,
fluttering like a flight of birds before they settle.
"Girls come first," answered the boy, with a nod toward the eldest girl
cousin.
Lotty put in her hand and, after some fumbling, drew out a paper on
which was written, "Tabby's Table-cloth." "Is that a good one?" she
asked, for Geoff looked disappointed.
"More fighting, though a girl is still the heroine," answered Aunt Nell,
searching for the manuscript.
"I think two revolutions will be enough for you, General," added
grandmamma, laughing.
"Do we beat in both?" asked the boy, brightening up at once.
"Yes."
"All right, then. I vote for 'Dolly's Dish-cloth,' or whatever it is;
though I don't see what it can possibly have to do with war," he added.
"Ah, my dear, women have their part to play as well as men at such
times, and do it bravely, though one does not hear so much about their
courage. I've often wished some one would collect all that can be found
about these neglected heroines, and put it in a book for us to read,
admire, and emulate when our turn comes."
Grandma looked thoughtfully at the fire as she spoke, and Lotty said,
with her eye on the portfolio: "Perhaps Aunt Nell will do it for us.
Then history won't be so dry, and we can glorify our fore-mothers as
well as fathers."
"I'll see what I can find. Now spin away, Minnie, and sit still,
boys,--if you can."
Then, having settled grandma's foot-stool, and turned up the lamp, Aunt
Nell read the tale of
                        TABBY'S TABLE-CLOTH.
On the 20th day of March, 1775, a little girl was trudging along a
country road, with a basket of eggs on her arm. She seemed in a great
hurry, and looked anxiously about her as she went; for those were
stirring times, and Tabitha Tarbell lived in a town that took a famous
part in the Revolution. She was a rosy-faced, bright-eyed lass of
fourteen, full of vigor, courage, and patriotism, and just then much
excited by the frequent rumors which reached Concord that the British
were coming to destroy the stores sent there for safe keeping while the
enemy occupied Boston. Tabby glowed with wrath at the idea, and
(metaphorically speaking) shook her fist at august King George, being a
stanch little Rebel, ready to fight and die for her country rather than
submit to tyranny of any kind.
In nearly every house something valuable was hidden. Colonel Barrett had
six barrels of powder; Ebenezer Hubbard, sixty-eight barrels of flour;
axes, tents, and spades were at Daniel Cray's; and Captain David Brown
had guns, cartridges, and musket balls. Cannon were hidden in the woods;
fire-arms were being manufactured at Barrett's Mills; cartouch-boxes,
belts, and holsters, at Reuben Brown's; saltpetre at Josiah Melvin's;
and much oatmeal was prepared at Captain Timothy Wheeler's. A morning
gun was fired, a guard of ten men patrolled the town at night, and the
brave farmers were making ready for what they felt must come.
There were Tories in the town who gave the enemy all the information
they could gather; therefore much caution was necessary in making plans,
lest these enemies should betray them. Pass-words were adopted, secret
signals used, and messages sent from house to house in all sorts of
queer ways. Such a message lay hidden under the eggs in Tabby's basket,
and the brave little girl was going on an important errand from her
uncle, Captain David Brown, to Deacon Cyrus Hosmer, who lived at the
other end of the town, by the South Bridge. She had been employed
several times before in the same way, and had proved herself
quick-witted, stout-hearted, and light-footed. Now, as she trotted along
in her scarlet cloak and hood, she was wishing she could still further
distinguish herself by some great act of heroism; for good Parson
Emerson had patted her on the head and said, "Well done, child!" when he
heard how she ran all the way to Captain Barrett's, in the night, to
warn him that Doctor Lee, the Tory, had been detected sending
information of certain secret plans to the enemy.
"I would do more than that, though it was a fearsome run through the
dark woods. Wouldn't those two like to know all I know about the
stores? But I wouldn't tell 'em, not if they drove a bayonet through me.
I'm not afeard of 'em;" and Tabby tossed her head defiantly, as she
paused to shift her basket from one arm to the other.
But she evidently was "afeard" of something, for her ruddy cheeks turned
pale and her heart gave a thump, as two men came in sight, and stopped
suddenly on seeing her. They were strangers; and though nothing in their
dress indicated it, the girl's quick eye saw that they were soldiers;
step and carriage betrayed it, and the rapidity with which these martial
gentlemen changed into quiet travellers roused her suspicions at once.
They exchanged a few whispered words; then they came on, swinging their
stout sticks, one whistling, the other keeping a keen lookout along the
lonely road before and behind them.
"My pretty lass, can you tell me where Mr. Daniel Bliss lives?" asked
the younger, with a smile and a salute.
Tabby was sure now that they were British; for the voice was deep and
full, the face a ruddy English face, and the man they wanted was a
well-known Tory. But she showed no sign of alarm, beyond the modest
color in her cheeks, and answered civilly: "Yes, sir, over yonder a
piece."
"Thanks, and a kiss for that," said the young man, stooping to bestow
his gift. But he got a smart box on the ear, and Tabby ran off in a fury
of indignation.
With a laugh they went on, never dreaming that the little Rebel was
going to turn spy herself, and get the better of them. She hurried away
to Deacon Hosmer's, and did her errand, adding thereto the news that
strangers were in town. "We must know more of them," said the Deacon.
"Clap a different suit on her, wife, and send her with the eggs to Mrs.
Bliss. We have all we want of them, and Tabby can look well about her,
while she rests and gossips over there. Bliss must be looked after
smartly, for he is a knave, and will do us harm."
Away went Tabby in a blue cloak and hood, much pleased with her mission;
and, coming to the Tory's house about noon, smelt afar off a savory odor
of roasting meat and baking pies.
Stepping softly to the back-door, she peeped through a small window, and
saw Mrs. Bliss and her handmaid cooking away in the big kitchen, too
busy to heed the little spy, who slipped around to the front of the
house, to take a general survey before she went in. All she saw
confirmed her suspicions; for in the keeping-room a table was set forth
in great style, with the silver tankards, best china, and the fine
damask table-cloth, which the housewife kept for holidays. Still another
peep through the lilac bushes before the parlor windows showed her the
two strangers closeted with Mr. Bliss, all talking earnestly, but in too
low a tone for a word to reach even her sharp ears.
"I will know what they are at. I'm sure it is mischief, and I won't go
back with only my walk for my pains," thought Tabby; and marching into
the kitchen, she presented her eggs with a civil message from Madam
Hosmer.
"They are mighty welcome, child. I've used a sight for my custards, and
need more for the flip. We've company to dinner unexpected, and I'm much
put about," said Mrs. Bliss, who seemed to be concerned about something
besides the dinner, and in her flurry forgot to be surprised at the
unusual gift; for the neighbors shunned them, and the poor woman had
many anxieties on her husband's account, the family being divided,--one
brother a Tory, and one a Rebel.
"Can I help, ma'am? I'm a master hand at beating eggs, Aunt Hitty says.
I'm tired, and wouldn't mind sitting a bit if I'm not in the way," said
Tabby, bound to discover something more before she left.
"But you be in the way. We don't want any help, so you'd better be
steppin' along home, else suthin' besides eggs may git whipped.
Tale-bearers ain't welcome here," said old Puah, the maid, a sour
spinster, who sympathized with her master, and openly declared she hoped
the British would put down the Yankee Rebels soon and sharply.
Mrs. Bliss was in the pantry, and heard nothing of this little passage
of arms; for Tabby hotly resented the epithet of "tale-bearer," though
she knew that the men in the parlor were not the only spies on the
premises.
"When you are all drummed out of town and this house burnt to the
ground, you may be glad of my help, and I wish you may get it. Good-day,
old crab-apple," answered saucy Tabby; and catching up her basket, she
marched out of the kitchen with her nose in the air.
But as she passed the front of the house, she could not resist another
look at the fine dinner-table; for in those days few had time or heart
for feasting, and the best napery and china seldom appeared. One window
stood open, and as the girl leaned in, something moved under the long
cloth that swept the floor. It was not the wind, for the March day was
still and sunny, and in a minute out popped a gray cat's head, and puss
came purring to meet the new-comer whose step had roused her from a nap.
"Where one tabby hides, another can. Can I dare to do it? What would
become of me if found out? How wonderful it would be if I could hear
what these men are plotting. I will!"
A sound in the next room decided her; and, thrusting the basket among
the bushes, she leaped lightly in and vanished under the table, leaving
puss calmly washing her face on the window-sill.
As soon as it was done Tabby's heart began to flutter; but it was too
late to retreat, for at that moment in bustled Mrs. Bliss, and the poor
girl could only make herself as small as possible, quite hidden under
the long folds that fell on all sides from the wide, old-fashioned
table. She discovered nothing from the women's chat, for it ran on
sage-cheese, egg-nog, roast pork, and lamentations over a burnt pie. By
the time dinner was served, and the guests called in to eat it, Tabby
was calm enough to have all her wits about her, and pride gave her
courage to be ready for the consequences, whatever they might be.
For a time the hungry gentlemen were too busy eating to talk much; but
when Mrs. Bliss went out, and the flip came in, they were ready for
business. The window was shut, whereat Tabby exulted that she was
inside; the talkers drew closer together, and spoke so low that she
could only catch a sentence now and then, which caused her to pull her
hair with vexation; and they swore a good deal, to the great horror of
the pious little maiden curled up at their feet. But she heard enough to
prove that she was right; for these men were Captain Brown and Ensign De
Bernicre, of the British army, come to learn where the supplies were
stored and how well the town was defended. She heard Mr. Bliss tell them
that some of the "Rebels," as he called his neighbors, had sent him word
that he should not leave the town alive, and he was in much fear for his
life and property. She heard the Englishmen tell him that if he came
with them they would protect him; for they were armed, and three of them
together could surely get safely off, as no one knew the strangers had
arrived but the slip of a girl who showed them the way. Here "the slip
of a girl" nodded her head savagely, and hoped the speaker's ear still
tingled with the buffet she gave it.
Mr. Bliss gladly consented to this plan, and told them he would show
them the road to Lexington, which was a shorter way to Boston than
through Weston and Sudbury, the road they came.
"These people won't fight, will they?" asked Ensign De Bernicre.
"There goes a man who will fight you to the death," answered Mr. Bliss,
pointing to his brother Tom, busy in a distant field.
The Ensign swore again, and gave a stamp that brought his heavy heel
down on poor Tabby's hand, as she leaned forward to catch every word.
The cruel blow nearly forced a cry from her; but she bit her lips and
never stirred, though faint with pain. When she could listen again, Mr.
Bliss was telling all he knew about the hiding places of the powder,
grain, and cannon the enemy wished to capture and destroy. He could not
tell much, for the secrets had been well kept; but if he had known that
our young Rebel was taking notes of his words under his own table, he
might have been less ready to betray his neighbors. No one suspected a
listener, however, and all Tabby could do was to scowl at three pairs of
muddy boots, and wish she were a man that she might fight the wearers of
them.
She very nearly had a chance to fight or fly; for just as they were
preparing to leave the table, a sudden sneeze nearly undid her. She
thought she was lost, and hid her face, expecting to be dragged out--to
instant death, perhaps--by the wrathful men of war.
"What's that?" exclaimed the Ensign, as a sudden pause followed that
fatal sound.
"It came from under the table," added Captain Brown, and a hand lifted a
corner of the cloth.
A shiver went through Tabby, and she held her breath, with her eye upon
that big, brown hand; but the next moment she could have laughed with
joy, for pussy saved her. The cat had come to doze on her warm skirts,
and when the cloth was raised, fancying she was to be fed by her master,
puss rose and walked out purring loudly, tail erect, with its white tip
waving like a flag of truce.
"'Tis but the old cat, gentlemen. A good beast, and, fortunately for us,
unable to report our conference," said Mr. Bliss, with an air of relief,
for he had started guiltily at the bare idea of an eavesdropper.
"She sneezed as if she were as great a snuff-taker as an old woman of
whom we asked our way above here," laughed the Ensign, as they all rose.
"And there she is now, coming along as if our grenadiers were after
her!" exclaimed the Captain, as the sound of steps and a wailing voice
came nearer and nearer.
Tabby took a long breath, and vowed that she would beg or buy the dear
old cat that had saved her from destruction. Then she forgot her own
danger in listening to the poor woman, who came in crying that her
neighbors said she must leave town at once, or they would tar and
feather her for showing spies the road to a Tory's house.
"Well for me I came and heard their plots, or I might be sent off in
like case," thought the girl, feeling that the more perils she
encountered, the greater heroine she would be.
Mr. Bliss comforted the old soul, bidding her stay there till the
neighbors forgot her, and the officers gave her some money to pay for
the costly service she had done them. Then they left the room, and after
some delay the three men set off; but Tabby was compelled to stay in her
hiding-place till the table was cleared, and the women deep in gossip,
as they washed dishes in the kitchen. Then the little spy crept out
softly, and raising the window with great care, ran away as fast as her
stiff limbs would carry her.
By the time she reached the Deacon's, however, and told her tale, the
Tories were well on their way, Mr. Bliss having provided them with
horses that his own flight might be the speedier.
So they escaped; but the warning was given, and Tabby received great
praise for her hour under the table. The town's-people hastened their
preparations, and had time to remove the most valuable stores to
neighboring towns; to mount their cannon and drill their minute-men; for
these resolute farmers meant to resist oppression, and the world knows
how well they did it when the hour came.
Such an early spring had not been known for years; and by the 19th of
April fruit trees were in bloom, winter grain was up, and the stately
elms that fringed the river and overarched the village streets were
budding fast. It seemed a pity that such a lovely world should be
disturbed by strife; but liberty was dearer than prosperity or peace,
and the people leaped from their beds when young Dr. Prescott came,
riding for his life, with the message Paul Revere brought from Boston in
the night:--
"Arm! arm! the British are coming!"
Like an electric spark the news ran from house to house, and men made
ready to fight, while the brave women bade them go, and did their best
to guard the treasure confided to their keeping. A little later, word
came that the British were at Lexington, and blood had been shed. Then
the farmers shouldered their guns, with few words but stern faces, and
by sunrise a hundred men stood ready, with good Parson Emerson at their
head. More men were coming in from the neighboring towns, and all felt
that the hour had arrived when patience ceased to be a virtue and
rebellion was just.
Great was the excitement everywhere; but at Captain David Brown's one
little heart beat high with hope and fear, as Tabby stood at the door,
looking across the river to the town, where drums were beating, bells
ringing, and people hurrying to and fro.
"I can't fight, but I must see," she said; and catching up her cloak,
she ran over the North Bridge, promising her aunt to return and bring
her word as soon as the enemy appeared.
"What news? Are they coming?" called the people, from the Manse and the
few houses that then stood along that road. But Tabby could only shake
her head and run the faster, in her eagerness to see what was happening
on that memorable day. When she reached the middle of the town she found
that the little company had gone along the Lexington road to meet the
enemy. Nothing daunted, she hurried in that direction and, climbing a
high bank, waited to catch a glimpse of the British grenadiers, of whom
she had heard so much.
About seven o'clock they came, the sun glittering on the arms of eight
hundred English soldiers marching toward the hundred stout-hearted
farmers, who waited till they were within a few rods of them.
"Let us stand our ground; and if we die, let us die here," said brave
Parson Emerson, still among his people, ready for anything but
surrender.
"Nay," said a cautious Lincoln man, "it will not do for us to begin
the war."
So they reluctantly fell back to the town, the British following slowly,
being weary with their seven-mile march over the hills from Lexington.
Coming to a little brown house perched on the hillside, one of the
thirsty officers spied a well, with the bucket swinging at the end of
the long pole. Running up the bank, he was about to drink, when a girl,
who was crouching behind the well, sprang up, and with an energetic
gesture, flung the water in his face, crying:--
"That's the way we serve spies!"
Before Ensign De Bernicre--for it was he, acting as guide to the
enemy--could clear his eyes and dry his drenched face, Tabby was gone
over the hill with a laugh and a defiant gesture toward the red-coats
below.
In high feather at this exploit, she darted about the town, watching the
British at their work of destruction. They cut down and burnt the
liberty pole, broke open sixty barrels of flour, flung five hundred
pounds of balls into the mill-pond and wells, and set the court-house on
fire. Other parties were ordered to different quarters of the town to
ransack houses and destroy all the stores they found. Captain Parsons
was sent to take possession of the North Bridge, and De Bernicre led the
way, for he had taken notes on his former visit, and was a good guide.
As they marched, a little scarlet figure went flying on before them, and
vanished at the turn of the road. It was Tabby hastening home to warn
her aunt.
"Quick child, whip on this gown and cap and hurry into bed. These prying
fellows will surely have pity on a sick girl, and respect this room if
no other," said Mrs. Brown, briskly helping Tabby into a short
night-gown and round cap, and tucking her well up when she was laid
down, for between the plump feather-beds were hidden many muskets, the
most precious of their stores. This had been planned beforehand, and
Tabby was glad to rest and tell her tale while Aunty Brown put physic
bottles and glasses on the table, set some evil-smelling herbs to simmer
on the hearth, and, compromising with her conscience, concocted a nice
little story to tell the invaders.
Presently they came, and it was well for Tabby that the ensign remained
below to guard the doors while the men ransacked the house from garret
to cellar; for he might have recognized the saucy girl who had twice
maltreated him.
"These are feathers; lift the covers carefully or you'll be half
smothered, they fly about so," said Mrs. Brown, as the men came to some
casks of cartridges and flints, which she had artfully ripped up several
pillows to conceal.
Quite deceived, the men gladly passed on, leaving the very things they
most wanted to destroy. Coming to the bed-room, where more treasures of
the same valuable sort were hidden in various nooks and corners, the
dame held up her finger, saying, with an anxious glance toward Tabby:--
"Step softly, please. You wouldn't harm a poor, sick girl. The doctor
thinks it is small-pox, and a fright might kill her. I keep the chamber
as fresh as I can with yarbs, so I guess there isn't much danger of
catching it."
The men reluctantly looked in, saw a flushed face on the pillow (for
Tabby was red with running, and her black eyes wild with excitement),
took a sniff at the wormwood and motherwort, and with a hasty glance
into a closet or two where sundry clothes concealed hidden doors,
hastily retired to report the danger and get away as soon as possible.
They would have been much disgusted at the trick played upon them if
they had seen the sick girl fly out of bed and dance a jig of joy as
they tramped away to Barrett's Mills. But soon Tabby had no heart for
merriment, as she watched the minute-men gather by the bridge, saw the
British march down on the other side, and when their first volley killed
brave Isaac Davis and Abner Hosmer, of Acton, she heard Major Buttrick
give the order, "Fire, fellow-soldiers; for God's sake, fire!"
For a little while shots rang, smoke rose, shouts were heard, and red
and blue coats mingled in the struggle on the bridge. Then the British
fell back, leaving two dead soldiers behind them. These were buried
where they fell; and the bodies of the Acton men were sent home to their
poor wives, Concord's first martyrs for liberty.
No need to tell more of the story of that day; all children know it, and
many have made a pilgrimage to see the old monument set up where the
English fell, and the bronze Minute-Man, standing on his granite
pedestal to mark the spot where the brave Concord farmers fired the shot
that made the old North Bridge immortal.
We must follow Tabby, and tell how she got her table-cloth. When the
fight was over, the dead buried, the wounded cared for, and the
prisoners exchanged, the Tories were punished. Dr. Lee was confined to
his own farm, on penalty of being shot if he left it, and the property
of Daniel Bliss was confiscated by government. Some things were sold at
auction, and Captain Brown bought the fine cloth and gave it to Tabby,
saying heartily:--
"There, my girl, that belongs to you, and you may well be proud of it;
for, thanks to your quick wits and eyes and ears, we were not taken
unawares, but sent the red-coats back faster than they came."
And Tabby was proud of it, keeping it carefully, displaying it with
immense satisfaction whenever she told the story, and spinning busily to
make a set of napkins to go with it. It covered the table when her
wedding supper was spread, was used at the christening of her first boy,
and for many a Thanksgiving and Christmas dinner through the happy years
of her married life.
Then it was preserved by her daughters, as a relic of their mother's
youth, and long after the old woman was gone, the well-worn cloth still
appeared on great occasions, till it grew too thin for anything but
careful keeping, to illustrate the story so proudly told by the
grandchildren, who found it hard to believe that the feeble old lady of
ninety could be the lively lass who played her little part in the
Revolution with such spirit.
In 1861, Tabby's table-cloth saw another war, and made an honorable end.
When men were called for, Concord responded "Here!" and sent a goodly
number, led by another brave Colonel Prescott. Barretts, Hosmers,
Melvins, Browns, and Wheelers stood shoulder to shoulder, as their
grandfathers stood that day to meet the British by the bridge. Mothers
said, "Go my son," as bravely as before, and sisters and sweethearts
smiled with wet eyes as the boys in blue marched away again, cheered on
by another noble Emerson. More than one of Tabby's descendants went,
some to fight, some to nurse; and for four long years the old town
worked and waited, hoped and prayed, burying the dear dead boys sent
home, nursing those who brought back honorable wounds, and sending more
to man the breaches made by the awful battles that filled both North and
South with a wilderness of graves.
The women knit and sewed Sundays as well as weekdays, to supply the call
for clothes; the men emptied their pockets freely, glad to give; and the
minister, after preaching like a Christian soldier, took off his coat
and packed boxes of comforts like a tender father.
"More lint and bandages called for, and I do believe we've torn and
picked up every old rag in the town," said one busy lady to another, as
several sat together making comfort-bags in the third year of the long
struggle.
"I have cleared my garret of nearly everything in it, and only wish I
had more to give," answered one of the patriotic Barrett mothers.
"We can't buy anything so soft and good as worn out sheets and
table-cloths. New ones wont do, or I'd cut up every one of mine," said a
newly married Wheeler, sewing for dear life, as she remembered the many
cousins gone to the war.
"I think I shall have to give our Revolutionary table-cloth. It's old
enough, and soft as silk, and I'm sure my blessed grandmother would
think that it couldn't make a better end," spoke up white-headed Madam
Hubbard; for Tabby Tarbell had married one of that numerous and worthy
race.
"Oh, you wouldn't cut up that famous cloth, would you?" cried the
younger woman.
"Yes, I will. It's in rags, and when I'm gone no one will care for it.
Folks don't seem to remember what the women did in those days, so it's
no use keeping relics of 'em," answered the old lady, who would have
owned herself mistaken if she could have looked forward to 1876, when
the town celebrated its centennial, and proudly exhibited the little
scissors with which Mrs. Barrett cut paper for cartridges, among other
ancient trophies of that earlier day.
So the ancient cloth was carefully made into a boxful of the finest lint
and softest squares to lay on wounds, and sent to one of the Concord
women who had gone as a nurse.
"Here's a treasure!" she said, as she came to it among other comforts
newly arrived from home. "Just what I want for my brave Rebel and poor
little Johnny Bullard."
The "brave Rebel" was a Southern man who had fought well and was badly
wounded in many ways, yet never complained; and in the midst of great
suffering was always so courteous, patient, and courageous, that the men
called him "our gentleman," and tried to show how much they respected so
gallant a foe. John Bullard was an English drummer-boy, who had been
through several battles, stoutly drumming away in spite of bullets and
cannon-balls; cheering many a camp-fire with his voice, for he sang like
a blackbird, and was always merry, always plucky, and so great a
favorite in his regiment, that all mourned for "little Johnny" when his
right arm was shot off at Gettysburg. It was thought he would die; but
he pulled through the worst of it, and was slowly struggling back to
health, still trying to be gay, and beginning to chirp feebly now and
then, like a convalescent bird.
"Here, Johnny, is some splendid lint for this poor arm, and some of the
softest compresses for Carrol's wound. He is asleep, so I'll begin with
you, and while I work I'll amuse you with the story of the old
table-cloth this lint came from," said Nurse Hunt, as she stood by the
bed where the thin, white face smiled at her, though the boy dreaded the
hard quarter of an hour he had to endure every day.
"Thanky, mum. We 'aven't 'ad a story for a good bit. I'm 'arty this
mornin', and think I'll be hup by this day week, won't I?"
"I hope so. Now shut your eyes and listen; then you wont mind the
twinges I give you, gentle as I try to be," answered the nurse,
beginning her painful task.
