" She is a very lovely young girl. I do not mean with 
merely a pretty face, but her figure is exquisitely graceful, 
her air quaint and serious, her voice low and trained, her 
manners refined, her intelligence quite up to the average. 
I am not sure but she has some accomplishments." 

" What are the defects? though I cannot see that you 
have left room for any." 

" Poverty for one." 

"But how does she come by all these charms and 
graces ? " There was an amused light in Mrs. Howarth's 
eye. 

" Her mother is a lady." 

" Well, poverty is an accident that befalls many of us. 
There are changes of that kind going on continually. 
And now about the father ? " 

" Her father is worse than dead ; indeed, the only hope 
about him is that he may be dead. For three years or 
more the mother has made her way, with her children to 
care for. The crime society will bring against her is, 
that she is a business woman." 

" Paul Thierry ! As if we were not all outgrowing that ! 
What an absurd idea for you to advance ! " 

"Are we outgrowing it? I am not so sure. Certain 
kinds of accomplishments are allowed the privilege of 
coining money, if they can with no detriment to social 
position. We talk a great deal about making labor re- 
spected, but we do shrink a little from respecting the 
laborer. He seems a useful piece of machinery that we 
can admire as one of the parts of a grand theory, but we 
like best to poise him at a distance. And a woman is made 
to feel the disadvantages more keenly. You are not 
always remembering that an elegant and cultivated man 





of present luxury was once engaged in some inferior em- 
ployment." 

" But — allow me to offset this with one question — are 
your people of inferior employment always cultured and 
refined ? That they often do succeed to wealth I admit." 

"We will premise that they had all at first, as the 
mother of my little artist unquestionably did. Then 
comes bravely borne misfortune. Instead of sinking down 
and drifting about in search of the proper vantage ground, 
she took hold with a firm grasp of the work that came in 
her way, and succeeded." 

" And that was ? — " 

" Millinery ! " 

Mrs. Howarth's level brows rose the least trifle un- 
consciously. 

" She had the taste, the genius for that. She has made 
a home and is educating her children. But I am well 
aware that as a prima donna, a literary woman, or even an 
artist, it would have enhanced her social value. This is 
what I complain of, and it seems to be the weak point of 
the woman and the industrial questions." 

" How does Mrs. Thierry take it? " 

" Ah, you know that Mrs. Thierry is a born aristocrat, 
and that I pay my price for superior civilization" — he 
gave the merest elevation to his shoulders, and a light, 
humorous smile crossed his face. " Mrs. Marshall makes 
Mrs. Thierry look so transcendently lovely in new bon- 
nets that I go near to ruining myself in order to be the 
more deeply captivated. But to Mrs. Thierry the stain 
of labor on white hands is the unpardonable sin — as bad 
as Lady Macbeth's ; and the perfumes of the whole Orient 
cannot wash it out." 

" I wonder you and Marguerite never quarrel," she said, 
with a peculiar smile. 

" Does a man go out and hale his heliotrope bed that it 
has not borne him Jacqueminot roses ? I have a fondness 




for Aeliotrope, and it looks natural growing on its own 
slender green stem. Fancy it on the stalk of a sunflower." 

" So you want me to take up this pretty young artist 
and place her on a higher round than she can reach her- 
self?" 

" She can reach it alone, in the course of time. Still, life 
is too short to waste years in climbing the steep hill of suc- 
cess and resting between every step, as one must, if there 
are no other ways. I am heterodox enough to believe 
that one enjoys many things with the fresh zest of newly 
awakened appetite, but after hunger has ceased, and weari- 
ness taken its place, the keen relish has gone. There is a 
little scorn in the tone, that says, " You might have saved 
me yesterday; to-day I scarcely care for the saltation, — 
I have pitted myself against fate.' I would place her at 
once in art circles and let her fight her way — " 

Mrs. Howarth's face asked a question. 

" Because," he went on, " it would be too cruel to make 
her fight. Ten years from this it would not matter so 
much. And — I do not want her to wait. If I were not 
sure of her success I should hesitate ; or if I were a woman," 
and he laughed, " I could do it myself, but my pearl among 
girls must not have the bloom rubbed rudely away by a 
tint of scandal. See her, my dear friend. You and Stacy 
Van Cleve can surely manage it, and then, if you like her 
not, I shall say no more, but turn her over to fate and her 
own pure courage." 

At this point the conversation was interrupted, and 
Paul Thierry's duties did not allow him to return, though 
occasionally she caught his eye. She knew what her in- 
fluence would be for this young artist. She had taken 
up more than one just at the auspicious moment and floated 
them on to success, but her efforts were not indiscrimi- 
nately used. Indeed there were few who would have 
dared ask such a favor of Mrs. Howarth. 

One and another paused in her vicinity. She was a 





charming talker, fluent, choice, well read without any 
pedantry, and fresh without any strenuous efforts after 
the bizarre or unusual. Her husband came now and then 
and exchanged a few words with her, but he had other 
duties as well. 

" Leonard," she said, in one of the pauses, " I wish you 
would call the carriage and send me home. I am quite 
weary, and my head is aching a little ; but do not disturb 
yourself. I shall feel fresh and rested by the time you are 
at liberty," and she gave him an appreciative little smile. 

" I could go now — " 

" No ; if you begin to fancy me ill, I shall remain to dis- 
prove it." 

" As you choose," he answered, sending out to summon 
the carriage. 

The cool air quite revived her, for it had grown ex- 
tremely warm in the Club parlors. It was but a short 
distance home, and once there her maid assisted her to 
disrobe and don a white cashmere wrapper, soft and 
wraith-like in its delicacy. She seated herself at the 
lower end of the apartment, which overlooked a small 
garden instead of the street, and enjoyed not only the 
faint breeze but the quiet. There was no moon, but a 
throbbing glory of stars seemed crossing the faultless blue 
of the sky. 

Helen Howarth would have finished the trio begun 
with Mrs. Marshall and Mrs. Van Cleve. She had not 
the delicate finished loveliness of the latter, nor the af- 
fluent health and buoyancy of the former ; yet there was 
a sufficient similarity of strong and tender characteristics 
to make them all friends. As Miss Lennox she had never 
been considered really beautiful ; but her fine and noble 
face, her suave and elegant breeding, her position and 
fortune, would have won her the front rank anywhere. 
It was a face harmonized more by expression, though the 
features were not wanting in regularity. They had been 



 

trained to the large, pure, noble view of the great truths 
of life. Evidently she was not a woman given to tem- 
porizing. Right was right, truth was truth ; her clear, keen 
eye penetrated subterfuges and weakness, and disdained 
paltry excuses of irresolution. Poverty would have made 
a hard woman of her, and in a small round she would 
have grown narrow ; but the larger sphere had been hers, 
with abundant means. Two or three fortunes had centered 
in her hands as the last of her branch of the family. But 
with this there had also come a kind of hereditary weak- 
ness; she seldom knew what it was to abound in the 
perfect health that seemed at times to mock her in other 
faces. 

She had gone one day to Mr. Howarth's office on an 
errand in which her sympathies had been strongly en- 
listed, though her whole soul had shrunk in abhorrence. 
A young brother of her seamstress, the idol of his 
widowed mother and sister, had been caught in the toils 
of one of those unscrupulous women who continually 
prey upon society from a vantage ground where they 
demand sympathy for misfortune. Wedded to a man 
much beneath her, who neglected her for haunts of intem- 
perance, she solaced herself with evil admiration, and 
drew from her lovers gifts that ministered to a passionate 
fondness for adornment quite beyond her reach in an hon- 
orable manner ; and they, poor, blind moths, fancied it 
was from their overwhelming sympathy and appreciation, 
rather than a cruel, soulless vanity on her part. She had 
cunningly suggested temptation to Walter Thoresby, and 
to gratify her insatiable desires he had taken an evil step, 
to learn that he was only one of many lured in the same 
dangerous path. Mr. Howarth held in his hands the 
tangled threads without any clue to their right reading, 
and she went with a woman's entreaty to a man strict in 
integrity as herself, but given to mercy. Between them, 
they saved the young soul. 





After that she saw him frequently; but she did not 
guess that he sought these circles for the purpose of 
meeting a large-hearted and large-brained woman, who 
had enfranchised herself from the petty bonds of society, 
while preserving its honored traditions of higher and finer 
life. The sense and presence of repose about her affected 
him like a harmonious strain of music ; the intense appre- 
ciation of the stronger virtues, combined with a clear, 
discriminating judgment and large charity, rendered them 
friends in many a good work. She made it possible for 
him to ask her in marriage ; and if the love was not born 
in passionate devotion it had its rarer, slower charm. 
Neither assumed the other's likes or beliefs, but they 
reached a point of mutual understanding and confidence 
that made marriage a better thing than courtship had 
been. Together they pursued their philanthropies. A 
lovely home, a generous income, fine and cultured taste, 
purity in word and deed, integrity and sincerity were the 
corner-stones. 

To this home, where children would have been abun- 
dantly welcome, none had come. The sore longing in 
her heart was comforted by a husband's tender devo- 
tion, so complete that she was never to know whether 
he too longed in vain. Once she had spoken of adopt- 
ing a child. He had smiled tenderly down in her face 
as he said, with a clear voice in which no pain was 
visible, — 

"My darling, it would disappoint us both, I think. 
You would look for faults and virtues and reminders of a 
fatherhood that could never be there, and I might covet 
graces, strength, fine instincts, and subtile harmonies that 
might not be the birthright of nature. Can we not be 
brave enough to take that larger fatherhood and mother- 
hood, — the world that lies beyond ? We have so much, 
can we not refrain from coveting this in the more gene- 
rous love for those who need and suffer from the lack not 



 

only of material good, but are hungered and athirst for 
spiritual and intellectual sustenance ? " 

They had done this unreservedly. Their beautiful 
home had been opened as a gate of Paradise to many a 
weary soul; not for the merely physical comfort and 
pleasure, though that was large indeed. 

Helen Howarth, with generations of noble blood behind 
her, was a power in society, — the power that a thoroughly 
good and noble woman in a high position and with abun- 
dant means can become. Many there were who fretted a 
little at her fine-drawn distinctions. Men felt instinc- 
tively when they were put aside by that delicate, intan- 
gible something. Women looked more circumspectly to 
their ways, and, while they might chafe, still paid her the 
high deference the world always offers to purity and 
honor. Not that she was narrow or straight-laced, but 
faults and vices shrank away from her clear eyes, certain 
of being discovered in a quiet, but none the less positive 
manner. 

She did, it is true, pay a delicate regard to the conven- 
tional usages of society. The dangerous philosophies of 
freedom and license found no place in her social atmos- 
phere. Scholars and savants there were in abundance; 
hardly a topic of the day remained undiscussed ; but there 
was a certain proud respect always paid to this cultured 
and pure-eyed hostess. Aristocratic, fastidious, and exclu- 
sive she must needs be, belonging to the order she did, and 
with the traditions of the delicate women whose sole liv- 
ing representative she was; but it was no ostentatious 
pride of mere wealth and blue blood. And she had been 
known to stretch out her hand and bridge over a pathway 
for a soul striving to reach some of those serene heights 
on which she sat intrenched. 

She was still sitting by the window, looking much less 
pallid than when she left her husband, as he entered 
the room. 





" So soon?" she said in her subtilely sweet tone. u l 
am afraid you hurried. You had duties," and she smiled. 

" Thierry was to take his train, so we left together, and 
I think I attended pretty well to my share of the work in 
hand. The last of the present season, and I am not sorry ! 
There will be quite a dispersion of the forces in another 
week. Are you too tired to talk a little ? " 

"Oh no," and she looked up with a bright smile. 
There had never been any of the coquetry of love 
between these two, but always a noble and tender frank- 
ness. " Is it about Thierry's little protegee f " 

"He told you — " and Howarth paused thoughtfully. 

" Quite a considerable about her prospects, or rather 
his hopes for her and her mother." 

"He wished us to do something beside buying a pic- 
ture," and a light that was not quite a smile crossed his 
face. 

"Yes," rather slowly, but not with any touch of repug- 
nance. "It was what I wanted to speak about. Sit 
down here," and she drew the chair nearer to hers. 

" Helen," he said with grave sweetness, taking her hand 
in his, " before we discuss the Marshalls, I should like to 
tell you the story of the earlier days. It had no bearing 
one way or the other on my life when I asked you to 
marry me, and as ours was not the jealous passion of 
untrained youth we did not consider it necessary to parade 
dead and gone fancies to mar each other's content. But 
I want you to know now the only other regard I ever had 
for a woman. When my uncle James went to Batavia, I 
took his place in my grandmother's house at Westwater, 
as she was too old to make any change in the home where 
she had spent nearly all her years. I used to visit in sev- 
eral families, and came to know Eleanor Randolph quite 
well. She was something more than a pretty, attractive 
girl. Mrs. Mountjoy was a young and stylish matron 
then, and Mrs. Wilder still a charming society woman. 



 

Eleanor was her niece, and the Wilder mansion was al- 
ways full of delightful young people. It did not seem to 
me that Eleanor had any decided preference for the young 
men who frequented the house, but I did not see her 
often enough to judge correctly. I liked her very much. 
I think now that my mistake was in looking more at the 
woman she might become, than the girl she really was. 
One evening some peculiar attention on the part of one of 
the young men, a Mr. Thomas Marshall, roused me to con- 
sider my feelings towards her, and under a certain stress, 
a fear that if I waited I might lose what I so desired to 
hold, I spoke. To my utter surprise, when she found she 
could not prevent that part of it, she told me frankly that 
she was just engaged to Mr. Marshall. He was of good 
family and had been left an excellent business by his 
father ; indeed," — smiling, — " his prospects at that time 
were much better than mine. He was a gay good fellow, 
extremely winning, and greatly admired, but I could 
not understand his attraction for her. You see she 
looked at herself merely as the young girl she was at 
present, and did not consider .the needs of the future. 
To be honest, I found that I did admire her very much, 
and that it was harder to give her up than I thought. 
After a while she married ; then grandmother died, and I 
went out to uncle James. On my return, years afterward, 
I heard the house of Wilmerding, Marshall, & Co. had 
been compelled to give up business on the death of the 
senior partner, and that Marshall had gone down in the 
world. I was much engrossed with other matters, and I 
had met you ; beside I had been man enough not to dream 
over her when she belonged to another. 

"A little more than three years ago she came into my 
office one morning. Life had gone very hard with her. 
She had resolved upon a separation from her husband 
who had then become a wretched sot. A business had 
been offered to her at which she felt she could make an 





honorable living for herself and her children, and rescue 
them all from the miserable life into which they were 
drifting. She had tried elsewhere to obtain the money, 
and had failed ; but she was so confident of her success if 
she could but compass it. She only asked for a mere 
trifle, six hundred dollars. At the end of the first six 
months she paid me one hundred and the interest, and in 
two years she had paid it all. I can hardly describe to 
you the proud, fine dignity with which she put it on the 
footing of an ordinary business transaction between man 
and man. She made no appeal for sympathy, she used 
none of the pretty womanly arts of the sex when in dis- 
tress, and though I inquired about her children she said 
very little except to bespeak my interest in her boy if he 
should need it as he grew older. The two years of com- 
parative prosperity had changed her immeasurably. She 
had become the woman that I first fancied she might be, 
noble, gracious, yet governed by a proud reticence that 
forbade her to complain or to reach out for the pleasures 
of long ago. Her relatives were so incensed at the step, — 
for Westwater has a most aristocratic element, — that they 
do not countenance her in the slightest degree. Thierry, 
who has of course had the best opportunity of knowing 
her, is most enthusiastic about her, and admires her del- 
icate pride, while it annoys him also. Oddly enough, 
Mrs. Van Cleve was strongly attracted by her, but she 
has had — shall I call it strength and courage ? — to refuse 
even her. Having gone out of her own circle, she will 
not steal back through any small gateway. When Thierry 
offered me the picture I had no idea of it being Miss 
Marshall's. Her mother had not even hinted the existence 
of a genius." 

"And so you helped to place her in this awkward 
sphere of life," said Mrs. Howarth slowly. "I wonder — 
if there was not something — " 

"She had tried other things. During their early years 



 

of reverses she had taken up that frequent effort of unfor- 
tunate women, — keeping boarders. Marshall, it seems, 
shirked the great duty of manhood, dropped down to in- 
dolence and intemperance. Do you remember the Moreau 
who was here — I think about two years ago — on business 
connected with the Orient Mining Company ? We hap- 
pened to hit upon Westwater one day over our cigars, 
and I found he had once lived there, boarded with Mrs. 
Marshall. He gave Marshall a wretched character, while 
he admired her immensely. Marshall, it seems, used to 
borrow money from the boarders, and do many things 
that must have mortified a wife cruelly. But amid all 
that, it appears that she commanded everyone's re- 
spect. 'By Jove,' said he, c if she had been the kind 
of woman that a man would have dared to speak to, 
I 'd have offered to help her get a divorce and have mar- 
ried her myself.' " 

"That is one point, Leonard," and Mrs. Howarth 
placed her hand softly over that of her husband. " You 
know we decided long ago not to aid or countenance any- 
thing that might help to weaken marriage vows. The 
world rates them by far too lightly, and we see the bane- 
ful effects on every side. Are we quite sure that she — • 
Mrs. Marshall, was justified in the step she took. Was it 
too late to save him ? Did she try ? " 

" Ah, my darling, if you had seen her that first time she 
came to me, you would not doubt. It was a question 
with her then as to the point of highest duty, which it 
appeared would be in saving her children. All these 
years she had provided him with a home, and been com- 
pelled to keep him in some degree of spending money, 
thereby, it seemed, pandering to his degradation. If it 
had been my own sister, I know I must have interfered. 
Think of some of the so-called respectable men whom we 
know, who drink far beyond the point of decency. Could 
you spend your life with one of them ? " 





Helen shivered, and the soft color suddenly vanished 
from her face. 

" Judging from what I know of Mrs. Marshall, I do not 
think she is the kind of woman to thrust aside any evident 
