" Oh, indeed ! " said Mrs. Lapham vexatiously. 
" Then you are going to take a partner." 

" I shall ask him down if I choose ! " returned the 
Colonel, disdaining her insinuation. 

His wife laughed with the fearlessness of a woman 
who knows her husband. 

" But you won't choose when you Ve thought it 
over, Si." Then she applied an emollient to his 
chafed surface. " Don't you suppose I feel as you 
do about it ? I know just how proud you are, and 
I'm not going to have you do anything that will 
make you feel meeching afterward. You just let 
things take their course. If he wants Irene, he's 
going to find out some way of seeing her ; and if he 
don't, all the plotting and planning in the world 
isn't going to make him." 

" Who 's plotting ? " again retorted the Colonel, 
shuddering at the utterance of hopes and ambitions 
which a man hides with shame, but a woman talks 



 

over as freely and coolly as if they were items of a 
milliner's bill. 

" Oh, not you f" exulted his wife. " I understand 
what you want. You want to get this fellow, who 
is neither partner nor clerk, down here to talk 
business with him. Well, now, you just talk 
business with him at the office." 

The only social attention which Lapham suc 
ceeded in offering Corey was to take him in his 
buggy, now and then, for a spin out over the Mill- 
dam. He kept the mare in town, and on a pleasant 
afternoon he liked to knock off early, as he phrased 
it, and let the mare out a little. Corey understood 
something about horses, though in a passionless 
way, and he would have preferred to talk business 
when obliged to talk horse. But he deferred to his 
business superior with the sense of discipline which 
is innate in the apparently insubordinate American 
nature. If Corey could hardly have helped feeling 
the social difference between Lapham and himself, 
in his presence he silenced his traditions, and 
showed him all the respect that he could have 
exacted from any of his clerks. He talked horse 
with him, and when the Colonel wished he talked 
house. Besides himself and his paint Lapham had 
not many other topics ; and if he had a choice 
between the mare and the edifice on the water side 
of Beacon Street, it was just now the latter. Some 
times, in driving in or out, he stopped at the house, 
and made Corey his guest there, if he might not at 
Nantasket ; and one day it happened that the young 



 

man met Irene there again. She had come up with 
her mother alone, and they were in the house, 
interviewing the carpenter as before, when the 
Colonel jumped out of his buggy and cast anchor 
at the pavement. More exactly, Mrs. Lapham was 
interviewing the carpenter, and Irene was sitting in 
the bow-window on a trestle, and looking out at the 
driving. She saw him come up with her father, 
and bowed and blushed. Her father went on up 
stairs to find her mother, and Corey pulled up another 
trestle which he found in the back part of the room. 
The first floorings had been laid throughout the 
house, and the partitions had been lathed so that 
one could realise the shape of the interior. 

" I suppose you will sit at this window a good 
deal," said the young man. 

"Yes, I think it will be very nice. There's so 
much more going on than there is in the Square." 

" It must be very interesting to you to see the 
house grow." 

" It is. Only it doesn't seem to grow so fast as 
I expected." 

"Why, I'm amazed at the progress your car 
penter has made every time I come." 

The girl looked down, and then lifting her eyes 
she said, with a sort of timorous appeal 

"I've been reading that book since you were 
down at Nantasket." 

"Book?" repeated Corey, while she reddened 
with disappointment. " Oh yes. Middlemarch. 
Did you like it ?" 



" I haven't got through with it yet. Pen has 
finished it." 

" What does she think of it ?" 

" Oh, I think she likes it very well. I haven't 
heard her talk about it much. Do you like it ?" 

" Yes ; I liked it immensely. But it 's several 
years since I read it." 

" I didn't know it was so old. It 's just got into 
the Seaside Library," she urged, with a little sense 
of injury in her tone. 

" Oh, it hasn't been out such a very great while," 
said Corey politely. " It came a little before Daniel 
Deronda" 

The girl was again silent. She followed the curl 
of a shaving on the floor with the point of her 
parasol. 

"Do you like that Eosamond Vincy ?" she asked, 
without looking up. 

Corey smiled in his kind way. 

" I didn't suppose she was expected to have any 
friends. I can't say I liked her. But I don't think 
I disliked her so much as the author does. She 's 
pretty hard on her good-looking" he was going to 
say girls, but as if that might have been rather per 
sonal, he said "people." 

" Yes, that 's what Pen says. She says she doesn't 
give her any chance to be good. She says she should 
have been just as bad as Rosamond if she had been 
in her place." 

The young man laughed. " Your sister is very 
satirical, isn't she ?" 



 

" I don't know," said Irene, still intent upon the 
convolutions of the shaving. " She keeps us 
laughing. Papa thinks there 's nobody that can talk 
like her." She gave the shaving a little toss from 
her, and took the parasol up across her lap. The 
unworldliness of the Lapham girls did not extend 
to their dress ; Irene's costume was very stylish, 
and she governed her head and shoulders stylishly. 
" We are going to have the back room upstairs for 
a music-room and library," she said abruptly. 

"Yes" returned Corey. "I should think that 
would be charming." 

" We expected to have book-cases, but the archi 
tect wants to build the shelves in." 

The fact seemed to be referred to Corey for his 
comment. 

" It seems to me that would be the best way. 
They 'll look like part of the room then. You can 
make them low, and hang your pictures above them." 

"Yes, that's what he said." The girl looked out 
of the window in adding, " I presume with nice 
bindings it will look very well." 

" Oh, nothing furnishes a room like books." 

"No. There will have to be a good many of 
them." 

"That depends upon the size of your room and 
the number of your shelves." 

" Oh, of course ! I presume," said Irene, thought 
fully, "we shall have to have Gibbon." ' 

"If you want to read him,' said Corey, with a 
laugh of sympathy for an imaginable joke. 



 

"We had a great deal about him at school. I 
believe we had one of his books. Mine 's lost, but 
Pen will remember." 

The young man looked at her, and then said, 
seriously, "You'll want Greene, of course, and 
Motley, and Parkman." 

" Yes. What kind of writers are they ?" 

" They 're historians too." 

" Oh yes; I remember now. That 's what Gibbon 
was. Is it Gibbon or Gibbons ? " 

The young man decided the point with apparently 
superfluous delicacy. "Gibbon, I think." 

" There used to be so many of them," said Irene 
gaily. " I used to get them mixed up with each 
other, and I couldn't tell them from the poets. 
Should you want to have poetry ? " 

"Yes; I suppose some edition of the English 
poets." 

" We don't any of us like poetry. Do you like 
it?" 

"I'm afraid I don't very much," Corey owned. 
,"But, of course, there was a time when Tennyson 
was a great deal more to me than he is now." 

"We had something about him at school too. 
I think I remember the name. I think we ought to 
have all the American poets." 

" Well, not all. Five or six of the best : you 
want Longfellow and Bryant and Whittier and 
Holmes and Emerson and Lowell." 

The girl listened attentively, as if making mental 
note of the names. 



 

" And Shakespeare," she added. " Don't you like 
Shakespeare's plays ?" 

" Oh yes, very much." 

"I used to be perfectly crazy about his plays. 
Don't you think 'Hamlet' is splendid? We had 
ever so much about Shakespeare. Weren't you per 
fectly astonished when you found out how many 
other plays of his there were ? I always thought 
there was nothing but 'Hamlet' and 'Eomeo and 
Juliet' and 'Macbeth' and 'Eichard in.' and 'King 
Lear,' and that one that Eobeson and Crane have 
oh yes ! ' Comedy of Errors.'" 

"Those are the ones they usually play," said 
Corey. 

" I presume we shall have to have Scott's works," 
said Irene, returning to the question of books. 

"Oh yes." 

" One of the girls used to think he was great She 
was always talking about Scott." Irene made a 
pretty little amiably contemptuous mouth. " He 
isn't American, though ? " she suggested. 

"No," said Corey; "he's Scotch, I believe." 

Irene passed her glove over her forehead. "I 
always get him mixed up with Cooper. Well, papa 
has got to get them. If we have a library, we have 
got to have books in it. Pen says it's perfectly 
ridiculous having one. But papa thinks whatever 
the architect says is right. He fought him hard 
enough at first. I don't see how any one can keep 
the poets and the historians and novelists separate 
in their mind. Of course papa will buy them if we 




say so. But I don't see how I 'm ever going to tell 
him which ones." The joyous light faded out of her 
face and left it pensive. 

"Why, if you like," said the young man, taking 
out his pencil, " I'll put down the names we 've been 
talking about." 

He clapped himself on his breast pockets to detect 
some lurking scrap of paper. 

" "Will you ?" she cried delightedly. " Here ! take 
one of my cards," and she pulled out her card-case. 
" The carpenter writes on a three-cornered block and 
puts it into his pocket, and it 's so uncomfortable he 
can't help remembering it. Pen says she 's going to 
adopt the three-cornered-block plan with papa." 

" Thank you," said Corey. " I believe I 'll use your 
card." He crossed over to her, and after a moment 
sat down on the trestle beside her. She looked over 
the card as he wrote. "Those are the ones we 
mentioned, but perhaps I 'd better add a few others." 

"Oh, thank you," she said, when he had written 
the card full on both sides. " He has got to get them 
in the nicest binding, too. I shall tell him about 
their helping to furnish the room, and then he can't 
object." She remained with the card, looking at it 
rather wistfully. 

Perhaps Corey divined her trouble of mind. "If 
he will take that to any bookseller, and tell him 
what bindings he wants, he will fill the order for 
him." 

" Oh, thank you very much," she said, and put the 
card back into her card-case with great apparent 



 

relief. Then she turned her lovely face toward the 
young man, beaming with the triumph a woman feels 
in any bit of successful manoeuvring, and began to 
talk with recovered gaiety of other things, as if, 
having got rid of a matter annoying out of all pro 
portion to its importance, she was now going to 
indemnify herself. 

Corey did not return to his own trestle. She 
found another shaving within reach of her parasol, 
and began poking that with it, and trying to follow 
it through its folds. Corey watched her a while. 

" You seem to have a great passion for playing 
with shavings," he said. " Is it a new one ?" 

"New what?" 

" Passion." 

" I don't know," she said, dropping her eyelids, 
and keeping on with her effort. She looked shyly 
aslant at him. " Perhaps you don't approve of play 
ing with shavings ?" 

" Oh yes, I do. I admire it very much. But it 
seems rather difficult. I Ve a great ambition to put 
my foot on the shaving's tail and hold it for you." 

" Well," said the girl. 

"Thank you," said the young man. He did so, 
and now she ran her parasol point easily through it. 
They looked at each other and laughed. "That 
was wonderful. Would you like to try another ?" 
he asked. 

"No, I thank you," she replied. "I think one 
will do." 

They both laughed again, for whatever reason or 



 

no reason, and then the young girl became sober. 
To a girl everything a young man does is of signifi 
cance ; and if he holds a shaving down with his foot 
while she pokes through it with her parasol, she 
must ask herself what he means by it. 

" They seem to be having rather a long interview 
with the carpenter to-day," said Irene, looking 
vaguely toward the ceiling. She turned with polite 
ceremony to Corey. "I'm afraid you're letting 
them keep you. You mustn't." 

" Oh no. You 're letting me stay," he returned. 

She bridled and bit her lip for pleasure. " I pre 
sume they will be down before a great while. Don't 
you like the smell of the wood and the mortar ? It's 
so fresh." 

" Yes, it 's delicious." He bent forward and picked 
up from the floor the shaving with which they had 
been playing, and put it to his nose. "It's like a 
flower. May I offer it to you V he asked, as if it 
had been one. 

" Oh, thank you, thank you !" She took it from 
him and put it into her belt, and then they both 
laughed once more. 

Steps were heard descending. When the elder 
people reached the floor where they were sitting, 
Corey rose and presently took his leave. 

" What makes you so solemn, 'Rene ? " asked Mrs. 
Lapham. 

"Solemn?" echoed the girl " I 'm not a bit solemn. 
What can you mean ?" 

Corey dined at home that evening, and as he sat 



 

looking across the table at his father, he said, "I 
wonder what the average literature of non-cultivated 
people is." 

"Ah," said the elder, "I suspect the average is 
pretty low even with cultivated people. You don't 
read a great many books yourself, Tom." 

"No, I don't," the young man confessed. "I 
read more books when I was with Stanton, last 
winter, than I had since I was a boy. But I read 
them because I must there was nothing else to do. 
It wasn't because I was fond of reading. Still I 
think I read with some sense of literature and the 
difference between authors. I don't suppose that 
people generally do that ; I have met people who 
had read books without troubling themselves to find 
out even the author's name, much less trying to 
decide upon his quality. I suppose that 's the way 
the vast majority of people read." 

"Yes. If authors were not almost necessarily 
recluses, and ignorant of the ignorance about them, 
I don't see how they could endure it. Of course 
they are fated to be overwhelmed by oblivion at 
last, poor fellows ; but to see it weltering all round 
them while they are in the very act of achieving 
immortality must be tremendously discouraging. I 
don't suppose that we who have the habit of read 
ing, and at least a nodding acquaintance with litera 
ture, can imagine the bestial darkness of the great 
mass of people even people whose houses are rich 
and whose linen is purple and fine. But occasion 
ally we get glimpses of it. I suppose you found the 



 

latest publications lying all about in Lapham cottage 
when you were down there ? " 

Young Corey laughed. " It wasn't exactly cum 
bered with them." 

"Nol" 

" To tell the truth, I don't suppose they ever buy 
books. The young ladies get novels that they hear 
talked of out of the circulating library." 

" Had they knowledge enough to be ashamed of 
their ignorance ? " 

"Yes, in certain ways to a certain degree." 

" It 's a curious thing, this thing we call civilisa 
tion," said the elder musingly. " We think it is an 
affair of epochs and of nations. It 's really an affair 
of individuals. One brother will be civilised and 
the other a barbarian. I 've occasionally met young 
girls who were so brutally, insolently, wilfully 
indifferent to the arts which make civilisation that 
they ought to have been clothed in the skins of 
wild beasts and gone about barefoot with clubs over 
their shoulders. Yet they were of polite origin, and 
their parents were at least respectful of the things 
that these young animals despised." 

" I don't think that is exactly the case with the 
Lapham family," said the son, smiling. " The father 
and mother rather apologised about not getting time 
to read, and the young ladies by no means scorned 
it." 
