part of Tours is naturally the shaded quay that over 
looks it, and looks across too at the friendly faubourg 
of Saint Symphorien and at the terraced heights which 
rise above this. Indeed, throughout Touraine, it is 
half the charm of the Loire that you can travel beside 
it. The great dike which protects it, or protects the 
country from it, fromJBlois to Angers, is an admirable 
road; and on the other side, as well, the highway con 
stantly keeps it company. A wide river, as you follow 
a wide road, is excellent company; it heightens and 
shortens the way. 
The inns at Tours are in another quarter, and one 
of them, which is midway between the town and the 
station, is very good. It is worth mentioning for the 
fact that every one belonging to it is extraordinarily 
polite, so unnaturally polite as at first to excite your 
suspicion that the hotel has some hidden vice, so that 
the waiters and chambermaids are trying to pacify 
you in advance. There was one waiter in especial who 
was the most accomplished social being I have ever 
encountered; from morning till night he kept up an 
inarticulate murmur of urbanity, like the hum of a 
spinning-top. I may add that I discovered no dark 
secrets at the Hotel de FUriivers; for it is not a secret 
to any traveller to-day that the obligation to partake 
of a lukewarm dinner in an overheated room is as 
imperative as it is detestable. For the rest, at Tours, 
there is a certain Rue Royale which has pretensions 
to the monumental; it was constructed a hundred 
   
years ago, and the houses, all alike, have on a 
moderate scale a pompous eighteenth-century look. It 
connects the Palais de Justice, the most important 
secular building in the town, with the long bridge 
which spans the Loire, the spacious, solid bridge 
pronounced by Balzac, in "Le Cure de Tours," "one of 
the finest monuments of French architecture." The 
Palais de Justice was the seat of the Government of 
Leon Gambetta in the autumn of 1870, after the 
dictator had been obliged to retire in his balloon from 
Paris, and before the Assembly was constituted at 
Bordeaux. The Germans occupied Tours during that 
terrible winter; it is astonishing, the number of 
places the Germans occupied. It is hardly too much 
to say that wherever one goes in certain parts of 
France, one encounters two great historic facts: one 
is the Revolution; the other is the German invasion. 
The traces of the Revolution remain in a hundred 
scars and bruises and mutilations, but the visible 
marks of the war of 1870 have passed away. The 
country is so rich, so living, that she has been able to 
dress her wounds, to hold up her head, to smile again; 
so that the shadow of that darkness has ceased to rest 
upon her. But what you do not see you still may 
hear; and one remembers with a certain shudder that 
only a few short years ago this province, so intimately 
French, was under the heel of a foreign foe. To be 
intimately French was apparently not a safeguard; for 
so successful an invader it could only be a challenge. 
Peace and plenty, however, have succeeded that 
episode; and among the gardens and vineyards of 
Touraine it seems only a legend the more in a country 
of legends. 
It was not, all the same, for the sake of this check 
ered story that I mentioned the Palais de Justice and 
the Rue Roy ale. The most interesting fact, to my 
mind, about the high-street of Tours was that as you 
walked toward the bridge on the right-hand trottoir 
you can look up at the house, on the other side of 
the way, in which Honore de Balzac first saw the 
light. That violent and complicated genius was a 
child of the good-humored and succulent Touraine. 
There is something anomalous in the fact, though, if 
one thinks about it a little, one may discover certain 
correspondences between his character and that of his 
native province. Strenuous, laborious, constantly in 
felicitous in spite of his great successes, he suggests 
at times a very different set of influences. But he had 
his jovial, full-feeding side, the side that comes out N 
in the "Contes Drolatiques," which are the romantic 
and epicurean chronicle of the old manors and abbeys 
of this region. And he was, moreover, the product 
of a soil into which a great deal of history had been 
trodden. Balzac was genuinely as well as affectedly 
monarchical, and he was saturated with a sense of the 
past. Number 39 Rue Royale of which the base- 
ment, like all the basements in the Rue Royale, is 
occupied by a shop is not shown to the public; and 
I know not whether tradition designates the chamber 
in which the author of "Le Lys dans la Vallee" 
opened his eyes into a world in which he was to see 
and to imagine such extraordinary things. If this 
were the case, I would willingly have crossed its 
threshold; not for the sake of any relic of the great 
novelist which it may possibly contain, nor even for 
that of any mystic virtue which may be supposed to 
reside within its walls, but simply because to look at 
those four modest walls can hardly fail to give one a 
strong impression of the force of human endeavour. 
Balzac, in the maturity of his vision, took in more of 
human life than any one, since Shakspeare, who has 
attempted to tell us stories about it; and the very 
small scene on which his consciousness dawned is one 
end of the immense scale that he traversed. I confess 
it shocked me a little to find that he was born in a 
house "in a row," a house, moreover, which at the 
date of his birth must have been only about twenty 
years old. All that is contradictory. If the tenement 
selected for this honour could not be ancient and em 
browned, it should at least have been detached. 
There is a charming description, in his little tale 
of "La Grenadiere," of the view of the opposite side 
of the Loire as you have it from the square at the end 
of the Rue Royale, a square that has some preten 
sions to grandeur, overlooked as it is by the Hotel de 
Ville and the Musee, a pair of edifices which directly 
contemplate the river, and ornamented with marble 
images of Francois Rabelais and Rene Descartes. 
The former, erected a few years since, is a very honor 
able production; the pedestal of the latter could, as 
a matter of course, only be inscribed with the Cogito 
ergo Sum. The two statues mark the two opposite 
poles to which the brilliant French mind has travelled; 
and if there were an effigy of Balzac at Tours, it ought 
to stand midway between them. Not that he by any 
means always struck the happy mean between the 
sensible and the metaphysical; but one may say of 
him that half of his genius looks in one direction 
and half in the other. The side that turns toward 
Frangois Rabelais would be, on the whole, the side 
that takes the sun. But there is no statue of Balzac 
at Tours; there is only, in one of the chambers of 
the melancholy museum, a rather clever, coarse bust. 
The description in "La Grenadiere," of which I just 
spoke, is too long to quote; neither have I space for 
any one of the brilliant attempts at landscape paint 
ing which are woven into the shimmering texture of 
"Le Lys dans la Vallee." The little manor of Cloche- 
gourde, the residence of Madame de Mortsauf, the 
heroine . of that extraordinary work, was within a 
moderate walk of Tours, and the picture in the novel is 
presumably a copy from an original which it would be 
possible to-day to discover. I did not, however, even 
make the attempt. There are so many chateaux in 
Touraine commemorated in history, that it would take 
one too far to look up those which have been com 
memorated in fiction. The most I did was to endeavor 
to identify the former residence of Mademoiselle 
Gamard, the sinister old maid of "Le Cure de Tours." 
This terrible woman occupied a small house in the 
rear of the cathedral, where I spent a whole morning 
in wondering rather stupidly which house it could be. 
To reach the cathedral from the little place where we 
stopped just now to look across at the Grenadiere, 
without, it must be confessed, very vividly seeing it, 
you follow the quay to the right, and pass out of sight 
of the charming coteau which, from beyond the river, 
faces the town, a soft agglomeration of gardens, vine 
yards, scattered villas, gables and turrets of slate- 
roofed chateaux, terraces with gray balustrades, moss- 
grown walls draped in scarlet Virginia-creeper. You 
turn into the town again beside a great military 
barrack which is ornamented with a rugged mediaeval 
tower, a relic of the ancient fortifications, known to 
the Tourangeaux of to-day as the Tour de Guise. 
The young Prince of Joinville, son of that Duke of 
Guise who was murdered by the order of Henry II. at 
Blois, was, after the death of his father, confined here 
for more than two years, but made his escape one 
summer evening in 1591, under the nose of his keepers, 
with a gallant audacity which has attached the memory 
of the exploit to his sullen-looking prison. Tours has 
a garrison of five regiments, and the little red-legged 
soldiers light up the town. You see them stroll upon 
the clean, uncommercial quay, where there are no 
signs of navigation, not even by oar, no barrels nor 
bales, no loading nor unloading, no masts against the 
sky nor booming of steam in the air. The most active 
business that goes on there is that patient and fruitless 
angling in which the French, as the votaries of art for 
art, excel all other people. The little soldiers, weighed 
down by the contents of their enormous pockets, pass 
with respect from one of these masters of the rod to 
the other, as he sits soaking an indefinite bait in the 
large, indifferent stream. After you turn your back to 
the quay you have only to go a little way before you 
reach the cathedral. 
II. 
IT is a very beautiful church of the second order I 
of importance, with a charming mouse-colored com- j 
plexion and a pair of fantastic towers. There is a 
commodious little square in front of it, from which 
you may look up at its very ornamental face; but for 
purposes of frank admiration the sides and the rear 
are perhaps not sufficiently detached. The cathedral 
of Tours, which is dedicated tc Saint Gatianus, took 
a long time to build. Begun in 1170, it was finished 
only in the first half of the sixteenth century; but the 
ages and the weather have interfused so well the tone 
of the different parts, that it presents, at first at least, 
no striking incongruities, and looks even exception 
ally harmonious and complete. There are many 
grander cathedrals, but there are probably few more 
pleasing; and this effect of delicacy and grace is at 
its best toward the close of a quiet afternoon, when the 
densely decorated towers, rising above the little Place 
de TArcheveche, lift their curious lanterns into the 
slanting light, and offer a multitudinous perch to 
troops of circling pigeons. The whole front, at such 
a time, has an appearance of great richness, although 
the niches which surround the three high doors (with 
recesses deep enough for several circles of sculpture) 
and indent the four great buttresses that ascend beside 
the huge rose-window, carry no figures beneath their 
little chiselled canopies. The blast of the great Revo 
lution blew down most of the statues in France, and 
the wind has never set very strongly toward putting 
them up again. The embossed and crocketed cupolas 
which crown the towers of Saint Gatien are not very 
pure in taste; but, like a good many impurities, they 
have a certain character. The interior has a stately 
slimness with which no fault is to be found, and 
which in the choir, rich in early glass and surrounded 
by a broad passage, becomes very bold and noble. 
Its principal treasure, perhaps, is the charming little tomb , 
of the two children (who died young) of Charles VLU. and 
Anne of Brittany, in white marble, embossed with sym 
bolic dolphins and exquisite arabesques. The little 
boy and girl lie side by side on a slab of black marble, 
and a pair of small kneeling angels, both at their head 
and at their feet, watch over them. Nothing could be 
more perfect than this monument, which is the work 
of Michel Colomb, one of the earlier glories of the 
French Renaissance; it is really a lesson in good taste. 
Originally placed in the great abbey-church of Saint 
Martin, which was for so many ages the holy place of 
Tours, it happily survived the devastation to which 
that edifice, already sadly shattered by the wars of 
religion and successive profanations, finally succumbed 
in 1797. In 1815 the tomb found an asylum in a 
quiet corner of the cathedral. 
I ought, perhaps, to be ashamed to acknowledge, 
that I found the profane name of Balzac capable of 
adding an interest even to this venerable sanctuary. 
Those who have read the terrible little story of "Le 
Cure de Tours" will perhaps remember that, as I 
have already mentioned, the simple and childlike old 
Abbe Birotteau, victim of the infernal machinations 
of the Abbe Troubert and Mademoiselle Gamard, had 
his quarters in the house of that lady (she had a 
speciality of letting lodgings to priests), which stood 
on the north side of the cathedral, so close under its 
walls that the supporting pillar of one of the great 
flying buttresses was planted in the spinster 's garden. 
If you wander round behind the church, in search of 
this more than historic habitation, you will have oc 
casion to see that the side and rear of Saint Gatien 
make a delectable and curious figure. A narrow lane 
passes beside the high wall which conceals from sight 
the palace of the archbishop, and beneath the flying 
buttresses, the far-projecting gargoyles, and the fine 
south porch of the church. It terminates in a little, 
dead, grass-grown square entitled the Place Gregoire 
de Tours. All this part of the exterior of the cathe 
dral is very brown, ancient, Gothic, grotesque; Balzac 
calls the whole place "a desert of stone." A battered 
and gabled wing, or out-house (as it appears to be), 
of the hidden palace, with a queer old stone pulpit 
jutting out from it, looks down on this melancholy 
spot, on the other side of which is a seminary for 
young priests, one of whom issues from a door in a 
quiet -corner, and, holding it open a moment behind 
him, shows a glimpse of a sunny garden, where you 
may fancy other black young figures strolling up and 
down. Mademoiselle Gamard 's house, where she took 
her two abbes to board, and basely conspired with 
one against the other, is still further round the cathe 
dral. You cannot quite put your hand upon it to 
day, for the dwelling which you say to yourself that 
it must have been Mademoiselle Gamard 's does not 
fulfil all the conditions mentioned in Balzac 's de 
scription. The edifice in question, however, fulfils con 
ditions enough; in particular, its little court offers 
hospitality to the big buttress of the church. Another 
buttress, corresponding with this (the two, between 
them, sustain the gable of the north transept), is 
planted in the small cloister, of which the door on the 
further side of the little soundless Rue de la Psalette, 
where nothing seems ever to pass, opens opposite to 
that of Mademoiselle Gamard. There is a very genial 
old sacristan, who introduced me to this cloister from 
the church. It is very small and solitary, and much 
mutilated; but it nestles with a kind of wasted friend 
liness beneath the big walls of the cathedral. Its 
lower arcades have been closed, and it has a small 
plot of garden in the middle, with fruit-trees which I 
should imagine to be too much overshadowed. In 
one corner is a remarkably picturesque turret, the 
cage of a winding staircase which ascends (no great 
distance) to an upper gallery, where an old priest, the 
chanoine-gardien of the church, was walking to and fro 
with his breviary. The turret, the gallery, and even 
the chanoine-gardien, belonged, that sweet September 
morning, to the class of objects that are dear to paint 
ers in water-colors. 
III. 
I HAVE mentioned the church of Saint Martin, 
which was for many years the sacred spot, the shrine 
of pilgrimage, of Tours. Originally the simple burial- 
place of the great apostle who in the fourth century 
Christianized Gaul, and who, in his day a brilliant 
missionary and worker of miracles, is chiefly known 
to modern fame as the worthy that cut his cloak in 
two at the gate of Amiens to share it with a beggar 
(tradition fails to say, I believe, what he did with the 
other half), the abbey of Saint Martin, through the 
Middle Ages, waxed rich and powerful, till it was 
known at last as one of the most luxurious religious 
houses in Christendom, with kings for its titular ab 
bots (who, like Francis I., sometimes turned and 
despoiled it) and a great treasure of precious things. 
It passed, however, through many vicissitudes. Pillaged 
by the Normans in the ninth century and by the 
Huguenots in the sixteenth, it received its death-blow 
from the Revolution, which must have brought to 
bear upon it an energy of destruction proportionate 
to its mighty bulk. At the end of the last century 
a huge group of ruins alone remained, and what we 
see to-day may be called the ruin of a ruin. It is 
difficult to understand how so vast an edifice can 
have been so completely obliterated. Its site is given 
up to several ugly streets, and a pair of tall towers, 
separated by a space which speaks volumes as to the 
size of the church, and looking across the close-pressed 
roofs to the happier spires of the cathedral, preserve 
for the modern world the memory of a great fortune, 
a great abuse, perhaps, and at all events a great pen 
alty. One may believe that to this day a consider 
able part of the foundations of the great abbey is 
buried in the soil of Tours. The two surviving towers, 
which are dissimilar in shape, are enormous; with 
those of the cathedral they form the great landmarks 
of the town. One of them bears the name of the Tour 
de FHorloge; the other, the so-called Tour Charle 
magne, was erected (two centuries after her. death) 
over the tomb of Luitgarde, wife of the great Em 
peror, who died at Tours in 800. I do not pretend to 
understand in what relation these very mighty and 
effectually detached masses of masonry stood to each 
other, but in their gray elevation and loneliness they 
are striking and suggestive to-day; holding their hoary 
heads far above the modern life of the town, and 
looking sad and conscious, as they had outlived all 
uses. I know not what is supposed to have become 
of the bones of the blessed saint during the various 
scenes of confusion in which they may have got mislaid; 
but a mystic connection with his wonder-working 
relics may be perceived in a strange little sanctuary 
on the left of the street, which opens in front of the 
Tour Charlemagne, the rugged base of which, by 
the way, inhabited like a cave, with a diminutive 
doorway, in which, as I passed, an old woman stood 
cleaning a pot, and a little dark window decorated 
with homely flowers, would be appreciated by a 
painter in search of "bits." The present shrine of 
Saint Martin is enclosed (provisionally, I suppose) in 
a veiy modern structure of timber, where in a dusky 
cellar, to which you descend by a wooden staircase 
adorned with votive tablets and paper roses, is placed 
a tabernacle surrounded by twinkling tapers and pros 
trate worshippers. Even this crepuscular vault, how 
ever,  fails, I think, to attain solemnity; for the whole 
place is strangely vulgar and garish. The Catholic 
church, as churches go to-day, is certainly the most 
spectacular; but it must feel that it has a great fund 
of impressiveness to draw upon when it opens such 
sordid little shops of sanctity as this. It is impos 
sible not to be struck with the grotesqueness of such 
an establishment, as the last link in the chain of a 
great ecclesiastical tradition. 
In the same street, on the other side, a little below, 
is something better worth your visit than the shrine 
of Saint Martin. Knock at a high door in a white 
wall (there is a cross above it), and a fresh- faced 
sister of the convent of the Petit Saint Martin will 
let you into the charming little cloister, or rather 
fragment of a cloister. Only one side of this exqui 
site structure remains, but the whole place is effective. 
In front of the beautiful arcade, which is terribly 
bruised and obliterated, is one of those walks of inter 
laced tilleuls which are so frequent in Touraine, and 
into which the green light filters so softly through a 
lattice of clipped twigs. Beyond this is a garden, 
and beyond the garden are the other buildings of the 
convent, where the placid sisters keep a school, a 
test, doubtless, of placidity. The imperfect arcade, 
which dates from the beginning of the sixteenth cen 
tury (I know nothing of it but what is related in Mrs. 
Pattison 's "Rennaissance in France") is a truly en 
chanting piece of work; the cornice and the angles of 
the arches being covered with the daintiest sculpture of 
arabesques, flowers, fruit, medallions, cherubs, griffins, 
all in the finest and most attenuated relief. It is like 
the chasing of a bracelet in stone. The taste, the 
fancy, the elegance, the refinement, are of those things 
which revive our standard of the exquisite. Such 
a piece of work is the purest flower of the French 
Renaissance; there is nothing more delicate in all 
Touraine. 
There is another fine thing at Tours which is not 
particularly delicate, but which makes a great impres 
sion, the very interesting old church of Saint Julian, 
lurking in a crooked corner at the right of the Rue 
Roy ale, near the point at which this indifferent thorough 
fare emerges, with its little cry of admiration, on the 
bank of the Loire. Saint Julian stands to-day in a 
kind of neglected hollow, where it is much shut in by 
houses; but in the year 1225, when the edifice was 
begun, the site was doubtless, as the architects say, 
more eligible. At present, indeed, when once you have 
caught a glimpse of the stout, serious Romanesque 
tower, which is not high, but strong, you feel that 
the building has something to say, and that you must 
stop to listen to it. Within, it has a vast and splendid 
nave, of immense height, the nave of a cathedral, 
with a shallow choir and transepts, and some admir 
able old glass. I spent half an hour there one morn 
ing, listening to what the church had to say, in perfect 
solitude. Not a worshipper entered, not even an old 
man with a broom. I have always thought there is a 
sex in fine buildings; and Saint Julian, with its noble 
nave, is of the gender of the name of its patron. 
It was that same morning, I think, that I went in 
search of the old houses of Tours; for the town con 
tains several goodly specimens of the domestic archi 
tecture of the past. The dwelling to which the average 
Anglo-Saxon will most promptly direct his steps, and 
the only one I have space to mention, is the so-called 
[ Maison de Tristan FHermite, a gentleman whom the 
readers of " Quentin Durward " will not have forgotten," 
--the hangman-in-ordinary to the great King Louis XI. 
Unfortunately the house of Tristan is not the house of 
Tristan at all; this illusion has been cruelly dispelled. 
There are no illusions left, at all, in the good city of 
Tours, with regard to Louis XI. His terrible castle of 
Plessis, the picture of which sends a shiver through 
the youthful reader of Scott, has been reduced to sub 
urban insignificance; and the residence of his triste 
compare, on the front of which a festooned rope figures 
as a motive for decoration, is observed to have been 
erected in the succeeding century. The Maison de 
Tristan may be visited for itself, however, if not for I 
Walter Scott; it is an exceedingly picturesque old 
facade, to which you pick your way through a najrow 
and tortuous street, a street terminating, a little be 
yond it, in the walk beside the river. An elegant 
Gothic doorway is let into the rusty-red brick-work, 
and strange little beasts crouch at the angles of the 
windows, which are surmounted by a tall graduated 
gable, pierced with a small orifice, where the large 
surface of brick, lifted out of the shadow of the street, 
looks yellow and faded. The whole thing is disfigured 
and decayed; but it is a capital subject for a sketch 
in colors. Only I must wish the sketcher better luck 
or a better temper than my own. If he ring the 
bell to be admitted to see the court, which I believe 
is more sketchable still, let him have patience to wait 
till the bell is answered. He can do the outside while 
they are coming. 
The Maison de Tristan, I say, may be visited for 
itself; but I hardly know what the remnants of Plessis- 
les-Tours may be visited for. To reach them you 
wander through crooked suburban lanes, down the 
course of the Loire, to a rough, undesirable, incon 
gruous spot, where a small, crude building of red 
brick is .pointed out to you by your cabman (if you 
happen to drive) as the romantic abode of a super 
stitious king, and where a strong odor of pigsties and 
other unclean things so prostrates you for the moment 
that you have no energy to protest against the obvious 
fiction. You enter a yard encumbered with rubbish 
and a defiant dog, and an old woman emerges from a 
shabby lodge and assures you that you are indeed in 
an historic place. The red brick building, which looks 
like a small factory, rises on the ruins of the favorite 
residence of the dreadful Louis. It is now occupied 
by a company of night-scavengers, whose huge carts 
are drawn up in a row before it. I know not whether 
this be what is called the irony of fate; at any rate, 
the effect of it is to accentuate strongly the fact (and 
through the most susceptible of our senses) that there 
is no. honor for the authors of great wrongs. The 
dreadful Louis is reduced simply to an offence to the 
nostrils. The old woman shows you a few fragments, 
several dark, damp, much-encumbered vaults, de 
nominated dungeons, and an old tower staircase, in 
good condition. There are the outlines of the old 
moat; there is also the outline of the old guard-room, 
which is now a stable; and there are other vague out 
lines and inconsequent lumps, which I have forgotten. 
