In a few minutes they had wiped away the traces of the conflict. Then
two of the students, one on each side, took Paul by the arms and marched
him towards the wharf. When they came in sight of it, they saw that all
the barges were manned, and had pulled a short distance from the shore,
where they awaited the absent members of the crews. The Beech Hillers
had taken position off the end of the pier, while the Chesterfields were
near the land.
There was still quite a collection of people on the wharf, drawn thither
for the purpose of seeing the barges, and possibly expecting a race or a
fight, the latter being more probable in the opinion of the spectators;
the battles of the previous season having been duly reported in the
town. The Silver Moon, with Bissell and Dory in the standing-room, was
running with the wind on her beam for Scotch Bonnet. The six ruffians
halted when they came in sight of the wharf, and gathered around their
prisoner.
"This will never do," said Mad Twinker, shaking his head. "We can't take
him through that crowd of people on the wharf."
"That's so," replied Buck Lamb, who had lost some of his prestige since
his overthrow, and Mad Twinker had come to the front. "Four of us can
handle him well enough now. Jeff Monroe, and you, Steve Douglas, go and
get Bissell's four-oar boat."
"Bissell isn't there now," replied Jeff.
"Stop at his store as you go along, hire it for a couple of hours, and
get the key," continued Mad Twinker. "Pull up to the creek at the head
of the bay, and we will meet you there."
Though there appeared to be no one in the streets, for all the idlers
had gone down to the wharf, there were people in the houses. Among the
latter was Miss Susy Wellington, who had pulled an oar in the Marian.
She had gone home to change her wet dress for a dry one, and saw from
her chamber window the capture of Paul Bristol by the ruffians. She had
heard something in the boat about Paul's battle with Major Billcord and
his son, and she had some idea of the occasion of the assault upon the
son of toil.
While Mad Twinker and his fellow-ruffians were hurrying their prisoner
to the creek, she hastened down to the wharf. On her way she stopped at
Bissell's store, where she had worked with Lily Bristol. She learned
that her employer had gone off in the sloop again, and that some of the
Chesterfields had just hired the four-oar boat. She continued on her
way, and soon saw the two students in her employer's boat, pulling
rapidly towards the head of the bay. When she reached the end of the
wharf she waved her handkerchief to the Marian, and beckoned with all
her might with her hand.
Dick Short gave the order "Stern all!" and the barge backed up within
hail of the fair oarswoman. The coxswain asked her if she desired to
pull an oar in the barge again.
"We are waiting for Paul Bristol, and he ought to be on board by this
time," added Dick. "If he don't come, you can take his place."
"No, I thank you, Mr. Coxswain," replied Miss Susy, and she proceeded to
detail what she had seen from her window.
"Paul a prisoner!" exclaimed Dick, thoroughly aroused by the
intelligence. "Stand by! Give way lively!"
He ran the Marian under the stern of the Gildrock, and reported the
astounding intelligence to Commodore Chester.
"A prisoner!" exclaimed Oscar, startled by the news. "Where is he now?"
"Do you see that boat near the head of the bay? Two of the six fellows
who captured Paul were sent for the boat, while the others took him in
that direction."
"This looks like serious business. The Chesterfield barges both lie
between us and that small boat," continued Oscar Chester.
The Gildrock was hauled around so that the commodore could confer with
Thad Glovering. The details were repeated so that all the students in
the three barges heard the whole story.
"It looks as though the rascals were going to bring Paul off in that
boat, and put him on board of the Racer or the Dasher," which were the
names of the two Chesterfield barges.
"Then, if we pull up there in a hurry, we may be able to get him away
from them," added Thad Glovering.
"On the other hand, if the fellows in charge of the prisoner see our
barges coming, they will put Paul ashore."
It was a difficult point to settle.
CHAPTER XIX.
A DEADLOCK AT THE HEAD OF THE BAY.
It was finally decided by the commodore that all the Beech Hill barges
should proceed to the head of the bay, and if the ruffians landed with
their prisoner, or did not put him in the boat, they should follow them
on shore and rescue Paul at all hazards. Oscar Chester gave the word,
and the Gildrock dashed off, with the other two barges following her.
The crews were not spared, and the boats appeared to leap over the
water, which was tolerably smooth under the lee of the land.
The Chesterfield barges still lay near the shore, above the wharf, and
in order to avoid them the commodore headed the Gildrock across the bay.
In the absence of the spare hand and Dory, the Marian was one oarsman
short, and Dick Short missed the stroke very much. The Silver Moon was
not more than a quarter of a mile from the wharf, for Dory was showing
off the sloop in various points of sailing. Very likely he desired to
keep the Beech Hill barges in sight as long as the Chesterfields were
near.
Dick Short waved his handkerchief in the direction of the sloop. Dory
saw the signal, and headed the Silver Moon to the head of the bay.
Before the commodore changed the course of the fleet, he ran across the
stern of the Marian.
"The Chesterfields have made Paul a prisoner!" shouted Dick Short.
Dory heard the announcement, and then the sloop passed out of speaking
distance. He was not a little astonished at the information, and fully
realized the peril of the son of toil. Glancing at the Chesterfield
barges, he saw Major Billcord seated in the stern-sheets of the Dasher,
and it did not need a very vivid imagination to comprehend the programme
of the enemy.
"I must ask you to excuse me to-day, and I will come over some other
time when the wind blows, and put the Silver Moon through her paces,"
said Dory to the owner of the sloop.
"What's the trouble here?" asked Bissell.
The acting skipper explained the situation to him, including enough of
the proceedings at Sandy Point the day before to enable him to
understand it.
"Major Billcord is as savage as a wild hyena when he gets mad," added
Bissell. "He is bound to have his own way against everybody else. He
tries to rule the town, though most of the people hate him."
Dory tacked and stood back to the Marian. He hailed the coxswain and
asked to be taken on board. Dick told him to come alongside as quick as
he could, and he would be ready for him.
"I wonder if I can't do something to help you," said Bissell. "You
fellows have done me a good turn to-day, and I shouldn't mind helping
you out if I could."
"You will only offend Major Billcord, and I think we can manage the
affair," replied Dory.
"No matter whom I offend; Paul worked well in the sloop, and he seems to
be the bottom dog in this business, and if I see a chance to do anything
for him I shall do it, if the major bu'sts over it."
By this time the Marian was close under the bow of the Silver Moon. Dick
checked the headway of the barge, and Dory put the helm down. Up went
the starboard oars on the Marian, and the sloop was alongside of her the
next minute. Dory leaped into the stern-sheets, and took his place at
the stroke oar. The sailboat fell astern, and the crew gave way again.
Dick gave Dory all the information he had in regard to the capture of
Paul. Both of them were satisfied that the poor fellow would be beaten
half to death if he was not rescued from the enemy. By the time the
story had been told, the Gildrock changed her course, and pointed her
bow for the creek at the head of the bay. On the shore they could see
several young men in the uniform of the Chesterfield barges, and they
could be no other than the captors of Paul. The four-oar boat was just
making a landing.
When the commodore changed his course, the barges of the two schools
were at about the same distance from the mouth of the creek. Oscar's
strategy had given Beech Hill this equal advantage. The movement of the
barges created a sudden sensation on board of the Racer and the Dasher.
Major Billcord began to demonstrate, and a good deal of violent jawing
came from the crews. The magnate had seen the two ruffians take the boat
from the wharf, and pull to the head of the bay. He could not fail to
understand that the prisoner was to be brought off in her.
Doubtless, he commended the prudence of the ruffians in avoiding the
crowd on shore. He had kept faith with his hired villains for his own
sake as well as for theirs, and he was the only person in the barges
who expected Paul to be put on board, or who comprehended the movements
of the six absentees from the boats. It was evident to him that the
Beech Hillers had discovered what was going on, though it was a mystery
to him how they had obtained their information, for the coming of Susy
Wellington had not been observed.
"Run for the head of the bay, Jack Woodhorn!" exclaimed Major Billcord,
when he saw the Beech Hill barges headed in that direction. "You must
get there before those rascals from the other side do, or they will
thrash the six boys of the institute who are there."
"We can't do anything, sir; we are four oars short in this boat, and two
in the other," replied the coxswain of the Dasher.
"Don't waste a second, Jack!" protested the magnate. "Do the best you
can. You have the inside track, and you ought to beat them with half a
crew."
Woodhorn gave the order to give way, and the eight rowers in his boat
were soon pulling with all their might. The Racer followed her, and,
having ten oars, she passed her. It looked like a race between the two
schools, though it was a very unequal one. The Chesterfield students had
improved in rowing a great deal since the last season, but discipline
was still the wanting element in their organization, and though they had
never measured speed with the Beech Hill boats, they were no match for
them.
The boys from the other side did not seem to hurry themselves, but only
pulled a steady and strong stroke. In five minutes it was clear enough
that they were beating their opponents. The magnate urged the
Chesterfields to greater exertion, and did more harm than good by his
ill-timed interference.
Dory had shaken out the reef in the Silver Moon, and made an additional
change in the ballast, so that she was now behaving remarkably well.
Bissell had run over to the north side of the bay, and now had a slant
which would carry him to the mouth of the creek. Oscar Chester had kept
his gaze fixed on the party on the shore. He saw the six ruffians, and
recognized Paul Bristol with his arms still bound behind him. The
four-oar boat lay at the mouth of the creek, but the six ruffians had
retreated to the high ground in the rear of the landing.
The approach of the three Beech Hill barges had completely upset the
calculations of the ruffians. They stood looking down upon the lake,
and appeared to be entirely non-plussed. The Gildrock was bearing
towards the Westport side of the bay, and was coming between the shore
and the Chesterfield barges. It was plainly folly to put the prisoner
into the boat that had come for him. In the barges there were
thirty-five Beech Hillers, and only twenty belonging to the institute.
Besides, the boats from the other side had always been victorious over
their own.
The Gildrock came to a stand, with the crew lying on their oars, and the
other two barges followed her example at the order of the commodore. If
the Chesterfields advanced, they would have to break their way through
the Beech Hill line of boats. Jack Woodhorn ordered a halt before he
came up with the formidable line in front of him. Colonel Buckmill, the
principal, who was not present, had told the students of the institute
never to come in collision with any of the boats from the other side,
and the coxswains were disposed to obey their orders, especially as all
the chances were against them.
"What are you stopping for, Jack Woodhorn?" demanded Major Billcord,
when the oarsmen in the Dasher brought their blades to a level.
"We can go no farther without running into those barges," replied the
coxswain.
"Run into them, then! Smash them if they don't get out of your way. Are
you afraid of those chip-makers?" blustered the magnate.
"The principal ordered us never to come in collision with any of the
boats from the other side, sir," replied Woodhorn respectfully.
"Are you going to leave your fellow-students on the shore to be mauled
by those rascals?"
"I don't believe the tinkers will meddle with them as long as they stay
on shore."
"But you want the rest of your oarsmen, and I want you all at Sandy
Point. There is the biggest pile of fun for you over there that you ever
had in your lives," continued Major Billcord, moderating his tone a
little when he found his own wishes were in conflict with the orders of
the principal.
Neither Jack Woodhorn nor Phil Fessenden, the coxswain of the Racer, was
disposed to get into a row with the Beech Hillers. Both of them had been
in the barges the summer before in all their tilts with the Gildrock and
the Winooski, and they had learned wisdom from experience. It was in
vain, therefore, that Major Billcord coaxed and threatened them. With a
pair of black eyes out of the battle of the day before, Walk was hardly
inclined to support his father, though he was quite as anxious as the
magnate to get Paul into their possession.
For full a quarter of an hour the boats remained in the same relative
position. The six ruffians on the shore had come to the conclusion that
there was no getting out of the deadlock, and that the only way for them
to earn their money was to march their prisoner to Sandy Point by land,
a distance of two miles.
Bissell had run the Silver Moon into the mouth of the creek, and had
been waiting for some movement on the part of the combatants in which he
might do something to serve his friends. The ruffians were jawing among
themselves as to what it was best to do, but he could not hear enough of
their talk to understand their plans, if they had any. The skipper's
patience was exhausted, and, taking his painter in his hands, he went on
shore. Securing the rope, he walked up the bank.
"What are you trying to do?" he asked, addressing his remark to Mad
Twinker.
"We want to put this fellow on board of the Dasher," replied the leader,
as he had been since the overthrow of Buck Lamb.
"Well, why don't you do it?" asked Bissell briskly.
"Because the tinkers will interfere."
"I will take him in the Silver Moon if you like," added the skipper
indifferently.
"Will you take the rest of us too?" asked Mad.
"Yes; I can carry a dozen well enough," replied Bissell.
About all the students were small customers at Bissell's store, and were
well acquainted with him. They had no suspicion of any treachery on his
part.
CHAPTER XX.
THE REBELLIOUS SKIPPER OF THE SLOOP.
"What are you going to do with Paul Bristol, Mad Twinker?" inquired
Bissell, as they marched him down to the sloop.
"We are not going to do anything with him. Major Billcord wants to see
him, and we promised to take him over to Sandy Point for him," answered
the chief ruffian.
"Oh, that's all, is it?" added the skipper. "What is the major going to
do with him?"
"We don't know; and it's none of our business."
"Of course it isn't," replied Bissell cheerfully, as he hauled up the
bow of the boat so that the party could get on board. "How are you
feeling now, Paul?"
"I think I am all right. I have got some hard cracks since I saw you at
your house, but I guess I shall come out of it all right," replied the
prisoner, looking with interest and anxiety into the face of the
store-keeper.
Just then, while the ruffians were picking their way into the boat,
Bissell gave the prisoner an almost imperceptible wink, which Paul saw
and comprehended. It was full of hope to him, for he did not see how the
skipper could deliver him over to the magnate after the good service he
had rendered, in his humble way, on board of the Silver Moon. Besides,
he was a Beech Hiller now, and the store-keeper knew it. He was under
great obligations to them, and Paul did not believe he would betray one
of their number.
The skipper had not lowered his mainsail when he made the landing, and
the sloop was all ready to shove off. After two of the ruffians were in
the standing-room, the prisoner was conducted on board between two
others. At this point, Bissell went on board and took a stand near the
tiller.
"It blows like Sam Hill to-day," said he, "and I want you to keep your
places, and not move out of them. There are eight of us now, and sit
four on a side. Here, Paul, you sit there," and he shoved the prisoner
into the place next to his own, on the port side.
"But you won't have to go out into the rough water to get to Sandy
Point," suggested Mad Twinker.
"We must go out some distance, for there is hardly any wind under the
bluffs," replied the skipper. "You take a seat in that corner, Mad;" and
he crowded him into the place opposite his own.
The other ruffians were arranged to suit him, and then he shoved the
sloop off into deep water. The sail filled on the port tack, and the
Silver Moon went off with the wind a little abaft of the beam. The shore
was low at the head of the bay, and the sloop got her full share of the
breeze. She struck into an eight-knot speed at once.
"It was lucky for us that you came up to the creek, Mr. Bissell," said
Mad Twinker, as the boat shot ahead.
"Perhaps it was," replied the skipper; but there was not much enthusiasm
in the remark.
"Those villains from the other side blocked us in so that we couldn't do
anything, and we were thinking of walking Paul over by land," added the
leader. "But some of us are about used up, and we did not like the idea
of such a tramp through the woods."
As he spoke he glanced at the battered faces of some of his companions.
They all looked as though they had been through the wars.
"The head boat of the tinkers is swinging around," said Alf Sumner, as
the Gildrock turned her bow towards the shore.
"I wonder what they are going to do now," added Mad Twinker, with no
little anxiety in his expression.
"The rest of the tinker boats are following her," continued Ham Jackson.
The Gildrock made a graceful sweep before the sloop came up with the
position of the last barge in the line, and was abreast of the Silver
Moon about as soon as she was under full headway. The Beech Hillers now
laid themselves out, though they could hardly expect to keep up with the
sailboat in that wind.
"Can't you outsail those barges, Mr. Bissell?" asked Mad Twinker.
"Every time when we have as much breeze as we have now," replied the
skipper. "And we shall have a good deal more before we have any less."
"There goes the Dasher," said Alf Sumner. "The Racer is after her."
"And both of them will be a long way after the tinkers," added Ham
Jackson.
"We want you to put us ashore on the Sandy Bay side of the point," said
Mad Twinker. "Of course, we shall pay you the dollar an hour for the
boat and boatman for all the time we have her."
"That's all right," answered the skipper, as he headed the Silver Moon
farther out into the bay, and let off the main sheet to suit the change.
In a few minutes more the boat was in rough water, and she began to
pitch and roll in a manner somewhat trying to the nerves of persons not
used to it. The six ruffians, who were no boatmen, for they had very
seldom been allowed in a sailboat, did not like it.
"What's the use of going out so far from the shore, Mr. Bissell?"
demanded Mad Twinker.
"I don't think it is safe to sail near the bluffs, for the wind is flawy
and snappish there," replied the skipper. "I don't know but I shall have
to put a reef in the mainsail, for the gusts come heavier than I thought
for."
As he spoke he hauled out a lot of rope from the locker under the
tiller. He began to fuss over the lines to find a reef pendant. He took
his knife from his pocket, and cut one of them off the right length. He
laid the knife down by his side on the seat, and then returned all the
ropes, except the one he had cut off, to the locker.
"I may not want to reef, but it is best to be ready," continued the
skipper, shifting the tiller a couple of notches on the comb. "Do you
think those barges will come up with us, Mad?"
"I should judge that they would not," replied the leader.
"The Beech Hillers are putting in some strong strokes," added Bissell.
"So are our boats," replied Mad.
"They are getting up quite a smart race. Will you fellows bet on your
own boats?" asked the skipper, with a cheerful smile.
"Of course we won't while the Dasher is four hands short of her
complement," said Jeff Monroe.
"But your boats are doing their prettiest, and I shouldn't wonder if
they got the best of it in the end. Don't you see that the Dasher is
gaining on the Marian?" continued Bissell, with a great deal of
earnestness.
"I don't think she is gaining at all," put in Steve Douglas.
But the six ruffians were gazing with all their eyes at the five barges;
and this was the one thing that Bissell most desired. While he held on
to the tiller with his right hand he had picked up his knife with the
other. Reaching around behind him, he got hold of the cord which bound
Paul Bristol. Making sure that the blade was in the right place, in
which he was assisted by the prisoner, he cut the rope.
"Is the Dasher gaining anything, Mad?" he asked when he had accomplished
his purpose without attracting the attention of the ruffians.
"Not a hair; she is losing, and the tinkers are running away from our
boats. They ought to when our fellows are short-handed."
"I guess you are right, Mad," added the skipper, as he looked about him,
as if in search of something. "The wind comes stronger and stronger, and
I think I shall want my long tiller. It is in the cuddy forward; Will
you hand it to me, Jeff Monroe?"
Jeff produced the spare tiller, and passed it astern to the skipper. It
was about three feet long, and was made of the toughest oak. Bissell
took it, and placed it at his side, between himself and the prisoner.
Though Paul knew that his arms were free, he had not removed them from
the position in which the cord had kept them, and no one but the skipper
suspected that he was not still in bonds.
All that the owner had said about rough seas had been uttered to blind
the six ruffians. It was rough, but not nearly so bad as it had been in
the forenoon farther from the land. Bissell had become more interested
that day in sailing a boat than he had ever been before. He had obtained
a good many new ideas on the subject, and was really desirous of
reducing them to practice. Without saying anything about his intention,
he had gradually let off the sheet, and put up the helm until the Silver
Moon was now a full mile from the shore, and was exposed to the entire
force of the moderate gale.
The Beech Hill barges followed the sloop, but the Chesterfields were
inclined to keep near the shore. The latter were short-handed, and this
was doubtless their excuse. The sailboat was now at least half a mile
from the Gildrock. Bissell was glowing with his new ideas, and he was
disposed to profit by the instructions of the skipper of the Goldwing
while they were fresh in his mind. Suddenly he hauled in the sheet, and
threw the sloop up into the wind and then let her off on the starboard
tack. Laying a course which would take him back to the mouth of the
creek, he trimmed the sail and let her drive.
"What under the canopy are you doing, Mr. Bissell?" demanded Mad
Twinker angrily.
"I am afraid the Dasher will not catch us if I run off any farther,"
replied Bissell.
"No matter whether she catches you or not. All you have to do is to land
us at Sandy Point, on the bay side," added the leader of the ruffians.
"I guess we had better run back a piece," said Bissell, unmoved by the
wrath of his passengers.
"We don't wish to go back," protested Jeff Monroe. "Do you want the
tinkers to board us and take our prisoner out of the sloop?"
"I don't know that I care if they do."
"Don't you? Well, we do! We won't stand this sort of thing. We hire the
boat, and she must go where we say," replied Jeff, rising from his seat,
boiling over with wrath. "We won't stand it!"
"What are you going to do about it?" inquired Bissell in the mildest of
tones.
"I order you to come about and take us to Sandy Point, as you agreed to
do."
"I didn't agree to do anything of the kind. I told you I would take Paul
on board, and then the rest of you, when you asked me to do so. That's
the whole of it."
"This is treachery," yelled Mad Twinker.
"Well, if it is, I think we have carried this thing about far enough. I
hadn't any idea of helping you to hand Paul over to Major Billcord. I
would sink my carcass to the bottom of the lake first," continued the
skipper of the Silver Moon, warmly.
"All we have to do, fellows, is to take possession of the boat," shouted
Jeff Monroe, as he made a rush aft.
"Back into your seat, or I will spill you into the lake!" said Bissell
sharply.
But Jeff was not to be intimidated by a threat, and, supported by Mad,
he made a dive at the skipper. Suddenly the spare tiller appeared in
air, in the hands of Paul, and then it came down upon the head of Jeff
Monroe.
CHAPTER XXI.
AN OUTRAGE IN THE STANDING-ROOM OF THE SLOOP.
Jeff Monroe fell all in a heap at the door of the cuddy; but his fall
did not deter his fellow-ruffians from advancing upon the skipper. Buck
Lamb threw himself in front of Mad Twinker, as though he intended to
redeem his escutcheon from the stain of defeat. Bissell was no more a
fighting character than Paul, and he had not the least idea of
"science." Buck was in proper position to make or receive an attack, and
the skipper had risen from his sitting posture when the prisoner did.
[Illustration: "His fall did not prevent his fellow-ruffians from
advancing upon the skipper."--Page 216.]
Instead of hitting as a pugilist should, Bissell reached out his long
arm, and took the bully by the collar of his uniform, jerked him over
once, and then tossed him upon the prostrate form of Jeff Monroe. Mad
Twinker had bravely followed up the attack until he was in reach of the
skipper's arm, and he was tumbled over in a heap.
But Bissell could not do duty with his long arms and steer at the same
time; and the Silver Moon, now having a strong weather helm, came up
into the wind, and, with her boom shaking in the midst of the
combatants, began to roll as though she intended to pitch the ruffians
overboard without any help from her owner. Jackson, Sumner and Douglas
had retreated from the after part of the standing-room, and the motion
of the boat, made more unsteady by the movements of the ruffians,
pitched them all into the seats.
Buck Lamb and Mad Twinker rose to their feet as soon as they could, but
Jeff Monroe was not yet in a condition to move. The skipper put the helm
up, and the sloop filled away again. Paul had advanced a pace, and taken
a seat near the skipper, but with the spare tiller ready to deal a blow
as soon as a head came near enough to receive it.
The ruffians looked at the heavy tiller in the hand of Paul, and then
they looked at the long arms of the skipper. While they were gazing
there was a halt all along the line, which afforded an opportunity for
reflection. Some of them cast their eyes about them for something in the
shape of a weapon. The spare tiller seemed to be the only stick that
would answer the purpose of a club, except the crutch used to support
the boom when the sail was furled, and that was under the owner's seat.
Both Mad and Buck seemed to realize that they could do nothing without
bringing that tiller down upon their heads, and its descent was almost
sure to reduce them to the condition of Jeff Monroe, who was just
beginning to show some signs of life. While they were thinking about it,
the skipper came about, and headed the sloop towards the shore. When he
had done so, he picked up the crutch, and placed it on the seat, by his
side.
The Silver Moon was now headed in the direction of Sandy Point. The
Beech Hill barges were some distance astern of her, and the
Chesterfields at least a quarter of a mile farther to the westward.
"I don't think it is quite safe, Paul, to leave these fellows lying
round loose in the standing-room," said Bissell, when he had the boat
well in hand on the new tack. At the same time he drew out from the
locker under him the ropes from which he had selected the reef pendant.
"What do you mean by that?" demanded Mad Twinker, before Paul had time
to reply.
"I mean that I shall be under the disagreeable necessity of tying your
arms behind you, just as you had Paul when you brought him on board,"
replied Bissell; but his tone and manner did not indicate that the duty
was a very unpleasant one.
"But we won't stand it!" replied Mad angrily.
"Won't you?" continued Bissell, as he took the crutch in his hand.
"I protest against such an outrage!" exclaimed Ham Jackson.
"Oh, you protest, do you? And you really think it would be an outrage?"
said Bissell, in a mocking tone.
"We are students in the Chesterfield Collegiate Institute, and we are
the sons of gentlemen," returned Ham, with dignity. "Of course, it would
be an outrage to put us in bonds, like common felons."
"Precisely so; then we will tie your hands behind you like uncommon
felons. We won't quarrel about words, for you can beat me every time in
that line. I suppose it was not an outrage for you to attack Paul
Bristol, six to one, in the street, and tie his hands behind him,"
replied the skipper, with a very heavy sneer. "He don't happen to belong
to the Institute, but he is a member of the Beech Hill School."
"We don't care what he is," interposed Mad Twinker. "We won't submit to
be bound! We won't stand such an indignity!"
"You think you won't? I don't believe I shall have much trouble in tying
the hands behind him of that fellow on the floor," continues Bissell.
"It is for you to decide whether you will have your hands tied before or
after you are knocked stiff. I will begin with you, Mr. Twinker."
"No, you won't!" cried Mad, as he sprang from his seat, and rushed madly
