do that, but letting him see that I sympathised— — - 
Oh, do you think I have 'i " 
" You know what you have been doing, Imogene," 
said Mrs. Bowen, with the hardness it surprises men 
to know women use with each other, they seem such 
tender creatures in the abstract. "You have no 
need to ask me." 
 
"No, no." 
" As you say, I warned you from the first." 
" Oh yes ; you did." 
"I couldn't do more than hint ; it was too much 
to expect " 
" Oh, yes, yes." 
" And if you couldn't take my hints, I was help- 
less." 
"Yes; I see it." 
" I was only afraid of saying too much, and all 
through that miserable veglione business I was trying 
to please you and him, because I was afraid I had 
said too much — gone too far. I wanted to show you 
that I disdained to be suspicious, that I was ashamed 
to suppose that a girl of your age could care for the 
__admiration of a man of his." 
" Oh, I didn't care for his admiration. I admired 
Mm — and pitied him." 
Mrs. Bowen apparently would not be kept now 
from saying all that had been rankling in her breast. 
"I didn't approve of going to the veglione. A 
gTBat many people would be shocked if they knew I 
went ; I wouldn't at all like to have it known. But 
I was not going to have him thinking that I was 
severe with you, and wanted to deny you any really 
harmless pleasure." 
" Oh, who could think that ? You 're only too 
good to me. You see," said the girl, "what a re- 
turn I have made for your trust. I knew you didn't 
want to go to the veglione. If I hadn't been the 
most selfish girl in the world I wouldn't have let 
 
you. But I did. I forced you to go, and then, after 
"we got there, I seized every advantage, and abused 
your kindness till I wonder I didn't sink through the 
floor. Yes ; I ought to have refused to dance — if 
I 'd had a spark of generosity or gratitude I would 
have done it ; and I ought to have come straight 
hack to you the instant the waltz was done. And 
now see what has come of it ! I 've made you think 
he was trifling with me, and I 've made him think 
that I 'm a false and hollow-hearted thing." 
" You know best what you have done, Imogene,*' 
said Mrs. Bowen, with a smiling tearfulness that was 
somehow very bitter. She rose from the sofa, as if 
to indicate that there was no more to be said, and 
Imogene, with a fresh burst of grief, rushed away to 
her own room. 
She dropped on her knees beside her bed, and 
stretched out her arms upon it, an image of that 
desolation of soul which, when we are young, seems 
limitless, but which in later life we know has com- 
paratively narrow bounds beyond the clouds that 
rest so blackly around us. 
XII. 
In his room Colville was devouring as best he 
might the chagrin with which he had come away 
from Palazzo Pinti, while he packed his trunk for 
departure. Now that the thing was over, the worst 
was past. Again he observed that his emotions 
had no longer the continuity that the ein otions of his 
youth possessed. As he r emembered, a painful or 
pleasant impression used to last indefinitely ; but 
here he was with this h umiliating affair" hot in his 
mind, shrugging his shoulders with a sense of relief, 
almost a sense of escape. Do^ t he soul really wear 
out with the body ? The q uestion tlitted across his 
mind as he took down a pair of trousers, and noticed 
that they were considerably frayed about the feet ; 
he determined to give them to Paolo, and this re- 
minded him to ring for Paolo, and send word to the 
office that he was going to take the evening train for 
Rome. 
He went on packing, and putting away with the 
different garments the unpleasant thoughts that he 
knew he should be sure to unpack with them in 
Eome ; but they would then have less poignancy. 
 
For the present he was doing the best he could, and 
he was not making any sort of pretences. When his 
trunk was locked he kindled himself a fire, and sat 
down before it to think of Imogene. He began with 
her, but presently it seemed to be Mrs. Bowen that 
he was thinking of; then he knew he was drop- 
ping off to sleep by the manner in which their two 
ideas mixed. The fatigues and excitements of the 
week had been great, but he would not give way ; 
it was too disgraceful. 
Some one rapped at his door. He called out 
"Avantil" and he would have been less surprised 
to see either of those ladies than Paolo with the 
account he had ordered to be made out. It was a 
long, pendulous, minutely itemed affair, such as 
the traveller's recklessness in candles and firewood 
comes to in the books of the Continental landlord, 
and it almost swept the floor when its volume was 
unrolled. But it was not the sum-total that dis- 
mayed Colville when he glanced at the final figure ; 
that, indeed, was not so very great, with all the 
items ; it was the conviction, suddenly flashing upon 
him, that he had not money enough by him to pay 
it. His watch, held close to the fire, told him that 
it was five o'clock ; the banks had been closed an 
hour, and this was Saturday afternoon. 
The squalid accident had all the effect of inten- 
tion, as he viewed it from without himself, and con- 
sidered that the money ought to have been the first 
thing in his thoughts after he determined to go away. 
He must get the money somehow, and be off to 
 
Rome by the seven o'clock train. A vrhimsical 
suggestion, which was so good a bit of irony that it 
made him smile, flashed across him : he might 
borrow it of Mrs. Bowen. She was, in fact, the 
only person in Florence with whom he was at all on 
borrowing terms, and a sad sense of the sweetness 
of her lost friendship followed upon the antic notion. 
No ; for once he could not go to Mrs. Bowen. He 
recollected now the many pleasant talks they had 
had together, confidential in virtue of their old acquaintance, and harmlessly intimate in many things. 
He recalled how, when he was feeling dull from the 
Florentine air, she had told him to take a little 
quinine, and he had found immediate advantage in it. 
These memories did strike him as grotesque or ludicrous ; he only felt their pathos. He was ashamed 
even to seem in anywise recreant further. If she 
should ever hear that he had lingered for thirty- 
six hours in Florence after he had told her he was 
going away, what could she think but that he had 
repented his decision ? He determined to go down 
to the office of the hotel, and see if he could not 
make some arrangement with the landlord. It 
would be extremely distasteful, but his ample letter 
of credit would be at least a voucher of his final 
ability to pay. As a desperate resort he could go 
and try to get the money of Mr. Waters. 
He put on his coat and hat, and- opened the door 
to some one who was just in act to knock at it, and 
whom he struck against in the obscurity. 
" I beg your pardon," said the visitor. 
 
" Mr. Waters ! Is it possible ? " cried Colville, 
feeling something fateful in the chance. " I was 
just going to see you." 
" I 'm fortunate in meeting you, then. Shall we 
go to my room ? " he asked, at a hesitation in Colville's manner. 
"No, no," said the latter; "come in here." He 
led the way back into his room, and struck a match 
to light the candles on his chimney. Their dim rays 
fell upon the disorder his packing had left. " You 
must excuse the look of things," he said. "The fact 
is, I'm just going away. I'm going to Eome at 
seven o'clock." 
" Isn't this rather sudden ? " asked the minister, 
with less excitement than the fact might perhaps have 
been expected to create in a friend. " I thought 
you intended to pass the winter in Florence." 
" Yes, I did — sit down, please — but I find myself 
obliged to cut my stay short. Won't you take off 
your coat ? " he asked, taking off his own. 
" Thank you ; I 've formed the habit of keeping it 
on indoors," said Mr. Waters. " And I oughtn't to 
stay long, if you 're to be oif so soon." 
Colville gave a very uncomfortable laugh. " Why, 
the fact is, I 'm not off so very soon unless you help 
me." 
"Ah?" returned the old gentleman, with polite 
interest. 
" Yes, I find myself in the absurd position of a 
man who has reckoned without his host. I have 
made all my plans for going, and have had my hotel 
 
bill sent to me in pursuance of that idea, and now I 
discover that I not only haven't money enough to 
pay it and get to Rome, but I haven't much more 
than half enough to pay it. I have credit galore," 
he said, trying to give the situation a touch of 
liveliness, " but the bank is shut." 
Mr. Waters listened to the statement with a silence 
concerning which Colville was obliged to form his 
conjectures. " That is unfortunate," he said sympa- 
thetically, but not encouragingly. 
Colville pushed on desperately. " It is, unless 
you can help me, Mr. Waters. I want you to lend 
me fifty dollars for as many hours." 
Mr. Waters shook his head with a compassionate 
smile. "I haven't fifty francs in cash. You are 
welcome to what there is. I 'm very forgetful about 
money matters, and haven't been to the bankers." 
" Oh, don't excuse yourself to me, unless you 
wish to embitter my shame. I 'm obliged to you for 
offering to share your destitution with me. I must 
try to run my face with the landlord," said Colville. 
" Oh no," said Mr. Waters gently. " Is there 
such haste as all that ? " 
" Yes, I must go at once." 
"I don't like to have you apply to a stranger," 
said the old man, with fatherly kindness. " Can't 
you remain over till Monday ? I had a little excur- 
sion to propose." 
" No, I can't possibly stay ; I must go to-night," 
cried Colville. 
The minister rose. " Then I really mustn't detain 
 
you, I suppose. Good-bye." He offered his hand. 
Colville took it, but could not let it go at once. " I 
would like extremely to tell you why I'm leav- 
ing Florence in such haste. But I don't see what 
good it would do, for I don't want you to persuade 
me to stay." 
The old gentleman looked at him with friendly 
interest. 
"The fact is," Colville proceeded, as if he had 
been encouraged to do so, "I have had the mis- 
fortune — yes, I'm afraid I've had the fault — to 
make myself very displeasing to Mrs. Bowefn, and in 
such a way that the very least I can do is to take 
myself off as far and as soon as I conveniently can." 
" Yes ? " said Mr. Waters, with the cheerful note 
of incredulity in his voice with which one is apt 
to respond to others' confession of extremity. " Is 
it so bad as that ? I 've just seen Mrs. Bowen, and 
she told me you were going." 
"Oh," said Colville, with disagreeable sensation, 
"perhaps she told you why I vras going." 
" No," answered Mr. Waters ; "she didn't do that." 
Colville imagined a consciousness in him, which per- 
haps did not exist. " She didn't allude to the sub- 
ject further than to state the fact, when I mentioned 
that I was coming to see you." 
Colville had dropped his hand. " She was very 
forbearing," he said, with bitterness that might well 
have been incomprehensible to Mr. Waters upon any 
theory but one. 
"Perhaps," he suggested, "you are precipitate; 
 
perhaps you have mistaken ; perhaps you have been 
hasty. These things are often the result of impulse 
in women. I have often wondered how they could 
make up their minds ; I believe they certainly ought 
to be allowed to change them at least once." 
Colville turned very red. " What in the world 
do you mean ? Do you imagine that I have been 
ofTering myself to Mrs. Bowen ? " 
" Wasn't it that which you wished to — which you 
said you would like to tell me ? " 
Colville was suddenly silent, on the verge of a 
self-derisive laugh. When he spoke, he said gently : 
"No; it wasn't that. I never thought of offering 
myself to her. We have always been very good 
friends. But now I 'm afraid we can't be friends 
any more — at least we can't be acquaintances." 
" Oh !" exclaimed Mr. Waters. He waited a while 
as if for Colville to say more, but the latter remained 
silent, and the old man gave his hand again in fare- 
well. " I must really be going. I hope you won't 
think me intrusive in my mistaken conjecture ? " 
" Oh no." 
"It was what I supposed you had been telling 
me " 
" I understand. You mustn't be troubled," said 
Colville, though he had to own to himself that it 
•seemed superfluous to make this request of Mr. 
Waters, who was taking the affair with all the 
serenity of age concerning matters of sentiment. 
"I wish you were going to Eome with me," he 
added, to disembarrass the moment of parting. 
 
"Thank you. But I shall not go to Rome for 
some years. Shall you come back on your way in 
the spring ? " 
"No, I shall not come to Florence again," said 
Colville sadly. 
" Ah, I 'm sorry. Good-bye, my dear young friend. 
It 's been a great pleasure to know you." Colville 
walked down to the door of the hotel with his visitor 
and parted with him there. As he turned back he 
met the landlord, who asked him if he would have 
the omnibus for the station. The landlord bowed 
smilingly, after his kind, and rubbed his hands. He 
said he hoped Colville was pleased with his hotel, 
and ran to his desk in the little oiBce to get some 
cards for him, so that he might recommend it accu- 
rately to American families. 
Colville looked absently at the cards. " The fact 
is," he said, to the little bowing, smiling man ; " I 
don't know but I shall be obliged to postpone my 
going till Monday." He smiled too, trying to give 
the fact a jocose effect, and added, "I find myself 
out of money, and I've no means of paying your 
bill till I can see my bankers." 
After all his heroic intention, this was as near as 
he could come to asking the landlord to let him send 
the money from Eome. 
The httle man set his head on one side. 
" Oh, well, occupy the room until Monday, then," 
he cried hospitably. "It is quite at your disposi- 
tion. You will not want the omnibus ? " 
" No, I shall not want the omnibus," said Colville, 
with a laugh, doubtless not perfectly intelligible to 
the landlord, who respectfully joined him in it. 
He did not mean to stop that night without writ- 
ing to Mrs. Bowen, and assuring her that though an 
accident had kept him in Florence till Monday, she 
need not be afraid of seeing him again. But he 
could not go back to his room yet ; he wandered 
about the town, trying to pick himself up from the 
ruin into which he had fallen again, and wondering 
with a sort of alien compassion what was to become 
of his aimless, empty existenceJ As he passed 
through the Piazza San Marco Be had half a mind 
to pick a pebble from the gardened margin of the 
fountain there and toss it against the Eev. Mr. 
Waters's window, and when he put his skull-cap out, 
to ask that optimistic agnost ic what a man had best 
do with a life that had ceased to in t erest h im. But, 
for the time being, he got rid of himself as he best 
could by going to the opera. They professed to give 
Rigoletto, but it was all Mrs. Bowen and Imogene 
Graham to Colville. 
It was so late when he got back to his hotel that 
the outer gate was shut, and he had to wake up the 
poor little porter, as on that night when he returned 
from Madame Uccelli's. The porter was again equal 
to his duty, and contrived to light a new candle to 
show him the way to his room. The repetition, 
almost mechanical, of this small chicane made 
Colville smile, and this apparently encouraged the 
porter to ask, as if he supposed him to have been in 
society somewhere — 
 
" You have amused yourself this evening ? 
" Oh, very much." 
" I am glad. There is a letter for you.' 
" A letter ! Where ? " 
"I sent it to your room. It came just before 
midnight." 
XIII. 
Mrs. Bo wen sat before flie hearth in her salon, 
with her hands fallen in her lap. At thirty-eight 
the emotions engrave themselves more deeply in the 
face than they do in our first youth, or than they 
will when we have really aged, and the pretty woman 
looked haggard. 
Imogene came in, wearing a long blue robe, flung 
on as if with desperate haste ; her thick hair fell 
crazily out of a careless knot, down her back. " I 
couldn't sleep," she said, with quivering lips, at 
the sight of which Mrs. Bowen's involuntary smile 
hardened. " Isn't it eleven yet ? " she added, with a 
glance at the clock. " It seems years since I went to 
bed." 
"It's been a long day," Mrs. Bowen admitted. 
She did not ask Imogene why she could not sleep, 
perhaps because she knew already, and was too 
honest to affect ignorance. 
The girl dropped into a chair opposite her, and 
began to pull her fingers through the long tangle of 
her hair, while she drew her breath in sighs that 
broke at times on her lips ; some tears fell down her 
 
cheeks unheeded. " Mrs. Bowen," she said, at 
length, " I should like to know what right we have 
to drive any one from Florence ? I should think 
people would call it rather a high-handed proceeding 
if it were known." 
Mrs. Bowen met this feebleness promptly. " It 
isn't likely to be known. But we are not driving 
Mr. Colville away." 
" He is going." 
"Yes; he said he would go." 
" Don't you believe he will go ? " 
" I believe he will do what he says." 
" He has been very kind to us all ; he has been as 
good!" 
" No one feels that more than I," said Mrs. Bowen, 
with a slight tremor in her voice. She faltered a 
moment. " I can't let you say those things to me, 
Imogene." 
" No ; I know it 's wrong. I didn't know what I 
was saying. Oh, I wish I could tell what I ought 
to do ! I wish I could make up my mind. Oh, I 
can't let him go — so. I — I don't know what to think 
any more. Once it was clear, bit now I 'm not sure j 
no, I 'm not sure." 
" Not sure about what ? " 
" I think I am the one to go away, if any one." 
" You know you can't go away,'' said Mrs. Bowen, 
with weary patience. 
" No, of course not. Well, I shall never see any 
one like him." 
Mrs. Bowen made a start in her chair, as if she 
 
had no longer the power to remain quiet, but only 
placed herself a little more rigidly in it. 
  " No," the girl went on, as if uttering a hopeless 
reverie. " He made every moment interesting. He 
was always thinking of us — he never thought of 
himself. He did as much for Effie as for any one ; 
he tried just as hard to make himself interesting to 
her. He was unselfish. I have seen him at places 
being kind to the stupidest people. You never 
caught him choosing out the stylish or attractive 
ones, or trying to shine at anybody's expense. Oh, 
he 's a true gentleman — I shall always say it. How 
delicate he was, never catching you up, or if you 
said a foolish thing, trying to turn it against you. 
No, never, never, never ! Oh dear ! And now, what 
can he think of me ? Oh, how frivolous and fickle 
and selfish he must think me ! " 
" Imogene !" Mrs. Bowen cried out, but quelled 
herself again. 
" Yes," pursued the girl, in the same dreary mono- 
tone, " he thinks I couldn't appreciate him because he 
was old. He thinks thati cared for his not being hand- 
some ! Perhaps — perhaps " She began to catch 
her breath in the effort to keep back the sobs that 
were coming. " Oh, I can't bear it ! I would rather 
die than let him think it — such a thing as that !" 
She bent her head aside, and cried upon the two 
hands with which she clutched the top of her chair. 
Mrs. Bowen sat looking at her distractedly. From 
time to time she seemed to silence a word upon her 
lips, and in fact she did not speak. 
Imogene lifted her head at last, and softly dried 
her eyes. Then, as she pushed her handkerchief 
back into the pocket of her robe, " What sort of 
looking girl was that other one ?" 
"That other one?" 
" Yes ; you know what I mean : the one who be- 
haved so badly to him before." 
" Imogene !" said Mrs. Bowen severely, " this is 
nonsense, and I can't let you go on so. I might 
pretend not to know what you mean ; but I won't 
do that ; and I tell you that there is no sort of like- 
ness — of comparison " 
"No, no," wailed the girl, " there is none. I feel 
that. She had nothing to warn her — he hadn't suf- 
fered then ; he was young ; he was able to bear it — , 
you said it yourself, Mrs. Bowen. But now — now, 
what will he do ? He could make fun of that, and 
not hate her so much, because she didn't know how 
much harm she was doing. But I did ; and what 
can he think of me ?" 
Mrs. Bowen looked across the barrier between 
them, that kept her from taking Imogene into her 
arms, and laughing and kissing away her craze, with 
cold dislike, and only said, "You know whether 
you've really anything to accuse yourself of, 
Imogene. I can't and won't consider Mr. Colville 
in the matter ; I didn't consider him in what I said 
to-day. And I tell you again that I will not inter- 
fere with you in the slightest degree beyond appear- 
ances and the responsibility I feel to your mother. 
And it 's for you to know your own mind. You are 
 
old enough. I will do -what you say. It 's for you 
to be sure that you wish what you say." 
"Yes," said Imogene huskily, and she let an in- 
terval that was long to them both elapse before she 
said anything more. " Have I always done what 
you thought best, Mrs. Bo wen ?" 
"Yes, I have never complained of you." 
" Then why can't you tell me now what you think 
best V 
"Because there is nothing to be done. It is all 
over." 
" But if it were not, would you tell me ? " 
" No." 
"Why?" 
" Because I— couldn't." 
" Then I take back my promise not to write to 
Mr. Colville. I am going to ask him to stay.'' 
" Have you made up your mind to that, Imogene ?" 
asked Mrs. Bowen, showing no sign of excitement, 
except to take a faster hold of her own wrists with 
the slim hands in which she had caught them. 
" Yes." 
" You know the position it places you in ?" 
' "What position?" 
" Has he offered himself to you ? " 
" No ! " the girl's face blazed. 
" Then, after what 's passed, this is the same as 
offering yourself to him." 
Imogene turned -white. " I must write to him, 
unless you forbid me." 
"Certainly I shall not forbid you." Mrs. Bowen 
 
rose and went to her writing-desk. "But if you 
have fully made up your mind to this step, and are 
ready for the consequences, whatever they are " 
She stopped, before sitting down, and looked back 
over her shoulder at Imogene. 
