She followed him half-way up the second flight of 
stairs, and stood there while he explored the third 
story throughout. 
" There ain't anything there," he reported without 
looking at her, and was about to pass her on the 
stairs in going down. 
" Oh, thank you very much, Lemuel," she said, 
 
with fervent gratitude in her voice. She fetched a 
tremulous sigh. " I suppose it was nothing. Yes," 
she added hoarsely, "it must have been nothing. 
Oh, let me go down first ! " she cried, putting out her 
hand to stop him from passing her. She resumed 
when they reached the ground floor again. " Aunty 
has gone out, and Jane was in the kitchen, and it 
began to grow dark while I sat reading in the draw 
ing-room, and all at once I heard the strangest noise." 
Her voice dropped deeply on the last word. " Yes, 
it was very strange indeed ! Thank you, Lemuel," 
she concluded. 
" Quite welcome," said Lemuel dryly, pushing on 
towards the basement stairs. 
" Oh ! And Lemuel ! will you let Jane give you 
your supper in the dining-room, so that you could be 
here if I heard anything else ? " 
" I don't want any supper," said Lemuel. 
The girl scrutinised him with an expression of 
misgiving. Then, with a little sigh, as of one who 
will not explore a painful mystery, she asked : 
" Would you mind sitting in the dining-room, then, 
till aunty gets back ? " 
" I'd just as lives sit there," said Lemuel, walking 
into the dark dining-room and sitting down. 
u Oh, thank you very much. Aunty will be back 
very soon, I suppose. She 's just gone to the Sewells 
to tea." 
She followed him to the threshold. " You must 
I' must light the gas in here for you." 
" Guess I can light the gas," said Lemuel, getting 
 
up to intercept her in this service. She had run 
into the reception-room for a match, and she would 
not suffer him to prevent her. 
" No, no ! I insist ! And Lemuel," she said, 
turning upon him, "I' must ask you to excuse my 
speaking harshly to you. I was agitated." 
" Perfectly excusable," said Lemuel. 
" I am afraid," said the girl, fixing him with her 
eyes, "that you are not well." 
" Oh yes, I' m well. I' m pretty tired; that 's all." 
" Have you been walking far ? " 
"Yes not very." 
" The walking ought to do you good," said Sibyl, 
with serious thoughtfulness. "I think," she con 
tinued, " you had better have some bryonia. Don't 
you think you had ? " 
" No, no ! I don't want anything," protested 
Lemuel. 
She looked at him with a feeling of baffled anxiety 
painted on her face ; and as she turned away, she 
beamed with a fresh inspiration. " I will get you a 
book." She flew into the reception-room and -back 
again, but she only had the book that she had herself 
been reading. 
"Perhaps you would like to read this ? I've  
finished it. I was just looking back through it." 
" Thank you ; I guess I don't want to read any, 
just now." 
She leaned against the side of the dining-table, 
beyond which Lemuel sat, and searched his fallen 
countenance with a glance contrived to be at once 
 
piercing and reproachful. "I see/ she said, "you 
have not forgiven me." 
"Forgiven you? " repeated Lemuel blankly. 
" Yes for giving way to my agitation in speaking 
to you." 
" I don't know," said Lemuel, with a sigh of deep 
inward trouble, "as I noticed anything." 
"I told you to light the gas in the basement," 
suggested Sibyl, " and then I told you to light it up 
here, and then I scolded you." 
" Oh yes," admitted Lemuel : "that," He dropped 
his head again. 
Sibyl sank upon the edge of a chair. " Lemuel ! 
you have something on your mind ! " 
The boy looked up with a startled face. 
"Yes! I can see that you have," pursued Sibyl 
"What have you been doing?" she demanded 
sternly. 
Lemuel was so full of the truth that it came first 
to his lips in all cases. He could scarcely force it 
aside now with the evasion that availed him nothing. 
"I don't know as I've  been doing anything in 
particular." 
" I see that you don't wish to tell me ! " cried the 
girl. "But you might have trusted me. I would 
have defended you, no matter what you had done 
the worse the better." 
Lemuel hung his head without answering. 
After a while she continued : " If I had been that 
girl who had you arrested, and I had been the cause 
of so much suffering to an innocent person, I should 
 
never have forgiven myself. I should have devoted 
my life to expiation. I should have spent my life in 
going about the prisons, and finding out persons who 
were unjustly accused. I should have done it as a 
penance. Yes ! even if he had been guilty ! " 
Lemuel remained insensible to this extreme of 
self-sacrifice, and she went on : " This book it is a 
story is all one picture of such a nature. There is 
a girl who 's been brought up as the ward of a young 
man. He educates her, and she expects to be his 
wife, and he turns out to be perfectly false and un 
worthy in every way ; but she marries him all the 
same, although she likes some one else, because she 
feels that she ought to punish herself for thinking of 
another, and because she hopes that she will die soon, 
and when her guardian finds out what she 's done for 
him, it will reform him. It 's perfectly sublime. It 's 
ennobling ! If every one could read this book, 
they would be very different." 
"I don't see much sense in it," said Lemuel, 
goaded to this comment. 
" You would if you read it. When she dies she 
is killed by a fall from her horse in hunting, and has 
just time to join the hands of her husband and the 
man she liked first, and tell them everything it is 
wrought up so that you hold your breath. I suppose 
it was reading that that made me think there were 
burglars getting in. But perhaps you're  right not 
to read it now, if you're  excited already. I'll get you 
something cheerful." She whirled out of the room and 
back in a series of those swift, nervous movements 
 
peculiar to her. " There ! that will amuse you, I 
know." She put the book down on the table before 
Lemuel, who silently submitted to have it left there. 
" It will distract your thoughts, if anything will. 
And I shall ask you to let me sit just here in the 
reception-room, so that I can call you if I feel 
alarmed." 
" All right," said Lemuel, lapsing absently to his 
own troubled thoughts. 
" Thank you very much," said Sibyl. She went 
away, and came back directly. " Don't you think," 
she asked, " that it ; 's very strange you should never 
have seen or heard anything of her ? " 
" Heard of who ? " he asked, dragging himself 
painfully up from the depths of his thoughts. 
"That heartless girl who had you arrested." 
" She wasn't heartless ! " retorted Lemuel in 
dignantly. 
"You think so because you are generous, and 
can't imagine such heartlessness. Perhaps," added 
Sibyl, with the air of being illumined by a happy 
thought, "she is dead. That would account for 
everything. She may have died of remorse. It 
probably preyed upon her till she couldn't bear it 
any longer, and then she killed herself." 
Lemuel began to grow red at the first apprehension 
of her meaning. As she went on, he changed colour 
more and more. 
"She is alive !" cried Sibyl. "She 's alive, and 
you have seen her ! You needn't deny it ! You've  
seen her to-day ! " 
 
Lemuel rose in clumsy indignation. "I don't 
know as anybody J 's got any right to say what I've  
done, or haven't done." 
" Lemuel ! " cried Sibyl. " Do you think any 
one in this house would intrude in your affairs ? 
But if you need a friend a sister " 
" I don't need any sister. I want you should let 
me alone." 
At these words, so little appreciative of her con 
descension, her romantic beneficence, her unselfish 
interest, Sibyl suddenly rebounded to her former 
level, which she was sensible was far above that of 
this unworthy object of her kindness. She rose 
from her chair, and pursued 
" If you need a friend a sister I' m sure that 
you can safely confide in the cook." She looked 
at him a moment, and broke into a malicious laugh 
very unlike that of a social reformer, which rang 
shriller at the bovine fury which mounted to Lemuel 's 
eyes. The rattle of a night-latch made itself heard 
in the outer door. Sibyl 's voice began to break, as 
it rose : "I never expected to be treated in my own 
aunt 's house with such perfect ingratitude and impu 
dence yes, impudence ! by one of her servants ! " 
She swept out of the room, and her aunt, who 
entered it, after calling to her in vain, stood with 
Lemuel, and heard her mount the stairs, sobbing, to 
her own room, and lock herself in. 
" What is the matter, Lemuel ? " asked Miss 
Yane, breathing quickly. She looked at him with 
the air of a judge who would not condemn him 
 
unheard, but would certainly do so after hearing 
him. Whether it was Lemuel 's perception of this 
that kept him silent, or his confusion of spirit from 
all the late rapidly successive events, or a wish not 
to inculpate the girl who had insulted him, he're  
mained silent. 
" Answer me ! " said Miss Vane sharply. 
Lemuel cleared his throat. "I don't know as 
I've  got anything to say," he answered finally. 
"But I insist upon your saying something," said 
Miss Vane. " What is this impudence ? " 
"There hasn't been any impudence," replied 
Lemuel, hanging his head. 
"Very well, then, you can tell me what Sibyl 
means," persisted Miss Vane. 
Lemuel seemed to reflect upon it. " No, I can't 
tell you," he said at last, slowly and gently. 
" You refuse to make any explanation whatever ? " 
"Yes." 
Miss Vane rose from the chair which she had 
mechanically sunk into while waiting for him to 
speak, and ceased to be the kindly, generous soul 
she was, in asserting herself as a gentlewoman who 
had a contumacious servant to treat with. " You 
will wait here a moment, please." 
"All right," said Lemuel. She had asked him 
not to receive instructions from her with that par 
ticular answer, but he could not always remember. 
She went upstairs, and returned with some bank 
notes that rustled in her trembling hand. "It is 
two months since you came, and I've paid you one 
 
month," she said, and she set her lips, and tried to 
govern her head, which nevertheless shook with the 
vehemence she was struggling to repress. She laid 
two ten-dollar notes upon the table, and then added 
a five, a little apart. " This second month was to 
be twenty instead of ten. I shall not want you any 
longer, and should be glad to have you go now at 
once to-night ! But I had intended to offer you a 
little present at Christmas, and I will give it you 
now." 
Lemuel took up the two ten-dollar notes without 
saying anything, and then after a moment laid one of 
them down. " It 's only half a month," he said. " I 
don't want to be paid for any more than I've done." 
" Lemuel ! " cried Miss Yane. " I insist upon 
your taking it. I employed you by the month." 
" It don't make any difference about that ; I've 
only been here a month and a half." 
He folded the notes, and turned to go out of the 
room. Miss Yane caught the five-dollar note from 
the table and intercepted him with it. " Well, then, 
you shall take it as a present." 
"I don't want any present," said Lemuel, patiently 
waiting her pleasure to release him, but keeping his 
hands in his pockets. 
You would have taken it at Christmas," said 
Miss Yane. " You shall take it now." 
"I shouldn't take a present any time," returned 
Lemuel steadily. 
" You are a foolish boy ! " cried Miss Yane. " You 
need it, and I tell you to take it." 
He made no reply whatever. 
"You are behaving very stubbornly ungrate 
fully," said Miss Vane. 
Lemuel lifted his head ; his lip quivered a little. 
" I don't think you ;'ve  got any right to say I' m 
ungrateful. " 
"I don't mean ungrateful," said Miss Vane. "I 
mean unkind very silly, indeed. And I wish you 
to take this money. You are behaving resentfully 
wickedly. I am much older than you, and I tell 
you that you are not behaving rightly. Why don't 
you do what I wish ? " 
" I don't want any money I haven't earned." 
" I don't mean the money. Why don't you tell 
me the meaning of what I heard ? My niece said 
you had been impudent to her. Perhaps she didn't 
understand." 
She looked wistfully into the boy 's face. 
After a long time he said, " I don't know as I've  
got anything to say about it." 
" Very well, then, you may go" said Miss Vane, 
with all her hauteur. 
" Well, good evening," said Lemuel passively, but 
the eyes that he looked at her with were moist, and 
conveyed a pathetic reproach. To her unmeasured 
astonishment, he offered her his hand; her amaze 
was even greater more infinite, as she afterwards 
told Sewell when she found herself shaking it. 
He went out of the room, and she heard him 
walking about his room in the L, putting together 
his few belongings. Then she heard him go down 
 
and open the furnace door, and she knew he was 
giving a final conscientious look at the fire. He 
closed it, and she heard him close the basement door 
behind him, and knew that he was gone. 
She explored the L, and then she descended to 
the basement and mechanically looked it over. 
Everything that could be counted hers by the most 
fastidious sense of property had been left behind 
him in the utmost neatness. On their accustomed 
nail, just inside the furnace-room, hung the blue 
overalls. They looked like a suicidal Lemuel hang 
ing there. 
Miss Vane went upstairs slowly, with a heavy 
heart. Under the hall light stood Sibyl, picturesque 
in the deep shadow it flung upon her face. 
" Aunt Hope," she began in a tragic voice. 
" Don't speak to me, you wicked girl ! " cried her 
aunt, venting her self-reproach upon this victim. 
"It is your doing." 
Sibyl turned with the meekness of an ostentatious 
scape-goat, unjustly bearing the sins of her tribe, 
and went upstairs into the wilderness of her own 
thoughts again. 
XIII. 
THE sense of outrage with which Lemuel was 
boiling when Miss Vane came in upon Sibyl and 
himself had wholly passed away, and he now saw 
his dismissal, unjust as between that girl and him, 
unimpeachably righteous as between him and the 
moral frame of things. If he had been punished for 
being ready to take advantage of that fellow 's 
necessity, and charge him fifty cents for changing 
ten dollars, he must now be no less obviously 
suffering for having abused that young lady 's trust 
and defencelessness ; only he was not suffering one- 
tenth as much. When he recurred to that wrong, 
in fact, and tried to feel sorry for it and ashamed, 
his heart thrilled in a curious way ; he found himself 
smiling and exulting, and Miss Yane and her niece 
went out of his mind, and he could not think of any 
thing but of being with that girl, of hearing her talk 
and laugh, of touching her. He sighed ; he did not 
know what his mother would say if she knew ; he 
did not know where he was going; it seemed a 
hundred years since the beginning of the afternoon. 
A horse-car came by, and Lemuel stopped it. He 
 
set his bag down on the platform, and stood there 
near the conductor, without trying to go inside, for 
the bag was pretty large, and he did not believe the 
conductor would let him take it in. 
The conductor said politely after a while, "See, 
d I get your fare ? " 
" No," said Lemuel. He paid, and the conductor 
went inside and collected the other fares. 
When he came back he took advantage of Lemuel 's 
continued presence to have a little chat. He was a 
short, plump, stubby-moustached man, and he looked 
strong and well, but he said, with an introductory 
sigh, " Well, sir, I get sore all over at this business. 
There ain't a bone in me that hain't got an ache in 
it. Sometimes I can't tell but what it 's the ache got 
a bone in it, ache seems the biggest." 
" Why, what makes it ? " asked Lemuel absently. 
" Oh, it 's this standin ; it 's the hours, and 
changin the hours* so much. You hain't got a 
chance to get used to one set o hours before they 
get em all shifted round again. Last week I was 
on from eight to eight ; this week it 's from twelve 
to twelve. Lord knows what it 's going to be next 
week. And this is one o the best lines in town,- 
too." 
"I presume they pay you pretty well," said 
Lemuel, with awakening interest. 
" Well, they pay a dollar n half a day," said the 
conductor. 
" Why, it 's more than forty dollars a month," said 
Lemuel. 
 
"Well, it is," said the conductor scornfully, "if 
you work every day in the Aveek. But I can't stand it 
more than six days out o seven; and if you miss a day, 
or if you miss a trip, they dock you. No, sir. It 's 
about the meanest business / ever struck. If I 
wa n't a married man, n if I didn't like to be 
regular about my meals and get em at home th my 
wife, I wouldn't stand it a minute. But that 's 
where it is. It 's regular." 
A lady from within signalled the conductor. He 
stopped the car, and the lady, who had risen with 
her escort, remained chatting with a friend before 
she got out. The conductor snapped his bell for 
starting, with a look of patient sarcasm. "See 
that ? " he asked Lemuel. " Some these women act 
as if the cars was their private carriage ; and you got 
to act so too, or the lady complains of you, and the 
company bounces you in a minute. Stock 's owned 
along the line, and they thinl^ they own you too. 
You can't get em to set more than ten on a 
side ; they'll leave the car first. I'd like to catch 
em on some the South End or Cambridge cars. 
I'd show em how to pack live stock once, anyway. 
Yes, sir, these ladies that ride on this line think 
they can keep the car standin while they talk about 
the opera. But you'd ought to see how they all 
look if a poor woman tries their little game. Oh, I 
tell you, rich people are hard." 
Lemuel reflected upon the generalisation. He 
regarded Miss Vane as a rich person; but though 
she had blamed him unjustly, and had used him 
 
impatiently, even cruelly, in this last affair, he 
remembered other things, and he said 
" Well, I don't know as I should say all of them 
were hard." 
"Well, may be not," admitted the conductor. 
" But I don't envy em. The way I look at it, and 
the way I tell my wife, I wouldn't want their money 
f I had to have the rest of it. Ain't any of em 
happy. I saw that when I lived out. No, sir ; 
what me and my wife want to do is to find us a nice 
little place in the country." 
At the words a vision of Willoughby Pastures 
rose upon Lemuel, and a lump of home-sickness came 
into his throat. He saw the old wood-coloured 
house, crouching black within its walls under the 
cold November stars. If his mother had not gone 
to bed yet, she was sitting beside the cooking-stove 
in the kitchen, and perhaps his sister was brewing 
something on it, potion or lotion, for her husband 's 
rheumatism. Miss Vane had talked to him about 
his mother ; she had said he might have her down 
to visit him, if everything went on right ; but of 
course he knew that Miss Yane did not understand 
that his mother wore bloomers, and he made up his 
mind that her invitation was never to be accepted. At 
the same time he had determined to ask Miss Vane 
to let him go up and see his mother some Sunday. 
" S fur 's we go," said the conductor. " F you're  
goin on, you want to take another car here." 
" I guess I'll go back with you a little ways," said 
Lemuel. " I want to ask you " 
"Guess we'll have to take a back seat, then," 
said the conductor, leading the way through the car 
to the other platform; "or a standee," he added, 
snapping the bell. " What is it you want to ask ? " 
" Oh, nothing. How do you fellows learn to be 
conductors ? How long does it take you ? " 
Till other passengers should come the conductor 
lounged against the guard of the platform in a 
conversational posture. 
" Well, generally it takes you four or five days. 
You got to learn all the cross streets, and the 
principal places on all the lines." 
"Yes?" 
" It didn't take me more n two. Boston boy." 
" Yes," said Lemuel, with a fine discouragement. 
"I presume the conductors are mostly from Boston." 
" They're  from everywhere. And some of em 
are pretty streaked, I can tell you; and then the 
rest of us has got to suffer ; throws suspicion on all 
of us. One fellow gets to stealin fares, and then 
everybody 's got to wear a bell-punch. I never hear 
mine go without thinkin it says, Stop thief ! 
Makes me sick, I can tell you. 
After a while Lemuel asked, " How do you get 
such a position ? " 
The conductor seemed to be thinking about some 
thing else. "It 's a pretty queer kind of a world, 
anyway, the way everybody 's mixed up with every 
body else. What 's the reason, if a man wants to 
steal, he can't steal and suffer for it himself, without 
throwin ? the shame and the blame on a lot more 
 
people that never thought o stealin ? I don't notice 
much when a fellow sets out to do right that folks 
think everybody else is on the square. No, sir, 
they don't seem to consider that kind of complaint 
so catching. Now, you take another thing : A 
woman goes round with the scarlet fever in her 
clothes, and a whole earful of people take it home 
to their children ; but let a nice young girl get in, 
fresh as an apple, and a perfect daisy for wholesome- 
ness every way, and she don't give it to a single 
soul on board. No, sir ; it 's a world I can't see 
through, nor begin to." 
"I never thought of it that way," said Lemuel, 
darkened by this black pessimism of the conductor. 
He had not, practically, found the world so unjust 
as the conductor implied, but he could not con 
trovert his argument. He only said, " May be the 
right thing makes us feel good in some way we don't 
know of." 
"Well, I don't want to feel good in some way I 
don't know of, myself," said the conductor very 
scornfully. 
"No, that 's so," Lemuel admitted. He remained 
silent, with a vague wonder flitting through his 
mind whether Mr. Sewell could make anything 
better of the case, and then settled back to his 
thoughts of Statira, pierced and confused as they 
were now with his pain from that trouble with Miss 
Vane. 
"What was that you asked me just now?" said 
the conductor. 
