leisure, at home in his little room, with the tools he kept 
there for private use, and a morsel of delicate, blue-tinted 
Russia leather, of which he obtained possession at the place 
in Soho, he devoted himself to the task of binding the book 
as perfectly as he knew how. He worked with passion, with 
religion, and produced a masterpiece of firmness and finish, 
of which his own appreciation was as high as that of M. - 
Poupin, when, at the end of the week, he exhibited the 
fruit of his toil, and much more freely expressed than that 
of old Crookenden, who grunted approbation, but was 
always too long-headed to create precedents. Hyacinth 
carried the volume to South Street, as an offering to the 
Princess ; hoping she would not yet have left London, in 
which case he would ask the servant to deliver it to her, 
along with a little note he had sat up all night to compose. 
But the majestic butler, in charge of the house, opening the 
door yet looking .down at him as if from a second-storey 
window, took the life out of his vision and erected himself 
as an impenetrable medium. The Princess had been 
absent for some days ; the butler was so good as to inform 
the young man with the parcel that she was on a visit to a 
'juke,' in a distant part of the country. He offered how- 
ever to receive, and even to forward, anything Hyacinth 
might wish to leave ; but our hero felt a sudden indisposi- 
tion to launch his humble tribute into the vast, the possibly 
cold, unknown of a ducal circle. He decided to retain his 
little package for the present ; he would give it to her when 
he should see her again, and he turned away without part- 
ing with it. Later, it seemed to create a sort of material 
link between the Princess and himself, and at the end 
of three months it almost appeared to him, not that the ex- 
quisite book was an intended present from his own hand, 
but that it had been placed in that hand by the most 
remarkable woman in Europe. Rare sensations and im- 
pressions, moments of acute happiness, almost always, with 
Hyacinth, in retrospect, became rather mythic and legen- 
dary ; and the superior piece of work he had done after 
seeing her last, in the immediate heat of his emotion, 
turned into a kind of proof and gage, as if a ghost, in 
vanishing from sight, had left a palpable relic. 
XVIII 
THE matter concerned him only indirectly, but it may con- 
cern the reader more closely to know that before the visit 
to the duke took place Madame Grandoni granted to 
Prince Casamassima the private interview she had pro- 
mised him on that sad Sunday afternoon. She crept out of 
South Street after breakfast a repast which under the 
Princess's roof was served at twelve o'clock, in the foreign 
fashion crossed the sultry solitude into which, at such a 
season, that precinct resolves itself, and entered the Park, 
where the grass was already brown and a warm, smoky 
haze prevailed, a sort of summer edition of what was most 
characteristic in the London air. The Prince met her, by 
appointment, at the gate, and they went and sat down 
together under the trees beside the drive, amid a wilderness 
of empty chairs and with nothing to distract their attention 
from an equestrian or two, left over from the cavalcades of 
a fortnight before, and whose vain agitation in the saddle 
the desolate scene seemed to throw into high relief. They 
remained there for nearly an hour, though Madame Gran- 
doni, in spite of her leaning to friendly interpretations, 
could not have told herself what comfort it was to the 
depressed, embarrassed young man at her side. She had 
nothing to say to him which could better his case, as he 
bent his mournful gaze on a prospect which was not, after 
all, perceptibly improved by its not being Sunday, and could 
only feel that, with her, he must seem to himself to be 
nearer his wife to be touching something she had touched 
The old lady wished he would resign himself more, but she 
was willing to minister to that thin illusion, little as she ap- 
proved of the manner in which he had conducted himself 
at the time of the last sharp crisis in the remarkable history 
of his relations with Christina. He had behaved like a 
spoiled child, with a bad little nature, in a rage; he 
had been fatally wanting in dignity and wisdom, and had 
given the Princess an advantage which she took on the 
spot and would keep for ever. He had acted without 
manly judgment, had put his uncles upon her (as if she 
cared for his uncles ! though one of them was a powerful 
prelate), had been suspicious and jealous on exactly the 
wrong occasions occasions on which such ideas were a 
gratuitous injury. He had not been clever enough or 
strong enough to make good his valid rights, and had trans- 
ferred the whole quarrel to a ground where his wife was far 
too accomplished a woman not to obtain the appearance of 
victory. 
There was another reflection that Madame Grandoni 
made, as her interview with her dejected friend prolonged 
itself. She could make it the more freely as, besides being 
naturally quick and appreciative, she had always, during her 
Roman career, in the dear old days (mingled with bitter- 
ness as they had been for her), lived with artists, archaeo- 
logists, ingenious strangers, people who abounded in good 
talk, threw out ideas and played with them. It came over 
her that, really, even if things had not come to that 
 
particular crisis, Christina's active, various, ironical mind, 
with all its audacities and impatiences, could not have toler- 
ated for long the simple dulness of the Prince's company. 
The old lady had said to him, on meeting him, ' Of course, 
what you want to know immediately is whether she has 
sent you a message. No, my poor friend, I must tell you 
the truth. I asked her for one, but she told me that she 
had nothing whatever, of any kind, to say to you. She 
knew I was coming out to see you. I haven't done so 
en cachette. She doesn't like it, but she accepts the neces- 
sity for this once, since you have made the mistake, as she 
considers it, of approaching her again. We talked about 
you, last night, after your note came to me for five 
minutes ; that is, I talked, and Christina was good enough 
to listen. At the end she said this (what I shall tell you), 
with perfect calmness, and the appearance of being the 
most reasonable woman in the world. She didn't ask me 
to repeat it to you, but I do so because it is the only sub- 
stitute I can offer you for a message. " I try to occupy 
my life, my mind, to create interests, in the odious position 
in which I find myself; I endeavour to get out of myself, 
my small personal disappointments and troubles, by the aid 
of such poor faculties as I possess. There are things in the 
world more interesting, after all, and I hope to succeed in 
giving my attention to them. It appears to me not too 
much to ask that the Prince, on his side, should make the 
same conscientious effort and leave me alone ! " Those 
were your wife's remarkable words ; they are all I have to 
give you.' 
After she had given them Madame Grandoni felt a pang 
of regret ; the Prince turned upon her a face so white, be- 
wildered and wounded. It had seemed to her that they 
might form a wholesome admonition, but it was now im- 
pressed upon her that, as coming from his wife, they were 
cruel, and she herself felt almost cruel for having repeated 
them. What they amounted to was an exquisite taunt of 
his mediocrity a mediocrity which was, after all, not a 
crime. How could the Prince occupy himself, what inte- 
rests could he create, and what faculties, gracious heaven, 
did he possess ? He was as ignorant as a fish, and as 
narrow as his hat-band. His expression became pitiful ; it 
was as if he dimly measured the insult, felt it more than saw 
it felt that he could not plead incapacity without putting 
the Princess largely in the right. He gazed at Madame 
Grandoni, his face worked, and for a moment she thought 
he was going to burst into tears. But he said nothing 
perhaps because he was afraid of that so that suffering 
silence, during which she gently laid her hand upon his 
own, remained his only answer. He might doubtless do 
so much he didn't, that when Christina touched upon this 
she was unanswerable. The old lady changed the subject : 
told him what a curious country England was, in so many 
ways ; offered information as to their possible movements 
during the summer and autumn, which, within a day or two, 
had become slightly clearer. But at last, abruptly, as if he had 
not heard her, he inquired, appealingly, who the young man 
was who had come in the day he called, just as he was going. 
Madame Grandoni hesitated a moment. ' He was the 
Princess's bookbinder.' 
' Her bookbinder ? Do you mean her lover ? ' 
' Prince, how can you dream she will ever live with you 
again ? ' the old lady asked, in reply to this. 
 
' Why, then, does she have him in her drawing-room 
announced like an ambassador, carrying a hat in his hand 
like mine ? Where were his books, his bindings ? I shouldn't 
say this to her,' the Prince added, as if the declaration justi- 
fied him. 
' I told you the other day that she is making studies of 
the people the lower orders. The young man you saw is 
a study.' Madame Grandoni could not help laughing out 
as she gave her explanation this turn ; but her mirth 
elicited no echo from her interlocutor. 
' I have thought that over over and over ; but the 
more I think the less I understand. Would it be your 
idea that she is quite crazy ? I must tell you I don't care 
if she is ! ' 
' We are all quite crazy, I think,' said Madame Gran- 
doni ; ' but the Princess no more than the rest of us. No, 
she must try everything ; at present she is trying democracy 
and socialism.' 
' Santo Dio ' murmured the young man. ' And what do 
they say here when they see her bookbinder ? ' 
' They haven't seen him, and perhaps they won't. But 
they do, it won't matter, because here everything is for- 
given. That a person should be singular is all they want. 
A bookbinder will do as well as anything else.' 
The Prince mused a while, and then he said, ' How 
can she bear the dirt, the bad smell?' 
' I don't know what you are talking about. If you mean 
the young man you saw at the house (I may tell you, by the 
way, that it was only the first time he had been there, and 
that the Princess had only seen him once) if you mean 
the little bookbinder, he isn't dirty, especially what we 
should call. The people of that kind, here, are not like 
our dear Romans. Every one has a sponge, as big as 
your head; you can see them in the shops.' 
' They are full of gin ; their faces are purple,' said 
the Prince ; after which he immediately asked, ' If she 
had only seen him once, how could he have come into 
her drawing-room that way ? ' 
The old lady looked at him with a certain severity. 
' Believe, at least, what I say, my poor friend ! Never 
forget that this was how you spoiled your affairs most of 
all by treating a person (and such a person !) as if, as a 
matter of course, she lied. Christina has many faults, but 
she hasn't that one ; that's why I can live with her. She 
will speak the truth always.' 
It was plainly not agreeable to the Prince to be re- 
minded so sharply of his greatest mistake, and he flushed 
a little as Madame Grandoni spoke. But he did not 
admit his error, and she doubted whether he even perceived 
it. At any rate he remarked rather grandly, like a man 
who has still a good deal to say for himself, ' There are 
things it is better to conceal.' 
' It all depends on whether you are afraid. Christina 
never is. Oh, I admit that she is very strange, and when 
the entertainment of watching her, to see how she will 
carry out some of her inspirations, is not stronger than any- 
thing else, I lose all patience with her. When she doesn't 
fascinate she can only exasperate. But, as regards your- 
self, since you are here, and as I may not see you again for 
a long time, or perhaps ever (at my age I'm a hundred and 
twenty i) I may as well give you the key of certain parts of 
your wife's conduct. It may make it seem to you a little 
 
less fantastic. At the bottom, then, of much that she does 
is the fact that she is ashamed of having married you.' 
' Less fantastic ? ' the young man repeated, staring. 
' You may say that there can be nothing more eccentric 
than that. But you know or, if not, it isn't for want of 
her having told you that the Princess considers that in the 
darkest hour of her life she sold herself for a title and a 
fortune. She regards her doing so as such a horrible piece 
of frivolity that she can never, for the rest of her days, be 
serious enough to make up for it.' 
4 Yes, I know that she pretends to have been forced. 
And does she think she's so serious now ? ' 
' The young man you saw the other day thinks so,' said 
the old woman, smiling. ' Sometimes she calls it by another 
name : she says she has thrown herself with passion into 
being "modern." That sums up the greatest number of 
things that you and your family are not.' 
' Yes, we are not, thank God ! Dio mio, Dio mio ! ' 
groaned the Prince. He seemed so exhausted by his 
reflections that he remained sitting in his chair after his 
companion, lifting her crumpled corpulence out of her own, 
had proposed that they should walk about a little. She had 
no ill-nature, but she had already noticed that whenever she 
was with Christina's husband the current of conversation 
made her, as she phrased it, bump against him. After 
administering these small shocks she always steered away, 
and now, the Prince having at last got up and offered her 
his arm, she tried again to talk with him of things he could 
consider without bitterness. She asked him about the 
health and habits of his uncles, and he replied, for the 
moment, with the minuteness which he had been taught 
that in such a case courtesy demanded ; but by the time 
that, at her request, they had returned to the gate nearest 
to South Street (she wished him to come no farther) he 
had prepared a question to which she had not opened the 
way. 
' And who and what, then, is this English captain ? 
About him there is a great deal said.' 
' This English captain ? ' 
' Godfrey Gerald Cholto you see I know a good deal 
about him,' said the Prince, articulating the English names 
with difficulty. 
They had stopped near the gate, on the edge of Park 
Lane, and a couple of predatory hansoms dashed at them 
from opposite quarters. ' I thought that was coming, and 
at bottom it is he that has occupied you most ! ' Madame 
Grandoni exclaimed, with a sigh. ' But in reality he is the 
last one you need trouble about ; he doesn't count.' 
' Why doesn't he count ? ' 
'I can't tell you except that some people don't, you 
know. He doesn't even think he does.' 
' Why not, when she receives him always lets him go 
wherever she goes ? ' 
' Perhaps that is just the reason. When people give her 
a chance to get tired of them she takes it rather easily. At 
any rate, you needn't be any more jealous of him than you 
are of me. He's a convenience, & factotum, but he works 
without wages.' 
' Isn't he, then, in love with her ? ' 
'Naturally. He has, however, no hope.' 
' Ah, poor gentleman ! ' said the Prince, lugubriously. 
' He accepts the situation better than you. He occupies 
 
himself as she has strongly recommended him, in my hear- 
ing, to do with other women.' 
' Oh, the brute ! ' the Prince exclaimed. ' At all events, 
he sees her.' 
' Yes, but she doesn't see him ! ' laughed Madame 
Grandoni, as she turned away. 
XIX 
THE pink dressing-gown which Finnic had engaged to make 
for Rose Muniment became, in Lomax Place, a conspicuous 
object, supplying poor Amanda with a constant theme for 
reference to one of the great occasions of her life her visit 
to Belgrave Square with Lady Aurora, after their meeting 
at Rosy's bedside. She described this episode vividly to 
her companion, repeating a thousand times that her lady- 
ship's affability was beyond anything she could have expected. 
The grandeur of the house in Belgrave Square figured in 
her recital as something oppressive and fabulous, tempered 
though it had been by shrouds of brown holland and the 
nudity of staircases and saloons of which the trappings had 
been put away. ' If it's so noble when they're out of town, 
what can it be when they are all there together and every- 
thing is out ? ' she inquired suggestively ; and she permitted 
herself to be restrictive only on two points, one of which 
was the state of Lady Aurora's gloves and bonnet-strings. 
If she had not been afraid to appear to notice the disrepair 
of these objects, she would have been so happy to offer to 
do any little mending. ' If she would only come to me 
every week or two, I would keep up her rank for her,' said 
Pinnie, with visions of a needle that positively flashed in the 
disinterested service of the aristocracy. She added that her 
 
ladyship got all dragged out with her long expeditions to 
Camberwell ; she might be in tatters, for all they could do 
to help her at the top of those dreadful stairs, with that 
strange sick creature (she was too unnatural), thinking only 
of her own finery and talking about her complexion. If 
she wanted pink, she should have pink ; but to Finnic there 
was something almost unholy in it, like decking out a corpse, 
or the next thing to it. This was the other element that 
left Miss Pynsent cold ; it could not be other than difficult 
for her to enter into the importance her ladyship appeared 
to attach to those pushing people. The girl was unfortunate, 
certainly, stuck up there like a kitten on a shelf, but in her 
ladyship's place she would have found some topic more in 
keeping, while they walked about under those tremendous 
gilded ceilings. Lady Aurora, seeing how she was struck, 
showed her all over the house, carrying the lamp herself 
and telling an old woman who was there a kind of house- 
keeper, with ribbons in her cap, who would have pushed 
Pinnie out if you could push with your eyes that they 
would do very well without her. If the pink dressing-gown, 
in its successive stages of development, filled up the little 
brown parlour (it was terribly long on the stocks), making 
such a pervasive rose-coloured presence as had not been 
seen there for many a day, this was evidently because it was 
associated with Lady Aurora, not because it was dedicated 
to her humble friend. 
One day, when Hyacinth came home from his work, 
Pinnie announced to him as soon as he entered the room 
that her ladyship had been there to look at it to pass 
judgment before the last touches were conferred. The 
dressmaker intimated that in such a case as that her 
judgment was rather wild, and she had made an em- 
barrassing suggestion about pockets. Whatever could 
poor Miss Muniment want of pockets, and what had she 
to put in them ? But Lady Aurora had evidently found 
the garment far beyond anything she expected, and 
she had been more affable than ever, and had wanted to 
know about every one in the Place ; not in a meddling, 
prying way, either, like some of those upper-class visitors, 
but quite as if the poor people were the high' ones and she 
was afraid her curiosity might be ' presumptious.' It was 
in the same discreet spirit that she had invited Amanda to 
relate her whole history, and had expressed an interest in 
the career of her young friend. 
' She said you had charming manners,' Miss Pynsent 
hastened to remark ; ' but, before heaven, Hyacinth Robin- 
son, I never mentioned a scrap that it could give you pain 
that any one should talk about.' There was an heroic 
explicitness in this, on Pinnie's part, for she knew in ad- 
vance just how Hyacinth would look at her fixedly, 
silently, hopelessly, as if she were still capable of tattling 
horribly (with the idea that her revelations would increase 
her importance), and putting forward this hollow theory of 
her supreme discretion to cover it up. His eyes seemed 
to say, ' How can I believe you, and yet how can I prove 
you are lying ? I am very helpless, for I can't prove that 
without applying to the person to whom your incorrigible 
folly has probably led you to brag, to throw out mysterious 
and tantalising hints. You know, of course, that I would 
never condescend to that.' Pinnie suffered, acutely, from 
this imputation ; yet she exposed herself to it often, because 
she could never deny herself the pleasure, keener still than 
 
her pain, of letting Hyacinth know that he was appreciated, 
admired and, for those 'charming manners' commended 
by Lady Aurora, even wondered at ; and this kind of 
interest always appeared to imply a suspicion of his secret 
something which, when he expressed to himself the sense 
of it, he called, resenting it at once and yet finding a certain 
softness in it, ' a beastly attendrissement. ' When Pinnie 
went on to say to him that Lady Aurora appeared to feel a 
certain surprise at his never yet having come to Belgrave 
Square for the famous books, he reflected that he must 
really wait upon her without more delay, if he wished to 
keep up his reputation for charming manners ; and mean- 
while he considered much the extreme oddity of this new 
phase of his life (it had opened so suddenly, from one 
day to the other) ; a phase in which his society should 
have become indispensable to ladies of high rank and the 
obscurity of his condition only an attraction the more. 
They were taking him up then, one after the other, and 
they were even taking up poor Pinnie, as a means of getting 
at him so that he wondered, with humorous bitterness, 
whether it meant that his destiny was really seeking him 
out that the aristocracy, recognising a mysterious affinity 
(with that fineness of flair for which they were remarkable), 
were coming to him to save him the trouble of coming to 
them. 
It was late in the day (the beginning of an October 
evening), and Lady Aurora was at home. Hyacinth had 
made a mental calculation of the time at which she would 
have risen from dinner ; "the operation of ' rising from din- 
ner' having always been, in his imagination, for some 
reason or other, highly characteristic of the nobility. He 
was ignorant of the fact that Lady Aurora's principal meal 
consisted of a scrap of fish and a cup of tea, served on a 
little stand in the dismantled breakfast-parlour. The door 
was opened for Hyacinth by the invidious old lady whom 
Pinnie had described, and who listened to his inquiry, 
conducted him through the house, and ushered him into 
her ladyship's presence, without the smallest relaxation of 
a pair of tightly-closed lips. Hyacinth's hostess was seated 
in the little breakfast-parlour, by the light of a couple of 
candles, immersed apparently in a collection of tolerably 
crumpled papers and account-books. She was ciphering, 
consulting memoranda, taking notes; she had had her 
head in her hands, and the silky entanglement of her 
tresses resisted the rapid effort she made to smooth herself 
down as she saw the little bookbinder come in. The 
impression of her fingers remained in little rosy streaks on 
her pink skin. She exclaimed, instantly, 'Oh, you have 
come about the books it's so very kind of you ; ' and she 
hurried him off to another room, to which, as she explained, 
she had had them brought down for him to choose from. 
The effect of this precipitation was to make him suppose 
at first that she might wish him to execute his errand as 
quickly as possible and take himself off; but he presently 
perceived that her nervousness, her shyness, were of an 
order that would always give false ideas. She wanted him 
to stay, she wanted to talk with him, and she had rushed 
with him at the books in order to gain time and composure 
for exercising some subtler art. Hyacinth stayed half an 
hour, and became more and more convinced that her lady- 
ship was, as he had ventured to pronounce her on the 
occasion of their last meeting, a regular saint. He was 
 
privately a little disappointed in the books, though he 
selected three or four, as many as he could carry, and 
promised to come back for others : they denoted, on 
Lady Aurora's part, a limited acquaintance with French 
literature and even a certain puerility of taste. There 
were several volumes of Lamartine and a set of the 
spurious memoirs of the Marquise de Crequi ; but for 
the rest the little library consisted mainly of Marmontel 
and Madame de Genlis, the Recit d'une Soeur and the 
tales of M. J. T. de Saint-Germain. There were certain 
members of an intensely modern school, advanced and 
scientific realists, of whom Hyacinth had heard and on 
whom he had long desired to put his hand j but, evidently, 
none of them had ever stumbled into Lady Aurora's can- 
did collection, though she did possess a couple of Balzac's 
novels, which, by ill-luck, happened to be just those that 
Hyacinth had read more than once. 
There was, nevertheless, something very agreeable to 
him in the moments he passed in the big, dim, cool, 
empty house, where, at intervals, monumental pieces of 
furniture not crowded and miscellaneous, as he had seen 
the appurtenances of the Princess loomed and gleamed, 
and Lady Aurora's fantastic intonations awakened echoes 
which gave him a sense of privilege, of rioting, decently, in 
the absence of jealous influences. She talked again about 
the poor people in the south of London, and about the 
Muniments in particular ; evidently, the only fault she had 
to find with these latter was that they were not poor 
enough not sufficiently exposed to dangers and privations 
against which she could step in. Hyacinth liked her for 
this, even though he wished she would talk of something 
else he hardly knew what, unless it was that, like Rose 
Muniment, he wanted to hear more about Inglefield. He 
didn't mind, with the poor, going into questions of poverty 
it even gave him at times a strange, savage satisfaction 
but he saw that in discussing them with the rich the 
interest must inevitably be less; they could never treat 
them a fond. Their mistakes and illusions, their thinking 
they had got hold of the sensations of the destitute when 
they hadn't at all, would always be more or less irritating. 
It came over Hyacinth that if he found this want of per- 
spective in Lady Aurora's deep conscientiousness, it would 
be a queer enough business when he should come to go into 
the detail of such matters with the Princess Casamassima. 
His present hostess said not a word to him about 
Finnic, and he guessed that she had an instinctive desire 
to place him on the footing on which people do not express 
approbation or surprise at the decency or good-breeding of 
each other's relatives. He saw that she would always treat 
him as a gentleman, and that even if he should be basely 
ungrateful she would never call his attention to the fact 
that she had done so. He should hot have occasion to 
say to her, as he had said to the Princess, that she re- 
garded him as a curious animal ; and it gave him immedi- 
ately that sense, always so delightful to him, of learning 
more about life, to perceive there were such different ways 
(which implied still a good many more), of being a lady of 
rank. The manner in which Lady Aurora appeared to 
