" Thank you," she says, and the vague mists of inde- 
cision roll away. She looks at her path with a clear vision 
as it lies straight before her, and gives thanks that Basil 
Wentworth at last cares a little for her welfare. Perhaps 
in time she may win what Lloyd desired, unconscious and 
happy because she can never know what all that prayer 
included. It is safe, locked in Basil's soul, and his honor 
is of the unflinching sort. 
 
 
CHAPTER XXIV. 
GHOSTS IN AMBUSH. 
The golden glowing summer rides on apace. To Doris, 
Westwater seems an enchanted land. She is glad with a 
lark's delightsome joy that her home is unalterably fixed. 
One and another talk of a run over to Germany and Swit- 
zerland, a winter in Italy, a season at Paris. She does not 
care for any of them. Her boy is bright and strong, and 
now he is her almost constant companion, for Olive is 
engrossed with her husband and his duties, and her life 
widens out as if by a miracle. Doris is in some degree 
electrified by her happiness. Then Louise has a longed- 
for son. There is too much money in the Lenox family 
not to desire sons and daughters. It is a charming speci- 
men of babyhood, and Mr. Stirling is its most devoted 
uncle. 
Little Lloyd Wentworth calls him uncle as well, and 
though Agatha makes no demur, it is not pleasing to her. 
Doris's bright face and enchanting voice jars upon her 
and is distasteful to her sight. She is too well-bred, too 
loftily correct, to show any displeasure ; indeed, there is 
not a flaw in Doris's conduct to Mr. Stirling, or any other 
man. She is haunted somewhat by the dire result of her 
friendliness with Graham, and it makes her delicately 
careful. But they do meet. Agatha has come to think 
that any place immediately attracts Mr. Stirling if Doris 
is to be there. A smothering fire burns in her soul. She 
is jealous that Doris gains ground everywhere. Even 
Mrs. Gilbert has lived down the old aspersions. She and 
Doris have spent some days with the Conynghams in 
 
 
 
New York, and it gets whispered about that Mrs. Gilbert 
knew them well in Florence. 
Doris's ghost of a love affair hangs on in a rather 
amusing fashion. Graham has degenerated into a kind of 
spoiled child, and though he does not pursue her in an 
imperious manner such as one would expect from him, 
neither does he relinquish her entirely. The most disa- 
greeable point in it is his assumption that if he should 
somewhere make a wreck of life, it will be her fault. 
Between herself and Mrs. Basil there has sprung up a 
curious kind of intimacy. Mrs. Basil is not attracted by 
Doris's virtues or winsome manner ; it is a supremely self- 
ish approval. She nearly takes possession of the Went- 
worth carriage, and finds it a great convenience. She 
enjoys the countenance and aid of Doris, but she has 
found that Basil rarely objects to any pleasure with which 
her name is mentioned. If Doris goes home half an hour 
or so before midnight, Frances feels than she can stay 
two or three hours after. Her whole soul is in fashionable 
gayety and dissipation. Admiration is necessary to her ; 
without it she flags and droops, and life is a burden. 
Of the undercurrent Doris is altogether ignorant. That 
Mrs. Basil indulges in sub rosa flirtations, that she dances 
like a young girl in her first season, that she wanders 
down shady walks and listens to passionate murmurs 
and glowing bits of verse from some half -bewildered mas- 
culine, is simply her own affair. It would shock Doris, 
and she astutely keeps it out of her sight. Agatha Stir- 
ling flirts in her high intellectual fashion, and has savants 
and professors at her feet, who no doubt slip in a bit of 
Greek or Latin verse with a kind of affectionate ponder- 
osity. And if Doris wasn't too utterly simple, with those 
glorious eyes and that superbly innocent face, she could 
make havoc in men's hearts. But with the wisdom of the 
world she does not care to enlighten her. She is a better 
foil as she is. 
 
 
 
Meanwhile Graham's fortunes take a new turn. Through 
some political and social influence, and the fact that he is 
an excellent French and German scholar, a position is 
offered him as private secretary to the new legation that 
will be sent to St. Petersburg in September. Basil is 
really pleased. It will take Graham out of the social whirl 
in which he has become immersed, and may rouse in him 
an ambition for something beyond pleasure. 
Indeed, they are all gratified. He comes home elated 
with his good fortune, and proposes to himself a grand 
holiday month before he sails. 
Westwater fills up quite early iM9 year. Business has 
been prosperous for several successive seasons, and the 
money of trade and manufacturing is beginning to encroach 
upon the peerless blue blood that knows nothing of toil. 
Elegant new houses have been added, and the dwellers 
thereof copy the fine and aristocratic ways and usages that 
have ruled so long, but they do force the season some- 
what, and are lavish in their entertainments. 
Graham gives himself a complacent admiration on behalf 
of his constancy, when he finds Doris still rarely sweet 
and attractive. Her life is so much wider that she can- 
not bar him out, but she will not listen to his protesta- 
tions. 
'' Graham," she says decisively one evening, when he 
has followed her about in a most exasperating manner, 
'' you must cease this persecution, or I shall be compelled 
to appeal to your brother." 
"That is excellent!" and Graham laughs insolently. 
" My dear little rosebud, do you know that in the terrible 
family feud that met you on your threshhold, Basil was, 
of us all, most implacable and resentful. Basil and Olive 
were fiends, — the one grand, gloomy, and stalking about 
in spectral hate ; the other like a whirlwind. One would 
have rent you to shreds and atoms ; the other would have 
ground you to powder under his feet." 
 
 
 
" Oh, hush ! '' she pleads. She cannot endure the 
thought. 
'' Olive has been converted. She has some one else to 
take the place where she used sacredly to enshrine Lloyd. 
Basil has softened, but I still warn you. If 3'ou scratch 
your Cossack, you may yet find a yellow-eyed Tartar." 
" For shame ! " Doris cries, and her intensity subdues 
him a trifle. " I forbid you ever to speak to me of mar- 
riage again I " And her words ring out clear and forcible. 
" If we cannot be friends, we must be utter strangers." 
" How cruel you can be ! " he remarks, plaintively. 
She walks away, flies rather, and ensconces herself 
under Mr. Stirling's friendly protection. 
'' By the gods ! " exclaims the elegant young man, 
"I wonder if anybody could stir up the stately Agatha 
to a tempest. It would be worth considerable. Per- 
haps, Mrs. Doris, you are not so secure as you believe. 
Even a worm will turn at last, I have heard." And he 
laughs with a kind of contemplative insolence. 
"What have you and Doris been disputing about?" 
And Mrs. Basil emerges from the gloom of a clump of 
evergreens. " I have taken her under my protection, and 
you shall not tease her, or annoy her, or — " 
" Or make love to her. Does your jurisdiction extend 
as far as that ? " 
"Yes. You shall not make love to her. Heaven 
knows there are enough women to whom you can talk 
nonsense." 
She slips her hand within his arm, and glances up to 
his half -moody, wholly handsome face. 
" But if I wanted to talk sense, and in earnest." 
" Let Doris alone ! " she exclaims, with a vague im- 
pression of annoyance. She has been leading this young 
courtier in her chains, and she is not ready to have him 
talk in earnest to any one. She has still a taste for con- 
quests and triumphs, a desire to reign over men's hearts. 
 
 
 
Her winter's gayeties have stirred up a hungry demon in 
her heart. She is full of a curious, jealous vitality, yet it 
is never quite satisfied, and of late it has been horribly 
dissatisfied. 
There is a moon high up in heaven silvering all the 
walks, the edges of the trees, softening, bewildering, 
dancing in the spray of the fountains, and the mysterious 
voices of the night mingle with the strains of music. 
'' I am beginning to envy you," she says, when he has 
kept silence some seconds. '' I wish it had been Basil's 
good fortune to get an appointment abroad." 
'' Perhaps he could if he had urged it sharp. I do not 
believe he cares." 
"What does he care for?" she flings out contemp- 
tuously. 
" Money and — you." At which Graham laughs. 
" Me 1 If he cared enough for me to send me abroad, 
there would be some sense in it " ; and she laughs shortly, 
a poor, mirthless sound. " What a humbug life is unless 
one has a fortune, and people are making them constantly ! 
Look at Mrs. Ruthven." 
Mrs. Ruthven is three or four and twenty, medium in 
everything except her beautiful lace dress, and the glow 
of the diamonds in which she stands. 
"Do you remember," Mrs. Basil says, "when Jack 
Ruthven was awfully sweet on me ? He was the bete noir 
of my life. And old Mr. Ruthven had never done any- 
thing much in the way of coining gold in his foundry until 
he managed to get some railroad contracts, and look at 
them now ! Miss Day didn't disdain Jack, and his father 
has bought the old Bradley place for him, and they are in 
with the very creme. What a pity / didn't take him ! 
Bradley House is nearly as grand as the Elms. And then 
think of that little Doris trailing up and down in her 
simple gowns, as if it were a cottage." 
 
 
 
"I've always wondered why you married Basil. But 
- — Jack — " And the Wentworth gorge rises a little. 
"Jack wasn't very presentable in those days, but some- 
how good fortune has shaped him up." 
Her tone is sharp, acrid, resentful. To see Mrs. Ruth- 
ven's diamonds exasperates her beyond endurance. 
' ' The new people come in so rapidly and crowd us so, 
set us in the background with their blaze of light and 
elegance of attire, th^rt pretty soon we shall be nobody, 
sad revenges of time." 
"Let us dance and be merry," he says, suddenly. He 
likes her better when she is bright and satirical ; the 
moodiness and cavilling do not suit him at all. 
The band is discoursing the beguiling Strauss waltzes, 
and they go up to the house. Couples are languidly float- 
ing on the wide verandas, in the drawing-room, and out 
on the lawn, for the night is dewless. They pause and 
join the dancers here. Frances Wentworth has a passion 
for dancing. She lights up now under the inspiration. 
There comes a halo of exquisite grace, there is a soft se- 
ductiveness that stirs Graham's blood. When he waltzes 
with her, he thinks he could dance forever ; the charm is 
intense, transcendent. What curious, magnetic moods 
she possesses ! Doris is a pale little candle to her electric 
light. 
If there were revels always, and endless processions of 
new gowns, and no one to outshine her very far ! To-night 
Agatha Stirling's magnificent ease and grandeur madden 
her. And to-morrow and all of the to-morrows ! Oh, why 
did she marry Basil Wentworth ? 
For that matter, she might almost as well be at the 
antipodes. She never sees him at breakfast, — he is up 
and away to business, — and there is no chance of meeting 
him until the dinner hour. Afternoon teas and lawn 
parties interfere not infrequently with this. He does not 
care for the delights of society that so engross her. She 
 
 
 
complains that he gives her so little of his attention, but 
in her secret soul she admits that she fares much better 
without him. The evenings at Agatha's and at her 
father's always bore her. And now she will make the 
most of her handsome brother-in-law. Oh I what will she 
do for a cavalier next winter ? 
The child is quite ill for several days. Basil comes 
home rather early one evening, having finished up the last 
of some troublesome business, and finds Rose trying to 
soothe and comfort the feverish little being, whose heavy 
eyes and parched lips are pitiful to behold. 
It seems to Basil that bright, healthy, attractive childhood 
would charm him, but he has seen so little of his daugh- 
ter, and that has not been under favoring circumstances. 
Now he is moved to sympathy when he beholds the tired 
face of the nurse and her drooping figure. 
"Let me take her," he says. "What does the doctor 
think? When will she recover?" 
He knows so little about childish ailments that he in- 
clines to measuring them off by some allotted period. 
" She was better yesterday," replies Rose. "The doc' 
tor thought it would be well to take her away for sea 
air." 
"Well — we could all go." He has had no holiday, 
unless rapid business travelling, often done at night, can 
be so considered. As he takes the small being in his 
arms, and gets her head settled on his broad shoulder by 
Rose, his awkwardness is plainly perceptible. Yet to 
Lloyd and to Olive he has been the most patient and 
tender nurse. 
Pacing up and down the fioor, he considers the feasi- 
bility of a fortnight at some quiet seaside place, where 
there are few dissipations of society. He would like the 
rest. They might take in Doris and Mrs. Gilbert and 
Lloyd. He would really like to get familiar with his ward, 
for presently be will wish to show to the world that he 
 
 
does take an interest in his cousin's child. A few long, 
idle, luxurious days would be such a treat I 
" Poor baby ! " he murmurs gently, — "poor little baby ! " 
and he presses his cool cheek against the fevered one. 
Then he thinks of its mother, of his marriage, which, 
disguise it as he may, has been a mistake. Yet the two 
sisters of his wife are admirable household women as well 
as attractive in society. She has been carefully trained, 
she has been tenderly loved by her father, yet the years 
with him seem to bring out a kind of rasping discontent. 
Perhaps, as she once said, she was not born for poverty. 
He smiles a little sadly, too, over the word. Does she 
call this pretty house and three servants poverty ? For 
years his mother lived here, and was one of the chief 
ladies in Westwater. Still, he remembers with a pang 
they did all hate to come back. 
The clock strikes eleven. The baby has been still so 
long that Rose proposes to lay it back in its crib. But 
as she takes it, it wakes and utters its feeble wail. 
"Never mind,'' Wentworth says, cheerfully, taking her 
back. "I shall remain up until Mrs. Wentworth comes 
home. You had better lie down and get some rest." 
He hushes the child back to a fragmentary slumber. 
Presently midnight sounds from silver bells on the air 
that is growing cool and fragrant. Basil goes on with 
his thinking. He so seldom has time to meet himself 
squarely and with perfect truth. There have been hours 
at Lloyd's grave, but those were rather agonizing confes- 
sions wrung from the depth of his soul, with some pointed 
pang of conviction. But to the man who has walked un- 
shrinkingly in a path in the belief that the highest feeling 
of honor, the purest and most unselfish pride and thorough 
self-abnegation have ruled him, to be brought slowly back 
and see his honor a delusion, his fair dealing the hardest 
and coldest injustice, his abnegation the extreme of a 
selfish and adamantine will, to believe the trial has been 
 
 
 
nobly lived through, and find the victory a mere illusion, 
the consciousness is indeed crushing. If he had waited 
a little longer, if he had seen Lloyd's will and known his 
fervent desire to have them all go on together, to have 
Doris taken in among them like a little sister ! 
But there were the Gilberts. He winces even now at 
the swaggering importance and vulgar, indecent haste with 
which Anson Gilbert claimed everything for " my niece, 
Mrs. Wentworth." If she had resembled him ! If she had 
been less than time has proved her ! If he had not shown 
himself so anxious to be swayed by that trivial gossip ! 
He admits all his sins, for Basil Wentworth is at heart 
a man of the purest integrity. That he has lapsed sadly 
is most true ; he will not gloss over the admission. That 
he married in haste and unreason is most true, but he 
cannot even now imagine any woman like Frances Mintum 
marrying a comparatively poor man, unless she admired 
him or regarded him in some tender light. Indeed, he 
had hardly dared to believe she would accept him. 
One, two. The baby is charmed to sounder slumbers 
and lies passively in the crib, the pitiful little face vaguely 
upbraiding him. He goes to his room. There is a roll of 
carriage wheels through the silent street, gay voices, and 
Frances and his brother come trooping up the stairs with 
confident carelessness. 
" Hillo ! " says Graham, softly. " Deep in a brief?'' 
"Not this time of night," Basil replies, with a rather 
caustic coldness. 
"Well, here is your lady fair, safe and sound. By 
Jove ! Westwater grows quite magnificent. Shall I not 
perish in Russian wilds ? " and his intonation is humorously 
tragic. "Goodnight." 
He goes up to the next floor, and in ten minutes is 
soundly asleep. 
Basil Wentworth studies his wife. Her dress is a soft 
silken material with drapings of foamy lace, creamy in 
 
 
 
tint, and she wears emeralds that always give her a weird, 
Oriental appearance. Her dusky hair still has in it a few 
straggling, faded flowers, but her corsage cluster has been 
gathered not more than an hour ago. She is not hand- 
some, but brilliant, spirited, at least when pleasure excites 
her. 
She tosses off her bracelets carelessly; she pulls the 
flowers from her heir and dVops them in the pretty much- 
ribboned waste-basket, but the others she places in a water 
jar. Graham gathered them for her with a sweet, senti- 
mental speech, and she had scouted his reflection. She 
will wear them in her dress to-morrow morning to c6nvince 
him. They have been half playing at love, neither believ- 
ing the other at all in earnest. 
"Do you not think the baby quite ill?" Basil asks, as 
he watches this by-play. 
She folds her cobweb fichu with choicest care, and lays 
it away in a perfumed, satin-lined box. Then she answers 
with a kind of contemplative indifference, — 
" Babies seldom are well at this season of the year, I 
believe. I have put her in the doctor's care." 
" And the doctor advises that she had better be taken 
to the seaside. Suppose we all go, Frances? I feel the 
need of a rest myself. We might ask some friends to 
join us." 
"Who?" she inquires, with a quickness that savors of 
insolence. 
"Who?" he bethinks himself, and answers, "Your 
sister perhaps, and the girls. And if we could go to-mor- 
row, or the day after — " 
"To-morrow!" Frances Wentworth is aghast. Who 
is at the bottom of this scheme, — her sister? But no. 
" Why, Alice is to be bridesmaid at the Collard wed- 
ding next Tuesday, and we are all invited. Marion must 
have been out of her senses ! " she declares, with em- 
phatic contempt. 
 
 
 
"It was not MarioD's plan/' he answers. "I only 
thought of her. But — must you go to the wedding?" 
Slie revolves various matters in her mind. To-morrow 
— that is Friday — there is to be an equestrienne party 
up the river, to a romantic spot called Holly's Glen, and 
(Jraham has their horses engaged ; Saturday morning, an 
elegant matinee with some professionals ; Monday night, 
the archery ball ; Tuesday, the wedding, and so on. To 
go to some stupid place and be shut up in one room with 
a whining baby ! She almost laughs at the idea. 
" I have at least a fortnight of steady engagements," 
she replies, gravely. '' It would be quite impossible for 
me to go. But that need not interfere with you. Gra- 
ham can look after the house and see that I do not come 
to grief. Still, I would advise you not to burden yourself 
with a baby, if you want to rest." 
The heartlessness is quite apparent. 
" Frances," he begins, with a positive feeling of curi- 
osity, " do you never tire of pleasure ? " 
'' No ; why should I? One may grow weary or languid 
in body, but how can one tire of enjoyment ? " she asks, 
in a tone of inquiry as well as surprise. 
lie sighs and is silent. 
"I suppose you would not be content without the ex- 
citement of business," she says, after a silence. 
'' But — I should have nothing else to do ! " He never 
longed for business when at the Elms, he remembers. 
'' And I have nothing else to do." She laughs rather 
constrainedly. " But I am satisfied," with a complacent 
nod. " And it rather amused me to find you thinking of 
a holiday when one can scarcely get you away from the 
oflSce before midnight." 
" I rarely stay as late as that. I was home to-night by 
nine." 
" Then you might have come to the Westbrooks'." 
" I certainly was too tired to stand around and talk 
 
 
 
wearisome inanities," he answers, rather impatiently. 
" Can you go after the wedding?" recurring to the pro- 
posed journey. 
"I do not want to go at all," frankly. "And when 
Graham is to leave us so soon ! I have been wondering 
how I should get along in Washington next winter without 
him." 
"You may not be in Washington," Basil says, dryly. 
He is growing impatient with this utter frivolity. 
" I — what do you propose to do? Am I to play the 
role of a deserted wife? Not quite so soon, thank you." 
" I shall not remain so steadily through the session. I 
was new to everything last year, and I did desire to do my 
best, to acquire all the knowledge that was possible. It 
is too costly to repeat. I am not a rich man." 
"Unfortunately for me," she says with impertinent 
sarcasm. 
That rouses htm. " No," he replies, in a hard, cold 
tone, " I am not rich, but then you knew that. We have 
been spending more the past year than my circumstances 
will warrant, and we must retrench a little. When this 
season of gayety is over — " 
" liwas a horrible blunder," she says, her face pale and 
her eyes like points of flame ; " I should have married a 
man who was neither mercenary nor poor. I hate econ- 
omy. I hate the humdrum domestic virtues. Neither of 
your sisters are compelled to practise them, and so far as 
I can see, they are respected. And you could make a 
fortune. Other men do. There are ways and occa- 
sions." 
"Well, why did you marry me?" he asks, in a tone 
deep and husky with suppressed passion. 
" Because I supposed you the coming man " ; and she 
laughs insolently. " You were a kind of hero, unjustly 
deprived of his own, and my girlish romance was aroused. 
How could I tell that the fates would continue their 
 
 
 
ankindness ? that the heroic Tirtaes would go unrewarded ? 
Aod I suppose vou, more sensible than I, toc^ me for 
the connection. It should, of coarse, have helped yon to 
a speedy fortune. We are like the Lammles in Dickens's 
story, equally disappointed.'' 
Basil Wentworth coold strike her where she stands. 
For a moment a whirlwind of anger rends his sool. Then 
he commands himself, but his face is deadly pale. 
" We will have no recriminations," he forces himself to 
say, quietly. " I am sorry if I have disappointed you. 
And I must confess the strife for wealth does not appear 
tLS attractive to me as it did at first. I am w«uy, sick of 
it all. But you shall have all in my power ttmt will con- 
duce to your happiness." 
'' Devotion can go no furtiier," she answered. '' Still, I 
could wish there were more in your power.'' 
He does not reply to her flippancy. He has heard of 
marital infelicities like this ; he has kaown in a business 
way of divorce cases whose first stnr« fcas arisen in sheer 
incompatibility. He is not afraid of any such ending, 
for after all she is Judge MintvJL'n daughter, and has 
been trained to respect the projrferfes. For her to com- 
mit any overt act would be slieur impossibility ; but he 
recognizes the fact that there rxver can be any real, true 
happiness between them ; tbi.t fJieir tastes and desires are 
not even harmonious. Th2ri he thinks of his sisters; 
they are fashionable wcmcOr always in society. That 
Louise is happy he cannot yuestion. She and her sur- 
roundings are exquisitely ii'ilapted and harmonize to the 
finest degree. Perhaps fbfii is what Frances would have 
