the delicate beauty of a woman combined with the activity and dash of a
man. I saw how the lightness, the alternate indolence and reckless
excitement, of such a nature must act upon a man of Paul Patoff's
character. Every point and peculiarity of Alexander's temper and bearing
would necessarily irritate Paul, who was stern, cold, and manly before
all else, and who readily despised every species of weakness except
pride, and every demonstration of feeling except physical courage.
Alexander was like his mother; so like her, indeed, that as soon as I
saw him without his beard I realized the cause of Madame Patoff's
singular preference for the older son, and much which had seemed
unnatural before was explained by this sudden revelation. Paul probably
resembled his father's family more than his mother's. Madame Patoff, who
had loved that same cold, determined character in her husband, because
she was awed by it, hated it in her child, because she could neither
bend it nor influence it, nor make it express any of that exuberant
affection which Alexander so easily felt. Both boys had inherited from
their father a goodly share of the Slav element, but, finding very
different ground upon which to work in the natures of the two brothers,
the strong Russian individuality had developed in widely different ways.
In Alexander were expressed all the wild extremes of mood of which the
true Russian is so eminently capable; all the overflowing and
uncultivated talent and love of art and beauty, which in Russia brings
forth so much that approaches indefinitely near to genius without ever
quite reaching it. In Paul the effect of the Slavonic blood was totally
opposite, and showed itself in that strange stolidity, that cold and
ruthless exercise of force and pursuance of conviction, which have
characterized so many Russian generals, so many Russian monarchs, and
which have produced also so many Russian martyrs. There is something
fateful in that terrible sternness, something which very well excites
horror while imposing respect, and especially when forced to submit to
superior force; and when vanquished, there is something grand in the
capacity such a character possesses for submitting to destiny, and
bearing the extremest suffering.
It was clear enough that there could never be any love lost between two
such men, and I was curious to see their meeting. I wondered whether
each would fall upon the other's neck and shed tears of rejoicing, or
whether they would shake hands and express their satisfaction more
formally. In looking forward to the scene which was soon to take place,
I almost wished that Paul might have accompanied us in the disguise of a
second adjutant, and thus have had a hand in the final stroke by which
we had effected Alexander's liberation. But I knew that he would only
have been in the way, and that, considering the whole situation, we had
done wisely. The least mistake on his part might have led to a struggle
inside the Khanum's house, and we had good cause to congratulate
ourselves upon having freed the prisoner without shedding blood. There
was something pleasantly ludicrous in the thought that all our
anticipations of a fight had ended in that one solemn kick with which
Balsamides had consigned Selim to the prison whence we had taken
Alexander.
I was giving the latter a few more details of the events of the night,
when Paul and Balsamides entered the room together. Paul showed more
emotion than I had expected, and clasped his brother in his arms in
genuine delight at having found him at last. Then he looked long at his
face, as though trying to see how far Alexander was changed in the
twenty months which had elapsed since they had met.
"You are a little thinner,--you look as though you had been ill," said
Paul.
"No, I have not been ill, but I have suffered horribly in many ways,"
answered Alexander, in his smooth, musical voice.
For some minutes they exchanged questions, while they overcame their
first excitement at being once more together. It was indeed little less
than a resurrection, and Alexander's ethereal face was that of a spirit
returning to earth rather than of a living man who had never left it. At
last Paul grew calmer.
"Will you tell us how it happened?" he asked, as he sat down upon the
divan beside his brother. Balsamides and I established ourselves in
chairs, ready to listen with breathless interest to the tale Alexander
was about to tell.
"You remember that night at Santa Sophia, Paul?" began the young man,
leaning back among the cushions, which showed to strong advantage the
extreme beauty of his delicate face. "Yes, of course you remember it,
very vividly, for Mr. Griggs has told me how you acted, and all the
trouble you took to find me. Very well; you remember, then, that the
last time I saw you we were all looking down at those fellows as they
went through their prayers and prostrations, and I stood a little apart
from you. You were very much absorbed in the sight, and the kaváss, who
was a Mussulman, was looking on very devoutly. I thought I should like
to see the sight from the other side, and I walked away and turned the
corner of the gallery. You did not notice me, I suppose, and the noise
of the crowd, rising and falling on their knees, must have drowned my
footsteps."
"I had not the slightest idea that you had moved from where you stood,"
said Paul.
"No. When I reached the corner, I was very much surprised to see a man
standing in the shadow of the pillar. I was still more astonished when I
recognized the hideous negro who had knocked off my hat in the
afternoon. I expected that he would insult me, and I suppose I made as
though I would show fight; but he raised his finger to his lips, and
with the other hand held out a letter, composing his face into a sort of
horrible leer, intended to be attractive. I took the letter without
speaking, for I knew he could not understand a word I said, and that I
could not understand him. The envelope contained a sheet of pink paper,
on which, in an ill-formed hand, but in tolerably good French, were
written a few words. It was a declaration of love."
"From Laleli?" asked Balsamides, with a laugh.
"Exactly," replied Alexander. "It was a declaration of love from Laleli.
I leave you to imagine what I supposed Laleli to be like at that time,
and Paul, who knows me, will tell you that I was not likely to hesitate
at such a moment. The note ended by saying that the faithful Selim would
conduct me to her presence without delay. I was delighted with the
adventure, and crept noiselessly after him in the shadow of the gallery,
lest you should see me; for I knew you would prevent my going with the
man. We descended the stairs, but it was not until we reached the bottom
that I saw we had not come down by the way I had ascended. Selim was
most obsequious, and seemed ready to do everything for my comfort. As we
walked down a narrow street, he presented me with a new fez, and made
signs to me to put it on instead of my hat, which he then carefully
wrapped in a handkerchief and carried in his hand. At a place near the
bridge several caïques were lying side by side. He invited me to enter
one, which I observed was very luxuriously fitted, and which I thought I
recognized as the one in which I had so often seen the woman with the
impenetrable veil. I lay back among the cushions and smoked, while Selim
perched himself on the raised seat behind me, and the four boatmen
pulled rapidly away. It was heavy work for them, I dare say, tugging
upstream, but to me the voyage was enchanting. The shores were all
illuminated, and the Bosphorus swarmed with boats. It was the last time
I was in a caïque. I do not know whether I could bear the sight of one
now."
"So they took you to Laleli's house?" said Paul, anxious to hear the
rest.
"Yes; I was taken to Laleli's house, and I never got out of it till last
night," continued Alexander. "How long is it? I have not the least idea
of the European date."
"This is the 29th of March," said I.
"And that was the end of June,--twenty-one months. I have learned
Turkish since I was caught, to pass the time, and I always knew the
Turkish date after I had learned their way of counting, but I had lost
all reckoning by our style. Well, to go on with my story. They brought
me to the stone pier before the house. Selim admitted me by a curiously
concealed panel at one end of the building, and we found ourselves in a
very narrow place, whence half a dozen steps ascended to a small door. A
little oil lamp burned in one corner. He led the way, and the door at
the top slid back into the wall. We entered, and he closed it again. We
were in the corner of a small room, richly furnished in the worst
possible taste. I dare say you know the style these natives admire.
Selim left me there for a moment. I looked carefully at the wall, and
tried to find the panel; but to my surprise, the wainscoting was
perfectly smooth and even, and I could not discover the place where it
opened, nor detect any spring or sign of a fastening. Laleli, I thought,
understood those things. Presently a door opened on one side of the
room, and I saw the figure I had often watched, beckoning to me to come.
Of course I obeyed, and she retired into the room beyond, which was very
high and had no windows, though I noticed that there was a dome at the
top, which in the day-time would admit the light."
"The Khanum was waiting for you?" I asked.
"Yes. I was surprised to see her dressed in the clothes she wore
out-of-doors, and as thickly veiled as ever. There were lights in the
room. She held out her small hand,--you remember noticing that she had
small white hands?"
"Like a young woman's," replied Balsamides.
"Yes. I took her hand, and spoke in French. I dare say I looked very
sentimental and passionate as I gazed into her black eyes. I could see
nothing of her face. She answered me in Turkish, which of course I could
not understand. All I could say was Pek güzel, very beautiful, which I
repeated amidst my French phrases, giving the words as passionate an
accent as I could command. At last she seemed to relent, and as she bent
towards me I expected that she was about to speak very softly some
Turkish love-word. What was my horror when she suddenly screamed into my
ear, with a hideous harsh voice, my own words, Pek güzel! In a moment
she threw off her black ferigee, and tore the thick veil from her head.
I could have yelled with rage, for I saw what a fool I had made of
myself, and that the old hag had played a practical joke on me in
revenge for the affair in the Valley of Roses. I cursed her in French, I
cursed her in Russian, I cursed her in English, and stamped about the
room, trying to get out. The horrible old witch screamed herself hoarse
with laughter, making hideous grimaces and pointing at me in scorn. What
could I do? I tried to force one of the doors, and twisted at the
handle, and tugged and pushed with all my might. While I was thus
engaged I heard the door at the other end of the room open quickly, and
as I turned and sprang towards it I caught sight of her baggy,
snuff-colored gown disappearing, as she slammed the door behind her.
Before I could reach it the lock was turned, and I was caught in the
trap,--caught like a mouse."
"What a spiteful old thing she was!" I exclaimed. "She might have been
satisfied with keeping you there a day instead of two years."
"Nearly two years. I did everything humanly possible to escape. I gave
all I possessed to Selim to take a message to Paul, to anybody; but of
course that was useless. At first they kept me in the room where I had
been caught. My food was brought to me by the Turkish porter, a brawny
fellow, who could have brained me with his fist. He was always
accompanied by another man, as big as himself, who carried a loaded
pistol, in case I attacked the first. I had no chance, and I wished I
might go mad. Then, one night, they set upon me suddenly, and tied a
handkerchief over my mouth, and bound me hand and foot, in spite of my
struggles. I thought I was to be put into a sack and drowned. They
carried me like a log out into the garden, and put me into that cell
where you found me, which had apparently just been built, for the stones
were new and the cement was fresh. There, at least, I could look through
the gratings. I even thought at one time that I could make myself heard,
having no idea of the desolate position of the place. But I soon gave up
the attempt and abandoned myself to despair. There it was that Selim
used to come occasionally, and talk to me through the bars. That was
better than nothing, and the villain amused his leisure moments by
teaching me to speak Turkish. One day he brought me a book, which I
hailed with delight. It was an old French method for learning the
language. I made great progress, as I studied from morning to night.
Selim grew more familiar to me, and I confess with shame that I missed
his visits when he did not come. The men who brought my food seemed
absolutely mute, and I never succeeded in extracting a word from either
of them. Even Selim was a companion, and talking to him saved me from
going mad. I asked him all sorts of questions, and at last I guessed
from his answers that the Khanum had been terrified by the disturbance
my disappearance had created, and was afraid to set me free lest I
should take vengeance on her. She was also afraid to kill me, for some
reason or other. The result was, that, from having merely wished to
revenge upon me the affair in the Valley of Roses by means of a
practical joke, she found herself obliged to keep me a prisoner. I used
every means of persuasion to move Selim. I told him I was rich, and
would make him rich if he would help me to escape. I promised to take
no steps against the Khanum. It was in vain, I assure you I have
conceived a very high opinion of the fidelity of Lalas in general, and
of Selim in particular."
"They are very faithful," said Balsamides gravely. I have since fancied
that he had some reason for knowing.
Alexander afterwards told us many more details of his confinement; but
this was his first account of it, and embraced all that is most
important to know. The whole affair made a very strong impression on me.
The unfortunate man had fallen a victim to a chain of circumstances
which it had been entirely impossible to foresee, all resulting directly
from his first imprudent action in addressing the veiled lady in the
Valley of Roses. A little piece of folly had ruined two years of his
life, and subjected him to a punishment such as a court of justice would
have inflicted for a very considerable crime.
The remainder of the day was occupied by the meeting of Alexander with
his mother and his introduction to his English relations, upon which it
is needless to dwell long. I never knew what passed between the mother
and son, but the interview must have been a very extraordinary one. It
was necessary, of course, to prepare Madame Patoff for the news and for
the sight of the child she seemed to love better than anything in the
world. Hermione performed the task, as being the one who understood her
best. She began by hinting vaguely that we had advanced another step in
our search, and that we were now confident of finding Alexander before
long, perhaps in a few hours. She gradually, in talking, spoke of the
moment when he would appear, wondering how he would look, and insensibly
accustoming Madame Patoff to the idea. At last she confessed that he had
been found during the night, and that he was ready to come to his mother
at any moment.
It was well done, and the force of the shock was broken. The old lady
nearly swooned with joy, but the danger was past when she recovered her
consciousness and demanded to see Alexander at once. He was admitted to
her room, and the two were left alone to their happiness.
The rest of the family were mad with delight. John Carvel grew ten years
younger, and Mrs. Carvel fairly cried with joy, while Chrysophrasia
declared that it was worth while to be disappointed by the first
impression of Constantinople, when one was consoled by such a thrilling
tale with so joyous a termination,--or happy end, as I should have said.
Hermione's face beamed with happiness, and Macaulay literally melted in
smiles, as he retired to write down the story in his diary.
"Oh, Paul!" Hermione exclaimed when they were alone, "you never told me
he was such a beauty!"
"Yes," he answered quietly, "he is far better-looking than I am. You
must not fall in love with him, Hermy."
"The idea of such a thing!" she cried, with a light laugh.
"I should not be surprised if he fell in love with you, dear," said
Paul, smiling.
"You only say that because you do not like him," she answered. "But you
will like him now, won't you? You are so good,--I am sure you will. But
think what a splendid thing it is that you should have found him. If
aunt Chrysophrasia says, 'Where is your brother?' you can just answer
that he is in the next room."
"Yes; I am a free man now. No one can ever accuse me again. But apart
from that, I am really and sincerely glad that he is alive. I wish him
no ill. It is not his fault that I have been under a cloud for nearly
two years. He was as anxious to be found as I was to find him. After
all, it was not I. It was Balsamides and Griggs who did it at last. I
dare say that if I had been with them I should have spoiled it all. I
could not have dressed myself like a Turkish officer, to begin with. If
I had been caught in the uniform, belonging as I do to the embassy,
there would have been a terrible fuss. I should have been obliged to go
away, very likely without having found my brother at all. I owe
everything to those two men."
"If you had not made up your mind that he should be found, they would
never have found him; they would not have thought of taking the
trouble."
Hermione spoke in a reassuring tone, as though to comfort Paul for
having had no share in the final stroke which had liberated his brother.
In reality Paul needed no consolation. In his heart he was glad that
Alexander had been set free by others, and need therefore never feel
himself under heavy obligations to Paul. It was not in the strong man's
nature to wish to revenge himself upon his brother because the latter
had been the favored child and the favorite son. Nor, if he had
contemplated any kind of vengeance, would he have chosen the Christian
method of heaping coals of fire upon his head. He merely thought of
Alexander as he would have thought of any other man not his relation at
all, and he did not wish to appear in the light of his liberator. It was
enough for Paul that he had been found at last, and that his own
reputation was now free from stain. Nothing prevented him any longer
from marrying Hermione, and he looked forward to the consummation of all
his hopes in the immediate future.
The day closed in a great rejoicing. John Carvel insisted that we should
all dine with him that night; and our numbers being now swelled by the
addition of Alexander Patoff and Gregorios Balsamides, we were a large
party,--ten at table. I shall never forget the genuine happiness which
was on every face. The conversation flowed brilliantly, and every one
felt as though a weight had been lifted from his or her spirits.
Alexander Patoff was of course the most prominent person, and as he
turned his beautiful eyes from one to the other of us, and told us his
story with many episodes and comments, I think we all fell under his
fascination, and understood the intense love his mother felt for him. He
had indeed a woman's beauty with a man's energy, when his energy was
roused at all; and though the feminine element at first seemed out of
place in him, it gave him that singular faculty of charming when he
pleased, and that brilliancy which no manly beauty can ever have.
It was late when we got home, and I went to bed with a profound
conviction that Paul Patoff's troubles had come to a happy end, and that
he would probably be married to Hermione in the course of the summer. If
things had ended thus, my story would end here, and perhaps it would be
complete. Unfortunately, events rarely take place as we expect that they
will, still more rarely as we hope that they may; and it is generally
when our hopes coincide with our expectations, and we feel most sure of
ourselves, that fate overtakes us with the most cruel disappointments.
Paul Patoff had not yet reached the quiet haven of his hopes, and I have
not reached the end of my story. It would indeed be a very easy matter,
as I have said before, to collect all the things which happened to him
into a neat romance, of which the action should not cover more than
four-and-twenty hours of such excitement as no one of the actors could
have borne in real life, any more than Salvini could act a tragedy which
should begin at noon to-day and end at midday to-morrow. I might have
divested Paul of many of his surroundings, have bereaved him of many of
his friends, and made him do himself what others did to him; but if he
were to read such an account of his life he would laugh scornfully, and
say that the real thing was very different indeed, as without doubt it
was.
This is the reason why I have not hesitated to bring before you a great
number of personages, each of whom, in a great or a small way, affected
his life. I do not believe that you could understand his actions in the
sequel without knowing the details of those situations through which he
had passed before. We are largely influenced by little things and little
events. The statement is a truism in the eyes of the moralist, but the
truth is, unfortunately, too often forgotten in real life. The man who
falls down-stairs and breaks his leg has not noticed the tiny spot of
candle grease which made the polished step so slippery just where he
trod.
XIX.
There were great rejoicings when it was known in Pera that Alexander
Patoff had been found. His disappearance had furnished the gossips with
a subject of conversation during many weeks, and his coming back revived
the whole story, with the addition of a satisfactory ending. In
consideration of the fact that Laleli Khanum was dead, Count Ananoff
thought it best to take no official notice of the matter. To treat it
diplomatically would be useless, he said. Alexander had fallen a victim
to his own folly, and though the penalty had been severe, it was
impossible to hold the Ottoman government responsible for what Patoff
had suffered, now that the Khanum had departed this life. Alexander
received permission to take three months' leave to recruit his health
before returning to his regiment, and he resolved to spend a part of the
time in Constantinople, after which his mother promised to accompany him
to St. Petersburg.
The Carvels had very soon made the acquaintance of the small but
brilliant society of which the diplomatic corps constituted the chief
element; and if anything had been needed to make them thoroughly
popular, their near connection with the young man whose story was in
every one's mouth would alone have sufficed to surround them with
interest. The adventure was told with every conceivable variety of
detail, and Alexander was often called upon to settle disputes as to
what had happened to him. He was ready enough at all times to play the
chief part in a drawing-room, and delighted in being questioned by grave
old gentlemen, as well as by inquisitive young women. The women admired
him for his beauty, his grace and brilliancy, and especially for the
expression of his eyes, which they declared in a variety of languages to
be absolutely fascinating. The men were interested in his story, and
envied him the additional social success which he obtained as the hero
of so strange an adventure. Some people admired and praised his devotion
to his mother, which they said was most touching, whatever that may
mean. Others said that he had an angelic disposition, flavored by a dash
of the devil, which saved him from being goody; and this criticism of
his character conveyed some meaning to the minds of those who uttered
it. People have a strange way of talking about their favorites, and when
the praise they mean to bestow is not faint, the expression of it is apt
to be feeble and involved.
Pera is a gay place, for when a set of men and women are temporarily
exiled from their homes to a strange country, where they do not find the
society of a great capital, they naturally seek amusement and pursue it;
creating among themselves those pastimes which in the great European
cities others so often provide for them. Politically, also,
Constantinople is a very important place to most of the powers, who
choose their representatives for the post from among the cleverest men
they can find; and I will venture to say that there is scarcely a court
in the world where so many first-rate diplomatists are gathered together
as are to be met with among the missions to the Sublime Porte. Diplomacy
in Constantinople has preserved something of the character it had all
over the world fifty years ago. Personal influence is of far greater
importance when negotiations are to be undertaken with a half-civilized
form of administration, which is carried on chiefly by persons of
imperfect education, but of immense natural talent for intrigue. The
absence of an hereditary nobility in Turkey, and the extremely
democratic nature of the army and the civil service, make it possible
for men of the lowest birth to attain to the highest power. The immense
and complicated bureaucracy is not in the hands of any one class of the
people; its prizes are won by men of all sorts and conditions, who
continue to pursue their own interests and fortunes with undiminished
energy, when they ought to be devoting their whole powers to the service
of the country. Their power is indeed checked by the centralization of
all the executive faculties in the person of the sovereign. Without the
Sultan's signature the minister of war cannot order a gun to be cast in
the arsenal of Tophanè, the minister of marine cannot buy a ton of coal
for the ironclads which lie behind Galata bridge in the Golden Horn, the
minister of foreign affairs cannot give a reply to an ambassador, nor
can the minister of justice avail himself of the machinery of the law.
Every smallest act must be justified by the Sultan's own signature, and
the chief object of all diplomacy from without, and of all personal
intrigue from within, is to obtain this imperial consent to measures
suggested by considerations of private advantage or public necessity.
The Ottoman Empire may be described as an irregular democracy, whose
acts are all subject to the veto of an absolute autocrat. The officials
pass their lives in proposing, and his Majesty very generally spends his
time in opposing, all manner of schemes, good, bad, and indifferent. The
contradictory nature of the system produces the anomalous position
occupied by the Ottoman Empire in Europe.
The fact that there is no aristocracy and the seclusion of women among
the Mussulmans are the chief reasons why there is no native society, in
our sense of the word. A few of the great Greek families still survive,
descendants of those Fanariotes whose ancestors had played an important
part in the decadence of the Eastern Empire. A certain number of
Armenians who have gained wealth and influence follow more or less
closely the customs of the West. But beyond these few there cannot be
said to be many houses of the social kind. Two or three pashas, of
European origin, and Christians by religion, mix with their families in
the gayety of Pera and the Bosphorus. A few Turkish officers, and
Prussian officers in Turkish service, show their brilliant uniforms in
the ball-rooms, and occasionally some high official of the Porte appears
at formal receptions; but on the whole the society is diplomatic, and
depends almost entirely upon the diplomatists for its existence and for
its diversions. The lead once given, the old Greek aristocrats have not
been behindhand in following it; but their numbers are small, and the
movement and interest in Pera, or on the Bosphorus, centre in the great
embassies, as they do nowhere else in the world.
Small as the society is, it is, nevertheless exceedingly brilliant and
very amusing. Intimacies grow up quickly, and often become lasting
friendships when fostered by such influences. Every one knows every one
else, and every one meets everybody else at least once a week. The
arrival of a new secretary is expected with unbounded interest. The
departure of one who has been long in Constantinople is mourned as a
public loss. Occasionally society is convulsed to its foundations by the
departure of an ambassador to whom every one has been so long accustomed
that he has come to be regarded as one of the fathers of the community,
whose hospitality every one has enjoyed, whose tact and knowledge of the
world have been a source of satisfaction to his colleagues in many a
diplomatic difficulty, and whose palace in Pera is associated in the
minds of all with many hours of pleasure and with much delightful
intercourse. He goes, and society turns out in a body to see him off.
The occasion is like a funeral. People send hundreds of baskets of
flowers. There is an address, there are many leave-takings. Once, at
least, I remember seeing two thirds of the people shedding
tears,--genuine wet tears of sorrow. And there was good reason for their
grief. In such communities as the diplomatic colony in Pera, people
understand the value of those who not only do more than their share in
contributing to the pleasantness of life, but who possess in an
abundant degree those talents which delight us in individuals, and those
qualities which are dear to us in friends. It would be easy to write a
book about society in Pera, and it would be a pleasant book. But these
are not the days of Samuel Pepys; we have hardly passed the age of Mr.
George Ticknor.
In a short time after their arrival, and after the reappearance of
Alexander Patoff, the Carvels knew everybody, and everybody knew them.
Each member of the party found something to praise and some one to like.
John Carvel was soon lost in admiration of Lord Mavourneen, while Mrs.
Carvel talked much with the English missionary bishop of Western
Kamtchatka, who happened to be spending a few days at the embassy. She
asked him many questions concerning the differences between Armenian
orthodox, Armenian catholic, Greek orthodox, and Russian orthodox; and
though his lordship found a great deal to say on the subject, I am bound
to allow that he was almost as much puzzled as herself when brought face
to face in the reality with such a variety of sects. Chrysophrasia had
not come to the East for nothing, either. She meant to indulge what John
called her fancy for pots and pans and old rags; in other words, she
intended to try her luck in the bazaar, and with the bloodhound's scent
of the true collector she detected by instinct the bricabrac hunters of
society. There is always a goodly number of them wherever antiquities
are to be found, and Chrysophrasia was hailed by those of her persuasion
with the mingled delight and jealousy which scientific bodies feel when
a new scientist appears upon the horizon.
As for Hermione, she created a great sensation, and the hearts of many
secretaries palpitated in the most lively manner when she first entered
the ball-room of one of the embassies, two days after her arrival. The
astonishment was great when it was known that she was Paul Patoff's own
cousin; and when it was observed that Paul was very often with her the
cry went up that he had fallen in love at last. Thereupon all the women
who had said that he was a bore, a monster, a statue, and a piece of
ice, immediately declared that there must be something in him, after
all, and began to talk to him whenever they got a chance. Some
disappointment was felt, too, when it was observed that Alexander Patoff
also showed a manifest preference for the society of his beautiful
cousin, and wise old ladies said there would be trouble. Everybody,
however, received the addition to society with open arms, and hoped that
the Carvels' visit might be prolonged for at least a whole year.
Many of these comments reached my ears, and the remarks concerning
Alexander's growing attachment for Hermione startled me, and chilled me
with a sense of evil to come. I opened my eyes and watched, as every one
else was doing, and in a short time I came to the conclusion that public
opinion was right. It was very disagreeable to me to admit it, but I
soon saw that there was no doubt that Alexander was falling in love with
his cousin. I saw, too, what others who knew them less well did not see:
Madame Patoff exercised all her ingenuity in giving her favorite son
opportunities of seeing Hermione alone. It was very easy to do this, and
she did it in the most natural way; she affected to repent bitterly of
her injustice to Paul, and took delight in calling him to her side, and
keeping him with her as long as possible. Sometimes she would make him
stay an hour by her side at a party, going over and over the strange
story of Alexander's imprisonment, and asking him questions again and
