' Ah, that is a great quality, one of the very greatest ! If 
I had spent my life in a perpetual honeymoon with the 
princess, Casa Montevarchi would not be what it is, my son. 
I have always given my best attention to the affairs of my 
household, and I expect that you will continue the tradition.' 
' Never fear ! If, by continuing the tradition, you mean 
that I should get what is mine, I will not disappoint you. 
Can you tell me when the case can be tried, and in what 
court it will be heard ? ' 
' With my influence,' replied Montevarchi, ' the case may 
be put through at once. A month will suffice for the pre 
liminaries, a day for the hearing. Everything is settled at 
once by the exhibition of the documents which provide for 
you in the most explicit terms. You can come in from the 
country and see them for yourself if you please. But I 
consider that quite unnecessary. The lawyers will settle 
everything.' 
' Pardon my curiosity, but I would like to know why you 
thought it best not to tell me anything of the matter until 
now.' 
' My dear son, you were so busy with the preparations 
for your marriage, and the questions involved seemed at first 
so doubtful that I thought it best not to trouble you with 
them. Then, when I knew the whole truth the time was so 
near that I preferred to give you the information as a sort of 
wedding present' 
' A magnificent one indeed, for which I cannot find words 
to express my gratitude.' 
' No, no ! Do not talk of gratitude. I feel that I am 
fulfilling a sacred duty in restoring to the fatherless his birth 
right It is an act of divine justice for the execution of 
which I have been chosen as the humble instrument Do 
your duty by my dear daughter, and render your gratitude 
to heaven qua sunt Ccesaris, Ccesari, et quce sunt Dei, Deo J 
Would that we could all live by that rule ! ' 
' To Saracinesca what is his, and to San Giacinto that 
which belongs to him that is what you mean ? ' 
' Yes, my good son. I am glad to see that you under 
stand Latin. It does you credit that amidst the misfortunes 
of your early life you should have so improved yourself as to 
possess the education necessary t^ the high rank you are 
about to assume. I tell you frankly that, in spite of your 
personal qualities, in spite of the great name and possessions 
which will soon be yours, if I had not distinguished in you 
that refinement and instruction without which no gentleman 
is worthy of the name, I would not have bestowed upon you 
the hand of that sweet creature whom I have cherished as a 
flower in the house of my old age.' 
San Giacinto had made a study of old Montevarchi during 
a month past, and was not in the least deceived by his 
rounded periods and well expressed moral sentiments. But 
he smiled and bowed, enjoying the idea of attributing such 
flattery to himself in proportion as he felt that he was 
unworthy of it. He had indeed done his best to acquire a 
certain amount of instruction, as his father-in-law called it, 
and his tastes were certainly not so coarse as might have been 
expected, but he was too strong a man to be easily deceived 
concerning his own powers, and he knew well enough that 
he owed his success to his fortune. He saw, too, that Monte 
varchi, in giving him Flavia, had foreseen the possibility of 
his claiming the rights of his cousins, and if he had not been 
thoroughly satisfied with his choice he would have now felt 
that he had been deceived. He had no regrets, however, for 
he felt that even had he already enjoyed the titles and wealth 
he was so soon to claim, he would nevertheless have chosen 
Flavia for his wife. Of all the young girls he had seen in 
Rome she was the only one who really attracted him ; a fact 
due, perhaps, to her being more natural tfyan the rest, or at 
least more like what he thought a woman should naturally 
be. His rough nature would not have harmonised with 
Faustina's character ; still less could he have understood and 
appreciated a woman like Corona, who was indeed almost 
beyond the comprehension of Giovanni, her own husband. 
San Giacinto was almost a savage, compared with the young 
men of the class to which he now belonged, and there was 
something wild and half-tamed in Flavia Montevarchi which 
had fascinated him from the first, and held him by that side 
of his temperament by which alone savages are governed. 
Had the bringing of the suit been somewhat hastened it 
is not impossible that San Giacinto and his wife might have 
driven up to the ancient towers of Saracinesca on that Satur 
day afternoon, as Giovanni and Corona had done on their 
wedding day two years and a half earlier. As it was, they 
were to go out to Frascati to spend a week in Montevarchi's 
villa, as the prince and princess and all their married children 
had done before them. 
' Eh ! what a satisfaction ! ' exclaimed Flavia, with a sigh 
of relief as the carriage rolled out of the deep archway under 
the palace. Then she laughed a little and looked up at her 
husband out of the corners of her bright black eyes, after 
which she produced a very pretty silver scent- bottle which 
her mother had put into her hand as a parting gift. She 
looked at it, turned it round, opened it and at last smelled 
the contents. 
' Ugh ! ' she cried, shutting it up quickly and making a 
wry face. ' It is full of salts horrible ! I thought it was 
something good to smell ! Did she think I was going to 
faint on the way ? ' 
' You do not look like fainting,' remarked San Giacinto, 
who looked gigantic in a wide fur pelisse. He put out his 
great hand, which closed with a sort of rough tenderness over 
hers, completely hiding it as well as the smelling-bottle she 
held. ' So it is a satisfaction, is it ? ' he asked, with a gleam 
of pleasure in his deep-set eyes. 
' If you had been educated under the supervision of the 
eccellentissima casa Montevarchi, you would understand what 
a blessed institution marriage is ! You what shall I call 
you your name is Giovanni, is it not ? ' 
' Yes Giovanni Do you like the name ? ' 
' No it reminds me of the head of John the Baptist. I 
will call you let me see Nino. Yes that sounds so small, 
and you are so immensely big. You are Nino, in future. I 
am glad you are big. I do not like little men.' She nestled 
close to the giant, with a laugh that pleased him. 
San Giacinto suddenly found that he was very much 
more in love than he had supposed. His life had been full 
of contrasts, but this was the greatest which had yet presented 
itself. He remembered a bright summer's morning a few 
years earlier, when he had walked back from the church in 
Aquila with Felice Baldi by his side. Poor Felice ? She 
had worn a very pretty black silk frock with a fine gold 
chain around her neck, and a veil upon her head, for she was 
not of the class ' that wear hats,' as they say in Rome. But 
she had forced her stout hands into gloves, and Giovanni 
the innkeeper had been somewhat proud of her ladylike 
appearance. Her face was very red and there were tears of 
pleasure and timidity in her eyes, which he remembered very 
well. It was strange that she, too, should have been proud 
of her husband's size and strength. Perhaps all women 
were very much alike. How well he remembered the wed 
ding collation, the little yellow cakes with a drop of hard 
pink sugar in the middle of each, the bottles of sweet cordial 
of various flavours, cinnamon, clove, aniseed and the like, 
the bright red japanned tray, and the cheaply gaudy plates 
whereon were painted all manner of impossible flowers. 
Felice was dead, buried in the campo santo of Aquila, with 
its whitewashed walls of enclosure and its appalling monu 
ments and mortuary emblems. Poor Felice ! She had been 
a good wife, and he had been a good husband to her. She 
was such a simple creature that he could almost fancy her 
spirit shedding tears of satisfied pride at seeing her Giovanni 
married to a princess, rich and about to be metamorphosed 
into a prince himself. She had known that he was a 
Marchese of a great family, and had often begged him to let 
her be called the Signora Marchesa. But he had always told 
her that for people in their position it was absurd. They 
were not poor for their station ; indeed, they were among 
the wealthiest of their class in Aquila. He had promised to 
assert his title when ',hey should be rich enough, but poor 
Felice had died too soon. Then had come that great day 
when Giovanni had won in the lottery Giovanni who had 
never played before and had all his life called it a waste of 
money and a public robbery. But, playing once, he had 
played high, and all his numbers had appeared on the follow 
ing Saturday. Two hundred thousand francs in a day ! 
Such luck only falls to the lot of men who are born under 
destiny. Giovanni had long known what he should do if he 
only possessed the capital. The winnings were paid in cash, 
and in a fortnight he had taken up a government contract in 
the province of Aquila. Then came another and another. 
Everything turned to gold in his hands, and in two years he 
was a rich man. 
Alone in the world, with his two little boys, and possessed 
of considerable wealth, the longing had come over him to 
take the position to which he had a legitimate right, a posi 
tion which, he supposed, would not interfere with his increas 
ing his fortune if he wished to do so. He had left the 
children under the supervision of old Don Paolo, the curate, 
and had come to Rome, where he had lodged in an obscure 
hotel until he had fitted himself to appear before his cousins 
as a gentleman. His grave temper, indomitable energy, and 
natural astuteness had done the rest, and fortune had crowned 
all his efforts. The old blood of the Saracinesca had grown 
somewhat coarse by the admixture of a stream very far from 
blue ; but if it had lost in some respects it had gained in 
others, and the type was not wholly low. The broad- 
shouldered, dark-complexioned giant was not altogether 
unworthy of the ancient name, and he knew it as his wife 
nestled to his side. He loved the wild element in her, but 
most of all he loved the thoroughbred stamp of her face, the 
delicacy of her small hands, the aristocratic ring of her 
laughter, for these all told him that, after three generations 
of obscurity, he had risen again to the level whence his 
fathers had fallen. 
The change in his life became very dear to him, as 
all these things passed quickly through his mind ; and with 
the consciousness of vivid contrast came the certainty that 
he loved Flavia far better than he had believed possible. 
' And what shall I call you ? ' he asked, rather bluntly. 
He did not quite know whether it would be wise to use any 
term of endearment or not. Indeed, this was the weak point 
in his experience, but he supplemented the deficiency by a 
rough tenderness which was far from disagreeable to Flavia. 
' Anything you like, dear,' she answered. San G-iacinto 
felt the blood rush to his head with pleasure as he heard the 
epithet. 
'Anything!' he asked, with a very unwonted tremor in 
his voice. 
'Anything provided you will love me,' she replied. 
He thought he had never seen such wicked, fascinating eyes. 
He drew her face to his and looked into them a moment, his 
own blazing suddenly with a passion wholly new to him. 
' I will not call you anything instead of calling you, I 
will kiss you so is it not better than any name ? ' 
A deep blush spread over Flavia's face and then subsided 
suddenly, leaving her very pale. For a long time neither 
spoke again. 
' Did your father tell you the news before we left V asked 
San Giacinto at last, when they were rolling over the Cam- 
pagna along the Via Latina. 
< No what V 
' It is somewhat remarkable news. If you are afraid of 
fainting,' he added, with rough humour, ' hold your bottle of 
salts ready.' 
Flavia looked up uneasily, wondering whether there were 
anything wrong about San Giacinto. She knew very well 
that her father had been glad to get rid of her. 
' I am not San Giacinto after all,' he said quietly. Flavia 
started and drew back. 
' Who are you then ? ' she asked quickly. 
' I am Prince Saracinesca, and you are the princess.' He 
spoke very calmly, and watched her face to see the effect of 
the news. 
' I wish you were ! ' she exclaimed nervously. She 
wondered whether he' was going mad. 
'There seems to be no doubt about it,' he answered, 
' your father informed me of the fact as a wedding present. 
He has examined all the papers and will send the lawyers 
out to Frascati to prepare the case with me.' 
He told her the whole story in detail As he proceeded, 
a singular expression came into Flavia's face, and when he 
had finished she broke out into voluble expressions of 
' I always knew that I was born to be a princess I mean 
a real one ! How could I be anything else ? Oh ! I am so 
happy, and you are such a darling to be a prince ! And to 
think that if papa had not discovered the papers, those horrid 
Sant' Ilario people would have had everything. Princess 
Saracinesca ! Eh, but how it sounds ! Almost as good as 
Orsini, and much nicer with you, you great big, splendid 
lion ! Why did they not call you Leone ? It is too good to 
be true ! And I always hated Corona, ever since I was a 
little girl and she was the Astrardente, because she used to 
say I did not behave well and that Faustina was much 
prettier I heard her say so when I was behind the curtains. 
Why did you not find it out ever so long ago ? Think what 
a wedding we should have had, just like the Sant' Ilario's ! 
But it was very fine after all, and of course there is nothing 
to complain of. Ewiva ! Evviva ! Do give me one of 
those cigarettes I never smoked in my life, and I am so 
happy that I know it will not hurt me ! ' 
San Giacinto had his case in his hand, and laughed as he 
presented it to her. Quiet as he was in his manner he was 
far the happier of the two, as he was far more capable of 
profound feeling than the wild girl who was now his wife. 
He was glad, too, to see that she was so thoroughly delighted, 
for he knew well enough that even after he had gained the 
suit he would need the support of an ambitious woman to 
strengthen his position. He did not believe that the Sara- 
cinesca would submit tamely to such a tremendous shock of 
fortune, and he foresaw that their resentment would prob 
ably be shared by a great number of their friends. 
Flavia looked prettier than ever as she put the bit of 
rolled paper between her red lips and puffed away with an 
energy altogether unnecessary. He would not have believed 
that, being already so brilliant and good to see, a piece of 
unexpected good news could have lent her expression so 
much more brightness. She was positively radiant, as she 
looked from his eyes at her little cigarette, and then, look 
ing back to him again, laughed and snapped her small 
gloved fingers. 
' Do you know,' she said presently, with a glance that 
completed the conquest of San Giacinto's heart, ' I thought I 
should be dreadfully shy with you at first and I am not 
in the least ! I confess, at the very moment when you were 
putting the ring on my finger I was wondering what we 
should talk about during the drive.' 
' You did not think we should have such an agreeable 
subject of conversation, did you 2 ' 
' No and it is such a pretty ring ! I always wanted a 
band of diamonds plain gold is so common. Did you think 
of it yourself or did some one else suggest the idea ? ' 
' Castellani said it was old-fashioned,' answered San Gia- 
cinto, ' but I preferred it.' 
' Would you have liked one, too V 
' No. It would be ridiculous for a man.' 
' You have very good taste,' remarked Flavia, eyeing him 
critically. ' Where did you get it ? You used to keep a 
hotel in Aquila, did you not V 
San Giacinto had long been prepared for the question and 
did not wince nor show the slightest embarrassment. He 
smiled calmly as he answered her. 
t You would hardly have called it a hotel, it was a country 
inn. I daresay I shall manage Saracinesca all the better for 
having kept a hostelry.' 
' Of course. Oh, I have such a delightful idea ! Let us 
go to Aquila and keep the hotel together. . It would be such 
fun ! You could say you had married a little shopkeeper's 
daughter in Koine, you know. Just for a month, Nino do 
let us do it ! It would be such a change after society, and 
then we would go back for the Carnival Oh, do ! ' 
' But you forget the lawsuit ' 
'That is true. Besides, it will be just as much of a 
change to be Princess Saracinesca. But we can do it 
another time. I would like so much to go about in an 
apron with a red cotton handkerchief on my head and see all 
the queer people! When are the lawyers coming?' 
' During the week, I suppose.' 
' There will be a fight,' said Flavia, her face growing more 
grave. ' What will Sant' Hario and his father say and do ? 
I cannot believe that it will all go so smoothly as you think 
They do not look like people who would give up easily what 
they have had so long. I suppose they will be quite 
ruined.' 
' I do not know. Corona is rich in her own right, and 
Sant' Ilario has his mother's fortune. Of course, they will 
be poor compared with their present wealth. I am sorry 
for them ' 
' Sorry V Flavia looked at her husband in some aston 
ishment. 'It is their own fault. Why should you be 
sorry ? ' 
' It is not exactly their fault. I could hardly have 
expected them to come to me and inform me that a mistake 
had been made in the last century, and that all they pos 
sessed was mine.' 
' All they possessed ! ' echoed Flavia, thoughtfully. ' What 
a wonderful idea it is ! ' 
' Very wonderful,' assented San Giacinto, who was think 
ing once more of his former poverty. 
The carriage rolled on and both were silent for some time, 
absorbed in dreaming of the greatness which was before 
them in the near future, San Giacinto enumerating in his 
mind the titles and estates which were soon to be his, while 
Flavia imagined herself in Corona's place in Rome, grown 
suddenly to be a central figure in society, leading and organ 
ising the brilliant amusements of her world, and above all, 
rejoicing in that lavish use of abundant money which had 
always seemed to her the most desirable of all enjoy 
ments. 
CHAPTER XVIII 
FAUSTINA MONTEVARCHI was delighted when her sister was 
at last married and out of the house. The two had always 
been very good friends, but Faustina felt that she had an 
enemy in San Giacinto and was relieved when he was gone. 
She had no especial reason for her suspicions, since he treated 
her with the same quiet and amicable politeness which he 
showed to the rest of the household ; but her perceptions 
were extraordinarily true and keen, and she had noticed 
that he watched her whenever Gouache was in the room, in 
a way that made her very uncomfortable. Moreover, he had 
succeeded of late in making Flavia accompany her to early 
mass on Sunday mornings on pretence of his wishing to see 
Flavia without the inevitable supervision of the old princess. 
The plan was ingenious ; for Faustina, instead of meeting 
Gouache, was thus obliged to play chaperon while her sister 
and San Giacinto talked to their hearts' content. He was 
a discreet man, however, and Flavia was ignorant of the 
fact that Faustina and Anastase had sometimes met in the 
same way, and would have met frequently had they not 
been prevented. The young girl was clever enough to see 
why San Giacinto acted as he did ; she understood that he 
was an ambitious man, and that, as he was about to ally 
himself with her family, he would naturally disapprove of 
her attachment to Gouache. Now that he was gone, she 
wondered whether he had devised any steps which would 
take effect after his departure. 
Faustina was quite as much in love as Gouache himself, 
and spent much time in calculating the chances of a favour 
able issue from the situation in which she found hersel 
Life without Anastase was impossible, but the probabilities 
of her becoming his wife in the ordinary course of events 
were very few, as far as she was able to judge, and she had 
moments of extreme depression, during: which she despaired 
of everything. The love of a very young girl may iu itself 
be both strong and enduring, but it generally has the effect 
of making her prone to extremes of hope and fear, uncertain 
of herself, vacillating in her ideas, and unsteady in the pur 
suit of the smaller ends of life. Throw two equal weights 
into the scales of a perfectly adjusted balance, the arm will 
swing and move erratically many times before it returns to 
its normal position, although there is a potential equilibrium 
in the machine which will shortly assert itself in absolute 
tranquillity. 
Love in a very young person is rarely interesting, unless 
it is attended by heroic or tragic circumstances. Human 
life is very like the game of chess, of which the openings 
are so limited in number that a practised player knows them 
all by heart, whereas the subsequent moves are susceptible 
of infinite variation. Almost all young people pass through 
the early stages of existence by some known gambit, which 
has always a definite influence upon their later lives, but 
never determines the latter entirely. The game is played 
between humanity on the one side and the unforeseen on 
the other ; but that which can really not be foretold in some 
measure rarely presents itself until the first effects of love 
have been felt, a period which, to continue the simile, may 
be compared in chess to the operation of castling. Then 
comes the first crisis, and the merest tyro knows how much 
may depend upon whether he castles on the king's side or 
on the queen's. 
Now the nature of Faustina's first love was such as to 
make it probable that it would end in some uncommon way. 
There was something fatal in the suddenness with which her 
affection had grown and had upset the balance of her judg 
ment. It is safe to say that not one young girl in a million 
would have behaved as she had done on the night of the 
insurrection in Rome ; not one in a hundred thousand would, 
in her position, have fallen in love with Gouache. 
The position of the professional artist and of the pro 
fessional man of letters in modern European society is ill 
defined. As a man who has been brought up in a palace 
would undoubtedly betray his breeding sooner or later if 
272  
CHAP. 
transported to live amongst a gang of thieves, so a man who 
has grown to years of discretion in the atmosphere of studios 
or in the queer company from which most literary men have 
sprung, will inevitably, at one time or another, offend the 
susceptibilities of that portion of humanity which calls itself 
society. It is impossible that it should be otherwise. Among 
a set of people whose profession it is to do always, and in 
all things, precisely what their neighbours do, the man who 
makes his living by doing what other people cannot do, must 
always be a marked figure. Look at modern society. It 
cannot toil nor spin ; it can hardly put together ten words 
in a grammatical sequence. But it can clothe itself. The 
man of letters can both toil and write good English, but his 
taste in tailoring frequently leaves much to be desired. If 
he would put himself in the hands of Poole, and hold his 
tongue, he might almost pass for a member of society. But 
he must needs talk, and his speech bewrayeth him for a 
Galilean. There are wits in society, both many and keen, 
who can say something original, cutting and neatly turned, 
upon almost any subject, with an easy superiority which 
makes the hair of the learned man stand erect upon his 
head. The chief characteristic of him who lives by his 
brains is, that he is not only able to talk consecutively upon 
some subjects, but that he actually does so, which, in society, 
is accounted a monstrous crime against manners. Let him 
write what he wants to say, and print it ; society will either 
not understand him at all, or will read his works with a 
dictionary in the secrecy of its own chamber. But if he 
will hold his tongue in public, society will give him a cup 
of tea and treat him almost like a human being for the sake 
of being said to patronise letters. Any one who likes society's 
tea may drink his fill of it in consideration of wearing a good 
coat and keeping his wits to himself, but he will not succeed 
in marrying any of society's sisters, cousins or aunts without 
a severe struggle. 
Anastase Gouache did not quite understand this. He 
sometimes found himself amidst a group of people who were 
freely discussing some person unknown to him. On such 
occasions he held his peace, innocently supposing that his 
ignorance was without any importance whatsoever, among a 
set of men and women with whom not to know every detail 
concerning every one else is to be little better than an out 
cast. 
' Now do tell me all about the Snooks and Montmorency 
divorce,' says Lady Smyth -Tompkins with a sweetly en 
gaging smile, as she holds out her hand. 
' I did not know there was such a case I don't know the 
people,' you answer. 
' Oh ! I thought, of course, you knew all about it,' Lady 
Smyth-Tompkins replies, and her features turn to stone as 
she realises that you do not know everybody, and leaves you 
to your own reflections. 
Thackeray, snobissme maxime ! How well you knew 
them! 
There are no snobs among the Latin races, but there is a 
worse animal, the sycophant, descended directly from the 
dinner-tables of ancient Rome. In old-fashioned houses there 
are often several of them, headed invariably by the ' giornale 
ambulante,' the walking newspaper, whose business it is to 
pick up items of news during the day in order to detail them 
to the family in the evening. There is a certain old princess 
who sits every evening with her needlework at the head of a 
long table in the dismal drawing-room of a gigantic palace. 
On each side of the board are seated the old parasites, the 
family doctor, the family chaplain, the family lawyer, the 
family librarian, the peripatetic news-sheet and the rest. 
' I have been out to-day,' says her excellency. 
' Oh ! Ah ! Dear me ! In this weather !' Hear what 
the princess says ! The princess has been out ! ' The chorus 
comes up the table, all the answers reaching her ears at 
once. 
' And I saw, as I drove by, the new monument ! What 
a ridiculous thing it is.' 
'Ho! ho ! ho ! Hah ! hah ! hah ! Dear me ! What a 
monument ! What fine taste the princess has ! Hear what 
the princess thinks of the monument ! ' 
' If you will believe it, the bronze horse has a crooked 
leg.' 
'He! he! he! Hi! hi! hi! Dear me ! A crooked leg ! 
How the princess understands horses ! The princess saw 
that he had a crooked leg ! ' 
And so on, for a couple of hours, in the cold, dimly-lighted 
room until her excellency has had enough of it and rises to 
go to bed, when the parasites all scuttle away and quarrel 
with each other in the street as they walk home. Night 
after night, to decades of years, the old lady recounts the 
little journal of her day to the admiring listeners, whose 
