materials toward him, wrote a half-dozen business 
letters When they were finished, together with 
a few lines to Weir, and no other correspondence 
suggested itself, he got up and walked the 

length of the room several times. Suddenly he 
brought his fist violently down on the table. 

" I am a fool," he exclaimed. " The idea of a 
man with my experience with women — " And 
then his voice died away and his hand relaxed, 
an expression of disgust crossing his face. He 
sank into a chair by the table and leaned his 
head on his hand. It was true that he was a 
man of the world, and that for conventional 
morality he had felt the contempt it deserved. 
Nevertheless, in loving this girl the finest and 
highest instincts of his nature had been aroused. 
He had felt for her even more of sentiment than 
of passion. When a man loves a girl whose 
mental purity is as absolute as her physical, there 
is, intermingled with his love, a leavening quality 
of reverence, and the result is a certain purification 
of his own nature. That Dartmouth had 
found himself capable of such a love had been a 
source of keenest gratification to him. He had 
been lifted to a spiritual level which he had never 
touched before, and there he had determined to 
remain. 

And to have this pure and exquisite love 
smirched with the memory of sin and vulgar 
crime! To take, into his arms as his wife the 
woman on whose soul was written the record of 
temptation and of sin! It was like marrying 
one's mistress: as a matter of fact, what else was 
it? But "Weir Penrhyn! To connect sin with 


her was monstrous. And yet, the vital spark 
called life — or soul, or intelligence, or personal 
force; whatever name science or ignorance might 
give it — was unchanged in its elements, as his 
own chapter of memories had taught him. Every 
instinct in Sioned's nature was unaltered. If 
these instincts were undeveloped in her present 
existence, it was because of Weir's sheltered 
life, and because she had met him this time 
before it was too late. 

He sprang to his feet, almost overturning the 
chair. " I can think no more to-night," he 
exclaimed. " My head feels as if it would burst." 

He went into his bedroom and poured out a 
dose of laudanum. When he was in bed he 
drank it, and he did not awake until late the next 
day. 

XL 

In the life of every man there comes a time 
when he is brought face to face with the great 
problem of morality. The murderer undoubtedly
comprehends the problem in all its 
significance when he is about to mount the scaffold , 
the faithless wife when she is dragged through 
the divorce court, and her family and friends are 
humbled to the dust. 

Dartmouth worked it out the next night as he 
sat by his library fire. He had given the 
afternoon to his business affairs, but when night 



 

threw him back into the sole companionship of 
his thoughts, he doggedly faced the question 
which he had avoided all day. 

What was sin ? Could anyone tell, with the 
uneven standard set up by morality and 
religion ? The world smiled upon a loveless 
marriage. What more degrading ? It frowned upon 
a love perfect in all but the sanction of the 
Church, if the two had the courage to proclaim 
their love. It discreetly looked another way 
when the harlot of " Society " tripped by with 
her husband on one hand and her lover on the 
other. A man enriched himself at the expense 
of others by what he was pleased to call his 
business sharpness, and died revered as a 
philanthropist; the common thief was sent to jail. 

Dartmouth threw back his head and clasped 
his hands behind it. Of what use rehearsing 
platitudes? The laws of morality were 
concocted to ensure the coherence and homogeneity 
of society; therefore, whatever deleteriously 
affected society was crime of less or greater 
magnitude. He and Sioned Penrhyn had ruined the 
lives and happiness of two people, had made a 
murderer of the one, and irrevocably hardened the 
nature of the other: Catherine Dartmouth had 
lived to fourscore, and had died with unexpiated 
wrong on her conscience. They had left two 
children half-orphaned, and they had run the 
risk of disgracing two of the proudest families in 



 

Great Britain. Nothing, doubtless, but the 
cleverness and promptitude of Sir Dafyd Penrhyn, 
the secretive nature of Catherine Dartmouth, the 
absence of rapid-news transit, and the 
semi-civilization of Constantinople at that time, 
had prevented the affair from becoming public scandal. 
Poor Weir! how that haughty head of hers would 
bend if she knew of her grandmother's sin, even 
did she learn nothing of her own and that sin's 
kinship! 

Dartmouth got up and walked slowly down the 
long room, his hands clasped behind him, his 
head bent. Heaven knew his " sins " had been 
many; and if disaster had never ensued, it had 
been more by good luck than good management. 
And yet — he could trace a certain 
punishment in every case; the woman punished by 
the hardening of her nature and the probability 
of complete moral dementia; the man by satiety 
and an absolute loss of power to value what he 
possessed. Therefore, for the woman a sullen 
despair and its consequences; for the man a 
feverish striving for that which he could never 
find, or, if found, would have the gall in the 
nectar of having let slip the ability to unreservedly 
and innocently enjoy. , 

And if sin be measured by its punishment ! 
He recalled those years in eternity, with their 
hell of impotence and inaction. He recalled the 
torment of spirit, the uncertainty worse than 



 

death. And Weir? Surely no two erring mortals
had ever more terribly reaped the reward of 
their wrong-doing. 

What did it signify ? That he was to give her up ? 
that a love which had begun in sin must not 
end in happiness ? But his love had the strength 
of its generations; and the impatient, virile, 
control-disdaining nature of the man rebelled. Surely 
their punishment had been severe enough and 
long enough. Had they not been sent back to 
earth and almost thrown into each other's arms 
in token that guilt was expiated and vengeance 
satisfied ? Dartmouth stopped suddenly as this 
solution presented itself, then impatiently thrust 
a chair out of his way and resumed his walk. 
The consciousness that their affection was the 
perpetuation of a lustful love disheartened and 
revolted him. Until that memory disappeared 
his punishment would not be over. 

He stopped and leaned his hand on the 
table. " I thought I was a big enough man to 
rise above conventional morality," he said. "But 
I doubt if any man is when circumstances have 
combined to make him seriously face the question. 
He might, if born a red Indian, but not 
if saturated in his plastic days with the codes 
and dogmas of the world. They cling, they 
cling, and reason cannot oust them. The society 
in whose enveloping, penetrating atmos- 
phere he has lived his life decrees that it is a 

  

sin to seduce another man's wife or to live with 
a woman outside the pale of the Church. Therefore
sin, down in the roots of his consciousness, 
he believes it; therefore, to perpetuate a sinful 
love — I am becoming a petty moralist," he 
broke off impatiently;" but I can't help it. I am 
a triumph of civilization." 

He stood up and threw back his shoulders. 
" Let it go for the present," he said. "At another 
time I may look at it differently or reason myself 
out of it. Now I will try " 

He looked towards his study door with a flash 
in his eyes. He half turned away, then went 
quickly into the little room and sat down before 
the desk. Every day he would make the attempt 
to write, and finally that obstinate wedge in his 
brain would give way and his soul be set free. 

He drew paper before him and took up a pen. 
For an hour he sat motionless, bending all his 
power of intellect, all the artistic instincts of his 
nature to the luring of his song-children from 
that closed wing in his brain. But he could not 
even hear their peremptory knocks as on the 
nights when he had turned from those^summonses 
in agony and terror. He would have welcomed 
them now and dragged the visitants into the sun- 
light of his intelligence and forced the song from 
their throats. 

He took the poem from his pocket and read it 
. over. But it gave him no inspiration, it dulled 





his brain, rather, and made him feel baffled and 
helpless. But he would not give up; and dawn 
found him still with his pen in his hand. Then 
he went to bed and slept for a few hours. That day 
he gave little attention to his affairs. His melancholy, 
held at bay by the extraordinary experience 
through which he had passed, returned 
and claimed him. He shut himself up in his 
library until the following morning, and alternated 
the hours with fruitless attempts to write and 
equally fruitless attempts to solve the problem in 
regard to Weir. The next day and night, with 
the exception of a few hours' restless sleep, were 
spent in the same way. 

At the end of the third day not a word had 
flowed from his pen, not a step nearer had he 
drawn to Weir. A dull despair took possession 
of him. Had those song-children fled, discouraged, 
and was he to be withheld from the one 
consolation of earthly happiness ? He pushed 
back the chair in which he had been sitting 
before his desk and went into the library. He 
opened one of the windows and looked out. 
How quiet it was! He could hear the rising 
wind sighing through the yews, but all nature 
was elsewise asleep. What was she doing down 
at Rhyd-Alwyn ? Sleeping calmly, or blindly 
striving to link the past with the present ? He 
had heard from her but once since he left.
Perhaps she too had had a revelation. He wondered 




if it were as quiet there as here, or if the waves at 
the foot of the castle still thundered unceasingly 
on. He wondered if she would shrink from him 
when the truth came to her. Doubtless, for she 
had been reared in the most rigid of moral 
conventions, and naturally catholic-minded as she 
was, right, to her, was right, and wrong was wrong. 
He closed the window and, throwing himself 
on a sofa, fell asleep. But his dreams were 
worse than his waking thoughts. He was wan- 
dering in eternal darkness looking for someone 
lost ages ago, and a voice beside him was mur- 
muring that he would never find her, but must 
goon — on — forever; that the curse of some crime 
committed centuries ago was upon him, and that 
he must expiate it in countless existences and
eternal torment. And far off, on the very confines 
of space, floated a wraith-like thing with the lithe 
grace of a woman whom he had loved on earth. 
And she was searching for him, but they de- 
scribed always the same circle and never met. 
And then, finally, after millions of years, an
invisible hand clutched him and bore him upward 
onto a plane, hitherto unexplored, then left him 
to grope his way as he could. All was blackness 
and chaos. Around him, as he passed them, he 
saw that dark suns were burning, but there was 
nothing to conduct their light, and they shed no 
radiance on the horrors of their world. Below 
him was an abyss in which countless souls were 



 

struggling, blindly, helplessly, until they should 
again be called to duty in some sphere of material 
existence. The stillness at first was deathlike, 
oppressive; but soon he became aware of a 
dull, hissing noise, such as is produced on 
earth by the fusion of metals. The invisible 
furnaces were lost in the impenetrable darkness, 
but the heat was terrific; the internal fires of 
earth or those of the Bible's hell must be sickly 
and pale in comparison with this awful, invisible 
atmosphere of flame. Now and then a planet, 
which, obeying Nature's laws even here, revolved 
around its mockery of a sun, fell at his feet a 
river of fire. There was stillness no longer. 
The roaring and the exploding of the fusing 
metals, or whatever it might be, filled the vast 
region like the hoarse cries of wild beasts and 
the hissing of angry serpents. It was deafening, 
maddening. And there was no relief but to 
plunge into that abyss and drown individuality. 
He flew downward, and as he paused a moment 
on the brink, he looked across to the opposite 
bank and saw a figure about to take the leap 
like himself. It was a dim, shadowy shape, but 
even in the blackness he knew its waving grace. 
And she pointed dowh into the abyss of blind, 
helpless, unintelligent torment, and then — 



 

XII. 

Dartmouth suddenly found himself standing 
upright, his shoulders clutched in a pair of strong 
hands, and Hollington's anxious face a few 
inches from his own. 

"What the devil is the matter with you, Hal ? " 
exclaimed Hollington. " Have you set up a 
private lunatic asylum, or is it but prosaic 
dyspepsia? " 

" Becky ! " exclaimed Dartmouth, as he grasped 
the situation. " I am so glad to see you. Where 
did you come from ?" 

"You frightened your devoted Jones to death 
with one of your starvation moods, and he tele- 
graphed for me. The idea of a man having the 
blues in the second month of his engagement to 
the most charming girl in Christendom ! " 

" Don't speak to me of her," exclaimed Dart- 
moute, throwing himself into a chair and cover- 
ing his face with his hands. 

"Whew! What's up? You haven't quarrelled 
already ? Or won't the governor give his consent?" 

" No," said Dartmouth, "that's not it." 

" Then what the devil is the matter ? Is — is 
she dead ?" 

"No." 

" Was she married to some other man be- 
fore ? " 

"No!" 



 

" I beg your pardon ; I was merely exhausting 
the field of conjecture. Will you kindly
enlighten me?" 

" If I did, you would say I was a lunatic." 

" I have been inclined to say so occasionally 
before — " 

" Becky, Weir Penrhyn is my — " And then he 
stopped. The ludicrous side of the matter had 
never appealed to him, but he was none the less 
conscious of how ridiculous the thing would 
appear to another. 

" Your what ? Your wife ? Are you married 
to her already, and do you want me to break it to 
the old gentleman ? What kind of a character is 
he ? Shall I go armed ? " 

" She is not my wife, thank God ! If she 
were—" 

" For heaven's sake, Harold, explain yourself. 
Can it be possible that Miss Penrhyn is like too 
many other women ? " 

Dartmouth sprang to his feet, his face white 
to the lips. 

"How dare you say such a thing?" he ex- 
claimed. " If it were any other man but you, 
I'd blow out his brains." 

Hollington got up from the chair he had taken 
and, grasping Dartmouth by the shoulders, threw 
him back into his chair. 

"Now look here, Harold," he said; "let us 
have no more damned nonsense. If you will 
indulge in lugubrious hints which have but one 
meaning, you must expect the consequences. I 
refuse to listen to another word unless you come 
out and speak plain English." 

He resumed his seat, and Dartmouth clasped 
his hands behind his head and stared moodily at 
the fire. In a few moments he turned his eyes 
and fixed them on Hollington. 

"Very well," he said, "I will tell you the 
whole story from beginning to end. Heaven 
knows it is a relief to speak; but if you laugh, I 
believe I shall kill you." 

"I will not laugh," said Hollington. "What- 
ever it is, I see it has gone hard with you." 

Dartmouth began with the night of the first 
attempt of his suppressed poetical genius to 
manifest itself, and gave Hollington a comprehensive 
account of each detail of his subsequent 
experiences, down to the reading of the letters and 
the spiritual retrospect they had induced. He 
did not tell the story dramatically; he had no fire 
left in him; he stated it in a matter-of-fact way, 
which was impressive because of the speaker's 
indisputable belief in his own words. Hollington 
felt no desire to laugh; on the contrary, he 
was seriously alarmed, and he determined to 
knock this insane freak of Harold's brain to 
atoms, if mortal power could do it, and regardless
of consequences to himself. 

When Dartmouth Iftd finished, Hollington lit 




a cigar and puffed at it for a moment,
meditatively regarding his friend meanwhile. Then he 
remarked, in a matter-of-fact tone : 

" So you are your own grandfather, and Miss 
Penrhyn is her own grandmother." 

Dartmouth moved uneasily. "It sounds ridiculous 
— but — don't chaff." 

" My dear boy, I was never more serious in 
my life. I merely wanted to be sure that I had 
got it straight. It is A. B. C. by this time to 
you, but it has exploded in my face like a keg 
of gunpowder, and I am a trifle dazed. But, to 
come down to deadly earnest, will you allow me 
to speak to you from the medical point of view ? 
You know I had some idea at one time of afflict- 
ing the community with one more physician, until 
we stumbled on those coal mines, and my pros- 
pective patients were spared premature acquaint- 
ance with the golden stairs. May I speak as an 
unfledged doctor, but still as one burdened with 
unused knowledge ? " 

"You can say what you like." 

" Very well, then. You may or may not be 
aware that what you are pleased to call the blues, 
or moods, are, in your case, nothing more or less 
than melancholia. When they are at their worst 
they are the form known as melancholia attonita. 
In other words, you are not only steeped in
melancholy, but your brain is in. a state of stupor: 
you are all but comatose. These attacks are 


 

not frequent, and are generally the result of a 
powerful mental shock or strain. I remember 
you had one once after you had crammed for two 
months for an examination and couldn't pull 
through. You scared the life out of the tutors 
and the boys, and it was not until I threatened 
to put you under the pump that you came to. 
Your ordinary attacks are not so alarming to 
your friends, but when indulged in too 
