the society of artists, the talk of studios, the 
attentive study of beautiful works, the sight of 
a thousand forms of curious research and experi 
ment, had produced in his mind a new sense, 
the exercise of which was a conscious enjoyment, 
and the supreme gratification of which, on several 
occasions, had given him as many ineffaceable 
memories. He had once said to his friend 
Wateiiow : " I don 't know whether it s a confession 
of a very poor life, but the most important things 
that have happened to me in this world have 
been simply half-a-dozen impressions impres 
sions of the eye." " Ah, malheureux, you're lost ! " 
the painter had exclaimed, in answer to this, 
and without even taking the trouble to explain 
his ominous speech. Gaston Probert however 
had not been frightened by it, and he continued 
to be thankful for the sensitive plate that nature 
(with culture added), enabled him to carry in his 
brain. The impression of the eye was doubtless 
not everything, but it was so much gained, so 
much saved, in a world in which other treasures 
were apt to slip through one s fingers; and 
above all it had the merit that so many things 
gave it and that nothing could take it away. He 
had perceived in a moment that Francie Dosson 
gave it; and now, seeing her a second time, he 
felt that she conferred it in a degree which made 
acquaintance with her one of those " important " 
facts of which he had spoken to Charles Waterlow. 
It was in the case of such an accident as this 
that he felt the value of his Parisian education 
his modern sense. 
It was therefore not directly the prospect of 
the circus that induced him to accept Mr. Dosson s 
invitation ; nor was it even the charm exerted by 
the girl s appearing, in the few words she uttered, 
to appeal to him for herself. It was his feeling 
that on the edge of the glittering ring her type 
would form his entertainment and that if he knew 
it was rare she herself did not. He liked to he 
conscious, but he liked others not to be. It 
seemed to him at this moment, after he had told 
Mr. Dosson he should be delighted to spend the 
evening with them, that he was indeed trying 
hard to discover how it would feel to be an 
American; he had jumped on the ship, he was 
pitching away to the west. He had led his sister, 
Mme. de Bre court, to expect that he would dine 
with her (she was having a little party), and if 
she could see the people to whom, without a 
scruple, with a quick sense of refreshment and 
freedom, he now sacrificed her ! He knew who 
was coming to his sister s, in the Place Beauvau : 
Mme.'d Outreville and M. de Grosprc, old M. 
Courageau, Mme. de Brives, Lord and Lady 
Trantum, Mile, de Saintonge ; but he was fascinated 
by the idea of the contrast between what he pre- 
ferred and what he gave up. His life had long 
been wanting painfully wanting in the element 
of contrast, and here was a chance to bring it in. 
He seemed to see it come in powerfully with Mr. 
Flack, after Miss Dosson had proposed that they 
should walk off without their initiator. Her father 
did not favour this suggestion ; he said, " We 
want a double good dinner to-day and Mr. Flack has 
got to order it." Upon this Delia had asked the 
visitor if he couldn 't order a Frenchman like 
him ; and Francie had interrupted, before he could 
answer the question &lt;( Well, are you a French 
man ? that s just the point, isn 't it?" Gaston 
Probert replied that he had no wish but to be of 
her nationality, and the elder sister asked him if 
he knew many Americans in Paris. He was obliged 
to confess that he did not, but he hastened to add 
that he was eager to go on, now that he had made 
such a charming beginning. 
" Oh, we ain 't anything if you mean that," 
said the young lady. "If you go on you 'll go on 
beyond us." 
"We ain 't anything here, my dear, but we 
are a good deal at home," Mr. Dosson remarked, 
smiling. 
" I think we are very nice anywhere ! " Francie 
exclaimed; upon which Gaston Probert declared 
that they were as delightful as possible. It was 
in these amenities that George Flack found them 
engaged ; but there was none the less a certain 
eagerness in his greeting of the other guest, as if 
he had it in mind to ask him how soon he 
could give him half an hour. I hasten to add 
that, with the turn the occasion presently took, 
the correspondent of the Reverberator renounced 
the effort to put Mr. Probert down. They all went 
out together, and the professional impulse, usually 
so irresistible in George Flack s mind, suffered a 
modification. He wanted to put his fellow- visitor 
down, but in a more human, a more passionate 
sense. Probert talked very little to Francie, but 
though Mr. Flack did not know that on a first 
occasion he would have thought that violent, even 
rather gross, he knew it was for Francie, and 
Francie alone, that the fifth member of the party 
was there. He said to himself suddenly and in 
perfect sincerity that it was a mean class any 
way, the people for whom their own country was 
not good enough. He did not go so far however, 
when they were seated at the admirable establish 
ment of M. Durand, in the Place de la Madeleine, 
as to order a bad dinner to spite his competitor 
nor did he, to spoil this gentleman s amusement, 
take uncomfortable seats at the pretty circus in 
the Champs Elysees to which, at half-past eight 
o clock, the company was conveyed (it was a drive 
of but five minutes) in a couple of cabs. The 
occasion therefore was superficially smooth, and he 
could see that the sense of being disagreeable to an 
American newspaper-man was not needed to make 
his nondescript rival enjoy it. He hated his accent, 
he hated his laugh, and he hated above all the 
lamblike way their companions accepted him. Mr. 
Flack was quite acute enough to make an import 
ant observation : he cherished it and promised 
himself to bring it to the notice of his gullible 
friends. Gaston Probert professed a great desire 
to be of service to the young ladies to do some 
thing which would help them to be happy in Paris ; 
but he gave no hint of an intention to do that 
which would contribute most to such a result 
bring them in contact with the other members, and 
above all with the female members, of his family. 
George Flack knew nothing about the matter, but 
he required for purposes of argument that Mr. 
Probert s family should have female members, and 
it was lucky for him that his assumption was just. 
He thought he foresaw the effect with which he 
should impress it upon Francie and Delia (but 
above all upon Delia, who would then herself im 
press it upon Francie), that it would be time for 
their French friend to talk when he had brought 
his mother round. But he never would they 
might bet their pile on that ! He never did, in the 
sequel, in fact having, poor young man, no mother 
to bring. Moreover he was mum (as Delia phrased 
it to herself) about Mme. de Brecourt and Mme. 
de Cliche : such, Miss Dosson learned from Charles 
Waterlow, were the names of his two sisters who 
had houses in Paris gathering at the same time 
the information that one of these ladies was a 
marquise and the other a comtesse. She was less 
exasperated by their non-appearance than Mr. 
Flack had hoped, and it did not prevent an ex 
cursion to dine at Saint-Germain, a week after the 
evening spent at the circus, which included both of 
the new admirers. It also as a matter of 
course included Mr. Flack, for though the party 
had been proposed in the first instance by Charles 
Waterlow, who wished to multiply opportunities 
for studying his future sitter, Mr. Dosson had 
characteristically constituted himself host and ad 
ministrator, with the young journalist as his deputy. 
He liked to invite people and to pay for them, and 
he disliked to be invited and paid for. He was 
never inwardly content, on any occasion, unless a 
great deal of money was spent, and he could be sure 
enough of the magnitude of the sum only when he 
himself spent it. He was too simple for conceit or 
for pride of purse, but he always felt that any ar 
rangements were a little shabby as to which the 
expenses had not been referred to him. He never 
told any one how he met them. Moreover Delia 
had told him that if they should go to Saint- 
Germain as guests of the artist and his friend Mr. 
Flack would not be of the company : she was sure 
those gentlemen would not invite him. In fact 
she was too acute, for though he liked him little, 
Charles Waterlow would on this occasion have 
made a point of expressing by a hospitable attitude 
his sense of obligation to a man who had brought 
him such a subject. Delia s hint however was all- 
sufficient for her father ; he would have thought it 
a gross breach of friendly loyalty to take part in a 
festival not graced by Mr. Flack s presence. His 
idea of loyalty was that he should scarcely smoke a 
cigar unless his friend was there to take another, 
and he felt rather mean if he went round alone to get 
shaved. As regards Saint-Germain, he took over 
the project and George Flack telegraphed for a 
table on the terrace at the Pavilion Henri Quatre. 
Mr. Dosson had by this time learned to trust the 
European manager of the Reverberator to spend 
his moDey almost as he himself would. 
IV. 
DELIA had broken out the evening they took 
Mr. Probert to the circus ; she had apostrophised 
Francie as they each sat in a red-damask chair 
after ascending to their apartments. They had 
bade their companions farewell at the door of the 
hotel and the two gentlemen had walked off in 
different directions. But up stairs they had 
instinctively not separated ; they dropped into the 
first place and sat looking at each other and at the 
highly-decorated lamps that burned, night after 
night, in their empty saloon. " Well, I want to 
know when you're going to stop Delia said to her 
sister, speaking as if this remark were a continua 
tion, which it was not, of something they had 
lately been saying. 
" Stop what ? " asked Francie, reaching forward 
for a marron. 
"Stop carrying on the way you do with 
Mr. Flack." 
Francie stared, while she consumed her marron; 
then she replied, in her little flat, patient voice, 
" Why, Delia Dosson, how can you be so 
foolish ? " 
" Father, I wish you'd speak to her. Francie, I 
ain 't foolish." 
" What do you want me to say to her ? " 
Mr. Dosson inquired. " I guess I've  said about 
all I know." 
" Well, that s in fun ; I want you to speak to 
her in earnest." 
" I guess there s no one in earnest but you," 
Francie remarked. " These are not so good as 
the last." 
" No, and there won 't be if you don 't look out. 
There s something you can do if you 'll just 
keep quiet. If you can 't tell difference of style, 
well, I can." 
" What s the difference of style ? " asked Mr. 
Dosson. But before this question could be 
answered Francie protested against the charge of 
carrying on. Quiet ? Wasn 't she as quiet as a 
stopped clock ? Delia replied that a girl was not 
quiet so long as she didn 't keep others so; and 
she wanted to know what her sister proposed to 
do about Mr. Flack. " Why don 't you take him and 
let Francie take the other ? " Mr. Dosson continued. 
" That s just what I'm after to make her take 
the other," said his elder daughter. 
" Take him how do you mean ? " Francie 
inquired. 
" Oh, you know how." 
" Yes, I guess you know how ! " Mr. Dosson 
laughed, with an absence of prejudice which 
might have been thought deplorable in a 
parent. 
" Do you want to stay in Europe or not ? that s 
what I want to know," Delia declared to her sister. 
" If you want to go bang home you're taking the 
right way to do it." 
" What has that got to do with it ? " asked 
Mr. Dosson. 
"Should you like so much to reside at that 
place where is it ? where his paper is published ? 
That s where you 'll have to pull up, sooner or 
later," Delia pursued. 
" Do you want to stay in Europe, father ? " 
Francie said, with her small sweet weariness. 
" It depends on what you mean by staying. I 
want to go home some time." 
" Well, then, you've  got to go without Mr. 
Probert," Delia remarked with decision. " If you 
think he wants to live over there " 
"Why, Delia, he wants dreadfully to go he 
told me so himself," Francie argued, with passion 
less pauses. 
"Yes, and when he gets there he 'll want to 
come back. I thought you were so much interested 
in Paris." 
" My poor child, I am interested ! " smiled 
Francie. " Ain 't I interested, father ? " 
"Well, I don 't know how you could act 
differently, to show it." 
" Well, I do then," said Delia. " And if you 
don 't make Mr. Flack understand I will." 
" Oh, I guess he understands he s so bright," 
Francie returned. 
" Yes, I guess he does he is bright," said Mr. 
Dosson. " Good-night, chickens," he added ; and 
wandered off to a couch of untroubled repose. 
His daughters sat up half an hour later, but 
not by the wish of the younger girl. She was 
always passive however, always docile when Delia 
was, as she said, on the war-path, and though she 
had none of her sister s insistence she was very 
courageous in suffering. She thought Delia 
whipped her up too much, but there was that in 
her which would have prevented her from ever 
running away. She could smile and smile for an 
hour without irritation, making even pacific 
answers, though all the while her companion s 
grossness hurt something delicate that was in her. 
She knew that Delia loved her not loving herself 
meanwhile a bit as no one else in the world 
probably ever would ; and there was something 
droll in such plans for her plans of ambition 
which could only involve a loss. The real answer 
to anything, to everything Delia might say in 
her moods of prefigurement was " Oh, if you 
want to make out that people are thinking of me 
or that they ever will, you ought to remember 
that no one can possibly think of me half as much 
as you do. Therefore if there is to be any comfort 
for either of us we had both much better just go 
on as we are." She did not however on this 
occasion, meet her sister with this syllogism, 
because there happened to be a certain fascination 
in the way Delia set forth the great truth that the 
star of matrimony, for the American girl, was now 
shining in the east in England and France and 
Italy. They had only to look round anywhere to 
see it : what did they hear of every day in the 
week but of the engagement of one of their own 
compeers to some count or some lord ? Delia 
insisted on the fact that it was in that vast, vague 
section of the globe to which she never alluded 
save as " over here " that the American girl was 
now called upon to play, under providence, her 
part. When Francie remarked that Mr. Probert 
was not a count nor a lord her sister rejoined that 
she didn 't care whether he was or not. To this 
Francie replied that she herself didn 't care but 
that Delia ought to, to be consistent. 
" Well, he s a prince compared with Mr. Flack," 
Delia declared. 
" He hasn 't the same ability ; not half." 
" He has the ability to have three sisters 
who are just the sort of people I want you to 
know." 
" What good will they do me ? " Francie asked. 
" They 'll hate me. Before they could turn round 
I should do something in perfect innocence 
that they would think monstrous." 
"Well, what would that matter if he liked 
you ? " 
" Oh, but he wouldn t, then ! He would hate 
me too." 
" Then all you've  got to do is not to do it," 
Delia said. 
" Oh, but I should every time," her sister 
went on. 
Delia looked at her a moment. " What are 
you talking about ? " 
" Yes, what am I ? It s disgusting ! " And 
Francie sprang up. 
" I'm sorry you have such thoughts," said Delia, 
sententiously. 
"It s disgusting to talk about a gentleman 
and his sisters aiid his society and everything 
else before he has scarcely looked at you." 
"It s disgusting if he isn 't just dying; but it 
isn 't if he is." 
" Well, I 'll make him skip ! " Francie went on. 
" Oh, you're worse than father ! " her sister 
cried, giving her a push as they went to bed. 
They reached Saint-Germain with their com 
panions nearly an hour before the time that had been 
fixed for dinner ; the purpose of this being to enable 
them to enjoy with what remained of daylight 
a stroll on the celebrated terrace and a study of 
the magnificent view. The evening was splendid 
and the atmosphere favourable to this entertain 
ment; the grass was vivid on the broad walk 
beside the parapet, the park and forest were fresh 
and leafy and the prettiest golden light hung over 
the curving Seine and the far-spreading city. The 
hill which forms the terrace stretched down among 
the vineyards, with the poles delicate yet in their 
bareness, to the river, and the prospect was 
spotted here and there with the red legs of the 
little sauntering soldiers of the garrison. How it 
came, after Delia s warning in regard to her 
carrying on (especially as she had not failed to feel 
the force of her sister s wisdom), Francie could not 
have told herself: certain it is that before ten 
minutes had elapsed she perceived, first, that the 
evening would not pass without Mr. Flack s taking 
in some way, and for a certain time, peculiar 
possession of her ; and then that he was already 
doing so, that he had drawn her away from the 
others, who were stopping behind them to exclaim 
upon the view, that he made her walk faster, and 
that he ended by interposing such a distance that 
she was practically alone with him. This was 
what he wanted, but it was not all ; she felt that 
he wanted a great many other things. The large 
perspective of the terrace stretched away before 
them (Mr. Probert had said it was in the grand 
style), and he was determined to make her walk 
to the end. She felt sorry for his determinations ; 
they were an idle exercise of a force intrinsically 
fine, and she wanted to protest, to let him know 
that it was really a waste of his great cleverness 
to count upon her. She was not to be counted on ; 
she was a vague, soft, negative being who had 
never decided anything and never would, who had 
not even the merit of coquetry and who only 
asked to be let alone. She made him stop at last, 
telling him, while she leaned against the parapet, 
that he walked too fast ; and she looked back at 
their companions, whom she expected to see, under 
pressure from Delia, following at the highest speed. 
But they were not following; they still stood there, 
only looking, attentively enough, at the absent 
members of the party. Delia would wave her 
parasol, beckon her back, seod Mr. Waterlow to 
bring her ; Francie looked from one moment to 
another for some such manifestation as that. But 
no manifestation came ; none at least but the odd 
spectacle, presently, of the group turning round 
and, evidently under Delia s direction, retracing its 
steps. Francie guessed in a moment whatwas meant 
by that : it was the most definite signal her sister 
could have given. It made her feel that Delia 
counted on her, but to such a different end, just as 
poor Mr. Flack did, just as Delia wished to per 
suade her that Mr. Probert did. The girl gave a 
sigh, looking up at her companion with troubled 
eyes, at the idea, of being made the object of con 
verging policies. Such a thankless, bored, evasive 
little object as she felt herself ! What Delia had 
said in turning away was " Yes, I am watching 
you, and I depend upon you to finish him up. 
Stay there with him go off with him (I 'll give 
you half an hour if necessary), only settle him 
once for all. It is very kind of me to give you 
this chance ; and in return for it I expect you 
to be able to tell me this evening that he has got 
his answer. Shut him up ! " 
Francie did not in the least dislike Mr. Flack. 
Interested as I am in presenting her favourably to 
the reader I am yet obliged as a veracious his 
torian to admit that he seemed to her decidedly a 
brilliant being. In many a girl the sort of appre 
ciation she had of him might easily have been 
converted by peremptory treatment from outside 
into something more exalted. I do not misrepre 
sent the perversity of women in saying that our 
young lady might at this moment have replied to 
her sister with : " No, I was not in love with him, 
but somehow since you are so very prohibitive I 
foresee that I shall be if he asks me." It is doubt 
less difficult to say more for Francie s simplicity of 
character than that she felt no need of encourag 
ing Mr. Flack in order to prove to herself that she 
was not bullied. She didn 't care whether she were 
bullied or not ; and she was perfectly capable of 
letting her sister believe that she had carried 
mildness to the point of giving up a man she had 
a secret sentiment for in order to oblige that 
large-brained young lady. She was not clear 
herself as to whether it might not be so ; her 
pride, what she had of it, lay in an undistributed, 
inert form quite at the bottom of her heart and 
she had never yet invented any consoling theory 
to cover her want of a high spirit. She felt, as 
she looked up at Mr. Flack, that she didn 't care 
even if he should think that she sacrificed him to 
a childish subservience. His bright eyes were hard, 
as if he could almost guess how cynical she was, 
and she turned her own again towards her retreat 
ing companions. " They are going to dinner ; we 
oughtn 't to be dawdling here," she said. 
" Well, if they are going to dinner they 'll have 
to eat the napkins. I ordered it and 1 know when 
it will be ready," George Flack replied. " Besides 
they are not going to dinner, they are going to 
walk in the park. Don 't you worry, we sha n 't lose 
them. I wish we could ! " the young man added, 
smiling. 
" You wish we could ? " 
" I should like to feel that you were under my 
particular protection." 
" Well, I don 't know what the dangers are," said 
Francie, setting herself in motion again. She went 
after the others, but at the end of a few steps he 
stopped her again. 
" You won 't have confidence. I wish you would 
believe what I tell you." 
"You haven 't told me anything." And she 
turned her back to him, looking away at the 
GO  
splendid view. " I admire the scenery," she added 
in a moment. 
" Oh, bother the scenery ! I want to tell you 
something about myself, if I could flatter myself 
that you would take any interest in it." He had 
thrust his cane, waist-high, into the low wall of the 
terrace, and he leaned against it, screwing the point 
gently round with both hands. 
" I 'll take an interest if I can understand," said 
Francie. 
" You can understand easy enough, if you 'll try. 
I've  got some news from America to-day that has 
pleased me very much. The Reverberator has 
taken a jump." 
This was not what Francie had expected, but it 
was better. " Taken a jump ? " she repeated. 
