"I took up the photograph," Mr. Fairbanks continued, "and while I was
examining it, the Russian came back. In his hand he held a check-book.
'That's the grand duke himself,' he said. 'He will stop in here
presently on his way out. There will be two or three members of the
suite with him; and, that you may recognize his Highness at once, take a
good look at the picture. When he comes in you must do this way: button
your coat, please; thanks: now stand anywhere you like and make a low
bow. Let me see you make one. Bravo! that is splendid. Only--how shall I
say?--do not let your arms hang in that fashion. The grand duke might
think you had dropped something and were stooping to pick it up.
However, that is a minor matter. It may be that he won't see you at all.
But of all things remember this: under no circumstances must you speak
to him unless he first addresses you, and then you must merely answer
his question. In other words, do not, I pray you, try to engage him in
conversation.' 'Does he speak English?' I asked. I couldn't help it. I
was getting nervous. 'Now let us have the rubies,' he said. I took the
box out of my breast-pocket and handed it to him. He opened it, drew the
cotton aside, and ran his fingers lovingly over the gems. 'Yes,' he
said, 'they will do.' Then he closed the box again, and put it in the
drawer of the table at which he had taken a seat. 'If,' he continued,
'his Highness is satisfied, I will draw a draft for you, and Count
Béziatnikoff will sign it. The count,' he went on to say, 'is the keeper
of the Privy Purse. The draft itself is on the London Rothschilds, but
they will cash it at Belmont's.' I did not quite like that arrangement:
it did not seem entirely business-like. 'Your Excellency,' I said, 'it
is the custom here to have checks for large amounts certified before
they are offered in payment.' But I had to explain what certification
meant before he understood me. 'That is nothing,' he said, 'that is
nothing. If his Highness is pleased, we will go to Belmont's together,
or, if you prefer, we will sit here over a Sam Ward and let one of the
hotel-clerks go to the bank in our stead.' There seemed to me nothing
objectionable in that suggestion; for, after all, I could not exact of
any one, however grand-ducal he might be, to go about with a hundred and
ten thousand dollars in his waistcoat."
"Or in his trousers either."
"Or in his trousers either, as you very properly put it. Now, Mr.
Jones--Mr. Leigh, look at me; Colonel Barker--colonel--I am coming to
the point. Where's that waiter? Gentlemen, see here; watch that man
there--watch Jones. Don't take your eyes off Mr. Jones, but listen,
all of you, to what I say. Mr. Leigh, you are looking at me: look at
your friend, colonel, I insist. Mr. Jones, you, if you care to, can
look at me. Now, gentlemen, now--"
"Have you got a camera concealed about your person?"
"No, I have not, but I have something that came from one. You wait a
minute, and I'll show it to you. I'll show it to you all. Where did I
leave off?"
"In his waistcoat-pocket."
"Thank you: so I did. Well, gentlemen, we sat there talking as
pleasantly as you please. The Russian joked a bit, and said that he
wanted a certified check from me,--the check for his commission, you
remember,--and presently he got up and said he would see what was
delaying his Highness. So I sat awhile, twirling my thumbs. Five minutes
passed, ten minutes passed. I looked at my watch: it was almost
half-past two. That draft, I told myself, won't be cashed to-day. I went
to the window and looked out. I went to the door: there was no one in
the hall but a chambermaid. I went back to my seat, and then, moved by
my own uneasiness, I opened the drawer of the table. The box was gone! I
took the drawer out. It was one that extended the entire width of the
table: the further end of it had been cut off. I looked down and in
through the place from which I had taken it. I could see into the next
room! I pulled the table to one side, and there, just where the drawer
had touched the door against which it had stood, was an oblong opening
cut through the woodwork of the door itself. I was down-stairs in an
instant. Gentlemen, the grand duke had gone to Philadelphia that very
morning. No such person as Prince Zaroguine lodged in the hotel. The
clerk came upstairs with me. 'That room,' he said, 'is occupied by a
Frenchman, and the adjoining room belongs to a man who registered from
Boston. Why, that's his picture there!' he exclaimed, pointing to the
picture of the grand duke. 'I did not even know that they were
acquainted. But they will be back; they have left their things; they
haven't even paid their bills.' I did not wait for their return: if I
had I might be waiting still. But I took the photograph, and down to
Inspector Byrnes I posted. 'That,' said he, 'that is the picture of one
of the 'cutest rogues in the land. He has as many names as the Czar of
Russia himself.' And the original of that picture--Gentlemen,
here,--Mr. Leigh, here,--colonel, here is the picture itself. I have
kept it with me ever since. The original of that picture sits before
you. Hold on to him, colonel. Jones, if you move I'll put a bullet
through you. Mr. Leigh, do you ring for the police. Hold him, colonel.
Disgorge, you scoundrel, disgorge! I have got you at last!" And then,
before the astonished gaze of Alphabet Jones, Colonel Barker faded in a
mist, Mr. Fairbanks lost his rotundity, his black coat changed to a blue
swallow-tail with brass buttons, he grew twenty years younger, and, so
far from being violent, he seemed rather apologetic than otherwise.
"It's six o'clock, sir," he said. "Will you order anything before the
bar closes?"
Alphabet blinked his eyes. He was lying in a cramped position on the
sofa. He was uncomfortable and very hot. He pulled himself together and
looked around. Save for the waiter and himself, the room was deserted.
"Is there any baccarat going on upstairs?" he asked.
"No, sir; the gentlemen are just going away."
"Well, well," he mused, "that was vivid. H'm! I'll work it up as an
actual occurrence and send it on to the Interstate: it will be good
for the two hundred and fifty which I meant to make at baccarat.--I say,
waiter, get me a Remsen cooler, please."
A MAID OF MODERN ATHENS.
"It was this way," she said, and as she spoke she stooped and flicked a
speck of dust from her habit. "It was this way: The existence which I
lead in the minds of other people is absolutely of no importance
whatever. Now wait: I care a great deal whether school keeps or not, but
in caring I try chiefly to be true to myself. I may stumble; I may not.
In any event I seek the best. As for the scandal of which you speak,
that is nonsense. There is no criterion. That which is permissible here
is inhibited yonder, and what is permissible yonder is inhibited here.
Scandal, indeed!"
There was something about her that stirred the pulse. She was fair; the
sort of girl whose photograph is an abomination, and yet in whose face
and being a charm resides, a charm intangible and coercive, inciting to
better things. A Joan of Arc in a tailor-made gown.
"You remember how it was when we were younger--You--well, there is no
use in going into that. You had a mother to think for you; I had no one.
I had to solve problems unassisted. The weightiest of all was marriage,
and that, in my quality of heiress, I found perplexing to a degree. But
how is it possible, I asked myself, how can a girl pledge her life to a
man of whom she knows absolutely nothing? For, practically speaking,
what does the average girl know of the man whose name she takes? It may
be different in the country, but in town! Listen to me; a girl 'comes
out,' as the saying is; she meets a number of men, the majority of whom
are more or less agreeable and well-bred--when she is present. But what
are they when she is not? At dinners and routs, or when she receives
them in her own house, they are at their best; if they are not they stay
away. It is not so difficult to be agreeable once in awhile, but to be
so always is a question not of mask but of nature. It seems to me that
when an intelligent woman admires her brother it is because that brother
is really an admirable man. Has she not every opportunity of judging?
But what opportunity is given to the girl whom a man happens to take in
and out at dinner, or whom she sees for an hour or two now and then? You
must admit that her facilities are slight. That was the way it was with
me, and that was the way I fancied it would continue to be, and I
determined that it was better to remain spinster forever than to take a
man on trust and find that trust misplaced. Suspicious? No, I am not
suspicious. When your husband bought this property did you think him
suspicious because he had the title searched? Very good; then perhaps
you will tell me that the marriage contract is less important than the
conveyance of real estate? Besides, my doubts on the subject of love
would have defied a catalogue. When I read of the follies and transports
of which it was reported to be the prime factor, I was puzzled. It
seemed to me that I had either a fibre more or a fibre less than other
girls, I could not comprehend. No man I had ever met--and certainly I
had met many--had ever caused me so much as a fleeting emotion. There
were men with whom I found speech agreeable and argument a pleasure,
but, had they worn frocks instead of trousers, such enjoyment as I
experienced would have been unimpaired. You see, it was purely mental.
And when--there, I remember one man in particular. As Stella said of
Swift, he could talk beautifully about a broomstick. He knew the reason
of things; he was up in cuneiform inscriptions and at home with
meteorites; he was not prosy, and, what is more to the point, he never
treated a subject as though it were a matter of life and death. He was
not bad-looking, either, and he was the only man of my acquaintance who
both understood Kant and got his coats from Poole. That man I liked very
much. He was better than a book. I could ask him questions, a thing you
can't do even of an encyclopædia. One fine day the personal pronoun
cropped out. We had been discussing Herbert Spencer's theory of
conceivability, and abruptly, with an inappositeness which, now I think
of it, would have been admirable on the stage, but which in the
drawing-room was certainly misplaced, he asked me to take a walk with
him down the aisle of the swellest church in the commonwealth. I mourned
his loss, as we say. But wasn't it stupid of him? But what does get into
men? Why should they think that, because a girl is liberal with odd
evenings, she is pining for the marriage covenant?"
With the whip she held she gave the hem of her habit a sudden lash.
"That episode gave me food for thought. H'm. By-and-by the scene was
occupied by a young man who was an authority on orchids, and wrote
sonnets for the Interstate. My dear, a more guileful little wretch
never breathed. When my previous young man disappeared, I felt that I
had been hasty. I desired nothing so much as an increase in my store of
knowledge, and I determined that if another opportunity occurred I would
not be in such a hurry to shut the door on entertaining developments.
Consequently, when my poet turned up, I was as demure as you please. He
was a fox, that man. He began with the fixed purpose of irritating me
into liking him. The tactics he displayed were unique. He never came
when I expected him, and when he did come he was careful to go just when
he thought he had scored a point. If any other man happened in, he first
eclipsed him and then left him to me. I saw through that game at once.
He understood perfectly that if I preferred the other man I was all the
more obliged to him for going, and if I preferred him to the other man I
was the sorrier to see him leave. In addition to this, whatever subject
I broached, he led it by tangential flights to Love. That Machiavelli
en herbe knew that to talk love is to make love. And talk of love he
did, no, but in the most impersonal manner. To hear him discant you
would have thought his wings were sprouting. Love, as he expressed it,
was a sentiment which ennobled every other; a purifying and exalting
light. It was the most gracious of despots. It banished the material; it
beckoned to the ideal. It turned satiety into a vagabond that had not
where to lay its head. It was the reduction of the world, creation, and
all the universe to a single being. It was an enchanted upland,
inhibited to the herd. It was a chimera to the vulgar, a crown to the
refined. 'A perfect lover,' he said, 'must needs be an aristocrat.' And
if you will believe me, I actually thought he meant what he said. In
spite of myself, I was becoming interested. There were new horizons
before me. I seemed to discern something hitherto unseen. My dear, for
the moment I felt myself going. I was at the foot of his enchanted
upland. I was almost willing to take him for guide. At first I had been
merely amused. Once, even, when he quoted the 'Two souls with but a
single thought,' I suggested that that must mean but half a thought
apiece. The quiet dignity which he then displayed almost fetched me. He
had the air of a prelate in whose presence an oaf has trampled on a
crucifix. He kept up that sort of thing for two months. To me his
sincerity was beyond peradventure. Not once did he speak in a personal
way. I was beginning to wonder when he would stop beating about the
bush, and I not only wondered, I believe I even wished that he would be
a little more enterprising and a trifle less immaterial. Presently I
detected a symptom or two which told me that the end of the beginning
was in sight. I suppose my manner was more encouraging. In any event,
one evening he took my hand and kissed it. From nine-and-ninety men out
of a hundred I should have thought nothing of such a thing. In Europe it
is an empty homage, a pantomime expressive of thanks. As I say, then, in
any other man I should not have given it a second thought, but he had
never done it before.
"The next day I lunched with Mrs. Bunker Hill. I mentioned his name; I
suppose it was running in my mind. And then, my dear, Fanny began. Well,
the things she told me about that transcendental young man were of such
a nature that when he next called I was not at home. He came again, of
course. And again. He sent me a note which I returned unopened. That, I
confess, was a foolish thing to do. It showed him that I was annoyed. I
might better have left it unanswered. After all, there is nothing so
impenetrable as silence. Finally, he got one of his friends to come and
reconnoitre. Indeed, he did not desist until I had an opportunity of
cutting him dead. I was angry, I admit it. And it was after that little
experience that I determined, the next time I felt myself going, I
would make sure beforehand where I was going to. H'm. I wonder what his
sister thought of him? You see, it was not that I had fallen in love;
the word was as unintelligible to me as before, but I had fancied that,
through him, I might intercept some inkling of its meaning, and I was
put out at having been tricked. Ach! diese Männer!"
Beneath descending night the sky was gold-barred and green. In the east
the moon glittered like a sickle of tin. The air was warm and freighted
with the odors of August. You could hear the crickets hum, and here and
there was the spark of a fire-fly gyrating in loops of flame. From
across the meadows came the slumbrous tinkle of a bell.
She raised a gloved hand to her brow and looked down at the yellow road.
To one who loved her, the Helen for whom the war of the world was
fought was not so fair as she. And presently the hand moved about the
brow, and, resting a second's space on the coil just above the neck,
fell again to her side.
"Well," she continued, "you can see how it was. Even before the
illusion, disillusionment had come. That winter I went with the Bunker
Hills to Monaco. Were it not for the riff-raff, that place would be a
paradise in duodecimo. We had a villa, of course. One evening, shortly
after our arrival, we went to the Casino. For the fun of the thing I put
some money on the Trente et Quarante. I did nothing but win. It was
tiresome; I would rather have lost; I had to speak to the dealer, and
that, as you can fancy, was not to my liking. There was a great crowd.
One little old woman put money wherever I did. She won a lot, too. But
one man, whom I could not help noticing, backed red when I was on black,
and vice versa. He did it persistently, intentionally, and he lost every
time. Finally one of the croupiers told me that my stake was above the
maximum, and asked how much I would risk. I was tired of answering his
questions, and I turned away. A lackey followed me with a salver covered
with gold and notes--the money I had won. I didn't want it; I had not
even a pocket to put it in, and the purse which I held in my hand would
not have held a fraction of it. It was a nuisance. I turned it over to
Bunker, and presently we all went out on the terrace that overhangs the
sea. It was a perfect night. In the air was a caress, and from the
Mediterranean came a tonic. While I was enjoying it all, a beggar
ambled up on a crutch and begged a franc. I took from Bunker the money I
had won and gave him thirty thousand. You should have heard Bunker then.
I actually believe that if I had been his wife instead of his guest he
would have struck me. I suppose it was an absurd thing to do. But the
next time you are in search of a new sensation do something of the same
sort. The beggar became transfigured. He looked at the gold and notes,
and then at me. I do not think I shall ever forget the expression in his
face. Did you ever see a child asleep--a child to whom some wonderful
dream has come? It was at once infantile and radiant. And all the while
Bunker was abusing me like a pickpocket. The beggar gave me one look,
dropped on his knees, caught the hem of my skirt, kissed it, threw away
his crutch, and ran. I burst out laughing, and Bunker, in spite of his
rage, burst out laughing too. Fanny called us a pair of idiots, and said
that if I was as lavish as that it would be better and wiser, and far
more Christian, to keep my money for indigent and deserving Bostonese,
than to bestow it as a premium on Monacean vice and effrontery. Just as
she was working herself into big words and short sentences, the man whom
I had noticed at the tables came along. He had met her before, and now,
as he expressed it, he precipitated himself to renew the expression of
his homage. Fanny, after introducing him to me, began at once on the
tale of my misconduct. He had a complexion of the cream-tint order, and
a moustache blacker than hate. He was a Florentine, I discovered, a
marquis with a name made up of v's, sonorous o's, and n's. We had found
a table, and Bunker ordered some ices. The night was really so perfect,
and the ice so good, that, like Mme. de Staël over her sherbet in
moonlit Venice, I almost wished it were a sin to sit there. The marquis
was in very good form and inclined to do the devoted on the slightest
provocation.
"'Is mademoiselle,' he asked me, 'is mademoiselle as disdainful of the
heart as she is of gold?'
"'Absolutely,' I answered--a remark which may have sounded snobbish, but
still was wholly true.
"'Ah!' he exclaimed, 'there are birds that do not sing untaught.'
"'You are beginning well,' I thought.
"The next day he lunched with us, and came again in the evening. In
addition to his marquisate, he had a fluty tenorino voice; what they
call a voix de salon. He sang all sorts of things for us, and he sang
them very well. When the air was lively he looked at Fanny, when it was
sentimental he looked at me. Thereafter I saw a great deal of him. One
day we would make up a party for Nice, on another we would go to San
Remo, or else back in the mountains, or to Grasse. Of course, as you
know, customs over there are such that he had no opportunity of being
alone with me, even for a second; but he had an art of making love in
public which must have been the result of long practice. It was both
open and discreet. It was not in words; it was in the inflection of the
voice and in the paying of the thousand and one little attentions which
foreigners perform so well. Now, to me, a tiara might be becoming, but
it is an ornament for which I have never felt the vaguest covetousness.
Moreover, I had no intention of marrying an Italian, however fabulous
the ancestry of that Italian might be. And, besides, the attentions of
which I was the apparent object were, I knew, addressed less to me than
to the blue eyes of my check-book. The Florentine nobleman who is
disposed to marry a dowerless American is yet to be heard from. This by
the way. However, I accepted the attentions with becoming grace, and
marked the cunning of his tricks. One evening he did not put in an
appearance, but at midnight, I heard, on the road before my window, the
tinkle of a guitar. I did not need to peer through the curtains to know
from whom it came. First he sang a song of Tosti's, and then the
serenade from "Don Pasquale:"
    'Com' è gentil, la notte in mezz' Aprile.
    Poi quando sarò morto, tu piangerai
    Ma ritornarmi in vita, tu non potrai.'
"Sentimental? Yes, sentimental to the last degree. But on the Riviera, in
spring, and at night, one's fancy turns to that sort of thing with
astounding ease. I listened with unalloyed pleasure. It was like a
Boccaccian echo. And as I listened I wondered whether I should ever
learn what love might be. The idea of taking a course of lessons from a
man who strummed on a guitar in front of my window never entered my
head. The next day Fanny came to me in a state of great excitement. The
guitarist, it appeared, had, with all proper and due formality, asked
leave to place his coronet at my feet. Ce que j'ai ri!
"You can hear Fanny from here. She accused me of flirting with the man.
'You have no right,' she said, 'to treat him as though he were a college
boy at Mt. Desert.' What he had done to make her so vicious I never
discovered. It must have been the title, a title always went to her
head. Poor Fanny! That evening, when he came, she declined to be
present. I had to see him alone. My dear, he was too funny. He had
prepared a little speech which he got off very well, only at the end of
it he lapsed into English. 'We will loaf,' he said, 'we will be always
loafers.' He meant, of course, to assert that we should love and be
always lovers, but the intricacies of our pronunciation were too much
for him. I could have died, it was so amusing. I managed, however, to
keep a straight face. 'Marquis,' I said, 'I am deeply honored, but your
invitation is one that I am unable to accept.' A more astounded man you
never saw. He really thought that he had but to ask, and it would be
given. He declined to take No for an answer. He said he would wait.
Actually, he was so pertinacious that I had to drag Fanny up to Paris.
He followed us in the next train. There was no getting rid of him at
all. If he sent me one note he sent me a hundred, and notes ten pages
each, at the very least. Finally, as you heard, he tried the dramatic.
One afternoon, while I was out shopping, he bribed a waiter at the hotel
where we lodged. When I returned, there he was, waiting for me. 'At
last,' he cried, 'at last we are face to face. You think I do not love.
Cruel one, behold me! I love as no mortal ever loved before. See, I die
at your feet!' And there, before my very eyes, he whipped out a pistol,
pulled the trigger, tumbled over and seemed fully disposed to carry out
the programme to the end. He had shot himself; there was no doubt about
that; but he had shot himself in such an intelligent manner, that,
though there was blood enough to frighten a sensitive young person out
of her wits, yet of danger there was none at all. Talk to me about
comedians! When I discovered the farce which had been enacted with the
sole object of stirring my sympathies into affection, I was
flabbergasted at the wiles of man.
"It was after that episode that I returned to Beacon Street. It was
there that what you are pleased to call the scandal began. Fanny, whose
desire to marry me off was simply epic, one day caught an Englishman;
young, so she said, and good-looking. And that Englishman, she made up
her mind, I should ensnare. Fanny, as you know, was possessed with an
ungratified desire to pay annual visits to swell country houses on the
other side. Hence, I suppose, her efforts. Having caught the Englishman,
the next step was to serve him up in becoming form. To that end she gave
a tentative dinner. I got to it late; in fact, I was the last to arrive.
Fanny, I could see, was in a state of feverish excitement. She presented
to me one or two men, whose names I did not catch, and a moment later
one of them gave me his arm. When we were seated at table, and while he
was sticking a chrysanthemum in his button-hole, I glanced at the card
on his plate. It bore for legend Lord Alfred Harrow. It was then I took
my first look at him. My dear, he was the ugliest man I have ever seen;
he was so ugly that he was positively attractive. His mouth was large
enough to sing a duet, but his teeth were whiter than mine."
As she spoke she curled her lips.
"There was no hair on his face, and his features were those of a
middle-aged wizard. But about him was the atmosphere of health, of
strength, too, and his hands, though bronzed and sinewy, were perfect. I
knew he was a thoroughbred at once. 'And how do you like the States?' I
asked. He was squeezing some lemon on an oyster, and I noticed that when
some white wine was offered him he turned the glass upside down. 'Very
much,' he answered; 'and you?' There was more of that sort of thing, and
finally I asked him if, like other Englishmen, he thought that Boston
suggested one of his provincial towns. 'There seems to be some mistake,'
he said. 'I was going into the Somerset five minutes ago when Hill
coralled me. He told me that his wife was giving a dinner, and that at
the last moment one of the bidden had wired to the effect that he was
prevented from coming. Whereupon Mrs. Hill had packed him off to the
club, with instructions to bring back the first man he met. I happened
to be that man.' He took up the card. 'Lord Alfred is, I fancy, the
delinquent. My name,' he added, 'is Mr. Stitt--Ferris Stitt,' he
continued, as though apologizing for its inconsequence.
"After that we got on famously. In a day or two he came to the house.
When he left the world was larger. He knew nothing about poetry. He had
never so much as heard of Fichte. Herbert Spencer was to him a name and
nothing more. The only works of ornamental literature which he seemed to
have read were the Arabian Nights, which he had forgotten, and something
of Dickens, which had put him to sleep. He did not know one note of
music from another. But he had hunted big game in Africa, in Bengal, and
he had penetrated Thibet. He had been in Iceland and among the Caribs.
No carpet knight was he.
"My dear, I had not seen him five times before I felt myself going. I
think he knew it. But I had been cheated before, and so well that I held
on with all my strength. While I was holding on, he disappeared. Not a
word, not a line, not even so much as a p. p. c. In the course of time,
through the merest accident, I learned that he was in Yucatan. Six
months later I caught a glimpse of him in the street. Presently he
called.
"At once, without so much as a preamble, he told me he had gone away
that in absence he might learn whether I was as dear to him as he
thought. He hesitated a moment. 'Will you let me love you?' he asked.
'You have been prudent,' I answered; 'let me be prudent, too.' Then I
told him of my disenchantments. I told him how difficult I found it to
discover what men really were. I told him, as I have told you, that it
seemed to me, if an intelligent girl admired her brother, it was because
that brother was assuredly an admirable man. And I added that I would
accept no man until I had the same opportunities of judging him as a
sister has of judging her brother. Besides, I said, I have yet to know
what love may be. It was then that we made the agreement of which you
disapprove. After all, it was my own suggestion, and, if unconventional,
in what does the criterion consist? I was acting for the best. You do
not imagine, do you, that I regret it?"
And to her lips came a smile.
"I took Mary, who, you must admit, is respectability personified, and
whom I had long since elevated from nurse to sheep dog--I took Mary,
and, together, all three of us, we went abroad. It is in travelling that
you get to know a man. Each evening, when he said good-night, my
admiration had increased. From England, as you know, we went straight
to India. It was a long trip, I had heard, but to me it seemed
needlessly brief. During the entire journey I studied him as one studies
a new science. I watched him as a cat watches a mouse. Not once did he
do the slightest thing that jarred. During the entire journey he did not
so much as attempt to take my hand in his. He knew, I suppose, as I
knew, that if the time ever came I would give it unasked.
"One evening, on going to my stateroom, I found I had left my
vinaigrette on deck. Mary was asleep. I went back for it alone. It was
very dark. On the way to where I had sat I heard his voice; he was
talking to one of the passengers. In spite of myself I listened to what
he was saying. I listened for nearly an hour. Not one word was there in
it all that he could not have said to me. When I got back to my cabin I
wondered whether it might not be that he knew I was standing there. Yes,
I admit, I was suspicious; but circumstances had made me so. Oh! he has
forgiven me since."
She smiled again complacently to herself, and, tucking the whip under
her arm, she drew off a glove; on one finger was a narrow circle of
gold. She looked at it and raised it to her lips.
"When we landed our journey had practically begun. You see, I was still
unassured. Yet he was irreproachable and ever the same. Well, the
details are unimportant. One day, at Benares, he heard that leopards had
been seen in the neighborhood of a lake some fifteen or twenty miles
out. At once he was for having a crack at them. I determined to
accompany him. He was surprised at first, and objected a little, but I
managed, as I usually do, to have my own way. It was night when we got
there. We left the horses with the guide, and, noiselessly as ghosts, we
stole through a coppice which hid the lake from view. Almost at the
water's edge we crouched and waited. The stars were white as lilies and
splendid as trembling gems. The silence was as absolute as might. How
long we waited I cannot now recall. I think I dreamed a bit with open
eyes. Then dimly I became conscious of something moving in the distance.
The moon had risen like a balloon of gold, and in the air was the scent
of sandal. Slowly, with an indolent grace of its own, that something
neared the opposite shore. As it reached the water it stopped, arched
its back, and turned. I saw then that it was a leopard. No, my dear,
you can form no idea of the beauty of that beast. And then suddenly it
threw its head back and called. It lapped the water, and then, with its
tongue, gave its forepaw one long, lustrous lick, and called again; a
call that was echoless, yet so resonant I felt it thrill my finger-tips.
In a moment its mate sprang from the shadows. If the first comer was
beautiful, then this one was the ideal. There they stood, caressing each
other with amber, insatiate eyes. It was like a scene in fairyland. And
as I watched them, I felt a movement at my side. I turned. He had taken
aim and was about to fire, but, as I turned, he turned to me. Those
beasts, I told myself, are far too fair for death; yet I said not a
word. My dear, he read my unuttered wish, he lowered the gun, and
then--then, for the first time, I knew what love might be.... There's
the dogcart now. Come over and dine to-morrow. If you care to, Ferris
will show you the gun."
FAUSTA.
There are many beautiful things in the world, and among them, near the
head of the list, stands dawn in the tropics. It is sudden as love, and
just as fair. Throughout the night the ship had been sailing beneath
larger stars than ours, in waters that were seamed and sentient with
phosphorus; but now the ship was in the harbor, day had chased the
stars, the water was iridescent as a syrup of opals, at the horizon was
the tenderest pink, overhead was a compound of salmon and of blue; and
beyond, within rifle range, was an amphitheatre of houses particolored
as rainbows, surmounted by green hills, tiared with the pearl points of
cathedral steeples, and for defensive girdle, the yellow walls of a
crumbling fort.
"On this side," thought one who lounged on deck, "it seems bounded by
beauty," and he might have added, "by ignorance on the other." He was a
good-looking young fellow, dressed Piccadilly-fashion, and yet, despite
the cut of his coat, the faint umber of his skin and the sultry un-Saxon
eyes marked him as being of Latin blood. His name was Ruis Ixar. He was
the son of a certain Don Jayme, who was then Governor of Puerto
Principe, and in Castile, Count, Grandee of Spain, and Marquis, to boot.
Don Jayme had emptied his coffers in discreet rivalry of his king, and
his king, who admired prodigal fathers, had given him leave to replenish
them in the New World. This permission Don Jayme had for some time past
