"And give my grass away?" 
"Well, you might hire it cut, but you wouldn't 
 
more than pay expenses if yon sold it. Just as 
broad as it's long," and he gave a chuckle. 
" I do not believe gardening can come out much 
worse than that," I ventured. 
"Well, you'll see. Fellows like you think they 
can do wonders, but you'll find* book-gardening 
doesn't amount to much. However, if you want to 
spend your money, that isn't my affair. Maybe 
experience is the best teacher after all," and he 
nodded in a kind of satisfactory manner. 
I had to run for the train, and my chance for 
further practical wisdom was lost. 
 
CHAPTER VI 
MY TRAMP 
WE were spending the evening with the Corwins, 
when I happened to repeat the sage advice of Mr. 
Montgomery. 
" I suppose we will have to call him a pessimist," 
said Mr. Corwin. "According to his view, nothing 
pays but a salaried position or weekly wages. He 
cannot understand that a certain degree of pleasure 
in an undertaking is a reward. He will die a com 
paratively poor man ; and I have heard people say 
he was a very brisk, prosperous farmer. Now he 
raises a little corn and potatoes and vegetables for 
the family, and keeps declaring that you can buy 
them much cheaper. His once beautiful and produc 
tive farm is half waste land, filling the world with a 
crop of all kinds of weeds. A neighbor of mine 
wanted to take a three-years' lease on some lots next 
door to him ; but no, Montgomery was sure to sell 
them in a year's time, and they are not sold yet. 
When I think of all the unproductive land lying 
about these little towns, and the people who might 
 
have gardens and fruit, it seems such a waste ! Of 
course, Mr. Montgomery's taxes are much higher 
than if his property was still a farm ; and it will eat 
up half his substance in the end." 
"And, Miss Thurston, don't ever allow yourself 
to be inveigled into going after wild berries of any 
kind," said Mrs. Corwin. " They are small, full of 
seeds, half green if you do get them, because the 
children pull them so soon. Many a time I have 
picked enough of my own in ten minutes, and just 
gone down to the foot of the garden. But I shouldn't 
wonder if you were overrun with children this 
summer, they have been so used to roaming over the 
place." 
" I shall keep a dog," I said. 
"And I shall be frightened every day and hour 
lest the dog goes mad," responded Eve, at which 
everybody laughed. 
However, by the middle of the month, a gentleman 
came up to Athens to look at the plot of ground 
next to me. It had just fallen to his wife by inherit 
ance ; arid she had resolved to have a country-house 
built, if the place was at all desirable. We walked 
through his ground and then mine ; and I think he 
was very favorably impressed, for the next day he 
brought up his wife. They were a Mr. and Mrs. 
Wilbur, and had five children. They wanted a plain, 
 
roomy house, just for summer living, with plenty of 
out-of-doors, and some shade. On their plot stood 
two magnificent old apple-trees and some chestnuts. 
That seemed to decide the lady at once, and they 
concluded to go at the building immediately. So 
we would have a next-door neighbor in the summer 
at least. 
I was casting about for some one to assist me in 
my labors, when an incident occurred that enabled 
me to do a good deed as well. Going down for the 
noon train, I saw a ragged tramp sitting on a step at 
the end of the freight-room. After the train had 
gone, he shambled along in a downcast way, watching 
me wistfully. He was not more than twenty, but a 
pitiable object ; still, I had seen so many poor, half- 
starved railroad lads, that my heart went out to him. 
" Well ? " I said in a tone of inquiry, as he halted 
within speaking distance. 
"Then, you don't know me, Thurston?"' and the 
pale face flushed, partly with shame I think. 
As I studied him doubtfully, he said with some 
hesitation, " Crawford. I was down at Great 
Mammoth Beach two summers ago." 
" Not Joe Crawford ! " 
The tears came into the poor lad's eyes. 
Twenty months ago I had parted from a nice, 
bright, rosy-cheeked lad, who had been but two years 
 
in service. Now he was pale, gaunt, sodden as to 
complexion, and his eyes showed traces of dissipation. 
" I've seen awful hard times this winter," he said ; 
" and I have a promise of a place in Jersey City the 
1st of May. I've been staying a week with Jim 
Turner at Field's Landing, and he passed me on, 
if the boys hadn't been good to me " and the poor 
fellow broke down. 
The old, old story. Jim Turner was good-hearted, 
and a first-class man when he was sober ; but once a 
month or so he would go on what he called a u tear." 
Likely he and Crawford had been drinking together. 
"When did you leave Jim?*' I asked. 
"Last Friday. I've tramped since then, and 
begged. I heard some one say you were here. 
Thurston, I haven't had a crust since noon yester 
day, and I crawled under a shed last night. I can't 
see why some boys should have such bad luck." 
" First, then, you want a good square meal," I 
said. " Come into the station. I am living here." 
" Oh ! you're married." 
" No : my sister is with me," was my brief reply ; 
and I was rather glad Eve was up at the house. 
He followed me in. There was a little fire in the 
stove, and he went close to it with a sigh of relief. 
How wan and wretched he looked, a travesty upon 
youth, and the health he used to have ! 
 
" Sit down, and rest yourself," I said, " and I will 
hunt you up something." 
I was to take some lunch to Eve, who was busy 
with closets, painting the shelves and floors, and did 
.not want the walk just then. I prepared a bountiful 
plateful for Crawford, cold beef, biscuits, and a 
great slice of cake, and then put up ours. 
" Now," I said cheerfully to him, " you eat this ; 
then take this cushion, and curl up in the corner, 
and go to sleep. I'll be back in about an hour and 
a half," for I did not want to alarm Eve by any pro 
longed stay. "Make yourself at home. You're 
used to a railroad station." 
" You're such a good fellow ! " he said grate- 
fully. 
I locked the door of my office as usual, but the 
waiting-room was always kept open. 
Eve and I had our lunch, and then went on with 
our work. Hers was finished presently, but I had to 
leave mine with the same hopeless aspect. I should 
not get over to the berries before midsummer. 
Against Farmer Montgomery's advice, I had spaded 
up some ground, and planted pease. 
Going down, I told Eve of my tramp, and what I 
knew of him. I had met him first at the beach. 
He was a country lad, an orphan, and had learned 
telegraphing. When his married sister went West, 
he floated out to the great city, to add one more to 
the waifs and strays. 
" Poor fellow ! " said Eve pitifully. 
" If they would not spend their money for drink ! " 
I returned, rather impatiently. 
" Yet you have said, Adam, that you could hardly 
blame them, either, when their lives were so hard." 
I sighed. There was and is a great wrong some 
where, when destruction is set in the way of thou 
sands. Arid I remembered the first time I had seen 
Joe Crawford drunk : some of the boys had done it 
as a joke. He was very sick for a day or two, and 
very much ashamed ; and I had taken him in hand. 
He was asleep now, curled up in the corner-seat, 
with the cushion back of his head. He looked pallid 
in the extreme, and his lips were a kind of purplish 
blue. Deep shades of the same tint were under his 
eyes. His rusty felt hat was pulled down over his 
forehead ; but his nose was fine, and his chin had a 
certain character and determination, as if he might 
overcome evil if he once resolved earnestly. I re 
membered my own turning-point. 
Eve was busy about housewifely matters up-stairs. 
She was employing her time in the manufacture of 
marvellous lambrequins and curtains and chair- 
covers. Trains came and went. I wrote a little 
and at six Joe was still sleeping. 
 
" We shall have to keep him all night," said Eve ; 
and then she glanced in dismay at his rough and 
soiled attire. 
" Well, he can sleep anywhere : the trouble with 
such lads is often where to find a place to sleep." 
Joe started then, roused himself, and flushed 
redly. 
" I've had such a splendid nap ! " he began. 
" Why, it's never that late ! " glancing at the clock. 
" Well, I suppose I must tramp along," regretfully. 
"I'm obliged to you, Thurston, for this good rest 
and my dinner." 
"Were you going anywhere in particular?" 
" Well, no ; " and his face was scarlet. " I must 
tramp out a couple of weeks somehow." 
" Then, I think you had better remain here all 
night," I said quietly. " We can make you a bed." 
" I ain't fit to stay with with decent people," he 
blurted out on a half cry. 
"You can make yourself a little better. You 
would feel ever so much improved by a nice wash, 
and I can hunt up a clean garment or two." 
Joe Crawford did not speak, but winked his eyes 
hard ; yet, in spite of that, some tears rolled down 
his cheeks. 
"Come," I began cheerfully, "we'll fix you up 
so that you will hardly know yourself. I have a 
 
nice little corner up-stairs, and I'll get some warm 
water." 
I had manufactured a screen out of an old-fashioned 
clothes-horse, that shut my room off from the stair 
way. I consulted Eve, and she found an old suit of 
underwear and a shirt laid by for charitable uses. I 
filled a pail nearly full of warm water, brought towels 
and soap, and spread down an old mat. Then we 
retired to the office, and left him free from any 
danger of interruption. 
" I wish you had some clothes that would fit him. 
See here," said Eve eagerly. " He is just about Mr. 
Corwin's size ; and Mrs. Corwin was complaining a 
few days ago of the old clothes around, and declaring 
she would have to make a rag carpet in self-defence. 
I'll just run over, and see what I can raise." 
She returned in about ten minutes, breathless, with 
a great bundle in her arms, two pairs of trousers, 
a vest, and a coat. 
" Take them up to him directly, and see how they 
will do. I didn't actually beg them," declared Eve, 
with a bright laugh, " but I made a bargain. Mrs. 
Corwin wanted some of that red curtain trimming, 
and I promised to send her some of your cast-off 
garments for her carpet." 
I waited until the splashing of water had nearly 
ceased, and then went up with my arms full. 
 
" I haven't had any thing so good for a month," 
said Joe in a quivering voice. " And these soft, 
clean clothes ! Thurston, old fellow, may I just 
stick mine into the fire ? They are rags and shreds, 
and not fit for any one to touch." 
They were all that, and they did go into the fire. 
Nothing could exceed his gratefulness for the suit 
of clothes. He brushed up his hair, and looked 
really well, though thin and haggard. 
Supper was quite late; and Joe seemed, indeed, a 
new creature. Eve went out, she was helping with 
some church matters. I must confess, that, since the 
talk of our purchasing a house, a good deal more 
deference had been paid us both. The old, old story 
of the gold ring and the fine apparel. It is always, 
" Friend, come up higher." 
While she was away, I had a long talk with Joe. 
The same quicksands that wreck so many, drink 
and bad company. Yet there is so little besides for 
thousands. Too often, if they attempt to cross the 
dividing-line, they are pushed back. I wondered 
secretly, if I had been a drunkard, whether any hand 
in all Athens would have been stretched out to save 
me. 
Yet Joe was not innately vicious. Given a pleas 
ant home and surroundings of interest, and he would 
have been quite satisfied. There was no evil longing 
 
for the sins that were dragging him down ; but he 
was right in the midst of them, and it was so hard 
to swim against the current. How much of virtue 
and goodness consists in surroundings, I think the 
great world little realizes. 
The poor lad had lost two places through the 
winter from drink and neglecting his business. I 
drew from him the fact that he had been drinking 
with Turner, who then procured a pass, and sent 
him farther down the road. Who would employ him 
in such disreputable attire ? A friend in Jersey City 
had written to him that there would be a vacancy 
about the 1st of May ; and on this slender hope he 
was going there, into new temptations and pitfalls 
Could anybody save him? Would not the evil 
forces so in the ascendency sweep him to destruction 
in the end ? 
We made him a bed down-stairs on the lounge. 
The next morning he looked like a new creature. 
He was so simply grateful, and he followed Eve about 
with such adoring eyes, that I was fain to smile. 
"Why couldn't you keep him for a few days?" 
said she. "He might help you clear up the place. 
You know you were talking of hiring some one for 
a while." 
The same thought had entered my mind the even 
ing before. The poor lad was homeless and without 
 
a penny. And I might hear of something for him 
that would be less dangerous than the great vortex 
of the city. 
I suggested the plan to Joe, and he caught at it 
eagerly. 
" I'd do any thing for you, Thurston. I'd like to 
pay back a little of your kindness. Yes, I'll work at 
any thing. And I know a good deal about such 
work too. Oh, how lucky you are ! I wonder 
but I don't suppose I shall ever have a home of my 
own," and he sighed. " I've often thought how nice 
it would be." 
" I was no nearer it at twenty than you are now," 
I made answer. " And there is a long stretch before 
me ere I can call the home really mine." 
"And you have your sister. My sister was so 
much older than I, and married, and somehow never 
took much interest in me. I'd like to marry " 
" Do not marry until you can care properly for a 
wife," I said, almost sharply I am afraid. " It is 
a shame to drag any woman through want and hard 
work." 
" I wasn't thinking of such a thing until I could 
afford it, Thurston," he answered humbly. 
" And until you can love and honor her, and en 
dow her with all your earnings, which will be little 
enough." 
 
Joe hung his head in abasement, and I felt sorry. 
Then I added in a cordial tone, " What is the de 
cision ? Will you stay? I can't afford to pay much 
besides the living." 
" I'll stay gladly, and do my best. I have been 
paid beforehand." 
Certainly Joe did his best. He had an aptitude 
for this kind of work. He was cheery and obliging, 
and he followed Eve about with the devotion of a 
true knight. Our garden flourished under his minis 
tration. We went at the famous blackberry tangle, 
armed with old gloves, and old clothes and sickles, 
and cut a long, straight path through. Then we dug 
up the roots, trimmed the dead branches out of the 
rows, and made it look quite business-like. It seemed 
as if Joe improved every day. Regular sleep and 
nourishing food took the haggard lines out of his 
face, his weak and bloodshot eyes cleared up, they 
were a soft hazel as to color, and his voice grew 
strong and ringing. He could sing well, and we 
passed some entertaining evenings. 
After the berry patch, we cleaned out our cistern, 
and then we felt that we could move in almost any 
time. We had tried our heater, and found it excel 
lent. There was a good deal of garden to make, 
for I had put in only pease and potatoes, and the 
chicken-house to remodel, for Eve had the poultry 
 
fever. She had already bought two dozen eggs, and 
had two hens sitting in the barn. 
" I'll get you some fancy ones," said Gordon Pryor 
one evening when we had been discussing the busi 
ness from the amusing as well as the profitable point. 
" I have a friend up on the other side of the river, 
who makes money out of it, does it with an eye to 
profit. I should like you to go up there sometime, 
Thurston. I'll get a horse and carriage some day, 
and we'll go. Crawford can keep the shop?" 
Joe nodded. 
" Westfield, you know .the station, Thurston, 
though this is a mile or two from the railroad. 
Vanduyne is my friend's name. He was very much 
out of health some years ago, and went to Florida, 
meaning to stay, but didn't like it. Then he started 
a chicken ranch. He keeps all of the fancy kinds, 
and sells eggs for hatching, raises prize birds, and all 
that. It is a sight, I tell you. But he is the most 
discouraging fellow to talk business that I ever 
heard. According to him, you want a fortune to 
start, and you want knowledge enough to run the 
Government of the United States, or settle the 
Indian question. Now, it never struck me that a 
hen was such a very abstruse subject." 
" Unless you had her for dinner at a boarding- 
house," said Joe dryly; and Pryor threw back his 
head and laughed. 
 
" I'll get you some white Leghorn eggs : they are 
all the rage. And the hens are warranted to lay two 
eggs a day." 
" Oh, dear ! what will I do with the eggs ? " said 
Eve in comic dismay. 
"Sell them at a dollar a dozen for hatching; and 
drop four out of every dozen in boiling water." 
" But why ? " 
" To keep the species from increasing too rapidly. 
Eight chickens are about as much as one can reason 
ably expect out of a dozen eggs." 
"-Yes," replied Eve soberly. "I'll remember that." 
Joe giggled. 
"Then, when your hens are laying bountifully, 
and eggs are cheap, you pack them in lime and some 
thing, and bring them out as fresh eggs when the 
price goes up to sixty cents." 
" Is that the way your friend does ? " 
"His methods are past finding out; but he has 
loads of eggs when prices are high, and hatches 
chickens in an incubator, to put on the market about 
the middle of February. But, as I said, he will talk 
you into believing the thing impossible before you 
have listened five minutes. Still, I have an old lady 
friend at Springdale, who doesn't keep a very large 
flock, from fifty to a hundred, and makes a clear 
hundred dollars every year." 
 
" I should like to see her" 
"But she hasn't any method. And she thinks any 
one can do it." 
" I have often wondered," I said, " why people in 
general advise you against the business they are in. 
Mr. Montgomery insists that no kind of farming or 
gardening pays ; people who try poultry, for the most 
part pronounce that a failure ; and so with many 
other things. Then, Watson told me the other day 
that I'd be sick of my house in a year or two ; that 
I could rent for half the sum interest and repairs 
would amount to." 
" Half the world is very depressing, the other half 
over-sanguine," commented Pryor dryly. 
" And the medium class go on and succeed," said 
Eve. "I have often heard people argue that real 
estate did not pay but Mrs. Harwood at thirty-five 
was left a widow with two small houses in New York, 
and now is a rich woman. She has bought and sold, 
owns considerable property, and has money out on 
mortgages. Everybody cannot work on a large 
scale ; but a good many can do their best in a small 
way, if they will." 
"You will do it, Miss Thurston," Pryor said 
admiringly. 
If Eve ever thought of failure, she did not allow 
it to herself a moment, I am sure. I used to stand 
 
still with a sudden fear, but I meant to do my best. 
Her efforts, I resolved, should not shame mine. 
And, as spring advanced, I came to the conclusion 
that there were few places more beautiful than 
Athens. The long, gradual swell of land up to the 
highest point, broken here and there abruptly, as 
well as in a picturesque manner, clothed with 
verdure in the innumerable shades of tender green. 
The river winding along, a blue ribbon under the 
skies of faultless blue. The ascent on the other side 
dotted with little hamlets, for they could hardly 
be called towns, and here and there a handsome 
residence perched on some eminence like a castle. 
The fresh, balmy air, the grassy fragrance, the twit 
ter of birds, the long, tender notes of the wood-robin, 
filled my soul with a peaceful exaltation. It was as if 
I had come out of a confused, hurrying struggle, and 
just begun to live. Indeed, I had secured time to live. 
It might be dull if one had no resource but a small rail 
road station, and no companion : I had both. What 
wonderful pictures Eve and I studied in our walks, 
what tones of color, what tenderness and breadth ! 
"It makes me wild to paint something higher than 
flowers," said Eve longingly. "I wish I had some 
friend who was a true artist, who could feel and see 
and worship ; and I should ask her to come and stay 
weeks with me." 
 
CHAPTER VII 
JOE'S FALL FKOM GRACE 
EVE went to New York for the day. Joe and 
I worked steadily all the morning ; and after lunch, I 
sent him down-town, as the business part of Athens 
was called. He was to leave a message with Pryor 
also. 
After an hour or so I began to wonder why he did 
not return. I went up to the house, but he was not 
there ; busied myself a while, then came down at four, 
as an up and a down train passed about that time. 
No Joe yet. It seemed odd: then I bethought 
myself that he might have gone riding with Pryor. 
At five he came sauntering up on the platform. I 
knew in a moment what had happened. I was hurt 
and mortified. I had made no comments on Joe's 
unfortunate weakness; and it seemed unpardonable 
in him, under the circumstances, to drink at some 
other person's expense, to bruit abroad the secret I 
had kept. 
He delivered his message in a voice that was a 
little thick, and his eyes avoided mine. 
 
"Joe," I said, "you have been drinking. How 
could you?" 
He turned and straightened himself, as if to brave 
it out, then suddenly collapsed. 
" O Thurston ! " he cried, " I'm a fool, a beast ! 
And when you've been so kind, and I resolved I'd 
never touch another drop ! Shake me off, and let 
me go to ruin ! I'm not worth saving." 
Those few words, "let me go to ruin," pierced 
me to the quick, though he had not uttered them 
upbraidingly. In that great bond of human brother 
hood I was in some degree answerable for him. I 
went and put my arm over his shoulder, and drew 
him into the office. Then he broke down and cried, 
as a half-drunken man is very apt to do. 
"I shall not shake you off without another 
chance," I said quietly. " But I am so hurt ! You 
might have cared more for me and my sister." 
