high and well-born Horst von Rieseneck *? I have but to make 
application for a legal change, pay the costs and the thing is 
done.' 
' Outwardly, it is true. But the fact would remain. You are 
Rieseneck and I am Greifenstein, for all our lives, and our children 
will be Riesenecks and Greifensteins after us, if we marry. I 
 
would not lay such a curse upon any woman, much less upon one 
I love.' 
' A curse is a purely conventional term, having no real meaning 
in life,' replied Rex. 'The reality is you yourself, your love and 
her love, whether you be the Emperor or Herr Schmidt. At 
least that is all the reality which can ever affect either of you, so 
far as marriage is concerned. I do not say that your name, or 
mine, would not be a disadvantage if we were ambitious men and 
if we wanted to be statesmen or officers. But I do assert that no 
sensible person will blame you or me for marrying happily if we 
have the opportunity, merely because our fathers did evil in their 
day.' 
Greif listened attentively, but shook his head. 
' It is strange that you should not think as I do about this,' he 
answered. 'We think alike about most things. But you need 
not try to persuade me against my will. I will not yield.' 
' Will you take my advice about a smaller matter V 
 If I can.' 
'Then listen to me. Do not be hasty. If you must see 
Fraulein von Sigmundskron to-morrow, do not let your parting be 
final. You may regret it all your life.' 
'What would my regret be, compared with hers, if in the 
course of time she realised that she had done wrong in taking my 
name V 
'Are there any men of her family alive  ?' asked Rex. 'Is 
there any other branch .'
' No if there were, they would never allow the marriage, even 
if I wished it.' 
' I did not ask for that reason. If she is alone in the world, 
take her name. Call yourself Greif von Sigmundskron, and revive 
an ancient race without letting your own die out.' 
Greif was silent. It had not struck him that such an arrange- 
ment might be possible, but he saw at a glance that Rex had 
dealt a telling blow against his resolution. To have married 
Hilda as Greifenstein would have always remained out of the 
question, to have chosen a common and meaningless appellation 
would have seemed an insult to her, but the idea suggested by 
Rex was alluring in the extreme. He knew how bitterly both 
Hilda and her mother regretted the extinction of their family and 
how gladly they would welcome such a proposal. By one stroke of 
the pen Greifenstein and its memories would be detached from his 
future life, and there would be something in their place, a name 
to make honourable, a home in which to plant new associations 
 
above all there would be the love, the pride, the happiness of 
Hilda herself. He felt that his determination was weakened, 
and he made a final effort not to yield, scarcely knowing why he 
resisted any longer, since the possibilities of the future had grown 
so suddenly bright. Kex saw at a glance that he had made a deep 
impression upon his cousin, and wisely left the remedy he had 
administered to take its effect gradually. He knew human nature 
too well to fear that Greif could ever shut his eyes to the prospect 
unveiled to him. Time must pass, and in passing must heal the 
gaping wound that was yet fresh. Every month would take the 
ghastly tragedy further away and bring more clearly to Greif's 
mind the hope of happiness. As for the rest, it was buried in 
Rex's heart and no power would ever draw from him the secret of 
his brother's birth. Rightly or wrongly, he swore to hold his 
tongue. He did not know to whom the great Greifenstein property 
would go if he told the world that Greif was a nameless orphan 
with no more claim to his father's wealth than Rex himself. It 
seemed strange to be suggesting to Greif the means of discarding a 
name that never was his, but which must in all probability belong 
to some one who coveted it in spite of the associations it would 
soon have for all who heard the tale. 
Rex sat in silence thinking over the almost endless intricacies of 
the situation, and wondering what would have happened if that letter 
had fallen into the hands of the law, and what would have become 
of Greif. He would have been absolutely penniless. Not even 
his mother's heritage, if there were any, would have belonged to 
him, for Rex could have claimed it as his own. He looked at the 
handsome face of his cousin, and tried to imagine what its expres- 
sion would have been, if all things had taken place legally, and if 
Greif had received only what was his due. The sensation of 
preserving so much to any one by merely keeping silence was strange 
to Rex. He did not know whether he himself might not be con- 
sidered a party in a fraud if the matter were tried before a tribunal, 
though he had not spoken one untrue word in the whole affair. 
Verily, silence was gold. To Greif, Rex's silence was almost equi- 
valent to life itself. One word could deprive him of everything, of 
Greifenstein, of his name, of every item and miserable object he 
possessed, as well as of the broad lands and the accumulated money. 
He would lose all, but in whose favour? Rex did not know. 
Perhaps the lawful heir of Greifenstein was a poor officer of foot 
in a third-rate garrison town, eking out his pay with the remains 
of a meagre inheritance, desperately poor, and as desperately 
honourable. Possibly there was a connexion with some great and 
 
powerful family, into his full hands everything would go, if the 
truth were known. Possibly Rex stopped short in his train of 
thought, astonished that he should not have sooner hit upon the 
fact possibly Frau von Sigmundskron and her daughter were the 
only living relations. It seemed almost certain that this must be 
the case, when he thought about it. And if so if he held his 
peace, and if Greif persisted in not marrying Hilda why then he, 
Rex, was keeping that gentle, half-saintly old lady out of her rights. 
The new confusion caused by the idea was so great that even Rex's 
tough brain was disturbed. His instinct told him that the Sig- 
mundskrons were poor perhaps they were in real want. If he 
said nothing, if Greif persisted, if in later years Greif married 
another wife, as was most likely and possible, what sufferings 
might the man who had brought this about be responsible for ! 
And yet, what a prospect, if he should take his letter from his 
pocket-book and hand it to Greif, as they sat side by side in the 
quiet room before the open fire ! He had meant to burn the scrap 
of paper. It would be easy to toss it into the flames before Greif s 
eyes. But if ever all those things should happen of which he had 
been thinking, what proof would remain that the baroness or her 
daughter had a right to what was theirs even now *? If ever that 
time came, Greif would not believe a spoken word. Would it not 
have been best, after all, to give the writing to the men of the law, 
requesting their discretion ? No, for all this might be spared, if 
only Greif married Hilda. Until he had realised what issues were 
at stake, Rex had been satisfied with the suggestion he had made 
to Greif, believing that it would ultimately bear fruit in the desired 
result. Now, however, it seemed insufficient and wholly inadequate 
to the importance of the case. Greif must marry Hilda, and the 
letter must not be destroyed, for it might prove a valuable instru- 
ment with which to hasten or direct the march of events. After 
all were the Sigmundskrons the only relations ? 
The idea that they were the only heirs-at-law had presented 
itself so forcibly that the sudden doubt concerning the fact made 
Rex desperate. There was no difficulty, however, in ascertaining 
the truth from Greif himself and without rousing his suspicions. 
It was even natural that Rex should ask the question, consider- 
ing what had gone before. 
' Have you no other relations, besides the Sigmundskrons, 
Greif?' he asked. 
' None but you yourself.' 
' I am not counted, as the connexion is in the female line,' said 
Rex calmly. 'I mean, if you were to die, the Sigmundskrons 
 
would be the heirs, unless you married and had children, would 
they not ? ' 
' Yes I suppose they would. I had not thought of it.' 
' It seems to me that this constitutes an additional argument 
in favour of the plan I suggested.' 
Greif did not answer at once, for he felt the weight of Rex's 
words, though he did not understand the whole intention of his 
cousin. 
' I cannot argue with you now,' he said at last, as though wish- 
ing to be left to his thoughts. 
Rex was too wise to be annoyed, for he saw that Greif's refusal 
to discuss the matter any further was the result of his inclination 
to yield, rather than of a hardening determination. The only point 
immediately important to Rex was that the marriage should not be 
broken off abruptly at once. He did not know what Hilda's nature 
might be, and this was an uncertain element in his calculations. 
It was certainly most probable that if she loved Greif sincerely 
she would not part with him easily, nor suffer him to sacrifice 
himself without making a desperate effort to hold him back. On 
the other hand, and for all Rex knew, Hilda might be a foolishly 
sentimental, half-frivolous nonentity, who would take offence at the 
first word which spoke of parting and consider herself insulted by 
Greif's chivalrous determination. She might be a suspicious girl, 
who would immediately be attacked with jealousy and would 
imagine that Greif loved another and wished to be free from her- 
self. On the whole, Rex, in his worldly wisdom, thought it im- 
probable that Hilda would turn out to be sincere, simple and loving, 
whereas for her own interest it was important that she should 
possess these qualifications. Lastly, Rex reflected that Hilda 
might very well be a selfish, reticent, scheming young woman, 
who would know how to manage Greif as though he were a child. 
He almost wished that she might have enough worldly guile to 
cling to Greif for his fortune as well as for his love anything, 
rather than that the marriage should be broken off. 
If that disaster occurred, if by Greif's impatient desire to be 
generous to the extreme limit of what honour could demand, or by 
Hilda von Sigmundskron's possible lack of affection or of wisdom, 
the two were to be permanently separated, Rex confessed that he 
should not know what to do. His own position would in that 
case be very far from enviable, for he would certainly have been a 
party in a fraud, of which the practical result had been that the 
Sigmundskrons were kept out of their property. The moral point 
presented to his conscience was an extremely delicate one to decide. 
 
His nature, as well as his education, impelled him to tell the truth 
regardless of all consequences, for its own sake ; but the question 
arose, whether he was bound to tell what he knew, when no one 
asked him for the information. When the consequences might 
be so tremendous, and when the least effect that could be anticipated 
must be the immediate ruin of his brother, he believed that he should 
be justified in his silence, provided that those who would legiti- 
mately profit by the secret he withheld should receive all the ad- 
vantages to which they were entitled. It seemed to him a case in 
which his conscience must gamble upon the probabilities. If it 
turned out well, he might congratulate himself upon having produced 
much happiness ; if he lost the game, he must endure the humilia- 
tion of being obliged to communicate the truth to both parties. It 
would have been far easier, if he had been called upon to induce 
Greif to make an apparent sacrifice for the sake of a good he could 
not understand. The young man's noble disposition was more easily 
led in the direction of chivalrous self-renunciation, than towards an 
end involving personal advantage. Indeed Greif would almost in- 
variably have chosen to give rather than to receive. The present 
difficulty consisted in making him take Hilda, in order that he 
might unconsciously give her what was hers. At first Rex had 
considered only Greif s happiness ; now, he must think before all 
things of Hilda's fortune. He knew Greif well enough to be sure 
that if the marriage were broken off, he would certainly bestow a 
considerable portion upon the Sigmundskrons if they were really 
poor, but this could not be enough. Either Hilda must have all 
that was hers, by marrying Greif, or Rex must tell the story and 
precipitate the catastrophe. The only condition of his concealing 
what he knew, was that every one except himself should gain by 
his reticence. If this could not be accomplished justice must be 
done in spite of the consequences. 
Though Rex's blood was German, his character had suffered a 
certain modification by the manner of his bringing up. His mode 
of thought certainly differed from Greif 's to an extent which could 
not be accounted for upon the ground of temperament alone. Brave, 
manly and sufficiently generous though he was, Rex undeniably had 
a preference for accomplishing his ends mysteriously and by diplo- 
matic means, a characteristic more southern than northern, and 
assuredly not German. He was a man well able to sustain whatever 
part he chose to play, and it was at least to his credit that he never 
employed his remarkable powers of concealment to a bad purpose. 
In his place, Greif would have told everything, and would then 
have offered everything he possessed to compensate the mischief 
o 
done by the truth ; he would not have been able to hide what he 
knew for a week, in such a case, for his extreme love of frankness 
would have tortured him until it was out, but if there were no 
justice to be accomplished, he could have held his peace as well 
as another. Rex saw far and clearly before him. His sceptical 
mind could not accept the conventional traditions of truthfulness 
at any price, of honourable sentiment exaggerated to Quixotism. 
He felt the necessity of weighing results before acting, rather than 
of following moral precepts and letting the results take care of 
themselves. To him ultimate good was everything, and religious 
morality was an empty bubble, unless it could be made to contribute 
directly and clearly to a good result. With Greif 's more simple and 
straightforward nature, truthfulness, and such virtues as go with 
it, were invested with all the superior importance which religion 
gives to each present act of life, and so far as the future was con- 
cerned, a semi-conscious faith in the efficacy of principle supplied 
the place of Rex's well thought-out combinations and philosophical 
disquisitions about relative right and wrong. 
CHAPTER XVII 
THE effect of what Rex had said was to hasten Greifs action. 
After listening to his cousin's arguments, he felt that what was to 
be done must be done quickly, lest his courage should fail him. 
If he had been left to himself he would never have doubted his 
own strength, and would very possibly have waited a day or two 
before going to Sigmundskron to bid Hilda farewell. Now, how- 
ever, he felt that to hesitate or delay would be fatal, and he resolved 
to lose no time in carrying out his intentions. In order to isolate 
himself more completely from all outward influences he would have 
sent Frau von Sigmundskron back alone and would have followed 
her a few hours later ; but his sense of common decency, as well 
as his profound gratitude, forbade such a course. He could not by 
any means avoid the long drive in her company, and he tried to 
harden his heart as he submitted to his destiny. It was certain 
that, unless she had changed her mind, she would talk of the 
matter of his visit, and would repeat in his unwilling ear all those 
arguments which appealed to his heart so strongly, and which so 
grievously shook his chivalrous resolution. 
During the long night that succeeded the day of the funeral 
ceremony, the sorrow of the parting which was before him 
assumed such proportions as made the past seem less horrible, and 
the change from one kind of suffering to another afforded his ex- 
hausted nature a relief of which he was not conscious, but which 
was nevertheless very real. He himself could not understand how 
it had been possible for him to discuss with Rex matters so closely 
connected with his future happiness, scarcely an hour after the 
heavy gates of the mausoleum had closed upon the father he had 
so deeply loved, and upon the mother he so tenderly regretted. 
For he did mourn for her sincerely, in spite of his earlier indif- 
ference. He was yet too near the catastrophe to attempt to 
explain it, but in the confusion of his grief her words came vividly 
 
to his mind. He recalled the expression of her face when she had 
implored him not to forsake her, whatever happened, and he knew 
that in some way she must, even then, have had a forewarning of 
her end. He remembered many strange incongruities in her 
manner, which he had once disliked intensely, but which now 
pointed to the existence of a secret in her quiet life, and which, 
having seemed contemptible when she had been alive, took a tragic 
importance now that she was gone. He recalled very clearly that 
morning when he had felt a thrill of pitying tenderness for the 
lonely woman, and when she had responded so suddenly and 
passionately to his simple words. He had never loved her, and 
had perhaps had little cause for any affection, but the suddenness 
and the horror of her death strengthened in him every kind 
memory, and overshadowed by its dark presence whatever in her 
life had lacked dignity and worth. 
As for his father, he had felt for him a passionate devotion of 
which he dared not think now. And yet he had been able to talk 
with Rex, if not freely, at least with a complete command of his 
faculties. He would have reproached himself with heartlessness, 
but when his thoughts dwelt upon those he had lost, he knew that 
the self-accusation was unmerited. Not comprehending what passed 
in his own mind, and finding himself face to face with a problem 
that seemed to involve his own life or death, it is not altogether 
surprising that he should have persisted in undergoing a self-imposed 
suffering which he almost unconsciously regarded as a test of heroism. 
But as he did his best to fortify himself in his intention another 
power stood before him, not a gloomy presence of evil, not a 
sorrowful but relentless fate, not a thing in itself terrible, grand 
or heroic, and yet stronger and more real than any of those other 
shadows which surrounded his life. He had not known that it was 
with him in such a shape, he had not realised what it would be to 
face that which has conquered all men sooner or later. The love 
of Hilda, which had softened all his youth, but which in its un- 
opposed calm had seemed so gentle and tender that by an effort of 
his strong will he might put it off if he would, the quiet spirit of 
calm which had been with him so long, purifying his thoughts, 
simplifying his hopes for the future, encouraging him ever in each 
present day, the love of untarnished youth for spotless maidenhood 
rose up like the dawn upon a traveller in a strange land, shedding 
its universal light upon the secret places of his soul. It was a 
wonderful revelation of beauty appearing in the midst of his 
sorrow, contrasting the magnificence of its splendour with the 
darkness in which he would have hidden himself. 
 
He groaned as he lay alone in his solitary chamber, and the 
passionate tears burst from his eyes. He had met at last that 
which must vanquish all his resolutions, and turn all his desperate 
efforts into vanity. That sudden flash of radiance in the midst of 
his grief was but a dark shadow compared with the light of Hilda's 
face. If the mere thought of her made all resistance seem im- 
possible, would he be able to go to her to-morrow and tell her that 
they must part ? But it was not a mere thought, as he called it. 
He had thought of her for years, but never in this way ; she had 
dwelt in his heart a long time but he had never felt anything 
like this. It was true that he had never resisted her presence 
before. Could that be the reason ? Could it be that love was a 
companion for the weakest of mankind, if kindly entertained, and 
yet, if resisted, the master of the very strongest? Greif in his 
pride of youth believed himself as strong as any, and the sensation 
of being thus utterly overpowered was crushing and humiliating. 
He would not yield, but he well knew that he was conquered 
beforehand, and must be led away captive in the end. 
He sat up and tried to reason with himself. It was but an 
illusion after all, and it was just such an illusion as should 
strengthen his purpose. If Hilda were indeed, as she doubtless 
was, this exquisitely lovely creature, could anything be more con- 
temptible than to give her a name which must be a reproach, a 
position in which her beautiful life must be made half shameful 
by the memory of hideous crimes ? 
Momentarily satisfied with himself, he once more laid his head 
upon the pillow, but he had hardly closed his eyes when Rex's 
suggestion flashed through his brain, and Hilda's clear voice seemed 
to cry ' Sigmundskron ! ' in his ears. The thought of bearing 
another name, of being no longer Greifenstein, of being the father 
of a new race in a new home, presented itself to him in all its 
attractions. After all, said Rex to his conscience, you are wholly 
innocent, and it is only the sound of the name to which you object 
or which you fear for her. Take hers and be happy under it, since 
you would be miserable under your own. After all, one is as good 
as another, and it would be better to be plain Herr Rex than to 
throw over the joy of a lifetime for the sake of three syllables that 
have a disagreeable ring. Names are nonsense and a man's reputa- 
tion is his own, not to be made or marred by his father's evil deeds. 
The Sigmundskrons know all, and it is for them to judge, not for 
you. If they will make you one of them, what right have you to 
make them unhappy for the sake of your own prejudices ? 
Greif was very young to cope with such difficulties, when even 
 
love itself was against him. Though. Rex said little, that little 
was eloquent and full of practical sense, like many of Rex's sayings. 
Greif shed bitter tears and ground his teeth and wrung his hands. 
' Hilda ! Hilda ! ' he cried aloud in his solitude, l what would you 
have me do, if you knew all, if you knew me, if you knew my heart !' 
When a man appeals against his love to the woman who loves 
him, his resolutions are at their last gasp for existence. Hilda 
answered his heart before the spoken words were out of his mouth. 
' Love me, dear that is all I ask ! ' It was as though her 
voice mingling with his own souMed aloud in the lonely room, 
and Greif started up, his eyes wide open, his breath caught upon 
his lips. 
It was the merest illusion, but its vividness showed him the 
power of what produced it. He was struggling bravely for an 
idea, trying to do what seemed knightly, and noble, and high, and 
vanquished though he was, he would fight to the very end. 
The cold, bright morning rose over the sombre trees and 
suddenly entered his chamber like the broad reflexion of polished 
steel, a chilly glare of snow and cloudless sky seen through a 
window high above the earth in midwinter. Greif awoke from 
the broken slumber that had come to him at last, and looked 
anxiously about him. Somehow the sweet vision that had so much 
disturbed him, when he could see nothing real but the glow of the 
'dying embers on the hearth, was dissipated and gone under the 
cruelty of the icy daylight. "With a heavy heart he rose and 
looked out upon the forest. From the place where he stood he 
could see the tall trees that surrounded the burial-ground of his race, 
and his eyes grew dark and gloomy as he thought of those who 
lay there. He was sadder and stronger than he had been a few 
hours ago. He would sit beside the baroness during the long 
drive to Sigmundskron, and what she might say would make no 
impression upon him, no more than the ringing of the horses' bells 
made upon the frozen snow. He w r ould meet Hilda in the well- 
remembered sitting-room, and Hilda's mother would leave them 
alone. It would be cold there, for there was never much fire. 
She would perhaps be pale a little pale, and her eyes would be 
cast down. She would sit upon one side of the stone chimney- 
piece, and he would stand upon the other. There would be a 
moment's pause, and then he would tell her everything. It could 
not last long, and when it was over he would have conquered in 
the struggle. 
He would drive back alone in the late afternoon through the dismal 
forest. To-morrow he would leave Greifenstein and go to his lawyer 
 
iu the city. Half of his fortune should be Hilda's, and she should 
restore Sigmundskron and marry whomsoever she would. Then 
he would be free, and he would go away with Rex to some distant 
country, not to return for half a lifetime, if he ever returned at 
all. 
The plan was simple, comprehensive and satisfactory. Nothing 
remained but to put it into immediate execution. He had given 
the necessary orders on the previous night and, as soon as Frau von 
Sigmundskron was ready, they would start upon their drive. He 
finished dressing and went in search of Rex. The latter looked 
even more pale and disturbed than Greif himself, though with 
characteristic determination he was attempting to eat his breakfast. 
' I am going to Sigmundskron,' said Greif entering the room. 
' Will you wait for me here ? To-morrow we will go away, or to- 
night, if you like.' 
' I will wait willingly. Where should I go ? ' Rex rose, pushing 
the silver salver away from him. 
' Very good. I shall be back at dusk. Good-bye.' Greif held 
out his hand in evident anxiety to get away, for he did not want 
to hear any more of his cousin's plausible reasoning, and dreaded 
lest Rex should broach the subject of his errand. But the latter 
detained him in spite of himself. 
' Do nothing rash or hasty, Greif,' he said earnestly. c A life's 
happiness is easily thrown away, and hardly found again when you 
have parted with it and more than half of life's happiness is the 
love of woman. Good-bye.' 
Greif made his escape as quickly as he could, but Rex had 
found time and words to touch the strongest cord in his heart. 
As he descended the stairs he felt again something of the influence 
that had visited him in the night, and he wished that he had not 
gone to Rex's room before leaving the house. 
The sight of Frau von Sigmundskron, wrapped in her dark mantle 
for the journey, recalled him to himself. Her kind eyes looked at 
him almost lovingly from beneath the hood that covered her white 
hair, as he bent and kissed her hand. Neither spoke as they gained 
the court and got into the carriage, but while Greif was wrapping 
her in the heavy furs and arranging a cushion behind her, he felt 
that she meant to do all she could to dissuade him from his intention 
on the way, and he knew that the real struggle was yet to come. 
Then Rex appeared again, bareheaded, to bid farewell to the 
baroness and to say a few words of heartfelt thanks. He alone 
knew how much both he and Greif owed to her discretion ; far more 
than she dreamed of, as she answered him and gave him her hand. 
 
The horses plunged forward, their hoofs clashing noisily upon 
the pavement of the court ; out of the bright light the carriage 
disappeared into the darkness of the gateway and as quickly rolled 
out again upon the dazzling snow beyond. After that there would 
be snow and trees and rocks, and rocks and trees and snow, until 
the grey towers of Sigmundskron loomed up above the tops of the firs. 
Greif leaned back in silence, as they spun over the white road. 
Every moment now was a moment gained, provided that nothing 
were said to weaken his"prarpose. He braced himself in his seat, 
with his feet and his back, as though he expected the carriage to 
upset, and closed his lips tightly as if to meet a physical accident. 
Frau von Sigmundskron glanced at him once or twice and 
noticed his expression, and his resolution to look straight before 
him. Had she possessed Rex's penetration, she would have 
guessed what was passing in his mind. As it was, she vaguely 
suspected that he had not altogether given up his plan, and the 
thought made her uneasy. She could see the clearly cut out- 
line of his handsome face without turning her head. He had put 
on a fur coat, and she thought that fur was singularly becoming 
to fair men who had good complexions a frivolous observation, 
apparently, but in reality not so worthless as it appeared. She 
was thinking of the impression Greif would make upon Hilda, and 
wondering whether the girl would find him greatly changed or 
not. She was woman enough to suppose that much would depend 
upon the first moments of the meeting which was about to take 
place, and upon the look Greif should first see in Hilda's eyes. 
If he found her sad, pale, ready to pity him, his nature would 
be hardened, partly because he hated to be pitied by any one, 
partly because that same irritation would help him to execute his 
purpose. But if, on the contrary, Hilda met him with an ill- 
concealed joy, if there were light in her bright eyes and colour in 
her cheeks, if her voice spoke sympathy in his sorrows while her 
face told him of her gladness in the meeting, then things might 
turn out very differently. After all, thought Frau von Sigmund- 
skron, Greif was only a man, and could not be expected to act 
altogether wisely unless a woman helped him. 
She had certainly not always held such beliefs, but in latter 
years they had grown upon her. Sigmundskron was a women's 
establishment and naturally independent. The baroness had grown 
to think that, after all, women, when thrown entirely upon their 
own resources, can manage better than men. She was sure that 
no three men could have lived so decently and fairly well upon as 
little as sufficed for herself, Hilda and Berbel. It is true that the 
 
distance from such daily forethought and hourly prudence as she 
needed in her life, to such wisdom as Rex, for instance, possessed 
