lisher ; and that young Beaton, who probably hasn't 
a moral fibre in his composition, for the art man, I 
 
don't know but we coulJ give Fulkerson odds and 
still beat liim in oddity." 
His wife heaved a deep sigh of apprehension, of 
renunciation, of monition. "Well, I'm glad you 
can feel so light about it, Basil." 
" Light ? I feel gay ! With Fulkerson at the 
helm, I tell you the rocks and the lee shore had 
better keep out of the way." He laughed with 
pleasure in his metaphor. "Just when you think 
Fulkerson has taken leave of his senses he says or 
does something that shows he is on the most inti- 
mate and inalienable terms with them all the time. 
You know how I've been worrying over those 
foreign periodicals, and trying to get some transla- 
tion from them for the first number ? Well, Ful- 
kerson has brought his centipedal mind to bear on 
the subject, and he's suggested that old German 
friend of mine I was telling you of — the one I met 
in the restaurant — the friend of my youth." 
" Do you think he could do it ? " asked Mrs. 
March sceptically. 
'' He 's a perfect Babel of strange tongues ; and 
he 's the very man for the work, and I was ashamed 
I hadn't thought of him myself, for I suspect he 
needs the work." 
" Well, be careful how you get mixed up with 
him, then, Basil," said his wife, who had the natural 
misgiving concerning the friends of her husband's 
youth that all wives have. "You know the Ger- 
mans are so unscrupulously dependent. You don't 
know anything about him now." 
 
" I 'm not afraid of Lindau," said March. " lie 
was tlic best and kindest man I ever saw, the most 
liigli-minded, the most generous. He lost a liand in 
the var that helped to save us and keep us possible, 
and tliat stump of his is character enough for me," 
" Oh, you don't think I could have meant any- 
thing against him ! " said Mrs. March, with the 
tender fervour that every woman who lived in the 
time of the war must feel for those who suffered in 
it. " All that I meant was that I hoped you would 
not get mixed up with him too much. You're so 
a})t to be carried away by your impulses." 
" They didn't carry me very far away in the direc- 
tion of poor old Lindau, I 'm ashamed to tliink," 
said March. "I meant all sorts of fine things by 
him after I met him ; and then I forgot him, and I 
had to be reminded of him by Fulkerson." 
She did not answer him, and he fell into a re- 
morseful reverie, in which he rehabilitated Lindau 
anew, and provided handsomely for his old age. He 
got him buried with military honours, and had a shaft 
raised over him, with a medallion likeness by Beaton 
and an epitaph by himself, by the time they reached 
Forty -second Street ; there was no time to write 
Lindau's life, however briefly, before the train 
stopped. 
They had to walk up four blocks and then half a 
block across before they came to the indistinctive 
brown-stone house where the Dryfooses lived. It 
was larger than some in the same block, but the 
next neighbourhood of a huge apartment-house 
 
dwarfed it again. March thouglit he recognised the 
very flat in which he had disciplined the surly 
janitor, but he did not tell his wife ; he made her 
notice the transition character of the street, which 
had heen mostly built up in apartment-houses, with 
here and there a single dwelling dropped far down 
beneath and beside them, to that jag-toothed effect 
on the sky-line so often observable in such New 
York streets. " I don't know exactly what the old 
gentleman bought here for," he said, as they waited 
on the steps after ringing, "unless he expects to 
turn it into flats by-and-by. Otherwise, I don't 
believe he 'll get his money back." 
An Irish serving-man, with a certain surprise that 
delayed him, said the ladies were at home, and let 
the Marches in, and then carried their cards 
upstairs. The drawing-room, where he said they 
could sit down while he went on this errand, was 
delicately decorated in white and gold, and fur- 
nished with a sort of extravagant good taste ; there 
was nothing to object to the satin furniture, the 
pale, soft, rich carpet, the pictures, and the bronze 
and china bric-a-brac, except that their costliness 
was too evident; everything in the room meant 
money too plainl}', and too much of it. The 
Marches recognised this in the hoarse whispers 
which people cannot get their voices above when 
they try to talk away the interval of waiting in such 
circumstances; they conjectured from what they 
had heard of the Dryfooses that this tasteful luxury 
in nowise expressed their civilisation. '' Though 
 
Tvlicn you come to that," said March, " I don't know 
that Mrs. Green's gimcrackcry expresses ours." 
" Well, Basil, I didn't take the gimcrackcry. That 
was Ioar " 
The rustle of skirts on the stairs without arrested 
Mrs. March in the well-merited punishment which 
she never failed to inflict upon her Imsband when 
the question of the gimcrackcry — they always called 
it that — came up. She rose at the entrance of 
a bright-looking, pretty-looking, mature, youngish 
lady, in black silk of a neutral implication, who put 
out her hand to her, and said, with a very cheery, 
very lady-like accent, " Mrs. March ] " and then 
added to both of them, while she shook hands with 
March, and before they could get the name out of 
their mouths, "No, not Miss Dryfoos ! Neither of 
them ; nor Mrs. Dryfoos. Mrs. Mandel. The 
ladies will be down in a moment, Won't you 
throw off your sacque, Mrs. March ? I 'm afraid it 's 
rather warm here, coming from the outside." 
" I will throw it back, if you 'll allow me," said 
Mrs. March, with a sort of provisionality, as if, 
pending some uncertainty as to Mrs. Mandel's 
quality and authority, she did not feel herself 
justified in going further. 
But if she did not know about Mrs. Mandel, Mrs. 
Mandel seemed to know about her. " Oh, well, do ! " 
she said, with a sort of recognition of the propriety 
of her caution. " I hope you are feeling a little at 
home in New York We heard so much of your 
trouble in getting a flat, from Mr. Fulkerson." 
 
" "Well, a true Bostonian doesn't give up quite so 
soon," said Mrs. March. " But I will say New York 
doesn't seem so far away, now we're here." 
"I'm sure you'll like it. Every one does." 
Mrs. Mandel added to March, " It 's very sharp out, 
isn't it ? " 
" Eather sharp. Bat after our Boston winters I 
don't know but I ought to repudiate the word." 
" Ah, wait till you have been here through March !" 
said Mrs. Mandel. She began with him, but skil- 
fully transferred the close of her remark, and the 
little smile of menace that went with it, to his wife. 
"Yes," said Mrs. March, "or April, either. Talk 
about our east winds ! " 
" Oh, I 'm sure they can't be worse than our 
winds,'' Mrs. Mandel returned caressingly. 
"If we escape New York pneumonia," March 
laughed, " it will only be to fall a prey to New York 
malaria as soon as the frost is out of the ground." 
" Oh, but you know," said Mrs. Mandel, " I think 
our malaria has really been slandered a little. It 's 
more a matter of drainage — of plumbing. I don't 
believe it would be possible for malaria to get into 
this house, we 've had it gone over so thoroughly." 
Mrs, March said, while she tried to divine Mrs. 
Mandel's position from this statement, " It 's certainly 
the first duty." 
" If Mrs. March could have had her way, we 
should have had the drainage of our whole ward put 
in order," said her husband, "before we ventured to 
take a furnished apartment for the winter." 
 
Mrs. Maiidcl looked discreetly at Mrs. March for 
permission to laugh at this, hut at the same moment 
hoth ladies became preoccupied with a second rust- 
ling on the stairs. 
Two tall, well-dressed young girls came in, and 
Mrs. Mandel introduced, "Miss Dryfoos, Mrs. March ; 
and Miss Mela Dryfoos, Mr. March," she added, and 
the girls shook hands in their several ways with the 
Marches. 
Miss Dryfoos had keen black eyes, and her hair 
was intensely black. Her face, but for the slight 
inward curve of the nose, was reguhir, and the small- 
ness of her nose and of her mouth did not weaken 
her face, but gave it a curious effect of fieiceness, of 
challenge. She had a large black fan in her hand, 
which she waved in talking, with a slow, watchful 
nervousness. Her sister was blonde, and had a profile 
like her brother's ; but her chin was not so salient, 
and the weak look of the mouth was not corrected 
by the spirituality or the fervour of his eyes, though 
hers werc of the same mottled blue. She dropped 
into the Ioav seat beside !Mrs. Mandel, and intcr- 
twined her fingers with those of the hand which 
Mrs. Mandel let her have. She smiled upon the 
Marches, while Miss Dryfoos watched them in- 
tensely, with her eyes first on one and then on the 
other, as if she did not mean to let any expression 
of theirs escape her. 
" My mother will be down in a minute," she said 
to Mrs. March. 
'' I hope wc 're not disturbing her. It is so good 
 
of you to let us come in the evening," Won'tMrs. March 
replied. 
" Oh, not at all," said the girl. " We receiA-o in 
the evening." 
" When we do receive," Miss Mela put in. " We 
don't ahvays get the chance to." She began a laugh, 
which she checked at a smile from Mrs. Mandel, 
which no one could have seen to be reproving. 
Miss Dryfoos looked down at her fan, and looked 
up defiantly at ]Mrs. !March. " I suppose you have 
hardly got settled. We were afraid we would dis- 
turb you when we called." 
" Oh no ! We were very sorry to miss your visit. 
We are quite settled in our new quarters. Of course, 
it 's all very different from Boston." 
" I hope it 's more of a sociable place there," Miss 
Mela broke in again. " I never saw such an unsoci- 
able place as New York. We 've been in this house 
three months, and I don't believe that if we stayed 
three years any of the neighbours would call." 
" I fancy proximity doesn't count for much in 
New York," March suggested. 
Mrs. Mandel said : " That's what I tell Miss Mela. 
But she is a very social nature, and can't reconcile 
herself to the fact." 
" No, I can't," the girl pouted. " I think it was 
twice as much fun in Moffitt. I wish I was there 
now." 
" Yes," said March, " I think there 's a great deal 
more enjoyment in those smaller places. There 's 
not so much going on in the way of public amuse- 
ments, and so pooijlc make more of one anothor. 
There are not so many concerts, theatres, operas " 
" Oil, they 've got a spendid opera-house in Moffitt. 
It's just grand," said ]\liss JNIcla. 
" Have you been to the opera here, this winter ? " 
Mrs. March asked of the ckler girl. 
She was glaring with a frown at her sister, and 
detached her eyes from her with an cfTort. " What 
did you say ?" she demanded, with an absent bluiit- 
ness. " Oh yes. Yes ! "We went once. father 
took a box at the Won'tMetropolitan." 
" Then you got a good dose of Wagner, I sup- 
pose ? " said March. 
" What ? " asked the girl. 
" I don't think Miss Dryfoos is very fond of 
Wagner's music," Mrs. Mandel said. " I believe 
you are all great Wagnerites in Boston ? " 
" I 'm a very bad Bostonian, !Mrs. Mandel. I 
suspect myself of preferring Verdi," March answered. 
Miss Dryfoos looked down at her fan again, and 
said, " I like Trovatore the best." 
"It's an opera I never get tired of," said March, 
and Mrs. March and Mrs. Mandel exchanged a smile 
of compassion for his simplicity. He detected it, 
and added, " But I dare say I shall come down with 
the wagner fever in time. I've been exposed to 
some malignant cases of it." 
"That night we were there," said Miss Mela, 
" they had to turn the gas down all through one 
part of it, and the papers said the ladies were awful 
mad because they couldn't show their diamonds. I 
 
don't wonder, if they all had to pay as much for 
their boxes as we did. We had to pay sixty dollars." 
She looked at the Marches for their sensation at this 
expense. 
March said : " Well, I think I shall take my box 
by the month, then. It must come cheaper, whole- 
sale." 
" Oh no, it don't," said the girl, glad to inform 
him. " The people that own their boxes, and that 
had to give fifteen or twenty thousand dollars apiece 
for them, have to pay sixty dollars a night whenever 
there 's a performance, whether they go or not." 
" Then I should go every night," March said. 
" Most of the ladies were low neck " 
March interposed, " Well, I shouldn't go low nech." 
The girl broke into a fondly approving laugh at 
his drolling. " Oh, I guess you love to train ! Us 
girls wanted to go low neck, too ; but father said we 
shouldn't, and mother said if we did she wouldn't 
come to the front of the box once. Well, she didn't, 
anyway. We might just as well 'a' gone Ioav neck. 
She stayed back the whole time, and when they had 
that dance — the ballet, you know — she just shut her 
eyes. Well, Conrad didn't like that part much, 
either ; but us girls and Mrs. Mandel, we brazened 
it out right in the front of the box. We were about 
the only ones there that went high neck. Conrad 
had to wear a swallow-tail ; but father hadn't any, 
and he had to patch out with a white cravat. You 
couldn't see what he had on in the back o' the box, 
anyway." 
 
Mrs. March looked at Miss Dryfoos, who was 
 waving her fan more and more slowly up and down, 
and who, when she felt herself looked at, returned 
Mrs. March's smile, which she meant to be ingratiat- 
ing and perhaps sympathetic, with a flash that made 
her start, and then ran her fierce eyes over March's 
face. " Here comes mother," she said, with a sort 
of breathlessness, as if speaking her thought aloud, 
and through the open door the Marches could see 
the old lady on the stairs. 
She paused half-way down, and turning, called 
up : " Coonrod ! Coonrod ! You bring my shawl 
down with you." 
Her daughter Mela called out to her, "Now, 
mother, Christine 'll give it to you for not sending 
Mike." 
" Well, I don't know where he is, Mel}', child," 
the mother answered back. " He ain't never around 
when he 's wanted, and when he ain't, it seems like a 
body couldn't git shet of him, nohow." 
"Well, you ought to ring for him," cried Miss 
Mela, enjoying the joke. 
Her mother came in with a slow step ; her head 
shook slightly as she looked about the room, perhaps 
from nervousness, perhaps from a touch of palsy. 
In either case the fact had a pathos which Mrs. 
March confessed in the affection with which she 
took her hard, dry, large, old hand when she was 
introduced to her, and in the sincerity which she 
put into the hope that she was well. 
"I'm just middlin'," Mrs. Dryfoos replied. "I 
 
ain't never so well, nowadays. I tell fawther I 
don't believe it agrees with me very well here ; but 
he says I 'll git used to it. He 's away now, out at 
Moffitt," she said to March, and wavered on foot a 
moment before she sank into a chair. She was a 
tall woman, who had been a beautiful girl, and her 
grey hair had a memory of blondeness in it like 
Lindau's, March noticed. She wore a simple silk 
gown, of a Quakerly grey, and she held a handker- 
chief folded square, as it had come from the laun- 
dress. Something like the Sabbath quiet of a little 
wooden meeting-house in thick Western woods ex- 
pressed itself to him from her presence. 
" Laws, mother ! " said Miss Mela ; " what you 
got that old thing on for ? If I 'd 'a' known you 'd 
'a' come down in that ! " 
" Coonrod said it was all right, Mely," said her 
mother. 
Miss Mela explained to the Marches : " Mother 
was raised among the Dunkards, and she thinks it 's 
wicked to wear anything but a grey silk even for 
dress up." 
" You hain't never beared o' the Dunkards, I 
reckon," the old woman said to Mrs. March. 
" Some folks calls 'em the Beardy Men, because 
they don't never shave ; and they wash feet like 
they do in the Testament. Isly uncle was one. He 
raised me." 
" I guess pretty much everybody 's a Beardy Man 
nowadays, if he ain't a Dunkard ! " 
Miss Mela looked round for applause of her sally. 
 
but March was saying to his wife : " It's a Pennsyl- 
vania German sect, I believe — something like the 
Quakers. I used to see them when I was a boy." 
" Aren't they something like the Mennists ? " 
asked Mrs. Mandel. 
" They 're good people," said the old woman, 
" and the world 'd be a heap better off if there 
was more like 'em." 
Her son came in and laid a soft shawl over her 
shoulders before he shook hands with the visitors. 
" I am glad you found your way here," he said to 
them. 
Christine, who had been bending forward over 
her fan, now lifted herself up with a sigh and leaned 
back in her chair. 
" I 'm sorry my father isn't here," said the young 
man to Mrs. March. " He 's never met you yet ? " 
" No ; and I should like to see him. "We hear a 
great deal about your father, you know, from Mr. 
Fulkerson." 
" Oh, I hope you don't believe everything Mr. 
Fulkerson says about people," Mela cried. "He's 
the greatest person for carrying on when he gets 
going I ever saw. It makes Christine just as mad 
when him and mother get to talking about religion ; 
she says she knows he don't care anything more 
about it than the man in the moon. I reckon he 
don't try it on much with father." 
" Your fawther ain't ever been a perfessor," her 
mother interposed ; "but he's always been a good 
church-goin' man." 
 
" Not since we come to New York," retorted the 
girl. 
" He 's been all broke up since he come to New 
York," said the old woman, with an aggrieved look. 
Mrs. Mandel attempted a diversion. " Have you 
heard any of our great New York preachers yet, 
Mrs. March ? " 
"No, I haven't," Mrs. March admitted; and she 
tried to imply by her candid tone that she intended 
to begin hearing them the very next Sunday. 
"There are a great many things here," said 
Conrad, "to take your thoughts off the preaching 
that you hear in most of the churches. I think the 
city itself is preaching the best sermon all the time." 
" I don't know that I understand you," said March. 
Mela answered for him. " Oh, Conrad has got a 
lot of notions that nobody can understand. You 
ought to see the church he goes to when he does go. 
I 'd about as lief go to a Catholic church myself ; I 
don't see a bit o' difference. He 's the greatest 
crony with one of their preachers ; he dresses just 
like a priest, and he says he is a priest." She 
laughed for enjoyment of the fact, and her brother 
cast down his eyes. 
Mrs. March, in her turn, tried to take from it the 
personal tone which the talk was always assuming. 
"Have you been to the fall exhibition ?" she asked 
Christine ; and the girl drew herself up out of the 
abstraction she seemed sunk in. 
" The exhibition ? " She looked at Mrs. Mandel. 
" The pictures of the Academy, you know," Mrs. 
 
Maiulcl cx'itlainccl. " Where I wanted you to go the 
day you had your dress tried on." 
" No ; vro haven't been yet. Is it good ? " She 
had turned to Mrs. March again. 
'' I believe the fall exhibitions are never so good 
as the spring ones. But there are some good 
pictures." 
" I don't believe I care much about pictures," said 
Cliristine. "I don't understand them." 
'' Ah, that 's no excuse for not caring about them," 
said March lightly. " The painters themselves 
don't, half the time." 
Tlie girl looked at him with that glance at once 
defiant and appealing, insolent and anxious, which 
ho had noticed before, especially when she stole it 
toward himself and his wife during her sister's 
babble. In the light of Fulkcrson's history of the 
family, its origin and its ambition, he interpreted 
it to mean a sense of her sister's folly and an 
ignorant will to override his opinion of anything 
incongruous in themselves and their surroundings. 
He said to himself that she was deathly proud — too 
proud to try to palliate anything, but capable of 
anything that would put others under her feet. Her 
eyes seemed hopelessly to question his wife's social 
quality, and he fancied, with not vmkindly interest, 
the inexperienced girl's doubt whether to treat them 
with much or little respect. He lost himself in 
fancies about her and her ideals, necessarily sor- 
did, of her possibilities of suffering, of the triumphs 
and disappointments before her. Her sister woukl 
 
accept both with a lightness that -would keep no 
trace of ei the r ; but in her they would sink lastingly 
deep. He came out of his reverie to find Mrs. 
Dryfoos saying to him in her hoarse voice — 
"I think it's a shame, some of the pictur's a body 
sees in the winders. They say there 's a law aginst 
them things ; and if there is, I don't understand 
why the police don't take up them that paints 'em. 
I hear tell, since I been here, that there's women 
that goes to have pictur's took from them that way by 
men painters." The jWon'toint seemed aimed at !March, 
as if he were personally responsible for the scandal, 
and it fell with a silencing effect for the moment. 
Nobody seemed willing to take it up, and Mrs. 
Dryfoos went on, with an old woman's severity : " I 
say they ought to be all tarred and feathered and 
rode on a rail. They 'd be drummed out of town in 
Moffitt." 
Miss Mela said, with a crowing laugh : " I should 
think they would ! And they wouldn't anybody go 
low neck to the opera-house there, either — not low 
neck the way they do here, anyway." 
" And that pack of worthless hussies," her mother 
resumed, " that come out on the stage, and begun to 
kick " 
" Laws, mother ! " the girl shouted, " I thouglit 
you said you had your eyes shut ! " 
All but these two simpler creatures were abashed 
at the indecorum of suggesting in words the com- 
mon-places of the theatre and of art. 
" Well, I did, Mely, as soon as I could believe my 
 
eyes. I don't know what they 're doin' in all their 
churches, to let such things go on," said the old 
woman. " It 's a sin and a shame, I think. Don't 
you, Coonrod ] " 
A ring at the door cut short whatever answer he 
was about to deliver. 
" If it 's going to be company, Coonrod," said his 
mother, making an effort to rise, " I reckon I better 
go upstairs." 
"It's Mr. Fulkerson, I guess," said Conrad. "lie 
thought he might come ; " and at the mention of 
this light spirit Mrs. Dryfoos sank contentedly back 
in her chair, and a relaxation of their painful ten- 
sion seemed to pass through the whole company. 
Conrad went to the door himself (the serving-man 
tentatively appeared some minutes later) and let in 
Fulkerson's cheerful voice before his cheerful person. 
" Ah, how d' ye do, Conrad ? Brought our friend, 
