Our usual resort was a hill about a half mile distant, from which we
brought stones to our hut, and heated them, in order to warm our beds.
It now grew brighter every day, and we were soon able to amuse
ourselves by shooting with a cross-bow, using for a mark the top of
our snowy flag-staff, which, until now, we had been unable to see.
Indeed, we took exercise in any way possible, and endeavored by
throwing, running, and other gymnastic sports, to restore strength and
suppleness to our half frozen limbs. The foxes, in capturing whom we
had formerly been so busily engaged, now suddenly vanished, a sure
sign of the re-appearance of the bears. These dangerous beasts soon
visited us again, and the war against them was renewed; they evidently
came from some more southerly climate, where they had been passing the
long winter, as they were very fat. They often endeavored to break
open the door of the hut, and one of them even clambered upon the
roof, and endeavored to get inside through the hole we had made to
allow the smoke to escape; it required the united energies of all of
us to defeat his intentions.
"The 27th of January was a sad day for us, for on it one of our party
died. He had been sick at the building of the hut, and we had been
obliged to convey him to it on a sled. We buried him in the snow, with
a prayer, and held a funeral feast to his honor; but we soon recovered
our wonted flow of spirits, as we were now confidently expecting a
speedy release from the wretched situation in which we had been
placed.
"The cold continued unbroken for three months longer, although it was
not so severe as formerly. Our provisions now gave out, and on the 3rd
of May we cooked our last piece of pork. During the latter part of May
we began to make preparations for our journey, and as we found our
ship was no longer sea-worthy, we dug out the shallop and boat, which
had been protected by the deep snow. We spent all the month of May in
mending and fitting out these two vessels. Whilst we were prosecuting
this work, we were more than once in great danger of being torn to
pieces by the bears. We shot a great many of them, but it happened we
found them more dangerous when dead than when alive. Being greatly in
want of food we cooked a liver of one of them, and found it very
palatable, but all of us fell sick in consequence, and some were so
very ill that their lives were despaired of; they were covered from
head to foot with a loathsome eruption. However, they at last
recovered, for which we thanked God most sincerely, for had we lost
them, the rest of us would not have had sufficient strength to launch
the boats. In spite of this warning one of the men was imprudent
enough, one day, to bring a pot of bear's liver to the fire, as he was
hungry; but Heemskerk, who was standing by, threw it out of the
window.
"The weather often grew milder, and the sea began to be free from ice,
but a single north wind brought back the most intense cold, and the
sea was again covered with ice. In the meanwhile we worked hard to get
out of our leaky vessel all that was necessary for our dangerous
voyage, but suddenly we experienced a more dreadful storm of snow,
hail, and rain, than had yet overtaken us, and which we did not expect
at this time of the year. The weather was so bad that we were obliged
to leave every thing and retreat to the hut. But we found this in a
miserable condition, for we had used the boards, of which the roof was
composed, to mend our vessels, and a piece of sail, which had taken
their place, answered its purpose so badly that the hut was full of
water. Often and often did our courage sink, and we give up in
despair, but Heemskerk always cried, 'If you do not wish to remain in
Nova Zembla, and dig your graves in the snow, you must exert all your
remaining strength to equip the boats, on which depend all our hopes
of safety.' These words acted like an electrical shock on us, and
spurred us on to do what seemed almost impossible.
"In the beginning of June, we dragged the two boats to the vessel, in
order, when all was ready, to take them from there to the edge of the
ice and launch them into the sea. Suddenly another storm arose
unexpectedly, and we were in constant dread lest the ice should break
up, and all our property be lost. In that case there would be no hope
for us; but Providence watched over us, and the storm passed by, and
did us not the slightest harm. We had now to perform our last but most
difficult task, viz: to open a passage through the ice from the ship
to the open sea, through which we might take the shallop. This, after
incredible toil, we accomplished, and loaded our two boats with the
tools and provisions we had just taken from the wreck, which consisted
of thirteen casks of biscuits, and several more of bacon, oil, and
wine. Then being all ready, we started on our voyage on the morning of
the 14th of June, 1597.
IV.
"In high spirits and full of courage, we now began a voyage, which
certainly was the most remarkable ever undertaken. Crowded together in
two wretched, open, and heavily laden boats, we had to cross a space
of not less than two hundred miles, in order to reach the nearest
shore, and this in a climate where the middle of summer is as cold as
our severest winters, and upon a sea covered with huge masses of ice,
which at one moment are stationary, and in the next hurled together by
a storm, with terrific force. Besides, we were weak from our previous
exertions, and had not really the strength to strive successfully
against the dangers which threatened us.
"As the eastern shore of Nova Zembla appeared to be bound up with
unbroken ice, Barents, with admirable prudence, had advised us to
steer towards the north, so that having passed round the northern
point of land, we might reach the western coast, and from there run
for some Russian port, where we might hope to meet some vessel bound
for the Netherlands. We had not gone far on this projected route, when
we found ourselves so hemmed in by icebergs, as to be totally unable
to make any further progress. Such an unpropitious commencement would
have disheartened many men, but fortunately, we were accustomed to
danger and disappointment in every shape; so we kept up our spirits,
and cast anchor in order to wait until the breaking up of the ice
should afford us an opportunity of proceeding on our journey again. In
the meantime we employed ourselves in seeking bird's eggs for our
sick, of whom we now had several, and in melting snow by the fire for
drinking water. On the 15th of June, the ice in which we were
embedded, broke up, and a favorable wind springing up, our men handled
their oars so well, that by the 17th we had reached the most northerly
point of the island. But, unfortunately, on the same day the icebergs
were put in such violent agitation by a storm, and struck the boats
with such force, that the boldest grew disheartened. We took a last
farewell of each other, and expected every moment would be our last.
In this fearful extremity we held a consultation as to what was best
to be done; no other means of safety could we see, than to work our
way out of the floating ice, and get upon some iceberg. But all our
endeavors to get alongside of one of these were in vain, and unable to
endure longer the lamentations of my companions, I caught hold of the
end of a rope, and leaped like a frog from one place to another, until
I reached the firm ice. As the rope was fastened to the two boats,
they were quickly drawn to the spot I had reached, when the men took
out their cargoes and pulled them upon the ice. We found they were so
much injured by striking against the ice, as to need a thorough
overhauling, which we set about without delay. The driftwood, which
lay along the shore in considerable quantities, now stood us in good
need, as by means of it we were enabled to boil our pitch and tar.
"For four long and dreary days had we lain among ice and snow, when a
south wind sprang up, and once more opened a passage for us. We
hastily launched our boats again, and put their cargoes into them; but
hardly had we commenced to row when we found ourselves surrounded by
masses of ice again, and were obliged to pick our way out of them with
great difficulty; at last we reached the open sea once more, and were
able to continue our voyage until the 25th of June, when we were
obliged to cast anchor again near a field of ice. At the same time a
violent storm arose, and drove our miserable crafts to sea, where they
were tossed about in great danger of being dashed to pieces against an
iceberg, or upset by the wind. Our men now employed what little
strength they had left in striving to get back to the land, but as
this could not be done by simple rowing, we ventured to hoist a small
sail, which we had scarcely done when the foremast of the boat I
commanded suddenly broke in two places, and I found myself obliged, in
order to keep up with the shallop, to raise the mainsail, which,
however, I had to lower again immediately, or my boat would have been
inevitably upset.
"We now deemed our destruction inevitable, as the storm of wind, which
had hitherto blown from the south, suddenly changed to the north-east,
and drove us from the shore. In the meanwhile the shallop had
vanished, and we sought for it in vain for a long time, owing to a
thick fog which covered the sea. At last I ordered some shots to be
fired, and to my great joy they were answered by others from the
shallop. I afterwards employed this means of finding the whereabouts
of our comrades with great success on all such occasions.
"On the 28th of June we were again shut in, and obliged to anchor
alongside of an iceberg. As we were much fatigued by the incessant
tossing about of the boats, we erected a tent on it, and determined to
pass the night there; but that we might sleep in safety, we set a
watch, and it was a happy thing for us that we did so, for at midnight
we received a visit from three immense bears, who, had we not been on
our guard, would most assuredly have made a comfortable meal off of
some of us. At the cry of 'Bears! bears!' we seized our muskets, and
although they were loaded with shot merely, fired them at the animals,
who were so stupefied at the inhospitable reception their friendly
visit met with, that they allowed us time to load with ball. One of
them had fallen at the first fire, and the two others made off in all
haste. Pretty soon, however, they changed their minds, and coming
back, dragged their dead comrade away with them for a short distance,
and then set to work to devour him. As soon as we remarked this, we
let them have another shot, and this time they ran off in earnest.
Four of us now went to look at the carcass of the dead bear, and found
to our no little astonishment that they had devoured half of it. The
wind, on this and the two following days, blowing from the same
quarter, we were obliged to remain where we were.
"The night of the 1st of July, was one of the most fearful and
dangerous that we had as yet experienced. The storm gradually
increased in violence, and at last by hurling the floating masses of
ice against the firm bank on which we were encamped, broke off that
portion of it which held our boats, so that they got loose and were
driven away. Many bundles and casks fell into the sea, and it was with
great difficulty, that by springing from place to place, we succeeded
in securing our boats, in which were the sick. After the storm was
somewhat abated, we endeavored to collect our provisions and tools
together, but alas, missed a great many which were very necessary for
the completion of our voyage. Whilst one half of the men were thus
employed, the others went over the ice to the land, in order to get a
tree that they might mend the broken mast of the shallop. They found
not only what they sought, but also, wedges for splitting wood, and
wood already split, from which we judged that men had been in this
place before.
"About this time we lost two of our men, who had been sick for some
time, having been obliged to be carried from our hut to the boat, when
we started on our voyage. When Barents, who had also been ailing,
heard this, he assured us that his end too was approaching, but as he
at the same time regarded with attention, a chart of that part of the
country which we had seen, which I had prepared, we did not believe he
was so ill, and paid but little attention to his words. Pretty soon,
however, he laid down the chart and asked for water; but hardly had he
drank, when suddenly he bowed his head and died, to the great grief of
all of us. We lost in him a brave comrade and intelligent man, on
whose skill rested most of our hopes of again seeing our native land.
"Sorrowing deeply, we continued on our journey, and at length, on the
4th of August, reached the Russian coast, after having suffered much
from the cold, and also from the scurvy, which on account of the want
of fresh provisions, had broken out among us. We landed to try and
find some signs of life, but could see no habitations, and the ground
produced nothing but wild shrubs. Some of the party proposed that we
should continue our journey by land; but as we could easily lose our
way, and fall into great danger, in a desert, which was very likely
filled with wild animals, the majority decided in favor of continuing
along the coast. But we could not hold out much longer, for our
provisions were reduced to a few mouldy biscuits; the most of us,
tormented as we were by hunger and sickness, would have welcomed death
as a happy release. Happily, however, we discovered a Russian barque
coming towards us under full sail; when she reached us, Heemskirk
went on board, and taking some money in one hand, pointed with the
other to a cask of fish which stood on deck. The Russians understood
him, took the money, and gave him the fish, together with some little
cakes. Half starved as we were, we rejoiced greatly at this purchase,
and hastened to refresh ourselves with the food.
"We now very often met Russian vessels, and they sold or gave us, very
readily, a part of their scanty stock of provisions. By the 20th of
August, we reached the western shore of the White Sea, and by good
luck arrived at a spot where some little houses were standing. We
entered them and were received with great kindness by their owners,
who were poor Russian fishermen. They led us into a warm room, where
we could dry our wet clothes, and gave us a meal of good fish and
soup.
"After continuing our journey for several days more, we were obliged,
by a storm, to land again, and found a hut where three men dwelt. They
cordially welcomed us, and when at their request we had told them our
story, informed us that a vessel from the Netherlands was at anchor at
Kola, a Russian port not many miles distant. We entreated them to go
with one of our party to Kola by land, but as they could not go
themselves they sent a messenger, who in a few days returned without
our comrade, but with a letter, through which we learnt to our joy and
astonishment, that Ryp himself, the commander of the other vessel,
from whom we had separated at Bear's Island, had arrived at Kola in
safety, after seeking for an eastern passage in vain.
"It was not long before he arrived himself, in a boat loaded with
provisions, and after a warm greeting we took, for the first time
since many days, our usual food and drink. Favored by the wind,
Heemskerk soon brought us to Kala, where the Russian governor listened
with great sympathy to the history of our adventures and sufferings,
and ordered our two boats to be preserved as memorials of our wondrous
journey.
"On the 18th of September we set sail, and after a prosperous voyage
entered the Meuse. From there we went to Amsterdam, and doubtless it
is still fresh in your memories, how we were conducted into the town,
dressed in the fox skins we had worn at Nova Zembla, and followed by
the acclamations of the whole population."
Father Gerhard ceased speaking, and for a while the young people kept
silent too, so much had they been astonished by the recital of such
strange adventures. Most did they marvel at the calm resignation of
the voyagers to their sad fate, and they hoped that in the voyages
which they themselves might hereafter make, that they should have as
excellent and brave companions.
They now thanked their patron for the trouble he had taken to gratify
them, and with a hearty squeeze of the hand wished him good night.
The Shipwreck.
A few years ago a company of one of the English regiments of infantry,
consisting of eleven officers and two hundred soldiers embarked in a
large, strongly built ship, to sail from Quebec to Halifax. Besides
the troops, there were forty-eight passengers on board, most of them
women and children, and the whole number of persons, including the
sailors, amounted to upwards of three hundred.
On the evening of the tenth day, when they were clear of the Gulf of
St. Lawrence, and a brisk wind had driven them out many leagues to
seaward, the pilot who, for the greater security of the troops had
been kept on board, directed the course of the vessel to the westward,
hoping on the next day to run her into Halifax. From the windward side
of the otherwise clear heavens a dark cloud showed itself on the
horizon, and in a short time afterwards the ship was enveloped in one
of those dense fogs, which make a voyage along these coasts so
perilous, during the greater part of the year. They had now come
within that space of the ocean in which it was usual to hold a ship's
course in sailing from England to the West Indies; torrents of rain
increased the thickness of the fog, and fearful gusts of wind
increased the danger, and the officers in charge of the troops,
thought it expedient to hold a consultation with the captain, as to
what course was best to be pursued in the present circumstances. The
result of this conference was a determination to keep on the course
deemed expedient by the pilot, but with as little sail set as
possible. For their further safety a watch was stationed on the
foredeck, with the company's drums which they beat from to time, and
taking besides every other precaution against their coming into
collision with another vessel.
Among the officers, was a lieutenant named Stewart, a young man of
uncommon steadiness and bravery, and who in his zeal for the comfort
of the soldiers and the discipline necessary to be observed for
maintaining order in the ship, had during the whole voyage, limited
his own hours of rest to the smallest possible number. One night,
completely worn out, he was about to betake himself to his hammock,
when the colonel requested in view of the danger that every moment
threatened, that he would remain all night upon deck. Stewart rallied
his remaining strength, and conquering the importunate demands of
sleep, he took his station with ten men on the foredeck, whilst the
captain, with eight soldiers, kept watch at the stern. The rain poured
down in streams, squalls of wind and angry waves caused the good ship
to reel and turn like one drunk, and to add to the horrors of their
situation, the night was so dark they could not see half the length of
the ship before them, and the fog enshrouded them in its oppressive
vapor. At ten o'clock, the watch on the bowsprit called out to the
lieutenant on the foredeck, and directed his attention to a clear spot
which he declared to proceed from a light. Stewart at once proceeded
to the stern where he found the pilot seated on the rudder,
apparently watching the same appearance, but when he inquired of him
what it meant, he received a very short uncourteous reply, together
with a command from the captain who was by, to go back to his post. He
did so, and not long after the man on the bowsprit once more called
out, that notwithstanding the thick fog he saw a light distinctly;
Stewart looked in the direction the sailor pointed out, and plainly
saw the glimmer of the friendly beacon, and knew it at once as the
signal placed to warn ships from approaching too near the cliffs which
lined the shore. Notwithstanding his first repulse, he approached the
pilot a second time; but he met with a second repulse;--he was
answered--"Sir, I have been royal pilot on this coast for twenty-five
years, and I ought to know where I am." The captain too, in a sterner
manner then before, commanded Stewart to return to his watch. The
lieutenant dared utter no further remonstrance, but with a heart,
heavy with sad forebodings, busied himself to keep up the failing
spirits of his men who were as apprehensive of the threatened danger
as himself. And his sad foreboding was only too soon fulfilled, for
whilst the pilot imagined his vessel to be sailing on the open sea,
she was already among the rocks that lay but a mile and an half from
the coast, but yet were sixty distant from the roadstead by which they
were to enter Halifax.
By midnight, Stewart felt himself so fairly exhausted by cold and long
watching, that he left the quarter deck, and went below to snatch, if
possible, a few minutes sleep. He had been in his cabin only long
enough to change his damp clothing for dry, when a fearful crash told
him the ship had struck upon the rocks. In a moment he was back on the
quarter deck. He found that a surging billow had struck the hinder
part of the ship, tore off part of the sheathing, and carried away the
watch-house in which two women were sleeping--all efforts to rescue
them were in vain. Whilst the storm-tossed ocean raged and foamed
around the devoted ship, and night shrouded all objects in her veil of
impenetrable darkness, wild shrieks and cries arose from the women and
children, increasing the horrors of the moment, and filled the
stoutest hearted among the mariners and soldiers with dread and
despair. Among the soldiers all discipline was at an end, and in many
families this hour of terrors had loosed the bonds of affection and
dependence, that until now had subsisted for years. The men forsook
their wives in the endeavour to save their own lives; their wives and
children were entreating the help from strangers denied them by
husbands and fathers, and an officer who had heretofore been
considered not only as a most courageous soldier, but had showed
himself a kind and affectionate husband, now turned a deaf ear to the
prayers of his wife, and intent only on his own deliverance, climbed
up into the rigging of the mainmast, left her to her fate below,
whatever it might be. In the meantime, the captain had ordered the
ship to be examined, he found that she had struck upon a hidden rock,
and the waves beating over the quarter deck had already filled all the
rooms with water. Several men had been washed overboard as they rushed
from their hammocks to the deck at the moment of the ship striking,
but the greater number had reached the foredeck where they crowded
closely together, awaiting in painful anxiety for what the morning
would bring.
At length the dappling clouds in the east proclaimed the hour of
dawning--the day struggled into existence, and showed to the great joy
of the shipwrecked, a rock about fifty yards distant, which raising
its dark head above the foaming sea, promised present safety if it
could be reached, although the white waves broke furiously against it.
But how were they to reach it? The only hope--and it was a weak
one--was if they could succeed in passing a rope from the ship to the
rock, and fastening it there so firmly that by its aid all might be
able to leave the wreck. But who was the adventurous one to carry it
thither? The most experienced officers on board, declared it
impossible for any one to brave those angry breakers successfully, and
the best and most resolute of the sailors, who, perhaps, would have
ventured encountering such a risk, had broken into the spirit room and
were now lying drunk, seeking to drown the bitterness of death which
they were so certain of meeting, by steeping their senses in
oblivion.
In the meantime, Lieutenant Stewart with folded arms and thoughtful
mien, stood on the foredeck, measuring with his eyes the distance
between the wreck and the rock. After some minutes spent in deep
consideration, he threw off his coat, fastened a rope round his body,
and plunged into the boiling surf. The soldiers looked on in anxious
silence--for the bold swimmer had almost immediately disappeared from
their view--a wave had buried him deep in its bosom--but again his
head was seen above its foaming crest, and with strong arms he parted
the angry waters as he swam boldly forward, like one determined to
battle with and conquer fate. His strength would not have sufficed to
enable him to accomplish his aim, had not a huge wave borne him
onward, and dashing powerfully against the rocky ledge left him behind
as it retreated. Stunned by the violence with which he was thrown, he
lay for some moments deprived of all consciousness; his senses at
length returning, he rose hastily and mustering all his strength,
essayed to climb the steep and rugged rock, the difficulty of the
assent being increased by the slippery sea-grass with which it was
covered. After many toilsome efforts he reached the top, where he
succeeded in fastening his rope. But as it was impossible for him to
be seen from this height by those on the wreck, on account of the
thick fog, he was obliged to descend to the shore, where, as he was
nearer the ship, he hoped he might be visible, and thus relieve part
of their anxiety. On the side next the ship the breakers dashed so
violently that he dreaded making the attempt, and venturing on the
other, he fell from the steep and slippery path down into the sea.
Benumbed with cold, and sorely wounded by the sharp edges of the
rocks, he was at first scarcely able to move, but still he managed to
keep his head above the water, and after an half hour spent in a
vigorous struggle with death, a rushing wave once more carried him to
the shore, where bruised and bleeding he lay on his back like one
dead. He felt like giving up the contest, but he saw the sinking ship
and his doomed companions--with great effort, therefore, he raised
himself, gave the appointed signal to show that he had succeeded in
fastening the rope, and a gleam of joy shot through his heart as he
heard the loud cheers with which the news was hailed on board.
In less than a minute, the only boat belonging to the ship was let
down, and manned with but one stout sailor. Slipping along by the rope
which Stewart had drawn he guided his frail craft to the rock, to
which he fastened a stronger one, brought with him for that purpose:
this being done, he returned to the wreck in order to bring off the
passengers. It was determined to send away the women and children
first, and accordingly two grown females or a mother with several
children were bound together and sent off, the little boat which was
guided by two sailors being too small to hold any more.
Stewart assured that the slippery surface of the rock where he had
stood when fastening the rope, would not afford sufficient space for
all on board, even to stand upon, was half in despair, but just at the
moment however, that the boat containing the colonel's wife, her two
children, and the surgeon of the regiment, pushed off from the ship,
the fog lifted and parting at the coast, showed another rock of
greater height and broader extent a few yards distant from the one on
which he stood. The boat almost touched the one first reached--he gave
the sailors a sign--it was understood, and they rowed to the second
rock where the surf was much less dangerous, and the breakers small in
comparison with those that beat against the other. A better landing
was to be obtained here, and without the loss of a single life or any
untoward occurrence, the women and children reached this place of
safety if not of comfort Whilst this was being done, they made a
running noose to slip along on the rope that Stewart had fastened to
the rock on which he now stood, which rope as we before have said
reached to the ship. By this contrivance the officers and most of the
soldiers attained the smaller rock, and in the course of two or three
hours all on board were safely rescued. By a merciful Providence the
ship groaning, creaking, tottering, and gradually sinking, just kept
above the water until the last man was taken off; then a surging wave
dashed over her, and she was seen no more--a few circling eddies alone
showed the spot where she went down.
When the men who, as we have said had landed on the smaller rock had
assembled, they found it incapable of holding so many--all could not
stand in the narrow space its surface afforded, and too closely
crowded, they could not resist the pressure of the waves that
sometimes broke over it. The higher rock where the women and children
were landed showed that there was still room for many more of the
shipwrecked; the colonel, therefore, proposed that the officers should
be rowed thither in the boat, but to this the soldiers would not
listen. With death staring them in the face, they declared all
subordination was at an end--that preference on account of rank and
birth was not to be thought of--all were now on an equality, life was
as dear to the meanest soldier as to the highest in command; no! no
preference should be given--it must be decided by lot, who should go,
and who remain. All efforts to still the angry tumult that now arose
among the excited troops was in vain, and the little island whose
rock-covered surface, lifted for ages above that boiling flood, where
wave contended with wave, and had never before been pressed by the
foot of man, now became a scene of strife and confusion.
In the midst of the crowd who could thus strive with each other in the
very presence of death, lay Stewart, senseless and covered with the
blood that flowed plentifully from his wounds. All believed him to be
dying, and only a few cared to trouble themselves about the noble
young officer, to whose disinterested daring the whole crew owed their
lives. His strong constitution, however, soon triumphed over his
temporary exhaustion, and he awoke to consciousness, just when the
oaths and outcries of the striving soldiers was at the loudest. Slowly
and painfully he arose on his stiffened limbs, and supported on the
arm of one of his own men from whom he learned the cause of the
tumult, he approached and commanded silence. This in the presence of
his superior officers was out of place, but distinction was at an end,
and beloved as he was by all the soldiers, the command was obeyed at
once. "My friends," he began, "death, inevitable death awaits us all
alike, both on the other rock and here where the angry waves beat over
us, if we do not soon obtain help. Our only hope for deliverance is by
means of the boat, through which we may, perhaps, obtain it from the
land, which cannot be very distant. Let the officers and sailors then
go over to the other rock, where there is more room than on this, and
the surf being less violent and itself nearer to the coast, they can
better venture to seek the help, without which we must all perish. We
will remain here in peace together, awaiting the issue whatever it
be; I will not leave you, but am ready to share every danger, and as I
was the first to spring into the foaming sea, to try what could be
done for the salvation of all, so I will be the very last to leave
this rock."
His words were answered by a cheer; the true heroic spirit which
breathed from his words--the magnanimity of his whole proceedings
since the first moment of the common danger, flashed upon the memories
of these rude men, and wrought an instant change. The soldiers calmed
and encouraged, no longer objected to the departure of the officers
and sailors for the other rock, and the boat at once began to ply
between. As it would not carry but two persons at once, it took some
time before the specified persons had passed over. At the last voyage
there was but one to go. This officer as he took his place on the seat
beside the rowers, called out to Stewart to "come along, for the flood
was rapidly rising on the rock, and his staying behind would do the
soldiers no good." The lieutenant however refused the invitation, with
the words that as he had promised the soldiers to remain with them, he
was determined to do so, whether the issue was life or death.
So, while the officers with the pilot and sailors were borne to a
place of comparative safety, Stewart stood with his two hundred
soldiers upon that naked rock that gradually grew less from the rising
of the encroaching waters.
Not without good ground for apprehension, had the last departing
officer warned the lieutenant of the danger that threatened from the
advancing tide. The rock on which two hundred human beings were now
crowded, hoping to escape or gain a respite from death, was one which
in nautical phrase is called a sunken reef, that is only above water
