guard-boat that we took the steamer out through the main channel."
"If they did they probably learned that the Teaser went out with the
assistance of the garrison at the fort," suggested Mr. Blowitt.
"I am confident that the officer of the guard-boat would have no means
of knowing that fact," argued Christy. "Of course, he heard the firing
in the neighborhood of the fort, and he would naturally conclude that
they were firing upon the steamer to prevent her from running out."
"That may be; but, to tell you the truth, Mr. Passford, I am afraid we
shall not find these men," added the second lieutenant. "From the firing
we hear, I should judge that a movement of some kind is in progress, and
our men may be better informed than you expect."
"Of course, they may be; but I expect to find these men at some point
along the shore," replied Christy, who thought the second lieutenant was
just a little obstinate in not accepting his theory in full.
The steamer continued on her course to the eastward, and nothing more
passed between the two principal officers in regard to the crew from
Pensacola. But Flint was quite as confident as the third lieutenant that
the forty men, more or less, would be captured. The noise of the firing
could no longer be heard, and then Christy suggested that the whistle be
sounded as a signal to the men if they were in the vicinity.
The depth of water was three or four fathoms close up to this part
of the island. The soundings indicated that the steamer was as near
as it was prudent to go in the dense fog. Christy was sure that the
privateer's crew could not have gone any farther to the eastward by this
time, and the screw was stopped, while all hands made an anxious use of
their ears to detect any sounds that came from the shore. But nothing
could be heard at first, and Mr. Blowitt again intimated that they were
engaged in a "wild-goose chase." But he had hardly uttered this cooling
reflection before Beeks came aft to report that a number of pistol
shots, as he thought they were, had been heard in the distance.
"Nobody can tell what they mean," said the sceptical Mr. Blowitt. "They
may be a part of the affair we heard going on soon after we left the
ship."
"In what direction were the shots, Beeks?" asked Christy.
"They sounded as though they were about half a mile or less to the
westward of us," replied the quartermaster.
"Blow the whistle in short blasts, Beeks," added Mr. Blowitt, who seemed
to have gathered a little faith from the report of the quartermaster.
The order was obeyed, and Beeks again reported that pistol shots had
been heard from the westward. The third lieutenant was in a hurry to
have the business finished, for he felt confident that the Bellevite
would soon be engaged in an affair of more importance than picking up
a couple of score of prisoners. He ordered the steamer to come about,
and move to the westward; but after she had been under way about five
minutes, he rang to stop her, and then sounded the whistles again.
Several pistol shots responded to this signal. Again he started the
screw, and pointed the bow of the Teaser squarely to the north.
The steamer moved very slowly, and two men sounded all the time till
they reported "by the mark two," when there could not have been more
than three feet of water under the keel of the vessel. The screw was
stopped and backed so that she might not run upon any shoal place ahead
of her, and the officers waited with interest and anxiety for further
action on the part of the party on shore. By this time no one doubted
that there were men on this part of the island; but whether they were
the crew of the privateer or not was yet to be proved.
"Steamer, ahoy!" shouted some one on the shore.
"On the island!" replied Christy, as he was instructed to do by his
superior.
"What steamer is that?" demanded the speaker on the island.
Whoever he was, he could not help knowing that a steamer was there, for
the engineer had begun to blow off steam as soon as the screw stopped,
though neither party could see the other in the fog and darkness.
"The Teaser," replied Christy. "Who are you?"
"We are the ship's company of the Teaser, and we want to get on board,"
replied the speaker. "Is Captain Folkner on board?"
"He is on board--of the Bellevite," the third lieutenant would have
finished the sentence if he had told the whole truth, for he uttered
only the first part of the sentence.
"All right. The first and second lieutenants are with us. Is Gilder on
board?"
"He is; and he wants to get back to the other side of the inland,"
answered Christy, who considered it his duty to make his replies as
suitable to the occasion as possible. "Who is speaking?"
"Lieutenant Lonley," replied the man; and Christy knew him, though he
did not know his rank before. "He wants to see Gilder before he goes on
board. Tell him to come on shore in his canoe."
"What is that for?" demanded Christy, rather surprised at the unexpected
request.
"I want to see him on particular business; I have a message for him,
which I cannot deliver in presence of any other person," replied Lonley.
"All right; you shall see him soon," answered Christy.
"Get out the boats to take us on board," continued Lonley. "Send them
about a mile to the eastward, where we have left our bags."
"All right," repeated Christy.
But he said what he did not believe, for everything did not look right
to him. He could not understand why the bags of the men should be a mile
to the eastward. He could not imagine what business Lonley could have
with Gilder or his representative; and if he had any, why it should be
necessary to meet him on the island.
"Of course you don't expect me to carry on the programme that fellow has
marked out," said Mr. Blowitt. "I don't quite like the looks of the
things that we can't see, Mr. Passford."
"Neither do I, Mr. Blowitt," replied the third lieutenant frankly.
"I shall not send a boat from the steamer till I understand this matter
a great deal better than I do now, and especially I shall not send the
boats a mile to the eastward," added the second lieutenant.
"Of course it is possible that my plan has miscarried already," added
Christy.
"I shall do everything I can to carry out your plan, as I am instructed
to do by the captain; but I have the feeling, in spite of myself, that
we are crawling into a hornet's nest," added Mr. Blowitt, with some
anxiety in his tones. "You will call all hands quietly, and be ready to
repel boarders. It is well to be prepared for whatever may come. The
firing at the west end of the island indicated that something was going
on, and perhaps these men on the shore know about it."
Christy obeyed the order promptly, and the next minute, every seaman on
board was ready with his cutlass and revolver to meet an attack. But no
sound came from the shore just then, and the officers were in a state of
uncertainty in regard to the situation which allowed them to do nothing.
They waited for half an hour, when the leadsman reported that the water
was shoaling, which indicated that the Teaser was drifting towards the
island.
"On board the Teaser!" shouted Lonley, so distinctly that he could
hardly have been more than three hundred feet from the steamer.
"On shore," replied Christy, prompted by Mr. Blowitt.
"I am waiting for Gilder! Why don't he come on shore?" shouted Lonley,
his impatience apparent in his tones.
"Where are all the men?" demanded Christy, as requested by the second
lieutenant.
"They have gone a mile to the eastward where they left their bags."
"We will run down in the steamer for them," added Mr. Blowitt, talking
through Christy.
"Don't do that!" protested the speaker on shore. "There is a Yankee
steamer off in that direction. We heard her steam an hour ago."
"All right!" replied Christy.
"That settles the matter in my mind," said Mr. Blowitt. "They are trying
to play what they call a Yankee trick upon us. When we send our boats to
the eastward, we shall send them into a trap. If the boats are to bring
off forty men, they will expect them to go with only men enough to pull
the oars; and when they get possession of them, they expect to retake
the Teaser."
"I think you are right, Mr. Blowitt," replied Christy, who began to
believe that his scheme was rapidly approaching a failure, though he did
not give it up just yet.
"This Lonley is still on the shore near us," said Mr. Blowitt. "I should
very much like to know what has been going on to-night on the island,
and it may be that he knows all about it. As you are the representative
of Gilder, Mr. Passford, you may take the canoe that is astern, and have
a talk with Lonley at close quarters, if you don't object."
"I should have proposed it myself if I had not feared that the idea
would be charged to my audacity," replied Christy. "I will take only
Flint with me, as he was with me before."
The canoe was brought up to the gangway, and Flint took his place at the
oars. Mr. Blowitt charged the young officer in the most serious manner
not to run any risks, and the boat was shoved off. It required but a few
strokes of the oars to bring it into shoal water by the beach. Only a
single man could be seen on the shore, and this one must be Lonley.
There seemed to be no risk, and Christy landed.
CHAPTER XXV
CHRISTY BECOMES A VICTIM
Everything was perfectly still on the island, and only a single man
was in sight; but Christy put his hand upon his revolver as he went
on shore. Though he had never been a fighting young man, he had the
impression that he should not tamely submit to the assault of an enemy,
or run away from any single man that stood up in front of him. He had
always been prudent, even while he had been daring, and he hardly needed
the solemn admonition of the second lieutenant to be extremely cautious.
"Is that you, Captain Gilder?" asked the man on the shore, who stood a
little way from the waterside.
"Yes; and I take it for granted that you are Lonley," replied Christy,
advancing towards the other. "You have done all the talking this night,
and I ought to know you."
"All the talking except what you have done, and I ought to know you,"
replied Lonley. "I am Lieutenant Lonley, of the Teaser, and our men are
all ready to go on board."
"And Captain Folkner is all ready to have them go on board," returned
Christy, who had no doubt of the truth of what he said, though he
understood that he was telling a "story" all the same.
"I have no doubt he is. But I don't quite understand how you happen to
be on this side of the island, and so far to the westward at this time
in the morning. We expected to find the Teaser burrowing through the
sound, and we had about made up our minds to take possession of her and
run the blockade, as other Christians do. We did not believe she would
get through the sound in a week, if she ever did."
"I succeeded in persuading Captain Folkner that he had better come out
by the main channel; and that is the way we did come out, and that
explains how we happen to be here at this time in the morning," replied
Christy, very cheerfully.
"You must have very strong powers of persuasion, Captain Gilder," said
Lonley, laughing.
"I have in a case such as this was," added the lieutenant, with a
chuckle, as he thought of the particular kind of persuasion he had
used upon the captain of the privateer.
"I would give a good deal if I had just such powers, for they are
sometimes of very great service to an officer."
"You are quite right, Mr. Lonley. I suppose you are the first lieutenant
of the Teaser."
"No, I am not; kissing goes by favor, and the captain's brother is the
first; and he is no more fit for his position than the captain is for
his duty. I was in hope that the government would take possession of
the steamer, and send her to sea properly officered," added Lonley,
very good-naturedly.
"Good officers are quite necessary in the service," suggested Christy.
"I have no doubt you will fill the bill, and be all that could be
possibly desired."
"Thank you, Captain Gilder. Did you have any trouble in getting out of
the bay?"
"No, none at all. By the way, Mr. Lonley, we have been hearing firing at
the west end of the island to-night. Do you know what it means?"
"The first thing was to clean out that regiment of Zouaves; and I have
no doubt that has been done before now; and our boys may get a hack at
Pickens. A big force was landed in the fog, and the Yankees will not
stay on this island much longer," replied Lonley.
His information was entirely correct, though his prediction was not
equally reliable.
"I was sure there was fighting going on over there," added Christy.
"You seem to be all alone, Mr. Lonley. Where are all your men?"
"I told you before you came ashore that I had sent them all over to the
place where they had left their bags, about a mile to the eastward of
us. I suppose Captain Folkner has sent the boats over there for them
before this time?"
"He was inclined to run over in the steamer," added Christy.
"I hope he did not do that," said the privateersman, with a good deal
more energy than the other thought the occasion warranted. "I warned you
that there was a Yankee gunboat over that way."
"The Teaser has not gone over that way," replied Christy.
"If she has, she will be gobbled up by that gunboat, and all my men with
her."
"I persuaded Captain Folkner not to do it," added the Bellevite's
officer, very quietly.
"He ought to have done just what I asked him to do; and that was to send
his boats over to the place named for the men."
"And I persuaded him to do that also," continued Christy, as
unblushingly as though he had not been strictly in the habit of
telling the truth all his lifetime.
"Good for you, Captain Gilder!" exclaimed Lonley, grasping the hand of
his companion as though he had been his brother. "You beat all the men
I ever knew on power of persuasion; and when I get the command of the
Teaser, as I expect to have before this year ends, I shall want you to
serve as my first lieutenant."
"Thank you, Lieutenant Lonley; you are very kind; and if I ever go into
the privateering service, I shall certainly go in with you," replied
Christy.
"An officer with your power of persuasion will be invaluable to me,"
replied Lonley, still holding the hand of the other. "If I were gifted
in this respect as you are, Captain Gilder, do you know what I would
do?"
"I am sure I have not the least idea, unless it would be to persuade
Jeff Davis to send you a commission as a captain in the regular navy,"
said Christy, laughing at the idea.
"I am afraid I should have too little cheek to attempt to do that, for
the president is a rather obstinate man, and I fear he would not see the
point. Besides, I am a very modest man, though you may not have observed
this shining trait in my character. No; I am too diffident to ask for a
place I have not won by service."
"Then what would you do in the way of persuasion?" asked Christy, though
he wondered why he was prolonging the interview.
"I should use my powers of persuasion upon you, Captain Gilder, in the
first place."
"I don't think it would be of any use, for I am too well posted in that
way of doing it to be influenced," replied Christy, trying to withdraw
his hand from the grasp of the privateersman. "I must go on board of the
Teaser again when you have delivered your message to me, as that was
what you wished to see me for."
"I did say I had a message for you, didn't I? Well, upon my life, I have
quite forgot what it was, but it was from President Jefferson Davis,
and he was particular that I should deliver it to you to-night or this
morning. Isn't it very strange that I should forget a message of so much
importance that it could not be trusted to writing?"
"Passing strange, I should say," answered Christy, who began to
understand that he had fallen into a trap of some sort. "While you are
thinking of it, I will go on board, and persuade Captain Folkner not to
run the Teaser to the eastward if he should take it into his head to do
so. I had no idea there was a Yankee gunboat in that direction, and I
don't believe the captain had. Besides, he don't know where he is in
this fog, and he needs me."
As he spoke, Christy tried to withdraw his hand from the grasp of
Lonley, as he had not succeeded in doing before when he tried. But the
privateersman suddenly fell upon him, and both of them went down. A
tremendous struggle followed, but before it was decided, two men rushed
out of the gloom, and took part in the affair; and they soon settled the
matter in favor of the Confederacy, much to the chagrin of the second
lieutenant of the Bellevite.
  [Illustration: "A tremendous struggle followed."--Page 284.]
Flint had remained in the canoe, which had been partly drawn up on
the beach; but the moment he sprang out upon the sand to go to the
assistance of his officer, he was set upon by two men and secured. Both
of them were deprived of their weapons, and their hands tied behind
them. Beyond a doubt the lieutenant and the master's mate were prisoners
before they had any clear idea of the situation.
"Are you there, Mr. Folkner?" called Lonley, as soon as the prisoners
were secured, speaking now in an energetic tone, as he had not before.
"I am here," replied a man who seemed to be in a boat not far from the
spot. "You have kept me a long time waiting for you!"
"I wanted to give the Yankee boats time to get at least a mile from
the Teaser before anything was done. Shove off now, and make things as
lively as you can," said Lonley. "Go to your places in the boats,"
he continued to four men who had assisted in the capture of the two
officers.
By this time Christy had a chance to see that he was a victim of a trick
which was to eventuate in the recapture of the Teaser; and he was sorry
that he was not the only victim, as he looked at Flint. He realized too
that the scheme had been very well planned, though he was really happy
in the belief that it would be a failure in the end. Lonley seemed to
be the leading spirit in the affair, and managed the details. He had
intended that the boats should be sent from the Teaser to a point at
least a mile off.
He had taken it for granted that the steamer would come to pick them
up, or in other words, to capture the forty prisoners. If he was weak
in accepting as the truth Christy's statement that the boats had
been actually sent away, as desired, he could see no reason why the
Yankee officer should try to deceive him. It appeared now that the
privateersmen had two boats, which had been brought across the island
for the purpose. Lonley had naturally wished that only a few men should
be on board, and concluded that it would be an easy matter to capture
the steamer, and then to secure the men in the boats when they returned
from the eastward.
The four men on shore, who had been put in a place where they could
assist Lonley, hastened to the boats, and they shoved off, pulling as
silently as though the oars had been muffled, as probably they had been.
In a moment more they disappeared in the darkness and fog.
"I think I have improved a great deal in the art of persuasion,"
said Lonley, as the boats disappeared. "I suppose I persuaded you
as effectually as you did Captain Folkner."
"You have done very well, Mr. Lonley," replied Christy, in a patronizing
tone, for he was determined that his companion should derive no
satisfaction from seeing him cast down by his misfortune.
"You informed me a little while ago that Captain Folkner was on board
of the Teaser; and I wish to ask if you are uniformly in the habit of
speaking the truth?" continued Lonley.
"Well, that depends upon circumstances. If I have not done so, you
cannot expect me to contradict myself."
"You claimed that you were Captain Gilder."
"Hardly, my excellent friend: when Captain Folkner addressed me by that
name, I did not object to it."
"That was just as much a lie as though you had claimed it in so many
words," protested Lonley.
"I admit it; and I hardly expect a true patriot to tell the truth to
the enemy. If I remember rightly, you told me yourself that your men
had gone to the eastward where they had left their bags. I don't believe
that your conscience reproached you when they showed themselves in the
boats."
At this moment pistol shots were heard on the water.
CHAPTER XXVI
THE ACTION ON THE DECK OF THE TEASER
As the Teaser was but a short distance from the shore, Christy had no
doubt that the attempt to board her had been made by this time. Mr.
Blowitt had quite as many men on board of the steamer as could have been
contained in the two boats, and he was not much concerned about the
result of the attack, especially as he knew that the second lieutenant
was fully prepared and on the lookout for it. The only thing that
Christy regretted was that he was not on board of the Teaser to take
part in the affair of repelling boarders.
"There seems to be some music in the air," said Lonley, after he had
listened for a few moments to the sounds that came from the direction of
the steamer.
"To return to the subject of the morality of telling stories, your men
do not seem to be a mile to the eastward, where their bags were left,"
added Christy good-naturedly.
"You had a glance at them in the boats, though the darkness and fog were
rather too thick for you to count them," replied Lonley, chuckling over
the deception he had practised upon the lieutenant of the Bellevite.
"Yes, I saw them, and I concluded that they could not be where their
bags were."
"All is fair in war."
"That seems to be the generally received maxim, and he is the smartest
man who the most thoroughly deceives the enemy," added Christy, who
found himself tolerably well satisfied with the situation, though he was
a prisoner.
"That is so, and of course I can find no fault with you for deceiving
me," returned Lonley, chuckling as though he was even better satisfied
with the situation than his companion.
"Thank you, Mr. Lonley; you are magnanimous, and with equal sincerity
I can say that I have no fault to find with you," replied the Union
officer. "But I have my doubts whether, after this, either of us will be
likely to believe what the other says. But, for my part, I wish to say
that I don't believe in telling anything but necessary and patriotic
lies."
"That is my view of the matter exactly; and if there is any man that
despises a liar, I am that man," said Lonley warmly. "But it seems to
me they are making a good deal of a racket off there," he added, as the
noise of pistol shots and the clash of cutlasses came over the smooth
waters of the gulf.
"They seem to be at it quite earnestly," replied Christy.
"By the way, how many men did you leave on board of the Teaser?" asked
the privateersman, whose manner seemed to have suddenly become
considerably changed.
"How many men?" repeated the lieutenant of the Bellevite.
"That is the question I asked," replied the lieutenant of the Teaser.
"I suppose you would not believe me if I should tell you," answered
Christy.
"I judge that you can speak the truth if you try," added Lonley, with
more asperity than the occasion seemed to require.
"I know that I could," said Christy, very decidedly; "and I may add that
I was in the habit of doing so on all occasions before this cruel war
began."
"Then suppose you try to do so just now, and tell me how many men your
people had on board of the Teaser."
"You must excuse me for the present, for I do not like to make
statements to one who will not believe what I say," answered Christy,
rather facetiously.
"You are a prisoner now."
"I am painfully aware of the fact, but I doubt if the government service
will suffer very much in my absence from duty."
"You are too modest by half, Mr.--but I have not even the pleasure of
knowing your name, and conversation is annoying under such
circumstances."
"I am simply Midshipman Passford, at your service."
"Only a midshipman!" exclaimed Lonley. "Upon my word, you ought to be a
commodore. Passford? Possibly you are a cousin of Colonel Passford of
Glenfield."
"Colonel Passford is my uncle. Do you know him?" asked Christy.
"I do know him; and there is not a finer man or a truer patriot in the
South than Colonel Passford. He is loading a schooner with cotton, and
he offered me the command of it. Then you are his nephew, I have heard
of you."
"I hope my uncle is quite well, for I have not heard from him for
several weeks, or since I left New York."
"I saw him ten days ago, and he was very well then. I am very happy
to have made a prisoner of his enterprising nephew, who appears to be
capable of doing our cause a great deal of mischief," replied Lonley,
looking earnestly in the direction of the Teaser.
"Thank you, Mr. Lonley; I certainly intend to do it all the mischief I
can in a legitimate way. I am speaking the truth now," said Christy.
"But you have not answered my question in regard to the number of men on
board of the Teaser when you left her."
"And you will excuse me for the present if I do not answer it," added
the Union lieutenant.
"Very well, Mr. Passford; I cannot compel you to answer it, though doing
so would do no harm to your cause, for I should judge that the question
of the hour is settled."
"What is the question of the hour, Mr. Lonley?"
"The question is which side is in possession of the Teaser, yours or
mine," replied the privateersman, still gazing out into the gloom.
"Is that question settled?" asked Christy, with interest.
"Of course I don't know, but I should think that it was. We hear no
more pistol shots and no more clashing of cutlasses," replied Lonley,
uneasily. "But I expected to hear the triumphal shout of our men when
they had carried the deck of the Teaser."
"I have not heard anything like a triumphal shout," added Christy, very
quietly. "It is barely possible that your men have not carried the deck
of the Teaser."
"Of course, it is possible they have not; but I don't believe they have
failed," replied Lonley.
The privateersman listened for a few minutes in silence. He appeared
to be entirely confident that the victory must be with his men. He
evidently believed that the captors of the Teaser had sent her two boats
off to a distance of a mile, and thus weakened whatever force she had on
board of her. He did not seem to have any idea that the party he had
met in Pensacola Bay had been increased in numbers, or that the officer
in command had reported to the ship to which they belonged. Christy
realized what Lonley was thinking about, and he clearly believed that
the Teaser had been left in charge of not more than a dozen or fifteen
men, reduced by at least six then on boat duty.
"Help! help!" shouted a man in the water at no great distance from the
shore.
"What does that mean?" said Lonley, springing to his feet.
"It is a call for help, and, as my hands are tied behind me, I cannot
respond to it, as I would gladly do, be the man who needs it friend or
enemy," replied Christy. "There is the canoe in which we came ashore,
Lieutenant Lonley, and you can use that."
The privateersman sprang into the boat, shoved it off, and pulled in
the direction from which the appeal came. He disappeared in the fog in a
moment; but a little later was seen again approaching the shore. He had
not taken the sufferer into the boat, but he had clung to it. As he got
upon his feet, Christy saw that there were two of them, for one helped
the other up the beach.
"What does this mean?" demanded Lonley, very much excited. "Have you run
away from the others?"
"No, sir; but we were beaten in the fight, our boats captured, and all
hands taken prisoners except us two," replied the uninjured of the two
men.
Lieutenant Lonley, whatever his views of the morality of lying to the
enemy, uttered an exclamation which grated very harshly on the ears of
Lieutenant Passford. The result, as stated by the man who had swum to
the shore, was as unwelcome as it was unexpected. He had not deemed a
defeat even possible. He learned from the guard-boat that the steamer
had been captured. He had spent the time after he was landed with his
companions at Town Point, and organized his force for the recapture of
the Teaser. The failure of the final attack was as severe upon him as
the loss of his vessel had been upon Captain Folkner.
"Who are you?" demanded Lonley, when he had in some measure recovered
from the shock which the failure gave him.
"I am Levick, the boatswain; and this is Lieutenant Folkner, who was
wounded in the shoulder in the first of it," replied the man. "He was
knocked from the rail into the water when we boarded, and he held on to
an oar. When the fight was over, and we had lost it, I slipped into the
water, and helped the lieutenant along on his oar, till I was about used
up, and then I called for help."
"Are you much hurt, Mr. Folkner?" asked Lonley of the injured officer.
"I don't know; my shoulder feels numb, and I can't use my arm," replied
Folkner. "But I can use my legs, and I think that is what we had better
be doing."
"I don't understand it," protested Lonley, very much dissatisfied with
the result of the action, as may well be supposed. "I was sure you would
carry her deck at once."
"I was as sure as you were, Lonley; but I believe they had fifty men
all ready for us. They let us leap on deck without much opposition, and
then they surrounded us, and took us by surprise, for I did not suppose,
after what you said, that they had a dozen men," replied the wounded
lieutenant.
"I did not suppose they had even a dozen men left on board," Lonley
explained, with humiliation in his tones.
"I staid in the boat till I had seen all my men on deck," continued Mr.
Folkner. "They surrounded our force, and tumbled them into the hold as
though they had been pigs, slashing them with their cutlasses if they
tried to get out. I saw the fat officer in command of the enemy; he was
very active, and I leaped on deck, determined to cross weapons with him.
But he hit me in the shoulder with his cutlass, and I lost my hold on
the rail."
