tell me ? " 
" I didn't know it myself. I only knew that he 
had none, and I didn't ask, for I had a notion that 
it might be a painful subject." 
Fulkerson tried to turn it off lightly. " Well, 
he 's a noble old fellow ; pity he drinks." March 
would not smile, and Fulkerson broke out : " Dog 
on it ! I 'll make it up to the old fool the next time 
he comes. I don't like that dynamite talk of his ; 
but any man that 's given his hand to the country has 
got mine in his grip for good. Why, March ! You 
don't suppose I wanted to hurt his feelings, do youl" 
" Why, of course not, Fulkerson." 
But they could not get away from a certain 
ruefulness for that time, and in the evening Fulker- 
son came round to March's to say that he had got 
Lindau's address from Conrad, and had looked 
him up at his lodgings. 
" Well, there isn't so much bric-a-brac there, quite, 
as Mrs. Green left )'ou ; but I Ve made it all right 
with Lindau, as far as I 'm concerned. I told him I 
  
didn't know when I spoke that way, and I honoured 
him for sticking to his * brinciblcs ' ; I don't believe 
in his brinciblcs ; and we wej)t on each other's necks 
— at least, he did. Dogged if ho didn't kiss me 
before I knew what he was up to. He said I was 
his chenerous yong friendt, and he begged my 
barton if he had said anything to MOund me. I tell 
you it was an affecting scene, March; and rats 
enough round in that old barracks where he lives to 
fit out a first-class case of delirium tremens. What 
does he stay there for ? He 's not obliged to ? " 
Lindau's reasons, as March repeated them, affected 
Fulkerson as deliciously comical ; but after that he 
confined his pleasantries at the office to Beaton and 
Conrad Dryfoos, or, as he said, he spent the rest of 
the summer in keeping Lindau smoothed up. 
It is doubtful if Lindau altosrether liked this as 
well. Perhaps he missed the occasions Fulkerson 
used to give him of bursting out against the mil- 
lionaires ; and he could not well go on denouncing as 
the slafe of gabidal a man who had behaved to him 
as Fulkerson had done, though Fulkerson's servile 
relations to capital had been in nowise changed by 
his nople gonduct. 
Their relations continued to wear this irksome 
character of mutual forbearance ; and when Dry- 
foos returned in October and Fulkerson revived the 
question of that dinner in celebration of the success 
of Everij Other Jfeek, he carried his complaisance to 
an extreme that alarmed March for the consequences. 
V. 
" You see," Fulkerson explained, " I find that the 
old man has got an idea of his own about that 
banquet, and I guess  the re 's some sense in it. He 
wants to have a preliminary little dinner, where we 
can talk the thing up first — half a dozen of us ; and 
 he wants to give us the dinner at his house. Wellj 
that 's no harm. I don't believe the old man ever 
gave a dinner, and he 'd like to show ofT a little ; 
 
 there 's a good deal of human nature in the old man, 
") after all. He thought of you, of course, and Colonel 
 Woodburn, and Beaton, and me at the foot of the 
table ; and Conrad ; and I suggested Kendricks : 
' he 's such a nice little chap ; and the old man himself
 brought up the idea of Lindau. He said you 
told him something alDout him, and he asked why 
_ couldn't we have him, too ; and I jumped at it." 
 " Have Lindau to dinner ? " asked March. 
 " Certainly ; why not ? Father Dryfoos has a 
notion of paying the old fellow a compliment for 
what ho done for the countrj'-. There won't be any 
trouble about it. You can sit alongside of him, and 
cut up his meat for him, and help him to things " 
' _"Yes, but it won't do, Fulkerson! I don't be- 
  
lieve Lindau ever had on a dress-coat in his life, 
and I don't believe his 'brincibles' would let him 
wear one." 
"Well, neither had Dryfoos, for the matter of 
that. He 's as high-principled as old Pan-Electric 
himself, when it comes to a dress-coat," said Ful- 
kerson. '•' "We 're all going to go in business dress ; 
the old man stipulated for that." 
"It isn't the dress-coat alone," March resumed. 
"Lindau and Dryfoos wouldn't get on. You know 
they 're opposite poles in everything. Y ou mustn't 
do it. Dryfoos will be sure to say something to 
outrage Lindau's ' brincibles,' and there 'll be an ex- 
plosion. It's all well enough for Dryfoos to feel 
grateful to Lindau, and his wish to honour him 
does him credit ; but to have Lindau to dinner 
isn't the way. At the best, the old fellow would 
be very unhappy in such a house ; he would have a 
bad conscience ; and I should be sorry to have him 
feel that he 'd been recreant to his ' brincibles ' ; 
they 're about all he 's got, and whatever we think 
of them, we're bound to respect his fidelity to 
them." March warmed toward Lindau in taking 
this view of him. " I should feel ashamed if I 
didn't protest against his being put in a false posi- 
tion. After all, he 's my old friend, and I shouldn't 
like to have him do himself injustice if he is a 
crank." 
" Of course," said Fulkerson, with some trouble in 
his face. "I appreciate your feeling. But there 
ain't any danger," he added buoyantly. "Anyhow, 
  
you spoke too late, as the Irisliman said to the 
chicken when he swallowecl liini in a fresh egg. 
I've asked Lindau, and he's accepted with blayzure; 
that's what he says." 
Maroh made no other comment than a shrug. 
"You'll see," Fulkerson continued, "it'll go off 
all right. I 'll engage to make it, and I won't hold 
anybody else responsible." 
In the course of his married life March had 
learned not to censure the irretrievable ; but this 
was just what his wife had not learned ; and she 
lioured out so much astonishment at what Fulker- 
son had done, and so much disapproval, that March 
began to palh'ate the situation a little. 
"After all, it isn't a question of life and death; 
and, if it were, I don't see how it's to be helped 
now." 
" Oh, it 's not to be helped now. But I am sur- 
prised at Mr. Fulkerson." 
" well, Fulkerson has his moments of being 
merely human, too." 
Mrs. March would not deign a direct defence of 
her favourite. " Well, I 'm glad there are not to be 
ladies." 
"I don't know. Dryfoos thought of having 
ladies, but it seems your infallible Fulkerson over- 
ruled him. Their presence might have kept Lindau 
and our host in bounds." 
It had become part of the Marches' conjugal joke 
for him to pretend that she could allow nothing 
wrong in Fulkerson, and he now laughed with a 
  
mocking air of having expected it when she said : 
" Well, then, if Mr. Fulkcrson says he will see that 
it all comes out right, I suppose you must trust his 
tact. I wouldn't trust yours, Basil. The first wrong 
step was taken when Mr. Lindau was asked to help 
on the magazine." 
" Well, it was your infallil)le Fulkersou that took 
the step, or at least suggested it. I 'm happy to say 
I had totally forgotten my early friend." 
Mrs. March was daunted and silenced for a 
moment. Then she said : " Oh, psliaw ! You 
know well enough he did it to please you." 
" I 'm very glad he didn't do it to please you, 
Isabel," said her husband, with affected seriousness. 
"Though i)erhaps he did." 
He began to look at the humorous aspect of the 
affair, which it certainly had, and to comment on 
the singular incongruities which Every Other IFcck 
was destined to involve at every moment of its 
career. " I wonder if I 'm mistaken in supposing 
that no other periodical was ever like it. Perhaps 
all periodicals are like it. But I don't believe 
there 's another publication in New York that could 
bring together, in honour of itself, a fraternity and 
equality crank like poor old Lindau, and a belated 
sociological crank like woodburn, and a truculent 
speculator like old Dryfoos, and a humanitarian 
dreamer like young Dryfoos, and a sentimentalist 
like me, and a nondescript like Beaton, and a pure 
advertising essence like Fulkerson, and a society 
si)irit like Kendricks. If we could only allow one 
  
another to talk uninterruptedly all the time, the 
dinner -would be the greatest success in the world, 
and we should come home full of the highest mutual 
respect. But I suspect we can't manage that — even 
your infallible Fulkerson couldn't work it — and I 'm 
afraid that there'll be some listening that'll spoil 
the pleasure of the time." 
March was so well pleased with this vicw of the 
case that he suggested the idea iuA'olved to Fulker- 
son. Fulkerson was too good a fellow not to laugh 
at another man's joke, but he laughed a little rue- 
fully, and he seemed worn with more than one kind 
of care in the interval that passed betwecn the 
present time and the night of the dinner. 
Dryfoos necessarily depended upon him for 
advice concerning the scope and nature of the 
dinner, but he received the advice suspiciously, and 
contested points of obvious propriety with per- 
tinacious stupidity. Fulkerson said that when it 
came to the point he would rather have had the 
thing, as he called it, at Delmonico's or some other 
restaurant ; but when he found that Dryfoos's pride 
was bound up in having it at his own house, he gave 
way to him. Dryfoos also wanted his woman-cook 
to prepare the dinner, but Fulkerson persuaded him 
that this would not do; he must have it from a 
caterer. Then Dryfoos wanted his maids to wait at 
table, but Fulkerson convinced him that this would 
be incongruous at a man's dinner. It was decided 
that the dinner should be sent in from Frescobaldi's, 
and Dryfoos went with Fulkerson to discuss it with 
  
the caterer. He insisted upon having cvcrytliiiig 
explained to him, and the reason for having it, and 
not somctliing else in its place ; and he treated 
Fulkerson anil Frescobaldi as if they werc in league 
to impose upon him. There were moments when 
Fulkerson saw the varnish of professional politeness 
cracking on the Neapolitan's volcanic surface, and 
caught a glimpse of the lava fires of the cook's 
nature beneath ; he trcmhled for Dryfoos, who was 
walking rough-shod over him in the security of an 
American who had known how to make his money, 
and must know how to sjjcnd it ; hut he got him 
safely away at last, and gave Frescobaldi a wink of 
sympathy for his shrug of exhaustion as they turned 
to leave him. 
It was at first a relief and then an anxiety with 
Fulkerson that Lindau did not come about after 
accepting the invitation to dinner, until he a{)peared 
at Dryfoos's house, prompt to the hour. There was, 
to be sure, nothing to bring him ; but Fulkerson 
was uneasily aware that Dryfoos expected to meet 
him at the office, and perhaps receive some A'erbal 
acknowledgment of the honour done him. Dryfoos, 
ho could see, thought he was doing all his invited 
guests a favour ; and while he stood in a certain awe 
of them as people of much greater social experience 
than himself, regarded them with a kind of con- 
tempt, as people who were going to have a better 
dinner at his house than they could ever alTord to 
have at their own. He had finally not spared ex- 
pense upon it; after ])usliiiig Frescobaldi to the 
  
point of eruption with liis misgivings and suspicions 
at the first interview, ho had gone to him a second 
time alone, and told him not to let the money stand 
between him and anything he would like to do. In 
the absence of Frescobaldi's fellow-conspirator ho 
restored himself in the caterer's esteem by adding 
whatever he suggested ; and Fulkerson, after trem- 
bling for the old man's niggardliness, was now afraid 
of a fantastic profusion in the feast. Dryfoos had 
reduced the scale of the banquet as regarded the 
number of guests, but a confusing remembrance of 
wliat Fulkerson had wished to do remained with 
him in part, and up to the day of the dinner he 
dropped in at Frescobaldi's and ordered more dishes 
and more of them. He impressed the Italian as an 
American original of a novel kind ; and when he 
asked Fulkerson how Dryfoos had made his money, 
and learned that it was primarily in natural gas, he 
made note of some of his eccentric tastes as pecu- 
liarities that were to be caressed in any future 
natural-gas millionaire who might fall into his 
hands. He did not begrudge the time he had to 
give in explaining to Dryfoos the relation of the 
different wines to the different dishes; Dryfoos 
was apt to substitute a costlier wine where he 
could for a cheaper one, and he gave Frcscobaldi 
carte llanche for the decoration of the table with 
pieces of artistic confectionery. Among these the 
caterer designed one for a surprise to his patron 
and a delicate recognition of the source of his 
wealth, which he found Dryfoos very willing to 
talk about, when he intimated that lie know what 
it was. 
Dryfoos loft it to Fulkcrsoii to invite the guests, 
and he found ready acceptance of his politeness from 
Kendricks, who rightly regarded the dinner as a 
part of the Every Other Week business, and was too 
sweet and kind-hearted, anyway, not to seem very 
glad to come. !March was a matter of course ; but 
in Colonel Woodburn Fulkerson encountered a re- 
luctance which embarrassed him the more because 
ho was conscious of having, fur motives of his Own, 
rather strained a point in suggesting the colonel to 
Dryfoos as a fit subject for invitation. There had 
been only one of the colonel's articles printed as 
yet, and though it had made a sensation in its way, 
and started the talk about that number, still it did 
not fairly constitute him a member of the staff, or 
even entitle him to recognition as a regular con- 
tributor. Fulkerson felt so sure of pleasing him 
with Dryfoos's message that he deliA-ered it in full 
family council at the widow's. His daughter re- 
ceiA'ed it with all the enthusiasm that Fulkerson had 
hoped for, but the colonel said stiffly, " I have not 
the pleasure of knowing Mr. Dryfoos." Miss "Wood- 
burn appeared ready to fall upon him at this, but 
controlled herself, as if awarc that filial authority 
had its limits, and pressed her lips together without 
saying anything. 
' Yes, I know," Fulkerson admitted. " But it 
isn't a usual case. Mr. Dryfoos don't go in much 
for the conventionalities ; I reckon he don't know 
  
much about 'era, come to boil it dowu ; and he 
hoped " — hero Fulkcrson felt the necessity of in- 
venting a httle — " that you would excuse any want 
of ceremony ; it 's to be such an informal aflfair, any- 
way ; we 're all going in business dress, and there 
ain't going to be any ladies. He 'd have come 
himself to ask you, but he 's a kind of a bashful old 
fellow. It 's all right, Colonel Woodburn." 
" I take it that it is, sir," said the colonel cour- 
teously, but with unabated state, " coming fi'om you. 
But in these matters wo have no right to burden 
our friends with our decisions." 
" Of course, of course," said Fulkcrson, feeling 
that he had been delicately told to mind his own 
business. 
" I understand," the colonel went on, " the relation 
that Mr. Dryfoos bears to the periodical in which 
you have done me the hono' to print my papah, but 
this is a question of passing the bounds of a purely 
business connection, and of eating the salt of a man 
whom you do not definitely know to be a gentle- 
man." 
" Mah goodness ! " his daughter broke in. " If 
you bah your own salt with his money " 
"It is supposed that I earn his money before I 
buy my salt with it," returned her father severely. 
" And in these times, when money is got in heaps, 
through the natural decay of our nefarious com- 
mercialism, it behooves a gentleman to be scrupulous 
that the hospitality offered him is not the profusion 
of a thief with his booty. I don't say that Mr. 
  
Dryfoos's good-fortune is not honest. I simply say 
tliat I know nothing about it, and tliat I shoukl 
prefer to know something before I sat down at his 
board." 
"You're all right, colonel,'"' said Fulkerson, "and 
so is Mr. Dryfoos. I give you my word that there 
are no flies on his personal integrity', if that 's what 
you mean. He 's hard, and he 'd push an advantage, 
but I don't believe he would take an unfair one. 
He 's speculated and made money every time, but I 
never heard of his wrecking a railroad or belonging 
to any swindling company or any grinding monopoly. 
He does chance it in stocks, but he 's always played 
on the square, if you call stocks gambling." 
" May I think this over till morning ? " asked the 
colonel. 
"Oh, certainly, certainly," said Fulkerson eagerly. 
"I don't know as there's any hurry." 
Miss Woodburn found a chance to murmur to 
him before he went : " lie 'll come. And Ah 'm so 
much oblahged, Mr. Fulkerson. Ah jost know it 's 
all you' doing, and it will give papa a chance to toak 
to some new people, and get away from us evahlastin' 
women for once." 
" I don't see why any one should want to do that," 
said Fulkerson, -with grateful gal]antr\'. "But I 'll 
be dogged," he said to March when he told him 
about this odd experience, "if I ever expected to 
find Colonel Woodburn on old Lindau's ground. 
He did come round handsomely this morning at 
l)reakfast and apologised for taking time to think 
the invitation over before he accepted. ' You under- 
stand,' lie says, ' that if it had been to the table of 
some friend nob so pi'osperous as Mr. Dryfoos —   
your friend Mr. March, for instance — it would have 
been sufficient to know that he was your friend. 
But in these days it is a duty that a gentleman 
owes himself to consider whether he wishes to know 
a rich man or not. The chances of making money 
disreputably are so great that the chances are against 
a man who has made money if he 's made a great 
deal of it.' " 
March listened with a face of ironical insinuation. 
" That was very good ; and he seems to have had a 
good deal of confidence in your patience and in your 
sense of his importance to the occasion " 
" No, no," Fulkerson protested, " there 's none of 
that kind of thing about the colonel. I told him to 
take time to think it over ; he 's the simplest-hearted 
old fellow in the world." 
"I should say so. After all, he didn't give any 
reason he had for accepting. But perhaps the young 
lady had the reason." 
** Pshaw, March ! " said Fulkerson. 
VI. 
So far as the Diyfoos family was concerned, the 
dinner niiglit as well have been given at Frescobaldi's 
rooms. None of the ladies appeared. M'-s. Dryfoos 
 was glad, to escape to her own chamber, where she 
sat before an autumnal fire, shaking her head and 
talking to herself at times, with the foreboding of 
evil which old women like her make part of their 
religion. The girls stood just out of sight at the 
head of the stairs, and disputed which guest it was 
at each arrival ; Mrs. Mandol had gone to her room 
to write letters, after beseeching them not to stand 
there. When Kendricks came, Christine gave Mela 
a little pinch, equivalent to a little mocking shriek ; 
for, on the ground of his long talk with Mela at 
Mrs. Horn's, in the absence of any other admirer, 
they based a superstition of his interest in her ; 
when Beaton came, Mela returned the pinch, but 
awkwardly, so that it hurt, and then Christine 
involuntarily struck her. 
Frescobaldi's men were in possession everywhere : 
they had turned the cook out of her kitchen and the 
waitress out of her pantry ; the reluctant Irishman 
at the door was supplemented by a vivid Italian, 
  
who spoke French with the guests, and said, " Blen, 
Monsieur" and " Toiite suite" and " Mercil " to all, 
as he took their hats and coats, and effused a hospi- 
tality that needed no language but the gleam of his 
eyes and teeth and the play of his eloquent hands. 
From his professional dress-coat, lustrous with the 
grease spotted on it at former dinners and parties, 
they passed to the frocks of the elder and younger 
Dryfoos in the drawing-room, which assumed infor- 
mality for the affair, but did not put their wearers 
wholly at their ease. The father's coat was of black 
broadcloth, and he wore it unbuttoned ; the skirts 
were long, and the sleeves came down to his knuckles; 
he shook hands with his guests, and the same dry- 
ness seemed to be in his palm and throat, as he 
huskily asked each to take a chair. Conrad's coat 
was of modern texture and cut, and was buttoned 
about him as if it concealed a bad conscience 
within its lapels; he met March with his entreat- 
ing smile, and he seemed no more capable of 
coping with the situation than his father. They 
both waited for Fulkerson, who went about and did 
his best to keep life in the party during the half- 
hour that passed before they sat down at dinner. 
Beaton stood gloomily aloof, as if waiting to be 
approached on the right basis before yielding an 
inch of his ground; Colonel "Woodburn, awaiting 
the moment when he could sally out on his hobby, 
kept himself intrenched within the dignity of a 
gentleman, and examined askance the figure of old 
Lindau as he stared fibout the room, with his fine 
  
hc;;d up, and liis empty sleeve dangling over his 
wrist. Larch felt obliged to him for wearing a new 
coat in the midst of that hostile luxury, and he was 
glad to see Dryfoos make up to him and begin to 
talk with him, as if he wished to show him particular 
respect, though it might have been because he was 
less afraid of him than of the others. He heard 
Lindau saying, " Boat, the name is Choarman ? " 
and Dryfoos beginning to explain his Pennsylvania 
Dutch origin, and he sufTered himself, with a sigh 
of relief, to fall into talk with Kendricks, who was 
always pleasant ; he was willing to talk about some- 
thing besides himself, and had no opinions that ho 
was not ready to hold in abeyance for the time being 
out of kindness to others. In that group of impas- 
sioned individualities, March felt him a refuge and 
comfort — with his harmless dilettante intention of 
some day writing a novel, and his belief that he was 
meantime collecting material for it. 
Fulkerson, while breaking the ice for the whole 
company, was mainly engaged in keeping Colonel 
woodburn thawed out. He took Kendricks away 
from March and presented him to the Colonel as a 
person who, like himself, was looking into social con- 
ditions; he put one hand on Kendricks' shoulder, 
and one on the colonel's, and made some flattering 
joke, apparently at the expense of the young fellow, 
and then left them. March heard Kendricks pro- 
test in vain, and the colonel say gravely : " I do not 
wonder, sir, that these things interest you. They 
constitute a problem which society must solve or 
  
which •will dissolve society," and he knew from that 
formula, which the colonel had once used with him, 
that he was laying out a road for the exhibition of 
the hobby's paces later. 
Fulkerson came hack to March, who liad turned 
toward Conrad Dryfoos, and said, " If we don't get 
this thing going pretty soon, it 'll he the death of 
me," and just then Frescobaldi's butler came in and 
announced to Dryfoos that dinner was served. The 
old man looked toward Fulkerson with a troubled 
glance, as if he did not know what to do ; he made 
a gesture to touch Lindau's elbow. Fulkerson called 
out, "Colonel Woodburn, Mr. Dryfoos," as 
if Dryfoos were looking for him ; and he set the 
example of what he was to do by taking Lindau's 
arm himself. "Mr. Lindau is going to sit at my 
end of the table, alongside of March. Stand not 
upon the order of your going, gentlemen, but fall in 
at once." He contrived to get Dryfoos and the 
colonel before him, and he let March follow with 
Kcndricks. Conrad came last with Beaton, who 
had been turning over the music at the piano, and 
chafing iiiwardly at the whole affair. At the table 
Colonel Woodburn was placed on Dryfoos's right, 
