a house which gathers its peculiar goods from all over the United
States, and distributes them almost as widely—a business of gigantic
proportions and bewildering detail. Its annual sales amount to as much
as the sales of all the houses in its line in New York, Chicago, and
Cincinnati together. Another is a hardware company, wholesale and
retail, also the largest of its kind in the country, with sales annually
amounting to six millions of dollars, a very large amount when we
consider that it is made up of an infinite number of small and cheap
articles in iron, from a fish-hook up—indeed, over fifty thousand
separate articles. I spent half a day in this establishment, walking
through its departments, noting the unequalled system of compact
display, classification, and methods of sale and shipment. Merely as
a method of system in business I have never seen anything more
interesting. Another establishment, important on account of its
central position in the continent and its relation to the Louisiana
sugar-fields, is the St. Louis Sugar Refinery.
The refinery proper is the largest building in the Western country
used for manufacturing purposes, and, together with its adjuncts of
cooper-shops and warehouses, covers five entire blocks and employs 500
men. It has a capacity of working up 400 tons of raw sugar a day, but
runs only to the extent of about 200 tons a day, making the value of its
present product $7,500,000 a year.
During the winter and spring it uses Louisiana sugars; the remainder
of the year, sugars of Cuba and the Sandwich Islands. Like all other
refineries of which I have inquired, this reckons the advent of the
Louisiana crop as an important regulator of prices. This establishment,
in common with other industries of the city, has had to complain of
business somewhat hampered by discrimination in railway rates. St. Louis
also has what I suppose, from the figures accessible, to be the largest
lager-beer brewing establishment in the world; its solid, gigantic, and
architecturally imposing buildings lift themselves up like a fortress
over the thirty acres of ground they cover. Its manufacture and sales
in 1887 were 456,511 barrels of beer—an increase of nearly 100,000 since
1885-86. It exports largely to Mexico, South America, the West Indies,
and Australia. The establishment is a marvel of system and ingenious
devices. It employs 1200 laborers, to whom it pays $500,000 a year.
Some of the details are of interest. In the bottling department we saw
workmen filling, corking, labelling, and packing at the rate of 100,000
bottles a day. In a year 25,000,000 bottles are used, packed in 400,000
barrels and boxes. The consumption of barley is 1,100,000 bushels
yearly, and of hops over 700,000 pounds, and the amount of water used
for all purposes is 250,000,000 gallons—nearly enough to float our navy.
The charges for freight received and shipped by rail amount to nearly a
million dollars a year. There are several other large breweries in the
city. The total product manufactured in 1887 was 1,383,301 barrels,
equal to 43,575,872 gallons—more than three times the amount of 1877.
The barley used in the city and vicinity was 2,932,192 bushels, of which
340,335 bushels came from Canada. The direct export of beer during 1887
to foreign countries was equal to 1,924,108 quart bottles. The greater
part of the barley used comes from Iowa, Minnesota, and Wisconsin.
It is useless to enumerate the many railways which touch and affect St.
Louis. The most considerable is the agglomeration known as the Missouri
Pacific, or South-western System, which operated 6994 miles of road on
January 1, 1888. This great aggregate is likely to be much diminished
by the surrender of lines, but the railway facilities of the city are
constantly extending.
There are figures enough to show that St. Louis is a prosperous city,
constantly developing new enterprises with fresh energy; to walk its
handsome streets and drive about its great avenues and parks is
to obtain an impression of a cheerful town on the way to be most
attractive; but its chief distinction lies in its social and
intellectual life, and in the spirit that has made it a pioneer in so
many educational movements. It seems to me a very good place to study
the influence of speculative thought in economic and practical affairs.
The question I am oftenest asked is, whether the little knot of
speculative philosophers accidentally gathered there a few years
ago, and who gave a sort of fame to the city, have had any permanent
influence. For years they discussed abstractions; they sustained for
some time a very remarkable periodical of speculative philosophy, and
in a limited sphere they maintained an elevated tone of thought and life
quite in contrast with our general materialism. The circle is broken,
the members are scattered. Probably the town never understood them,
perhaps they did not altogether understand each other, and maybe the
tremendous conflict of Kant and Hegel settled nothing. But if there is
anything that can be demonstrated in this world it is the influence of
abstract thought upon practical affairs in the long-run. And although
one may not be able to point to any definite thing created or
established by this metaphysical movement, I think I can see that it was
a leaven that had a marked effect in the social, and especially in the
educational, life of the town, and liberalized minds, and opened the way
for the trial of theories in education. One of the disciples declares
that the State Constitution of Missouri and the charter of St. Louis are
distinctly Hegelian. However this may be, both these organic laws are
uncommonly wise in their provisions. A study of the evolution of the
city government is one of the most interesting that the student can
make. Many of the provisions of the charter are admirable, such as those
securing honest elections, furnishing financial checks, and guarding
against public debt. The mayor is elected for four years, and the
important offices filled by his appointment are not vacant until the
beginning of the third year of his appointment, so that hope of reward
for political work is too dim to affect the merits of an election. The
composition and election of the school board is also worthy of notice.
Of the twenty-one members, seven are elected on a general ticket,
and the remaining fourteen by districts, made by consolidating the
twenty-eight city wards, members to serve four years, divided into two
classes. This arrangement secures immunity from the ward politician.
St. Louis is famous for its public schools, and especially for the
enlightened methods, and the willingness to experiment in improving
them. The school expenditures for the year ending June 30, 1887, were
$1,095,773; the school property in lots, buildings, and furniture in
1885 was estimated at $3,445,254. The total number of pupils enrolled
was 56,936. These required about 1200 teachers, of whom over a thousand
were women. The actual average of pupils to each teacher was about
42. There were 106 school buildings, with a seating capacity for about
50,000 scholars. Of the district schools 13 were colored, in which were
employed 78 colored teachers. The salaries of teachers are progressive,
according to length of service. As for instance, the principal of the
High-school has $2400 the first year, $2500 the second, $2600 the third,
$2750 the fourth; a head assistant in a district school, $650 the first
year, $700 the second, $750 the third, $800 the fourth, $850 the fifth.
The few schools that I saw fully sustained their public reputation as
to methods, discipline, and attainments. The Normal School, of
something over 100 pupils, nearly all the girls being graduates of
the High-school, was admirable in drill, in literary training, in
calisthenic exercises. The High-school is also admirable, a school with
a thoroughly elevated tone and an able principal. Of the 600 pupils at
least two-thirds were girls. From appearances I should judge that it is
attended by children of the most intelligent families, for certainly
the girls of the junior and senior classes, in manner, looks, dress,
and attainments, compared favorably with those of one of the best girls’
schools I have seen anywhere, the Mary Institute, which is a department
of the Washington University. This fact is most important, for the
excellence of our public schools (for the product of good men and women)
depends largely upon their popularity with the well-to-do classes. One
of the most interesting schools I saw was the Jefferson, presided over
by a woman, having fine fire-proof buildings and 1100 pupils, nearly all
whom are of foreign parentage—German, Russian, and Italian, with many
Hebrews also—a finely ordered, wide-awake school of eight grades. The
kindergarten here was the best I saw; good teachers, bright and happy
little children, with natural manners, throwing themselves gracefully
into their games with enjoyment and without self-consciousness, and
exhibiting exceedingly pretty fancy and kindergarten work. In St.
Louis the kindergarten is a part of the public-school system, and the
experiment is one of general interest. The question cannot be called
settled. In the first place the experiment is hampered in St. Louis by
a decision of the Supreme Court that the public money cannot be used for
children out of the school age, that is, under six and over twenty. This
prevents teaching English to adult foreigners in the evening schools,
and, rigidly applied, it shuts out pupils from the kindergarten under
six. One advantage from the kindergarten was expected to be an extension
of the school period; and there is no doubt that the kindergarten
instruction ought to begin before the age of six, especially for the
mass of children who miss home training and home care. As a matter
of fact, many of the children I saw in the kindergartens were only
constructively six years old. It cannot be said, also, that the Froebel
system is fully understood or accepted. In my observation, the success
of the kindergarten depends entirely upon the teacher; where she is
competent, fully believes in and understands the Froebel system, and is
enthusiastic, the pupils are interested and alert; otherwise they are
listless, and fail to get the benefit of it. The Froebel system is the
developing the concrete idea in education, and in the opinion of his
disciples this is as important for children of the intelligent
and well-to-do as for those of the poor and ignorant. They resist,
therefore, the attempt which is constantly made, to introduce the
primary work into the kindergarten. But for the six years’ limit the
kindergarten in St. Louis would have a better chance in its connection
with the public schools. As the majority of children leave school for
work at the age of twelve or fourteen, there is little time enough
given for book education; many educators think time is wasted in the
kindergarten, and they advocate the introduction of what they call
kindergarten features in the primary classes. This is called by the
disciples of Froebel an entire abandonment of his system. I should like
to see the kindergarten in connection with the public school tried long
enough to demonstrate all that is claimed for it in its influence on
mental development, character, and manners, but it seems unlikely to
be done in St. Louis, unless the public-school year begins at least as
early as five, or, better still, is specially unlimited for kindergarten
pupils.
Except in the primary work in drawing and modelling, there is no manual
training feature in the St. Louis public schools. The teaching of German
is recently dropped from all the district schools (though retained in
the High), in accordance with the well-founded idea of Americanizing our
foreign population as rapidly as possible.
One of the most important institutions in the Mississippi Valley, and
one that exercises a decided influence upon the intellectual and social
life of St. Louis, and is a fair measure of its culture and the value
of the higher education, is the Washington University, which was
incorporated in 1853, and was presided over until his death, in 1887,
by the late Chancellor William Green-leaf Eliot, of revered memory.
It covers the whole range of university studies, except theology,
and allows no instruction either sectarian in religion or partisan in
politics, nor the application of any sectarian or party test in the
election of professors, teachers, or officers. Its real estate and
buildings in use for educational purposes cost $625,000; its libraries,
scientific apparatus, casts, and machinery cost over $100,000, and it
has investments for revenue amounting to over $650,000. The University
comprehends an undergraduate department, including the college (a
thorough classical, literary, and philosophical course, with about sixty
students), open to women, and the polytechnic, an admirably equipped
school of science; the St. Louis Law School, of excellent reputation;
the Manual Training School, the most celebrated school of this sort, and
one that has furnished more manual training teachers than any other;
the Henry Shaw School of Botany; the St. Louis School of Fine Arts; the
Smith Academy, for boys; and the Mary Institute, one of the roomiest and
most cheerful school buildings I know, where 400 girls, whose collective
appearance need not fear comparison with any in the country, enjoy the
best educational advantages. Mary Institute is justly the pride of the
city.
The School of Botany, which is endowed and has its own laboratory,
workshop, and working library, was, of course, the outgrowth of the Shaw
Botanical Garden; it has usually from twenty to thirty special students.
The School of Fine Arts, which was reorganized under the University
in 1879, has enrolled over 200 students, and gives a wide and careful
training in all the departments of drawing, painting, and modelling,
with instructions in anatomy, perspective, and composition, and has life
classes for both sexes, in drawing from draped and nude figures. Its
lecture, working rooms, and galleries of paintings and casts are in
its Crow Art Museum—a beautiful building, well planned and justly
distinguished for architectural excellence. It ranks among the best Art
buildings in the country.
The Manual Training School has been in operation since 1880. It may be
called the most fully developed pioneer institution of the sort. I spent
some time in its workshops and schools, thinking of the very interesting
question at the bottom of the experiment, namely, the mental development
involved in the training of the hand and the eye, and the reflex help to
manual skill in the purely intellectual training of study. It is, it may
be said again, not the purpose of the modern manual training to teach
a trade, but to teach the use of tools as an aid in the symmetrical
development of the human being. The students here certainly do beautiful
work in wood-turning and simple carving, in ironwork and forging. They
enjoy the work; they are alert and interested in it. I am certain that
they are the more interested in it in seeing how they can work out and
apply what they have learned in books, and I doubt not they take hold of
literary study more freshly for this manual training in exactness. The
school exacts close and thoughtful study with tools as well as in books,
and I can believe that it gives dignity in the opinion of the working
student to hand labor. The school is large, its graduates have been
generally successful in practical pursuits and in teaching, and it lias
demonstrated in itself the correctness of the theory of its authors,
that intellectual drill and manual training are mutually advantageous
together. Whether manual training shall be a part of all district school
education is a question involving many considerations that do not enter
into the practicability of this school, but I have no doubt that manual
training schools of this sort would be immensely useful in every city.
There are many boys in every community who cannot in any other wayr be
awakened to any real study. This training school deserves a chapter
by itself, and as I have no space for details, I take the liberty of
referring those interested to a volume on its aims and methods by Dr. C.
M. Woodward, its director.
Notwithstanding the excellence of the public-school system of St. Louis,
there is no other city in the country, except New Orleans, where so
large a proportion of the youths are being educated outside the public
schools. A very considerable portion of the population is Catholic.
There are forty-four parochial schools, attended by nineteen thousand
pupils, and over a dozen different Sisterhoods are engaged in teaching
in them. Generally each parochial school has two departments—one for
boys and one for girls. They are sustained entirely by the parishes. In
these schools, as in the two Catholic universities, the prominence of
ethical and religious training is to be noted. Seven-eighths of the
schools are in charge of thoroughly trained religious teachers. Many of
the boys’ schools are taught by Christian Brothers. The girls are almost
invariably taught by members of religious Sisterhoods. In most of the
German schools the girls and smaller boys are taught by Sisters, the
larger boys by lay teachers. Some reports of school attendance are given
in the Catholic Directory: SS. Peter and Paul’s (German), 1300 pupils;
St. Joseph’s (German), 957; St. Bridget’s, 950; St. Malaehy’s, 756; St.
John’s, 700; St. Patrick’s, 700. There is a school for colored children
of 150 pupils taught by colored Sisters.
In addition to these parochial schools there are a dozen academies
and convents of higher education for young ladies, all under charge of
Catholic Sisterhoods, commonly with a mixed attendance of boarders
and day scholars, and some of them with a reputation for learning that
attracts pupils from other States, notably the Academy of the Sacred
Heart, St. Joseph’s Academy, and the Academy of the Visitation, in
charge of cloistered nuns of that order. Besides these, in connection
with various reformatory and charitable institutions, such as the House
of the Good Shepherd and St. Mary’s Orphan Asylum, there are industrial
schools in charge of the Sisterhoods, where girls receive, in addition
to their education, training in some industry to maintain themselves
respectably when they leave their temporary homes. Statistics are
wanting, but it will be readily inferred from these statements that
there are in the city a great number of single women devoted for life,
and by special religious and intellectual training, to the office of
teaching.
For the higher education of Catholic young men the city is distinguished
by two remarkable institutions. The one is the old St. Louis University,
and the other is the Christian Brothers’ College. The latter, which a
few years ago outgrew its old buildings in the city, has a fine pile of
buildings at Côte Brillante, on a commanding site about five miles out,
with ample grounds, and in the neighborhood of the great parks and the
Botanical Garden. The character of the school is indicated by the motto
on the façade of the building—Religio, Mores, Cultura. The institution
is designed to accommodate a thousand boarding students. The present
attendance is 450, about half of whom are boarders, and represent twenty
States. There is a corps of thirty-five professors, and three courses of
study are maintained—the classical, the scientific, and the commercial.
As several of the best parochial schools are in charge of Christian
Brothers, these schools are feeders of the college, and the pupils have
the advantage of an unbroken system with a consistent purpose from the
day they enter into the primary department till they graduate at the
college. The order has, at Glencoe, a large Normal School for the
training of teachers. The fame and success of the Christian Brothers
as educators in elementary and the higher education, in Europe and the
United States, is largely due to the fact that they labor as a unit in
a system that never varies in its methods of imparting instruction,
in which the exponents of it have all undergone the same pedagogic
training, in which there is no room for the personal fancy of the
teacher in correction, discipline, or scholarship, for everything is
judiciously governed by prescribed modes of procedure, founded on long
experience, and exemplified in the co-operative plan of the Brothers.
In vindication of the exceptional skill acquired by its teachers in the
thorough drill of the order, the Brotherhood points to the success of
its graduates in competitive examinations for public employment in this
country and in Europe, and to the commendation its educational exhibits
received at London and New Orleans.
The St. Louis University, founded in 1829 by members of the Society of
Jesus, and chartered in 1834, is officered and controlled by the Jesuit
Fathers. It is an unendowed institution, depending upon fees paid
for tuition. Before the war its students were largely the children of
Southern planters, and its graduates are found all over the South and
South-west; and up to 1881 the pupils boarded and lodged within the
precincts of the old buildings on the corner of Ninth Street and
Washington, where for over half a century the school has vigorously
flourished. The place, which is now sold and about to be used for
business purposes, has a certain flavor of antique scholarship, and the
quaint buildings keep in mind the plain but rather pleasing architecture
of the French period. The University is in process of removal to the new
buildings on Grand avenue, which are a conspicuous ornament to one of
the most attractive parts of the city. Soon nothing will be left of
the institution on Ninth Street except the old college church, which is
still a favorite place of worship for the Catholics of the city. The new
buildings, in the early decorated English Gothic style, are ample and
imposing; they have a front of 270 feet, and the northern wing extends
325 feet westward from the avenue. The library, probably the finest room
of the kind in the West, is sixty-seven feet high, amply lighted,
and provided with three balconies. The library, which was packed for
removal, has over 25,000 volumes, is said to contain many rare and
interesting books, and to fairly represent science and literature.
Besides this, there are special libraries, open to students, of over
0000 volumes. The museum of the new building is a noble ball, one
hundred feet by sixty feet, and fifty-two feet high, without columns,
and lighted from above and from the side. The University has a valuable
collection of ores and minerals, and other objects of nature and
art that will be deposited in this hall, which will also serve as
a picture-gallery for the many paintings of historical interest.
Philosophical apparatus, a chemical laboratory, and an astronomical
observatory are the equipments on the scientific side.
The University has now no dormitories and no boarders. There are
twenty-five professors and instructors. The entire course, including the
preparatory, is seven years. A glance at the catalogue shows that in
the curriculum the institution keeps pace with the demands of the age.
Besides the preparatory course (89 pupils), it has a classical course
(143 pupils), an English course (82 pupils), and 85 post-graduate
students, making a total of 399. Its students form societies for various
purposes; one, the Sodality of the Blessed Virgin Mary, with distinct
organizations in the senior and junior classes, is for the promotion of
piety and the practice of devotion towards the Blessed Virgin; another
is for training in public speaking and philosophic and literary
disputation; there is also a scientific academy, to foster a taste for
scientific culture; and there is a student’s library of 4000 volumes,
independent of the religious books of the Sodality societies.
In a conversation with the president I learned that the prevailing idea
in the courses of study is the gradual and healthy development of
the mind. The classes are carefully graded. The classics are favorite
branches, but mental philosophy, chemistry, physics, astronomy, are
taught with a view to practical application. Much stress is laid upon
mathematics. During the whole course of seven years, one hour each day
is devoted to this branch. In short, I was impressed with the fact that
this is an institution for mental training. Still more was I struck with
the prominence in the whole course of ethical and religious culture. On
assembling every morning, all the Catholic students hear mass. In every
class in every year Christian doctrine has as prominent a place as
any branch of study; beginning in the elementary class with the small
catechism and practical instructions in the manner of reciting the
ordinary prayers, it goes on through the whole range of doctrine—creed,
evidences, ritual, ceremonial, mysteries—in the minutest details of
theory and practice; ingraining, so far as repeated instruction can,
the Catholic faith and pure moral conduct in the character, involving
instructions as to what occasions and what amusements are dangerous to
a good life, on the reading of good books and the avoiding bad books and
bad company.
In the post-graduate course, lectures are given and examinations made
in ethics, psychology, anthropology, biology, and physics; and in the
published abstracts of lectures for the past two years I find that none
of the subjects of modern doubt and speculation are ignored—spiritism,
psychical research, the cell theory, the idea of God, socialism,
agnosticism, the Noachinn deluge, theories of government, fundamental
notions of physical science, unity of the human species, potency
of matter, and so on. During the past fifty years this faculty has
contained many men famous as pulpit orators and missionaries, and this
course of lectures on philosophic and scientific subjects has brought it
prominently before the cultivated inhabitants of the town.
Another educational institution of note in St. Louis is the Concordia
Seminar of the Old Lutheran, or the Evangelical Lutheran Church. This
denomination, which originated in Saxony, and has a large membership in
our Western States, adheres strictly to the Augsburg Confession, and is
distinguished from the general Lutheran Church by greater strictness
of doctrine and practice, or, as may be said, by a return to primitive
Lutheranism; that is to say, it grounds itself upon the literal
inspiration of the Scriptures, upon salvation by faith alone, and upon
individual liberty. This Seminar is one of several related institutions
in the Synod of Missouri, Ohio, and other States: there is a college at
Fort Wayne, Indiana, a Progymnasium at Milwaukee, a Seminar of practical
theology at Springfield, Illinois, and this Seminar at St. Louis,
which is wholly devoted to theoretical theology. This Church numbers, I
believe, about 200,000 members.
The Concordia Seminar is housed in a large, commodious building,
effectively set upon high ground in the southern part of the city. It
was erected and the institution is sustained by the contributions of the
congregations. The interior, roomy, light, and commodious, is plain to
barrenness, and has a certain monastic severity, which is matched by the
discipline and the fare. In visiting it one takes a step backward into
the atmosphere and theology of the sixteenth century. The ministers of
the denomination are distinguished for learning and earnest simplicity.
The president, a very able man, only thirty-five years of age, is at
least two centuries old in his opinions, and wholly undisturbed by
any of the doubts which have agitated the Christian world since the
Reformation. He holds the faith “once for all” delivered to the saints.
The Seminar has a hundred students. It is requisite to admission, said
the president, that they be perfect Latin, Greek, and Hebrew scholars.
A large proportion of the lectures are given in Latin, the remainder in
German and English, and Latin is current in the institution, although
German is the familiar speech. The course of study is exacting, the
rules are rigid, and the discipline severe. Social intercourse with
the other sex is discouraged. The pursuit of love and learning are
considered incompatible at the same time; and if a student were
inconsiderate enough to become engaged, he would be expelled. Each
student from abroad may select or be selected by a family in the
communion, at whose house he may visit once a week, which attends to his
washing, and supplies to a certain extent the place of a home. The young
men are trained in the highest scholarship and the strictest code of
morals. I know of no other denomination which holds its members to such
primitive theology and such strictness of life. Individual liberty and
responsibility are stoutly asserted, without any latitude in belief.
It repudiates Prohibition as an infringement of personal liberty, would
make the use of wine or beer depend upon the individual conscience,
but no member of the communion would be permitted to sell intoxicating
liquors, or to go to a beer-garden or a theatre. In regard to the
sacrament of communion, there is no authority for altering the plain
directions in the Scripture, and communion without wine, or the
substitution of any concoction for wine, would be a sin. No member would
be permitted to join any labor union or secret society. The sacrament
of communion is a mystery. It is neither transubstantiation nor
consubstantiation. The president, whose use of English in subtle
distinctions is limited, resorted to Latin and German in explanation
of the mystery, but left the question of real and actual presence, of
spirit and substance, still a matter of terms; one can only say that
neither the ordinary Protestant nor the Catholic interpretation is
accepted. Conversion is not by any act or ability of man; salvation is
by faith alone. As the verbal inspiration of the Scriptures is
insisted on in all cases, the world was actually created in six days
of twenty-four hours each. When I asked the president what he did
with geology, he smiled and simply waved his hand. This communion has
thirteen flourishing churches in the city. In a town so largely German,
and with so many freethinkers as well as free-livers, I cannot but
consider this strict sect, of a simple unquestioning faith and high
moral demands, of the highest importance in the future of the city. But
one encounters with surprise, in our modern life, this revival of the
sixteenth century, which plants itself so squarely against so much that
we call “progress.”
As to the institutions of charity, I must content myself with saying
that they are many, and worthy of a great and enlightened city. There
are of all denominations 211 churches; of these the Catholics lead with
47; the Presbyterians come next with 24; and the Baptists have 22; the
Methodists North, 4; and the Methodists South, 8. The most interesting
edifices, both for associations and architecture, are the old Cathedral;
the old Christ Church (Episcopalian), excellent Gothic; and an exquisite
edifice, the Church of the Messiah (Unitarian), in Locust Street.
The city has two excellent libraries. The Public Library, an adjunct
of the public-school system, in the Polytechnic Building, has an annual
appropriation of about $14,000 from the School Board, and receives about
$5000 more from membership and other sources. It contains about 67,000
volumes, and is admirably managed. The Mercantile Library is in process
of removal into a magnificent six-story building on Broadway and Locust
Street. It is a solid and imposing structure, the first story of red
granite, and the others of brick and terra-cotta. The library and
reading-rooms are on the fifth story, the rest of the building is
rented. This association, which is forty-two years old, has 3500
members, and had an income in 1887 of $120,000, nearly all from
membership. In January, 1888, it had 68,732 volumes, and in a
circulation of over 168,000 in the year, it had the unparalleled
distinction of reducing the fiction given out to 41.95 per cent. Both
these libraries have many treasures interesting to a book-lover, and
though neither is free, the liberal, intelligent management of each has
been such as to make it a most beneficent institution for the city.
There are many handsome and stately buildings in the city, the recent
erections showing growth in wealth and taste. The Chamber of Commerce,
which is conspicuous for solid elegance, cost a million and a half
dollars. There are 3295 members of the Merchants’ Exchange. The
Court-house, with its noble dome, is as well proportioned a building as
can be found in the country. A good deal may be said for the size and
effect of the Exposition Building, which covers what was once a pretty
park at the foot of Lucas Place, and cost 6750,000. There are clubs many
and flourishing. The St. Louis Club (social) has the finest building,
an exceedingly tasteful piece of Romanesque architecture on Twenty-ninth
Street. The University Club, which is like its namesake in other cities,
has a charming old-fashioned house and grounds on Pine Street. The
Commercial Club, an organization limited in its membership to sixty,
has no club-house, but, like its namesake in Chicago, is a controlling
influence in the prosperity of the city. Representing all the leading
occupations, it is a body of men who, by character, intellect, and
wealth, can carry through any project for the public good, and which is
animated by the highest public spirit.
Of the social life of the town one is permitted to speak only in general
terms. It has many elements to make it delightful—long use in social
civilities, interest in letters and in education, the cultivation of
travel, traditions, and the refinement of intellectual pursuits. The
town has no academy of music, but there is a good deal of musical
feeling and cultivation; there is a very good orchestra, one of the very
best choruses in the country, and Verdi’s “Requiem” was recently given
