theories provide occupation still for anxious 
and aimless infidels of a certain sort, but 
Christian scholarship must pass them with the 
silence which is the only practicable reply of 
any science to any charlatanism. 
Where is the Christian apologist who taunts 
Science with her abandoned outposts ? Who 
accuses her because George Washington was 
bled to death? Who denounces her because 
no physician in Europe over the age of forty 
accepted Harvey's discovery of the circulation 
of the blood ? Yet such jeers were on a level 
with the hue and cry to which scholars like 
Teschendorf, or Robertson Smith, or Bishop 
Lightfoot are expected to give chase. 
Let us remember that systematic religious 
belief is a science, as well as botany or 
physiology ; like other sciences, subject to human 
mistake, correction, and slow development ; 
that Revelation has no more done revealing 
than the cell-theory, or the theory of 
spontaneously moving plants ; and that we are to 
regard the Bible, not as a splendidly wrought 
sarcophagus, but as the bed of a deep and 
magnificent ocean, wherein is hid treasure 
that the life of a man, or a race, may dive for 
and not exhaust. 
Bearing this clearly in mind, the first thing 
which we observe about the Bible is that it 
is a human history, written by men, and for 
men, and to be judged by human standards. 
Whatever God has to do with it is for us a 
matter of inference, not of assumption. What- 
ever be the supernatural element in it, we are 
to decide as a result, not as a condition, of 
our study of the book. We are not to bring 
to this study an a priori conviction that the 
whale did, any more than that he did not, 
swallow Jonah. 
All that any believer in the Bible has a 
right to ask, or needs to ask, is that it should 
be subjected to the same historical laws 
which govern other books. If historical science 
should do away with the personality of 
Adam, — what then ? The believer should 
be the last to insist upon it for the truth's 
sake ; the reality of Revelation is not affected 
by the surrender of this or that trifling detail 
or theory ; it would be ruined by an evasion 
of truth. If the Bible cannot stand the same 
tests with other histories, we want to know 
it, and we want to be the first to know it. 
It is the belief of careful Christian scholar- 
ship, as it is the concession of the fairest skep- 
tical learning, that the book stands the test. 
Kenan says of the Gospels : " All, in my 
judgment, date back to the first century, and 
they are substantially by the authors to whom 
they are attributed." 
We have a human history of at least equal 
claims with others ; with, at all events, no 
more than their share of errors, inconsisten- 
cies, and difficulties ; to be handled with the 
same critical skill and honor as Josephus and 
Xenophon and Grote ; and was it not Les- 
sing who said, " If Livy and Dionysius and 
Polybius and Tacitus are so candidly and 
liberally treated that we do not stretch them 
on the rack for a syllable, why should not 
Matthew and Mark and Luke and John be 
treated as well " ? 
We shall not, however, quarrel with him 
who demands that the Scriptures be handled 
with greater critical skill than other histories ; 
their claims are greater, and may require it ; 
but we insist that, for the same reason, the 
intellectual and moral candor of the critic shall 
be guarded in proportion to the size of the 
subject and the cause at stake. No human 
history has received and endured the critical 
strain which has been brought to bear upon 
the Christian Scriptures. A German scholar 
once wrote a keen little book, in which he 
applied to the personality of Martin Luther the 
same kinds of historical methods which have 
been exercised upon that of Christ, thereby 
proving the general untrustworthiness of the 
fact of Luther. Another skillful writer has, by 
a similar treatment, shown, with marked effect, 
that Caesar was never assassinated. Whateley's 
application of this principle to Napoleon 
is a familiar instance in the same direction. 
Whatever Revelation reveals, then, it cannot 
be too clearly emphasized that it reveals 
by sifting through the hard, fine sieve of 
human history. The natural way God chose, and 
chose it in this most natural form. We have 
to deal with the records of an ancient people ; 
with their remoteness and barbarism, their 
politics, progress, and decline ; with their 
superstitions and faith, their virtues and vices, 
their pretensions and claims ; and, further, 
with whatever moral or spiritual objects the 
internal evidence of the Book may offer as 
sufficient reasons for the selection of  this 
particular people for the position of extraordinary 
importance which their Scriptures have given 
them in the world's thought. 
The Bible reveals once more, in a degree 
unequaled by any human production, a power 
of adaptation to human consciousness. " The 
Bible finds me," said Coleridge, " as nothing 
else does." Assuming that God had preferred 
the literary method and had chosen a collection 
of Hebrew chronicles, poems, and letters as 
the medium of communicating to men some- 
thing of value which Nature had not expressed, 
it would be expected that he would appeal, so 
far as his media permitted, to that which un- 
derlies all philosophy and defies all dogma- 
tism. " There is a point of view beyond the 
sphere of philosophy," says Goethe, " namely, 
that of common sense." There are a few 
things about ourselves which we know ; to 
these the Bible addresses itself with a subtlety 
and a force which, to be sure, taken by them- 
selves, it is not necessary to call supernatural, 
but which certainly transcend anything which 
we have yet experienced in other literary in- 
fluences. 
Men have misery, an uneasy conscience, 
disenchantment with life, reluctance to death, 
desire for eternal existence, and isolation of 
the soul. We do not turn to our Dante for 
such a plain, old-fashioned thing as comfort ; 
Goethe has no forgiveness to offer a stained 
nature shuddering and cowering before itself ; 
Homer lends few illusions to the unconfessed 
emptiness of our days ; Virgil does not draw 
the sting from the fang of our last hours ; 
Shakespeare cannot promise us immortality, 
nor draw near to the inner solitude in which 
all men walk, but the sensitive perish. 
Great grief and great guilt drive mankind 
where they can get something greater. Strong 
fear and strong hope hold us where we can 
find something stronger. Sin and suffering 
are the deepest facts of life. Real emotions 
are a keen touchstone to the real. The common 
crises, the plebeian forces, the plain, 
universal fates and chances, test our prophets and 
ourselves. 
" Though I am a Hellene at heart," confessed 
the invalid Heine, " the book has not 
only well entertained me, but also deeply 
edified me. What a book ! . . . The whole 
drama of humanity (is) in this book. It is 
the book of books — Biblia." 
" Need you ask ? " said the dying Scott, 
when requested to name the book which he 
would have read. " Need you ask ? There is 
but one." 
Quarrel with it as we may, doubt it as we 
often must, perplexed by it as we shall always 
be, criticise it as we dare, neglect it as we 
do, the fact remains, and remains one of august 
significance, that, in those emergencies 
of life which are fathoms deep below all intellectual
querulousness or self-delusion, the 
Bible grasps us as the very hand of God 
might do, if we could find in this fact alone 
sufficient proof that the hand of God is in it. 
We have our infectious as well as our 
incommunicable doubts. Unbelief is subject 
to fashions. The scientific pose is so clearly 
a la mode, it would seem strange that it has 
overlooked in the Bible by far the most important
support which can be found for the 
theories which teach us to believe in the 
evolution of the race. 
Revelation reveals the only clear basis of 
hope there is that the world can ever become 
what unbelieving science claims that it will. 
Our modern dream of humanity is nothing 
else than Christianity in a mask domino. The 
altruism of the prevailing philosophy owes its 
existence to the principles taught by Jesus, 
and its influence to the power of his individuality 
upon the world. What is that auda- 
cious fantasy known as the " invention of 
immortality " but a cheap parody on the splendid 
Biblical promise of a life hereafter ? 
Revelation contains the only true democ- 
racy. Respect for the despised may be said 
to have originated with Christ. He first 
reduced the capricious and inefficient impulses 
of human sympathy to a permanent force. 
He taught the inexorable demands of poverty 
upon possession. He wrought havoc with the 
criminalities of selfish social ease. He gave 
challenge to the sloth and the slumber of human 
fellowship. He preached religious free- 
dom and rebuked superstition. 
The deference of strength to weakness, the 
patience of wisdom with folly, the tenderness 
of integrity to error, the claims of suffering 
upon joy, the right of the individual to his 
own God, were never powerfully formulated 
and practically illustrated in the same 
individual until he formulated and illustrated them. 
The so-called "religion of humanity " is the 
most amazing theft that the history of
philosophy has known. It has stolen from the 
lips of the Carpenter's Son the principles of 
human progress, over which a little knot of 
scholars and scoffers are grouped to-day, with 
the expression of those who discover the se- 
cret of existence. These principles, and these 
alone, present the only possible chance for the 
development of the race from its existing 
crudeness to the beautiful finish of which ma- 
terialist and believer dream. The theories of 
the New Testament contain the seeds of the 
highest because the broadest culture. They 
respect the people. They build our hospitals, 
our asylums, our Magdalen homes, our public 
schools, the scholarships in our great universi- 
ties ; they open the oriental harems to our fe- 
male physicians, our libraries to day-laborers, 
our academies to freed slaves, our colleges to 
women, our republics to their citizens. Blot 
the philosophy of the Nazarene out of the 
world, and these things go with it. This phi- 
losophy, and this alone, places that importance 
on the individual which makes personal growth 
possible upon any such scale as to become gen- 
eral development. 
Jesus Christ taught the value of the unit; 
he gave us this factor in social statics. He 
represented the enfranchisement of faith ; he 
gave this basis to our spiritual science. Strive 
as we would, we can no more outgrow our 
debt to him as a social reformer, or the chief 
apostle of religious freedom, than the wine can 
disallow its own grapes, or the rainbow ignore 
the prism. " Let mental culture go on ad- 
vancing," admitted Goethe, " let the natural 
sciences go on gaining in depth and breadth, 
and the human mind expand as it may, it will 
never go beyond the elevation and moral culture 
of Christianity as it glistens and shines 
forth in the Gospel ! " 
The remarkable conformity of the Scriptures 
to personal consciousness and to universal 
history is an important argument in 
favor of the reality of the Biblical claims, but 
does not seem to be a final one. Let it meet 
the individual or the general needs with what- 
ever force or subtlety, the demands of this 
Book are so tremendous, if false they are so 
preposterous, that it ought to be subjected to 
every test of intellect and conscience that we 
can bring to bear upon it. 
If we can find anything else professing to 
be a revelation from God which is less perplexing,
more simple, more reasonable, we 
should be bound to drop this. " Give me a 
better book, and I will," was the profound 
reply of a Christian who was asked to surrender 
the Bible. 
Candid unbelievers readily acknowledge the 
superiority of the Christian to all other Scriptures.
Uncandid ones admit the same by the 
virulence and persistence of their defiance to 
the Bible. 
" There is no recognition in the Koran of 
human brotherhood." Many orientalists claim 
that Buddhism gives us no personal god. The 
Edda, and the Zend Avesta, and the Vedas 
have too many gods. The Sacred Books of 
Confucius offer little or no hope of immortality. 
It is not too much to say that, on the 
whole, and to the best of our knowledge and 
belief, tested by that consensus of the intelligent 
and devout which alone is competent to 
pass judgment upon a question in which the 
spiritual faculties as well as the reasoning 
must be qualified jurors, our Bible reveals the 
best explanation we have of the phenomena 
of life. 
It is a mysterious one, it is an imperfect 
one, it is a half-developed one, but it is the 
best we have. It is the best we have, because 
it is the most humane ; therefore, in so far, 
the most divine. It is the most humane and 
the most divine because it reveals the rela- 
tion of Jesus Christ to the problem of exist- 
ence. 
To practical people of instructed intelli- 
gence, but not of the theological or metaphys- 
ical temperaments which will amuse them- 
selves with the casuistries of the thing to the 
end of human leisure, it seems to me that the 
whole matter resolves itself into something like 
this : 
We are here, we know not how or why. 
We are in a world of certain misery and 
uncertain pleasure. Life is a dark marvel. 
Death is a blind leap. The future is silent. 
God is a mystery. Nature is terrible. Why 
are we thrust, the pawns in an awful game ? 
Why, why were we tossed, the weeds on a 
fathomless sea ? What did the Creator of the 
earth mean by so seemingly cruel a waste of 
human sensitiveness and force ? Who can find 
him reasons for an apparently merciless venture 
at world-making ? Here comes calmly 
upon our bluster and battle a Book whose history 
is so singular that its unique pretensions 
scarcely excite our surprise, however they 
influence our credulity. 
It assumes to declare to us the existence of 
a wise and affectionate God, whose children 
we are, and whose purposes to us it partially 
explains. It presumes to treat us as immortal 
souls. It dares to promise us eternal life. It 
delights to offer us that satisfaction of body, 
mind, and spirit known as heaven. It does 
not shrink from foretelling the moral consequences 
of evil in this or any world. It allures 
us to purity. It would comfort us in 
sorrow. It would save us from despair. It 
would stimulate confidence in the Author of 
life, and our trust in that sequel to it which 
follows death. It is true that this book fails to 
tell us why God made the world at all. It is 
as silent as reason, it is as dumb as the stars, 
upon this tremendous question. It is, possibly, 
one of the objects of our existence to learn that 
we are too small to ask a question of this size ; 
that divine motives are not material for hu- 
man grasp, like fossils, or mollusks, or typhoid 
fever. However that may be, the Bible meets 
us squarely upon the deepest and the highest 
question which the finite intellect has the right 
to ask : What, having made us at all, is God's 
moral attitude toward us ? When he thrust 
into space this quivering ball of pain and 
error, did he mean well enough by it to jus- 
tify the deed ? 
Profounder than all our philosophy, wiser 
than all our protest, comes the sublime and 
solitary answer : " lie so loved the ivorld that 
he gave his only Son" 
This magnificent reply, which theology has 
distorted out of its grand and simple proportions, 
to which science has refused its supreme 
reasonableness, the true human heart and the 
clear human head have accepted. The contortions 
of faith and the malice of doubt have 
almost equally united to shake the hold of this 
great re-assurance upon the world. The world 
will have it in spite of both. The world will 
have it, because it is the best it can get ; and 
by all the iron laws of common sense it will 
keep the best till God or man can offer it 
something better. 
The Bible, then, we say, is a mysterious 
book ; as yet possibly a misunderstood, certainly
an ill-understood one ; it has been as 
much abused as used ; it has cloaked amazing 
error and shielded incredible crime ; it has 
been the object of idolatrous worship and of 
infernal hate ; it has aroused almost all the 
passions of humanity. The crude, emotional 
stages of the world's life have spent themselves 
upon it, like weather on a rock. Now, 
as we approach the ages of disciplined thought 
and deepened spiritual forces, the form of the 
conflict will change only as much as it must 
intensify. 
Far be it from me to involve any other believer 
in an individual conviction, or to claim 
to represent the shifting and various phases of 
faith in the Christian church to-day, by a personal 
theory of inspiration, when I say that 
the Bible of the future must be interpreted 
chiefly as a biography. 
The day may come when our views of the 
divine purpose, as exemplified in the Old Tes- 
tament, will receive even more modification 
than they have already done, and that is very 
great. 
" There is no such reverential use of the 
truth as a bold use of it," finely says President 
Bascom. "No other use implies the same 
confidence in it." 
The time may be at hand, not when all 
element of the supernatural shall be eliminated 
from a work which, so far as we can now 
see, must retain a measure of it as a 
countersign of its sacred and exceptional errand, 
but when the proportions of that element 
shall be perceptibly decreased. If the Jewish 
Scriptures should come to be regarded, mainly, 
as the religious and political records of a
people whose national importance the events of the 
New Testament, and these alone, explain ; if 
we find ourselves led to subject their legends 
and miracles to the same intelligent tests by 
which we have already tried their cosmogony 
and chronology, and if the one should share in 
large measure the same fate that has overtaken 
the other ; though Eden were an allegory, and 
though God never told Abraham to kill Isaac, 
and though we were obliged to consider it 
doubtful whether Samson slew a thousand 
men with the jaw-bone of an ass, the value 
of the Bible would be no more infringed 
than the glory of the moon is affected by the 
" discouraging condition " of lunar theories, 
concerning which a scientific student tells us 
that her " actual place in the heavens is now 
so different from her calculated place that a 
sailor would be misled by it, as to his longitude,
five miles." 
If, indeed, we come at length to prize the 
Old Testament, — for its matchless devotional 
literature, to be sure, its august historic
associations and profound ministry to certain 
forms of human need, but mainly because it 
represents the genealogical stage of that great 
Memoir whose central Figure is the hope of 
the world, — the power of the Bible will no 
more be lost than the color of the rose was 
lost by the discovery of the metamorphosis of 
plants. That majestic Figure remains, and the 
details of its history advance with increasing 
literary and moral effect, through the precious 
pages of the New Testament, to their climax. 
The Gospels tell the story and report the in- 
struction of Christ. The Epistles formulate 
his theology. The Apocalypse is a vision of 
the final mystery to which all fact and all 
faith are tending — a vision seen by the soul 
that he loved best, and that may have, must 
have, absorbed most of the miracle of his nature. 
The biography marches on, with splendid 
disregard of all petty criticisms, to its great 
historical and ethical ends. God used such 
material as he had. He seems to have cared 
chiefly to select men who would not lie, and 
trusted the necessary imperfections of such a 
work, performed by such instruments as he 
could get, to the good sense of mankind. 
One might almost say that it does not seem 
to have occurred to the great Compiler of 
these scattered records that the world would 
ever question the main purpose or use of the 
Bible, because the Jews killed their captives 
or Matthew made a mistake in a genealogical 
table ! How small, beside the loftiness of the 
divine plan which overrode the human group- 
ing of these humanly written records, shows 
the peevish spirit which demands that he weed 
the human out of them, and because he did 
not dares him to prove that he had anything 
to do with them at all ! 
Whatever the future of Biblical exegesis may 
bring forth, it is difficult to see reason for
believing that the miracles of the New Testament will 
ever be entirely " explained away ; " though 
that may be a piece of private conservatism. 
We have no more right, as has been well sug- 
gested, to assume that there can be no miracle, 
than that there must. The facts, and the facts 
alone, must make the theory. The scientific 
basis of thought has taught us as much as this. 
Let Christianity be too apt a pupil to forget 
it. The evidential proofs that Jesus possessed 
supernatural powers seem so far to rest where 
the other historical proof of the narrative 
does ; and so far both, or neither, are to be 
accepted. But even supposing that candid 
and devout scholarship should eventually leave 
us little of these miraculous incidents except 
the great fact and symbol of the Resurrection, 
it is certain that we should not lose our Bible 
with them. We should lose nothing unless we 
lost the Christ. lie is the miracle. Revela- 
tion reveals him. He is the message of God 
to man. Through him is the divine law of- 
fered to human obedience. By him all that 
it has pleased the Ruler of the world to ex- 
plain of his moral government is expressed. 
Jesus Christ is Revelation, and Revelation is 
Jesus Christ. 
The famous and familiar words of Lecky 
come with more force to us, just here, than any 
Christian estimate of this sacred personality 
