Avho was known to be failing so prematurely (he was almost 
as young to die, and to die famous Lady Agnes regarded it 
as famous as his son had been to stand), which the boy's 
mother religiously preserved, cut out and tied together with a 
ribbon, in the innermost drawer of a favourite cabinet. But 
it had been a barren, or almost a barren triumph, for in the 
order of importance in Nick's history another incident had 
run it, as the phrase is, very close : nothing less than the 
quick dissolution of the Parliament in which he was so mani- 
festly destined to give symptoms of a future. He had not 
recovered his seat at the general election, for the second 
contest was even sharper than the first, and the Tories had 
put forward a loud, vulgar, rattling, almost bullying man. It 
was to a certain extent a comfort that poor Sir Nicholas, who 
had been witness of the bright hour, passed away before the 
darkness. He died, with all his hopes on his second son's 
head, unconscious of near disaster, handing on the torch and 
the tradition, after a long, supreme interview with Nick, at 
which Lady Agnes had not been present but which she 
knew to have been a sort of paternal dedication, a solemn 
communication of ideas on the highest national questions (she 
had reason to believe he had touched on those of external as 
well as of domestic and of colonial policy), leaving on the boy's 
nature and manner from that moment the most unmistakable 
traces. If his tendency to reverie increased, it was because 
he had so much to think over in what his pale father had said 
to him in the hushed, dim chamber, laying upon him the great 
mission of carrying out the unachieved and reviving a silent 
voice. It was work cut out for a lifetime, and that " co-ordin- 
ating power in relation to detail," which was one of the great 
characteristics of Sir Nicholas's high distinction (the most 
analytic of the weekly papers was always talking about it), 
had enabled him to rescue the prospect from any shade of 
vagueness or of ambiguity. 
Five years before Nick Dormer went up to be questioned 
by the electors of Crockhurst, Peter Sherringham appeared 
before a board of examiners who let him off much less easily, 
though there were also some flattering prejudices in his 
favour ; such influences being a part of the copious, light, 
unembarrassing baggage with which each of the young men 
began life. Peter passed, however, passed high, and had his 
reward in prompt assignment to small, subordinate diplomatic 
duties in Germany. Since then he had had his professional 
adventures, which need not arrest us, inasmuch as they had 
all paled in the light of his appointment, nearly three years 
previous to the moment of our making his acqtiaintance, to a 
secretaryship of embassy in Paris. He had done well and had 
gone fast, and for the present he was willing enough to rest. 
It pleased him better to remain in Paris as a subordinate than 
to go to Honduras as a principal, and Nick Dormer had not 
put a false colour on the matter in speaking of his stall at 
the Theatre Frangais as a sedative to his ambition. Nick's 
inferiority in age to his cousin sat on him more lightly than 
when they had been in their teens ; and indeed no one can 
very well be much older than a young man who has figured 
for a year, however imperceptibly, in the House of Commons. 
Separation and diversity had made them strange enough to 
each other to give a tasto to what they shared ; they were 
friends without being particular friends ; that further degree 
could always hang before them as a suitable but not oppressive 
contingency, and they were both conscious that it was in their 
interest to keep certain differences to " chaff " each other 
about so possible was it that they might have quarrelled if 
they had only agreed. Peter, as being wide-minded, was a 
little irritated to find his cousin always so intensely British, 
while Nick Dormer made him the object of the same com- 
passionate criticism, recognized that he had a rare knack with 
foreign tongues, but reflected, and even with extravagance 
declared, that it was a pity to have gone so far from home 
only to remain so homely. Moreover, Nick had his ideas 
about the diplomatic mind ; it was the moral type of which, 
on the whole, he thought least favourably. Dry, narrow, 
barren, poor, he pronounced it in familiar conversation with 
the clever secretary ; wanting in imagination, in generosity, 
in the finest perceptions and the highest courage. This served 
as well as anything else to keep the peace between them ; it 
was a necessity of their friendly intercourse that they should 
scuffle a little, and it scarcely mattered what they scuffled 
about. Nick Dormer's express enjoyment of Paris, the shop- 
windows on the quays, the old books on the parapet, the gaiety 
of the river, the grandeur of the Louvre, all the amusing tints 
and tones, struck his companion as a sign of insularity ; the 
appreciation of such things having become with Sherringham 
an unconscious habit, a contented assimilation. If poor Nick, 
for the hour, was demonstrative and lyrical, it was because he 
had no other way of sounding the note of farewell to the 
independent life of which the term seemed now definitely in 
sight ; the sense pressed upon him that these were the last 
moments of his freedom. He would waste time till half-past 
seven, because half- past seven meant dinner, and dinner meant 
his mother, solemnly attended by the strenuous shade of his 
father and reinforced by Julia. 
VI. 
WHEN Nick arrived with the three members of his family, 
Peter Sherringham was seated, in the restaurant at which the 
tryst had been taken, at a small but immaculate table ; but 
Mrs. Dallovv was not yet on the scene, and they had time for 
a sociable settlement time to take their places and xmfolcl 
their napkins, crunch their rolls, breathe the savoury air and 
watch the door, before the usual raising of heads and sus- 
peiisicm of forks, the sort of stir that accompanied most of 
this lady's movements, announced her entrance. The dame de, 
comptoir ducked and re-ducked, the people looked round, Peter 
and Nick got up, there was a shuffling of chairs Julia was 
there. Peter had related how he had stopped at her hotel to 
bring her with him and had found her, according to her 
custom, by no means ready ; on which, fearing that his guests 
would come first to the rendezvous and find no proper welcome, 
he had come off without her, leaving her to follow. He had 
not brought a friend, as he intended, having divined that Julia 
would prefer a pure family party, if she wanted to talk about 
her candidate. Now she stood there, looking down at the 
table and her expectant kinsfolk, drawing off her gloves, letting 
her brother draw off her jacket, lifting her hands for some 
rearrangement of her bonnet. She looked at Nick last, smiling, 
but only for a moment. She said to Peter, " Are we going to 
dine here? Oh dear, why didn't you have a private room ? " 
Nick had not seen her at all for several weeks, and had seen 
her but little for a year, but her off-hand, cursory manner had 
not altered in the interval. She spoke remarkably fast, as if 
speech were not in itself a pleasure to have it over as soon 
as possible ; and her brusquerie was of the kind that friendly 
critics account for by pleading shyness. Shyness had never 
appeared to him an ultimate quality or a real explanation of 
anything ; it only explained an effect by another effect, giving 
a bad fault another name. What he suspected in Julia was 
that her mind was less graceful than her person ; an ugly, a 
really damnatory idea, which as yet he had only half accepted. 
It was a case in which she was entitled to the benefit of every 
doubt and ought not to be judged without a complete trial. 
Dormer, meanwhile, was afraid of the trial (this was partly 
why, of late, he had been to see her so little), because he was 
afraid of the sentence, afraid of anything, happening which 
should lessen the pleasure it was actually in the power of her 
beauty to give. There were people who thought her rude, and 
he hated rude women. If he should fasten on that view, or 
rather if that view should fasten on him, what could still 
please and what he admired in her would lose too much of its 
sweetness. If it be thought odd that he had not yet been 
able to read the character of a woman he had known since 
childhood, the answer is that that character had grown faster 
than Nick Dormer's observation. The growth was constant, 
whereas the observation was but occasional, though it had 
begun early. If he had attempted to phrase the matter to 
himself, as he probably had not, he might have said that the 
effect she produced upon him was too much a compulsion ; not 
the coercion of design, of importunity, nor the vulgar pressure 
of family expectation, a suspected desire that he should like 
her enough to marry her, but something that was a mixture 
of diverse things, of the sense that she was imperious and 
generous but probably more the former than the latter and 
of a certain prevision of doom, the influence of the idea that he 
should come to it, that he was predestined. 
This had made him shrink from knowing the worst about 
her ; the desire, not to get used to it in time, but what was 
more characteristic of him, to interpose a temporary illusion. 
Illusions and realities and hopes and fears, however, fell into 
confusion whenever he met her after a separation. The 
separation, so far as seeing her alone or as continuous talk 
was concerned, had now been tolerably long ; had lasted really 
ever since his failure to regain nib seat. An impression had 
come to him that she judged that failure rather harshly, had 
thought he ought to have done better. This was a part of 
her imperious strain, and a part to which it was not easy to 
accommodate one's self on a present basis. If he were to 
marry her he should come to an understanding with her : he 
should give her his own measure as well as take hers. But 
the understanding, in the actual case, might suggest too much 
that he was to marry her. You could quarrel with your wife, 
because there were compensations for her ; but you might 
not be prepared to offer these compensations as prepayment 
for the luxury of quarrelling. 
It was not that such a luxury would not be considerable, 
Nick Dormer thought, as Julia Dallow's fine head poised itself 
before him again ; a high spirit was a better thing than a poor 
one to be mismated with, any day in the year. She had much 
the same colouring as her brother, but as nothing else in her 
face was the same the resemblance was not striking. Her hair 
was of so dark a brown that it was commonly regarded as 
black, and so abundant that a plain arrangement was required 
to keep it in discreet relation to the rest of her person. Her 
eyes were of a gray tint that was sometimes pronounced too 
light ; and they were not sunken in her face, but placed well 
on the surface. Her nose was perfect, but her mouth was too 
small ; and Nick Dormer, and doubtless other persons as well, 
had sometimes wondered how, with such a mouth, her face 
could have expressed decision. Her figure helped it, for she 
looked tall (being extremely slender), though she was not ; and 
her head took turns and positions which, though they were a 
matter of but half an inch out of the common, this way or that, 
somehow contributed to the air of resolution and temper. If 
it had not been for her extreme delicacy of line and surface 
she might have been called bold ; but as it was she looked 
refined and quiet refined by tradition and quiet for a pur- 
pose. And altogether she was beautiful, with the pure style 
of her capable head, her hair like darkness, her eyes like early 
twilight, her mouth like a rare pink flower. 
Peter said that he had not taken a private room because he 
knew Biddy's tastes ; she liked to see the world (she had told 
him so), the curious people, the coming and going of Paris. 
"Oh, anything for Biddy ! " Julia replied, smiling at the girl 
and taking her place. Lady Agnes and her elder daughter 
exchanged one of their looks, and Nick exclaimed jocosely that 
he didn't see why the whole party should be sacrificed to a 
presumptuous child. The presumptuous child blushingly pro- 
tested she had never expressed any such wish to Peter, upon 
which Nick, with broader humour, revealed that Peter had 
served them so out of stinginess : he had pitchforked them 
together in the public room because he wouldn't go to the 
expense of a cabinet. He had brought no guest, no foreigner 
of distinction nor diplomatic swell, to honour them, and now 
they would see what a paltry dinner he would give them. 
Peter stabbed him indignantly with a long roll, and Lady 
Agnes, who seemed to be waiting for some manifestation on 
Mrs. Dallow's part which didn't come, concluded, with a certain 
coldness, that they quite sufficed to themselves for privacy as 
well as for society. Nick called attention to this fine phrase 
of his mother's, said it was awfully neat, while Grace and 
Biddy looked harmoniously at Julia's clothes. Nick felt 
nervous, and joked a good deal to carry it off a levity that 
didn't prevent Julia's saying to him, after a moment : " You 
might have come to see ine to-day, you know. Didn't you get 
my message from Peter? " 
" Scold him, Julia scold him well. I begged him to go," 
said Lady Agnes ; and to this Grace added her voice with an 
" Oh, Julia, do give it to him ! " These words, however, had 
not the effect they suggested, for Mrs. Dallow only murmured, 
with an ejaculation, in her quick, curt way, that that would 
be making far too much of him. It was one of the things in 
her which Nick Dormer mentally pronounced ungraceful that 
a perversity of pride or shyness always made her disappoint 
you a little if she saw you expected a thing. She was certain 
to snub effusiveness. This vice, however, was the last thing 
of which Lady Agnes would have consented to being accused ; 
and Nick, while he replied to Julia that he was certain he 
shouldn't have found her, was not unable to perceive the 
operation on his mother of that shade of manner. " He ought 
to have gone ; he owed you that," she went on ; " but it's very 
true he would have had the same luck as we. I went with the 
girls directly after luncheon. I suppose you got our card." 
" He might have come after I came in," said Mrs. Dallow. 
" Dear Julia, I'm going to see you to-night. I've been 
waiting for that," Nick rejoined. 
" Of course we had no idea when "you would come in," said 
Lady Agnes. 
" I'm so sorry. You must come to-morrow. I hate calls at 
night," Julia remarked. 
" Well, then, will you roam with me ? Will you wander 
through Paris on my arm?" Nick asked, smiling. "Will you 
take a drive with me ? " 
" Oh, that would be perfection ! " cried Grace. 
" I thought we were all going somewhere to the Hippo- 
drome, Peter," said Biddy. 
" Oh, not all ; just you and me ! " laughed Peter. 
" I am going home to my bed. I've earned my rest," Lady 
Agnes sighed. 
" Can't Peter take us ? " asked Grace. " Nick can take you 
home, mamma, if Julia won't receive him, and I can look 
perfectly after Peter and Biddy." 
"Take them to something amusing; please take them' 
Mrs. Dallow said to her brother. Her voice was kind, but had 
the expectation of assent in it, and Nick observed both the 
indulgence and the pressure. " You're tired, poor dear," she 
continued to Lady Agnes. " Fancy your being dragged about 
so ! What did you come over for ? " 
" My mother came because I brought her," Nick said. " It's 
I who have dragged her about. I brought her for a little 
change. I thought it would do her good. I wanted to see the 
Salon." 
' : It isn't a bad time. I have a carriage, and you must use 
it ; you must use nothing else. It will take you everywhere. 
I will drive you about to-morrow." Julia dropped these 
words in the same perfunctory, casual way as any others ; but 
Nick had already noted, and he noted now afresh, with plea- 
sure, that her abruptness was perfectly capable of conveying a 
benevolence. It was quite sufficiently manifest to him that 
for the rest of the time she might be near his mother she 
would do her numberless good turns. She would give things 
to the girls he had a private adumbration of that ; expensive 
Parisian, perhaps not perfectly useful things. 
Lady Agnes was a woman who measured reciprocities and 
distances ; but she was both too subtle and too just not to 
recognize the smallest manifestation that might count, either 
technically or essentially, as a service. " Dear Julia ! " she 
exclaimed, responsively ; and her tone made this brevity of 
acknowledgment sufficient. What Julia had said was all she 
wanted. " It's so interesting about Harsh' she added. " We're 
immensely excited." 
" Yes, Nick looks it. Merci, pas de vin. It's just the 
thing for you, you know.'
" To be sure he knows it. He's immensely grateful. It's 
really very land of you." 
" You do me a very great honour, Julia," said Nick. 
"Don't be tiresome ! " exclaimed Mrs. Dallow. 
" We'll talk about it later. Of course there are lots of 
points," Nick pursued. "At present let us be purely con- 
vivial. Somehow Harsh is such a false note here. A tout a 
Theatre" 
" My dear fellow, you've caught exactly the tone of Mr. 
Gabriel Nash," Peter Sherringham observed. 
" Who is Mr. Gabriel Nash ? " Mrs. Dallow asked. 
" Nick, is he a gentleman ? Biddy says.so," Grace Dormer 
interposed before this inquiry was answered. 
" It is to be supposed that any one Nick brings to lunch 
with us " Lady Agnes murmured. 
"Ah, Grace, with your tremendous standard ! " her brother 
said ; while Peter Sherringham replied to Julia that Mr. 
Nash was Nick's new Mentor or oracle ; whom moreover 
she should see if she would come and have tea with him. 
" I haven't the least desire to see him," Julia declared, 
"any more than I have to talk about Harsh and bore poor 
Peter." 
" Oh, certainly, dear, you would bore me," said Sherringham. 
" One thing at a time, then. Let us by all means be con- 
vivial. Only you must show me how," Mrs. Dallow went on 
to Nick. "What does he mean, Cousin Agnes'? Does he 
want us to drain the wine-cup, to flash with repartee ? " 
"You'll do very well," said Nick. "You are charming, 
this evening." 
" Do go to Peter's, Julia, if you want something exciting. 
You'll see a marvellous girl," Biddy broke in, with her smile 
on Peter. 
" Marvellous for what? " 
" For thinking she can act, when she can't," said the 
roguish Biddy. 
" Dear me, what people you all know ! I hate Peter's 
theatrical people." 
" And aren't you going home, Julia ? " Lady Agnes inquired. 
" Home to the hotel ]" 
" Dear, no, to Harsh, to see about everything." 
" I'm in the midst of telegrams. I don't know yet." 
" I suppose there's no doubt they'll have him," Lady Agnes 
decided to pursue. 
" Who will have whom? " 
" Why, the local people and the party ; those who invite 
a gentleman to stand. I'm speaking of my son." 
"They'll have the person I want them to have, I dare say. 
There are so many people in it, in one way or another, it's 
dreadful. I like the way you sit there," Mrs. Dallow added 
to Nick Dormer. 
"So do I," he smiled back at her; and he thought she was 
charming now, because she was gay and easy and willing 
really, though she might plead incompetence, to understand 
how jocose a dinner in a pot-house in a foreign town might be. 
She was in good-humour, or she was going to be, and not 
grand, nor stiff, nor indifferent, nor haughty, nor any of the 
things that people who disliked her usually found her and 
sometimes even a little made him believe her. The spirit of 
mirth, in some cold natures, manifests itself not altogether 
happily ; their effort of recreation resembles too much the 
bath of the hippopotamus. But when Mrs. Dallow put her 
elbows on the table one felt she could be trusted to get them 
safely off again. 
For a family in mourning the dinner was lively ; the more 
so that before it was half over Julia had arranged that her 
brother, eschewing the inferior spectacle, should take the 
girls to the Theatre Franais. It was her idea, and Nick 
had a chance to observe how an idea was apt not to be suc- 
cessfully controverted when it was Julia's. Even the pro- 
gramme appeared to have been pre-arranged to suit it, just 
the thing for the cheek of the young person " II ne Faut 
Jurer de Rien " and " Mademoiselle de la Seigliere." Peter 
was all willingness, but it was Julia who settled it, even to 
sending for the newspaper (her brother, by a rare accident, 
was unconscious of the evening's bill), and to reassuring 
Biddy, who was happy but anxious, on the article of their not 
getting places, their being too late. Peter could always get 
places : a word from him and the best box was at his dis- 
posal. She made him write the word on a card, and saw that 
a messenger was despatched with it to the Rue de Richelieu ; 
and all this was done without loudness or insistence, paren- 
thetically and authoritatively. The box was bespoken ; the 
carriage, as soon as they had had their coffee, was found to be 
there ; Peter drove off in it with the girls, with the under- 
standing that he was to send it back ; Nick sat waiting for it, 
over the finished repast, with the two ladies, and then his 
mother was relegated to it and conveyed to her apartments : 
and all the while it was Julia who governed the succession of 
events. " Do be nice to her," Lady Agnes murmured to him, 
as he placed her in the vehicle at the door of the restaurant ; 
and he guessed that it gave her a comfort to have left him 
sitting there with Mrs. Dallow. 
Nick had every disposition to be nice to her ; if things 
went as she liked them it was an acknowledgment of a 
certain force that was in her the force of assuming that they 
would. Julia had her differences some of them were much 
for the better ; and when she was in a mood like this even- 
ing's, liberally dominant, he was ready to encourage her 
assumptions. While they waited for the return of the 
carriage, which had rolled away with his mother, she sat 
opposite to him, with her elbows on the table, playing first 
with one and then with another of the objects that en- 
cumbered it : after five minutes of which she exclaimed, 
"Oh, I say, we'll go!" and got up abruptly, asking for her 
jacket. He said something about the carriage's having had 
orders to come back for them, and she replied : " Well, it can 
go away again ! " She added : " I don't want a carriage ; I 
want to walk ;" and in a moment she was but of the place, 
with the people at the tables turning round again and the 
caissiere swaying in her high seat. On the pavement of the 
boulevard she looked up and down : there were people at 
little tables, at the door ; there were people all over the broad 
expanse of the asphalt; there was a profusion of light and a 
pervasion of sound ; and everywhere, though the establishment 
at which they had been dining was not in the thick of the 
fray, the tokens of a great traffic of pleasure, that night- 
aspect of Paris which represents it as a huge market for 
sensations. Beyond the Boulevard des Capucines it flared 
through the warm evening like a vast bazaar ; and opposite 
the Cafe Durand the Madeleine rose theatrical, a high, clever 
decor, before the footlights of the Rue Royale. " Where 
shall we go, what shall we do?" Mrs. Dallow asked, looking 
at her companion and somewhat to his surprise, as he had 
supposed she only wanted to go home. 
" Anywhere you like. It's so warm we might drive, instead 
of going indoors. We might go to the Bois. That would be 
agreeable." 
" Yes, but it wouldn't be walking. However, that doesn't 
matter. It's mild enough for anything for sitting out, like 
all these people. And I've never walked in Paris at night : 
it would amuse me." 
Nick hesitated. " So it might, but it isn't particularly 
recommended to ladies." 
"I don't care, if it happens to suit me." 
" Very well, then, we'll walk to the Bastille, if you like." 
Julia hesitated, on her side, still looking round her. 
"It's too far; I'm tired; we'll sit here." And she dropped 
beside an empty table, on the " terrace " of M. Durand. 
"This will do; it's amusing enough, and we can look at the 
Madeleine ; that's respectable. If we must have something 
we'll have a tnadere ; is that respectable ? Not particularly ] 
So much the better. What are those people having? Bocks ? 
Couldn't we have bocks ? Are they very low ? Then I shall 
have one. I've been so wonderfully good I've been staying 
at Versailles : je me dois Men cela." 
She insisted, but pronounced the thin liquid in the tall 
glass very disgusting when it was brought. Nick was amazed, 
reflecting that it was not for such a discussion as this that his 
mother had left him with such complacency ; and indeed he 
too had, as she would have had, his share of perplexity, ob- 
serving that nearly half an hour passed without his cousin's 
paying anything about Harsh. 
Mrs. Dallow leaned back against the lighted glass of the 
cafe, comfortable and beguiled, watching the passers, the 
opposite shops, the movement of the square in front of them. 
She talked about London, about the news written to her in 
her absence, about Cannes and the people she had seen there, 
about her poor sister-in-law and her numerous progeny and 
two or three droll things that had happened at Versailles. 
She discoursed considerably about herself, mentioning certain 
things she meant to do on her return to town, her plans for 
the rest of the season. Her carriage came and stood there, 
and Nick asked if he should send it away ; to which she said: 
'' No, let it stand a bit." She let it stand a long time, and 
then she told him to dismiss it : they would walk home. She 
took his arm and they went along the boulevard, on the right 
hand side, to the Rue de la Paix, saying little to each other 
during the transit ; and then they passed into the hotel and 
up to her rooms. All she had said on the way was that she 
was very tired of Paris. There was a shaded lamp in her 
salon, but the windows were open and the light of the street, 
with its undisturbing murmur, as if everything ran on india- 
rubber, came up through the interstices of the balcony and 
made a vague glow and a flitting of shadows on the ceiling. 
Her maid appeared, busying herself a moment ; and when she 
had gone out Julia said suddenly to her companion : " Should 
you mind telling me what's the matter with you? " 
"The matter with me?" 
" Don't you want to stand? " 
" I'll do anything to oblige you." 
" Why should you oblige me? " 
'' Why, isn't that the way people treat you ? " asked Nick. 
"They treat me best when they are a little serious." 
"My dear Julia, it seems to me I'm serious enough. 
Surely it isn't an occasion to be so very solemn, the idea of 
going down into a stodgy little country town and talking a 
lot of rot." 
" Why do you call it ' rot ' ? " 
" Because I can think of no other name that, on the whole, 
describes it so well. You know the sort of thing. Come ! 
you've listened to enough of it, first and last. One blushes for 
it when one sees it in print, in the local papers. The local papers 
ah, the thought of them makes me want to stay in Paris." 
"If you don't speak well it's your own fault: you know 
how to, perfectly. And you usually do." 
" I always do, and that's what I'm ashamed of. I've got 
the cursed humbugging trick of it. I speak beautifully. I 
can turn it on, a fine flood of it, at the shortest notice. The 
better it is the worse it is, the kind is so inferior. It has 
nothing to do with the truth or the search for it ; nothing to 
do with intelligence, or candour, or honour. It's an appeal 
to everything that for one's self one despises," the young man 
went on "to stupidity, to ignorance, to density, to the love 
of names and phrases, the love of hollow, idiotic words, of 
shutting the eyes tight and making a noise. Do men who 
respect each other or themselves talk to each other that way ? 
They know they would deserve kicking if they were to attempt 
it. A man would blush to say to himself in the darkness of the 
night the things he stands up on a platform in the garish light of 
day to stuff into the ears of a multitude whose intelligence he 
