while she was still the Teaser.
"I am sure I could not ask for anything better than this cabin," said
he, after he had invited his first lieutenant to come in.
"I found it very comfortable," added Christy. "Flint is second
lieutenant, and Sampson chief engineer; and that is all there are of
those who were in the Bellevite. I will introduce you to the acting
third lieutenant, Mr. Amblen, and you can retain him or not as you
please."
Mr. Amblen was called in and presented to the captain, and then Flint
was ordered to get under way.
CHAPTER XXI
AN EXPEDITION IN THE GULF
The Bronx had been three days on the station, Christy had made his
report in full on her arrival, and the flag officer had visited the
vessel in person, in order to ascertain her fitness for several
enterprises he had in view. The Confederates were not sleepy or
inactive, and resorted to every expedient within their means to
counteract both morally and materially the efficiency of the blockade.
The Bronx was admirably adapted to service in the shoal waters where the
heavier vessels of the investing squadron could not go, and her arrival
solved several problems then under consideration. Captain Blowitt and
Christy had been sent for, and the late commander of the Bronx was
questioned in regard to the steamer, her draught, her speed, and her
ship's company. The damage done to her in the conflict with the Escambia
had been fully repaired by the carpenter and his gang, and the steamer
was in as good condition as when she sailed from New York.
"In regard to the present officers, Mr. Passford, excepting present
company, of course, they are excellent," said Captain McKeon, the flag
officer. "For the service in which the Bronx is to be engaged, its
success will depend upon the officers, though it is hardly exceptional
in this respect. I understand that you sailed from New York rather
short-handed abaft the mainmast."
"Yes, sir, we did; but fortunately we had most excellent material of
which to make officers, and we made them," replied Christy.
"I should like to know something about them; I mean apart from Captain
Blowitt and yourself, for you have already made your record, and yours,
Mr. Passford, is rather a dazzling reputation for one so young."
"I am willing to apologize for it, sir," replied Christy, blushing like
a maiden, as he was in duty bound to do, for he could not control the
crimson that rose to his browned cheeks.
"Quite unnecessary," replied Captain McKeon, smiling. "As long as you do
your duty nobody will be jealous of you, and you will be a fit officer
for all our young men to emulate. You were the acting commander on the
voyage of the Bronx from New York. Your executive officer is the present
second lieutenant. Is he qualified for the peculiar duty before you?"
"No one could be more so, sir," replied Christy with proper enthusiasm.
"I can fully indorse this opinion of Mr. Passford," added Captain
Blowitt. "In the capture and bringing out of the Teaser, Mr. Flint was
the right hand man of the leader of the enterprise."
"And I gave him the command of the Ocklockonee, after her capture, and
she took an active part in the affair with the Escambia, sir," said
Christy.
"Then we will consider him the right man in the right place," replied
the flag officer. "Who is the present third lieutenant?"
"Mr. Amblen is acting in that capacity at present, and he is a very good
officer, though he holds no rank," answered Christy.
"Then I can hardly confirm him as second lieutenant," added Captain
McKeon.
"In my report of the affairs with the Ocklockonee and the Escambia,
I have strongly recommended him and three other officers for promotion,
for all of them are fitted by education and experience at sea to do duty
on board of such vessels as the Bronx."
"Have you any officer in mind who would acceptably fill the vacant
place, Captain Blowitt?"
"I know of no one at present who holds the rank to entitle him to such a
position, and I shall appeal to Mr. Passford," replied the new
commander.
"You have named Mr. Amblen, Mr. Passford; is he just the officer you
would select if the matter were left to you?" asked the flag officer.
"No, sir, though he would do very well. Mr. Baskirk, who served as
executive officer while Mr. Flint was away in the Ocklockonee, is better
adapted for the place," said Christy. "He commanded the first division
of boarders on board of the Escambia, and he fought like a hero and is a
man of excellent judgment. I am confident that he will make his mark as
an officer. I am willing to admit that I wrote a letter to my father
especially requesting him to do what he could for the immediate
promotion of Mr. Baskirk."
"Then he will be immediately promoted," added Captain McKeon with an
expressive smile.
"I may add also that I was presumptive enough to suggest his appointment
as third lieutenant of the Bronx," continued Christy.
"Then he will be the third lieutenant of the Bronx; and what you say
would have settled the matter in the first place as well as now," said
the flag officer, as much pleased with the reticence of the young
officer as with his modesty. "Amblen may remain on board till his
commission comes, and you can retain him as third lieutenant, Captain
Blowitt, if you are so disposed. I have ordered a draft of twelve seamen
to the Bronx, which will give you a crew of thirty, and I cannot spare
any more until more men are sent down. I may add that I have taken some
of them from the Bellevite."
"I am quite satisfied, sir, with the number, though ten more would be
acceptable," replied the commander of the Bronx.
The two officers were then dismissed and ordered on board of their ship.
A little later the draft of seamen was sent on board, and among them
Christy was not sorry to see Boxie, the old sheet-anchor man of the
Bellevite, who had made him a sort of pet, and had done a great deal to
instruct him in matters of seamanship, naval customs, and traditions not
found in any books.
The commander and the executive officer paid their final visit to the
Bellevite the next day, and the order was given to weigh anchor. When
all hands were called, Christy thought he had never seen a better set of
men except on board of the Bellevite, and the expedition, whatever it
was, commenced under the most favorable auspices.
The Bronx sailed in the middle of the forenoon, and the flag officer was
careful not to reveal the destination of the steamer to any one, for
with the aid of the telegraph, the object of the expedition might reach
the scene of operations in advance of the arrival of the force. At four
o'clock in the afternoon Captain Blowitt opened his envelope in presence
of the executive officer. He looked the paper through before he spoke,
and then handed it to Christy, who read it with quite as much interest
as the commander had.
"Cedar Keys," said the captain, glancing at his associate.
"That is not a long run from the station," added Christy. "We are very
likely to be there before to-morrow morning."
"It is about two hundred and eighty statute miles, I had occasion to
ascertain a week ago when something was said about Cedar Keys," replied
Captain Blowitt. "We have been making about fifteen knots, for the Bronx
is a flyer, and we ought to be near our destination at about midnight.
That would be an excellent time to arrive if we only had a pilot."
"Perhaps we have one," added Christy with a smile.
"Are you a pilot on this coast, Mr. Passford?" asked the commander,
mistaking the smile.
"No, sir, I am not; but I remember a conversation Mr. Flint and I had
with Mr. Amblen, who was engaged in some sort of a speculation in
Florida when the war came on. He was so provoked at the treatment he
received that he shipped in the navy at once. I only know that he had a
small steamer in these waters."
"Send for Mr. Amblen at once!" exclaimed the commander, who appeared to
have become suddenly excited. "There will be no moon to-night in these
parts, and we may be able to hurry this matter up if we have a competent
pilot."
Christy called Dave, and sent him for the acting third lieutenant, for
he knew that Mr. Flint had had the watch since four o'clock. Mr. Amblen
was sunning himself on the quarter deck, and he promptly obeyed the
summons.
"I am glad to see you, Mr. Amblen, and I hope you will prove to be as
useful a person as I have been led to believe you may be," said the
captain.
"I shall endeavor to do my duty, sir," replied the third lieutenant,
who was always very ambitious to earn the good opinion of his superiors.
"I mean to do the best I can to make myself useful, Captain Blowitt."
"I know that very well; but the question now is what you know rather
than what you can do as an officer. Mr. Passford informs me that you
were formerly engaged in some kind of a speculation on the west coast
of Florida."
"Hardly a speculation, sir, for I was engaged in the fish business,"
replied Mr. Amblen, laughing at the name which had been given to his
calling. "When I sold a small coaster that belonged to me, I got in
exchange a tug boat. I had been out of health a few years before; I
spent six months at Cedar Keys and Tampa, and got well. Fish were plenty
here, and of a kind that bring a good price farther north. I loaded my
tug with ice, and came down here in her. I did a first-rate business
buying from boats and in catching fish myself, and for a time I made
money, though ice was so dear that I had to sell in the South."
"Did you have a pilot on board of your tug?" asked the captain.
"No, sir; I was my own pilot. I had the charts, and I studied out the
bottom, so that I knew where I was in the darkest night."
"Then you are just the person we want if you are a pilot in these
waters."
"What waters, sir? We are now off Cape St. Blas and Apalachicola Bay.
I have been into the bay, but I am not a pilot in those waters, as you
suggest."
"I have just opened my orders, and I find we are ordered to Cedar Keys,"
interposed the commander.
"That is quite another thing, sir; and there isn't a foot of bottom
within five miles of the Keys to which I have not been personally
introduced. When I was down here for my health I was on the water more
than half of the time, and I learned all about the bay and coast; and I
have been up the Suwanee River, which flows into the Gulf eighteen miles
north of the Keys."
"I am exceedingly glad to find that we have such an excellent pilot on
board. I am informed in my orders that schooners load with cotton at
this place, and make an easy thing of getting to sea," added Captain
Blowitt.
"I should say that it was a capital port for the Confederates to use for
that sort of business. Small steamers can bring cotton down the Suwanee
River, the railroad from Fernandina terminates at the Key, and this road
connects with that to Jacksonville and the whole of western Florida as
far as Tallahassee."
"We may find a steamer or two there."
"You may, though not one any larger than the Bronx, for there is only
eleven feet of water on the bar. Probably no blockaders have yet been
stationed off the port, and it is a good place to run out cotton."
"I am much obliged to you, Mr. Amblen, for the information you have
given me, and your services will probably be in demand this very night,"
added the commander, rising from his chair.
"I am ready for duty at all times, sir," replied Mr. Amblen, as he
retired from the cabin.
The charts were then consulted, and sundry calculations were made. At
one o'clock that night the Bronx was off Cedar Keys.
CHAPTER XXII
A NIGHT EXPEDITION IN THE BOATS
During the evening Captain Blowitt had consulted his officers, and
arranged his plans for operations, or at least for obtaining information
in regard to the situation inside of North Key, where the landing place
is situated. He had already arranged to give the command of the boat
expedition to Christy, with the second lieutenant in another boat, Mr.
Amblen being with the executive officer in the first.
"Now, Mr. Passford, I do not expect you to capture the whole State of
Florida, and if you should return without accomplishing anything at
all, I shall not be disappointed, but I shall feel that you have done
everything that could be done," said the captain, with a very cheerful
smile, when all had been arranged.
"I shall endeavor to obey my orders, Captain Blowitt, if I can do so in
the exercise of a reasonable prudence," replied Christy, who took in all
that his superior looked, as well as all that he said.
"A reasonable prudence is decidedly good, coming from you, Mr.
Passford," said the captain, laughing outright.
"Why is it decidedly good from me rather than from anybody else?" asked
Christy, somewhat nettled by the remark.
"You objected once on board of the Bellevite when I mildly hinted that
you might sometimes, under some circumstances, with a strong temptation
before you, be just a little audacious," said the captain, still
laughing, as though he were engaged in a mere joke.
"That statement is certainly qualified in almost all directions, if you
will excuse me for saying so, captain," replied Christy, who was fully
determined not to take offence at anything his superior might say, for
he had always regarded him as one of his best friends. "If I remember
rightly the mild suggestion of a criticism which you gently and tenderly
applied to me was after we had brought out the Teaser from Pensacola
Bay."
"That was the time. Captain Breaker sent you to ascertain, if you could,
where the Teaser was, and you reported by bringing her out, which
certainly no one expected you would do, and I believe this part of the
programme carried out on that excursion was not mentioned in your
orders."
"It was not; but if I had a good chance to capture the steamer, was it
my duty to pass over that chance, and run the risk of letting the vessel
get out?"
"On the contrary, it was your duty, if you got a good chance, to capture
the steamer."
"And that is precisely what I did. I did not lose a man, or have one
wounded in the expedition; and I have only to be penitent for being
audacious," laughed Christy; and he was laughing very earnestly, as
though the extra cachinnation was assumed for a purpose. "I suppose
I ought to dress myself in ash cloth and sashes, shut myself up in my
state room always when off duty, and shed penitential tears from the
rising of the sun to the going down of the same, and during the lone
watches of the night, and in fortifying my soul against the monstrous
sin of audacity. I will think of it."
"I hope you have no feeling about this matter, Mr. Passford," said the
captain, rising from his chair and taking Christy by the hand.
"Not a particle, Captain Blowitt. I am absolutely sure that you would
have done precisely what I did, if you had been in my situation,"
protested Christy. "About the last thing my father talked about to me
when we parted in this cabin in New York Harbor was the necessity of
prudence and discretion in the discharge of my duties; and I am sure his
advice saved me from falling into the traps set for me by Hungerford and
Pawcett, and enabled me to capture two of the enemy's crack steamers."
"I will never use the word audacity or the adjective audacious to you
again, Christy. I see that it nettles you, to say the least," added the
captain, pressing his hand with more earnestness.
"I am perfectly willing you should apply both words to me when I
deserve it. Audacity means boldness, impudence, according to Stormonth.
Audacious means very bold, daring, impudent. It may have been bold to
run out the Teaser, and the enemy would even call it impudent, for the
meaning of a word sometimes depends upon which side you belong to. My
father was quite as impudent as I was when he ran the Bellevite out of
Mobile Bay, under the guns of Fort Morgan. He was audacious, wasn't he?"
"We should hardly apply that word to him."
"Why not? Simply because my father was forty-five years old when he told
Captain Breaker to do it. If I were only thirty years old I should not
be audacious. I am a boy, and therefore anything that I do is daring,
audacious, impudent, imprudent."
"I rather think you are right, Mr. Passford, and it is your age more
than the results of your actions that is the basis of our judgment,"
said Captain Blowitt.
"I wish to add seriously, captain, as a friend and not as an officer,
I do not claim that the command of this expedition should be given to
me because I am first lieutenant of the Bronx, or for any other reason,"
added Christy with an earnest expression. "Perhaps it would be better to
give the command to the second lieutenant; and if you do so, I assure
you, upon my honor, that it will not produce a particle of feeling in my
mind. I shall honor, respect, and love you as I have always, Captain
Blowitt."
"My dear fellow, you are entirely misunderstanding me," protested the
commander, as earnestly as his subordinate had spoken. "I give you the
command of this expedition because I honestly and sincerely believe you
are the very best person on board to whom I can commit such a
responsibility."
"That is enough, captain, and a great deal more than you were under
any obligations to say to me; and I shall obey my orders with all the
prudence and discretion I can bring to bear upon them," said Christy,
taking the captain's offered hand. "If I fail it will not be because I
do not try to be prudent."
"There is such a thing as being too prudent, and I hope that nothing
which has been said to you by your father or by me will drive you to the
other extreme."
Though this conversation had at times been very animated, Christy was
glad that it had taken place, for it gave him a better insight into his
own standing than he had before. He did not look upon it as a very great
affair to command a couple of boats, in a night expedition, for he had
recently commanded two steamers, and brought them off victorious. He
had it in mind to ask the captain to send Flint in command of the
expedition, though it would compel him, on account of his rank, to
remain inactive on board of the Bronx; but he could not do this,
after what had been said, without leaving some evidence that he was
disaffected by what the commander had said to him about audacity.
It was found after a calculation of the run very carefully made that the
Bronx would arrive too soon at her destination, and she was slowed down
as the evening came on. In the ward room, of which Christy was now the
occupant of the forward berth on the starboard side, he studied the
chart with Amblen a good part of the waiting hours, and the executive
officer obtained all the information he could from the third lieutenant.
There were three principal keys, or cays, one of which, called the North
Key, was the nearest to the mainland, and was set in the mouth of a bay.
This was the nearest to the peninsula at the end of which the railroad
terminates. About southwest of it is the Seahorse Key, on which there is
a light in peaceful times. To the south of the point is the Snake Key,
and between the last two is the main channel to the port, which twists
about like the track of a snake. There is a town, or rather a village,
near the landing.
Six bells struck on deck, and all the officers, including the captain,
adjourned to the bridge, which was a useful institution on such
occasions as the present. A sharp watch had been kept by Lieutenant
Flint in charge; but though the night was clear, nothing had been made
out in the direction of the shore. All lights on board had been put out,
and the Bronx went along in the smooth sea as quietly as a lady on a
fashionable promenade, and it was not believed that anything could be
seen of her from the shore.
About midnight the lookout man aloft reported that he could see a
twinkling light. It was promptly investigated by Mr. Amblen, who went
aloft for the purpose. He was satisfied that it was a light in some
house in the village, probably in the upper story. It soon disappeared,
and it was thought to be occasioned by the late retiring of some person.
"I should say, Captain Blowitt, that we are not more than five miles
outside of Seahorse Key," said Mr. Amblen, after he had interpreted the
meaning of the light. "It is after midnight, and these people are not in
the habit of sitting up so late."
"If they are shipping much cotton from this port, it is not improbable
that there is a force here to protect the vessels, whatever they are,"
added the commander.
"Of that, of course, I can know nothing; but I shall expect to find a
Confederate battery somewhere on the point, and I know about where to
look for it."
"The place has never been of any great importance, and you can hardly
expect to find a very strong force in it," added the captain.
It has since become a place of more note, both as a resort for invalids
and pleasure-seekers, and as the termination of the railroad from
Fernandina and Jacksonville, and steamers have run regularly from the
port to Havana and New Orleans.
"If you will excuse me, Captain Blowitt, I should say that it was not
advisable to take the Bronx nearer than within about four miles of the
Seahorse Key," suggested Mr. Amblen.
"I was just thinking that we had gone as far as it is prudent to go.
Do you think you could take the Bronx up to the landing?" added the
captain.
"I am very sure that I could, for I have been in many a time on a darker
night than this."
"We will not go in to-night, but perhaps we may have occasion to do so
to-morrow. We shall know better what to do when we get a report of the
state of things in the place," replied the captain, as he gave the word
through the speaking tube to stop the steamer.
Christy had been given full powers to make all preparations for the boat
expedition, and was allowed ten men to each of the quarter boats. He had
selected the ones for his own boat, and had required Flint to pick his
own crew for the other. The oars had been carefully muffled by the
coxswains, for it was desirable that no alarm should be given in the
place. The starboard quarter boat was the first cutter, pulled by six
oars, and this was for Christy and Mr. Amblen, with the regular coxswain
and three hands in the bow. The second cutter was in charge of Mr.
Flint, and followed the other boat, keeping near enough to obtain her
course in the twists of the channel.
It was a long pull to the Seahorse Key, and a moderate stroke was taken
as well not to tire the men as to avoid all possible noise. When the
first cutter was abreast of the Key, the pilot pointed out the dark
outline of the peninsula, which was less than a mile distant. No vessel
could be seen; but the pilot thought they might be concealed by the
railroad buildings on the point. Christy asked where the battery was
which the pilot thought he could locate, and the spot was indicated to
him. Christy wanted a nearer view of it, and the cutter was headed in
that direction.
CHAPTER XXIII
THE VISIT TO A SHORE BATTERY
The first cutter reached the Seahorse Key closely followed by the
second. It was within an hour of high tide, the ordinary rise and fall
of which was two and a half feet. On the Key was a light house, and a
cottage for the keeper of it; but the former was no longer illuminated,
and the house was as dark as the head of the tower. So far as could be
discovered there was no one on the Key, though the boats did not stop to
investigate this matter. The crews still pulled a moderate stroke with
their muffled oars, the men were not allowed to talk, and everything was
as silent as the inside of a tomb.
The pilot stood up in the stern sheets of the cutter, gazing intently
in the direction of the point nearly a mile ahead. The outlines of the
buildings could be discerned, and Amblen soon declared that he could
make out the tops of the masts of several vessels to the westward of
the point with which the peninsula terminated. This looked hopeful, and
indicated that the information upon which the expedition had been sent
out was correct. Christy began to think he should have a busy night
before him when Amblen said there were at least three vessels at the
port.
The battery was first to be visited and cared for if there was one,
and it was not probable that a place so open to the operations of
the blockading force would be without one, especially if the people
were actually engaged in loading cotton, as the masts of the vessels
indicated, though the hulls could not yet be seen. As the first cutter
approached nearer to the place the outlines became more distinct, and
soon embodied themselves into definite objects. Both officers in the
stern sheets watched with the most anxious vigilance for any moving
object denoting the presence of life and intelligence.
As the boats came nearer to the shore, a breeze sprang up, and cooled
the air, for early as it was in the season, the weather was very warm,
and it was not uncommon for the thermometer to rise above ninety. These
breezes were usually present to cool the nights, and doubtless the
inhabitants slept the sounder for the one which had just begun to fan
the cheeks of the officers and seamen of the expedition.
"There is a battery there, Mr. Passford," said the pilot in a very low
tone. "I can make it out now, and it is just where I supposed it would
be."
"I can see something that seems like an earthwork at the right of the
buildings," added Christy. "Can you make out anything that looks like a
sentinel?"
"I can see nothing that denotes the presence of a man. If there were
a sentinel there, he would be on the top of the earthwork, or on the
highest ground about it, so that he could see out into the bay, for
there can be no danger from the land side of the place," added Amblen.
"I can hardly imagine such a thing as a battery without a sentinel to
give warning if anybody should try to carry it off. There must be a
sentry somewhere in the vicinity."
"I can't say there isn't, though I can't make out a man, or anything
that looks like one," replied the pilot.
"Very likely we shall soon wake him up, Mr. Amblen; and in that case it
will be necessary for us to find a safer place than in front of the guns
of the battery, for I do not feel at liberty to expose the men to the
fire of the works, whatever they are."
"All you have to do is to pull around to the other side of the point
into the bay, where the vessels are. I am confident there is no battery
on that side, and there can hardly be any need of one, for this one
commands the channel, the only approach to the place for a vessel larger
than a cutter."
"I fancy this battery does not amount to much, and is probably nothing
more than an earthwork, with a few field guns behind it. Suppose we
should wake it up, and have to make for the bay, can we get out of it
without putting the boats under the guns of the battery?"
"Without any difficulty at all, sir. We have only to pull around the
North Key, and pass out to the Gulf, beyond the reach of any field gun
that can be brought to bear on us," replied Mr. Amblen.
"If they have one or two field batteries here, they may hitch on the
horses, and follow us," suggested Christy, who, in spite of the audacity
with which he had been mildly charged, was not inclined to run into any
trap from which he could not readily withdraw his force.
"We shall have the short line, and if they pursue us with the guns, we
can retire by the way of the channel, which they will leave uncovered."
"We are getting quite near the shore," continued Christy. "How is the
water under us?"
"The bottom is sandy, and we shall take the ground before we reach the
shore if we don't manage properly. But we can tell something by the
mangroves that fringe the land," replied the pilot; "and I will go into
the bow of the cutter and look out for them."
Mr. Amblen made his way to the fore sheets, and asked Boxie, who was
there, for the boathook, with which he proceeded to sound. When he had
done so, he raised both his hands to a level with his shoulders, which
was the signal to go ahead, and the men pulled a very slow stroke. He
continued to sound, after he had selected the point for landing.
When the first cutter was within three lengths of the shore, he elevated
both his hands above his head, which was the signal to cease rowing,
though the two bow oarsmen kept their oars in the water instead of
boating them as the others did. Mr. Amblen continued to feel the way,
and in a few minutes more, aided by the shoving of the two bow oarsmen,
he brought the boat to the shore.
Then he gave his attention to the second cutter, bringing it to the
land alongside of the first. Stepping out on the sand himself, he
was followed by all the crew, with cutlass in hand, and revolvers in
readiness for use. The men were placed in order for an advance, and then
required to lie down on the sand, so that they could not readily be seen
if any stroller appeared on the ground.
Leaving the force in charge of Mr. Flint, Christy and Amblen walked
towards the battery, crouching behind such objects as they could
find that would conceal them in whole or in part. The earthwork was
semicircular in form, and was hardly more than a rifle pit. No sentinel
could be discovered, and getting down upon the sand, the two officers
crept cautiously towards the heaps of sand which formed the fort.
Christy climbed up the slope with some difficulty, for the dry sand
afforded a very weak foothold. On the top of it, which was about six
feet wide, they found a solid path which had evidently been a promenade
for sentinels or other persons. Behind it, on a wooden platform, were
four field guns, with depressions in the earthwork in front of the
muzzles.
Christy led the way down the slope on the inside to the pieces, which
were twelve-pounders. At a little distance from the platform was a sort
of casemate, which might have been constructed for a magazine, or for a
place of resort for the gunners if the fort should be bombarded. Not a
man could be seen, and if there was any garrison for the place, they
were certainly taking things very comfortably, for they must have been
asleep at this unseemly hour for any ordinary occupation.
Not far from the battery was a rude structure, hardly better than a
shanty, which Christy concluded must be the barracks of the soldiers if
there were any there. He walked over to it; but there was not a human
being to be seen in the vicinity. It was half past one at night, when
honest people ought to be abed and asleep, and the first lieutenant of
the Bronx concluded that the garrison, if this shanty was their
quarters, must be honest people.
Christy walked very cautiously to the side of the building, for the
entrance was at the end nearest to the fort, and found several windows
there, from which the sashes seemed to have been removed, if there had
ever been any. The bottom of each opening was no higher than his head,
and he went to one of them and looked in.
Extending along the middle of the interior was a row of berths. It was
very dark inside, and he could not make out whether or not these bunks
