forget your generosity, and if I live you shall not suffer for it, be
sure of that.”
Sally Sellers immediately and vividly realized that she was become a new
being; a being of a far higher and worthier sort than she had been such
a little while before; an earnest being, in place of a dreamer; and
supplied with a reason for her presence in the world, where merely a
wistful and troubled curiosity about it had existed before. So great and
so comprehensive was the change which had been wrought, that she seemed
to herself to be a real person who had lately been a shadow; a something
which had lately been a nothing; a purpose, which had lately been a
fancy; a finished temple, with the altar-fires lit and the voice of
worship ascending, where before had been but an architect’s confusion
of arid working plans, unintelligible to the passing eye and prophesying
nothing.
“Lady” Gwendolen! The pleasantness of that sound was all gone; it was an
offense to her ear now. She said:
“There--that sham belongs to the past; I will not be called by it any
more.”
“I may call you simply Gwendolen? You will allow me to drop the
formalities straightway and name you by your dear first name without
additions?”
She was dethroning the pink and replacing it with a rosebud.
“There--that is better. I hate pinks--some pinks. Indeed yes, you are to
call me by my first name without additions--that is,--well, I don’t mean
without additions entirely, but--”
It was as far as she could get. There was a pause; his intellect was
struggling to comprehend; presently it did manage to catch the idea in
time to save embarrassment all around, and he said gratefully--
“Dear Gwendolen! I may say that?”
“Yes--part of it. But--don’t kiss me when I am talking, it makes me
forget what I was going to say. You can call me by part of that form,
but not the last part. Gwendolen is not my name.”
“Not your name?” This in a tone of wonder and surprise.
The girl’s soul was suddenly invaded by a creepy apprehension, a quite
definite sense of suspicion and alarm. She put his arms away from her,
looked him searchingly in the eye, and said:
“Answer me truly, on your honor. You are not seeking to marry me on
account of my rank?”
The shot almost knocked him through the wall, he was so little prepared
for it. There was something so finely grotesque about the question and
its parent suspicion, that he stopped to wonder and admire, and thus
was he saved from laughing. Then, without wasting precious time, he
set about the task of convincing her that he had been lured by herself
alone, and had fallen in love with her only, not her title and position;
that he loved her with all his heart, and could not love her more if she
were a duchess, or less if she were without home, name or family. She
watched his face wistfully, eagerly, hopefully, translating his words
by its expression; and when he had finished there was gladness in her
heart--a tumultuous gladness, indeed, though outwardly she was calm,
tranquil, even judicially austere. She prepared a surprise for him, now,
calculated to put a heavy strain upon those disinterested protestations
of his; and thus she delivered it, burning it away word by word as
the fuse burns down to a bombshell, and watching to see how far the
explosion would lift him:
“Listen--and do not doubt me, for I shall speak the exact truth. Howard
Tracy, I am no more an earl’s child than you are!”
To her joy--and secret surprise, also--it never phased him. He was
ready, this time, and saw his chance. He cried out with enthusiasm,
“Thank heaven for that!” and gathered her to his arms.
To express her happiness was almost beyond her gift of speech.
“You make me the proudest girl in all the earth,” she said, with her
head pillowed on his shoulder. “I thought it only natural that you
should be dazzled by the title--maybe even unconsciously, you being
English--and that you might be deceiving yourself in thinking you loved
only me, and find you didn’t love me when the deception was swept away;
so it makes me proud that the revelation stands for nothing and that you
do love just me, only me--oh, prouder than any words can tell!”
“It is only you, sweetheart, I never gave one envying glance toward your
father’s earldom. That is utterly true, dear Gwendolen.”
“There--you mustn’t call me that. I hate that false name. I told you it
wasn’t mine. My name is Sally Sellers--or Sarah, if you like. From this
time I banish dreams, visions, imaginings, and will no more of them. I
am going to be myself--my genuine self, my honest self, my natural self,
clear and clean of sham and folly and fraud, and worthy of you. There is
no grain of social inequality between us; I, like you, am poor; I, like
you, am without position or distinction; you are a struggling artist, I
am that, too, in my humbler way. Our bread is honest bread, we work for
our living. Hand in hand we will walk hence to the grave, helping each
other in all ways, living for each other, being and remaining one in
heart and purpose, one in hope and aspiration, inseparable to the end.
And though our place is low, judged by the world’s eye, we will make it
as high as the highest in the great essentials of honest work for what
we eat and wear, and conduct above reproach. We live in a land, let us
be thankful, where this is all-sufficient, and no man is better than his
neighbor by the grace of God, but only by his own merit.”
Tracy tried to break in, but she stopped him and kept the floor herself.
“I am not through yet. I am going to purge myself of the last vestiges
of artificiality and pretence, and then start fair on your own honest
level and be worthy mate to you thenceforth. My father honestly thinks
he is an earl. Well, leave him his dream, it pleases him and does no
one any harm: It was the dream of his ancestors before him. It has made
fools of the house of Sellers for generations, and it made something
of a fool of me, but took no deep root. I am done with it now, and for
good. Forty-eight hours ago I was privately proud of being the daughter
of a pinchbeck earl, and thought the proper mate for me must be a man of
like degree; but to-day--oh, how grateful I am for your love which has
healed my sick brain and restored my sanity!--I could make oath that no
earl’s son in all the world--”
“Oh,--well, but--but--”
“Why, you look like a person in a panic. What is it? What is the
matter?”
“Matter? Oh, nothing--nothing. I was only going to say”--but in his
flurry nothing occurred to him to say, for a moment; then by a lucky
inspiration he thought of something entirely sufficient for the
occasion, and brought it out with eloquent force: “Oh, how beautiful you
are! You take my breath away when you look like that.”
It was well conceived, well timed, and cordially delivered--and it got
its reward.
“Let me see. Where was I? Yes, my father’s earldom is pure moonshine.
Look at those dreadful things on the wall. You have of course supposed
them to be portraits of his ancestors, earls of Rossmore. Well, they are
not. They are chromos of distinguished Americans--all moderns; but
he has carried them back a thousand years by re-labeling them. Andrew
Jackson there, is doing what he can to be the late American earl;
and the newest treasure in the collection is supposed to be the young
English heir--I mean the idiot with the crape; but in truth it’s a
shoemaker, and not Lord Berkeley at all.”
“Are you sure?”
“Why of course I am. He wouldn’t look like that.”
“Why?”
“Because his conduct in his last moments, when the fire was sweeping
around him shows that he was a man. It shows that he was a fine,
high-souled young creature.”
Tracy was strongly moved by these compliments, and it seemed to him
that the girl’s lovely lips took on a new loveliness when they were
delivering them. He said, softly:
“It is a pity he could not know what a gracious impression his behavior
was going to leave with the dearest and sweetest stranger in the land
of--”
“Oh, I almost loved him! Why, I think of him every day. He is always
floating about in my mind.”
Tracy felt that this was a little more than was necessary. He was
conscious of the sting of jealousy. He said:
“It is quite right to think of him--at least now and then--that is, at
intervals--in perhaps an admiring way--but it seems to me that--”
“Howard Tracy, are you jealous of that dead man?”
He was ashamed--and at the same time not ashamed. He was jealous--and at
the same time he was not jealous. In a sense the dead man was himself;
in that case compliments and affection lavished upon that corpse went
into his own till and were clear profit. But in another sense the dead
man was not himself; and in that case all compliments and affection
lavished there were wasted, and a sufficient basis for jealousy. A tiff
was the result of the dispute between the two. Then they made it up,
and were more loving than ever. As an affectionate clincher of the
reconciliation, Sally declared that she had now banished Lord Berkeley
from her mind; and added, “And in order to make sure that he shall never
make trouble between us again, I will teach myself to detest that name
and all that have ever borne it or ever shall bear it.”
This inflicted another pang, and Tracy was minded to ask her to modify
that a little just on general principles, and as practice in not
overdoing a good thing--perhaps he might better leave things as they
were and not risk bringing on another tiff. He got away from that
particular, and sought less tender ground for conversation.
“I suppose you disapprove wholly of aristocracies and nobilities, now
that you have renounced your title and your father’s earldom.”
“Real ones? Oh, dear no--but I’ve thrown aside our sham one for good.”
This answer fell just at the right time and just in the right place, to
save the poor unstable young man from changing his political complexion
once more. He had been on the point of beginning to totter again,
but this prop shored him up and kept him from floundering back into
democracy and re-renouncing aristocracy. So he went home glad that he
had asked the fortunate question. The girl would accept a little thing
like a genuine earldom, she was merely prejudiced against the brummagem
article. Yes, he could have his girl and have his earldom, too: that
question was a fortunate stroke.
Sally went to bed happy, too; and remained happy, deliriously happy, for
nearly two hours; but at last, just as she was sinking into a contented
and luxurious unconsciousness, the shady devil who lives and lurks and
hides and watches inside of human beings and is always waiting for a
chance to do the proprietor a malicious damage, whispered to her soul
and said, “That question had a harmless look, but what was back of
it?--what was the secret motive of it?--what suggested it?”
The shady devil had knifed her, and could retire, now, and take a rest;
the wound would attend to business for him. And it did.
Why should Howard Tracy ask that question? If he was not trying to marry
her for the sake of her rank, what should suggest that question to
him? Didn’t he plainly look gratified when she said her objections to
aristocracy had their limitations? Ah, he is after that earldom, that
gilded sham--it isn’t poor me he wants.
So she argued, in anguish and tears. Then she argued the opposite
theory, but made a weak, poor business of it, and lost the case. She
kept the arguing up, one side and then the other, the rest of the night,
and at last fell asleep at dawn; fell in the fire at dawn, one may say;
for that kind of sleep resembles fire, and one comes out of it with his
brain baked and his physical forces fried out of him.
CHAPTER XXIII.
Tracy wrote his father before he sought his bed. He wrote a letter which
he believed would get better treatment than his cablegram received, for
it contained what ought to be welcome news; namely, that he had tried
equality and working for a living; had made a fight which he could find
no reason to be ashamed of, and in the matter of earning a living had
proved that he was able to do it; but that on the whole he had arrived
at the conclusion that he could not reform the world single-handed, and
was willing to retire from the conflict with the fair degree of honor
which he had gained, and was also willing to return home and resume
his position and be content with it and thankful for it for the future,
leaving further experiment of a missionary sort to other young people
needing the chastening and quelling persuasions of experience, the only
logic sure to convince a diseased imagination and restore it to rugged
health. Then he approached the subject of marriage with the daughter of
the American Claimant with a good deal of caution and much painstaking
art. He said praiseful and appreciative things about the girl, but
didn’t dwell upon that detail or make it prominent. The thing which he
made prominent was the opportunity now so happily afforded, to reconcile
York and Lancaster, graft the warring roses upon one stem, and end
forever a crying injustice which had already lasted far too long. One
could infer that he had thought this thing all out and chosen this way
of making all things fair and right because it was sufficiently fair
and considerably wiser than the renunciation-scheme which he had brought
with him from England. One could infer that, but he didn’t say it. In
fact the more he read his letter over, the more he got to inferring it
himself.
When the old earl received that letter, the first part of it filled him
with a grim and snarly satisfaction; but the rest of it brought a snort
or two out of him that could be translated differently. He wasted no
ink in this emergency, either in cablegrams or letters; he promptly took
ship for America to look into the matter himself. He had staunchly held
his grip all this long time, and given no sign of the hunger at his
heart to see his son; hoping for the cure of his insane dream, and
resolute that the process should go through all the necessary stages
without assuaging telegrams or other nonsense from home, and here was
victory at last. Victory, but stupidly marred by this idiotic marriage
project. Yes, he would step over and take a hand in this matter himself.
During the first ten days following the mailing of the letter Tracy’s
spirits had no idle time; they were always climbing up into the clouds
or sliding down into the earth as deep as the law of gravitation
reached. He was intensely happy or intensely miserable by turns,
according to Miss Sally’s moods. He never could tell when the mood was
going to change, and when it changed he couldn’t tell what it was that
had changed it. Sometimes she was so in love with him that her love was
tropical, torrid, and she could find no language fervent enough for its
expression; then suddenly, and without warning or any apparent reason,
the weather would change, and the victim would find himself adrift among
the icebergs and feeling as lonesome and friendless as the north pole.
It sometimes seemed to him that a man might better be dead than exposed
to these devastating varieties of climate.
The case was simple. Sally wanted to believe that Tracy’s preference was
disinterested; so she was always applying little tests of one sort or
another, hoping and expecting that they would bring out evidence which
would confirm or fortify her belief. Poor Tracy did not know that these
experiments were being made upon him, consequently he walked promptly
into all the traps the girl set for him. These traps consisted in
apparently casual references to social distinction, aristocratic
title and privilege, and such things. Often Tracy responded to these
references heedlessly and not much caring what he said provided it kept
the talk going and prolonged the seance. He didn’t suspect that the girl
was watching his face and listening for his words as one who watches the
judge’s face and listens for the words which will restore him to
home and friends and freedom or shut him away from the sun and human
companionship forever. He didn’t suspect that his careless words were
being weighed, and so he often delivered sentence of death when it would
have been just as handy and all the same to him to pronounce acquittal.
Daily he broke the girl’s heart, nightly he sent her to the rack for
sleep. He couldn’t understand it.
Some people would have put this and that together and perceived that the
weather never changed until one particular subject was introduced, and
that then it always changed. And they would have looked further, and
perceived that that subject was always introduced by the one party,
never the other. They would have argued, then, that this was done for a
purpose. If they could not find out what that purpose was in any simpler
or easier way, they would ask.
But Tracy was not deep enough or suspicious enough to think of these
things. He noticed only one particular; that the weather was always
sunny when a visit began. No matter how much it might cloud up later, it
always began with a clear sky. He couldn’t explain this curious fact to
himself, he merely knew it to be a fact. The truth of the matter was,
that by the time Tracy had been out of Sally’s sight six hours she was
so famishing for a sight of him that her doubts and suspicions were all
consumed away in the fire of that longing, and so always she came into
his presence as surprisingly radiant and joyous as she wasn’t when she
went out of it.
In circumstances like these a growing portrait runs a good many risks.
The portrait of Sellers, by Tracy, was fighting along, day by day,
through this mixed weather, and daily adding to itself ineradicable
signs of the checkered life it was leading. It was the happiest
portrait, in spots, that was ever seen; but in other spots a damned soul
looked out from it; a soul that was suffering all the different kinds of
distress there are, from stomach ache to rabies. But Sellers liked it.
He said it was just himself all over--a portrait that sweated moods from
every pore, and no two moods alike. He said he had as many different
kinds of emotions in him as a jug.
It was a kind of a deadly work of art, maybe, but it was a starchy
picture for show; for it was life size, full length, and represented
the American earl in a peer’s scarlet robe, with the three ermine bars
indicative of an earl’s rank, and on the gray head an earl’s coronet,
tilted just a wee bit to one side in a most gallus and winsome way. When
Sally’s weather was sunny the portrait made Tracy chuckle, but when her
weather was overcast it disordered his mind and stopped the circulation
of his blood.
Late one night when the sweethearts had been having a flawless visit
together, Sally’s interior devil began to work his specialty, and soon
the conversation was drifting toward the customary rock. Presently, in
the midst of Tracy’s serene flow of talk, he felt a shudder which
he knew was not his shudder, but exterior to his breast although
immediately against it. After the shudder came sobs; Sally was crying.
“Oh, my darling, what have I done--what have I said? It has happened
again! What have I done to wound you?”
She disengaged herself from his arms and gave him a look of deep
reproach.
“What have you done? I will tell you what you have done. You have
unwittingly revealed--oh, for the twentieth time, though I could not
believe it, would not believe it!--that it is not me you love, but that
foolish sham, my father’s imitation earldom; and you have broken my
heart!”
“Oh, my child, what are you saying! I never dreamed of such a thing.”
“Oh, Howard, Howard, the things you have uttered when you were
forgetting to guard your tongue, have betrayed you.”
“Things I have uttered when I was forgetting to guard my tongue?
These are hard words. When have I remembered to guard it? Never in one
instance. It has no office but to speak the truth. It needs no guarding
for that.”
“Howard, I have noted your words and weighed them, when you were not
thinking of their significance--and they have told me more than you
meant they should.”
“Do you mean to say you have answered the trust I had in you by using
it as an ambuscade from which you could set snares for my unsuspecting
tongue and be safe from detection while you did it? You have not done
this--surely you have not done this thing. Oh, one’s enemy could not do
it.”
This was an aspect of the girl’s conduct which she had not clearly
perceived before. Was it treachery? Had she abused a trust? The thought
crimsoned her cheeks with shame and remorse.
“Oh, forgive me,” she said, “I did not know what I was doing. I have
been so tortured--you will forgive me, you must; I have suffered
so much, and I am so sorry and so humble; you do forgive me, don’t
you?--don’t turn away, don’t refuse me; it is only my love that is at
fault, and you know I love you, love you with all my heart; I couldn’t
bear to--oh, dear, dear, I am so miserable, and I never meant any harm,
and I didn’t see where this insanity was carrying me, and how it
was wronging and abusing the dearest heart in all the world to
me--and--and--oh, take me in your arms again, I have no other refuge, no
other home and hope!”
There was reconciliation again--immediate, perfect, all-embracing--and
with it utter happiness. This would have been a good time to adjourn.
But no, now that the cloud-breeder was revealed at last; now that it was
manifest that all the sour weather had come from this girl’s dread that
Tracy was lured by her rank and not herself, he resolved to lay that
ghost immediately and permanently by furnishing the best possible proof
that he couldn’t have had back of him at any time the suspected motive.
So he said:
“Let me whisper a little secret in your ear--a secret which I have kept
shut up in my breast all this time. Your rank couldn’t ever have been an
enticement. I am son and heir to an English earl!”
The girl stared at him--one, two, three moments, maybe a dozen--then her
lips parted:
“You?” she said, and moved away from him, still gazing at him in a kind
of blank amazement.
“Why--why, certainly I am. Why do you act like this? What have I done
now?”
“What have you done? You have certainly made a most strange statement.
You must see that yourself.”
“Well,” with a timid little laugh, “it may be a strange enough
statement; but of what consequence is that, if it is true?”
“If it is true. You are already retiring from it.”
“Oh, not for a moment! You should not say that. I have not deserved it.
I have spoken the truth; why do you doubt it?”
Her reply was prompt.
“Simply because you didn’t speak it earlier!”
“Oh!” It wasn’t a groan, exactly, but it was an intelligible enough
expression of the fact that he saw the point and recognized that there
was reason in it.
“You have seemed to conceal nothing from me that I ought to know
concerning yourself, and you were not privileged to keep back such
a thing as this from me a moment after--after--well, after you had
determined to pay your court to me.”
“Its true, it’s true, I know it! But there were circumstances--in--in
the way--circumstances which--”
She waved the circumstances aside.
“Well, you see,” he said, pleadingly, “you seemed so bent on our
traveling the proud path of honest labor and honorable poverty, that
I was terrified--that is, I was afraid--of--of--well, you know how you
talked.”
“Yes, I know how I talked. And I also know that before the talk was
finished you inquired how I stood as regards aristocracies, and my
answer was calculated to relieve your fears.”
He was silent a while. Then he said, in a discouraged way:
“I don’t see any way out of it. It was a mistake. That is in truth
all it was, just a mistake. No harm was meant, no harm in the world. I
didn’t see how it might some time look. It is my way. I don’t seem to
see far.”
The girl was almost disarmed, for a moment. Then she flared up again.
“An Earl’s son! Do earls’ sons go about working in lowly callings for
their bread and butter?”
“God knows they don’t! I have wished they did.”
“Do earls’ sons sink their degree in a country like this, and come sober
and decent to sue for the hand of a born child of poverty when they can
go drunk, profane, and steeped in dishonorable debt and buy the pick
and choice of the millionaires’ daughters of America? You an earl’s son!
Show me the signs.”
“I thank God I am not able--if those are the signs. But yet I am an
earl’s son and heir. It is all I can say. I wish you would believe me,
but you will not. I know no way to persuade you.”
She was about to soften again, but his closing remark made her bring her
foot down with smart vexation, and she cried out:
“Oh, you drive all patience out of me! Would you have one believe that
you haven’t your proofs at hand, and yet are what you say you are? You
do not put your hand in your pocket now--for you have nothing there. You
make a claim like this, and then venture to travel without credentials.
These are simply incredibilities. Don’t you see that, yourself?”
He cast about in his mind for a defence of some kind or other--hesitated
a little, and then said, with difficulty and diffidence:
“I will tell you just the truth, foolish as it will seem to you--to
anybody, I suppose--but it is the truth. I had an ideal--call it a
dream, a folly, if you will--but I wanted to renounce the privileges and
unfair advantages enjoyed by the nobility and wrung from the nation by
force and fraud, and purge myself of my share of those crimes against
right and reason, by thenceforth comrading with the poor and humble on
equal terms, earning with my own hands the bread I ate, and rising by my
own merit if I rose at all.”
The young girl scanned his face narrowly while he spoke; and there was
something about his simplicity of manner and statement which touched her
--touched her almost to the danger point; but she set her grip on the
yielding spirit and choked it to quiescence; it could not be wise to
surrender to compassion or any kind of sentiment, yet; she must ask
one or two more questions. Tracy was reading her face; and what he read
there lifted his drooping hopes a little.
“An earl’s son to do that! Why, he were a man! A man to love!--oh, more,
a man to worship!”
“Why, I--?”
“But he never lived! He is not born, he will not be born. The
self-abnegation that could do that--even in utter folly, and hopeless of
conveying benefit to any, beyond the mere example--could be mistaken for
greatness; why, it would be greatness in this cold age of sordid ideals!
A moment--wait--let me finish; I have one question more. Your father is
earl of what?”
“Rossmore--and I am Viscount Berkeley!”
The fat was in the fire again. The girl felt so outraged that it was
difficult for her to speak.
“How can you venture such a brazen thing! You know that he is dead, and
you know that I know it. Oh, to rob the living of name and honors for
a selfish and temporary advantage is crime enough, but to rob the
defenceless dead--why it is more than crime, it degrades crime!”
“Oh, listen to me--just a word--don’t turn away like that. Don’t
go--don’t leave me, so--stay one moment. On my honor--”
“Oh, on your honor!”
“On my honor I am what I say! And I will prove it, and you will believe,
I know you will. I will bring you a message--a cablegram--”
“When?”
“To-morrow--next day--”
“Signed ‘Rossmore’?”
“Yes--signed Rossmore.”
“What will that prove?”
“What will it prove? What should it prove?”
“If you force me to say it--possibly the presence of a confederate
somewhere.”
This was a hard blow, and staggered him. He said, dejectedly:
“It is true. I did not think of it. Oh, my God, I do not know any way
to do; I do everything wrong. You are going?--and you won’t say even
good-night--or good-bye? Ah, we have not parted like this before.”
“Oh, I want to run and--no, go, now.” A pause--then she said, “You may
bring the message when it comes.”
“Oh, may I? God bless you.”
He was gone; and none too soon; her lips were already quivering, and now
she broke down. Through her sobbings her words broke from time to time.
“Oh, he is gone. I have lost him, I shall never see him any more. And he
didn’t kiss me good-bye; never even offered to force a kiss from me,
and he knowing it was the very, very last, and I expecting he would,
and never dreaming he would treat me so after all we have been to each
other. Oh, oh, oh, oh, what shall I do, what shall I do! He is a dear,
poor, miserable, good-hearted, transparent liar and humbug, but oh, I do
love him so--!” After a little she broke into speech again. “How dear
he is! and I shall miss him so, I shall miss him so! Why won’t he ever
think to forge a message and fetch it?--but no, he never will, he never
thinks of anything; he’s so honest and simple it wouldn’t ever occur to
him. Oh, what did possess him to think he could succeed as a fraud--and
he hasn’t the first requisite except duplicity that I can see. Oh, dear,
I’ll go to bed and give it all up. Oh, I wish I had told him to come
and tell me whenever he didn’t get any telegram--and now it’s all my own
fault if I never see him again. How my eyes must look!”
CHAPTER XXIV.
Next day, sure enough, the cablegram didn’t come. This was an immense
disaster; for Tracy couldn’t go into the presence without that ticket,
although it wasn’t going to possess any value as evidence. But if the
failure of the cablegram on that first day may be called an immense
disaster, where is the dictionary that can turn out a phrase sizeable
enough to describe the tenth day’s failure? Of course every day that the
cablegram didn’t come made Tracy all of twenty-four hours’ more ashamed
of himself than he was the day before, and made Sally fully twenty-four
hours more certain than ever that he not only hadn’t any father
anywhere, but hadn’t even a confederate--and so it followed that he was
a double-dyed humbug and couldn’t be otherwise.
These were hard days for Barrow and the art firm. All these had their
hands full, trying to comfort Tracy. Barrow’s task was particularly
hard, because he was made a confidant in full, and therefore had to
humor Tracy’s delusion that he had a father, and that the father was an
earl, and that he was going to send a cablegram. Barrow early gave up
the idea of trying to convince Tracy that he hadn’t any father, because
this had such a bad effect on the patient, and worked up his temper to
such an alarming degree. He had tried, as an experiment, letting Tracy
think he had a father; the result was so good that he went further, with
proper caution, and tried letting him think his father was an earl; this
wrought so well, that he grew bold, and tried letting him think he had
two fathers, if he wanted to, but he didn’t want to, so Barrow withdrew
one of them and substituted letting him think he was going to get a
cablegram--which Barrow judged he wouldn’t, and was right; but Barrow
worked the cablegram daily for all it was worth, and it was the one
thing that kept Tracy alive; that was Barrow’s opinion.
And these were bitter hard days for poor Sally, and mainly delivered
up to private crying. She kept her furniture pretty damp, and so caught
cold, and the dampness and the cold and the sorrow together undermined
