Cornwallis. It was not a mere white lie, for he intended to deceive. We
don't regard Washington as a liar, and he was not a liar in any proper
sense of the word. All the high-toned generals on both sides in the
present war do not hesitate to deceive the enemy, for it is a part of
their duty to do so. In my judgment, a lie that is acted is the same as
a spoken lie."
"You are a moral philosopher, Mr. Passford," said the surgeon, laughing
at the earnestness of the speaker.
"Hardly, doctor; I looked up the subject for my own benefit. I simply
mean to say that I do not consider my cousin a liar," replied Christy,
who was an earnest debater when he became warm in his subject.
Dr. Connelly left him, and made his tour of inspection among the men.
The steamer was still rolling heavily, and the prisoner found himself
more comfortable in his berth than on the lower deck. He had not yet
learned whether or not he was to remain confined in his present
quarters, and when the surgeon returned from his tour, he asked him
to inquire of the captain in regard to his limits. He was informed that
he could go on deck for an hour in the forenoon, and an hour in the
afternoon. It was nearly night and he did not avail himself of this
permission.
For the next three days it blew a gale, moderating at times, and then
piping up again. To a sailor it was not bad weather, but Christy learned
from the surgeon that his cousin was confined to his berth during all
this time. The prisoner went on deck for the time permitted each
forenoon and afternoon. He had his eyes wide open all the time, on the
lookout for anything that would afford him further information in regard
to the plot in the midst of which he was living.
He identified Rockton and Warton, but not the other two who had formed
the group near his berth, on his first visit to the deck. On the fourth
day out, he saw one of these men talking cautiously to the second
lieutenant. Following up this clew he satisfied himself that Mr.
Galvinne was the black sheep in the officers' quarters. Corny came on
deck that day, for the sea was comparatively smooth, and took a seat on
the quarter-deck.
Christy did not go near him, but he watched him very closely. He had not
long to wait before Mr. Galvinne, who was then the officer of the deck,
spoke to him, and they had quite a long conversation. He could not hear
a word of it; but the fact that they were intimate enough to hold what
appeared to be a confidential interview was enough to satisfy the
prisoner that the second lieutenant was the principle confederate of his
cousin. How many of the crew were "packed" for the enterprise he could
form no idea.
The weather continued favorable till the end of the cruise, and then on
the eighth day the Vernon arrived near her destination off Pensacola
Bay. Thus far no attempt had been made to capture the steamer, and the
plot was as dark as it had been in the beginning. Christy thought that
Corny was becoming somewhat nervous when the vessels of the squadron
were made out in the distance.
"There appear to be only three steamers in sight," said the captain, who
had come into the waist to observe the fleet.
"That is the flag-ship, I think, anchored the farthest from the shore,"
replied Mr. Galvinne, to whom the remark had been addressed.
"I suppose that is the Bronx astern of her," added Captain Battleton.
"It is the smallest of the three, at any rate. Mr. Salisbury, you will
run directly for the flag-ship," he added to the executive officer on
the quarter-deck.
Christy recognized the Bronx if others did not, for none of the officers
had been on this station before. He wondered if the present deception
was likely to be carried out to the accomplishment of the end the
conspirators had in view. He could see nothing to prevent its
accomplishment.
"I must ask you to report below, Mr. Passford," said the captain rather
sternly; and perhaps he did not care to be charged with over-indulgence
of his prisoner.
He bowed submissively, and went to his berth in the men's quarters. The
anchor had been cast loose, and the cable put in condition to run out.
Christy had hardly reached his berth before he heard the rattle of the
chain, and the voyage was ended.
CHAPTER X
A CHANGE OF QUARTERS IN THE CONFUSION
Christy obeyed the order of Captain Battleton when he was directed to
report below; but he felt that he was permitting the plot of his cousin
to be carried out without any opposition, and without any attempt to
check its progress. But he was a prisoner, and he realized that he could
do nothing. His case had been tried, and he had been condemned to his
present condition. It was useless to appeal to the captain, for he had
already passed upon all the facts that had been presented before him.
Seated on the side of his berth he considered the situation very
faithfully. The Bronx lay off St. Rosa's Island; she was on the
blockade, evidently ready to trip her anchor, whenever occasion should
require. In regard to her officers Christy only knew that Mr. Flint was
in temporary command of her, in place of Mr. Blowitt, who had become the
executive officer of the Bellevite. The other officers must have been
appointed for temporary service.
As Christy viewed the matter, there appeared to be no obstacle to the
success of Corny's scheme for the capture of the Bronx, unless it was
Mr. Flint, who might or might not discover that the new commander was an
impostor. If his old associate saw the two cousins together, he would
have no difficulty in determining which was his former commander; seeing
Corny alone he might be deceived. With the flag-officer, who had seen
Christy but once or twice, he was not likely to suspect that Corny was
an impostor.
The Bronx had but one officer on board who had been permanently
appointed to her, and at least two others must be selected to serve
on board of her. It would be an easy matter for Corny to procure the
appointment of Mr. Galvinne, who was doubtless competent to handle the
vessel as the impostor certainly was not.
When he realized that the scheme of his cousin, or whoever had devised
it, was in a fair way to accomplish its object, Christy felt that he
must do something. Though he was a prisoner and in disgrace, he did not
feel that he was absolved from the duty of attempting to save the Bronx
to the Union. He had refused to accept a parole, or anything of that
kind, and his honor as an officer did not require him to submit to the
discipline of his situation. He was a prisoner; but the responsibility
of retaining him as such belonged to the captain of the Vernon for the
present.
His reflections relieved him of all scruples in regard to any action he
might resolve to take. He was held in confinement as a Confederate. When
he had been taken by the enemy and locked up as a Union prisoner, he had
considered his duty, independently of his desire to be free, and he had
effected his escape with Flint. In the present instance his confinement
was not irksome, but he felt more keenly than before that he ought to do
something to save the little gunboat; and he could do nothing without
first getting into a position where he could act.
Between the decks of the Vernon, he could do nothing; he could not even
see what was going on, though he had no doubt the captain was in the act
of reporting to the flag-officer. Probably Corny would go off in the
first boat to report for duty, and receive his orders. The seamen
who were simply passengers on board of the steamer, were below in
considerable numbers, gathering up their bags, and preparing for the
transfer to the flag-ship, or to the Bronx, for there were no other
vessels near to receive them.
Christy felt very much like a caged tiger. He had hoped that the
Bellevite would be on the station when he arrived, for there were plenty
of officers and seamen on board of her who could identify him beyond the
possibility of a doubt. In that case he intended to make a strong appeal
to Captain Battleton, for he would then have the means of arriving at a
correct conclusion. Then he could explain in what manner he had been
robbed of his papers with some chance of having his statement accepted.
The prisoner walked up and down the lower deck, doing his best to
conceal the agitation which had taken possession of him. No one took any
notice of him, for the seamen had become accustomed to the presence of
the captive officer. While he was struggling to contain his emotions, he
heard the rattle of the cable again, and saw the chain descending to the
locker below.
"What does that mean, my man?" asked Christy of one of the men near him.
"They appear to be weighing the anchor."
"That is what they are doing," replied the man indifferently.
"What is that for?"
"The flag officer has not told me yet what he is about, and I am not
good at guessing, though I am a Yankee," replied the man chuckling,
as though he believed he had said something funny.
"The flag-officer has signalled for the Vernon to come alongside,"
interposed another seaman who had heard the question.
"Thank you, my man," replied Christy, beginning at once to consider how
this change would affect him.
"The Bronx is getting under way also," said the civil tar, who evidently
had some sympathy for the prisoner. "Probably she is also ordered
alongside. Twenty-five of us have been detailed to serve on board of
her, and I am one of them."
"Then I may see you again, my friend. Thank you for your information,
and will you give me your name?" added Christy.
"My name is Ralph Pennant; I have a sea-going name, and I suppose
that is the reason why I went to sea," replied the seaman, with a
good-natured laugh. "I have been the mate of a steamer, but I could not
get any better position than that of able seaman, and I wanted to be in
this stir-up."
"I have no doubt you will work your way up in good time," added Christy,
who saw that Pennant was an intelligent and reliable man, though it was
possible from the appearance of his face that he had been in the habit
of imbibing too much whiskey for his own good.
In a short time the Vernon was alongside the flag-ship. Christy had put
his uniform coat in his valise, and still wore the frock he had taken
from it. He had removed his linen collar, and put on a woollen shirt and
a seaman's cap, for he did not care to be taken for an officer among the
crew. He carried his valise to the vicinity of the forehatch, and looked
up through the opening to ascertain what he could of the movements on
board.
"There comes the Bronx," said a seaman standing at the head of the
ladder.
"Ay, ay; and she is coming alongside the Vernon," added another.
The store-ship had been made fast to the flag-ship, and at this moment
came a call for all hands to go aft. Christy could not endure the
suspense any longer, and taking his valise in his hand he went on deck,
just as the Bronx came alongside. Mr. Flint was on duty with a couple
of young officers, and gave the orders to make her fast to the Vernon.
Captain Battleton was going up the side of the flag-ship, followed by
Corny.
Christy put his valise in a convenient place, and then concealed himself
in the firemen's quarters under the top-gallant forecastle. He found a
place beneath a bunk which would effectually conceal him unless a very
thorough search should be made for him. But he only kept this place as a
resort in case of emergency, for he placed himself where he could see
out at the door; and it was a good location to overlook all that took
place on the quarter-deck where the officers were, and the waist where
the men had been assembled.
The second lieutenant was calling over a list of names, which Christy
concluded was the draft of seamen for the Bronx. Possibly Captain
Passford had used some influence in this selection, for all the other
hands were to be put on board of the flag-ship to be assigned to such
vessels as needed to be reinforced by the officers of the staff.
As the names were called the men passed over to the starboard side, with
their bags in their hands, for there was evidently to be no delay in
making the transfer. But it was a full hour before Captain Battleton
and Corny returned from the flag-ship. The prisoner on the forecastle
thought his cousin looked very complacent, and his return indicated
that his plot had not miscarried, and that the flag-officer had not
challenged the identity of the future commander of the Bronx.
Corny's first movement on board of the Vernon was to take the hand of
Mr. Galvinne, whom he appeared to be congratulating on a promotion or
appointment. The second lieutenant promptly handed his lists to the
third lieutenant, Mr. Winter, who proceeded with the calling of the
names. Corny and Mr. Galvinne immediately went below, and Christy
concluded that the officer he had spotted as the traitor had been
appointed to the little gunboat, either as first or second lieutenant,
and that they were making their preparations to go on board of her. In a
few minutes they appeared with the steward of the ward room carrying
their baggage.
Corny politely saluted Mr. Flint, the acting commander of the gunboat.
Mr. Galvinne was introduced, and there was plenty of bowing and formal
politeness. Corny presented his commission and orders for the inspection
of the officer in command, and for the present the formalities were
completed. Corny was evidently in command of the Bronx; but Christy
could not determine the position of Mr. Flint, and he watched his
movements with intense interest for some time.
The late acting-commander did not leave the deck, as he would have been
likely to do if he had been relieved and ordered to report on board of
the flag-ship, though he might have been superseded as executive
officer,--a position which he was clearly entitled to hold. A little
later, the draft of seamen were ordered to file on board of the Bronx.
Then the observer saw Mr. Galvinne, with a rather pompous gesture point
to the men who were coming on board, and say something he could not hear
to Mr. Flint. He had evidently directed him to receive the seamen as
they came on deck. This indicated that the late second lieutenant of the
Vernon had been appointed executive officer of the Bronx.
Christy felt that the time for action had come. Taking his valise in his
hand he joined the file of men, and cleverly inserting himself between
a couple of them, he went on the deck of the Bronx without being
challenged as to his right to do so. Doubtless Captain Battleton had
reported that he had a prisoner on board, though he had not had time to
tell the whole story of the investigation, which had probably been
postponed to a more convenient time. Mr. Flint went forward to receive
the seamen as they came on deck, and he ordered them to pipe below and
leave their bags there.
"Where is your bag?" asked Mr. Flint, as Christy, the actual commander
of the Bronx, passed him. "What are you doing with a valise?"
"I have no bag, sir," replied Christy in submissive tones.
"Find a bag, for we shall throw that valise overboard," added Mr. Flint.
"I don't think you will, sir, after the circumstances have been
explained."
Suddenly the officer started back, and began to look very sharply at the
presumed sailor. But the file pressed behind him, and Christy was too
glad to move with it to delay a moment longer. He went below to the
familiar quarters of the crew, and saw many of his old seamen still on
board, though many of them had been taken to reinforce other vessels.
Christy deposited his valise in a secure place near the door leading
into the steerage. All hands were on deck attending to the transfer of
seamen, even to the stewards. The way was clear, and the late prisoner
promptly decided what to do. He thought the captain's cabin was the
proper place for him, and he went there.
CHAPTER XI
LAYING OUT A PLAN OF OPERATIONS
Christy had deposited his valise in a place where it was not likely to
be seen unless a search was made for it. There was no one in the ward
room to obstruct his advance to the captain's cabin. He had served as
acting-commander of the vessel in a voyage from New York to the Gulf,
and been the executive officer on board for a short term, and he was
perfectly at home in every part of her. In the conspiracy on his last
voyage in the Bronx, Pink Mulgrum had concealed himself under the
berth in the captain's stateroom, where Dave, the cabin steward, had
discovered him, though he might have remained there a month if his
hiding-place had not been suspected.
Christy thought this would be an excellent retreat for him, not only
because it promised him the greatest security, but because it would
permit him to hear what passed between the pretended commander and
others, especially Mr. Galvinne. He had been reasonably confident of
returning to the gunboat when he went to the North as prize master,
though not as her commander, and he had left his trunk on board.
It was a humiliating posture for the actual commander of the vessel, but
he promptly got down upon the floor of the stateroom, and crawled under
the berth. He placed the trunk and some other articles there so as to
form a sort of breast-work, behind which he carefully bestowed himself.
It was not an uncomfortable position, for the floor was carpeted and an
old satchel filled with his cast-off garments furnished him a pillow
sufficiently soft for a person on extraordinary duty.
The cabin was to be occupied by Corny, though his cousin had no doubt
that Mr. Galvinne was the real leader in the adventure of capturing the
steamer. Both of them would be obliged to keep up appearances for the
present. Christy's first thought after he had settled himself in his
new quarters related to the cabin steward, who had served him very
faithfully, and whom he had brought off in the Teaser, the former name
of the Bronx. He had no doubt he was still on board, and probably acting
in his former capacity, for Mr. Flint knew that he was attached to the
man for the service he had rendered, not only to him but to his country.
He was absolutely sure that Dave could be trusted under any and all
circumstances, and the first thing he did would be to make a connection
with him.
Christy became rather impatient because the Bronx did not get under
way; but he concluded from such sounds as came to his ears that she
was taking in shot, shells, and powder, as well as stores and supplies.
At any rate, neither Corny nor his first lieutenant came into the cabin,
so far as he could ascertain. But he had not been in his hiding-place
an hour before he heard a noise in the adjoining apartment. It was not
the commander, for the noise was an occasional rapping; it was not an
unfamiliar sound to him, for he had often heard it before when he lay in
his berth. Dave was a remarkably neat person, and he was always dusting
the cabin and stateroom when he had nothing else to do. He was sure that
the rapping was caused by the steward's feather duster.
In a few minutes, when he had made the cabin tidy for the reception of
"Massa Cap'n Passford," he transferred his labors to the stateroom. He
worked in the berth and all its surroundings, including the desk, which
still contained the real commander's papers, and then gave his attention
to the trunk beneath.
"Dave," said Christy, after he had obtained a view of the back of the
steward's head which satisfied him that he was the right man.
"Mullygumps!" exclaimed Dave, as he suspended his labors on the trunk.
No doubt he was greatly surprised to hear his name, pronounced as though
it came up through the deck, as he had abundant reason to be.
"Dave," repeated Christy, in a more decided tone after he had heard the
voice of the steward.
"Is that you, Pink Mulgrum?" demanded Dave. "I give you the whole State
of Alabama, but I thought we done rid of you long ago. Who's there?"
"Don't you know me, Dave?" asked Christy, speaking out plainly so that
the steward might recognize his voice.
"Maggywogs! That sounds like Massa Christy's voice; but I done seen him
on deck five or ten minutes ago."
"No, you didn't, Dave; that was Corny," replied Christy.
"Gollywops! But he was in command of the Bronx, for I done seen Mr.
Flint hand it over to him. Go 'way! You can't fool this colored person."
"I tell you the truth, Dave; but things are mixed," added Christy.
"I believe you; they be mixed if you be the captain when I done seen him
on deck just now."
"Sit down on the floor, Dave, and I will tell you all about it,"
continued Christy, though the difficulty of convincing the steward was
not unexpected.
"Let me see your face before you told me anything," persisted Dave, as
he pulled out one end of the trunk, and dropped upon his knees where he
could see under the berth.
Christy crawled to the front of the berth, and thrust his head out into
the stateroom in as natural a position as he could place it.
"Wollywogs! You look like Massa Christy, for sure," exclaimed Dave, as
he gave himself up to a study of the face presented to him. "But the
captain looks like Massa Christy too."
"You have never seen my cousin Corny, I believe, Dave; but he looks like
me. Now sit down, and I will tell you all about it."
"I never saw Massa Corny; but I done hear enough about him when I was at
Bonnydale. Show me your knife and your watch, Massa Christy."
He complied with the request, as he saw that it was a very simple means
of identification, for the steward had some skill as a mechanic, and
he had frequently sharpened the knife, and knew the repeater of the
lieutenant from having seen it so often, for it was a very peculiar
watch. Dave's last doubt vanished when these articles were produced.
"But the other Massa Passford looks just like you," added Dave.
"If you saw us together you would not mistake him for me," replied
Christy, as he proceeded to explain the situation to the steward, upon
whom he depended for very important assistance.
He related the incidents which had occurred at Bonnydale, the loss of
his commission and orders, and the decision of Captain Battleton against
him, concluding with the statement that he was then a prisoner of war,
but had made his escape from the place where he had been required to
remain.
"A prisoner of war!" exclaimed the steward. "The commander of the ship a
prisoner!"
"That is exactly the situation, Dave. Can you tell me what they are
doing on deck?" asked Christy, who began to feel more hopeful of the
future.
"The Bronx is taking in provisions, stores, and ammunition. They say the
captain has his orders, but I don't know about that."
"Can you tell me what position Mr. Flint has on board?"
"He's just what he was before, when you was on board; he is the second
lieutenant, and we have a new man for first, I believe they call him
Gallivan," replied Dave, who was intelligent enough to comprehend what
he saw on deck.
"His name is Galvinne, and he was second lieutenant of the Vernon; but
he is a Confederate. I think he is to be the real commander of the Bronx
if they succeed in getting her into Pensacola," added Christy.
"Into Pensacola!" exclaimed the steward, aghast at the remark.
"Of course my cousin Corny intends to hand the vessel over to the
Confederate government."
"Gollywompus! My old master will get me back then!" groaned Dave, who
had been very happy in his new service and at Bonnydale where he had
spent considerable of his time while Christy was waiting for the fitting
out of the Bronx. "I think I had better get on board of the flag-ship
right off."
"Don't do it, Dave, for I hope to save the vessel to the Union, and you
can render me the most important service in this matter," added Christy.
"Then I stay for sure; I don't go back on you, Massa Christy," protested
the steward warmly.
"Thank you, Dave."
"There ain't no hole in this millstone for me," continued Dave, suddenly
becoming very thoughtful. "I don't see how Massa Corny can run away with
the steamer when she has her officers and crew on board."
"I have just told you that the first lieutenant is a Confederate
officer; and I have not yet learned who is the third lieutenant. Among
the crew I know there are at least four men, and there may be twenty of
them, who are to take part in this plot. The loyal men will not be
likely to interfere with the officers unless they have a leader. The
fact that the Bronx is headed into a Confederate port would not create a
rebellion on board unless they were informed of the actual situation. By
the time the Union men found out the plot, it would be too late for them
to do anything, for the vessel would be under the guns of the forts."
"But what are we going to do, Massa Christy?" asked the steward, dazzled
by the situation.
"We must recapture the vessel before she gets into port; and what I want
most now is to see Mr. Flint. You must fix the matter in some way, Dave,
so that I can see him. Now go on deck, and ascertain what is going on
there. If you get a chance, speak to Mr. Flint; but be extremely
careful."
"You can trust Dave, Massa Christy," replied the steward, as the officer
drew back into his hiding-place.
Dave arranged the trunk and other articles to the best advantage for the
concealment of the lieutenant, and then left the stateroom. Christy, as
soon as he had become acquainted with the situation, had arranged his
plan of action, and the new officers of the Bronx were likely to
encounter a mutiny, either to inaugurate or end their sway. In less than
half an hour, the steward returned to the stateroom with the information
that he had spoken to the second lieutenant, and informed him that the
real commander of the Bronx was concealed under the berth in the
captain's stateroom.
"Mr. Flint has not had his breakfast yet, and he will come below for it
very soon," added Dave. "He was just coming down for it when he got the
signal to come alongside the flag-ship."
"Did Mr. Flint say anything?" asked Christy.
"Not a word, sir; only said he would be down to his breakfast in a few
minutes."
The lieutenant took out his memorandum book, and looked at the names of
the men he had spotted as disloyal, Rockton and Warton, to which he had
added two others, Nichols and Swayne, after he had observed that they
were very intimate with the two whose names he had learned from their
own mouths.
  [Illustration: Dave Identifies Christy.--Page 130.]
"Now, Dave, I have another commission for you to execute," continued
Christy, as he tore out the leaf on which he had written the names. "Not
less than twenty-five of the crew of the Bronx came from New York in the
Vernon. One of them is Ralph Pennant, and he is an intelligent man, and
one that can be trusted. You will see him. Tell him the commander is an
impostor. Do you know what an impostor is, Dave?"
"I reckon I do, sir; your cousin Corny is an impostor," replied the
steward promptly.
"You will find this man, and give him this paper. The names on it are
those of disloyal men. Tell him to look out for them, and find out as
far as he can who are true to the Union."
Christy had hardly finished his instructions to the steward before he
heard footsteps in the cabin. Dave looked into the apartment and
discovered Mr. Flint, who went into the stateroom at once.
CHAPTER XII
A LESSON IN ORDINARY POLITENESS
Though the second lieutenant of the Bronx had not been to breakfast, it
was not his stomach that made the first demand upon him. He directed the
steward to remain in the gangway and apprise him of the coming of any
person in the direction of the cabin and ward room. Dave took his
station on the steps. Mr. Flint entered the stateroom, and the first
thing he did was to drop down on his knees and thrust his right hand
into the space under the berth. It was instantly grasped by Christy, and
given a warm pressure.
"Is it really you, Captain Passford?" asked the second lieutenant.
"No doubt of it," replied Christy.
"I thought you were somewhat changed in your looks when I saw you come
on board of the Bronx, and then I felt that the greeting you gave me was
rather stiff for an old comrade who had passed some time with you in a
Confederate prison," added Mr. Flint.
"We have no time to talk sentiment now. It is necessary for you to
understand the situation better than you do," interposed Christy; and he
proceeded to explain in what manner his cousin Corny happened to be in
command of the Bronx, while he was himself nominally a prisoner of war.
"Your absence from the between decks of the Vernon has been discovered,
and Captain Battleton has caused the strictest search to be made for you
on board of all three of the ships. The last I saw of him he was
evidently talking with the flag-officer about you, as I judged from his
looks and gestures," replied the second lieutenant.
"He has not found me yet; and I think that the stateroom of the
commander of the Bronx is the last place he will think of looking for
me. But I have no time to talk of merely selfish matters, for I am not
at all worried about my personal safety while we are within Union
lines. If this plot succeeds, and the conspirators get the ship into a
Confederate port, I shall feel differently about this matter. Has any
third lieutenant been appointed, Mr. Flint?"
"There has, captain; he is a young man by the name of Byron; but I did
not learn his rank."
"Byron!" exclaimed Christy, recalling Walsh, and the name he had
insisted was his own when he first encountered him on board of the
Vernon. "He may have a rank in the Confederate navy, but he has none
in that of the Union. In other words, he is a Confederate officer or
seaman, and he is the man who helped Corny steal my commission and
orders."
"We have a nest of them in the cabin--the captain and two officers.
What is to be done? We cannot allow the Bronx to be captured by any
such trick as this, with forty-five loyal seamen on board of her,
to say nothing of myself as a loyal officer."
"All the crew are not loyal," replied Christy, as he explained the
instructions he had given to the steward.
"But most of the crew must be loyal, for twenty of the old seamen
remain on board, and every one of them is as true as steel," Mr. Flint
insisted.
"But the conspirators do not intend that any issue shall be raised
until the vessel is under the guns of a Confederate fort. Doubtless Mr.
Galvinne, whom I look upon as the actual commander of the steamer, for
Corny is no sailor, will run into Pensacola Bay under the American flag.
Probably he is a pilot in these waters, and knows what signal to make to
the Confederate forts."
"I don't believe he would attempt to run in while it is broad daylight,"
suggested Mr. Flint. "Captain Corny already has his sailing orders. They
are sealed, but he is to proceed to the eastward. I should say that he
would obey orders, and when it is time for him to break the seals this
evening, he will come about, hug the shore of St. Rosa's till he comes
to the entrance of the bay, when he will go in."
"If he does that, so much the better, for we shall have more time to
prepare for a decided stroke," replied Christy. "I have my plan all
ready, though of course it may fail, and to-night we may all be
prisoners of war."
