and I saw one field of two acres off which a Chinaman has sold in one
season $750 worth of cabbages.
The truth is that almost all the land is wonderfully productive if
intelligently handled. The low ground has water so near the surface that
the pulverized soil will draw up sufficient moisture for the crops; the
mesa, if sown and cultivated after the annual rains, matures grain and
corn, and sustains vines and fruit-trees. It is singular that the first
settlers should never have discovered this productiveness. When it
became apparent--that is, productiveness without artificial
watering--there spread abroad a notion that irrigation generally was not
needed. We shall have occasion to speak of this more in detail, and I
will now only say, on good authority, that while cultivation, not to
keep down the weeds only, but to keep the soil stirred and prevent its
baking, is the prime necessity for almost all land in Southern
California, there are portions where irrigation is always necessary, and
there is no spot where the yield of fruit or grain will not be
quadrupled by judicious irrigation. There are places where irrigation is
excessive and harmful both to the quality and quantity of oranges and
grapes.
The history of the extension of cultivation in the last twenty and
especially in the past ten years from the foot-hills of the Sierra Madre
in Los Angeles and San Bernardino counties southward to San Diego is
very curious. Experiments were timidly tried. Every acre of sand and
sage-bush reclaimed southward was supposed to be the last capable of
profitable farming or fruit-growing. It is unsafe now to say of any land
that has not been tried that it is not good. In every valley and on
every hill-side, on the mesas and in the sunny nooks in the mountains,
nearly anything will grow, and the application of water produces
marvellous results. From San Bernardino and Redlands, Riverside, Pomona,
Ontario, Santa Anita, San Gabriel, Pasadena, all the way to Los Angeles,
is almost a continuous fruit garden, the green areas only emphasized by
wastes yet unreclaimed; a land of charming cottages, thriving towns,
hospitable to the fruit of every clime; a land of perpetual sun and
ever-flowing breeze, looked down on by purple mountain ranges tipped
here and there with enduring snow. And what is in progress here will be
seen before long in almost every part of this wonderful land, for
conditions of soil and climate are essentially everywhere the same, and
capital is finding out how to store in and bring from the fastnesses of
the mountains rivers of clear water taken at such elevations that the
whole arable surface can be irrigated. The development of the country
has only just begun.
If the reader will look upon the map of California he will see that the
eight counties that form Southern California--San Luis Obispo, Santa
Barbara, Ventura, Kern, Los Angeles, San Bernardino, Orange, and San
Diego--appear very mountainous. He will also notice that the eastern
slopes of San Bernardino and San Diego are deserts. But this is an
immense area. San Diego County alone is as large as Massachusetts,
Connecticut, and Rhode Island combined, and the amount of arable land in
the valleys, on the foot-hills, on the rolling mesas, is enormous, and
capable of sustaining a dense population, for its fertility and its
yield to the acre under cultivation are incomparable. The reader will
also notice another thing. With the railroads now built and certain to
be built through all this diversified region, round from the Santa
Barbara Mountains to the San Bernardino, the San Jacinto, and down to
Cuyamaca, a ride of an hour or two hours brings one to some point on the
250 miles of sea-coast--a sea-coast genial, inviting in winter and
summer, never harsh, and rarely tempestuous like the Atlantic shore.
Here is our Mediterranean! Here is our Italy! It is a Mediterranean
without marshes and without malaria, and it does not at all resemble the
Mexican Gulf, which we have sometimes tried to fancy was like the
classic sea that laves Africa and Europe. Nor is this region Italian in
appearance, though now and then some bay with its purple hills running
to the blue sea, its surrounding mesas and cañons blooming in
semi-tropical luxuriance, some conjunction of shore and mountain, some
golden color, some white light and sharply defined shadows, some
refinement of lines, some poetic tints in violet and ashy ranges, some
ultramarine in the sea, or delicate blue in the sky, will remind the
traveller of more than one place of beauty in Southern Italy and Sicily.
It is a Mediterranean with a more equable climate, warmer winters and
cooler summers, than the North Mediterranean shore can offer; it is an
Italy whose mountains and valleys give almost every variety of elevation
and temperature.
But it is our commercial Mediterranean. The time is not distant when
this corner of the United States will produce in abundance, and year
after year without failure, all the fruits and nuts which for a thousand
years the civilized world of Europe has looked to the Mediterranean to
supply. We shall not need any more to send over the Atlantic for
raisins, English walnuts, almonds, figs, olives, prunes, oranges,
lemons, limes, and a variety of other things which we know commercially
as Mediterranean products. We have all this luxury and wealth at our
doors, within our limits. The orange and the lemon we shall still bring
from many places; the date and the pineapple and the banana will never
grow here except as illustrations of the climate, but it is difficult to
name any fruit of the temperate and semi-tropic zones that Southern
California cannot be relied on to produce, from the guava to the peach.
It will need further experiment to determine what are the more
profitable products of this soil, and it will take longer experience to
cultivate them and send them to market in perfection. The pomegranate
and the apple thrive side by side, but the apple is not good here unless
it is grown at an elevation where frost is certain and occasional snow
may be expected. There is no longer any doubt about the peach, the
nectarine, the pear, the grape, the orange, the lemon, the apricot, and
so on; but I believe that the greatest profit will be in the products
that cannot be grown elsewhere in the United States--the products to
which we have long given the name of Mediterranean--the olive, the fig,
the raisin, the hard and soft shell almond, and the walnut. The orange
will of course be a staple, and constantly improve its reputation as
better varieties are raised, and the right amount of irrigation to
produce the finest and sweetest is ascertained.
It is still a wonder that a land in which there was no indigenous
product of value, or to which cultivation could give value, should be so
hospitable to every sort of tree, shrub, root, grain, and flower that
can be brought here from any zone and temperature, and that many of
these foreigners to the soil grow here with a vigor and productiveness
surpassing those in their native land. This bewildering adaptability has
misled many into unprofitable experiments, and the very rapidity of
growth has been a disadvantage. The land has been advertised by its
monstrous vegetable productions, which are not fit to eat, and but
testify to the fertility of the soil; and the reputation of its fruits,
both deciduous and citrus, has suffered by specimens sent to Eastern
markets whose sole recommendation was size. Even in the vineyards and
orange orchards quality has been sacrificed to quantity. Nature here
responds generously to every encouragement, but it cannot be forced
without taking its revenge in the return of inferior quality. It is just
as true of Southern California as of any other land, that hard work and
sagacity and experience are necessary to successful horticulture and
agriculture, but it is undeniably true that the same amount of
well-directed industry upon a much smaller area of land will produce
more return than in almost any other section of the United States.
Sensible people do not any longer pay much attention to those tempting
little arithmetical sums by which it is demonstrated that paying so much
for ten acres of barren land, and so much for planting it with vines or
oranges, the income in three years will be a competence to the investor
and his family. People do not spend much time now in gaping over
abnormal vegetables, or trying to convince themselves that wines of
every known variety and flavor can be produced within the limits of one
flat and well-watered field. Few now expect to make a fortune by cutting
arid land up into twenty-feet lots, but notwithstanding the extravagance
of recent speculation, the value of arable land has steadily
appreciated, and is not likely to recede, for the return from it, either
in fruits, vegetables, or grain, is demonstrated to be beyond the
experience of farming elsewhere.
Land cannot be called dear at one hundred or one thousand dollars an
acre if the annual return from it is fifty or five hundred dollars. The
climate is most agreeable the year through. There are no unpleasant
months, and few unpleasant days. The eucalyptus grows so fast that the
trimmings from the trees of a small grove or highway avenue will in four
or five years furnish a family with its firewood. The strong, fattening
alfalfa gives three, four, five, and even six harvests a year. Nature
needs little rest, and, with the encouragement of water and fertilizers,
apparently none. But all this prodigality and easiness of life detracts
a little from ambition. The lesson has been slowly learned, but it is
now pretty well conned, that hard work is as necessary here as elsewhere
to thrift and independence. The difference between this and many other
parts of our land is that nature seems to work with a man, and not
against him.
CHAPTER III.
EARLY VICISSITUDES.--PRODUCTIONS.--SANITARY CLIMATE.
Southern California has rapidly passed through varied experiences, and
has not yet had a fair chance to show the world what it is. It had its
period of romance, of pastoral life, of lawless adventure, of crazy
speculation, all within a hundred years, and it is just now entering
upon its period of solid, civilized development. A certain light of
romance is cast upon this coast by the Spanish voyagers of the sixteenth
century, but its history begins with the establishment of the chain of
Franciscan missions, the first of which was founded by the great Father
Junipero Serra at San Diego in 1769. The fathers brought with them the
vine and the olive, reduced the savage Indians to industrial pursuits,
and opened the way for that ranchero and adobe civilization which, down
to the coming of the American, in about 1840, made in this region the
most picturesque life that our continent has ever seen. Following this
is a period of desperado adventure and revolution, of pioneer
State-building; and then the advent of the restless, the cranky, the
invalid, the fanatic, from every other State in the Union. The first
experimenters in making homes seem to have fancied that they had come to
a ready-made elysium--the idle man's heaven. They seem to have brought
with them little knowledge of agriculture or horticulture, were ignorant
of the conditions of success in this soil and climate, and left behind
the good industrial maxims of the East. The result was a period of
chance experiment, one in which extravagant expectation and boasting to
some extent took the place of industry. The imagination was heated by
the novelty of such varied and rapid productiveness. Men's minds were
inflamed by the apparently limitless possibilities. The invalid and the
speculator thronged the transcontinental roads leading thither. In this
condition the frenzy of 1886-87 was inevitable. I saw something of it in
the winter of 1887. The scenes then daily and commonplace now read like
the wildest freaks of the imagination.
The bubble collapsed as suddenly as it expanded. Many were ruined, and
left the country. More were merely ruined in their great expectations.
The speculation was in town lots. When it subsided it left the climate
as it was, the fertility as it was, and the value of arable land not
reduced. Marvellous as the boom was, I think the present recuperation is
still more wonderful. In 1890, to be sure, I miss the bustle of the
cities, and the creation of towns in a week under the hammer of the
auctioneer. But in all the cities, and most of the villages, there has
been growth in substantial buildings, and in the necessities of civic
life--good sewerage, water supply, and general organization; while the
country, as the acreage of vines and oranges, wheat and barley, grain
and corn, and the shipments by rail testify, has improved more than at
any other period, and commerce is beginning to feel the impulse of a
genuine prosperity, based upon the intelligent cultivation of the
ground. School-houses have multiplied; libraries have been founded; many
"boom" hotels, built in order to sell city lots in the sage-brush, have
been turned into schools and colleges.
There is immense rivalry between different sections. Every Californian
thinks that the spot where his house stands enjoys the best climate and
is the most fertile in the world; and while you are with him you think
he is justified in his opinion; for this rivalry is generally a
wholesome one, backed by industry. I do not mean to say that the habit
of tall talk is altogether lost. Whatever one sees he is asked to
believe is the largest and best in the world. The gentleman of the whip
who showed us some of the finest places in Los Angeles--places that in
their wealth of flowers and semi-tropical gardens would rouse the
enthusiasm of the most jaded traveller--was asked whether there were any
finer in the city. "Finer? Hundreds of them;" and then, meditatively and
regretfully, "I should not dare to show you the best." The
semi-ecclesiastical custodian of the old adobe mission of San Gabriel
explained to us the twenty portraits of apostles on the walls, all done
by Murillo. As they had got out of repair, he had them all repainted by
the best artist. "That one," he said, simply, "cost ten dollars. It
often costs more to repaint a picture than to buy an original."
The temporary evils in the train of the "boom" are fast disappearing. I
was told that I should find the country stagnant. Trade, it is true, is
only slowly coming in, real-estate deals are sleeping, but in all
avenues of solid prosperity and productiveness the country is the
reverse of stagnant. Another misapprehension this visit is correcting. I
was told not to visit Southern California at this season on account of
the heat. But I have no experience of a more delightful summer climate
than this, especially on or near the coast.
In secluded valleys in the interior the thermometer rises in the daytime
to 85°, 90°, and occasionally 100°, but I have found no place in them
where there was not daily a refreshing breeze from the ocean, where the
dryness of the air did not make the heat seem much less than it was, and
where the nights were not agreeably cool. My belief is that the summer
climate of Southern California is as desirable for pleasure-seekers, for
invalids, for workmen, as its winter climate. It seems to me that a
coast temperature 60° to 75°, stimulating, without harshness or
dampness, is about the perfection of summer weather. It should be said,
however, that there are secluded valleys which become very hot in the
daytime in midsummer, and intolerably dusty. The dust is the great
annoyance everywhere. It gives the whole landscape an ashy tint, like
some of our Eastern fields and way-sides in a dry August. The verdure
and the wild flowers of the rainy season disappear entirely. There is,
however, some picturesque compensation for this dust and lack of green.
The mountains and hills and great plains take on wonderful hues of
brown, yellow, and red.
I write this paragraph in a high chamber in the Hotel del Coronado, on
the great and fertile beach in front of San Diego. It is the 2d of June.
Looking southward, I see the great expanse of the Pacific Ocean,
sparkling in the sun as blue as the waters at Amalfi. A low surf beats
along the miles and miles of white sand continually, with the impetus of
far-off seas and trade-winds, as it has beaten for thousands of years,
with one unending roar and swish, and occasional shocks of sound as if
of distant thunder on the shore. Yonder, to the right, Point Loma
stretches its sharp and rocky promontory into the ocean, purple in the
sun, bearing a light-house on its highest elevation. From this signal,
bending in a perfect crescent, with a silver rim, the shore sweeps
around twenty-five miles to another promontory running down beyond Tia
Juana to the Point of Rocks, in Mexican territory. Directly in
front--they say eighteen miles away, I think five sometimes, and
sometimes a hundred--lie the islands of Coronado, named, I suppose, from
the old Spanish adventurer Vasques de Coronado, huge bulks of beautiful
red sandstone, uninhabited and barren, becalmed there in the changing
blue of sky and sea, like enormous mastless galleons, like degraded
icebergs, like Capri and Ischia. They say that they are stationary. I
only know that when I walk along the shore towards Point Loma they seem
to follow, until they lie opposite the harbor entrance, which is close
by the promontory; and that when I return, they recede and go away
towards Mexico, to which they belong. Sometimes, as seen from the beach,
owing to the difference in the humidity of the strata of air over the
ocean, they seem smaller at the bottom than at the top. Occasionally
they come quite near, as do the sea-lions and the gulls, and again they
almost fade out of the horizon in a violet light. This morning they
stand away, and the fleet of white-sailed fishing-boats from the
Portuguese hamlet of La Playa, within the harbor entrance, which is
dancing off Point Loma, will have a long sail if they pursue the
barracuda to those shadowy rocks.
We crossed the bay the other day, and drove up a wild road to the height
of the promontory, and along its narrow ridge to the light-house. This
site commands one of the most remarkable views in the accessible
civilized world, one of the three or four really great prospects which
the traveller can recall, astonishing in its immensity, interesting in
its peculiar details. The general features are the great ocean, blue,
flecked with sparkling, breaking wavelets, and the wide, curving
coast-line, rising into mesas, foot-hills, ranges on ranges of
mountains, the faintly seen snow-peaks of San Bernardino and San Jacinto
to the Cuyamaca and the flat top of Table Mountain in Mexico. Directly
under us on one side are the fields of kelp, where the whales come to
feed in winter; and on the other is a point of sand on Coronado Beach,
where a flock of pelicans have assembled after their day's fishing, in
which occupation they are the rivals of the Portuguese. The perfect
crescent of the ocean beach is seen, the singular formation of North and
South Coronado Beach, the entrance to the harbor along Point Loma, and
the spacious inner bay, on which lie San Diego and National City, with
lowlands and heights outside sprinkled with houses, gardens, orchards,
and vineyards. The near hills about this harbor are varied in form and
poetic in color, one of them, the conical San Miguel, constantly
recalling Vesuvius. Indeed, the near view, in color, vegetation, and
forms of hills and extent of arable land, suggests that of Naples,
though on analysis it does not resemble it. If San Diego had half a
million of people it would be more like it; but the Naples view is
limited, while this stretches away to the great mountains that overlook
the Colorado Desert. It is certainly one of the loveliest prospects in
the world, and worth long travel to see.
Standing upon this point of view, I am reminded again of the striking
contrasts and contiguous different climates on the coast. In the north,
of course not visible from here, is Mount Whitney, on the borders of
Inyo County and of the State of Nevada, 15,086 feet above the sea, the
highest peak in the United States, excluding Alaska. South of it is
Grayback, in the San Bernardino range, 11,000 feet in altitude, the
highest point above its base in the United States. While south of that
is the depression in the Colorado Desert in San Diego County, about
three hundred feet below the level of the Pacific Ocean, the lowest land
in the United States. These three exceptional points can be said to be
almost in sight of each other.
I have insisted so much upon the Mediterranean character of this region
that it is necessary to emphasize the contrasts also. Reserving details
and comments on different localities as to the commercial value of
products and climatic conditions, I will make some general observations.
I am convinced that the fig can not only be grown here in sufficient
quantity to supply our markets, but of the best quality. The same may be
said of the English walnut. This clean and handsome tree thrives
wonderfully in large areas, and has no enemies. The olive culture is in
its infancy, but I have never tasted better oil than that produced at
Santa Barbara and on San Diego Bay. Specimens of the pickled olive are
delicious, and when the best varieties are generally grown, and the best
method of curing is adopted, it will be in great demand, not as a mere
relish, but as food. The raisin is produced in all the valleys of
Southern California, and in great quantities in the hot valley of San
Joaquin, beyond the Sierra Madre range. The best Malaga raisins, which
have the reputation of being the best in the world, may never come to
our market, but I have never eaten a better raisin for size, flavor, and
thinness of skin than those raised in the El Cajon Valley, which is
watered by the great flume which taps a reservoir in the Cuyamaca
Mountains, and supplies San Diego. But the quality of the raisin in
California will be improved by experience in cultivation and handling.
The contrast with the Mediterranean region--I refer to the western
basin--is in climate. There is hardly any point along the French and
Italian coast that is not subject to great and sudden changes, caused by
the north wind, which has many names, or in the extreme southern
peninsula and islands by the sirocco. There are few points that are not
reached by malaria, and in many resorts--and some of them most sunny and
agreeable to the invalid--the deadliest fevers always lie in wait. There
is great contrast between summer and winter, and exceeding variability
in the same month. This variability is the parent of many diseases of
the lungs, the bowels, and the liver. It is demonstrated now by
long-continued observations that dampness and cold are not so inimical
to health as variability.
The Southern California climate is an anomaly. It has been the subject
of a good deal of wonder and a good deal of boasting, but it is worthy
of more scientific study than it has yet received. Its distinguishing
feature I take to be its equability. The temperature the year through is
lower than I had supposed, and the contrast is not great between the
summer and the winter months. The same clothing is appropriate, speaking
generally, for the whole year. In all seasons, including the rainy days
of the winter months, sunshine is the rule. The variation of temperature
between day and night is considerable, but if the new-comer exercises a
little care, he will not be unpleasantly affected by it. There are coast
fogs, but these are not chilling and raw. Why it is that with the
hydrometer showing a considerable humidity in the air the general effect
of the climate is that of dryness, scientists must explain. The constant
exchange of desert airs with the ocean air may account for the anomaly,
and the actual dryness of the soil, even on the coast, is put forward as
another explanation. Those who come from heated rooms on the Atlantic
may find the winters cooler than they expect, and those used to the
heated terms of the Mississippi Valley and the East will be surprised at
the cool and salubrious summers. A land without high winds or
thunder-storms may fairly be said to have a unique climate.
I suppose it is the equability and not conditions of dampness or dryness
that renders this region so remarkably exempt from epidemics and endemic
diseases. The diseases of children prevalent elsewhere are unknown here;
they cut their teeth without risk, and cholera infantum never visits
them. Diseases of the bowels are practically unknown. There is no
malaria, whatever that may be, and consequently an absence of those
various fevers and other disorders which are attributed to malarial
conditions. Renal diseases are also wanting; disorders of the liver and
kidneys, and Bright's disease, gout, and rheumatism, are not native. The
climate in its effect is stimulating, but at the same time soothing to
the nerves, so that if "nervous prostration" is wanted, it must be
brought here, and cannot be relied on to continue long. These facts are
derived from medical practice with the native Indian and Mexican
population. Dr. Remondino, to whom I have before referred, has made the
subject a study for eighteen years, and later I shall offer some of the
results of his observations upon longevity. It is beyond my province to
venture any suggestion upon the effect of the climate upon deep-seated
diseases, especially of the respiratory organs, of invalids who come
here for health. I only know that we meet daily and constantly so many
persons in fair health who say that it is impossible for them to live
elsewhere that the impression is produced that a considerable proportion
of the immigrant population was invalid. There are, however, two
suggestions that should be made. Care is needed in acclimation to a
climate that differs from any previous experience; and the locality that
will suit any invalid can only be determined by personal experience. If
the coast does not suit him, he may be benefited in a protected valley,
or he may be improved on the foot-hills, or on an elevated mesa, or on a
high mountain elevation.
One thing may be regarded as settled. Whatever the sensibility or the
peculiarity of invalidism, the equable climate is exceedingly favorable
to the smooth working of the great organic functions of respiration,
digestion, and circulation.
It is a pity to give this chapter a medical tone. One need not be an
invalid to come here and appreciate the graciousness of the air; the
color of the landscape, which is wanting in our Northern clime; the
constant procession of flowers the year through; the purple hills
stretching into the sea; the hundreds of hamlets, with picturesque homes
overgrown with roses and geranium and heliotrope, in the midst of orange
orchards and of palms and magnolias, in sight of the snow-peaks of the
giant mountain ranges which shut in this land of marvellous beauty.
CHAPTER IV.
THE WINTER OF OUR CONTENT.
California is the land of the Pine and the Palm. The tree of the
Sierras, native, vigorous, gigantic, and the tree of the Desert, exotic,
supple, poetic, both flourish within the nine degrees of latitude. These
two, the widely separated lovers of Heine's song, symbolize the
capacities of the State, and although the sugar-pine is indigenous, and
the date-palm, which will never be more than an ornament in this
hospitable soil, was planted by the Franciscan Fathers, who established
a chain of missions from San Diego to Monterey over a century ago, they
should both be the distinction of one commonwealth, which, in its seven
hundred miles of indented sea-coast, can boast the climates of all
countries and the products of all zones.
If this State of mountains and valleys were divided by an east and west
line, following the general course of the Sierra Madre range, and
cutting off the eight lower counties, I suppose there would be conceit
enough in either section to maintain that it only is the Paradise of the
earth, but both are necessary to make the unique and contradictory
California which fascinates and bewilders the traveller. He is told that
the inhabitants of San Francisco go away from the draught of the Golden
Gate in the summer to get warm, and yet the earliest luscious cherries
and apricots which he finds in the far south market of San Diego come
from the Northern Santa Clara Valley. The truth would seem to be that in
an hour's ride in any part of the State one can change his climate
totally at any time of the year, and this not merely by changing his
elevation, but by getting in or out of the range of the sea or the
desert currents of air which follow the valleys.
To recommend to any one a winter climate is far from the writer's
thought. No two persons agree on what is desirable for a winter
residence, and the inclination of the same person varies with his state
of health. I can only attempt to give some idea of what is called the
winter months in Southern California, to which my observations mainly
apply. The individual who comes here under the mistaken notion that
climate ever does anything more than give nature a better chance, may
speedily or more tardily need the service of an undertaker; and the
invalid whose powers are responsive to kindly influences may live so
long, being unable to get away, that life will be a burden to him. The
person in ordinary health will find very little that is hostile to the
orderly organic processes. In order to appreciate the winter climate of
Southern California one should stay here the year through, and select
the days that suit his idea of winter from any of the months. From the
fact that the greatest humidity is in the summer and the least in the
winter months, he may wear an overcoat in July in a temperature,
according to the thermometer, which in January would render the overcoat
unnecessary. It is dampness that causes both cold and heat to be most
felt. The lowest temperatures, in Southern California generally, are
caused only by the extreme dryness of the air; in the long nights of
December and January there is a more rapid and longer continued
radiation of heat. It must be a dry and clear night that will send the
temperature down to thirty-four degrees. But the effect of the sun upon
this air is instantaneous, and the cold morning is followed at once by a
warm forenoon; the difference between the average heat of July and the
average cold of January, measured by the thermometer, is not great in
the valleys, foot-hills, and on the coast. Five points give this result
of average for January and July respectively: Santa Barbara, 52°, 66°;
San Bernardino, 51°, 70°; Pomona, 52°, 68°; Los Angeles, 52°, 67°; San
Diego, 53°, 66°. The day in the winter months is warmer in the interior
and the nights are cooler than on the coast, as shown by the following
figures for January: 7 A.M., Los Angeles, 46.5°; San Diego, 47.5°; 3
P.M., Los Angeles, 65.2°; San Diego, 60.9°. In the summer the difference
is greater. In June I saw the thermometer reach 103° in Los Angeles when
it was only 79° in San Diego. But I have seen the weather unendurable in
New York with a temperature of 85°, while this dry heat of 103° was not
oppressive. The extraordinary equanimity of the coast climate (certainly
the driest marine climate in my experience) will be evident from the
average mean for each month, from records of sixteen years, ending in
1877, taken at San Diego, giving each month in order, beginning with
January: 53.5°, 54.7°, 56.0°, 58.2°, 60.2°, 64.6°, 67.1°, 69.0°, 66.7°,
62.9°, 58.1°, 56.0°. In the year 1877 the mean temperature at 3 P.M. at
San Diego was as follows, beginning with January: 60.9°, 57.7°, 62.4°,
63.3°, 66.3°, 68.5°, 69.6°, 69.6°, 69.5°, 69.6°, 64.4°, 60.5°. For the
four months of July, August, September, and October there was hardly a
shade of difference at 3 P.M. The striking fact in all the records I
have seen is that the difference of temperature in the daytime between
summer and winter is very small, the great difference being from
midnight to just before sunrise, and this latter difference is greater
inland than on the coast. There are, of course, frost and ice in the
mountains, but the frost that comes occasionally in the low inland
valleys is of very brief duration in the morning hour, and rarely
continues long enough to have a serious effect upon vegetation.
In considering the matter of temperature, the rule for vegetation and
for invalids will not be the same. A spot in which delicate flowers in
Southern California bloom the year round may be too cool for many
invalids. It must not be forgotten that the general temperature here is
lower than that to which most Eastern people are accustomed. They are
used to living all winter in overheated houses, and to protracted heated
terms rendered worse by humidity in the summer. The dry, low temperature
of the California winter, notwithstanding its perpetual sunshine, may
seem, therefore, wanting to them in direct warmth. It may take a year or
two to acclimate them to this more equable and more refreshing
temperature.
Neither on the coast nor in the foot-hills will the invalid find the
climate of the Riviera or of Tangier--not the tramontane wind of the
former, nor the absolutely genial but somewhat enervating climate of
the latter. But it must be borne in mind that in this, our
Mediterranean, the seeker for health or pleasure can find almost any
climate (except the very cold or the very hot), down to the minutest
subdivision. He may try the dry marine climate of the coast, or the
temperature of the fruit lands and gardens from San Bernardino to Los
Angeles, or he may climb to any altitude that suits him in the Sierra
Madre or the San Jacinto ranges. The difference may be all-important to
him between a valley and a mesa which is not a hundred feet higher; nay,
