burne would be sure to stumble upon some point of dissen- 
sion. I want to learn more about the young man." 
He gently excuses him as not feeling very well, and they 
all go in to supper. But when they are seated, and the 
repast begins, the atmosphere has changed again. Winter- 
burue has at first a rather smothered sensation, as if the 
room were too warm; he is quite sure his face is flushed, 
and he knows it has been sun aud wind burned. He 
glances over at Bradley, who is so delicately fair and 
refined, who is slim and graceful as Eegina herself, and he 
feels overgrown, bulky, and at a disadvantage, as before. 
Jasper seems to have started into a vein of light badinage 
with the girls that somehow shuts him out, since, no matter 
how ridiculous the argument jnay be, he appeals to both 
Mrs. Halford and Regina, as if he had long ago established 
his claim. Winterburne has had so little call for the airy 
nothings that make conversation brilliant, that he is utterly 
at loss. As the ball is tossed to and fro, he misses it, aud 
finally makes no attempt to snatch at its sparkling edge. 
Regina is watching him carelessly. She can formulate 
objections now that she felt but vaguely before, 'i'he man 
does not come up to her standard. She has a right to raise 
it now, but it is not in reality any higher than it was then. 
She is just the same self. She was simply out of her 
normal sphere ; she is in it at present, and that is all the 
difference. 
Winterburne glances at her occasionally, when, by some 
sure instinct, he feels that her eyes are turned a little 
away. The honest gentleman is sadly puzzled. Where 
has he made the mistake ? Not in fancying her the guard- 
ian angel of a few rooms or a simple cottage — from the 
first, he has placed her on a pedestal, and desired wealth 
for her sake, for his own he is quite indifferent. His few 
straits and pinches have been rather amusing, since his 
strong hands could soon extricate himself. He has never 
thought of wanting her to share them. He has quite as an 
unorthodox opinion of thB uses of adversity as Cynthia. 
One man has the will and the courage to buffet across the 
adverse torrent, and the world is never weary of shouting 
over his success ; but of the hundreds whose weak hands 
are dashed down, who hears, except in pity or derision ! 
When the supper is ended they all go out of doors and 
stroll around. Jasper draws Mrs. Halford's hand within 
his arm, cutting off that refuge, for he feels now that 
Reginawill be merely polite. In a certain way he reads 
the stately young girl, who would passionately protest at 
the rendering if she knew it. The tall trees cast long 
twilight shadows about. The sun has dropped down 
behind the farther mountain. The more vivid tints have 
merged into soft rose color with the intermingling pale 
greens and blues that deepen into purple or fade to a 
gray lavender. How wonderfully still it all seems, though 
birds are calling to truant mates, and swallows make wide 
circles above their heads. Insect time had not yet come, 
when the grass and the hollows would be alive with voices. 
The leaves rustled softly, the pines shook out resinous 
odors distilled with the dew, and the pungent wild-grape 
bloom scented the air. 
" I don't wonder you like it so much," Winterburne 
exclaims presently with deep feeling. " It is a grand old 
place. And to think of one's forefathers having lived 
hero, rambling about as we are doing now, planning futures, 
enjoying the days, counting up all the treasures of the 
years, and then falling peacefully asleep, and the newer, 
younger hands taking up the work where they left off. It 
is like an idyl." 
"It has made you romantic," and Cynthia glances up 
into the eyes of bluish darkness. " Men care for places, 
 
do they not ? And women for ancestors ; " she laughs ; " at 
least, Kegina does. And I do not care for either. I am 
what I am, so long as, like St. Patrick, 'I come of decent, 
people.' But what any one is to do with all the years 
puzzles me. When I am through school, which will be 
next month, I am to take up the small, sweet duties," — 
there is a mocking strand in her voice, — "make calls, and 
receive them, ride, walk, talk, do fancy work, pet up some 
flowers, compare and discuss bulbs and the best kind of 
soil for roses, go out to tea, to excursions up the moun- 
tains, to pretty evening dances, sails on the river, and 
after one has done it for years, one must tire of it, don't 
you see ? " 
" Of course it would tire me immensely." Winterburue 
laughs at the idea. 
" I don't believe it would tire Cousin Bradley or Eegina," 
she makes answer. " You can't think what a sort of aris- 
tocrat Regina has grown. I am not sure but she always 
was one in certain ways. And yet I am rather disap- 
pointed," admits this frank young woman. " I used to feel 
that if Kegina had the opportunity she would be some- 
thing grand, — I don't just know what, — and, instead, she 
is full of little quips and quirks as to what is proper, what 
is admissible, what is not to be allowed under any circum- 
stances. I shall be a trial to her, a thorn in the flesh, a 
discord in the music. For you must know that Beverly 
has been toned down to the smoothest harmony. It is like 
being in a dream, and wondering when the day will break, 
and the real work of life begin." 
" You all like Bradley ? " he assumes, rather anxiously. 
Has he influenced Regina so soon ? 
" Well — yes. Perdita here goes crazy when he plays 
the violin. I do notbelieve you ever heard anything like 
it. I think he is keyed in a certain harmony with Regina, 
— can you understand that ? There are a great many 
points of accord." 
It hurts him to hear it. "And what of the elder Mr. 
Bradley?" 
" He is charming at times, queer at others, and has been 
a little wandering in his mind.. Do you know, I think he 
is rather afraid of Begiua, and yet she is always gentle to 
him. They are very picturesque, and seem to belong 
to Bradley House. We are the tenants at will, and shall 
remain as long as Begina wills. But I want to see your 
sister ; she may be a breath of fresh air from out beyond." 
" You shall see her," he promises. 
 
CHAPTER VIII 
FOE HER SAKE 
" O sweet fond dream of human love ! " 
Thet wander to the edge of the woods, a great belt of 
timber that runs over for the next half mile, when it is 
broken by an abrupt ledge of rock that rises irregularly, 
leaving suggestive vistas between. The valleys are all in a 
violet haze, the yellow twilight is taking on more sombre 
tints. The stars have come out, and look wonderfully large 
and golden, since there is no moon till past midnight. 
The country in its weird evening silence impresses him 
with its sense of immutability that the seasons may affect, 
but never alter. He seems now to understand why Silas 
Bradley went on so calmly year after year, and desired no 
change. 
He. hardly notes the chatter of the girls until Cynthia 
declares they have gone far enough, unless they mean 
to go over the other side and greet the sunrise. As they 
retrace their steps, they Can see the town growing ghostly 
in the swift falling darkness. 
Jasper and Kegina are coming to meet them. He can 
almost feel the flowing grace of their movements, and it is 
like the faint cadence of a past strain of music, suggesting 
to that nervous inner sense their walking through life 
together. 
" If you mean to take that train," - Jasper begins sug- 
gestively. "Not but that all the members of the family 
can be accommodated under the roof-tree. We are blos- 
soming out into a hitherto unknown virtue — hospitality. 
Mrs. Halford has regenerated the old house." 
There is a curious quality in the voice that stirs Winter- 
bunie's resentment, as if this young Apollo could easily 
make a mock of all things. 
" I do mean to take it," is the incisive reply. " I think 
we will have just time for good-nights." 
Kegina colors almost angrily. Does he mean to suggest 
that other good-night ? 
" I suppose we shall see you often," says Cynthia, " we 
shall be so near. And you will not forget about your 
sister ? " 
" Oh, no." Yet he wishes Eegina would speak. 
When they come within the soft yellow-red rays of lamp- 
light that stream out on the jjorch he glances at her. She 
is so stately and beautiful; yes,. she has grown out of the 
old life, but he cannot give it up. 
"If you wouldn't mind my walking down with you" — 
Jasper says persuasively. 
He does mind it a little, for he cannot dismiss a certain 
distrust. Yet he is sincerely anxious to prove it un- 
founded. He wants to know more about this relative who 
at the first glimpse affected him so curiously, and to divine 
what qualities in him so attract Miss Halford. 
"Yes," he says, "come with me." That is honest 
surely. 
The parting is cordial with earnest invitations to come 
again. The two young men wind down the avenue, and 
are soon lost to sight in the darkness. The two girls 
chatter eagerly. 
"You know I always did like him," declares Cynthia, 
"and a cousin is such a friendly sort of relation. He 
wouldn't dare to find fault and criticise as a brother or a 
husband does, and if you do not like his ways you are free 
to amend them by good advice." 
"An amusingly illogical partnership," comments Eegina. 
" Have you decided to take him in hand ? " 
" Wait till Miss Hilliard comes. I have a feeling that 
— that no one will be at liberty to take him in hand. I 
think he belongs to her." 
Why that should please Eegina, the girl does not stop 
 
to consider. She is an invalid — she is not blest with a 
fortune, and he is doubtless devoted to her. He grows less 
objectionable for a moment. But there is his association 
with the old life. She wishes from the depths of her 
heart that they could begin anew here. She listens inter- 
estedly to the talk about Miss Hilliard. 
The two men meanwhile go on in silence. Winterburne 
seldom finds any difficulty in talking to his own sex, but 
he feels quite at loss with this unknown personality beside 
him. Presently he manages a lame remark. 
" Your father is quite an invalid." 
"Yes. Horribly shattered nerves; though I think his 
general health will improve in this bracing air. And there 
is some occult charm in coming back to the home of your 
childhood, manhood; the place, in fact, where you have 
really expected to end your days." 
He will take Bradley House, of course. That is right 
enough. 
"You are considering the property Mr. Sayre spoke of ? " 
Jasper says before Winterburne has formulated his next 
remark, which he has intended should be approval. 
"The company has been considering it. To-day — I 
don't know just what took possession of me suddenly, — 
I made an individual offer, if the company should not 
object." 
« You think it valuable ? " 
" Well, that was not quite the reason." 
" But you expect to find iron, the lost veins perhaps. I 
have heard of such things." 
"It ipn't quite like gold mining," says Winterburne. 
" Of course the iron is there. You can hardly go amiss of 
it in these regions. Much of it, however, would not be 
worth working under the old processes." 
"And you have something new?" he asserts with a 
jarring eagerness. "Couldn't other parties use it ? " 
"Not at present." Winterburne gives an amused little 
laugh. 
" Then it is your secret ? " He hazards the guess. 
"Well — yes, it is my secret. I have spent all my 
money thus far trying experiments, and I should be a fool 
not to protect it. An opportunity came to me to use it. 
The sequel of many inventions has been that they were 
superseded by something better or less expensive, so a 
sensible man strikes while the iron is hot, — a capital old 
adage. And my share of the estate puts me in a more 
fortunate position. I am extremely thankful for it. So I 
have ventured upon the fancy of making a bid for this 
little bit of the estate. It will make no difference in one 
way to the company : we shall work it all the same." 
" Suppose you find other and more profitable veins ? " 
"We may do that anywhere, you see. The company 
has bought the tract below, which is thought to be very 
rich in ore." 
" In this case the gain would be yours ? " There is 
something brief and business-like in these questions, and 
Winterburne wonders if this young fellow does not know 
more than he allows to appear on the surface. 
" Yes, the profit would be more largely mine, of course, 
and the risk corresponding. An expert has gone over it all, 
and I should not feel so free to overbid the company if 
the verdict had been altogether in its favor. One mine is 
about worked out. You see, when the land was sold before, 
the times were extremely prosperous. You could make 
money almost any where. They were golden days. But the 
owner finally lost all he put into it, when business dropped 
down, and left it in disgust to revert to its former owner. 
Now we are down to very havd pan. The company. will 
not give the old price, and it niay be years before another 
purchaser comes along. I am foolish epoigh to overbid 
them, and go up to the olden figure. It may be my gain, 
as you suggest, or a bad bargain. I take the risk. It is a 
sudden decision with me." 
Winterburne is very frank, quite unlike his usual busi- 
ness reticence. But he wants this young man to under- 
stand distinctly that he is going at no underhand work. 
His opinion will no doubt influence the others. 
 
" If this were leased instead ? " he suggests. 
" The estate will have to find a lessee, and then trust 
to his assiduity in working it. The money will be of more 
real service to the heirs ; " and there is a dryness in his 
tone that the other notes, but is loath to interpret rightly. 
"I wonder if I should be considered impertinent if I 
came over — say to-morrow morning," he suggests in the 
pleading tone of asking a favor. "Not that I expect to 
interfere with any of your plans. I haven't any head or 
any love for business. But I might enlarge my ideas a 
little, and not seem quite such an ignoramus to the ladies 
after they have listened to wiser people." 
He gives his soft mellifluous laugh, that somehow rings 
untrue to Winterburne. 
" Oh, come over, certainly," he returns. The aspect of 
Hazens is by no means rose color j indeed, it would dis- 
enchant the lover of beautiful scenery. "I want you and 
the Halfords to feel that I shall take no undue advantage 
at any point." There is an incisiveness in his tone that 
savors almost of displeasure. 
"Oh, I don't doubt your fairness, please keep that in 
mind," says Bradley with a soft, wounded . accent that 
touches the other curiously. " If you outbid the company 
or any one else who would like it, you do all the most 
exigent person could ask. And since we are relatives, we 
should be friends as well, especially as we are to be at no 
great distance from each other." 
The nearness is the least pleasant thing about the matter. 
Winterburne would like to shake him off. When he does 
not admire or approve, if he can follow the bent of his 
inclination, he wants to dismiss the obnoxious person and 
have no further dealings with him. He can discern no 
real ground for his unreason, and that frets him the more 
since all his impulses are broadly generous. Is he jealous 
that Jasper Bradley is brought into such familiar iiitev- 
course with the Bradleys, that they are all on one side 
with leisure, music, intellectual enjoyments, and he on 
quite another round '! 
l
And Eegina ! He has been sorely puzzled this evening. 
Has she purposely made the distance so wide between 
them ? Is it her fine feeling of honor that will not lead 
one to a false hope ? Does she mean to show him the gulf 
between is too wide, too full of intricate turns and delicate 
indescribable aspects, for hini to cross oyer to her ? Why 
it is he cannot tell — it is one of those profound mysteries 
that are solved only when people come soul to soul in a 
great crisis, and all the subterfuges are swept away ; but he 
has an insistent conviction that she is the other part of 
his soul, without which his whole life will be one of the 
flawed and imperfect ones. Why he should love her has 
only one unsatisfactory answer : he does, he always shall. 
Even if he never tastes the divine draught, and goes his 
way prospering and outwardly at peace, for it will not ruin 
him physically or materially, he is too well balanced for 
that : no other joy can compensate. 
They are going through the town now. It is so pretty 
with its lights, its cosey interiors veiled by shadowy dra- 
peries, toned by violets and soft yellows or the seductive 
haze of a rose tint over the flame of some rather garish 
lamp. Young people are sauntering through the streets, 
talking low, laughing softly, with well-trained voices. It 
is so harmonious. The ease and refinement touch him. 
There are faint sounds of music that stir his inmost being 
and intensify his love of beauty, his appreciation of the 
blessings that wealth and artistic culture can call into 
existence. 
How Alice would like it all ! Her glimpses of the world 
at large have been so entertaining. Has he not made a 
mistake after all in wanting to identify himself with such 
a town as Warwick ? Can he do anything commensurate 
with' the sacrifice ? Matters have changed with him. He 
might come nearer Kegina with the halo of luxury ! No, 
he will not prove a traitor to the cause he has taken up. 
The agile patter of steps beside him comes uppermost 
again, and rasps him unreasonably, as if he were a nervous 
woman. Is there some fine antagonism between him and 
 
Bradley ? Then he takes himself resolutely in hand. He 
will not be churlish at the outset. 
" What a lovely old town ! And the night " — he pauses 
abruptly — does this young man care for Jessica and 
Lorenzo and — 
" Such a night as this, 
When the sweet wind did gently kiss the trees." 
Then he recalls what they were saying a few moments ago, 
and continues with an abrupt change of tone, 
" Yes, you are right. There is no reason why we should 
not be friends, and take a kindly interest in each other. 
There — isn't that my train ? " 
It is in the distance, but comes on swiftly in its mys- 
terious, breathless glide, and startles the air with a shrill 
shriek. 
" I shall be on the lookout for you to-morrow morning ; " 
and Winterburne waves the gesture of farewell without 
taking the other's hand. He enters, drops into his seat 
with a sense of fatigue, and the impression of a disagree- 
able mental strain that depresses him. He has such a 
bright temperament that this mood is unusual, especially as 
matters have gone so well with him of late. 
" If I am not careful, Bradley will be the ' Old man of 
the Sea ' to me," and he gives a short, unmirthful laugh in 
his dark corner. " If we could start fairly, I would give 
him some odds ; " then he admits with great reluctance that 
after all it is not Bradley, but Regina, who has put the dis- 
tance between them. She has held herself so regally aloof. 
Is there a subtle hint in it that this latest comer has some 
gift or quality that attracts ? A sharp pang goes over him. 
He has not really thought of losing her while he has been 
willing to wait years. And now he is on the high road to 
fortune, the fortune he has desired for her. What can 
there be in this man that charms ? * Ah, he has the great 
gift of personal attractiveness, and he remembers that men 
'are not always chosen for their worth, for their high pur- 
poses or brave souls. A great mystery underlies it all, and 
he has only taken the first daring step. He has loved her, 
he must go on loving her, until by her own act she makes 
it a sin. 
He is at the mills early the next morning. Dale is at 
hand, though the great bell has not yet rung. He is a 
small, wiry man past fifty, with a shrewd, careworn face 
that carries in it the marks of many struggles, so many,- 
that success will hardly find a place to brighten. 
« Well — is all right ? " he asks. 
" The money, you mean ? Yes. I am quite a rich man 
this morning. I don't know when I will have so much 
'tin' again, only it is a few bits of paper. When Graniss 
comes I want to talk over a little matter. Will it make 
any difference, I vsronder, if I take that Bradley tract ? 
I'd like it to touch the old notch." 
" You don't mean you'd pay an extra thousand ? " — and 
the light blue-gray eyes study him in amaze. 
" Yes," answers Winterburne. 
" Well — why ? The land isn't worth what we agreed 
to give for it. I consented because — for your sake mostly, 
Winterburne. You heard Lindaff's estimate ? " 
"I have a foolish streak of sentiment, that is all. It 
is part of the estate, all that I can ever get hold of, 
and I'd like to own a bit of ground Silas Bradley left 
behind." 
"He couldn't well take it with him," Dale chuckles. 
" I don't know as there's any act of Legislature to keep a 
man from making an ordinary fool of himself. An ex- 
traordinary one can have a guardian appointed if he wastes 
too much money. We shall keep a sharp eye on you, 
Winterburne ! " 
" Well, so long as you don't consider the transaction 
unfair. Of course we will work the mines." 
" There's only one good for anything. You might open 
some new ones, but *the Cummings tract is much more 
promising, LindafE said. No, Graniss won't care." 
Graniss enters presently. He is a iew years younger, 
taller, thinner, near-sighted, and with a little stoop. He 
 
is a rather slow, methodical man, and weighs the matter, 
as is his custom. Then he says gravely, — 
" You're throwing away a thousand dollars clean." 
"That's to celebrate coming into my fortune. There's 
worse blow-outs, if they do not cost as much. You are 
both agreed, then ? " 
" Glad to be let up from a bad bargain. No one's had 
any real luck with it, Winterburne. Graniss — here's to 
us, congratulations ! " and Dale goes through the motion of 
clinking a glass and emjjtying it. 
So it is with a curiously light heart that Hilliard 
Winterburne drives down to the station. This is a very 
little done for Regina's sake, as one might present her 
with a rare nosegay. Bradley is there, dressed with the 
nicest care. Yes, he is a handsome fellow. His grace and 
litheness make other men clumsy. His hair is a soft 
brown, and seems to have golden grains sifted over it. 
Curiously enough, all his tints are golden. His hazel eyes 
have a shining gleam, his fair skin has a glint as if the 
sun were shining on it. The manner holds an indefinable 
quality — it may be birth or breeding. Winterburne won- 
ders what his mother was like. It seems the consumma- 
tion of art. There is a delicate joyousness about him, a 
suggestion of brilliant but wavering summer seas with the 
reality beneath, an unknown quality. 
They drive about Warwick. It is not a pretty town. 
There is no charmed South End or East End. Some streets 
are tolerably decent with better class cottages and pretty 
gardens, but the general air is that of indifference," untidi- 
ness. There is a large sawing and planing mill with great 
piles of logs and lumber; there are factories of various 
kinds, but iron is in the ascendency. Debris lies about in 
every direction. Piles of crushed slate, hillocks of lime- 
stone, and great heaps of iron ore. Out one side is a 
deserted quarry that has failed in its promises. There are 
slag roads and walks, low places that have been filled in ; 
long rows of cottages, some of them mere shanties, with 
cows and pigs grazing, and some puddles of reddish-yellow 
water with ducks serenely sailing about. Some shabby 
cluu'ches and chapels, two schoolhouses rather dilapidated, 
and gin-mills with red curtains at doors and windows. 
"You do not mean to live here?" Bradley cries in 
disgust. 
" JSTot in the midst of this ! I'm a democratic sort of 
fellow, but I like cleanliness and good pure air. It could 
be made better — I shall try and rouse some one to a view 
of wholesomer living. With God's pure air and sunshine 
all about, there is no sense in herding like .cattle. I shall 
be over there," indicating a green and smiling vista with 
his head. " Out there among the farms for a while. But 
even that isn't Beverly." 
Bradley's lip curls a little. This particular expression 
savors of a cruel indifference to so much of his kind as 
are on the strata below. He is not a man to discuss 
philanthropy with. 
They pass some worn-out mines as they go onward 
toward the rocky hills. A little stream winds along in a 
slow, turgid fashion. It is very wild — one might fancy 
it a primitive wilderness but for the mining indications. 
The limestone in its dull, grayish white has here and there 
a vein of crystalline clearness, and long trails of gneiss 
show through at intervals, with bits of iron pyrites among 
the shale, glistening in the morning sun. There are 
glimpses of rock that seem besprinkled with gems ; but the 
general aspect is dreary, with the stunted trees that make 
a brave fight for a foothold, and the scanty, dull green 
herbage. 
They go along quietly. Jasper Bradley is most inter- 
ested in nature in her holiday attire, then he does not care 
to waste his enthusiasm on such an auditor. The very 
hardness of the scenery rasps his nerves, and he wonders . 
how any reasonable human being can ever kindle an inter- 
est in this kind of business. Perhaps Winterburne was 
put at it in his youth, and he has .not had the pluck to 
break away. These great, brawny men are slow of braiu, 
coarse of nerve, and drop easily into the ruts of labor. 
 
"This isHazens." 
Bradley glances about the desolate country. 
" It may have charms for the eye of a mineralogist" — 
" And this is the Bradley tract. It is only nine acres. 
Here are the old mines," continues Winterburne in the 
pause. " Let us get out and look around." 
