"I thought I might be able to help you," he said. "Have you any
particular reason for distrusting me as you do, Lady Herbert?"
Laura's face contracted. She was not angry, but she was sorry that she
had shown him what she thought, and it was hard to answer the question
truthfully, for she was not really sure whether she had any excuse for
doubting his frankness or not. In the present instance she assuredly had
none.
"I should certainly never distrust you where Herbert is concerned," she
said, after a short pause. "It is only that it seems more natural, as I
said, that I should be the one to speak to him and to arrange about the
specialist's visit."
"Very well. Forgive me, as I begged you to at first, if I have seemed
officious. I will come and see your husband this afternoon."
The consequence of this conversation was that Laura, being even more
seriously alarmed than before, since she realised that Ghisleri himself
was anxious, spoke to Arden about the necessity for seeing a better
doctor, breaking it to him with all the loving gentleness she knew how
to use with him, and Arden consented without much apparent reluctance to
being examined by a man who had a great reputation. The latter took a
long time before he gave an opinion, and ultimately declared to Laura
that her husband was consumptive and would probably not live a year.
Laura suffered in that moment as she would not have believed it possible
to suffer, and it was long before she could compose herself enough to
go to Arden. It was of course impossible to tell him all the doctor had
said. She told him that his lungs were delicate, and that he must be
very careful.
"It seems to me I am always very careful," said Lord Herbert, patiently.
She looked at him and saw for the hundredth time how ill he seemed. She
tried to turn quickly and leave the room, but she could not. Suddenly
the passionate tears broke out, and she fell on her knees beside his
chair and clasped the poor little body in her arms.
"Oh, Herbert, my love,--my love!" she sobbed.
Then he felt that he was doomed. Had she loved him less, she could have
kept the secret better. But he was brave still.
"Hush, darling, hush!" he said, gently stroking her coal-black hair with
his transparent hand. "You must not believe these foolish doctors. I
have been just as ill before."
But the mischief was done, and she felt that she had done it, and her
remorse knew no bounds. In spite of his courage, Arden lost heart. The
next time Ghisleri saw him he was much worse. Laura went out and left
the two together.
"Has anything worried you?" asked Ghisleri. "You look tired."
Arden was silent for a long time, and his friend knew that he was
carefully weighing his answer.
"Yes," he said at last, "something has worried me very much. I can trust
you not to speak--never to speak, even to my wife, of what I am going to
say--especially if anything should happen," he added, as though with a
painful afterthought.
"I will never speak of it," replied Pietro, gravely.
"I know you will not. We had a consultation the other day. Of course
they were very careful not to tell me what they thought, but I could not
help guessing it. You know how truthful my wife is--she could not deny
it when I put the question directly. It is all up with me, my dear
fellow, and I know it. I am consumptive. It will last a year at the
most."
"I do not believe a word of it!" exclaimed Ghisleri, with unusual heat.
"You are not in the least like a consumptive man!"
"The doctor is a good specialist," said Arden, quietly. "But that is not
all. I have been so happy--I am so happy in many ways still--that I am
weak enough to cling to my life, such as it is. But there is something
else, Ghisleri. I knew I was ill, and I knew there was danger--but this
is different. I had hoped to see my child, even if I were to die. I do
not hope to see it now--you understand? Those things are always
inherited."
A deadly paleness came over Arden's face, and his clear brown eyes
seemed unsteady for a moment. His face twitched nervously, and his hands
were strained as they grasped the arms of his chair. Ghisleri looked
very grave.
"I repeat that I believe the doctor to be wholly mistaken. It would
hardly be the first time that doctors have made such mistakes.
Consumptive people do not behave as you do. They always feel that they
are getting well, until the very last, and they have a regular cough,
not to be mistaken, and they eat a great deal. You are quite different."
"But he examined, me so carefully," objected Arden, though he could not
help seeing a ray of hope.
"I cannot help that. He was mistaken."
That afternoon Ghisleri telegraphed to a great European celebrity whom
he knew in Paris, to come if possible at once, no matter at what
sacrifice of money. Forty-eight hours later the man of genius was
breakfasting with Pietro in his rooms.
"I will ask leave to bring you as a friend," said the latter. "I have
begged you to come on my own responsibility."
He wrote a note to Laura, explaining that an old acquaintance, a man of
world-wide fame, was spending a couple of days with him, and begged
permission to introduce him. He might amuse Arden, he said. He did not
mention the doctor's profession. It was just possible that neither Arden
nor Laura had ever heard of the man who was so great in a world not
theirs. Laura asked them both to tea by way of answer.
As it turned out, the Ardens had a very vague idea that the Frenchman
was a man of science. In the course of conversation he admitted that he
had studied medicine, and then went on to talk about the latest news
from Paris, social, artistic, and literary. Arden was charmed with him,
and Laura was really grateful to Ghisleri for helping to amuse her
husband.
Would they both come to luncheon the next day? They would, with
pleasure, and they went away together.
"Well?" asked Ghisleri, as they walked towards the Pincio in the early
dusk, just to breathe the air.
"I think he may live," answered the great man. "I believe it is a
trouble of the heart with an almost exhausted vitality."
Laura was left alone with her husband. Whether it was the doctor's
personal influence, or whether Arden was really momentarily better, she
could not tell, but he looked as he had not looked for two months.
"That man delights me," he said dreamily. "I do not know what there is
about him, and it is very foolish--but I fancy that if he were a doctor,
he might cure me--or keep me alive longer," he added, with a sort of
reluctant sadness.
Laura looked at him in surprise.
"He said he had studied medicine," she answered. "Shall I ask Signor
Ghisleri, if, as a friend, he would come and give his opinion?"
"It is too much to ask of a stranger."
"Nothing is too much to ask," she said quietly. In her own room she
wrote a note to Pietro.
With many apologies, she explained to him that her husband was so
delighted with Ghisleri's friend, that she believed it might make a
difference if, as a doctor--since he was one--the latter would be
willing to see him once and give his opinion.
Pietro smiled when he read the note. On the following day the great man
went again to the Tempietto, and with many protestations of incompetence
did as he was requested, assuring Lady Herbert that it was only in
deference to her wishes that he did so.
"You are not consumptive--in the least, and you may even become strong,"
he said, after a very long and thorough examination. "That, at least,"
he added, "is my humble opinion."
Arden's face brightened suddenly. But Laura and Ghisleri remained alone
together for a moment afterwards, while the doctor was already putting
on his coat.
"After all," said Laura, despondently, "it was to please Herbert. The
man says that his opinion is not worth very much."
"He is the greatest living authority on the subject," answered Ghisleri.
"You may safely take his opinion."
Laura's face expressed her surprise, and at the same time, an
unspeakable relief.
"Are you sure?" she asked, in trembling tones.
"Ask your doctor. He will tell you. Will you forgive me my little trick,
Lady Herbert? As he was here, I thought you might like to see him."
Ghisleri put out his hand to take his leave, and Laura pressed it
warmly.
"If I had ever had anything to forgive, I would forgive you--for your
great kindness to me," she said, and the tears were almost in her eyes.
"It is you who should forgive me for not trusting you when you first
spoke. How wrong I was!"
"Nonsense!" exclaimed Ghisleri. "It was very natural."
And so it seemed to him, perhaps. But such little tricks, as he called
what he had done, cost money, and that year Ghisleri did not buy the bit
of land which stood next on the list in his scheme for reacquiring the
old estate.
CHAPTER VII.
Arden's health improved, at first very rapidly, and then more slowly, as
he seemed to approach what, for him, was a normal condition of strength.
The month of December was fine, and he was able to drive out constantly,
to be up most of the day, and to talk with acquaintances without any
great fatigue. As a natural consequence, too, Laura regained in a very
short time all that she had lost, and her eyes no longer looked sunken
and haggard nor her face unnaturally pale.
Her gratitude to Ghisleri was boundless, and as the days went on and
Arden had no relapse, she began to wonder how she could ever have felt
anything approaching to dislike for the man to whom she almost owed her
husband's life. Pietro, on his part, came often to the house and saw the
change that had taken place in her manner towards him. He was pleased,
though he had not thought of producing any impression upon her by what
he had done solely for Arden's sake, for he had long admired her, and
felt that she was very like a certain ideal of woman of which he never
talked. But his pleasure was not very genuine, after all. He hardly
believed that Laura's mood would last, because he had hitherto had
little experience of lasting moods in women. For the present, at least,
she believed in him and was grateful.
About this time Donna Adele, her husband, and his father and mother all
came back from the country, and at or near the same period the great
majority of the old society stagers appeared again as forerunners of the
coming season. The gay set was not yet all assembled, and it was even
reported that some of them would not come at all, for there was
financial trouble in the air, and many people had lost money, or found
their incomes diminished by the general depression. Nevertheless, when
Christmas came, few of the familiar faces of the previous year were
missing, and those few have not been seen in this history.
"This is the beginning," said Gouache to Ghisleri. "You may remember
that charming description of chaos in the sacred writings: 'in the
beginning darkness was over all the earth'--very like Rome before the
season begins. The resemblance ends there, my dear friend. The sentence
which follows would hardly be applicable. Are we to have another Shrove
Tuesday feast this year for the sake of giving sin a last chance? Have
you another diabolical production ready?"
"I am afraid not," answered Ghisleri. "Besides, one should never repeat
a good thing."
"That is what my wife says," observed Anastase, thoughtfully. "That dear
woman! But for her, I should do nothing but repeat my successful
pictures--if possible by a chemical process. It would be so easy! That
is the way the modern galleries of old masters are formed. There is a
little man in the Via da' Falegnami who turns out the article at a fixed
price, including the cost of the green wood for smoking the Rembrandts,
and the genuine old panels for doing the Botticellis. I often go to see
him. He knows more about grinding colours, and about vehicles and
varnishes, and the price of lamp-black than any artist I ever knew. He
painted that portrait of Raphael by himself--by Raphael, I mean, for
Prince Durakoff last year, and found the documents to prove its
existence among his papers. It took him six months, but it was well
done, especially the parchments. There was even the receipt for the
money paid to Raphael for the picture by the Most Excellent House of
Frangipani, signed by the painter himself--I mean by Raphael. Cheap, at
ten thousand francs. Durakoff paid the dealer eighty thousand without
bargaining. He did not reflect that if it had been genuine it would have
been worth five hundred thousand, and, if not, that it was not worth
fifty centimes."
"Rather like a friend," observed Ghisleri.
"Friendship is a matter of fortune," said Gouache, "as love is a
question of climate."
"You are not usually so cynical. What has happened?"
"My wife has been amusing me, this morning, with an account of society's
opinions on various subjects. One-half of her friends assure her that
black is white, and the other half tell her it is a vivid yellow. That
is called conversation. They give it you with tea, milk, and sugar,
between five and seven in the afternoon."
Gouache seemed to be in a somewhat communicative frame of mind. As a
matter of fact he often was with Ghisleri, whom he trusted more than
most men.
"What was it all about?" inquired the latter.
"People, people, and then people again. What does everybody talk about?
Silly stories about Lady Herbert Arden and Savelli, and about Lord
Herbert himself, and his dissipated life. The Ardens do not seem to be
liked. He is a great friend of yours, is he not?"
"Yes, we have known each other almost ten years." Ghisleri began to
smoke, rather gloomily, for he perceived that there was trouble in store
for Laura.
"It is Donna Adele who does all the mischief," continued Gouache,
putting a dash of bright blue into the face of the portrait he was
painting, a proceeding which, as Ghisleri noticed with some surprise,
improved the likeness. "It is Donna Adele. You know the old story.
Savelli loved Miss Carlyon but could not marry her. Donna Adele never
forgave her, and she will end by doing her a great deal of harm. She
pretends that Savelli has told her that Lady Herbert is already talking
to him and to everybody of her own wretched married life--rather hinting
that if Savelli would care to depart this life of respectability she
would go with him, a proposition which, of course, Savelli scorns in the
most virtuous and approved fashion, rolling his fine paternal language
as in the fourth act of a tragedy at the Comedie Française. I suppose
you cannot stop this sort of thing, can you?"
"I will try," said Ghisleri, in a tone that made Gouache look round from
his painting. He had not often witnessed even such a slight
manifestation of real anger on Pietro's part, as was apparent in the
enunciation of the three words.
"You might, perhaps, better than any one else," observed Gouache. "From
other things she has said, it is quite apparent that she would like to
see you at her feet."
Ghisleri looked at Anastase rather sharply, but said nothing. It was not
the fact that Donna Adele wished him to pay her more attention that
struck him; he was wondering what the other remarks might have been, to
which Gouache alluded. They might have been directed against the
Contessa--or they might have been such as to show that Adele suspected
Ghisleri of an attachment for Laura Arden since he now went so often to
the house. As Gouache did not volunteer any further information,
however, Ghisleri thought it wiser to ask no questions, and he was
inclined to infer that the aforesaid observations had been directed
against Maddalena dell' Armi.
Ghisleri went away in a very bad humour. So long as the gossip came from
the men, he had a very simple and definite course open to him, and he
knew that his personal influence was considerable. But when the worst
things said were said by women, there seemed to be no remedy possible.
It would not be an easy matter to go to Adele and tax her with lying,
slandering, and evil speaking. She would very properly be angry, and
would of course deny that she had ever spoken on the matter, her friends
would support her in her denial, and he would be no further advanced
than before. He could not possibly go to Francesco Savelli and demand of
the latter an explanation of Donna Adele's conduct. That was out of the
question. To let Donna Adele know that both Laura and Arden were quite
unconscious of her attacks and, in their present life of almost enforced
retirement, were likely to remain in ignorance of them, might annoy
Donna Adele, but could do no good. It would be positively unkind to
speak to the Princess of Gerano and ask her to use her influence with
her step-daughter, but Ghisleri thought he had struck a possibility at
last--he could go to old Gerano himself and explain matters. After all,
Gerano was Adele's father and had some authority over her still.
Ghisleri came rather hastily to the conclusion that this would be the
wisest course to follow, and acted almost immediately upon his decision,
for it chanced that he found the Prince at the club, and had the
opportunity he needed within half an hour after forming his plan of
action.
He approached the subject coolly and diplomatically, while Gerano
blandly listened and puffed at a cigarette. Donna Adele, he said, had of
course no intention of injuring her step-sister, but she was too young
to know the weight a careless tale often carried with it in the world,
and had no idea of the harm she was doing. No one, not even the Prince
himself, was ignorant of the fact that Don Francesco Savelli's first
inclination had been rather for Miss Carlyon than for Donna Adele, but
that it had been a mere young man's fancy, without any importance, and
that having yielded to parental authority, Don Francesco was now a
perfectly happy man. Perhaps Donna Adele had not been able to forget
this apparent slight upon her beauty and charm, as far as her
step-sister was concerned, though well aware that her husband thought no
more about Lady Herbert. It was natural and womanly in her to resent it.
But that was not a good reason why she should say--as she seemed to be
saying constantly--that Lady Herbert was very much in love with Don
Francesco.
Here Ghisleri paused, and the Prince opened his eyes very wide at first,
and then almost shut them as he scrutinised his companion's face. He
knew the man well, however, and guessed that the matter must be serious
indeed, since he took the trouble to treat it in such earnest.
"I suppose," said Gerano, "that you are quite prepared to support your
words if any question arises. This is a strange tale."
"Yes," answered Ghisleri. "I am always ready." He spoke with such
gravity that the Prince was impressed.
Pietro went on to say that Donna Adele, doubtless out of pure
carelessness, had certainly, by a foolish jest, suggested the story that
Lord Herbert was very intemperate, a story which Ghisleri had last year
been obliged to deny in the most formal manner in the very room in which
they were now talking, to a number of men. The tale had of late been
revived in a form even more virulent than before, and such untruths,
even when they have originated in a harmless bit of fun, could damage a
man's reputation for life.
"Of course they can, and they do," asserted the Prince, who was becoming
rather anxious.
"As, for instance," continued Ghisleri, "it is now said that Lady
Herbert Arden, your step-daughter, now talks to Don Francesco and to
everybody--which probably means the few persons who circulate the
myth--about her wretched married life, and other suggestions which I
will not repeat are added, which are very insulting to her. For my part,
my business is to defend Arden, who is my friend, and who is
unfortunately too ill to defend himself should all this come to his
ears. I do not say that this last addition concerning Lady Herbert's
confidences comes from Donna Adele Savelli. But it is undoubtedly
current, and proceeds directly from the former gossip, as its natural
consequence."
"Evidently," said the Prince, who kept his temper admirably, in
consideration of the gravity of the case. "And now what do you expect me
to do?"
"You are Donna Adele's father," answered Ghisleri. "She is assuredly
ignorant of the harm she has caused. It would seem quite natural if you
suggested to her that it is in her power to undo what she has
unintentionally done."
"How, may I ask? By an apology?" Gerano did not like the idea, but
Ghisleri smiled.
"That would make matters worse," he said. "She could put everything
right merely by saying a few pleasant things about the Ardens to half a
dozen people of her acquaintance--at random. Donna Maria Boccapaduli,
the Marchesa di San Giacinto, the Contessa dell' Armi--even Donna
Faustina Gouache. She might ask the Ardens to dinner--"
"I observe that you do not name any men," observed the Prince.
"It is not the men who have been talking, so far as I know--nor if they
did, would their gossip do so much damage."
"That may be. As for the rest, I will say this. You have said some
exceedingly unpleasant things to me this afternoon, but I know you well
enough to be sure that you are not only in earnest, but wish to avert
trouble rather than cause it. Otherwise I should not have listened to
you as I have. I am very deeply attached to my only child, though I am
also very fond of my step-daughter. However, I will take this question
in hand and find out the truth, and do what I can to mend matters. If I
find you have been misinformed, I will ask the favour of another
interview."
"I shall always be at your service."
They parted rather stiffly, but without any nearer approach to hostility
than was implied in the last formal words they exchanged. Gerano walked
slowly homeward, revolving the situation in his mind, and wondering how
he should act in order to get at the truth in the case. Being very fond
of his wife, his first impulse was to tell her the whole story, and to
take counsel with her before doing anything definite. It would have been
better had he gone directly to Donna Adele, though he might not have
accomplished anything at all, and might have believed her, and might
also have quarrelled with Ghisleri afterwards. But he did not foresee
the consequences.
The Princess was very much overcome by the account he gave her of his
interview with Ghisleri, of whom she had a high opinion as a man of
truthful character, bad as he seemed to be in other respects. She knew
instinctively and at once that every one of his statements must have
been perfectly well founded, and that if he had erred it had assuredly
not been in the direction of exaggerating the facts. She was in much the
same position as her husband, except that her own daughter was the
victim, while his was the aggressor. It was strange that in so many
years neither should have understood Adele's character well enough to
suspect that she could be capable of any treachery, and yet both were
now convinced that the case against her was not by any means a fiction.
The Princess was now in the gravest distress, and she could not keep
back her tears as she tried to find arguments in Adele's favour, wishing
to the last to defend her husband's child, while never for a moment
losing sight of her own.
She was an eminently good woman, but very far from worldly-wise. Indeed,
as events proceeded that day, there seemed to be a diminution of wisdom
in the action of each in turn as compared with that of the last person
concerned. Ghisleri had not really allowed himself time to consider the
situation in all its bearings before speaking to Gerano, or he might not
have spoken at all. Gerano, next, had scarcely hesitated in confiding
the whole affair to his wife, and she, in despair, turned to the one
person of all others with whom she was really most in sympathy, to Laura
Arden herself, regardless of the consequences to every one concerned.
Lord Herbert was resting before dinner, and she found her daughter
alone.
Her heart was almost bursting, and she poured out the story in all its
details, accurately, as she had heard it, though hardly knowing what she
said. At first Laura was tempted to laugh. She had been so much happier
of late that laughing had grown easy, but she very soon saw the real
meaning of the situation, and she grew pale as she silently listened to
the end. Then her mother broke down again.
"And I have loved her so!" cried the poor lady. "Almost as I have loved
you, my child! To think of it all--oh, it is not to be believed!"
Laura was not at that moment inclined to shed tears. It was almost the
first time in her life when she was really angry, for her temper was not
easily roused. It was not destined to be the last. Dry-eyed and pale,
she sat beside the Princess, holding her hands, then drying her fast
flowing tears, then caressing her, and saying all she could to soothe
and calm her, while almost choking herself to keep down the rage she
felt. Her eyes had been opened at last, and she saw what the story
really was at which Arden had made such a poor guess. As the Princess
grew more calm, she began to look at her daughter in surprise.
"What is the matter, darling?" she asked anxiously. "Are you ill, dear,
you look so changed!"
"I am angry, mother," answered Laura, quietly enough. "I shall get over
it soon, I dare say."
Even her voice did not sound like her own. It was hollow and strange.
Her mother was frightened.
"I have done very wrong to tell you, Laura," she said, realising too
late that the revelation must have been startling in the extreme.
"I do not know," answered Lady Herbert, still speaking in the same
peculiar tone, and with an effort. "Adele and I meet constantly. Of
course we have been brought up like real sisters, and though we were
never intensely fond of one another we talk about everything as if we
were. I will be careful in future. This may not be all true, but there
is truth in it, if you have remembered exactly what Signor Ghisleri
said--or rather, if the Prince has."
The Princess started slightly. Laura had always called Gerano father, as
though she had really been his daughter, but the shock had been very
sudden, and she found it hard to call by that name the man whose
daughter was Adele Savelli.
"I hope it will turn out to be all a mistake!" exclaimed the Princess,
weakly, and on the point of bursting into tears again.
"Until we are sure of it, I shall try and behave as usual to Adele, if
we have to meet," said Laura. "After that, if it is all true--I do not
know--"
When the Princess went home, she was a little frightened at what she had
done, and repented bitterly of having yielded to her own unreasoning
longing to talk the matter over with Laura--natural enough indeed, when
it is remembered that the two loved one another so dearly. It had been a
mistake, she was sure, and she would have given anything to undo it. She
only hoped that she should not be obliged to explain to her husband.
Laura sat alone by the fireside. Herbert was lying down and would not
appear until dinner time, so that she had almost an hour in which to
think over the situation. She determined to master her anger and to look
the matter in the face calmly. After all, it was only gossip, town-talk,
insignificant chatter, which must all be forgotten in the light of the
true facts. So she tried to persuade herself, at least, but she found it
a very hard matter to believe her own statement of it all. The more she
thought it over, the more despicable it all seemed in her eyes, the more
savagely she hated Adele. She could have borne the story about herself
better, if it had come alone, but she could neither forgive nor find an
excuse for what had been said against her husband. To know that people
openly called him intemperate--a drunkard, that would be the word! Him,
of all living men! The assertion was so monstrous that all Laura's
resolution to control herself gave way suddenly, and she, in her turn,
burst into a flood of tears, hot, angry, almost agonising, impossible to
check.
She might have been proud to shed them, for they showed how much more
she loved her husband than she cared for herself, but she was conscious
only of the intense desire to face Adele, and do her some grievous
bodily hurt and be revenged for the foul slander cast on Herbert Arden.
She opened and shut her hands convulsively, as though she were clutching
some one and strangling the breath in a living throat. Every drop of
blood in her young body was fire, every tear that rolled down her pale
cheek was molten lead, every beat of her angry pulse brought an angry
thought to her brain. How long she remained in this state she did not
know.
She did not hear her husband's laboured, halting step on the soft
carpet, and before she was aware of his presence he was standing before
her, with a look of pain and almost of horror in his delicate face. That
was the most terrible moment in his life.
Highly sensitive as he was, loving her almost to distraction as he did,
he had always found it hard to understand her love for him. To suspect
that all of it was pity, or that a part of it had grown weak of late,
was almost impossible to him, and yet the possibility of doubt was
there. He had entered the room as usual, without any precaution, but she
had not heard him; he had seen her apparently struggling with herself
and with some unseen enemy, in a paroxysm of grief and rage. Instantly
the doubt rose supreme and struck him, like a sudden blow in the face.
"She has found out her mistake too late--she does not love me, and she
longs to be free." That was what Herbert Arden said to himself as he
stood before her, and the horror of it was almost greater than he could
bear. Yet there was a great and manly courage in his narrow breast. He
felt that he must die, but she should not suffer any more than was
necessary until then. He drew the best breath he could, as though it
were his last. She started, wild-eyed, as he spoke.
"Laura darling--it has been a terrible mistake--and it is all my fault.
Will you forgive me, dear one? I thought that you would love me--I see
how it is when you are alone. No woman could have borne this bondage of
yours as you have borne it since you have found out--"
"Herbert! Herbert!" cried Laura, in sudden agony. She thought he was
going mad before her eyes.
"No, dear," he said, with an immense effort, and making a gesture with
his hand as though to keep her in her place. "It is better to say it
now, and it need never be said again. Perhaps I should not have the
strength. I see it all. You are so kind and good that you will never
show it to me--but when you are alone--then you let yourself go--is it
any wonder? Are you to blame? You see that you have made the great
mistake--that it was all pity and not love--and you long to be free from
me as you should be, as you shall be, dear."
A wild cry broke from Laura's very heart when she realised what he
meant.
"Love! Darling--Herbert! I never loved you as I love you now!"
She did not know that she spoke articulate words as she sprang to her
feet and clasped him in her arms, half mad with grief at the thought of
what he must have suffered, and loving him as she said she did, far
beyond the love of earlier days. But he hardly understood yet that it
was really love, and he tried to look up into her face, almost fainting
with the terrible strain he had borne so bravely, and still struggling
