down the St. Lawrence--"
"Isn't that as romantic as the other notion, parson?" crowed old Corey.
"No, I don't think so," said the minister. "The cases are quite
different. He might have a morbid shrinking from his own past, and the
wish to hide from it as far as he could; that would be natural; but to
leave his children to believe a rumor of his death in order to save
their feelings, would be against nature; it would be purely histrionic;
a motive from the theatre; that is, perfectly false."
"Pretty hard on Hilary, who invented it," Bellingham suggested; and they
all laughed.
"I don't know," said Hilary. "The man seems to be posing in other ways.
You would think from his letter that he was a sort of martyr to
principle, and that he'd been driven off to Canada by the heartless
creditors whom he's going to devote his life to saving from loss, if he
can't do it in a few months or years. He may not be a conscious humbug,
but he's certainly a humbug. Take that pretence of his that he would
come back and stand his trial if he believed it would not result in
greater harm than good by depriving him of all hope of restitution!"
"Why, there's a sort of crazy morality in that," said Corey.
"Perhaps," said Bellingham, "the solution of the whole matter is that
Northwick is cracked."
"I've no doubt he's cracked to a certain extent," said Sewell, "as every
wrong-doer is. You know the Swedenborgians believe that insanity is the
last state of the wicked."
"I suppose," observed old Corey, thoughtfully, "you'd be very glad to
have him keep out of your reach, Hilary?"
"What a question!" said Hilary. "You're as bad as my daughter. She
asked me the same thing."
"I wish I were no worse," said the old man.
"You speak of his children," said the Englishman. "Hasn't he a wife?"
"No. Two daughters. One an old maid, and the other a young girl, whom my
daughter knew at school," Hilary answered.
"I saw the young lady at your house once," said Bellingham, in a certain
way.
"Yes. She's been here a good deal, first and last."
"Rather a high-stepping young person, I thought," said Bellingham.
"She is a proud girl," Hilary admitted. "Rather imperious, in fact."
"Ah, what's the pride of a young girl?" said Corey. "Something that
comes from her love and goes to it; no separable quality; nothing that's
for herself."
"Well, I'm not sure of that," said Hilary. "In this case it seems to
have served her own turn. It's enabled her simply and honestly to deny
the fact that her father ever did anything wrong."
"That's rather fine," Corey remarked, as if tasting it.
"And what will it enable her to do, now that he's come out and confessed
the frauds himself?" the Englishman asked.
Hilary shrugged, for answer. He said to Bellingham, "Charles, I want you
to try some of these crabs. I got them for you."
"Why, this is touching, Hilary," said Bellingham, getting his fat head
round with difficulty to look at them in the dish the man was bringing
to his side. "But I don't know that I should have refused them, even if
they had been got for Corey."
IX.
They did not discuss Northwick's letter at the dinner-parties in
Hatboro' because, socially speaking, they never dined there; but the
stores, the shops, the parlors, buzzed with comment on it; it became a
part of the forms of salutation, the color of the day's joke. Gates, the
provision man, had to own the error of his belief in Northwick's death.
He found his account in being the only man to own that he ever had such
a belief; he was a comfort to those who said they had always had their
doubts of it; the ladies of South Hatboro', who declared to a woman that
they had never believed it, respected the simple heart of a man who
acknowledged that he had never questioned it. Such a man was not one to
cheat his customers in quantity or quality; that stood to reason; his
faith restored him to the esteem of many.
Mr. Gerrish was very bitter about the double fraud which he said
Northwick had practised on the community, in having allowed the rumor of
his death to gain currency. He denounced him to Mrs. Munger, making an
early errand from South Hatboro' to the village to collect public
opinion, as a person who had put himself beyond the pale of public
confidence, and whose professions of repentance for the past, and good
intention for the future, he tore to shreds. "It is said, and I have no
question correctly, that hell is paved with good intentions--if you will
excuse me, Mrs. Munger. When Mr. Northwick brings forth fruits meet for
repentance--when he makes the first payment to his creditors--I will
believe that he is sorry for what he has done, and not till then."
"That is true," said Mrs. Munger. "I wonder what Mr. Putney will have to
say to all this. Can he feel that his skirts are quite clean, acting
that way, as the family counsel of the Northwicks, after all he used to
say against him?"
Mr. Gerrish expressed his indifference by putting up a roll of muslin on
the shelf while he rejoined, "I care very little for the opinions of Mr.
Putney on any subject."
In some places Mrs. Munger encountered a belief, which she did not
discourage, that the Northwick girls had known all along that their
father was alive, and had been in communication with him; through
Putney, most probably. In the light of this conjecture the lawyer's
character had a lurid effect, which it did not altogether lose when Jack
Wilmington said, bluntly, "What of it? He's their counsel. He's not
obliged to give the matter away. He's obliged to keep it."
"But isn't it very inconsistent," Mrs. Munger urged, "after all he used
to say against Mr. Northwick?"
"I suppose it's a professional, not a personal matter," said Wilmington.
"And then, their putting on mourning! Just think of it!" Mrs. Munger
appealed to Mrs. Wilmington, who was listening to her nephew's savagery
of tone and phrase with the lazy pleasure she seemed always to feel in
it.
"Yes. Do you suppose they meant it for a blind?"
"Why, that's what people think now, don't they?"
"Oh, I don't know. What do you think, Jack?"
"I think they're a pack of fools!" he blurted out, like a man who
avenges on the folly of others the hurt of his own conscience. He cast a
look of brutal contempt at Mrs. Munger, who said she thought so, too.
"It is too bad the way people allow themselves to talk," she went on.
"To be sure, Sue Northwick has never done anything to make herself loved
in Hatboro'--not among the ladies at least."
Mrs. Wilmington gave a spluttering laugh, and said, "And I suppose it's
the ladies who allow themselves to talk as they do. I can't get the men
in my family to say a word against her."
Jack scowled his blackest. "It would be a pitiful scoundrel that did.
Her misfortunes ought to make her sacred to every one that has the soul
of a man."
"Well, so it does. That is just what I was saying. The trouble is that
they don't make her sacred to every one that has the soul of a woman,"
Mrs. Wilmington teased.
"I know it doesn't," Jack returned, in helpless scorn, as he left Mrs.
Munger alone to his aunt.
"Do you suppose he still cares anything for her?" Mrs. Munger asked,
with cosey confidentiality.
"Who knows?" Mrs. Wilmington rejoined, indolently. "It would be very
poetical, wouldn't it, if he were to seize the opportunity to go back to
her?"
"Beautiful!" sighed Mrs. Munger. "I do like a manly man!"
She drove home through the village slowly, hoping for a chance of a
further interchange of conjectures and impressions; but she saw no one
she had not already talked with till she met Dr. Morrell, driving out of
the avenue from his house. She promptly set her phaeton across the road
so that he could not get by, if he were rude enough to wish it.
"Doctor," she called out, "what do you think of this extraordinary
letter of Mr. Northwick's?"
Dr. Morrell's boyish eyes twinkled. "You mean that letter in the
Events? Do you think Northwick wrote it?"
"Why, don't you, doctor?" she questioned back, with a note of personal
grievance in her voice.
"I'm not very well acquainted with his style. Then, you think he did
write it? Of course, there are always various opinions. But I understood
you thought he was burned in that accident last winter."
"Now, doctor!" said Mrs. Munger, with the pout which Putney said
always made him want to kill her. "You're just trying to tease me; I
know you are. I'm going to drive right in and see Mrs. Morrell. She
will tell me what you think."
"I don't believe you can see her," said the doctor. "She isn't at all
well."
"Oh, I'm sorry for that. I don't understand what excuse she has, though,
with a physician for her husband. You must turn hom[oe]opathy. Dr.
Morrell, do you think it's true that Jack Wilmington will offer himself
to Sue Northwick, now that it's come to the worst with her? Wouldn't it
be romantic?"
"Very," said the doctor. He craned his head out of the buggy, as if to
see whether he could safely drive into the ditch, and pass Mrs. Munger.
He said politely, as he started, "Don't disturb yourself! I can get by."
She sent a wail of reproach after him, and then continued toward South
Hatboro'. As she passed the lodge at the gate of the Northwick avenue,
where the sisters now lived, she noted that the shades were closely
drawn. They were always drawn on the side toward the street, but Mrs.
Munger thought it interesting that she had never noticed it before, and
in the dearth of material she made the most of it, both for her own
emotion, and for the sensation of others when she reached South
Hatboro'.
Behind the drawn shades that Mrs. Munger noted, Adeline Northwick sat
crying over the paper that Elbridge Newton had pushed under the door
that morning. It was limp from the nervous clutch and tremor of her
hands, and wet with her tears; but she kept reading her father's letter
in it, and trying to puzzle out of it some hope or help. "He must be
crazy, he must be crazy," she moaned, more to herself than to Suzette,
who sat rigidly and silently by. "He couldn't have been so cruel, if he
had been in his right mind; he couldn't! He was always so good to us,
and so thoughtful; he must have known that we had given him up for dead,
long ago; and he has let us go on grieving for him all this time. It's
just as if he had come back from death, and the first he did was to tell
us that everything they said against him was true, and that everything
we said and believed was all wrong. How could he do it, how could he do
it! We bore to think he was dead; yes, we bore that, and we didn't
complain; but this is more than any one can ask us to bear. Oh, Suzette,
what can we say, now? What can we say, after he's confessed himself that
he took the money, and that he has got part of it yet? But I know he
didn't! I know he hasn't! He's crazy! Oh, poor, poor father! Don't you
think he must be crazy? And where is he? Why don't he write to us, and
tell us what he wants us to do? Does he think we would tell any one
where he was? That shows he's out of his mind. I always thought that
if he could come back to life somehow, he'd prove that they had lied
about him; and now! Oh, it isn't as if it were merely the company that
was concerned, or what people said; but it's as if our own father, that
we trusted so much, had broken his word to us. That is what kills me."
The day passed. They sent Mrs. Newton away when she came to help them at
dinner. They locked their doors, and shut themselves in from the world,
as mourners do with death. Adeline's monologue went on, with the brief
responses which she extorted from Suzette, and at last it ceased, as if
her heart had worn itself out in the futile repetition of its griefs.
Then Suzette broke her silence with words that seemed to break from it
of themselves in their abrupt irrelevance to what Adeline had last said.
"We must give it up!"
"Give what up?" Adeline groaned back.
"The house--and the farm--and this hovel. Everything! It isn't ours."
"Not ours?"
"No. That letter makes it theirs--the people's whose money he took. We
must send for Mr. Putney and tell him to give it to them. He will know
how."
Adeline looked at her sister's face in dismay. She gasped out, "Why, but
Mr. Putney says it's ours, and nobody can touch it!"
"That was before. Now it is theirs; and if we kept it from them we
should be stealing it. How do we know that father had any right to give
it to us when he did?"
"Suzette!"
"I keep thinking such things, and I had better say them unless I want to
go out of my senses. Once I would have died before I gave it up, because
he left it to us, and now it seems as if I couldn't live till I gave it
up, because he left it to us. No, I can never forgive him, if he is my
father. I can never speak to him again, or see him; never! He is dead to
me, now!"
The words seemed to appeal to the contrary-mindedness that lurks in such
natures as Adeline's. "Why, I don't see what there is so wrong about
father's letter," she began. "It just shows what I always said: that his
mind was affected by his business troubles, and that he wandered away
because he couldn't get them straight. And now it's preyed so upon him
that he's beginning to believe the things they say are true, and to
blame himself. That's the way I look at it."
"Adeline!" Suzette commanded, with a kind of shriek, "Be still! You
know you don't believe that!"
Adeline hesitated between her awe of her sister, and her wish to persist
in a theory which, now that she had formulated it for Suzette's
confusion, she found effective for her own comfort. She ventured at
last, "It is what I said, the first thing, and I shall always say it,
Suzette; and I have a right."
"Say what you please. I shall say nothing. But this property doesn't
belong to us till father comes back to prove it."
"Comes back!" Adeline gasped. "Why, they'll send him to State's prison!"
"They won't send him to State's prison if he's innocent, and if he
isn't--"
"Suzette! Don't you dare!"
"But that has nothing to do with it. We must give up what doesn't belong
to us. Will you go for Mr. Putney, or shall I go? I'm not afraid to be
seen, if you don't like to go. I can hold up my head before the whole
world, now I know what we ought to do, and we're going to do it; but if
we kept this place after that letter, I couldn't even look you in the
face again." She continued to Adeline's silence, "Why, we needn't either
of us go! I can get Elbridge to go." She made as if to leave the room.
"Wait! I can't let you--yet. I haven't thought it out," said Adeline.
"Not thought it out!" Suzette went back and stood over her where she sat
in her rocking-chair.
"No!" said Adeline, shrinking from her fierce look, but with a gathering
strength of resistance in her heart. "Because you've been thinking of
it, you expect me to do what you say in an instant. The place was
mother's, and when she died it came to me, and I hold it in trust for
both of us; that's what Mr. Putney says. Even supposing that father did
use their money--and I don't believe he did--I don't see why I should
give up mother's property to them." She waited a moment before she said,
"And I won't."
"Is half of it mine?" asked Suzette.
"I don't know. Yes, I suppose so."
"I'm of age, and I shall give up my half. I'm going to send for Mr.
Putney." She went out of the room, and came back with her hat and gloves
on, and her jacket over her arm. She had never been so beautiful, or so
terrible. "Listen to me, Adeline," she said, "I'm going out to send
Elbridge for Mr. Putney; and when he comes I am not going to have any
squabbling before him. You can do what you please with your half of the
property, but I'm going to give up my half to the company. Now, if you
don't promise you'll freely consent to what I want to do with my own, I
will never come back to this house, or ever see you again, or speak to
you. Do you promise?"
"Oh, well, I promise," said Adeline, forlornly, with a weak dribble of
tears. "You can take your half of the place that mother owned, and give
it to the men that are trying to destroy father's character! But I shall
never say that I wanted you should do it."
"So that you don't say anything against it, I don't care what else you
say." Suzette put on her jacket and stood buttoning it at her soft
throat. "I do it; and I do it for mother's sake and for father's. I
care as much for them as you do."
In the evening Putney came, and she told him she wished him to contrive
whatever form was necessary to put her father's creditors in possession
of her half of the estate. "My sister doesn't feel as I do about it,"
she ended. "She thinks they have no right to it, and we ought to keep
it. But she has agreed to let me give my half up."
Putney went to the door and threw out the quid of tobacco which he had
been absently chewing upon while she spoke. "You know," he explained,
"that the creditors have no more claim on this estate, in law, than they
have on my house and lot?"
"I don't know. I don't care for the law."
"The case isn't altered at all, you know, by the fact that your father
is still living, and your title isn't affected by any of the admissions
made in the letter he has published."
"I understand that," said the girl.
"Well," said Putney, "I merely wanted to make sure you had all the
bearings of the case. The thing can be done, of course. There's nothing
to prevent any one giving any one else a piece of property."
He remained silent for a moment, as if doubtful whether to say more, and
Adeline asked, "And do you believe that if we were to give up the
property, they'd let father come back?"
Putney could not control a smile at her simplicity. "The creditors have
got nothing to do with that, Miss Northwick. Your father has been
indicted, and he's in contempt of court as long as he stays away. There
can't be any question of mercy till he comes back for trial."
"But if he came back," she persisted, "our giving up the property would
make them easier with him?"
"A corporation has no bowels of compassion, Miss Northwick. I shouldn't
like to trust one. The company has no legal claim on the estate. Unless
you think it has a moral claim, you'd better hold on to your property."
"And do you think it has a moral claim?"
Putney drew a long breath. "Well, that's a nice question." He stroked
his trousers down over his little thin leg, as he sat. "I have some
peculiar notions about corporations. I don't think a manufacturing
company is a benevolent institution, exactly. It isn't even a
sanitarium. It didn't come for its health; it came to make money, and it
makes it by a profit on the people who do its work and the people who
buy its wares. Practically, it's just like everything else that earns
its bread by the sweat of its capital--neither better nor worse."
Launched in this direction, Putney recalled himself with an effort from
the prospect of an irrelevant excursion in the fields of speculative
economy. "But as I understand, the question is not so much whether the
Ponkwasset Mills have a moral claim, as whether you have a moral
obligation. And there I can't advise. You would have to go to a
clergyman. I can only say that if the property were mine I should hold
on to it, and let the company be damned, or whatever could happen to a
body that hadn't a soul for that purpose."
Putney thrust his hand into his pocket for his tobacco; and then
recollected himself, and put it back.
"There, Suzette!" said Adeline.
Suzette had listened in a restive silence, while Putney was talking with
her sister. She said in answer to him: "I don't want advice about that.
I wished to know whether I could give up my part of the estate to the
company, and if you would do it for me at once."
"Oh, certainly," said Putney. "I will go down to Boston to-morrow
morning and see their attorney."
"Their attorney? I thought you would have to go to Mr. Hilary."
"He would send me to their lawyer, I suppose. But I can go to him first,
if you wish."
"Yes, I do wish it," said the girl. "I don't understand about the
company, and I don't care for it. I want to offer the property to Mr.
Hilary. Don't say anything but just that I wished to give it up, and my
sister consented. Don't say a single word more, no matter what he asks
you. Will you?"
"I will do exactly what you say," answered Putney. "But you understand,
I suppose, don't you, that in order to make the division, the whole
place must be sold?"
Suzette looked at him in surprise. Adeline wailed out, "The whole place
sold?"
"Yes; how else could you arrive at the exact value?"
"I will keep the house and the grounds, and Suzette may have the farm."
Putney shook his head. "I don't believe it could be done. Perhaps--"
"Well, then," said Adeline, "I will never let the place be sold in the
world. I--" She caught Suzette's eye and faltered, and then went on
piteously, "I didn't know what we should have to do when I promised. But
I'll keep my promise; yes, I will. We needn't sign the papers to-night,
need we, Mr. Putney? It'll do in the morning?"
"Oh, yes; just as well," said Putney. "It'll take a little time to draw
up the writings."
"But you can send word to Mr. Hilary at once?" Suzette asked.
"Oh, yes; if you wish."
"I do."
"It won't be necessary."
"I wish it."
Since the affair must so soon be known to everybody, Putney felt
justified in telling his wife when he went home. "If that poor old girl
freely consented, it must have been at the point of the hairpin. Of
course, the young one is right to obey her conscience, but as a case of
conscience, what do you think of it, Ellen? And do you think one ought
to make any one else obey one's conscience?"
"That's a hard question, Ralph. And I'm not sure that she's right. Why
should she give up her property, if it was hers so long ago before the
frauds began? Suppose he were not their father, and the case stood just
as it does?"
"Ah, there's something very strange about the duty of blood."
"Blood? I think Suzette Northwick's case of conscience is a case of
pride," said Mrs. Putney. "I don't believe she cares anything about the
right and wrong of it. She just wishes to stand well before the world.
She would do anything for that. She's as hard!"
"That's what the world will say, I've no doubt," Putney admitted.
X.
The next morning Adeline came early to her sister's bed, and woke her.
"I haven't slept all night--I don't see how you could--and I want you
shouldn't let Mr. Putney send that letter to Mr. Hilary, just yet. I
want to think it over, first."
"You want to break your promise?" asked Suzette, wide awake at the first
word.
Adeline began to cry. "I want to think. It seems such a dreadful thing
to sell the place. And why need you hurry to send off a letter to Mr.
Hilary about it? Won't it be time enough, when Mr. Putney has the
writings ready? I think it will look very silly to send word beforehand.
I could see that Mr. Putney didn't think it was business-like."
"You want to break your promise?" Suzette repeated.
"No, I don't want to break my promise. But I do want to do what's
right; and I want to do what I think is right. I'm almost sick. I want
Elbridge should stop for the doctor on his way to Mr. Putney's." She
broke into a convulsive sobbing. "Oh, Suzette! Do give me a little
more time! Won't you? And as soon as I can see it as you do--"
They heard the rattling of a key in the back door of the cottage, and
they knew it was Elbridge coming to make the fire in the kitchen stove,
as he always did against the time his wife should come to get breakfast.
Suzette started up from her pillow, and pulled Adeline's face down on
her neck, so as to smother the sound of her sobs. "Hush! Don't let him
hear! And I wouldn't let any one know for the world that we didn't
agree! You can think it over all day, if you want; and I'll stop Mr.
Putney from writing till you think as I do. But be still, now!"
"Yes, yes! I will," Adeline whispered back. "And I won't quarrel with
you, Sue! I know we shall think alike in the end. Only, don't hurry me!
And let Elbridge get the doctor to come. I'm afraid I'm going to be down
sick."
She crept sighing back to bed, and after a little while, Suzette came,
dressed, to look after her. "I think I'm going to get a little sleep,
now," she said. "But don't forget to stop Mr. Putney."
Suzette went out into the thin, sweet summer morning air, and walked up
and down the avenue between the lodge and the empty mansion. She had not
slept, either; it was from her first drowse that Adeline had wakened
her. But she was young, and the breath of the cool, southwest wind was a
bath of rest to her fevered senses. She felt herself grow stronger in
it, and she tried to think what she ought to do. If her purpose of the
day before still seemed so wholly and perfectly just, it seemed very
difficult; and she began to ask herself whether she had a right to
compel Adeline's consent to it. She felt the perplexities of the world
where good and evil are often so mixed that when the problem passes from
thoughts to deeds, the judgment is darkened and the will palsied. Till
now the wrong had always appeared absolutely apart from the right; for
the first time she perceived that a great right might involve a lesser
wrong; and she was daunted. But she meant to fight out her fight wholly
within herself before she spoke with Adeline again.
That day Matt Hilary came over from his farm to see Wade, whom he found
as before, in his study at the church, and disposed to talk over
Northwick's letter. "It's a miserable affair; humiliating;
heart-sickening. That poor soul's juggle with his conscience is a most
pathetic spectacle. I can't bring myself to condemn him very fiercely.
But while others may make allowance for him, it's ruinous for him to
excuse himself. That's truly perdition. Don't you feel that?" Wade
asked.
"Yes, yes," Matt assented, with a kind of absence. "But there is
something else I wanted to speak with you about; and I suppose it's this
letter that's made it seem rather urgent now. You know when I asked you
once about Jack Wilmington--"
Wade shook his head. "There isn't the least hope in that direction. I'm
sure there isn't. If he had cared anything for the girl, he would have
shown it long ago!"
"I quite agree with you," said Matt, "and that isn't what I mean. But if
it would have been right and well for him to come forward at such a
time, why shouldn't some other man, who does love her?" He hurried
tremulously on: "Wade, let me ask you one thing more! You have seen her
so much more than I; and I didn't know--Is it possible--Perhaps I ought
to ask if you are at all--if you care for her?"
"For Miss Northwick? What an idea? Not the least in the world! Why do
you ask?"
"Because I do!" said Matt. "I care everything for her. So much that
when I thought of my love for her, I could not bear that it should be a
wrong to any living soul or that it should be a shadow's strength
between her and any possible preference. And I came here with my mind
made up that if you thought Jack Wilmington had still some right to a
hearing from her, I would stand back. If there were any hopes for him
from himself or from her, I should be a fool not to stand back. And I
thought--I thought that if you, old fellow--But now, it's all right--all
right--"
Matt wrung the hand which Wade yielded him with a dazed air, at first. A
great many things went through Wade's mind, which he silenced on their
way to his lips. It would not do to impart to Matt the impressions of a
cold and arrogant nature which the girl had sometimes given him, and
which Matt could not have received in the times of trouble and sorrow
when he had chiefly seen her. Matt's confession was a shock; Wade was
scarcely less dismayed by the complications which it suggested; but he
could no more impart his misgivings than his impressions; he could no
more tell Matt that his father would be embarrassed and compromised by
his passion than he could tell him that he did not think Sue Northwick
was worthy of it. He was in the helpless predicament that confidants
often find themselves in, but his final perception of his
impossibilities enabled him to return the fervid pressure of Matt's
hand, and even to utter some of those incoherencies which serve the
purpose when another wishes to do the talking.
"Of course," said Matt, "I'm ridiculous, I know that. I haven't got
anything to found my hopes on but the fact that there's nothing in my
way to the one insuperable obstacle: to the fact that she doesn't and
can't really care a straw for me. But just now that seems a mere
bagatelle." He laughed with a nervous joy, and he kept talking, as he
walked up and down Wade's study. "I don't know that I have the hope of
anything; and I don't see how I'm to find out whether I have or not, for
the present. You know, Wade," he went on, with a simple-hearted
sweetness, which Wade found touching, "I'm twenty-eight years old, and I
don't believe I've ever been in love before. Little fancies, of course;
summer flirtations; every one has them; but never anything serious,
anything like this. And I could see, at home, that they would be glad
to have had me married. I rather think my father believes that a good
sensible wife would bring me back to faith in commercial civilization."
He laughed out his relish of the notion, but went on, gravely: "Poor
father! This whole business has been a terrible trial to him."
Wade wondered at his ability to separate the thought of Suzette from the
thought of her father; he inferred from his ability to do so that he
must have been thinking of her a great deal, but he asked, "Isn't it all
rather sudden, Matt?" Wade put on a sympathetic, yet diplomatic, smile
for the purpose of this question.
"Not for me!" said Matt. He added, not very consequently, "I suppose it
must have happened to me the first moment I saw her here that day Louise
and I came up about the accident. I couldn't truly say that she had ever
been out of my mind a moment since. No, there's nothing sudden about it,
though I don't suppose these things usually take a great deal of time,"
Matt ended, philosophically.
Wade left the dangerous ground he found himself on. He asked, "And your
family, do they know of your--feeling?"
"Not in the least!" Matt answered, radiantly. "It will come on them like
a thunder-clap! If it ever comes on them at all," he added,
despondently.
Wade had his own belief that there was no cause for despondency in the
aspect of the affair that Matt was looking at. But he could not offer to
share his security with Matt, who continued to look serious, and said,
presently, "I suppose my father might think it complicated his relation
to the Northwicks' trouble, and I have thought that, too. It makes it
very difficult. My father is to be considered. You know, Wade, I think
