might do.”
Tom and Grant exchanged glances. They understood very well what it was
that Benton wanted to unlock.
“Did he think he would raise the money to buy the restaurant?” inquired
Tom.
“Yes, he said he was negotiating for a loan.”
Meanwhile Benton had observed Tom Cooper and Grant walking together. He
had the keys in his pocket, and was anxious to test the question whether
one of them would fit.
“Why shouldn’t I try this evening?” he asked himself. “It is a fine
night, and Grant and Cooper will probably stay out some time. If I could
only get the gold-dust and settle the matter about the restaurant
to-morrow! Hardy won’t keep it for me very long. He is likely to meet a
man with money any time.”
Benton kept on his way, and, seizing his opportunity, stole upstairs
quietly and, as he thought, unobserved. But Mrs. Crambo saw him and
suspected his purpose. When two minutes later Tom and Grant entered the
house, she remarked: “Mr. Benton has just gone upstairs.”
“I expected he would. He has borrowed some keys in the village.”
Tom removed his shoes, and went upstairs softly. He saw at once that the
door of his chamber was open. He approached quietly, and looked through
the crack. There was Benton on his knees before the chest, trying one
key after another.
At length he succeeded. The last key fitted the lock, and he raised the
lid eagerly.
“Now for it!” he muttered in a tone of exultation.
When the lid of the chest was opened, a pile of shirts and underclothing
was revealed. It is hardly necessary to say that Benton did not care for
these. He was in search of something more valuable.
Eagerly he took out the clothing and piled it on the floor beside the
chest. Then he looked anxiously for a box containing gold-dust, for it
had occurred to him as probable that the two friends would keep their
gold in a tin box. But to his deep disappointment no box was visible,
nor any other receptacle for the coveted dust.
“I was on a false scent!” he exclaimed bitterly. “Where in the world do
they keep their gold?”
He was beginning to replace the clothing in the chest, when the door was
opened and Tom Cooper and Grant entered. Benton sprang to his feet in
confusion, and tried to push his way out of the room. But at a signal
from Tom, Grant closed the door and set his back against it.
“Now, Mr. Albert Benton,” said Tom Cooper sternly, “what are you doing
here in our room?”
In spite of his assurance Albert Benton did not know what to say.
“I—I was in search of some old linen to wrap round my ankle,” he
stammered.
“And so you entered our room, and broke open my chest?”
“I hope you will excuse me, I was indiscreet,” muttered Benton.
“That is a very mild way of putting it,” retorted Tom. “Benton, you are
a thief.”
“Do—you—mean—to insult me?” asked Benton.
“Yes, if the truth insults you. Shall I tell you what you were after?”
Benton did not reply, and Tom Cooper resumed: “You thought we kept our
gold-dust in that chest.”
“Upon my honor!” protested Benton.
“The less you say about your honor the better,” returned Tom, with
contempt. “Grant, what shall we do with him?”
Benton began to be alarmed. Tom Cooper was a young giant. He had been
brought up to his father’s business, and his muscles were as firm and
strong as steel. Benton knew very well that he would be like a child in
his grasp.
“Spare me,” he said, “and I will not trouble you any more.”
“I don’t think you will if you know what is best for yourself. But you
deserve to be punished for what you have already done. Grant, open the
window.”
“What are you going to do?” asked Benton, in alarm.
“I’ll show you.”
Tom seized the thief, and bore him in his strong arms to the window. He
held him outside, making a futile resistance, and then dropped him.
The distance to the ground was only fifteen feet, and Benton landed on
all-fours, a little jarred, but not seriously hurt.
“Now,” said Tom, leaning out, “you had better leave this neighborhood as
expeditiously as possible, or I will brand you as a thief, and let the
citizens take what course they choose.”
Benton knew very well that in California at that time thieves were not
tolerated, and were often strung up to a tree without ceremony. He felt
that he had better not stand upon the order of his going, but go at
once.
“Let me go into the house and get my things,” he said submissively.
“Have you settled up your board bill with Mrs. Crambo?”
“I have only five dollars!” he pleaded.
“Let the board go!” said Mrs. Crambo, who was on the stairs. “All I ask
is that he shall go himself, and never come back.”
Benton crept upstairs, and, getting his small satchel, left the house.
Where he went Tom and Grant did not learn, nor did they care.
“That fellow will never thrive,” said Tom. “He has made a bad beginning.
Any man who wants to get rich by appropriating the property of another
is sure to come to a bad end.”
“I guess you are right, Tom,” said Grant. “I am relieved to have Benton
out of the house.”
“You have lost your boarder, Mrs. Crambo,” said Tom. “How much board is
he owing you?”
“About five dollars.”
“We will pay that; won’t we, Grant?”
“Certainly,” answered Grant.
“I won’t accept it,” said Mrs. Crambo decidedly. “It isn’t your fault
that Mr. Benton came here. As for the small sum he owes me, I can get
along without it. It won’t break me. I don’t believe you and your friend
have any money to spare.”
“We have been doing pretty well, Mrs. Crambo. We have no cause to
complain.”
“I am very glad to hear it, for you are likely to stay here longer. You
have been working hard, and you are entitled to all you have made.”
“Have you really been doing well, Mr. Cooper?” questioned Paul Crambo.
“Yes, Mr. Crambo; we haven’t made a fortune, but we have been very well
paid for our work. Would you like to buy a share in the claim?”
Paul Crambo shook his head.
“Digging for gold doesn’t agree with me,” he said. “You are young men,
and can stand it, but I have a pain in the back if I work over an hour.”
Tom Cooper anticipated this reply, or he would not have made the
proposal. He preferred to have Grant for his sole partner. Nor did he
care to have any third party know how rich the claim really was.
Notwithstanding the hint he had given, neither Mr. nor Mrs. Crambo had
any idea what a bonanza the boys had struck.
                             CHAPTER XXXII.
                      A LETTER FROM MR. CROSMONT.
Four more weeks passed. The claim continued to yield richly, and at the
end of this time the two partners reckoned that they had somewhat over
two thousand dollars.
“I wish we could sell the gold-dust, and invest the money where it would
be safe,” said Tom thoughtfully.
“If we were in Sacramento, we should be able to send it by express to
San Francisco.”
“True; but we have no means of doing it here.”
“There are plenty who would undertake the job,” suggested Tom.
“Could we find one that we could trust?” asked Grant shrewdly.
“That’s the question,” said Tom.
That same evening brought a solution of the problem. A man who had just
arrived from San Francisco called at the house.
“Does a boy named Grant Colburn live here?” he asked.
“Yes.”
“I have a letter for him from San Francisco.”
Grant was summoned, and in some surprise received the communication.
“It is from Mr. Crosmont,” he said joyfully, as he opened the letter and
looked at the signature.
He read it aloud. It ran thus:
DEAR GRANT:
It seems a very long time since I have seen you, and I am in the dark as
to your successes and prospects. As you know, my principal business is
to look for my wayward son Gregory, who, I have reason to think, is in
California. Now, all visitors to California come sooner or later to San
Francisco, and it is for this reason that I have established myself
here. Thus far I have not seen or heard of Gregory, but this is not at
all surprising. He may be somewhere in the interior, and in that case
there would be little chance of my hearing of him.
Meanwhile, I confess that I feel lonely. I am not a man to make many
friends, and I have met no one in whom I feel an interest since I parted
with you. I begin to think that I should like to have you with me, and I
will promise that you will lose nothing by transferring yourself to San
Francisco. Will you, on receipt of this letter, arrange to join me as
soon as you can? I am the more anxious to have you do so, because I have
not felt very well of late, and, if I should fall sick, I should like to
have with me a tried and faithful friend whom I can thoroughly trust.
I don’t know how you are situated. You may be in need. I, therefore,
think it best to send by the bearer fifty dollars, which will pay your
expenses to this city. You will find me at the Alameda Hotel in Stockton
Street.
Though I am doing no business, I have made some investments in town lots
which, I think, will pay me handsomely. I have bought two lots for you,
which are recorded in your name. I look to see the present village of
San Francisco become a large, populous and influential city. I may not
live to see it, but you assuredly will. If you need more money, let me
know. Let me see you soon.
                                  Your old friend,
                                                     GILES CROSMONT.
“Well,” said Tom, after the reading was ended, “one question is
settled.”
“What is that?”
“We needn’t look any further for a messenger to take our gold to San
Francisco.”
“You mean that I am to take it?”
“Yes.”
The two partners realized that Grant’s mission would involve some risk.
Californian routes of travel were in those days infested by robbers and
road agents, who preferred making a living in a lawless way to the more
creditable and less hazardous paths of industry. How to reduce the
danger to a minimum was a subject of anxious thought.
“You had better not send all the gold-dust by me, Tom,” said Grant.
“Then, if I am robbed, it won’t be a total loss.”
This plan seemed wise, and Grant set out with about fifteen hundred
dollars’ worth of gold. He carried it in a valise, and, the better to
divert suspicion, wore an old and shabby working suit.
“I am not proud of my appearance,” he said, as he took a position in
front of the mirror in their chamber. “What do I look like?”
“A healthy young tramp,” answered Tom, laughing.
“I agree with you.”
“However, there is one comfort; no one will think you have anything of
value with you.”
“What will Mr. Crosmont think when I make my appearance in San
Francisco?”
“That you are down on your luck. However, you can explain to him.”
The next morning Grant set out on his way to Sacramento. Tom Cooper
accompanied him as far as the cabin of the old man to whom they owed
their present good fortune. It was a long walk, and the valise, with its
weight of gold-dust, was no light burden.
When they reached the cabin, they found Mr. Gilbert—for this was the old
man’s name—sitting on a chair in front of it. His face was naturally
grave, but it lighted up when his glance rested on the two new-comers.
“I am glad to see you,” he said; but, as his glance dwelt on Grant in
his shabby attire, “you don’t seem to have prospered,” he added.
Grant laughed.
“Appearances are deceitful, Mr. Gilbert,” he said. “I am in disguise.”
“I don’t understand you.”
“Do I look as if I were worth robbing?”
The old man smiled.
“You look,” he said, “as if you had just escaped from a poorhouse.”
“Then the disguise is effective.” said Tom. “The fact is my young
partner is going to San Francisco, and this valise, which he is taking
with him, contains fifteen hundred dollars in gold-dust.”
                            CHAPTER XXXIII.
                         ON TO THE GOLDEN GATE.
“Then you have really prospered?” said Mr. Gilbert.
“Yes, sir; we must have as much as seven hundred dollars more, but this
was as much as Grant could conveniently carry. We depend on his shabby
attire to save him from attracting the attention of robbers.”
“You will remain at the claim?” said Mr. Gilbert, addressing himself to
Tom.
“Yes, I shall continue to work it. Grant is summoned to San Francisco by
a friend whose acquaintance he made in crossing the plains.”
They stopped an hour to chat with the old man, and then, resuming their
march, reached Howe’s Gulch in time for supper.
They were immediately surrounded by old acquaintances.
“Where are you bound, Tom?” asked one.
“Grant is going to San Francisco. He has an offer of employment from a
rich man there.”
“Won’t you join us again?”
“No; I have a claim some way from here which will bear working a little
longer.”
“The boy doesn’t look as if you had struck luck.”
“He will be all right when he reaches San Francisco.”
“How about yourself?”
“Oh, well, I am not discouraged. There are better times in store.”
One of the crowd was Nahum Stockton, to whom Grant and Tom had given
their claims when they left Howe’s Gulch.
“Look here, Cooper,” he said. “You did me a good turn. I’ve done pretty
well with the claim you gave me, and I want to show my gratitude. If
fifty dollars will do you or the boy any good, I will let you have it.”
Tom Cooper wrung his hand cordially.
“You’re a good fellow, Stockton,” he said, “but we are not in want. I am
glad you have done fairly well, but we don’t stand in need of help at
present. If we ever do, we won’t forget your kind offer.”
“That’s right. You shall be heartily welcome to anything I have.”
The two partners went to the hotel and stayed overnight. They were
pleased to think that no one suspected them of having been fortunate.
There were some friends—Nahum Stockton, for instance—to whom they would
have been willing to communicate it, but they considered it advisable,
on the whole, to keep the matter a profound secret.
The next morning Grant took the stage for Sacramento, and arrived there
without any exciting adventure.
“Go and see father and mother, Grant,” said Tom. “Don’t tell them too
much, but let them know that I am making a living, and have no cause to
complain.”
Mr. Cooper had just finished shoeing a horse, when Grant walked up to
the shop.
“Why, Grant Colburn!” exclaimed the blacksmith, “it’s good to see you.
But—” and here he surveyed Grant’s attire—“you look kind of seedy, don’t
you?”
“Yes,” laughed Grant; “but there are no good tailors’ shops where I have
been working.”
“Have you come to Sacramento to work?”
“No. I am bound for San Francisco. Mr. Crosmont has sent for me.”
“How did you leave Tom?” asked Mrs. Cooper, who had entered the shop, as
she shook hands with Grant.
“Well and hearty, Mrs. Cooper.”
“Why didn’t he come with you?”
“Mr. Crosmont didn’t send for him.”
“How is he doing?”
“Well, he isn’t exactly a millionnaire yet,” answered Grant, with a
laugh.
“I’m afraid not, if we’re to judge by appearances,” and Mr. Cooper shook
his head, as he bestowed another glance on Grant’s outfit. “He’d much
better give up this notion of gold-digging and come back here in the
shop with me.”
“But at mining you may strike it rich any day, you know,” returned Grant
cheerfully. “Tom has really reason to feel encouraged, and may surprise
you by making his fortune yet.”
“Those aint the kind of surprises that grow on every bush,” and Mr.
Cooper once more sagely shook his head.
After accepting of the hospitality of the kindly blacksmith and his
wife, Grant proceeded on his journey.
He was lucky enough to secure the only remaining seat in the next coach
for San Francisco, and was soon started on the last stage of his
progress toward the Golden Gate. Of his fellow passengers two were
miners, two farmers, one a school-teacher, another a boy of about
Grant’s age, and the seventh a black-eyed gentleman, who listened
attentively to all that was said, but made very few remarks himself.
Grant was glad to find his place next to the youngest member of the
party, who gave his name as Robert Campbell, and stated that he had been
on a visit to a relative in Sacramento.
“I trust we don’t fall in with the road agents,” remarked one of the
miners, soon after they had got under way.
“Why, do you think there is any danger of it?” inquired the
school-teacher anxiously.
“Well, that’s one of the things we may expect on such a trip as we are
taking,” returned the miner, adding: “I’d much prefer they wouldn’t make
me hold up my hands this time, however.”
                             CHAPTER XXXIV.
                         A STARTLING INCIDENT.
The passengers in the stage now compared notes, and each gave an idea of
the amount of his possessions. One of the miners owned up to five
hundred dollars, another to eight hundred, and the teacher to two
hundred. The farmers were still better provided.
“I’ve got about fifteen hundred myself,” said the black-eyed passenger.
“Of course it belongs to my principal, not to me, but I shall be held
responsible if I am robbed.”
“The boys haven’t spoken,” said one of the miners, jestingly. “Who knows
but they may be the richest in the crowd.”
Robert laughed.
“If the road agent comes along,” he said, “he’ll get so much from me,”
and he produced twenty dollars in gold.
“I’ve got so much,” said Grant, producing three quarter eagles, fifteen
dollars.
“You are better off than I thought,” said Robert.
“I didn’t think to include my wardrobe,” added Grant.
“If you won’t be offended,” said Robert, “I have a suit in San Francisco
that is better than yours. We are not far from the same size. I am sure
my father will let me give it to you.”
Grant grasped his hand cordially.
“You’re a good fellow, Rob, and a true friend,” he said. “If my friend
in San Francisco doesn’t provide for me, I will accept your offer with
thanks.”
“My friend,” said one of the farmers, addressing the teacher, “I take it
you have been at the mines.”
“Yes, sir.”
“You don’t look very rugged, and I see you have a bad cough. Wouldn’t it
suit you better to get some work in the city?”
“Perhaps you are right. I thought a life in the open air would improve
my health, but I overestimated my strength. My lungs are weak, and
bending over weakened me and brought on a hemorrhage.”
“I take it you have never done hard work.”
“No; I was for fifteen years a teacher in Connecticut.”
“A brother of mine has a real estate office in ’Frisco. He wanted me to
be his clerk, but I would rather be my own boss. If you would like the
chance, I will recommend you to him.”
“Thank you,” said the teacher. “I have been feeling anxious about the
future now that I find a miner’s life is too hard for me. If your
brother will take me, I will gladly enter his employment.”
“Were you ever a miner?” asked a passenger of the black-eyed man.
“No; I never dug for gold. I travel for a firm in San Francisco.”
“Indeed! What firm? I am pretty well acquainted in ’Frisco.”
The black-eyed man smiled and shrugged his shoulders.
“My employers have cautioned me to be reticent about their business,” he
said. “Still, before we part company, I may introduce myself.”
“Oh, just as you wish!” said the passenger, not altogether pleased.
“Did any of you ever see Stephen Dike?” asked one of the miners,
addressing himself generally.
One by one answered in the negative, till the turn came to the
black-eyed man.
“I once caught a glimpse of him,” he said.
“What was his appearance?” asked one of the farmers.
“He looked to me like that gentleman,” and the speaker indicated the
consumptive teacher.
This remark naturally led to a critical examination of the teacher, and
the man next to him, on the impulse of the moment, moved a little
farther away.
“You are sure you are not the man?” asked one of the farmers jocosely.
The teacher smiled.
“If I am,” he said, “I don’t think you would any of you feel very much
afraid of me. I suspect that I shouldn’t be a success as a road agent. I
haven’t the necessary physique. You are better equipped by nature for it
than I.”
“I’ve got considerable muscle, that’s a fact,” said the farmer, who was
a broad-shouldered, stalwart man. “But you don’t often find men of my
build in the ranks of these gentry. They are more apt to be—well, like
our friend here,” and he laid his hand on the shoulder of the black-eyed
man.
“You compliment me,” said the latter, opening his mouth and showing a
set of very white teeth. “I will tell my employer, when I reach ’Frisco,
that I have been compared to Stephen Dike.”
“No offence, my friend!”
“None is taken. Indeed, I do consider it rather a compliment, for Dike
is quite celebrated in his line.”
“Better be quite unknown than to be celebrated in that way!” observed
the teacher.
“You have doubtless often remarked that to your pupils during your
career as a pedagogue,” said the black-eyed man, with a sneer.
“It is quite possible that I may have done so,” answered the teacher
calmly. “You agree to it, don’t you?”
“Oh, certainly!”
“Speaking of Dike,” remarked one of the miners, “a cousin of mine was
returning from the mines, a year ago, with a thousand dollars in
gold-dust—representing six months’ hard labor—when the wagon on which he
was a passenger was stopped by this rascal. My cousin was not armed, nor
was either of the three other passengers, and Dike, though
single-handed, had no trouble in robbing them all.”
“What,” exclaimed one of the farmers, “did four men give in to one?”
“One man with two revolvers is a match for half a dozen unarmed men.”
“I don’t agree to that,” said the farmer. “I should be everlastingly
mortified if I allowed one man to take such an advantage of me, if I had
as many companions.”
“You think so,” said the black-eyed man, with a half sneer, “but if you
were placed in like circumstances you would act just as he did.”
“You think so,” said the farmer in his turn.
“I know so.”
“You are very confident. On what do you base your remark?”
“On human nature.”
The farmer looked at him curiously.
“Well, perhaps you are right,” he said. Then turning to the miner, he
asked: “Well, did your cousin lose all his gold-dust?”
“Yes; every ounce of it.”
“That was hard lines.”
“It was, indeed. The poor fellow had been in the country a year. During
the first six months he hadn’t a particle of luck. During the next six
months he made the money referred to. With it he intended to go home and
lift a mortgage from the house in which he lived. But when he saw the
fruit of his hard labor forcibly wrested from him, he became
discouraged, took to drink, and died of delirium tremens in ’Frisco
three months since.”
“It was a hard case!” said the farmer in a tone of sympathy.
“It was, indeed. That scoundrel, Stephen Dike, I hold responsible for my
poor cousin’s death. There is one thing I live for,” and here he paused.
“Well?” said the black-eyed man. “What is it?”
“I want to meet the villain who killed him.”
“Suppose you should?”
“I would shoot him down like a dog.”
“That is, if you got the chance,” said the other, with an unpleasant
smile.
“I would see that I had the chance if I ever met him.”
“Threatened men live long.”
“Look here!” broke in the farmer, eying the black-eyed man sharply. “You
appear to take the part of this road agent.”
“Do I? Well, it is natural to me to take the part of one against many.
You all seem to be down on poor Dike.”
“Poor Dike! Isn’t there good reason why we should be down upon him?”
“I don’t know. Probably the man has some good qualities.”
“Not one!” exclaimed the miner who had told his cousin’s story. “Not
one!”
“Well, well; you seem to know him. Considering how free we have been
with his name, it would be a great joke if we should have him stop us on
our way.”
“I don’t think it would be a joke at all,” said Robert.
“Nor I!” added Grant.
“Oh, he wouldn’t meddle with you boys,” said the black-eyed man. “He
would fly at higher game; for instance, our friend there, and there,”
indicating the farmer and the miner.
“I suppose you speak with authority?” observed the farmer.
“What do you mean?”
“You speak as if you were in this fellow’s confidence.”
“Do you mean to insult me?” exclaimed the black-eyed man angrily.
“Oh, calm yourself, my friend! Why should I mean it that way? You can’t
take a a joke.”
“Oh, if it’s a joke, I don’t mind.”
Then the talk about the famous road agent subsided. Gradually they
passed beyond the limits of population, and entered a mountain defile,
dark with frowning hills on each side.
“Let me get out a minute!” said the black-eyed man, signalling to the
driver.
The stage stopped. Once upon the ground the black-eyed passenger drew
out his revolvers, and levelling them at the astonished travellers,
cried: “Hold up your hands, gentlemen; get ready to surrender all your
valuables. I am Stephen Dike!”
                             CHAPTER XXXV.
                               A TRAGEDY.
I have said that the passengers were astonished at discovering that the
notorious road agent was their fellow-traveller. There were two,
however, who were not wholly surprised—the miner who had related his
cousin’s story and the farmer who had had a sharp colloquy with the
black-eyed man.
For a minute no one moved or spoke.
“Come,” said Dike impatiently; “I have no time to waste. Give me your
money.”
“Do you want mine?” asked Grant, who was entirely willing to give up the
small amount of gold coin he had with him, if he could save the dust in
his valise.
“No; I don’t care for the trifle you have, nor the other boy’s money,
but those miners over there must give up their treasure, and my
agricultural friends also.”
“If you want my money, come and get it!” growled the miner already
referred to.
“I say the same,” added the farmer.
“I will stand no nonsense,” said Stephen Dike.
“It’s hard luck,” grumbled the miner, “to give up all my hard earnings.”
“Give up your money, and grumble afterward,” rejoined Dike.
The miner thrust his hand into his pocket, and then, in an excited
voice, exclaimed suddenly, as he peered out of the coach, “Ha, friends!
there is help approaching. See!” And he pointed, with outstretched
finger, beyond Stephen Dike.
The road agent, taken by surprise, turned quickly. The step was fatal to
him. The miner, who had pulled a revolver from his pocket, fired without
an instant’s delay, and Stephen Dike fell backward, instantly killed.
The miner’s bullet had penetrated his temple. So unexpected was the
assault that the road agent had not even time to discharge his own
pistols. They fell upon the ground from his nerveless hands, and one of
them accidentally went off, but did no harm.
“My cousin is avenged!” exclaimed the miner grimly.
“Give me your hand, sir!” said the farmer. “You have saved us all, and
rid the State of California of the most dangerous outlaw within its
limits.”
“It seems hard to rejoice in the death of a fellow-being,” observed the
teacher, “but no one can grieve over the taking off of such a man.
Gentlemen, let us remove the body to some place less public.”
The passengers got out, and were joined by the driver.
“There is a reward of five thousand dollars offered by the authorities
for the capture of Stephen Dike, dead or alive,” he said. “What
gentleman killed him?”
“I did,” answered the miner; “but I want no reward. I should look upon
it as blood money. What I did, I did in defence of my fellow-passengers
and myself.”
Stephen Dike lay upon the ground, his features still wearing the cynical
smile habitual to him. Death had come upon him so suddenly that there
had not been time even to change the expression of his face.
