pect of sadness, of suffering, of resignation. " 

I was aghast at his audacity, but I saw that 
Chonita was fascinated. Her egotism was 
caressed, and her womanhood thrilled. '* Are 
we all such shams as that ? " was what she 
said. '*You make me despise myself." 

" Not yourself, but a great structure — of 
which you are but a grain — with a faulty 
foundation. Don't despise yourself. Curse 
the builders who shoveled those stones to- 
gether." 

He left her then, and she told me to go to 
bed ; she wanted to sit a while and think. 

"He makes you think too much," I said. 
'' Better forget what he says as soon as you < 
can. He is a very disturbing influence." 

But she made me no reply, and sat there 
staring at the floor. She began to feel a sense 


of helplessness, like a creature caught in a net. 
It was more the man's personality than his 
words which made her feel as if he were pour- 
ing himself throughout her, taking possession 
of brain and every sense, as though he were a 
sort of intellectual drug. 

"I believe I was made from his rib," she 
thought, angrily, " else why can he have this 
extraordinary power over me ? I do not love 
him. I have read somewhat of love, and seen 
more. This is different, quite. I only feel 
that there is something in him that I want. 
Sometimes I feel that I must dig my nail$ into 
him and tear him apart until I find what I 
want, — something that belongs to me. Some- 
times it is as if he promised it, at others as if 
if he were unconscious of its existence; 
always it is evanescent. Is he going to make 
my mind his own ? — and yet he always seems 
to leave mine free. He has never snubbed me. 
He makes me think : there is the danger." 

An hour later there was a tap on her door. 
Casa Grande was asleep. She sat upright, her 
heart beating rapidly. Estenega was audacious 
enough for anything. But it was her brother 
who entered. 

"Reinaldo ! " she exclaimed, horrified to feel 
an unmistakable stab of disappointment 




"Yes, it is I. Art thou alone ? " 

"Sure." 

' ' I have something to say to thee. " 

He drew a chair close to her and sat down. 
'* Thou kno west, my sister," he began, 
haltingly, "how I hate the house of Estenega. 
My hatred is as loyal as thine : every drop of 
blood in my veins is true to the honor of the 
house of Iturbi y Moncada. But, my sister, 
is it not so that one can sacrifice himself, his 
mere personal feelings, upon the altar of his 
country ? Is it not so, my sister ? " 

'* What is it thou wishest me to understand, 
Reinaldo?" 

" Do not look so stem, my Chonita. Thou 
hast not yet heard me ; and, although thou 
mayest be angry then, thou wilt reason later. 
Thou art devoted to thy house, no ? " 

" Thou hast come here in the night to ask 
me such a question as that ? " 

" And thou lovest thy brother ? " 
" Reinaldo, thou hast drunken more mescal 
than Angelica. Go back to thy bride." But, 
although she spoke lightly, she was uneasy. 

"My sister, I never drank a drop of mescal 
in my life ! Listen. It is our father's wish, 
thy wish, my wish, that I become a great and 
distinguished man, an ornament to the house 

of Iturbi y Moncada, a star on the brow of Cal- 
ifornia. How can I accomplish this great and 
desirable end ? By the medium of politics 
only ; our wars are so insignificant. I have 
been debarred from the Departmental Junta by 
the enemy of our house, else would it have 
rung with my eloquence, and Mexico have 
known me to-day. Yet I care little for the 
Junta. I wish to go as diputado to Mexico; it 
is a grander arena. Moreover, in that great 
capital I shall become a man of the world, — 
which is necessary to control men. That is his 
power, — curse him ! And he — he will not let 
me go there. Even Alvarado listens to him. 
The Departmental Junta is under his thumb. I 
will never be anything but a caballero of Santa 
Barbara — I, an Iturbi y Moncada, the last scion 
of a line illustrious in war, in diplomacy, in 
politics — until he is either dead — do not jump, 
my sister ; it is not my intention to murder him 
and ruin my career — or becomes my friend." 

" Canst thou not put thy meaning in fewer 
words ? " 

'* My sister, he loves thee, and thou lovest 
thy brother and thy house." 

Chonita rose to her full height, and although 
he rose too, and was taller, she seemed to look 
down upon him. 


"Thou wouldst have me many him? Is 
that thy meaning ? " 

"Ay." His voice trembled. Under his 
swagger he was always a little afraid of the 
Doomswoman. 

''Thou askest perjury and disloyalty and 
dishonor of an Iturbi y Moncada? " 

" An Iturbi y Moncada asks it of an Iturbi y 
Moncada. If the man is ready to bend his 
neck in sacrifice to the glory of his house, is it 
for the woman to think ? " 

Chonita stood grasping the back of her chair 
convulsively ; it was the only sign of emotion 
she betrayed. She knew that what he said 
was true : that Estenega, for public and per- 
sonal reasons, never would let him go to 
Mexico ; he would permit no enemy at court. 
But this knowledge drifted through her mind 
and out of it at the moment ; she was strug- 
gling to hold down a hot wave of contempt rush- 
ing upward within her. She clung to her tradi- 
I tions as frantically as she clung to her religion. 

"Go," she said, after a moment. 

" Thou wilt think of what I have said ? " 

" I shall pray to forget it." 

"Chonita ! " his voice rang out so loud that 
she placed her hand on his mouth. He dashed 
it away. " Thou wilt ! " he cried, like a spoilt 



child " Thou wilt I I shall go to the city of 
Mexico, and only thou canst send me there. 
All my father's gold and leagues will not buy 
me a seat in the Mexican Congress, unless this 
accursed Estenega lifts his hand and says, 
'Thou shalt.' Holy God! how I hate him! 
Would that I had the chance to murder him ! I 
would cut his heart out to-morrow. And my 
father likes him, and has outlived rancor. And 
thou — thou art not indifferent. " 

''Go!" 

He threw his arms about her, kissing and 
caressing her. "My sister ! My sister ! Thou 
wilt ! Say that thou wilt ! " But she flung him 
off as if he were a snake. 

" Wilt thou go ? " she asked. 

"Ay ! I go. But he shall suffer. I swear it ! 
I swear it ! " And he rushed from the room. 

Chonita sat there, staring more fixedly at the 
floor than when Estenega had left her. 




XXI. 

Reinaldo did not go to his Prudencia. He 
went down to the booths in the town and joined 
the late revelers. Don Guillermo, rising before 
dawn, and walking up and down the corridor 
to conquer the pangs of Dona Trinidad's dulces, 
noticed that the door of his son's room was ajar. 
He paused before it and heard slow, regular, 
patient sobs. He opened the door and went 
in. Prudencia, alone, curled up in a far corner 
of her bed, the clothes over her head, was 
bemoaning many things incidental to matrimony. 
As she heard the sound of heavy steps she gave 
a little shriek. 

" It is I, Prudencia, " said her un cle. ' ' Where 
is Reinaldo? " 

'* I — do — not — know." 

" Did he not come from the ball-room with 
thee ? " 

"N-o-o-o-o." 

" Dost thou know where he has gone ? " 

'*N-o-o-o, sefior." 

"Art thou afraid?" 


 

''Ky I God— of— my— life ! " 

" Never mind, " said the old gentleman. " Go 
to sleep. Thy uncle will protect thee, and 
this will not happen again." 

He seated himself by the bedside. Pruden- 
cia's sobs ceased gradually, and she fell asleep. 
An hour later the door opened softly, andRein- 
aldo entered. In spite of the mescal in him, his 
knees shook as he saw the indulgent but stern 
arbiter of the Iturbi y Moncada destinies sitting 
in judgment at the bedside of his wife. 

" Where have you been, sir ? " 

" To take a walk, — to see to 

" No lying! It makes no difference where 
you have been. What I want to know is this : 
Is it your duty to gallivant about town ? or is 
your place at this hour beside your wife ? " 

" Here, senor." 

The old man rose, and, seizing the bride- 
groom by the shoulders, shook him until his 
teeth clattered together. "Then see that you 
stay here with her hereafter, or you shall no 
longer be a married man." And he stamped 
out and slammed the door behind him. 




XXII. 

We spent the next day at the race-field. Many 
of the caballeros had brought their finest horses, 
and Reinaldo's were famous. The vaqueros 
threw off their black glazed sombreros and 
black velvet jackets, wearing only the short 
black trousers laced with silver, a shirt of 
dazzling whiteness, a silk handkerchief twisted 
about the head, and huge spurs on their bare 
brown heels. Some of us stood on a platform, 
others remained on their horses ; all were wild 
with excitement and screamed themselves 
hoarse. The great dark eyes of the girls flashed, 
their red mouths trembled with the flood of eager 
exclamations ; the lace mantilla or flowered 
reboso fluttered against hot cheeks, to be torn 
off, perhaps, and waved in the enthusiasm of 
the moment. They forgot the men, and the 
men forgot them. Even Chonita was oblivious 
to all else for the hour. She was a famous 
horsewoman, and keenly alive to the enchantment 
of the race-field. The men bet their 
ranchos, whole caponeras of their finest horses. 

herds of cattle, their saddles and their jewels. 
Estenega won largely, and, as it happened, 
from Reinaldo particularly. Don Guillermo 
was rather pleased than otherwise, holding his 
son to be in need of further punishment ; but 
Reinaldo was obliged to call upon all the cour- 
tesy of the Spaniard and all the falseness of his 
nature to help him remember that his enemy 
was his guest. 

We went home to siesta and long gay supper, 
where the races were the only topic of con- 
versation ; then to dance and sing and flirt until 
midnight, the people in the booths as tireless 
as ourselves. Valencia's attentions to Estenega 
were as conspicuous as usual, but he managed 
to devote most of his time to Chonita. 

That night Chonita had a dream. She 
dreamed that she awoke without a soul. The 
sense of vacancy was awful, yet there was a 
singular undercurrent consciousness that no 
soul ever had been within her, — that it existed, 
but was yet to be found. 

She aros6, trembling, and opened her door. 
Santa Barbara was as quiet as all the world is 
in the chill last hours of night. She half
expected to see something hover before her, a 
will-o'-the-wisp, alluring her over the rocky 

valleys and towering mountains until death 
gave her weary feet rest. She remembered 
vaguely that she had read legends of that pur- 
port. 

But there was nothing, — not even the glow 
of a late cigarito or the flash of a falling star. 
Still she seemed to know where the soul awaited 
her. She closed her door softly and walked 
swiftly down the corridor, her bare feet making 
no sound on the boards. At a door on the opposite
side she paused, shaking violently, but 
unable to pass it. She opened the door and 
went in. The room, like all the others in that 
time of festivity, had more occupants than was 
its wont ; abed was in each corner. The shut- 
ters and windows were open, the moonlight 
streamed in, and she saw that all were asleep. 
She crossed the room and looked down upon 
Diego Estenega. His night garment, low 
about the throat, made his head, with its sharply- 
cut profile, look like the heads on old Roman 
medallions. The pallor of night, the extreme 
refinement of his face, the deep repose, gave 
him an unmortal appearance. Chonita bent 
over him fearfully. Was he dead ? His breath- 
ing was regular, but very quiet. She stood 
gazing down upon him, the instinct of seeking 
vapished. What did it mean ? Was this her 

soul ! A man ? How could it be ? Even in 
poetry she had never read of a man being a 
woman's soul, — a man with all his frailties and 
sins, for the most part unrepented. She felt, 
rather than knew, that Estenega had trampled 
many laws, and that he cared too little for any 
law but his own will to repent. And yet, there 
he lay, looking, in the gray light and the im- 
personality of sleep, as sinless as if he had been 
created within the hour. He looked not like a 
man but a spirit, — a soul ; and the soul was hers. 

Again she asked herself, what did it mean ? 
Was the soul but brain ? She and he were so 
alike in rudiments, yet he so immeasurably 
beyond her in experience and knowledge and 
the stronger fiber of a man's mind 

He awoke suddenly and saw her. For a mo- 
ment he stared incredulously, then raised him- 
self on his hand. 

" Chonita I " he whispered. 

But Chonita, with the long glide of the Cali- 
fomian woman, faded from the room. 

When she awoke the next morning she was 
assailed by a distressing fear. Had she been 
to Estenega's room the night before ? The 
memory was too vivid, the details too practical, 
for a sleep-vagary. At breakfast she 
hardly dared to raise her eyes, She felt that 


he was watching her ; but he often watched 
her. After breakfast they were alone at one 
end of the corridor for a moment, and she com- 
pelled herself to raise her eyes and look at him 
steadily. He was regarding her searchingly. 

She was not a woman to endure uncertainty. 

" Tell me,'* she cried, trembling from head 
to foot, the blood rushing over her face, " did 
I go to your room last night ? " 

" Dona Chonita ! " he exclaimed. " What 
an extraordinary question ! You have been 
dreaming." 


XXIIL 

We went to a bull-fight that day, danced that 
night, meriendaed and danced again ; a siesta 
in the afternoon, a few hours' sleep in the night, 
refreshing us all. Chonita, alone, looked pale, 
but I knew that her pallor was not due to 
weariness. And I knew that she was begin- 
ning to fear Estenega ; the time was almost 
come when she would fear herself more. Es- 
tenega had several talks apart with her. He 
managed it without any apparent maneuvering; 
but he always had the devil's methods. Va- 
lencia avenged herself by flirting desperately 
with Reinaldo, and Prudencia's honeymoon 
was seasoned with gall. 

On Saturday night Chonita stole from her 
guests, donned a black gown and reboso, and, 
attended by two Indian servants, went up to the 
Mission to confession. As she left the church 
a half-hour later, and came down the steps, 
Estenega rose from a bench beneath the arches 
of the corridor and joined her. 

" How did you know that I came ? " she 


asked ; and it was not the stars that lit her 
face. 

''You do little that I do not know. Have 
you been to confession ? " 

-Yes." 

They walked slowly down the valley. 

'* And you forgave and were forgiven .?" 

'' Yes. Ay ! but my penance is heavy ! " 

'' But when it is done you will be at rest, I 
suppose." 

''Oh, I hope! I hope! " 

" Have you begun to realize that yourQiurch 
cannot satisfy you ? " 

" No ! I will not say that. " 

"But you know it. Your intelligence "has 
opened a window somewhere and the truth has 
crept in. " 

" Do not take my religion from me, seiior ! " 
Her eyes and voice appealed to him, and he 
accepted her first confession of weakness with 
a throb of exulting tenderness. 

"My love!" he said, "I would give you 
more than I took from you. " 

" No ! never ! — Even if we were not enemies, 
and I had not made that terrible vow, my re- 
ligion has been all in all to me. Just now I 
have many things that torment me ; and I have 
asked so little of religion before — my life has 

been so calm — that now I hardly know how to 
ask for so much more. I shall learn. Leave 
me in peace." 

" Do you want me to go.^ " he asked. " If 
you did, — if I troubled you by staying here, 
— I believe I would go. Only I know it 
would do no good : I should come back. " 

'* No ! no ! I do not want you to go. I 
should feel — I will admit to you — like a house 
without its foundation. And yet sometimes, I 
pray that you will go. Ay ! I do not like life. 
I used to have pride in my intelligence. Where 
is my pride now ? What good has the wisdom 
in my books done me, when I confess my de- 
pendence upon a man, and that man my enemy
— and the acquaintance of a few weeks ? " 
She was speaking incoherently, and Estenega 
chafed at the restraint of the servants so close 
behind them. '*Tell me," she exclaimed, 
''what is it in you that I want ? — that I need  
It is something that belongs to me. Give it to 
me, and go away." 
