talk, as she preferred, though Mrs. Lauderdale begged her repeatedly to
go away and make visits, or otherwise amuse herself as she could. But
the young girl was obstinate; she saw that her mother was suffering and
she had no intention of leaving her that afternoon. Alexander Junior was
of course at his office, and the philanthropist was in his own quarters
upstairs, probably dozing before the fire or writing reports about
idiots.
It was clear to Ralston in five minutes that Mrs. Lauderdale was not
only indisposed, but that she was altogether out of temper, a state of
mind very unusual with her. She found fault with little things that
Katharine did in a way John had never noticed before, and as for
himself, she evidently wished he had not come. There was a petulance
about her which was quite new. She was not even sitting in her usual
place, but had taken the deep arm-chair on the other side of the
fireplace, and turned her back to the light.
“You seem to be as busy as usual, Jack,” she observed, after exchanging
a few words.
“I’m wishing I were, at all events,” he answered. “You must take the
wish for the deed.”
“They say that there’s always plenty of work for any one who wants it,”
answered Mrs. Lauderdale, coldly.
“If you’ll tell me where to find it--”
“Why don’t you go to the West, as young Bright did, and try to do
something without help? Other men do.”
“Bright took money with him,” answered Ralston.
“Did he? Not much, then, I fancy. I know he lived a hard life and drove
cattle--”
“And bought land in wild places which he found in the course of his
cattle driving. The driving was a means of getting about--not
unpleasant, either--and he had some money to invest. I could do the
same, if I had any.”
“You know it’s quite useless, mother,” said Katharine, interposing
before Mrs. Lauderdale could make another retort. “You all abuse him for
doing nothing, and yet I hear you all say that every profession is
overcrowded, and that nobody can do anything without capital. If uncle
Robert chose, he could make Jack’s fortune by a turn of his hand.”
“Of course--he could give him a fortune outright and not feel it--unless
he cared what became of it.”
There was something so harsh about the way in which she spoke the last
words that Ralston and Katharine looked at each other. Ralston did not
lose his temper, however, but tried to turn the subject with a laugh.
“My dear cousin Emma,” he said, “I’m the most hopeless case living.
Please talk about somebody who is successful. There are lots of them.
You’ve mentioned Bright already. Let us praise him. That will make you
feel better.”
To this Mrs. Lauderdale said nothing. After waiting a moment Ralston
turned to Katharine.
“Are you going out this afternoon?” he asked, by way of hinting that he
wanted to see her alone.
“No,” said Mrs. Lauderdale, answering for her. “She says she means to
stay at home and take care of me. It’s ever so good of her, isn’t it?”
“Yes,” answered Ralston, absently.
It struck Katharine that, considering that her mother had been trying
for half an hour to persuade her to go out, it would have been natural
to propose that she should go for a short walk with John, and that the
answer had come rather suddenly.
“But you can’t stay at home all day,” said Ralston, all at once. “You’ll
be having a headache yourself. Won’t you let Katharine come with me for
half an hour, cousin Emma? We’ll walk twice round Washington Square and
come right back. She looks pale.”
“Does she?” Mrs. Lauderdale glanced at the girl’s face. “I don’t think
so,” she continued. “Besides--”
“What is it?” asked Ralston, as she hesitated and stopped. “Isn’t it
proper? We’ve often done it.”
Mrs. Lauderdale rose from her chair and stood up, tall and slim, with
her back to the mantelpiece. The light fell upon her face now, and
Ralston saw how tired and worn she looked. Immediately she turned her
back to the window again, and looked at him sideways, resting her elbow
on the shelf.
“What is the use of you two going on in this way?” she asked suddenly.
There was an awkward silence, and again Katharine and Ralston looked at
one another. They were momentarily surprised out of speech, for Mrs.
Lauderdale had always taken their side, if not very actively, at least
in a kindly way. She had said that Katharine should marry the man she
loved, rich or poor, and that if she chose to wait for a poor man, like
Ralston, to be able to support her, that was her own affair. The violent
opposition had come from Katharine’s father when, a year previously, the
two had boldly told him that they loved each other and wished to be
married. Alexander Junior did not often lose his temper, but he had lost
it completely on that occasion, and had gone so far as to say that
Ralston should never enter the house again, a verdict which he had been
soon forced to modify. But he had said that he considered John an idle
good-for-nothing, who would never be able to support himself, let alone
a wife and children; that his, Alexander’s, daughter should never marry
a professional dandy, who was content to let his widowed mother pay his
extravagant tailor’s bills, and who played poker at the clubs as a
source of income; that it was not enough of a recommendation to be half
a Lauderdale and to skim the cream from New York society in the form of
daily invitations--and to have the reputation of being a good polo
player with other people’s horses, a good yachtsman with other people’s
yachts, and of having a strong head for other people’s wines. Those were
not the noble qualities Alexander Junior looked for in a son-in-law. Not
at all, sir. He preferred Benjamin Slayback of Nevada. The Lauderdales
were quite able to make society accept Benjamin Slayback of Nevada,
because Benjamin Slayback of Nevada was quite able to stand upon his own
feet anywhere, having worked for all he had, like a man, and having
pushed himself into the forefront of political life by sheer energy and
ability, and having as good a right and as good a chance in every way as
any man in the country. No, he was certainly not a Lauderdale. If
Lauderdales were to go on marrying Lauderdales and no one else, there
would soon be an end of society. He advised John Ralston to go to Nevada
and marry Benjamin Slayback’s sister, if she would look at him, which
was more than doubtful, considering that he was the most atrociously
idle young ne’er-do-weel--here Alexander’s Scotch upper lip snapped like
a steel trap--that ever wasted the most precious years of life between
the society of infatuated women by day, sir, and the temptations of the
card-table and the bottle by night--the favourite of fine ladies, the
boon companion of roisterers and the sport of a London tailor.
Which was a tremendous speech when delivered at close quarters in
Alexander Junior’s metallic voice, and in his most irately emphatic
manner, while the grey veins swelled at his grey temples, and one iron
hand was clenched ready to strike the palm of the other when the end of
the peroration was reached. He allowed himself, as a relation, even more
latitude in his language than he would have arrogated to himself as
Katharine’s father. He met John Ralston not only as the angry stage
father meets the ineligible and determined young suitor, but as one
Lauderdale meeting another--the one knowing himself to be
irreproachable, upbraiding the other as the disgrace of the family, the
hardened young sinner, and the sport of his tailor. That last expression
had almost brought a smile to Ralston’s angry face.
He had behaved admirably, however, under such very trying circumstances,
and afterwards secretly took great credit to himself for not having
attacked him whom he wished for a father-in-law with the furniture of
the latter’s own library, the chairs being the only convenient weapons
in the room. Alexander the Safe, as his own daughter called him, could
probably have killed John Ralston with one back-hander, but John would
have liked to try him in fight, nevertheless. Instead of doing anything
of the kind, however, John drew back two steps, and said as much as he
could trust himself to say without foaming at the mouth and seeing
things in scarlet. He said that he did not agree with his cousin
Alexander upon all the points the latter had mentioned, that he did not
care to prolong a violent scene, and he wished him good morning.
Thereupon he had left the house, which was quite the wisest thing he
could do, for when Alexander was alone he found to his extreme annoyance
that he had a distinct sensation of having been made almost ridiculous.
But he soon recovered from that, for whatever the secret mainspring of
his singular character might be, it was certainly not idle vanity.
Mrs. Lauderdale had consoled Katharine, and Ralston too, for that
matter, as well as she could, and with sincere sympathy. Ralston
continued to come to the house very much as he pleased, and Mr.
Lauderdale silently tolerated his presence on the rare occasions of
their meeting. He had certainly said more than enough to explain his
point of view, and he considered the matter as settled. It was really
not possible to keep a man who was his cousin altogether away, and he
suffered also from a delusion common to many fathers, which led him to
think that no one would ever dare to act against his once clearly
expressed wishes.
Between Katharine and her mother and Ralston there remained a sort of
tacit understanding. There was no formal engagement, of course, which
would have had to be concealed from Mr. Lauderdale, but Mrs. Lauderdale
meant that the two young people should be married if they continued to
love one another, and she generally left them as much together as they
pleased when Ralston came.
It was, therefore, not strange that they should both be surprised by the
nature of her sudden question as she stood by the fireplace looking
sideways at Ralston, with her back to the light.
“What is the use?” asked Katharine, repeating the words in astonishment
and emphasizing the last one.
“Yes. What is the use? It is leading to nothing. You never can be
married, and you know it by this time. You had much better separate at
once. It will be easier for you now, perhaps, than by and by. You are
both so young!”
“Excuse me, cousin Emma,” said Ralston, “but I think you must be
dreaming.”
He spoke very quietly, but the light was beginning to gleam in his
eyes. His mother was said to have a very bad temper, and John was like
her in many respects. But Mrs. Lauderdale continued to speak quite
calmly.
“I have been thinking about you two a great deal lately,” she said. “I
have made a mistake, and I may as well say so at once, now that I have
discovered it. You wouldn’t like me to go on letting you think that I
approved of your engagement, when I don’t--would you? That wouldn’t be
fair or honest.”
“Certainly not,” answered Ralston, in a low voice, and he could feel all
his muscles tightening as though for a physical effort. “Have you said
this sort of thing to Katharine before, or is this the first time?”
“No, she hasn’t said a word,” replied Katharine herself.
The girl was standing by the easy chair, her hand resting on the back of
it, her face pale, her great grey eyes staring wide open at her mother’s
profile.
“No, I have not,” said Mrs. Lauderdale. “I thought it best to wait until
I could speak to you together. It’s useless to give pain twice over.”
“It is indeed,” said Ralston, gravely. “Please go on.”
“Why--there’s nothing more to be said, Jack,” answered Mrs. Lauderdale.
“That’s all. The trouble is that you’ll never do anything, and you have
no fortune, nor any prospect of any--until your mother--”
“Please don’t speak of my mother in that connection,” interrupted
Ralston, his lips growing white.
“Well--and as for us, we’re as poor as can be. You see how we live.
Besides, you know. Old Mr. Lauderdale gets uncle Robert to subscribe
thousands and thousands for the idiots, but he never suggests that they
are far better off than we are. However, those are our miseries and not
yours. Yours is that you are perfectly useless--”
“Mother!” cried Katharine, losing control of herself and moving a step
forward.
“It’s all right, dear,” said Ralston. “Go on, cousin Emma. I’m perfectly
useless--”
“I don’t mean to offend you, Jack, and we’re not strangers,” continued
Mrs. Lauderdale, “and I won’t dwell on the facts. You know them as well
as I do, and are probably quite as sorry that they really are facts. I
will only ask one question. What chance is there that in the next four
or five years you can have a house of your own, and an income of your
own--just enough for two people to live on and no more--and--well--a
home for Katharine? What chance is there?”
“I’ll do something before that time,” answered Ralston, with a
determined look.
But Mrs. Lauderdale shook her head.
“So you said last year, Jack. I repeat--I don’t want to be unkind. How
long is Katharine to wait?”
“I’ll wait all my life, mother,” said the young girl, suddenly speaking
out in ringing tones. “I’ll wait till I die, if I must, and Jack knows
it. And I believe in him, if you don’t--against you all, you and papa
and uncle Robert and every one. Jack has never had a chance that
deserves to be called a chance at all. He must succeed--he shall
succeed--I know he’ll succeed. And I’ll wait till he does. I will--I
will--if it’s forever, and I shan’t be tired of waiting--it will always
be easy, for him. Oh, mother, mother--to think that you should have
turned against us! That’s the hard thing!”
“Thank you, dear,” said Ralston, touching her hand lovingly.
Mrs. Lauderdale had turned her face quite away from him now and was
looking at the clock, softly drumming with her fingers upon the
mantelpiece.
“I’m sorry, Katharine,” she said. “But I think it, and I’ve said it--and
I can’t unsay it. It’s far too true.”
There was a dead silence for several seconds. Then Katharine suddenly
pushed Ralston gently toward the door.
“Go, Jack dear,” she said in a low voice. “She has a dreadful
headache--she’s not herself. Your being here irritates her--please go
away--it will be all right in a day or two--”
They had reached the door, for Ralston saw that she was right.
“No,” said Mrs. Lauderdale from the fireplace, “I shan’t change my
mind.”
It was all so sudden and strange that Ralston found himself outside the
library without having taken leave of her in any way. Katharine came out
with him.
“There’s a difficulty,” he whispered quickly as he found his coat and
stick. “After it’s done there has to be a certificate saying that--”
“Katharine! Come here!” cried Mrs. Lauderdale from within, and they
heard her footstep as she left the fireplace.
“Come to-morrow morning at eleven,” whispered Katharine.
She barely touched his hand with hers and fled back into the library. He
let himself out and walked slowly along Clinton Place in the direction
of Fifth Avenue.
CHAPTER VIII.
Katharine went back to the library mechanically, because Mrs. Lauderdale
called her and because she heard the latter’s step upon the floor, but
not exactly in mere blind submission and obedience. She was, indeed, so
much surprised by what had taken place that she was not altogether her
usual self, and she was conscious that events moved more quickly just
then than her own power of decision. She was observant and perceptive,
but her reason had always worked slowly. Ralston, at least, was out of
the way, and she was glad that she had made him go. It had been
unbearable to hear her mother attacking him as she had done.
She believed that Mrs. Lauderdale was about to be seriously ill. No
other theory could account for her extraordinary behaviour. It was
therefore wisest to take away what irritated her and to be as patient as
possible. There was no excuse for her sudden change of opinion, and as
soon as she was quite well she would be sorry for what she had said.
Katharine was not more patient than most people, but she did her best.
“Is anything the matter, mother? You called so loud.” She spoke almost
before she had shut the door behind her.
“No. Did I? I wanted him to go away, that was all. Why should he stand
there talking to you in whispers?”
Katharine did not answer at once, but her broad eyebrows drew slowly
together and her eyelids contracted. She sat down and clasped her hands
together upon her knee.
“Because he had something to say to me which he did not wish you to
hear, mother,” she answered at last.
“Ah--I thought so.” Mrs. Lauderdale relapsed into silence, and from time
to time her mouth twitched nervously.
She glanced at her daughter once or twice. The young girl’s straight
features could look almost stolid at times. Her patience had given way
once, but she got hold of it again and tried to set it on her face like
a mask. She was thinking now and wondering whether this strange mood
were a mere caprice of her mother’s, though Mrs. Lauderdale had never
been capricious before, or whether something had happened to change her
opinion of Ralston suddenly but permanently. In the one case it would be
best to bear it as quietly as possible, in the other to declare war at
once. But that seemed impossible, when she tried to realize it. She was
deeply, sincerely devoted to her mother. Hitherto they had each
understood the other’s thoughts and feelings almost without words, and
in all the many little domestic difficulties they had been firm allies.
It was not possible that they were to quarrel now. The gap in life would
be too deep and broad. Katharine suddenly rose and came and sat beside
her mother and drew the fair, tired face to her own, very tenderly.
“Mother dear,” she said, “look at me! What is the matter? Have I done
anything to hurt you--to displease you? We’ve always loved each other,
you and I--and we can’t really quarrel, can we? What is it, dearest?
Tell me everything--I can’t understand it at all--I know--you’re tired
and ill, and Jack irritated you. Men will, sometimes, even the very
nicest men, you know. It was only that, wasn’t it? Yes--I knew it
was--poor, dear, darling, sweet, tired little mother, just let your dear
head rest--so, against me--yes, dear, I know--it was nothing--”
It was as though they had changed places, the mother and the daughter.
The older woman’s lip quivered, as her cheek rested on Katharine’s
breast. Slowly, almost imperceptibly, two tears gathered just within the
shadowed lids, and grew and overflowed and trembled and fell--two
crystal drops. She saw them fall upon the rough grey stuff of her
daughter’s frock, and as she lay there upon the girl’s bosom with
downcast eyes, she watched her own tears, in momentary apathy, and
noticed how they ran, then crawled along, then stopped, caught as it
seemed in the stiff little hairs of the coarse material--and she noticed
that there were a few black hairs mixed with the grey, which she had not
known before.
Then quite suddenly, just as they were shrinking and darkening the wool
with two small spots, a great irresistible sob seemed to come from
outside and run through her from head to foot, and shook her and hurt
her and gripped her throat. A moment more and the flood of tears broke.
Those storms of life’s autumn are chill and sharp. They are not like the
showers of spring, quick, light and soft, that make blossoms fragrant
and woods sweet-scented.
Katharine did not understand, and her face was gentle and full of pain
as she pressed her mother to her bosom.
“Don’t cry, mother--don’t cry!” she repeated again and again.
“Ah, Katharine--child--if you knew!” The few words came with difficulty,
as each sob rose and would not be forced back.
“No, darling--don’t! There, there!” And the young girl tried to soothe
her.
Suddenly it all ceased. With an impatient movement, as though she
despised herself, Mrs. Lauderdale drew back, steadied herself with one
hand upon the end of the sofa, turned her head away and rose to her
feet.
“Go out, child--leave me to myself!” she said indistinctly, and going
quickly towards the door. “Don’t come after me--don’t--no, don’t,” she
repeated, not looking back, as she went out.
Left to herself, and understanding that it was better not to follow,
Katharine stood still a moment in the middle of the room, then went to
the window and looked out, seeing nothing. She did not know what it all
meant, but she felt that some great change which she could not
comprehend had come over her mother, and that they could never be again
as they had been. A mere headache, the mere fatigue from overwork, could
not have produced such results. Nor was Mrs. Lauderdale really ill, as
the girl’s womanly instinct had told her within the last five minutes.
The trouble, whatever it might be, was mental, and the tears had given
it a momentary relief. But it was not over.
Katharine went out, at last, and was glad to breathe the keen air of the
wintry afternoon; glad, too, to be alone with herself. She even wished
that she were not obliged to go into Fifth Avenue, where she might meet
an acquaintance, or at all events to cross it, as she decided to do when
she reached the first corner. Going straight on, the next street was
University Place, and the lower part of that was quiet, and Waverley
Place and the neighbourhood of the old University building itself. She
could wander about there for half an hour without going so far as
Broadway, nor southwards to the precincts of the French and Italian
business colonies. So she walked slowly on, and then turned, and turned
again, round and round, backwards and forwards, meeting no one she knew,
thinking all the time and idly noticing things that had never struck her
before, as, for instance, that there is a row of stables leading
westward out of University Place which is called Washington Mews, and
that at almost every corner where there is a liquor-shop there seems to
be an Italian fruit-stand--the function of the ‘dago’ being to give
warning of the approach of the police, in certain cases, a fact which
Katharine could not be expected to know.
Just beyond the aforesaid Mews, at the corner of Washington Square, she
came suddenly upon little Frank Miner, his overcoat buttoned up to his
chin and a roll of papers sticking out of his pocket. His fresh face was
pink with the cold, his small dark mustache glistened, and his restless
eyes were bright. The two almost ran against one another and both
stopped. He raised his hat with a quick smile and put out his hand.
“How d’ye do, Miss Lauderdale?” he asked.
In spite of the family connection he had never got so far as to call her
Katharine, or even cousin Katharine. The young girl shook hands with
him and smiled.
“Are you out for a walk?” he asked, before she had been able to speak.
“And if so, may I come too?”
“Oh, yes--do.”
She had been alone long enough to find it impossible to reach any
conclusion, and of all people except Ralston, Miner was the one she felt
most able to tolerate just then. His perfectly simple belief in himself
and his healthy good humour made him good company for a depressed
person.
“You seemed to be in such a hurry,” said Katharine, as he began to walk
slowly by her side.
“Of course, as I was coming to meet you,” he answered promptly.
“But you didn’t know--”
“Providence knew,” he said, interrupting her. “It was foreordained when
the world was chaos and New York was inhabited by protoplasm--and all
that--that you and I should meet just here, at this very minute. Aren’t
you a fatalist? I am. It’s far the best belief.”
“Is it? Why? I should think it rather depressing.”
“Why--no. You believe that you’re the sport of destiny. Now a sport
implies amusement of some kind. See?”
“Is the football amused when it’s kicked?” asked Katharine, with a short
laugh.
“Now please don’t introduce football, Miss Lauderdale,” said Miner,
without hesitation. “I don’t understand anything about it, and I know
that I should, because it’s a mania just now. All the men get it when
the winter comes on, and they sit up half the night at the club, drawing
diagrams and talking Hebrew, and getting excited--I’ve seen them
positively sitting up on their hind-legs in rows, and waving their paws
and tearing their hair--just arguing about the points of a game half of
them never played at all.”
“What a picture!” laughed Katharine.
“Isn’t it? But it’s just true. I’m going to write a book about it and
call it ‘The Kicker Kicked’--you know, like Sartor Resartus--all full of
philosophy and things. Can you say ‘Kicker Kicked’ twenty times very
fast, Miss Lauderdale? I believe it’s impossible. I just left my three
sisters--they’re slowly but firmly turning into aunts, you know--I left
them all trying to say it as hard as they could, and the whole place
clicked as though a thousand policemen’s rattles were all going at
once--hard! And they were all showing their teeth and going mad over
it.”
“I should think so--and that’s another picture.”
“By the bye, speaking of pictures, have you seen the Loan Collection?
It’s full of portraits of children with such extraordinary
expressions--they all look as though they had given up trying to
educate their parents in despair. I wonder why everybody paints
children? Nobody can. I believe it would take a child--who knew how to
paint, of course,--to paint a child, and give just that something which
real children have--just what makes them children.”
She was silent for a moment, following the unexpected train of thoughts.
There were delicate sides to his nature that pleased Katharine as well
as his nonsense.
“That’s a pretty idea,” she said, after thinking of it a few seconds.
“Everybody tries and fails,” answered Miner. “Why doesn’t somebody paint
you?” he asked suddenly, looking at her.
“Somebody means to,” she replied. “I was to have gone to sit to Mr.
Crowdie this morning, but he sent me word to come to-morrow instead. I
suppose he had forgotten another engagement.”
“Crowdie is ill,” said Miner. “Bright told me so this morning--some
queer attack that nobody could understand.”
“Something serious?” asked Katharine, quickly.
“Oh, no--I suppose not. Let’s go and see. He lives close by--at least,
not far, you know, over in Lafayette Place. It won’t take five minutes
to go across. Would you like to go?”
“Yes,” answered the young girl. “I could ask if he will be able to begin
the picture to-morrow.”
They turned to the right at the next crossing and reached Broadway a few
moments later. There was the usual crowd of traffic in the great
thoroughfare, and they had to wait a moment at the crossing before
attempting it. Miner thought of what he had seen on the previous
afternoon.
“Did you hear of Jack Ralston’s accident yesterday?” he asked.
Katharine started violently and turned pale. She had not realized how
the long hours and the final scene with her mother had unstrung her
nerves. But Miner was watching the cars and carts for an opening, and
did not see her.
“Yesterday?” she repeated, a moment later. “No--he came to see us and
stayed almost till dinner time. What was it? When did it happen? Was he
hurt?”
“Oh--you saw him afterwards, then?” Miner looked up into her face--she
was taller than he--with a curious expression--recollecting Ralston’s
condition when he had last seen him.
“It wasn’t serious, then? It had happened before he came to our house?”
“Why--yes,” answered the little man, with a puzzled expression. “Was he
all right when you saw him?”
“Perfectly. He never said anything about any accident. He looked just as
he always does.”
“That fellow has copper springs and patent joints inside him!” Miner
laughed. “He was a good deal shaken, that’s all, and went home in a cab.
I should have gone to bed, myself.”
“But what was it?”
“Oh--what he’d call nothing, I suppose! The cars at the corner of
Thirty-second and Broadway--we were waiting, just as we are now--two
cars were coming in opposite ways, and a boy with a bundle and a dog and
a perambulator, and a few other things, got between the tracks--of
course the cars would have taken off his head or his heels or his
bundle, or something, and the dog would have been ready for his halo in
three seconds. Jack jumped and picked up everything together and threw
them before him and fell on his head. Wonder he wasn’t killed or
crippled--or both--no, I mean--here’s a chance, Miss Lauderdale--come
along before that van stops the way!”
There was not time to say anything as Katharine hastened across the
broad street by his side, and by the time they had reached the pavement
the blood had come back to her face. Her fears for Ralston’s safety had
been short-lived, thanks to Miner’s quick way of telling the story, and
in their place came the glow of pride a woman feels when the man she
loves is praised by men for a brave action. Miner glanced at her as he
landed her safely from the crossing and wondered whether Crowdie’s
portrait would do her justice. He doubted it, just then.
“It was just like him,” she said quietly.
“And I suppose it was like him to say nothing about it, but just to go
home and restore his shattered exterior and put on another pair of boots
and go and see you. You said he looked as though nothing had happened to
him?”
“Quite. We had a long talk together. I should certainly not have guessed
that anything had gone wrong.”
“Ralston’s an unusual sort of fellow, anyhow,” said Miner,
enigmatically. “But then--so am I, so is Crowdie--do you like Crowdie?
Rude question, isn’t it? Well, I won’t ask it, then. Besides, if he’s to
paint your picture you must have a pleasant expression--a smile that
goes all round your head and is tied with a black ribbon behind--you
know?”
“Oh, yes!” Katharine laughed again, as she generally did at the little
man’s absurd sayings.
“But Crowdie knows,” he continued. “He’s clever--oh, to any extent--big
things and little things. All his lions roar and all his mosquitoes
buzz, just like real things. The only thing he can’t do is to paint
children, and nobody can do that. By the bye, I’m repeating myself. It
doesn’t take long to get all round a little man like me. There are lots
of things about Crowdie, though. He sings like an angel. I never heard
such a voice. It’s more like a contralto--like Scalchi’s as it was,
though she’s good still,--than like a tenor. Oh, he’s full of talent. I
wish he weren’t so queer!”
“Queer? How do you mean?”
“I don’t know, I’m sure. There’s something different from other people.
Is he a friend of yours? I mean, a great friend?”
“Oh, no--not at all. I’m very fond of Mrs. Crowdie. She’s a cousin, you
know.”
“Yes. Well--I don’t know that I can make you understand what I mean,
