The widow was ready, Rowena was ready, so also were the foreigners.
The party moved along the hall, the twins in advance, and entered the
open parlor door, whence issued a low hum of conversation. The twins
took a position near the door, the widow stood at Luigi's side, Rowena
stood beside Angelo, and the march-past and the introductions began. The
widow was all smiles and contentment. She received the procession and
passed it on to Rowena.
"Good mornin', Sister Cooper"--hand-shake.
"Good morning, Brother Higgins--Count Luigi Capello, Mr. 
Higgins"--hand-shake, followed by a devouring stare and "I'm glad to see
ye," on the part of Higgins, and a courteous inclination of the head and
a pleasant "Most happy!" on the part of Count Luigi.
"Good mornin', Roweny"--hand-shake.
"Good morning, Mr. Higgins--present you to Count Angelo Capello."
Hand-shake, admiring stare, "Glad to see ye,"--courteous nod, smily
"Most happy!" and Higgins passes on.
None of these visitors was at ease, but, being honest people, they
didn't pretend to be. None of them had ever seen a person bearing a
title of nobility before, and none had been expecting to see one now,
consequently the title came upon them as a kind of pile-driving surprise
and caught them unprepared. A few tried to rise to the emergency, and
got out an awkward "My lord," or "Your lordship," or something of that
sort, but the great majority were overwhelmed by the unaccustomed word
and its dim and awful associations with gilded courts and stately
ceremony and anointed kingship, so they only fumbled through the
hand-shake and passed on, speechless. Now and then, as happens at all
receptions everywhere, a more than ordinary friendly soul blocked the
procession and kept it waiting while he inquired how the brothers liked
the village, and how long they were going to stay, and if their families
were well, and dragged in the weather, and hoped it would get cooler
soon, and all that sort of thing, so as to be able to say, when they got
home, "I had quite a long talk with them"; but nobody did or said
anything of a regrettable kind, and so the great affair went through to
the end in a creditable and satisfactory fashion.
General conversation followed, and the twins drifted about from group to
group, talking easily and fluently and winning approval, compelling
admiration and achieving favor from all. The widow followed their
conquering march with a proud eye, and every now and then Rowena said to
herself with deep satisfaction, "And to think they are ours--all ours!"
There were no idle moments for mother or daughter. Eager inquiries
concerning the twins were pouring into their enchanted ears all the
time; each was the constant center of a group of breathless listeners;
each recognized that she knew now for the first time the real meaning of
that great word Glory, and perceived the stupendous value of it, and
understood why men in all ages had been willing to throw away meaner
happinesses, treasure, life itself, to get a taste of its sublime and
supreme joy. Napoleon and all his kind stood accounted for--and
justified.
When Rowena had at last done all her duty by the people in the parlor,
she went up-stairs to satisfy the longings of an overflow-meeting there,
for the parlor was not big enough to hold all the comers. Again she was
besieged by eager questioners and again she swam in sunset seas of
glory. When the forenoon was nearly gone, she recognized with a pang
that this most splendid episode of her life was almost over, that
nothing could prolong it, that nothing quite its equal could ever fall
to her fortune again. But never mind, it was sufficient unto itself, the
grand occasion had moved on an ascending scale from the start, and was a
noble and memorable success. If the twins could but do some crowning
act, now, to climax it, something unusual, something startling,
something to concentrate upon themselves the company's loftiest
admiration, something in the nature of an electric surprise--
Here a prodigious slam-banging broke out below, and everybody rushed
down to see. It was the twins knocking out a classic four-handed piece
on the piano, in great style. Rowena was satisfied--satisfied down to
the bottom of her heart.
The young strangers were kept long at the piano. The villagers were
astonished and enchanted with the magnificence of their performance, and
could not bear to have them stop. All the music that they had ever heard
before seemed spiritless prentice-work and barren of grace or charm when
compared with these intoxicating floods of melodious sound. They
realized that for once in their lives they were hearing masters.
CHAPTER VII.
The Unknown Nymph
One of the most striking differences between a cat and a lie is that a
cat has only nine lives.--Pudd'nhead Wilson's Calendar.
The company broke up reluctantly, and drifted toward their several
homes, chatting with vivacity, and all agreeing that it would be many a
long day before Dawson's Landing would see the equal of this one again.
The twins had accepted several invitations while the reception was in
progress, and had also volunteered to play some duets at an amateur
entertainment for the benefit of a local charity. Society was eager to
receive them to its bosom. Judge Driscoll had the good fortune to secure
them for an immediate drive, and to be the first to display them in
public. They entered his buggy with him, and were paraded down the main
street, everybody flocking to the windows and sidewalks to see.
The Judge showed the strangers the new graveyard, and the jail, and
where the richest man lived, and the Freemasons' hall, and the Methodist
church, and the Presbyterian church, and where the Baptist church was
going to be when they got some money to build it with, and showed them
the town hall and the slaughter-house, and got out the independent fire
company in uniform and had them put out an imaginary fire; then he let
them inspect the muskets of the militia company, and poured out an
exhaustless stream of enthusiasm over all these splendors, and seemed
very well satisfied with the responses he got, for the twins admired his
admiration, and paid him back the best they could, though they could
have done better if some fifteen or sixteen hundred thousand previous
experiences of this sort in various countries had not already rubbed off
a considerable part of the novelty of it.
The Judge laid himself out hospitably to make them have a good time, and
if there was a defect anywhere it was not his fault. He told them a good
many humorous anecdotes, and always forgot the nub, but they were always
able to furnish it, for these yarns were of a pretty early vintage, and
they had had many a rejuvenating pull at them before. And he told them
all about his several dignities, and how he had held this and that and
the other place of honor or profit, and had once been to the
legislature, and was now president of the Society of Free-thinkers. He
said the society had been in existence four years, and already had two
members, and was firmly established. He would call for the brothers in
the evening if they would like to attend a meeting of it.
Accordingly he called for them, and on the way he told them all about
Pudd'nhead Wilson, in order that they might get a favorable impression
of him in advance and be prepared to like him. This scheme
succeeded--the favorable impression was achieved. Later it was confirmed
and solidified when Wilson proposed that out of courtesy to the
strangers the usual topics be put aside and the hour be devoted to
conversation upon ordinary subjects and the cultivation of friendly
relations and good-fellowship,--a proposition which was put to vote and
carried.
The hour passed quickly away in lively talk, and when it was ended the
lonesome and neglected Wilson was richer by two friends than he had been
when it began. He invited the twins to look in at his lodgings,
presently, after disposing of an intervening engagement, and they
accepted with pleasure.
Toward the middle of the evening they found themselves on the road to
his house. Pudd'nhead was at home waiting for them and putting in his
time puzzling over a thing which had come under his notice that morning.
The matter was this: He happened to be up very early--at dawn, in fact;
and he crossed the hall which divided his cottage through the center,
and entered a room to get something there. The window of the room had no
curtains, for that side of the house had long been unoccupied, and
through this window he caught sight of something which surprised and
interested him. It was a young woman--a young woman where properly no
young woman belonged; for she was in Judge Driscoll's house, and in the
bedroom over the Judge's private study or sitting-room. This was young
Tom Driscoll's bedroom. He and the Judge, the Judge's widowed sister
Mrs. Pratt and three negro servants were the only people who belonged in
the house. Who, then, might this young lady be? The two houses were
separated by an ordinary yard, with a low fence running back through its
middle from the street in front to the lane in the rear. The distance
was not great, and Wilson was able to see the girl very well, the
window-shades of the room she was in being up, and the window also. The
girl had on a neat and trim summer dress, patterned in broad stripes of
pink and white, and her bonnet was equipped with a pink veil. She was
practising steps, gaits and attitudes, apparently; she was doing the
thing gracefully, and was very much absorbed in her work. Who could she
be, and how came she to be in young Tom Driscoll's room?
Wilson had quickly chosen a position from which he could watch the girl
without running much risk of being seen by her, and he remained there
hoping she would raise her veil and betray her face. But she
disappointed him. After a matter of twenty minutes she disappeared, and
although he stayed at his post half an hour longer, she came no more.
Toward noon he dropped in at the Judge's and talked with Mrs. Pratt
about the great event of the day, the levee of the distinguished
foreigners at Aunt Patsy Cooper's. He asked after her nephew Tom, and
she said he was on his way home, and that she was expecting him to
arrive a little before night; and added that she and the Judge were
gratified to gather from his letters that he was conducting himself very
nicely and creditably--at which Wilson winked to himself privately.
Wilson did not ask if there was a newcomer in the house, but he asked
questions that would have brought light-throwing answers as to that
matter if Mrs. Pratt had had any light to throw; so he went away
satisfied that he knew of things that were going on in her house of
which she herself was not aware.
He was now waiting for the twins, and still puzzling over the problem of
who that girl might be, and how she happened to be in that young
fellow's room at daybreak in the morning.
CHAPTER VIII.
Marse Tom Tramples His Chance.
The holy passion of Friendship is of so sweet and steady and loyal and
enduring a nature that it will last through a whole lifetime, if not
asked to lend money.--Pudd'nhead Wilson's Calendar.
Consider well the proportions of things. It is better to be a young
June-bug than an old bird of paradise.--Pudd'nhead Wilson's Calendar.
It is necessary now, to hunt up Roxy.
At the time she was set free and went away chambermaiding, she was
thirty-five. She got a berth as second chambermaid on a Cincinnati boat
in the New Orleans trade, the Grand Mogul. A couple of trips made her
wonted and easy-going at the work, and infatuated her with the stir and
adventure and independence of steamboat life. Then she was promoted and
became head chambermaid. She was a favorite with the officers, and
exceedingly proud of their joking and friendly way with her.
During eight years she served three parts of the year on that boat, and
the winters on a Vicksburg packet. But now for two months she had had
rheumatism in her arms, and was obliged to let the wash-tub alone. So
she resigned. But she was well fixed--rich, as she would have described
it; for she had lived a steady life, and had banked four dollars every
month in New Orleans as a provision for her old age. She said in the
start that she had "put shoes on one bar'footed nigger to tromple on her
with," and that one mistake like that was enough; she would be
independent of the human race thenceforth forevermore if hard work and
economy could accomplish it. When the boat touched the levee at New
Orleans she bade good-by to her comrades on the Grand Mogul and moved
her kit ashore.
But she was back in a hour. The bank had gone to smash and carried her
four hundred dollars with it. She was a pauper, and homeless. Also
disabled bodily, at least for the present. The officers were full of
sympathy for her in her trouble, and made up a little purse for her. She
resolved to go to her birthplace; she had friends there among the
negroes, and the unfortunate always help the unfortunate, she was well
aware of that; those lowly comrades of her youth would not let her
starve.
She took the little local packet at Cairo, and now she was on the
home-stretch. Time had worn away her bitterness against her son, and she
was able to think of him with serenity. She put the vile side of him out
of her mind, and dwelt only on recollections of his occasional acts of
kindness to her. She gilded and otherwise decorated these, and made them
very pleasant to contemplate. She began to long to see him. She would go
and fawn upon him, slave-like--for this would have to be her attitude,
of course--and maybe she would find that time had modified him, and that
he would be glad to see his long-forgotten old nurse and treat her
gently. That would be lovely; that would make her forget her woes and
her poverty.
Her poverty! That thought inspired her to add another castle to her
dream: maybe he would give her a trifle now and then--maybe a dollar,
once a month, say; any little thing like that would help, oh, ever so
much.
By the time she reached Dawson's Landing she was her old self again; her
blues were gone, she was in high feather. She would get along, surely;
there were many kitchens where the servants would share their meals with
her, and also steal sugar and apples and other dainties for her to carry
home--or give her a chance to pilfer them herself, which would answer
just as well. And there was the church. She was a more rabid and devoted
Methodist than ever, and her piety was no sham, but was strong and
sincere. Yes, with plenty of creature comforts and her old place in the
amen-corner in her possession again, she would be perfectly happy and at
peace thenceforward to the end.
She went to Judge Driscoll's kitchen first of all. She was received
there in great form and with vast enthusiasm. Her wonderful travels, and
the strange countries she had seen and the adventures she had had, made
her a marvel, and a heroine of romance. The negroes hung enchanted upon
the great story of her experiences, interrupting her all along with
eager questions, with laughter, exclamations of delight and expressions
of applause; and she was obliged to confess to herself that if there was
anything better in this world than steamboating, it was the glory to be
got by telling about it. The audience loaded her stomach with their
dinners, and then stole the pantry bare to load up her basket.
Tom was in St. Louis. The servants said he had spent the best part of
his time there during the previous two years. Roxy came every day, and
had many talks about the family and its affairs. Once she asked why Tom
was away so much. The ostensible "Chambers" said:
"De fac' is, ole marster kin git along better when young marster's away
den he kin when he's in de town; yes, en he love him better, too; so he
gives him fifty dollahs a month--"
"No, is dat so? Chambers, you's a-jokin', ain't you?"
"'Clah to goodness I ain't, mammy; Marse Tom tole me so his own self.
But nemmine, 'tain't enough."
"My lan', what de reason 'tain't enough?"
"Well, I's gwine to tell you, if you gimme a chanst, mammy. De reason it
ain't enough is 'ca'se Marse Tom gambles."
Roxy threw up her hands in astonishment and Chambers went on--
"Ole marster found it out, 'ca'se he had to pay two hundred dollahs for
Marse Tom's gamblin' debts, en dat's true, mammy, jes as dead certain as
you's bawn."
"Two--hund'd--dollahs! Why, what is you talkin' 'bout? 
Two--hund'd--dollahs. Sakes alive, it's 'mos' enough to buy a tol'able
good second-hand nigger wid. En you ain't lyin', honey?--you wouldn't
lie to yo' ole mammy?"
"It's God's own truth, jes as I tell you--two hund'd dollahs--I wisht I
may never stir outen my tracks if it ain't so. En, oh, my lan', ole
Marse was jes a-hoppin'! he was b'ilin' mad, I tell you! He tuck 'n'
dissenhurrit him."
He licked his chops with relish after that stately word. Roxy struggled
with it a moment, then gave it up and said--
"Dissenwhiched him?"
"Dissenhurrit him."
"What's dat? What do it mean?"
"Means he bu'sted de will."
"Bu's--ted de will! He wouldn't ever treat him so! Take it back, you
mis'able imitation nigger dat I bore in sorrow en tribbilation."
Roxy's pet castle--an occasional dollar from Tom's pocket--was tumbling
to ruin before her eyes. She could not abide such a disaster as that;
she couldn't endure the thought of it. Her remark amused Chambers:
"Yah-yah-yah! jes listen to dat! If I's imitation, what is you? Bofe of
us is imitation white--dat's what we is--en pow'ful good imitation,
too--yah-yah-yah!--we don't 'mount to noth'n as imitation niggers; en as
for--"
"Shet up yo' foolin', 'fo' I knock you side de head, en tell me 'bout de
will. Tell me 'tain't bu'sted--do, honey, en I'll never forgit you."
"Well, 'tain't--'ca'se dey's a new one made, en Marse Tom's all right
ag'in. But what is you in sich a sweat 'bout it for, mammy? 'Tain't none
o' your business I don't reckon."
"'Tain't none o' my business? Whose business is it den, I'd like to
know? Wuz I his mother tell he was fifteen years old, or wusn't I?--you
answer me dat. En you speck I could see him turned out po' en ornery on
de worl' en never care noth'n' 'bout it? I reckon if you'd ever be'n a
mother yo'self, Valet de Chambers, you wouldn't talk sich foolishness as
dat."
"Well, den, ole Marse forgive him en fixed up de will ag'in--do dat
satisfy you?"
Yes, she was satisfied now, and quite happy and sentimental over it. She
kept coming daily, and at last she was told that Tom had come home. She
began to tremble with emotion, and straightway sent to beg him to let
his "po' ole nigger mammy have jes one sight of him en die for joy."
Tom was stretched at his lazy ease on a sofa when Chambers brought the
petition. Time had not modified his ancient detestation of the humble
drudge and protector of his boyhood; it was still bitter and
uncompromising. He sat up and bent a severe gaze upon the fair face of
the young fellow whose name he was unconsciously using and whose family
rights he was enjoying. He maintained the gaze until the victim of it
had become satisfactorily pallid with terror, then he said--
"What does the old rip want with me?"
The petition was meekly repeated.
"Who gave you permission to come and disturb me with the social
attentions of niggers?"
Tom had risen. The other young man was trembling now, visibly. He saw
what was coming, and bent his head sideways, and put up his left arm to
shield it. Tom rained cuffs upon the head and its shield, saying no
word: the victim received each blow with a beseeching, "Please, Marse
Tom!--oh, please, Marse Tom!" Seven blows--then Tom said, "Face the
door--march!" He followed behind with one, two, three solid kicks. The
last one helped the pure-white slave over the door-sill, and he limped
away mopping his eyes with his old ragged sleeve. Tom shouted after him,
"Send her in!"
Then he flung himself panting on the sofa again, and rasped out the
remark, "He arrived just at the right moment; I was full to the brim
with bitter thinkings, and nobody to take it out of. How refreshing it
was! I feel better."
Tom's mother entered now, closing the door behind her, and approached
her son with all the wheedling and supplicating servilities that fear
and interest can impart to the words and attitudes of the born slave.
She stopped a yard from her boy and made two or three admiring
exclamations over his manly stature and general handsomeness, and Tom
put an arm under his head and hoisted a leg over the sofa-back in order
to look properly indifferent.
"My lan', how you is growed, honey! 'Clah to goodness, I wouldn't
a-knowed you, Marse Tom! 'deed I wouldn't! Look at me good; does you
'member old Roxy?--does you know yo' old nigger mammy, honey? Well, now,
I kin lay down en die in peace, 'ca'se I'se seed--"
"Cut it short, ------ it, cut it short! What is it you want?"
"You heah dat? Jes the same old Marse Tom, al'ays so gay and funnin' wid
de ole mammy. I 'uz jes as shore--"
"Cut it short, I tell you, and get along! What do you want?"
This was a bitter disappointment. Roxy had for so many days nourished
and fondled and petted her notion that Tom would be glad to see his old
nurse, and would make her proud and happy to the marrow with a cordial
word or two, that it took two rebuffs to convince her that he was not
funning, and that her beautiful dream was a fond and foolish vanity, a
shabby and pitiful mistake. She was hurt to the heart, and so ashamed
that for a moment she did not quite know what to do or how to act. Then
her breast began to heave, the tears came, and in her forlornness she
was moved to try that other dream of hers--an appeal to her boy's
charity; and so, upon the impulse, and without reflection, she offered
her supplication:
"Oh, Marse Tom, de po' ole mammy is in sich hard luck dese days; en
she's kinder crippled in de arms and can't work, en if you could gimme a
dollah--on'y jes one little dol--"
Tom was on his feet so suddenly that the supplicant was startled into a
jump herself.
"A dollar!--give you a dollar! I've a notion to strangle you! Is that
your errand here? Clear out! and be quick about it!"
Roxy backed slowly toward the door. When she was half-way she stopped,
and said mournfully:
"Marse Tom, I nussed you when you was a little baby, en I raised you all
by myself tell you was 'most a young man; en now you is young en rich,
en I is po' en gitt'n ole, en I come heah b'lievin' dat you would he'p
de ole mammy 'long down de little road dat's lef' 'twix' her en de
grave, en--"
Tom relished this tune less than any that had preceded it, for it began
to wake up a sort of echo in his conscience; so he interrupted and said
with decision, though without asperity, that he was not in a situation
to help her, and wasn't going to do it.
"Ain't you ever gwine to he'p me, Marse Tom?"
"No! Now go away and don't bother me any more."
Roxy's head was down, in an attitude of humility. But now the fires of
her old wrongs flamed up in her breast and began to burn fiercely. She
raised her head slowly, till it was well up, and at the same time her
great frame unconsciously assumed an erect and masterful attitude, with
all the majesty and grace of her vanished youth in it. She raised her
finger and punctuated with it:
"You has said de word. You has had yo' chance, en you has trompled it
under yo' foot. When you git another one, you'll git down on yo' knees
en beg for it!"
A cold chill went to Tom's heart, he didn't know why; for he did not
reflect that such words, from such an incongruous source, and so
solemnly delivered, could not easily fail of that effect. However, he
did the natural thing: he replied with bluster and mockery:
"You'll give me a chance--you! Perhaps I'd better get down on my knees
now! But in case I don't--just for argument's sake--what's going to
happen, pray?"
"Dis is what is gwine to happen. I's gwine as straight to yo' uncle as I
kin walk, en tell him every las' thing I knows 'bout you."
Tom's cheek blenched, and she saw it. Disturbing thoughts began to chase
each other through his head. "How can she know? And yet she must have
found out--she looks it. I've had the will back only three months, and
am already deep in debt again, and moving heaven and earth to save
myself from exposure and destruction, with a reasonably fair show of
getting the thing covered up if I'm let alone, and now this fiend has
gone and found me out somehow or other. I wonder how much she knows? Oh,
oh, oh, it's enough to break a body's heart! But I've got to humor
her--there's no other way."
Then he worked up a rather sickly sample of a gay laugh and a hollow
chipperness of manner, and said:
"Well, well, Roxy dear, old friends like you and me mustn't quarrel.
Here's your dollar--now tell me what you know."
He held out the wild-cat bill; she stood as she was, and made no
movement. It was her turn to scorn persuasive foolery, now, and she did
not waste it. She said, with a grim implacability in voice and manner
which made Tom almost realize that even a former slave can remember for
ten minutes insults and injuries returned for compliments and flatteries
received, and can also enjoy taking revenge for them when the
opportunity offers:
"What does I know? I'll tell you what I knows. I knows enough to bu'st
dat will to flinders--en more, mind you, more!"
Tom was aghast.
"More?" he said. "What do you call more? Where's there any room for
more?"
Roxy laughed a mocking laugh, and said scoffingly, with a toss of her
head, and her hands on her hips--
"Yes!--oh, I reckon! Co'se you'd like to know--wid yo' po' little ole
rag dollah. What you reckon I's gwine to tell you for?--you ain't got no
money. I's gwine to tell yo' uncle--en I'll do it dis minute, too--he'll
gimme five dollahs for de news, en mighty glad, too."
She swung herself around disdainfully, and started away. Tom was in a
panic. He seized her skirts, and implored her to wait. She turned and
said, loftily--
"Look-a-heah, what 'uz it I tole you?"
"You--you--I don't remember anything. What was it you told me?"
"I tole you dat de next time I give you a chance you'd git down on yo'
knees en beg for it."
Tom was stupefied for a moment. He was panting with excitement. Then he
said:
"Oh, Roxy, you wouldn't require your young master to do such a horrible
thing. You can't mean it."
"I'll let you know mighty quick whether I means it or not! You call me
names, en as good as spit on me when I comes here po' en ornery en
'umble, to praise you for bein' growed up so fine en handsome, en tell
you how I used to nuss you en tend you en watch you when you 'uz sick en
hadn't no mother but me in de whole worl', en beg you to give de po' ole
nigger a dollah for to git her som'n' to eat, en you call me
names--names, dad blame you! Yassir, I gives you jes one chance mo', and
dat's now, en it las' on'y a half a second--you hear?"
Tom slumped to his knees and began to beg, saying--
"You see, I'm begging, and it's honest begging, too! Now tell me, Roxy,
tell me."
The heir of two centuries of unatoned insult and outrage looked down on
him and seemed to drink in deep draughts of satisfaction. Then she
said--
"Fine nice young white gen'l'man kneelin' down to a nigger-wench! I's
wanted to see dat jes once befo' I's called. Now, Gabr'el, blow de hawn,
I's ready ... Git up!"
Tom did it. He said, humbly--
"Now, Roxy, don't punish me any more. I deserved what I've got, but be
good and let me off with that. Don't go to uncle. Tell me--I'll give you
the five dollars."
"Yes, I bet you will; en you won't stop dah, nuther. But I ain't gwine
to tell you heah--"
"Good gracious, no!"
"Is you 'feared o' de ha'nted house?"
"N-no."
"Well, den, you come to de ha'nted house 'bout ten or 'leven to-night,
en climb up de ladder, 'ca'se de sta'r-steps is broke down, en you'll
find me. I's a-roostin' in de ha'nted house 'ca'se I can't 'ford to
roos' nowhers' else." She started toward the door, but stopped and said,
"Gimme de dollah bill!" He gave it to her. She examined it and said,
"H'm--like enough de bank's bu'sted." She started again, but halted
again. "Has you got any whisky?"
"Yes, a little."
"Fetch it!"
He ran to his room overhead and brought down a bottle which was
two-thirds full. She tilted it up and took a drink. Her eyes sparkled
with satisfaction, and she tucked the bottle under her shawl, saying,
"It's prime. I'll take it along."
Tom humbly held the door for her, and she marched out as grim and erect
as a grenadier.
CHAPTER IX.
Tom Practises Sycophancy.
Why is it that we rejoice at a birth and grieve at a funeral? It is
because we are not the person involved.--Pudd'nhead Wilson's Calendar.
It is easy to find fault, if one has that disposition. There was once a
man who, not being able to find any other fault with his coal,
complained that there were too many prehistoric toads in it.--Pudd'nhead
Wilson's Calendar.
Tom flung himself on the sofa, and put his throbbing head in his hands,
and rested his elbows on his knees. He rocked himself back and forth and
moaned.
"I've knelt to a nigger wench!" he muttered. "I thought I had struck the
deepest depths of degradation before, but oh, dear, it was nothing to
this.... Well, there is one consolation, such as it is--I've struck
bottom this time; there's nothing lower."
But that was a hasty conclusion.
At ten that night he climbed the ladder in the haunted house, pale, weak
and wretched. Roxy was standing in the door of one of the rooms,
waiting, for she had heard him.
This was a two-story log house which had acquired the reputation a few
years before of being haunted, and that was the end of its usefulness.
Nobody would live in it afterward, or go near it by night, and most
people even gave it a wide berth in the daytime. As it had no
competition, it was called the haunted house. It was getting crazy and
ruinous, now, from long neglect. It stood three hundred yards beyond
Pudd'nhead Wilson's house, with nothing between but vacancy. It was the
last house in the town at that end.
Tom followed Roxy into the room. She had a pile of clean straw in the
corner for a bed, some cheap but well-kept clothing was hanging on the
wall, there was a tin lantern freckling the floor with little spots of
light, and there were various soap-and-candle boxes scattered about,
which served for chairs. The two sat down. Roxy said--
"Now den, I'll tell you straight off, en I'll begin to k'leck de money
later on; I ain't in no hurry. What does you reckon I's gwine to tell
you?"
"Well, you--you--oh, Roxy, don't make it too hard for me! Come right out
