even while she was in the act of thrusting him from the door. Two words,
‘all right,’ would have been enough. But she had only seemed anxious to
get rid of him as quickly as possible, and he felt that he was not to
be blamed for being angry. The details of the situation, as she had seen
it, were quite unknown to him. He was not aware that Charlotte Slayback
had been at luncheon, and had stayed until the last minute, nor that
Katharine had really done everything in her power to make her mother go
upstairs. The details, indeed, taken separately, were laughable in their
insignificance, and it would hardly be possible for Katharine to explain
them to him, so as to make him see their importance when taken all
together. He was ignorant of them all, except of the fancied fact that
Mrs. Lauderdale had been at the window of the library. Katharine had
told him so, and had believed it herself, as was natural. She had not
had time to explain why she believed it, and he would be more angry than
ever if she ever told him that she had been mistaken, and that he might
just as well have come and stayed as long as he pleased. He knew that a
considerable time must have elapsed between the end of luncheon and his
arrival at the door of the house; he supposed that Katharine had been
alone with her mother and grandfather, as usual, and he blamed her for
not exerting a little tact in getting her mother out of the way, when
she must have had nearly an hour in which to do so. He went over and
over all that he knew of the facts, and reached always the same
conclusion--Katharine had not taken the trouble, and had probably only
remembered when it was too late that he was to come at three o’clock.
It must not be supposed that Ralston belonged to the class of hasty and
capricious men, who hate the object of their affections as soon as they
are in the least annoyed with anything she has done--or who, at all
events, act as though they did. Ralston was merely in an excessively bad
temper with himself, with everything he had done and with the world at
large. Had he received a note from Katharine at any time later in the
afternoon, telling him to come back, he would have gone instantly, with
just as much impatience as he had shown at three o’clock, when he had
reached Clinton Place a quarter of an hour before the appointed time. He
would probably not have alluded, nor even have wished to allude, to his
summary dismissal at his first attempt. But he would come. He satisfied
himself of that, for he sent a message from his club to his home,
directing the servant to send on any note which might come for him; and,
on repeating the message an hour later, he was told that there was
nothing to send.
So he sat in the general room at the club, downstairs, and turned over a
newspaper half a dozen times without understanding a word of its
contents, and smoked discontentedly, but without ceasing. At last, by a
mere accident, his eye fell upon the column of situations offered and
wanted, and, with a sour smile, he began to read the advertisements.
That sort of thing suited his case, at all events, he thought. He was
very soon struck by the balance of numbers in favour of the unemployed,
and by the severe manner in which those who offered situations spoke of
thorough knowledge and of certificates of service.
It did not take him long to convince himself that he was fit for nothing
but a shoeblack or a messenger boy, and he fancied that his age would be
a drawback in either profession. He dropped the paper in disgust at
last, and was suddenly aware that Frank Miner was seated at a small
table opposite to him, but on the other side of the room. Miner looked
up at the same moment, from a letter he was writing, his attention being
attracted by the rustling of the paper.
“Hallo, Jack!” he cried, cheerily. “I knew those were your legs all the
time.”
“Why didn’t you speak, then?” asked Ralston, rather coldly, and looking
up and down the columns of the paper he had dropped upon his knee.
“I don’t know. Why should I?” Miner went on with his letter, having
evidently interrupted himself in the midst of a sentence.
Ralston wished something would happen. He felt suddenly inclined to
throw something at Miner, who generally amused him when he talked, but
was clearly very busy, and went on writing as though his cheerful little
life depended on it. But it was not probable that anything should happen
just at that hour. There were three or four other men in different parts
of the big room, writing or reading letters. There were doubtless a few
others somewhere in the house, playing cards or drinking a quiet
afternoon cocktail. It was a big club, having many rooms. But Ralston
did not feel inclined to play poker, and he wished not to drink, if he
could help it, and Miner went on writing, so he stayed where he was, and
brooded over his annoyances. Suddenly Miner’s pen ceased with a scratch
and a dash, audible all over the room, and he began to fold his letter.
“Come and have a drink, Jack!” he called out to Ralston, as he took up
an envelope. “I’ve earned it, if you haven’t.”
“I don’t want to drink,” answered Ralston, gloomily, and, out of pure
contrariety, he took up his paper again.
Miner looked long and steadily at him, closed his letter, put it into
his pocket and crossed the room.
“I say, Jack,” he said, in an absurdly solemn tone, “are you ill, old
man?”
“Ill? No. Why? Never was better in my life. Don’t be an idiot, Frank.”
And he kept his paper at the level of his eyes.
“There’s something wrong, anyhow,” said Miner, thoughtfully. “Never knew
you to refuse to drink before. I’ll be damned, you know!”
“I haven’t a doubt of it, my dear fellow. I always told you so.”
“For a gentle and unassuming manner, I think you take the cake, Jack,”
answered Miner, without a smile. “What on earth is the matter with you?
Let me see--you’ve either lost money, or you’re in love, or your liver’s
out of order, or all three, and if that’s it, I pity you.”
“I tell you there’s nothing the matter with me!” cried Ralston, with
some temper. “Why do you keep bothering me? I merely said I didn’t want
to drink. Can’t a man not be thirsty? Confound it all, I’m not obliged
to drink if I don’t want to!”
“Oh, well, don’t get into a fiery green rage about it, Jack. I’m thirsty
myself, and I didn’t want to drink alone. Only, don’t go west of Maine
so long as this lasts. They’re prohibition there, you know. Don’t try
it, Jack; you’d come back on ice by the next train.”
“I’m going to stay here,” answered Ralston, without a smile. “Go ahead
and get your drink.”
“All right! If you won’t, you won’t, I know. But when you’re scratching
round and trying to get some sympathetic person, like Abraham and
Lazarus, to give you a glass of water, think of what you’ve missed this
afternoon!”
“Dives,” said Ralston, savagely, “is the only man ever mentioned in the
Bible as having asked for a glass of water, and he’s--where he ought to
be.”
“That’s an old, cold chestnut,” retorted Miner, turning to go, but not
really in the least annoyed.
At that moment a servant crossed the room and stood before Ralston.
Miner waited to see what would happen, half believing that Ralston was
not in earnest, but had surreptitiously touched the electric bell on the
table at his elbow, with the intention of ordering something.
“Mr. Lauderdale wishes to speak to you at the telephone, sir,” said the
servant.
The man’s expression betrayed his respect for the name, and for a person
who had a telephone in his house--an unusual thing in New York. It was
the sort of expression which the waiters at restaurants put on when they
present to the diner a dish of terrapin or a canvas-back duck, or open a
very particularly old bottle of very particularly fine wine--quite
different from the stolid look they wear for beef and table-claret.
“Which Mr. Lauderdale?” asked Ralston, with a sudden frown. “Mr.
Alexander Lauderdale Junior?”
“I don’t know, sir. The gentleman’s at the telephone, sir.”
This seemed to be added as a gentle hint not to keep any one of the
name of Lauderdale waiting too long.
Ralston rose quickly, and Miner watched him as he passed out with long
strides and a rather anxious face, wondering what could be the matter
with his friend, and somehow connecting his refusal to drink with the
summons to the instrument. Then Miner followed slowly in the same
direction, with his hands in his pockets and his lips pursed as though
he were about to whistle. He knew the man well enough to be aware that
his refusal to drink might proceed from his having taken all he could
stand for the present, and Ralston’s ill temper inclined Miner to
believe that this might be the case. Ralston rarely betrayed himself at
all, until he suddenly became viciously unmanageable, a fact which made
him always the function of a doubtful quantity, as Miner, who had once
learned a little mathematics, was fond of expressing it.
The little man was essentially sociable, and though he might want the
very small and mild drink he was fond of ever so much, he preferred, if
possible, to swallow it in company. Instead of ringing, therefore, he
strolled away in search of another friend. As luck would have it, he
almost ran against Walter Crowdie, who was coming towards him, but
looking after Ralston, as the latter disappeared at the other end of the
hall. Crowdie seemed excessively irritated about something.
“Confound that fellow!” he exclaimed, giving vent to his feelings as he
turned and saw Miner close upon him.
“Who? Me?” enquired the little man, with a laugh. “Everybody’s purple
with rage in this club to-day--I’m going home.”
“You? No--is that you, Frank? No--I mean that everlasting Ralston.”
“Oh! What’s he done to you? What’s the matter with Ralston?”
“Drunk again, I suppose,” answered Crowdie. “But I wish he’d keep out of
my way when he is--runs into me, treads on both my feet--with his heels,
I believe, though I don’t understand how that’s possible--pushes me out
of the way and goes straight on without a word. Confound him, I say! You
used to be able to swear beautifully, Frank--can’t you manage to say
something?”
“At any other time--oh, yes! But you’d better get Ralston himself to do
it for you. I’m not in it with him to-day. He’s been giving me the life
to come--hot--and Abraham and Isaac and Lazarus and the rich man, and
the glass of water, all in a breath. Go and ask him for what you want.”
“Oh--then he is drunk, is he?” asked Crowdie, with a disagreeable sneer
on his red lips.
“I suppose so,” answered Miner, quite carelessly. “At all events, he
refused to drink--that’s always a bad sign with him.”
“Of course--that makes it a certainty. Gad, though! It doesn’t make him
light on his feet, if he happens to tread on yours. It serves me right
for coming to the club at this time of day! Perdition on the fellow!
I’ve got on new shoes, too!”
“What are you two squabbling about?” enquired Hamilton Bright, coming
suddenly upon them out of the cloak-room.
“We’re not squabbling--we’re cursing Ralston,” answered Miner.
“I wish you’d go and look after him, Ham,” said Crowdie to his
brother-in-law. “He’s just gone off there. He’s as drunk as the dickens,
and swearing against everybody and treading on their toes in the most
insolent way imaginable. Get him out of this, can’t you? Take him
home--you’re his friend. If you don’t he’ll be smashing things before
long.”
“Is he as bad as that, Frank?” asked Bright, gravely. “Where is he?”
“At the telephone--I don’t know--he trod on Crowdie’s feet and Crowdie’s
perfectly wild and exaggerates. But there’s something wrong, I know. I
think he’s not exactly screwed--but he’s screwed up--well, several pegs,
by the way he acts. They call drinks ‘pegs’ somewhere, don’t they? I
wanted to make a joke. I thought it might do Crowdie good--”
“Well, it’s a very bad one,” said Bright. “He’s at the telephone, you
say?”
“Yes. The man said Mr. Lauderdale wanted to speak to him--he didn’t know
which Mr. Lauderdale--but it’s probably Alexander the Safe, and if it
is, there’s going to be a row over the wires. When Jack’s shut up there
alone in the dark in the sound-proof box with the receiver under his
nose and Alexander at the other end--if the wires don’t melt--that’s
all! And Alexander’s a metallic sort of man--I should think he’d draw
the lightning right down to his toes.”
At that moment Ralston came swinging down the hall at a great pace, pale
and evidently under some sort of powerful excitement. He nodded
carelessly to the three men as they stood together and disappeared into
the cloak-room. Bright followed him, but Ralston, with his hat on, his
head down and struggling into his overcoat, rushed out as Bright reached
the door, and ran into the latter, precisely as he had run into Crowdie.
Bright was by far the heavier man, however, and Ralston stumbled at the
shock. Bright caught him by one arm and held him a moment.
“All right, Ham!” he exclaimed. “Everybody gets into my way to-day. Let
go, man! I’m in a hurry!”
“Wait a bit,” said Bright. “I’ll come with you--”
“No--you can’t. Let me go, Ham! What the deuce are you holding me for?”
He shook Bright’s arm angrily, for between the message he had received
and the obstacles he seemed to meet at every step, he was, by this time,
very much excited. Bright thought he read certain well-known signs in
his face, and believed that he had been drinking hard and might get into
trouble if he went out alone, for Ralston was extremely quarrelsome at
such times, and was quite capable of hitting out on the slightest
provocation, and had been in trouble more than once for doing so, as
Bright was well aware.
“I’m going with you, Jack, whether you like it or not,” said the latter,
with mistaken firmness in his good intentions.
“You’re not, I can tell you!” answered Ralston, in a lower tone. “Just
let me go--or there’ll be trouble here.”
He was furious at the delay, but Bright’s powerful hand did not relax
its grasp on his arm.
“Jack, old man,” said Bright, in a coaxing tone, “just come upstairs for
a quarter of an hour, and get quiet--”
“Oh--that’s it, is it? You think I’m screwed. I’m not. Let me
go--once--twice--”
Ralston’s face was now white with anger. The
[Illustration: “Before he could even raise his head, Ralston was out of
the door and in the street.”--Vol. II., p. 57.]
unjust accusation was the last drop. He was growing dangerous, but
Bright, in the pride of his superior strength, still held him firmly.
“Take care!” said Ralston, almost in a whisper. “I’ve counted two.” He
paused a full two seconds. “Three! There you go!”
The other men saw his foot glide forward like lightning over the marble
pavement. Instantly Bright was thrown heavily on his back, and before he
could even raise his head, Ralston was out of the door and in the
street. Crowdie and Miner ran forward to help the fallen man, as they
had not moved from where they had stood, a dozen paces away. But Bright
was on his feet in an instant, pale with anger and with the severe shock
of his fall. He turned his back on his companions at once, pretending to
brush the dust from his coat by the bright light which fell through the
glass door. Frank Miner stood near him, very quiet, his hands in his
pockets, as usual, and a puzzled look in his face.
“Look here, Bright,” he said gravely, watching Bright’s back. “This sort
of thing can’t go on, you know.”
Bright said nothing, but continued to dust himself, though there was not
the least mark on his clothes.
“Upon my word,” observed Crowdie, walking slowly up and down in his
ungraceful way, “I think we’d better call a meeting at once and have
him requested to take his name off. If that isn’t conduct unbecoming a
gentleman, I don’t know what is.”
“No,” said Miner. “That wouldn’t do. It would stick to him for life. All
the same, Bright, this is a club--it isn’t a circus--and this sort of
horse-play is just a little too much. Why don’t you turn round? There’s
no dust on you--they keep the floor of the arena swept on purpose when
Ralston’s about. But it’s got to stop--it’s got to stop right here.”
Bright’s big shoulders squared themselves all at once and he faced
about, apparently quite cool again.
“I say,” he began, “did anybody see that but you two?” He looked up and
down the deserted hall.
“No--wait a bit, though--halloa! Where are the hall servants? There
ought to be two of them. They must have just gone off. There they are,
on the other side of the staircase. Robert! And you--whatever your name
is--come here!”
The two servants came forward at once. They had retired to show their
discretion and at the same time to observe what happened, the moment
they had seen Bright catch Ralston’s arm.
“Look here,” said Bright to them. “If you say anything about what you
saw just now, you’ll have to go. Do you understand? As we shan’t speak
of it, we shall know that you have, if it’s talked about. That’s all
right--you can go now. I just wanted you to understand.”
The two servants bowed gravely. They respected Bright, and, like all
servants, they worshiped Ralston. There was little fear of their
indiscretion. Bright turned to Crowdie and Miner.
“If anybody has anything to say about this, I have,” he said. “I’m the
injured person if any one is. And of course I shall say nothing, and
I’ll beg you to say nothing either. Of course, if he ever falls foul of
you, you’re free to do as you please, and of course you might, if you
chose, bring this thing before the committee. But I know you won’t speak
of it--either of you. We’ve all been screwed once or twice in our lives,
I suppose. As for me, I’m his friend, and he didn’t know what he was
doing. He’s a deuced good fellow at heart, but he’s infernally hasty
when he’s had too much. That’s all right, isn’t it? I can trust you,
can’t I?”
“Oh, yes, as far as I’m concerned,” said Crowdie, speaking first. “If
you like that sort of thing, I’ve nothing to say. You’re quite big
enough to take care of yourself. I hope Hester won’t hear it. She
wouldn’t like the idea of her brother being knocked about without
defending himself. I don’t particularly like it myself.”
“That’s nonsense, Walter, and you know it is,” answered Bright, curtly,
and he turned to Miner with a look of enquiry.
“All right, Ham!” said the little man. “I’m not going to tell tales, if
you aren’t. All the same--I don’t want to seem squeamish, and
old-maid-ish, and a frump generally--but I don’t think I do remember
just such a thing happening in any club I ever belonged to. Oh, well!
Don’t let’s stand here talking ourselves black in the face. He’s gone,
this time, and he’ll never find his way back if he once gets round the
corner. You’ll hear to-morrow that he’s been polishing Tiffany’s best
window with a policeman. That’s about his pressure when he gets a
regular jag on. As for me, I’ve been trying to get somebody to have a
drink with me for just three quarters of an hour, and so far my
invitations have come back unopened. I suppose you won’t refuse a
pilot’s two fingers after the battle, Ham?”
“What’s a pilot’s two fingers?” asked Bright. “I’ll accept your
hospitality to that modest extent, anyhow. Show us.”
“It’s this,” said Miner, holding up his hand with the forefinger and
little finger extended and the others turned in. “The little finger is
the bottom,” he explained, “and you don’t count the others till you get
to the forefinger, and just a little above the top of that you can see
the whiskey. Understand? What will you have, Crowdie?”
“A drop of maraschino, thanks,” said the painter.
“Maraschino!” Miner made a wry face at the thought of the sugary stuff.
“All right then, come in!”
They all went back together into the room in which Ralston and Miner had
been sitting before the trouble began. Crowdie and his brother-in-law
were not on very good terms. The former behaved well enough when they
met, but Bright’s dislike for him was not to be concealed--which was
strange, considering that Bright was a sensible and particularly
self-possessed man, who was generally said to be of a gentle
disposition, inclined to live harmoniously with his surroundings. He
soon went away, leaving the artist and the man of letters to themselves.
Miner did not like Crowdie very much either, but he admired him as an
artist and had the faculty of making him talk.
If Ralston had really been drinking, he could not have been in a more
excited state than when he left the club, leaving his best friend
stretched on his back in the hall. He was half conscious of having done
something which would be considered wholly outrageous among his
associates, and among gentlemen at large. The fact that Bright was his
distant cousin was hardly an excuse for tripping him up even in jest,
and if the matter were to be taken in earnest, Bright’s superior
strength would not excuse Ralston for using his own far superior skill
and quickness, in the most brutal way, and on rather slender
provocation. No one but he himself, however, even knew that he had been
making a great effort to cure himself of a bad habit, and that although
it was now Thursday, he had taken nothing stronger than a little weak
wine and water and an occasional cup of coffee since Monday afternoon.
Bright could therefore have no idea of the extent to which his
accusation had wounded and exasperated the sensitive man--rendered ten
times more sensitive than usual by his unwonted abstention.
Ralston, however, did not enter into any such elaborate consideration of
the matter as he hurried along, too much excited just then to stop and
look for a cab. He was still whole-heartedly angry with Bright, and was
glad that he had thrown him, be the consequences what they might. If
Bright would apologize for having laid rough hands on him, Ralston would
do as much--not otherwise. If the thing were mentioned, he would leave
the club and frequent another to which he belonged. Nothing could be
simpler.
But he had received a much more violent impression than he fancied, and
he forgot many things--forgetting even for a moment where he was going.
Passing an up-town hotel on his way, he entered the bar by sheer force
of habit--the habit of drinking something whenever his nerves were not
quite steady. He ordered some whiskey, still thinking of Bright, and it
was not until he had swallowed half of it that he realized what he was
doing. With a half-suppressed oath he set down the liquor unfinished,
dropped his money on the metal table and went out, more angry than ever.
Realizing that he was not exactly in a condition to talk quietly to any
one, he turned into a side street, lit a strong cigar and walked more
slowly for a few minutes, trying to collect his thoughts, and at last
succeeding to a certain extent, aided perhaps by the tonic effect of the
spoonful of alcohol he had swallowed.
The whole thing had begun in a very simple way--the gradual increase of
tension from the early morning until towards evening had been produced
by small incidents following upon the hasty marriage ceremony, which, as
has been said, had produced a far deeper impression upon him than upon
Katharine herself. The endless hours of waiting, the solitary luncheon,
the waiting again, Katharine’s summary dismissal of him, almost without
a word of explanation--then more waiting, and Miner’s tiresome
questions, and the sudden call to the telephone, and stumbling against
Crowdie--and all the rest of it. Small things, all of them, after the
marriage itself, but able to produce at least a fit of extremely bad
temper by their cumulative action upon such a character. Ralston was
undoubtedly a dangerous man to exasperate at five o’clock on that
Thursday afternoon.
He had been summoned by Robert Lauderdale himself, and this had
contributed not a little to the haste which had brought him into
collision with Bright. The old gentleman had asked him to come up to his
house at once; John had said that he would come immediately, but on
asking a further question he found the communication closed.
It immediately struck him that Katharine had not found uncle Robert at
home in the morning, that she had very possibly gone to him again in the
afternoon, and that they were perhaps together at that very moment, and
had agreed to send for Ralston in order to talk matters over. It was
natural enough, considering his strong desire to see Katharine before
the ball, and his anxiety to hear Robert Lauderdale’s definite answer,
upon which depended everything in the immediate present and future, that
he should not have cared to waste time in exchanging civilities in the
hall of the club with Bright, whom he saw almost every day, or with
Crowdie, whom he detested. The rest has been explained.
Nor was it at all unnatural that the three men should all have been
simultaneously deceived into believing that he had been drinking more
than was good for him. A man who is known to drink habitually can
hardly get credit for being sober when he is perfectly quiet--never,
when he is in the least excited. Ralston had been more than excited. He
had been violent. He had disgraced himself and the club by a piece of
outrageous brutality. If any one but Bright had suffered by it, there
would have been a meeting of the committee within twenty-four hours, and
John Ralston’s name would have disappeared from the list of members
forever. It was fortunate for him that Bright chanced to be his best
friend.
Ralston scarcely realized how strongly the man was attached to him.
Embittered as he was by being constantly regarded as the failure of the
family, he could hardly believe that any one but his mother and
Katharine cared what became of him. A young man who has wasted three or
four years in fruitless, if not very terrible, dissipation, whose nerves
are a trifle affected by habits as yet by no means incurable, and who
has had the word ‘failure’ daily branded upon him by his discriminating
relatives, easily believes that for him life is over, and that he can
never redeem the time lost--for he is constantly reminded of this by
persons who should know better. And if he is somewhat melancholic by
nature, he is very ready to think that the future holds but two
possibilities,--the love of woman so long as it may last, and an easy
death of some sort when there is no more love. That was approximately
John Ralston’s state of mind as he ascended the steps of Robert
Lauderdale’s house on that Thursday afternoon.
CHAPTER XIX.
Ralston shook himself and stamped his feet softly upon the rug as he
took off his overcoat in the hall of Robert Lauderdale’s house. He was
conscious that he was nervous and tried to restore the balance of forces
by a physical effort, but he was not very successful. The man went
before him and ushered him into the same room in which Katharine had
been received that morning. The windows were already shut, and several
shaded lamps shed a soft light upon the bookcases, the great desk and
the solid central figure of the great man. Ralston had not passed the
threshold before he was conscious that Katharine was not present, as he
had hoped that she might be. His excitement gave place once more to the
cold sensation of something infinitely disappointing, as he took the old
gentleman’s hand and then sat down in a stiff, high-backed chair
opposite to him--to be ‘looked over,’ he said to himself.
“So you’re married,” said Robert Lauderdale, abruptly opening the
conversation.
“Then you’ve seen Katharine,” answered the young man. “I wasn’t sure you
had.”
“Hasn’t she told you?”
“No. I was to have seen her this afternoon, but--she couldn’t do more
than tell me that she would talk it all over this evening.”
“Oh!” ejaculated the old man. “That rather alters the case.”
“How?” enquired Ralston, whose bad temper made him instinctively choose
to understand as little as possible of what was said.
“Well, in this way, my dear boy. Katharine and I had a long interview
this morning, and as I supposed you must have met before now, I
naturally thought she had explained things to you.”
“What things?” asked Ralston, doggedly.
“Oh, well! If I’ve got to go through the whole affair again--” The old
man stopped abruptly and tapped the table with his big fingers, looking
across the room at one of the lamps.
“I don’t think that will be necessary,” said Ralston. “If you’ll tell me
why you sent for me that will be quite enough.”
Robert Lauderdale looked at him in some surprise, for the tone of his
voice sounded unaccountably hostile.
“I didn’t ask you to come for the sake of quarrelling with you, Jack,”
he replied.
“No. I didn’t suppose so.”
“But you seem to be in a confoundedly bad temper all the same,” observed
the old gentleman, and his bushy eyebrows moved oddly above his bright
old eyes.
“Am I? I didn’t know it.” Ralston sat very quietly in his chair, holding
his hat on his knees, but looking steadily at Mr. Lauderdale.
The latter suddenly sniffed the air discontentedly, and frowned.
“It’s those abominable cocktails you’re always drinking, Jack,” he said.
“I’ve not been drinking any,” answered Ralston, momentarily forgetting
the forgetfulness which had so angered him ten minutes earlier.
“Nonsense!” cried the old man, angrily. “Do you think that I’m in my
dotage, Jack? It’s whiskey. I can smell it!”
“Oh!” Ralston paused. “It’s true--on my way here, I began to drink
something and then put it down.”
“Hm!” Robert Lauderdale snorted and looked at him. “It’s none of my
business how many cocktails you drink, I suppose--and it’s natural that
you should wish to celebrate the wedding day. Might drink wine, though,
like a gentleman,” he added audibly.
Again Ralston felt that sharp thrust of pain which a man feels under a
wholly unjust accusation brought against him when he has been doing his
best and has more than partially succeeded. The fiery temper--barely
under control when he had entered the house--broke out again.
“If you’ve sent for me to lecture me on my habits, I shall go,” he said,
moving as though about to rise.
“I didn’t,” answered the old gentleman, with flashing eyes. “I asked you
to come here on a matter of business--and you’ve come smelling of
whiskey and flying into a passion at everything I say--and I tell
you--pah! I can smell it here!”
He took a cigar from the table and lit it hastily. Meanwhile Ralston
rose to his feet. He evidently had no intention of quarrelling with his
uncle unnecessarily, but the repeated insult stung him past endurance.
The old man looked up, with the cigar between his teeth, and still
holding the match at the end of it. With the other hand he took a bit of
paper from the table and held it out towards Ralston.
“That’s what I sent for you about,” he said.
Ralston turned suddenly and faced him.
“What is it?” he asked sharply.
“Take it, and see.”
“If it’s money, I won’t touch it,” Ralston answered, beginning to grow
pale, for he saw that it was a cheque, and it seemed just then like a
worse insult than the first.
“It’s not for you. It’s a matter of business. Take it!”
Ralston shifted his hat into his left hand and took the cheque in his
right, and glanced at it. It was drawn in favour of Katharine Lauderdale
for one hundred thousand dollars. He laughed in the old man’s face,
being very angry.
“It’s a curiosity, at all events,” he said with contempt, laying it on
the table.
“What do you mean?” cried his uncle, growing redder as Ralston turned
white.
“There is no Katharine Lauderdale, in the first place,” answered the
young man. “The thing isn’t worth the paper it’s written on. If it were
