make no further intercession.
"I have no doubt we shall meet again," he said. "These gentlemen will no
doubt release us soon."
He was by no means confident of this, but he thought it politic to take
things cheerfully.
"The boy has sense," said the captain approvingly.
"Well, good-by, boys," said Obed, wringing the hands of his two young
friends. "I shall feel awfully lonely, that's a fact, but as you say, we
may meet again."
"Good-by, Obed," said each boy, trying not to look as sorrowful as he
felt.
Obed Stackpole turned, and walked slowly away. His prospects were by no
means bright, for he was left without money or provisions in the
Australian wilderness, but at that moment he thought only of losing the
companionship of the two boys, and was troubled by the thought that they
might come to harm among the bushrangers.
"If I only knew where they were goin' to take 'em," he said to himself,
"I'd foller and see if I couldn't help 'em to escape."
To follow at once, however, he felt would be in the highest degree
imprudent, and he continued to move away slowly, but without any
definite idea of where he intended to go.
When Obed had disappeared, Fletcher came up to the boys, and said with a
smile:
"So you miss that Yankee, do you?"
"Yes, I do," answered Harry.
"You like him?"
"Yes."
"Then I don't admire your taste. He's rough and uncouth, and is more
fitted for a farm laborer than for society."
"That may be," said Harry, "but he is honest and reliable."
He might perhaps unconsciously have emphasized the word honest. At any
rate, Fletcher so understood him, and took offence at the implication.
"Look here, young whipper-snapper," he said roughly, "you'd better take
care how you talk. You are in my power, and something will happen to you
if you are insolent."
"What have I said to offend you?" asked Harry, looking the bushranger
calmly in the face. "I am not speaking of you, but of Mr. Stackpole."
"You meant to insinuate that there was a difference between us."
"That ought not to offend you, as you have so poor an opinion of him."
Harry evidently had the best of it, and Fletcher felt cornered, for he
did not care to court the charge of dishonesty.
"Perhaps you didn't mean anything," he growled. "If so, all is well, but
you had best be careful."
"Follow me, men," said the leader. He turned his horse's head and rode
into the wood.
The eucalyptus trees are very tall, some attaining a height of hundreds
of feet. They begin to branch high up, and there being little if any
underbrush in the neighborhood, there was nothing to prevent the passage
of mounted horsemen. The ground was dry also, and the absence of bogs
and marshy ground was felt to be a great relief.
The boys were on foot, and so were two or three of the bushrangers'
party. As already intimated, they were of inferior rank and employed as
attendants. In general the party was silent, but the boys overheard a
little conversation between the captain and Dick Fletcher, who rode
beside him.
"You haven't distinguished yourself this time, Fletcher," said the chief
in a dissatisfied tone. "You led me think that this party had money
enough to repay us for our trouble."
"It isn't my fault," said Fletcher in an apologetic tone. "The Yankee
completely deceived me. He was always boasting of his money."
"He doesn't seem like that kind of a man," said the captain
thoughtfully. "What could have been his object?"
"He must have meant to fool me. I am ashamed to say he did."
"Couldn't you have found out whether his boasts were correct?"
"That is just what I tried to do," answered Fletcher. "I crept to his
side early one morning, and began to explore his pockets, but he woke up
in an instant and cut up rough. He seized me by the throat, and I
thought he would choke me. That made me think all the more that he
carried a good deal of money about with him."
"The boys, too--did you think they were worth plundering?"
"Oh, no, I never was deceived about them," replied Fletcher promptly. "I
concluded that, even if they had money, the Yankee was their guardian,
and took care of it. They are all Americans, you know."
He spoke glibly, and the captain appeared to credit his statements. The
boys listened with interest, and with a new appreciation of Fletcher's
character. They could easily have disproved one of his statements, for
they knew very well that Obed never boasted of his money, nor gave
anyone a right to suppose that he carried much with him. On this point
he was very reticent, and neither of them knew much of his
circumstances. However, it would have done no good to contradict
Fletcher, for his word with the captain would have outweighed theirs,
and he would have found a way to punish them for their interference.
"In future," said the captain, "I advise you to make sure that the game
is worth bagging. As it is, you have led us on a fool's errand."
"That may be," Fletcher admitted, "but it wasn't so last time. The
Scotch merchant bled freely, you must allow."
"Yes, you did better then."
As Harry listened he began to understand that Fletcher acted as a decoy,
to ingratiate himself with parties leaving Melbourne for the mines, and
then giving secret information to the bushrangers with whom he was
connected, enabling them to attack and plunder his unsuspecting
companions.
"That's a pretty mean sort of business," he said to Jack, when he had an
opportunity to speak to him without being overheard. "I'd rather be a
robber right out than lure people into danger."
"So would I," responded Jack. "That Fletcher's worse than a pirate."
Still they went on, so slowly that the boys, though compelled to walk,
had little difficulty in keeping up. They were necessarily anxious, but
their predominant feeling was of curiosity as to their destination, and
as to the bushrangers' mode of life.
At length they came out of the woods into more open ground.
CHAPTER XII.
THE HOME OF THE BUSHRANGERS.
On a slight rise stood a collection of huts, covered with sheets of the
bark of the gum-tree, held on by ties of bullock hide. For the most part
they contained but one room each. One, however, was large and, the boys
afterward learned, was occupied by the captain of the bushrangers.
Another served as a stable for the horses of the party.
This Harry judged to be the home of the outlaws, for no sooner had they
come in sight of it than they leaped from their horses and led them up
to the stable, relieving them of their saddles. Then the bushrangers sat
down on the ground, and lounged at their ease. The attendants forthwith
made preparations for a meal, appropriating the stores which had just
been taken from Obed and the boys. The captives were not sorry that
there was a prospect of a meal, for by this time they were hungry. They
followed the example of their companions, and threw themselves down on
the ground. Next to them was a young bushranger, apparently about
twenty-two years of age, who had a pleasant face, indicative of good
humor.
"How do you like our home?" he asked, turning to Harry with a smile.
"It is a pleasant place," answered Harry.
"How would you like to live here?"
"I don't think I should like it," Harry replied honestly.
"And why not? Is it not better than to be pent up in a city? Here we
breathe the pure air of the woods; we listen to the songs of the birds;
we are not chained to the desk or confined from morning till night in a
close office."
"That is true, but are there not some things you do not like about it?"
asked Harry significantly.
"Such as what?"
"Is it not better to earn your living, even if you are chained to a
desk, than to get it as you do?"
Harry felt that he was rather bold in asking this question, but he was
reassured by the pleasant face of the young outlaw.
"Well," admitted the latter, "there are some objections to our life."
"It would not do for all to get their living as you do."
"That is true. Some must work, in order that others may relieve them of
a portion of their property."
"Are you not afraid of being interfered with?"
"By the mounted police?"
"Yes."
"We are strong enough to overcome them," said the bushranger
carelessly.
"What is the name of your captain?" asked Harry.
"Stockton. No doubt you heard of him in Melbourne."
Harry shook his head.
The outlaw seemed surprised. "I thought everybody in Australia had heard
of Ben Stockton," he said. "He has a great name," he added with evident
pride. "He is as strong as a lion, fears nothing, and his name is
associated with some of the most daring robberies that have ever taken
place in this country."
"And still he is free," said Harry suggestively.
"The authorities are afraid of him. They have offered a reward for his
capture, but it doesn't trouble him. He only laughs at it."
They were far enough away from the rest of the party to carry on their
conversation unheard--otherwise, neither Harry nor his informant would
have ventured to speak with so much freedom. At this eulogium, however,
Harry scanned, with some curiosity, the face and figure of the famous
bushranger, who was sitting about three rods distant. He was a man of
large frame, powerfully built, with hair and beard black as night, and
keen, penetrating eyes that seemed to look through those upon whom they
were fixed. He had about him an air of command and conscious authority,
so that the merest stranger could not mistake his office. About his
mouth there was something which indicated sternness and cruelty. He was
a man to inspire fear, and Harry, after a steady examination, felt no
surprise at the man's reputation.
"How long has he been captain?" asked Harry.
"Ever since I joined the band," answered the young man. "I don't know
how much longer."
"How long have you been a member of the band?"
"Five years."
"You must have been a mere boy when you joined."
"I was seventeen. I am twenty-two now."
"I should like to ask you a question, but you may not like to answer
it."
"Go on! If I don't care to answer, I will tell you so."
"What induced you to join the bushrangers?"
"I will tell you," said the young man, showing neither offence nor
reluctance. "I was employed in Melbourne in a business establishment.
One of my fellow-clerks stole some money, and, to screen himself,
managed to implicate me by concealing a part of the stolen money in my
coat pocket. I knew no way to prove my innocence, and my employer was
not a man to show pity, so I escaped from Melbourne and took refuge in
the bush. There I fell in with Captain Stockton, who offered me a place
in his band. I accepted, and here I am."
"But for the act of your fellow clerk you would have been an honest
business man today, then?"
"Very likely."
"What a pity!" said Harry regretfully, for he was much attracted by the
open face and pleasant manners of the young man.
"So I thought at first, but I became used to it. After a while I grew to
like the free life of the bush."
"I don't call it free. You can't go back to Melbourne for fear of
arrest."
"Oh, yes, I have been there several times," said the young man
carelessly.
"How did you manage it?" asked Harry, puzzled.
"I disguised myself. Sometimes the captain sends me on special
business."
"Like Fletcher?" asked Harry quickly.
"No; I shouldn't like that work. It suits him, however."
"I never should have taken you for a bushranger. You look too honest."
The other laughed.
"I think I was meant to be an honest man," he said. "That is, I am
better suited to it. But fate ordained otherwise."
"Fate?"
"Yes; I believe that everything that happens to us is fated, and could
not have been otherwise."
"You think, then, that you were fated to be a bushranger?"
"I am sure of it."
"That, then, accounts for it not troubling you."
"You are right. We can't kick against fate, you know."
"I shouldn't like to believe as you do," said Harry earnestly.
"You'll come to believe it sooner or later," said the outlaw, with an
air of conviction.
"Then what is the use of trying to lead a good and honorable life?"
"That's just what I say. There isn't any use."
Harry had never before met anyone holding such views of fate. He was
interested, but repelled. He felt that he could not and would not accept
any such idea, and he said so.
"You'll change your mind after you become one of us," said his
companion.
"After what?" ejaculated Harry.
"After you become one of us."
"But that will never be. How can you think such a thing!"
"Because I know it is to be. Why do you think the captain brought you
here? He had your money, and couldn't get any more out of you."
"Do you really mean what you say?" asked Harry, his heart filled with a
sickening apprehension that this might be true.
"Of course I do. The captain likes young people. You two boys are smart
and bright, and he is going to make you members of the band."
"He can't! I'll die first!" exclaimed Harry with suppressed energy.
"You will see. But hush! don't speak so loud. For my part I shall be
very glad to have you among us. You will be companions for me. You are
only about a year younger than I was when I joined."
At this moment their companion was called away, and Harry, bending
toward Jack, whispered in his ear: "I am afraid he is right about the
captain's intentions. We must try to escape as soon as there is any
chance."
"I'm with you," Jack whispered back.
CHAPTER XIII.
A TRIAL AND ITS TRAGIC FINALE.
Harry was very much disturbed by the communication of his new
acquaintance, whose name he ascertained to be Wyman. It was not very
pleasant, of course, to be a prisoner, but this he could have borne,
being confident, sooner or later, of escaping. But to be forced to join
these lawless men, and render himself, like them, an outlaw and outcast
from respectable society, seemed terrible. He determined that, come what
would, he would preserve his integrity and his honest name. He might be
ill-treated, but they could not force him to become a bushranger. He
talked the matter over with Jack, and the young sailor agreed with him.
Presently the meal was ready, and the two boys were served with the
rest. Notwithstanding their precarious position, each ate heartily It
takes a good deal to spoil the appetite of a growing boy.
After eating, the captain, clearing his throat, addressed the band:
"My men," he said, "we have refreshed ourselves by eating, and now a
less pleasant scene awaits us. I am your captain, and to me you have
sworn implicit obedience. Is it not so?"
"Yes, yes!" answered the bushrangers.
"It is a necessity of our position. We have withdrawn from the world,
and we lead a free, untrammelled life in the bush. We scorn the laws
that the colonists have made, and prefer to govern ourselves. Is this
so?"
There was a hoarse murmur of assent.
"As a consequence," the captain proceeded, "we are hunted like wild
beasts. Our enemies have laid plots to ensnare us, but thus far they
have not succeeded. While we stand together we are safe."
Again there were signs of assent and approval as Captain Stockton
paused.
"But one thing is essential. There must be no traitor, no malcontents
among us. A large reward has been offered for my apprehension--five
thousand pounds! It shows how much they are afraid of us," and he raised
his head with unconscious pride. "Against open enemies we can hold our
own, but not against the secret foe who sits beside us as a friend, and
eats and drinks with us. When such a one is found, what shall be his
fate?"
He paused for a reply, and it came from the lips of all in one stern
word--"Death!"
"I am answered," said the captain. "The sentence has been pronounced,
not by my lips but by your own."
Here he turned to two attendants, who were stationed near at hand.
"Bring forth the traitor," he said.
The two men disappeared within one of the huts, and immediately
reappeared, leading behind them a third, with his hands tied behind him.
His face was covered by a black cloth, which effectually screened his
features from the general observation. All eyes were turned on the
unhappy man. Harry and Jack regarded the scene with painful interest.
They guessed what was coming.
"Complete your task!" said the captain with a wave of his hand.
The two guards set the offender with his back to a tree, and producing a
rope, quickly passed it round his waist and tied him securely, with his
screened face toward the band.
"Wretch!" said the captain in a terrible voice, "you thought to betray
us, and expose us to punishment and death, but the doom which you were
ready to bring upon us has recoiled upon yourself. You would have sold
your captain and comrades for gold. They have pronounced your doom, and
it is Death! Have you anything to say?"
The victim did not speak, but slowly inclined his head in hopeless
submission to his fate.
"You have nothing to say for yourself. Is there anyone to speak for
you?"
One of the bushrangers sprang forward impetuously. "Yes, captain, I will
speak for him."
Captain Stockton frowned fiercely, but uttered one word, "Speak!"
The daring outlaw, who had stepped forward a little from the line,
commenced: "This man is my brother. We were nursed by the same mother,
we played together by the same fireside, we grew into manhood together,
and together we joined this band of brothers."
He paused a moment, and the captain said briefly, "Well?"
"Now," continued the brother, "you would condemn him to a shameful
death, which he does not deserve."
"What!" exclaimed the captain, his face becoming pale with anger; "what
do you dare to say? Do you question the justice of our sentence? Would
you excuse a traitor?"
"He is no traitor!" said the brother boldly.
"Was he not caught attempting to escape? Answer me instantly."
"Yes, but he had no intention of betraying any of us."
"What then was his object?" demanded Captain Stockton sternly.
"He meant to leave you. He had become tired of the life of a bushranger.
He wished to return to the paths of honesty, and live by labor at some
respectable trade."
"And why was this? Why, after so many years, had he become tired of our
noble independence?"
"In one of his missions, undertaken in the interest of the fraternity,
he had made the acquaintance of a young girl, modest and attractive. He
wished to marry her, but as a bushranger he knew this was impossible.
Therefore, he resolved to leave our band, and enter upon a new life. He
would never have uttered a word to imperil the safety of his captain or
his comrades."
"And you expect us to believe this?" said the captain with a sneer.
"I do. I swear it is true."
"And what do you expect me to do, Robert Graham?"
"To consider his temptations, and to show mercy upon him."
"Perhaps also you expect me to release him, and bid him go his way to
the maiden who is waiting for him."
"It would be a generous act."
"But I am not so generous," said the captain. "Your plea is ingenious,
but I put no faith in it. It is utterly improbable. You and your brother
have been with us for seven years. You have become accustomed to our
ways. He was faithful and loyal till the love of gold made him a
traitor. What he sought was blood money."
"No, a thousand times, no!" exclaimed the brother earnestly.
"I say it is so," said Captain Stockton harshly. "It is plain to every
member of the band. Yet, because you have never transgressed, I have
been willing to listen to you, remembering that he is your brother."
"Spare his life at least; even if you are convinced that he is guilty.
He has not lived his life half out. Be merciful!"
"I cannot," answered the captain in an inflexible tone. "If I yielded to
such a weakness all discipline would be at an end. If treachery is to be
pardoned, who knows which one among you might be the next to imitate the
example of this man. No! justice is stern, and punishment must be
inflicted. The guilty must be punished though the heavens fall. Men,
stand aside!"
This was addressed to the two men who stood, one on each side of the
condemned bushranger.
They obeyed the command of their chief and he, raising his revolver,
pointed it at the breast of the unhappy offender.
There was a moment of intense excitement. Harry and Jack were
spellbound. Their faces were pale, and wore an expression of horror.
They were about to see a human life taken. They could hardly forbear
uttering a groan.
The silence was broken by a sharp, explosive sound. The deadly weapon
had done its work; but it was not the captive who had received the
winged messenger of death. It was the captain himself who staggered and
with one convulsive movement fell prone to the earth.
CHAPTER XIV.
ELECTION OF A NEW CAPTAIN.
The excitement among the bushrangers was intense. Simultaneously they
started forward, and two of them, bending over, lifted the body of their
prostrate leader. But he was already dead. The bullet had reached his
heart, and probably he never knew what hurt him.
Robert Graham, the man who had caused his death, stood erect and
unflinching.
He threw his weapon upon the ground, folded his arms, and said, in a
tone devoid of fear: "Comrades, do with me what you will. I could not
help doing what I did. It was either my brother's life or his. Sandy was
innocent of the crime charged against him. He had no thought of
treachery, though he did mean to leave your ranks. Is there anyone among
you that would stand by and see his brother murdered before his eyes
when he had the means of preventing it?"
The bushrangers looked at each other in doubt. They had at first
accepted the captain's statement that Sandy Graham was a traitor. His
brother's explanation of his attempted desertion put a new face on the
matter. Then, again, there was not one among them that had not tired of
their despotic leader. Alive, he had impressed them with fear, and held
them in strict subordination, but he was far from popular, and had no
real friend among them. So, though they were startled and shocked, there
was no one to shed a tear over the dead. It was a moment of doubt when a
leader was wanted.
"Well," said Robert Graham, after a pause, "what are you going to do
with me? I wait your pleasure."
"He ought to be served as he served the captain," said Fletcher, who
disliked Graham, and had always been a toady to Captain Stockton.
"I say no," rejoined Rupert Ring, a man of medium height, but of great
muscular development. "It was a terrible deed, but had my brother--I
have a brother in England, whom I have not seen for fifteen years--been
in Sandy Graham's shoes, I would have done the same."
There was a half murmur, which seemed like approval.
"And after all," continued Ring, "though Sandy Graham was in fault, he
is not the first man that has been beguiled by a fair face."
"No, no!" was heard from several of the bushrangers.
"I don't wish to speak ill of the dead, but he drew the reins too tight
at times. He forgot that we have rights."
Again there was a murmur of assent. It was evident that he was carrying
his comrades with him.
"I move, therefore, that we pass over Robert Graham's deed as one to
which he was impelled by brotherly affection, and that we restore Sandy
Graham to his place in our ranks, on condition that he does not repeat
the offence. Those who agree with me, hold up their right hands."
All hands were raised except that of Fletcher.
"Release the prisoner," said Ring, turning to the two attendants.
Instantly the rope was cut, the dark cloth was removed, and Sandy
Graham, a tall, athletic, good-looking fellow, stepped forth, his face
pale from the terrible strain to which he had been subjected.
"Comrades, brothers," he said, in a voice indicating deep emotion, "I
thank you for giving me back my life. It shall be devoted to your
service."
The first to press forward, and grasp his hand convulsively was his
brother, Robert Graham.
"Robert," said Sandy, "but for your brave act I should have been lying
dead instead of him," and he pointed, with a shudder, to the dead
captain.
"For your sake, Sandy," said Robert solemnly, "I have shed human blood.
To save your life, I have become a murderer."
"No, Robert, you cannot be called that any more than if you had shed
blood in self-defence."
Their conversation was interrupted by Rupert Ring.
"Comrades," he said, "the captain is dead. We can do nothing without a
leader. We should appoint one at once."
Here Fletcher pushed forward.
"I am the oldest in service among you," he said. "I was the trusted
friend of Captain Stockton. I submit that I have the best claim to be
your leader."
But among bushrangers, as in other communities, the man who is the most
anxious to secure office is very apt to be left in the lurch. Now, it
happened that Fletcher was by no means a favorite in the band. He was
sly and sneaking in his methods, currying favor with the captain, even
at the expense of manliness and self-respect, and there were serious
doubts as to his courage. If he had been wiser, he would not have made a
boast of his standing with the late leader, for the men were heartily
tired of his tyranny, and resolved to elect someone in his place who
bore no similarity to him.
Rupert Ring smiled slightly as he heard Fletcher's modest claim.
"Comrades," he said, "you have heard Fletcher's appeal. It is true that
he is the oldest in service among you. It is for you to consider whether
that entitles him to the post of leader. Those of you who are in favor
of Dick Fletcher as your leader will signify it by raising your right
hands."
Fletcher's eye wandered anxiously around the circle. To his chagrin not
a single hand was raised save his own. There was a cheer of derision
which brought an angry flush to his cheek.
Then a clear voice was heard. It was that of the young man, Wyman, whose
conversation with the two boys has already been recorded.
"I nominate Rupert Ring for our leader," he said.
There was a chorus of approval, which emboldened Wyman to add: "As he
can't very well put the question on his own nomination, I will do so.
Those of you who want Ring for your captain, please hold up your right
hands." All hands were raised except that of Fletcher.
"That settles it," said Wyman, who was unversed in parliamentary
language. "I call for three cheers for Captain Ring!"
The woods echoed to the lusty cheers of the bushrangers. It was evident,
from the general expression of satisfaction, that the choice was a
popular one.
"Comrades," said the new captain modestly, "I did not look for this
promotion, as you may have thought from my taking the lead just now, but
I saw that it was necessary for somebody to act. I don't know whether
you have made a wise choice or not, but I will do my best to make you
think so. Since I am your captain, it is my duty first to see that
proper honor is paid to the remains of your late captain, whom sudden
death has overtaken. You two lift the body and carry it into yonder
cabin."
The two attendants did so.
"Prepare a coffin, and at daybreak we will commit him to the earth.
Whatever else may be said of him, he was a brave man, and knew not
fear."
"That is true," said Robert Graham in a low voice.
"As to his faults, those we have no further concern with. All of us have
faults and no doubt grave ones."
Fletcher, till now, had sulked in silence. He was terribly disappointed
that he had been passed over and Rupert Ring promoted to the place of
chief, but since it was so he felt that it was politic to stand well
with the new administration.
"Captain Ring," he said, extending his hand, "let me be the first to
congratulate you on your election as our captain."
Ring smiled slightly. He had never liked Fletcher.
"I accept your congratulations, Fletcher," he said, "and condole with
you on your own disappointment. We can't all be leaders."
"I hope to enjoy your favor, as I did that of Captain Stockton,"
continued Fletcher smoothly.
"That will depend on yourself," said Ring shortly.
"I would like to suggest that the two boys"--here Fletcher turned in the
direction where Harry and Jack had been standing, and ejaculated in
dismay, "I don't see them. What has become of them?"
"They have taken advantage of the excitement and confusion to run away,
I fancy," said the new captain quietly.
This was quite true. Just after the fatal shot had been fired, and the
attention of all had been taken up by the tragedy, Harry had whispered
to Jack, "Now's our time to escape, Jack. Follow me!"
"I'm with you," responded Jack promptly, and no one noticed the two as
they vanished among the trees.
