in a satisfied manner. " Still, it's right pleasant 
to be remembered, and you was such a little mite 
of a thing!" 
Anybody could have read admiration in Mrs. 
Herrick's cordial glance. They were presently 
walking out to the old burying-ground. It was 
a long strip of land back of the "Orthodox " 
church, beginning to be more reverently cared 
for and improved according to modern ideas. In 
an out-of-the-way corner there was a plain marble 
slab, moss-grown and awry, with Man ton East- 
wood's name. 
" Poor papa ! " she sighed. "Mamma has a 
beautiful monument in the English burying- 
ground at Florence. It "seems as if they ought 
not to be so far apart, but it would not be prac- 
ticable to take him there." 
" No, I should say not," was the common-sense 
rejoinder. 
" But I should like to have this changed and 
improved, and a new stone put up. I wish you 
could remember little things about my father. 
I should like to hear them." 
" Why, I dare say some of them will come back 
to me. When there's no real need of treasurin' 
up, things are apt to slip out of your mind." 
This was what called Miss Eastwood back to 
Wendover. She engaged board for a fortnight 
later, selected what the townsfolk thought a 
pretty expensive stone, and stayed while the 
place was being cleared and the monument set 
up. Then she went on for a week or two longer. 
Pearl Disbrowe was to graduate at the Seminary 
this summer. Her roommate fell ill, and she 
came over to Mrs. Herrick's to board. She was 
an orphan as well, with a very moderate fortune. 
But it really seemed as if there was no end to 
Miss Eastwood's money. 
Mrs. Herrick was much too self-respecting to 
have her squander it on Stacy or herself. Stacy 
was rather abashed by the grandeur of the heir- 
ess and the many "citified" ways. Then, Miss 
Eastwood seemed a young lady and Stacy only 
a little girl. 
The next winter at Christmas there came a 
J30x of gifts. After that an occasional visit. 
Miss Eastwood spent a winter in Washington, 
made a tour of the Pacific coast, and now, after 
a second gay winter, came back to Mrs. Herrick's 
to recruit a while. For it was such a lovely old 
place ! There were nearly three acres of ground. 
At the back, half a dozen great chestnut-trees, 
another source of profit, and a delightful grove. 
The house was a large, rambling old place, built 
for two families of the same blood ; but the old 
folks had all died, the younger men gone to the 
" new countries," as the West was still termed, 
and it had been Jane Wilson's wedding portion. 
There was an old-fashioned dooryard in front, 
with a straight broad path up to the porch. Such 
flowers as grew there ! Such circles of old-fash- 
ioned May pinks ! such roses all through June ! 
such carnations later on ! and many of the more 
modern flowers. Then a great old honeysuckle 
clambered about, and a humming-bird always 
built her nest in it. 
Mrs. Herrick had ventured on one enlarge- 
ment. At the head of the hall was a sleeping- 
room that opened into hers. When the new 
porch roof was put on she had this pushed out, 
and made it one-third larger. Stacy's bed had 
befen moved into her aunt's room, and the wide 
door stood always open. There were two front 
windows and an end window. On the other side 
was Miss Eastwood's room. They called it hers, 
because it was newly furnished with a pretty ash 
suite that Stacy said looked like her. This mid- 
dle room was a general sitting-room for the girls. 
The house was double, and down-stairs the two 
rooms were rented out to students. The pro- 
fessor had one on the second floor, and Miss 
Disbrowe when she came. Indeed, this was her 
truest home. She had two sisters-in-law, and 
each was jealous if she did not dispose of her 
favors impartially. They thought she ought to 
hate Wendover, because she had been there at 
school, and because it was a stupid place. There 
had been a little money divided equally when their 
father died ; but Pearl's real fortune had come 
from a queer old maiden aunt of her mother's, 
who had given her the name she had not so 
highly honored herself. 
As for the Wendover girls, they adored merry, 
saucy, fun-loving Stacy, and were always drop- 
ping in. Stacy did her Saturday's work on Friday, 
because that last day of the week had grown into ' 
a sort of a holiday. 
She was never quite sure that she liked Sabrina 
Eastwood. All the others were on an equality, 
for Pearl wasn't " rich enough to hurt," she said ; 
but Miss Eastwood seemed high and fine, with a 
princess-like air. Her simplest gowns were ele- 
gant ; she could play and sing exquisitely, and 
she knew about everything. There was a curi- 
ous, intangible distance, and in her secret heart 
Stacy resented it. 
CHAPTER II 
IN THE CROWN OF YOUTH AND HOPE 
" In the King's Country." That was what Sa- 
brina Eastwood said fully five minutes later ; and 
five minutes seem a long time when converged 
on one small focus of four words. Stacy had 
looked in and given another half-invitation. Pearl 
wouldn't have made so much difference, but she 
didn't want Miss Eastwood. It was very nice to 
think of having Miss Eastwood's thousands, arid 
making a good time with it ; but if one had to be 
fussy and "finicky," and always thinking of eti- 
quette and conventionalities, why — let the money 
go and keep the good times. Sabrina Eastwood 
was just as much put of place in Wendover as 
she, Stacy, would be in Windsor Castle. 
"  In the King's Country.' When you think 
of it, the whole earth  is the Lord's ; ' you cannot 
go out of his country," continued Miss Eastwood. 
"Oh, yes, I am afraid we do in the nearer 
sense," said Pearl, in her soft, cool tones. " We 
make countries of our own. We abide in them. 
and fence others out. We train our roses up so 
high that no small wayside hand, aching for the 
smooth, satiny pink, can touch them. The high 
walls of our gardens condense the fragrance and 
send it up to the clouds, without blessing any 
weary souls that may be waiting at the wayside. 
And if it wasn't possible to make countries for 
ourselves, would the invitation ever have been 
given, ' Come unto me ' ? There comes a time, 
to many of us, when we do arise and go into the 
'King's Country,' and the Lor^puts some work in 
our hands. When I have a little leisure, it seems 
to me I ought to spend part of it there. IVe only 
settled it this way for myself," added the girl with 
a deprecating half-smile. " Everybody's life is a 
little different, and its duties not all alike." 
The sun sifted marvellous opalescent and sea- 
like tints through the spaces of green swaying 
vines. Now and then some long, slender ray 
would dart across the room like a living thing. 
Miss Eastwood was watching them. She rarely 
did anything with her hands. They lay idly in 
her lap, as if arranged for some bit of sculpture. 
If she wanted laces or shawls or fascinators, she 
thought it a kind of charity to buy them, thereby 
helping along trade and industry, since there were 
so many who must earn a living. 
But Pearl Disbrowe was always busy. Not in 
the aggressive fashion that puts on virtuous airs 
and makes its neighbors feel as if whirled along 
by machinery, but delicately, leisurely, as if it 
were a pastime. Some of her pretty handiwork 
went for gifts. Sabrina watched the deft fingers ; 
she even let her eyes rove furtively over Pearl. 
She was a very attractive girl ; she could make a 
decided jmpress ion on "society." 
" You are looking at it in a religious light. Fm 
afraid Tm not very religious." Sabrina Eastwood- 
flushed as she uttgfed this, curiously against her 
will. In a certain way she had enrolled herself 
under the banner of religion. A man she admired 
very much had said something while she was 
staying at an English country place that had 
impressed her seriously. It was that a woman's 
character could never attain to its highest and 
best without religion. She had been christened 
in infancy. It was quite in order, therefore, that 
she should be confirmed. She had experienced 
rapt moods during fine singing, and been carried 
along convincingly by impressive reading. She 
looked about for duties, and subscribed to 
"Homes," a day nursery, and a fresh-air fund. 
" Hospital Sunday " found her contribution gen- 
erous. She experienced an admiring satisfaction 
when she read the reports of their good work; 
but she knew in a secret, dissatisfied sort of a 
 
way that she had never been in the " King's Coun- 
try" at all. She was not even sure that she 
wanted to go. The little loitering on the outside 
was as much as the people in her " set " did. 
Pearl had smiled wistfully, but made no reply. 
Sabrina always seemed to her like a beautiful 
picture, and she enjoyed her infrequent meetings 
with the girl ; but just now she thought of the 
work she could do if she had a tithe of Miss East- 
wood's money. 
" I wish you would tell me of some nice things 
to do," Miss Eastwood said presently, in her most 
persuasive tone, as if divining the other's mood. 
There was a curiously uneasy feeling rising to the 
surface. If Pearl had preached or upbraided ever 
so gently she could have defended herself ; but 
she had a suspicion that Pearl stood on a higher 
plane, that she had an unknown security and cer- 
tainty in what she did. 
"I don't know what you would call 'nice 
things.' Do you mean pleasant ones .?" 
"Well, doing some good to some one — who 
needs it, I suppose I ought to add. I did sub- 
scribe to my customary charities. I always do 
that early in the season. They couldn't do 
anything without money ; so it's rather fortu- 
nate there should be some helpless people with 
money." 
"Why 'helpless'?" 
"Well, you see these people on committees 
know just what to do. They're not likely to make 
mistakes. And I have a feeling they would rather 
not be interfered with. I don't blame them, un- 
derstand. If I had learned by long experience 
just how to do any kind of work, I shouldn't like 
an entirely ignorant person to come and insist 
that her way was better. I shouldn't know who 
was deserving. I don't believe I could tell if the 
women drank, or if the children were frauds. 
Only it makes you seem outside of it all. And 
when you get tired of other matters" — She 
made a long pause, and the brown eyes seemed 
to shadow over, as if she were really tired and 
discouraged. 
" The doing good to those who need it is not 
always pleasant work. Yet sometimes there are 
great pleasures that may be given " — 
Pearl thought of Stacy and the little variation 
to her life, — the delight a journey to some 
strange place would be to her. Why couldn't 
Sabrina see that ! 
Just then there was a stir, a rather heavy step 
and panting breath, and Aunt Jane came to the 
door of the room with a letter in her hand. 
"For you. Miss Eastwood. Tom Bevans just 
brought it over." 
" Thank you," said Sabrina. " YouVe tired 
yourself all out coming up-stairs. Sit and rest a 
moment." 
" No ; it was some bits of carpet that Fd been 
shaking that made my breath so short. Dear, dear ! 
The idea of being tired out with a little thing like 
that ! " and she laughed with a mellow voice. 
Sabrina looked idly at her letter. It was from 
her aunt — not a real aunt, for neither father nor 
mother had near ties. But the Vantines were 
cousins, and Mr. Vantine had been appointed her 
guardian. In fact, after her mother had won her 
suit, they were her nearest heirs, since Hollis 
Winchester had been dispossessed. 
Mrs. Herrick went puffing down the stairs 
again, not because she was breathless, but from 
a habit she had fallen into that she thought 
rested her. Pearl went on with her crocheting. 
Sabrina studied the waxen seal, with the fine let- 
tering she could not have deciphered if she had 
not known what it was. Mrs. Vantine adopted 
every style that was a little troublesome. She 
thought a waxen seal indicative of leisure and 
refinement, and was annoyed when Sabrina omit- 
ted it. 
The girl cut across the end of the great square 
envelope of stamped Irish linen. The epistle was 
crossed, and she hated crossed writing. 
"What do you find at Wendover to keep you so 
long ? "was one sentence. Then, after skipping 
some that were almost illegible, " Have .you de- 
cided what to do this summer ? Your uncle has 
business out in New Mexico ; and, if you can't 
settle upon any place, he thinks we might as well 
go along. There will be a certain style to it, but 
whether it would be comfortable is a question. 
If you don't mean to marry " — Sabrina- skipped 
nearly a page. "What do you think has hap- 
pened to Chester House ? Mr. Bedford died sud- 
denly of a heart trouble, and there has been 
a tremendous business collapse. Mrs. Bedford 
wrote to say she couldn't think of keeping the 
place, and drops it back on our hands as coolly 
as you please. Your uncle put it on an agent's 
books at once, but everybody wants modern ap- 
pointments, and it's too late to do the house over. 
If it was a really fashionable resort, but it isn't. 
And we don't want a regiment of children de- 
stroying everything. Your uncle thinks you had 
better take Winchester's offer for it. It's an old 
house, in an out-of-the-way place, and no one 
else will give you as much. It will soon be out 
of repair, and become a bill of cost. Have you 
come to any decision ? I'm going to the Cal- 
crofts' for ten days. I really think I should like 
to go with your uncle," 
Presently Sabrina perused it more carefully. 
Perhaps that about the marriage was right. She 
could not be always young. Mrs. Vantine's two 
daughters had married exceptionally well before 
they were twenty. Mr. Richmond Jarvis, a rail- 
road man who was to accompany Mr. Vantine, 
was another chance. If she went she would ta- 
citly commit herself to his attentions. There was 
the round of watering-places. She was weary, as 
she had said. Why couldn't she retire to Chester 
House ? To be sure, Hollis Winchester was in 
business only a few miles distant. He had asked 
her to marry him in an almost brusque business 
fashion, quite as if she owed him some reparation 
for despoiling him. She had wished more than 
once that her mother had not been quite so exi- 
gent. But that was way back in her childhood, 
and she had nothing to do with it. The mill 
property had gone back into his hands. The old 
Hollis people had been her ancestors. Marriage 
had brought in the Winchesters. The Bedfords 
had taken a five years' lease the year before she 
attained her majority, and she had fallen back 
upon that, though some subtle emanation from 
her mother's influence still swayed her. Perhaps 
it would be a good thing to test her regard for the 
place. If she should not care to keep it she could 
take Winchester's offer. She was too young to 
e world-weary, but her last five or six years had 
been so crowded. She liked Wendover because 
she had time to rest and think ; rather an unsatis- 
factory process, after all. Were there not some 
things better than dressing and dancing, and talk- 
ing trivialities or unfriendly gossip, or considering 
a man's eligibility } Why did she not have some 
kind of a mission in the world } 
There were sounds of the visitors' departing, 
little laughs and gay tones, pleading and promis- 
ing, and the two girls ran up-stairs again. 
" It's a rowing party and a picnic down at 
Bird's Cove," began Stacy, "and the committee 
have left invitations for all. Frank sent a very 
urgent request to you, Pearl. We are to start at 
three, sharp. We'll have our supper at the cove, 
though we're going to take along the substantials. 
And there's a young moon, so the coming back 
will be gorgeous ! Moonlight adds a great deal 
to the beauty of the Watseka, as well as some 
other things in life. Nan, you can tell the little 
odds and ends, for I must go and help Aunt Jane 
get the dinner, and make a pan of biscuits. I've 
seen hungry people before now." 
The last of the sentence was finished in Aunt 
Jane's room, where she was getting back into her 
thither pass lilac gingham. Then she ran down- 
stairs humming a snatch of an old song. 
Aunt Jane listened and consented. These par- 
ties were quite the thing in Wendover during the 
summer. The best of them took place before 
the young men went away. The town was dull 
after that. 
Stacy was blithe as a bee. The professor was 
not home to dinner ; he seldom was on Saturday. 
Stacy and Nan exchanged curious brief glances 
as the girls responded to the summons. It was 
to the effect that Nan had not especially invited 
Miss Eastwood. The girls had decided that she 
would prove something of a damper to the party. 
She was too superfine. But since that invitation 
was left, it must be specially given, and Stacy 
could rise to emergencies in a graceful manner. 
" I know so few of you," said Miss Eastwood. 
"You are very good to count me in your pleas- 
ures, but I think I shall enjoy visiting with Aunt 
Jane." 
. " There, auntie, you hear ! She prefers you to 
our blandishments. Now you must dress up in 
a clean calico and a white apron, and let the 
garden severely alone while you devote yourself 
to entertaining." 
" Miss Eastwood  I have had good times to- 
gether before now," said Aunt Jane with her soft 
laugh. " You needn't worry a mite." 
"We can't spare Pearl. All the brave oarsmen 
would be broken-hearted and dispirited. They 
have engaged her." She came and kissed Pearl. 
She never felt quite sure how much she liked 
Miss Eastwood. She envied her and admired 
her ; she copied her in mimicry, and she was a lit- 
tle bit afraid of her. That gave her the sort of 
bravado. But just now Miss Eastwood longed to 
be in this crowd of happy girls. What made them 
all adore Pearl ? 
Stacy and Nan helped wash the dishes, put up 
their contribution toward the supper, — delightful 
biscuit sandwiches, with cold ham and chicken. 
She also slipped into the basket a small jar of jam. 
Frank Porter was to call and escort the basket. 
He said he wouldn't mind heaviness in such a 
good cause. They went off gayly, hoping Miss 
Eastwood wouldn't be lonesome. 
Aunt Jane came and brought her mending- 
basket. There were some old tablecloths to be 
cut into napkins. She still put everything to the 
best use. 
"Pearl Disbrowe is an unusual girl, don't you 
think so, Aunt Jane? " Many people called Mrs. 
Herrick "Aunt Jane." " If everybody could make 
goodness look so lovely " — 
" Well — Pearl — she's good all through. There's 
no streaks to flash out and spoil it. I never see 
her beat for thinking of other folks. I declare for 
it, if I was rich Td buy a nice big house and settle 
it on her. She should take in the lame, the halt, 
and the blind. She's an outside Sister of Charity, 
but her gray gowns are never ugly. It beats me 
to see how she manages to find so many nice poor 
people. She's got two on her mind now, and 
she's been talkin' to me about taking them and 
letting her pay their board. There, I don't know's 
I ought to told that ! I've been planning that 
when all the folks go away I could — but law ! I 
sha'n't let her pay no board for two poor old 
women. They were great ladies in their young 
days, it seems, and had no end of money, and 
their father owned a farm that's Fifth Avenue, 
New York, to-daiy. One thing and another hap- 
pened to them, and they've lost their fortune. 
All their knowledge is of the old-fashioned sort. 
They've taught ; they've done fine sewing, and 
lived poorer and poorer, all crowded up — rents are 
so high in city places. They had some bank 
stock, and there was some crooked work that 
broke the bank, and they lost that, and one of 
'em has been poorly all the spring. Pearl thinks 
if they could go somewhere in the country and 
get recruited up." 
"Why, there are societies" — Sabrina hesi- 
tated, wondering if she knew of any that would 
just meet this case. 
" Well, yes. I read about 'em. Splendid 
things they are too ; sending out working-girls 
and clerks, and poor tired women with sick babies. 
But Pearl's always finding out things that get 
skipped over. There's highways and hedges ; 
then there's byways. And it's queer how eager 
the young people are about her, and what good 
times she has everywhere. She just makes doing 
good look beautiful, as you said." 
"And you think you'll take them — the — the 
ladies, I mean." Two shabby, bent old women 
they were in her mind, full of antiquated ways 
and queernesses. 
"Well, I'd'n know. You see, I'd sort of lotted 
on going to my sister's this sunimer, up in New 
Hampshire. I haven't been there in years. It's 
been one thing and another, and this summer 
there's nothing to hinder. I'm thinking whether 
I had better." 
The college folks would soon be away. Miss 
Eastwood studied Aunt Jane with a delicately new 
interest. She was round and rosy. She had 
worked hard, but now she was " comfortable." 
She had taken few real holidays in her life, and 
she deserved this one. Yet she was considering 
whether shd could give it up. Sabrina wondered 
if she had ever made a real sacrifice in her life, 
at least since the fortune had come to her. 
" Maybe FU work it around somehow. Now, 
don't hint to Pearl that I was talking it over. 
Not that she made any great secret of it. And 
I think somehow she'd meant to stay with them. I 
could go later on. You see, I clean house when all 
the men folks get away ; and there's little odds an
ends, and July goes. Then there's only August." 
Mrs. Willing was coming up the path with her 
old-fashioned workbag on her arm. She was one 
of the country neighbors, and had come to the 
time of life when the events of her youth were 
more entertaining than any modern topic. Some- 
times these people interested Sabrina in an ar- 
tistic sense, but just now she would have liked ' 
a good long talk with Aunt Jane. She was so 
used to having matters very much her own way 
that she. drew her brows into a little frown. 
" I declare, if there isn't Marthy Willing ! 
She's come to spend the afternoon, sure as 
you're alive ! An' I most wish she hadn't, when 
we were settling into such a comfortable time ; 
but I do s'pose I'll like people to be glad to see 
me when I get nigh to seventy. You come down 
and sit on the porch, where it's cool and shady, 
so's you won't be lonesome." 
" I think I'll take a short walk," said Sabrina. 
"Then I'll come back and try the porch. I am 
never lonesome here at Wendover." 
" You ought to have gone off on the frolic." 
Sabrina smiled a little. She wondered, for al- 
most the first time, if the gulf between her and 
the other girls was not of her own making. She 
almost envied Pearl her power to attract every- 
body. She fascinated in the world of society, 
but somehow she never seemed to get down to 
