was the last. Of course it wouldn't do to let him go 
out behind us. We mustn't budge till he was gone, 
so we could be last ourselves. 

But he was gone now, so it was time for us to 
follow. I heard a big shout, and turned around — 
the city was dropping from under us like a shot ! 
It made me sick all through, I was so scared. Jim 
turned grey, and couldn't say a word, and Tom 
didn't say nothing but looked excited. The city 
went on dropping down, and down, and down, but 
we didn't seem to do nothing but hang in the 
air and stand still. The houses got smaller and 
smaller, and the city pulled itself together closer and 
closer, and the men and waggons got to looking like 
ants and bugs crawling about, and the streets was 
like cracks and threads ; and then it all kind of 
melted together, and there wasn't any city any more : 
it was only a big scab on the earth, and it seemed 
to me a body could see up the river and down the 
river about a thousand miles, though of course it 
wasn't so much. By-and-by the earth was a ball 
-just a round ball, of a dull colour, with shiny 
stripes wriggling and winding around over it, which 
was rivers. And the weather was getting pretty 
chilly. The widder Douglas always told me the 
world was round like a ball, but I never took no 
stock in a lot of them superstitions o' hern, and of 
course I paid no attention to that one because 
I could see myself that the world was the shape of 
a plate, and flat. I used to go up on the hill and 
take a look all around and prove it for myself, 
because I reckon the best way to get a sure thing 
on a fact is to go and examine for yourself and not 
take it on anybody's say-so. But I had to give in, 
now, that the widder was right. That is, she was 
right as to the rest of the world, but she warn't 
right about the part our village is in : that part is 
the shape of a plate, and flat, I take my oath. 

The professor was standing still all this time 
like he was asleep, but he broke loose, now, and 
he was mighty bitter. He says something like 
this : 

'Idiots ! they said it wouldn't go. And they 
wanted to examine it and spy around and get the 
secret of it out of me. But I beat them. Nobody 
knows the secret but me ! Nobody knows what 
makes it move but me ; and it's a new power ! A 
new power, and a thousand times the strongest in 
the earth. Steam's foolishness to it. They said 
I couldn't go to Europe. To Europe ! why there's 
power aboard to last five years, and food for three 
months. They are fools — what do they know about 
it ? Yes, and they said my air-ship was flimsy ; 
why, she's good for fifty years. I can sail the skies 
all my life if I want to, and steer where I please, 
though they laughed at that, and said I couldn't. 
Couldn't steer ! Come here, boy ; we'll see. You 
press these buttons as I tell you.' 

He made Tom steer the ship all about and every 
which way, and learnt him the whole thing in 
nearly no time, and Tom said it was perfectly easy. 
He made him fetch the ship down 'most to the 
earth, and had him spin her along so close to the 

Illinois prairies that a body could talk to the 
farmers and hear everything they said, perfectly 
plain ; and he flung out printed bills to them that 
told about the balloon and said it was going to 
Europe. Tom got so he could steer straight for a 
tree till he got nearly to it and then dart up and 
skin right along over the top of it. Yes, and he 
learnt Tom how to land her ; and he done it first 
rate, too, and set her down in the prairie as soft as 
wool ; but the minute we started to skip out the 
professor says, ' No you don't ! ' and shot her up 
into the air again. It was awful. I begun to beg, 
and so did Jim ; but it only give his temper a rise, 
and be begun to rage around and look wild out of 
his eyes, and I was scared of him. 

Well, then he got on to his troubles again, and 
mourned and grumbled about the way he was 
treated, and couldn't seem to git over it, and espe- 
cially people's saying his ship was flimsy. He scoffed 
at that, and at their saying she warn't simple and 
would be always getting out of order. Get out of 
order— that gravelled him ; he said she couldn't any 
more get out of order than the solar sister. He got 
worse and worse, and I never see a person take on 
so. It give me the cold shivers to see him, and 
so it did Jim. By-and-by he got to yelling and 
screaming, and then he swore the world shouldn't 
ever have his secret at all now, it had treated him 
so mean. He said he would sail his balloon around 
the globe just to show what he could do, and then he 
would sink it in the sea, and sink us all along with 
it, too. Well, it was the awfullest fix to be in ; and 
here was night coming on. 

He give us something to eat, and made us go 
to the other end of the boat, and laid down on a 
locker where he could boss all the works, and put 
his old pepper-box revolver under his head, and said 
anybody that come fooling around there trying to 
land her he would kill him. 

We set scrunched up together, and thought 
considerable, but didn't say nothing, only just a 
word once in a while when a body had to say some- 
thing or bust, we was so scared and worried. The 
night dragged along slow and lonesome. We was 
pretty low down, and the moonshine made every- 
thing soft and pretty, and the farm-houses looked 
snug and homeful, and we could hear the farm 
sounds, and wished we could be down there ; but 
laws ! we just slipped along over them like a ghost, 
and never left a track. 
Away in the night, when all the sounds was late 
sounds, and the air had a late feel, and a late smell, 
too — about a two o'clock feel, as near as I could 
make out— Tom said the professor was so quiet 
this long time he must be asleep, and we better 

' Better what ? ' I says in a whisper, and feel- 
ing sick all over, because I knowed what he was 
thinking about. 

 Better slip back there and tie him and land the 
ship,' he says. 

I says : 

' No, sir ! Don't you budge, Tom Sawyer.' 

And Jim— well, Jim was kind of gasping, he was 
so scared. He says : 

' Oh, Mars Tom, don't ! Ef you tetches him we's 
gone— we's gone, sho' ! I ain't gwyne anear him, 
not for nothin' in dis worl'. Mars Tom, he's plum 
crazy.' 

Tom whispers and says : 

' That's why we've got to do something. If he 
wasn't crazy I wouldn't give shucks to be anywhere 
but here ; you couldn't hire me to get out, now 
that I've got used to this balloon and over the scare 
of being cut loose from the solid ground, if he was 
in his right mind ; but it's no good politics sailing 
around like this with a person that's out of his 
head and says he's going around the world and 
then drown us all. We've got to do something, I 
tell you, and do it before he wakes up, too, or we 
mayn't ever get another chance. Come ! ' 

But it made us turn cold and creepy just to think 
of it, and we said we wouldn't budge. So Tom was 
for slipping back there by himself to see if he couldn't 
get at the steering gear and land the ship. We 
begged and begged him not to, but it warn't no use ; 
so he got down on his hands and knees and begun 
to crawl an inch at a time, we a-holding our breath 
and watching. After he got to the middle of the 
boat he crept slower than ever, and it did seem 
like years to me. But at last we see him get to the 
professor's head and sort of raise up soft and look 
a good spell in his face and listen. Then we see him 
begin to inch along again towards the professor's 
feet where the steering buttons was. Well, he got 
there all safe, and was reaching slow and steady 
towards the buttons, but he knocked down some- 
thing that made a noise, and we see him slump flat 
and soft in the bottom and lay still. The professor 
stirred, and says, ' What's that ? ' But everybody 
kept dead still and quiet, and he begun to mutter 
and mumble and nestle, like a person that's going 
to wake up, and I thought I was going to die, I was 
so worried and scared. 

Then a cloud come over the moon, and I 'most 
cried, I was so glad. She buried herself deeper and 
deeper in the cloud, and it got so dark we couldn't 
see Tom no more. Then it begun to sprinkle rain, 
and we could hear the professor fussing at his ropes 
and things and abusing the weather. We was 
afraid every minute he would touch Torn, and then 
we would be goners and no help ; but Tom was 
already on his way home, and when we felt his hands 
on our knees my breath stopped sudden, and my 
heart fell down amongst my other works, because I 
couldn't tell in the dark but it might be the pro- 
fessor, which I thought it was. 

Dear ! I was so glad to have him back that I 
was just as near happy as a person could be that was 
up in the air that way with a deranged man. You 
can't land a balloon in the dark, and so I hoped it 
would keep on raining, for I didn't want Tom to go 
meddling any more and make us so awful uncomfortable.
Well, I got my wish. It drizzled and 
drizzled along the rest of the night, which wasn't 
long, though it did seem so ; and at daybreak it 
cleared, and the world looked mighty soft and grey 
and pretty, and the forests and fields so good to see 
again, and the horses and cattle standing sober and 
thinking. Next, the sun come a-blazing up gay 
and splendid, and then we begun to feel rusty and 
stretchy, and first we knowed we was all asleep. 


CHAPTER III 

We went to sleep about four o'clock, and woke up 
about eight. The professor was setting back there 
at his end looking glum. He pitched us some 
breakfast, but he told us not to come abaft the 
midship compass. That was about the middle of 
the boat. Well, when you are sharp set, and you 
eat and satisfy yourself, everything looks pretty 
different from what it done before. It makes a 
body feel pretty near comfortable, even when he is 
up in a balloon with a genius. We got to talking 
together. 

There was one thing that kept bothering me, 
and by-and-by I says : 

' Tom, didn't we start East ? ' 

' Yes.' 

'How fast have we been going ? ' 

' Well, you heard what the professor said when 
he was raging around ; sometimes, he said, we was 
making fifty miles an hour, sometimes ninety, 
sometimes a hundred ; said that with a gale to help 
he could make three hundred any time, and said if 
he wanted the gale, and wanted it blowing the 
right direction, he only had to go up higher or 
down lower and find it.' 

'Well, then it's just as I reckoned. The pro- 
fessor lied.' 

' Why ? ' 

' Because if we was going so fast we ought to be 
past Illinois, oughtn't we ? ' 
' Certainly.' 
' Well, we ain't.' 
' What's the reason we ain't ? ' 

'I know by the colour. We're right over Illinois 
yet. And you can see for yourself that Indiana 
ain't in sight.' 

' I wonder what's the matter with you, Huck. 
You know by the colour ? ' 
' Yes — of course I do.' 
' What's the colour got to do with it ? ' 
' It's got everything to do with it. Illinois is 

green, Indiana is pink. You show me any pink 
down here if you can. Nro, sir ; it's green.' 

'Indiana pink ? Why, what a lie ! ' 

' It ain't no lie ; I've seen it on the map, and 
it's pink.' 

You never see a person so aggravated and dis- 
gusted. He says : 

' Well, if I was such a numskull as you, Huck 
Finn, I would jump over. Seen it on the map ! 
Huck Finn, did you reckon the States was the 
same colour out of doors that they are on the map ? ' 

 Tom Sawyer, what's a map for ? Ain't it to 
learn you facts ? ' 

' Of course.' 

' Well, then, how is it going to do that if it tells 
lies '? — that's what I want to know.' 

' Shucks, you muggins, it don't tell lies.' 

' It don't, don't it ? ' 

' No, it don't.' 

' All right, then ; if it don't, there ain't no two 
States the same colour. You git around that, if you 
can, Tom Sawyer.' 

He see I had him, and Jim see it too, and I tell 
you I felt pretty good, for Tom Sawyer was always 
a hard person to git ahead of. Jim slapped his leg 
and says : 

' I tell you ! dat's smart, dat's right down smart ! 
Ain't no use, Mars Tom, he got you dis time — he 
done got you dis time, sho' ! ' He slapped his leg 
again, and says, ' My Ian'', but it was a smart one ! ' 

I never felt so good in my life ; and yet I didn't 
know I was saying anything much till it was out. 
I was just mooning along, perfectly careless, and 
not expecting anything was going to happen, and 
never thinking of such a thing at all, when all of a 
sudden out it come. Why, it was just as much a 
surprise to me as it was to any of them. It was 
just the same way it is when a person is munching 
along on a hunk of corn-pone and not thinking 
about anything, and all of a sudden bites into a 
di'mond. Now, all that he knows, first-off, is that 
it's some kind of gravel he's bit into, but he don't 
find out it's a di'mond till he gits it out and brushes 
off the sand and crumbs and one thing or another, 
and has a look at it, and then he's surprised and 
glad. Yes, and proud, too ; though, when you come 
to look the thing straight in the eye, he ain't entitled 
to as much credit as be would 'a' been if he'd been 
hunting di'monds. You can see the difference easy, 
if you think it over. You see, an accident, that 
way, ain't fairly as big a thing as a thing that's 
done a-purpose. Anybody could find that di'mond 
in that corn-pone ; but, mind you, it's got to be 
somebody that's got that hind of corn-pone. That's 
where that feller's credit comes in, you see ; and 
that's where mine comes in. I don't claim no great 
things ; I don't reckon I could 'a' done it again, but 
I done it that time — that's all I claim. And I hadn't 
no more idea I could do such a thing, and warn't 
any more thinking about it or trying to, than you 
be this minute. Why, I was just as cam, a body 
couldn't be any cammer, and yet all of a sudden 
out it come. I've often thought of that time, and 
I can remember just the way everything looked, 
same as if it was only last week. I can see it all : 
beautiful rolling country with woods and fields 
and lakes for hundreds and hundreds of miles all 
around, and towns and villages scattered everywheres 
under us here and there and yonder, and the professor 
mooning over a chart on his little table, and 
Tom's cap flopping in the rigging where it was hung 
up to dryv/uid one thing in particular was a bird 
right alongside, not ten foot off, going our way and 
trying to keep up, but losing ground all the time, 
and a railroad train doing the same, down there, 
sliding along amongst the trees and farms, and 
pouring out a long cloud of black smoke and now 
and then a little puff of white ; and when the white 
was gone so long you had 'most forgot it, you 
would bear a little faint toot, and that was the 
whistle ; and we left the bird and the train both 
behind, 'way behind, and done it easy, too. 

But Tom he was huffy, and said me and Jim 
was a couple of ignorant blatherskites, and then 
he says : 

' Suppose there's a brown calf and a big brown 
dog, and an artist is making a picture of them. 
What is the main thing that that artist has got to 
do ? He has got to paint them so you can tell 'em 
apart the minute you look at them, hain't he ? Of 
course. Well, then, do you want him to go and 
paint both of them brown ? Certainly you don't. 

He paints one of them blue, and then you can't 
make no mistake. It's just the same with the 
maps. That's why they make every State a 
different colour ; it ain't to deceive you — it's to keep 
yon from deceiving yourself.' 

But I couldn't see no argument about that, and 
neither could Jim. Jim shook his head and 
says : 

 Why, Mars Tom, of you knowed what chuckle- 
heads dem painters is, you'd wait a long time befo' 
you'd fetch one er dem in to back up a fac'. I's 
gwyne to tell you, den you kin see for you'seff. I 
see one er 'em a-paintin' away, one day, down in 
old Hank Wilson's back lot, en I went down to see, 
en he was paintin' dat old brindle cow wid de near 
horn gone — you knows de one I means. En I ast 
him what's he paintin' her for, en he say when he 
git her painted de picture's wuth a hundred dollars. 
Mars Tom, he could 'a' got de cow fer fifteen, en 
I tole him so. Well, sah, ef you'll b'lieve me, he 
jes' shuck his head en went on a-dobbin'. Bless 
you, Mars Tom, dey don't know nothin'.' 

Tom he lost his temper ; I notice a person 'most 
always does that's got laid out in an argument. 
He told us to shut up and don't stir the slush in 
our skulls any more — hold still and let it cake, and 
maybe we'd feel better. Then he see a town clock 
away off down yonder, and he took up the glass 
and looked at it, and then looked at his silver 
turnip, and then at the clock, and then at the 
turnip again, and says : 

' That's funny — that clock's near about an 
hour fast.' 

So he put up his turnip. Then he see another 
clock, and took a look, and it was an hour fast too. 
That puzzled him. 

' That's a mighty curious thing,' he says ; ' I 
don't understand it.' 

Then he took the glass and hunted up another 
clock, and sure enough it was an hour fast too. 
Then his eyes begun to spread and his breath to 
come out kind of gaspy like, and he says : 

' Ger-reat Scott, it's the longitude ! ' 

I says, considerable scared : 

'Well, what's been and gone and happened 
now? ' 

'Why, the thing that's happened is that this 
old bladder has slid over Illinois and Indiana and 
Ohio like nothing, and this is the east end of 
Pennsylvania or New York, or somewheres around 
there.' 

' Tom Sawyer, you don't mean it ! ' 

 Yes, I do, and it's so, dead sure. We've 
covered about fifteen degrees of longitude since we 
left St. Louis yesterday afternoon, and them clocks 
are right. We've come close on to eight hundred 
miles.' 

I didn't believe it, but it made the cold streaks 
trickle down my back just the same. In my 
experience I knowed it wouldn't take much short 
of two weeks to do it down the Mississippi on a 
raft. 

Jim was working his mind, and studying. 
Pretty soon he says : 

' Mars Tom, did you say dem clocks uz right ? ' 

' Yes, they're right.' 

' Ain't yo' watch right, too ? ' 

' She's right for St. Louis, but she's an hour 
wrong for here.' 

' Mars Tom, is you tryin' to let on dat de time 
ain't de same everywheres ? ' 

' No, it ain't the same everywheres, by a long 
shot.' 

Jim he looked distressed, and says : 

' It grieve me to hear you talk like dat, Mars 
Tom ; I's right down 'shamed to hear you talk like 
dat, arter de way you's been raised. Yassir, it'd 
break 3-0' aunt Polly's heart to hear you.' 

Tom was astonished. He looked Jim over, 
wondering, and didn't say nothing, and Jim he 
went on : 

' Mars Tom, who put de people out yonder in 
St. Louis ? De Lord done it. Who put de people 
here whah we is ? De Lord done it. Ain' dey 
bofe His children ? 'Cose dey is. Well, den ! is He 
gwyne to 'scriminate 'twixt 'em ? ' 

' 'Scriminate ! I never heard such ignorant 
rot. There ain't no discriminating about it. 
When He makes you and some more of His 
children black, and makes the rest of us white, 
what do you call that ? ' 

Jim see the p'int. He was stuck. He couldn't 
answer. Tom says : 

' He does discriminate, you see, when He wants 
to; but this case here ain't no discrimination of 
