personage on board of the Maud.

In fact, but a very few minutes had elapsed since the event occurred.
Those on the wreck had made haste to escape before they should be
carried down with it, and they were still pulling at no great distance
from the Maud for the shore. Louis appeared at the door of the
pilot-house very promptly; for he imagined that his presence before the
wounded man was not agreeable to him, and that it emphasized in his mind
the disastrous failure of his expedition to this island.

"What next, Louis?" asked the captain with a smile on his face; for he
believed he had stolen his friend's first question "after the battle."

"That is for you to decide, Captain Scott, and I intend to avoid any
interference with the duties of the commander," replied Louis.

"But when the commander asks for advice it may be given without
offence," suggested Scott. "We have just got out of the tightest place
in which we have ever been placed, and our experience hitherto has been
boy's play compared with this day's work."

"That is very true; this is by all odds the most serious affair in which
we have ever been engaged," answered Louis, as he seated himself on the
divan.

"I am not going to beat about the bush for a moment, my dear fellow; and
before we talk about anything else, even of what we will do next in this
trying situation, I want to say that I am very much troubled in my mind
in regard to the consequences of what I have done," continued Scott,
as he seated himself by the side of his friend and model on the divan.

"I don't wonder that you are troubled; so am I, for I think we may well
regard what has happened as an extraordinary event," added Louis.

"I say what I have done; for I purposely abstained from asking advice
of you or any other fellow, after I had decided what to do, even if
there had been time for me to consult you. In other words, I took the
entire responsibility upon myself; and there I purpose to have it rest."

"Of course you had no time to ask the opinion of any fellow, even if it
could have been of any use to you."

"I believe I did the best I could. The shallow water at the south of us
prevented me from running away in that direction, as I tried to do, and
the only avenue out of the difficulty was directly ahead of the Maud."

"I understand it all perfectly, for I could measure the situation from
the upper deck," said Louis.

"I headed the steamer to the east. Then came that shot through the
galley. The Fatimé was coming about in order to bring her port gun to
bear upon us. She could not well avoid hitting us if she had tried to do
so, we were so near. If the ball went through the engine or the boiler,
both of which were exposed to the fire, that would have been the last of
us. Half of us might have been scalded to death; or, at the best,
Mazagan might have knocked the Maud all to pieces at his leisure after
he had disabled the vessel."

"Precisely so."

"I might have hoisted a white rag, and surrendered, permitting the
pirate to take you on board his steamer; but if I had done that, I
could never have held up my head again, and I could never have looked my
recording angel in the face to tell him I had let the pirate take Louis
Belgrave out of the Maud."

"It would not have ended in just the way you have pictured it, Captain
Scott," added Louis with a smile. "I think enough of the ship's company
would have stood by me to enable me to make an effectual resistance, and
Mazagan might have got a bullet through his left breast instead of
through his right shoulder."

"Every fellow would have stood by you, my dear fellow, as long as you
stood yourself," replied the captain. "If Mazagan had disabled the Maud,
he could have retired out of reach of our rifle balls, and knocked a
hole through the vessel with his guns, and sunk her. Then he would have
had nothing to do but to pick up his millionaire, and ransom him with
double the sum he demanded in Cairo."

"Perhaps you are right, Captain Scott; but I think we need not discuss
what might have been. We know what is; and this is the problem with
which we have to deal."

"Bluntly, Louis, I desire to ask you whether you approve or disapprove
what I have done as the captain of the Maud?" continued Scott rather
nervously for him.

"I wholly and heartily approve of what you have done!" protested Louis
with emphatic earnestness, and without an instant's hesitation.

"My dear Louis, give me your hand!" exclaimed Scott, springing to his
feet; they clasped hands in front of the wheel, and the captain seemed
disposed to extend it to an embrace. "You have removed all my doubts and
anxiety by what you said and the manner in which you said it. If you
approve my action, I believe the commander will do the same."

"While I do not accept your view of what might have followed if you had
done otherwise, I believe you did the best thing that could be done. If
the end had not come just as you say, it would have amounted to the same
thing. Let us leave the subject now, and come back to the question you
asked me when I came in. What shall be done next?" said Louis.

"I don't think we can do anything but wait here till the Guardian-Mother
comes. If we go to sea, she will not know where to find us," replied
Captain Scott. "What do you think of it, Louis?"

"I am decidedly opposed to remaining where we are. Though you and I may
agree that what has been done is all right, the officers of the Turkish
government in authority on this island may not be of that opinion. There
is no town, or anything like one, in sight, and I have not been able to
make out even a single house or habitation of any kind."

"It is an exceedingly rough-looking country on shore. There are nothing
but mountains and forests to be seen. The nearest town put down on the
chart is more than ten miles distant, though there may be a village or
houses behind those hills on the shore to the south of us. If any of
the inhabitants had heard the three shots fired by the pirate, they
would have shown themselves before this time."

"But I think we had better be farther from the island. When the
Guardian-Mother comes, she must take the same course which we followed
yesterday," persisted Louis. "I quite agree with you that we must remain
in this vicinity. It is almost as calm outside the bay as it is inside.
How is the water off the cape?"

"There are eight fathoms half a mile from the point. I think you are
right, on the whole, Louis; for we don't care to meet any Turkish
officers of any kind," replied the captain, as he rang the gong to go
ahead.

The sound of the bell brought all hands except Morris, who had
volunteered to stay with the patient in the cabin, to the forecastle.
Pitts had gone to the galley to ascertain the condition of his wares
after the passage of a twelve-pound shot through his quarters. The stove
had not been struck, but it had knocked about everything else into the
utmost confusion. He was arranging things as well as he could; for it
was now five o'clock in the afternoon, and time to think of getting
supper.

"How is your patient, Pitts?" asked Louis, coming to the door.

"He is doing well enough, though he has a good deal of pain. I suppose
the ball is still in his shoulder, and he will not be much better till
that is removed, Mr. Belgrave," replied the cook. "We are under way
again, sir."

"We are running out to the cape to wait for the Guardian-Mother,"
returned Louis, as he joined the others on the forecastle.

The two boats from the wreck had made a landing on a point near the
conic rock on the ledge. The course of the Maud took her within half a
mile of them; for she passed over the outer extremity of the ledge.

"They are making signals to us," said Felix to the captain. "There goes
a white cloth on a pole."

A little later a boat put off pulled by four men, with another in the
stern sheets. The captain rang to stop the screw; for he was curious to
know what the men wanted.

"Let the boat come alongside," said he.

There was not force enough to do any mischief if the Moors had been so
disposed. Don was sent for to do the talking; but the first person Louis
saw was Jules Ulbach, who had been Mazagan's assistant in his
operations. Louis talked with him in French. His first statement was
that his employer had been shot in the shoulder, and had gone down with
the wreck. The spokesman for the steamer did not deem it advisable to
contradict this statement.

Then Ulbach begged for a passage to some port from which he could return
to Paris. A few words passed between the captain and Louis, and the
request was peremptorily refused. The Frenchman begged hard, declaring
that the island was a desolate place, and he should starve there. The
men had come to beg some provisions, as they had not a morsel to eat.

"Give them all they want to eat," replied the captain when the request
was translated to him.

"The Guardian-Mother!" suddenly shouted Felix at the top of his lungs.

All hands gave three rousing cheers, to the astonishment of the
Frenchman and those in the boat. Pitts came out of the galley to
ascertain the cause of the demonstration, and he made out for himself
the bow of the ship passing the point of the cape. A plentiful supply of
food was put into the boat, and the Maud continued on her course.




CHAPTER XV

THE ARRIVAL OF THE GUARDIAN-MOTHER


The appearance of the Guardian-Mother in the offing was hailed with
rejoicing by every person belonging to the Maud. Off on an independent
cruise as the boys were, and "when the cat's away the mice will play,"
it would not have been strange if they had enjoyed their freedom from
the restraining presence and influence of the commander; but no such
feeling pervaded the minds of the ship's company.

Not even the captain of the little steamer had felt that he was in
possession of any unusual liberty. It might have been otherwise with him
and his companions if the threatening presence of the Fatimé had not
been a serious damper upon them. As it was, the voyage to Cyprus had
resulted in a tremendous event.

Whatever Scott had said to Louis Belgrave about knocking a hole in the
side of the pirate, as Captain Ringgold had done with the Viking, had no
bearing whatever upon what he had actually done when the critical moment
had come in the encounter. He declared rather lightly that he would
proceed to this extremity if he were the captain of the larger steamer;
but it had not occurred to him to do such a reckless deed with the
little Maud, when his opponent was a steamer of four hundred tons.

Captain Scott and his companions had expected to see the Guardian-Mother
long before she appeared. The commander might naturally have felt some
anxiety in regard to the safety of the Maud in the gale of the night
before, though it had not been a very severe storm; and Scott and Louis
supposed he would make all possible haste to be near her. Instead of
that, she was fully ten hours behind her, even with her superior speed
and more weatherly ability. They could not explain her delay, and it was
useless to attempt to do so.

"What do you suppose will become of those fellows from the pirate,
Captain Scott?" asked Louis, looking at the people from the Fatimé on
the shore.

"I haven't the least idea, and I don't think I shall trouble my head
with the question," replied the captain. "We have given them provisions
enough to keep them alive for several days, and they can make their way
to some town. I don't consider their condition as at all desperate. If
Captain Ringgold thinks it necessary, he will do whatever he deems
advisable."

"I don't consider those men as pirates, or hold them responsible for the
acts of Captain Mazagan," added Louis. "They had to obey his orders, and
I doubt if they had any knowledge of his intentions."

"I did not see a single person, as well as I could make them out in the
boats, who looked like an Englishman. Probably the foreign engineers
retired from the Pacha's service when Mazagan took command of her. They
knew the meaning of piracy. At any rate, the steamer was not officered
nor manned as she was when we saw her at Gibraltar. Don says her cabin
was magnificently furnished, as he had seen through the open door, for
he had never been into it. But he is certain that she is an old steamer,
built for a steam-yacht, but sold by her owner at a big price when she
became altogether behind the times."

"She could not have been very strongly built, or the Maud would not have
knocked a hole in her so easily," said Louis.

"It has been repeated over and over again that the Maud was constructed
of extra strength when she was built. Who was that man of whom she was
purchased?"

"Giles Chickworth, a Scotchman," replied Louis, as he recalled the
character.

"He declared that she was the strongest little vessel of her size that
ever was built. Don examined the inside of her bow immediately after the
blow was struck, and I have done so since. She has not started a plate
or a bolt. But then we had all the advantage. We struck the pirate
fairly on the broadside with the part of our craft where she is the
strongest, and where there could be no give or spring. It does not seem
so strange to me as I think it over."

"Pitts," called the captain a little later, while they were still
watching the approach of the ship, "how is your patient?"

"About the same, sir; I don't see any change in him," replied the cook.
"But he will have the doctor to-night, and that will put him in the way
of getting well."

"Does he talk any?"

"He would talk all the time if I would let him; but I don't answer him
when he asks questions, and I leave him alone most of the time."

"What is the condition of the galley?" asked the captain.

"It is in very bad condition, sir; the cannon-ball tore away all the
shelves on the starboard side, and knocked the tins and dishes all to
pieces. But I can get supper after a fashion," replied the cook.

"You may let the supper go to-night, and we will get it on board of the
ship. We shall be alongside of her in less than fifteen minutes," said
the captain. "Set the colors astern, Flix."

The Maud was going at full speed, and, as the two steamers were
approaching each other, they came within hail off Cape Arnauti. At this
time the captain ordered three cheers to be given; for he wished to make
a demonstration of some kind, and this was the only way within his
means. They were given with hearty good-will, and the seamen responded
from the Guardian-Mother, and both vessels whistled as snappers. Then
the ship stopped her screw, and the sound of escaping steam came from
her.

"Maud, ahoy!" shouted Captain Ringgold from her top-gallant forecastle.

"On board the Guardian-Mother!" responded Captain Scott.

"Come alongside!" added the commander.

"Alongside, sir!" replied the captain.

The Maud made a sweep around, and when she had come about, she came
alongside on the port side of the ship. The gangway was already lowered.
All the cabin party had been watching the approach to the island from
the promenade; but as soon as the Maud came alongside, they all hastened
to the main deck to greet the young cruisers, who had been absent from
the ship about thirty hours.

"Come on board, all of you!" called the commander from the head of the
gangway.

"I think we had better not say anything about what has happened in the
presence of the party," said Scott, as he started to mount the steps.

"Not a word," added Louis; and Morris and Felix repeated the words.

The "Big Four" ascended the gangway stairs to the main deck. The captain
was permitted to pass without any assaulting embraces, but Louis dropped
lovingly and submissively into the arms of his mother, as did Morris
when Mrs. Woolridge presented herself. Felix hung back, for he knew what
awaited him. The commander stepped aside to make room for these
demonstrations.

"Come to my room, all of you, as soon as the others are at liberty,"
said the commander in a low tone to Captain Scott.

"I will, sir," replied he, fully understanding what was meant.

"I am so glad to see you again, Louis!" exclaimed Mrs. Belgrave, as she
continued to hug her boy. "You have had a terrible time, haven't you, my
dear?"

"What makes you think so, mother?" asked Louis, wondering what she
meant; for it seemed impossible that she could know anything about the
"Battle of Khrysoko," as it afterwards came to be called.

"Why, you were out in a terrible storm last night," replied Mrs.
Belgrave. "I was afraid you would be cast away, my son, and I prayed for
you half the night."

"Then your prayers were effectual, for I am safe," answered Louis with a
smile.

"But wasn't it an awful tempest, my boy?" she asked, hugging the young
man with a new impulse.

"Not at all, my dear mother. We had a gale of wind, and it made a rough
night of it; but we got into this bay about eight o'clock this morning
all right," returned Louis, reciprocating her caresses. "But you must
not worry so about me, mother. We were in no danger at any time from the
gale or the heavy sea."

"Here is the commander, and he wants to see you, I know," she said,
stepping aside for him.

Captain Ringgold took the hand of the owner of the ship, and pressed it
warmly.

[Illustration: "SHE SPREAD OUT HER ARMS AND RUSHED UPON HIM." Page
147.]

"He says he has been in no danger from the storm, Captain," added the
lady.

"He knows best about that; but I told you the Maud would go through it
all right," added the commander as he turned to greet Morris.

"Where in the world is Felix?" cried Mrs. Blossom; for the Milesian,
actually dreading the onslaught of the excellent woman who was not his
mother, had dodged in at the door of the boudoir.

"I'm looking for you, grandma," said he, stepping out on the deck.

As soon as she saw him, she spread out her arms and rushed upon him; but
Felix put up his left arm and warded off the burden of the attack,
taking her by the hand with the right.

"How glad I am to see you, grandma!" he exclaimed, still holding her by
the right hand, with his left on guard. "I am delighted to be with you
again. The Guardian-Mother did not come into the bay, and I was afraid
you had all gone to the bottom in the gale."

"Don't you call me 'grandma' again, Felix," protested the worthy woman
quite warmly; for the Milesian had twice applied the opprobrious
appellation to her. "If you ever do it again, I will never hug you
another time!"

"Then I will call you so till my dying day!" Felix declared, to the
great amusement of all those within hearing.

"I am not your grandma! I am only thirty-six years old, and I am not
far enough into years to be the grandmother of a great strapping boy
like you."

"It is only a pet name. But you didn't go to the bottom of the sea after
all, grandma."

"There it is again!"

"Of course it is, grandma. But I will make a fair trade with you. If you
will promise never to hug me any more, I will agree never to call you
grandma again."

"That is fair," said Mrs. Belgrave.

They retired to the boudoir to talk over the matter; but the agreement
was ratified between them. The "Big Four" were cordially greeted by all
the passengers and by all the officers of the ship; but they were
careful not to drop any hint of what had transpired in Khrysoko Bay.
Before the exchange of salutations was finished the gong rang for
dinner.

"For a reason to be given later on, Captain Ringgold, I must ask you to
give the engineers and cook of the Maud their supper to-night," said
Captain Scott at a favorable moment.

The commander sent for Baldy Bickling, the second cook, and ordered him
to provide for them; and Mr. Boulong to send an engineer and a couple of
hands on board of the Maud while the party came on board to supper. The
company in the cabin were in a very jovial state of feeling, and it
would take a chapter to record all the jokes of Dr. Hawkes and Uncle
Moses. It was an excellent dinner even for the Guardian-Mother; for both
the chief steward and the chief cook were artists in their line, and it
was heartily enjoyed by all at the table.

The commander was impatient to hear the report of Captain Scott on his
expedition, and the commander of the Maud was almost as impatient to
learn what had delayed the ship; but fully an hour was spent at the
table, for no one wished to break in upon the agreeable occasion. How he
knew it he could not have told in detail; but the commander was
satisfied, that something important had occurred in the experience of
the young navigators, though not a word had yet been spoken, and he had
failed to notice the ragged hole through the Maud's deck-house at the
location of the galley.

He had expected to find the Fatimé near the little steamer; but though
he had swept the bay with his spy-glass, he could not find her, for she
was no longer visible. Probably she had fallen over on the rocky and
irregular bottom, and that had carried even her short masts under water.
As soon as the party rose from the table, Louis and Morris detached
themselves from their mothers, and hastened to the commander's room,
where they found Captain Scott and Felix.

"I don't see anything of the Fatimé in this bay," said Captain Ringgold,
when he had closed and locked his doors.

"But she is there, sir," replied Scott mysteriously to the commander.

"Where? I looked the bay over with my glass, and I think if she were
here I should have seen her," added Captain Ringgold.

"You could not see her where she is, Captain," replied Scott.

"Where is she, then?" demanded the commander.

"On the bottom, Captain Ringgold," said Captain Scott impressively.




CHAPTER XVI

THE REPORT OF THE BATTLE OF KHRYSOKO


Captain Ringgold looked from one to another of the "Big Four," and a
smile passed over his dignified face. It was evident to him from the
expression of all of them that something of importance had occurred in
Khrysoko Bay, and that Captain Scott, who was, by his position, the
spokesman of the party, proposed to tell his story in his own way, to
which he did not object.

He believed the young men were honest, truthful, and straightforward,
and he had no suspicions of any kind. As the bearer of heavy and
disagreeable intelligence is inclined to approach his topic by degrees,
the young captain did not like to tell the worst of his report in the
beginning.

The commander was not disposed to have the news "broken" to him, and
considered himself able to bear the whole of it in a mass without being
overwhelmed. But he had no idea of the seriousness of the event which
had occurred, and he thought it probable that the boys were making a
great deal more of it than the occasion required. They had all been to
the table at dinner, and were as lively and as full of fun as usual. As
none of them had been killed or injured, nothing very terrible could
have happened.

"When did you reach this bay, Captain Scott?" he asked, after he had
measured the visages of his audience.

"About eight o'clock this morning, sir," replied Scott.

"You had a smart gale about all last night," the commander proceeded.

