hear them very distinctly. The conversation was exceedingly interesting
to him, especially the fact in regard to the pursuing force.
"I acted upon my best judgment."
"I had a rough fight in the road, on my way to the bridge, and I have
hardly forty men left, while the Yankees will have a full company when
the detachment behind me comes up," added the captain, who was evidently
in a contemplative mood. "The force you whipped must be at no great
distance from this road."
"I think they will keep on running for the next three miles," said
Redway. "I went up the road to look for them, but I could see nothing of
them."
"But we shall be outnumbered if we let the two parts of this company
come together. I have found that they fight like Texans. If we meet the
whole of them together, we shall be whipped, as Makepeace was. There is
only one thing to do. Form the whole company in column by fours, and we
must go back and beat our pursuers, before they get as far as this,"
said Captain Dingfield, suddenly becoming very animated and energetic.
Deck concluded that the time had come for him to leave his retreat; and
he felt that he had not lost his time in carrying out the plan he had
suggested. But it would be safer for him to retreat in five minutes more
than at that moment. He looked on while the Rangers formed, and saw them
march on their present mission. He had not a very high opinion of the
strategy of Captain Dingfield; and if his subordinate officer had given
him correct information, perhaps he would have adopted a different
course.
The Rangers could no longer see him, and he broke into a run as soon as
they had gone. He found everything as he had left it, and he proceeded
to report his intelligence to Lieutenant Belthorpe.
CHAPTER XXV
SUNDRY FLANK MOVEMENTS ARRANGED
Captain Dingfield, with the portion of his company with which he had
attacked Major Lyon near the cross-roads, where he had been badly beaten
at the first assault, had fled across the country, and was continuing
his flight along the hill road. Doubtless he did not intend to fight a
battle at the point mentioned, but had made the attack immediately after
the explosion on the bridge to occupy the attention of the force there
until his men had completed the destruction of the structure.
He appeared to have discovered that the squadron of cavalry he had
encountered was not so easily annihilated as he had believed they would
be by his invincible Rangers. On the contrary, he found his troop in a
difficult situation, with a superior force near him. Doubtless he had
read in what manner Napoleon I. defeated an army of superior numbers by
taking it when divided into two parts, delivering battle to each in
turn.
Captain Gordon, with half his company, had been sent in pursuit of him,
but had been somewhat delayed in his movements. Captain Dingfield had
united the two portions of his company after the skirmish of one of them
with Lieutenant Belthorpe, who was believed to have retreated to the
railroad.
Deck Lyon had listened to the interview between the captain and
lieutenant of the Rangers, and fully understood their plan. As soon as
the company had departed on their mission to annihilate the detachment
of Captain Gordon, he hastened back to the big tree where he had left
Lieutenant Belthorpe. Tom had just crossed swords with the enemy for the
first time, and had fought like a lion; but he was nervous in regard to
the situation. He had no superior officer near him, and he felt the
responsibility of his position.
"Well, Deck, what next?" he asked, before the young soldier could get
within talking distance of him.
"There is work for you," replied Deck; and though he knew precisely what
ought to be done, he was very careful not to suggest anything. He did
not wish to overstep the line of his duty as a private, though he and
the lieutenant were on the most intimate and familiar terms of
friendship. He hurried his steps; and in as few words as possible he
related all he had seen and heard.
"Then, Captain Dingfield has gone out with his whole company to
intercept Gordon?" said the officer.
"Precisely so; and I don't know what force Captain Gordon has with him,"
added Deck. "The Rangers believe your command has retreated to the
railroad, and are well out of the way."
"We will convince them to the contrary very soon," said Tom with energy,
and darted off at the best speed of his horse for the knoll where he had
left his men.
Deck restored his sabre to its place, and mounted his horse. He was
ready to return to the ranks; but Tom called him, and he took his place
at the side of his friend. The lieutenant asked him a great many
questions; for the troop could not move at their best speed on account
of the trees and bushes.
"I suppose we have nothing to do but follow and pitch in when we find
the enemy," said Tom, when they came out on the hill road. "We can't see
anything of Dingfield's company yet."
"He has not got over the top of that hill we see ahead, and is in the
valley this side. Neither of us has been over this road, and we know
nothing at all about it," replied Deck, careful not to wound the pride
of his officer.
"Why don't you speak out, Deck, and tell me what you are thinking
about?" said the lieutenant somewhat impatiently. "You keep in your
shell as tight as a Baltimore oyster. You did not hesitate to tell me
what you had in your sconce when we were fighting that detachment in the
road."
"I only intended to give you the information that Dingfield's company
was coming, and would then outnumber you," replied Deck.
"You advised me to retreat, and I did so, for I saw that you were
right."
"But you are my superior officer, and my business consists in obeying
your orders," replied the private with becoming humility.
"None of that, Deck! We will keep up all the forms and ceremonies; but I
want you to be Deck Lyon, while I am Tom Belthorpe, when we are side by
side as we are at this moment. I say all we have to do is to ride ahead
till we find the enemy, and then pitch in. Is that your idea, Deck?"
"With all due deference, Tom, it is not," replied the private.
"Confound your deference!" exclaimed the lieutenant. "I asked your
advice, and you mumble about forms."
"I will speak as plainly as I know how to speak. If you show yourself to
Captain Dingfield, he will run away if he can. He has been badly
punished to-day, and he can't stand much more of it. When he finds
himself pinched between Captain Gordon and yourself, I don't believe he
will feel like cutting his way out."
"But he outnumbers Gordon just now," Tom objected.
"Of course you will not let Captain Gordon suffer," continued Deck. "If
you will allow me to say it, I will suggest what I should do if I were
in your place."
"Allow you! Confound you, Deck! Didn't I ask you point-blank what you
would do?" demanded Tom.
"We are moving at a dog-trot now, and that is just right. Before we get
to the top of that hill yonder in the road, I should halt, and send a
scout ahead to report on what there is to be seen," said Deck.
"All right! I detail you as the scout," answered the lieutenant very
promptly.
"Then I will leave you. If I raise my cap over my head, hurry up. If I
make no sign, come along leisurely," added Deck, as he urged his steed
to a gallop, and dashed ahead.
Just then he wished he had Ceph; but he had left him hitched near the
bridge when he ascended it to take in the flag, though the horse he had
was not a bad one. How far in the rear of Captain Dingfield's company
Captain Gordon had been he had no means of judging. Deck reached the
summit of the hill over which the road passed. He reined in his steed,
and walked him till his own head was high enough to see over the crest
in front of him.
Captain Dingfield's company was not in sight. Not more than half a mile
ahead of him was another hill, beyond which the enemy had disappeared.
He took off his cap and waved it in the air above his head. Tom could
not help seeing it; and his command were immediately galloping towards
him. Deck did not wait for them, but ran his own horse till he reached
the summit of the second hill. Here he halted again. There was a third
hill, and probably one every mile or half-mile; for this was the hill
road.
Captain Dingfield had not hurried his men, and Deck discovered his force
on the lowest ground between the two hills. He had halted there, and the
men appeared to be watering their horses. Deck was sorry he had not a
field-glass. He fell back a short distance, so that his horse should not
be seen by the enemy, hitched him to a sapling, and returned to the top
of the hill on foot. After examining the location of the enemy as well
as he could, he concluded that a road crossed that upon which both
forces were moving, though he was not sure.
Returning to his horse, he mounted again, and descended the hill a few
rods. The lieutenant had reached the top of the first hill, and Deck
waved his cap again. As soon as Tom reached the spot where the private
was, he halted his command. He hastily informed his officer that the
enemy were at the foot of the hill on the other side.
"I must not lose sight of them for long," said Deck. "I will go ahead
again, and make the same signal for you to advance."
"But you expect there will be a fight, don't you, Deck?" asked the
lieutenant.
"There will be if Captain Dingfield don't run away by a road I believe
extends through the valley. I think the captain of the Rangers is
waiting for Captain Gordon to come upon him in this place. I will keep a
lookout for our men," replied Deck, as he rode up the hill again.
The private was a very enthusiastic soldier; and he thought it would be
a capital idea to bag the Rangers, and make prisoners of the whole
company. It would be a feather in Tom Belthorpe's cap, and he would have
been glad to place it there. He hitched his horse again, and then
climbed a tree. Some of the hills in the vicinity were cultivated, and
some were not. From his elevated perch he discovered a farmhouse on the
road, of whose existence he had not before been confident. He had no
doubt of the fact now.
There was a cornfield on the left of the road where he was, but at some
distance from it. Between this tilled land and the hill road was a
considerable extent of wild land, covered with hillocks, and the whole
of it overgrown with small trees and bushes. Near the place where the
platoon had halted, Deck perceived a practicable passage through the
tanglewood; and he went down the tree in a desperate hurry, to the
imminent peril of his limbs, though he reached the ground in safety.
A glance at the summit of the third hill assured him that Captain Gordon
was not yet in sight. Slinging his carbine, and buckling on his belt, he
hastened to the lieutenant, and, without any unnecessary manifestations
of deference, stated the plan he had brewed in the top of the tree.
"I should like to see the whole of that company bagged, Tom," said he,
as he led the way to the opening he had seen. "I should like to see you
do it, I am only afraid Dingfield will escape by that road, and I should
like to have you block his way in that direction."
"But if we shut up that road against him, we shall leave the hill road
open to him," replied Tom.
Deck bit his lip, for he had not thought of this; for he was not a
full-fledged strategist any more than his officer.
"You are right, Tom; and that is the end of my scheme," added Deck.
"Not a bit of it, Deck. Why not compromise on your idea; send half our
force across the cornfield, and leave the other half to take care of
this road? I like that idea," said Tom with enthusiasm.
"You would have but twenty-five men to hold this road against the whole
of Dingfield's company," said Deck.
"But we don't intend to move till Captain Gordon is here to take a hand
in the game," answered Tom. "You will go with Sergeant Fronklyn to the
cross-road, and I will stay here. As soon as I see the rest of our
company coming down the hill, I will strike the enemy in the rear, while
the captain goes in on the front. You will sail in from the by-road as
soon as you hear the firing, Deck. That is fixed. Now have deference
enough for your officer to hold your tongue, and obey your orders."
"I am as dumb as a dead horse," replied Deck.
Both of them were laughing; and Deck hastened to a place where he could
see over the crest of the hill, while the lieutenant divided his force
for the two undertakings. In a few moments all was ready, and Tom joined
his friend.
"It is time we were moving," said Deck.
"All is ready for you; and Fronklyn will take counsel of you when
necessary," replied the lieutenant.
"Don't show yourself on the top of the hill, Tom; for that might let the
cat out of the bag," added Deck.
The scout, as Deck considered himself for the present, joined the
detachment detailed for the by-road, and led them into the wild region,
Fronklyn remaining some distance behind him. The enemy were in a deep
hollow, and the guide soon assured himself that the detachment could be
neither seen nor heard by them. The sergeant advanced in response to his
signals. A spur of the hill concealed them, and they galloped across the
field, from which the crop had been harvested. He guided the force to a
point beyond the farmer's house. Leaving the sergeant and his men where
the buildings shut off the view of the hill road, Deck rode cautiously
to the other side of the house.
"What you uns doin' here?" asked the farmer, showing himself from behind
his barn.
"We are attending to our own business, and it wouldn't be a bad idea for
you to do the same," replied Deck, who did not like the looks of the
man.
"I reckon you uns is Confedrits," he added.
"You are out of your reckoning."
"There's some more on 'em over to the brook. I reckon I'll go over, and
let 'em know you're here," suggested the farmer.
"If you do, you will get a bit of lead through your upper story,"
replied Deck, as he rode on.
He had hardly started his horse before a volley was heard in the
direction of the hill road.
CHAPTER XXVI
THE ENEMY'S BATTLE WITH THE MUD
The sound of the volley did not come from the top of the hill, and
Captain Gordon would not have been so simple as to waste the powder and
balls in the carbines of his men at an impracticable distance from the
object of his attack. Lieutenant Belthorpe must have seen his force as
soon as he reached the top of the hill; and no doubt he had hurried to
join in the attack at the right moment, so that it could be made in the
front and rear at the same time.
But plans do not always work precisely as they are arranged beforehand.
Deck turned his steed as soon as he heard the volley, and hastened back
to notify the sergeant; but Fronklyn had heard the discharge, and
marched on the instant. For a non-commissioned officer, he was decidedly
a man of parts, though he had not been in a fight till that day.
"Hurry up, Sergeant! I think we shall have warm work over on the hill
road as soon as we can reach it. They are firing lively now on both
hills," said Deck, as he took his place by the side of the officer.
"We are all ready for it; and the men were as mad as a bull in a swarm
of hornets as the recall was sounded back there a while ago, when they
were licking the enemy out of his boots," replied Fronklyn.
"They are likely to get enough of it now," added Deck, as they galloped
forward at the best speed they could get out of the horses.
But the firing suddenly ceased, and there was a noise ahead other than
the sounds of battle, which attracted the attention of Deck and the
sergeant. It was the clang of sabres and the rattle of accoutrements,
and the sounds came from a less distance than to the hill road.
"What does this mean?" asked Deck, as he reined in his horse. "Halt your
men here!" he added, as he obtained a full view ahead.
Fronklyn promptly accepted the suggestion, and gave the order; but he
did not understand the reason for making it. The cross-road extended
through the wild region over which the detachment had passed farther up
the hill. In this part of it the surface was more irregular than above;
on the left was a meadow, through which flowed the brook that crossed
the main road. Just ahead of the force the road wound through a narrow
pass, between lofty pinnacles of rock.
From a point in the road Deck had obtained a glance across the meadow at
the cross-road near the main highway. There he saw the Rangers
retreating vigorously, and coming directly towards him. He could not
quite understand this change in the programme, as laid down by
Lieutenant Belthorpe and himself. But it did not take him long to
explain the situation to his own satisfaction, whether correctly or not.
Captain Gordon's men had made the attack with a volley from the
carbines. As soon as Tom Belthorpe heard the report, he dashed down the
hill to have a finger in the pie; for his men were eager for the affray.
Captain Dingfield had seen them coming, and probably mistook the force
for a much larger one, and ordered a retreat by the cross-road.
Doubtless he had chosen to await the attack of Captain Gordon in this
locality on account of this convenient outlet. The enemy had not waited
for a charge, and neither of the detachments from the two hills had
reached the brook.
Deck hurriedly stated the situation to Sergeant Fronklyn. Then he
pointed out the narrow pass in the road, which would conceal the men for
a few moments. He advised him to advance to it, and then fall upon the
head of the column as it entered the narrow passage. The officer gave
the order to advance, and with it a few ringing words of encouragement.
Fronklyn placed himself at the head of his men, with Deck near him, and
they dashed into the pass at a breakneck speed. The enemy had not yet
reached the narrow defile.
The troopers had their carbines all ready for use, and the sergeant
halted them at a point where they could see the Rangers as they
approached. At the right moment he gave the command to fire, and the
report was the first intimation to Captain Dingfield that an enemy was
in front of him. As soon as the Union soldiers had discharged their
pieces, they were ordered to sling their carbines, and draw their
sabres.
"To the charge! March!" shouted Fronklyn.
The volley had been a surprise to the Rangers, and they were evidently
staggered as some of their saddles were emptied. Captain Dingfield was
not at the front of his company; for the danger was supposed to be in
the rear, and he was as brave a man as ever sat on a horse. Of course he
could form no idea of the strength of the force in front of him, and he
must have realized that he had fallen into a trap. If he had not been
prudent before, he was so now, for the bugler immediately sounded the
recall.
Sergeant Fronklyn did not wait to see what Captain Dingfield would do,
or where he would retreat. He led his men forward, and they charged
furiously upon what had been the right of the column. The Rangers
defended themselves with vigor and determination for a few minutes, and
the accounts of three of them were closed for this world. The next thing
that Deck saw, for he made a business of knowing all that was going on
around him, was a column of cavalry fleeing across the meadow.
The captain of the Rangers, from his position near the rear, had
evidently found a means of escape. Deck fought with his sabre as long as
there was one of the enemy near him; but as fast as the Texans could get
out of the mêlée they fled to the rear. The pass was so narrow that
the Union troopers, few as there were of them on the by-road, had not
room enough to do themselves justice. But Fronklyn urged them on, and
drove them before him, till he heard the clashing of arms in front of
him.
Both Captain Gordon and Lieutenant Belthorpe dashed into the narrow
road, and followed up the enemy, till the last of them had taken to the
meadow. When the ground was examined later, it was found that there was
only one narrow causeway by which the descent to the low ground could be
made; and the Rangers covered and defended this pass till all of their
number had left the road. It was in vain that the fresh troopers pressed
forward from the hill road, for the way was blocked against them. In the
inability of the captain and the lieutenant to bring their numbers to
bear, the combat was on equal terms.
The Rangers defended themselves bravely and skilfully. There were a
number of hand-to-hand struggles with which there was no space for the
interference of others. But it looked as though the Texans had leaped
from the frying-pan into the fire; for they had gone out but a short
distance from the by-road before their horses began to mire; for the
ground proved to be very soft. Several of the Texans were obliged to
dismount, and pull their steeds out of the mud.
Captain Gordon had pressed forward, and engaged the rear of the
retreating column; and he was about to order a pursuit, when he
discovered the enemy was sinking in the mire, and that the meadow was no
place for horses. It was located all along the wild region; and,
doubtless, some of those sink-holes and caverns which abound in this
part of the State existed in this section of wild land. But the captain
was not willing to permit the escape of the enemy.
Deck Lyon was reasonable enough to abandon the idea of "bagging the
game;" for the Rangers could now hardly be regarded as an organized
military company. The meadow proved to be nothing but a quagmire, though
the farmer appeared to get the hay from it, as there were two stacks of
it on the field; but he had to take the occasion when the ground was
frozen to obtain his crop. By this time the Texans were scattered all
over the meadow, wandering about in search of more solid ground.
It would have been easy enough to shoot down the whole of them; but
Captain Gordon was too chivalrous a man to murder the defenceless
fellows. A few of them had crossed the brook, and were ascending the
hill on the other side. A number of them were making a road of the
bottom of the little stream, which seemed to be composed of sand washed
in from the hills.
The first company were at ease all along the by-road, watching the
movements and the struggles of the enemy; and no doubt Captain Dingfield
wished he had fought it out, or surrendered on the hard ground. The
night was coming on; and even if the Texans extricated themselves from
their pitiable condition, they must be so demoralized that they could do
no further mischief till they had rested and recruited from the effects
of their battle with the mud.
"What are them men doin' in there?" asked the farmer, who wandered as
far as the causeway, when it was safe to do so, and there encountered
Deck, whom he had met before.
"They are trying to get out," replied Private Lyon.
"They can't do it!" exclaimed the native, who indulged in much profane
speech. "They'll make a cemetry of the whole medder. It's nothin' but
muck in there till you git to the bottom on't, and that's where them
fellers will go. I had a colt git in there, and all on us couldn't git
him out; and I reckon his carcass is lyin' on the bottom now. They've
sp'ilt my medder," continued the farmer; and he heaped curses on the
unfortunate troopers, who were tearing up the soft sod at a fearful
rate.
The native had picked up the three horses of the troopers who had been
killed in the affray, and they were some compensation for the damage
done him in the meadow, which looked as though it had been ploughed up.
"Isn't there any way for those men to get out of that quagmire?" asked
Captain Gordon, as he encountered the farmer.
"I don't know o' none," replied the man in a surly tone, "If they was
only Yankees, I'd like it better."
"I like it better as it is," replied the captain.
He knew of no way to extricate the troopers from their plight. It was
the dry season of the year, and probably there was less water and less
mud than in the wet season. The bodies of the horses seemed to be
resting on the sod, with their legs wholly plunged in the soft soil. The
riders had dismounted, and attacked two stacks of hay on the field, and
were placing it in front of their animals. It afforded a better
foundation for them than the oozy turf; and a couple of them were
already standing on their legs.
The darkness was gathering rapidly, and Captain Gordon gave the order
for his men to form in column; and then he marched them out to the hill
road. He was satisfied that the Texans would escape from their miserable
plight, though it might require many hours for them to accomplish it.
They had already begun to build a sort of causeway of the hay, to
connect with the solid one by which they had fled from the fight. The
hay was of a coarse quality, abundantly mixed with weeds and bushes, and
it appeared to be substantial enough to support the horses.
It was evident to the captain that the entire force of the enemy could
be easily captured as they came off the meadow; but it might require the
whole night to secure them. The first company, now united, marched to
the hill road, and halted in a field which had been selected before for
the camping-ground. The men proceeded to feed themselves and their
horses. A half-dozen scouts were left on the by-road to watch the mired
Texans. They had built a great fire to afford them light, and continued
their labors.
A portion of the field where they had encamped consisted of a grove of
big trees, such as the company had frequently seen. The baggage-train
had been left at the bridge, and the men had no tents, but they were
provided with overcoats and blankets; and thus protected from the cold
of the chill night, it was not accounted a hardship to sleep on the
ground. Sentinels surrounded the camp, and two scouts had been sent out
in each direction on the hill road.
"Scouts coming in from both ways!" shouted the sentinels in the road;
and the word was carried to the guard quarters.
The captain was immediately informed. As Deck happened to be in the
detail for guard duty, he had been stationed in the road, and it was his
voice which first announced the return of the scouts. Captain Gordon,
who had stretched himself under a tree for a nap, hastened to the road
to ascertain the cause of the alarm.
"Where are the scouts, Deck?" he asked, as he confronted the sentinel in
the road.
"They have not got here yet," replied Deck, as he saluted the captain.
"I saw them at the top of the hills, coming in at full speed."
"But there is no enemy in this vicinity, except the Texans in the
quagmire," added the captain.
"I know of none, Captain."
The two scouts came in almost at the same moment, before the captain and
the private could discuss the situation, and reported a detachment of
cavalry approaching from either direction.
CHAPTER XXVII
AT THE CAMP-FIRE NEAR THE ROAD
As Captain Gordon suggested, there was no enemy in the vicinity with the
exception of the Texan Rangers, half buried in the mud. The approach of
cavalry from both directions, and in the darkness, was rather an
alarming announcement; and if the scouts had not been close by, he would
have ordered the long roll, and prepared for defence. The camp-fires
were blazing near the road, and a weird light was cast upon the scene.
"Well, Beck, what is your news?" demanded the captain, as the scout
saluted him.
"A detachment of cavalry was coming up when I left the top of the hill,"
replied the trooper.
"What were they?" demanded the captain impatiently.
"I don't know, Captain; we could not make them out in the darkness,"
replied the scout; and he was the one who came from the south.
"How many were there of them?"
"We looked at them as they came down the hill, and Wilder and I reckoned
there were about fifty of them. They had a wagon train behind them."
"Very well, Beck. What have you to say, Layder?" asked Captain Gordon,
turning to the scout from the north.
"My report is just about the same as Beck's; though the detachment comes
from the other way. But they didn't have no baggage-train."
"Did you make out how many there were, Layder?"
"We made out about forty of 'em, Captain; we could not see very well,
and there may have been more of 'em."
"Return to your mates, and ascertain, if you can, who and what they
are," added Captain Gordon.
Deck Lyon had something to say, but he did not feel like saying it. He
was perfectly satisfied that there would be no fighting with the
approaching detachments. He had been reasoning over the situation, and
he had formed a decided opinion. He had heard the train on the railroad,
both when it went down and when it returned about dark; but he knew
nothing about the events which had transpired at the camp by the bridge.
The only fact that bothered him was that the detachment from the south
had a baggage-train.
"Well, Deck, what do you make of it?" asked Captain Gordon, as he halted
in front of the sentinel.
"The two detachments are the second company of Riverlawn Cavalry,"
replied Deck without any hesitation; for this was the decided opinion he
had reached.
"What makes you think so, Deck?" asked the captain with a smile.
"Except the Texans in the mud, there is no other cavalry in these parts.
That's the first reason. The second is, that Major Lyon sent half the
first company under Lieutenant Belthorpe up the railroad, and he can
have heard nothing from this force since; and he would naturally get a
little anxious about it. The third reason is, that he sent you and the
rest of the first company in pursuit of the Texans. If you have not
sent any messenger to him, I shouldn't wonder if the major had worried a
little about you, Captain," said Deck.
"I sent no messenger to him; I could not spare a single man, for I was
liable to meet the whole company of Texans," added the captain. "But I
think you are right, and the same suggestions came to my mind."
Half an hour later the same scouts returned to the camp, and reported
that the captain and Deck were correct in their suppositions. In a
quarter of an hour more the second company rode into the camp. Major
Lyon was with the detachment from the south. The moment he saw Deck, he
leaped from his horse as lightly as his son could have done it, and
grasped both of the hands of the sentinel.
"I am glad to see you again. Dexter!" exclaimed the father. "I have had
a deal of worry over your disappearance, and I was afraid I should have
to send bad news to your mother and your sister."
"No use of worrying about me, father," replied Deck, still holding the
hand of the major. "I have had considerable experience to-day, but I
have worked through it all."
"But what became of you?" asked the anxious father.
"I was captured by the bridge-burners, and I was only sorry that I could
not prevent them from setting the bridge afire. I suppose it was all
burnt up, and your business here is all a failure."
"Not at all, my son; the bridge was hardly damaged at all, and a train
