it, in ten years. This modern stuff that pretends 
to give life is so much less exciting than my own 
daily experience that I cannot get interested in it. 
Perhaps I could read these calm old books." 
" It is the newspapers that take your time," Car- 
men suggested. 
" Yes, they pass the time when I am thinking. 
And they are full of suggestions. I suppose they 
are as accurate about other things as about me. I 
used to think I would make this library the choicest in the city. It is good as far as it goes. Per- 
haps I will take it up some day if I live." And 
he turned away from the shelves and sat down. 
Carmen had never seen him exactly in this humor, 
and was almost subdued by it. 
He began to talk again, philosophizing about life 
generally and his own life. He seemed to like to 
recall his career, and finally said : " Uncle Jerry is 
successful too, and he never did care for anything 
else except his family. There is a clerk in my 
office on five thousand a year who is never without 
a book when he comes to the office and when I see 
him on the train. He has a wife and a nice little 
family in Jersey. I ask him sometimes about his 
reading. He is collecting a library, but not of rare 
books ; says he cannot afford that. I think he is 
successful too, or will be if he never gets more than 
five thousand a year, and is content with his books 
and his little daily life, coming and going to his 
family. Ah, well ! Everybody must live his life. 
I suppose there is some explanation of it all." 
"Has anything gone wrong?" asked Carmen, 
anxiously. 
" No, not at all. Nothing to interfere with the 
house of gold." He spoke quite gently and sin- 
cerely. " I don't know what set me into this mor- 
alizing. Let's look at the plans." 
The next day it was the first of June in con- 
sultation with the architect, a project was broached 
that involved such an addition of cost that Car- 
men hesitated. She declared that it was a question 
of ways and means, and that she must consult the 
chairman. Accordingly she called her carriage and 
drove down to Henderson's office. 
It was a beautiful day, a little warm in the narrow streets of the lower city, but when she had 
ascended by the elevator to the high story that 
Henderson occupied in one of the big buildings 
that rise high enough to give a view of New York 
Harbor, and looked from the broad windows upon 
one of the most sparkling and animated scenes in 
the world, it seemed to her appreciative eyes a day 
let down out of Paradise. 
The clerks all knew Mrs. Henderson, and they 
rose and bowed as she tripped along smiling tow- 
ards her husband's rooms. It did not seem to be 
a very busy day, and she found no one waiting in 
the anteroom, and passed into the room of his pri- 
vate secretary. 
" Is Mr. Henderson in ?" 
" Yes, madam." 
" And busy ?" 
" Probably busy," replied the secretary, with a 
smile, " but he is alone. No one has disturbed him 
for over half an hour." 
" Then I will go in." 
She tapped lightly at the door. There was no 
response. She turned the knob softly and looked 
in, and then, glancing back at the secretary, with 
a finger uplifted, "I think he is asleep," opened 
the door, stepped in, and closed it carefully. 
The large room was full of light, and through 
the half-dozen windows burst upon her the enchanting scene of the Bay. Henderson sat at his table, 
which was covered with neatly arranged legal documents, but bowed over it, his head resting upon 
his arms. 
" So, Rodney, this is the way, old boy, that you 
wear yourself out in business !" 
She spoke laughingly, but he did not stir, and 
she tiptoed along to awaken him. 
She touched his hand. It moved heavily away 
from her hand. The left arm, released, dropped 
at his side. 
She started back, her eyes round with terror, 
and screamed. 
Instantly the secretary wcij at her side, and sup- 
ported her, fainting, to a seat. Other clerks rushed 
in at the alarm. Henderson was lifted from his 
chair and laid upon a lounge. When the doctor 
who had been called arrived, Carmen was in a 
heap by the low couch, one arm thrown across the 
body, and her head buried in the cushion close to 
his. 
The doctor instantly applied restoratives; he 
sent for an electric battery ; everything was done 
that science could suggest. But all was of no 
avail. There was no sign of life. He must have 
been dead half an hour, said the doctor. It was 
evidently heart-failure. 
Before the doctor had pronounced his verdict 
there was a whisper in the Stock Exchange. 
" Henderson is dead !" 
" It is not possible," said one. 
" I saw him only yesterday," said another. 
" I was in his office this morning," said a third. 
" I never saw him looking in better health." 
The whisper was confirmed. There was no 
doubt of it. Henderson's private secretary had 
admitted it. Yet it seemed incredible. No provision had been made for it. Speculation had not 
discounted it. A panic set in. No one knew what 
to do, for no one knew well the state of Henderson's affairs. In the first thirty minutes there was 
a tremendous drop in Henderson stocks. Then 
some of them rallied, but before the partial recovery hundreds of men had been ruined. It was a 
wild hour in the Exchange. Certain stocks were 
hopelessly smashed for the time, and some combinations were destroyed ; among them was one that 
Uncle Jerry had kept out of ; and Jack Delancy 
was hopelessly ruined. 
The event was flashed over the wires of the 
continent ; it was bulletined ; it was cried in the 
streets ; it was the all-absorbing talk of the town. 
Already, before the dead man was removed to his 
own house, people were beginning to moralize 
about him and his career. Perhaps the truest 
thing was said by the old broker in the board 
whose reputation for piety was only equalled by 
his reputation of always having money to loan at 
exorbitant rates in a time of distress. He said to 
a group of downcast operators, " In the midst of 
life we are in death." 
CHAPTER XX 
THE place that Eodney Henderson occupied in 
the mind of the public was shown by the attention 
the newspapers paid to his death. All the great 
newspapers in all the cities of importance published 
long and minute biographies of him, with pictorial 
illustrations, and day after day characteristic anecdotes of his remarkable career. Xor was there, it 
is believed, a newspaper in the United States, secular, religious, or special, that did not comment upon 
his life. This was the more remarkable in that he 
was not a public man in the common use of the 
word ; he had never interested himself in politics, 
or in public affairs, municipal or State or national ; 
he had devoted himself entirely to building up his 
private fortune. If this is the duty of a citizen, he 
had discharged it with singleness of purpose ; but 
no other duty of the citizen had he undertaken, 
if we except his private charities. And yet no 
public man of his day excited more popular in- 
terest or was the subject of more newspaper com- 
ment. 
And these comments were nearly all respectful, 
and most of them kindly. There was some justice 
in this, for Henderson had been doing what every- 
body else was trying to do, usually without his 
good -fortune. If he was more successful than 
others in trying to get rich, surely a great deal 
of admiration was mingled with the envy of 
his career. To be sure, some journals were very 
severe upon his methods, and some revived the 
old stories of his unscrupulousness in transactions 
which had laid him open to criminal prosecu- 
tion, from the eifects of which he was only saved 
by uncommon adroitness and, some said, by legal 
technicalities. His career also was denounced by 
some as wholly vicious in its effect upon the youth 
of the republic, and as lowering the tone of public 
morals. And yet it was remembered that he had 
been a frank, open-hearted friend, kind to his family, and generous in contrast with some of his close- 
fisted contemporaries. There was nothing mean 
about him ; even his rascalities, if you chose to 
call his transactions by that name, were on a grand 
scale. To be sure, he would let nothing stand be- 
tween him and the consummation of his schemes 
he was like Napoleon in that but those who knew 
him personally liked him. The building up of his 
colossal fortune which the newspapers were say- 
ing was the largest that had been accumulated in 
one lifetime in America had ruined thousands of 
people, #nd carried disaster into many peaceful 
houses, and his sudden death had been a cyclone 
of destruction for an hour. But it was hardly fair, 
one journal pointed out, to hold Henderson responsible for his untimely death. 
Even Jack Delancy, when the crushing news was 
brought him at the club, where he sat talking with 
Major Fairfax, although he saw his own ruin in a 
flash, said, " It wouldn't have happened if Henderson had lived." 
" Not so soon," replied the Major, hesitatingly. 
" Do you mean to say that Henderson and Mav- 
ick and Mrs. Henderson would have thrown me 
over ?" 
""Why, no, not exactly; but a big machine 
grinds on regardless, and when a crash comes ev- 
erybody looks out for himself." 
" I think I'll telegraph to Mavick." 
" That wouldn't do any good now. He couldn't 
have stopped the panic. I tell you what, you'd bet- 
ter go down to your brokers and see just how mat- 
ters stand." 
And the two went down to Wall Street. It was 
after hours, but the brokers' office was full of excitement. No one knew what was left from the 
storm, nor what to expect. It was some time before Jack could get speech with one of the young 
men of the firm. 
"How is it?" he asked. 
" It's been a of a time." 
" And Henderson ?" 
" Ob, his estate is all right, so far as we know. 
He was well out of the Missouris." 
" And the Missouri ?" 
" Bottom dropped out ; temporarily, anyway." 
" And my account ?" 
" Wiped out, I am sorry to say. Might come up 
by-and-by, if you've got a lot of money to put up, 
and wait." 
" Then it's all up," said Jack, turning to the Ma- 
jor. He was very pale. He knew now that his 
fortune was gone absolutely house, everything. 
Few words were exchanged as they made their 
way back to the club. And here the Major did a 
most unusual thing for him. He ordered the drinks. 
But he did this delicately, apologetically. 
"I don't know as you care for anything, but 
Wall Street has made me thirsty. Eh ?" 
" I don't mind if I do," Jack replied. 
And they sat down. 
The conversation was not cheerful ; it was mainly ejaculatory. After a second glass, Jack said, 
" I don't suppose it would do any good, but I should 
like to see Mavick." And then, showing the drift 
of his thoughts, " I wonder what Carmen will do ?" 
" I should say that will depend upon the will," 
replied the Major. 
" She is a good-hearted woman," and Jack's tone 
was one of inquiry. 
" She hasn't any, Jack. Not the least bit of a 
heart. And I believe Henderson found it out. I 
shall be surprised if his will doesn't show that he 
knew it." 
A servant came to the corner where they were 
sitting and handed Jack a telegram. 
"What's this? Mavick?" He tore it open. 
" No ; Edith." He read it with something like a 
groan, and passed it over to the Major. 
What he read was this : " Don't be cast down, 
Jack. The boy and I are well. Come. Edith." 
" That is splendid ; that is just like her," cried 
the Major. " I'd be out of this by the first train." 
" It is no use," replied Jack, gloomily. " I 
couldn't face Edith now. I couldn't do it. I wonder how she knew ?" 
He called back the servant, and penned as reassuring a message as he could, but said that it was 
impossible to leave town. She must not worry 
about him. This despatched, they fell again into a 
talk about the situation. After another glass Jack 
was firm in his resolution to stay and watch things. 
It seemed not impossible that something might 
turn up. 
On the third day after, both the Major and Jack 
attended the funeral at the house. Carmen was not 
visible. The interment was private. The day following, Jack left his card of condolence at the door ; 
but one day passed, and another and another, and 
no word of acknowledgment came from the stricken 
widow. Jack said to himself that it was not nat- 
ural to expect it. But he did expect it, and with- 
out reason, for he should have known that Carmen 
was not only overwhelmed with the sudden shock 
of her calamity, but that she would necessarily be 
busy with affairs that even grief would not permit 
her to neglect. Jack heard that Mavick had been 
in the city, and that he went to the Henderson 
house, but he had not called at the club, and the 
visit must have been a flying one. 
A week passed, and Jack received no message 
from Carmen. His note offering his services if she 
needed the services of any one had not been answered. 
Carmen was indeed occupied. It could not be 
otherwise. The state of Henderson's affairs could 
not wait upon conventionalities. The day after the 
funeral Mr. Henderson's private secretary came to 
the house, and had a long interview with Mrs. 
Henderson. He explained to her that the affairs 
should be immediately investigated, the will proved, 
and the estate put into the hands of the executors. 
It would be best for Mrs. Henderson herself to 
bring his keys down to the office, and to see the 
opening of his desk and boxes. Meantime it would 
be well for her to see if there were any papers of 
importance in the house ; probably everything was 
in the office safe. 
The next morning Carmen nerved herself to the 
task. "With his keys in hand she went alone into 
the library and opened his writing-desk. Every- 
thing was in perfect order; letters and papers filed 
and labelled, and neatly arranged in drawers and 
pigeon-holes. There lay his letter-book as he had 
last used it, and there lay fresh memoranda of his 
projects and engagements. She found in one of 
the drawers some letters of her own, mostly notes, 
and most of them written before her marriage. 
In another drawer were some bundles of letters, a 
little yellow with age, endorsed with the name of 
" Margaret." She shut the drawer without looking 
at them. She continued to draw papers from the 
pigeon-holes and glance at them. Most of them 
related to closed transactions. At length she drew 
out one that instantly fixed her attention. It was 
endorsed, " Last Will and Testament." She looked 
first at the date at the end it was quite recent 
and then leaned back in her chair and set herself 
deliberately to read it. 
The document was long and full of repetitions 
and technicalities, but the purport of it was plain. 
As she read on she was at first astonished, then she 
was excited to trembling, and felt herself pale and 
faint; but when she had finished and fully com- 
prehended it her pretty face was distorted with 
rage. The great bulk of the property was not for 
her. 
She sprang up and paced the floor. She came 
back and took up the document with a motion of 
tearing it in pieces. No it would be better to 
burn it. Of course there must be another will deposited in the safe. Henderson had told her so. 
It was drawn up shortly after their marriage. It 
could not be worse for her than this. She lighted 
the gas-jet by the fireplace, and held the paper in 
her hand. Then a thought struck her. What if 
somebody knew of this will, and its execution 
could be proved! She looked again at the end. 
It was signed and sealed. There were the names 
of two witnesses. One was the name of their late 
butler, who had been long in Henderson's service, 
and who had died less than a month ago. The 
other name was Thomas Mavick. Evidently the 
will had been signed recently, on some occasion 
when Mavick was in the house. And Henderson's 
lawyer probably knew it also ! 
She folded the document carefully, put it back 
in the pigeon-hole, locked the desk, and rang the 
bell for her carriage. She was ready when the 
carriage came to the door, and told the coachman 
to drive to the office of Mr. Sage in Nassau Street. 
Mr. Sage had been for many years Henderson's 
most confidential lawyer. 
He received Carmen in his private office, with 
the subdued respect due to her grief and the sudden 
tragedy that had overtaken her. He was a man 
well along in years, a small man, neat in his dress, 
a little formal and precise in his manner, with a 
smoothly shaven face and gray eyes, keen, but not 
unkindly in expression. He had the reputation, 
which he deserved, for great ability and integrity. 
After the first salutations and words of condolence 
were spoken, Carmen said, " I have come to consult 
you, Mr. Sage, about my husband's affairs." 
" I am quite at your service, madam." 
" I wanted to see you before I went to the office 
with the keys of his safe." 
" Perhaps," said Mr. Sage, " I could spare you 
that trouble." * 
" Oh no ; his secretary thought I had better come 
myself, if I could." 
" Very well," said Mr. Sage. 
Carmen hesitated a moment, and then said, in 
an inquiring tone, " I suppose the first thing is the 
will. He told me long ago that his will was made. 
I suppose it is in the safe. Didn't you draw it, Mr. 
" Oh yes," the lawyer replied, leaning back in his 
chair, " I drew that ; a long time ago ; shortly after 
your marriage. And about a year ago I drew another one. Did he ever speak of that ?" 
" No," Carmen replied, with a steady voice, but 
trembling inwardly at her narrow escape. 
" I wonder," continued Mr. Sage, " if it was ever 
executed ? He took it, and said he would think it 
over." 
" Executed ?" queried Carmen, looking up. " How 
do you mean, before a magistrate ?" 
'Oh no; signed and witnessed. It is very simple. The law requires two witnesses ; the testator 
and the witnesses must declare that they sign in 
the presence of each other. The witnesses prove 
the will, or, if they are dead, their signatures can be 
proved. I was one of the witnesses of the first 
will, and a clerk of Henderson's, who is still in his 
office, was the other." 
" The last one is probably in the safe if it was 
executed." 
" Probably," the lawyer assented. " If not, 
you'd better look for it in the house." 
" Of course. Whether it exists or not, I want to 
carry out my husband's intention," Carmen said, 
sweetly. " Have you any memorandum of it ?" 
" I think so, somewhere, but the leading pro- 
visions are in my mind. It would astonish the 
public." 
" Why ?" asked Carmen. 
" Well, the property was greater than any of us 
supposed, and perhaps I ought not to speak to 
you of this now, Mrs. Henderson." 
" I think I have a right to know what my husband's last wishes were," Carmen answered, firmly. 
" Well, he had a great scheme. The greater 
part of his property after the large legacies " 
The lawyer saw that Carmen looked pale, and he 
hesitated a moment, and then said, in a cheery 
manner : " Oh, I assure you, madam, that this will 
gave you a great fortune ; all the establishment, 
and a very great fortune. But the residue was 
in trust for the building and endowment of an Industrial School on the East Side, with a great li- 
brary and a reading-room, all to be free. It was a 
great scheme, and carefully worked out." 
" I am so glad to know this," said Carmen. " Was 
there anything else ?" 
" Only some legacies." And Mr. Sage went on, 
trying to recall details that his attentive listener 
already knew. There were legacies to some of his 
relatives in New Hampshire, and there was a fund, 
quite a handsome fund, for the poor of the city, 
called the " Margaret Fund." And there was some- 
thing also for a relative of the late Mrs. Hender- 
son. 
Carmen again expressed her desire to carry out 
her husband's wishes in everything, and Mr. Sage 
was much impressed by her sweet manner. When 
she had found out all that he knew or remembered 
of the new will, and arose to go, Mr. Sage said he 
would accompany her to the oiBce. And Carmen 
gratefully accepted his escort, saying that she had 
wished to ask him to go with her, but that she 
feared to take up so much of his time. 
At the office the first will was found, but no 
other. The lawyer glanced through it, and then 
handed it to Mrs. Henderson, with the remark, " It 
leaves you, madam, pretty much everything of 
which he died possessed." Carmen put it aside. 
She did not care to read it now. She would go 
home and search for the other one. 
" If no other is found," said Mr. Sage, in bidding 
her good-morning, " this one ought to be proved 
to-morrow. I may tell you that you and Mr. Hollowell are named as executors." 
On her way home Carmen stopped at a telegraph 
station, and sent a message to Mavick, in Washington, to take an afternoon train and come to New 
York. 
When Carmen reached home she was in a serious but perfectly clear frame of mind. The revelation in the last will of Henderson's change of 
mind towards her was mortifying to a certain ex- 
tent. It was true that his fortune was much in- 
creased since the first will was made, and that it 
justified his benevolent scheme. But he might have 
consulted her about it. If she had argued the 
matter with her conscience, she would have told 
her conscience that she would carry out this new 
plan in her own way and time. She was master of 
the situation, and saw before her a future of al- 
most unlimited opportunity and splendor, except 
for one little obstacle. That obstacle was Mr. 
Mavick. She believed that she understood him 
thoroughly, but she could not take the next step 
until she had seen him. It was true that no one 
except herself positively knew that a second will 
now existed, but she did not know how much he 
might choose to remember. 
She was very impatient to see Mr. Mavick. She 
wandered about the house, restless and feverish. 
Presently it occurred to her that it would be best 
to take the will wholly into her own keeping. She 
unlocked the desk, took it out with a trembling 
hand, but did not open it again. It was not neces- 
sary. A first reading had burned every item of it 
into her brain. It seemed to be a sort of living 
thing. She despised herself for being so agitated, 
and for the furtive feeling that overcame her as she 
glanced about to be sure that she was alone, and 
then she ran up-stairs to her room and locked the 
document in her own writing-desk. 
What was that ? Oh, it was only the door-bell. 
But who could it be ? Some one from the office, 
from her lawyer ? She could see nobody. In two 
minutes there was a rap at her door. It was only 
the servant with a despatch. She took it and 
opened it without haste. 
" Yery well, Dobson ; no answer. I expect Mr. 
Mavick on business at ten. I am at home to no 
one else." 
At ten o'clock Mr. Mavick came, and was shown 
into the library, where Carmen awaited him. 
" It was very good of you to come," she said, as 
she advanced to meet him and gave him her hand 
in the natural subdued manner that the circum- 
stances called for. 
" I took the first train after I received your de- 
spatch." 
" I am sorry to inconvenience you so," she said, 
after they were seated, " but you know so much of 
Mr. Henderson's affairs that your advice will be 
needed. His will is to be proved to-morrow." 
"Yes?" saidMavick. 
"I went to see Mr. Sage to-day, and he went 
with me to the office. The will was in the safe. 
I did not read it, but Mr. Sage said that it left 
everything to me except a few legacies." 
"Yes?" 
" He said it should be proved to-morrow, unless 
a later will turned up." 
" Was there a later will ?" 
" That is what he did not know. He had drawn 
a new will about a year ago, but he doubted if it 
had ever been executed. Mr. Henderson was con- 
sidering it. He thought he had a memorandum of 
it somewhere, but he remembered the principal 
features of it." 
