got there about ten o'clock in the morning. I wish I hadn't. Jack met me
at the station, and he told me that the wedding was to be late in the
afternoon, and that they weren't going off on any silly wedding trip, he
and Mamie, but were just going to walk home from her mother's house to
his cottage. That was good enough for him, he said. I looked at him hard
for a minute after we met. When we had parted I had a sort of idea that
he might take to drink, but he hadn't. He looked very respectable and
well-to-do in his black coat and high city collar; but he was thinner
and bonier than when I had known him, and there were lines in his face,
and I thought his eyes had a queer look in them, half shifty, half
scared. He needn't have been afraid of me, for I didn't mean to talk to
his bride about the Helen B. Jackson.

He took me to his cottage first, and I could see that he was proud of
it. It wasn't above a cable's length from high-water mark, but the tide
was running out, and there was already a broad stretch of hard, wet sand
on the other side of the beach road. Jack's bit of land ran back behind
the cottage about a quarter of a mile, and he said that some of the
trees we saw were his. The fences were neat and well kept, and there was
a fair-sized barn a little way from the cottage, and I saw some
nice-looking cattle in the meadows; but it didn't look to me to be much
of a farm, and I thought that before long Jack would have to leave his
wife to take care of it, and go to sea again. But I said it was a nice
farm, so as to seem pleasant, and as I don't know much about these
things, I daresay it was, all the same. I never saw it but that once.
Jack told me that he and his brother had been born in the cottage, and
that when their father and mother died they leased the land to Mamie's
father, but had kept the cottage to live in when they came home from sea
for a spell. It was as neat a little place as you would care to see: the
floors as clean as the decks of a yacht, and the paint as fresh as a
man-o'-war. Jack always was a good painter. There was a nice parlour on
the ground floor, and Jack had papered it and had hung the walls with
photographs of ships and foreign ports, and with things he had brought
home from his voyages: a boomerang, a South Sea club, Japanese straw
hats, and a Gibraltar fan with a bull-fight on it, and all that sort of
gear. It looked to me as if Miss Mamie had taken a hand in arranging it.
There was a brand-new polished iron Franklin stove set into the old
fireplace, and a red table-cloth from Alexandria embroidered with those
outlandish Egyptian letters. It was all as bright and homelike as
possible, and he showed me everything, and was proud of everything, and
I liked him the better for it. But I wished that his voice would sound
more cheerful, as it did when we first sailed in the Helen B., and
that the drawn look would go out of his face for a minute. Jack showed
me everything, and took me upstairs, and it was all the same: bright and
fresh and ready for the bride. But on the upper landing there was a door
that Jack didn't open. When we came out of the bedroom I noticed that it
was ajar, and Jack shut it quickly and turned the key.

"That lock's no good," he said, half to himself. "The door is always
open."

I didn't pay much attention to what he said, but as we went down the
short stairs, freshly painted and varnished so that I was almost afraid
to step on them, he spoke again.

"That was his room, sir. I have made a sort of store-room of it."

"You may be wanting it in a year or so," I said, wishing to be pleasant.

"I guess we won't use his room for that," Jack answered in a low voice.

Then he offered me a cigar from a fresh box in the parlour, and he took
one, and we lit them, and went out; and as we opened the front door
there was Mamie Brewster standing in the path as if she were waiting for
us. She was a fine-looking girl, and I didn't wonder that Jack had been
willing to wait three years for her. I could see that she hadn't been
brought up on steam-heat and cold storage, but had grown into a woman by
the sea-shore. She had brown eyes, and fine brown hair, and a good
figure.

"This is Captain Torkeldsen," said Jack. "This is Miss Brewster,
captain; and she is glad to see you."

"Well, I am," said Miss Mamie, "for Jack has often talked to us about
you, captain."

She put out her hand, and took mine and shook it heartily, and I suppose
I said something, but I know I didn't say much.

The front door of the cottage looked toward the sea, and there was a
straight path leading to the gate on the beach road. There was another
path from the steps of the cottage that turned to the right, broad
enough for two people to walk easily, and it led straight across the
fields through gates to a larger house about a quarter of a mile away.
That was where Mamie's mother lived, and the wedding was to be there.
Jack asked me whether I would like to look round the farm before dinner,
but I told him I didn't know much about farms. Then he said he just
wanted to look round himself a bit, as he mightn't have much more chance
that day; and he smiled, and Mamie laughed.

"Show the captain the way to the house, Mamie," he said. "I'll be along
in a minute."

So Mamie and I began to walk along the path, and Jack went up toward the
barn.

"It was sweet of you to come, captain," Miss Mamie began, "for I have
always wanted to see you."

"Yes," I said, expecting something more.

"You see, I always knew them both," she went on. "They used to take me
out in a dory to catch codfish when I was a little girl, and I liked
them both," she added thoughtfully. "Jack doesn't care to talk about his
brother now. That's natural. But you won't mind telling me how it
happened, will you? I should so much like to know."

Well, I told her about the voyage and what happened that night when we
fell in with a gale of wind, and that it hadn't been anybody's fault,
for I wasn't going to admit that it was my old captain's, if it was. But
I didn't tell her anything about what happened afterwards. As she didn't
speak, I just went on talking about the two brothers, and how like they
had been, and how when poor Jim was drowned and Jack was left, I took
Jack for him. I told her that none of us had ever been sure which was
which.

"I wasn't always sure myself," she said, "unless they were together.
Leastways, not for a day or two after they came home from sea. And now
it seems to me that Jack is more like poor Jim, as I remember him, than
he ever was, for Jim was always more quiet, as if he were thinking."

I told her I thought so, too. We passed the gate and went into the next
field, walking side by side. Then she turned her head to look for Jack,
but he wasn't in sight. I shan't forget what she said next.

"Are you sure now?" she asked.

I stood stock-still, and she went on a step, and then turned and looked
at me. We must have looked at each other while you could count five or
six.

"I know it's silly," she went on, "it's silly, and it's awful, too, and
I have got no right to think it, but sometimes I can't help it. You see
it was always Jack I meant to marry."

"Yes," I said stupidly, "I suppose so."

She waited a minute, and began walking on slowly before she went on
again.

"I am talking to you as if you were an old friend, captain, and I have
only known you five minutes. It was Jack I meant to marry, but now he is
so like the other one."

When a woman gets a wrong idea into her head, there is only one way to
make her tired of it, and that is to agree with her. That's what I did,
and she went on talking the same way for a little while, and I kept on
agreeing and agreeing until she turned round on me.

"You know you don't believe what you say," she said, and laughed. "You
know that Jack is Jack, right enough; and it's Jack I am going to
marry."

Of course I said so, for I didn't care whether she thought me a weak
creature or not. I wasn't going to say a word that could interfere with
her happiness, and I didn't intend to go back on Jack Benton; but I
remembered what he had said when he left the ship in Havana: that it
wasn't his fault.

"All the same," Miss Mamie went on, as a woman will, without realising
what she was saying, "all the same, I wish I had seen it happen. Then I
should know."

Next minute she knew that she didn't mean that, and was afraid that I
would think her heartless, and began to explain that she would really
rather have died herself than have seen poor Jim go overboard. Women
haven't got much sense, anyhow. All the same, I wondered how she could
marry Jack if she had a doubt that he might be Jim after all. I suppose
she had really got used to him since he had given up the sea and had
stayed ashore, and she cared for him.

Before long we heard Jack coming up behind us, for we had walked very
slowly to wait for him.

"Promise not to tell anybody what I said, captain," said Mamie, as girls
do as soon as they have told their secrets.

Anyhow, I know I never did tell any one but you. This is the first time
I have talked of all that, the first time since I took the train from
that place. I am not going to tell you all about the day. Miss Mamie
introduced me to her mother, who was a quiet, hard-faced old New England
farmer's widow, and to her cousins and relations; and there were plenty
of them, too, at dinner, and there was the parson besides. He was what
they call a Hard-shell Baptist in those parts, with a long, shaven upper
lip and a whacking appetite, and a sort of superior look, as if he
didn't expect to see many of us hereafter--the way a New York pilot
looks round, and orders things about when he boards an Italian
cargo-dragger, as if the ship weren't up to much anyway, though it was
his business to see that she didn't get aground. That's the way a good
many parsons look, I think. He said grace as if he were ordering the men
to sheet home the topgallant-sail and get the helm up. After dinner we
went out on the piazza, for it was warm autumn weather; and the young
folks went off in pairs along the beach road, and the tide had turned
and was beginning to come in. The morning had been clear and fine, but
by four o'clock it began to look like a fog, and the damp came up out of
the sea and settled on everything. Jack said he'd go down to his cottage
and have a last look, for the wedding was to be at five o'clock, or soon
after, and he wanted to light the lights, so as to have things look
cheerful.

"I will just take a last look," he said again, as we reached the house.
We went in, and he offered me another cigar, and I lit it and sat down
in the parlour. I could hear him moving about, first in the kitchen and
then upstairs, and then I heard him in the kitchen again; and then
before I knew anything I heard somebody moving upstairs again. I knew he
couldn't have got up those stairs as quick as that. He came into the
parlour, and he took a cigar himself, and while he was lighting it I
heard those steps again overhead. His hand shook, and he dropped the
match.

"Have you got in somebody to help?" I asked.

"No," Jack answered sharply, and struck another match.

"There's somebody upstairs, Jack," I said. "Don't you hear footsteps?"

"It's the wind, captain," Jack answered; but I could see he was
trembling.

"That isn't any wind, Jack," I said; "it's still and foggy. I'm sure
there's somebody upstairs."

"If you are so sure of it, you'd better go and see for yourself,
captain," Jack answered, almost angrily.

He was angry because he was frightened. I left him before the fireplace,
and went upstairs. There was no power on earth that could make me
believe I hadn't heard a man's footsteps overhead. I knew there was
somebody there. But there wasn't. I went into the bedroom, and it was
all quiet, and the evening light was streaming in, reddish through the
foggy air; and I went out on the landing and looked in the little back
room that was meant for a servant-girl or a child. And as I came back
again I saw that the door of the other room was wide open, though I knew
Jack had locked it. He had said the lock was no good. I looked in. It
was a room as big as the bedroom, but almost dark, for it had shutters,
and they were closed. There was a musty smell, as of old gear, and I
could make out that the floor was littered with sea-chests, and that
there were oilskins and such stuff piled on the bed. But I still
believed that there was somebody upstairs, and I went in and struck a
match and looked round. I could see the four walls and the shabby old
paper, an iron bed and a cracked looking-glass, and the stuff on the
floor. But there was nobody there. So I put out the match, and came out
and shut the door and turned the key. Now, what I am telling you is the
truth. When I had turned the key, I heard footsteps walking away from
the door inside the room. Then I felt queer for a minute, and when I
went downstairs I looked behind me, as the men at the wheel used to look
behind them on board the Helen B.

Jack was already outside on the steps, smoking. I have an idea that he
didn't like to stay inside alone.

"Well?" he asked, trying to seem careless.

"I didn't find anybody," I answered, "but I heard somebody moving
about."

"I told you it was the wind," said Jack contemptuously. "I ought to
know, for I live here, and I hear it often."

There was nothing to be said to that, so we began to walk down toward
the beach. Jack said there wasn't any hurry, as it would take Miss Mamie
some time to dress for the wedding. So we strolled along, and the sun
was setting through the fog, and the tide was coming in. I knew the
moon was full, and that when she rose the fog would roll away from the
land, as it does sometimes. I felt that Jack didn't like my having heard
that noise, so I talked of other things, and asked him about his
prospects, and before long we were chatting as pleasantly as possible.

I haven't been at many weddings in my life, and I don't suppose you
have, but that one seemed to me to be all right until it was pretty near
over; and then, I don't know whether it was part of the ceremony or not,
but Jack put out his hand and took Mamie's and held it a minute, and
looked at her, while the parson was still speaking.

Mamie turned as white as a sheet and screamed. It wasn't a loud scream,
but just a sort of stifled little shriek, as if she were half frightened
to death; and the parson stopped, and asked her what was the matter, and
the family gathered round.

"Your hand's like ice," said Mamie to Jack, "and it's all wet!"

She kept looking at it, as she got hold of herself again.

"It don't feel cold to me," said Jack, and he held the back of his hand
against his cheek. "Try it again."

Mamie held out hers, and touched the back of his hand, timidly at
first, and then took hold of it.

"Why, that's funny," she said.

"She's been as nervous as a witch all day," said Mrs. Brewster severely.

"It is natural," said the parson, "that young Mrs. Benton should
experience a little agitation at such a moment."

Most of the bride's relations lived at a distance, and were busy people,
so it had been arranged that the dinner we'd had in the middle of the
day was to take the place of a dinner afterwards, and that we should
just have a bite after the wedding was over, and then that everybody
should go home, and the young couple would walk down to the cottage by
themselves. When I looked out I could see the light burning brightly in
Jack's cottage, a quarter of a mile away. I said I didn't think I could
get any train to take me back before half-past nine, but Mrs. Brewster
begged me to stay until it was time, as she said her daughter would want
to take off her wedding dress before she went home; for she had put on
something white with a wreath that was very pretty, and she couldn't
walk home like that, could she?

So when we had all had a little supper the party began to break up, and
when they were all gone Mrs. Brewster and Mamie went upstairs, and Jack
and I went out on the piazza to have a smoke, as the old lady didn't
like tobacco in the house.

The full moon had risen now, and it was behind me as I looked down
toward Jack's cottage, so that everything was clear and white, and there
was only the light burning in the window. The fog had rolled down to the
water's edge, and a little beyond, for the tide was high, or nearly, and
was lapping up over the last reach of sand within fifty feet of the
beach road.

Jack didn't say much as we sat smoking, but he thanked me for coming to
his wedding, and I told him I hoped he would be happy, and so I did. I
daresay both of us were thinking of those footsteps upstairs, just then,
and that the house wouldn't seem so lonely with a woman in it. By and by
we heard Mamie's voice talking to her mother on the stairs, and in a
minute she was ready to go. She had put on again the dress she had worn
in the morning.

Well, they were ready to go now. It was all very quiet after the day's
excitement, and I knew they would like to walk down that path alone now
that they were man and wife at last. I bade them good-night, although
Jack made a show of pressing me to go with them by the path as far as
the cottage, instead of going to the station by the beach road. It was
all very quiet, and it seemed to me a sensible way of getting married;
and when Mamie kissed her mother good-night, I just looked the other
way, and knocked my ashes over the rail of the piazza. So they started
down the straight path to Jack's cottage, and I waited a minute with
Mrs. Brewster, looking after them, before taking my hat to go. They
walked side by side, a little shyly at first, and then I saw Jack put
his arm round her waist. As I looked he was on her left and I saw the
outline of the two figures very distinctly against the moonlight on the
path; and the shadow on Mamie's right was broad and black as ink, and it
moved along, lengthening and shortening with the unevenness of the
ground beside the path.

I thanked Mrs. Brewster, and bade her good-night; and though she was a
hard New England woman, her voice trembled a little as she answered, but
being a sensible person, she went in and shut the door behind her as I
stepped out on the path. I looked after the couple in the distance a
last time, meaning to go down to the road, so as not to overtake them;
but when I had made a few steps I stopped and looked again, for I knew I
had seen something queer, though I had only realised it afterwards. I
looked again, and it was plain enough now; and I stood stock-still,
staring at what I saw. Mamie was walking between two men. The second man
was just the same height as Jack, both being about a half a head taller
than she; Jack on her left in his black tail-coat and round hat, and the
other man on her right--well, he was a sailor-man in wet oilskins. I
could see the moonlight shining on the water that ran down him, and on
the little puddle that had settled where the flap of his sou'wester was
turned up behind: and one of his wet, shiny arms was round Mamie's
waist, just above Jack's. I was fast to the spot where I stood, and for
a minute I thought I was crazy. We'd had nothing but some cider for
dinner, and tea in the evening, otherwise I'd have thought something had
got into my head, though I was never drunk in my life. It was more like
a bad dream after that.

I was glad Mrs. Brewster had gone in. As for me, I couldn't help
following the three, in a sort of wonder to see what would happen, to
see whether the sailor-man in his wet togs would just melt away into the
moonshine. But he didn't.

I moved slowly, and I remembered afterwards that I walked on the grass,
instead of on the path, as if I were afraid they might hear me coming. I
suppose it all happened in less than five minutes after that, but it
seemed as if it must have taken an hour. Neither Jack nor Mamie seemed
to notice the sailor. She didn't seem to know that his wet arm was round
her, and little by little they got near the cottage, and I wasn't a
hundred yards from them when they reached the door. Something made me
stand still then. Perhaps it was fright, for I saw everything that
happened just as I see you now.

Mamie set her foot on the step to go up, and as she went forward, I saw
the sailor slowly lock his arm in Jack's, and Jack didn't move to go up.
Then Mamie turned round on the step, and they all three stood that way
for a second or two. She cried out then--I heard a man cry like that
once, when his arm was taken off by a steam-crane--and she fell back in
a heap on the little piazza.

I tried to jump forward, but I couldn't move, and I felt my hair rising
under my hat. The sailor turned slowly where he stood, and swung Jack
round by the arm steadily and easily, and began to walk him down the
pathway from the house. He walked him straight down that path, as
steadily as Fate; and all the time I saw the moonlight shining on his
wet oilskins. He walked him through the gate, and across the beach road,
and out upon the wet sand, where the tide was high. Then I got my breath
with a gulp, and ran for them across the grass, and vaulted over the
fence, and stumbled across the road. But when I felt the sand under my
feet, the two were at the water's edge; and when I reached the water
they were far out, and up to their waists; and I saw that Jack Benton's
head had fallen forward on his breast, and his free arm hung limp beside
him, while his dead brother steadily marched him to his death. The
moonlight was on the dark water, but the fog-bank was white beyond, and
I saw them against it; and they went slowly and steadily down. The water
was up to their armpits, and then up to their shoulders, and then I saw
it rise up to the black rim of Jack's hat. But they never wavered; and
the two heads went straight on, straight on, till they were under, and
there was just a ripple in the moonlight where Jack had been.

It has been on my mind to tell you that story, whenever I got a chance.
You have known me, man and boy, a good many years; and I thought I would
like to hear your opinion. Yes, that's what I always thought. It wasn't
Jim that went overboard; it was Jack, and Jim just let him go when he
might have saved him; and then Jim passed himself off for Jack with us,
and with the girl. If that's what happened, he got what he deserved.
People said the next day that Mamie found it out as they reached the
house, and that her husband just walked out into the sea, and drowned
himself; and they would have blamed me for not stopping him if they'd
known that I was there. But I never told what I had seen, for they
wouldn't have believed me. I just let them think I had come too late.

When I reached the cottage and lifted Mamie up, she was raving mad. She
got better afterwards, but she was never right in her head again.

Oh, you want to know if they found Jack's body? I don't know whether it
was his, but I read in a paper at a Southern port where I was with my
new ship that two dead bodies had come ashore in a gale down East, in
pretty bad shape. They were locked together, and one was a skeleton in
oilskins.




FOR THE BLOOD IS THE LIFE


We had dined at sunset on the broad roof of the old tower, because it
was cooler there during the great heat of summer. Besides, the little
kitchen was built at one corner of the great square platform, which made
it more convenient than if the dishes had to be carried down the steep
stone steps, broken in places and everywhere worn with age. The tower
was one of those built all down the west coast of Calabria by the
Emperor Charles V. early in the sixteenth century, to keep off the
Barbary pirates, when the unbelievers were allied with Francis I.
against the Emperor and the Church. They have gone to ruin, a few still
stand intact, and mine is one of the largest. How it came into my
possession ten years ago, and why I spend a part of each year in it, are
matters which do not concern this tale. The tower stands in one of the
loneliest spots in Southern Italy, at the extremity of a curving rocky
promontory, which forms a small but safe natural harbour at the southern
extremity of the Gulf of Policastro, and just north of Cape Scalea, the
birthplace of Judas Iscariot, according to the old local legend. The
tower stands alone on this hooked spur of the rock, and there is not a
house to be seen within three miles of it. When I go there I take a
couple of sailors, one of whom is a fair cook, and when I am away it is
in charge of a gnome-like little being who was once a miner and who
attached himself to me long ago.

My friend, who sometimes visits me in my summer solitude, is an artist
by profession, a Scandinavian by birth, and a cosmopolitan by force of
circumstances. We had dined at sunset; the sunset glow had reddened and
faded again, and the evening purple steeped the vast chain of the
mountains that embrace the deep gulf to eastward and rear themselves
higher and higher toward the south. It was hot, and we sat at the
landward corner of the platform, waiting for the night breeze to come
down from the lower hills. The colour sank out of the air, there was a
little interval of deep-grey twilight, and a lamp sent a yellow streak
from the open door of the kitchen, where the men were getting their
supper.

Then the moon rose suddenly above the crest of the promontory, flooding
the platform and lighting up every little spur of rock and knoll of
grass below us, down to the edge of the motionless water. My friend
lighted his pipe and sat looking at a spot on the hillside. I knew that
he was looking at it, and for a long time past I had wondered whether he
would ever see anything there that would fix his attention. I knew that
spot well. It was clear that he was interested at last, though it was a
long time before he spoke. Like most painters, he trusts to his own
eyesight, as a lion trusts his strength and a stag his speed, and he is
always disturbed when he cannot reconcile what he sees with what he
believes that he ought to see.

"It's strange," he said. "Do you see that little mound just on this side
of the boulder?"

"Yes," I said, and I guessed what was coming.

"It looks like a grave," observed Holger.

"Very true. It does look like a grave."

"Yes," continued my friend, his eyes still fixed on the spot. "But the
strange thing is that I see the body lying on the top of it. Of course,"
continued Holger, turning his head on one side as artists do, "it must
be an effect of light. In the first place, it is not a grave at all.
Secondly, if it were, the body would be inside and not outside.
Therefore, it's an effect of the moonlight. Don't you see it?"

"Perfectly; I always see it on moonlight nights."

