itself to the meridian we are on. Luigi is in com- 
mand this week. Now, if on Saturday night at a 
moment before midnight we could fly in an instant 
to a point fifteen degrees west of here, he would 
hold possession of the power another hour, for the 
change observes local time and no other." 
Betsy Hale was deeply impressed, and said with 
solemnity : 
' ' Patsy Cooper, for detail it lays over the Passage 
of the Red Sea." 
 
"Now, I shouldn't go as far as that," said Aunt 
Patsy, "but if you've a mind to say Sodom and 
Gomorrah, I am with you, Betsy Hale." 
"I am agreeable, then, though I do think I was 
right, and I believe Parson Maltby would say the 
same. Well, now, there's another thing. Suppose 
one of you wants to borrow the legs a minute from 
the one that's got them, could he let him?" 
"Yes, but we hardly ever do that. There were 
disagreeable results, several times, and so we very 
seldom ask or grant the privilege, nowadays, and 
we never even think of such a thing unless the case 
is extremely urgent. Besides, a week's possession 
at a time seems so little that we can't bear to spare 
a minute of it. People who have the use of their 
legs all the time never think of what a blessing it is, 
of course. It never occurs to them; it's just their 
natural ordinary condition, and so it does not excite 
them at all. But when I wake up, on Sunday 
morning, and it's my week and I feel the power all 
through me, oh, such a wave of exultation and 
thanksgiving goes surging over me, and I want to 
shout 'I can walk! I can walk!' Madam, do you 
ever, at your uprising, want to shout 'I can walk! 
I can walk!'?" 
"No, you poor unfortunate cretur', but I'll nevei 
get out of my bed again without doing it! Laws, 
to think I've had this unspeakable blessing all my 
long life and never had the grace to thank the good 
Lord that gave it to me!" 
Tears stood in the eyes of both the old ladies and 
the widow said, softly: 
 
"Betsy Hale, we have learned something, you 
and me." 
The conversation now drifted wide, but by and by 
floated back once more to that admired detail, the 
rigid and beautiful impartiality with which the pos- 
session of power had been distributed between the 
twins. Aunt Betsy saw in it a far finer justice than 
human law exhibits in related cases. She said: 
"In my opinion it ain't right now, and never has 
been right, the way a twin born a quarter of a 
minute sooner than the other one gets all the land 
and grandeurs and nobilities in the old countries and 
his brother has to go bare and be a nobody. Which 
of you was born first?" 
Angelo's head was resting against Luigi's; weari- 
ness had overcome him, and for the past five min- 
utes he had been peacefully sleeping. The old 
ladies had dropped their voices to a lulling drone, to 
help him to steal the rest his brother wouldn't take 
him up-stairs to get. Luigi listened a moment to 
Angelo's regular breathing, then said in a voice 
barely audible: 
"We were both born at the same time, but I am 
six months older than he is." 
"For the land's sake!" 
"'Sh! don't wake him up; he wouldn't like my 
telling this. It has always been kept secret till 
now." 
"But how in the world can it be? If you were 
both born at the same time, how can one of you be 
older than the other?" 
" It is very simple, and I assure you it is true. I 
 
was born with a full crop of hair, he was as bald as 
an egg for six months. I could walk six months 
before he could make a step. I finished teething 
six months ahead of him. I began to take solids six 
months before he left the breast. I began to talk 
six months before he could say a word. Last, and 
absolutely unassailable proof, the sutures in my skull 
closed six months ahead of his. Always just that 
six months' difference to a day. Was that accident? 
Nobody is going to claim that, I'm sure. It was 
ordained — it was law — it had its meaning, and we 
know what that meaning was. Now what does this 
overwhelming body of evidence establish ? It estab- 
lishes just one thing, and that thing it establishes 
beyond any peradventure whatever. Friends, we 
would not have it known for the world, and I must 
beg you to keep it strictly to yourselves, but the 
truth is, we are no more twins than you are." 
The two old ladies were stunned, paralyzed — 
petrified, one may almost say — and could only sit 
and gaze vacantly at each other for some moments; 
then Aunt Betsy Hale said impressively: 
"There's no getting around proof like that. I 
do believe it's the most amazing thing I ever heard 
of." She sat silent a moment or two and breathing 
hard with excitement, then she looked up and sur- 
veyed the strangers steadfastly a little while, and 
added: "Well, it does beat me, but I would have 
took you for twins anywhere." 
"So would I, so would I," said Aunt Patsy with 
the emphasis of a certainty that is not impaired by 
any shade of doubt. 
"Anybody would — anybody in the world, I don't 
care who he is," said Aunt Betsy with decision. 
"You won't tell," said Luigi, appealingly. 
"Oh, dear, no!" answered both ladies promptly, 
"you can trust us, don't you be afraid." 
"That is good of you, and kind. Never let on; 
treat us always as if we were twins." 
"You can depend on us," said Aunt Betsy, "but 
it won't be easy, because now that I know you ain't 
you don't seem so." 
Luigi muttered to himself with satisfaction: 
"That swindle has gone through without change of 
€ars." 
It was not very kind of him to load the poor 
things up with a secret like that, which would be 
always flying to their tongues' ends every time they 
heard any one speak of the strangers as twins, and 
would become harder and harder to hang on to with 
every recurrence of the temptation to tell it, while 
the torture of retaining it would increase with every 
new strain that was applied; but he never thought 
of that, and probably would not have worried much 
about it if he had. 
A visitor was announced — some one to see the 
twins. They withdrew to the parlor, and the two 
old ladies began to discuss with interest the strange 
things which they had been listening to. When 
they had finished the matter to their satisfaction, 
and Aunt Betsy rose to go, she stopped to ask a 
question : 
"How does things come on between Roweny and 
Tom Driscoll?" 
 
"Well, about the same. He writes tolerable 
often, and she answers tolerable seldom." 
"Where is he?" 
"In St. Louis, I believe, though he's such a gad- 
about that a body can't be very certain of him, I 
reckon." 
"Don't Roweny know?" 
"Oh, yes, like enough. I haven't asked her lately. ' ' 
"Do you know how him and the Judge are get- 
ting along now?" 
"First rate, I believe. Mrs. Pratt says so; and 
being right in the house, and sister to the one and 
aunt to t'other, of course she ought to know. She 
says the Judge is real fond of him when he's away; 
but frets when he's around and is vexed with his 
ways, and not sorry to nave him go again. He has 
been gone three weeks this time — a pleasant thing 
for both of them, I reckon." 
"Tom's ruther harum-scarum, but there ain't 
anything bad in him, I guess." 
"Oh, no, he's just young, that's all. Still, 
twenty- three is old, in one way. A young man 
ought to be earning his living by that time. If 
Tom were doing that, or was even trying to do it, 
the Judge would be a heap better satisfied with him. 
Tom's always going to begin, but somehow he can't 
seem to find just the opening he likes." 
"Well, now, it's partly the Judge's own fault. 
Promising the boy his property wasn't the way to 
set him to earning a fortune of his own. But what 
do you think — is Roweny beginning to lean any 
toward him, or ain't she?" 
 
Aunt Patsy had a secret in her bosom; she 
wanted to keep it there, but nature was too strong 
for her. She drew Aunt Betsy aside, and said in 
her most confidential and mysterious manner: 
"Don't you breathe a syllable to a soul — I'm 
going to tell you something. In my opinion Tom 
Driscoll's chances were considerable better yester- 
day than they are to-day." 
"Patsy Cooper, what do you mean?" 
"It's so, as sure as you're born. I wish you 
could 'a' been at breakfast and seen for yourself." 
"You don't mean it!" 
"Well, if I'm any judge, there's a leaning — 
there's a leaning, sure." 
"My land! Which one of 'em is it?" 
"I can't say for certain, but I think it's the 
youngest one — Anjy." 
Then there were handshakings, and congratula- 
tions, and hopes, and so on, and the old ladies 
parted, perfectly happy — the one in knowing some- 
thing which the rest of the town didn't, and the 
other in having been the sole person able to furnish 
that knowledge. 
The visitor who had called to see the twins was 
the Rev. Mr. Hotchkiss, pastor of the Baptist 
church. At the reception Angelo had told him he 
had lately experienced a change in his religious 
views, and was now desirous of becoming a Baptist, 
and would immediately join Mr. Hotchkiss's church. 
There was no time to say more, and the brief talk 
ended at that point. The minister was much grati- 
fied, and had dropped in for a moment now, to 
 
invite the twins to attend his Bible class at eight 
that evening. Angelo accepted, and was expecting 
Luigi to decline, but he did not, because he knew 
that the Bible class and the Free-thinkers met in the 
same room, and he wanted to treat his brother to 
the embarrassment of being caught in free-cninking 
company. 
CHAPTER V 
GUILT AND INNOCENCE FINELY BLENT 
[A long and vigorous quarrel follows, between the twins. And 
there is plenty to quarrel about, for Angelo was always seeking 
truth, and this obliged him to change and improve his religion 
with frequency, which wearied Luigi, and annoyed him too; 
for he had to be present at each new enlistment — which placed 
him in the false position of seeming to indorse and approve his 
brother's fickleness; moreover, he had to go to Angelo 's pro- 
hibition meetings, and he hated them. On the other hand, 
when it was his week to command the legs he gave Angelo just 
cause of complaint, for he took him to circuses and horse-races 
and fandangoes, exposing him to all sorts of censure and criticism; 
and he drank, too; and whatever he drank went to Angelo 's 
head instead of his own and made him act disgracefully. When 
the evening was come, the two attended the Free-thinkers' meet- 
ing, where Angelo was sad and silent; then came the Bible 
class and looked upon him coldly, finding him in such company. 
Then they went to Wilson's house and Chapter XI of Pudd'nhead 
Wilson follows, which tells of the girl seen in Tom Driscoll's 
room; and closes with the kicking of Tom by Luigi at the anti- 
temperance mass -meeting of the Sons of Liberty; with the 
addition of some account of Roxy's adventures as a chamber- 
maid on a Mississippi boat. Her exchange of the children had 
been flippantly and farcically described in an earlier chapter.] 
NEXT morning all the town was a-buzz with great 
news ; Pudd'nhead Wilson had a law case ! The 
public astonishment was so great and the public curi- 
osity so intense, that when the justice of the peace 
opened his court, the place was packed with people, 
and even the windows were full. Everybody was 
flushed and perspiring; the summer heat was almost 
unendurable. 
Tom Driscoll had brought a charge of assault and 
battery against the twins. Robert Allen was re- 
tained by Driscoll, David Wilson by the defense. 
Tom, his native cheerfulness unannihilated by his 
back-breaking and bone-bruising passage across the 
massed heads of the Sons of Liberty the previous 
night, laughed his little customary laugh, and said 
to Wilson: 
"I've kept my promise, you see; I'm throwing 
my business your way. Sooner than I was expect- 
ing, too." 
"It's very good of you — particularly if you 
mean to keep it up." 
"Well, I can't tell about that yet. But we'll see. 
If I find you deserve it I'll take you under my pro- 
tection and make your fame and fortune for you." 
"I'll try to deserve it, Tom." 
A jury was sworn in; then Mr. Allen said: 
"We will detain your honor but a moment with 
this case. It is not one where any doubt of the fact 
of the assault can enter in. These gentlemen — the 
accused — kicked my client at the Market Hall last 
night ; they kicked him with violence ; with extraor- 
dinary violence; with even unprecedented violence, 
I may say; insomuch that he was lifted entirely off 
his feet and discharged into the midst of the audi- 
ence. We can prove this by four hundred wit- 
nesses — we shall call but three. Mr. Harkness will 
take the stand." 
Mr. Harkness, being sworn, testified that he was 
 
chairman upon the occasion mentioned ; that he was 
close at hand and saw the defendants in this action 
kick the plaintiff into the air and saw him descend 
among the audience. 
"Take the witness," said Allen. 
"Mr. Harkness," said Wilson, "you say you 
saw these gentlemen, my clients, kick the plaintiff. 
Are you sure — and please remember that you are 
on oath — are you perfectly sure that you saw both 
of them kick him, or only one? Now be careful." 
A bewildered look began to spread itself over the 
witness's face. He hesitated, stammered, but got 
out nothing. His eyes wandered to the twins and 
fixed themselves there with a vacant gaze. 
"Please answer, Mr. Harkness, you are keeping 
the court waiting. It is a very simple question." 
Counsel for the prosecution broke in with impa- 
tience : 
"Your honor, the question is an irrelevant trivial- 
ity. Necessarily, they both kicked him, for they 
have but the one pair of legs, and both are respon- 
sible for them." 
Wilson said, sarcastically: 
"Will your honor permit this new witness to be 
sworn? He seems to possess knowledge which can 
be of the utmost value just at this moment — knowl- 
edge which would at once dispose of what every one 
must see is a very difficult question in this case. 
Brother Allen, will you take the stand?" 
"Go on with your case!" said Allen, petulantly. 
The audience laughed, and got a warning from the 
court. 
 
"Now, Mr. Harkness," said Wilson, insinuat- 
ingly, "we shall have to insist upon an answer to 
that question." 
"I — er — well, of course, I do not absolutely 
know, but in my opinion — " 
"Never mind your opinion, sir — answer the 
question." 
"I — why, I can't answer it." 
"That will do, Mr. Harkness. Stand down." 
The audience tittered, and the discomfited witness. 
retired in a state of great embarrassment. 
Mr. Wakeman took the stand and swore that he 
saw the twins kick the plaintiff off the platform. 
The defense took the witness. 
"Mr. Wakeman, you have sworn that you saw 
these gentlemen kick the plaintiff. Do I understand 
you to swear that you saw them both do it?"' 
"Yes, sir," — with decision. 
"How do you know that both did it?" 
"Because I saw them do it." 
The audience laughed, and got another warning 
from the court. 
"But by what means do you know that both, and 
not one, did it?" 
"Well, in the first place, the insult was given to 
both of them equally, for they were called a pair of 
scissors. Of course they would both want to resent 
it, and so — " 
"Wait! You are theorizing now. Stick to facts 
— counsel will attend to the arguments. Go on." 
"Well, they both went over there — that I saw.'* 
"Very good. Go on." 
 
"And they both kicked him — I swear to it." 
"Mr. Wakeman, was Count Luigi, here, willing 
to join the Sons of Liberty last night?" 
"Yes, sir, he was. He did join, too, and drank 
a glass or two of whisky, like a man." 
"Was his brother willing to join?" 
"No, sir, he wasn't. He is a teetotaler, and was 
elected through a mistake." 
"Was he given a glass of whisky?" 
"Yes, sir, but of course that was another mis- 
take, and not intentional. He wouldn't drink it. 
He set it down." A slight pause, then he added, 
casually and quite simply: "The plaintiff reached 
for it and hogged it." 
There was a fine outburst of laughter, but as the 
justice was caught out himself, his reprimand was 
not very vigorous. 
Mr. Allen jumped up and exclaimed: "I protest 
against these foolish irrelevancies. What have they 
to do with the case?" 
Wilson said: "Calm yourself, brother, it was 
only an experiment. Now, Mr. Wakeman, if one 
of these gentlemen chooses to join an association 
and the other doesn't; and if one of them enjoys 
whisky and the other doesn't, but sets it aside and 
leaves it unprotected" (titter from the audience), 
"it seems to show that they have independent 
minds, and tastes, and preferences, and that one 
of them is able to approve of a thing at the very 
moment that the other is heartily disapproving of 
it. Doesn't it seem so to you?" 
"Certainly it does. It's perfectly plain. 
 
"Now, then, it might be — I only say it might 
be — that one of these brothers wanted to kick the 
plaintiff last night, and that the other didn't want 
that humiliating punishment inflicted upon him in 
that public way and before all those people. Isn't 
that possible?" 
"Of course it is. It's more than possible. I 
don't believe the blond one would kick anybody. 
It was the other one that — " 
"Silence!" shouted the plaintiff's counsel, and 
went on with an angry sentence which was lost in 
the wave of laughter that swept the house. 
"That will do, Mr. Wakeman," said Wilson, 
"you may stand down." 
The third witness was called. He had seen the 
twins kick the plaintiff. Mr. Wilson took the 
witness. 
"Mr. Rogers, you say you saw these accused 
gentlemen kick the plaintiff?" 
"Yes, sir." 
"Both of them?" 
"Yes, sir." 
"Which of them kicked him first?" 
"Why — they — they both kicked him at the same 
time." 
•"Are you perfectly sure of that?" 
"Yes, sir." 
"What makes you sure of it?" 
"Why, I stood right behind them, and saw them 
do it." 
"How many kicks were delivered?" 
"Only one." 
' ' If two men kick, the result should be two kicks, 
shouldn't it?" 
"Why — why — yes, as a rule." 
'Then what do you think went with the other 
kick?" 
"I — well — the fact is, I wasn't thinking of two 
being necessary, this time." 
"What do you think now?" 
"Well, I — I'm sure I don't quite know what to 
think, but I reckon that one of them did half of the 
kick and the other one did the other half." 
Somebody in the crowd sung out: "It's the first 
sane thing that any of them has said." 
The audience applauded. The judge said: "Si- 
lence! or I will clear the court." 
Mr. Allen looked pleased, but Wilson did not 
seem disturbed. He said : 
"Mr. Rogers, you have favored us with what you 
think and what you reckon, but as thinking and 
reckoning are not evidence, I will now give you a 
chance to come out with something positive, one 
way or the other, and shall require you to produce 
it. I will ask the accused to stand up and repeat 
the phenomenal kick of last night. " The twins stood 
up. "Now, Mr. Rogers, please stand behind them." 
A Voice: "No, stand in front!" (Laughter. 
Silenced by the court.) Another Voice: "No, give 
Tommy another highst!" (Laughter. Sharply re- 
buked by the court.) 
"Now, then, Mr. Rogers, two kicks shall be de- 
livered, one after the other, and I give you my 
lord that at least one of the two shall be delivered 
 
by one of the twins alone, without the slightest 
assistance from his brother. Watch sharply, for you 
have got to render a decision without any if's and 
and's in it." Rogers bent himself behind the twins 
with his palms just above his knees, in the modern 
attitude of the catcher at a baseball match, and 
riveted his eyes on the pair of legs in front of him. 
"Are you ready, Mr. Rogers?" 
"Ready, sir." 
"Kick!" 
The kick was launched. 
"Have you got that one classified, Mr. Rogers?" 
"Let me study a minute, sir." 
"Take as much time as you please. Let me 
know when you are ready." 
For as much as a minute Rogers pondered, with all 
eyes and a breathless interest fastened upon him. 
Then he gave the word: "Ready, sir." 
"Kick!" 
The kick that followed was an exact duplicate of 
the first one. 
"Now, then, Mr. Rogers, one of those kicks was 
an individual kick, not a mutual one. You will now 
State positively which was the mutual one." 
The witness said, with a crestfallen look: 
"I've got to give it up. There ain't any man in 
the woiM that could tell t'other from which, sir." 
"Do yc." still assert that last night's kick was a 
mutual kick;" 
"Indeed, I don't, sir." 
"That will do, Mr. Rogers. If my brother Allen 
desires to address the court, your honor, very well; 
 
but as far as I am concerned I am ready to let the 
case be at once delivered into the hands of this 
intelligent jury without comment." 
Mr. Justice Robinson had been in office only two 
months, and in that short time had not had many 
cases to try, of course. He had no knowledge of 
laws and courts except what he had picked up since 
he came into office. He was a sore trouble to the 
lawyers, for his rulings were pretty eccentric some- 
times, and he stood by them with Roman simplicity 
and fortitude ; but the people were well satisfied with 
him, for they saw that his intentions were always 
right, that he was entirely impartial, and that he 
usually made up in good sense what he lacked in 
technique, so to speak. He now perceived that 
there was likely to be a miscarriage of justice here, 
and he rose to the occasion. 
"Wait a moment, gentlemen," he said, "it is 
plain that an assault has been committed — it is 
plain to anybody; but the way things are going, 
the guilty will certainly escape conviction. I can- 
not allow this. Now — " 
"But, your honor!" said Wilson, interrupting him, 
earnestly but respectfully, "you are deciding the 
