woman was weeping sorely. She was not a hard- 
ened creature who did not feel the true nature of 
her position. She felt it acutely, the discomfi- 
ture of her reception in the dining-hall, the cold 
anger of the host, the manner of the other guests, 
the sneers, the scorn, the indignation, the smile that 
was worst of alL These trifles had started the 
tears, but their springs were far below all trifles; 
and they flowed on ; as a woman's tears will flow, 
called tip by any very little thing, but answering 
to the deepest miseries of her life. 
The life of this woman had been a fathomless 
misery until but now, a short while ago ; until the 
day when, lightly joining the great crowd that had 
crushed to hear the wonderful Rabbi preach, she 
had come away astonished with the moral astonish- 
ment which he so often sent shaking through the 
soul. She could never forget that evening, how 
tired he looked, but how grand, as the people came 
clamoring about him, after he had done preaching ; 
nor how she felt, like a grub to which a God had 
m one moment given wings. She went with the 
crowd lightly, as the flippant do, but she came away 
never able to think lightly again ; turned grave for- 
ever ; a woman persuaded out of her past by the 
sight of such purity as she had never dreamed of. 
One word, one look of his was enough. She could 
not be in the same world with him and do wrong. 
His spotlessness seemed to her something relentless, 
like a law that must include herself, like some- 
TEE RABBI, AND THE WOMAN 193 
thing in the presence of which, or even in the mem- 
ory of which, guilfc could not draw a breath. And 
then his pity ! Oh, his pity ! If she had only had 
the chance to try what that would do for her ! 
It was trusting to that unknown quantity that 
she had come to this Louse. She had tried other 
times, when he was preaching, to speak to the 
Rabbi, as she saw the others, do, but there were so 
many others ! And people had pushed her back, 
saying : " You are not fit to talk to such as he ! '* 
And one said : " He would not like it. He would 
not want to see you." She was used to such re- 
pulses. So she had accepted them meekly and 
gone away, and had never exchanged one word 
with him, though she would have died for it. And 
now he would not speak it ! Perhaps he was of- 
fended with her for forcing her way into the dining- 
hall. Perhaps he could not bring himself to over- 
look her history, or was afraid of the effect on his 
own reputation if he defied the customs of virtuous 
society and noticed the presence of a woman like 
herself. Her tears flowed faster at the thought; 
but, with the gentleness of true sorrow for error 
repented, she meekly refused to be discouraged by 
the wound to her timid and dawning self-respect. 
Her feeling towards the Rabbi was too deep ; her 
heart melted with the touching idealization which 
can be given only by the tainted to the pure. She 
was so grateful to him for living in the world, she 
loved him so for being what he was, that she could 
have thrown her life down in an ecstasy of torture 
for his sake. 
194 THE STORY OF JESUS CHEIST 
The poor woman would not accept his rebuff, if 
rebuff it were. If she might not see his face, she 
could worship at his feet; those patient, tired, 
but never-resting feet which trod the dust of Pales- 
tine over in search of unhappy people whom he 
could comfort. 
The storm of her tears became a deluge, and 
drenched the bare feet of the Rabbi where they 
lay upon the low cushions of his couch. She was 
half frightened at this, and, seeing what she had 
done, she hurriedly wiped away the wetness with 
her thick long hair. She tried to stop crying, but 
could not. Suddenly he felt a strange thing. 
The lips of the woman had touched his feet ; timid 
and reverent and delicate kisses fell one upon 
another, an outburst of humiliation and adora- 
tion such as the lowest soul on earth might offer 
to the highest God in heaven. The woman had 
reached one of those moments of spiritual exalta- 
tion when one neither knows nor cares what may 
happen next. Until she saw and heard the pro- 
phet, she had not understood what disgrace meant. 
Now, at the very crisis when she first had know- 
ledge of the nature of shame, she had her first ex- 
perience of a communication between God and the 
soul, we give it different names : repentance, or 
forgiveness, or some word which is all too definite 
to hold it ; but the most that we know is, that 
there is a beautiful mystery which extinguishes 
shame and never tells us how. 
She forgot the angry host, the sneering company ; 
even the silence of the Jtabbi himself ceased to 
THE EABBI, AXD THE TTOMAX 195 
trouble her. She Had forgotten herself, her misery, 
and her error. She remembered nothing in the 
world but him. 
The little, white alabastron had fallen from her 
trembling hand and hung forward by its chain. She 
took it up and unsealed it. One of the powerful 
perfumes of the East flowed out pungently and filled 
the air of the diniiig-halL The alabaster vial con- 
tained a precious, scented unguent, much favored by 
all classes of society that could afford it. The wo- 
man poured it out lavishly, covering her hands and 
the feet of the Nazarene with it, while she humbly 
anointed them. She asked for nothing; not even 
a sign that would give her a breath of confidence 
in the new feeling which she had begun to dare to 
call respect for herself. She only offered all she 
had or could. She was sorry, and happy, and dif- 
ferent. She wanted the Rabbi to understand. She 
longed that he should know how she felt about him. 
Up to this time the Nazarene had not spoken ; but 
his delicate features had shown many varying and 
fine emotions during the progress of this touching 
scene. Now, unexpectedly, he spoke. But he spoke 
to his host, who, restrained by politeness from inter- 
fering with the conduct of his guest during this 
unprecedented episode, had taken no pains to con- 
ceal either his displeasure or his personal skepticism 
in the matter. 
" Simon," observed Jesus suddenly, " if this man 
were a prophet, he would have known what kind of 
a woman she is who touched him." 
The face of the Pharisee crimsoned with embar- 
196 THE STOBY OP JESUS CHEIST 
rassment, for in these precise words his thought had 
been at that moment cast. The Nazarene read him 
as if he had been a Hebrew scroll. Simon flung 
out his hands in Oriental deprecation, but Ms eyes 
dropped. With a quiet sarcasm, all the more cut- 
ting because perfectly courteous, Jesus proceeded to 
suggest the number and variety of social attentions 
omitted in his own case by his host. No one had 
anointed the visitor's head when he came in. He 
had observed the absence of the Oriental kiss of 
greeting. Nay, even the usual courtesy, the com- 
monest one of all, had been overlooked by careless 
servants whom a none too careful master had not 
rebuked for their neglect. This country Rabbi had 
not been so ignorant of the world, after all! He 
had noted the slight of every little lapse of etiquette. 
And, worst of all, he had detected his host in the 
very breach of it most galling to a Pharisee. For 
Simon belonged to the sect whose god was an inces- 
sant lavation. A Pharisee might cheat, or lie, or 
oppress, or evict his tenants, or slander, or do as he 
pleased about the moral law; but he knew which 
way every drop of water ought to run, and fully ex- 
pected to bathe his soul into the kingdom of Heaveii. 
An eminent Sadducee once said of a distinguished 
Pharisee that he would wash the sun itself, if he could 
get at it. 
The woman was still weeping. She could not 
altogether follow the conversation which now took 
place at the table, partly because she was crying so, 
partly because it was so foreign to her habit of mind 
that it was not easy for her to understand it. But 
THE HABBI, ASD THE TTO31AX 197 
she soon perceived that it concerned herself, and 
began to concentrate her attention upon it. Was 
the Rabbi saying a kind thing of her her ? In- 
credible ! 
" Thou, Simon, didst not kiss me, nor anoint, nor 
give me any water for my feet. But she has washed 
my feet with her tears, . . . wiped them with her 
hair, . . . anointed them; . . . she has not yet 
ceased to kiss my feet." 
The words were said in a low tone, but the humil- 
iated woman heard them with broken distinctness. 
For very joy and awe she stopped weeping ; sud- 
denly, like a comforted child. Impossible! Did 
she hear correctly? Was she deaf, or dazed? 
"She has loved much. . . . Much is forgiven 
her." 
Did the Rabbi, could the Rabbi, say that? 
She raised her tear-stained face, pushed her liair 
back from it, and courageously lifted her head. 
Oh, wonderful ! He had turned to her at last. 
His glorious eyes, like altar fires, were lighted for 
her. His grave lip, fine with feeling, moved for her. 
His pity, now she knew what his pity was I His 
own heart seemed to ache or break with it. It gave 
her a bewildering feeling, she a ci'eature scorned 
and stained, as if, for his sake, because he pitied 
her she must have value, she must be worth what it 
cost him to think of her as he did. 
His exquisite compassion, tenderer than woman's, 
stronger than man's, a quality undreamed of before 
in the world, seemed to lift her from the dust to 
the stars. Jesus regarded the woman for some 
198 THE STORY OF JESUS CHRIST 
minutes in one of the profound silences for which 
his manner was distinguished. He seemed to be 
gauging her nature, taking careful account of her 
genuineness, whether it would hold or not. His 
next words vere the result of careful reflection, and, 
when they came, no one in the room wondered that 
they were uttered with the solemnity of a man who 
weighs the full force and consequence of what he 
says. 
" Thy sins," he slowly said, " are forgiven thee." 
" Are forgiven me ! " she repeated with pathetic 
incredulity, "forgiven we?" She had fallen 
upon the floor before his blinding face. Now she 
raised herself awkwardly to her feet. He did not 
extend his hand to help her. She felt that it de- 
pended on herself from this hour how she stood 
before the world. She walked tottering but erect. 
His look was as if it would dismiss her ; perhaps as 
if he would spare her the inevitable consequences 
of this scene, and shelter her from rude comment, 
in solitude, and in white thoughts. 
" Go," he added gently, " and in peace," With 
lifted head and shining eyes she went. Not a sneer 
from the coldest lip in the company followed her out. 
No one smiled. The servants made way for her 
without a glance of disrespect. She did not even 
look back at the Rabbi, for she felt that he would 
not wish it. The silken curtain parted and fell; 
and in the thrilling echo of his last great words she 
was gone. 
The woman had gone, but the fact remained. The 
Kabbi had done a wholly reprehensible and danger- 
THE RABBI, A3D THE WOMAN 199 
cms thing. He had put on record before influential 
ecclesiastical witnesses the boldest heresy of his life. 
He had dared, and the heavens had not opened to 
smite the blasphemer, he had presumed to take 
upon himself the remission of sins. This was a doc- 
trine dear to the Jewish theocracy, and protected by 
ages of formalism and of awe. 
Jesus, a rustic from Nazareth, a carpenter-rabbi, 
had dared to forgive a sinner, and she the lowest of 
her kind. 
The banquet broke up in displeasure and disor- 
der. Who was this person who arrogated to himself 
the power of Jehovah ? Who could forgive sin but 
God Almighty? 
That scene in the dining-hall at the house of 
Simon proved an epoch in the story of the Naza- 
rene. One of the kindest and manliest deeds of 
his life became one of the strongest links in the 
unseen chains which were already dragging fa'tri to 
his doom. Palestine soon resounded with the im- 
piety of the great heretic ; and behind dark, ecclesi- 
astical curtains and in grim, political corners his 
name was marked. 
One of his offenses in this act of lofty chivalry 
was the attitude which he took towards womanhood. 
This was, and remained throughout his life, so far 
in advance of his age, that it was nothing less than 
stupefying to his contemporaries* It was one of the 
most original, as it was one of the most noble ele- 
ments in his philosophy and in his practice. The 
position of women among the Jews was far beyond 
200 THE STOBY OF JESUS CHE1ST 
that which other Oriental nations gave them. Still, 
men who refused to sit beside the ladies of their 
families in the synagogue were exasperated by the 
social code of the Nazarene. Eaces which thought 
it degrading for a man to allude to the existence of 
his own wife outside of his home, races whose favor- 
ite proverb taught that " the threshold weeps for 
forty days when a girl is born," were perplexed by 
his estimate of the nature and position of woman. 
He paid no attention to the bitterness which he 
aroused in this respect. He advocated a startling 
reform as calmly as if it were as old as Sarah, Prin- 
cess of Abraham. He seemed almost unconscious 
of the social revolution of which he was laying the 
foundations. He went straight on with serene and 
beautiful indifference, always treating women with 
respect, always recognizing their fettered individ- 
ualism, their force of character if they had it, 
their undeveloped powers, their terrible capacity for 
suffering, their superiority in spiritual vigor. He 
boldly took, from the beginning to the end of his 
history, the stand that he had taken in the Phari- 
see's dining-room : that the restoration to a respected 
future of a woman who had repented her past was 
to be made a matter of course ; that men and women 
stood before God upon the same moral plane, and 
that they ought so to stand before human society. 
This was a thing hard to understand, and harder to 
forgive. Men with holy 'faces and unholy lives 
rebelled at it. Men with haughty hearts, bad tem- 
pers and self-indulgent habits, all the domestic 
tyrants whose yoke women were meekly ^nd hope- 
THE RABBI, AXD THE WOMAX 201 
lessly enduring, resented it. Even the kind men, 
the loyal, the loving, of whom in all ages, thank 
God, the world has had her happy share, were more 
perplexed than enlightened by this social heresy. 
But there is not a single instance in the life of 
Jesus in which for a moment he seemed inclined to 
weaken on this point. Every incident in which a 
woman figures finds him as fearless and as chival- 
rous in his treatment of her as if he had held the 
ruling of society in his own hands. TSjjit jnan-Jaa 
was sometimes severe ; with women never. Men he 
women never. For men 
he could reserve a rebuke amounting to denuncia- 
tion ; for women his impulse of forgiveness came 
uppermost. 
A little later in his story, a beautiful incident 
is related of him, in which he compassionately saved 
from sentence of death a woman who perhaps de- 
served it. But the moral lesson, which has lasted 
from that day to this, was worth the pardon. 
The exquisite modesty and delicacy of the man who 
1 could not bear even so much contact with so much 
shame, and who, from, obvious embarrassment, wrote 
upon the ground with his finger, and with downcast 
eyes, while he gave the case the consideration that 
he must, have dropped upon our lives like petals 
from the very flower of chivalry, the blossom of 
purity, manliness, and godlikeness. 
"While his success in Galilee was at its height, 
Jesus was forming the deepest friendships of his life. 
At the time when life was at its summit, he,. like 
other men of eminence, found these easy to select* 
1 Ecce Homo. 
202 THE STORY OP JESUS CHRIST 
He had, among the twelve chosen, one preferred. 
This man, John, has acquired for all time the 
enviable reputation of being the dearest disciple of 
Jesus Christ. John was a Galilean fisherman, like 
several of tlie others ; but he far surpassed his birth 
and training in a refinement which won him a precious 
place in the heart of his Rabbi. Jesus was deeply 
drawn to John, and it is one of the noble things 
about the others in the little band that none of them 
showed any jealousy of this preference, but treated 
the friendship with rugged generosity, memorable 
when we think how they all loved and honored their 
Master ; ail but one dark soul. That man, the trea- 
surer of the association, like other men born traitors 
but posing friends, hidden in protestations, awaited 
the time when the movement of the drama should 
betray him to the world ; perhaps who knows ? 
first reveal him to himself. 
There were other friendships peculiarly dear to 
Jesus, but chiefly cultivated a little later in the story. 
Their central figure was a young man living in the 
suburbs of Jerusalem ; but there were grouped about 
him the women of his family, sisters, who had their 
share in a tenderness which always centred loyally 
about their hospitable home. Jesus was such a 
lonely man that an attractive home, where he could 
feel himself one of the household, had a pathetic 
charm for him. 
At the time of which we speak, and in Galilee, 
the devotion of several high-minded women had 
already been offered to his cause and personality; 
and he had accepted it with the fine discernment in 
w 
w 
E 
w 
a 
H 
Q 
& 
< 
2 
2 
a 
u 
THE RABBI, AXD THE TTOMAX 203 
such matters which never failed him. Xo sentimen- 
talists, no gushing, giddy heads were admitted to his 
circle. Extraordinary as it might be for irreproach- 
able women to march Galilee over among the con- 
verts to this Rabbi, in whom the meanest mind in 
Palestine could find no blame, the thing was done 
and done with dignity. One of these ladies was the 
wife of the steward of Herod Antipas. Another 
was in high social position. The group was soon 
joined by a joyous woman known as Mary of Mag- 
dala whom the healer had cured of a violent mania, 
and freed from a terrible past, and whose gratitude, 
too real for words, forced itself into deeds. 
Mary* the mother of Jesus, the most eminent 
matron of the company, received the position which 
belonged to her. This was the happiest time in 
Mary's later life. Perplexity and trouble lay be- 
hind her. Anguish ineffable lay before her. But 
for the moment she knew a little comfort. Family 
friction no longer annoyed her in her relations to 
her son. In this respect she had asserted herself. 
She no longer brought to him or suffered to be 
brought to him any criticisms upon his judgment or 
his conduct. She was convinced that he was not to 
be interfered with. She bowed to his superiority 
with more than usual maternal adoration. The 
thought of his mystical birth, the belief in his mys- 
tical mission, for so many years submerged in her 
mind, had now come uppermost. Feeling a little 
as if she had wronged him by having ever listened 
to what the other children thought or said about 
him; filled with a noble sadness for any hour in 
204 THE STORY OF JESUS CHRIST 
which she had ever wondered or questioned whether 
he were fated to grow into a grand destiny, she 
plunged herself into the beautiful devotion which 
only a woman may know and show, and only for a 
great son. 
The presence of his mother was an inexpressible 
comfort to Jesus in his homeless and wandering life. 
With starting tears we thank God that he had it, 
and had it just when he did. For he stood trem- 
bling on the height of his success ; filled with the 
perplexing weariness, with the vague portents slowly 
assuming distincter outlines, that besieged him in 
the last days before the decline of his fortunes set 
in. He moved apart from his dearest friendships 
in tbe inexorable loneliness which nothing but utter 
love could approach ; and the love of a mother who 
does not ask to understand, only to give, was at 
times the only one which his hurt and patient heart 
could bear. 
CHAPTER IX 
ACROSS THE T,AK"R 
THE happiest year of his life was almost over. 
Galilee had known her one great opportunity, had 
interested herself in it for a dramatic twelvemonth, 
and was ready to drop it idly through her fickle 
fingers, 
Jesus observed the fluctuations in the popular 
mood with an eye now keen with experience in pub- 
lic life, and with an inward illumination fed from 
sources unknown to other men, and not always con- 
sciously available to himself. He was in the posi- 
tion of a man whom success has seemed to decoy 
to an unperceived doom, but whose own foresight 
was not in reality deceived, and who, considering 
only greatness of character and purity of conduct, 
had gone straight on, ignoring the advance of fate. 
Whatever knowledge of the outcome of it all he 
possessed never deterred him for an hour from do- 
ing the plain, right thing. The simplicity of his 
moral purpose in face of his complex and tragic 
story is the very essence of grandeur. He did not 
vacillate. He did not trim or veer. What he 
feared, he endured in silence. If he trembled, no 
one knew it. He pursued his course with the Indif- 
ference of a star in which, all the while, the heart 
206 THE STORY OF JESUS CHBIST 
and pulses of a too sensitive organism are beating 
painfully. 
That year pressed hard upon his physical 
strength. The demands upon the healer, the duties 
of the preacher, encroached upon his endurance to 
the point of an exhaustion which never overcame 
him, though it seemed sometimes to threaten to do 
so. There were nights of vigil and prayer, in for- 
ests or on the lakeshore, when the trees, the hills, 
or the waves were the only companions whom he 
could bear, for he was so spent. There were morn- 
ings when those who loved him, seeing him sitting 
in his pulpit-boat, with the people moving after him 
on the beach and cliffs, felt the pang at the heart 
which we have at sight of the suffering of one dear 
to us whom we know we do not understand ; for he 
looked so wasted. Yet he never sank. Exactions 
that would have crushed an ordinary man he met, 
not without signs that he suffered from them, but 
serenely. Strains which would have killed a lesser 
being he endured, who knew how ? 
The simple people who followed and watched 
him did not understand, as well as we who read his 
story now, the laws of the highly-strung organiza- 
tion ; those terrible laws which make the very 
physique qualified to do a certain deed the more 
liable to surrender to the effects of it. One of the 
simplest and sincerest healers of modern times a 
man who received his thousands of patients a day 
for a few weeks found himself unable to continue 
the strain on body or brain, and suddenly retreated 
from the clamor which he had created 5 disappear- 
ACEOSS THE LAKE 207 
ing to isolation or to death. Jesus did not retreat. 
He did not disappear. He did not yield. He en- 
dured with the delicate sturdiness peculiar to him- 
self. 
What was the secret ? He stood and withstood, 
giving out always o his fathomless pity, urging 
his trained and powerful will. Any man in the 
professions which depend upon the concentration 
of will-power on human conditions or character can 
form some pale idea of the mental and emotional 
energy required of Jesus Christ. The expenditure 
of life in him at its least daily estimate was tremen- 
dous. His splendid vigor refunded it all. How? 
His glowing vitality never ran in debt. Why? 
