half a yard of other names to fetch up its rear," said Major Shandon, the
military officer who was doing the honors of the city, with a pleasant
smile. "Like many others of the Indian monarchs, he desired to immortalize
his name by erecting a monument in his own honor; and he offered a prize
for the competition of all the architects of India, for one that would
surpass all others. We think he produced a plan that was worth the money he
received; though we don't think he surpassed the Taj, or some other
buildings that might be mentioned."
This immense structure is now a vast arsenal. The other building, which
sometimes robs this one of its honors, is called the Hoosseinabad Imambara;
and perhaps the length of the added name may account, to some extent, for
the robbery. It is in the citadel, and in sight of its namesake; but the
mausoleum, for it is the tomb of Ali Shah, who died in 1841, stands alone;
and it does not fatigue the eyes to look at it. It is a light, ethereal
sort of structure, and looks like lacework. It is surmounted by a beautiful
dome, and the roof bristles with the points of turrets and towers. It
contains, besides the tomb of the monarch, a mosque, a bazaar, and a model
of the Taj, which make up a sufficient variety for an edifice erected for a
tomb.
This temple completed the list marked out for inspection in Lucknow. The
party had not supposed there was much of anything here to be seen except
the memorials of the Mutiny; and for these alone they would not have missed
seeing the historic locality. The rest of the day was devoted to rides
through the streets and suburbs of the city. The avenues were wide, the
houses neat and commodious, and the gardens laid out with English taste.
The evidences of British thrift were to be seen in many portions of the
place.
Lochner's Hotel was their abiding-place, and Major Shandon regaled the
party at dinner and in the evening with stories of the place, and proved
himself to be a gentleman of "infinite humor." The next morning the company
took the train for Benares. They were a very sociable party, and preferred
the conference carriage to being confined to the smaller compartments. The
route was along the Boomtee River at first, which, some one has said, is
the crookedest stream in the world, and the scenery was worth looking at.
But as soon as the ladies and gentlemen had satisfied themselves with
looking out the windows the commander presented Sir Modava as the "talkist"
for the trip of six hours, or as much of the time as he chose to occupy.
"I shall not take more than half an hour for what I have to say, my
much-loved friends," the Hindu gentleman began, "though I know you are very
patient and long-suffering; and I assure you that I shall not take offence
if you look out the windows while I am talking. The Boomtee River is as
pretty as it is sinuous. If you write to your friends in the United States
about it, you can spell the last syllable t-i, if you prefer; for Indian
orthography is not yet controlled by statute, as I hope it will be when we
have established an Académie Indienne, such as they have in France.
But Benares is my subject, and not spelling.
"Where is Benares? It is four hundred and twenty miles by rail from
Calcutta, and is on the left bank of the Ganges. I suppose you know which
side that is."
"Of course we do," laughed Mrs. Belgrave. "It is on the left-hand side."
"You have put your foot in it, mother," rallied Louis.
"Into the Ganges?" queried the lady. "I did at Cawnpore, but not here."
"Suppose you were coming up the river in a steamer from Calcutta, which
would be the left bank?" asked Louis.
"On my left, of course."
"Then Sir Modava will have to oblige you by locating Benares on both sides
of the Ganges, and I don't believe it would be convenient for him to do
that," said Louis, laughing at the expense of his mother, who blushed,
though she did not see what was wrong, when she realized that she had made
a blunder of some kind.
"Better not have said anything," whispered Mrs. Blossom in retaliation; for
hitherto she had had a monopoly of all the blunders."
"Will you tell me, Sarah, which is the left bank of a river, for it appears
that I don't know," added the lady out loud.
"The left bank of the Ganges is the one Benares is on," replied the worthy
woman; and she was greeted with a roar of laughter, and a volley of
applause started by the live boys who were making their way across India.
"Quite right, madam!" exclaimed Sir Modava, applauding with the others. "It
may be a matter of no particular consequence; but you will excuse me for
saying that the left bank is the one on your left as you go down the
stream, and not at all as you go up."
"I remember now, for I learned that in my geography when I first went to
school; and it is strange that I should have forgotten it," added Mrs.
Belgrave.
"We know just where Benares is now," Sir Modava proceeded. "It is the
largest city in this part of India with the exception of Lucknow, to which
it stands next, or sixth among those of the country, having a population of
219,467. It extends along the Ganges for three miles; and the shore is
lined continuously with staircases, called ghats, which lead up to
the temples, palaces, and the vast number of houses on the banks of the
river. The stream sweeps around the place like a crescent, presenting one
of the finest views you ever saw, with the ornamented fronts of dwellings,
public offices, and a forest of towers, pinnacles, and turrets. To the
Hindus it is the most sacred city known to them.
"When I was a boy I came here for the first time, brought by my father on
account of the religious character of the place, if I may call anything
idolatrous by such a name. But the city, when you get into it, will
disappoint you. It is like Constantinople, very beautiful to look at from
the Bosporus, or the Golden Horn; but its dirty, narrow streets disgust
you. I am afraid this will be your experience in Benares. You will be
obliged to forego the luxury of carriages in making your tours through the
place, for the streets are so narrow and crowded that it is impossible to
get along with a vehicle. An elephant is equally impracticable, and even in
a palanquin your progress would be so slow that you would lose all your
stock of patience."
"The city must be 'done' by walking, must it?" asked the commander.
"Whew!" whistled Dr. Hawkes; and the sibilation was repeated by Uncle
Moses, for each of them weighed over two hundred and a quarter.
"If the ship were here I would lend you the barge with eight rowers, to
enable you to see the sights from the river," suggested Captain Ringgold.
"A steam-launch shall be provided for all the company, and our obese
friends shall be provided with stuffed chairs, for the survey of the river
scenes; but carriages can be used in some parts of the city, though what
you will desire to see can best be observed from the river; and we can land
when you wish to see interiors," added Lord Tremlyn.
This interruption was heartily applauded by the Cupids, as the fat
gentlemen had been called in Cairo, assisted by all the others.
"The famous Monkey Temple is just out of the city, and that can be reached
by carriages," continued Sir Modava. "There are fourteen hundred and fifty
Hindu temples, pagodas, and shrines, and two hundred and seventy-two
Mohammedan mosques, so that our good friend, General Noury, need not
neglect his devotions."
"The good Mussulman never does that, whether there be a mosque at hand or
not, for he says his prayers at the proper time, wherever he may be,"
replied the general.
"I know that some of your people are better Christians than some who bear
the name," replied the Hindu gentleman politely. "Benares is so holy, and
the Ganges is so holy, that hundreds of thousands visit it as the
Mussulmans visit Mecca. Men of wealth, and those who have the means without
being rich, come to this city when they feel that they have been seized
with a malady likely to prove fatal; for to die here with the Hindu is a
passport to eternal happiness. But I am talking too long, though there is
much more that might be said; but perhaps it could be better said on board
of that launch my friend mentions, and in sight of the temples, towers, and
other objects of interest."
In the middle of the afternoon the train arrived at its destination; and
the party proceeded in carriages to the western suburb, the location of the
cantonment, or English quarter of the city.
                                 CHAPTER XXXIII
                      A STEAMER TRIP UP AND DOWN THE GANGES
Clarke's Hotel, at Secrole, received the tourists, and everything was in
readiness for them when they arrived. Lord Tremlyn had announced the coming
of himself and his large party, and a person of his distinction and
influence could command anything he desired. The rest of the day was given
to rest, though in the evening Sir Modava talked to the tourists about the
city.
Early the next morning the party were conveyed to the river, where they
embarked in a steam-yacht which had been provided for their use. It was
more than a launch; for its standing-room would seat the whole company,
while an awning was spread over a portion of the upper deck, from which a
full view of the shore could be obtained. The city is on the north shore of
the river, which has an easterly course in this portion of India, and the
houses are packed in about as thickly as they can be.
"This is the Dasasvamedh Ghat," said Sir Modava, with a smile. "I thought
you might wish to recall it after you get home to America. I think it is
rather pleasant to know the names of places one has visited."
"We could not speak the word now without an hour's practice, and I am sure
not one of us will know it when we get to the other side of the Atlantic,"
said Mrs. Belgrave.
"You can write it down in your diaries."
"We might as well attempt to copy the top of a tea-chest," added Louis.
The ladies were assisted on board of the steamer.
The captain was a very gentlemanly Englishman; and he was all devotion to
the wants of his passengers, who seated themselves on the promenade deck.
The steamer belonged to the government; and she was fitted up in the most
comfortable manner, though it was not so gaudy as the craft of a maharajah
would have been. The ghat was at the western extremity of the crescent to
which Sir Modava had alluded, and from this point the town looked like an
amphitheatre.
The river is ordinarily about half a mile wide, but in the season of high
water it is double that width. The captain called the attention of the
party to the ghat as they receded from it, the broad flight of stairs being
a rather wonderful sight to the strangers, though they had seen something
of the kind before in Delhi and Cawnpore.
The steps are adorned with small temples with plenty of spires. Near the
top of the flight was the Man Munder, the great observatory. Though the
building is plain, as a whole, Captain Carlisle pointed out a highly
ornamental window, with a profusion of handsome brackets. The stairs on the
city side of the river were unlimited as far as the eye could see. Behind
them was a forest of spires, domes, and cupolas.
"You ought to have left the ghat before sunrise," said the captain, who was
walking up and down the deck, with an eye on the Hindu pilot. "Then you
would have been in time to see the sight of the day, for the appearance of
the sun is the holy moment for the natives to plunge into the holy river.
For miles along the shore the ghats are thronged at the first appearance of
the orb of day, and there is a continuous murmur of voices. No matter how
cold the water is, they dive in and swim like fishes. You can see a
thousand heads in the water along the shore at any moment. Then they
support themselves on the surface, and gaze motionless at the sun as it
mounts in the sky."
"Are you a sailor, Captain Carlisle?" asked Louis, who thought he was
rather poetic for an uneducated man.
"Not as the commander of your ship would understand it, though I was in
command of a Thames steamer, and fell into the same business when I came to
India," replied the captain, laughing at the question. "My father was a
good Baptist; he wanted to make a minister of me, and I was educated far
enough to enter the university; but I concluded that I did not like the
business, and took to steamboating."
"But aren't the women as religious as the men?" inquired Captain Ringgold.
"More so, if anything. But they come down to the river before sunrise and
take their swim. If you had been here this morning you would have seen them
coming out of the water just as the men are ready to go in, and you would
have observed them in their white garments, dripping like drowned rats.
That pagoda you see ahead of us with the bell tower and shining in gilt is
the only temple the Buddhists have in Benares."
"We are coming now to the Munikurnika Ghat. It is a five-syllable word, but
you can easily pronounce it," said Sir Modava, who thought he would "spell"
the captain for a time; and he was quite as familiar with the banks of the
Ganges.
"And it is quite musical," added the captain.
"Pronounce u like double o, and the rest of the letters as in English, and
you can speak it without choking," said the Hindu gentleman. "But there are
some letters in Hindu that have no equivalents in English."
"Moo-ui-koor-ni-ka Ghat," added Louis, pronouncing the word. "But what is
it all about?"
"It is the place for burning the dead, such as you saw in Bombay, but on a
much larger scale," replied Sir Modava. "You see that it extends a
considerable distance. Please keep to the leeward of the smoke, Captain
Carlisle."
"That is what I am doing, Sir Modava."
"These funeral pyres are burning all the time, night and day. The people
whose bodies are consumed in these fires, and their friends, believe that
the souls of the deceased will pass from this spot into paradise, where, if
they have not been very great sinners they will be transplanted into the
bodies of future Brahmins. Many deceased persons are brought even hundreds
of miles to be burned on the Munikurnika by the Ganges, as their sure
passport to the realms of bliss."
The obliging captain took the steamer near enough to the ghat to enable the
tourists to see the process of burning. An occasional puff of the horribly
offensive odor came to the nostrils of the sightseers; but the captain
sheered off, and they got very little of it.
"It smells just like assafoedita. It is awful-smelling stuff; and I wonder
if they don't make it out of this smoke, for it hits my nose in just the
same way," said Mrs. Blossom. "I took care of old Jotham Beeling when he
had the apoplexy, and gave the stuff to him. The room smelt then just the
same as it does here."
"You are quite right, madam," said Dr. Hawkes, laughing. "It gets part of
its name from its bad odor; but it is not made out of smoke. Asa is the gum
of a tree that grows here. It has a very offensive odor, which gives it the
rest of the name, from foeditas, meaning foul, filthy."
The workmen who were operating the burning were nearly naked, begrimed by
the sooty smoke, and looked like so many imps. They were stirring up the
fires with long iron pokers, and throwing vessels of oil upon them. The
boat passed beyond the fumes of the pyres, and came up to the ghat, at the
request of Lord Tremlyn. A multitude of hideous-looking cripples,
humpbacks, and beggars made an onslaught on the steamer; and the boys and
gentlemen pelted them with coppers, with which they had been forewarned to
supply themselves. It was fun to them, and the mendicants enjoyed it quite
as much.
"There is a procession of pilgrims just arrived," said Captain Carlisle,
pointing to the high ground beyond the ghat. "They are coming here all the
time. The Hindus under the umbrellas are Brahmins, who collect the fees for
bathing from the steps; and they sell certificates of purification,
indulgences, and amulets."
The boat continued on her course, and they did not wait to see the bathing,
though the heads of the swimmers were soon in view. A staircase is reserved
for women, who are watched over by the elders of their sex. But they could
be seen in the distance, frolicking in the water; and they were so
hilarious that their shouts could be heard on board of the Sylph, as the
boat was called.
The steamer next came to a long row of palaces on the high ground, whose
fronts were profusely ornamented with staircases that exceeded in extent
and beauty anything they had before seen. Every rajah has a residence here,
not permanent, but where he comes to celebrate the religious festivals. The
king of Nagpore has the finest one, with one hundred stairs of white
sandstone reaching down to the water.
"Now we come to a building worth looking at," said Sir Modava, as they
passed beyond the assemblage of palaces. "This is the mosque of Aurungzeb.
Those two lofty minarets are one hundred and forty-seven feet high. They
are very slender, and look like a couple of needles; but, though they are
only eight and a quarter feet in diameter on the ground, they have spiral
staircases reaching to the top. If you wish to land and go to the cupola
you can do so."
"I pray thee have me excused," interposed Uncle Moses; and Dr. Hawkes said
"Me too!" And no one cared to ascend to such a height.
"This mosque was built by the Emperor Aurungzeb, on the site of a Hindu
temple of Siva, which he caused to be pulled down, to the scandal of the
worshippers of that deity, for it marked the spot where Vishnu himself
first appeared to man. A flight of one hundred stairs leads to the mosque,
which the Hindus formerly ascended on their knees when they went to the
worship of Vishnu. But we have gone as far in this direction as we need
go."
The Sylph came about, and went back up the river, landing above the funeral
pyres. From the ghat, they walked into one of the crowded streets. They
were conducted by Sir Modava to a square, which was thronged with natives.
In the middle of it was a small round temple, the spire of which was
overlaid with plates of gold. At the present day this is the holy of holies
of the Hindus. Its principal object of adoration is a plain stone post,
which is believed to form a part of the very body of the deity, Siva in
this instance.
The narrow streets, through which the party made their way with difficulty
were very clean. They were thronged with pilgrims from all parts of India,
dressed in their best garments, loaded with gold and silver ornaments. The
men were carrying great brass trays, piled up with flowers, as offerings
for the various deities. The little stalls, which were the stores, made the
thoroughfares look like bazaars. They passed no end of temples; and all of
them were small, though they were very pretty, what there were of them.
Emerging from these narrow streets, the company came to a section where the
avenues were broad, with handsome houses built upon them. This portion was
practicable for carriages, and half a dozen culèches were drummed
together after some delay; and the ladies were glad to be seated again, for
they had had a long and tiresome walk through the narrow and crowded
streets. Sir Modava directed the drivers, and when he said Dourga Khound no
one knew what he was to see next. The word means the Fountain of Dourga;
and when they came to it they agreed that it was one of the most beautiful
buildings in Benares, though it was painted all over with red, which made
it look rather fantastic.
Sir Modava said nothing about the use of the building, and led the way into
the enclosure. The moment they entered the grounds they realized that the
Hindu gentleman had worked a surprise upon them; for the yard was filled
with monkeys, and the walls were covered with them. The chattering
creatures immediately surrounded them, holding out their paws for
something. Sir Modava gave the most dignified one a rupee, and Lord Tremlyn
made a similar gift to another.
"They can't eat silver," suggested Morris.
"The money is for the Brahmin who has charge here. You see they have gone
to give it to him," replied Sir Modava, as he opened a large paper package
he had bought at a store, and proceeded to distribute its contents,
consisting of nuts and parched corn, to the members of the monkey
community.
For half an hour they fed the animals, which were very tame, and made
friends with them. The live boys were more pleased with this occupation
than in looking at temples and mosques. They all visited the sanctuary of
the temple, which was said to date back a thousand years. The party greatly
enjoyed the ride back to Secrole, which is the English town of Benares.
After dinner Sir Modava told them about the Feast of Ganesa.
"He is one of the most popular deities of India," said the Hindu gentleman.
"He is the embodiment of wisdom, prudence, and commerce; his presence wards
off all perils. You will find him over the door of places of business; and
contracts open with an invocation to Ganesa, sometimes given by a picture
of the god. He was the son of Siva and Parvati. His picture is that of a
short, fat man, with four arms and an elephant's head.
"Though he was Siva's son, the father was jealous of him, and struck off
his head. Siva was sorry for what he had done, and wanted to bring Ganesa
back to life; but his head was gone."
"Couldn't he put a head on him?" asked Scott very seriously; and the other
boys laughed.
"That was just what he did," replied Sir Modava, wondering what the boys
and some of the others were laughing at. "Siva selected a young elephant,
cut off his head, and affixed it to his son's shoulders; and that is how he
happens to have such a head. This head sometimes takes the place of the
whole figure on contracts. His festival is celebrated the last of April,
with the greatest magnificence. Effigies of the god are made of
terra-cotta, painted and gilded, and borne by processions through the
streets. Priests and musicians surround the idol; and young girls, widowed
before they are wives, dancing and waving their scarfs in solemn cadence,
lead the way.
"When the processions reach the river, they embark in fairy-like boats
propelled by sails or oars, forming a grand aquatic spectacle. At sunset
the idols are thrown into the river, and the festival terminates with a
grand frolic on shore, with fireworks, in which many Europeans take part;
and the river is thronged with boats decorated with many-colored lanterns."
The party spent two days more at Benares, and visited temples, mosques, and
many places of interest. They were visited by British civil and military
officers, who were extremely kind to them, and offered them every facility
for seeing the city. After dinner on the last day, Captain Ringgold asked
Lord Tremlyn to tell them something about Patna; and he evidently did so
with a purpose.
"Patna is the fifteenth city in India in population, one hundred and forty
miles from Benares," replied the viscount. "It extends nine miles along the
Ganges, and an average of two back from it. The streets are narrow and
crooked. The houses are mostly of mean appearance, and there are but very
few buildings there of any importance. You laid out your list of cities to
be visited yourself, Captain, and generally very judiciously; but if I had
made it out I should have omitted Patna. It has a population of about one
hundred and sixty-five thousand."
"I asked the question with a view to omit it from the list if there are no
sights of importance, and, after what you have said, I shall do so; and
tomorrow we will take the train for Calcutta," added the captain.
This decision pleased the party, and at six the next morning the special
started with them for the greatest city of India.
                                 CHAPTER XXXIV
                       ALL OVER THE CITY OF CALCUTTA
"I shall be glad to be on board of the Guardian-Mother again," said Scott,
after the four live boys had taken a place by themselves in the conference
carriage. "I have seen enough of India."
"But you have not seen one-half of India," replied Louis.
"I read a story in an old schoolbook Uncle Moses had used when he didn't
weigh as much as I do now, which was called 'The Half is Better than the
Whole;' and it proved the proposition with which it started out. That is
just what is the matter now."
"But you have been seeing new things all the time, and learning something,"
added Louis.
"That's very true; but we have seen all the big mosques and things, and
enough is as good as a feast," suggested Scott. "I suppose if we stayed
here a couple of years more we should not see the whole of the country. We
have got a specimen brick of the principal cities; and a dozen specimens of
the same thing don't amount to much."
"But you haven't seen Calcutta yet, and that is the biggest toad in the
puddle," said Felix. "The ship will be there, and if you are homesick you
can go on board of her."
But the call for attention from Captain Ringgold interrupted the
conversation, and Sir Modava had seated himself in front of the company to
give one of his "talks."
"Our route will be along the Ganges till we come to Luckieserai Junction,
where the loop-line falls into the main line," the Hindu gentleman began.
"Is it much of a fall, sir?" asked Felix.
"I don't understand you, Mr. McGavonty," replied the speaker blankly.
"The expression 'falls into the main line' is somewhat different from what
we use at home; but the young man ought to have understood you," interposed
the commander.
"What would you have said, Captain?"
"The loop-line we call a branch, and we say connects with instead of falls
into," replied the captain. "But your meaning was plain enough, and our
boys must fall into the methods of expression used here."
"Though you have seen the Ganges several times, not much has been said
about it; and I will tell you a little more concerning it before we leave,
not to see it again. It rises in Gahrwal, one of the Hill states,
north-east of Delhi. It has its source in an ice-cave nearly fourteen
thousand feet above the level of the sea. It is not called the Ganges till
it has received the flow of two other rivers, a hundred and fifty miles or
more from its lofty source. Just below Allahabad it takes in the Jumna,
itself a mighty stream.
"As you have learned, it is the holy river of the Hindus; and it deserves
their homage, for, aside from the religious character they give to it,
three hundred thousand square miles are drained and fertilized by the
Ganges and its tributaries. Of its sanctity, that it washes away sin, and
that death in its waters or on its shores is the passport to eternal bliss,
you have learned. But it renders a more immediate and practical service to
the people; for it is navigable for small craft from the point where it
enters the lowlands, seventy or eighty miles north of Delhi.
"The river is 1,509 miles long. Though it rises and falls at different
seasons, it never fails, even in the hottest summer; and its inundations
render, to some extent, the benefit which the Nile does to the soil of
Egypt. Like the Mississippi, in your country, it has sometimes changed its
course, as proved by the ruins of cities that were once on its banks.
"Now you have a view of the Ganges for quite a distance, and can see the
kinds of boats that navigate it. It is one of the most frequented waterways
in the world, though the building of railways and canals has somewhat
diminished the amount of freight borne on its tide. About £6,000,000 is
needed to complete the Ganges canal, which will reach all the cities
through which you have passed. There is a very complicated mythology
connected with the river, which it would take me all day to relate, and
therefore I will not meddle with it."
For a couple of hours the passengers watched the boats and steamers on the
river, and the scenes on the other side. While they were thus employed,
Lord Tremlyn gave to each person a map of Calcutta, intimating that he
should soon tell them something about the city; and they all began to study
it, so as to form some idea of the place they were next to visit. Of course
they could make out but little from the vast maze of streets, but some of
them obtained a very good idea of the situation of the city and many of its
important buildings.
"People coming from England or America generally arrive at Calcutta or
Bombay, the larger portion at the former. From the sea the metropolis of
India is reached by the Hoogly River, the most western outlet of the
Ganges," his lordship began. "It is sometimes spelled Hugli. Under this
name, the stream is known sixty-four miles above Calcutta and seventeen
below. Vessels drawing twenty-six feet of water come up to the city; though
the stream, like the Mississippi, is liable to be silted up."
"I see that some of you look at me as though I had used a strange word.
Silt is the deposit of mud, sand, or earth of any kind carried up and down
streams by the tide or other current. But the river engineers here are
constantly removing it; the course is kept open, and the Hoogly pilots are
very skilful. The river has also a bore, though not a great bore, like some
people I know.
"We know the book-agent better than this one," said Scott.
"Some of our rivers in England have bores, though not book-agents; so have
the Seine, the Amazon, and others with broad estuaries. High tides drive a
vast body of water into the wide mouth; and, as the stream is not large
enough to take it in, it piles it up into a ridge, which rolls up the
river. It forms a wall of water in the Hoogly seven feet high, which is
sometimes dangerous to small craft. Enough of the Hoogly.
"Calcutta, by the last census, 1891, had a population of 861,764; but it is
not so large as New York, Philadelphia, or Chicago; and London is the only
larger city in the United Kingdom. It became a town in 1686. After it had
attained considerable importance, in 1756, it was attacked by the Nawab of
Bengal, the king or rajah; and after a siege of two days the place yielded.
The tragedy of the 'Black Hole' followed."
"I have heard of that, but I don't know what it means," said Mrs. Belgrave.
"You observe the large open enclosure at the right of your map of the city,
the esplanade. Within it is Fort William, which has existed nearly two
hundred years. It had a military prison, which has since been called the
'Black Hole.' The nawab caused one hundred and forty-six prisoners, all he
had taken, to be shut up in a room only eighteen feet square, with only two
small windows, both of them obstructed by a veranda. This was but a little
more than two square feet on the floor for each person, so that they could
not stand up without crowding each other. They spent the night there,
pressing together, the heat terrible, enduring the pangs of suffocation. In
the morning all were dead but twenty-three.
"The nawab held the fort for seven months, when it was recaptured by Lord
Clive. Calcutta extends about five miles on the bank of the river, being
about two in breadth. I shall not follow out its history, for you will hear
enough of that as you visit the various localities."
"I used to think Calicut and Calcutta were the same city," said Louis.
"Not at all, though the names of the two may have been derived from the
same source. The name of the great city is from Kali, a Hindu goddess of
whom you heard in Bombay, and cuttah, a temple; and doubtless there was
such a building here. Calicut is on the south-west coast of India, and was
a very rich and populous city when it was visited by Vasco da Gama, who was
the first to double the Cape of Good Hope, in 1498. The cotton cloth,
calico, generally called print, gets its name from this city."
Dinner was brought into the carriages; and the tourists slept in the
afternoon, arriving at Calcutta in the evening. The Great Eastern, one of
the two largest hotels in the city, was prepared to receive them. Here, as
in Bombay and elsewhere, every guest is attended by his own servant. Half a
dozen of them had been retained, but when the omnibuses set them down at
the hotel a hundred more could have been readily procured.
The business of sight-seeing began early the next morning with a visit to
the esplanade, which may be called a park, though it contains a variety of
buildings besides Fort William, which is half a mile in diameter. The
enclosure is a mile and three-quarters in length by about one mile in depth
from the river. The Government House occupies a position next to it, and
they passed it as they entered.
"Whose statue is that--the Duke of Wellington?" asked Louis, as he walked
on one side of Sir Modava, with his mother on the other side.
"Not at all; most of our streets and buildings are named after persons
noted in the history of India," replied the Indian gentleman, laughing.
"That is the statue of Lord William Cavendish Bentinck, the first
governor-general of India; and many important events dated from his time,
for he suppressed the suttee and thugging."
