Ben," said Deck.
"Yes; I reasoned that matter out, and found you were right. I suppose
you are about used up by this time. I wonder what o'clock it is."
"I have a watch if you have a match."
The sergeant took a tin box from his pocket, and lighted a match from
it, and held it under his cap. Deck produced his watch, and found that
it was twenty-five minutes past one.
"Later than I supposed," he added.
"We have been on our feet nearly twenty-four hours, and I think you
must be about played out," said the sergeant with a gape. "I am tired
out; and you are still young, too young to go without your regular
sleep."
"But I shall survey this locality before I do anything else."
"I am with you."
"I did not expect to find anything like a flat surface here," continued
the lieutenant, as he started to walk towards a high bluff in the
direction from which they had come.
It was only a couple of rods from the water, and the flat space where
they had come ashore was evidently made by the caving of the earth
along the bluff, when the river had been even higher than at present.
It was a hill which had possibly turned the river aside from its
westerly course to the south at some remote period in the past. There
was just such a bluff on the other side of the tongue of land, and
possibly a hill there had again changed the river's course to the
westward. But Deck's theory explained the presence of the fortunate
flat where they had landed.
"Now we must find a way to get up on the hill above the high bluff,"
said he, as he led the way up the river.
Beyond the bluff the bank of the river was the same as it had been all
the way from the fort, and the flat came to a sudden ending.
"Here is a flatboat," said Ben, who was the first to discover it.
"Somebody must live near here."
"This looks like a path up the bank," added Deck, who had been studying
the river above. "I think this must be a ferry, Ben; though I should
suppose the ferryman would find it hard work to get through the current
that brought us down."
It was plain that some work had been done on the path leading up the
bank, which was diagonal with the steep slope. It had been dug out, and
in the steepest parts there was something built for a fence or a
hand-rail. On the opposite side of the river from Robertsport there was
a road to the one extending from Harrison to Somerset. Doubtless the
ferry, if there was one, was for the use of travellers into Wayne
County, all of which lay on the south side of the river.
The fugitives were ready to mount the bluff by the path; but first they
went back to the boat, which might be of use to them later if they had
occasion to renew the voyage down the stream. They drew it back, and
concealed it behind a huge rock which the current had laid bare. Then
they mounted the path to the top of the bluff. Not ten rods from the
shore they found a cabin, around which were some fruit-trees and the
dried stalks of corn, showing that the land had been cultivated.
"This is some negro's house," said Ben, as they halted under a tree not
two rods from the cabin, which was nothing more than a shanty.
"It looks like one. Very likely the ferryman lives here," replied Deck.
"But there is some kind of a row going on in that cabin."
"It seems to be lighted up as though something was happening there at
this time of night. We will go up nearer and look into the matter,"
returned Ben, as he walked towards the cabin, and stationed himself at
the only window on that side of the building.
They listened for some time, and heard the voices of four different
white men, as they judged from their dialect.
"I done tole you I can't cross de riber to-night. We should all be
drownded, shore," replied an unmistakable negro.
CHAPTER XXVI
FOUR FUGITIVES FROM THE BATTLE-FIELD
The whinnying of a horse near the two wanderers attracted their
attention, and Fronklyn went over to look at the animal. He found four
of them hitched to the trees, all of them wearing cavalry saddles. The
sergeant still had his carbine slung at his back. He unslung the
firearm, thinking he might have occasion to use it. He knew the
lieutenant had reloaded his revolver after making with it the holes
across the board which had proved so serviceable to them.
In his report to the Confederate authorities at Richmond, General
Crittenden alludes to a battalion of cavalry, of which some officers
and privates were absent on furloughs, and of which all but about
twenty-five ran away. It is possible that the four troopers who were
trying to force the negro to ferry them over the river belonged to the
number.
"Cavalry," said the sergeant as he returned to the lieutenant.
"They have threatened to shoot the negro if he don't ferry them over to
Robertsport," added Deck, who had remained at the window of the shanty.
"They called him Cuffy; and when they threatened to kill him, he rushed
out of the house. I saw him go into the barn or outhouse in the rear.
The men lost sight of him when they followed him out, and perhaps
thinking he had gone to his boat, they went off in that direction. Let
us find the negro."
They went to the shanty, which did duty as a barn; but Cuffy had
concealed himself, and they could not find him. Deck called him by name
several times; and if the ferryman was not extremely stupid, he could
understand that neither his voice nor his speech was that of the
troopers.
"Who's dar?" responded the negro, after a long delay.
"Come out here, and we will help you out of your trouble," added Deck.
"Who be you uns?" inquired Cuffy, which proved later to be his real
surname.
"We are your friends."
"Whar dem sogers now?" asked the terrified ferryman.
"They moved off towards the river."
"Den dey done gone to steal my boat!" groaned the negro, coming out of
his hiding-place with a gun in his hand.
As the wanderers followed him out of the barn, they saw in the darkness
that his head was thickly covered with white wool, and he must have
been well along in years. He evidently kept his gun and ammunition in
this out-building, for he had a powder-horn and shot-bag suspended from
his shoulders.
"What are you going to do with that gun, Cuffy?" asked Deck, who was
rather astonished to see him armed.
"I's gwine to shoot one of dose men if dey try to kill me, as dey done
sworn dey would," replied the ferryman.
"Better not do anything of that kind, Cuffy," said Deck. "We will stand
by you, and we can fire shots enough to kill the whole of them."
"Who be you uns, Mars'r?" asked the ferryman, gazing at them, and
trying to make them out in the darkness.
"We are Union soldiers, just escaped from the enemy," answered Deck.
"Bress de Lo'd!" exclaimed the negro. "Dem men was Seceshers, and is
gwine to steal my boat. It's all I have to make a little money for de
contribution-box, and ef I lose it I'm done ruinged."
"Never mind the boat, Cuffy," continued Deck, as he led the way to the
four horses; for he had seen the Southrons go off on foot, and knew
they had not taken them. "Mount one of these animals, Ben."
He led out one of them, and put himself in the saddle, while the
sergeant did the same with another.
"Can you ride a horse, Cuffy?" asked the lieutenant.
"I done ride 'em all my life."
"Get one of the others, then. Can we get to the ferry on horseback?"
"For sartin, Mars'r; some folks goes down to de boat on hosses, and we
swim 'em ober de riber," replied Cuffy, as he mounted the animal he had
chosen. "My son comes ober dat way."
"Now lead the way to the ferry. Do they know where you keep your boat?"
"Dunno, Mars'r; but I reckon dey find it."
Cuffy conducted the wanderers nearly to the Harrison road, and then
took a path towards the river, arriving in a few minutes at the head of
the descent to the flat below.
"Not too far, Cuffy; fall back a little, where the men cannot see you,"
said Deck in a low tone.
"But I's gwine to shoot 'em if dey touch my boat," said the owner, his
determination indicated in his tones.
"Don't do it, and don't let them see you," added Deck in a low tone,
but with energy enough to impress the negro.
"Dey gwine to steal my boat!" groaned Cuffy; and his agony seemed to be
intense. "Den whar I git any money for de missions?"
"Never mind your boat, man. I saw it down below; it is not worth much,
and I wouldn't give two dollars for it," said Deck somewhat
impatiently.
"I takes folks ober de riber in it, and some days I makes twenty cents
wid it. Can't affode to lose it, Mars'r," protested Cuffy.
"If you lose it, I will give you another."
"Dat so? Whar's yo' boat?"
"It is down below there, and you will not have to wait a single hour
for it."
"Whar you git dat boat, Mars'r?"
"No matter about that now; I will tell you when we have more time,"
replied Deck, as he rode his horse to a tree, followed by both of his
companions, and secured him to the sapling, as did the others.
Returning to the bank, they lay down upon the ground, where they could
see the four troopers without being seen. They had found the negro's
flatboat, and carried it to the stream. This was done, perhaps, half a
mile above where the wanderers had landed, and the current was not so
violent as it was where the water concentrated all its force against
the lofty bluff.
The Southrons put the boat into the water after they had tipped it
over, and emptied out the leakage or the rain which it contained. Then
they seated themselves equidistant fore and aft in the rickety craft,
and pushed off.
"I knowed dey was gwine to steal my boat," groaned Cuffy again, as the
skiff receded from the shore.
"Don't say that again!" said Deck, disgusted with the ferryman. "If you
do, I won't give you any boat for the one you lose!"
"I lub dat boat, Mars'r. Berry ole friend ob mine," pleaded Cuffy.
"Say no more about it; perhaps you will get it again, for those men
only wish to get across the river," added Deck in a milder tone. "You
would not take them over, and they intend to ferry themselves across."
"I can't ferry dem ober in de night, when de riber is ragin' like a
roarin' lion seekin' wem he mout devour. No, sar; ef Mars'r looks long
enough, he's see dem men all devoured like as ef de ragin' lion had 'em
in his gills," said Cuffy very impressively, as though he was within
hail of a funeral. "Don't b'lebe dey done been converted."
Two of the troopers had paddles, or something that was a cross between
a paddle and an oar; for the wanderers had seen them in the boat in the
darkness. They forced the skiff out into the current, headed directly
for the opposite shore. They did very well so far; but in a few moments
more the full strength of the stream struck them, and the flimsy craft
was carried down the stream at a rapid rate. They were farther out than
the keel-boat had been; and the rushing water, lifted into waves by its
own force, began to tumble about as it would have done in the wilder
rapids of Niagara.
None of the four were skilful boatmen, and there seemed to be no one in
particular in the skiff to take the lead. As usually happens on such
occasions, the two men without paddles were frightened, and stood up,
which was the worst possible thing they could do. The two who were
managing the boat did not agree as to the method of handling it, and
each wanted his own way of doing it. Each of them was sure he could do
it, and that the other could not.
The couple with the paddles could not use them; and the skiff whirled
as it mounted the waves, and then it heeled over from one side to the
other. The two men who were standing up jumped from one side to the
other; then one of them lost his balance, and tumbled overboard. The
second tried to save him, and one of the two with the paddles went to
his assistance, the result of this, throwing the weight nearly over on
one side, capsized the boat, and the next instant all four of them were
floundering in the uneasy tide.
"De boat done tip over!" exclaimed Cuffy, as though his companions on
the bluff could not see for themselves what had happened.
"Perhaps we can save the men!" said Deck, as he rose from the ground
and ran with all his might to the path leading down to the landing of
the ferry, closely followed by the sergeant.
"Sabe de boat!" shouted Cuffy, trying to keep up with them, though he
soon fell far behind them.
The lieutenant was first to reach the foot of the path, and saw the
four unfortunates whirling through the agitated current, directly
towards the bluff where the keel-boat had been thrown on the flat. They
were too far out for him to reach them, and he could do nothing. It was
plain that not one of them could swim, and if they had been able to do
so at all they could have done nothing in the boiling flow of the rapid
current. They were swept down the stream, and being farther out from
the shore than the other boat had been they were not dashed upon the
flat.
Deck and Fronklyn watched them till they disappeared behind the bend,
though one was seen to go down before he reached it, and the others
must soon have followed him. The skiff had gone on ahead of them, and
was the first to pass beyond the view of the observers. The lieutenant,
with the hope that he might save the men if they were thrown on the
flat in an exhausted condition, had nearly reached the high bluff. The
sergeant had ceased to hurry when he realized that nothing could be
done for the doomed troopers. They had to pay the penalty of their own
folly.
Fronklyn and Cuffy soon joined Deck, the negro putting all his strength
into his lamentations for the loss of his boat. He did not seem to
realize that four men had just passed into eternity; but Deck had more
charity for him after he said he loved the flimsy craft, and reproached
him no more.
"Your boat is gone for the present, but you may find it again," said
Deck with an effort to comfort him. "It will be cast ashore by the
current, or be drawn into some eddy. When the river gets quiet again,
you can go down stream and find it in some place where the logs gather
on the shoal places."
"I dunno, Mars'r; how kin I go down de riber when I done lose my boat?"
demanded Cuffy.
"Come with me," said Deck, as he led the way to the rock behind which
they had left the steamer's tender. "There is a boat you can use till
some one claims it."
"Glory Hallelujah!" exclaimed the negro, when he saw the keel-boat; and
he was skilled enough to perceive even in the darkness, that it was a
vastly better one than the skiff he had lost.
"Whar you git dat boat, Mars'r?" asked Cuffy, disturbed by the
suggestion that some one might claim it.
"Can you keep a secret, Cuffy?" asked Deck.
"Kin keep a hund'ed on 'em."
"That's too many for one man to keep," replied the lieutenant, who
decided not to admit, as he had before intended to do, in what manner
they had escaped from the enemy's camp. "This boat belongs to the
steamboat up by Mill Springs; we have no further use for it, and we
shall leave it here. But you haven't lost anything of any value
to-night. We shall want two of the men's horses, as they have no
further use for them, and you can keep the other two, Cuffy. You can
sell them for money enough to make you rich."
"Bress de Lo'd!" cried the ferryman.
"Come along now, and we will go back to your shanty," said Deck, as he
led the way to the tree where the horses had been secured. They all
mounted, and rode back to the cabin, where the tired trooper and his
officer went to bed in the barn on some straw they found there.
CHAPTER XXVII
THE OWNER OF THE MANSION ON THE HILL
Cuffy took care of the horses, for two of them were to belong to him,
giving them even a feed of corn-meal mixed with water, which was all he
had to give them. He hitched them in the barn with the exhausted
soldiers of the Riverlawn Cavalry, though it was rather close quarters
for them. Deck preferred the out-building to Cuffy's bed, which he
offered them.
It was four o'clock in the morning when the lieutenant and the sergeant
retired upon their bed of straw, though there was plenty of it, and it
was a luxury to men who had been accustomed to lie at night on the
ground. They had been fully twenty-four hours on their feet, and had
been through a great deal of excitement during the day and the night.
They were asleep about as soon as they struck the bed.
Cuffy came to the barn about nine o'clock in the forenoon to attend to
the horses. He led them all out to water, and then gave them another
feed in tubs. His guests had complained of fatigue, and he allowed them
to sleep as long as they desired.
It was noon when Fronklyn awoke, and he had slept his full eight hours.
Deck put in another hour; for he was younger than his companion, and
needed more sleep. The sergeant had worn his overcoat all the day and
night, though he had several times been tempted to throw it away,
especially when they were climbing down the steep bank of the river. He
was glad he had not done so when he went to bed on the straw.
He had given his blanket to Deck, though it required a great deal of
persuasion to induce him to accept it; but Fronklyn had an overcoat. It
was not so cold as to interfere with the slumbers of the weary
soldiers; and when they woke they felt like new men. They went to a
brook that flowed through the negro's farm, and had a thorough wash to
freshen them up. The sergeant then renewed the plaster on his head, and
examined the wound of his companion. The swelling had nearly all gone
down, though there was still a soreness there; but the patient felt
well enough for duty.
"Here we are, Ben; what is the next move on the checker-board?" said
Deck, as they returned from the brook to the barn.
"Considering what we have been through since the sun went down last
night, I think we are very well fixed to-day. We have a couple of
horses to go where we please, and all we have to do is to ride back to
the outside of the Beech-Grove camp of the enemy; for we have seen
enough of the inside of it," replied Fronklyn.
"We can't be many miles from it; and when we get there I think we shall
find our army in possession of it. That steamer whose boat we borrowed,
and the other craft about there, must have been busy ferrying the enemy
across to the Mill Springs fortification," added Deck. "But what do you
suppose has become of all those cavalry men, and infantry too, that ran
away from the battle-field?"
"I don't imagine that a great many of them went back to the
intrenchments, and probably most of them are wandering about the
country in this vicinity," replied the sergeant. "The farmers'
corncribs, if there is anything left in them, will suffer for the next
week. They are not bashful, those fellows; and I have no doubt they
will visit the houses, and order meals as they would at a hotel."
"We are liable to meet them on our way back to the camp; and if we have
anything they want, they are likely to take it. Your blanket and
overcoat would be useful to them, and so would the horses. But I fancy
they would move about in small parties, and we may be able to take care
of ourselves. You have your carbine, and I have my revolver."
"That looks like a big house on the hill back of us," said Fronklyn,
pointing to the mansion.
"Mornin', Mars'rs!" shouted Cuffy, coming from his shanty to meet them.
"You done git up; I don't 'sturb you, coz I knowed you was tired out."
"We are glad you didn't, and we feel first-rate this morning. Whose
house is that on the hill?" asked Deck.
"Dat's de mansion ob Cun'l Hickman, my ole mars'r," replied Cuffy. "He
owns all de land 'bout here, mor'n tousand acres. He let me live on dis
corner when he want me to run de ferry, and I stops here eber since."
"Then he must be very rich."
"Rich! Dat ain't no name for't. He's got more money'n de Bank ob
London, 'n I reckon he could buy out de State of Kaintuck. He's pow'ful
rich, Mars'r."
"Is he a Secessionist?" asked Deck.
"Cun'l Hickman! Secesher! No, sar! He's de out-en-outenish Union man in
Kaintuck," returned Cuffy, whose politics were not at all in doubt with
his guests. "De Seceshers done raided his place fo' times; yesterday
was de last time, 'n I reckon dem fellers dat wanted me to ferry 'em
ober de riber in de night is de ones dat did it. I done seen 'em on de
hill fo' dark. I done see lots o' men wid guns, and some on hossback
dis mornin' strollin' 'long de riber an' ober de country."
"Which way did they come from, Cuffy?" inquired Deck.
"Most on 'em com 'd down de Harrison road, an' some on 'em was beat'n'
across de farm."
"Have you heard of the great battle that was fought over by Logan's
Cross Roads?" asked the sergeant.
"I don't hear ob no battle," replied the negro, opening his eyes wide
enough to let them drop out of their sockets. "Gollywhimpers!" suddenly
exclaimed Cuffy, turning his gaze towards the mansion on the hill, "dar
comes de cun'l on a hoss!"
The lieutenant and the sergeant looked in the direction indicated by
the ferryman, and saw a man riding down the hill at a breakneck speed.
As he came nearer they saw that he was a person over sixty years of
age, with long, flowing white hair, like one of the patriarchs of old.
He wore a soft black hat, well back on his head. He looked behind him
frequently, as though he expected something to transpire in that
direction. As Cuffy said, his mansion had been raided several times,
and he might have got used to such events.
"W'a--w'a--w'at's de matter, Cun'l Hickman?" shouted the ferryman,
before the gentleman came within ten rods of him.
The rider did not check his speed till he reined in his horse in front
of the negro and his guests. He looked at the two officers without
giving any attention to Cuffy, and seemed to be astonished to find them
there.
"I see that you wear the blue," said the colonel, addressing Deck,
whose shoulder-straps apparently excited his attention.
"We belong to the army of the United States, sir," replied Deck.
"Then how do you happen to be here?" demanded the colonel in a tone and
with a look of great severity.
"It would take some time, Colonel Hickman, to answer your question in
full," returned Deck; "but I will say that we marched and fought
yesterday from four o'clock in the morning till dark, and were
practically prisoners in the camp of the enemy at the end of the day,
but escaped in the night in a boat we took from a steamer alongside the
fortifications at Beech Grove."
"Excuse me for speaking somewhat abruptly, Lieutenant, and give me your
hand; for I honor every man that fights or works for his country,"
continued the colonel. "I am somewhat too old to do either, or I should
not be at home."
Deck took the proffered hand, and it was warmly pressed by the planter,
and he extended the same courtesy to the sergeant.
"My mansion is beset by a band of ruffians, and I have been obliged to
flee for my life," pursued the planter, glancing back at his house as
though he expected to see the flames rising from it.
"Do they mean to burn the mansion?" asked the lieutenant,
misinterpreting the glance of the owner.
"Not at all; I have no fear that they will do that, for they are
looking for my money, for I have some concealed on my premises where
they will never find it," said the planter with a significant shake of
the head, which was as much as to say, "I have euchred them!"
"I suppose the banks in this part of the State are no longer safe
repositories for valuables," added Deck.
"They are not, and I keep a comparatively small amount for current
expenses at hand. This same band raided me three days ago, and
threatened to hang me in front of my mansion if I did not give up my
money; but I would burn the bank-bills rather than permit them to fall
into the hands of these miscreants. I had a horse ready as soon as I
saw the ruffians coming down the private road from Millersville; and I
keep several of my negroes on the watch for them. I escaped on my horse
before, as I have done this time."
"How many are there in this band, Colonel?" asked Deck.
"My negroes counted ten of them. These raids are not uncommon events;
and there were two or three of them within less than ten miles,
sometimes by the enemy's foragers, and sometimes by partisan gangs. The
mansion of Mr. Halliburn was captured a few days ago; but a very clever
young lieutenant, whose name was Lyon, in command of a detachment of
cavalry, entrapped the whole gang of ruffians in the house, and made
prisoners of every one of them, without the loss of a man."
"Perhaps I know more about that affair than you do, Colonel Hickman;
for my name is Lyon, and I happen to be the officer to whom you
allude," replied Deck, looking at the ground.
"Lieutenant Lyon! Is it possible?" exclaimed the planter, taking the
young man's hand again.
"But we will not talk about things that are passed and gone, Colonel,"
interposed the young officer. "I wish I had my platoon, or even half of
them, here. Now, what can we do to aid you in this trouble, and free
you from the annoyance of such enemies?"
"As you have only a sergeant with you, I don't see that you can do
anything, my young friend; though I am as much obliged to you for your
good intentions as though you had a whole army behind you," said the
planter. "I have been a soldier myself, and I was one of the young
Kentuckians that fought in the battle of New Orleans under General
Jackson."
"Have you any arms at your mansion, sir?" inquired Deck, as though he
had some scheme in his head.
"Plenty of them; enough to supply half of your platoon."
"Can you get back to your house without being seen, Colonel?"
"Easily; back of my house is an avenue, planted with trees, by which I
once made my escape while they were looking for me. You can see it on
the south side of the hill; and it extends down to the river, the last
part of it on the tongue of land, so that it has the stream on each
side of it," the old soldier explained.
"If you have such a quantity of arms, where do you keep them?"
"In the spring-house, the brick building on the brook, which you cannot
see from here. I have five sons and one daughter; two of the boys are
in the army, and three are past the military age, though they belong to
the Millersville Home Guards, and were called out for duty three days
ago. I expect them home soon; but they have been gone four days now. My
overseer, his assistant, and two mechanics, went over to see the fight
yesterday afternoon, and they have not yet returned."
"Dar dey is, Mars'r Cun'l!" shouted Cuffy, pointing to the Harrison
road, down which three mounted riflemen were riding.
"I am glad to see them," added the planter, as the men came up the
hill.
The father greeted them heartily, and they began to tell what service
they had rendered during the preceding day on the right flank of the
field of battle. One of them happened to turn his head, and saw Deck;
and, interrupting the conversation that was going on, he shouted,--
"Lieutenant Lyon!"
The other two, who had also been with the riflemen under command of
Captain Ripley, repeated the exclamation.
"We fought under the command of Lieutenant Lyon most of the day
yesterday, and he is one of the ablest and bravest officers in the
service," said one of the sons. "He is"--
"We will hear that another time, Mr. Hickman; and you may have a chance
to fight under me to-day, for your father's mansion is beset by a band
of ruffians, who threaten to hang him," interposed Deck. "We muster six
men now, and I propose to clean them out."
It was talked over for a little while, and the party soon rode off to
one of the openings of the avenue by the river.
CHAPTER XXVIII
THE FIGHT BEGINS AT GROVE-HILL MANSION
Colonel Hickman led the way; and, like most Kentuckians of good estate,
he rode an excellent horse. He hurried the animal beyond the capacity
of the two cavalry horses which had come into the possession of Deck
and Fronklyn, and he reached the avenue by the river considerably in
advance of the others. He rode into the opening, and disappeared behind
the trees.
By this time the lieutenant had an opportunity to examine this approach
to the mansion. The road was not more than thirty feet wide, with three
rows of trees on each side of it, so that it was really a grove
consisting of a variety of trees. It had evidently been laid out many
years before, for the ground was completely shaded. The mansion faced
the Millersville road, and in the rear of it was quite a village of
out-buildings.
The planter halted as soon as he was in the avenue, and waited till the
others joined him. After all that had been said about him by the sons,
he was willing to leave the management of the affair to Lieutenant
Lyon; for, young as he was, he had obtained some experience in
defeating and capturing such marauders as those who had taken
possession of the great house on the hill. The ruffians were after the
colonel's money; a gentleman as wealthy as he was reputed to be must
have a considerable sum on hand, as he had admitted, for the payment of
his ordinary expenses.
Deck had asked but few questions in regard to the situation, preferring
to inform himself more fully when he had seen the premises. The avenue,
or grove, was as the owner had described it. At the point where the
party had passed into it, the mansion could not be seen at all through
the dense foliage of the trees; and the approach to it was entirely
safe, even if the ruffians had placed some of their number on guard
outside of the dwelling. The covered road was not entirely straight,
for several bends and curves made it more picturesque than it would
otherwise have been.
It was certainly a very pleasant place for a ride on a warm day; and
the young lieutenant had taste enough to appreciate and admire it,
though under the circumstances he could not use much of his time in
examining its beauties, which he would have been pleased to do at a
more convenient season. Just then he looked at it as a strategist
rather than as a lover of art.
"I don't quite understand, Colonel Hickman, how you succeeded in
getting away from your mansion without having a bullet planted
somewhere in your head or body," said Deck, as he surveyed the
surroundings. "You came directly down the hill, and not through this
