handkerchief.

"No, I have only white linen handkerchiefs."

"I haf never use any but red ones, but I might come in and see what you
have."

"I shall be glad to show you what I have, Professor."

Prof. Poppendorf was soon engaged in the discussion of dinner. He had a
good German appetite which never failed. He seldom talked much during a
meal, as it would interfere with more important business.

Now that I had changed my place at the table, I sat on one side of the
Disagreeable Woman, and Ruth Canby on the other. Next to Ruth sat the
Professor, but for the reason already stated, he was not a social
companion.

Just opposite sat Mrs. Wyman and Count Penelli. So far as I could judge,
he was a quiet young man, and had very little to say for himself. Mrs.
Wyman, however, kept plying him with questions and remarks, and did her
best to appear on terms of intimate acquaintance with him. Some
fragments of her conversation floated across the table.

"You have no idea, Count, how I long to visit Italy, your dear
country."

"It is ver' nice," he said, vaguely.

"Nice? It must be lovely. Have you ever seen the Bay of Naples?"

"Oh, si, signora, many times."

"It is charming, is it not?"

"Si, signora, it is beautiful."

"And the Italian ladies, I have heard so much of them."

"I like ze American ladies better."

"Do you, indeed, Count? How gratifying! When do you expect to return to
Italy?"

"I do not know--some time."

"I hope it will not be for a long time. We should miss you so much."

"The signora is very kind."

This will do for a sample of the conversation between the Count and the
widow. Though several years his senior, it looked as if she was bent on
making a conquest of the young nobleman.




CHAPTER VIII.

THE PROFESSOR IN LOVE.


I was sitting in my office one morning waiting for patients, much of my
time was passed in this way, very often I waited in vain. The modest
sign which I was allowed to put on the outside of the house,


     DR. JAMES FENWICK


didn't seem to attract attention. Of the little practise I had, at least
a third was gratuitous. Yet I was expected to pay my bills, and when my
little stock of money was exhausted there seemed a doubt as to whether
the bills would be paid at all.

One day I was summoned to a house where a child of three was struggling
with croup. It was a serious case, and I gave up my time to the case.
After several hours I succeeded in bringing the child round and
pronouncing her out of danger.

When I sent in my bill, the mother said:

"Dr. Fenwick, Mary is but three years old."

"Indeed!" I returned.

I failed to understand why I should be informed of this fact.

"And," continued the mother, "I don't think any charge ought to be made
for a child so young."

I was fairly struck dumb with amazement at first.

Then I said, "The age of the patient has nothing to do with a
physician's charges. Where did you get such an extraordinary idea?"

"I don't have to pay for her on the horse-cars."

"Madam," I said, provoked, "I will not argue with you. You ought to know
that no physician treats children free. If you were very poor, and lived
in a tenement house, I might make some discount, or leave off the charge
altogether."

"But I don't live in a tenement house," objected the lady, angrily.

"No; you have the appearance of being very well to do. I must distinctly
decline abating my charge."

"Then, Dr. Fenwick," said the mother, stiffly, "I shall not employ you
again."

"That is as you please, madam."

This seemed to me exceptionally mean, but doctors see a good deal of the
mean side of human nature. Rich men with large incomes keep them out of
their pay for a long time, sometimes where their lives depended on the
physician's skill and fidelity. Oftentimes I have been so disgusted
with the meanness of my patients, that I have regretted not choosing a
different profession. Of course there is a different side to the
picture, and gratitude and appreciation are to be found, as well as the
opposite qualities.

I had been waiting a long time without a patient, when a shuffling sound
was heard on the stairs, and a heavy step approaching the door.

Next came a knock.

Instead of calling out, "Come in!" I was so pleased at the prospect of a
patient, that I rose from my seat and opened the door, myself.

I started back in surprise. For in the heavy, lumbering figure of the
new arrival I recognized Prof. Poppendorf.

"Prof. Poppendorf!" I exclaimed.

"Ja, doctor, it is I. May I come in?"

"Certainly."

Supposing that he had come to consult me on the subject of his health, I
began to wonder from what disease he was suffering. Remembering his
achievements at the table I fancied it might be dyspepsia.

The Professor entered the room, and sank into an armchair, which he
quite filled from side to side.

"I suppose you are surprised to see me, Herr Doctor," began the
Professor.

"Oh, no. I am never surprised to see anybody. I had not supposed you
were sick."

"Sick! Oh, no, I'm all right. I eat well and I sleep well. What should
be the matter with me?"

"I am glad to hear such good reports of you."

Was I quite sincere? I am afraid it was a disappointment to learn that
my supposed patient was in no need of advice.

"Ja, I am well. I was never better, thank God!"

"Then I am to consider this a social call," I said with affected
cheerfulness. "You are very kind to call upon me, Prof. Poppendorf. I
appreciate it as a friendly attention."

"No, it is not quite dat."

"Is there anything I can do for you?"

"I come on a little peezness."

I was puzzled. I could not understand what business there could be
between the Professor and myself.

"I shall be glad to hear what it is."

"You see, I thought I would ask you if you were courting Mees Ruth
Canby, if you mean to make her your wife?"

I dropped into the nearest chair--I had been standing--in sheer
amazement. To be asked my intentions in regard to the young woman from
Macy's was most astonishing, and by Prof. Poppendorf, too!

"Did Miss Canby send you here to speak to me?" I asked, considerably
annoyed.

"Oh, no! she knows nothing about it."

"I can't understand what you have to do in the matter, Prof.
Poppendorf. You are neither her father nor her brother."

"Oh, ja, you are quite right."

"Then why do you come to me with such a question?"

"I thought I would like to know myself."

"I deny your right to speak to me on the subject," I said, stiffly. "If
now you had a good reason."

"But I have a reason," protested the Professor, earnestly.

"What is it?"

"I lofe her myself. I wish to make her my frau."

This was most astonishing.

"You love her yourself?"

"Ja, Herr Doctor."

"And you want to marry her?"

"Ja."

"But you are an old man."

"Not so old," said he, jealously; "I am only a little over sixty."

"And I think she cannot be over twenty-one."

"But I am a good man. I am strong. I am well. Look here!" and he struck
his massive chest a sturdy blow, as if to show how sound he was.

"Yes, you seem to be well."

"You have not told me, Herr Doctor, if you lofe Mees Ruth," he said,
uneasily.

"No, I don't love her."

"But you called to see her--at Macy's."

"I called to buy some socks and handkerchiefs."

"Was that all?" he asked, with an air of relief.

"It was all."

"Then you do not wish to marry Mees Ruth?"

"I do not wish to marry any one. I am not rich enough. Are you?"

"I have just engage to teach philosophy at Mees Smith's school on
Madison Avenue. Then I have my private pupils. Ah, ja, I will make
quite an income," he said, complacently. "Besides, Mees Ruth, she is a
good housekeeper."

"I do not know."

"She will not wish to spend money," he said, anxiously.

"I think she was brought up economically."

"Ja, dat is good. All the German frauleins are good housekeepers. Dey
can cook and keep house on a little money."

"Were you ever married, Professor?"

"Ja, long ago, but my frau she not live very long. It is many years
ago."

"If you married Miss Canby would you still board here?"

"No, it would cost too much money. I would hire an apartment--what you
call a flat, and Mees Ruth would keep the house--she would wash, she
would cook, and--"

"Take care of the babies," I added, jocularly.

"Dat is as God wills."

"Have you spoken to Miss Ruth on the subject?"

"No, not yet. I wish to speak to you first--I thought you might want to
marry her yourself."

"You need have no anxiety on that subject; I never thought of such a
thing."

"Dat is good. I feel better."

"Have you any idea that Miss Canby will agree to marry you?"

"I do not know. I am a Herr Professor," he said, proudly.

In Germany there is a high respect felt for titles of every kind, and
the Professor evidently thought that his official dignity would impress
the young woman from Macy's.

"Still, you are so much older than she, that she may not at first like
the idea."

"You think she refuse me--that she gives me the mitten?" he said,
uneasily.

"If you propose too quick. Will you take my advice?"

"Ja, ja!"

"Then don't propose at once. Let her get accustomed to your attentions."

"What shall I do first?" he asked, anxiously.

"Suppose you invite her to go to the theatre with you?"

"Ja, dat is good!"

"Perhaps you could take her to hear Patti?"

"No, no. It cost too much!" said he, shaking his head.

"Then you might invite her to the Star Theatre to see Crane."

"So I will."

He rose and shuffled out of the office in a very pleasant humor. He felt
that there was no obstacle to his suit, now that I had disclaimed all
intention of marrying the young woman from Macy's.




CHAPTER IX.

AN EVENING AT THE BOARDING-HOUSE.


The confidence which Prof. Poppendorf had reposed in me, naturally led
me to observe his behavior at table to the young woman from Macy's.
There was a difficulty as I had to look round the "Disagreeable Woman,"
who sat next to me. Then I could not very well watch the Professor's
expression, as his large, green goggles concealed so large a part of his
face.

He still continued to devote the chief part of his time to the business
of the hour, and his eyes were for the most part fixed upon his plate.
Yet now and then I observed he offered her the salt or the pepper, a
piece of attention quite new to him. I had some thought of suggesting
to Miss Canby that she had awakened an interest in the heart of the gray
old Professor, but it occurred to me that this would be hardly fair to
the elderly suitor. It was only right to leave him a fair field, and let
him win if Fate ordained it.

On Wednesday evenings it was generally understood that the boarders,
such at any rate as had no other engagements, would remain after supper
and gather in the little reception-room, till the dining-room was
cleared, spending the evening socially.

On such occasions Mrs. Wyman would generally volunteer a song,
accompanying herself if there was no one else to play. She had a thin,
strident voice, such as one would not willingly hear a second time, but
out of courtesy we listened, and applauded. The widow had one who fully
appreciated her vocal efforts, and this was herself. She always looked
pleased and complacent when her work was done.

It was on the first Wednesday after the Count's arrival that she induced
him to remain.

"Don't you sing, Count?" she asked.

"Very little, madam," he said.

"But you are an Italian, and all Italians are musical."

He uttered a faint disclaimer, but she insisted.

"Do me a favor--a great favor," she said, persuasively, "and sing some
sweet Italian air, such as you must know."

"No, I don't sing Italian airs," he said.

"What then?"

"I can sing 'Sweet Marie.'"

"I am sure we shall all be glad to hear it. I sometimes sing a little
myself--just a tiny bit."

"I shall like much to hear you, signora."

"I shall feel very bashful about singing to an Italian gentleman. You
will laugh at me."

"No, no, I would not be so rude."

"Then perhaps I may. Our friends always insist upon hearing me."

So at an early period in the evening she sang one of her routine songs.

I watched the Count's face while she was singing. I was amused. At first
his expression was one of surprise. Then of pain, and it seemed to me of
annoyance. When Mrs. Wyman had completed the song she turned to him a
look of complacent inquiry. She was looking for a compliment.

"Didn't I do horribly?" she asked.

"Oh, no, no," answered the Count, vaguely.

"It must have seemed very bad to you."

"No, no--"

"Do you think it was passable?"

"Oh, signora, I never heard anything like it."

"Oh, you naughty flatterer," she said, smiling with delight. "I am sure
you don't mean it."

"Indeed I do."

I was sitting next the Disagreeable Woman.

"The Count has more brains than I thought," she said. "I quite agree
with him."

"That you never heard anything like it?" I queried, smiling.

"Yes."

"Miss Ruth," I said to the young woman from Macy's, "do you never sing?"

"I used to sing a little in my country home," she admitted.

"What, for instance?"

"I can sing 'Annie Laurie'."

"Nothing could be better. It is a general favorite. Won't you sing it
to-night?"

"But I cannot sing without an accompaniment," she said, shyly.

"I am not much of a musician, but I can play that."

With a little more persuasion I induced her to sing. She had a pleasant
voice, and while I cannot claim for her anything out of the common on
the score of musical talent, she rendered the song fairly well. All
seemed to enjoy it, except Mrs. Wyman, who said, in a sneering tone:

"That song is old as the hills."

"It may be so," I retorted, "but the best songs are old."

"It was very good," said the Count, who really seemed pleased.

This seemed to annoy the widow.

"You are very good-natured, Count, to compliment such a rustic
performance," she said.

"But, signora, I mean it."

"Well, let it pass! She did her best, poor thing!"

"She is a nice girl."

"Oh, Count, she is only a young woman from Macy's. She was born in the
country, and raised among cabbages and turnips."

He seemed puzzled, but evidently regarded Ruth with favor.

Meanwhile, Prof. Poppendorf had listened attentively to the song of the
maiden on whom he had fixed his choice.

"Mees Ruth, you sing beautiful!" he said.

Ruth Canby smiled.

"You are very kind, Prof. Poppendorf," she said, gratefully.

"I like your singing much better than Mrs. Wyman's."

"No. You mustn't say that. She sings airs from the opera."

"I like better your leetle song."

By this time Mrs. Wyman had succeeded in extracting a promise from the
Count to sing.

"Dr. Fenwick," she said, "can't you play the accompaniment for the
Count?"

"What is the song?"

"'Sweet Marie'."

"I will do my best. I am not professional."

So I played and the Count sang. He had a pleasant, sympathetic voice,
and we were pleased with his singing.

"Oh, how charming, Count!" said Mrs. Wyman; "I shall never dare to sing
before you again."

"Why not, signora."

