slope outside, called by Dilly her "spring," only because the snow
melted first there on the freedom days of the year. The new editor of
the Sudleigh "Star," seeing her slight, wiry figure struggling with the
bed like a very little ant under a caterpillar all too large, was once
on the point of drawing up his horse at her gate. He was a chivalrous
fellow, and he wanted to help; but Brad Freeman, hulking by with his
gun at the moment, stopped him.
"That's only Dilly wrastlin' with, her bed," he called back, in the act
of stepping over the wall into the meadow. "'Twon't do no good to take
holt once, unless you're round here every mornin' 'bout the same time.
Dilly'll git the better on't. She al'ays does." So the editor laughed,
put down another Tiverton custom in his mental notebook, and drove on.
Dilly was a very little woman, with abnormally long and sinewy arms.
Her small, rather delicate face had a healthy coat of tan, and her
iron-gray hair was braided with scrupulous care. She resembled her own
house to a striking degree; she was fastidiously neat, but not in the
least orderly. The Tiverton housekeepers could not appreciate this
attitude in reference to the conventional world. It was all very well
to keep the kitchen floor scrubbed, but they did believe, also, in
seeing the table properly set, and in finishing the washing by eight
o'clock on Monday morning. Now Dilly seldom felt inclined to set any
table at all. She was far more likely to take her bread and milk under
a tree; and as for washing, Thursday was as good a day as any, she was
wont to declare. Moreover, the tradition of hanging garments on the
line according to a severely classified system, did not in the least
appeal to her.
"I guess a petticoat'll dry jest as quick if it's hung 'side of a
nightgown," she told her critics, drily. "An' when you come to hangin'
stockin's by the pair, better separate 'em, I say! Like man an' wife!
Give 'em a vacation, once in a while, an' love'll live the longer!"
Dilly was thinking, this morning, of all the possibilities of the
lovely, shining day. So many delights lay open to her! She could take
her luncheon in her pocket, and go threading through the woods behind
her house. She could walk over to Pine Hollow, to see how the cones
were coming on, and perchance scrape together a basket of pine needles,
to add to her winter's kindling; or she might, if the world and the
desires thereof assailed her, visit Sudleigh Fair. Better still, she
need account to nobody if she chose to sit there on the doorstone, and
let the hours go unregretted by. Presently, her happy musing was broken
by a ripple from the outer world. A girl came briskly round the corner
where the stone-wall lay hidden under a wilderness of cinnamon
rosebushes and blackberry vines,--Rosa Tolman, dressed in white
piqué, with a great leghorn hat over her curls. The girl came
hurrying up the path, with a rustle of starched petticoats, and still
Dilly kept her trance-like posture.
"I know who 'tis!" she announced, presently, in a declamatory voice.
"It's Rosy Tolman, an' she's dressed in white, with red roses, all
complete, an' she's goin' to Sudleigh Cattle-Show."
Rosa lost a shade of pink from her cheeks. Her round blue eyes widened,
in an unmistakable terror quite piteous to see.
"O Dilly!" she quavered, "how do you know such things? Why, you 'ain't
looked at me!"
Dilly opened her eyes, and chuckled in keen enjoyment.
"Bless ye!" she said, "I can't help imposin' on ye, no more 'n a cat
could help ketchin' a mouse, if't made a nest down her throat. Why, I
see ye comin' round the corner! But when folks thinks you're a witch,
it ain't in human natur' not to fool 'em. I am a witch, ain't I,
dear? Now, ain't I?"
Rosa's color had faltered back, but she still stood visibly in awe of
her old neighbor.
"Well," she owned, "Elvin Drew says you can see in the dark, but I
don't know's he means anything by it."
Again Dilly broke into laughter, rocking back and forth, in happy
abandonment.
"I can!" she cried, gleefully. "You tell him I can! An' when I can't,
folks are so neighborly they strike a light for me to see by. You tell
him! Well, now, what is it? You've come to ask suthin'. Out with it!"
"Father told me to come over, and see if you can't tell something about
our cows. They're all drying up, and he don't see any reason why."
Dilly nodded her head sagely.
"You'd better ha' come sooner," she announced. "You tell him he must
drive 'em to pastur' himself, an' go arter 'em, too."
"Why?"
"An' you tell him to give Davie a Saturday, here an' there, to go
fishin' in, an' not let him do so many chores. Now, you hear! Your
father must drive the cows, an' he must give Davie time to play a
little, or there'll be dark days comin', an' he won't be prepared for
'em."
"My!" exclaimed Rosa, blankly. "My! Ain't it queer! It kind o' scares
me. But, Dilly,"--she turned about, so that only one flushed cheek
remained visible,--"Dilly, 'ain't you got something to say to me? We're
going to be married next Tuesday, Elvin and me. It's all right, ain't
it?"
Dilly bent forward, and peered masterfully into her face. She took the
girl's plump pink handy and drew her forward. Rosa, as if compelled by
some unseen force, turned about, and allowed her frightened gaze to lie
ensnared by the witch's great black eyes. Dilly began, in a deep
intense voice, with the rhythm of the Methodist exhorter, though on a
lower key,--
"Two years, that boy's been arter you. Two years, you trampled on him
as if he'd been the dust under your feet. He was poor an' strugglin'.
He was left with his mother to take care on, an' a mortgage to work off.
An' then his house burnt down, an' he got his insurance money; an' that
minute, you turned right round an' says, 'I'll have you.' An' now, you
say, 'Is it all right?' Is it right, Rosy Tolman? You tell me!"
Rosa was sobbing hysterically.
"Oh, I wish you wouldn't scare me so!" she exclaimed, yet not for a
moment attempting to withdraw her hand, or turn aside her terrified
gaze. "I wish I never'd said one word!"
Dilly broke the spell as lightly as she had woven it. A smile passed
over her face, like a charm, dispelling all its prophetic fervor.
"There! there!" she said, dropping the girl's hand. "I thought I'd
scare ye! What's the use o' bein' a witch, if ye can't upset folks? Now
don't cry, an' git your cheeks all blotched up afore Elvin calls to
fetch ye, with that hired horse, an' take ye to the Cattle-Show! But
don't ye forgit what I say! You remember we ain't goin' to wait for the
Day o' Judgment, none on us. It comes every hour. If Gabriel was
tootin', should you turn fust to Elvin Drew, an' go up or down with
him, wherever he was 'lected? That's what you've got to think on; not
your new hat nor your white pique. (Didn't iron it under the
overskirt, did ye? How'd I know? Law! how's a witch know anything?)
Now, you 'ain't opened your bundle, dear, have ye? Raisin-cake in it,
ain't there?"
Rosa bent suddenly forward, and placed the package in Dilly's lap. In
spite of the bright daylight all about her, she was frightened; if a
cloud had swept over, she must have screamed.
"I don't know how you found it out," she whispered, "but 'tis
raisin-cake. Mother sent it. She knew I was going to ask you about the
cows. She said I was to tell you, too, there's some sickness over to
Sudleigh, and she thought you could go over there nussing, if you
wanted to."
"I 'ain't got time," said Dilly, placidly. "I give up nussin', two year
ago. I 'ain't got any time at all! Well, here they come, don't they?
One for me, an' one for you!"
A light wagon, driven rapidly round the corner, drew up at the gate.
Elvin Drew jumped down, and helped out his companion, a short, rather
thickset girl, with smooth, dark hair, honest eyes, and a sensitive
mouth. She came quickly up the path, after an embarrassed word of
thanks to the young man.
"He took me in," she began, almost apologetically to Rosa, who surveyed
her with some haughtiness. "I was comin' up here to see Dilly, an' he
offered me a ride."
Rosa's color and spirits had returned, at the sight of her tangible
ally at the gate.
"Well, I guess I must be going," she said, airily. "Elvin won't want to
wait. Good-by, Dilly! I'll tell father. Good-by, Molly Drew!"
But Dilly followed her down to the road, where Elvin stood waiting with
the reins in his hands. He was a very blond young man, with curly hair,
and eyes honest in contour and clear of glance. Perhaps his coloring
impressed one with the fact that he should have looked very young; but
his face shrunk now behind a subtile veil of keen anxiety, of irritated
emotion, which were evidently quite foreign to him. Even a stranger,
looking at him, could hardly help suspecting an alien trouble grafted
upon a healthy stem. He gave Dilly a pleasant little nod, in the act of
turning eagerly to help Rosa into the wagon. But when he would have
followed her, Dilly laid a light but imperative hand on his arm.
"Don't you want your fortune told?" she asked, meaningly. "Here's the
witch all ready. Ain't it well for me I wa'n't born a hunderd year ago?
Shouldn't I ha' sizzled well? An' now, all there is to burn me is God
A'mighty's sunshine!"
Elvin laughed lightly.
"I guess I don't need any fortune," he said. "Mine looks pretty fair
now. I don't feel as if anybody'd better meddle with it." But he had
not withdrawn his arm, and his gaze still dwelt on hers.
"You know suthin' you don't mean to tell," said Dilly, speaking so
rapidly that although Rosa bent forward to listen, she caught only a
word, here and there. "You think you won't have to tell, but you will.
God A'mighty'll make you. You'll be a stranger among your own folks,
an' a wanderer on the earth; till you tell. There! go along! Go an' see
the punkins an' crazy-quilts!"
She withdrew her hand, and turned away. Elvin, his face suddenly
blanched, looked after her, fascinated, while she went quickly up the
garden walk. An impatient word from Rosa recalled him to himself, and
he got heavily into the wagon and drove on again.
When Dilly reached the steps where her new guest had seated herself,
her manner had quite changed. It breathed an open frankness, a sweet
and homely warmth which were very engaging. Molly spoke first.
"How pleased he is with her!" she said, dreamily.
"Yes," answered Dilly, "but to-day ain't tomorrer. They're both
light-complected. It's jest like patchwork. Put light an' dark
together, I say, or you won't git no figger. Here, le's have a mite o'
cake! Mis' Tolman's a proper good cook, if her childern have all
turned out ducks, an' took to the water. Every one on 'em's took back
as much as three generations for their noses an' tempers. Strange they
had to go so fur!"
She broke the rich brown loaf in the middle, and divided a piece
with Molly. Such were the habits calculated to irritate the
conventionalities of Tiverton against her. Who ever heard of breaking
cake when one could go into the house for a knife! They ate in silence,
and the delights of the summer day grew upon Molly as they never did
save when she felt the nearness of this queer little woman. Turn which
side of her personality she might toward you, Dilly could always bend
you to her own train of thought.
"I come down to talk things over," said Molly, at last, brushing the
crumbs of cake from her lap. "I've got a chance in the shoe-shop."
"Do tell! Well, ain't that complete? Don't you say one word, now! I
know how 'tis. You think how you'll have to give up the birds' singin',
an' your goin' into the woods arter groundpine, an' stay cooped up in a
boardin'-house to Sudleigh. I know how 'tis! But don't you fret. You
come right here an' stay Sundays, an' we'll eat up the woods an' drink
up the sky! There! It's better for ye, dear. Some folks are made to
live in a holler tree, like me; some ain't. You'll be better on't among
folks."
Molly's eyes filled with tears.
"You've been real good to me," she said, simply.
"I wish I'd begun it afore," responded Dilly, with a quick upward lift
of her head, and her brightest smile. "You see I didn't know ye very
well, for all you'd lived with old Mis' Drew so many year. I 'ain't had
much to do with folks. I knew ye hadn't got nobody except her, but I
knew, too, ye were contented there as a cricket. But when she died, an'
the house burnt down, I begun to wonder what was goin' to become on
ye."
Molly sat looking over at the pine woods, her lips compressed, her
cheeks slowly reddening. Finally she burst passionately forth,--
"Dilly, I'd like to know why I couldn't have got some rooms an' kep'
house for Elvin? His mother's my own aunt!"
"She wa'n't his mother, ye know. She was His stepmother, for all they
set so much by one Another. Folks would ha' talked, an' I guess Rosy
wouldn't ha' stood that, even afore they were engaged. Rosy may not
like corn-fodder herself, any more 'n t'other dog did, but she ain't
goin' to see other noses put into't without snappin' at 'em."
"Well, it's all over," said Molly, drearily. "It 'ain't been hard for
me stayin' round as I've done, an' sewin' for my board; but it's seemed
pretty tough to think of Elvin livin' in that little shanty of Caleb's
an' doin' for himself. I never could see why he didn't board somewheres
decent."
"Wants to save his six hunderd dollars, to go out West an' start in the
furniture business," said Dilly, succinctly. "Come, Molly, what say to
walkin' over to Sudleigh Cattle-Show?"
Molly threw aside her listless mood like a garment.
"Will you?" she cried. "Oh, I'd like to! You know I'm sewin' for Mis'
Eli Pike; an' they asked me to go, but I knew she'd fill up the seat so
I should crowd 'em out of house an' home. Will you, Dilly?"
"You wait till I git suthin' or other to put over my head," said Dilly,
rising with cheerful decision. "Here, you gi' me that cake! I'll tie it
up in a nice clean piece o' table-cloth, an' then we'll take along a
few eggs, so 't we can trade 'em off for bread an' cheese. You jest
pull in my sheets, an' shet the winder, while I do it. Like as not
there'll be a shower this arternoon."
When the little gate closed behind them, Molly felt eagerly excited,
as, if she were setting forth for a year's happy wandering. Dilly knew
the ways of the road as well as the wood. She was, as usual, in light
marching order, a handkerchief tied over her smooth braids; another,
slung on a stick over her shoulder, contained their luncheon and the
eggs for barter. All her movements were buoyant and free, like those of
a healthy animal let loose in pleasant pastures. She walked so lightly
that the eggs in the handkerchief were scarcely stirred.
"See that little swampy patch!" she said, stopping when they had
rounded the curve in the road. "A week or two ago, that was all alive
with redbud flowers. I dunno the right name on 'em, an' I don't care.
Redbirds, I call 'em. I went over there, one day, an' walked along
between the hummocks, spush! spush! You won't find a nicer feelin' than
that, wherever ye go. Take off your shoes an' stockin's, an' wade into
a swamp! Warm, coarse grass atop! Then warm, black mud, an' arter that,
a layer all nice an' cold that goes down to Chiny, fur's I know! That
was the day I meant to git some thoroughwort over there, to dry, but I
looked at the redbird flowers so long I didn't have time, an' I
never've been sence."
Molly laughed out, with a pretty, free ripple in her voice.
"You're always sayin' that, Dilly! You never have time for anything but
doin' nothin'!"
A bright little sparkle came into Dilly's eyes, and she laughed, too.
"Why, that's what made me give' up nussin' two year ago," she said,
happily. "I wa'n't havin' no time at all. I couldn't live my proper
life. I al'ays knew I should come to that, so I'd raked an' scraped,
an' put into the bank, till I thought I'd got enough to buy me a mite
o' flour while I lived, an' a pine coffin arter I died; an' then I jest
set up my Ebenezer I'd be as free's a bird. Freer, I guess I be, for
they have to scratch pretty hard, come cold weather, an' I bake me a
'tater, an' then go clippin' out over the crust, lookin' at the bare
twigs. Oh, it's complete! If I could live this way, I guess a thousand
years'd be a mighty small dose for me. Look at that goldenrod, over
there by the stump! That's the kind that's got the most smell."
Molly broke one of the curving plumes.
"I don't see as it smells at all," she said, still sniffing delicately.
"Le'me take it! Why, yes, it does, too! Everything smells some.
Oftentimes it's so faint it's more like a feelin' than a smell. But
there! you ain't a witch, as I be!"
"I wish you wouldn't say that!" put in Molly, courageously. "You make
people think you are."
"Law, then, let 'em!" said Dilly, with a kindly indulgence. "It don't
do them no hurt, an' it gives me more fun'n the county newspaper.
They'd ruther I'd say I was a witch'n tell 'em I've got four eyes an'
eight ears where they 'ain't but two. I tell ye, there's a good deal
missed when ye stay to home makin' pies, an' a good deal ye can learn
if ye live out-door. Why, there's Tolman's cows! He dunno why they dry
up; but I do. He, sends that little Davie with 'em, that don't have no
proper playtime; an' Davie gallops 'em all the way to pastur', so't he
can have a minute to fish in the brook. An' then he gallops 'em home
ag'in, because he's stole a piece out o' the arternoon. I ketched him
down there by the brook, one day, workin' away with a bent pin, an' the
next mornin' I laid a fish-hook on the rock, an' hid in the woods to
see what he'd say. My! I 'guess Jonah wa'n't more tickled when he set
foot on dry land. Here comes the wagons! There's the Poorhouse team
fust, an' Sally Flint settin' up straighter 'n a ramrod. An' there's
Heman an' Roxy! She don't look a day older'n twenty-five. Proper nice
folks, all on 'em, but they make me kind o' homesick jest because they
be folks. They do look so sort o' common in their bunnits an' veils,
an' I keep thinkin' o' little four-legged creatur's, all fur!" The
Tiverton folk saluted them, always cordially, yet each after his kind.
They liked Dilly as a product all their own, but one to be partaken of
sparingly, like some wild, intoxicating root.
They loved her better at home, too, than at Sudleigh Fair. It was like
a betrayal of their fireside secrets, to see her there in her
accustomed garb; so slight a concession to propriety would have lain in
her putting on a bonnet and shawl!
As they neared Sudleigh town, the road grew populous with carriages and
farm-wagons, "step and step," not all from Tiverton way, but gathered
in from the roads converging here. Men were walking up and down the
market street, crying their whips, their toy balloons, and a multitude
of cheaper gimcracks.
"Forty miles from home! forty miles from home!" called one, more
imaginative than the rest. "And no place to lay my head! That's why I'm
selling these little whips here to-day, a stranger in a strange land.
Buy one! buy one! and the poor pilgrim'll have a supper and a bed! Keep
your money in your pocket, and he's a wanderer on the face of the
earth!"
Dilly, the fearless in her chosen wilds, took a fold of Molly's dress,
and held it tight.
"You s'pose that's so?" she whispered. "Oh, dear! I 'ain't got a mite
o' money, on'y these six eggs. Oh, why didn't he stay to home, if he's
so possessed to sleep under cover? What does anybody leave their home
for, if they've got one?"
But Molly put up her head, and walked sturdily on.
"Don't you worry," she counselled, in an undertone. "It don't mean any
more 'n it does when folks say they're sellin' at a sacrifice. I guess
they expect to make enough, take it all together."
Dilly walked on, quite bewildered. She had lost her fine, joyous
carriage; her shoulders were bent, and her feet shuffled, in a
discouraged fashion, over the unlovely bricks. Molly kept the lead,
with unconscious superiority.
"Le's go into the store now," she said, "an' swap off the eggs. You'll
be joggled in this crowd, an' break 'em all to smash. Here, you le' me
have your handkerchief! I'll see to it all." She kept the handkerchief
in her hand, after their slight "tradin'" had been accomplished; and
Dilly, too dispirited to offer a word, walked meekly about after her.
The Fair was held, according to ancient custom, in the town-hall, of
which the upper story had long been given over to Sudleigh Academy.
Behind the hall lay an enormous field, roped in now, and provided with
pens and stalls, where a great assemblage of live-stock lowed, and
grunted, and patiently chewed the cud.
"Le's go in there fust," whispered Dilly. "I sha'n't feel so strange
there as I do with folks. I guess if the four-footed creatur's can
stan' it, I can. Pretty darlin'!" she added, stopping before a heifer
who had ceased eating and was looking about her with a mild and
dignified gaze. Dilly eagerly sought out a stick, and began to scratch
the delicate head. "Pretty creatur'! Smell o' her breath, Molly! See
her nose, all wet, like pastur' grass afore day! Now, if I didn't want
to live by myself, I'd like to curl me up in a stall, 'side o' her."
"'Mandy, you an' Kelup come here!" called Aunt Melissa Adams. She
loomed very prosperous, over the way, in her new poplin and her
lace-trimmed cape. "Jest look at these roosters! They've got spurs on
their legs as long's my darnin'-needle. What under the sun makes 'em
grow so! An' ain't they the nippin'est little creatur's you ever see?"
"They're fightin'-cocks," answered Caleb, tolerantly.
"Fightin'-cocks? You don't mean to tell me they're trained up for
that?"
"Yes, I do!"
"Well, I never heard o' such a thing in a Christian land! never! Whose
be they? I'll give him a piece o' my mind, if I live another minute!"
"You better let other folks alone," said Caleb, stolidly.
"'Mandy," returned Aunt Melissa, in a portentous undertone, "be you
goin' to stan' by an' see your own aunt spoke to as if she was the dirt
under your feet?"
Amanda had once in her life asserted herself at a crucial moment, and
she had never seen cause to regret it. Now she "spoke out" again. She
made her slender neck very straight and stiff, and her lips set
themselves firmly over the words,--
"I guess Caleb won't do you no hurt, Aunt Melissa. He don't want you
should make yourself a laughin'-stock, nor I don't either. There's
Uncle Hiram, over lookin' at the pigs. I guess he don't see you. Caleb,
le's we move on!"
Aunt Melissa stood looking after them, a mass of quivering wrath.
"Well, I must say!" she retorted to the empty air. "If I live, I must
say!"
Dilly took her placid companion by the arm, and hurried her on. Human
jangling wore sadly upon her; under such maddening onslaught she was
not incapable of developing "nerves." They stopped before a stall where
another heifer stood, chewing her cud, and looking away into remembered
pastures.
"Oh, see!" said Molly, "'Price $500'! Do you b'lieve it?"
"Well, well!" came Mrs. Eli Pike's ruminant voice from the crowd. "I'm
glad I don't own that creatur'! I shouldn't sleep nights if I had five
hunderd dollars in cow."
"Tain't five hunderd dollars," said Hiram Cole, elbowing his way to the
front. "'Tain't p'inted right, that's all. P'int off two ciphers--"
"Five dollars!" snickered a Crane boy, diving through the crowd, and
proceeding to stand on his head in a cleared space beyond. "That's wuth
less'n Miss Lucindy's hoss!"
Hiram Cole considered again, one lean hand stroking his cheek.
"Five--fifty--" he announced. "Well, I guess 'tis five hunderd, arter
all! Anybody must want to invest, though, to put all their income into
perishable cow-flesh!"
"You look real tired," whispered Molly. "Le's come inside, an' perhaps
we can set down."
The old hall seemed to have donned strange carnival clothes,
for a mystic Saturnalia. It was literally swaddled in
bedquilts,--tumbler-quilts, rising-suns, Jacob's-ladders, log-cabins,
and the more modern and altogether terrible crazy-quilt. There were
square yards of tidies, on wall and table, and furlongs of home-knit
lace. Dilly looked at this product of the patient art of woman with a
dispirited gaze.
"Seems a kind of a waste of time, don't it?" she said, dreamily, "when
things are blowin' outside? I wisht I could see suthin' made once to
look as handsome as green buds an' branches. Law, dear, now jest turn
your eyes away from them walls, an' see the tables full of apples! an'
them piles o' carrots, an' cabbages an' squashes over there! Well,
'tain't so bad if you can look at things the sun's ever shone on, no
matter if they be under cover." She wandered up and down the tables,
caressing the rounded outlines of the fruit with her loving gaze. The
apples, rich and fragrant, were a glory and a joy. There were great
pound sweetings, full of the pride of mere bigness; long purple
gilly-flowers, craftily hiding their mealy joys under a sad-colored
skin; and the Hubbardston, a portly creature quite unspoiled by the
prosperity of growth, and holding its lovely scent and flavor like an
individual charm. There was the Bald'in, stand-by old and good as
bread; and there were all the rest. We know them, we who have courted
Pomona in her fair New England orchards.
Near the fancy-work table sat Mrs. Blair, of the Old Ladies' Home, on a
stool she had wrenched from an unwilling boy, who declared it belonged
up in the Academy, whence he had brought it "to stan' on" while he
drove a nail. And though he besought her to rise and let him return it,
since he alone must be responsible, the old lady continued sitting in
silence. At length she spoke,--
"Here I be, an' here I'm goin' to set till the premiums is tacked on.
Them pinballs my neighbor, Mis' Dyer, made with her own hands, an'
she's bent double o' rheumatiz. An' I said I'd bring 'em for her, an'
I'd set by an' see things done fair an' square."
"There, Mrs. Blair, don't you worry," said Mrs. Mitchell, a director of
the Home, putting a hand on the martial and belligerent shoulder,
"Don't you mind if she doesn't get a premium. I'll buy the pinballs,
and that will do almost as well."
"My! if there ain't goin' to be trouble between Mary Lamson an'
Sereno's Hattie, I'll miss my guess!" said a matron, with an
appreciative wag of her purple-bonneted head. "They've either on 'em
canned up more preserves 'n Tiverton an' Sudleigh put together, an'
Mary's got I dunno what all among 'em!--squash, an' dandelion, an'
punkin with lemon in't. That's steppin' acrost the bounds, I say! If
she gits a premium for puttin' up gardin-sass, I'll warrant there'll be
a to-do. An' Hattie'll make it!"
"I guess there won't be no set-to about such small potaters," said Mrs.
Pike, with dignity. Her broad back had been unrecognized by the herald,
careless in her haste. "Hattie's ready an' willin' to divide the
premium, if't comes to her, an' I guess Mary'd be, put her in the same
place."
"My soul an' body!" exclaimed another, trudging up and waving a large
palmleaf fan. "Well, there, Rosanna Pike! Is that you? Excuse me all,
if I don't stop to speak round the circle, I'm so put to't with Passon
True's carryin's on. You know he's been as mad as hops over Sudleigh
Cattle-Show, reg'lar as the year come round, because there's a raffle
for a quilt, or suthin'. An' now he's come an' set up a sort of a stall
over t'other side the room, an' folks thinks he's tryin' to git up a
revival. I dunno when I've seen John so stirred. He says we hadn't
ought to be made a laughin'-stock to Sudleigh, Passon or no Passon. An'
old Square Lamb says--"
But the fickle crowd waited to hear no more. With one impulse, it
surged over to the other side of the hall, where Parson True, standing
behind a table brought down from the Academy, was saying solemnly,--
"Let us engage in prayer!"
The whispering ceased; the titters of embarrassment were stilled, and
mothers tightened their grasp on little hands, to emphasize the change
of scene from light to graver hue. Some of the men looked lowering; one
or two strode out of doors. They loved Parson True, but the Cattle-Show
was all their own, and they resented even a ministerial innovation. The
parson was a slender, wiry man, with keen blue eyes, a serious mouth,
and an overtopping forehead, from which the hair was always brushed
straight back. He called upon the Lord, with passionate fervor, to
"bless this people in all their outgoings and comings-in, and to keep
their feet from paths where His blessing could not attend them."
"Is that the raffle, mother?" whispered the smallest Crane boy; and his
mother promptly administered a shake, for the correction of misplaced
curiosity.
Then Parson True opened his eyes on his somewhat shamefaced flock and
their neighbor townsmen, and began to preach. It was good to be there,
he told them, only as it was good to be anywhere else, in the spirit of
God. Judgment might overtake them there, as it might at home, in house
or field. Were they prepared? He bent forward over the table, his slim
form trembling with the intensity of gathering passion. He appealed to
each one personally with that vibratory quality of address peculiar to
him, wherein it seemed that not only his lips but his very soul
challenged the souls before him. One after another joined the outer
circle, and faces bent forward over the shoulders in front, with that
strange, arrested expression inevitably born when, on the flood of
sunny weather, we are reminded how deep the darkness is within the
grave.
"Let every man say to himself, 'Thou, God, seest me!'" reiterated the
parson. "Thou seest into the dark corners of my heart. What dost Thou
see, O God? What dost Thou see?"
Elvin and Rosa had drawn near with the others. She smiled a little, and
the hard bloom on her cheeks had not wavered. No one looked at them,
for every eye dwelt on the preacher; and though Elvin's face changed
from the healthy certainty of life and hope to a green pallor of
self-recognition, no one noticed. Consequently, the general surprise
culminated in a shock when he cried out, in a loud voice, "God be
merciful! God be merciful! I ain't fit to be with decent folks! I'd
ought to be in jail!" and pushed his way through the crowd until he
stood before the parson, facing him with bowed head, as if he found in
the little minister the vicegerent of God. He had kept Rosa's hand in a
convulsive grasp, and he drew her with him into the eye of the world.
She shrank back, whimpering feebly; but no one took note of her. The
parson knew exactly what, to do when the soul travailed and cried
aloud. He stretched forth his hands, and put them on the young man's
shoulders.
"Come, poor sinner, come!" he urged, in a voice of wonderful melting
quality. "Come! Here is the throne of grace! Bring your burden, and
cast it down."
The words roused Elvin, or possibly the restraining touch. He started
back.
"I can't!" he cried out, stridently. "I can't yet! I can't! I can't!"
Still leading Rosa, who was crying now in good earnest, he turned, and
