head. " Stupid it's in my portmanteau ! " 
" Then go and get it ! " said Rose, who per 
ceived as she spoke, by the door that faced her, 
that Tony Bream was rejoining them. She got 
up, and Tony, agitated, as she could see, but 
with complete command of his manners, immedi 
ately and sociably said to Dennis that he was 
ready to guide him upstairs. Rose, at this, inter 
posed. " Do let Walker take him I want to 
speak to you." 
Tony smiled at the young man. " Will you 
excuse me then ? " Dennis protested against the 
trouble he was giving, and Walker led him away. 
Rose meanwhile waited not only till they were 
out of sight and of earshot, but till the return of 
Tony, who, his hand on Vidal's shoulder, had 
gone with them as far as the door. 
" Has he brought you good news ? " said the 
master of Bounds. 
" Very good. He's very well ; he's all right." 
Tony's flushed face gave to the laugh with 
which he greeted this almost the effect of that of 
a man who had been drinking. "Do you mean 
he's quite faithful ? " 
Rose always met a bold joke. " As faithful as 
I ! But your news is the thing." 
" Mine ? " He closed his eyes a moment, but 
stood there scratching his head as if to carry off 
with a touch of comedy his betrayal of emotion. 
" Has Julia repeated her declaration ? " 
 
Tony looked at her in silence. " She has done 
something more extraordinary than that," he re 
plied at last. 
" What has she done ? " 
Tony glanced round him, then dropped into a 
chair. He covered his face with his hands. " I 
must get over it a little before I tell you ! " 
VII 
ROSE ARMIGER waited, compassionately, for 
Tony to recover himself, dropping again, during 
the pause, upon the sofa she had just occupied 
with her visitor. At last as, while she watched 
him, his silence continued, she put him a ques 
tion. "Does she at any rate still maintain that 
she sha'n't get well?" 
Tony removed his hands from his face. " With 
the utmost assurance or rather with the utmost 
serenity. But she treats that now as a mere 
detail." 
Rose wondered. " You mean she really feels 
that she's sinking?" 
"So she says." 
" But is she, good heavens ? Such a thing isn't 
a matter of opinion : it's a fact or it's not a 
fact." 
"It's not a fact," said Tony Bream. " How can 
it be when one has only to see that her strength 
 
hasn't failed? She of course says it has, but she 
has a remarkable deal of it to show. What's the 
vehemence with which she expresses herself but a 
sign of increasing life ? It's excitement, of course 
partly; but it's also striking energy." 
"Excitement?" Rose repeated. "I thought 
you just said she was 'serene.'" 
Tony hesitated, but he was perfectly clear. 
" She's calm about what she calls leaving me, bless 
her heart ; she seems to have accepted that pros 
pect with the strangest resignation. What she's 
uneasy, what she's in fact still more strangely tor 
mented and exalted about, is another matter." 
" I see the thing you just mentioned." 
"She takes an interest," Tony went on, "she 
asks questions, she sends messages, she speaks out 
with all her voice. She's delighted to know that 
Mr. Vidal has at last come to you, and she told 
me to tell you so from her, and to tell him so 
to tell you both, in fact, how she rejoices that 
what you've so long waited for is now so close at 
hand." 
Rose took this in with lowered eyes. "How 
dear of her ! " she murmured. 
" She asked me particularly about Mr. Vidal," 
Tony continued " how he looks, how he strikes 
me, how you met. She gave me indeed a private 
message for him." 
Rose faintly smiled. " A private one ? " 
" Oh, only to spare your modesty : a word to 
the effect that she answers for you." 
"In what way? " Rose asked. 
" Why, as the charmingest, cleverest, handsom 
est, in every way most wonderful wife that ever 
any man will have had." 
" She is wound up ! " Rose laughed. Then she 
said : " And all the while what does Nurse think ? 
I don't mean," she added with the same slight 
irony, " of whether I shall do for Dennis." 
" Of Julia's condition ? She wants Ramage to 
come back." 
Rose thought a moment. " She's rather a 
goose, I think she loses her head." 
"So I've taken the liberty of telling her." 
Tony sat forward, his eyes on the floor, his 
elbows on his knees, and his hands nervously 
rubbing each other. Presently he rose with a 
jerk. " What do you suppose she wants me 
to do?" 
Rose tried to suppose. "Nurse wants you ?" 
"No that ridiculous girl." Nodding back at 
his wife's room, he came and stood before the sofa. 
 
Half reclining again, Rose turned it over, 
raising her eyes to him. " Do you really mean 
something ridiculous ? " 
" Under the circumstances grotesque." 
"Well," Rose suggested, smiling, "she wants 
you to allow her to name her successor." 
" Just the contrary ! " Tony seated himself 
where Dennis Vidal had sat. "She wants me 
to promise her she shall have no successor." 
His companion looked at him hard ; with her 
surprise at something in his tone she had just 
visibly coloured. " I see." She was at a mo 
mentary loss. " Do you call that grotesque ? " 
Tony, for an instant, was evidently struck by 
her surprise ; then seeing the reason of it and 
blushing too a little, " Not the idea, my dear Rose 
God forbid!" he exclaimed. "What I'm speak 
ing of is the mistake of giving that amount of 
colour to her insistence meeting her as if one 
accepted the situation as she represents it and 
were really taking leave of her." 
Rose appeared to understand and even to be 
impressed. " You think that will make her 
worse ? " 
"Why, arranging everything as if she's going 
to die ! " Tony sprang up again ; his trouble 
was obvious, and he fell again into the restless 
pacing that had been his resource all the morning. 
His interlocutress watched his agitation. 
" Mayn't it be that, if you do just that, she'll on 
the contrary immediately find herself better ? " 
Tony wondered, scratching his head again. 
" From the spirit of contradiction ? I'll do any 
thing in life that will make her happy, or just 
simply make her quiet : I'll treat her demand as 
intensely reasonable even, if it isn't better to treat 
it as an ado about nothing. But it stuck in my 
crop to lend myself, that way, to a deathbed solem 
nity. Heaven deliver us ! " Half irritated and 
half anxious, suffering from his tenderness a two 
fold effect, he dropped into another seat with his 
hands in his pockets and his long legs thrust out. 
" Does she want it very solemn ? " Rose asked. 
" She's in dead earnest, poor darling. She wants 
a promise on my sacred honour a vow of the most 
portentous kind." 
Rose was silent a little. " You didn't give it ? " 
"I turned it off I refused to take any such 
discussion seriously. I said : ' My own darling, 
how can I meet you on so hateful a basis ? Wait 
till you are dying ! ' ' He lost himself an instant ; 
then he was again on his feet. "How in the 
 
world can she dream I'm capable ?" He 
hadn't patience even to finish his phrase. 
Rose, however, finished it. " Of taking a sec 
ond wife ? Ah, that's another affair ! " she sadly 
exclaimed. " We've nothing to do with that," she 
added. " Of course you understand Julia's feel- 
ing." 
" Her feeling ? " Tony once more stood in front 
of her. 
" Why, what's at the bottom of her dread of 
your marrying again ? " 
" Assuredly I do ! Mrs. Grantham naturally 
shes at the bottom. She has filled Julia with the 
vision of my perhaps giving our child a step 
mother." 
" Precisely," Rose said, " and if you had known, 
as I knew it, Julia's girlhood, you would do jus 
tice to the force of that horror. It possesses her 
whole being she would prefer that the child 
should die." 
Tony Bream, musing, shook his head with 
sombre decision. " Well, I would prefer that 
they neither of them should ! " 
" The simplest thing, then, is to give her your 
word." 
" My ' word ' isn't enough," Tony said ; " she 
wants mystic rites and spells ! The simplest 
thing, moreover, was exactly what I desired to do. 
My objection to the performance she demands 
was that that was just what it seemed to me not 
to be." 
"Try it," said Rose, smiling. 
"To bring her round?" 
" Before the Doctor returns. When he comes, 
you know, he won't let you go back to her." 
" Then I'll go now," said Tony, already at the 
door. 
Rose had risen from the sofa. "Be very brief 
but be very strong." 
" I'll swear by all the gods that or any other 
nonsense." Rose stood there opposite to him with 
a fine, rich urgency which operated as a detention. 
" I see you're right," he declared. " You always 
are, and I'm always indebted to you." Then as 
he opened the door : " Is there anything else ? " 
"Anything else?" 
"I mean that you advise." 
She thought a moment. " Nothing but that 
for you to seem to enter thoroughly into her idea, 
to show her you understand it as she understands 
it herself." 
Tony looked vague. " As she does ? " 
 
" Why, for the lifetime of your daughter." 
As he appeared still not fully to apprehend, she 
risked: "If you should lose Effie the reason 
would fail." 
Tony, at this, jerked back his head with a flush. 
" My dear Rose, you don't imagine that it's as a 
needed vow " 
" That you would give it?" she broke in. "Cer 
tainly I don't, any more than I suppose the de 
gree of your fidelity to be the ground on which 
we're talking. But the thing is to convince Julia, 
and I said that only because she'll be more con 
vinced if you strike her as really looking at what 
you subscribe to." 
Tony gave his nervous laugh. " Don't you 
know I always ' put down my name ' - especially 
to ' appeals ' in the most reckless way ? " Then 
abruptly, in a different tone, as if with a passion 
ate need to make it plain, " I shall never, never, 
never," he protested, "so much as look at another 
woman ! " 
The girl approved with an eager gesture. 
"You've got it, my dear Tony. Say it to her 
that way ! " But he had already gone, and, turn 
ing, she found herself face to face with her lover, 
who had come back as she spoke. 
VIII 
WITH his letter in his hand Dennis Vidal stood 
and smiled at her. "What in the world has 
your dear Tony ' got,' and what is he to say ? " 
" To say ? Something to his wife, who appears 
to have fallen into an extraordinary state." 
The young man's face fell. " What sort of a 
state?" 
" A strange discouragement about herself. 
She's morbid and frightened she thinks she's 
sinking." 
Dennis looked grave. "Poor little lady 
what a bore for us ! I remember her per 
fectly." 
" She of course remembers you," Rose said. 
" She takes the friendliest interest in your being 
here." 
"That's most kind of her in her condition." 
" Oh, her condition," Rose returned, " isn't 
quite so bad as she thinks ! " 
 
"I see." Dennis hesitated. "And that's 
what Mr. Bream's to tell her." 
"That's a part of it." Rose glanced at the 
document he had brought to her ; it was in its 
envelope, and he tapped it a little impatiently 
on his left finger-tips. What she said, however, 
had no reference to it. " She's haunted with a 
nervous alarm on the subject, of all things, 
of his marrying again." 
" If she should die ? She wants him not to ? " 
Dennis asked. 
"She wants him not to." Rose paused a 
moment. " She wants to have been the only one." 
He reflected, slightly embarrassed with this 
peep into a situation that but remotely concerned 
him. " Well, I suppose that's the way women 
often feel." 
"I daresay it is." The girl's gravity gave the 
gleam of a smile. " I daresay it's the way I 
should." 
Dennis Vidal, at this, simply seized her and 
kissed her. "You needn't be afraid you'll be 
the only one ! " 
His embrace had been the work of a few sec 
onds, and she had made no movement to escape 
from it ; but she looked at him as if to convey 
that the extreme high spirits it betrayed were 
perhaps just a trifle mistimed. " That's what I 
recommended him," she dropped, "to say to 
Julia." 
"Why, I should hope so ! " Presently, as if a 
little struck, Dennis continued : "Doesn't he want 
to?" 
"Absolutely. They're all in all to each other. 
But he's naturally much upset and bewildered." 
" And he came to you for advice ? " 
" Oh, he comes to me," Rose said, " as he 
might come to talk of her with the mother that, 
poor darling, it's her misfortune never to have 
known." 
The young man's vivacity again played up. 
" He treats you, you mean, as his mother-in- 
law?" 
" Very much. But I'm thoroughly nice to 
him. People can do anything with me who are 
nice to her." 
Dennis was silent a moment ; he had slipped 
his letter out of its cover. " Well, I hope they're 
grateful to you for such devotion." 
" Grateful to me, Dennis ? They quite adore 
me." Then as if to remind him of something it 
was important he should feel : " Don't you see 
 
what it is for a poor girl to have such an anchor 
age as this such honourable countenance, such 
a place to fall back upon ? " 
Thus challenged, her visitor, with a moment's 
thought, did frank justice to her question. " I'm 
certainly glad you've such jolly friends one 
sees they're charming people. It has been a 
great comfort to me lately to know you were 
with them." He looked round him, conscien 
tiously, at the bright and beautiful hall. " It 
is a good berth, my dear, and it must be a pleas 
ure to live with such fine things. They've given 
me a room up there that's full of them an 
awfully nice room." He glanced at a picture 
or two he took in the scene. " Do they roll 
in wealth?" 
" They're like all bankers, I imagine," said 
Rose. "Don't bankers always roll ? " 
"Yes, they seem literally to wallow. What a 
pity we ain't bankers, eh ? " 
" Ah, with my friends here their money's the 
least part of them," the girl answered. " The 
great thing's their personal goodness." 
Dennis had stopped before a large photograph, 
a great picture in a massive frame, supported, on 
a table, by a small gilded easel. " To say noth- 
ing of their personal beauty ! He's tremendously 
good-looking." 
Rose glanced with an indulgent sigh at a 
representation of Tony Bream in all his splendour, 
in a fine white waistcoat and a high white hat, 
with a stick and gloves and a cigar, his orchid, his 
stature, and his smile. " Ah, poor Julia's taste ! " 
"Yes," Dennis exclaimed, "one can see how 
he must have fetched her ! " 
" I mean the style of the thing," said Rose. 
"It isn't good, eh? Well, you know." Then 
turning away from the picture the young man 
added: "They'll be after him!" 
Rose faltered. " The people she fears ? " 
" The dear ladies, bless 'em if he should lose 
her." 
"I daresay," said Rose. "But he'll be proof." 
" Has he told you so ? " Dennis smiled. 
She met his smile with a kind of conscious 
bravado in her own. " In so many words. But 
he assures me he'll calm her down." 
Dennis was silent a little : he had now unfolded 
his letter and run his eyes over it. "What a 
funny subject for him to be talking about ! " 
" With me, do you mean ? " 
"Yes, and with his wife." 
 
"My dear man," Rose exclaimed, "you can 
imagine he didn't begin it ! " 
" Did you ? " her companion asked. 
She hesitated again, and then, " Yes idiot ! " 
she replied with a quiet humour that produced, 
on his part, another demonstration of tenderness. 
This attempt she arrested, raising her hand, as she 
appeared to have heard a sound, with a quick 
injunction to listen. 
" What's the matter ? " 
She bent her ear. " Wasn't there a cry from 
Julia's room ? " 
" I heard nothing." 
Rose was relieved. " Then it's only my ner 
vousness." 
Dennis Vidal held up his letter. " Is your 
nervousness too great to prevent your giving a 
moment's attention to this ? " 
" Ah, your letter ? " Rose's eyes rested on it 
as if she had become conscious of it for the first 
time. 
"It very intimately concerns our future," said 
her visitor. " I went up for it so that you should 
do me the favour to read it." 
She held out her hand promptly and frankly. 
"Then give it to me let me keep it a little." 
" Certainly ; but kindly remember that I've 
still to answer it I mean referring to points. 
I've waited to see you because it's from the ' gov 
ernor ' himself practically saying what he'll do 
for me." 
Rose held the letter ; her large light eyes 
widened with her wonder and her sympathy. 
" Is it something very good ? " 
Dennis prescribed, with an emphatic but amused 
nod at the paper, a direction to her curiosity. 
" Read and you'll see ! " 
She dropped her eyes, but after a moment, 
while her left hand patted her heart, she raised 
them with an odd, strained expression. " I mean 
is it really good enough ? " 
" That's exactly what I want you to tell me ! " 
Dennis laughed out. A certain surprise at her 
manner was in his face. 
While she noted it she heard a sound again, a 
sound this time explained by the opening of the 
door of the vestibule. Doctor Ramage had come 
back ; Rose put down her letter. " I'll tell you 
as soon as I have spoken to the Doctor." 
IX 
THE Doctor, eagerly, spoke to her first. " Our 
friend has not come back ? " 
" Mine has," said Rose with grace. " Let me 
introduce Mr. Vidal." Doctor Ramage beamed a 
greeting, and our young lady, with her discreet 
gaiety, went on to Dennis : " He too thinks all 
the world of me." 
" Oh, she's a wonder she knows what to 
do ! But you'll see that for yourself," said the 
Doctor. 
" I'm afraid you won't approve of we," Dennis 
replied with solicitude. " You'll think me rather 
in your patient's way." 
"Doctor Ramage laughed. "No indeed I'm 
sure Miss Armiger will keep you out of it." 
Then looking at his watch, " Bream's not with 
her still?" he inquired of Rose. 
"He came away, but he returned to her." 
"He shouldn't have done that." 
" It was by my advice, and I'm sure you'll find 
it's all right," Rose replied. "But you'll send 
him back to us." 
" On the spot." And the Doctor danced off. 
"He's not at all easy," Dennis pronounced 
when he had gone. 
Rose demurred. "How do you know that?" 
"By looking at him. I'm not such a fool," 
her visitor added with some emphasis, "as you 
strike me as wishing to make of me." 
Rose candidly stared. " As I strike you as 
wishing ? " For a moment this young couple 
looked at each other hard, and they both changed 
colour. " My dear Dennis, what do you mean ? " 
He evidently felt that he had been almost vio 
lently abrupt; but it would have been equally 
evident to a spectator that he was a man of cool 
courage. "I mean, Rose, that I don't quite 
know what's the matter with you. It's as if, 
unexpectedly, on my eager arrival, I find some 
thing or other between us." 
She appeared immensely relieved. "Why, my 
dear child, of course you do ! Poor Julia's be 
tween us much between us." She faltered 
again ; then she broke out with emotion : " I may 
as well confess it frankly I'm miserably anxious. 
 
Good heavens," she added with impatience, " don't 
you see it for yourself ? " 
" I certainly see that you're agitated and absent 
as you warned me so promptly you would be. 
But remember you've quite denied to me the 
gravity of Mrs. Bream's condition." 
Rose's impatience overflowed into a gesture. 
"I've been doing that to deceive my own self!" 
"I understand," said Dennis kindly. "Still," 
he went on, considering, " it's either one thing or 
the other. The poor lady's either dying, you 
know, or she ain't ! " 
His friend looked at him with a reproach too 
fine to be uttered. " My dear Dennis you're 
harsh ! " 
He showed a face as conscientious as it was 
blank. " I'm crude possibly coarse ? Perhaps 
I am without intention." 
"Think what these people are to me," said 
Rose. 
He was silent a little. " Is it anything so very 
extraordinary? Oh, I know," he went on, as if 
he feared she might again accuse him of a want 
of feeling ; " I appreciate them perfectly I do 
them full justice. Enjoying their hospitality 
here, I'm conscious of all their merits." The 
letter she had put down was still on the table, 
and he took it up and fingered it a moment. 
"All I mean is that I don't want you quite 
to sink the fact that Fin something to you 
too." 
She met this appeal with instant indulgence. 
" Be a little patient with me," she gently said. 
