gently faced his fate. He could not preach at Saint 
Agatha s. And he could not explain to the vestry. 
Perhaps his heart-sickness about this matter 
subsided a little one likes to think so as his disease 
grew upon him ; but there are men who will under 
stand me when I say that this was the greatest 
disappointment of his humble, holy life. 
As Saturday night drew on, and the stars came 
out, he was heard to make such efforts to speak 
articulately, that one of his weeping people (an 
affectionate woman of a brighter wit than the rest) 
made out, as she bent lovingly over him, to 
understand so much as this : 
" Lord," he said, " into thy hands I commit my 
s-p " 
" He commits his spirit to the Lord ! " sobbed the 
landlady. 
But the listening parishioner raised her finger to 
her lips. 
" Lord," he said again, and this time the dullest 
ear in the parish could have heard the words 
"Lord," he prayed, "into thy hands I commit 
my supply." 
Sunday morning broke upon the city as cold and 
clear as the sword of a rebuking angel. People on 
the way to the West End churches exchanged notes 
on the thermometer, and talked of the destitution of 
the poor. It was so cold that the ailing and the 
aged for the most part stayed at home. But the 
young, the ennuye, the imitative, and the soul-sick, 
got themselves into their furs and carriages when 
the chimes rang, and the audiences were, on the 
whole, as comfortable and as devout as usual. 
The vestryman sat nervously in his pew. He 
had not fully recovered from the fact that his 
supply had disappointed him. Having sent his coach 
man in vain to all the Saturday evening trains to 
meet his country parson, the vestryman had passed 
but an uneasy night. 
" I had supposed the old man had principles 
about Sunday travel," he said to his wife, " but it 
seems he is coming in the morning, after all. He 
might at least have sent me word." 
" Telegraphing in the country is difficult, 
sometimes, I have heard," replied the lady, vaguely. 
She was a handsome, childless woman, with the 
haughty under lip of her class. Her husband spoke 
cheerily, but he was not at ease, and she did not 
know how to make him so. 
The Sunday morning train came in from the 
country station forty miles back, but the old clergy 
man was not among its passengers. Now thoroughly 
alarmed, the vestryman had started for his hat and 
coat, when his parlor-maid brought him a message. 
It had been left at the door, she said, by a 
messenger who brooked neither delay nor question, but 
ordered her to tell the master of the house that the 
supply for Saint Agatha's was in the city, and would 
meet the engagement at the proper time and place. 
The old clergyman, the messenger added, had been 
suddenly stricken with a dangerous illness, and 
could not be expected; but his substitute would 
fill the pulpit for the day. The vestryman was 
requested to feel no concern in the matter. The 
preacher preferred retirement until the hour of the 
service, and would fulfil his duties at the church at 
the appointed hour. 
But when the vestryman, feeling flurried despite 
himself, tapped at the door of the luxurious vestry- 
room, gracefully refurnished that winter for the 
rector with the sore throat who was in the south of 
France, he found it locked ; and to his unobtrusive 
knock no answer came. At this uncomfortable moment 
the sexton tiptoed up to say that the supply 
had requested not to be disturbed until the service 
should begin. The sexton supposed that the clergy 
man needed extra preparation ; thought that perhaps 
the gentleman was from the country, and ah 
unused to the audience. 
" What is his name ? What does he look like ? " 
asked the chairman, with knotted brows. 
" I have not seen him sir,' replied the sexton, 
with a puzzled expression. 
" How did you receive the message ? " 
" By a messenger who would not be delayed or 
questioned." 
Struck by the repetition of this phrase, the chair 
man asked again : 
" But what did the messenger look like ? " The 
sexton shook his head. 
" I cannot tell you, sir. He was a mere messen 
ger. I paid no attention to him." 
" Very well," said the church officer, turning 
away discontentedly. " It must be all right. I have 
implicit confidence in the man whose chosen substitute
this is." 
With this he ceased to try to intrude himself 
upon the stranger, but went down to his pew, and 
sat beside his wife in uneasy silence. 
The chimes sang and sank, and sang again : 
Holy, holy, holy 
The air was so clear that the sound rang twice 
the usual distance through the snowlit, sunlit air ; 
and the sick and the old at home listened to the 
bells with a sudden stirring at their feeble hearts, 
and wished again that they could have gone to 
church. One bed-ridden woman, whose telephone 
connected her with Saint Agatha's, held the receiver 
to her sensitive ear, and smiled with the quick 
gratitude for trifling pleasures of the long sick, as 
she recognized the notes of the chime. With a leap 
and a thrill as if they cast their metal souls out in 
the act, the voices of the bells rose and swelled, and 
ceased and slept, and where they paused the anthem 
took the word up : 
Holy, holy 
and carried it softly, just above the breath, with 
the tone which is neither a sigh, nor a cry, nor a 
whisper, but that harmony of all which makes of 
music prayer. 
He must have entered on the wave of this strain ; 
opinions differed afterwards as to this : some said one 
thing, some another ; but it was found that most of 
the audience had not observed the entrance of the 
preacher at all. The choir ceased, and he was ; and 
no more could be said. The church was well filled, 
though not over-crowded, and the decorous rustle of 
a fashionable audience in the interval preceding 
worship stirred through the house. 
In the natural inattention of the moment, it was 
not remarkable that most of the people failed to 
notice the strange preacher until he was among 
them. 
But to the church officer, whose mind was pre 
occupied with the supply, there was something 
almost startling in the manner of his approach. 
The vestryman's uneasy eyes were not conscious 
of having slipped their guard upon the chancel for 
a moment; he had but turned his head politely, 
though a bit impatiently, to reply to some trivial 
remark of his wife's, when, behold, the preacher 
stood before him. 
Afterwards it was rumored that two or three
persons in the audience had not been taken by surprise 
in this way, but had fully observed the manner of 
the stranger's entrance; yet these persons, when 
they were sought, were difficult to find. There was 
one shabby woman who sat in the gallery among the 
" poor " seats ; she was clad in rusty mourning, and 
had a pale and patient face, quite familiar to the 
audience, for she was a faithful church-goer, and 
had attended Saint Agatha's for many years. It 
came to be said, through the sexton's gossip or 
otherwise, that this poor woman had seen the 
preacher's approach quite clearly, and had been 
much moved thereat; but when some effort was 
made to find her, and to question her on this point, 
unexpected obstacles arose, she was an obscure 
person, serving in some menial capacity for floating 
employers ; she was accustomed to slip in and out of 
the church hurriedly, both late and early, and 
nothing of importance was added from this quarter 
to the general interest which attended the 
eccentricities of the supply. 
The stranger was a man a trifle above the ordinary 
height, of majestic mien and carriage, and 
with the lofty head that indicates both fearlessness 
and purity of nature. As he glided to his place 
behind the lectern, a hush struck the frivolous audi 
ence, as if it had been smitten by an angel's wing : 
such power is there in noble novelty, and in the 
authority of a high heart. 
When had the similar of this preacher led the 
service in that venerable and fashionable house of 
worship? In what past years had his counterpart 
served them? 
Whom did he resemble of the long line of eminent 
clerical teachers with whose qualities this elect 
people was familiar? What had been his history, 
his ecclesiastical position, his social connections? 
It was characteristic of the audience that this last 
question was first in the minds of a large proportion 
of the worshipers. Whence came he ? His name ? 
His titles? What was his professional reputation 
his theology? What were his views on choir 
boys, confessionals, and candles on mission 
chapels and the pauperizing of the poor? 
These inquiries swept through the inner con 
sciousness of the audience in the first moment of 
his appearance. But in the second, neither these 
nor any other paltry queries fretted the smallest 
soul before him. 
The stranger must have had an impressive coun 
tenance ; yet afterwards it was found that no two 
descriptions of it agreed. Some said this thing, 
some said that. To this person he appeared a 
gentle, kindly man with a persuasive manner; to 
that, he looked majestic and commanding. There 
were some who spoke of an authoritative severity 
in the eye which he turned upon them ; but these 
were not many. There were those who murmured 
that they had melted beneath the tenderness of his 
glance, as snow before the sun ; and such were 
more. As to the features of his face, men differed, 
as spectators are apt to do about the lineaments of 
extraordinary countenances. What was the color 
of his eyes, the contour of his lips, the shape of his 
brow ? Who could say ? Conflicting testimony 
arrived at no verdict. In two respects alone 
opinions agreed about the face of this man : it 
commanded, and it shone ; it had authority and 
light. The shrewdest heresy-hunter in the congregation 
would not have dared question this clergy 
man's theology, or the tendencies of his ritualistic 
views. The veriest pharisee in the audience quailed 
before the blinding brilliance of the preacher's face. 
It was a moral fire. It ate into the heart. Sin and 
shame shriveled before it. 
One might say that all this was apparent in the 
preacher before he had spoken a word. When he 
had opened his lips these impressions were intensified. 
He began in the usual way to read the usual 
prayers, and to conduct the service as was expected 
of him. Nothing eccentric was observable in his 
treatment of the preliminaries of the occasion. The 
fashionable choir, accustomed to dictate the direction 
of the music, met with no interference from 
the clergyman. He announced the hymns and 
anthems that had been selected quite in the ordinary 
manner; and the critics of the great dailies 
took the usual notes of the musical programme. 
In fact, up to the time of the sermon, nothing out 
of the common course occurred. 
But having said this, one must qualify. Was it 
nothing out of the common course that the congregation
in Saint Agatha's should sit as the people 
sat that day, bond-slaves before the enunciation of 
the familiar phrases in the morning's confession ? 
" What a voice ! " whispered the wife of the 
vestryman. But her husband answered her not a 
word. Pale, agitated, with strained eyes uplifted, 
and nervous hands knotted together, he leaned 
towards the stranger. At the first articulate sentence 
from the pulpit, he knew that the success of 
his supply was secured. 
What a voice indeed ! It melted through the 
great house like burning gold. The heart ran after 
it as fire runs through metal. Once or twice in a 
generation one may hear the liturgy read like that 
perhaps. In a lifetime no longer to be counted 
short, the vestryman had heard nothing that 
resembled it. 
" Thank God ! " he murmured. He put his hat 
before his face. He had not realized before what a 
strain he had endured. Cold drops stood upon his 
brow. He shook with relief. From that moment 
he felt no more concern about the service than if he 
had engaged one of the sons of God to " supply." 
" Are you faint ? " asked his wife in a tone of 
annoyance. She offered him her smelling-salts. 
Had there existed stenographic records of that 
sermon, this narrative, necessarily so defective, 
would have no occasion for its being. One of the 
most interesting things about the whole matter is 
that no such records can to-day be found. Report 
ers certainly were in the gallery. The journals had 
sent their picked men as usual, and no more. 
Where, then, were their columns of verbal record ? 
Why has so important a discourse gone afloat upon 
vague, conflicting rumor? No person knows; the 
reporters least of all. One, it is said, lost his 
position for the default of that report; others 
received the severest rebukes of their experience 
from their managing editors for the same cause. 
None had any satisfactory reason to give for his 
failure. 
" I forgot,' said he who lost his position for his 
boyish excuse. " All I can say, sir, is I forgot. 
The man swept me away. I forgot that such a 
paper as The Daily Gossip existed. Other matters,'
he added with expensive candor, "seemed 
more important at the time." 
"When the Son of Man cometh, shall he find 
faith on the earth ? " 
The stranger announced this not unusual text 
with the simple manner of a man who promised 
nothing eccentric in the sermon to come. Yet 
something in the familiar words arrested attention. 
The phrase, as it was spoken, seemed less a hackneyed
biblical quotation than a pointed personal 
question to which each heart in the audience-room 
was compelled to respond. 
The preacher began quietly. He reminded his 
hearers in a few words of the true nature of the 
Christian religion, whose interests he was there to 
represent. One felt that he spoke with tact, and 
with the kind of dignity belonging to the enthusiast 
of a great moral movement. It occurred to one, 
perhaps for the first time, that it was quite manly 
in a Christian preacher to plead his cause with as 
much ardor as the reformer, the philanthropist, the 
politician, or the devotee of a mystical and fashion 
able cult. One became really interested in the 
character and aims of the Christian faith ; it did 
not fall below the dignity of a Browning society, 
or a study in theosophy or hypnotism. The attention
of the audience from the start definitely 
respectful became reverent, and thus absorbed. 
It was not until he had his hearers thoroughly in 
his power that the preacher's manner underwent the 
remarkable change of which Saint Agatha's talks in 
whispers to this day. He spoke entirely without 
manuscript or note, and he had not left the lectern. 
Suddenly folding his hands upon the great Bible, 
he paused, and, as if the audience had been one 
man, he looked it in the eye. 
Then, like the voice of the living God, his words 
began to smite them. What was the chancel of 
Saint Agatha s? The great white throne? And 
who was he who dared to cry from it, like the 
command of the Eternal? Sin! Sinners! Shame! 
Guilt ! Disgrace ! Punishment ! What words were 
these for the delicate ears of Saint Agatha's? 
What had these silken ladies and gilded men to do 
with such ugly phrases? Smiles stiffened upon 
refined, protesting faces. The haughty under lip 
of the vestryman's wife, and a hundred others like 
it, dropped. A moral dismay seized the exclusive 
people whom the preacher called to account like 
any vulgar audience. But the shabby woman in 
the " poor " seats humbly wept, and the young 
reporter who lost his position cast his eyes upon the 
ground, for the tears that sprang to them. From 
the delicate fingers of the vestryman's wife the 
smelling-salts fell upon the cushioned seat ; she held 
her feathered fan against her face. Her husband 
did not even notice this. He sat with head bowed 
upon the rail before him, as a good man does when 
reconsecrating himself at the communion hour. 
The choir rustled uneasily in their seats. The 
soprano covered her eyes with her well-gloved hand, 
and thought of the follies and regrets (she called 
them by these names) that beset the musical 
temperament. But the tenor turned his face away, 
and thought about his wife. Down the avenue, in 
the room of the " shut-in " woman, where the tele- 
phone carried the preacher's voice, a pathetic cry 
was heard : 
" Forgive ! Forgive ! Oh, if suffering had but 
made me better ! " 
But now the preacher's manner of address had 
changed again. Always remembering that it is now 
impossible to quote his language with any accuracy, 
we may venture to say that it ran in some such way 
as this : 
The Son of God, being of the Father, performed 
his Father's business. What do ye who bear his 
name ? What holy errands are ye about ? What 
miracles of consecration have ye wrought ? What 
marvels of the soul's life have ye achieved upon the 
earth since he left it to your trust ? 
He came to the sinful and the unhappy ; the 
despised and rejected were his friends ; to the poor 
he preached the Gospel ; the sick, and overlooked, 
and cast-out, the unloved and forgotten, the un 
fashionable and unpopular, he selected. These to 
his church on earth he left in charge. These he 
cherished. For such he had lived. For them he 
had suffered. For them he died. People of Saint 
Agatha's, where are they ? What have ye done to 
his beloved? Thou ancient church, honored and 
privileged and blessed among men, where are those 
little ones whom thy Master chose ? Up and down 
these godly aisles a man might look, he said, and 
see them not. Prosperity and complacency he saw 
before him ; poverty and humility he did not see. 
In the day when habit cannot reply for duty, what 
account will ye give of your betrayed trust? Will 
ye say : " Lord, we had a mission chapel. The 
curate is responsible for the lower classes. And, 
Lord, we take up the usual collections ; Saint Agatha's 
has always been called a generous church"? 
In the startled hush that met these preposterous 
words the preacher drew himself to his full height, 
and raised his hand. He had worn the white gown 
throughout the day's services, and the garment 
folded itself about his figure majestically. In the 
name of Christ, then, he commanded them : Where 
were those whom their Lord did love? Go, seek 
them. Go, find the saddest, sickest souls in ah  the 
town. Hasten, for the time is short. Search, for 
the message is of God. Church of Christ, produce 
his people to me, for I speak no more words before 
their substitutes ! 
Thus and there, abruptly, the preacher cast his 
audience from him, and disappeared from the chaneel. 
The service broke in consternation. The 
celebrated choir was not called upon to close the 
morning's worship. The soprano and the tenor 
exchanged glances of neglected dismay. The 
prayer-book remained unopened on the sacred desk. 
The desk itself was empty. The audience was, in 
fact, authoritatively dismissed dismissed without 
a benediction, like some obscure or erring thing that 
did not deserve it. 
The people stared in one another's faces for an 
astounded moment, and then, without words, with 
hanging heads, they moved to the open air and 
melted out of the church. 
The sexton rushed up to the vestryman, pale with 
fear. 
"Sir," he whispered, "he is not in the vestry- 
room. He has taken himself away God knows 
whither. What are we to do ? " 
" Trust him," replied the church officer, with a 
face of peace, " and God who sent him. Who he 
may be, I know no more than you ; but that he is 
a man of God I know. He is about his Father's 
business. Do not meddle with it." 
" Lord forbid ! " cried the sexton. " I d sooner 
meddle with something I can understand." 
Upon the afternoon of that long-remembered 
Sunday there was seen in Saint Agatha's the 
strangest sight that those ancient walls had 
witnessed since the corner-stone was laid with a silver 
trowel in the name of the Father and of the Son 
and of the Holy Ghost "whom we, this people, 
worship." 
Before the chimes rang for the vesper service, 
the house was filled. Before the bronze lips of the 
bells were mute, the pews were packed. Before the 
stranger reappeared, the nave and the transept over 
flowed. The startled sexton was a leaf before the 
wind of the surging crowd. He could not even 
enforce the fire-laws, and the very aisles were 
jammed. Who carried the story? How do such 
wraiths of rumors fly ? 
Every member of that church not absent from 
town or known to be ill in his bed sought his pew 
that afternoon. Many indeed left their sick-rooms 
to be present at that long-remembered service. But 
no man or woman of these came alone. Each 
brought a chosen companion ; many, two or three ; 
some came accompanied by half a dozen worshipers : 
and upon these invited guests Saint Agatha's looked 
with an astonishment that seemed to be half shame ; 
for up those velvet aisles there moved an array of 
human faces at which the very angels and virtues 
in the painted windows seemed to turn their heads 
and stare. 
Such wretchedness, such pallor, hunger, cold, 
envy, sickness, sin, and shame were as unknown to 
those dedicated and decorated walls as the inmates 
of hell. Rags and disease, uncleanliness and woe 
and want, trod the house of God as if they had the 
right there. Every pew in the church was thrown 
open. Tattered blanket shawls jostled velvet cloaks, 
and worn little tan-colored reefers, half concealing 
the shivering cotton blouses of last summer, rubbed 
against sealskin furs that swept from throat to foot. 
Wretched men, called in by the throb of repentance 
that follows a debauch, lifted their haggard eyes to 
the chancel from the pews of the wardens, and 
women of the town sat gently beside the " first 
ladies " of the parish and of the city. There were 
a few ragged children in the audience, wan and 
shrewd, sitting drearily beside mothers to whom 
they did not cling. The pew of our friend, the 
vestryman, was filled to overflowing. The wife 
with the under lip sat beside him, and did not
protest. She had herself gone with him to the hospital 
to select their guests. For their pew was filled with 
the crippled and other sick who could neither walk 
nor afford to ride, and whom their own carriage had 
brought to Saint Agatha s. One of these, a woman, 
came on crutches, and the lady helped her, not 
knowing in the least how to do it ; and a man who 
had not used his feet for six years was lifted in by 
the pew-owner and his coachman and butler, and 
carried the length of the broad aisle. 
The church, as we say, was packed long before 
the preacher appeared. He came punctually to his 
appointment, like any ordinary man. It was mid- 
afternoon, and the sun was declining when he 
glided across the chancel. Already shadows were 
lying heavily in the corners of the church and under 
the galleries on the darker side. A few lights were 
glimmering about the chancel, but these served only 
to illuminate the stranger's form and face ; they did 
not lighten the mass of hushed and appealing hu 
manity before him. 
The choir, with bowed heads, just above the 
breath, began to chant : 
Who shall lay anything to the charge 
Of God's Elect ? 
It is God that justifieth, 
It is Christ that died. 
While they sang the preacher stood quite still and 
looked at the people, that strange and motley mass, 
the rich and the poor, the sick and the well, the 
