it is true, and none may deny it ; but what of the King ? 
You are his best soldier ; what if he command you to 
stay ? ' 
That was a crusher — and sudden ! It took Joan a 
moment or two to recover from the shock of it ; then she 
said, quite simply and resignedly : 
' The King is my Lord ; I am his servant.' She was 
silent and thoughtful a little while, then she brightened up 
and said, cheerily, ' But let us drive such thoughts away — 
this is no time for them. Tell me about home.' 
So the two old gossips talked and talked ; talked about 
everything and everybody in the village ; and it was good 
to hear. Joan out of her kindness tried to get us into the 
conversation, but that failed, of course. She was the Com- 
mander-in-Chief, we were nobodies ; her name was the 
mightiest in France, we were invisible atoms ; she was the 
comrade of princes and heroes, we of the humble and 
obscure ; she held rank above all Personages and all Puissances 
whatsoever in the whole earth, by right of bearing 
her commission direct from God. To put it in one word, 
she was Joan of Arc — and when that is said, all is said. 
To us she was divine. Between her and us lay the bridgeless 
abyss which that word implies. We could not be 
familiar with her. No, you can see yourselves that that 
would have been impossible. 
And yet she was so human, too, and so good and kind 
and dear and loving and cheery and charming and un- 
spoiled and unaffected ! Those are all the words I think 
of now, but they are not enough ; no, they are too few 
and colourless and meagre to tell it all, or tell the half. 
Those simple old men didn't realise her ; they couldn't ; 
they had never known any people but human beings, and 
so they had no other standard to measure her by. To 
them, after their first little shyness had worn off, she was 
just a girl — that was all. It was amazing. It made one 
shiver, sometimes, to see how calm and easy and comfortable 
they were in her presence, and hear them talk to her exactly 
as they would have talked to any other girl in France. 
Why, that simple old Laxart sat up there and droned 
out the most tedious and empty tale one ever heard, and 
neither he nor Papa D'Arc ever gave a thought to the bad- 
ness of the etiquette of it, or ever suspected that that 
foolish tale was anything but dignified and valuable history. 
There was not an atom of value in it ; and whilst they 
thought it distressing and pathetic, it was in fact not 
pathetic at all, but actually ridiculous. At least it seemed 
so to me, and it seems so yet. Indeed I know it was, 
because it made Joan laugh ; and the more sorrowful it 
got the more it made her laugh ; and the Paladin said that 
he could have laughed himself if she had not been there, 
and Noel Rainguesson said the same. It was about old 
Laxart going to a funeral there at Domremy two or three 
weeks back. He had spots all over his face and hands, 
and he got Joan to rub some healing ointment on them, 
and while she was doing it, and comforting him, and trying 
to say pitying things to him, he told her how it hap- 
pened. And first he asked her if she remembered that 
black bull calf that she left behind when she came away, 
and she said indeed she did, and he was a dear, and she 
loved him so, and was he well ?— and just drowned him in 
questions about that creature. And he said it was a young 
bull now, and very frisky ; and he was to bear a principal 
hand at a funeral ; and she said, ' The bull ? ' and he said, 
' No, myself ; ' but said the bull did take a hand, but 
not because of his being invited, for he wasn't ; but any- 
way he was away over beyond the Fairy Tree, and fell 
asleep on the grass with his Sunday funeral clothes on, and 
a long black rag on his hat and hanging down his back ; 
and when he woke he saw by the sun how late it was, and 
not a moment to lose ; and jumped up terribly worried, 
and saw the young bull grazing there, and thought maybe 
he could ride part way on him and gain time ; so he tied a 
rope around the bull's body to hold on by, and put a halter 
on him to steer with, and jumped on and started ; but it 
was all new to the bull, and he was discontented with it, 
and scurried around and bellowed and reared and pranced, 
and Uncle Laxart was satisfied, and wanted to get off and 
go by the next bull or some other way that was quieter, 
but he didn't dare try ; and it was getting very warm for 
him, too, and disturbing and wearisome, and not proper 
for Sunday ; but by-and-by the bull lost all his temper, and 
went tearing down the slope with his tail in the air and 
bellowing in the most awful way ; and just in the edge of 
the village he knocked down some bee-hives, and the bees 
turned out and joined the excursion, and soared along in a 
black cloud that nearly hid those other two from sight, and 
prodded them both, and jabbed them and speared them and 
spiked them, and made them bellow and shriek, and shriek 
and bellow ; and here they came roaring through the village 
like a hurricane, and took the funeral procession right in 
the centre, and sent that section of it sprawling, and 
galloped over it, and the rest scattered apart and fled 
screeching in every direction, every person with a layer of 
bees on him, and not a rag of that funeral left but the corpse ; 
and finally the bull broke for the river and jumped in, and 
when they fished Uncle Laxart out he was nearly drowned, 
and his face looked like a pudding with raisins in it. And 
then he turned around, this old simpleton, and looked a 
long time in a dazed way at Joan where she had her face 
in a cushion, dying, apparently, and says — 
' What do you reckon she is laughing at ? ' 
And old D'Arc stood looking at her the same way, sort 
of absently scratching his head ; but had to give it up, and 
said he didn't know — ' must have been something that 
happened when we weren't noticing.' 
Yes, both of those old people thought that that tale was 
pathetic ; whereas to my mind It was purely ridiculous, 
and not in any way valuable to any one. It seemed so to 
me then, and it seems so to me yet. And as for history, 
it does not resemble history, for the office of history is to 
furnish serious and Important facts that teach ; whereas 
this strange and useless event teaches nothing ; nothing 
that I can see, except not to ride a bull to a funeral ; and 
surely no reflecting person needs to be taught that. 
CHAPTER XXXVII 
Now, these were nobles, you know, by decree of the King ! 
— these precious old infants. But they did not realise it ; 
they could not be called conscious of it ; It was an abstrac- 
tion, a phantom ; to them it had no substance ; their minds 
could not take hold of it. No, they did not bother about 
their nobility ; they lived In their horses. The horses were 
solid ; they were visible facts, and would make a mighty 
stir in Domremy. Presently something was said about 
the Coronation, and old D'Arc said it was going to be a 
grand thing to be able to say, when they got home, that 
they were present in the very town Itself when it happened. 
Joan looked troubled, and said — 
' Ah, that reminds me. You were here and you didn't 
send me word. In the town, indeed ! Why, you could 
have sat with the other nobles, and been welcome ; and 
could have looked upon the crowning itself, and carried 
that home to tell. Ah, why did you use me so, and send 
me no word ? ' 
The old father was embarrassed, now, quite visibly 
embarrassed, and had the air of one who does not quite 
know what to say. But Joan was looking up in his face, 
her hands upon his shoulders — waiting. He had to speak ; 
so presently he drew her to his breast, which was heaving 
with emotion ; and he said, getting out his words with 
difficulty — 
' There, hide your face, child, and let your old father 
humble himself and make his confession. I — I— don't you 
see, don't you understand ? — I could not know that these 
grandeurs would not turn your young head — it would be 
only natural. I might shame you before these great 
per — ' 
' Father ! ' 
' And then I was afraid, as remembering that cruel 
thing I said once in my sinful anger. Oh, appointed of 
God to be a soldier, and the greatest in the land ! and in 
my ignorant anger I said I would drown you with my own 
hands if you unsexed yourself and brought shame to your 
name and family. Ah, how could I ever have said it, and 
you so good and dear and innocent ! I was afraid ; for I 
was guilty. You understand it now, my child, and you 
forgive ? ' 
Do you see ? Even that poor groping old land-crab, 
with his skull full of pulp, had pride. Isn't it wonderful ? 
And more — he had conscience ; he had a sense of right and 
wrong, such as it was ; he was able to feel remorse. It 
looks impossible, it looks incredible, but it is not. I 
believe that some day it will be found out that peasants are 
people. Yes, beings in a great many respects like ourselves. 
And I believe that some day they will find this out, too — 
and then ! Well, then I think they will rise up and demand 
to be regarded as part of the race, and that by consequence 
there will be trouble. Whenever one sees in a book or in 
a king's proclamation those words ' the nation,' they bring 
before us the upper classes : only those ; we know no other 
' nation ' ; for us and the kings no other ' nation ' exists. 
But from the day that I saw old D'Arc the peasant acting 
and feeling just as I should have acted and felt myself, I 
have carried the conviction in my heart that our peasants 
are not merely animals, beasts of burden put here by the 
good God to produce food and comfort for the 'nation,' 
but something more and better. You look incredulous. 
Well, that is your training ; it is the training of everybody ; 
but as for me, I thank that incident for giving me a better 
light, and I have never forgotten it. 
Let me see — where was I ? One's mind wanders around 
here and there and yonder, when one is old. I think I said 
Joan comforted him. Certainly, that is what she would 
do — there was no need to say that. She coaxed him and 
petted him and caressed him, and laid the memory of that 
old hard speech of his to rest. Laid it to rest until she 
should be dead. Then he would remember it again — yes, 
yes ! Lord, how those things sting, and burn, and gnaw 
— the things which we did against the innocent dead ! 
And we say in our anguish, ' If they could only come back ! ' 
Which is all very well to say, but, as far as I can see, it 
doesn't profit anything. In my opinion the best way is 
not to do the thing in the first place. And I am not alone 
in this ; I have heard our two knights say the same thing ; 
and a man there in Orleans — no, I believe it was at Beau- 
gency, or one of those places — it seems more as if it was 
at Beaugency than the others — this man said the same 
thing exactly ; almost the same words ; a dark man with 
a cast in his eye and one leg shorter than the other. His 
name was — was— it is singular that I can't call that man's 
name ; I had it In my mind only a moment ago, and I know 
it begins with — no, I don't remember what it begins with ; 
but never mind, let it go ; I will think of it presently, and 
then I will tell you. 
Well, pretty soon the old father wanted to know how 
Joan felt when she was in the thick of a battle, with the 
bright blades hacking and flashing all around her, and the 
blows rapping and slatting on her shield, and blood gush- 
ing on her from the cloven ghastly face and broken teeth 
of the neighbour at her elbow, and the perilous sudden back 
surge of massed horses upon a person when the front ranks 
give way before a heavy rush of the enemy, and men 
tumble limp and groaning out of saddles all around, and 
battle-flags falling from dead hands wipe across one's face 
and hide the tossing turmoil a moment, and In the reeling 
and swaying and labouring jumble one's horse's hoofs sink 
into soft substances and shrieks of pain respond, and pre- 
sently — panic ! rush ! swarm ! flight ! and death and hell 
following after ! And the old fellow got ever so much ex- 
cited ; and strode up and down, his tongue going like a 
mill, asking question after question and never waiting for 
an answer ; and finally he stood Joan up in the middle of 
the room and stepped off and scanned her critically, and 
said — 
' No — I don't understand it. You are so little. So 
little and slender. When you had your armour on, to-day, 
it gave one a sort of notion of It ; but in these pretty silks 
and velvets, you are only a dainty page, not a league-strid- 
ing war-colossus, moving In clouds and darkness and 
breathing smoke and thunder. I would God I might see 
you at It and go tell your mother ! That would help her 
sleep, poor thing ! Here — teach me the arts of the soldier, 
that I may explain them to her.' 
And she did it. She gave him a pike, and put him 
through the manual of arms ; and made him do the steps, 
too. His marching was incredibly awkward and slovenly, 
and so was his drill with the pike ; but he didn't know It, 
and was wonderfully pleased with himself, and mightily 
excited and charmed with the ringing, crisp words of com- 
mand. I am obliged to say that if looking proud and happy 
when one is marching were sufficient, he would have been 
the perfect soldier. 
And he wanted a lesson in sword-play, and got it. But 
of course that was beyond him ; he was too old. It was 
beautiful to see Joan handle the foils, but the old man was 
a bad failure. He was afraid of the things, and skipped 
and dodged and scrambled around like a woman who has 
lost her mind on account of the arrival of a bat. He was 
of no good as an exhibition. But if La Hire had only come 
in, that would have been another matter. Those two 
fenced often ; I saw them many times. True, Joan was 
easily his master, but it made a good show for all that, for 
La Hire was a grand swordsman. What a swift creature 
Joan was ! You would see her standing erect with her 
ankle-bones together and her foil arched over her head, the 
hilt in one hand and the button in the other — the old gene- 
ral opposite, bent forward, left hand reposing on his back, 
his foil advanced, slightly wiggling and squirming, his 
watching eye boring straight into hers — and all of a sudden 
she would give a spring forward, and back again ; and 
there she was, with the foil arched over her head as before. 
La Hire had been hit, but all that the spectator saw of it 
was a something like a thin flash of light in the air, but 
nothing distinct, nothing definite. 
We kept the drinkables moving, for that would please 
the Bailly and the landlord ; and old Laxart and D'Arc got 
to feeling quite comfortable, but without being what you 
could call tipsy. They got out the presents which they 
had been buying to carry home — humble things and cheap, 
but they would be fine there, and welcome. And they gave 
to Joan a present from Pere Fronte and one from her mother 
— the one a little leaden image of the Holy Virgin, the 
other half a yard of blue silk ribbon ; and she was as 
pleased as a child ; and touched, too, as one could see 
plainly enough. Yes, she kissed those poor things over 
and over again, as if they had been something costly and 
wonderful ; and she pinned the Virgin on her doublet, and 
sent for her helmet and tied the ribbon on that ; first one 
way, then another ; then a new way, then another new 
way ; and with each effort perching the helmet on her hand 
and holding it off this way and that, and canting her head 
to one side and then the other, examining the effect, as a 
bird does when it has got a new bug. And she said she 
could almost wish she was going to the wars again ; for 
then she would fight with the better courage, as having 
always with her something which her mother's touch had 
blessed. 
Old Laxart said he hoped she would go to the wars 
again, but home first, for that all the people there were 
cruel anxious to see her — and so he went on : 
' They are proud of you, dear. Yes, prouder than any 
village ever was of anybody before. And indeed it is right 
and rational ; for it is the first time a village has ever had 
anybody like you to be proud of and call its own. And it 
is strange and beautiful how they try to give your name to 
every creature that has a set that is convenient. It is but 
half a year since you began to be spoken of and left us, 
and so it is surprising to see how many babies there are 
already in that region that are named for you. First it 
was just Joan ; then it was Joan-Orleans ; then Joan- 
Orleans-Beaugency-Patay ; and now the next ones will 
have a lot of towns and the Coronation added, of course. 
Yes, and the animals the same. They know how you love 
animals, and so they try to do you honour and show their 
love for you by naming all those creatures after you ; inso- 
much that if a body should step out and call '' Joan of Arc 
— come ! " there would be a landslide of cats and all such 
things, each supposing it was the one wanted, and all 
willing to take the benefit of the doubt, anyway, for the 
sake of the food that might be on delivery. The kitten 
you left behind — the last estray you fetched home — bears 
your name now, and belongs to Pere Fronte, and is the 
pet and pride of the village ; and people have come miles 
to look at it and pet it and stare at it and wonder over it 
because it was Joan of Arc's cat. Everybody will tell you 
that ; and one day when a stranger threw a stone at it, 
not knowing it was your cat, the village rose against him 
as one man and hanged him. And but for Pere Fronte ' 
There was an interruption. It was a messenger from 
the King, bearing a note for Joan, which I read to her, 
saying he had reflected, and had consulted his other gene- 
rals, and was obliged to ask her to remain at the head of 
the army and withdraw her resignation. Also, would she 
come immediately and attend a council of war ? Straight- 
way, at a little distance, military commands and the rumble 
of drums broke on the still night, and we knew that her 
guard was approaching. 
Deep disappointment clouded her face for just one mo- 
ment and no more — it passed, and with it the homesick 
girl, and she was Joan of Arc, Commander-in-Chief again, 
and ready for duty. 
CHAPTER XXXVIII 
In my double quality of page and secretary I followed Joan 
to the council. She entered that presence with the bearing 
of a grieved goddess. What was become of the volatile 
child that so lately was enchanted with a ribbon and suffo- 
cated with laughter over the distresses of a foolish peasant 
who had stormed a funeral on the back of a bee-stung 
bull ? One may not guess. Simply it was gone, and had 
left no sign. She moved straight to the council-table, and 
stood. Her glance swept from face to face there, and, 
where it fell, these it lit as with a torch, those it scorched 
as with a brand. She knew where to strike. She indicated 
the generals with a nod, and said — 
' My business is not with you. You have not craved a 
council of war.' Then she turned toward the King's privy- 
council, and continued : ' No ; it is with you. A council 
of war ! It is amazing. There is but one thing to do, 
and only one, and lo, ye call a council of war ! Councils 
of war have no value but to decide between two or several 
doubtful courses. But a council of war when there is only 
one course ? Conceive of a man in a boat and his family in 
the water, and he goes out among his friends to ask what 
he would better do ? A council of war, name of God ! To 
determine what ? ' 
She stopped, and turned till her eyes rested upon the 
face of La Tremouille ; and so she stood, silent, measuring 
him, the excitement in all faces burning steadily higher 
and higher, and all pulses beating faster and faster ; then 
she said, with deliberation — 
' Every sane man — whose loyalty to his King is not a 
show and a pretence — knows that there is but one rational 
thing before us — the march upon Paris ! ' 
Down came the fist of La Hire with an approving 
crash upon the table. La Tremouille turned white with 
anger, but he pulled himself firmly together and held his 
peace. The King's lazy blood was stirred and his eye 
kindled finely, for the spirit of war was away down in him 
somewhere, and a frank bold speech always found it and 
made it tingle gladsomely. Joan waited to see if the chief 
minister might wish to defend his position ; but he was 
experienced and wise, and not a man to waste his forces 
where the current was against him. He would wait ; the 
King's private ear would be at his disposal by-and-by. 
That pious fox the Chancellor of France took the word 
now. He washed his soft hands together, smiling persua- 
sively, and said to Joan : 
' Would it be courteous, your Excellency, to move 
abruptly from here without waiting- for an answer from 
the Duke of Burgundy ? You may not know that we are 
negotiating with his Highness, and that there is likely to 
be a fortnight's truce between us ; and on his part a 
pledge to deliver Paris into our hands without cost of a 
blow or the fatigue of a march thither.' 
Joan turned to him and said, gravely — 
' This is not a confessional, my lord. You were not 
obliged to expose that shame here.' 
The Chancellor's face reddened, and he retorted— 
' Shame ? What is there shameful about it ? ' 
Joan answered in level, passionless tones — 
' One may describe it without hunting far for words. 
I knew of this poor comedy, my lord, although it was not 
intended that I should know. It is to the credit of the 
devisers of it that they tried to conceal it — this comedy 
whose text and impulse are describable in two words.' 
The Chancellor spoke up with a fine Irony in his 
manner : 
' Indeed ? And will your Excellency be good enough 
to utter them ? ' 
' Cowardice and treachery ! ' 
The fists of all the generals came down this time, and 
again the King's eye sparkled with pleasure. The Chan- 
cellor sprang to his feet, and appealed to his Majesty — 
' Sire, I claim your protection.' 
But the King waved him to his seat again, saying — 
' Peace. She had a right to be consulted before that 
thing was undertaken, since it concerned war as well as 
politics. It is but just that she be heard upon it now.' 
The Chancellor sat down trembling with indignation, 
and remarked to Joan — 
' Out of charity I will consider that you did not know 
who devised this measure which you condemn in so candid 
language.' 
' Save your charity for another occasion, my lord,' said 
Joan, as calmly as before. ' Whenever anything is done 
to injure the interests and degrade the honour of France, 
all but the dead know how to name the two conspirators- 
in-chief.' 
' Sire, sire ! this Insinuation — ' 
' It is not an insinuation, my lord,' said Joan placidly, 
' it is a charge. I bring it against the King's chief minister 
and his Chancellor.' 
Both men were on their feet now, insisting that the 
King modify Joan's frankness ; but he was not minded to 
do it. His ordinary councils were stale water — his spirit 
was drinking wine now, and the taste of it was good. 
He said — 
' Sit — and be patient. What is fair for one must in 
fairness be allowed the other. Consider — and be just. 
When have you two spared her ? What dark charges and 
harsh names have you withheld when you spoke of her ? ' 
Then he added, with a veiled twinkle in his eye, ' If these 
are offences, I see no particular difference between them, 
except that she says her hard things to your faces, whereas 
you say yours behind her back.' 
He was pleased with that neat shot and the way it 
shrivelled those two people up, and made La Hire laugh 
out loud and the other generals softly quake and chuckle. 
Joan tranquilly resumed — 
' From the first, we have been hindered by this policy 
of shilly-shally ; this fashion of counselling and counselling 
and counselling where no counselling is needed, but only 
fighting. We took Orleans on the 8th of May, and could 
have cleared the region round about 'in three days and 
saved the slaughter of Patay. We could have been in 
Rheims six weeks ago, and in Paris now ; and would see 
the last Englishman pass out of France in half a year. 
But we struck no blow after Orleans, but went off into the 
country — what for ? Ostensibly to hold councils ; really 
to give Bedford time to send reinforcements to Talbot — 
which he did ; and Patay had to be fought. After Patay, 
more counselling, more waste of precious time. O my 
King, I would that you would be persuaded ! ' She began 
to warm up, now. ' Once more we have our opportunity. 
If we rise and strike, all is well. Bid me march upon 
Paris. In twenty days it shall be yours, and in six months 
all France ! Here is half a year's work before us ; if this 
chance be wasted, I give you twenty years to do it in. 
Speak the word, O gentle King — speak but the one — ' 
' I cry you mercy ! ' interrupted the Chancellor, who saw 
a dangerous enthusiasm rising in the King's face. ' March 
upon Paris ? Does your Excellency forget that the way 
bristles with English strongholds ? ' 
' That for your English strongholds ! ' and Joan snapped 
her fingers scornfully. ' Whence have we marched in 
these last days ? From Gien. And whither ? To Rheims. 
What bristled between ? English strongholds. What are 
they now ? French ones — and they never cost a blow ! ' 
Here applause broke out from the group of generals, and 
Joan had to pause a moment to let it subside. ' Yes, 
English strongholds bristled before us ; now French ones 
bristle behind us. What is the argument ? A child can 
read it. The strongholds between us and Paris are garri- 
soned by no new breed of English, but by the same breed 
as those others — with the same fears, the same question- 
ings, the same weaknesses, the same disposition to see the 
heavy hand of God descending upon them. We have but 
to march ! — on the instant — and they are ours, Paris is 
ours, France is ours ! Give the word, O my King, com- 
mand your servant to — ' 
' Stay ! ' cried the Chancellor. ' It would be madness 
to put this affront upon his Highness the Duke of Bur- 
gundy. By the treaty which we have every hope to make 
with him — ' 
' Oh, the treaty which we hope to make with him ! He 
has scorned you for years, and defied you. Is it your 
subtle persuasions that have softened his manners and 
beguiled him to listen to proposals ? No ; it was blows I — 
the blows which we gave him ! That is the only teaching 
that that sturdy rebel can understand. What does he care 
for wind ? The treaty which we hope to make with him — 
alack ! He deliver Paris ! There is no pauper in the land 
that is less able to do it. He deliver Paris ! Ah, but that 
would make great Bedford smile ! Oh, the pitiful pretext ! 
the blind can see that this thin pourparler with its fifteen- 
day truce has no purpose but to give Bedford time to hurry 
forward his forces against us. More treachery — always 
treachery ! We call a council of war — with nothing to 
counsel about ; but Bedford calls no council to teach him 
what our one course is. He knows what he would do in 
our place. He would hang his traitors and march upon 
