Orsino and his mother unexpectedly face to face, and to let the young
man hear from her lips what she thought of such a union, if indeed the
interview should ever get so far as that. Tebaldo could then calmly
intrench himself behind his mother's refusal, and yet maintain outward
relations with Orsino, while waiting for an opportunity to avenge his
brother, which was sure to present itself sooner or later.
Orsino mounted the stairs resolutely, squaring himself to meet Tebaldo
and tell him of Sant' Ilario's refusal as briefly and courteously as he
could. At the same time he was half painfully and half happily conscious
of Vittoria's presence in the house. The pain and the pleasure were
intermittent and uncertain.
A servant was waiting and holding the door ajar.
'Don Tebaldo said that he would see me,' said Orsino, mechanically.
The man bowed in silence, shut the door upon the landing, and then led
the way through the little hall and the antechamber beyond, opened a
door, and stood aside to let Orsino pass.
As the door closed behind him, he heard a short and sharp cry in the
room, like the warning note of certain fierce wild animals. It was
followed instantly by an exclamation of terror in another voice. At the
same instant he was aware that there were two women in the room,--Maria
Carolina d'Oriani and her daughter.
The mother had been lying on a couch, and on seeing him had started up,
supporting herself on her hand. The room was half darkened by the partly
closed blinds.
Maria Carolina was dressed in a loose black gown with wide sleeves that
showed her thin, bare arms, for the weather was warm. Her white face was
thin and ghastly, and her dark eyes gleamed as they caught a little of
the light from the window. Orsino stood still two paces from the door.
'Assassin!'
The one word--a word of the people, hissed from her dry lips with such
horror and hatred as Orsino had never heard. There was silence then.
Vittoria, as white as her mother, and in an agony of terror, had risen,
shrinking and convulsed, grasping with one hand the heavy inner curtain
of the window.
Slowly the lean, dark woman left her seat, raising one thin arm, and
pointing straight at Orsino's face, her head thrown back, her parched
lips parted and showing her teeth.
'Murderer!' she cried. 'You dare to show me your face--you dare to show
me the hands that killed my son! You dare to stand there before God and
me--to hear God's curse on you and mine--to answer for blood--'
Her lips and throat were dry, so that she could not speak, but choked,
and swallowed convulsively, and her eyes grew visibly red. Orsino was
riveted to the spot and speechless. For a moment he did not even think
of Vittoria, cowering back against the curtain. The woman's worn face
was changed in her immense wrath, and he could not take his eyes from
her. She found her voice again, painfully, fighting against the fiery
dryness that choked her.
'With his innocent blood on your hands, you come here--you come to face
his very mother in her sacred grief--to see my tears, to tear out the
last shreds of my heart, to revile my mother's soul--to poison the air
that breathes sorrow! But you think that I am weak, that I am only a
woman. You think, perhaps, that I shall lose my senses and faint. It
would be no shame, but I am not of such women.'
Her voice gathered fulness but sank in tone as she went on. Still Orsino
said nothing, for it was impossible to interrupt her. She must say her
say, and curse her curse out, and he must listen, for he would not turn
and go.
'You have come,' she said, speaking quickly and with still rising fury.
'I am here to meet you. I am here to demand blood of you for blood. I am
here to curse you, and your name, and your race, your soul and their
souls, dead and living, in the name of God, who made my son, of Christ,
who died for him, of the Holy Saints, who could not save him from the
devil you are--in the name of God, and of man, and of the whole world, I
curse you! May your life be a century of cruel deaths, and when you die
at last with a hundred years of agony in you, may your immortal soul be
damned everlastingly a thousand-fold! May you pray and not be heard, may
you repent and not be forgiven, may you receive the Holy Sacraments to
your damnation and the last Unction with fire in hell! May every living
creature that bears your name come to an evil before your eyes, your
father--your mother--the men and women of your house, and your unborn
children! Blood--I would have blood! May your blood pay for mine, and
your soul for my son's soul, who died unconfessed in his sins! Go,
assassin! go, murderer of the innocent! go out into the world with my
mother's curse on you, and may every evil thing in earth and hell be
everlastingly with you and yours, living and dead!
Blood!--blood!--blood!'
Her voice was suddenly and horribly extinguished in the last word, as
an instrument that is strained too far cracks in a last discordant note
and is silent. She stood one moment more, with outstretched hand and
fingers that would still make the sign of one more unspoken curse, and
then, without warning, she fell back in a heap towards the couch.
Simultaneously, Vittoria and Orsino sprang forward to catch her, but
even before Vittoria could reach her she lay motionless on the floor,
her head on the edge of the sofa, her hands stretched out on each side
of her, her thin fingers twitching desperately at the carpet. A moment
later, they were still too, and she was unconscious, as the two began to
lift her up.
For an instant neither looked at the other, but as Orsino laid the
fainting woman upon the couch, he raised his eyes to Vittoria's. The
girl was still overcome with fear at the whole situation, and trembling
with horror at her mother's frightful outbreak of rage and hate. She
shook her head in a frightened, hopeless way, as she bent down again and
arranged a cushion for Maria Carolina.
'Why did you come--why did you come?' she almost moaned. 'I told you--'
Orsino saw that if there was to be any explanation, he must seize the
opportunity at once.
'I felt that I must see you before leaving,' he answered. 'Last night I
told your brother Tebaldo that we were engaged to each other. He asked
me to come at three o'clock, and said that your mother would receive
me--I sent up word to ask--I was told to come up.'
'We knew nothing of your coming. It must have been the servant's fault.'
She did not suspect her brother of having purposely brought about the
meeting. 'Now go!' she added quickly. 'Go, before she comes to herself.
Do not let her see you again. Go--please go!'
'Yes--I had better go,' he answered. 'Can I not see you again?
Vittoria--I cannot go away like this--'
As he realised that it might be long before he saw her again, his voice
trembled a little, and there was a pleading accent in his words which
she had never heard.
'Yes--no--how can I see you?' she faltered. 'There is no way--no
place--when must you leave?' Maria Carolina stirred, and seemed about to
open her eyes. 'Go--please go!' repeated Vittoria, desperately. 'She
will open her eyes and see you, and it will begin again! Oh, for
Heaven's sake--'
Orsino kissed her suddenly while she was speaking, once, sharply, with
all his heart breaking. Then he swiftly left the room without looking
back, almost trying not to think of what he was doing.
He closed the door behind him. As he turned to look for the way out, in
his confusion of mind, the door opposite, which was ajar, opened wide,
and he was confronted by Tebaldo, who smiled sadly and apologetically.
Orsino stared at him.
'I am afraid you have had an unpleasant scene,' said the Sicilian,
quickly. 'It was a most unfortunate accident--a mistake of the servant,
who took you for the doctor. The fact is, my mother seems to be out of
her mind, and she will not be persuaded that Ferdinando is alive and
well, till she sees him. She was so violent an hour ago that I sent for
a doctor--a specialist for insanity. I am afraid I forgot that you were
coming, in my anxiety about her. I hope you will forgive me. Of course,
you have seen for yourself how she feels towards you at present, and in
any case--at such a time--'
He had spoken so rapidly and plausibly that Orsino had not been able to
put in a word. Now he paused as if expecting an answer.
'I regret to have been the cause of further disturbing your mother, who
indeed seems to be very ill,' said Orsino, gravely. 'I hope that she
will soon recover.'
He moved towards the outer hall, and Tebaldo accompanied him to the door
of the apartment.
'You will, of course, understand that at such a time it will be wiser
not to broach so serious a matter as my sister's marriage,' said
Tebaldo. 'Pray accept again my excuses for having accidentally brought
you into so unpleasant a situation.'
He timed his words so that he uttered the last when he was already
holding the door open with one hand and stretching out the other to
Orsino, who had no choice but to take it, as he said goodbye. Tebaldo
closed the door and stood still a moment in thought before he went back.
As he turned to go in, Vittoria came quickly towards him.
'How did it happen that Don Orsino was brought into the drawing-room?'
she asked, still very pale and excited.
'I suppose the servant took him for the doctor,' said Tebaldo, coolly,
for he knew she would not stoop to ask questions of the footman. 'I am
very sorry,' he added.
He was going to pass on, but she stopped him.
'Tebaldo--I must speak to you--it will do as well here as anywhere. The
nurse is with her,' she said, looking towards the drawing-room. 'She
fainted. Don Orsino told me in two words, before he went away, that he
had spoken to you last night, and that you had told him to come here
to-day.'
'That is perfectly exact, my dear. I have no doubt you have found out
that your admirer, our brother's assassin, is a strictly truthful
person. He insisted upon seeing you; it was impossible to talk at ease
at a party, and I told him to come here, intending to see him myself. I
told him to come at three o'clock--I daresay you know that, too?'
'Yes--he said it was to be at three o'clock.'
Tebaldo took out his watch and looked at it.
'It is now only four minutes to three,' he observed, 'and he is already
gone. He came a good deal before his time, or I should have been in the
antechamber to receive him and take him into my room, out of harm's way,
where I could have explained matters to him. As it is, I was obliged to
show him out with some apology for the mistake.'
'How false you are!' exclaimed Vittoria, her nostrils quivering.
'Because I refuse to ruin you, and our own future position here? I think
I am wise, not false. Yes, I myself assured him last night that he did
not kill our brother, but one of the Pagliuca di Bauso. I took the hand
that did it, and shook it--to save your position in Roman society. You
seem to forget that poor Ferdinando had turned himself into an
outlaw--in plain language, he was a brigand.'
'He was worth a score of his brothers,' said Vittoria, who was not
afraid of him. 'You talk of saving my position. It is far more in order
to save your own chance of marrying the American girl with her fortune.'
'Oh yes,' answered Tebaldo, with perfect calm. 'I include that in the
general advantages to be got by what I say. I do not see that it is so
very false. On the one hand, Ferdinando was my brother. I shall not
forget that. On the other, to speak plainly, he was a criminal. You see
I am perfectly logical. No one is obliged to acknowledge that he is
related to a criminal--'
'No one is obliged to lie publicly, as you do,' broke in Vittoria,
rather irrelevantly. 'As you make me lie--rather than let people know
what kind of men my surviving brothers are.'
'You are not obliged to say anything. You do not go out into the world
just now, because you have to stay with our mother. I will wager that
you have not once told the lie you think so degrading.'
'No--I have not, so far. No one has forced me to.'
'You need only hold your tongue, and leave the rest to me.'
'You make me act a lie--even in not wearing mourning--'
'Of course, if you make morality and honesty depend upon the colour of
your clothes,' said Tebaldo, scornfully, 'I have nothing more to say
about it. But it is a great pity that you have fallen in love with that
black Saracinesca, the assassin. It will be a source of considerable
annoyance and even suffering to you, I daresay. It even annoyed me. It
would have been hard to refuse so advantageous an offer without accusing
him of Ferdinando's death, which is precisely what I will not do, for
the sake of all of us. But you shall certainly not marry him, though you
are inhuman enough to love him--a murderer--stained with your own
blood.'
'He is not a murderer, for it was an accident--and you know it. I am not
ashamed of loving him--though I cared for Ferdinando more than any of
you. And if you talk in that way--if you come between us--' she stopped.
'What will you do?' he asked contemptuously.
'I will tell the truth about Ferdinando,' she said, fixing her eyes upon
him.
'To whom, pray?'
'To Miss Slayback and her aunt,' answered Victoria, her gentle face
growing fierce.
'Look here, Vittoria,' said Tebaldo, more suavely. 'Do you know that
Orsino Saracinesca is going back to Camaldoli? Yes. And you know that
Ferdinando had many friends there, and I have some in the neighbourhood.
A letter from me may have a good deal to do with his safety or danger,
as the case may be. It would be very thoughtless of you to irritate me
by interfering with my plans. It might bring your own to a sudden and
rather sad conclusion.'
Vittoria turned pale again, for she believed him. He was playing on her
fears for Orsino and on her ignorance of the real state of things at
Camaldoli. But for the moment his words had the effect he desired. He
instantly followed up his advantage.
'You can never marry him,' he said. 'But if you will not interfere with
my own prospects of marriage, nothing shall happen to Saracinesca.
Otherwise--' he stopped and waited significantly.
Exaggerating his power, she believed that it extended to giving warrant
of death or safety for Orsino, and her imagination left her little
choice. At all events, she would not have dared to risk her lover's life
by crossing Tebaldo's schemes for himself.
'I am sorry for the American girl,' she said. 'I like her for her own
sake, and I would gladly save her from being married to such a man as
you. But if you threaten to murder Don Orsino if I tell her the truth,
you have me in your power on that side.'
'On all sides,' said Tebaldo, scornfully, as he saw how deep an
impression he had made on the girl. 'I hold his life in my hand, so long
as he is at Camaldoli, and while he is there you will obey me. After
that, we shall see.'
Vittoria met his eyes fiercely for an instant, and then, thinking of
Orsino, she bent her head and went away, going back to her mother.
She found her conscious again, but exhausted, lying down on the couch
and tended by the nurse, who had been in the house since the news of
her son's death had prostrated Maria Carolina. She looked at Vittoria
with a vague stare, not exactly recollecting whether the girl had been
in the room during her outburst of rage against Orsino or not. Vittoria
had been behind her all the time.
'Is he gone?' asked Maria Carolina, in a faint and hollow voice. 'I am
sorry--I could have cursed him much more----'
'Mother!' exclaimed Vittoria, softly and imploringly, and she glanced at
the nurse. 'You may go now,' she said to the latter, fearing a fresh
outburst. 'I will stay with my mother.'
The nurse left the room, and the mother and daughter were alone
together. They were almost strangers, as has been explained, Vittoria
having been left for years at the convent in Palermo, unvisited by any
of her family, until her uncle's death had changed their fortunes. It
was impossible that there should be much sympathy between them.
There was, on the other hand, a sort of natural feeling of alliance
between the two women of the household as against the two men. Maria
Carolina was mentally degraded by many years of a semi-barbarous life at
Camaldoli, which had destroyed some of her finer instincts altogether,
and had almost effaced the effect of early education. She looked up to
Vittoria as to a superior being, brought up by noble ladies, in
considerable simplicity of life, but in the most extreme refinement of
feeling on all essential points, and in an atmosphere of general
cultivation and artistic taste, which had not been dreamed of in her
mother's youth, though it might seem old-fashioned in some more modern
countries. The girl had received an education which had been good of its
kind, and very complete, and she was therefore intellectually her
mother's superior by many degrees. She knew it, too, and would have
despised her mother if she had been like her brothers. As it was, she
pitied her, and suffered keenly when Maria Carolina did or said anything
in public which showed more than usual ignorance or provinciality.
They had one chief characteristic in common, and Ferdinando had
possessed it also. They were naturally as frank and outspoken as the
other two brothers were deceitful and treacherous. As often happens, two
of the brothers had inherited more of their character from their father,
while the third had been most like his mother. She, poor woman, felt
that her daughter was the only one of the family whom she could trust,
and looking up to her as she did, she constantly turned to her for help
and comfort at home, and for advice as to her conduct in the world.
But since Ferdinando's death her mind, though not affected to the extent
described by Tebaldo in speaking with Orsino, had been unbalanced.
Nothing which Vittoria could say could make her understand how the
catastrophe had happened, and though she had formerly liked Orsino, she
was now persuaded that he had lain in wait for her son and had
treacherously murdered him. Vittoria had soon found that the only
possible means of keeping her quiet was to avoid the subject altogether,
and to lead her away from it whenever she approached it. It would be
harder than ever to accomplish this since she had seen Orsino.
She lay on her couch, moaning softly to herself, and now and then
speaking articulate words.
'My son, my son! My handsome boy!' she cried, in a low voice. 'Who will
give him back to me? Who will find me one like him?'
Her lamentations were like the mourning of a woman of the people.
Vittoria tried to soothe her. Suddenly she sat up and grasped the girl's
arm, staring into her face.
'To think that we once thought he might marry you!' she cried wildly.
'Curse him, Vittoria! Let me hear you curse him, too! Curse him for your
soul's sake! That will do me good.'
'Mother! mother!' cried the girl, softly pressing the hand that gripped
her arm so roughly.
'What is the matter with you?' asked the half-mad creature fiercely, as
her strength came back. 'Why will you not curse him? Go down on your
knees and pray that all the saints will curse him as I do!'
'For Heaven's sake, mother! Do not begin again!'
'Begin! Ah, I have not ended--I shall not end when I die, but always
while he is alive my soul shall pursue him, day and night, and I will--'
she broke off. 'But you, too--you must wish him evil--you, all of
us--then the evil will go with him always, if many of us cast it on
him!'
She was like a terrible witch, with her pale face and dishevelled hair,
and gaunt arms that made violent gestures.
'Speak, child!' she cried again. 'Curse him for your dead brother!'
'No. I will never do that,' said Vittoria.
A new light came into the raving woman's eyes.
'You love him!' she exclaimed, half choking. 'I know you love him--'
With a violent movement she pushed Vittoria away from her, almost
throwing her to the ground. Then she fell back on the couch, and slowly
turned her face away, covering her eyes with both her hands. Her whole
body quivered, and then was still, then shook more violently, and then,
all at once, she broke into a terrible sobbing, that went on and on as
though it would never stop while she had breath and tears left.
Vittoria came back to her seat and waited patiently, for there was
nothing else to be done. And the sound of the woman's weeping was so
monotonous and regular that the girl did not always hear it, but looked
across at the half-closed blinds of the window and thought of her own
life, and wondered at all its tragedy, being herself half stunned and
dazed.
It was bad enough, as it appeared to her, but could she have known it
all as it was to be, and all that she did not yet know of her brother
Tebaldo's evil nature, she might, perhaps, have done like her mother,
and covered her eyes with her hands, and sobbed aloud in terror and
pain.
That might be said of very many lives, perhaps. And yet men do their
best to tear the veil of the future, and to look through it into the
darkened theatre which is each to-morrow. And many, if they knew the
price and the struggle, would give up the prize beyond; but not knowing,
and being in the fight, they go on to the end. And some of them win.
CHAPTER XVII
Tebaldo's own affairs were by no means simple. He had made up his mind
to get Miss Lizzie Slayback for his wife, and her fortune for himself;
but he could not make up his mind to forget the beautiful Aliandra
Basili. The consequence was that he was in constant fear lest either
should hear of his devotion to the other, seeing that his brother
Francesco was quite as much in love with the singer as he was himself,
and but for native cowardice, as ready for any act of treachery which
could secure his own ends. By that weakness Tebaldo held him, for the
present, in actual bodily fear, which is more often an element even in
modern life than is generally supposed. But how long that might be
possible Tebaldo could not foresee. At any moment, by a turn of events,
Francesco might get out of his power.
Aliandra's season in Rome had been a great success, and her career
seemed secured, though she had not succeeded in obtaining an immediate
engagement for the London season, which had been the height of her
ambition. She had made her appearance too late for that, but the
possibility of such a piece of good fortune was quite within her reach
for the ensuing year. Being in reality a sensible and conscientious
artist, therefore, and having at the same time always before her the
rather vague hope of marrying one of the brothers, she had made up her
mind to stay in Rome until July to study certain new parts with an
excellent master she had found there. She therefore remained where she
was, after giving a few performances in the short season after Lent, and
she continued to live very quietly with her old aunt in the little
apartment they had hired. A certain number of singers and other
musicians, with whom she had been brought into more or less close
acquaintance in her profession, came to see her constantly, but she
absolutely refused to know any of the young men of society who had
admired her and sent her flowers during the opera season. With all her
beauty and youth and talent, she possessed a very fair share of her
father's profound common sense.
Of the two, she very much preferred Francesco, who was gentler, gayer,
and altogether a more pleasant companion; but she clearly saw the
advantage of marrying the elder brother, who had a very genuine old
title, for which she could provide a fortune by her voice. There were
two or three instances of such marriages which had turned out admirably,
though several others had been failures. She saw no reason why she
should not succeed as well as anyone.
Tebaldo, on his part, had never had the smallest intention of marrying
her, though he had hinted to her more than once, in moments of passion,
that he might do so. Aliandra was as obstinate as he, and, as has been
said, possessed the tenacious instinct of self-preservation and the keen
appreciation of danger which especially characterise the young girl of
the south. She was by no means a piece of perfection in all ways, and
was quite capable of setting aside most scruples in the accomplishment
of her end. But that desired end was marriage, and there was no
probability at all that she should ever lose her head and commit an
irrevocable mistake for either of the brothers.
She saw clearly that Tebaldo was in love with her, as he understood
love. She could see how his eyes lighted up and how the warm blood
mantled under his sallow brown skin when he was with her, and how his
hand moved nervously when it held hers. She could not have mistaken
those signs, even if her aunt, the excellent Signora Barbuzzi, had not
taken a lively interest in the prospects of her niece's marriage,
watching Tebaldo's face as an old sailor ashore watches the signs of the
weather and names the strength of the wind, from a studding-sail breeze
to a gale.
What most disturbed Aliandra's hopes was that Tebaldo was cautious even
in his passion, and seemed as well able to keep his head as she
herself. His brother often told her that Tebaldo sometimes, though
rarely, altogether lost control of himself for a moment, and became like
a dangerous wild animal. But she did not believe the younger man, who
was always doing his best to influence her against Tebaldo, and whom she
rightly guessed to be a far more dangerous person where a woman was
concerned.
Francesco had once frightened her, and she was really afraid to be alone
with him. There was sometimes an expression which she dreaded in his
satyr-like eyes and a smile on his red lips that chilled her. Once, and
she could never forget it, he had managed to find her alone in her room
at the theatre, and without warning he had seized her rudely and kissed
her so cruelly while she struggled in his arms that her lips had been
swollen and had hurt her all the next day. Her maid had opened the door
suddenly, and he had disappeared at once without another word. She had
never told Tebaldo of that.
Since then she had been very careful. Yet in reality she liked him
better, for he could be very gentle and sympathetic, and he understood
her moods and wishes as Tebaldo never did, for he was a woman's man,
while Tebaldo was eminently what is called a man's man.
Aliandra was, as yet, in ignorance of Miss Slayback's existence, but she
saw well enough that Tebaldo was concealing something from her. A
woman's faculty for finding out that a man has a secret of some sort is
generally far beyond her capacity for discovering what that secret is.
He appeared to have engagements at unusual times, and there was a slight
shade of preoccupation in his face when she least expected it. On the
other hand, he seemed even more anxious to please her than formerly,
when he was with her, and she even fancied that his manner expressed a
sort of relief when he knew that he could spend an hour in her company
uninterrupted.
When she questioned him, he said that he was in some anxiety about his
affairs, and his engagements, according to his own account, were with
men of business. But he never told what he was really doing. He had not
even thought it necessary to inform her of the sale of Camaldoli.
Though she was a native of the country, he told her precisely what he
told everyone in regard to Ferdinando Pagliuca's death.
'Eh--you say so,' she answered. 'But as for me, I do not believe you.
There never was but one Ferdinando Pagliuca, he was your brother, and he
was a friend of all the brigands in Sicily. You may tell these Romans
about the Pagliuca di Bauso, but I know better. Do you take me for a
Roman? We of Randazzo know what a brigand is!'
'You should, at all events,' answered Tebaldo, laughing, 'for you are
all related. It is one family. If you knew how many brigands have been
called Basili, like you!'
'Then you and I are also related!' she laughed, too, though she watched
his face. 'But as for your brother, may the Lord have him in peace! He
is dead, and Saracinesca killed him.'
Tebaldo shrugged his shoulders, but showed no annoyance.
'As much as you please,' he answered. 'But my brother Ferdinando is
alive and well in Palermo.'
'So much the better, my dear friend. You need not wear mourning for him,
as so many people are doing at Santa Vittoria.'
'What do you mean?' asked Tebaldo, uneasily.
'Did you ever hear of Concetta, the beautiful daughter of Don Atanasio,
the apothecary?' asked Aliandra, quietly smiling.
Tebaldo affected surprise and ignorance.
'It is strange,' continued the singer, 'for you admire beauty, and she
is called everywhere the Fata del' Etna--the Fairy of Etna--and she is
one of the most beautiful girls in the whole world. My father knows her
father a little--of course, he is only an apothecary--' she shrugged her
shoulders apologetically--'but in the country one knows everybody. So I
have seen her sometimes, as at the fair of Randazzo, when she and her
father have had a biscuit and a glass of wine at our house. But we could
not ask them to dinner, because the mayor and his wife were coming, and
the lieutenant of carabineers--an apothecary! You understand?'
'I understand nothing beyond what you say,' said Tebaldo. 'You did not
consider the apothecary of Santa Vittoria good enough to be asked to
meet the mayor of Randazzo. How does that affect me?'
'Oh, not at all!' laughed Aliandra. 'But everything is known, sooner or
later. Ferdinando, your brother, was at the fair, too--I remember what a
beautiful black horse he had, as he rode by our house. But he did not
come in, for he did not know us. Now, when Don Atanasio and Concetta
went out, he was waiting a little way down the street, standing and
holding his horse's bridle. I saw, for I looked through the chinks of
the blinds to see which way Concetta and her father would go. And your
brother bowed to the ground when they came near him. Fancy! To an
apothecary's daughter! Just as I have seen you bow to the Princess of
Sant' Ilario in the Villa Borghese. She is Saracinesca's mother, is she
not? Very well. I tell you the truth when I tell you that Don Ferdinando
took the two to dine with him in the best room at the inn. They say he
thought nothing good enough for the apothecary's daughter, though he was
of the blood of princes! But now Concetta wears mourning. Perhaps it is
not for him? Eh?'
Aliandra had learned Italian very well when a child, and was even taking
lessons in French, in order to be able to sing in Paris. But as she
talked with Tebaldo she fell back into her natural dialect, which was as
familiar to him as to herself. He loved the sound of it, though he took
the greatest pains to overcome his own Sicilian accent in order not to
seem provincial in Rome. But it was pleasant to hear it now and then in
the midst of a life of which the restraints were all disagreeable to
him, while many of them were almost intolerably irksome.
'How much better our language is than this stilted Roman!' he exclaimed,
by way of suddenly turning the conversation. 'I often wish you could
sing your operas in Sicilian.'
'I often sing you Sicilian songs,' she answered. 'But it is strange that
Concetta should wear mourning, is it not?'
'Leave Concetta alone, and talk to me about yourself. I have never seen
her--'
'Do not say such things!' laughed Aliandra. 'I do not believe much that
you say, but you will soon not let me believe anything at all. Everyone
has seen Concetta. They sing songs about her even in Palermo--La Fata
del' Etna--'
