The Millerites had made a mistake in the true meaning of the "days" in
Daniel.
"Are you quite sure?" asked the little girl timidly.
"Well--you'll see the same old world next week this time. Don't you get
frightened, Hanny dear," and Ben kissed her reassuringly.
She sat by the boys and knit on her lace a while. Then her mother looked
up from the stockings she was darning. She said "she always took Time by
the forelock," and the little girl had a fancy some time she would drag
him out. She wondered if she would really like to see Time with his
hour-glass and scythe, and all his bones showing.
Mrs. Underhill looked up at the clock.
"My goodness, Hanny!" she exclaimed, "it's time you were in bed half an
hour ago. Put up your lace. You'll be sleepy enough in the morning."
The little girl wound it round her needles and then stuck the ends in
the stem of the spool and put it away in her basket. She kissed Ben and
Jim good-night, and followed her mother. Her eyes had a half-frightened
look and the pupils were very large. Mrs. Underhill felt out of patience
that there should be so much talk about the world coming to an end
before children. She knew Hanny was "just alive with terror." She
couldn't pretend to explain anything to her; she was of the opinion that
as you grew older "you found out things for yourself." And I am really
afraid she didn't believe in total depravity for sweet little girls like
Hanny. It was well enough for boys. So much of her life had been spent
in doing, that she might have neglected some of the "mint, anise, and
cummin." She undressed the little girl. Oh, how fair and pretty her
shoulders were, and her round white arms that had a dimple at the top of
the elbow. She was small for her age, but nice and plump, and her mother
felt just this minute as if she would like to cuddle her up in her arms
and kiss her as she had in babyhood. If she had, all the fear would have
gone out of the little girl's heart.
Hanny said her prayer, and added to it, "Oh, Lord Jesus, please don't
let the world come to an end to-night." Then her mother patted down the
bed, took off one pillow and the pretty top quilt, and put her in,
kissing her tenderly, the little trembling thing.
Then she stood still awhile.
"I do wonder what I did with your red coat," she began. "Cousin Cynthia
said it might be let down and do for this winter. There's no little girl
to grow into your clothes. Let me see--I put a lot of things in this
closet. I remember pinning them up in linen pillow-cases, but I meant to
store them in the cedar chest. I wonder if I have been that careless."
She stood up on a chair and threw down some bundles with unnecessary
force. Then she stepped down and began to look them over, keeping up a
running comment. She would not have admitted that she was talking
against time, secretly hoping the little girl would drop off to sleep.
But the coat was not in any of the bundles.
"I think it must be in the chest. While I'm about it I may as well go
and see. If you have outgrown it, it could be made over into a dress;
it's nice, fine merino, a little thicker than I'd buy for a dress, but
your father would have just that piece. I'll get a candle and go
up-stairs--I wouldn't trust a glass lamp with this horrid burning-fluid
in my storeroom. Hanny, be sure you don't get up and touch it," as if
there was the slightest possibility. "I'll be down again in five
minutes."
That was a shrewd motherly excuse not to leave the little girl alone in
the dark, though she was never afraid.
She lay there very still, with a feeling of safety since her mother was
up-stairs. Of course she was old enough to know a great many things and
to have ideas on religious subjects. But I think the Underhills were
more intelligent than intellectual, and people were still living rather
simple lives, not yet impregnated with ideas. They had not had the old
Puritan training, and the ferment of science and philosophy and
transcendentalism had not invaded the country places. To-night in the
city there were wise heads proving and disproving the times and half
times, and days and signs, but they really had no interest for Mrs.
Underhill, who was training her family the best she knew how, making
good men and women.
And the little girl's ideas were extremely vague. She thought her soul
was that part of her heart that beat. When it ceased beating you died
and the body was left behind; so of course that was what went to heaven.
And when she had been naughty or when she had left something undone and
was hurrying with all her might to do it, this thing beat and throbbed.
If she wanted something very much and was almost tempted to take it, the
feeling came up in her throat, and she knew that was conscience. She was
trying now to recall and repent of her sins, and oh, she did so wish
her father was here. Would he be back before the end came, and take them
all in his strong arms? and they would run--Oh, no! they were to be
caught up in the clouds. But she would be safe where he was.
Years afterward, she was to understand how human and finite love
foreshadowed the eternal. But then she could only believe, and her faith
in her human father was the rock of her salvation.
And when her mother came down she had fallen asleep, but she thought
it would be just as well to leave the lamp burning until Margaret's
return. She would look in now and then to see that it didn't explode.
Burning-fluid was considered rather dangerous stuff.
Hanny was so tired that she slept soundly. It was almost midnight when
the folks came home, and Mrs. Underhill begged Margaret to go to bed
quietly and not disturb her. And it was all light with the sun rising in
the eastern sky and shining in one window when she opened her eyes.
Margaret stood before the glass plaiting her pretty, long hair.
The little girl sat up. Something had happened. There was a great
weight--a great fear. What was it? Oh, yes, this was their room; they
were all alive, for she heard Jim's breezy voice, and Joe, who had
stayed all night, said impatiently:
"Peggy, are you never coming down?"
Hanny sprang out of bed and clasped her little arms about her sister.
"Oh!" with a great exultation in her sweet child's voice--"the world
didn't come to an end, did it? Oh, you beautiful world! I am so glad you
are left. And everybody--only--Margaret, were the people at the church
dreadfully disappointed? What a pity God couldn't have taken those who
wanted to go; but I'm so glad we are left. Oh, you lovely world, you are
too nice to burn up!"
I think there were a great many people in the city just as glad as
Hanny, if they did not put it in the same joyful words.
Margaret smiled. "Hurry, dear," she said, "Joe will have to go, and I
know he wants to see you."
Hanny put on her shoes and stockings, and Margaret helped her with the
rest, washed her and just tied up her hair with a second-best ribbon.
Joseph had eaten his breakfast and was impatiently waiting to say
good-by. John was off already.
Nothing had happened. The world was going on as usual. True there had
been the comet and falling stars and wars and rumors of wars, but the
old world had sailed triumphantly through them all. The dear, old,
splendid world, that was to grow more splendid with the years.
Perhaps it did rouse people to better and kindlier living and more
serious thought. Before Mr. Underhill went away his wife said:
"'Milyer, hadn't you better look after those old people up at Harlem. I
suppose they had some garden truck, but there's flour and meat and
little things that take off the money when you haven't much. And fuel.
I'll try to go up some day with you and see what they need to keep them
comfortable in cold weather."
The girls could hardly study at school, there was so much excitement.
Did people really have on their ascension robes? What would Hester
say?
Hester did not come to school all the week. Of course they had made a
mistake in computing the time, but a few weeks couldn't make much
difference. Still, the worst scare was over, and if one mistake could be
made, why not another? Were they so sure all the signs were fulfilled?
CHAPTER IX
A WONDERFUL SCHEME
The Whitneys and the Underhills became very neighborly. Mr. Theodore
Whitney often stopped for a little chat, and he was very fond of a good
game of checkers with Steve or John. He was on the other side in
politics and they had some warm discussions. Ophelia, the oldest girl,
was engaged and deeply absorbed with her lover. Frances went away early
in the morning and did not get back until after six. Mrs. Whitney, a
Southern woman by birth, was one of the easy-going kind and very fond of
novels. Mr. Whitney brought them home by the dozen. The house seemed
somehow to run itself, with the aid of Dele, as she was commonly called.
Dele proved a powerful rival to Miss Lily Ludlow. Lily was much prettier
and more delicate looking. Dele had brown-red hair, dry and curly. She
was a little freckled, even in the fall. Her mouth was wide, but she
was always laughing, and she had such splendid teeth. Then her eyes were
so full of fun, and her voice had a sort of rollicking sound. She knew
all kinds of boys' play, and was great at marbles. Then she had so many
odd, entertaining things, and their parlor wasn't too good for use when
'Phelia's beau was not there. But the children lived mostly on the stoop
and the sidewalk.
Delia went to Houston Street school. She could walk farther up the
street with the boys, and watch out for them when they went. Ben liked
her better than he did Lily or Rosa, but Jim was quite divided. He, like
the other poor man with two charmers, sometimes wished there was only
one of them. But Lily was a born coquette, and jealous at that. She had
a way of calling back her admirers, while Dele didn't care a bit for
admiration, but just wanted a good time.
Benny Frank was something of a bookworm and student. Jim, who was
growing very fast, was a regular boy, and, I am sorry to say, did not
always have perfect lessons. He was so very quick and correct in figures
that he managed to slip through other things. Moreover he carried
authority. The boys had called him "country" at first and teased him in
different ways until small skirmishes had begun. And one day there was a
stand-up fight at recess. Jim thrashed the bully of his class. It was a
forbidden thing to fight in the school-yard, or in school hours, and so
Jim was thrashed again for his victory. But Mr. Hazeltine shook hands
with him afterward and said "it wasn't because he thrashed Upton, but
because he had broken the rules, and he liked to see a boy have courage
enough to stand up for himself." So Jim did not mind it very much,
though he had a black eye for two or three days.
After that he was a sort of hero to the boys, and Upton did not bully as
much. But some of the boys delighted to "pick" at Benny Frank, who would
have made a good Quaker. Jim sometimes felt quite "mad" with him.
Lily did not seem to get along very rapidly with her intimacy. Hanny was
too young, and now that she had the Deans on one side and little Nora
Whitney on the other, was quite out of Lily's reach. And she did enjoy
Delia immensely, though she was past thirteen and such a tall girl. So
Lily tried all her arts on Jim, and succeeded very well, it must be
confessed.
It was Saturday, and the world had not come to an end yet. Benny had
gone down-town with Steve in the morning, but he would not have both
boys together, for Jim was so full of "capers." So he had done errands
for his mother, blackened the boots and shoes--the bootblack brigade had
not then come in fashion, and you hardly ever saw an Italian boy. He had
cleared up the yard and earned his five cents. He was wondering a
little what he would do all the afternoon.
Dele came flying in, eager and impetuous.
"Oh, Mrs. Underhill!" she cried, "can't Hanny go to the Museum this
afternoon? The"--it seemed so odd, Hanny thought, to call grave-looking
Mr. Whitney that, but she said Steve to her big brother. "The brought
home four tickets. My cousin, Walter Hay, is here, and he will go with
us and then go down home. And Nora does so want Hanny to go. Oh, won't
you please let her? I'll take the best of care of her. I've taken Nora
and my little Cousin Julia ever so many times. Oh, Jim, what a pity! If
I had one more ticket!"
"Sho!" and Jim straightened himself up. "I have twenty-eight cents, and
I wouldn't want to go sponging on a girl anyhow! Oh, mother, do let us
go? Hanny, come quick! Oh, do you want to go to the Museum?"
"To the Museum?" Hanny drew a breath of remembered delight and thrilling
anticipation.
Dele and Jim talked together. They were so earnest, so full of entreaty.
Jim might have gone in welcome, but Hanny----
"Why, we shall just take the stage and ride to the door, and we'll be so
careful getting out. They drive clear up to the sidewalk, you know.
Walter is fourteen and he takes his little sisters out, and knows how
to care for girls. And there's such a pretty play; just the thing for
children, The. said."
"Oh, mother, please do," and the little girl's voice was so persuasive,
so pleading.
"Oh, please, mother! I'll see that nothing happens to Hanny."
"Oh, Mrs. Underhill, Nora would be so disappointed. And we all want
Hanny."
Mrs. Underhill had told her husband if he would come up about three she
would take the drive to Harlem with him. Of course she meant to take the
little girl. Which would Hanny rather do?
The fascinations of the Museum outweighed the drive. Margaret was up to
the Beekmans' spending the day, their last week on the farm. Of course
Jim could go--and when she looked at all the eager faces she gave in,
and Hanny danced with delight.
It was almost three before they could get off, and the play began at
that hour. However they caught a stage out on the Bowery and were soon
whirled down to the corner of Broadway and Ann Street.
People were crowding in, it was such a beautiful day, and this was
considered the place preeminently for children. People who would have
been horrified at the thought of a theatre did not have a scruple about
the lecture-room.
"We better not stop to look at things," advised Delia. "We can do that
afterward. Let's go in and get our seats."
They had to go way up front, but they didn't mind that so long as they
were all together. They studied the wonderful Venetian scene on the
drop-curtain, and the young lad in a supposedly green satin costume,
with a long white feather in his hat, who was just stepping into a
gondola where a very lovely lady was playing on a guitar. Then the
orchestra gave a clash of drums, cymbals, French horns, and a big bass
viol, and up went the curtain.
A musical family came out and sang. Then there were some acrobatic
performances. After that the pantomime.
Grandpapa Jerome, in a very foreign costume and a bald head which he
tried to keep covered with a black velvet cap, had two extremely tricksy
sprites for grandchildren. They were very pretty, the girl with long,
light curls, the boy with dark ones. But of all mischief, of all
tormenting deeds and antics with which they nearly set grandpapa crazy
and threw the audience into convulsions! They took the nice fat boiled
ham off the table and greased the doorstep so thoroughly you would have
thought every bone in the old man's body would have been broken by the
repeated falls. They cut the seat out of the chair, and when he went to
sit down he doubled up equal to any modern folding-bed, and he kicked
and turned summersaults until the maid came out and rescued him. Then he
spied the author of the mischief asleep on a grassy bank, and he found a
big strap and went creeping up cautiously, when--whack! and the little
boy flew all to pieces, and the old man was so amazed at his cruelty
that he sat down and began to weep and bewail when the little lad peeped
from behind a tree and, seeing poor grandfather's grief, ran out, hugged
him and kissed him and wiped his eyes, and you could see he was
promising never to do anything naughty again. But that didn't hinder him
from cutting out the bottom of the basket into which the old man was
cutting some very splendid grapes. There were not more than half a dozen
bunches, and the children ran away with them. The old man descended so
carefully, put his hand in the basket, his whole arm, and not a grape.
There was none on the ground. Where had they gone! Oh, there was the
cat. But pussy was much spryer than the old man, and the audience knew
she had not touched a grape.
After that some Indians came on the scene of action, fierce red men of
the forest, and their language was decidedly Jabberwocky. The little
girl was quite frightened at the fierce brandishing of tomahawks. Then
they had a war dance. And oh, then came the marvel of all! Four
beautiful Shetland ponies with the daintiest carriage and six lads in
livery. There sat General Tom Thumb, the curiosity of the time, the
smallest dwarf known. He was not much bigger than a year-old baby, but
he dismounted from his carriage, gave orders to his servants; a
bright-eyed little fellow with rosy cheeks, graceful and with a variety
of pretty tricks. He sang a song or two, then sprang into his carriage
and the ponies trotted off the stage. The curtain came down.
The children were breathless at first. The crowd was surging out and the
place nearly empty before they found their tongues. And then there was
so much else to see. The various stuffed animals, the giraffe with his
three-story neck, the mermaid, the wax figures, the birds and beasts and
serpents, and a model of Paris, of London, and of Jerusalem. The place
looked quite gorgeous all lighted up.
The people were beginning to thin out. They had not seen half, Jim
thought.
"Oh, we haven't been up-stairs!" exclaimed Walter. "There's a great
roof-garden. And you can see all the city."
They trudged up-stairs. Dele kept tight hold of the little girl's hand.
It was quite light up here. What a great space it was! One large flag
was flying, and around the edge of the roof numberless smaller ones.
Some evergreen shrubs in boxes stood around, and there were wooden
arm-chairs, beside some settees. It was rather chilly, though the day
had been very pleasant. And oh, how splendid the lights of Broadway
looked to them, two long rows stretching up and up until lost in
indistinctness. The stores were all open and lighted as brilliantly as
one could with gas. No one thought of Saturday half-holidays then. It
was very grand. But what would they have said to the Columbian nights
and electric lights?
"I don't feel as if I had seen it half," said Jim. He was not grudging
his quarter. "If we had come about one o'clock."
"We'll have to piece it on this end," and Walter laughed. "We must get
our money's worth."
"We might stay over," suggested Dele mirthfully.
"Just the thing," returned Jim, "and all for the same money."
The children glanced at each other in sudden surprise. The glory of a
grand conspiracy shone in their eyes.
"Well, that's too good!" declared Walter. "Won't I just brag of that at
school on Monday. Oh, yes, let's stay."
"We had better go down, for it is getting cool up here. If we only had
something to eat. Hanny, are you hungry? I don't believe Nora ever
knows whether she has eaten or not. Mother says she's just the worst. I
don't mind a bit, but you all----"
"I wouldn't give a copper for supper. It's ever so much more fun
staying," rejoined Walter.
"I'm always hungry as a bear, but I'd a hundred times rather stay," Jim
replied. "Hanny, will you mind?"
"I'm not a bit hungry," answered Hanny. "It's all so beautiful. Oh, do
let's stay!"
"That settles it. Dele, you are a trump."
They picked their way carefully down-stairs. The room was not very
brilliantly lighted, but they found many curiosities that had escaped
their attention before. They espied the diorama and it interested them
very much. Half a dozen people straggled in. The janitor turned on more
light, and began to arrange a platform in a recess.
How any one would feel at home Jim never thought. The rest were in the
habit of doing quite as they liked, and Delia often stayed at her aunt's
until nine o'clock.
At seven the main hall was quite full. The people were crowding up
around the platform. The children went too. The curtain was swung aside
and out stepped Tom Thumb, to be received with cheers. He sang a song
and went through with some military evolutions. There was a railing
around and no one could crowd upon him, but a number spoke to him and
shook hands.
"My little girl," said a tall gentleman who had watched Hanny's
ineffectual efforts to make herself taller, "will you let me hold you
up? Wouldn't you like to shake hands? You're not much bigger yourself."
"Oh, please do," entreated Dele in her eager young voice. "She is so
small."
Hanny was a little startled, but the man held her in his arms and she
smiled hesitatingly. As she met the kindly eyes she said, "Oh, thank
you. It's so nice."
The general came down that end.
"Here is a little lady wants to shake hands with you," the gentleman
said, who was quite a friend of Tom Thumb's.
The small hand was proffered. Hanny was almost afraid, but she put hers
in it and the gallant little general hoped she was well. Then he made a
bow and retired behind the curtain, and it was announced that he would
appear again after the lecture-room performance.
They went in and took their seats. Nora was tired, and leaning her head
on Dele's shoulder went sound asleep. Hanny was getting tired; perhaps,
too, she missed her supper.
It wasn't quite so much fun, for the play was just the same. The
audience enjoyed it greatly. The Indians were more obstreperous, and
sang a hideous song. The vocalists sang many popular songs of the day,
"Old Dan Tucker," "Lucy Long," "Zip Coon," and several patriotic songs.
There was more dancing than in the afternoon, and the boys enjoyed the
Juba in song and dance by a "real slave darkey" who had been made so by
a liberal application of burnt cork, and who could clap and pat the tune
on his knee.
They did not stop to see Tom Thumb again, but went straight down-stairs.
Walter said good-night and declared he had had a splendid time, and Dele
must thank Cousin The again. The four others bundled into the stage,
which was crowded, but some kindly disposed people held both Nora and
Hanny. They had quite a habit of doing it then.
Jim had been wondering what they would say at home. Of course he knew
now he ought not have stayed. But nothing had happened, and Hanny was
all right, and--well, he would face the music whatever it was. If Dele
could be trusted, why not he?
There had been a good deal of anxiety. Mrs. Underhill had expected them
home by six, but their father said: "Oh, give them a little grace." But
when seven o'clock came she went down to Whitney's to inquire. The
table was still standing. Mrs. Whitney sat at the head with a book in
her hand; Dave, the second son, was smoking and reading his paper. Both
girls had gone out.
"Oh, Mrs. Underhill, don't feel a bit worried! They'll come home all
safe. I shouldn't wonder if Dele had taken them over to her aunt's, and
she'll never let them come home without their supper. She's the greatest
hand for children I ever saw. And Dele's so used to going about. Then
everybody's out on Saturday night. Dear me! I haven't given it an
anxious thought," declared Mrs. Whitney.
But Mrs. Underhill could not take it so comfortably.
"There's so many of them we should hear if anything had happened," said
John. "And there is no use looking, for we shouldn't know where they
are; Jim's pretty good stuff too, for a country boy. Now, mother, don't
be foolish."
But she grew more and more uneasy. If she had not let Hanny go! What
could she have been thinking of to do such a thing?
After nine Mr. Underhill walked out to the Bowery, and watched every
stage that halted at the corner. Men, women, and children alighted, but
no little girl. Oh, where could she be? He felt almost as if the world
was coming to an end.
Then a familiar group all talking at the same time stepped out on the
sidewalk. A big girl and two little ones.
"O father, father!" cried Hanny.
He wanted to hug her there in the street. It seemed to him he had never
been so glad and relieved in all his life, or loved her half so well.
"Where have you stayed so long?"
"We went to two museums," said Hanny, before the elders could find their
tongues. "And oh, father, we saw Tom Thumb and he's just as little and
cunning as a baby! And he shook hands with me. A gentleman held me up.
It was beautiful, but I'm awful tired."
"Oh, were you troubled?" cried Delia. "Why didn't you just go in to ma
and she would have told you that I always come up right, and that
nothing ever happens to me, I'm so used to taking care of children. Why,
when we lived down town I used to take out the neighbors' children--over
to Staten Island and to Williamsburg, and always brought them home
safely. Then we hadn't half seen the curiosities, and we should have
missed the nice time with that lovely little Tom Thumb. And we thought
it such capital fun!"
Mr. Underhill really could not say a word. Tired as she was, the little
girl was full of delight. Jim tried to make some explanations and take
part of the blame, but Delia talked them all down and was so fresh and
merry that you couldn't imagine she had gone without her supper.
Mrs. Underhill stood at the area gate with a shawl about her shoulders.
The little girl let go of her father's hand and ran to her.
"Dear Mrs. Underhill," began Dele, "I expect you'll almost want to kill
me, but I never thought about your being worried, for no one ever
worries about me. I suppose it is because I never do get into any
danger. And you must not scold any one, for I was the eldest, except
Cousin Walter, and it was my place to think, but I didn't one bit. It
seemed awful funny, you know, to have it all over for the same money,
and we not paying anything at all! And I did take good care of Hanny.
She's had a lovely time--we all have. And please don't scold Jim. He's
been a perfect gentleman. We didn't do anything rude nor coarse, and
everybody was as polite to us as if we'd been Queen Victoria's children.
And so good-night."
"Jim, your father ought to give you a good thrashing. The idea! I
wouldn't have believed any child of mine could have had such a little
sense," his mother declared.
I don't know what might have happened, but just then Steve and Margaret
returned. And when Steve caught sight of Jim's sober face and heard the
story, he thought it very boylike and rather amusing. Besides, it seemed
a pity to spoil the good time. So he laughed, and told Jim he had
cheated Mr. Barnum out of a quarter, and that he would have to save up
his money to make it good.
"And he owes me nine cents toward the omnibus ride. He must pay me that
first," said his mother sharply.
"I wasn't admitted twice" rejoined Jim. "It is the admittance. I
didn't see any notice about not staying, and I don't believe I really
owe Mr. Barnum another quarter."
"Jim, I think I'll educate you for a lawyer. You have such a way of
squirming out of tight places."
They all laughed.
"Mother, do give the children some supper," said their father.
"Here, Jim, pay your mother." Steve laid him down sixpence and three
pennies. We had Mexican sixpences and shillings in those days. "You'll
have enough on your mind without that debt. And next time think of the
folks at home."
"Why didn't the Whitneys feel worried? Oh, thank you, Steve."
"It did beat all," said Mrs. Underhill. "There Mrs. Whitney sat reading
a novel----"
"Perhaps it was her French exercise," interrupted Steve, with a twinkle
in his eye.
"It was no such thing! It was a yellow-covered novel!" I don't know why
they persisted in putting novels in pronounced yellow covers to betray
people, unless it was that publishers wouldn't use false pretences. And
to put a story in the fatal color made it as reprehensible to most
people as a yellow aster. "And such a table!" Mrs. Underhill caught her
breath. "Everything at sixes and sevens, and the cloth looking as if it
had been used a month, and Mrs. Whitney as unconcerned as if the
children had only gone down to the corner. I declare I couldn't be
so--so----"
"But they're a jolly lot. They save a great deal of strength in not
worrying. And they know Dele is trusty. She's a smart girl, too."
"Well, I wouldn't want any of my sons to marry girls brought up as those
Whitneys."
"Hear that, Jim. You are fairly warned."
Jim turned scarlet.
"Jim will have to be in better business many a year than thinking of
girls," subjoined his mother decisively.
The little girl didn't seem very hungry. She ate her bread-and-milk and
talked over the delights of the afternoon, and her enjoyment mollified
her mother a good deal. Jim considered at first whether it wouldn't
rather even up things if he went without his supper, but the biscuits
and the boiled beef were so tempting, and in those days boys could eat
the twenty-four hours round. People were wont to say they had the
digestion of an ostrich. But I think if you had tried them on nails and
old shoes the ostrich would have gone up head.
"Oh, do you see how late it is? I know Hanny will be sick to-morrow! And
Jim, you'll have the doctor's bill to pay."
"Oh, no," said Hanny with a smile, "Joe has promised to doctor me for
nothing."
Mrs. Underhill lost her point. Jim wanted a good laugh, but he thought
it would hardly be prudent.
Of course something ought to have happened to impress their wrong-doing
on the children. But it didn't. They were all well and bright the next
morning. Mr. Theodore Whitney took occasion to say that he hoped the
Underhills wouldn't feel offended. It was just a young people's caper,
and he thought it rather amusing.
Mrs. Whitney said in the bosom of her household: "Well, I wonder that
Mrs. Underhill has an ounce of fat on her bones if she's worried that
way about her eight children! I always felt to trust mine to
Providence."
Jim "gave away" the thing at school, and was quite a hero. But some of
the boys had crawled under a circus tent. And a circus was simply
immense!
Lily Ludlow said, out of her bitterest envy, "I shouldn't have thought
you would let a girl take you out, Jim Underhill!"
"She didn't take me! I bought my own ticket. And there was her
cousin----"
"Well--if you like that style of people--and red hair--and Dele
Whitney has no more figure than a post! I wouldn't be such a fat chunk
for anything! And her clothes are just wild."
"Of course you're ever so much the prettiest. And I wish we could go
to the Museum together, just us two." Jim thought it would be fine to
take out one girl.
That mollified Lily a little.
