rum of the manor has subsided into the 
well-being of a prosperous farm ; but the 
spot is full of a slumberous peace. We 
were entertained in the stone - flagged 
kitchen, with its dresser of blue dishes 
on the wall and its flitches of bacon 
hanging from the hooks above, and we 
drank our milk and ate the sweet farm 
bread with a drowsy sense that some- 
how dear Miss Matty was with us, and 
perhaps the sonsy Mary who tells the 
tale. Do you remember how Mary 
walked about the garden with that an- 
tique lover who loved no more, listen- 
ing to his comments on flower and leaf ; 
and how she afterwards went with him 
to the fields, where he forgot her and 
strode on to the measure of his dearest 
rhymes ? No beauty of the growing 
world had lain afar from his full and 
lonely life. With us, too, did he walk 
that day. The sweet - smelling plants 
were such as his eye must have cher- 
ished ; the cropping cattle over the 
happy slopes were of one family with 
those he had fostered ; and the trees, 
black-branched and glossy in their green- 
 
ness, had made the tutelary deities of 
his land. It is not easy to tell how 
peacefully these fields and meadows 
slept under the warm sky, nor how lav- 
ishly they promised response to loving 
tillage. 
Slight hints, garrulous suggestions, 
are constantly appealing to one in Knuts- 
f ord, not as literal duplicates of Cranford 
customs, but as links in an afifectionate 
chain of inference. Fiction is not por- 
traiture, but it may easily become a 
record of those fleeting impressions 
which make an intrinsic part of the 
mental tissue. Names familiar to a 
writer's youth have a way of creeping 
into her work, — nooks and corners, 
remarkable for no story of their own, 
crop up again when her dreams demand 
actual habitat. In reading the history 
of Cheshire, it is curious to note the 
number of Peters of eminent memory, 
and more curious still to stumble on the 
name in the yard of Knutsford parish 
church. It was not only of good repute, 
but very commonly used. Cranford, too, 
has adopted it ; for did not the local 
grandee of Turveydropsical memory fig- 
ure as Sir Peter Arley, and was not 
 
the rector's erring Peter named for him ? 
And let it be said incidentally that no 
one who visits that churchyard should 
omit reading the epitaph of the Rever- 
end John Swinton, of Nether Knutsford ; 
for it must assuredly have been written 
by Miss Deborah herself, under direct 
inspiration from the .ever admirable Doc- 
tor Johnson. Thus it runs : — 
" He was happy in an excellent natu- 
ral Genius, improved with every Branch 
of polite and useful Learning. His Com- 
positions were correct, elegant, nervous, 
edifying, and delivered with peculiar 
Force and Dignity. His Conversation 
was courteous, entertaining, instructive, 
and animated with a striking Vivacity of 
Spirit. As a Husband a Friend and a 
Neighbor He was affectionate, faithful, 
benevolent, A zealous Assertor and an 
able Defender of religious and civil lib- 
erty. With Talents which would have 
adorn'd the highest Station in the 
Church For reasons to himself unan- 
swerable He declined repeated Offers of 
Preferment from his Friends many Years 
before his Death. He bore his last 
Affliction with a Firmness and Forti- 
tude truly Christian and died lamented 
by the Wise, the Learned and the Good 
Dec. in 1764, in the 70th Year of his 
Age.' 
Surely six-footed eulogy can no fur- 
ther go ! 
Another suggestion of Cranf ord lies in 
the fact that an actual Arley Hall exists 
to this day, the seat of the Warburtons, 
within easy driving distance of Knuts- 
ford. Mrs. Gaskell aimed at no need- 
less portraiture or exact topography ; but 
names doubtless got into her mind, and 
lived there, like an old song, till memory 
shook them forth. The Cranford scare, 
moreover, when an hysteria of panic pre- 
vailed, and blew prudence out of the 
ladies' heads while it coaxed some gob- 
lin in, — what was that but a refluent 
wave of Mrs. Gaskell's. possible shrink- 
ing when, a child, she heard the com- 
mon reminiscences of the highwayman 
Higgins ? This was the Duval of Knuts- 
ford, who lived at the Cann House on 
the Heathside (neighbor to Mrs. Lumb), 
and who made nothing of flying over the 
roads to commit a murder at Bristol and 
returning again, within forty-eight hours, 
to prove his alibi. It was Higgins who, 
living the jolly life of a prosperous gen- 
 
tleman, one night left the ball (held, no 
doubt, in the old Assembly Room) to lie 
in wait for Lady Warburton and reap 
her jewels. But the lady's keen sight 
and innocence of mind proved her sal- 
vation ; for, putting her head out of the 
carriage as the robber approached, she 
called serenely, "Good-night, Mr. Hig- 
gins ! Why did you leave the ball so 
early ? " And Higgins, thus thrust back 
into his role of country gentleman, rode 
on discomfited. He was executed at 
Caermarthen in 1767, only forty-three 
years before Mrs. Gaskell was born. 
This was not too long a period for tra- 
dition to linger, painting him ever more 
gloomily, until he loomed large, like Guy 
of Warwick or Thor the Thunderer. 
What affrighting falsities might have 
garlanded his name in Knutsford similar 
legends all the world over may attest. 
Did the sensitive little child, playing 
in corners, overhear the Cranford ladies 
relating his bold, bad deeds, and trick- 
ing them out with bewildering details of 
their own device ? Did the child her- 
self tremble at the spectre of Darkness 
Lane huddling under the mantle of a 
pitchy night? Such emotions are the 
 
willow twigs of memory ; swept down a 
living stream, they are bound to reach 
roothold, and there bud greenly in the 
vesture of the vernal year. 
One curiously suggestive incident be- 
longs to Mrs. GaskelVs own life, though 
to dwell on it too definitely might serve 
merely to establish a false bond between 
the concrete and the ideal. Her only 
brother, a lieutenant in the merchant 
service, disappeared on his third or fourth 
voyage, about the year 1827, and " never 
was heard of more.'' Might such linger- 
ing tragedy have been the secret of her 
pathos over the heartbreak and sickness 
bom of Peter's absence ? Did she know 
by too near experience what it is to listen 
for the footstep that never falls ? But 
one last proof clinches the argument that 
Knutsford is Cranford, though "some 
volke miscalle it." Turn to the annals of 
Cranford, and you shall read of a certain 
old lady who had "an Alderney cow, 
which she looked upon as a daughter." 
Now, this cherished animal, falling into 
a lime pit, was denuded of all her hair, 
and her adoptive mother, being ironi- 
cally recommended to " get her a flan- 
nel waistcoat and flannel drawers," did 
 
indeed send her thenceforth to pasture 
soberly clad in gray. 
Return now to the chronicles of con- 
crete Knutsford, and listen to the Rever- 
end Henry Green, who, in spite of this 
one concession, never believed in any in- 
tentional literary apotheosis of his cher- 
ished town : — 
" A woman of advanced age, who was 
confined to her house through illness, 
. . . asked me to lend her an amusing 
or cheerful book. I lent her Cranford, 
without telling her to what it was sup- 
posed to relate. She read the tale of 
Life in a Country Town, and when I 
called again, she was full of eagerness 
to say, 'Why, sir, that Cranford is all 
about Knutsford ! My old mistress, Miss 
Harker, is mentioned in it ; and our poor 
cow, she did go to the field in a large 
flannel waistcoat because she had burned 
herself in a lime pit ! ' " 
 
Betake yourself, in these new days, 
to Omar Khayydm ; and what he sings 
of the fleeting joys of life and the con- 
soling grape, say you of summer. For 
the long hours will weave themselves 
into ropes of sand you may not hold, 
and the brown leaf-stems loosen on the 
trees ; the earth will by-and-by lock up 
her treasure-box, now jealously opened, 
and you must shrink back into winter 
hiding, owning that the feast was spread 
and you kept a foolish fast, that summer 
stayed at your hand and you craved no 
guerdon. Throw aside therefore the 
fevered craving to read books and to 
rouse the world's wonder over your 
haste. Set the mind only upon flowing 
water and bountiful trees, and that in 
no studious mood, but the warm languor 
of a midday dream. And note well 
that an upland pasture is good hunting 
for the soul, and so also is the moving 
sea ; but you shall mar the spell of their 
spirit upon you if you creep under roofs 
by night. For that is a sickly fashion, 
born of fear and a crowded life ; and it 
constrains the soul. Form a happy com- 
pany of such as love the earth, and set 
up your tents by sea or lake, or even on 
the hilly pasture slopes at home. And 
this adoption of the outer world shall 
make a reason, not for carousing and re- 
enacting the sports of winter, to offend 
the face of heaven, but it shall serve as 
withdrawal into the sanctuary of true 
repose. There shall be long hours spent 
" in a green shade ; '' still, serene float- 
ing on the lake, while the sunset burns 
to gold, and deep dream-locked sleep 
under canvas or in the open air. I 
would not forbid you to read Stevenson 
and Lanier, but the modern novel shall 
be held afar from your rest. Your mus- 
cles shall ache with tramping and the 
oars ; you shall be bruised from stum- 
bling through the forest when you steal 
out by night to feel the dark among the 
pines ; you shall find the simplest fare 
ambrosial; and you shall be called to 
life, every morning, by a chiming chorus 
and the hoarse logic of the legislating 
crows, and wake to see, oh, matchless 
wonder ! the ferns and raspberry vines 
 
breathing outside your tent and painting 
the shadow of their trembling on the 
sunlit walls. Easy is it in England to 
suffer a summer change into vagrom 
ways, tramping the blossomy lanes, eat- 
ing under hedges, and begging the kindly 
carrier for a lift in his van ; and even in 
America two women, comrades pledged, 
may forswear roofs and walk abroad with 
staff and scrip, or even set up their tent 
in a huckleberry pasture, near some 
farmer, lord of New England soil. None 
so necessary as he ; for he shall be the 
purveyor to their comfort, and give them 
milk and eggs for the dirty bills born 
of winter's drudgery, and turned now to 
something worthy through righteous use. 
The camper, to civilized minds, enter- 
tains a bee in her bonnet, in that she 
loves her dripping house by the wood 
better than timbered roofs, though Solo- 
mon had raised them. Her bee drones 
happily, and all the little world hears it ; 
but its very presence invests her with a 
certain sacredness, like that of madmen 
in days of old, and the farmer-folk are 
her leal protectors from hunger and the 
world. These be the tamer ways of 
camping, and pleasant withal; but if 
four or more strong spirits can betake 
them to the deeper wood where even 
the sound of mowing and garnering in- 
vade not, and make their summer home 
by lake or stream, they shall seize hold 
of the garment of their youth even 
though she were vanishing away. They 
shall work hard, and love it. They shall 
cut a path to the strip of beach where 
the water is clear over sand and beguil- 
ing to the bather ; they shall row miles 
for the potatoes for to-morrow's dinner, 
and tug mightily to pile up the sticks 
for next day's fire. Fighting thus the 
old battle over again, warring to fill the 
simpler needs of life at first hand, is 
to return with gladness to our great 
Mother, and cling about her knees. The 
ancient struggle for life shall be enacted 
in little on their sunny stage ; and they 
shall see the earth more clearly, as 
through the eyes of old, and think, too, 
on the stars, nearer now in that they 
brood and smile. Certain pitiful falla- 
cies shall be unlearned through the 
lessoning of camp. The wise pupil, 
stultified by civilized theory, finds with 
amazement that no more secure and 
solemn retreat exists than the forest 
 
path at night, and that darkness is as 
little to be feared as her own cloak. 
She grows into the acquiescence of ani- 
mals under a summer rain ; nay, even to 
joy therein, and gains an added lightness 
when the sun breaks forth. A pillow is 
no longer the mainstay of sleep, and she 
dozes excellent well on a bed of pine 
needles with an arm tucked under her 
head. And, oh, the feasting of the eye ! 
line upon line of trembling branches, 
enthralling shadows of leaf on sunlit 
leaf! The remembrance of it, to one 
who has had that rich surfeit, is like a 
song in the heart. Perhaps that is what 
the thrush sings in forest aisles, when 
twilight falls : the shapes of things, the 
form and color, all the glorified remem- 
brance of his golden day. Who shall say 
no f For after all, what but a thrush's 
song could trace upon the mind's fine 
tablet the outline of a leaf ? 
This it is to be fortunate at home ; 
but he who crosses the sea earns a 
double blessing : and if he go to tramp, 
to gypsy, he has found out what it is 
to gather up the gold of the year and 
gamer it away for winter spending. To 
walk is truly to live. When the morning 
 
shines before you and with it a broad 
highway, stretching straight into bliss, 
you may throw up your heels at fate. 
But there are roads and roads ; some of 
them lie in the mind forever, in lines of 
light. One such is the way out of Bre- 
con to Llansaintfraed, where the bones 
of Henry Vaughan have long been cry- 
ing from a neglected grave : another is 
the Roman road out of good Shrewsbury, 
and a third the broad highway where- 
by, after Monmouth, you go on to the 
beauties of Tintem and the Severn Sea. 
There they wait for you, conscientious in 
milestones, relics of a conquering past, 
and some of them beguilingly setting 
forth the number of miles from London; 
thereby, no matter what your loyalty to 
green fields and beneficent sky, drawing 
the heart out of your breast with long- 
ing. Your only companioning there 
shall be the infrequent farmer's wain, 
the wandering tinker and the unmistak- 
able genus tramp, sometimes pursuing 
his slouching way, but oftener asleep on 
his face under a hedge. But fear him 
not. He is our cousin, and the comrade- 
ship of wandering is strong between us. 
You shall learn strange things of the 
 
English churl and what serves him for 
mind, while you invade his roads and 
valleys. It will not be long before you 
formulate the axiom that he knows not 
one hand from t'other; for when he 
sends you to the right, it is well estab- 
lished out of the mouths of many wit- 
nesses that he honestly means the left. 
You must never ask him a question on a 
sudden, for haste addles his wits, and he 
will swear he knows not Joseph. Two 
of us, one day, after manifold disappoint- 
ments in such queries, which served only 
to lock up the knowledge indubitably 
there, arranged a set of questions which 
might have proved of unfailing excel- 
lence had time and the hour given a 
margin for their use. For instead of 
the crass query, " Can you tell me the 
way to Babine.?" we would invent a 
cunning preamble, thus: "Good morn- 
ing, goodman. A fine day ! It is very 
pleasant walking. We hope to get on to 
the next village. We do not know it 
by name. We think it may be Babine. 
Pray you, what is the name of the next 
village ? " Thus delicately jogged. Mas- 
ter Shepherd's wits might of themselves 
leave their wool-gathering, and he would 
 
send us on equipped. But jarred too 
rudely, denial seems his only refuge. 
" Is this Tretower .? " I asked a rustic 
one day when that heaven lay palpably 
before us. 
" No, miss," he responded. 
" Is n't that Tretower ? " 
"No, miss." 
I turned away, adrift, but with one last 
impulse varied the phrase. 
" What is that village ? " 
"Tretower." He had recovered. 
And when such are awakened to the 
point of directing you, they do it by a 
system calculated to induce madness in 
the natural mind. 
" You see that church ? " begins your 
informant. 
"Yes." Naturally you make a mental 
note of the church. 
" Well, £-0 you by that You see that 
woman walking } " 
"Yes." You speak hastily, for mean- 
time she is in motion. You begin to 
see what life must have been for Alice, 
playing croquet when the wickets would 
walk about the ground. 
" There the road turns. But go 
straight on. Yours will be the next 
one." And so by indirection, a certain 
negative process, you learn what you 
must not do, and come, by slow and 
painful steps, to what you may. 
" Turn up on your right hand at the 
next turning, but at the next turning of 
all, on your left ; marry, at the very next 
turning, turn of no hand, but turn down 
indirectly to the Jew's house." 
Here have we historic precedent. 
And ever, having finished some complicated 
direction, they conclude in 
triumph : " You can't miss it ! " To some 
of us who have missed it many times, 
even while the echo of that prophecy 
died upon the air, it is a terrifying 
phrase. I have grown to consider it 
the equivalent of the evil eye. 
The good walker eats lightly in the 
middle of the day. Save at happy 
moments of active good fellowship, he 
talks little. His feet settle into the 
rhythm of the road, and his mind re- 
poses on the happy continuance of meas- 
ured effort. He never thinks. He is 
conscious only of ecstatic being, or the 
richer state of an acquiescent content. 
He has learned what it must be to fly 
like the pigeon, to live under water, to 
 
take root in the earth and grow. How 
effortless life may become they only 
know who have tasted the joys of the 
road. Here- are pretty paradoxes. The 
feel of the pack is no burden, but an 
added gift ; but so, too, is the freedom 
of casting it aside for the noonday rest. 
One loses respect for clothes in the 
main, yet conceives a tender liking for 
some benignant article like a pair of 
ragged gaiters, a dress too impossible 
to be spoiled, or an old hat gloriously 
adorned with a mad -cap pheasant's 
feather, found by the way. The track 
is diversified like life itself. In one 
summer you may learn what it is to 
tread the highway, to flee over Egdon 
Heath, pursued by thunder-clouds and 
Dorset tragedies, to lose breath in the 
hot fragrance of Devon lanes, to tramp, 
knee-deep in heather, over the Exmoor 
hills, or scour Salisbury Plain, thyme- 
scented, loud with larks. 
What the byways of wandering may 
be only he can guess who searches in 
the comers of his mind for rich treasure- 
trove cast in there on fortunate days. 
Certain walks of our own lay placidly 
along canals, — Brecon, Llantisilio, or 
 
even the water way to Iffley along the 
Thames. There was one upward range, 
on Haughmond Abbey day, when we 
came on great patches of brilliant 
sward, under black-boled beeches, mak- 
ing their own green shade. Still above 
lay drifts of wild hyacinth, "like blue 
peat smoke against the sky." We 
