strong stare. "You can understand it's spoiling her temper and making
her come down on me? She behaves as if I were of no use to her at
all!"
Fleda hesitated. "She's rankling under the sense of her wrong."
"Well, was it I, pray, who perpetrated the wrong? Ain't I doing what I
can to get the thing arranged?"
The ring of his question made his anger at Mona almost resemble for a
minute an anger at Fleda; and this resemblance in turn caused our young
lady to observe how handsome he looked when he spoke, for the first time
in her hearing, with that degree of heat, and used, also for the first
time, such a term as "perpetrated." In addition, his challenge rendered
still more vivid to her the mere flimsiness of her own aid. "Yes, you've
been perfect," she said. "You've had a most difficult part. You've had
to show tact and patience, as well as firmness, with your mother, and
you've strikingly shown them. It's I who, quite unintentionally, have
deceived you. I haven't helped you at all to your remedy."
"Well, you wouldn't at all events have ceased to like me, would you?"
Owen demanded. It evidently mattered to him to know if she really
justified Mona. "I mean of course if you had liked me--liked me as
she liked me," he explained.
Fleda looked this inquiry in the face only long enough to recognize
that, in her embarrassment, she must take instant refuge in a superior
one. "I can answer that better if I know how kind to her you've been.
Have you been kind to her?" she asked as simply as she could.
"Why, rather, Miss Vetch!" Owen declared. "I've done every blessed thing
she wished. I rushed down to Ricks, as you saw, with fire and sword, and
the day after that I went to see her at Waterbath." At this point he
checked himself, though it was just the point at which her interest
deepened. A different look had come into his face as he put down his
empty teacup. "But why should I tell you such things, for any good it
does me? I gather that you've no suggestion to make me now except that I
shall request my solicitor to act. Shall I request him to act?"
Fleda scarcely heard his words; something new had suddenly come into her
mind. "When you went to Waterbath after seeing me," she asked, "did you
tell her all about that?"
Owen looked conscious. "All about it?"
"That you had had a long talk with me, without seeing your mother at
all?"
"Oh yes, I told her exactly, and that you had been most awfully kind,
and that I had placed the whole thing in your hands."
Fleda was silent a moment. "Perhaps that displeased her," she at last
suggested.
"It displeased her fearfully," said Owen, looking very queer.
"Fearfully?" broke from the girl. Somehow, at the word, she was
startled.
"She wanted to know what right you had to meddle. She said you were not
honest."
"Oh!" Fleda cried, with a long wail. Then she controlled herself. "I
see."
"She abused you, and I defended you. She denounced you--"
She checked him with a gesture. "Don't tell me what she did!" She had
colored up to her eyes, where, as with the effect of a blow in the face,
she quickly felt the tears gathering. It was a sudden drop in her great
flight, a shock to her attempt to watch over what Mona was entitled to.
While she had been straining her very soul in this attempt, the object
of her magnanimity had been pronouncing her "not honest." She took it
all in, however, and after an instant was able to speak with a smile.
She would not have been surprised to learn, indeed, that her smile was
strange. "You had said a while ago that your mother and I quarreled
about you. It's much more true that you and Mona have quarreled about
me."
Owen hesitated, but at last he brought it out. "What I mean to say is,
don't you know, that Mona, if you don't mind my saying so, has taken it
into her head to be jealous."
"I see," said Fleda. "Well, I dare say our conferences have looked very
odd."
"They've looked very beautiful, and they've been very beautiful. Oh,
I've told her the sort you are!" the young man pursued.
"That of course hasn't made her love me better."
"No, nor love me," said Owen. "Of course, you know, she says she loves
me."
"And do you say you love her?"
"I say nothing else--I say it all the while. I said it the other day a
dozen times." Fleda made no immediate rejoinder to this, and before she
could choose one he repeated his question of a moment before. "Am I to
tell my solicitor to act?"
She had at that moment turned away from this solution, precisely because
she saw in it the great chance of her secret. If she should determine
him to adopt it she might put out her hand and take him. It would shut
in Mrs. Gereth's face the open door of surrender: she would flare up and
fight, flying the flag of a passionate, an heroic defense. The case
would obviously go against her, but the proceedings would last longer
than Mona's patience or Owen's propriety. With a formal rupture he would
be at large; and she had only to tighten her fingers round the string
that would raise the curtain on that scene. "You tell me you 'say' you
love her, but is there nothing more in it than your saying so? You
wouldn't say so, would you, if it's not true? What in the world has
become, in so short a time, of the affection that led to your
engagement?"
"The deuce knows what has become of it, Miss Vetch!" Owen cried. "It
seemed all to go to pot as this horrid struggle came on." He was close
to her now, and, with his face lighted again by the relief of it, he
looked all his helpless history into her eyes. "As I saw you and noticed
you more, as I knew you better and better, I felt less and less--I
couldn't help it--about anything or any one else. I wished I had known
you sooner--I knew I should have liked you better than any one in the
world. But it wasn't you who made the difference," he eagerly continued,
"and I was awfully determined to stick to Mona to the death. It was she
herself who made it, upon my soul, by the state she got into, the way
she sulked, the way she took things, and the way she let me have it! She
destroyed our prospects and our happiness, upon my honor. She made just
the same smash of them as if she had kicked over that tea-table. She
wanted to know all the while what was passing between us, between you
and me; and she wouldn't take my solemn assurance that nothing was
passing but what might have directly passed between me and old Mummy.
She said a pretty girl like you was a nice old Mummy for me, and, if
you'll believe it, she never called you anything else but that. I'll be
hanged if I haven't been good, haven't I? I haven't breathed a breath of
any sort to you, have I? You'd have been down on me hard if I had,
wouldn't you? You're down on me pretty hard as it is, I think, aren't
you? But I don't care what you say now, or what Mona says, either, or a
single rap what any one says: she has given me at last, by her
confounded behavior, a right to speak out, to utter the way I feel about
it. The way I feel about it, don't you know, is that it had all better
come to an end. You ask me if I don't love her, and I suppose it's
natural enough you should. But you ask it at the very moment I'm half
mad to say to you that there's only one person on the whole earth I
really love, and that that person--" Here Owen pulled up short, and
Fleda wondered if it was from the effect of his perceiving, through the
closed door, the sound of steps and voices on the landing of the stairs.
She had caught this sound herself with surprise and a vague uneasiness:
it was not an hour at which her father ever came in, and there was no
present reason why she should have a visitor. She had a fear, which
after a few seconds deepened: a visitor was at hand; the visitor would
be simply Mrs. Gereth. That lady wished for a near view of the
consequence of her note to Owen. Fleda straightened herself with the
instant thought that if this was what Mrs. Gereth desired Mrs. Gereth
should have it in a form not to be mistaken. Owen's pause was the matter
of a moment, but during that moment our young couple stood with their
eyes holding each other's eyes and their ears catching the suggestion,
still through the door, of a murmured conference in the hall. Fleda had
begun to make the movement to cut it short when Owen stopped her with a
grasp of her arm. "You're surely able to guess," he said, with his voice
dropped and her arm pressed as she had never known such a drop or such a
pressure--"you're surely able to guess the one person on earth I love?"
The handle of the door turned, and Fleda had only time to jerk at him:
"Your mother!"
The door opened, and the smutty maid, edging in, announced "Mrs.
Brigstock!"
XV
Mrs. Brigstock, in the doorway, stood looking from one of the occupants
of the room to the other; then they saw her eyes attach themselves to a
small object that had lain hitherto unnoticed on the carpet. This was
the biscuit of which, on giving Owen his tea, Fleda had taken a
perfunctory nibble: she had immediately laid it on the table, and that
subsequently, in some precipitate movement, she should have brushed it
off was doubtless a sign of the agitation that possessed her. For Mrs.
Brigstock there was apparently more in it than met the eye. Owen at any
rate picked it up, and Fleda felt as if he were removing the traces of
some scene that the newspapers would have characterized as lively. Mrs.
Brigstock clearly took in also the sprawling tea-things and the mark as
of high water in the full faces of her young friends. These elements
made the little place a vivid picture of intimacy. A minute was filled
by Fleda's relief at finding her visitor not to be Mrs. Gereth, and a
longer space by the ensuing sense of what was really more compromising
in the actual apparition. It dimly occurred to her that the lady of
Ricks had also written to Waterbath. Not only had Mrs. Brigstock never
paid her a call, but Fleda would have been unable to figure her so
employed. A year before the girl had spent a day under her roof, but
never feeling that Mrs. Brigstock regarded this as constituting a bond.
She had never stayed in any house but Poynton where the imagination of a
bond, one way or the other, prevailed. After the first astonishment she
dashed gayly at her guest, emphasizing her welcome and wondering how her
whereabouts had become known at Waterbath. Had not Mrs. Brigstock
quitted that residence for the very purpose of laying her hand on the
associate of Mrs. Gereth's misconduct? The spirit in which this hand was
to be laid our young lady was yet to ascertain; but she was a person who
could think ten thoughts at once--a circumstance which, even putting her
present plight at its worst, gave her a great advantage over a person
who required easy conditions for dealing even with one. The very
vibration of the air, however, told her that whatever Mrs. Brigstock's
spirit might originally have been, it had been sharply affected by the
sight of Owen. He was essentially a surprise: she had reckoned with
everything that concerned him but his presence. With that, in awkward
silence, she was reckoning now, as Fleda could see, while she effected
with friendly aid an embarrassed transit to the sofa. Owen would be
useless, would be deplorable: that aspect of the case Fleda had taken in
as well. Another aspect was that he would admire her, adore her, exactly
in proportion as she herself should rise gracefully superior. Fleda felt
for the first time free to let herself "go," as Mrs. Gereth had said,
and she was full of the sense that to "go" meant now to aim straight at
the effect of moving Owen to rapture at her simplicity and tact. It was
her impression that he had no positive dislike of Mona's mother; but she
couldn't entertain that notion without a glimpse of the implication that
he had a positive dislike of Mrs. Brigstock's daughter. Mona's mother
declined tea, declined a better seat, declined a cushion, declined to
remove her boa: Fleda guessed that she had not come on purpose to be
dry, but that the voice of the invaded room had itself given her the
hint.
"I just came on the mere chance," she said. "Mona found yesterday,
somewhere, the card of invitation to your sister's marriage that you
sent us, or your father sent us, some time ago. We couldn't be
present--it was impossible; but as it had this address on it I said to
myself that I might find you here."
"I'm very glad to be at home," Fleda responded.
"Yes, that doesn't happen very often, does it?" Mrs. Brigstock looked
round afresh at Fleda's home.
"Oh, I came back from Ricks last week. I shall be here now till I don't
know when."
"We thought it very likely you would have come back. We knew of course
of your having been at Ricks. If I didn't find you I thought I might
perhaps find Mr. Vetch," Mrs. Brigstock went on.
"I'm sorry he's out. He's always out--all day long."
Mrs. Brigstock's round eyes grew rounder. "All day long?"
"All day long," Fleda smiled.
"Leaving you quite to yourself?"
"A good deal to myself, but a little, to-day, as you see, to Mr.
Gereth,--" and the girl looked at Owen to draw him into their
sociability. For Mrs. Brigstock he had immediately sat down; but the
movement had not corrected the sombre stiffness taking possession of him
at the sight of her. Before he found a response to the appeal addressed
to him Fleda turned again to her other visitor. "Is there any purpose
for which you would like my father to call on you?"
Mrs. Brigstock received this question as if it were not to be
unguardedly answered; upon which Owen intervened with pale irrelevance:
"I wrote to Mona this morning of Miss Vetch's being in town; but of
course the letter hadn't arrived when you left home."
"No, it hadn't arrived. I came up for the night--I've several matters to
attend to." Then looking with an intention of fixedness from one of her
companions to the other, "I'm afraid I've interrupted your
conversation," Mrs. Brigstock said. She spoke without effectual point,
had the air of merely announcing the fact. Fleda had not yet been
confronted with the question of the sort of person Mrs. Brigstock was;
she had only been confronted with the question of the sort of person
Mrs. Gereth scorned her for being. She was really, somehow, no sort of
person at all, and it came home to Fleda that if Mrs. Gereth could see
her at this moment she would scorn her more than ever. She had a face of
which it was impossible to say anything but that it was pink, and a mind
that it would be possible to describe only if one had been able to mark
it in a similar fashion. As nature had made this organ neither green nor
blue nor yellow, there was nothing to know it by: it strayed and bleated
like an unbranded sheep. Fleda felt for it at this moment much of the
kindness of compassion, since Mrs. Brigstock had brought it with her to
do something for her that she regarded as delicate. Fleda was quite
prepared to help it to perform, if she should be able to gather what it
wanted to do. What she gathered, however, more and more, was that it
wanted to do something different from what it had wanted to do in
leaving Waterbath. There was still nothing to enlighten her more
specifically in the way her visitor continued: "You must be very much
taken up. I believe you quite espouse his dreadful quarrel."
Fleda vaguely demurred. "His dreadful quarrel?"
"About the contents of the house. Aren't you looking after them for
him?"
"She knows how awfully kind you've been to me," Owen said. He showed
such discomfiture that he really gave away their situation; and Fleda
found herself divided between the hope that he would take leave and the
wish that he should see the whole of what the occasion might enable her
to bring to pass for him.
She explained to Mrs. Brigstock. "Mrs. Gereth, at Ricks, the other day,
asked me particularly to see him for her."
"And did she ask you also particularly to see him here in town?" Mrs.
Brigstock's hideous bonnet seemed to argue for the unsophisticated
truth; and it was on Fleda's lips to reply that such had indeed been
Mrs. Gereth's request. But she checked herself, and before she could say
anything else Owen had addressed their companion.
"I made a point of letting Mona know that I should be here, don't you
see? That's exactly what I wrote her this morning."
"She would have had no doubt you would be here, if you had a chance,"
Mrs. Brigstock returned. "If your letter had arrived it might have
prepared me for finding you here at tea. In that case I certainly
wouldn't have come."
"I'm glad, then, it didn't arrive. Shouldn't you like him to go?" Fleda
asked.
Mrs. Brigstock looked at Owen and considered: nothing showed in her face
but that it turned a deeper pink. "I should like him to go with me."
There was no menace in her tone, but she evidently knew what she wanted.
As Owen made no response to this Fleda glanced at him to invite him to
assent; then, for fear that he wouldn't, and would thereby make his case
worse, she took upon herself to declare that she was sure he would be
very glad to meet such a wish. She had no sooner spoken than she felt
that the words had a bad effect of intimacy: she had answered for him as
if she had been his wife. Mrs. Brigstock continued to regard him as if
she had observed nothing, and she continued to address Fleda: "I've not
seen him for a long time--I've particular things to say to him."
"So have I things to say to you, Mrs. Brigstock!" Owen interjected. With
this he took up his hat as if for an immediate departure.
The other visitor meanwhile turned to Fleda. "What is Mrs. Gereth going
to do?"
"Is that what you came to ask me?" Fleda demanded.
"That and several other things."
"Then you had much better let Mr. Gereth go, and stay by yourself and
make me a pleasant visit. You can talk with him when you like, but it is
the first time you've been to see me."
This appeal had evidently a certain effect; Mrs. Brigstock visibly
wavered. "I can't talk with him whenever I like," she returned; "he
hasn't been near us since I don't know when. But there are things that
have brought me here."
"They are not things of any importance," Owen, to Fleda's surprise,
suddenly asserted. He had not at first taken up Mrs. Brigstock's
expression of a wish to carry him off: Fleda could see that the instinct
at the bottom of this was that of standing by her, of seeming not to
abandon her. But abruptly, all his soreness working within him, it had
struck him that he should abandon her still more if he should leave her
to be dealt with by her other visitor. "You must allow me to say, you
know, Mrs. Brigstock, that I don't think you should come down on Miss
Vetch about anything. It's very good of her to take the smallest
interest in us and our horrid little squabble. If you want to talk about
it, talk about it with me." He was flushed with the idea of protecting
Fleda, of exhibiting his consideration for her. "I don't like your
cross-questioning her, don't you see? She's as straight as a die: I'll
tell you all about her!" he declared with an excited laugh. "Please come
off with me and let her alone."
Mrs. Brigstock, at this, became vivid at once; Fleda thought she looked
most peculiar. She stood straight up, with a queer distention of her
whole person and of everything in her face but her mouth, which she
gathered into a small, tight orifice. Fleda was painfully divided; her
joy was deep within, but it was more relevant to the situation that she
should not appear to associate herself with the tone of familiarity in
which Owen addressed a lady who had been, and was perhaps still, about
to become his mother-in-law. She laid on Mrs. Brigstock's arm a
repressive hand. Mrs. Brigstock, however, had already exclaimed on her
having so wonderful a defender. "He speaks, upon my word, as if I had
come here to be rude to you!"
At this, grasping her hard, Fleda laughed; then she achieved the exploit
of delicately kissing her. "I'm not in the least afraid to be alone with
you, or of your tearing me to pieces. I'll answer any question that you
can possibly dream of putting to me."
"I'm the proper person to answer Mrs. Brigstock's questions," Owen broke
in again, "and I'm not a bit less ready to meet them than you are." He
was firmer than she had ever seen him: it was as if she had not known he
could be so firm.
"But she'll only have been here a few minutes. What sort of a visit is
that?" Fleda cried.
"It has lasted long enough for my purpose. There was something I wanted
to know, but I think I know it now."
"Anything you don't know I dare say I can tell you!" Owen observed as he
impatiently smoothed his hat with the cuff of his coat.
Fleda by this time desired immensely to keep his companion, but she saw
she could do so only at the cost of provoking on his part a further
exhibition of the sheltering attitude, which he exaggerated precisely
because it was the first thing, since he had begun to "like" her, that
he had been able frankly to do for her. It was not in her interest that
Mrs. Brigstock should be more struck than she already was with that
benevolence. "There may be things you know that I don't," she presently
said to her, with a smile. "But I've a sort of sense that you're
laboring under some great mistake."
Mrs. Brigstock, at this, looked into her eyes more deeply and yearningly
than she had supposed Mrs. Brigstock could look; it was the flicker of a
certain willingness to give her a chance. Owen, however, quickly spoiled
everything. "Nothing is more probable than that Mrs. Brigstock is doing
what you say; but there's no one in the world to whom you owe an
explanation. I may owe somebody one--I dare say I do; but not you, no!"
"But what if there's one that it's no difficulty at all for me to give?"
Fleda inquired. "I'm sure that's the only one Mrs. Brigstock came to
ask, if she came to ask any at all."
Again the good lady looked hard at her young hostess. "I came, I
believe, Fleda, just, you know, to plead with you."
Fleda, with a bright face, hesitated a moment. "As if I were one of
those bad women in a play?"
The remark was disastrous. Mrs. Brigstock, on whom her brightness was
lost, evidently thought it singularly free. She turned away, as from a
presence that had really defined itself as objectionable, and Fleda had
a vain sense that her good humor, in which there was an idea, was taken
for impertinence, or at least for levity. Her allusion was improper,
even if she herself wasn't; Mrs. Brigstock's emotion simplified: it came
to the same thing. "I'm quite ready," that lady said to Owen rather
mildly and woundedly. "I do want to speak to you very much."
"I'm completely at your service." Owen held out his hand to Fleda.
"Good-bye, Miss Vetch. I hope to see you again to-morrow." He opened the
door for Mrs. Brigstock, who passed before the girl with an oblique,
averted salutation. Owen and Fleda, while he stood at the door, then
faced each other darkly and without speaking. Their eyes met once more
for a long moment, and she was conscious there was something in hers
that the darkness didn't quench, that he had never seen before and that
he was perhaps never to see again. He stayed long enough to take it--to
take it with a sombre stare that just showed the dawn of wonder; then he
followed Mrs. Brigstock out of the house.
XVI
He had uttered the hope that he should see her the next day, but Fleda
could easily reflect that he wouldn't see her if she were not there to
be seen. If there was a thing in the world she desired at that moment,
it was that the next day should have no point of resemblance with the
day that had just elapsed. She accordingly aspired to an absence: she
would go immediately down to Maggie. She ran out that evening and
telegraphed to her sister, and in the morning she quitted London by an
early train. She required for this step no reason but the sense of
necessity. It was a strong personal need; she wished to interpose
something, and there was nothing she could interpose but distance, but
time. If Mrs. Brigstock had to deal with Owen she would allow Mrs.
Brigstock the chance. To be there, to be in the midst of it, was the
reverse of what she craved: she had already been more in the midst of it
than had ever entered into her plan. At any rate she had renounced her
plan; she had no plan now but the plan of separation. This was to
abandon Owen, to give up the fine office of helping him back to his own;
but when she had undertaken that office she had not foreseen that Mrs.
Gereth would defeat it by a manoeuvre so simple. The scene at her
father's rooms had extinguished all offices, and the scene at her
father's rooms was of Mrs. Gereth's producing. Owen, at all events, must
now act for himself: he had obligations to meet, he had satisfactions to
give, and Fleda fairly ached with the wish that he might be equal to
them. She never knew the extent of her tenderness for him till she
became conscious of the present force of her desire that he should be
superior, be perhaps even sublime. She obscurely made out that
superiority, that sublimity, mightn't after all be fatal. She closed her
eyes and lived for a day or two in the mere beauty of confidence. It was
with her on the short journey; it was with her at Maggie's; it glorified
the mean little house in the stupid little town. Owen had grown larger
to her: he would do, like a man, whatever he should have to do. He
wouldn't be weak--not as she was: she herself was weak exceedingly.
Arranging her few possessions in Maggie's fewer receptacles, she caught
a glimpse of the bright side of the fact that her old things were not
such a problem as Mrs. Gereth's. Picking her way with Maggie through the
local puddles, diving with her into smelly cottages and supporting her,
at smellier shops, in firmness over the weight of joints and the taste
of cheese, it was still her own secret that was universally inter-woven
In the puddles, the cottages, the shops she was comfortably alone with
it; that comfort prevailed even while, at the evening meal, her
brother-in-law invited her attention to a diagram, drawn with a fork on
too soiled a tablecloth, of the scandalous drains of the Convalescent
Home. To be alone with it she had come away from Ricks; and now she knew
that to be alone with it she had come away from London. This advantage
was of course menaced, but not immediately destroyed, by the arrival, on
the second day, of the note she had been sure she should receive from
Owen. He had gone to West Kensington and found her flown, but he had got
her address from the little maid and then hurried to a club and written
to her. "Why have you left me just when I want you most?" he demanded.
The next words, it was true, were more reassuring on the question of his
steadiness. "I don't know what your reason may be," they went on, "nor
why you've not left a line for me; but I don't think you can feel that I
did anything yesterday that it wasn't right for me to do. As regards
Mrs. Brigstock, certainly, I just felt what was right and I did it. She
had no business whatever to attack you that way, and I should have been
ashamed if I had left her there to worry you. I won't have you worried
by any one; no one shall be disagreeable to you but me. I didn't mean to
be so yesterday, and I don't to-day; but I'm perfectly free now to want
you, and I want you much more than you've allowed me to explain. You'll
see if I'm not all right, if you'll let me come to you. Don't be
afraid--I'll not hurt you nor trouble you. I give you my honor I'll not
hurt any one. Only I must see you, on what I had to say to Mrs. B. She
was nastier than I thought she could be, but I'm behaving like an angel.
I assure you I'm all right--that's exactly what I want you to see. You
owe me something, you know, for what you said you would do and haven't
done; what your departure without a word gives me to understand--doesn't
it?--that you definitely can't do. Don't simply forsake me. See me, if
you only see me once. I shan't wait for any leave--I shall come down
to-morrow. I've been looking into trains and find there's something that
will bring me down just after lunch and something very good for getting
me back. I won't stop long. For God's sake, be there."
This communication arrived in the morning, but Fleda would still have
had time to wire a protest. She debated on that alternative; then she
read the note over and found in one phrase an exact statement of her
duty. Owen's simplicity had expressed it, and her subtlety had nothing
to answer. She owed him something for her obvious failure, and what she
owed him was to receive him. If indeed she had known he would make this
attempt she might have been held to have gained nothing by her flight.
Well, she had gained what she had gained--she had gained the interval.
She had no compunction for the greater trouble she should give the young
man; it was now doubtless right that he should have as much trouble as
possible. Maggie, who thought she was in her confidence, but was
immensely not, had reproached her for having left Mrs. Gereth, and
Maggie was just in this proportion gratified to hear of the visitor with
whom, early in the afternoon, she would have to ask to be left alone.
Maggie liked to see far, and now she could sit upstairs and rake the
whole future. She had known that, as she familiarly said, there was
something the matter with Fleda, and the value of that knowledge was
augmented by the fact that there was apparently also something the
matter with Mr. Gereth.
Fleda, downstairs, learned soon enough what this was. It was simply
that, as he announced the moment he stood before her, he was now all
right. When she asked him what he meant by that state he replied that he
meant he could practically regard himself henceforth as a free man: he
had had at West Kensington, as soon as they got into the street, such a
horrid scene with Mrs. Brigstock.
"I knew what she wanted to say to me: that's why I was determined to get
her off. I knew I shouldn't like it, but I was perfectly prepared," said
Owen. "She brought it out as soon as we got round the corner; she asked
me point-blank if I was in love with you."
"And what did you say to that?"
"That it was none of her business."
"Ah," said Fleda, "I'm not so sure!"
"Well, I am, and I'm the person most concerned. Of course I didn't use
just those words: I was perfectly civil, quite as civil as she. But I
told her I didn't consider she had a right to put me any such question.
I said I wasn't sure that even Mona had, with the extraordinary line,
you know, that Mona has taken. At any rate the whole thing, the way I
put it, was between Mona and me; and between Mona and me, if she didn't
mind, it would just have to remain."
Fleda was silent a little. "All that didn't answer her question."
"Then you think I ought to have told her?"
Again our young lady reflected. "I think I'm rather glad you didn't."
"I knew what I was about," said Owen. "It didn't strike me that she had
the least right to come down on us that way and ask for explanations."
Fleda looked very grave, weighing the whole matter. "I dare say that
when she started, when she arrived, she didn't mean to 'come down.'"
"What then did she mean to do?"
"What she said to me just before she went: she meant to plead with me."
"Oh, I heard her!" said Owen. "But plead with you for what?"
"For you, of course--to entreat me to give you up. She thinks me awfully
designing--that I've taken some sort of possession of you."
Owen stared. "You haven't lifted a finger! It's I who have taken
possession."
"Very true, you've done it all yourself." Fleda spoke gravely and
gently, without a breath of coquetry. "But those are shades between
which she's probably not obliged to distinguish. It's enough for her
that we're singularly intimate."
"I am, but you're not!" Owen exclaimed.
Fleda gave a dim smile. "You make me at least feel that I'm learning to
know you very well when I hear you say such a thing as that. Mrs.
Brigstock came to get round me, to supplicate me," she went on; "but to
find you there, looking so much at home, paying me a friendly call and
