"I don't know how much there is, and I am not going to open it under two
years. Of course a woman couldn't take matters as Bayard Taylor did; but
if she was economical and found cheap places! I do wonder if she could
go alone?"
Tourists' parties had not been invented, though men occasionally
clubbed together and obtained accommodations more cheaply.
"Two years," returned Ben, musingly.
Dele was certainly growing prettier. Her hair wasn't even Titian colour
now, but a decided bright brown, and the curly roughness seemed just to
suit her. Then the freckles were disappearing. He didn't know as
freckles spoiled any one's complexion when it had that peachy softness
and the kind of creamy look. If her mouth was wide, it had some pretty
curves, and her teeth were beautiful. A Grecian nose would take all the
piquancy out of her face.
"It may be a little more than two years," considered Delia, "and The.
may start off again. Oh, I'm pretty sure to go some time!"
"I've quite made up my mind to go some time," Ben announced gravely,
then laughed.
"It would be such fun to go together," said Dele, in her harum-scarum
fashion, without a thought of any future contingency. "I'll try to make
The. wait until I get rich enough."
Ben went home thinking what rare fun it would be to travel with some one
who saw the comical side of everything, and who could extract pleasure
straight along, as a bee could gather up honey. He enjoyed the fun
mightily, but he could not always bring it to pass. Joe and Jim had a
humourous side; but John had always been grave and steady-going. Ben
wanted some one to stir up the spirit of fun, and then he did his best
to keep it going. But he always had so much of the past seething in his
brain. The world had such a wonderful history! He was almost afraid that
now, when there was no war on hand, only Indian skirmishes, it would
grow common-place. There were no breathless romances about it, as there
were about Europe and Asia, where such conquerors as Tamerlane, Genghis
Khan, Alexander and Philip and Attila, Charlemagne and Napoleon had
stalked across the world as it was known then. Not that Ben had any
soldierly ambitions, but to youth everyday plodding along seems
unheroic.
The pleasant neighbourhood-life went on, though it must be confessed
that Hanny often longed for Daisy Jasper. Mr. Jasper had returned; and
the plan was now that the others might stay abroad two or three years.
Daisy had improved wonderfully at the baths. They would spend the winter
at Naples, and go back to Germany in the summer. Daisy was taking
lessons in music and painting and Italian.
She wrote about herself to Hanny. She only practised an hour a day, and
could stand it very well. Everything was so queer and foreign, though
often very beautiful. But the operas were enchanting beyond description.
"I want to learn to play a little for myself," she wrote. "And I find I
have quite a good voice. I don't want to drop behind you all, and have
you ashamed of me when I come back, for I couldn't spend a whole
lifetime here, unless I had you, Hanny, and dear Doctor Joe. Tell me
everything about everybody."
Hanny was always two or three days answering the letters. There were new
girls in school to talk about, and the many things the others were
doing. Charles and Jim were at the Deans so much; Mr. Dean was so
interested in them, and Mrs. Dean made it so pleasant! Mrs. Reed was
induced to come over now and then. She had softened considerably; but
she had never regained her strength, and sometimes she felt quite
useless, she declared to Mr. Reed. But he thought they had never been so
happy or comfortable.
That left Hanny quite alone. Josie seemed such a very large girl, and
she classed Hanny and Tudie as "the children." Tudie was a good deal
engrossed with her first large piece of worsted work. Not that Hanny was
lonely! She read to her father when lessons were done, or he came
upstairs to hear her play. She was learning some of the old-fashioned
songs that he had loved in his youth, though I think sometimes he leaned
his head against the high back of his chair and went sound asleep.
Everybody was always wanting her; and her mother said she was a sad
little gad-about. Even John's wife insisted upon a share of her.
Cleanthe wasn't bright and full of fun like Dolly, but she was very fond
of the little girl, and both she and John considered it a great treat to
have her come in to tea.
There was a grand time when Zachary Taylor was inaugurated. Stephen and
Dolly and the Doctor and Margaret went on to Washington with many
others. They were fain to take Hanny.
"Such a crowd is no place for children," said Mrs. Underhill. "There'll
be presidents likely, if the world should stand, and she'll have chances
to go when the journey will do her more good."
Ben went with Mr. Whitney. And at the eleventh hour, Theodore gave in
and said Delia might go, and she needn't rob her bank either.
Oh, what a splendid time they had! Washington has changed wonderfully
since then; but the White House and some of the government buildings are
just the same. Ben was a little startled at the splendour. Mr. Theodore
was much engrossed with some friends, so Ben and Delia rambled about,
lost themselves, and came to light in out-of-the-way places, hunted up
famous spots, and rehearsed old-time stories of brave men and notable
women. The sail down the Potomac was delightful. There was Alexandria
and Mount Vernon and Richmond, all of which were to become a hundred
times more famous in the course of a few years. Ben went over this
youthful trip, so full of delight, many a time when, as a soldier, he
slept under the stars, not knowing what the morrow would bring.
They were just a big boy and girl, in search of fun and knowledge, and
they found plenty of both. Ben made up his mind that, when he did go
abroad, Delia certainly should be his companion.
Margaret and her husband went to Baltimore at once, as they were not
partial to crowds; and Dolly felt that she must get back to the
children. But Mr. Theodore had some business on hand, so the young
people had their holiday lengthened.
Still the season in New York had been a rather brilliant one, with
various noted singers. An opera troupe from Havana had been giving some
famous operas; and Hanny was delighted to hear "La Somnambula," because
now she could compare notes with Daisy Jasper.
And in May, the famous rivalry between two leading theatres, that
culminated in a great riot, occurred. Edwin Forrest, the great tragedian
of that day, and many a year later, and Macready, a celebrated English
actor, seemed almost pitted against each other in the same play, Hamlet.
A certain party coming into existence had taken for its watchword
Americanism of a rather narrow sort, and was protesting against all
foreign influence. Macready had played, and then gone to fulfil another
engagement, but was to return and play again. Some of the hot heads
decided he should not; and though all precautions were taken, the
feeling was that the better sense of the community would prevent any
absolute disturbance. But the mob had grown larger and stronger in their
narrow prejudice, and, before the play was half through, an onslaught
was made on the opera-house. The rioters were in such force that the
famous Seventh Regiment had to be called out. It was a night of terror
and tragedy, and the whole city was wild with alarm. So serious did it
become, that it was not quelled without bloodshed; and for days the
whole city seemed amazed that such a thing could have happened.
But before the surprise and regret had died away, a sudden sound of
alarm ran through the city, in curiously muffled tones that blanched the
bravest faces,--a visitant, then feared beyond measure, that science had
not been able to cope with. People spoke of it with bated breath. It was
not simply among the poor and destitute, or those indifferent to
cleanliness and order, but it spread everywhere,--the dreaded,
mysterious cholera.
The older people remembered the scourge of almost twenty years before,
and many of them prepared to fly to places of safety. The plague spot of
the city was then the old Five Points, where the lowest and poorest,
beggars and thieves, and sometimes murderers, had crowded in until it
was a nest to be shunned and feared. Through this tract the plague swept
like wildfire.
Margaret had accepted the urgent invitation of the cousins at Tarrytown,
and gone thither with her baby, insisting also upon taking her little
sister. Father Underhill was glad to have her out of danger, and was
fain to persuade his wife to follow.
"No," she said stoutly; "Joe must remain; and you and Stephen cannot run
away from business. With Margaret and Hanny safe, I shall stay to keep
watch over the rest of you. I may be needed."
Dolly had taken her two children up to her sisters', who lived on the
Hudson near Fort Washington. Stephen could drive up every day or two
with news of everybody.
It did not seem at all alarming up at the Morgan's rural home. True,
Cousin Famie was aging fast, and had grown more feeble than her years
really warranted. Mrs. Eustis was quite the head of the house, and very
bright and chatty, with a rather romantic turn of mind, just as fond of
reading as some of the younger folks.
And it seemed to them as if the world was quite full of famous people
then. For beside Cooper and Irving, there were Prescott's splendid
histories, that were full of romance. And for story-writers, Miss
Leslie, who was entertaining magazine-readers, and Miss Sedgwick and
Lydia Maria Child. Then there was Hanny's favourite Mrs. Osgood, Alice
Carey, and Mrs. Welby coming into notice, and Longfellow, Hawthorne and
Emerson. The Doctor brought them up the new magazines, and said
everybody kept well. Ben came up and stayed a week, and added to their
stock of books.
They went down to Sleepy Hollow, though it had not become so famous for
pilgrimages. Mr. Irving had come home from Madrid, and friends dropped
in upon him. He always had a delightful welcome for them. They used to
sit out on the old porch and talk; or, when there were no guests, his
two nieces and some of his brothers' kept him company.
Ben summoned up courage and went down to see the charming man, beloved
of so many friends, taking his little sister with him. What a
delightful hour it was! Hanny was too shy to talk much, although she had
been so brave on the poet's old stoop at Fordham. Perhaps, really, there
was no opportunity, Ben kept the floor so entirely. They went in and
looked at the drawings from Rip Van Winkle and Ichabod Crane and
Katrina. But she still loved the old history that had charmed her so at
first, and she would have given him her child's adoration freely, if he
had written nothing else.
Ben had already seen a number of notable people. They often came in at
the Harpers'. He used to talk them over with Delia; and he thought now
what a fascinating story he should have to tell her.
The next day they went over to see grandmother and Uncle David. Jim was
up making a visit. His mother preferred to have him out of danger. He
and Ben were to go down to Yonkers; and though they were loth to spare
the little girl, she went back to Tarrytown.
It was October before the Doctor would let Margaret return to the city.
Daisy had grown so much, and was talking in a cunning, broken fashion.
Mrs. Underhill had made two brief visits; and though she seemed rather
nervous for her, she declared, "She had been very well all summer, and
that they had a great deal to be thankful for. She couldn't have left
father and the boys."
She had never been so demonstrative to Hanny, much as she had loved her.
She kept one arm around her, and could hardly bear her out of her
sight.
"Had she been content, and not made any trouble, and waited upon Cousin
Famie, and helped all she could? She was such a large girl now, and
ought to be useful."
Hanny smiled, and kissed her mother, and said: "She had tried to do her
best. And she had been very, very happy."
"Cousin Margaret, I do wonder if you appreciate that child," said
Roseann, when Hanny had gone out on the porch to have a romp with little
Daisy. "She's such a smart little thing, and not a bit set up about it.
I've been clear beat to see how she understands books, and people, too.
And she's so industrious and pleasant-tempered. She makes me think of
Grandmother Underhill and Aunt Eunice. I do hope you'll be able to keep
her. It's a providential mercy she hasn't been in the city all summer.
The cholera has been just awful! I don't see how you had the courage to
stay."
"My sons were there." The tears came to Mrs. Underhill's eyes. "And
though they were spared, they often needed me. No one really can know
what it was, unless they have been through it. Joe came home one night
so worn out that he stayed in bed all the next day. I just prayed every
moment; I felt as if I'd never prayed before. And there was all of
John's trouble. Yes; many a one has been called upon to part with their
nearest and dearest."
John Underhill's wife had lost both father and mother, within
twenty-four hours of each other. Then Cleanthe's little baby had been
born dead; and they had to move her to Mother Underhill's, more dead
than alive; but good care had at last restored her. The old Archer
cousins in Henry Street had gone; and many another among friends and
relatives.
They did not tell Hanny until she came home who had gone out of the
neighbourhood. Mrs. Reed had been among the first. She was getting ready
to go away with Charles, when the summons came. But the greatest sorrow
of all to her was the loss of Tudie Dean. She had been rather drooping
for several days; and one night Doctor Joe had been summoned, but in
vain. Two of the prettiest of the little Jewish children who had come to
the Whitney house were buried on the same day.
Cleanthe was still at home, as she called her mother-in-law's house. She
was very pale and wan, and just hugged Hanny to her heart, and cried
over her.
Charlie Reed sorrowed deeply for his mother.
"I don't just know how it came about," he said tremulously; "but we were
getting to be such friends; she took such a real interest in my studies;
and she seemed to want father to be happy in the things he liked. He's
most broken-hearted over it; and the house seems dreadful! Cousin Jane
advises father to break up and board; I think she's kind of nervous, and
wants a change. Oh, what a terrible time it has been; I am glad you
were away. And poor little Tudie Dean!"
They both cried over her. And when she went in to see Josie, she was
almost heart-broken; for Josie looked so strange and grown-up, and was
so grave.
Mrs. Dean pressed her to her heart.
"Thank God, my little dear," she exclaimed, "that your mother hasn't to
sorrow over any loss. Your brother has been heroic; and there was one
time when we were all afraid. He was so dead-tired that I know he
couldn't have lived if it had been cholera. The doctors were all heroes;
and many of them have given their lives."
Yet the world went on, over the thousands who had dropped out of it.
Business resumed its sway; even amusements started up. But there were
many sad households.
And though the Underhills had not taken Cleanthe to their hearts with
quite the fervor Dolly had awakened, they loved her very tenderly now;
and she seemed to slip in among them with a new and closer bond.
There would be a good deal of business to settle. John thought it better
to look about for a new partner. Mr. Bradley had left quite a fortune
for the times. He had been investing in up-town property, and John
thought it would be wise to build, and sell or rent as his wife desired.
The old home was dismantled, the best of the furniture stored for
further use.
He tried to persuade his father to go farther up-town. Joe was also a
factor in this matter.
For though the cholera had spared Dr. Fitch, the infirmities of age and
hard work had overtaken him. A nephew who had recently graduated, and
had the prestige of the same name, was anxious to take the practice. Joe
felt as if circumstances were shaping a change for him; and he was ready
now to take up a life of his own.
Then the Deans sold, and were to go up a little farther. Sometime, and
before many years, there would be street-cars, instead of the slow,
awkward stages, and people could get to and fro more rapidly. The trend
was unmistakably up-town.
Mr. Reed hired out his house furnished, and went over to the Deans to
board.
It seemed to Hanny that no one was quite the same. Nora Whitney was
almost a head taller than Hanny, and was getting to be a very stylish
girl. Her voice was considered promising, and was being cultivated. But
poor old Pussy Gray had rounded out his life, and slept under a great
white rosebush at the end of the yard. Mrs. Whitney's hair was nearly
all white, and she was a very pretty woman. Mr. Theodore was showing
silver in both hair and beard; but Delia changed very little. Aunt Clem
went on living in her serene and cheerful fashion.
And then the bells rang out for the mid-century, 1850! How wonderful it
seemed.
"I wonder if any one of us will live to nineteen hundred," questioned
Hanny, with a strange thrill of awe in her voice.
"I don't suppose I will," replied her father; "but some of you may.
Why, even Stephen wouldn't be much above eighty; and you'll be a little
past sixty!" He laughed with a mellow, amused sound. "And all you young
people of to-day will be telling your grandchildren how New York looked
at the half-century mark. Well, it has made rapid strides since eighteen
hundred. I sometimes wonder what there is to happen next. We have steam
on land and water. We have discovered Eldorado, and invented the
telegraph; and there are people figuring on laying one across the ocean.
That may come in your day."
"And a sewing-machine," added the little girl, smilingly.
The sewing-machine was attracting a good deal of attention now, and
making itself a useful factor.
But to live to see nineteen hundred! That would be like discovering the
fountain of perpetual youth.
CHAPTER XII
UP-TOWN
There had been so many delightful things in First Street, the little
girl thought at first it would almost break her heart to go away. Her
father, with the inertia of coming years, hated to be disturbed.
"I hoped, when we did make any change, we would build on the old place,"
he said. "I'd like country life again. But I am getting too old to farm;
and none of the boys care about it. If George had stayed at home," and
Father Underhill sighed.
George had not yet found his bonanza. There was gold in plenty in that
wonderful country. There were hardships, too. He kept those to tell of
in after years. It was a wild, rough, marvellous life; and every man of
them was waiting for a run of luck, that he might go East with his pile.
Meanwhile cities were begun.
Mrs. Underhill sighed a little also, in an undecided fashion. All the
children were here, and surely they could not go away and leave them
behind. The attractive, rural aspect of Yonkers had changed, or was it
that she had changed? Some of her old friends had gone to new homes
some had died. Then she had grown so accustomed to the stirring life of
the city.
"No, we should not want to go alone," she said.
"Steve's a bright business-man. John's long-headed, if he isn't quite so
brilliant. Ben will be all for books and travel. And Jim--well, it's
odd, but there won't be a farmer among them."
"No," returned their mother, not knowing whether to be glad or sorry.
"Then farming is changing. And the near-by places are turning into
towns. What the next half of the century will bring--"
Since there was no prospect of the homestead, they allowed themselves to
be persuaded to join the migration. Foreigners were crowding them a
little. There was a finer, freer air up-town.
The Deans suited themselves, and Mr. Reed and Charles went with them.
Charles was now a tall, fair young fellow, rather grave from the shock
of the loss of his mother, intensified perhaps by his sympathy with Mrs.
Dean and Josie. It was a great comfort to keep together.
John looked up a new home; but Cleanthe, with her arms around Mrs.
Underhill's neck, said, in a broken sort of tone:--
"Oh, you must be somewhere near us! I don't feel as if I could live, if
I did not see you every day. I have no mother but you."
Twentieth Street seemed a long way up, to be sure. But there was an odd,
rather oldish house, with a two-story ell that seemed to have been added
as an after-thought. There was a stable and quite a garden. It had been
considered rather a country house in its inception.
Joe insisted that it was just the thing. He could have an office and a
library, and a sleeping-room overhead, without disturbing the family.
Mrs. Underhill declared there was twice too much room; and if any of the
other boys should marry and go away--
"There's only Ben. I am a fixture; and it will be years before Jim
reaches that tempting period. Oh, I think you need not worry!" comforted
the Doctor.
Hanny was glad to go with everybody else. They had one sad sweet time at
the Deans, talking over old days and the tea in the back-yard, when
there had been Nora and the pussy, and the one who was not. It was
rather sad to outgrow childhood. Ah, how merry they had been! What a
simple idyllic memory this was to be for all her later years! Mrs. Reed
always lived in First Street to her; and Tudie Dean used to go up and
down the street, a blessed, beautiful ghost. The little girl was quite
sure she would not be afraid to clasp her white hand, if she should meet
her wandering about those sacred precincts. She could not have put her
idea into Longfellow's beautiful lines; but it haunted her in the same
shape of remembrance.
    "All houses wherein men have lived and died
        Are haunted houses."
They went down to the Jasper house also. There had been a family of
children to tramp over the flower-beds and leave debris about. There
was no pretty striped awning, no wheeling-chair, no slim, picturesque
negro lad, and no ladies in light lawns sitting about. It looked
common-place.
"We can write Ichabod on it," said Charles, half regretfully.
Hanny asked Joe why they should; and he showed her the verse, "Thy glory
has departed."
"The glory has departed from the whole street," she said, glancing
around. The new-comers were of a different class. No one swept the
debris up to the crown of the street any more; and the city
street-sweepers were infrequent visitors.
"It will be beginning all over again," Dr. Hoffman said to his
brother-in-law. "It seems a pity to waste so much endeavour. Yet if you
can wait, the practice will be better worth while."
"It wouldn't be the fair thing to crowd in on young Dr. Fitch. He did
suggest a partnership, but I thought I would rather strike out for
myself. And I prefer having all my interests at home. Mother begins to
miss the children that have gone out; and there were so many of us."
When Mrs. Underhill looked back, she always thought those early years in
First Street were among the happiest of her life. They were broader and
richer than the first wedded years. They could not keep together always.
She wanted her children to know the sweetness of life and love. Steve
and Margaret were very happy. John and his wife had supped of sorrow;
but they were young and had each other; and children would come to
restore beauty for ashes, and the oil of joy for mourning.
She was delighted with Joe's decision. That night, when Joe had come
home a very ghost of himself, and dropped down on Hanny's bed, because
he hadn't strength to go up another pair of stairs, and she had clasped
her arms about him and cried, in her terror: "Oh, Joe, my dear son, is
it cholera?" had been an awful moment for her.
"No, mother dear; but if I can't have a few hours' rest, I shall die of
fatigue. Just let me sleep, but watch me well."
She had sat beside him the rest of the night, from midnight to morning,
counting his pulse now and then, which showed no indication of collapse.
Other mothers had their sons snatched from them,--mothers who were
tender and worthy, and who loved as fervently as she did.
When he awoke at the next noon, she felt as if he had been given back to
her out of a great danger. And she was glad now to have him plan for the
home-interest, glad there would be several years before she was called
upon to share him with any other woman.
So they said good-bye to the old house again, and placed their household
gods in a new home. They had gone farther than any of the others, though
they were nearer Margaret and Dolly. The Deans were lower down and on
Second Avenue. Up above them were great open spaces. They had two lots,
which gave them a grassy space beside the drive. The lot being deeper
than usual, they could have a little garden where the fruit-trees did
not shade. There was a tall, gnarled old pear-tree, and they found it
bore excellent fruit. Right by the porch, in a lovely southern exposure,
was a delicious nectarine.
The little girl was deeply interested in Joe's house, as she began to
call it. A door opened from the main hall, and one quite outside from
the flagged path. That would be the patients' entrance, when they began
to come. Joe went up to Yonkers and exhumed some old furniture. There
was a queer, brass-studded, leather-covered sofa, with high roll arms,
and a roll at the back that suggested a pillow. There were two small
spindle-legged tables; some high-backed, oaken chairs, rudely carved,
and almost black with age; and a curious old escritoire that was said
to have come from France with the French grandmother who had landed with
the emigrants at New Rochelle.
His office was plainly appointed, with an oil-cloth on the floor, a row
of shelves for jars of medicines; for even then many doctors compounded
their own prescriptions. There was a plain business-desk, a table, and
some chairs, and a small book-case. All the odd old things were to go in
his sitting-room.
Across one end, he had it filled in with book-shelves. One corner was
for the little girl. And there was to be a special chair for her, so she
could come in and study her lessons, or read or talk to her dear Doctor
Joe.
Mrs. French made a splendid addition to the room in a large Oriental rug
that Doctor Joe valued more highly as the years went on. For then we
were getting bright-hued carpets from French and English looms, and
these dull old things were not in any great favour. Only it was so thick
and soft, the little girl said it was good enough for a bed.
Joe laughed. "I daresay I shall take many a nap on it. You must make me
a nice pillow-cushion, out of some of your bits of silk."
People made real sensible patchwork then, or worked a cover in worsted,
with perhaps a pretty bunch of flowers.
The house had a basement-kitchen at the back, and a dumb-waiter like
Margaret's. Mrs. Underhill thought at first she shouldn't like it. There
was a spacious area, which made Hanny think of Mrs. Dean's in First
Street, where they used to play tea.
It took a long while to get settled, somehow. Ben thought it a great way
up-town; and he often went to the Whitneys to tea, when he wanted his
evening. Jim grumbled a little, too; there were no nice fellows around.
Joe insisted that he had better not hunt up any, but pay strict
attention to his studies, for he was falling dreadfully behind. But when
Jim had to work or study, he went at it with all his might and main, and
generally managed to catch up.
The little girl and her father were perhaps the best pleased. He liked
the little garden spot. He was not confining himself very closely to
business now. There were so many pretty walks around, for it was still
quite rural, and you could find a few wild flowers. There was another
very amusing feature farther up-town, and that was the "squatters," with
their pigs and goats and geese, and their rich, wonderful brogue, their
odd attire, which was in the same style as when they landed. Connemara
cloaks had not then attracted the fashionable eye; but the women seemed
to wear them to keep out both heat and cold. Red, green, and plaided
seemed the favourites. The wide cap-ruffles caught the breeze, for one
always found a breeze in this vicinity.
The little girl's happiness was rendered complete by the gift of a
beautiful Maltese kitten about half-grown. It had a black nose, and
black pads to its feet, and a fashion of pricking up its small ears like
a dog. There was a great discussion about a name; and Joe suggested
"Major," as she was still fond of military heroes.
One evening Ben said: "Jim, the Whitneys are going over into Jersey on
an exploring expedition, to view some curious old places, Cockloft Hall
among them. Don't you want to go?"
Jim glanced up lazily. The boys were to play ball, as they often did, on
Saturday afternoon.
"Oh, that's the place where the Salmagundi Club used to meet," cried
Hanny, with eager interest. "It is in Newark."
"Yes; and there's another queer nest on the Passaic where a great
sportsman lives, Henry William Herbert, the Frank Forrester of some
stirring adventures. Mr. Whitney is to see him. And there are some other
old haunts; Delia was looking them up,--the Kearny house, and an old
place that was once used as a sort of fort."
"Dele Whitney goes round just like a boy!" said Jim, disdainfully.
"Well, why shouldn't she go with her brother?"
"Oh, Ben, can't I go with you?" pleaded Hanny.
"Jersey's a queer sort of State," said Jim, teasingly. "The Blue Laws
are still in operation. You are not allowed to stay out after dark."
"Are they printed in blue? And you don't mean to stay out after dark, do
you, Ben?"
Hanny's expression was so simply honest they all laughed, which rather
disconcerted her.
"It is because you feel pretty blue when you have to obey them; and
Jersey is out of the United States."
"It just isn't, Mr. Jim!" cried Hanny, indignantly. "It's one of the
Middle States."
It was quite the fashion then to laugh at New Jersey, in spite of the
geography; though even at that remote date New Jersey peaches were held
in high esteem.
"But if you went with Dele Whitney, we shouldn't know when to look for
you--hardly where," and Jim winked.
That was an allusion to an old visit at the Museum, when they stayed all
the evening, for the same admittance.
"I've half suspected you were the ringleader of that scheme, Jim," said
his doctor-brother. "I have a mind to go. One good thing about the
Whitneys is that you can invite yourself, and no one takes umbrage."
"Oh, do go!" said Ben; and Hanny came around to give his hand a tender,
persuasive squeeze. "I haven't explored the State very much, but it has
some curious features. The magnolia and many Southern flowers grow
there. I believe almost every kind of mineral, even to gold, is found in
the State. And it is rich in historic lore."
"There was Valley Forge," said Hanny, softly.
"Yes, the Delaware River is beautiful. And the Passaic winds half around
the State. It is twenty-seven miles by water,--a delightful sail we must
take some time, Hanny."
