In a forlorn old bookcase were her only treasures, the few books, mostly
classics, which John Sparhawk had reserved when a succession of failures
had forced him to sell his library to Mr. Foord. In one corner was a
large family Bible on a small table. It was old and worn. Its gilt edges
shone dimly through a cobweb of infinite pains.
On the papered walls were two large coloured photographs of Mr. and Mrs.
Sparhawk, taken apparently when each was close on thirty years. The
woman’s face bore traces of dissipation even then, and the red mouth was
very sensual. But the cheeks were still delicate and there were no bags
under the large flaming eyes. The bare neck and arms and half revealed
bust were superb; the poise of the head, the curve of the short upper
lip, the fine arched nostril, were the delicate insignia of race; the
pride stamped on every feature was that of birth, not of defiance. The
man had a slender upright figure and a finely modelled head and face.
The deeply set eyes were cold and piercing, but between the stern curves
of the mouth there was much passion. Patience had studied these faces,
but she was as innocent as if she had been bred in a cloister, and their
mystery baffled while it allured her.
She ate her supper with a hearty appetite. Her mother’s lapses, being
accepted as part of the routine of existence, rarely depressed her
spirits. Nevertheless she frowned heavily as turbulent sounds pierced
the thin partition, not so much at her mother’s iniquity, as at the
prospect of being obliged to wash the supper dishes. The expected crash
came, and she ran into the kitchen. Her mother lay prone. Two of the men
lifted her immediately and carried her up the narrow stair. Patience
sullenly attacked the dishes. She dumped them into a large pan of hot
water, stirred them gingerly with a cloth fastened to a stick, drained
the water off, poured in a fresh pailful, and dried them hastily. She
filled the frying-pan with water and set it on the hottest part of the
stove to cook itself clean. Occasionally she coughed with angry
significance: the men in the next room were invisible behind a grey fog
of their own puffing. She spattered her clean pinafore, blackened her
hands, and devoutly wished herself alone on a desert island where she
could live on cocoanuts and bananas. At such times she forgot the few
compensations of her unfortunate life and felt herself only the
poverty-stricken drudge, the daughter of Madge Sparhawk.
                                  III
Who Madge Sparhawk was before she married the Yankee rancher had at one
time been an absorbing topic for dispute in Monterey. One gossip averred
that she had been the dashing leader of the lower ten thousand of San
Francisco, another that she had come from the Eastern States as the
mistress of a wealthy man who had wearied and cast her off; a third
confidently affirmed that she had been a brilliant New York woman of
fashion who had gone wrong through love of drink, and been sent under an
assumed name to California by her afflicted family; a fourth swore that
she had been an actress, a fifth that she had been the high-tempered
queen of a gambling house. On one point all agreed: she was
disreputable, and John Sparhawk was a fool to marry her. However, they
were somewhat disappointed that they saw so little of her. They were not
called upon to snub nor tolerate her. She rarely came into the town;
never excepting on horseback with her husband, when her splendid beauty
drew masculine Monterey from its perch on the fence tops,—where it sat
and smoked and murmured the hours away,—and gathered it about her,
stirring the diluted rill of caballero blood.
As far as the little world of Monterey could learn through the gossip of
servants, she was a helpful wife to a devoted husband who patiently
strove with the fiend that possessed her. When he was killed by the
accidental discharge of a gun her grief was so violent that only a
prolonged carouse could assuage it. Subsequently she recovered, and with
occasional advice from Mr. Foord attempted to run the farm. As John
Sparhawk had made no will, she was her child’s legal guardian, the
absolute mistress for eight years of what property her husband had left.
There was a little ready money, the dairy was remunerative, and the
ranch well stocked. But that was five years ago. Her habits had grown
upon her; the ranch was mortgaged and run down, the stock decreased by
half.
Patience had rebelled heavily at her father’s death, and wondered, with
childish logic, why, if one parent had to die, it could not have been
her mother. Her father’s manner had been cold, repellent, like her own;
but that his nature was deep and passionate even her young mind had
never doubted. She felt it in the close clasp of his arms as he held her
before him on his horse when galloping about the ranch; in his sudden
infrequent caress; in the strong pressure of his hand as they wandered
through the woods or along the shore at night, not a word spoken between
them.
It was not until after his death that she made acquaintance with her
social separateness. He had begun her education himself. Her only girl
companion was Rosita Thrailkill, the niece of a neighbour, whom her
father would not permit her to visit in Monterey. John Sparhawk’s only
friends were the Thrailkill brothers and Mr. Foord, an elderly
gentleman, who had lived in Monterey under the old régime, lost his
fortune in the great Bonanza time, and returned to the somnolent town to
end his days with his library, the memory of his dead Spanish wife, and
a few old friends, world-forgotten like himself. He lived in the
dilapidated Custom House on the rocks at the edge of the town, and
Patience had ruled his establishment since her baby days. It was the
only house in Monterey she was permitted to enter, and she entered it as
often as she could. A hundred times she had sat with the old gentleman
on the upper corridor and listened to the story of the capture of
Monterey by the United States fleet in 1846; stared breathlessly at the
crumbling fort—the castillo—on the hill above Junipero Serra’s
cross, as Mr. Foord verbally restored its former impregnability.
He told her tales of the days of light and life and joy when Monterey
was the capital of the Californians, and the Americans were not yet
come,—stories of love and revenge and the great free play of the
primitive passions, unpared by modern civilisation. For her those old
adobe houses in the town were alive once more with dark-eyed doñas and
magnificently attired caballeros. Behind the high walls of the old
gardens fans fluttered among the Castilian roses and dueñas stealthily
prowled. The twisted streets were gay again with the court life of the
olden time, the grand parades of the governors, the triumphant returns
from the race on the restless silver-trapped steeds.
Every house had its history, and Patience knew them all. She wandered
with Mr. Foord along the dusty streets, lingered before the garden
walls, over which she could see and smell the nasturtiums and the sweet
Castilian roses. But gone were the caballeros and the doñas. They
lay in the little cemetery of the padres on the hill, over beyond the
yellow church which marked a corner of the old presidio, and well on
the road to a great hotel whose typical life was vastly different from
that old romantic time. They lay under their stones, forgotten. The
thistles and wild oats rioted under the gnarled old oaks. The new-comer
never paused to glance at the worn carvings on the thick rough slabs.
Behind the garden walls a few brown old women lived alone, too practical
to brood upon an enchanted past. Cows nibbled in the plaza where once
the bull and the bear had fought while the gay jewelled people screamed
with delight. Gone was the tinkle of the guitar, the flutter of fan, the
graceful woman hastening down the street half hidden in her mantilla,
the lovely face behind the grating. The screaming of the sea-gulls, the
moaning of the pines, the roar of the surf, alone remained the same,
careless of change or decay. Wooden houses crowded between the old
adobes. Most of the Spanish families were half American: their women had
preferred the enterprising intruder to the indolent caballero. Arcadia
was no more. The old had kissed the hand of the new, and spawned a
hybrid.
After John Sparhawk’s death, Mr. Foord persuaded his widow to send
Patience to the public school. The little girl was delighted. She had
looked with envious longing at the stone building, painted a beautiful
pink, which stood well up on the hill at the right of the town and was
still known by the imposing name of Colton Hall; it had been built by
the first American alcalde, and was a court house for a brief while.
But it was not long before Patience learned the bitter lesson that she
was not as other girls, despite the fact that at that time she was well
dressed and that she drifted naturally to the head of her classes.
School girls are coarse and cruel. Children are the periodical relapse
of civilisation into savagery. These girls of Monterey excluded Patience
from their games and recess conversations, and intimated broadly that
her mother was not respectable.
At first Patience gave them little heed. She loved study, and was of a
wild happy nature beneath her prim exterior. Moreover, Rosita was her
loyal friend; and one of the older girls, Manuela Peralta, who had a
kind and independent heart, sheltered her as much as she could. But
Patience was too bright and observing to remain long in ignorance of her
hostile environment. When the awakening came her young soul was filled
with rage and bitterness. The full meaning of their innuendoes she was
too ignorant to understand, but that she was regarded as a pariah was
sufficiently evident.
Little as she loved her mother, a natural impulse sent her to her only
remaining parent with the story of her wrongs. Mrs. Sparhawk became
violently indignant and shortly after very drunk. The subject was never
mentioned between them again; nor did Patience speak of it with any one
but Rosita, whom she regarded as a second, beloved, and somewhat
inferior self. But her soul cried out for the strength that only a man’s
strong soul can give to woman at any age; and the man that had prayed to
live and defend her lay with the forgotten Californians on the hill.
Mr. Foord divined her trouble, and did what he could to make her life
endurable, although her shy reserve forbade any intimacy beyond the old
friendship. Miss Galpin, her teacher, made no secret of the fact that
Patience was her favourite scholar, and encouraged her to study and read
and forget.
Patience indulged in no further outbreak, even to herself. She
cultivated a cold and impassive exterior, an air of rigid indifference,
and studied until her small head ached. She was not old enough to
analyse; it was instinct only that made her assume callousness; but in
her young vague way she grappled with the social problem. She did not
approve of Mrs. Sparhawk any more than others did; but Mrs. Sparhawk’s
daughter behaved herself, and stood at the head of her classes, and had
been assured again and again that she “looked like a little lady:”
therefore she was at a loss to comprehend why Patience Sparhawk was not
as good as other girls. There was Panchita McPherson, who lied profusely
and whose mother sat in the sun all day and baked herself like an old
crocodile, while her husband sat on the fence by the Post Office and
smoked a pipe from the first of January until the thirty-first of
December. Yet Panchita was of the haute noblesse, and treated Patience
as she would a rag-picker. Francesca Montez never knew a lesson and was
so vulgar that she brought the blush to Patience’s cheek; but she lived
in an adobe mansion which once had been the scene of princely splendour,
and gave two parties a year. The American girls had not even the
prestige of the past; they could not reckon up a great-grandfather
between them, much less peeling portraits of caballeros and trunks of
splendid finery; but they were bright and aggressive, and made
themselves a power in the school.
As Patience grew older she compelled the respect of her mates, and they
ceased to annoy her. The consciousness of social supremacy never faded,
not for an instant; but even tying a tin can to a dog’s tail becomes
monotonous in time, and they had numberless little interests to absorb
them. If Patience had been a rollicking emotional child she would
doubtless have kissed herself into popularity and been treated to much
good-natured patronage; but she scorned placation, and grew more
reserved as the years went by. She accepted her fate, and discovered
that there were times and hours when her mother, schoolmates, and social
problems could be forgotten. Her spirits were naturally buoyant, and her
mind grew philosophical; but as Mr. Foord once observed to Miss Galpin,
“her start in life had been all wrong, and it would matter more with her
than with some others.”
                                   IV
After Patience had put the kitchen in order she went up to her room. She
slept at one end of the house, her mother at the opposite. Several of
the hired men occupied a dormitory between; the rest slept over the
dairy.
She lit her candle and began to undress, then extinguished the flame
suddenly and went down stairs and out of the house. She felt sullen and
heavy and depressed, and knew the remedy.
The moon was at the full; the great ploughed fields were a sea of
silver; the dark pines on the hills opened their aisles to cataracts of
crystal, splashing through the green uplifted arms. Strange shadows
moved amidst the showers of cold light, twisting rhythmically under the
touch of the night wind.
Patience loved nature too passionately to fear her in any mood or hour.
She sped over the rough field, climbed the fence, and walked hastily
toward the Mission, pausing now and again to inhale the rich perfumes of
Spring. The ruin looked like the skeleton of a mammoth caught in a
phantom iceberg. Even the dark things that haunted it were touched to
beauty by the silver light pouring through the storm-beaten rose window
over the massive doors, into the abysms between the arches.
Patience skirted the long body of the church with haste; mouldering
skeletons lay under the floor, and like all imaginative minds she had a
lively horror of the dead. She entered the open doorway and ascended the
steep spiral stair in the tower. The steps were cut from solid stone and
were worn by the trampling of many feet. As she neared the top she
called,—
“Tu wit! Tu woo!” and was promptly answered.
As her chin appeared above the floor of the little room, where the
moonlight came through hollow casements, an old grey owl, a large wise
solemn owl, advanced from the wall with slow and stately step; and
despite his massive dignity there was expectancy in his mien.
“Poor Solomon,” said Patience, contritely. “I forgot your supper.” She
climbed into the room and attempted to pat his head; but when he saw
that the hand was empty, he flapped his wings, and turning his back upon
her, retired to the wall, blinking indignantly.
Patience laughed, then sighed, and sank on her knees before the low
window overlooking the ocean. The blue bay still whispered to the white
sands sparkling like diamond dust in the moonlight, the yellow stars
winking in its clear depths. But the ocean was uneasy, and hurtled
reiterantly in great deep-throated waves at the rocky shore as if its
giant soul were in final rebellion against this conventional war with a
passive foe. About Point Lobos its voice waxed trumpet-toned. It
shouldered itself into mighty waves and tossed the spray into writhing
shapes. Everything else was at rest. The great forces of nature were the
angry prisoners of the tides. The moon grinned in his superior way. The
little stars seemed to say: “Up here we are quite composed, and as vain
as pretty women. If you would only keep quiet you would make such a fine
large looking-glass.”
As Patience gazed out upon the beautiful scene, her young mind shifted
its impressions. She forgot her life, and began to dream in a vague
sweet way. Not of a lover. Despite the fact that she had manufactured a
composite which occupied a pedestal in her imagination, she thought
little about love. Her reveries were a wandering of her ego through the
books she had read, environed by the nature whom she knew only in lovely
profile. Had she lived her fifteen years on the sterile plains of
Soledad, she might perhaps have been as harsh and bitter as its sands,
her soul as grey, so susceptible was she to the subtle influence of
great externals. But Monterey had saved her, and on nights like this she
felt as if she too were flooded with crystal light, now and again
clouded by something which perturbed, yet vibrated like the music of the
pines.
When in a particularly romantic mood, she imagined herself Mariana in
the “Moated Grange,” or hummed “The Long Long Weary Day,” and tried to
feel sad, but could not. She never felt sad in her tower, with the owl
on guard and the slighted dead in the church below. Sometimes she took
herself to task for not having a proper amount of sentiment, but
concluded that no one could be unhappy when so high above the world and
all its hateful details. Occasionally she looked longingly at the
perpendicular mountain: it was many times higher than her tower; but she
was a lazy little thing, and would not climb.
As she knelt, gazing out on the ocean, or up at the spangled night, she
was a very different-looking being from the sharp practical child that
had exhorted old Billy and berated her mother. The loosened hair clung
softly about her pale face, whose freckles the kind moon with his white
brush painted out. Her mouth had relaxed its stern lines. Her eyes were
full of the moon’s shimmer, and of something else,—the struggling light
of a developing soul.
Patience’s soul had taken care of itself and showed virility in spite of
the forces at war against it. What the little battling spark strove for,
puzzled Patience even at that unanalytical age. Religion—Christianity,
to be more exact—said nothing to her; it appealed to no want in her;
even the instinct was lacking. John Sparhawk had clung to the rigid
faith of his fathers with a desperation which Patience, child as she
was, had half divined. He had had prayers night and morning, and
compelled his daughter to learn her catechism and many chapters of the
Bible. After his death Mr. Foord took her to church on Sunday mornings
and occasionally read her a little lecture. She listened respectfully,
but felt no interest.
Nevertheless, when alone in her tower at night, when she had set her
foot on its lowest step with deliberate intent to get as high above the
earth as she could, she was conscious of an upreaching of the spiritual
entity within her, a wordless demand for the something higher and holier
of which the supreme beauty of the Universe is symbolical.
                                   V
The next morning, Patience, after helping her convalescent parent to get
breakfast, stood on the porch debating whether she should go over to Mr.
Thrailkill’s ranch and see Rosita or spend the day in Mr. Foord’s
library.
The scholars of Colton Hall had a week’s vacation, and how to make the
most of seven long days of freedom in exquisite spring weather was a
serious question.
As she hesitated she bethought herself of Solomon. She ran to the safe,
and gingerly extracting a piece of raw meat wrapped it in a newspaper,
and went over to the Mission. The owl had not moved, apparently, from
the spot where he had taken his indignant stand the night before. When
he scented the meat, however, he walked majestically forward, and taking
no notice whatever of Patience, began at once upon the meal she spread
at his feet.
Patience had decided in favour of the library, and started leisurely for
Monterey. The ocean rested heavily after its labour of the night,
swinging forward at long intervals with deep murmur, or throwing an
occasional iridescent cloud of spray about Point Lobos. The keen air
sparkled under a flood of golden light. The earth was green with the
deep rich green of spring. Great bunches of it sprang from even the
ragged mountain side, and long blades struggled to life between the
broken tiles of the old Mission. Patience crossed the valley through
beds of golden poppies and pale blue baby-eyes struggling with infantile
pertinacity to raise themselves above the waving grass. She plucked a
poppy and held her nose in the great cup that covered half her face. She
liked the slight languor its heavy perfume induced.
She climbed the hill, and the woods shut out the world. Patience forgot
her destination and wandered happily and aimlessly in the dim fragrance.
She plucked some pine needles, and rubbing their juices free pressed her
hands about her face. On the whole she preferred their pungent freshness
to the poppy.
After a time she began to skip over the carpet of yellow violets and to
sing in a high childish treble. She was only a happy little girl with
her lungs full of oxygen, her veins warmed by the sun, her heart
exhilarated with the surpassing beauty of the morning. She threw pebbles
at the squirrels and laughed loudly when they scampered up the stately
trees. Spiritual problems did not trouble her, and social trials were
forgotten.
She dawdled away the earlier hours of the morning in the woods, then
descending the hill on the town side, regained her severe and elderly
demeanour. The ocean was not visible here, but a bay bluer than sapphire
curved into sands whiter than marble dust. The sun shone down on the
red-tiled white adobes, on the high garden walls pink with Castilian
roses, as gaily as in the old Arcadian time. But alas! it shone also on
cheap wooden cottages and shops which had invaded even the hill on the
right, where once a few stately mansions stood alone.
The town was very quiet. It was always quiet. Some holy unheard voice
seemed ever saying “Hush!” As Patience walked down Alvarado Street to
the Custom House, she saw a slender brown woman watering the roses
behind her garden wall. She had been the belle of Monterey in her time,
“La Tulita,” and tradition had it that she still watered a rose-bush
which General Sherman had planted.
On the next block several dark lads sat on a fence in the approved
Montereño style, smoking cigaritos. As Patience passed they lifted
their caps as gallantly as ever caballero had done, although they did
not fling them at her feet.
She saw no one else until she reached the Custom House. Mr. Foord stood
on the corridor that overhung the rocks. He was a large round-shouldered
man, with a benign face the colour of aging marble and a brow of the old
time intellectual type. The eyes behind his spectacles were dim and
kind. The lower part of his face was humorous and stern. He wore a silk
hat, a well-brushed suit of broadcloth, and carried a gold-headed cane.
“You’re going to town!” cried Patience.
“I am,” he said smiling, “and I suppose you are going to read your eyes
out in the library. Well, I’ll not be back until to-morrow, so you’ll
have things all your own way. Tell Lola to cook you some dinner. I must
be off.”
“Bring me a box of candy,” she commanded, as she stood on tiptoe to give
him the little peck she called a kiss. It was her mark of supreme
consideration.
He promised, and she went into the library, a large room opening on the
corridor, where many a great ball had been given in the days before and
after the Americans came. A half dozen old-fashioned bookcases, crowded
with books, stood against the walls of the low room. The books were
bound in spotted calf or faded cloth, black cloth with peeling gilt
letters. One large case contained John Sparhawk’s library, and Patience
knew that it was practically hers. The floor was covered with a thick
red carpet. A large easy-chair was drawn before the deep fire-place, in
which a huge log crackled: it was still winter within adobe walls.
“Altogether,” thought the philosopher of fifteen, as she flung her
sunbonnet on the floor, “I guess that so long as I’ve got my tower and
the woods and this room, I’m not so badly off as some.”
She roamed about the room, opening the doors of the bookcases in turn.
One case had been filled with books selected for her especial use, but
Mr. Foord had not forbidden her the freedom of the others, being wiser
than many guardians. Nevertheless, certain books were placed on top
shelves, their titles concealed beneath the moulding of the case, and
Patience had looked speculatively at them more than once. To-day they
exerted a peculiar fascination. And it was rarely that she was alone in
the library.
She possessed an investigating and tentative mind, and this forbidden
territory appealed eloquently to her unruly will. But to get them out
was not an easy task. They were tightly packed, and the moulding was
like unto a prison bar. But Patience was a person of resource. She gave
one of the books a smart thump, and it slanted inward. She inserted her
thumb under its lifted edge and worried it out. It was a small volume
bound in black, its lettering worn away. She opened it and glanced
curiously at the titlepage. “Boccaccio’s Decameron” winked invitingly.
The pages were spotted with yellow. The drawings looked as if the
stories might be reasonably interesting.
Patience curled herself in the deep window-seat, quite sure that she had
found a treasure. The book had a furtive and apologetic air. “I have
grown old, at least,” it seemed to say. “I am but an elderly rake, and
can only mumble of the past.”
She read a few stories, then put the book back in its place with a
resentful shove. Being wholly without the knowledge for which Eve pined,
the stories were stupid and meaningless to her. She took down a thick
volume bound in ragged calf. On the back was one large word, “Byron.”
The leaves of this book were spotted too, but on the leaves were poems,
and she loved poetry. Even when it was uninteresting she enjoyed the
rhythm. She returned to the window-seat, and child-like, looked at the
pictures first. The portrait of Byron she fell in love with immediately,
and knocking her composite off its pedestal, lifted that proud
passionate face to the station of honour.
There was an immense-eyed picture of the Bride of Abydos which she
thought looked like Rosita, and one of the Corsair dashing in upon his
segregated love:—
        “My own Medora, sure thy song is sad!”
Francesca and Paola gazed at each other across a table:—
        “That day no further leaf we did uncover.”
A castle which looked older than the book loomed massively from the
page:—
        “Lake Leman lies by Chillon’s walls.”
Never having heard of Byron, she was unable to enlarge her knowledge at
once with his most celebrated creations; but she liked the looks of
Conrad and Medora, and plunged into their fortunes. She read every line
of the poem, and when she had finished she read it over again. Then she
stared at the breakers booming to the rocks on the opposite horn of the
crescent, her eyes expanded and filled with a wholly new light. She
might be unlettered in woman’s wisdom, but the transcendent passion, the
pounding vitality of the poet, carried straight to intuition. The
insidious elixir drifted into the crystal stream. That incomparable
objectivity sang the song of songs as distinctly into her brain as had
it gathered the sounds of life for twenty years. Her cheeks were
flushed, her eyes were bright. She felt as if she were a musical
instrument upon which some divine unknown music were vibrating; and as
she was wont to feel in the tower—but with a substratum of something
quite different. She was filled with a soft tumult which she did not in
the least comprehend, and happy. She looked almost beautiful.
After a time she read “The Bride of Abydos,” and dreamed over that until
she discovered that she was hungry. She had forgotten to order dinner,
and went to the kitchen to beg a crust.
Lola, large, unwhaleboned, vibrating porcinely with every motion, her
brown coarsely moulded face beaming with good nature, her little black
eyes full of temper and kindness, her black hair in a neat small knot,
an unspotted brown and yellow calico garment secluding her person, stood
at a sink in a kitchen as brilliantly clean as a varnished boot. Even
the corners shone like glass, Patience often observed with a sigh. The
two tables were scrubbed daily. The stove was black, the windows white.
Not a pan nor a dish save those in the sink was in sight.
Patience made a sudden dash, a leap, and alighted on Lola’s back,
encircling the yielding waist with her supple legs. The woman emitted a
hoarse shriek, then laughed and pinched the legs. Patience plunged her
cold hands into the creases of Lola’s neck, gathering a quantity into
the palms. She was unrebuked. There were a few persons that loved
Patience, and Lola was of them.
“Pobrecita!” she exclaimed. “You are cold, no?”
“Mucho frizo,” murmured Patience, sliding the back of her hands down
the mountainous surface of Lola’s. “And hungry, madre de dios.”
“Hungry? You no have the dinner? When you coming?”
“Hours ago, Lola. How cruel of you not to call me to dinner! How mean
and piggish to eat it all yourself!”
“Ay, no call me the names. How I can know you are here si you no tell?
Why you no coming here straight before going to the librario?”
“I forgot, Lola mia; and then I became—interested. But do give me
something to eat.”
“Si.” And with Patience still on her back Lola waddled to the cupboard
and lifted down the remains of a corn cake rolled about olives and
cheese and peppers.
“An enchilada!” said Patience. “Good.”
Lola warmed the compound, and spread a napkin on a corner of one of the
tables; then, suddenly unloosening Patience’s arms and legs, tumbled her
headlong into a chair, laughing sluggishly as she ambled off. Patience
ate the steaming enchilada as heartily as had Byron never been. In a
moment she begged for a cup of chocolate.
“Si,” said Lola, “I have some scrape already;” and she brewed
chocolate in a little earthen pot, then beat it to froth with her
molinillo. Patience kicked her heels together with delight, and sipped
it daintily while Lola stood by with fat hands on fat hips in reflex
enjoyment.
“Like it, niña?”
“You bet.” Then after a moment she asked dreamily: “Lola, were you ever
in love?”
“Que! Sure. Was I not marry? Poor my Pedro! How he lika the
enchilada and the chocolaty; and the lard cakes and the little pig
cooking with onions. And now the worms eating him. Ay, yi!” and Lola sat
herself upon a chair and wept.
                                   VI
As Patience walked home through the woods subsequently to a long
afternoon with Byron, she was hazily sensible that she had stepped from
one phase of girlhood into another. She had an odd consciousness of
gazing through a veil of gauze upon an exquisite but unfamiliar
landscape over which was a dazzle of sunlight. She by no means
understood the mystery of her nature as yet; she was technically too
ignorant; but instinct was awake, and she felt somewhat as when she had
drained the poppy cup for long. She was in that transition state when
for the first and last time passion is poetry.
She arrived home in time to get supper. Mrs. Sparhawk was unexpectedly
sober, and very cross.
“My land, Patience Sparhawk!” she exclaimed, as her daughter opened the
door and untied her sunbonnet, “seems to me you might help cook dinner
in vacation instead of being off all day reading books or playing with
that Spanish girl.”
“Seems to me,” said Patience, restored to her practical self, “that as
you’re twice as big as I am and twice as strong, you’re pretty well able
to get it yourself. And as it’s your fault there ain’t any servant in
this house, I don’t see why I should make one of myself for you. Seems
to me you’re fixed up.”
Mrs. Sparhawk blushed, and smoothed her hair consciously. The hair had
been washed, and was decorated with a red bow. She wore a garment of
turkey red calico with a bit of cheap lace at the throat and wrists. Her
face was plastered with a whitewash much in vogue. She looked handsome,
