see the charming man, beloved of so many friends, 



taking his little sister with him. What a delight- 

o o 

ful hour it was ! Hanny was too shy to talk much, 
although she had been so brave on the poet's old 
stoop at Fordham. Perhaps, really, there was no 
opportunity, Ben kept the floor so entirely. They 
went in and looked at the drawings from Rip Van 
Winkle and Ichabod Crane and Katrina. But 
she still loved the old history that had charmed 
her so at first, and she would have given him her 
child's adoration freely, if he had written nothing 
else. 

Ben had already seen a number of notable peo- 
ple. They often came in at the Harpers'. He 
used to talk them over with Delia ; and he thought 
now what a fascinating story he should have to 
tell her. 

The next day they went over to see grandmother 
and Uncle David. Jim was up making a visit. 
His mother preferred to have him out of danger. 
He and Ben were to go down to Yonkers ; and 
though they were loth to spare the little girl, she 
went back to Tarry town. 

It was October before the Doctor would let Mar- 
garet return to the city. Daisy had grown so 
much, and was talking in a cunning, broken fash- 
ion. Mrs. Underhill had made two brief visits; 
and though she seemed rather nervous for her, 
she declared, " She had been very well all summer, 
and that they had a great deal to be thankful for. 
She couldn't have left father and the boys." 

She had never been so demonstrative to Hanny, 
much as she had loved her. She kept one arm 

 

around her, and could hardly bear her out of her 
sight. 

" Had she been content, and not made any trou- 
ble, and waited upon Cousin Famie, and helped 
all she could ? She was such a large girl now, and 
ought to be useful." 

Hanny smiled, and kissed her mother, and said : 
" She had tried to do her best. And she had been 
very, very happy." 

" Cousin Margaret, I do wonder if you appre- 
ciate that child," said Roseann, when Hanny had 
gone out on the porch to have a romp with little 
Daisy. " She 's such a smart little thing, and not a 
bit set up about it. I 've been clear beat to see 
how she understands books, and people, too. And 
she 's so industrious and pleasant-tempered. She 
makes me think of Grandmother Underhill and 
Aunt Eunice. I do hope you 'll be able to keep her. 
It 's a providential mercy she hasn't been in the 
city all summer. The cholera has been just 
awful ! I don't see how you had the courage to 
stay." 

" My sons were there." The tears came to Mrs. 
Underbill's eyes. " And though they were spared, 
they often needed me. No one really can know 
what it was, unless they have been through it. Joe 
came home one night so worn out that he stayed 
in bed all the next day. I just prayed every mo- 
ment; I felt as if I'd never prayed before. And 
there was all of John's trouble. Yes; many a one 
has been called upon to part with their nearest 
and dearest." 



John Underbill's wife had lost both father and 
mother, within twenty-four hours of each other. 
Then Cleanthe's little baby had been born dead ; 
and they had to move her to Mother Underbill's, 
more dead than alive ; but good care had at last 
restored her. The old Archer cousins in Henry 
Street had gone ; and many another among friends 
and relatives. 

They did not tell Hanny until she came home 
who had gone out of the neighbourhood. Mrs. 
Reed had been among the first. She was get- 
ting ready to go away with Charles, when the 
summons came. But the greatest sorrow of all 
to her was the loss of Tudie Dean. She had been 
rather drooping for several days ; and one night 
Doctor Joe had been summoned, but in vain. 
Two of the prettiest of the little Jewish children 
who had come to the Whitney house were buried 
on the same day. 

Cleanthe was still at home, as she called her 
mother-in-law's house. She was very pale and 
wan, and just hugged Hanny to her heart, and cried 
over her. 

Charlie Reed sorrowed deeply for his mother. 

" I don't just know how it came about," he said 
tremulously ; t( but we were getting to be such 
friends ; she took such a real interest in my studies ; 
and she seemed to want father to be happy in the 
things he liked. He 's most broken-hearted over 
it; and the house seems dreadful! Cousin Jane 
advises father to break up and board; I think 
she 's kind of nervous, and wants a change. Oh, 

 

what a terrible time it has been ; I am glad you 
were away. And poor little Tudie Dean ! ' 

They both cried over her. And when she went in 
to see Josie, she was almost heart-broken ; for Josie 
looked so strange and grown-up, and was so grave. 

Mrs. Dean pressed her to her heart. 

"Thank God, my little dear," she exclaimed, 
" that your mother hasn't to sorrow over any loss. 
Your brother has been heroic ; and there was one 
time when we were all afraid. He was so dead- 
tired that I know he couldn't have lived if it had 
been cholera. The doctors were all heroes ; and 
many of them have given their lives." 

Yet the world went on, over the thousands who 
had dropped out of it. Business resumed its sway ; 
even amusements started up. But there were many 
sad households. 

And though the Underhills had not taken 
Cleanthe to their hearts with quite the fervor 
Dolly had awakened, they loved her very tenderly 
now ; and she seemed to slip in among them with 
a new and closer bond. 

There would be a good deal of business to settle. 
John thought it better to look about for a new 
partner. Mr. Bradley had left quite a fortune for 
the times. He had been investing in up-town 
property, and John thought it would be wise to 
build, and sell or rent as his wife desired. The 
old home was dismantled, the best of the furniture 
stored for further use. 

He tried to persuade his father to go farther up- 
town. Joe was also a factor in this matter. 



THE KING OF TERRORS 

For though the cholera had spared Dr. Fitch, 
the infirmities of age and hard work had overtaken 
him. A nephew who had recently graduated, and 
had the prestige of the same name, was anxious to 
take the practice. Joe felt as if circumstances 
were shaping a change for him ; and he was ready 
now to take up a life of his own. 

Then the Deans sold, and were to go up a little 
farther. Sometime, and before many years, there 
would be street-cars, instead of the slow, awkward 
stages, and people could get to and fro more 
rapidly. The trend was unmistakably up-town. 

Mr. Reed hired out his house furnished, and 
went over to the Deans to board. 

It seemed to Hanny that no one was quite the 
same. Nora Whitney was almost a head taller 
than Hanny, and was getting to be a very stylish 
girl. Her voice was considered promising, and was 
being cultivated. But poor old Pussy Gray had 
rounded out his life, and slept under a great white 
rosebush at the end of the yard. Mrs. Whitney's 
hair was nearly all white, and she was a very pretty 
woman. Mr. Theodore was showing silver in both 
hair and beard ; but Delia changed very little. 
Aunt Clem went on living in her serene and cheer- 
ful fashion. 

And then the bells rang out for the mid-cen- 
tury, 1850! How wonderful it seemed. 

" I wonder if any one of us will live to nineteen 
hundred," questioned Hanny, with a strange thrill 
of awe in her voice. 

" I don't suppose I will," replied her father ; " but 





some of you may. Why, even Stephen wouldn't 
be much above eighty ; and you 'll be a little 
past sixty ! ' He laughed with a mellow, amused 
sound. " And all you young people of to-day will 
be telling your grandchildren how New York 
looked at the half-century mark. Well, it has 
made rapid strides since eighteen hundred. I 
sometimes wonder what there is to happen next. 
We have steam on land and w r ater. We have dis- 
covered Eldorado, and invented the telegraph ; 
and there are people figuring on laying one 
across the ocean. That may come in your day." 

" And a sewing-machine," added the little girl, 
smilingly. 

The sewing-machine was attracting a good deal 
of attention now, and making itself a useful factor. 

But to live to see nineteen hundred ! That would 
be like discovering the fountain of perpetual youth. 





CHAPTER XII 

UP-TOWN 

THERE had been so many delightful things in 
First Street, the little girl thought at first it 
would almost break her heart to go away. Her 
father, with the inertia of coming years, hated to 
be disturbed. 

" I hoped, when we did make any change, we 
would build on the old place," he said. " I 'd like 
country life again. But I am getting too old to 
farm ; and none of the boys care about it. If George 
had stayed at home," and Father Underbill sighed. 

George had not yet found his bonanza. There 
was gold in plenty in that wonderful country. 
There were hardships, too. He kept those to tell 
of in after years. It was a wild, rough, marvellous 
life; and every man of them w?3 waiting for a run 
of luck, that he might go East with his pile. Mean- 
while cities were begun. 

Mrs. Underbill sighed a little also, in an unde- 
cided fashion. All the children were here, and 
surely they could not go away and leave them 
behind. The attractive, rural aspect of Yonkers 
had changed, or was it that she had changed? 
Some of her old friends had gone to new homes ; 



 

some had died. Then she had grown so accus- 
tomed to the stirring life of the city. 

" No, we should not want to go alone," she said. 

" Steve 's a bright business-man. John 's long- 
headed, if he isn't quite so brilliant. Ben will be 
all for books and travel. And Jim- -well, it's 
odd, but there won't be a farmer among them." 

" No," returned their mother, not knowing 
whether to be glad or sorry. 

" Then farming is changing. And the near-by 
places are turning into towns. What the next half 
of the century will bring ' : 

Since there was no prospect of the homestead, 
they allowed themselves to be persuaded to join 
the migration. Foreigners were crowding them 
a little. There was a finer, freer air up-town. 

The Deans suited themselves, and Mr. Reed and 
Charles went with them. Charles was now a tall, 
fair young fellow, rather grave from the shock of 
the loss of his mother, intensified perhaps by his 
sympathy with Mrs. Dean and Josie. It was a 
great comfort to keep together. 

John looked up a new home ; but Cleanthe, with 
her arms around Mrs. Underbill's neck, said, in a 
broken sort of tone : - 

" Oh, you must be somewhere near us ! I don't 
feel as if I could live, if I did not see you every 
day. I have no mother but you." 

Twentieth Street seemed a long way up, to be 
sure. But there was an odd, rather oldish house, 
with a two-story ell that seemed to have been added 
as an after-thought. There was a stable and quite 


a garden. It had been considered rather a country 
house in its inception. 

Joe insisted that it was just the thing. He could 
have an office and a library, and a sleeping-room 
overhead, without disturbing the family. 

Mrs. Underbill declared there was twice too 
much room ; and if any of the other boys should 
marry and go away 

" There 's only Ben. I am a fixture ; and it will 
be years before Jim reaches that tempting period. 
Oh, I think you need not worry ! ' comforted the 
Doctor. 

Hanny was glad to go with everybody else. 
They had one sad sweet time at the Deans, talking 
over old days and the tea in the back-yard, when 
there had been Nora and the pussy, and the one 
who was not. It was rather sad to outgrow child- 
hood. Ah, how merry they had been ! What a 
simple idyllic memory this was to be for all her later 
years ! Mrs. Reed always lived in First Street to 
her ; and Tudie Dean used to go up and down the 
street, a blessed, beautiful ghost. The little girl 
was quite sure she would not be afraid to clasp her 
white hand, if she should meet her wandering about 
those sacred precincts. She could not have put 
her idea into Longfellow's beautiful lines; but it 
haunted her in the same shape of remembrance. 

" All houses wherein men have lived and died 
Are haunted houses." 

They went down to the Jasper house also. There 
had been a family of children to tramp over the 

 

flower-beds and leave debris about. There was no 
pretty striped awning, no wheeling-chair, no slim, 
picturesque negro lad, and no ladies in light lawns 
sitting about. It looked commonplace. 

"We can write Ichabod on it," said Charles, 
half regretfully. 

Hanny asked Joe why they should ; and he 
showed her the verse, " Thy glory has departed." 

" The glory has departed from the whole street," 
she said, glancing around. The new-comers were 
of a different class. Xo one swept the debris up 
to the crown of the street any more ; and the city 
street-sweepers were infrequent visitors. 

" It will be beginning all over again," Dr. Hoff- 
man said to his brother-in-law. " It seems a pity 
to waste so much endeavour. Yet if you can wait, 
the practice will be better worth while." 

"It wouldn't be the fair thing to crowd in on 
young Dr. Fitch. He did suggest a partnership, 
but I thought I would rather strike out for myself. 
And I prefer having all my interests at home. 
Mother begins to miss the children that have 
gone out; and there were so many of us." 

When Mrs. Underbill looked back, she always 
thought those early years in First Street were 
among the happiest of her life. They were 
broader and richer than the first wedded years. 
They could not keep together always. She 
wanted her children to know the sweetness of life 
and love. Steve and Margaret were very happy. 
John and his wife had supped of sorrow; but they 
were young and had each other; and children 



would come to restore beauty for ashes, and the 
oil of joy for mourning. 

She was delighted with Joe's decision. That 
night, when Joe had come home a very ghost of 
himself, and dropped down on Ilanny's bed, 
because he hadn't strength to go up another pair 
of stairs, and she had clasped her arms about him 
and cried, in her terror : " Oh, Joe, my dear son, is 
it cholera? " had been an awful moment for her. 

"No, mother dear; but if I can't have a few 
hours' rest, I shall die of fatigue. Just let me 
sleep, but watch me well.' 

She had sat beside him the rest of the night, 
from midnight to morning, counting his pulse 
now and then, which showed no indication of col- 
lapse. Other mothers had their sons snatched 
from them, mothers who were tender and 
worthy, and who loved as fervently as she did. 

When he awoke at the next noon, she felt as 
if he had been given back to her out of a great 
danger. And she was glad now to have him plan 
for the home-interest, glad there would be several 
years before she was called upon to share him 
with any other woman. 

So they said good-bye to the old house again, 
and placed their household gods in a new home. 
They had gone farther than any of the others, 
though they were nearer Margaret and Dolly. 
The Deans were lower down and on Second 
Avenue. Up above them were great open spaces. 
They had two lots, which gave them a grassy 
space beside the drive. The lot being deeper 

 

than usual, they could have a little garden where 
the fruit-trees did not shade. There was a tall, 
gnarled old pear-tree, and they found it bore 
excellent fruit. Right by the porch, in a lovely 
southern exposure, was a delicious nectarine. 

The little girl was deeply interested in Joe's 
house, as she began to call it. A door opened 
from the main hall, and one quite outside from 
the flagged path. That would be the patients' 
entrance, when they began to come. Joe went up 
to Yonkers and exhumed some old furniture. 
There was a queer, brass-studded, leather-covered 
sofa, with high roll arms, and a roll at the back 
that suggested a pillow. There were two small 
spindle-legged tables; some high-backed, oaken 
chairs, rudely carved, and almost black with age; 
and a curious old escritoire that was said to have 
come from France with the French grandmother 
who had landed with the emigrants at New 
Rochelle. 

His office was plainly appointed, with an oil- 
cloth on the floor, a row of shelves for jars of 
medicines; for even then many doctors com- 
pounded their own prescriptions. There was a 
plain business-desk, a table, and some chairs, and 
a small book-case. All the odd old things were 
to go in his sitting-room. 

Across one end, he had it filled in with book- 
shelves. One corner was for the little girl. 
And there was to be a special chair for her, so 
she could come in and study her lessons, or read 
or talk to her dear Doctor Joe. 



Mrs. French made a splendid addition to the 
room in a large Oriental rug that Doctor Joe 
valued more highly as the years went on. For 
then we were getting bright-hued carpets from 
French and English looms, and these dull old 
things were not in any great favour. Only it 
was so thick and soft, the little girl said it was 
jrood enousfh for a bed. 

o o 

Joe laughed. " I daresay I shall take many a 
nap on it. You must make me a nice pillow- 
cushion, out of some of your bits of silk. " 

People made real sensible patchwork then, or 
worked a cover in worsted, with perhaps a pretty 
bunch of flowers. 

The house had a basement-kitchen at the back, 
and a dumb-waiter like Margaret's. Mrs. 
Underbill thought at first she shouldn't like it. 
There was a spacious area, which made Hanny 
think of Mrs. Dean's in First Street, where they 
used to play tea. 

