fairer skin and red cheeks, and curling, dark hair. 
Now, at nine and twenty, she was rather blowzy, 
commonplace ; but Thirza would never be that. 

" I wonder if I could go to my room ? I feel 
as if I had the dust and grime of ages upon 
me." 

" Oh, yes," answered her sister, briskly. " Bel 
has the little room next to mother's, and you can 
sleep there and use mother's room. I tell John 
we must build an addition ; and he says wait until 
he can make a double house of it. But I'd begin 
to-morrow if Seth could lay up a little faster. 
They had an awful sight of sickness last winter, 
and lost their baby. Laura's ailing a good deal. 
Bel, go up-stairs with Aunt Thirza ; maybe she's 
forgot the way," and Clara laughed. 

"There are towels in my top bureau drawer," 
said her mother. 

" We've gone up in the garret, Fan and me ; 
and I think it's just splendid," began the child, a 
chubby girl nine or thereabouts, with a thick bang 
indeed, half her short hair seemed brushed over 



 

toward her forehead, which was broad but not very 
high, and made the bang unbecoming. 

" You may go down, now," said Aunt Thirza, in 
a soft tone, and the child obeyed reluctantly. The 
room was in neat, old-fashioned order. The wall 
had been whitened until it began to scale off in 
patches. There was an antique, high-post bed 
stead, with a gorgeous patchwork quilt a rising 
sun in reds and yellows and pinks and purples ; a 
high bureau ; a chest of drawers ; a modern wash- 
stand ; and some rush-bottomed chairs. The ad 
joining room had only a small bedstead and one 
chair. There would be room for her trunk. 

She took off her jacket and skirt. How delight 
ful the cool water felt ! She held handfuls of it to 
her face. She brushed out her hair, which was 
not black, but a soft, dusky hue, and a trifle wavy, 
but it never curled like Clara's, and was unglossy, 
but fine and very long. If her trunk was only 
here ! But she had a fresh waist in her satchel. 

Thirza sat down by the open window. When 
she was nineteen she had almost a mind to marry. 
The old grand-aunt who named her died and left 
her five thousand dollars, and her father dropped 
down one day with an unsuspected heart trouble. 
Seth wanted the farm, so it was appraised. He 
also wanted to marry Laura Albert, and her 
money paid half of each girl's share. 



 

Thirza felt herself but half educated, and she 
had a thirst for learning. She went away to 
school for a year and found out many things 
about herself, and why she was so different from 
Clara. Her mother thought it great foolishness. 
Then she resolved to study art and entered a 
training school. The second year she had spent 
her vacation abroad, and the world had opened its 
rich stores to her. She would never be a great 
genius, but she could earn money in a congenial 
manner and have a broad, satisfying life. 

And it was so different from this ! A vague 
shudder went over her. She had tried to idealize 
them all a little, to blame herself for lack of love, 
and so she had resolved to spend this summer 
among her friends and kinsfolk. From henceforth 
she was to lead her own separate life. Ah, how 
bright and peaceful and enticing it looked ! The 
pretty suite of rooms, the three congenial women 
working out their own problem of self-support in 
a reliant manner, making a pretty, cosy, aesthetic 
home, where flowers and pictures and bits of rare 
china should be gathered ; a touch of fire in the 
fireplace in the evening, the lounge rolled up, the 
easy chairs placed cosily, books and pamphlets, the 
papers of the day with their columns of woman's 
work, not simple woman's gossip over fashions ; 
then a friend or two dropping in ; or the three 



 

going out to a lecture or a reception ; or some 
body's "evening." What a delightful vision! 
This must give her courage for the weeks of tire 
some commonplaces. 

Some one was coming up-stairs, and behind 
the step there was a shuffling of feet and a bang 
ing of trunk corners. 

" John's sent up your trunk," announced her 
mother. "And that great box. What is in it, 
Thirzy ? " 

Thirza sprang up, flushing. 

" Let them bring the trunk in here, and the 
box" 

" You can't get that great box up here, 'er if 
you did it would have to stand in the middle of 
the floor in my room, and goodness knows how 
we'd get round." 

" No, I'll unpack that down-stairs," Thirza kept 
her voice very soft and gentle. This was her 
mother, let her remember. 

" Yes ; put the trunk here." An awkward boy 
and a thin, nervous-looking man had it by the 
handles. The boy grinned and said, " It's awful 
heavy," but he ran his words so together you had 
to interpret them by faith. 

They put it down with a thump. Mrs. Rolfe 
explained that the " box didn't need no bringin' 
up." 



 

" My, what a trunk ! " ejaculated her mother. 

Thirza began to unstrap and unpack, and shook 
out some skirts, hanging them in the closet. 

"Are you through now?" asked her mother, 
who had been listening rather grudgingly to the 
rustle of silk. " Or is there some more schoolin' ? 
'Pears to me you ought to earn a lot to make up 
for all you've spent." 

" I have been earning all this last year," replied 
Thirza, quietly, " not quite as much as I have 
spent," with a little smile. " But next year I shall 
probably earn 'more than I spend. I am through 
with the regular course, but no doubt I shall take 
lessons in some other branches." 

" But if you know enough to get your living " 

" I shall study some things for the love of it." 

Mrs. Rolfe sighed. Then she said : " Both 
your old lovers are waitin' for you I expect ; 
and, Thirza, Chris Morrow's bought Widow Per 
kins' farm. It went for a song. 'Twas a rainy 
day, and there wa'n't much biddin', so after all no 
one could blame him. He said he'd give twelve 
hundred for it and not a dollar more. Everybody 
knowed that, so they were afraid to step over the 
line for fear they'd get caught. And he's been 
fixin' up his house fine, I tell you. I ain't heered 
as he's waitin' on any one." 

Thirza flushed. They had been very good 



 

friends. She had almost thought she could marry 
him. That was at eighteen. Then they quarrelled 
about her going away to school. He told her she 
knew enough and she would be a fool to waste 
her money. Five thousand dollars made her seem 
a big prize, with perhaps two thousand from her 
father's estate. 

" Here's one bureau drawer for you," said her 
mother, with a vague feeling she was making no 
headway. " I took the things out so's you'd have 
a little room. Clara does so want the house 
altered, but John can't spare the money out of the 
business, and Seth somehow don't get along. 
Laura ain't a real good manager." 

Then they went down. The baby was asleep. 
There had been three children very close together, 
then a little halt before the other two came, 
Johnny and Frances Jane the two others were 
boys again. 

When Thirza went to bed she was quite con 
vinced that Nature or the Lord had designed her 
for a single woman. She was sure she had no 
overpowering love for children. And yet when 
little Tom had pulled over the dish of potatoes 
standing on the kitchen table, the hard slaps his 
mother gave him went to her very heart. He 
was tired and hungry and sleepy, too. She took 
him up on her lap. 



 

" Don't let that child go to sleep, Thirza," said 
Mrs. Kent, sharply. " I always give him a good 
wash on Saturday, and there was so much on 
hand I couldn't do it this afternoon." 

" Couldn't I ? " she ventured. 

"No, supper's ready. There's John. He al 
ways comes home before the evening rush." 

There was supper with no end of confusion. 
Aunt Abby and Grandma Rolfe cleared away 
the things. Clara washed the children and put 
them to bed, and at last the house was quiet. 

It was quiet a long while Sunday morning. 
No one rose early. Ah, how the birds sang ! 
And the clang of the old church bells brought 
back visions of her early girlhood. 

No, there was nothing quite like the country, 
after all. The large ridge of hills in the varied 
greens of the early summer, with the softened, 
thinner effects, the vistas between the grim moun 
tain walls, with here and there a scanty clump of 
bushes, all that could secure a foothold, the air 
like pearly gossamer, a sun yet devoid of scorch 
ing heat, and oh, the divine fragrance ! There 
was so much of it. The wealth of beauty enfolded 
her. 

There were friends and friends. Her girl 
mates had one or two children by the hand ; and 
the young single women of that time seemed 



 

rather old and worn, now. She was neither, they 
thought with a pang of envy. Her lavender gray 
gown fitted exquisitely. Thirza didn't have one 
high shoulder nor one high hip, nor just the indi 
cation of coming roundness in the shoulders. 
There was a touch of pink about the throat, and 
pink in her gray straw hat. 

" Pink does make any one look young," said 
Miss Balcom to herself for future remembrance. 

Aunt Hannah Gage pressed up and shook her 
hand warmly. " Miss Deane," she said, nodding 
to the girl beside her. How well and manly Royal 
Palmer looked ! Why, there were quite a number 
of marriageable men in Westhorpe. 

" Come out and see us," said Aunt Hannah, 
cordially. In her heart she thought "She and 
that Miss Otis would just suit." But Miss Otis 
had gone to the little Episcopal chapel. They 
would take her up on the way. Westhorpe was 
Presbyterian to its heart's core. 

" Aunt Hannah's taking some boarders this sum 
mer. I do wonder how she'll get along," and Clara 
Kent laughed. 

" That young girl 

" Oh, no ! She's some of old Mr. Gage's second 
wife's folks. These people have been two or three 
years at Mrs. Garth's, but they wanted more quiet. 
Two rather oldish people and their niece. Rich, I 




guess. Roy Palmer better look out for the niece. 
I don't see why the Westhorpe girls can't snap up 
the nice fellows." 

Everybody was considering the possibility of 
marriage. It annoyed her. Clara's worldly gossip 
seemed to desecrate the grand Sunday. 

She went to church again in the evening, and 
Chris Morrow walked home with her with a sort 
of jaunty indifference, as if to show her he was 
yet heart whole. And on Monday afternoon it 
seemed as if the town turned out to do her honor. 
They were curious about the kind of pictures she 
made, and if it was profitable business. Miss 
Balcom wondered how long it would take to learn. 

The box contained gifts for the family, and, con 
sidering how different her life and aims were, she 
had made quite judicious selections. She brought 
Clara an etching of an old mill, because it was like 
the old mill where they used to play when they 
were children ; just the same point of land jutted 
out in the water, and there was the same little swirl 
among the weeds and sedge grass. 

" I should never think of putting that in a pict 
ure, when there are so many finer things. Queer, 
isn't it, how people run about painting them ! There 
were several artists at the Holmes' last summer, 
and I do believe that they painted every square 
inch of the mountain. And old Jimmy's hut ! 



 

Why, they seemed to think that wonderful. I wish 
you'd paint me some flowers. You do paint ? " 

" Oh, yes." Thirza gave a faint little smile. 
And when they went to hang the picture, Clara 
finally consigned it to a corner. She and John 
had crayon portraits, and they had the places of 
honor in the parlor; then came a photograph of 
her parents, a group of the older children, and 
single ones of the two others. There were two 
panel pictures pond lilies and hollyhocks. The 
wall was pretty full, to be sure. The room was 
stiff and ugly. The etching in its neat frame 
looked like a nun in a garnish crowd. 

Her book was for her mother. It was a sum 
mer book of flowers and songs, little poems that 
sung themselves. One of the authors of the vol 
ume was a friend of hers, a bright, chatty news 
paper woman who not infrequently broke out into 
song. Thirza had two little poems in it. She was 
not a real poet any more than she was an artist, 
but now and then an inspiration came to her. One 
of the illustrations she had given, and she had also 
designed the cover, which had not been paid for 
in regard, like the other, but in solid cash, after it 
had taken the second prize in her class, with two 
out of the five judges in favor of giving it the 
highest rank. 

Mrs. Rolfe was proud of it, but in her secret 



 

heart she wondered how people could be weak 
enough to pay away money for such things. Her 
idea of literary and artistic values were of the 
vaguest kind. .She was gratified that Thirza could 
earn money so easily, but she had a fear that it 
was a gift akin to those of Cinderella's godmother, 
and would suddenly vanish. If Thirza was teach 
ing school now, her first half-formed plan, Mrs. 
Rolfe could have understood that. She would 
have been still more proud of it. 

But Westhorpe was not all of this calibre. Miss 
Brinsley, the judge's daughter, came over she 
had gone to school with Thirza when they were 
a dozen or so years old and was really glad to 
see her. Her honest eyes corroborated her words. 
She had painted a little, just for amusement ; she 
had modelled in clay, and had an eager interest in 
the arts. They were all delighted that Thirza 
won one of the prizes. She hoped Thirza would 
go out sketching and take her for a companion. 
And would she come to tea on Wednesday after 
noon, and meet a few friends ? 

Thirza was really glad to do so. She had a 
most enjoyable time, and other invitations were 
showered upon her. Clara laughingly declared 
she was capturing the "quality." 

But lines were not so closely drawn in Wes 
thorpe. The lawyers, the two doctors, the clergy, 



 

and some of the higher bank officers formed a 
little coterie. They mingled with their neighbors 
and asked them to tea occasionally, or a reception 
to the minister, but they did not feel affronted 
when they were left out of some of the grander 
society "functions." 

Mr. Rolfe belonged to an old family that had 
been known about Westhorpe for over a century. 
One of his sisters had married a judge, gone West 
and become a "governor's lady." Everybody in 
his time thought it a pity he shouldn't have looked 
higher than Delia Briggs, but she made him a 
good wife, though they never seemed to increase 
in worldly prosperity. But no one made any such 
comment when bright, showy, rather pronounced 
Clara married John Kent, who kept one of the 
grocery stores in the town. And it was a fore 
gone conclusion that Thirza would take Chris Mor 
row, and then it was suspected that she cared for 
Bernard Ward. That a girl would deliberately 
choose a single life was simply incredible ! 

Now Chris meant to be early in the field. He 
was prospering and adding to his farm. And if 
Thirza wanted to keep at such fiddling work after 
she was married, he would not object. He had an 
idea she could sit down of an afternoon when the 
housework was done up and draw a little picture 
just as she would put on a patch or darn a stock- 



 

ing. Only it would be a hundred times more 
profitable, and he knew she had not spent all her 
money. 

Bernard Ward looked across the church at her 
that Sunday morning. He was singing in the 
choir, and he taught classics and higher branches at 
the academy. The small, spirited face had hardly 
changed, but it seemed to him the figure had taken 
on an indescribable dignity and grace. To think 
of her having made her mark, any mark in fact. 
A girl with courage and purpose ! And he was 
here just the same as four years ago. No, not 
quite. He had been learning all the time. But 
what was it all worth, if he spent his life here ? 
And three years ago his dream was to marry 
Thirza and do just this. 



CHAPTER IV 

A NEW FRIEND 

HELEN OTIS found, after a few days, that a 
whole summer on a farm would be rather dull. 
She must have a piano and some entertainment 
beside these mild drives. She was very fond of 
horseback riding. 

" Neither of my horses are fit for a lady's riding," 
said Roy, " but I can get you one, and I'll inquire 
about the piano. I think we will have to go to 
Oxford for that. There's an organ factory ; we 
might take it for our next drive." 

" Thank you," she returned, pleased by his 
interest. His commonplace manner was very 
satisfactory. 

Her harmonious elegance touched Royal Palmer 
in a curious way. Bessie had a kittenish graceful 
ness that had attracted him wonderfully at first. 
He was so little used to seeing any young women 
around, and it was very pleasant. Her cool, clear 
voice lingered in his mind long after she had 
spoken. It was a trained voice with a natural 
depth and sweetness. She had a gliding, fasci- 


nating motion as she went about the house. He 
liked to see her come down-stairs. She never 
bustled or seemed to hurry, never ran against 
chairs or tables, never disarranged small belongings. 

Roy Palmer had expected to be married some 
day. He was quite in demand whenever there 
were any festivities going >n ; but somehow either 
the right girl had not appeared or he was slow in 
deciding. Aunt Hannah made him very comfort 
able, and the girls in general were afraid of her 
