Wherever you are, in Calcutta, and for miles around, you 
can see it ; and always when you see it you think of Ochter- 
lony. And so there is not an hour in the day that you do not 
think of Ochterlony and WQuder who he was. It is good that 
Clive cannot come back, for he would think it was for Plassey; 
and then that great spirit would be wounded when the revelation 
came that it was not. Clive would find out that it was for 
Ochterlony; and he would think Ochterlony was a battle. 
And he would think it was a great one, too, and he would say, 
" With three thousand I whipped sixty thousand and founded 
the Empire — and there is no monument; this other soldier must 
have whipped a billion with a dozen and saved the world," 
But he would be mistaken. Ochterlony was a man, not a 
battle. And he did good and honorable service, too ; as good 
and honorable service as has been done in India by seventy- 
five or a hundred other Englishmen of courage, rectitude, and 
distinguished capacity. For India has been a fertile breeding- 
ground of such men, and remains so ; great men, both in war 
and in the civil service, and as modest as great. But they 
have no monuments, and were not expecting any. Ochter- 
lony could not have been expecting one, and it is not at all 
likely that he desired one — certainly not until Clive and 
Hastings should be supplied. Every day Clive and Hastings 
lean on the battlements of heaven and look down and wonder 
which of the two the monument is for; and they fret and 
worry because they cannot find out, and so the peace of 
heaven is spoiled for them and lost. But not for Ochterlony. 
Ochterlony is not troubled. He doesn't suspect that it is his 
monument. Heaven is sweet and peaceful to him. There is a 
sort of unfairness about it all. 
Indeed, if monuments were always given in India for high 
achievements, duty straitly performed, and smirchless records, 
the landscape would be monotonous with them. The handful 
of English in India govern the Indian myriads with apparent 
ease, and without noticeable friction, through tact, training, 
and distinguished administrative ability, reinforced by just and 
liberal laws — and by keeping their word to the native when- 
ever they give it. 
England is far from India and knows little about the 
eminent services performed by her servants there, for it is the 
newspaper correspondent who makes fame, and he is not sent 
to India but to the continent, to report the doings of the 
princelets and the dukelets, and where they are visiting and 
whom they are marrying. Often a British official spends 
thirty or forty years in India, climbing from grade to grade 
by services which would make him celebrated anywhere else, 
and finishes as a vice-sovereign, governing a great realm and 
millions of subjects ; then he goes home to England substanti- 
ally unknown and unheard of, and settles down in some 
modest corner, and is as one extinguished. Ten years later 
there is a twenty-line obituary in the London papers, and the 
reader is paralyzed by the splendors of a career which he is 
not sure that he had ever heard of before. But meanwhile he 
has learned all about the continental princelets and dukelets. 
The average man is profoundly ignorant of countries that 
lie remote from his own. When they are mentioned in his 
presence one or two facts and maybe a couple of names rise 
like torches in his mind, lighting up an inch or two of it and 
leaving the rest all dark. The mention of Egypt suggests 
some Biblical facts and the Pyramids — nothing more. The 
mention of South Africa suggests Kimberly and the diamonds 
and there an end. Formerly the mention, to a Hindoo, of 
America suggested a name — George Washington — with that 
his familiarity with our country was exhausted. Latterly his 
familiarity with it has doubled in bulk ; so that when America 
is mentioned now, two torches flare up in the dark caverns of 
his mind and he says, " Ah, the country of the great man — 
Washington ; and of the Holy City — Chicago." For he 
knows about the Congress of Keligion, and this has enabled 
him to get an erroneous impression of Chicago. 
When India is mentioned to the citizen of a far country it 
suggests Clive, Hastings, the Mutiny, Kipling, and a number 
of other great events ; and the mention of Calcutta infallibly 
brings up the Black Hole. And so, when that citizen finds 
himself in the capital of India he goes first of all to see the 
Black Hole of Calcutta — and is disappointed. 
The Black Hole was not preserved ; it is gone, long, long 
ago. It is strange. Just as it stood, it was itself a monu- 
ment ; a ready-made one. It was finished, it was complete, its 
materials were strong and lasting, it needed no furbishing up, 
no repairs ; it merely needed to be let alone. It was the first 
brick, the Foundation Stone, upon which was reared a mighty 
Empire — the Indian Empire of Great Britain. It was the 
ghastly episode of the Black Hole that maddened the British 
and brought Clive, that young military marvel, raging up from 
Madras ; it was the seed from which sprung Plassey ; and it 
was that extraordinary battle, whose like had not been seen in 
the earth since Agincourt, that laid deep and strong the 
foundations of England's colossal Indian sovereignty. 
And yet within the time of men who still live, the Black 
Hole was torn down and thrown away as carelessly as if its 
bricks were common clay, not ingots of historic gold. There 
is no accounting for human beings. 
The supposed site of the Black Hole is marked by an en- 
graved plate. I saw that; and better that than nothing. 
The Black Hole was a prison — a cell is nearer the right word 
— eighteen feet square, the dimensions of an ordinary bed- 
chamber ; and into this place the victorious Nabob of Bengal 
packed 146 of his English prisoners. There was hardly standing 
room for them ; scarcely a breath of air was to be got ; the 
time was night, the weather sweltering hot. Before the dawn 
came, the captives were all dead but twenty-three. Mr. 
Holwell's long account of the awful episode was familiar to 
the world a hundred years ago, but one seldom sees in print 
even an extract from it in our day. Among the striking 
things in it is this. Mr. Holwell, perishing with thirst, kept 
himself alive by sucking the perspiration from his sleeves. It 
gives one a vivid idea of the situation. He presently found 
that while he was busy drawing life from one of his sleeves a 
young English gentleman was stealing supplies from the other 
one. Holwell was an unselfish man, a man of the most gen- 
erous impulses ; he lived and died famous for these fine and 
rare qualities ; yet when he found out what was liappening to 
that unwatched sleeve, he took the precaution to suck that 
one dry first. The miseries of the 131ack Hole were able to 
change even a nature like his. But that young gentleman 
was one of the twenty-three survivors, and he said it was the 
stolen perspiration that saved his life. From the middle of 
Mr. Hoi well's narrative I will make a brief excerpt: 
"Then a general prayer to Heaven, to hasten the approach of the flames 
to the right and left of us, and put a period to our misery. But these failing, 
they whose strength and spirits were quite exhausted laid themselves down 
and expired quietly upon their fellows: others who had yet some strength 
and vigor left made a last effort at the windows, and several succeeded by 
leaping and scrambling over the backs and heads of those in the first rank, 
and got hold of the bars, from which there was no removing them. Many to 
the right and left sunk with the violent pressure, and were soon suffocated; 
for now a steam arose from the living and the dead, which affected us in all 
its circumstances as if we were forcibly held with our heads over a bowl full 
of strong volatile spirit of hartshorn, until suffocated; nor could the effluvia 
of the one be distinguished from the other, and frequently, when I was forced 
by the load upon my head and shoulders to hold my face down, I was obliged, 
near as I was to the window, instantly to raise it again to avoid suffocation. I 
need not, my dear friend, ask your commiseration, when I tell you, that in this 
plight, from half an hour past eleven till near two in the morning, I sustained 
the weight of a heavy man, with his knees in my back, and the pressure of 
his whole body on my head. A Dutch surgeon who had taken his seat upon 
my left shoulder, and a Topaz (a black Christian soldier) bearing on my 
right ; all which nothing could have enabled me to support but the props and 
pressure equally sustaining me all around. The two latter I frequently dis- 
lodged by shifting my hold on the bars and driving my knuckles into their 
ribs; but my friend above stuck fast, held immovable by two bars. 
"I exerted anew my strength and fortitude ; but the repeated trials and 
efforts I made to dislodge the insufferable incumbrances upon me at last 
quite exhausted me ; and towards two o'clock, finding I must quit the window 
or sink where I was, I resolved on the former, having bore, truly for the sake 
of others, infinitely more for life than the best of it is worth. In the rank 
close behind me was an officer of one of the ships, whose name was Cary, and 
who had behaved with much bravery during the siege (his wife, a fine 
woman, though country born, would not quit him, but accompanied him into 
the prison, and was one who survived). This poor wretch had been long rav- 
ing for water and air ; I told him I was determined to give up life, and 
recommended his gaining my station. On my quitting it he made a fruitless 
attempt to get my place ; but the Dutch surgeon, who sat on my shoulder, 
supplanted him. Poor Cary expressed his thankfulness, and said he would 
give up life too ; but it was with the utmost labor we forced our way from 
the window (several in the inner ranks appearing to me dead standing, unable 
to fall by the throng and equal pressure around). He laid himself down to 
die ; and his death, I believe, was very sudden ; for he was a short, full, san- 
guine man. His strength was great ; and, I imagine, had he not retired with 
me, I should never have been able to force my way. I was at this time sen- 
sible of no pain, and little uneasiness ; I can give you no better idea of my 
situation than by repeating my simile of the bowl of spirit of hartshorn. I 
found a stupor coming on apace, and laid myself down by that gallant old 
man, the Rev. Mr. Jervas Bellamy, who laid dead with his son, the lieutenant, 
hand in hand, near the southernmost wall of the prison. When I had lain 
there some little time, I still had reflection enough to suffer some uneasiness 
in the thought that I should be trampled upon, when dead, as I myself had 
done to others. With some difficulty I raised myself, and gained the plat- 
form a second time, where I presently lost all sensation; the last trace of sen- 
sibility that I have been able to recollect after my laying down, was my sash 
being uneasy about my waist, which I untied, and threw from me. Of what 
passed in this interval, to the time of my resurrection from this hole of bor- 
rows, I can give you no account." 
There was plenty to see in Calcutta, but there was not 
plenty of time for it. I saw the fort that Clive built ; and the 
place where Warren Hastings and the author of the Junius 
Letters fought their duel ; and the great botanical gardens ; 
and the fashionable afternoon turnout in the Maidan ; and a 
grand review of the garrison in a great plain at sunrise ; and a 
military tournament in which great bodies of native soldiery 
exhibited the perfection of their drill at all arms, a spectacular 
and beautiful show occupying several nights and closing with the 
mimic storming of a native fort which was as good as the reality 
for thrilling and accurate detail, and better than the reality for 
security and comfort ; we had a pleasure excursion on the 
Iloogly by courtesy of friends, and devoted the rest of the time 
to social life and the Indian museum. One should spend a 
month in the museum, an enchanted palace of Indian antiquities. 
Indeed, a person might spend half a year among the beautiful 
and wonderful things without exhausting their interest. 
It was winter. We were of Kipling's " hosts of tourists 
who travel up and down India in the cold weather showing 
how things ought to be managed." It is a common expression 
there, " the cold weather," and the people think there is such 
a thing. It is because they have lived there half a lifetime, 
and their perceptions have become blunted. When a person is 
accustomed to 138 in the shade, his ideas about cold weather 
are not valuable. I had read, in the histories, that the June 
marches made between Lucknow and Cawnpore by the British 
forces in the time of the Mutiny were made in that kind of 
weather — 138 in the shade — and had taken it for historical 
embroidery. I had read it again in Serjeant- 
Major Forbes-Mitchell's account of his mili- 
tary experiences in the Mutiny — at least I 
thought I had — and in Calcutta I asked him 
if it was true, and he said it was. An officer 
of high rank who had been in the thick of the 
Mutiny said the same. As long as those men 
were talking about what they knew, they 
were trustworthy, and I believed them ; but 
when they said it was now " cold weather," I 
saw that they had traveled outside of their 
sphere of knowledge and were floundering. 
I believe that in India " cold weather " is 
merely a conventional phrase and has come 
into use through the necessity of having some 
way to distinguish between ' weather which 
will melt a brass door-knob and weather 
which will only make it mushy. It was shy weather. 
observable that brass ones were in use while I was in Calcutta, 
showing that it was not yet time to change to porcelain ; I was 
told the change to porcelain was not usually made until May. 
But this cold weather was too warm for us ; so we started to 
Darjeeling, in the Himalayas — a twenty-four hour journey. 
CHAPTER LY. 
There are 869 different forms of lying, but only one of them has been squarely 
forbidden. Thou shalt not bear false witness against thy neighbor. 
— Puddnhead Wilson''s New CaHendar. 
rROM Diary : 
February llf.. We left at 4:30 p.m. Until dark we 
moved through rich vegetation, then changed to a 
boat and crossed the Ganges. 
February 15. Up with the sun. A brilliant morning, and 
frosty. A double suit of flannels is found necessary. The 
plain is perfectly level, and seems to stretch away and away 
and away, dimming and softening, to the uttermost bounds of 
nowhere. What a soaring, strenuous, gushing fountain spray 
of delicate greenery a bunch of bamboo is ! As far as the eye 
can reach, these grand vegetable geysers grace the view, their 
spoutings refined to steam by distance. And there are fields 
of bananas, with the sunshine glancing from the varnished 
surface of their drooping vast leaves. And there are frequent 
groves of palm ; and an effective accent is given to the land- 
scape by isolated individuals of this picturesque family, tower- 
ing, clean-stemmed, their plumes broken and hanging ragged, 
Nature's imitation of an umbrella that has been out to see 
what a cyclone is like and is trying not to look disappointed. 
And everywhere through the soft morning vistas we 
glimpse the villages, the countless villages, the myriad villages, 
thatched, built of clean new matting, snuggling among grouped 
palms and sheaves of bamboo ; villages, villages, no end of 
villages, not three hundred yards apart, and dozens and dozens 
of them in sight all the time ; a mighty City, hundreds of 
miles long, hundreds of miles broad, made all of villages, the 
biggest city in the earth, and as populous as a European 
kingdom. I have seen no such city as this before. And there 
is a continuously repeated and replenished multitude of naked 
men in view on both sides and ahead. We fly through it 
mile after mile, but still it is always there, on both sides and 
ahead — brown-bodied, naked men and boys, plowing in the 
fields. But not a woman. In these two hours I have not 
seen a woman or a girl working in the fields. 
" From Greenland's icy mountains, 
From India's coral strand, 
Where Afric's sunny fountains 
Roll down their golden sand. 
From many an ancient river. 
From many a palmy plain. 
They call us to deliver 
Their land from error's chain." 
Those are beautiful verses, and they have remained in my 
memory all my life. But if the closing lines are true, let us 
hope that when we come to answer the call and deliver the 
land from its errors, we shall secrete from it some of our 
high-civilization ways, and at the same time borrow some of 
its pagan ways to enrich our high system with. We have a 
right to do this. If we lift those people up, we have a right to 
lift ourselves up nine or ten grades or so, at their expense. A 
few years ago I spent several weeks at Tolz, in Bavaria. It 
is a Roman Catholic region, and not even Benares is more 
deeply or pervasively or intelligently devout. In my diary of 
those days I find this : 
" We took a long drive yesterday around about the lovely country roads. 
But it was a drive whose pleasure was damaged in a couple of ways : by the 
dreadful shrines and by the shameful spectacle of gray and venerable old 
grandmothers toiling in the fields. The shrines were frequent along the 
roads — figures of the Saviour nailed to the cross and streaming with blood 
from the wounds of the nails and the thorns. 
"When missionaries go from here do they find fault with the pagan 
idols ? I saw many women seventy and even eighty years old mowing and 
binding in the fields, and pitchforking the loads into the wagons." 
I was in Austria later, and in Munich. In Munich I saw 
gray old women pushing trucks up hill and down, long dis- 
tances, trucks laden with barrels of beer, incredible loads. In 
my Austrian diary I find this : 
"In the fields I often see a 
woman and a cow harnessed to the 
plow, and a man driving. 
" In the public street of Marien- 
bad to-day, I saw an old, bent, gray- 
headed woman, in harness with a 
dog, drawing a laden sled over bare 
dirt roads and bare pavements ; and 
at his ease walked the driver, smok- 
ing his pipe, a hale fellow not thirty 
years old." 
Five or six years ago I 
bought an open boat, made 
a kind of a canvas wagon-roof 
over the stern of it to shelter me from sun and rain ; hired a 
courier and a boatman, and made a twelve-day floating voy- 
age down the Ehone frdm Lake Bourget to Marseilles. In 
my diary of that trip I find this entry. I was far down the 
Rhone then : 
" Passing St. Etienne, 2:15 p.m. On a distant ridge inland, a tall open- 
work structure cominandingly situated, with a statue of the Virgin standing 
on it. A devout country. All down this river, wherever there is a crag 
there is a statue of the Virgin on it. I believe I have seen a hundred of 
them. And yet, in many respects, the peasantry seem to be mere pagans, 
and destitute of any considerable degree of civilization. 
" . . . . We reached a not very promising looking village about 4 
o'clock, and I concluded to tie up for the day ; munching fruit and fogging 
the hood with pipe-smoke had grown monotonous ; I could not have the hood 
furled, because the floods of rain fell unceasingly. The tavern was on the 
river bank, as is the custom. It was dull there, and melancholy — nothing to 
do but look out of the window into the drenching rain, and shiver ; one could 
do that, for it was bleak and cold and windy, and country France furnishes 
no fire. Winter overcoats did not help me much ; they had to be supple- 
mented with rugs. The raindrops were so large and struck the river with 
such force that they knocked up the water like pebble-splashes. 
" With the exception of 
a very occasional wooden- 
shod peasant, nobody was 
abroad in this bitter weather 
— I mean nobody of our 
sex. But all weathers are 
alike to the women in these 
continental countries. To 
them and the other animals, 
life is serious ; nothing in- 
terrupts their slavery. 
Three of them were wash- 
ing clothes in the river un- 
der the window when I 
arrived, and they continued 
at it as long as there was 
light to work by. One was 
apparently thirty ; another 
— the mother ! — above 
fifty; the third — grand- 
mother ! — so old and worn 
and gray she could have 
passed for eighty ; I took 
her to be that old. They had no waterproofs nor rubbers, of course ; over 
their shoulders they wore gunny-sacks — simply conductors for rivers of 
water ; some of the volume reached the ground ; the rest soaked in on the 
way. 
"At last a vigorous fellow of thirty-five arrived, dry and comfortable, 
smoking his pipe under his big umbrella in an open donkey-cart — husband, 
son, and grandson of those women ! He stood up in the cart, sheltering him- 
s'lf , and began to superintend, issuing his orders in a masterly tone of com- 
mand, and showing temper when they were not obeyed swiftly enough. 
FRANCE. 
Without complaiut or murmur the drowned women patiently carried out the 
orders, lifting the immense baskets of soggy, wrung-out clothing into the 
cart and stowing them to the man's satisfaction. There were six of the great 
baskets, and a man of mere ordinary strength could not have lifted any one 
of them. The cart being full now, the Frenchman descended, still sheltered 
by his umbrella, entered the tavern, and the women went drooping home- 
ward, trudging in the wake of the cart, and soon were blended with the 
deluge and lost to sight. 
" When I went down into the public room, the Frenchman had his bottle 
of wine and plate of food on a bare table black with grease, and was 
"chomping" like a horse. He had the little religious paper which is in 
everybody's hands on the Rhone borders, and was enlightening himself with 
the histories of French saints who used to flee to the desert in the Middle 
Ages to escape the contamination of woman. For two hundred years France 
has been sending missionaries to other savage lands. To spare to the needy 
from poverty like hers is fine and true generosity." 
But to get back to India — where, as my favorite poem 
says — 
" Every prospect pleases. 
And only man is vile." 
It is because Bavaria and Austria and France have not 
introduced their civilization to him yet. But Bavaria and 
Austria and France are on their way. They are coming. 
They will rescue him ; they will refine the vileness out of 
him. 
Some time during the forenoon, approaching the mountains, 
we changed from the regular train to one composed of little 
canvas-sheltered cars that skimmed along within a foot of the 
ground and seemed to be going fifty miles an hour when they 
were really making about twenty. Each car had seating 
capacity for half-a-dozen persons ; and when the curtains were 
up one was substantially out of doors, and could see every- 
where, and get all the breeze, and be luxuriously comfortable. 
It was not a pleasure excursion in name only, but in fact. 
After a while we stopped at a little wooden coop of a sta- 
tion just within the curtain of the sombre jungle, a place with 
a deep and dense forest of great trees and scrub and vines all 
about it. The royal Bengal tiger is in great force there, and 
is very bold and unconventional. From this lonely little sta- 
tion a message once went to the railway manager in Calcutta: 
" Tiger eating station-master on front porch ; telegraph instruc- 
tions." • 
It was there that I had my first tiger hunt. I killed thir- 
teen. We were presently away again, and the train began to 
climb the mountains. In one place seven w41d elephants 
crossed the track, but two of them got away before I could 
overtake them. The railway journey up the mountain is forty 
miles, and it takes eight hours to" make it. It is so wild and 
interesting and exciting and enchanting that it ought to take a 
week. As for the vegetation, it is a museum. The jungle 
seemed to contain samples of every rare and curious tree and 
bush that we had ever seen or heard of. It is from that 
museum, I think, that the globe must have been supplied with 
the trees and vines and shrubs that it holds precious. 
The road is infinitely and charmingly crooked. It goes 
winding in and out under lofty cliffs that are smothered in 
vines and foliage, and around the edges of bottomless chasms; 
and all the way one glides by files of picturesque natives, some 
carrying burdens up, others going down from their work in 
the tea-gardens ; and once there was a gaudy wedding proces- 
sion, all bright tinsel and color, and a bride, comely and girlish, 
who peeped out from the curtains of her palanquin, exposing 
her face with that pure delight which the young and happy 
take in sin for sin's own sake. 
By and by we were well up in the region of the clouds, and 
from that breezy height we looked down and afar over a won- 
derful picture — the Plains of India, stretching to the horizon, 
soft and fair, level as a floor, shimmering with heat, mottled 
with cloud-shadows, and cloven with shining rivers. Immedi- 
ately below us, and receding down, down, down, toward the 
valley, was a shaven confusion of hilltops, with ribbony roads 
and paths squirming and snaking cream-yellow all over them 
and about them, every curve and twist sharply distinct. 
At an elevation of 6,000 feet we entered a thick cloud, and 
it shut out the world and kept it shut out. We climbed 1,000 
feet higher, then began to descend, and presently got down to 
Darjeeling, which is 6,000 feet above the level of the Plains. 
We had passed many a mountain village on the way up, 
and seen some new kinds of natives, among them many sam- 
ples of the fighting Ghurkas. They are not large men, but 
they are strong and resolute. There are no better soldiers 
.among Britain's native troops. And we had passed shoals of 
their women climbing the forty miles of steep road from the 
valley to their mountain homes, with tall baskets on their backs 
hitched to their foreheads by a band, and containing a freight- 
age weighing — I will not say how many hundreds of pounds, 
for the sum is unbelievable. These were young women, and 
they strode smartly along under these astonishing burdens 
with the air of people out for a holiday. I was told that a 
woman will carry a piano on her back all the way up the 
mountain ; and that more than once a woman had done it. If 
these were old women I should regard the Ghurkas as no 
more civilized than the Europeans. 
At the railway station at Darjeeling you find plenty of cab- 
substitutes — open coffins, in which you sit, and are then borne 
on men's shoulders up the steep roads into the town. 
Up there we found a fairly comfortable hotel, the property 
of an indiscriminate and incoherent landlord, who looks after 
nothing, but leaves everything to his army of Indian servants. 
No, he does look after the bill — to be just to him — and the 
tourist pannot do better than follow his example. I was told 
by a resident that the summit of Kinchin junga is often hidden 
in the clouds, and that sometimes a tourist has waited twenty- 
two days and then been obliged to go away without a sight of 
it. And yet went not disappointed ; for when he got his hotel 
bill he recognized that he was now seeing the highest thing in 
the Himalayas. But this is probably a lie. 
After lecturing I went to the Club that night, and that was 
a comfortable place. It is loftily situated, and looks out over 
a vast spread of scenery ; from it you can see where the boun- 
daries of three countries come together, some thirty miles away ; 
Thibet is one of them, Kepaul another, and I think Herze- 
govina was the other. Apparently, in every town and city in 
India the gentlemen of the British civil and military service 
have a club ; sometimes it is a palatial one, always it is pleas- 
ant and homelike. The hotels are not always as good as they 
might be, and the stranger who has access to the Club is grate- 
ful for his privilege and knows how to value it. 
Next day was Sunday. Friends came in the gray dawn 
with horses, and my party rode away to a distant point where 
Kinchinjunga and Mount Everest show up best, but I stayed at 
home for a private view ; for it was very old, and I was not 
acquainted with the horses, any way. I got a pipe and a few 
blankets and sat for two hours at the window, and saw the sun 
drive away the veiling gray and touch up the snow-peaks one 
after another with pale pink splashes and delicate washes of 
gold, and finally flood the whole mighty convulsion of snow- 
mountains with a deluge of rich splendors. 
Kinchinjunga's peak was but fitfully Ansible, but in the be- 
tween times it was vividly clear against the sky — away up 
there in the blue dome more than 28,000 feet above sea level 
— the loftiest land I had ever seen, by 12,000 feet or more. It 
was 45 miles away. Mount Everest is a thousand feet higher, 
but it was not a part of that sea of mountains piled up there 
before me, so I did not see it ; but I did not care, because I 
think that mountains that are as high as that are disagreeable. 
