sweetness of mockery that she particularly 
loved came out in his face whenever he did 
that, and it was not wanting now. He raised 
his eyebrows and his arms to play at admira- 
tion; he was evidently, after all, disposed to 
be gay. " Got you up ? I should think so ! 
She has dressed you most beautifully. Is n't 
she coming ? " 
Maisie wondered if she had better tell. 
" She said not. " 
" Does n't she want to see a poor devil ? " 
She looked about, under the vibration of 
the way he described himself, and her eyes 
rested on the door of the room he had pre- 
viously occupied. " Is Mrs. Beale in there ? " 
Sir Claude looked blankly at the same 
object. " I have n't the least idea ! " 
"You haven't seen her?" 
"Not the tip of her nose." 
Maisie thought; there settled on her, in 
the light of his beautiful smiling eyes, the 
faintest, purest, coldest conviction that he 
was not telling the truth. " She has n't 
welcomed you? " 
" Not by a single sign. " 
"Then where is she?" 
Sir Claude laughed; he seemed both 
amused and surprised at the point she made 
of it. "I give it up." 
" Does n't she know you 've come ? " 
He laughed again. " Perhaps she does n't 
care ! " 
Maisie, with an inspiration, pounced on 
his arm. " Has she gone ? " 
He met her eyes, and then she could see 
that his own were really much graver than 
his manner. " Gone ? " She had flown to 
the door, but before she could raise her hand 
to knock he was beside her and had caught 
it. " Let her be. I don't care about her. 
I want to see you." 
Maisie fell back with him. "Then she 
hasn't gone? " 
He still looked as if it were a joke; but 
the more she saw of him the more she could 
make out that he was troubled. "It 
wouldn't be like her!" 
She stood looking up at him. " Did you 
want her to come ? " 
"How can you suppose ?" He put it 
to her candidly. " We had an immense row 
over it." 
" Do you mean you 've quarrelled ? " 
Sir Claude hesitated. "What has she 
told you?" 
"That I 'm hers as much as yours. That 
she represents papa. " 
His gaze struck away through the open 
window and up to the sky ; she could hear 
him rattle in his trousers' pocket his money 
or his keys. " Yes that 's what she keeps 
saying. " It gave him for a moment an air 
that was almost helpless. 
"You say you don't care about her," 
Maisie went on. "Do you mean you've 
quarrelled ? " 
"We do nothing in life but quarrel." 
He rose before her, as he said this, so soft 
and fair, so rich, in spite of what might 
worry him, in restored familiarities, that it 
gave a bright blur to the meaning to what 
would otherwise, perhaps, have been the 
tangible promise of the words. " Oh, your 
quarrels ! " she exclaimed with discourage- 
ment. 
" I assure you hers are quite fearful ! " he 
laughed. 
"I don't speak of hers. I speak of 
yours. " 
"Ah, don't do it till I 've had my coffee! 
You're growing up clever," he added. 
Then he said : " I suppose you 've break- 
fasted?" 
" Oh no I 've had nothing." 
" Nothing in your room " he was all com- 
punction. "My dear old man! we'll 
breakfast then together." He had one of 
his happy thoughts. "I say we'll go 
out." 
"That was just what I hoped. I've 
brought my hat." 
"You are clever! We'll go to a cafe"." 
Maisie was already at the door; he glanced 
round the room. "A moment my stick." 
But there appeared to be no stick. "No 
matter; I left it oh!" He remembered, 
with an odd drop, and came out. 
" You left it in London ? " she asked as 
they went downstairs. 
" Yes in London : fancy ! " 
"You were in such a hurry to come," 
Maisie explained. 
He had his arm round her. "That must 
have been the reason." Half way down 
he stopped short again, slapping his leg. 
"And poor Mrs. Wix!" 
Maisie' s face just showed a shadow. " Do 
you want her to come ? " 
" Dear, no I want to see you alone. " 
" That 's the way I want to see you  " she 
replied. " Like before. " 
" Like before ! " he gayly echoed. " But 
I mean has she had her coffee? " 
"No, nothing." 
"Then I 'll send it up to her. Madame ! " 
He had already, at the foot of the stair, 
called out to the stout patronne, a lady who 
turned to him, from the bustling, breezy 
hall, a countenance covered with fresh 
matutinal powder and a bosom as capacious 
as the velvet shelf of a chimney-piece, over 
which her round white face, framed in its 
golden frizzle, might have figured as a showy 
clock. He ordered, with particular recom- 
mendations, Mrs. Wix's repast, and it was 
a charm to hear his easy, brilliant French : 
even his companion's ignorance could meas- 
ure the perfection of it. The patronne, 
rubbing her hands and breaking in with 
high, swift notes, as into a florid duet, went 
with him to the street, and while they 
talked a moment longer Maisie remembered 
what Mrs. Wix had said about every one's 
liking him. It came out enough through the 
morning powder, it came out enough in the 
heaving bosom, how the landlady liked him. 
He had evidently ordered something lovely 
for Mrs. Wix. " Et bien soigne, ri est-ce-pas ? " 
" Soyez tranquille " the patronne beamed 
upon him. " Et pour Madame ? " 
"Madame?" he echoed it just pulled 
him up a little. 
" Rien encore? " 
" Rien encore. Come, Maisie." She hur- 
ried along with him, but on the way to the 
cafe" he said nothing. 
XXX 
AFTER they were seated there it was differ- 
ent : the place was not below the hotel, but 
farther along the quay; with wide, clear 
windows and a floor sprinkled with bran in 
a manner that gave it for visitors a little 
of the added charm of a circus. They had 
pretty much to themselves the painted spaces 
and the red plush benches ; these were shared 
by a few scattered gentlemen who picked 
teeth, with facial contortions, behind small 
bare tables, and by an old personage in par- 
ticular, a very old personage with a red 
ribbon in his buttonhole, whose manner of 
soaking buttered rolls in coffee and then 
disposing of them in the little that was left 
of the interval between his nose and chin 
might at a less anxious hour have cast upon 
Maisie an almost envious spell. They too 
had their cafe* au lait and their buttered 
rolls, determined by Sir Claude's asking her 
 
if she could with that light aid wait till 
the hour of dejeuner. His allusion to this 
meal gave her, in the shaded, sprinkled 
coolness, the scene, as she vaguely felt, of 
a sort of ordered, mirrored license, the 
haunt of those the irregular, like herself 
who went to bed or who rose too late, 
something to think over while she watched 
the white-aproned waiter perform as nimbly 
with plates and saucers as a certain conjurer 
her friend had, in London, taken her to a 
music-hall to see. Sir Claude had presently 
begun to talk again, to tell her how London 
had looked, and how long he had felt him- 
self, on either side, to have been absent ; all 
about Susan Ash too, and the amusement 
as well as the difficulty he had had with 
her; then all about his return journey and 
the Channel in the night and the crowd of 
people coming over and the way there were 
always too many one knew. He spoke of 
other matters besides, especially of what she 
must tell him of the occupations, while he 
was away, of Mrs. Wix and her pupil. 
Had n't they had the good time he had 
promised? had he exaggerated a bit the 
arrangements made for their pleasure? 
Maisie had something not all there was 
to say of his success and of their gratitude: 
she had a complication of thought that grew 
every minute, grew with the consciousness 
that she had never seen him in this particular 
state in which he had been given back. 
Mrs. Wix had once said it was once or 
fifty times; once was enough for Maisie, 
but more was not too much that he was 
wonderfully various. Well, he was cer- 
tainly so, to the child's mind, on the present 
occasion; he was much more various than 
he was anything else. The fact that they 
were together in a shop, at a nice little 
intimate table, as they had so often been 
in London, only, besides, made greater the 
difference of what they were together about. 
This difference was in his face, in his voice, 
in every look he gave her and every move- 
ment he made. They were not the looks 
and the movements he really wanted to 
show, and she could feel as well that they 
were not those she herself wanted. She had 
seen him nervous, she had seen every one 
she had come in contact with nervous, but 
she had never seen him so nervous as this. 
Little by little it gave her a settled terror, 
a terror that partook of the coldness she had 
felt just before at the hotel, to find herself, 
on his answer about Mrs. Beale, disbelieve 
him. She seemed to see at present, to 
touch across the table, as if by laying her 
hand on it, what he had meant when he con- 
fessed on those several occasions to fear. 
Why was such a man so often afraid? It 
must have begun to come to her now that 
there was one thing just such a man above 
all could be afraid of. He could be afraid 
of himself. His fear, at all events, was 
there; his fear was sweet to her, beautiful 
and tender to her, was having coffee and 
buttered rolls and talk and laughter that 
were no talk and laughter at all, with her; 
his fear was in his jesting, postponing, 
perverting voice; it was in just this make- 
believe way he had brought her out to imitate 
the old London playtimes, to imitate indeed 
a relation that had wholly changed, a rela- 
tion that she had, with her very eyes, seen 
in the act of change when the day before, 
in the salon, Mrs. Beale rose suddenly 
before her. She rose before her, for that 
matter, now, and even before their refresh- 
ment appeared Maisie arrived at the straight 
question for which, on their entrance, his 
first word had given opportunity. "Are we 
going to have dejeimev with Mrs. Beale ? " 
His reply was anything but straight. 
"You and I?" 
Maisie sat back in her chair. " Mrs. Wix 
and me." 
Sir Claude also shifted. "That's an in- 
quiry, my dear child, that Mrs. Beale herself 
must answer." Yes, he had shifted; but 
abruptly, after a moment during which 
something seemed to hang there between 
them and, as it heavily swayed, just fan 
them with the air of its motion, she felt 
that the whole thing was upon them. " Do 
you mind," he broke out, "my asking you 
what Mrs. Wix has said to you ? " 
"Said to me?" 
"This day or two, while I was away." 
" Do you mean about you and Mrs. Beale ? " 
Sir Claude, resting on his elbows, fixed 
his eyes a moment on the white marble be- 
neath them. "No; I think we had a good 
deal of that did n't we ? before I left you. 
It seems to me we had it pretty well all out. 
I mean about yourself, about your don't 
you know? associating with us, as I might 
say, and staying on with us. While you 
were alone with our friend what did she 
say?" 
Maisie felt the weight of the question; 
it made her waver and wonder, while her 
companion's eyes remained bent. "Noth- 
ing," she rejoined at last. 
He looked up in surprise. " Nothing? " 
"Nothing," Maisie repeated; on which 
an interruption descended in the form of a 
tray bearing the preparations for their 
breakfast. 
These preparations were as amusing as 
everything else; the waiter poured their 
coffee from a vessel like a watering-pot and 
then made it froth with the curved stream of 
hot milk that dropped from the height of his 
raised arm ; but the two looked across at each 
other, through the whole play of French pleas- 
antness, with a gravity that had now ceased 
to dissemble. Sir Claude sent the waiter off 
again for something and then took up her 
answer. " Has n't she tried to affect you ? " 
Face to face with him thus it seemed to 
Maisie that she had tried so little as to be 
scarce worth mentioning; again therefore, 
an instant, she shut herself up. Presently 
she found her middle course. " Mrs. Beale 
likes her now; and there 's one thing I 've 
found out a great thing. Mrs. Wix enjoys 
her being so kind. She was tremendously 
kind all day yesterday." 
"I see. And what did she do?" Sir 
Claude asked. 
Maisie was now busy with her breakfast, 
and her kind host attacked his own; so 
that it was all in form at least even more 
than their old sociability. " Everything she 
could think of. She was as nice to her as 
you are," the child said. " She talked to her 
all day." 
"And what did she say to her? " 
"Oh, I don't know." Maisie was a little 
bewildered with his pressing her so for 
knowledge; it didn't fit into the degree of 
intimacy with Mrs. Beale that Mrs. Wix had 
so denounced and that, according to that 
lady, had now brought him back in bondage. 
Was n't he more aware than his stepdaughter 
of what would be done by the person to 
whom he was bound? In a moment, how- 
ever, she added: "She made love to her." 
Sir Claude looked at her harder, and it 
was clearly something in her tone that made 
him quickly say: "You don't mind my ask- 
ing you, do you ? " 
"Not at all; only I should think you'd 
know better than I." 
"What Mrs. Beale did yesterday?" 
She thought he colored a trifle; but 
almost simultaneously with that impression 
she found herself answering : " Yes if you 
have seen her." 
He broke into the loudest of laughs. 
"Why, my dear boy, I told you just now 
I 've absolutely not. I say, don't you believe me?" 
There was something she was already so 
afraid of that it covered up other fears. 
"Didn't you come back to see her?" she 
inquired in a moment. "Didn't you come 
back because you always want to so much ? " 
He received her inquiry as he had received 
her doubt with an extraordinary absence 
of resentment. " I can imagine, of course, 
why you think that. But it doesn't explain 
my doing what I have. It was, as I said to 
you just now at the inn, really and truly you 
I wanted to see. " 
She felt an instant as she used to feel 
when, in the back-garden at her mother's, 
she took from him the highest push of a 
swing high, high, high that he had 
had put there for her pleasure and that 
had finally broken down under the weight 
and the extravagant patronage of the cook. 
"Well, that's beautiful. But to see me, 
you mean, and go away again ? " 
" My going away again is just the point. 
I can't tell yet it all depends." 
" On Mrs. Beale ? " Maisie asked. " She 
won't go away." He finished emptying his 
coffee-cup and then when he had put it 
aside leaned back in his chair and let her 
see that he smiled at her. This only added 
to her idea that he was in trouble, that he 
was turning somehow in his pain and trying 
different things. He continued to smile, 
and she presently went on: "Don't you 
know that?" 
" Yes, I may as well confess to you that as 
much as that I do know. She won't go away. 
She 'll stay." 
"She'll stay. She'll stay," Maisie re- 
peated. 
"Just so. Won't you have some more 
coffee?" 
"Yes, please." 
" And another buttered roll ? " 
"Yes, please." 
He signed to the hovering waiter, who 
arrived with the shining spout of plenty in 
either hand and with the friendliest interest 
in mademoiselle. " Les tartines sent d." 
Their cups were replenished, and while 
he watched almost musingly the bubbles in 
the fragrant mixture, "Just so just so," 
Sir Claude said again and again. " It's 
awfully awkward ! " he exclaimed when the 
waiter had gone. 
"That she won't go?" 
Well everything ! Well, well, well ! " 
But he pulled himself together; he began 
again to eat. "I came back to ask you 
something. That 's what I came back for." 
" I know what you want to ask me," Maisie 
said. 
" Are you very sure ? " 
"I'm almost very. " 
"Well, then, risk it. You mustn't make 
me risk everything. " 
She was struck with the force of this. 
"You want to know if I should be happy 
with them" 
" With those two ladies only ? No, no, old 
man : vous-n 'y-$tes pas. So now there ! " 
Sir Claude laughed. 
"Well then, what is it?" 
The next minute, instead of telling her 
what it was, he laid his hand across the 
table on her own and held her as if under 
the prompting of a thought. "Mrs. Wix 
would stay with her?" 
" Without you ? Oh yes now. " 
"On account, as you just intimated, of 
Mrs. Beale's changed manner? " 
Maisie, with her sense of responsibility, 
focussed both Mrs. Beale's changed manner 
and Mrs. Wix's human weakness. "I think 
she talked her over. " 
Sir Claude thought a moment. "Ah, 
poor dear!" 
"Do you mean Mrs. Beale?" 
"Oh no Mrs. Wix." 
" She likes being talked over treated 
like any one else. Oh, she likes great 
politeness," Maisie expatiated. "It affects 
her very much." 
Sir Claude, to her surprise, demurred a 
little to this. "Very much up to a cer- 
tain point." 
" Oh, up to any point ! " Maisie returned 
with emphasis. 
"Well, haven't I been polite to her? " 
" Lovely and she perfectly worships 
you." 
"Then, my dear child, why can't she let 
me alone ? " And this time Sir Claude un- 
mistakably blushed. Before Maisie, how- 
ever, could answer his question, which would 
indeed have taken her long, he went on in 
another tone : " Mrs. Beale thinks she has 
probably quite broken her down. But she 
hasn't." 
Though he spoke as if he were sure, 
Maisie was strong in the impression she 
had just uttered and that she now again pro- 
duced. " She has talked her over. " 
" Ah yes ; over to herself, but not over to 
me." 
Oh, she could n't bear to hear him say 
that! "To you? Don't you really believe 
how she loves you ? " 
Sir Claude hesitated. "Of course, I 
know she 's wonderful." 
" She 's just every bit as fond of you as  
am," said Maisie. "She told me so yester- 
day." 
"Ah, then," he promptly exclaimed, "she 
has tried to affect you! I don't love her, 
don't you see? I do her perfect justice," he 
pursued, "but I mean I don't love her as I 
do you, and I 'm sure you would n't seriously 
expect it. She 's not my daughter come, 
old chap! She's not even my mother, 
though I dare say it would have been better 
for me if she had been. I 'll do for her 
what I 'd do for my mother, but I won't do 
more." His real excitement broke out in a 
need to explain and justify himself, though 
he kept trying to correct and conceal it with 
laughs and mouthfuls and other vain famil- 
iarities. Suddenly he broke off, wiping 
his moustache with sharp pulls and coming 
back to Mrs. Beale. " Did she try to talk 
you over ? " 
" No to me she said very little. Very 
little indeed," Maisie continued. 
Sir Claude seemed struck with this. " She 
was only sweet to Mrs. Wix ? " 
'* As sweet as sugar ! " cried Maisie. 
He looked amused at her comparison, but 
he did n't contest it; he uttered, on the con- 
trary, in an assenting way, a little inarticu- 
late sound. " I know what she can be. But 
much good may it have done her! Mrs. 
Wix won't come round. That 's what makes 
it so fearfully awkward." 
Maisie knew it was fearfully awkward ; she 
had known this now, she felt, for some time, 
and there was something else it more press- 
ingly concerned her to learn. " What is it 
that you meant you came over to ask me? " 
"Well," said Sir Claude, "I was just 
going to say. Let me tell you it wil] sur- 
