cruel men to know he could torment him.
But at that last remark he could no longer restrain his anxiety. He
sprang toward the Spanish captain with a pleading look on his face.
"Tell me!" he cried. "Tell me--where is she?"
The other's lip curled sneeringly as he stared at him.
"You are very much interested," said he. "Well, to be sure, the girl is
pretty--pretty as I ever saw, unfortunately for her. But you may see her
again. I expect--she is likely to be in the same prison with you."
Every drop of blood left Clif's face at those terrible words. Bessie
Stuart in prison!
"Merciful providence!" he gasped.
And then once more he sprang toward the Spaniard, a look on his face, a
look of agony that would have touched a heart of stone.
"For Heaven's sake, sir," he gasped, "tell me!"
"Tell you what?"
"Is she in Havana?"
The Spaniard laughed softly.
Then he nodded toward Ignacio.
"Ask him," he said. "He keeps track of such people for us. She has been
here some time now; and people who get into our prisons don't--ha! ha!
they don't get out in a hurry, do them, Ignacio?"
"No, senor."
"And then she is very pretty, too," added the officer, with a laugh.
To the agony those remarks were raising in the mind of poor Clif those
two brutal men seemed quite insensible. Or perhaps they were teasing
him.
But if so, the officer had enough then, for he turned upon his heel
impatiently.
"Enough of this nonsense," he said. "You need not worry about your
sweetheart, for you will probably be dead by to-morrow."
And the man turned to the soldiers.
"Those four prisoners," he said, pointing to the sailors, "will be kept
here for the present. They will probably be exchanged in a few days. We
do not blame them for the crime this officer here committed. As for him,
he will probably be sent over to Morro Castle to-night."
And then the file of soldiers closed about the dazed cadet and led him
out of the room. He was scarcely able to walk by himself.
The last sound that he heard as he left the room was the fiendish
chuckle of the triumphant Ignacio.
CHAPTER XV.
IN MORRO CASTLE.
That certainly was a day of triumph for the vindictive Spaniard. Not
only Clif Faraday was made wretched, but there was his friend, too, and
each a thousand times more unhappy because of the misfortune of the
other.
Clif as he went out of that room was almost dazed; he could think of
nothing. He scarcely heard the sailors sadly bidding him good-by.
Nor did he notice anything else until he heard the clang of a door
behind him, he realized then from the darkness and silence about him
that he was alone in one of the cells of the prison.
It was not for himself that the poor cadet feared. He could have marched
out without flinching and faced a dozen rifles aimed at his heart.
But it was for Bessie Stuart, fallen into the hands of these brutal men.
The fate that was before her was enough to make Clif wish her dead.
He racked his brains trying to think of how she could have come to
Havana; could she have been captured in a battle? And what had Ignacio
to do with it?
But poor Clif knew nothing, and could think of nothing except that she
was here, and he powerless to aid her.
His own fate was terrible enough, though he hardly thought of that.
He was to be sent at night to Morro.
Many indeed were the unfortunates who had gone to take that sea trip in
the darkness and never come back--and sometimes not reached their
destination either. It was a terrible journey, that short ride across
Havana Bay.
But the cadet did not even stop to realize that. He had but one thought,
and that he kept repeating over and over to himself in a state of
confusion and despair. He never moved from his one position on the
floor; and the hours flew by unheeded.
Once and once only the heavy door of the cell was opened and that by a
man who shoved in a pitcher of water and a dish of food. He must have
thought the prisoner asleep.
And as a fact, Clif was half unconscious; he was too dazed to think of
anything. He had no hope and no chance of life, and nothing to think of
except that Bessie Stuart was captured and he could not aid her.
So the long day wore by; it was as a man waking from a deep sleep that
the wretched American looked up when the door of that cell was opened
again. He found that the hours had flown by, and that the time for the
trip to Morro had come.
If Clif had cared about anything then he would have shivered with horror
at that moment, for it was surely gruesome and uncanny enough.
Three men there were, dark, silent, shadowy figures who entered the damp
cell. The only light they had was from a dark lantern, which they
flashed upon the solitary prisoner.
They found him still lying on the floor, but he raised up to look at
them, his haggard, tortured face shining white in the rays of the
lantern.
"Get up," commanded one of the men, in a low, muffled voice. "Get up."
The face of the speaker was shrouded in darkness, but Clif recognized
the voice, and a cold chill shot over him.
"Ignacio again!" he gasped.
Yes. And Clif thought that this was the last--that Ignacio had gained
his purpose. The task of murder was left to him.
But there was no chance of resistance. Clif felt the cold muzzle of a
revolver pressed to his head, and so he put the thought away.
One of the men snapped a pair of handcuffs about his wrists, as if to
make sure of him in case the ropes were not strong enough. And then one
of them seized him by each arm and Ignacio stepped behind with the
lantern.
And so out of the cell they marched and down the long corridor and out
of the building into the open air.
Clif had chance for but one deep breath of it. A moment later he was
shoved into a wagon that was in front of the door.
There he was seated between one of the men and the chuckling Ignacio.
The other man was driving and they rattled off down the street.
Where they were going the unfortunate victim had no idea. Perhaps to
some lonely spot where Ignacio could torture him to his fiendish heart's
content! But there was no use in making an outcry.
And Clif realized it and sat perfectly silent. He would give his enemies
no more satisfaction than he could help.
Clif did not think that it could be the trip to Morro that was before
him; it was too early for such a deed of darkness. If he were dropped
overboard upon the way some one might see it.
But as it actually happened, Morro was his destination. And he really
reached Morro, too. Perhaps the city jail was not considered strong
enough for such a villain as he.
And the carriage stopped at a wharf. A small launch was waiting there,
and the party boarded her and were swept across to the other side in a
very short while.
So in a short while the walls of Havana's strongest dungeon shut upon
Clif Faraday. He was a prisoner in Morro, famous or infamous, for its
deeds of horror.
For it was in this place, as Clif knew, that all the torture and cruelty
of the Spanish nature had been wreaked upon the unfortunate Cubans or
Americans who fell into the hands of Weyler. It was here that Ruiz had
been murdered, and hundreds of wretches besides--their name and fate
being hidden forever by the walls of that horrible place.
And Clif was going then under the guidance of Ignacio. It was plain that
the fiendish man had secured his purpose, for he was in command of the
little party. And it was his to decide what was to be done with Clif.
How the man had secured that privilege from the authorities Clif could
not hope to know. That he had gotten it as a reward for some deed of
darkness he did not doubt.
Perhaps it was for capturing Bessie Stuart, was the thought that flashed
over the lad.
Again when the black, silent walls of Morro loomed up before them and
the great gate opened nobody asked any questions of Ignacio. He showed a
note, and it passed him from sentry to sentry; and the party passed down
a flight of stairs into a cold, damp, stone corridor black as night.
Poor Clif could not help but think of his own fate then. Ignacio's
cruelty and hatred were such that no torture would be terrible enough
for him. And he seemed to have his prisoner entirely to his own
discretion.
The great vault through which they were going echoed dimly to the
footsteps of the party. They seemed to be down in a sort of a cellar,
and they were winding their way through secret passages in almost
absolute darkness.
But Ignacio knew the way--probably the fellow had been in those gloomy
dungeons before.
He stopped suddenly and flashed the lantern upon a rusty iron door. It
was solid and heavy, but Ignacio took a key from his pocket and unlocked
it.
It swung back, creaking dismally upon its hinges. And Ignacio flashed
the light of his lantern in.
He staggered back quite white with fright as he did so. For there was a
series of thumping, shuffling sounds, and a shrill noise that made his
blood run cold.
But in a moment he again stepped forward, laughing under his breath.
"Por dios!" he exclaimed. "The rats! They must be hungry!"
And he stepped into the room. His foot splashed into a small puddle of
water on the reeking, earthen floor. But he pressed on, flashing his
lantern about the granite walls.
It was a tiny black cavern into which he had come.
There was a stone bench at one side of the horrible place, and in the
wall by it a heavy ring and a thick iron chain.
It was but a minute more before Clif's ankles were locked firmly in the
ring, and then he was utterly helpless.
For but a moment Ignacio stood looking at him, flashing the lantern full
in his face. And then he turned and motioned to the two men.
Without a word they faced about and stole away. They went out of the
door, and Ignacio, trembling all over with his fiendish eagerness, shut
the great iron barrier and locked it.
And then with a hoarse cry of rage he faced about.
Clif Faraday was alone with his deadly and merciless foe!
CHAPTER XVI.
IN THE DUNGEON VAULTS.
Ignacio was a horrible object to contemplate at that moment, and it was
but little wonder that Clif turned sick and faint as he watched him.
The man seemed fairly turned into a devil then. He seemed insane. He was
alone, absolutely alone, with his victim. And no one under heaven could
stop him. He had the key himself! And he had his prisoner iron-bound and
helpless!
For several moments the man fairly danced about the place, yelling as if
to prove to his hated foe that there was no care for anything any more.
And then suddenly he made a leap at him.
He crouched in front of him until his gleaming eyes shone into his face,
and his hot breath could be felt. His claw-like fingers he seemed
scarcely able to keep away from Clif.
"Yankee!" he hissed, in a wild voice. "Yankee, do you know where you
are?"
The fiendish man saw the white look on his victim's face; and he
laughed.
"You do know!" he cried. "You do know! Ha! ha! You are in Morro, deep in
the lowest vault! And no soul can come near you--near you--hear me?"
He struck him in the face as if to draw his attention.
"Listen; yes, stare at me! I don't wonder you quake. You have defied
me--ha, ha! You have ruined all my plans, but I've got you now. And, oh,
how I will pay you back, how I will twist you and tear you! You shall
pay for everything. And you may shriek and scream and no one will know
it more than if you did not. Listen!"
And again from sheer bravado Ignacio raised his voice and shouted. The
sound died in the grave-like cell--the granite and the iron shut it in.
"You see!" panted Ignacio. "Not a soul heard! And you are mine. Ah, they
hate you and they like me, for I told them about that girl. Ha, ha! You
wince!"
Ignacio's face was almost touching Clif's as he hissed that.
"You can't get away!" he yelled. "And, oh, the things that I shall do to
you! I've got instruments up stairs to tear you to pieces, burn your
eyes out--but never kill you, oh, no! And all night you will scream, and
all to-morrow, if I choose. And I will watch you--I and the rats. And
the rats will eat you, too!"
As if to add horror to the devil's gleeful statement, a huge slimy rat
ran across Clif's body just then; it made him shiver all over.
And Ignacio danced about as he saw him.
"Ha, ha!" he cried. "You begin! But wait till I start--wait till you
begin to feel some agony--till I begin to tear your eyes out! Then will
you yell? When I get through with you--ha, ha!--when you are dead,
perhaps weeks from now, you won't mind the rats any more! You may stay
in here in this grave for the Yankees to find if they capture Morro as
they say they will. Oh, I will make it a sight for them!"
Clif could not have stood the strain of that horrible ordeal much
longer; he would have fainted away.
But then the fiendish Spaniard's impatience got the better of him. And
he turned and crept toward the door again.
"I will get the instruments," he whispered, hoarsely. "The torture
instruments. Santa Maria, what things they are! And how you will
shriek!"
A moment later he turned the key and stepped out. He shut the door and
locked it. And Clif was left alone in all the blackness and horror of
that slimy place.
Never as long as he lives will he forget the agony of that long wait. He
sat straining his ears and listening for the first sign of the fiend's
return. He knew that he might come back any instant and begin his
horrible, merciless tormenting.
Clif knew that man for a devil incarnate. He would sooner have looked
for mercy in a hyena.
For Ignacio was of the race of the Inquisition; and of the horrors of
the Inquisition this was a fair sample.
The wretched American knew that he was alone and that he could look for
no rescue. He was buried in the very centre of the earth--or the centre
of hades.
And his cries would be heard only by Ignacio.
Clif knew also that the frenzied villain would make haste, that he would
come back panting and eager. Appalled, half dazed, he sat and listened.
The first thing he would hear would be the grating of the key; and then
would come horrors inconceivable.
Seconds were years at that time. Clif thought that his hair would turn
white from the suspense.
And then suddenly he gave a gasp.
There he was!
Yes, the key was sliding in. And now it was turning!
And then slowly the door was opened--groaning and creaking.
Clif imagined the dark, crouching figure. He had left the lantern behind
while these deeds of darkness went on.
The tomb-like cell was absolutely black, and Clif could not see one
thing. But he heard the door shut, heard the key turned. He shivered as
in an ague fit.
Above the noise of the scampering rats he heard a soft, stealthy
footstep as the man crept across the floor.
And then came the scratching sound of a hand running along the wall. He
was feeling for him!
And a moment later Clif gave an involuntary cry as he felt the hand
touch his face.
Perfectly motionless and paralyzed he sat and fancied what might be
going on in the blackness after that. He felt, the hand pass downward
along his body, felt it fumbling at the manacles that bound his ankles
to the wall of the cell.
Then to his surprise, his consternation, he heard a key softly turned.
What happened then almost took away his breath.
The iron fell off.
He was loose!
"Can he be going to take me elsewhere?" Clif gasped.
But he nerved himself for one thing; gathered his muscles for it. Before
Ignacio secured him again he would get a kick, one that would almost
kill him.
Eagerly Clif waited, to see what would happen next.
But what did happen was more startling and incredible yet; he could
scarcely believe his senses.
For he felt the hands running down his arm. They fumbled at his wrists
for an instant.
And then with a clatter the handcuffs dropped to the ground!
"Merciful heavens!" Clif thought to himself. "Can he be insane?"
For a moment he actually thought so; then it flashed over him that
perhaps the fiend was torturing him with the most horrible of all
tortures--hope.
"He'll wish he hadn't!" Clif gasped, as he braced his muscles.
But that was not the true solution of the mystery; there were stranger
things yet stranger and stranger.
The only things that bound Clif now were the ropes that had held his
wrists at first. He tugged at them, but in vain.
There was a moment's silent pause. And then to Clif's unutterable
consternation he heard another sound, a sound from across the room--a
low, grating sound!
It left him breathless.
Some one else was coming into the cell!
And with one rush the true state of affairs swept over Clif.
"This isn't Ignacio!" he panted.
And a moment later he received proof positive of that fact. For again
the hand stole down his arms and there came a couple of quick slashing
cuts that hurt his wrists more than the ropes.
But seconds were precious then. In one of them Clif's hands were free.
And his pulses leaped as he felt the knife thrust into his palm. He
clutched it, and he heard one word whispered--in English:
"Fight!"
And then the dark figure stole swiftly over to the other side of the
cell. It was at the same instant that the door was opened and the light
of a lantern flashed in.
It was Ignacio returning!
CHAPTER XVII.
OUT OF THE DUNGEON.
The furious Spaniard came in like some wild beast, fairly gnashing his
teeth and snarling to himself in his rage.
Clif had but a moment, but he was quick to think; he sprang back to his
old position, slipping his feet into the iron ring and putting his hands
behind him.
And Ignacio never noticed any difference, in fact he did not look at
Clif until he had set down the lantern and shut the heavy door.
He turned the key again and then faced about; touching low and muttering
to himself, he stole swiftly across the floor.
And his gleaming eyes flashed into Clif's face.
"Yankee!" he hissed, "I am back. Do you hear me? Ha, ha!"
As if to make sure that he heard him he struck him once more across the
face.
"Listen!" he cried. "Ha, ha!--and tremble."
Clif's blood rose at that blow, but he held himself back and watched and
waited.
That was a moment of peril for the treacherous Spaniard; what would have
been his terror may be imagined, had he known the victim into whose eyes
he was glaring was clutching in one hand a sharp knife, ready at any
instant to plunge it into him.
But the fellow had no idea of his peril; he was at the very height of
his triumph and his dark, beady eyes gleamed ferociously out of the
shadows of that damp and silent vault.
But he must have noticed that some of the color had come back into
Clif's face.
"You are still defiant," he cried. "You still do not tremble. But
wait--wait till you begin to feel what I have for you. Did you see those
iron things I brought in? Ha, ha! There is one I will fasten about your
forehead and draw it tight till your very brain bursts. And then will
you like it? Hey? Will you turn pale then? Will you scream? Ha, ha!--and
I shall dance around you and watch you. Will you be sorry you interfered
with me then?"
Ignacio might have taunted his victim that way for hours, but he was too
eager and impatient. He whirled about and sprang toward the door.
"Santa Maria!" he panted. "I will get it! I will begin! I must hear him
yelling!"
And he snatched up something from the floor and taking the lantern in
his other hand bounded back toward Clif.
"Are you ready?" he exclaimed. "Yankee pig, begin to scream!"
And he flashed the lantern's light upon him.
That was the crisis of the situation; for as the Spaniard looked he made
the appalling discovery that his victim's feet were untied.
And he staggered back, dazed.
"Por dios!" he gasped.
And that exclamation was his last sound.
Clif had nerved himself for the spring; for he knew that Ignacio might
have a revolver and that no risks could be taken.
But at that instant a dark, shadowy form rose up behind Ignacio.
And one of his own iron instruments was raised above his head. It came
down with a hissing sound, and then a heavy thud.
And Ignacio dropped without a groan, without even a quiver. He lay
perfectly motionless. His villainy was at an end.
Clif had sprung up as he saw that, and he gave a gasp of joy. Then he
sprang toward his deliverer.
The shadowy stranger took no notice of him at first, but stooped and
picked up the lantern, turning the light of it upon Ignacio.
The villain's face was fixed in a look of horror; it made both Clif and
the stranger shudder.
The latter regarded it for a moment silently. The cadet could not see,
but he was fingering a knife, as if undecided what to do.
Who his mysterious deliverer was Clif had no idea. The single ray from
the lantern did not furnish light enough for him to see anything; and
the person had spoken but one word--"Fight."
But the cadet's heart was full of gratitude; he sprang toward the
stranger.
"Who are you?" he cried. "I owe my life to you--let me thank you!"
But the other motioned him back, and then for a few moments there was a
silence, while both stared at Ignacio's silent form.
When the stranger moved it was to point toward the door.
"Go," said he to Clif, in a low, whispering voice. "Go; we will leave
him here."
And with that the mysterious person unlocked the great iron barrier and
followed Clif out. The door clanged upon that ghastly scene, and Clif
Faraday gave a sigh of relief.
Yet there was so much before him that he soon forgot that hideous
nightmare.
For where was he going? And who was this stranger? And why had he
rescued him? And what did he mean to do to Clif?
Nothing could be learned in that dark corridor, for Clif could see no
more there than inside of the room. But the stranger stumbled on and
Clif followed.
They came to an iron ladder, leading up to the floor above. Up that the
man went, the cadet following; that took them to another long stone
passage, dark as ever.
On they went, turning and winding about, but still not hesitating. And
then suddenly the man halted in front of a grated door.
The key was in the lock and the door opened promptly as he turned it.
"Enter," said he.
Clif went in, and he heard the door shut behind him. It flashed over him
then that he had only been taken to another cell.
But when he whirled about he saw that the stranger had entered, too. The
dark figure brushed past him and went across the room. A moment
afterward Clif heard him in the act of striking a match.
And then the light of a lamp lit up the little room. By it the eager
cadet could see his rescuer, and he stared anxiously.
Further secrecy seemed not intended. The stranger faced about and each
looked at the other steadfastly.
What the mysterious man saw was a tall, handsome American in a blue
uniform, his face rather pale.
Clif in turn saw also a man in a blue uniform; he had to take but one
glance to see that he was a lieutenant in the Spanish army.
He was a tall, finely proportioned man, rather young, and with a slight
dark mustache. He had the dark skin and the features of a Spaniard; but
Clif thought he had never seen a finer looking military man.
For a moment Clif gazed at him in silence. Then he stepped toward him.
"Tell me, sir," he said. "Why have you done this?"
The officer answered in a low, quiet voice:
"You will soon know," said he. "Do not be impatient."
"You have saved me from a horrible fate," said the cadet, his voice
choking. "I do not know how to thank you."
"Do not try," answered the other. "You have some one else to thank."
And then he became silent again, watching Clif. He seemed to be very
much interested in him, from the way he studied the American's face. And
once he gave a slight sigh.
Clif looked at him in surprise; but the man turned away, and he went
toward the door.
"I will return soon," said he, again in that quiet, firm voice. "Wait
here."
There was nothing for Clif to do but wait; for when the door shut he was
locked in the cell.
That man's action was a mysterious one indeed. It left the cadet plenty
to think of. He saw now where he got the keys. He was evidently one of
the officers in charge of the castle.
But why had he done it? Clif was utterly baffled before that question.
But it was not for very long; he soon learned, and in a startling and
unexpected way.
Clif had not noticed it, but there was another door to that cell. It was
behind him, leading to a small room in the rear.
While he stood there motionless and lost in thought waiting for the
Spaniard's return, that door was silently opened, and a figure stood
watching him.
And then suddenly it stepped out and came across the room.
The cadet heard it then, and whirled about. He took one glance.
And then he staggered back with a cry of consternation.
It was Bessie Stuart!
For one instant the two stood and stared at each other as if to make
sure that their eyes did not deceive them. And then, with a cry of
delight that came from his very soul, Clif sprang toward the girl.
Bessie Stuart looked as if she had been through some terrible ordeal,
for her face was pale; the emotion of meeting Clif almost overcame her,
and she burst into tears upon his shoulder.
Clif himself was so dazed that he hardly knew what to think. He caught
the girl in his arms to keep her from falling.
"Bessie," he cried, "how on earth did you get here?"
The cadet's brain was in a whirl at that moment. He began to see what
the Spaniard meant when he said it was for some other person's sake that
he had rescued Clif. It was for her sake!
And it must have been by some terrible sacrifice that she had saved him
from the torture.
"Bessie!" he cried. "Tell me--that officer. What----"
The girl looked up through her tears.
"S-sh!" she exclaimed. "It is all right. Wait."
And at that instant Clif heard a key turn in the door, and knew that it
was the man returning.
Clif gazed into the girl's face and he saw a look of joy upon it that
partially reassured him; then he looked up and saw that the Spanish
lieutenant had entered and was watching them.
In his quiet way he studied the faces of the two; he saw the look of
happiness on Bessie Stuart's face, and he must have known that it was
because she had met the cadet again.
Clif saw him press his lips together resolutely. The cadet was watching
him with the intensest anxiety, for he hoped in that man's actions to
read the meaning of this mystery.
But the Spaniard's handsome face showed little emotion, though his chest
heaved and fell as he stood there.
And then suddenly he stepped forward toward the two.
"I have brought it, Miss Stuart," he said, with a dignified bow.
He held out a heavy cloth cape, which the girl flung over her shoulders;
then, leaning on Clif's arm, she stepped toward the door.
"I am ready," she said.
And without another word the officer turned and led the way out of the
cell.
He shut the door and locked it behind him and then went on down the
corridor.
Clif was mystified beyond expression, but he asked no questions. The
three went on silently. Bessie Stuart was so weak that she had to be
half carried.
They had gone but a short way down the long passage before they met a
sentry with a gun upon his shoulder; he glanced at them inquiringly.
But the lieutenant was not one who could be asked for explanations, and
the soldier saluted and passed on.
They passed through two heavily grated doors, each guarded in a similar
way. But still not a word was spoken.
And then suddenly Clif saw the passage broaden out into a wide hall, and
a moment later he came to what he knew to be the great door by which he
had first entered.
There were two men standing on guard there, either sentries or jailers.
Clif could not see which. The party came to a halt.
"Garcia," said the lieutenant, "these are two prisoners, Americans, whom
I have been directed to take across the bay."
