she couldn't be at all sure that he did real 
justice. Real justice was not of this world: 
she had had too often to come back to that ; 
yet, strangely, happiness was, and her traps 
had to be set for it in a manner to keep them 
unperceived by Mr. Buckton and the coun 
ter-clerk. The most she could hope for apart 
from the question, which constantly flick 
ered up and died down, of the divine chance 
of his consciously liking her, would be that, 
without analysing it, he should arrive at a 
vague sense that Cocker 's was well, attrac 
tive; easier, smoother, sociably brighter, 
slightly more picturesque, in short more pro 
pitious in general to his little affairs, than 
any other establishment just thereabouts. 
She was quite aware that they couldn't be, 
in so huddled a hole, particularly quick ; but 
she found her account in the slowness sh^ 
certainly could bear it if he could. The 
great pang was that, just thereabouts, post- 
offices were so awfully thick. She was 
always seeing him, in imagination, in other 
places and with other girls. But she would 
defy any other girl to follow him as she fol 
lowed. And though they weren t, for so 
many reasons, quick at Cocker's, she could 
hurry for him when, through an intimation 
light as air, she gathered that he was 
pressed. 
When hurry was, better still, impossible, 
it was because of the pleasantest thing of 
all, the particular element of their contact 
she would have called it their friendship 
that consisted of an almost humourous treat 
ment of the look of some of his words. They 
would never perhaps have grown half so 
intimate if he had not, by the blessing of 
heaven, formed some of his letters with a 
queerness ! It was positive that the queer- 
ness could scarce have been greater if he 
had practised it for the very purpose of bring 
ing their heads together over it as far as was 
possible to heads on different sides of a cage. 
It had taken her in reality but once or 
twice to master these tricks, but, at the cost 
of striking him perhaps as stupid, she could 
still challenge them when circumstances 
favoured. The great circumstance that 
favoured was that she sometimes actually 
believed he knew she only feigned perplex 
ity. If he knew it, therefore, he tolerated 
it; if he tolerated it he came back; and if 
he came back he liked her. This was her 
seventh heaven ; and she didn' t ask much of 
his liking she only asked of it to reach the 
point of his not going away because of her 
own. He had at times to be away for 
weeks; he had to lead his life; he had to 
travel there were places to which he was 
constantly wiring for rooms : all this she 
granted him, forgave him; in fact, in the 
long run, literally blessed and thanked him 
for. If he had to lead his life, that pre 
cisely fostered his leading it so much by 
telegraph : therefore the benediction was to 
come in when he could. That was all she 
asked that he shouldn't wholly deprive her. 
Sometimes she almost felt that he couldn't 
have done so even had he been minded, on 
account of the web of revelation that was 
woven between them. She quite thrilled 
herself with thinking what, with such a lot 
of material, a bad girl would do. It would 
be a scene better than many in her ha penny 
novels, this going to him in the dusk of 
evening at Park Chambers and letting him 
at last have it. I know too much about a 
certain person now not to put it to you 
excuse my being so lurid that it 's quite 
worth your while to buy me off. Come, 
therefore, buy me! There was a point 
indeed at which such flights had to drop 
again the point of an unreadiness to name, 
when it came to that, the purchasing 
medium. It wouldn t, certainly, be any 
thing so gross as money, and the matter 
accordingly remained rather vague, all the 
more that she was not a bad girl. It was 
not for any such reason as might have 
aggravated a mere minx that she often 
hoped he would again bring Cissy. The 
difficulty of this, however, was constantly 
present to her, for the kind of communion 
to which Cocker 's so richly ministered rested 
on the fact that Cissy and he were so often 
in different places. She knew by this time 
all the places Suchbury, Monkhouse, White - 
roy, Finches and even how the parties, on 
these occasions, were composed; but her 
subtlety found ways to make her knowledge 
fairly protect and promote their keeping, as 
she had heard Mrs. Jordan say, in touch. 
So, when he actually sometimes smiled as 
if he really felt the awkwardness of giving 
her again one of the same old addresses, all 
her being went out in the desire which her 
face must have expressed that he should 
recognise her forbearance to criticise as one 
of the finest, tenderest sacrifices a woman 
had ever made for love. 
XII 
She was occasionally worried, all the 
same, by the impression that these sacrifices, 
great as they were, were nothing to those 
that his own passion had imposed ; if indeed 
it was not rather the passion of his confed 
erate, which had caught him up and was 
whirling him round like a great steam-wheel. 
He was at any rate in the strong grip of a 
dizzy, splendid fate ; the wild wind of his life 
blew him straight before it. Didn't she 
catch in his face, at times, even through 
his smile and his happy habit, the gleam of 
that pale glare with which a bewildered 
victim appeals, as he passes, to some pair 
of pitying eyes? He perhaps didn' t even 
himself know how scared he was; but she 
knew. They were in danger, they were in 
danger, Captain Everard and Lady Bradeen : 
it beat every novel in the shop. She 
thought of Mr. Mudge and his safe senti- 
ment; she thought of herself and blushed 
even more for her tepid response to it. It 
was a comfort to her at such moments to 
feel that in another relation a relation sup 
plying that affinity with her nature that Mr. 
Mudge, deluded creature, would never sup 
ply she should have been no more tepid 
than her ladyship. Her deepest soundings 
were on two or three occasions of finding 
herself almost sure that, if she dared, her 
ladyship 's lover would have gathered relief 
from speaking to her. She literally fancied 
once or twice that, projected as he was 
toward his doom, her own eyes struck him, 
while the air roared in his ears, as the one 
pitying pair in the crowd. But how could 
he speak to her while she sat sandwiched 
there between the counter-clerk and the 
sounder? 
She had long ago, in her comings and 
goings, made acquaintance with Park 
Chambers and reflected, as she looked up at 
their luxurious front, that they, of course, 
would supply the ideal setting for the ideal 
speech. There was not a picture in London 
that, before the season was over, was more 
stamped upon her brain. She went round 
about to pass it, for it was not on the short 
way ; she passed on the opposite side of the 
street and always looked up, though it had 
taken her a long time to be sure of the 
particular set of windows. She had made 
that out at last by an act of audacity that, at 
the time, had almost stopped her heart 
beats and that, in retrospect, greatly quick 
ened her blushes. One evening, late, she 
had lingered and watched watched for 
some moment when the porter, who was in 
uniform and often on the steps, had gone in 
with a visitor. Then she followed boldly, 
on the calculation that he would have taken 
the visitor up and that the hall would be 
free. The hall was free, and the electric 
light played over the gilded and lettered 
board that showed the names and numbers 
of the occupants of the different floors. 
What she wanted looked straight at her 
Captain Everard was on the third. It was 
as if, in the immense intimacy of this, they 
were, for the instant and the first time, face 
to face outside the cage. Alas, they were 
face to face but a second or two: she was 
whirled out on the wings of a panic fear 
that he might just then be entering or issu 
ing. This fear was indeed, in her shameless 
deflections, never very far from her, and 
was mixed in the oddest way with depres 
sions and disappointments. It was dreadful, 
as she trembled by, to run the risk of looking 
to him as if she basely hung about ; and yet 
it was dreadful to be obliged to pass only at 
such moments as put an encounter out of 
the question. 
At the horrible hour of her first coming 
to Cocker 's he was always it was to be 
hoped snug in bed ; and at the hour of her 
final departure he was of course she had 
such things all on her fingers -ends dressing 
for dinner. We may let it pass that if she 
could not bring herself to hover till he was 
dressed, this was simply because such a 
process for such a person could only be 
terribly prolonged. When she went in the 
middle of the day to her own dinner she 
had too little time to do anything but go 
straight, though it must be added that for 
a real certainty she would joyously have 
omitted the repast. She had made up her 
mind as to there being on the whole no 
decent pretext to justify her flitting casually 
past at three o clock in the morning. That 
was the hour at which, if the ha penny 
novels were not all wrong, he probably came 
home for the night. She was therefore 
reduced to merely picturing that miraculous 
meeting toward which a hundred impossibili 
ties would have to conspire. But if nothing 
was more impossible than the fact, nothing 
was more intense than the vision. What 
may not, we can only moralise, take place in 
the quickened, muffled perception of a girl 
of a certain kind of soul? All our young 
friend 's native distinction, her refinement of 
personal grain, of heredity, of pride, took 
refuge in this small throbbing spot; for 
when she was most conscious of the abjec- 
tion of her vanity and the pitifulness of her 
little nutters and manoeuvres, then the con 
solation and the redemption were most sure 
to shine before her in some just discernible 
sign. He did like her! 
XIII 
He never brought Cissy back, but Cissy 
came one day without him, as fresh as before 
from the hands of Marguerite, or only, at 
the season 's end, a trifle less fresh. She 
was, however, distinctly less serene. She 
had brought nothing with her and looked 
about with some impatience for the forms 
and the place to write. The latter conveni 
ence, at Cocker's, was obscure and barely 
adequate, and her clear voice had the light 
note of disgust which her lover 's never 
showed as she responded with a There? 
of surprise to the gesture made by the 
counter-clerk in answer to her sharp 
inquiry. Our young friend was busy with 
half-a-dozen people, but she had despatched 
them in her most business-like manner by 
the time her ladyship flung through the bars 
the light of reappearance. Then the direct 
ness with which the girl managed to receive 
this missive was the result of the concen 
tration that had caused her to make the 
stamps fly during the few minutes occupied 
by the production of it. This concentra 
tion, in turn, may be described as the effect 
of the apprehension of imminent relief. It 
was nineteen days, counted and checked off, 
since she had seen the object of her homage; 
and as, had he been in London, she should, 
with his habits, have been sure to see him 
often, she was now about to learn what 
other spot his presence might just then 
happen to sanctify. For she thought of 
them, the other spots, as ecstatically 
conscious of it, expressively happy in it. 
But, gracious, how handsome was her 
ladyship, and what an added price it gave 
him that the air of intimacy he threw out 
should have flowed originally from such a 
source ! The girl looked straight through the 
cage at the eyes and lips that must so often 
have been so near his own looked at them 
with a strange passion that, for an instant, 
had the result of filling out some of the gaps, 
supplying the missing answers, in his cor 
respondence. Then, as she made out that 
the features she thus scanned and associated 
were totally unaware of it, that they glowed 
only with the color of quite other and not 
at all guessable thoughts, this directly 
added to their splendour, gave the girl the 
sharpest impression she had yet received of 
the uplifted, the unattainable plains of 
heaven, and yet at the same time caused 
her to thrill with a sense of the high com 
pany she did somehow keep. She was with 
the absent through her ladyship and with 
her ladyship through the absent. The only 
pang but it didn' t matter was the proof 
in the admirable face, in the sightless pre 
occupation of its possessor, that the latter 
hadn't a notion of her. Her folly had gone 
to the point of half believing that the other 
party to the affair must sometimes mention 
in Eaton Square the extraordinary little 
person at the place from which he so often 
wired. Yet the perception of her visitor 's 
blankness actually helped this extraordinary 
little person, the next instant, to take 
refuge in a reflection that could be as proud 
as it liked. How little she knows, how 
little she knows! the girl cried to herself; 
for what did that show after all but that 
Captain Everard 's telegraphic confidant was 
Captain Everard 's charming secret? Our 
young friend 's perusal of her ladyship 's 
telegram was literally prolonged by a 
momentary daze: what swam between her 
and the words, making her see them as 
through rippled, shallow, sun shot water, 
was the great, the perpetual flood of How 
much  I  know how much  I  know! This 
produced a delay in her catching that, on 
the face, these words didn' t give her what 
she wanted, though she was prompt enough 
with her remembrance that her grasp was, 
half the time, just of what was not on the 
face. Miss Dolman, Parade Lodge, Parade 
Terrace, Dover. Let him instantly know 
right one, Hotel De France, Ostend. Make 
it seven nine four nine six one. Wire me 
alternative Burfield's." 
The girl slowly counted. Then he was at 
Ostend. This hooked on with so sharp a 
click that, not to feel she was as quickly 
letting it all slip from her, she had abso 
lutely to hold it a minute longer and to do 
something to that end. Thus it was that 
she did on this occasion what she never did, 
threw off an Answer paid? that sounded 
officious, but that she partly made up for by 
deliberately affixing the stamps and by 
waiting till she had done so to give change. 
She had, for so much coolness, the strength 
that she considered she knew all about Miss 
Dolman. 
Yes paid. She saw all sorts of things 
in this reply, even to a small, suppressed 
start of surprise at so correct an assump 
tion ; even to an attempt, the next minute, 
at a fresh air of detachment. How much, 
with the answer?" The calculation was not 
abstruse, but our intense observer required 
a moment more to make it, and this gave 
her ladyship time for a second thought. 
Oh, just wait! The white, begemmed 
hand bared to write rose in sudden nervous 
ness to the side of the wonderful face which, 
with eyes of anxiety for the paper on the 
counter, she brought closer to the bars of 
the cage. I think I must alter a word! 
On this she recovered her telegram and 
looked over it again; but she had a new, 
obvious trouble, and studied it without 
deciding and with much of the effect of 
making our young woman watch her. 
This personage, meanwhile, at the sight 
of her expression, had decided on the spot. 
If she had always been sure they were in 
danger, her ladyship 's expression was the 
best possible sign of it. There was a word 
wrong, but she had lost the right one, and 
much, clearly, depended on her finding it 
again. The girl, therefore, sufficiently 
estimating the affluence of customers and 
the distraction of Mr. Buckton and the 
counter-clerk, took the jump and gave it. 
Isn' t it Cooper 's? 
It was as if she had bodily leaped cleared 
the top of the cage and alighted on her 
interlocutress. Cooper 's? the stare was 
heightened by a blush. Yes, she had made 
Juno blush. 
This was all the more reason for going 
on. I mean instead of Burfield 's. 
Our young friend fairly pitied her; she 
had made her in an instant so helpless, and 
yet not a bit haughty nor outraged. She 
was only mystified and scared. Oh, you 
know ? 
Yes, I know! Our young friend smiled, 
meeting the other 's eyes, and, having made 
Juno blush, proceeded to patronise her. 
To do it she put out a competent hand. 
Her ladyship only submitted, confused and 
bewildered, all presence of mind quite gone ; 
and the next moment the telegram was in 
the cage again and its author out of the shop. 
Then quickly, boldly, under all the eyes 
that might have witnessed her tampering, 
the extraordinary little person at Cocker 's 
made the proper change. People were 
really too giddy, and if they were, in a cer 
tain case, to be caught, it shouldn't be the 
fault of her own grand memory. Hadn't it 
been settled weeks before? for Miss Dol 
man it was always to be Cooper 's. 
XIV 
But the summer holidays brought a 
marked difference; they were holidays for 
almost every one but the animals in the cage. 
The August days were flat and dry, and, 
with so little to feed it, she was conscious of 
the ebb of her interest in the secrets of the 
refined. She was in a position to follow the 
refined to the extent of knowing they had 
made so many of their arrangements with 
her aid exactly where they were ; yet she 
felt quite as if the panorama had ceased 
unrolling and the band stopped playing. A 
stray member of the latter occasionally 
turned up, but the communications that 
passed before her bore now largely on rooms 
at hotels, prices of furnished houses, hours 
of trains, dates of sailings and arrange 
ments for being met : she found them for 
the most part prosaic and coarse. The only 
thing was that they brought into her stuffy 
corner as straight a whiff of Alpine mead 
ows and Scotch moors as she might hope 
ever to inhale; there were moreover, in 
especial, fat, hot, dull ladies who had out 
with her, to exasperation, the terms for sea 
side lodgings, which struck her as huge, and 
the matter of the number of beds required, 
which was not less portentous: this in 
reference to places of which the names 
Eastbourne, Folkestone, Cromer, Scarbor 
ough, Whitby tormented her with some 
thing of the sound of the plash of water that 
haunts the traveller in the desert. She had 
not been out of London for a dozen years, 
and the only thing to give a taste to the 
present dead weeks was the spice of a chronic 
resentment. The sparse customers, the 
people she did see, were the people who 
were just off off on the decks of flut 
tered yachts, off to the uttermost point of 
rocky headlands where the very breeze was 
then playing for the want of which she said 
to herself that she sickened. 
There was accordingly a sense in which, 
at such a period, the great differences of the 
human condition could press upon her more 
than ever; a circumstance drawing fresh 
force, in truth, from the very fact of the 
chance that at last, for a change, did squarely 
meet her the chance to be off, for a bit, 
almost as far as anybody. They took their 
turns in the cage as they took them both in 
the shop and at Chalk Farm, and she had 
known these two months that time was to 
be allowed in September no less than 
eleven days for her personal, private holi 
day. Much of her recent intercourse with 
Mr. Mudge had consisted of the hopes and 
fears, expressed mainly by himself, involved 
in the question of their getting the same 
dates a question that, in proportion as the 
delight seemed assured, spread into a sea of 
speculation over the choice of where and 
how. All through July, on the Sunday 
evenings and at such other odd times as he 
could seize, he had flooded their talk with 
wild waves of calculation. It was prac 
tically settled that, with her mother, some- 
where on the south coast (a phrase of 
which she liked the sound) they should put 
in their allowance together ; but she already 
felt the prospect quite weary and worn with 
the way he went round and round on it. It 
had become his sole topic, the theme alike 
of his most solemn prudences and most 
placid jests, to which every opening led for 
return and revision and in which every little 
flower of a foretaste was pulled up as soon as 
planted. He had announced at the earliest 
day characterizing the whole business, from 
that moment, as their plans, under which 
name he handled it as a syndicate handles a 
Chinese, or other, Loan he had promptly 
declared that the question must be thor 
oughly studied, and he produced, on the 
whole subject, from day to day, an amount 
of information that excited her wonder and 
even, not a little, as she frankly let him 
know, her disdain. When she thought of 
the danger in which another pair of lovers 
rapturously lived, she inquired of him anew 
why he could leave nothing to chance. 
Then she got for answer that this profundity 
was just his pride, and he pitted Ramsgate 
against Bournemouth and even Boulogne 
against Jersey for he had great ideas with 
all the mastery of detail that was some day, 
professionally, to carry him far. 
