charge as much."

"I am quite aware of that," said Rose.

"I think some charge only a dollar per lesson."

"I presume you are right," said Rose; but, obedient to Miss Wilmot's
suggestions, she didn't offer to reduce her own price. "I hope to
make my services worth the amount I ask."

"Then you won't accept a less price?"

"I should prefer not to do so."

Mrs. Tilton was not a generous woman. She was disposed to haggle
about prices, and had Rose applied to her for work as a seamstress
she would have driven a hard bargain with her, but, as the friend
and protégé of Miss Jane Wilmot, a lady of the highest social
consideration, she did not venture to follow her own economical
inclinations. In fact, Mrs. Tilton was not of an old family. Her
husband had recently become rich, and though she aspired to be
fashionable, there were circles to which she could not obtain
admission. She plumed herself on her acquaintance with Miss Wilmot,
and would not, on any account, have had Rose report to that lady
that she had been unwilling to pay her price. Two dollars an hour
seemed high, but she knew very well that she must buy social
recognition, and that she valued above money.

"Very well," she said, after a pause; "I will pay your price. Can
you give me Tuesday and Friday afternoons from three to five?"

"Yes, madam."

"Then we will commence next Tuesday, if you please. By the way, my
neighbor, Mrs. Green, also desires to secure instruction for her
daughter, and I promised to ask you to call."

"I will do so now if the lady is likely to be in," said Rose, gladly.

"I think you will find her in, now. You may hand her my card."

Mrs. Green lived but three doors away. She was at home, and engaged
her, without any demur as to price, to give her daughter two hours a
week, Monday and Thursday afternoons being selected.

As Rose walked home she could hardly credit her good fortune. Six
lessons a week at two dollars apiece would amount to twelve dollars,
and leave her plenty of time to herself. Twelve dollars! and till
now her weekly income, laboring all day, had been less than three
dollars.

"Addie," she said, after recounting her success to her sister, "do
you know I feel quite like a young lady of fortune? I am almost
afraid that it is all a dream, and that I shall wake up some day and
find myself back again at Mrs. Flanagan's."

"Let us enjoy it as long as it lasts, Rose," said Adeline. "I wish
I could help. I don't like to have the whole family leaning on you."

Adeline had her wish. Three days later Miss Wilmot came in with two
little girls.

"They want to take lessons in drawing," she said. "They have a
taste, but their father is a mechanic, and they have been unable to
gratify it. Now, I have been thinking that I will let you pay the
rent by instructing them, and leave your sister her whole time to
teach music."

"I should like nothing better," said Adeline, brightening up.

"Then they will begin at once."

Adeline was fond of children, and found instruction in her favorite
accomplishment no task, but a positive pleasure.

"I shall not be a burden upon you, Rose, any longer," she said,
cheerfully.

"I should think not. If you pay the rent, it will be no light help.
I shall insist on contributing my share, and will pay you fifteen
dollars a month to make matters even."

Adeline protested, but Rose was firm. Her invalid sister's spirits
were raised, and life was no longer monotonous, now that she felt
herself of some use in the world.

"Do you know, Rose," she said, "I don't think I should be happier
if our share of grandfather's money had come to us, as we once
anticipated."




                           CHAPTER XXI.

                 THE COLLAPSE OF AN ELDERLY DUDE.


The remarkable change that had taken place in the fortunes of Rose
Beaufort interfered seriously with the plans of a person who has
thus far only been incidentally mentioned--the superintendent of the
work department of Nicholas Walton's large clothing store.

Hugh Parkinson was a man no longer young. If not forty, he looked
that age. Moreover, his natural attractions, which were very scanty,
had not been increased by the passage of time. His hair, which was
of a reddish tinge, was carefully combed up from the side to cover
the rather extensive vacancy for which time and irregular hours
were responsible; but to look young was a problem which he had not
been able to compass. He did what he could, in the way of dress,
to make up for the ravages of time. He always got his clothes made
by a fashionable Broadway tailor, and in the street he looked like
an elderly "dude," and thus far more ridiculous than the younger
specimens of this class.

Perhaps it is well for our self-conceit that we do not see ourselves
as others see us. Hugh Parkinson, when he surveyed himself in the
mirror, decided that he was handsome and stylish-looking. He felt
that it was time he married. His salary was a liberal one--fifty
dollars per week--and he had a snug sum in various savings banks,
representing the savings of the last ten years.

"I'm a good catch!" he said to himself, complacently; "I've a right
to expect considerable in a wife. Egad! I must be getting married
while I am still a young man."

He had been a young man for a good many years, and so entitled to
call himself such.

Hugh Parkinson was fastidious, however, and he had never met the
one he wanted to marry till he saw Rose Beaufort. Rose was about
half his age, and her fresh beauty touched the heart--such as he
had--of the old young man.

"She has no fortune, but what does that matter?" he said to himself,
magnanimously. "I have enough for both. When she goes with me to the
theatre she will excite the admiration of all, and all the young men
in society will envy me. Egad! I must marry her."

Rose, however, had as yet shown no signs of admiring Mr. Parkinson.
Indeed, the superintendent had good reason to doubt whether she even
esteemed him. He saw, however, that she was poor. Marriage with him
would bring her comfort, and even a moderate degree of luxury; upon
this he depended for a favorable issue to his suit. As to her being
poor, that was evident enough. To be sure, she was well dressed,
but no one who is in good circumstances takes vests to make at
thirty-five cents apiece. Besides, he knew where she lived, for the
vest-makers were obliged to leave their addresses with their names;
and he had passed through Bleecker street, and seen for himself the
shabby tenement-house in which Rose lived.

"I wish she might become poorer still," said Mr. Parkinson to
himself; "then I would have a chance to step in as her good angel
and relieve her from suffering. She couldn't help being drawn to me."

When Rose called and desired pay for the two vests which she had
completed, Mr. Parkinson was pleased; it showed that she was
becoming harder pressed by poverty.

"Daniells," he said to the examining clerk, "when Miss Beaufort
calls with her package of vests I want you to object to the quality
of her work."

"But, Mr. Parkinson, her work is always well done," objected
Daniells.

"Oh, well, you can always find faults. Just say that she must see me
before you feel authorized to pay her."

"What's your game, Mr. Parkinson?" asked Daniells.

Mr. Parkinson winked significantly.

"The fact is, Daniells," he said, "I want an opportunity to
ingratiate myself with the fair Rose. I will take her part, pay her
the money as a favor, and--you comprehend?"

"Yes, I see. The fact is, Rose is pretty, and if I were not a
married man I would try to obtain a smile from her myself."

"Just do as I tell you, there's a good fellow, and you won't lose by
it."

When Rose had obtained by good fortune the powerful friendship
of the rich Miss Wilmot, she, of course, decided to give up
vest-making. She had some time left, but she felt that it would be
necessary for her to keep up her practice at home, if she aspired
to become a successful piano-teacher. However, she would finish the
vests she had in hand, and let those be the last.

When the vests were finished she took them round to Mr. Walton's
establishment.

The vigilant Daniells did not fail to note her appearance, and
prepared to serve the interests of his superior in the way which had
been arranged between them.

"So you've finished the vests?" he said, carelessly. "Let me look at
them."

Rose regarded this as a mere formality, knowing that they had been
well made, and never before having had her work objected to.

What was her surprise, therefore, when Daniells went over them one
by one, frowning and shaking his head, disapprovingly.

"Really," he said, "these vests are hardly satisfactory."

"What is amiss with them?" asked Rose, in genuine surprise.

"I can't go into particulars," said Daniells, who would have found
it hard to do so, by the way; "I can only say that they are not as
well made as we expect."

"They are as well made as usual," said Rose, flushing indignantly.
"I cannot understand why you object to them, when all the work I've
done before has passed without objection."

"All I can say, Miss Beaufort, is that I do not feel authorized to
pay you for them. Mr. Parkinson, however, is my superior. You can
refer the matter to him."

"I should like to do so, sir," said Rose, with cold dignity.

"I will accompany you."

The two passed on to the superintendent's desk, and Daniells
explained the matter to his superior.

"I will look over the work myself," said Parkinson. "You may go
back, Mr. Daniells. I will settle the matter."

Rose stood quiet, while the superintendent examined the vests.

"Really, Miss Beaufort," said Hugh, with his fascinating smile, "I
think Mr. Daniells has done you injustice. To my eye, the vests are
very neatly made."

"Thank you, sir," said Rose, gratefully. "I am sure they are as well
made as any I have brought here."

"The fact is," said Parkinson, confidentially, "Daniells is rather
fussy--I might say cranky--I have had more than once to reverse his
decision. You shall certainly be paid promptly, as usual."

"Thank you, sir."

Rose had never admired the superintendent, but he seemed to her
now a just and agreeable man. The money was not now of so much
importance to her, but she strongly objected to being unjustly
treated, and being deprived of the money which she had fairly earned.

Mr. Parkinson himself paid over to Rose the money due for the six
vests.

"Miss Beaufort," he said, "I hope you won't think we men of business
are all hard and disposed to take advantage of the poor. Now, in
your case, I assure you that I feel very kindly toward you."

"Thank you, sir," said Rose, considerably surprised.

Mr. Parkinson's vanity led him to think that she was regarding him
with a look of interest, but he misinterpreted her. She looked upon
him as old enough to be her father, and not a suspicion had ever
entered her mind that he thought of her as a possible wife.

"If you will permit me," said the superintendent, "I am about to go
out to lunch, and will communicate to you a plan I have for your
advantage. It will be better not to take any new work now."

"I did not intend to," said Rose.

Mr. Parkinson looked a little surprised.

They passed through the store together, and out into Broadway. Rose
waited for Mr. Parkinson to say what he appeared to have in his mind.

"I think, Miss Beaufort," he said, as they emerged into the street,
"you could do better than make vests at thirty-five cents each."

"I think so, too," answered Rose. "I wonder what he means?" she
thought.

"Such a beautiful girl as you are----"

"Sir!" exclaimed Rose, haughtily.

"No offense, my dear. Quite the contrary, I assure you. I have had
my eye upon you for some time, and I admire you exceedingly. You are
poor, but I shall overlook that. My dear girl, I am very well off,
as you may suppose, and I offer to make you Mrs. Parkinson."

"Good-evening, sir," said Rose, coldly. "I don't wish to continue
the conversation."

"Don't be foolish, my dear girl. It is a fine chance for a poor
vest-maker to marry a man in my position."

Rose did not deign to answer, but tried to escape. He attempted to
seize her by the arm, when his hat was violently knocked over his
eyes, and he came near measuring his length on the sidewalk.




                           CHAPTER XXII.

                      THE ROMANCE OF A ROSE.


Mr. Parkinson adjusted his hat, and darted a glance of indignation
at a fine-looking young man who had come to the rescue of Rose
Beaufort.

"This is an outrage, sir," he said, angrily.

Clinton Randall paid no attention to the discomfited Parkinson, but
asked Rose:

"Has this man annoyed you?"

"He forced his attentions upon me," answered Rose.

"If he has insulted you, I will take care that he is punished."

"Don't meddle with what is none of your business," said Parkinson,
furiously. "I have a good mind to horsewhip you."

"Make the attempt whenever you please, sir," said Randall,
significantly. "If ever I find you annoying this young lady again, I
shall probably give you a taste of the same medicine."

"Annoying?" sneered Parkinson. "I offered to make her my wife, if
you call that annoyance. Let me tell you that when a gentleman in
my position offers to marry a vest-maker she has reason to feel
complimented."

"She evidently does not," said Randall, not without sarcasm.
"Whether she is a vest-maker or not, she is evidently a young lady
and is entitled to be treated as such."

"She will be sorry for having made such a fuss," said Parkinson,
spitefully. "Miss Beaufort," he continued, turning to Rose, "you
need not trouble yourself to come to the store again for work, as I
shall decline to give you any. You may regret having treated me with
such scant courtesy."

"I had no intention of asking for more work," said Rose, coldly.

"Perhaps you have come into a fortune," sneered Parkinson.

"Enough of this!" said Randall, sternly. "This young lady has no
favors to ask of you. You had better go back to your master and
conduct yourself hereafter in a more becoming manner, or you may
repent it."

Here was a fresh outrage for poor Parkinson. In his own eyes he
was a man of very great importance, and to be told by this young
man, before a common vest-maker, to go back to his master, was very
humiliating. He was trying to think of some scathing retort, when
Randall, with a bow, offered his arm to Rose, and they walked away
together.

"I wonder whether she really doesn't care for any more work,"
thought Parkinson, "or is it only pretense? I dare say she will,
after a while, be coming round again for vests to make. If she does,
I shall have her in my power."

And the superintendent walked slowly back to the store, chafing
inwardly at his ill-success.

"I hope you won't allow yourself to think of this disagreeable
occurrence," said Clinton Randall, "or of this unmannerly cur."

"No, sir, thanks to your kindness, I shall have no occasion."

"He seemed spiteful. I hope it is not in his power to annoy you."

He said this, thinking that Rose might be dependent upon Parkinson
for work.

"Last week he might have done so," answered Rose. "I was engaged in
making vests for the store in which he is employed, and he might
have refused me work. Now, fortunately, thanks to a kind lady, I
have no further occasion to apply to him."

"I am heartily glad to hear it. Any connection with such a cur must
be disagreeable. Has he ever annoyed you before?"

"Never; and I was much surprised to-day when he followed me from the
store and pressed his attentions upon me."

"He is old enough to be your father--the old fool!" said Randall,
resentfully.

It seemed to him profanation that such a man should have thought of
appropriating the fresh beauty of the charming girl at his side.

"He thought I ought to regard myself honored by his proposal,"
said Rose, smiling, as she thought of the unromantic figure of her
elderly lover.

"He has found out by this time that you hold a different opinion.
If he should ever persecute you again, I hope I may be at hand to
rescue you once more."

"I am not likely to meet him, and have no further occasion to make
vests for a living. If you will kindly stop the next up-town car, I
will not longer detain you."

"Certainly," answered Randall; and as a car was just at hand, he
complied with her request.

He stood on the sidewalk, following, with his glances, the Broadway
car into which he had helped Rose.

"I wish I dare follow her, and find out who she is," said Randall
to himself; "but she might misinterpret my motive and class me with
that elderly reprobate with whom I was compelled to interfere. What
a charming girl she is! I never saw a sweeter expression, or a more
beautiful complexion."

He was in a day-dream, from which he was presently roused.

"What are you staring at, Randall?" asked a young man of about his
own age, slapping him on the shoulder. "You seem star-gazing."

"So I am."

"Star-gazing at midday?"

"It is a human star, Tudor. In short, it is a beautiful girl, whom I
have just helped into a car."

"Who is she?"

"I don't know, I'm sure."

"An unknown divinity, eh? Tell me about it, for there is evidently a
story under all this."

"A very short one. I found an elderly scamp annoying her, and
knocked his hat over his eyes."

"And, after having gallantly rescued her, you helped her into a car?"

"Exactly."

"And that is the whole of it?"

"I am afraid so."

"You don't mean to say you are struck at last, Randall--you who have
so long been the despair of manoeuvering mammas? Come, that would be
news, indeed!"

"I am not at all sure but I am. Tudor, I will say one thing, that I
never saw a sweeter face in all my wanderings."

"That's saying a good deal, for you have been all over the world.
And you don't know the young lady's name?"

"Haven't the slightest clew to it."

"Is she rich or poor, a stylish city lady or a rustic beauty?"

"I fancy she is not rich," said Randall, who, for some reason,
did not care to mention that she had been a vest-maker. To him it
mattered little, but his friend Tudor might be more fastidious, and
he was not willing to give him any chance to look down upon Rose.

"Couldn't you manage to ask her name?"

Randall shook his head.

"I tried to think of a pretext, but could not," he answered.

"You may meet her again."

"I hope to do so."

"And if you do?"

Randall smiled.

"Considering that it is not over ten minutes since I first set
eyes upon her, it is, perhaps, a little premature to consider that
question. I shall certainly try to meet her again."

The two young men sauntered up-town, and the conversation fell upon
other themes, but Clinton Randall seemed unusually thoughtful. Do
what he might, he could not help recurring again and again to the
fair face which he had seen for the first time that morning.

When Rose was at home again the matter seemed no longer serious to
her. Whenever she thought of Mr. Parkinson and his suit she felt
inclined to laugh.

"Addie," she said, "I have had a proposal this morning."

