
"Where's Uncle John?"

"He hasn't been home."

"Has he got 'portant business, too?"

"'Specs he has, honey."

"It doesn't seem nice to take breakfast without papa," said the
little boy.

"You may consider me your papa, Frank," observed Ernest.

"But you're not big enough to be a papa."

"At any rate, I am not old enough."

When breakfast was over there was the long day before them to be
filled up in some way.

"Don't you ever wish to go out of the cave, Frank?" asked Ernest.

"Where?" asked the little boy.

"Into the bright sunshine, out on the green grass, and under the
trees."

"Yes; I think I should like it," answered Frank, thoughtfully. "But
papa does not want me to go. I don't know why. Do many little boys
live in caves like me?"

"No; I don't think so."

"Can they walk about in the sunshine, and play?"

"I always did."

"Do you like it better than living here?"

"Yes."

"Then what made you come here?"

This was an embarrassing question, and Ernest felt that he must be
careful in answering.  "Your papa wanted me to make you a visit," he
replied after a pause.

"And I am glad you came. It isn't so lonely for me. Before, I had only
Juba."

"Wouldn't she play with you?" asked Ernest with a smile.

Frank laughed merrily.

"Juba is too old to play. I hope you will stay with me a good while."

Ernest could not echo this wish, so he answered evasively,

"I can't tell yet how long I shall stay. But the time will come when
you will leave the cave and live like other little boys in a house."

"Did papa tell you that?"

"He told me that he should send you to school before long."

"What is a school like?" asked the little boy anxiously.

Few boys of ten would have been obliged to put this question, but
Frank had been secluded from the world ever since he was a baby.

"There will be a good many boys, some older, some younger, than
yourself. You will study lessons together, and play together."

"I think that will be nice."

"Yes; I am sure you will enjoy it."

"Did you ever go to school?"

"Oh, yes; I went to school for some years. I wish I could go again."

"Perhaps you will go to school with me."

"I can't tell," answered Ernest, vaguely. "Perhaps Juba will go to
school with you."

Frank laughed.

"She would look funny going to school," he said.

"What's dat you sayin' 'bout Juba, Massa Ernest?" asked the old woman,
entering the room.

"I told Frank you might go to school with him."

"Maybe I'd go and take care of him, honey."

"But you wouldn't want to study."

"I wouldn't study nohow. I's a poor, ignorant nigger. Never shall know
nuffin', I expect."

"Don't you think you could learn to read, Juba?"

"No, I couldn't. It takes white folks to read."

"No, Juba; when I went to school there was a colored boy in my class,
and he was one of the smartest scholars we had."

"And was he a nigger?" asked Juba, interested.

"We didn't call him that, but he was a colored boy. If he could learn
to read, I am sure you could."

"It's no use, chile. I'm too old now."

Much as he liked Frank, it was irksome to Ernest to remain all day in
the cave. It was imprisonment under pleasant circumstances, but still
imprisonment.

They got through the forenoon somehow, taking dinner at twelve
o'clock.

About two o'clock Frank complained of being sleepy.

"You won't mind if I go to sleep for an hour, Ernest?" he said.

"Oh, no," answered Ernest. "I can read, you know."

Since his exploration of the day before, Ernest had been longing to
visit once more the same portion of the cave. But he wanted to go
alone. He had a hope that through the aperture in the roof he might
effect his escape. It would not do to have Frank with him, as this
would interfere with his plan. Now the longed-for opportunity was
almost at hand.

He took a volume from the book-shelf, and sitting down beside the bed
began to read. But his mind was not on the book, though at another
time he would have enjoyed it. He watched Frank, and in less than
fifteen minutes had the satisfaction of seeing that he was fast
asleep.

Then he left the room, Juba being occupied in the kitchen. He secured
his hat, as he would need it in case he effected his escape.

As he passed through that apartment in the cave where there were
trunks and boxes, it occurred to him to open one of them. He was
rather surprised that it should be unlocked, but so it was.

It was filled with a miscellaneous assortment of articles, but on top,
to his surprise and joy, he recognized the envelope containing the
bonds that had been taken from him.

If he left the cave he would want these, and therefore he had no
hesitation in taking them. He put them in the inside pocket of his
vest, and kept on his way.

In a short time he reached the spot lighted by the aperture in the
roof.

The opening was quite large enough for him to get through, but the
difficulty was that it was fully fifteen feet above the floor of the
cave. Ernest was something of a gymnast, but it was out of his power
to reach the opening through which alone he could obtain deliverance.

He looked about him to see if there were any articles which he could
pile upon one an other so as to attain the aperture. But the cave was
quite empty of articles of any description, nor could he find any that
he could move in the portions which he had already traversed.

It was certainly very aggravating to be so near freedom, and yet
unable to obtain it. There just above him he could see the blue sky
and the cheerful sunshine, while he was a prisoner in a dark cavern.

Was there no way of reaching the opening? he asked himself.

If he had to give up hope, he would feel obliged to return the
envelope to the box from which he had taken it. Were its loss
discovered, he would of course be searched, and kept in stricter
seclusion than before.

In the room used by the outlaw as a sitting-room--the apartment he had
just left--he might be able to find what he needed. But he could not
remove anything without being detected, and should he return there he
would possibly find Frank awake, which would spoil all.

It looked as if he would have to give up the chance that had come to
him. In thoughtful mood he walked slowly back. All at once an idea
struck him. In the room where the trunks and boxes were stored he had
seen a long, stout rope. Could he do anything with it?

Looking up at the aperture, he noticed a jagged projection on one
side.

"If I could attach the rope to that," he reflected, "I could draw
myself up hand over hand till I reached the top, and then it would go
hard if I didn't get out."

With new hope in his heart, he retraced his steps rapidly till he
reached the store-room.

He knew just where to look for the rope. He examined it carefully, and
found it very stout and strong.

He took it back with him. Then making a loop at one end, he stood
under the opening and threw it up as he would a lasso. He had to try a
dozen times before he contrived to circle the projection with the
loop.

Then pulling it taut, he began to climb hand over hand, as he had many
a time done in sport. Now his deliverance depended upon it.

Slowly, foot by foot, he approached the opening, not knowing whether,
even if he reached it, he would be able to draw himself through the
hole.




CHAPTER XXI.

OUT OF THE FRYING-PAN INTO THE FIRE.

Arrived at the opening, Ernest found that there was a trap-door which
was ordinarily closed, but through some misadventure had been left open.
It was, however, a serious problem to draw himself up so as to profit by
what he had already done.

Twice he failed, and nearly lost his grip on the rope. Then he caught
hold of the projection from which the rope depended, and by a supreme
effort he succeeded, helping himself by means of the trap-door, in
emerging from his subterranean prison.

Stretching himself, he took a deep breath, and realized joyfully not
only that he was free, but that he had recovered the valuable bonds of
which he had been placed in charge.

He began to look around him, and tried to conjecture in what direction
he must go to reach Lee's Falls. He was quite at a loss, as he had
been carried into the cave blindfolded. But help seemed to be at hand.
He saw at a little distance, rapidly approaching him, a man of middle
height, whom he concluded to be a resident of some place in the
vicinity.

"Can you tell me in what direction I must go to reach Lee's Falls?" he
asked.

The stranger paused and examined him sharply.

"So you want to go to Lee's Falls?" he said.

"Yes, sir."

"Where do you come from?"

"From Emmonsville."

"Direct?"

"No."

"I saw you just now coming out of some opening in the earth."

This alarmed Ernest. He felt that he might be called upon to explain
where he had been.

"Who is this man?" he asked himself. "Is he one who is likely to be in
the confidence of the outlaws? If so, I have only got out of one
scrape to fall into another."

He studied the face of the man with whom he was speaking, and to his
dismay noted a resemblance to James Fox, who had captured him. He
began to suspect that this was his brother.

Whether it was or not, Ernest deemed it politic to say as little as
possible of his experiences, and of what he knew about the cave and
its occupants.

"Yes," he answered quietly; "there seems to be a cave underneath. I
found the trap door open, and went down, but I regretted it, for I
found it difficult to get out again."

His new acquaintance eyed him scrutinizingly, as if to see whether he
knew more than he was willing to reveal.

"So there is a cave underneath?" he said inquiringly.

"Yes."

"Have you any idea what it is used for?"

"I don't think it is used at all. The room below seems empty."

The man regarded him fixedly.

"When did you leave Emmonsville?" he asked abruptly.

"Yesterday," answered Ernest in some confusion.

"How does it happen that you have got no farther on your way to Lee's
Falls?"

"I stopped at the cabin of an Indian," answered Ernest, making the
only explanation he could think of.

The man smiled.

"Young man," he said, "didn't you pass last night in this cave?"

Ernest saw that there was no further chance for subterfuge.

"Yes," he answered.

"I thought so."

"You were captured?" the other went on.

"Yes."

"Have you any suspicion by whom this cave is occupied?"

"I presume by the Fox brothers."

"Correct. I am one of them."

"I began to think so."

"How were you able to escape?"

"I was left with the little boy. He fell asleep, and then I began to
explore."

"Where is my brother?"

"He went out quite early, I presume in search of you. You are John
Fox, are you not?"

"Exactly. I suppose my brother heard that I was in trouble."

"Yes."

"By the way, the Quaker detective through whom I got into difficulty
you doubtless know?"

"I do."

"I was put into jail at Crampton, but I managed to effect my escape.
Are you connected in any way with the Emmonsville bank?"

"Yes."

"In what way?"

"As bank messenger."

"Did my brother take anything from you?"

"Yes."

"Money?"

"No; bonds."

"You are a sensible boy. You answer my questions freely. You are a
smart boy, too. It isn't every lad of your age who would have managed
to effect an escape from the cave. Do you remember the entrance?"

"No; I was carried into it blindfolded."

"I thought my brother would be prudent. So you couldn't find it
again?"

"No; I don't think so."

"Still, I cannot run any risk. You will have to come with me."

"Where do you want to carry me?" asked Ernest, much disturbed.

"I will carry you back to the cave."

"Let me go free. I will promise not to reveal anything that I have
discovered."

The outlaw shook his head.

"I am sorry, boy, but that is a request I cannot grant. You were made
prisoner by my brother, and I owe it to him to prevent your escape."

It was intolerable to Ernest to think of having his captivity renewed.
He determined that he would at least make an effort for free dom.

Accordingly he did not hesitate, but started to run, hoping that in
this way he might save himself. He had always the reputation among his
boy companions as a sprinter, and resolved to see whether this was a
lost art with him.

"So that's your game, is it?" exclaimed the outlaw. "It will go hard
with me if I don't catch you. Stop, or it will be the worse for you!"

But Ernest had no intention of giving up so soon. He only exerted
himself the more.

The contest was not so unequal as might have been supposed. Ernest was
tall of his age, and the outlaw was rather below the average height.
So there was in reality only about an inch difference in their height.

On the other hand John Fox had, as might be supposed, more strength
and endurance. He was not over weight, and therefore not scant of
breath. Ernest got the start, and this was an advantage. One ran about
as fast as the other, so it settled down into a contest of endurance.
Whoever could hold out the longest would win.

The outlaw, however, was irritated at the unexpected difficulty of his
undertaking. He had thought that Ernest would surrender at discretion.

"I wish I had my revolver," he muttered.

Had the outlaw been aware that Ernest had in his possession the packet
of bonds which had impelled his brother to make him a captive, his
zeal would have been increased. This, however, he did not suspect. He
knew, of course, that the bonds would be taken from him, and he could
conceive of no chance of the boy's recovering them.

They flew over the ground, maintaining the same relative distance. But
there was an unexpected contingency that worked to the disadvantage of
Ernest.

Directly in his path was a projecting root, which in his haste escaped
his notice. He tripped over it, and as a natural consequence he
measured his length on the ground.

The outlaw's face lighted up with exultation. Now the issue was no
longer doubtful. At last he had the boy in his power.

Before Ernest could recover himself and rise to his feet, John Fox was
upon him.

He flung himself on the prostrate boy, and clutched him in a firm
grasp.

"Now I have you," he said. "You were a fool to run. You might have
known that you could not escape."

"I came near it, though," gasped Ernest, quite out of breath. "Let me
up."

"Will you promise to go with me without giving me any more trouble?"

"I will make no promises," said Ernest, stoutly.

"Then it will be the worse for you," said the outlaw vindictively.

What he proposed to do must remain unknown, for as he spoke a hand
was thrust into his neckcloth, and he was jerked violently to his
feet.




CHAPTER XXII.

A FRIEND IN NEED.

Bewildered and angry, John Fox looked to see who was his assailant. He
found himself confronted by a tall, muscular Indian, whom Ernest also
recognized as the man whose child he had saved from a watery grave.

"What do you mean by this outrage?" demanded the outlaw angrily.

"Why are you hurting him?" said the Indian, pointing to Ernest.

"Because I choose to. What have you got to say about it?"

"Me stop you," said the Indian calmly.

"I have a great mind to shoot you."

This was an empty threat, for his weapon had been taken by the Quaker
detective.

The only answer made by the Indian was to produce a revolver, which he
pointed at the breast of the outlaw.

"Two play at that game," he answered.

John Fox shrank back, for it takes a man of nerve to face a revolver.
He began to remonstrate.

"What interest have you in that boy?" he asked.

"He save my little boy from drowning," answered the Indian. "Will you
go, or shall me shoot?"

There was but one answer to make to this question. John Fox turned
about, and walked quietly away without a word.

Ernest grasped the Indian's hand gratefully.

"I can't thank you enough," he said. "You have perhaps saved my life."
