very moment I was expecting her I heard from the master that she was
dead.”
I turned this over. “But of what?”
“He never told me! But please, Miss,” said Mrs. Grose, “I must
get to my work.”
III
Her thus turning her back on me was fortunately not, for my just
preoccupations, a snub that could check the growth of our mutual
esteem. We met, after I had brought home little Miles, more intimately
than ever on the ground of my stupefaction, my general emotion: so
monstrous was I then ready to pronounce it that such a child as had
now been revealed to me should be under an interdict. I was a little
late on the scene, and I felt, as he stood wistfully looking out for me
before the door of the inn at which the coach had put him down, that I
had seen him, on the instant, without and within, in the great glow of
freshness, the same positive fragrance of purity, in which I had, from
the first moment, seen his little sister. He was incredibly beautiful,
and Mrs. Grose had put her finger on it: everything but a sort of
passion of tenderness for him was swept away by his presence. What
I then and there took him to my heart for was something divine that
I have never found to the same degree in any child--his indescribable
little air of knowing nothing in the world but love. It would have been
impossible to carry a bad name with a greater sweetness of innocence,
and by the time I had got back to Bly with him I remained merely
bewildered--so far, that is, as I was not outraged--by the sense of the
horrible letter locked up in my room, in a drawer. As soon as I could
compass a private word with Mrs. Grose I declared to her that it was
grotesque.
She promptly understood me. “You mean the cruel charge----?”
“It doesn’t live an instant. My dear woman, look at him!”
She smiled at my pretension to have discovered his charm. “I
assure you, Miss, I do nothing else! What will you say, then?” she
immediately added.
“In answer to the letter?” I had made up my mind. “Nothing.”
“And to his uncle?”
I was incisive. “Nothing.”
“And to the boy himself?”
I was wonderful. “Nothing.”
She gave with her apron a great wipe to her mouth. “Then I’ll stand
by you. We’ll see it out.”
“We’ll see it out!” I ardently echoed, giving her my hand to make
it a vow.
She held me there a moment, then whisked up her apron again with her
detached hand. “Would you mind, Miss, if I used the freedom----”
“To kiss me? No!” I took the good creature in my arms and, after we
had embraced like sisters, felt still more fortified and indignant.
This, at all events, was for the time: a time so full that, as I
recall the way it went, it reminds me of all the art I now need to
make it a little distinct. What I look back at with amazement is the
situation I accepted. I had undertaken, with my companion, to see it
out, and I was under a charm, apparently, that could smooth away the
extent and the far and difficult connections of such an effort. I
was lifted aloft on a great wave of infatuation and pity. I found
it simple, in my ignorance, my confusion, and perhaps my conceit,
to assume that I could deal with a boy whose education for the world
was all on the point of beginning. I am unable even to remember at
this day what proposal I framed for the end of his holidays and the
resumption of his studies. Lessons with me, indeed, that charming
summer, we all had a theory that he was to have; but I now feel
that, for weeks, the lessons must have been rather my own. I learnt
something--at first certainly--that had not been one of the teachings
of my small, smothered life; learnt to be amused, and even amusing,
and not to think for the morrow. It was the first time, in a manner,
that I had known space and air and freedom, all the music of summer
and all the mystery of nature. And then there was consideration--and
consideration was sweet. Oh, it was a trap--not designed, but deep--to
my imagination, to my delicacy, perhaps to my vanity; to whatever,
in me, was most excitable. The best way to picture it all is to say
that I was off my guard. They gave me so little trouble--they were of
a gentleness so extraordinary. I used to speculate--but even this with
a dim disconnectedness--as to how the rough future (for all futures are
rough!) would handle them and might bruise them. They had the bloom of
health and happiness; and yet, as if I had been in charge of a pair
of little grandees, of princes of the blood, for whom everything,
to be right, would have to be enclosed and protected, the only form
that, in my fancy, the after-years could take for them was that of a
romantic, a really royal extension of the garden and the park. It may
be, of course, above all, that what suddenly broke into this gives
the previous time a charm of stillness--that hush in which something
gathers or crouches. The change was actually like the spring of a
beast.
In the first weeks the days were long; they often, at their finest,
gave me what I used to call my own hour, the hour when, for my pupils,
tea-time and bed-time having come and gone, I had, before my final
retirement, a small interval alone. Much as I liked my companions,
this hour was the thing in the day I liked most; and I liked it best
of all when, as the light faded--or rather, I should say, the day
lingered and the last calls of the last birds sounded, in a flushed
sky, from the old trees--I could take a turn into the grounds and
enjoy, almost with a sense of property that amused and flattered me,
the beauty and dignity of the place. It was a pleasure at these moments
to feel myself tranquil and justified; doubtless, perhaps, also to
reflect that by my discretion, my quiet good sense and general high
propriety, I was giving pleasure--if he ever thought of it!--to the
person to whose pressure I had responded. What I was doing was what he
had earnestly hoped and directly asked of me, and that I could, after
all, do it proved even a greater joy than I had expected. I dare say
I fancied myself, in short, a remarkable young woman and took comfort
in the faith that this would more publicly appear. Well, I needed to
be remarkable to offer a front to the remarkable things that presently
gave their first sign.
It was plump, one afternoon, in the middle of my very hour: the
children were tucked away and I had come out for my stroll. One of the
thoughts that, as I don’t in the least shrink now from noting, used
to be with me in these wanderings was that it would be as charming
as a charming story suddenly to meet someone. Someone would appear
there at the turn of a path and would stand before me and smile and
approve. I didn’t ask more than that--I only asked that he should
know; and the only way to be sure he knew would be to see it, and
the kind light of it, in his handsome face. That was exactly present
to me--by which I mean the face was--when, on the first of these
occasions, at the end of a long June day, I stopped short on emerging
from one of the plantations and coming into view of the house. What
arrested me on the spot--and with a shock much greater than any vision
had allowed for--was the sense that my imagination had, in a flash,
turned real. He did stand there!--but high up, beyond the lawn and at
the very top of the tower to which, on that first morning, little Flora
had conducted me. This tower was one of a pair--square, incongruous,
crenelated structures--that were distinguished, for some reason, though
I could see little difference, as the new and the old. They flanked
opposite ends of the house and were probably architectural absurdities,
redeemed in a measure indeed by not being wholly disengaged nor of a
height too pretentious, dating, in their gingerbread antiquity, from a
romantic revival that was already a respectable past. I admired them,
had fancies about them, for we could all profit in a degree, especially
when they loomed through the dusk, by the grandeur of their actual
battlements; yet it was not at such an elevation that the figure I had
so often invoked seemed most in place.
It produced in me, this figure, in the clear twilight, I remember, two
distinct gasps of emotion, which were, sharply, the shock of my first
and that of my second surprise. My second was a violent perception of
the mistake of my first: the man who met my eyes was not the person
I had precipitately supposed. There came to me thus a bewilderment
of vision of which, after these years, there is no living view that
I can hope to give. An unknown man in a lonely place is a permitted
object of fear to a young woman privately bred; and the figure that
faced me was--a few more seconds assured me--as little anyone else I
knew as it was the image that had been in my mind. I had not seen it
in Harley Street--I had not seen it anywhere. The place, moreover, in
the strangest way in the world, had, on the instant, and by the very
fact of its appearance, become a solitude. To me at least, making my
statement here with a deliberation with which I have never made it,
the whole feeling of the moment returns. It was as if, while I took
in--what I did take in--all the rest of the scene had been stricken
with death. I can hear again, as I write, the intense hush in which the
sounds of evening dropped. The rooks stopped cawing in the golden sky
and the friendly hour lost, for the minute, all its voice. But there
was no other change in nature, unless indeed it were a change that
I saw with a stranger sharpness. The gold was still in the sky, the
clearness in the air, and the man who looked at me over the battlements
was as definite as a picture in a frame. That’s how I thought,
with extraordinary quickness, of each person that he might have been
and that he was not. We were confronted across our distance quite long
enough for me to ask myself with intensity who then he was and to feel,
as an effect of my inability to say, a wonder that in a few instants
more became intense.
The great question, or one of these, is, afterwards, I know,
with regard to certain matters, the question of how long they
have lasted. Well, this matter of mine, think what you will of it,
lasted while I caught at a dozen possibilities, none of which made
a difference for the better, that I could see, in there having been
in the house--and for how long, above all?--a person of whom I was in
ignorance. It lasted while I just bridled a little with the sense that
my office demanded that there should be no such ignorance and no such
person. It lasted while this visitant, at all events,--and there was a
touch of the strange freedom, as I remember, in the sign of familiarity
of his wearing no hat,--seemed to fix me, from his position, with just
the question, just the scrutiny through the fading light, that his own
presence provoked. We were too far apart to call to each other, but
there was a moment at which, at shorter range, some challenge between
us, breaking the hush, would have been the right result of our straight
mutual stare. He was in one of the angles, the one away from the house,
very erect, as it struck me, and with both hands on the ledge. So
I saw him as I see the letters I form on this page; then, exactly,
after a minute, as if to add to the spectacle, he slowly changed
his place--passed, looking at me hard all the while, to the opposite
corner of the platform. Yes, I had the sharpest sense that during this
transit he never took his eyes from me, and I can see at this moment
the way his hand, as he went, passed from one of the crenelations to
the next. He stopped at the other corner, but less long, and even as
he turned away still markedly fixed me. He turned away; that was all
I knew.
IV
It was not that I didn’t wait, on this occasion, for more, for I was
rooted as deeply as I was shaken. Was there a “secret” at Bly--a
mystery of Udolpho or an insane, an unmentionable relative kept in
unsuspected confinement? I can’t say how long I turned it over,
or how long, in a confusion of curiosity and dread, I remained where
I had had my collision; I only recall that when I re-entered the house
darkness had quite closed in. Agitation, in the interval, certainly had
held me and driven me, for I must, in circling about the place, have
walked three miles; but I was to be, later on, so much more overwhelmed
that this mere dawn of alarm was a comparatively human chill. The
most singular part of it in fact--singular as the rest had been--was
the part I became, in the hall, aware of in meeting Mrs. Grose. This
picture comes back to me in the general train--the impression, as I
received it on my return, of the wide white panelled space, bright in
the lamplight and with its portraits and red carpet, and of the good
surprised look of my friend, which immediately told me she had missed
me. It came to me straightway, under her contact, that, with plain
heartiness, mere relieved anxiety at my appearance, she knew nothing
whatever that could bear upon the incident I had there ready for her. I
had not suspected in advance that her comfortable face would pull me
up, and I somehow measured the importance of what I had seen by my thus
finding myself hesitate to mention it. Scarce anything in the whole
history seems to me so odd as this fact that my real beginning of fear
was one, as I may say, with the instinct of sparing my companion. On
the spot, accordingly, in the pleasant hall and with her eyes on me,
I, for a reason that I couldn’t then have phrased, achieved an inward
revolution--offered a vague pretext for my lateness and, with the plea
of the beauty of the night and of the heavy dew and wet feet, went as
soon as possible to my room.
Here it was another affair; here, for many days after, it was a queer
affair enough. There were hours, from day to day,--or at least there
were moments, snatched even from clear duties,--when I had to shut
myself up to think. It was not so much yet that I was more nervous than
I could bear to be as that I was remarkably afraid of becoming so; for
the truth I had now to turn over was, simply and clearly, the truth
that I could arrive at no account whatever of the visitor with whom
I had been so inexplicably and yet, as it seemed to me, so intimately
concerned. It took little time to see that I could sound without forms
of inquiry and without exciting remark any domestic complication. The
shock I had suffered must have sharpened all my senses; I felt sure, at
the end of three days and as the result of mere closer attention, that
I had not been practised upon by the servants nor made the object of
any “game.” Of whatever it was that I knew nothing was known around
me. There was but one sane inference: someone had taken a liberty
rather gross. That was what, repeatedly, I dipped into my room and
locked the door to say to myself. We had been, collectively, subject to
an intrusion; some unscrupulous traveller, curious in old houses, had
made his way in unobserved, enjoyed the prospect from the best point of
view, and then stolen out as he came. If he had given me such a bold
hard stare, that was but a part of his indiscretion. The good thing,
after all, was that we should surely see no more of him.
This was not so good a thing, I admit, as not to leave me to judge
that what, essentially, made nothing else much signify was simply my
charming work. My charming work was just my life with Miles and Flora,
and through nothing could I so like it as through feeling that I could
throw myself into it in trouble. The attraction of my small charges
was a constant joy, leading me to wonder afresh at the vanity of my
original fears, the distaste I had begun by entertaining for the
probable grey prose of my office. There was to be no grey prose,
it appeared, and no long grind; so how could work not be charming
that presented itself as daily beauty? It was all the romance of the
nursery and the poetry of the schoolroom. I don’t mean by this, of
course, that we studied only fiction and verse; I mean I can express
no otherwise the sort of interest my companions inspired. How can
I describe that except by saying that instead of growing used to
them--and it’s a marvel for a governess: I call the sisterhood to
witness!--I made constant fresh discoveries. There was one direction,
assuredly, in which these discoveries stopped: deep obscurity continued
to cover the region of the boy’s conduct at school. It had been
promptly given me, I have noted, to face that mystery without a
pang. Perhaps even it would be nearer the truth to say that--without
a word--he himself had cleared it up. He had made the whole charge
absurd. My conclusion bloomed there with the real rose-flush of his
innocence: he was only too fine and fair for the little horrid, unclean
school-world, and he had paid a price for it. I reflected acutely that
the sense of such differences, such superiorities of quality, always,
on the part of the majority--which could include even stupid, sordid
head-masters--turns infallibly to the vindictive.
Both the children had a gentleness (it was their only fault, and
it never made Miles a muff) that kept them--how shall I express
it?--almost impersonal and certainly quite unpunishable. They were like
the cherubs of the anecdote, who had--morally, at any rate--nothing to
whack! I remember feeling with Miles in especial as if he had had, as
it were, no history. We expect of a small child a scant one, but there
was in this beautiful little boy something extraordinarily sensitive,
yet extraordinarily happy, that, more than in any creature of his age
I have seen, struck me as beginning anew each day. He had never for a
second suffered. I took this as a direct disproof of his having really
been chastised. If he had been wicked he would have “caught” it,
and I should have caught it by the rebound--I should have found the
trace. I found nothing at all, and he was therefore an angel. He never
spoke of his school, never mentioned a comrade or a master; and I, for
my part, was quite too much disgusted to allude to them. Of course I
was under the spell, and the wonderful part is that, even at the time,
I perfectly knew I was. But I gave myself up to it; it was an antidote
to any pain, and I had more pains than one. I was in receipt in these
days of disturbing letters from home, where things were not going
well. But with my children, what things in the world mattered? That was
the question I used to put to my scrappy retirements. I was dazzled by
their loveliness.
There was a Sunday--to get on--when it rained with such force and
for so many hours that there could be no procession to church;
in consequence of which, as the day declined, I had arranged with
Mrs. Grose that, should the evening show improvement, we would attend
together the late service. The rain happily stopped, and I prepared
for our walk, which, through the park and by the good road to the
village, would be a matter of twenty minutes. Coming downstairs to
meet my colleague in the hall, I remembered a pair of gloves that had
required three stitches and that had received them--with a publicity
perhaps not edifying--while I sat with the children at their tea,
served on Sundays, by exception, in that cold, clean temple of mahogany
and brass, the “grown-up” dining-room. The gloves had been dropped
there, and I turned in to recover them. The day was grey enough, but
the afternoon light still lingered, and it enabled me, on crossing
the threshold, not only to recognise, on a chair near the wide window,
then closed, the articles I wanted, but to become aware of a person on
the other side of the window and looking straight in. One step into the
room had sufficed; my vision was instantaneous; it was all there. The
person looking straight in was the person who had already appeared to
me. He appeared thus again with I won’t say greater distinctness,
for that was impossible, but with a nearness that represented a forward
stride in our intercourse and made me, as I met him, catch my breath
and turn cold. He was the same--he was the same, and seen, this time,
as he had been seen before, from the waist up, the window, though the
dining-room was on the ground-floor, not going down to the terrace
on which he stood. His face was close to the glass, yet the effect of
this better view was, strangely, only to show me how intense the former
had been. He remained but a few seconds--long enough to convince me
he also saw and recognised; but it was as if I had been looking at him
for years and had known him always. Something, however, happened this
time that had not happened before; his stare into my face, through
the glass and across the room, was as deep and hard as then, but it
quitted me for a moment during which I could still watch it, see it
fix successively several other things. On the spot there came to me the
added shock of a certitude that it was not for me he had come there. He
had come for someone else.
The flash of this knowledge--for it was knowledge in the midst of
dread--produced in me the most extraordinary effect, started, as I
stood there, a sudden vibration of duty and courage. I say courage
because I was beyond all doubt already far gone. I bounded straight
out of the door again, reached that of the house, got, in an instant,
upon the drive, and, passing along the terrace as fast as I could rush,
turned a corner and came full in sight. But it was in sight of nothing
now--my visitor had vanished. I stopped, I almost dropped, with the
real relief of this; but I took in the whole scene--I gave him time
to reappear. I call it time, but how long was it? I can’t speak
to the purpose today of the duration of these things. That kind of
measure must have left me: they couldn’t have lasted as they actually
appeared to me to last. The terrace and the whole place, the lawn and
the garden beyond it, all I could see of the park, were empty with a
great emptiness. There were shrubberies and big trees, but I remember
the clear assurance I felt that none of them concealed him. He was
there or was not there: not there if I didn’t see him. I got hold of
this; then, instinctively, instead of returning as I had come, went
to the window. It was confusedly present to me that I ought to place
myself where he had stood. I did so; I applied my face to the pane
and looked, as he had looked, into the room. As if, at this moment, to
show me exactly what his range had been, Mrs. Grose, as I had done for
himself just before, came in from the hall. With this I had the full
image of a repetition of what had already occurred. She saw me as I
had seen my own visitant; she pulled up short as I had done; I gave her
something of the shock that I had received. She turned white, and this
made me ask myself if I had blanched as much. She stared, in short,
and retreated on just my lines, and I knew she had then passed out
and come round to me and that I should presently meet her. I remained
where I was, and while I waited I thought of more things than one. But
there’s only one I take space to mention. I wondered why she should
be scared.
V
Oh, she let me know as soon as, round the corner of the house,
she loomed again into view. “What in the name of goodness is the
matter----?” She was now flushed and out of breath.
I said nothing till she came quite near. “With me?” I must have
made a wonderful face. “Do I show it?”
“You’re as white as a sheet. You look awful.”
I considered; I could meet on this, without scruple, any innocence. My
need to respect the bloom of Mrs. Grose’s had dropped, without a
rustle, from my shoulders, and if I wavered for the instant it was not
with what I kept back. I put out my hand to her and she took it; I held
her hard a little, liking to feel her close to me. There was a kind
of support in the shy heave of her surprise. “You came for me for
church, of course, but I can’t go.”
“Has anything happened?”
“Yes. You must know now. Did I look very queer?”
“Through this window? Dreadful!”
“Well,” I said, “I’ve been frightened.” Mrs. Grose’s eyes
expressed plainly that she had no wish to be, yet also that she
knew too well her place not to be ready to share with me any marked
inconvenience. Oh, it was quite settled that she must share! “Just
what you saw from the dining-room a minute ago was the effect of
that. What I saw--just before--was much worse.”
Her hand tightened. “What was it?”
“An extraordinary man. Looking in.”
“What extraordinary man?”
“I haven’t the least idea.”
Mrs. Grose gazed round us in vain. “Then where is he gone?”
“I know still less.”
“Have you seen him before?”
“Yes--once. On the old tower.”
She could only look at me harder. “Do you mean he’s a stranger?”
“Oh, very much!”
“Yet you didn’t tell me?”
“No--for reasons. But now that you’ve guessed----”
Mrs. Grose’s round eyes encountered this charge. “Ah, I haven’t
guessed!” she said very simply. “How can I if you don’t
imagine?”
“I don’t in the very least.”
“You’ve seen him nowhere but on the tower?”
“And on this spot just now.”
Mrs. Grose looked round again. “What was he doing on the tower?”
“Only standing there and looking down at me.”
She thought a minute. “Was he a gentleman?”
I found I had no need to think. “No.” She gazed in deeper
wonder. “No.”
“Then nobody about the place? Nobody from the village?”
“Nobody--nobody. I didn’t tell you, but I made sure.”
She breathed a vague relief: this was, oddly, so much to the good. It
only went indeed a little way. “But if he isn’t a gentleman----”
“What is he? He’s a horror.”
“A horror?”
“He’s--God help me if I know what he is!”
Mrs. Grose looked round once more; she fixed her eyes on the duskier
distance, then, pulling herself together, turned to me with abrupt
inconsequence. “It’s time we should be at church.”
“Oh, I’m not fit for church!”
“Won’t it do you good?”
“It won’t do them----!” I nodded at the house.
“The children?”
“I can’t leave them now.”
“You’re afraid----?”
I spoke boldly. “I’m afraid of him.”
Mrs. Grose’s large face showed me, at this, for the first time, the
far-away faint glimmer of a consciousness more acute: I somehow made
out in it the delayed dawn of an idea I myself had not given her and
that was as yet quite obscure to me. It comes back to me that I thought
instantly of this as something I could get from her; and I felt it to
be connected with the desire she presently showed to know more. “When
was it--on the tower?”
“About the middle of the month. At this same hour.”
“Almost at dark,” said Mrs. Grose.
“Oh no, not nearly. I saw him as I see you.”
“Then how did he get in?”
“And how did he get out?” I laughed. “I had no opportunity to ask
him! This evening, you see,” I pursued, “he has not been able to
get in.”
“He only peeps?”
“I hope it will be confined to that!” She had now let go my hand;
she turned away a little. I waited an instant; then I brought out:
“Go to church. Good-bye. I must watch.”
Slowly she faced me again. “Do you fear for them?”
We met in another long look. “Don’t you?” Instead of answering
she came nearer to the window and, for a minute, applied her face to
the glass. “You see how he could see,” I meanwhile went on.
She didn’t move. “How long was he here?”
“Till I came out. I came to meet him.”
Mrs. Grose at last turned round, and there was still more in her
face. “I couldn’t have come out.”
“Neither could I!” I laughed again. “But I did come. I have my
duty.”
“So have I mine,” she replied; after which she added: “What is
he like?”
“I’ve been dying to tell you. But he’s like nobody.”
“Nobody?” she echoed.
“He has no hat.” Then seeing in her face that she already, in
this, with a deeper dismay, found a touch of picture, I quickly added
stroke to stroke. “He has red hair, very red, close-curling, and
a pale face, long in shape, with straight, good features and little,
rather queer whiskers that are as red as his hair. His eyebrows are,
somehow, darker; they look particularly arched and as if they might
move a good deal. His eyes are sharp, strange--awfully; but I only know
clearly that they’re rather small and very fixed. His mouth’s wide,
and his lips are thin, and except for his little whiskers he’s quite
clean-shaven. He gives me a sort of sense of looking like an actor.”
“An actor!” It was impossible to resemble one less, at least, than
Mrs. Grose at that moment.
“I’ve never seen one, but so I suppose them. He’s tall, active,
erect,” I continued, “but never--no, never!--a gentleman.”
My companion’s face had blanched as I went on; her round eyes started
and her mild mouth gaped. “A gentleman?” she gasped, confounded,
stupefied: “a gentleman he?”
“You know him then?”
She visibly tried to hold herself. “But he is handsome?”
I saw the way to help her. “Remarkably!”
“And dressed----?”
“In somebody’s clothes. They’re smart, but they’re not his
own.”
She broke into a breathless affirmative groan. “They’re the
master’s!”
I caught it up. “You do know him?”
She faltered but a second. “Quint!” she cried.
“Quint?”
“Peter Quint--his own man, his valet, when he was here!”
“When the master was?”
Gaping still, but meeting me, she pieced it all together. “He
never wore his hat, but he did wear--well, there were waistcoats
missed! They were both here--last year. Then the master went, and Quint
was alone.”
I followed, but halting a little. “Alone?”
“Alone with us.” Then, as from a deeper depth, “In charge,”
she added.
“And what became of him?”
She hung fire so long that I was still more mystified. “He went
too,” she brought out at last.
“Went where?”
Her expression, at this, became extraordinary. “God knows where! He
died.”
“Died?” I almost shrieked.
She seemed fairly to square herself, plant herself more firmly to utter
the wonder of it. “Yes. Mr. Quint is dead.”
VI
It took of course more than that particular passage to place
us together in presence of what we had now to live with as we
could--my dreadful liability to impressions of the order so vividly
exemplified, and my companion’s knowledge, henceforth,--a knowledge
half consternation and half compassion,--of that liability. There had
been, this evening, after the revelation that left me, for an hour,
so prostrate--there had been, for either of us, no attendance on
