older by some months, richer by such gifts as it was 
no shame for him to take of Duke Geoffrey and young 
Henry Plantagenet, he had believed himself wiser, 
too, by half a lifetime. 
He was confident in his own strength, in his own 
wisdom, in his own endurance; he fancied that he 
had fought against a great temptation, where he had 
in truth been chilled and terrified by the haunting 
vision of another's evil ; he imagined that the little 
sharp regret, which stung his heart with long- 
ing for the sweetness of a sin that might have 
been, was the evil remnant of a passion not wholly 
quenched, whereas it was but the craving of a 
natural vanity that had not been strong enough to 
overcome a repugnance which he himself only half 
understood. 
He seemed in his own eyes to have made the sacri- 
fice of his worldly future for the sake of his knightly 
ideal; but in truth, to a man without ambition, the 
renunciation had been easy and had been made in 
acquiescence with his real desires, rather than in 
opposition to them. 
And now he looked upon the city of his hope, and 
it crumbled to a dusty ruin under his very hand ; he 
stood on ground made reverent by the march of his- 
tory and sanctified by the blood of Christians, and it 
was but one great wilderness, of which he himself 
was the centre. His heart sank suddenly within him, 
and his fingers clutched at the breast of his tunic 
under his surcoat, as though the pain were bodily 
and real. Long he sat in silence, bending a little 
in the saddle, as if worn out with fatigue, though 
he had ridden only three hours since daybreak. 
"Sir," said his man Dunstan, interrupting his 
master's meditations, " here is an inn, and we may 
find water for our horses." 
Gilbert looked up indifferently, and then, as there 
was no near building in sight, he turned inquiringly 
to his man. A sardonic smile played on Dunstan's 
lean dark face as he pointed to what Gilbert had 
taken for three haystacks. They were, indeed, noth- 
ing but conical straw huts standing a few steps aside 
from the road, thirty yards down the hill. The 
entrance to each was low and dark, and from the one 
issued wreaths of blue smoke, slowly rising in the 
still, cold air. At the same entrance a withered 
bough proclaimed that wine was to be had. A ditch 
beyond the furthest hut was full of water, and at 
some distance from it a rude shed of boughs had been 
set up to afford the horses of travellers some shelter 
from winter rain or summer sun. As Gilbert looked, 
a man came out, bowing himself almost double to 
pass under the low aperture. He wore long goatskin 
breeches and a brown homespun tunic, like a monk's 
frock, cut short above the knees, and girdled with 
a twisted thong. Shaggy black hair thatched his 
square head, and a thin black beard framed the yellow 
face, which had the fever-stricken look of the dwellers 
in the Campagna. 
Though this was the first halting-place of the kind 
to which Gilbert had come in the Roman plain, he 
was no longer easily surprised by anything, and he 
did not even smile as he rode forward and dis- 
mounted. 
Besides his own men he had with him the mule- 
teer who acted as guide and interpreter, and without 
whom it was impossible for a foreigner to travel in 
Italy. The peasant bowed to the ground, and led 
Gilbert to the entrance of the hut where he usually 
served his customers with food and drink, and in the 
gloom within Gilbert saw a rough-hewn table and 
two benches standing upon the well-swept floor of 
 
beaten earth. But the Englishman made signs that 
he would sit outside, and the scanty furniture was 
brought out into the open air. The third hut was a 
refuge and a sleeping-place for travellers overtaken 
at nightfall on their way to the city. 
"The monk is asleep," said the peasant host, lift- 
ing his finger to his lips because Gilbert's men were 
talking loud near the entrance. 
Gilbert understood as much as that without his 
interpreter ; for in those days the Proven§al tongue 
was an accomplishment of all well-born persons, and 
it was not unlike certain dialects of Italy. 
"A monk?" repeated Gilbert, indifferently. 
"He calls himself one, and he wears a grey 
frock," answered the other. "But we are glad when 
he comes, for he brings us good fortune. And you 
may see that I speak the truth, since he came late in 
the night, and your lordship is the first guest at the 
huts this morning." 
" Then you know him well ? " 
"Every one knows him," answered the man. 
He turned, and Gilbert saw him lift up a hurdle 
of branches and disappear underground. His cellar 
was deep and cool, one of the many caverns which 
communicate with the catacombs and riddle the 
Campagna from Kome to the hills. Gilbert seated 
himself upon the smaller of the two benches at the 
end of the table ; his three men took the other, and 
laid aside their caps out of respect for their master. 
The horses were tethered under the shed of boughs 
till they should be cool enough to be watered. The 
southern side of the hut was sunny and warm, and 
the place smelled of dry grass, of clean straw, and, 
faintly, of smouldering fire. 
Gilbert was hardly conscious that he was thinking 
of anything as he stared out at the rolling waste, fold- 
ing his hands together upon the hilt of his long sword. 
Just then a man emerged from the third hut, drew 
himself up facing the sun, and ruhhed his eyes be- 
fore he looked toward the party at the other table. 
When he saw them, he hesitated for a moment, and 
then came up to Gilbert with the apparent intention 
of addressing him. 
Above the height of average men, the figure looked 
unnaturally tall by its gauntness, and the heavy 
folds of the grey woollen frock fell together below 
the breast as if they covered a shadow. Long, 
bony hands, that seemed woven of sinews and leather, 
but which were not without a certain nervous refine- 
ment, hung from loose-jointed brown wrists left bare 
by sleeves that were too short. The head was so 
roughly angular that even the thick masses of dark 
brown hair which fell to the shoulders could not make 
the angles seem like curves, and the face displayed 
the fervent features of a fanatic — dark, hollow 
cheeks, deep-sunk, blazing eyes, the vast lines of an 
ascetic mouth, a great jaw scarcely fringed by the 
scant black beard. Gilbert saw before him a face 
and figure that might have belonged to a hermit of 
Egypt, an ascetic of the Syrian desert, a John the 
Baptist, an Anthony of Thebes. The man wore a 
broad leathern girdle ; a blackened rosary, with beads 
as large as walnuts, hung from his side and ended in 
a rough cross of wrought iron. 
Gilbert half rose from his seat, moved to one end 
of the short bench, and invited the stranger to sit 
beside him. The monk bent his head slightly, but 
not a feature moved as he took the proffered place in 
silence. He folded his great hands on the edge of 
the rough-hewn board and stared at the ruinous 
brown city to southward. 
"You are a stranger," he said in Provengal, after 
a long pause and in a singularly musical voice, but 
without turning his eyes to Gilbert. 
" I have never seen Kome before, " answered Gil- 
bert. 
" Rome ! " There was a sort of almost heartbroken 
pity in the tone of the single syllable that fell from 
the lips of the wandering monk. 
"You have never seen Rome before? There it 
lies, all that is left of it — the naked bones of the 
most splendid, the most beautiful, the most powerful 
city in the world, murdered by power, done to death 
by popes and emperors, by prefects and barons, 
sapped of life by the evil canker of empire, and left 
there like a dead dog in the Campagna, to be a prey 
to carrion beasts and a horror to living men." 
The gaunt stranger set his elbows upon the table 
and bit his nails savagely, while his burning eyes 
fixed themselves on the distant towers of Rome. 
Then Gilbert saw that this man was no common 
wandering friar, begging a meal for his frock's sake, 
but one who had thoughts of his own, and with whom 
. to think was to suffer. 
"It is true," said Gilbert, "that Rome is less fair 
to see than I had supposed." 
" And you are deceived of your hopes before you 
have entered her gate," returned the other. "Are 
you the first? Are you the last? Has Rome made 
an end of deceiving, and found the termination of 
disappointment? Rome has deceived and disap- 
pointed the world. Rome has robbed the world of 
its wealth, and devoured it, and grown gaunt to the 
bone. Rome has robbed men of their bodies and of 
their lives, and has torn them limb from limb wan- 
tonly, as a spoiled hawk tears a pheasant and scatters 
the bright feathers on the ground. Rome has robbed 
men of their souls and has fed hell with them to its 
surfeit. And now, in her turn, her grasping- hands 
have withered at the wrists, her insatiable lips are 
cracking upon her loosening teeth, and the mistress 
of the world is the sport of Jews and usurers." 
" You speak bitterly, " said Gilbert, looking curi- 
ously at his new acquaintance. 
The monk sighed, and his eyes softened wonder- 
fully as he turned to the young man. He had been 
speaking in a tone that slowly rose to shrillness, like 
a cry of bodily pain. When he spoke again his Toice 
was low and sweet. 
" Bitterly, but for her sake, not for mine," he said. 
" If I have given my life for her, she will not give 
me hers. Though I have laid at her feet all that I 
had, she shall put nothing into my hand nor give me 
anything but a ditch and a handful of earth for my 
bones, unless some emperor or pope shall leave them 
upon a gallows. But I have asked of her, for her- 
self and her own sake, that she should do by herself 
honourably, and draw her neck from the yoke and 
shake off the burdens under which she has stumbled 
and fallen. I have asked of her to stand upright 
again, to refuse to eat from the hand that has 
wounded her, and not to hearken to the Toice of 
violence and cursing. I have asked that Rome 
should cast out the Stranger Emperor, and cast down 
the churchman from the king's throne, and take 
from him the king's mask. I have asked Rome 
to face her high robbers whom she calls barons, 
her corruption, her secret weakness, as a brave man 
faces his sins and confesses them and steadfastly 
purposes to offend God no more. All this I have 
asked, and in part she has heard; and I have paid 
the price of my asking, for I am an outcast of many 
kingdoms and a man excommunicated under the 
Major Interdiction." 
A gentle smile, that might have been half indiffer- 
ence, half pity, wreathed the ascetic lips as he spoke 
the last words. They were not empty words in those 
days, and unawares Gilbert shrank a little from his 
companion. 
"I see that you are a devout person," said the friar, 
quietly. " Let my presence not offend you at your 
meal. I go my way." 
But as he began to rise, Gilbert's hand went out, 
and his fingers met round the skeleton arm in the 
loose grey sleeve. 
"Stay, sir," he said, "and break your fast with 
us. I am not such a one as you think." 
"You shrank from me," said the stranger, hesitat- 
ing to resume his seat. 
" I meant no discourtesy, " answered Gilbert. " Be 
seated, sir. You call yourself an outcast. I am but 
little better than a wanderer, disinherited of his own. " 
"And come you hither for the Pope's justice?" 
asked the friar, scornfully. "There is no Pope in 
Rome. Our last was killed at the head of a band of 
fighting men, on the slope of the Capitol, last year, 
and he who is Pope now is as much a wanderer as 
you and I. And in Rome we have a Republic and 
a Senate, and justice of a kind, but only for Romans, 
and claiming no dominion over mankind ; for to be 
free means to set free, to live means to let live." 
"I shall see what this freedom of yours is like," 
said Gilbert, thoughtfully. " For my part I am not 
used to such thoughts, and though I have read some 
history of Rome, I could never understand the Roman 
Republic. With us the strongest is master by natural 
law. "Why should the strong man share with the 
weak what he may keep for himself ? Or if he must, 
in your ideal, then why should not the strong nation 
share her strength and wealth with her weak neigh- 
bour? Is it not enough that the strong should not 
wantonly bruise the weak nor deal unfairly by him ? 
The Normans can see no more harm or injustice in 
holding than we see in taking what we can ; and 
so we shall never understand your republics and 
your senates." 
" Are you a Norman, sir ? " asked the friar. " Are 
you a kinsman of Guiscard and of them that last 
burnt Rome ? I do not wonder that the civilization 
of a republic should seem strange to you ! " 
Gilbert was listening, but his eyes had wandered 
from the friar's face in the direction of the dusty road 
that led to Rome, and between his companion's words 
his quick ear had caught the sound of hoofs, although 
no horses were yet in sight but his own. Just as 
the friar ceased speaking, however, a troop of seven 
riders appeared at the turn of the road. They were 
rough-looking men in long brown cloaks that were 
in tatters at the edge ; they wore round caps of mail 
on their heads, with a broad leathern strap under the 
chin ; their faces were dark, their beards black and 
unkempt, and they rode small, ragged horses, as ill 
cared for as themselves. 
Gilbert sprang up almost as soon as he saw them, 
for he knew that, not being travellers, they could 
hardly be anything but highwaymen. His own men 
were on their feet as soon as he, while the muleteer 
guide disappeared round the hut quietly and swiftly, 
like a mouse when a cat is in sight. Gilbert made 
straight for his horses, followed by Dunstan and the 
groom ; but before he could reach them, two of the 
riders had jumped the ditch from the road and inter- 
cepted him, while the others rode on toward the shed 
to carry off his horses. His sword was out in a flash, 
his men were beside him, their weapons in their 
hands, and the grimy riders drew theirs also ; it was 
like a little storm of steel in the bright air. The 
Englishman's long blade whirled half a circle above 
his head ; the blow would beat down the horseman's 
guard and draw blood, too. 
But in mid-air his wrist was seized in the sudden 
grasp of sinewy fingers, and the friar was already 
between him and his adversary, warning the other 
off with his outstretched hand. The loose sleeve had 
slipped back from his wrist, baring a brown, emaciated 
arm and elbow upon wbich the swollen veins seemed 
to twist and climb like leafless vines upon a with- 
ered tree. His lips were white, his eyes blazed, and 
his voice was suddenly harsh and commanding. 
" Back ! " he cried, almost savagely. 
To Gilbert's very great astonishment, the single 
word produced an instantaneous and wonderful effect. 
The riders lowered their weapons, looked at one 
another, and then sheathed them ; the others, who were 
loosing Gilbert's horses and mules, suddenly desisted 
at the sound of the friar's voice. Then the one near- 
est to Gilbert, who was a shade less grimy than the 
rest, and who wore in his cap a feather from a pheas- 
ant's tail, slipped to the ground, and bending low 
under his tattered brown cloak, took the hem of the 
monk's frock in his right hand and kissed it fer- 
vently. Gilbert stood aside, leaning upon his un- 
sheathed sword, and his wonder grew as he looked on. 
"We ask your pardon, Fra Arnoldo," cried the 
chief, still kneeling. "How could we guess that 
you were breakfasting out here this morning? "We 
thought you far in the north. " 
"And therefore thought yourselves free to rob 
strangers and steal cattle, and cut one an others' 
throats ? " 
" This is probably a part of the civilization of a 
republic," observed Gilbert, with a smile. 
But the highwaymen, all dismounted now, came 
crowding to the feet of Arnold of Brescia in pro- 
found, if not lasting, contrition, and they begged a 
blessing of the excommunicated monk. 
CHAPTER IX 
Gilbert lodged at tlie sign of the Lion, over 
against the tower of Nona, by the bridge of Sant' 
Angelo. The inn was as old as the times of Charle- 
magne, when it had been named in honour of Pope 
Leo, who had crowned him emperor. But the quarter 
was at that time in the hands of the great Jewish 
race of Pierleoni, whose first antipope, Anacletus, 
had not been dead many years, and who, though they 
still held the castle and many towers and fortresses 
in Rome, had not succeeded in imposing the antipope 
Victor upon the Roman people, against the will of 
Bernard of Clairvaux. 
Rome lay along the river, in those days, like 
wreckage and scum thrown up on the shore of a 
wintry sea. Some twenty thousand human beings 
were huddled together in smoky huts, most of which 
were built against the outer walls and towers of the 
nobles' strongholds — a miserable population, living 
squalidly in terrible times, starving while the nobles 
fought with one another, rising now and then like a 
vision of famine and sword to take back by force the 
right of life which force had almost taken from them. 
Gilbert wandered through the crooked, unpaved 
streets, in and out of gloomy courts and over deso- 
late wastes and open places, the haunts of ravenous 
dogs and homeless cats that kept themselves alive 
on the choice pickings of the city's garbage. He 
went armed and followed by his men, as he saw that 
other gentlemen of his condition did, and when ha 
knelt in a church to hear mass or to say a prayer, he 
was careful to kneel with his back to the wall or to 
a pillar, lest some light-handed worshipper should 
set a razor to his wallet strings or his sword-belt. 
At his inn, too, he lived in a state of armed defence 
against every one, including the host and the other 
guests; and the weekly settlement was a weekly 
battle between Dunstan, who paid his master's scores, 
the little Tuscan interpreter, and Ser Clemente, the 
innkeeper, in which the Tuscan had the most un- 
comfortable position, j&nding himself placed buffer- 
like between the honest man and the thief, and 
exposed to equally hard hitting from both. Rome 
was poor and dirty and a den of thieves, murderers, 
and all malefactors, dominated alternately by a family 
of half-converted Jews, who terrorized the city from 
strong points of vantage, and then, on other days, by 
the mob that followed Arnold of Brescia when he 
appeared in the city, and who would have torn down 
stone walls with their bare hands at his merest 
words, as they would have faced the barons' steel 
with naked breast. At such times men left their 
tasks — the shoemaker his last, the smith his anvil, 
the crooked tailor his bench — to follow the northern 
monk to the Capitol, or to some church where he was 
to speak to them ; and after the men came the women, 
and after the women the children, all drawn along 
by the mysterious attraction which they could 
neither understand nor resist. The tramping of 
many feet made a dull bass to the sound of many 
human voices, high and low, crying out lustily for 
'Arnold, a Senate, and the Roman Republic ' ; and 
then taking up the song of the day, which was a 
ballad of liberty, in a long minor chant that broke 
into a jubilant major in the burden — the sort of 
song the Romans have always made in time of change, 
the kind of ballad that goes before the end of a king- 
dom, like a warning voice of fate. 
On such days, when the mob went howling and 
singing after its idol, southwards to the Capitol 
or even to the far Lateran where Marcus Aurelius 
sat upon his bronze horse watching the ages go by, 
then Gilbert loved to wander in the opposite direc- 
tion, across the castle bridge and under the haunted 
battlements of Sant' Angelo, where evil Theodora's 
ghost walked on autumn nights when the south wind 
blew, and through the long wreck of the fair portico 
that had once extended from the bridge to the basilica, 
till he came to the broad flight of steps leading to the 
walled garden-court of old Saint Peter's. There he 
loved to sit musing among the cypresses, wondering 
at the vast bronze pine-cone and the great brass pea- 
cocks which Symmachus had brought thither from 
the ruins of Agrippa's baths, wherein the terrible 
Crescenzi had fortified themselves during more than 
a hundred years. Sitting there alone, while Dun- 
stan puzzled his uncertain learning over deep-cut 
inscriptions of long ago, and Alric, the groom, threw 
his dagger at a mark on one of the cj^ress trees, hun- 
dreds of times in succession, and rarely missing his 
aim, Gilbert felt, in the silence he loved, that the soul 
of Rome had taken hold of his soul, and that in Rom« 
it was good to live for the sake of dreaming, and that 
dreaming itself was life. The past, with his mother's 
sins, his own sorrows, the friendship of the boy 
Henry, the love of Queen Eleanor, were all infinitely 
far removed and dim. The future, once the magic 
mirror in which he had seen displayed the glory of 
knightly deeds which he was to do, was taken up 
like a departing vision into the blue Roman sky. 
Only the present remained, the idle, thoughtful, 
half-narcotic present, with a mazy charm no man 
could explain, since so far as any bodily good was 
concerned there was less comfort to be got for 
money, more fever to be taken for nothing, and a 
larger element of danger in everyday life in Rome 
than in any city Gilbert had traversed in his wander- 
ings. Yet he lingered and loved it rather for what 
it denied him than for what it gave him, for the 
thoughts it called up rather than for the sights it 
offered, for that in it which was unknown, and there- 
fore dear to dwell upon, rather than for the sadness 
and the darkness and the evil that all men might 
feel. 
But through all he felt, and in all he saw, welding 
and joining the whole together, there was the still 
fervour of that something which he had at first known 
in Sheering Abbey — something to which every fibre 
of his nature responded, and which, indeed, was 
the mainspring of the world in that age. For devo- 
tion was then more needful than bread, and it profited 
a man more to fight against unbelievers for his 
soul's sake than to wear hollows in altar-steps with 
his knees, or to forget his own name and put off 
his own proper character and being, as a nameless 
unit in a great religious order. 
At first the enormous disappointment of Rome had 
saddened and hurt him. He had fancied that where 
there was no head there could be no house, that 
where the leader was gone the army must scatter 
and be hewn in pieces. But as he stayed on, from 
week to week and from month to month, he learned 
to understand that the Church had never been more 
alive, more growing, and more militant than at that 
very time when the true and rightful pontiffs were 
made outcasts one after the other, while their places, 
earthly and spiritual, were given to instruments of 
feud and party. For the Church was the world, 
while Rome meant seven or eight thousand half- 
starved and turbulent ruffians, with their wives and 
children, eager always for change, because it seemed 
that no change could be for the worse. 
But in the ancient basilica of Saint Peter there was 
peace ; there the white-haired priests solemnly offici- 
ated in the morning and at noon, and toward evening 
more than a hundred rich voices of boys and men 
sang the vesper psalms in the Gregorian tones; 
there slim youths in violet and white swung silver 
censers before the high altar, and the incense floated 
in rich clouds upon the sunbeams that fell slanting 
to the ancient floor ; there, as in many a minster 
and cloister of the world, the Church was still her- 
self, as she was, and is, and always will be; there 
words were spoken and solemn prayers intoned which 
had been familiar to the lips of the Apostles, which 
are familiar to our lips and ears to-day, and of 
which we are sure that lips unborn will repeat 
them to centuries of generations. Gilbert, type of 
Christian layman, kneeled in the old cathedral, and 
chanted softly after the choir, and breathed the 
incense-laden air that seemed as natural to him as 
ever the hay-scented breeze of summer had been, and 
he was infinitely refreshed in soul and body. But 
then again, alone in his room at the Lion Inn, late 
in the night, when he had been poring over the 
beautifully written copy of Boethius, given him by 
the Abbot of Sheering, he often opened wide the 
wooden shutters of his window and looked out at 
the castle and at the flowing river that eddied and 
gleamed in the moonlight. Then life rose before 
him in a mystery for him to solve by deeds, and he 
