


Doctor Carew was much moved, and was fain to send 
Sherburne with her. 

" You see they do not want either of us," he said, in 
a coldly indifferent tone persuading himself that he felt 
really hurt at the word. 

But the next day not only were the boys summoned 
but Doctor Carew entreated to accompany them. 

"It must be critical," declared Lyndell. "But Doc- 
tor Underwood is so full of resources and keeps up to 
the high mark in his profession. Still, Tessy will feel 
better satisfied if you are there." 

He knew how critical the case was from another mes- 
sage that he had not mentioned. And all these hours 
must elapse before he could be of any assistance, if indeed 
assistance were needed then. 

Bertram was shocked at first and could not keep the 
tears from his eyes. He glanced over the paper but 
everything blurred, he looked out on the dreary March 
landscape as it whirled by and it seemed to express deso- 
lation rather than the coming of spring. After awhile 
he turned to his books, he had counted on passing away 
the tedium with study, but he could only think of Sher- 
burne House and the anxious, sorrowing household, his 
dear mother ! Of course, papa could not die. He had 
never known him in any state but robust health. Yet 
there would be days when no one would know except 
each in his secret heart. 

Doctor Carew found a friend on the train and they fell 
into a discussion. Sherburne sat gloomily, his thoughts 
a curious chaos. Not any more than Bertram would he 
believe death possible, but an awful fear tugged at his 
heart. He went out to the smoking car, but the cigar 
had no flavor, and the men were laughing at some rough 





stories. The air was stifling. So he returned and picked 
up the paper. If one could only get along without 
thinking ! But it was better even to see the stricken 
household with that far sight, than it was to live over the 
last two months and his woes. 

The journey seemed endless, but few things really are 
in this world. Doctor Carew had tried to lighten the 
burthen for both boys, but only Bertram had responded. 
More than once he had stolen a glance at Sherburne's 
handsome, gloomy face, and thought of his own disap- 
pointment in the lad. Could he have made the path 
more attractive for youthful feet ? He had a feeling that 
he had not done his cordial best, because he had not 
quite approved. 

Yet he did feel thankful Sherburne had not plunged 
into dissipation. He would be saved the mortifying con- 
sciousness of not having been able to cope with that 
viciousness. And perhaps a shock like this would rouse 
the latent manhood in him. 

They reached Sherburne House just at the edge of the 
evening. Tessy came to meet them in the spacious hall. 
She put out her hand to Doctor Carew, then went to the 
strong arms of her firstborn son, and in an instant seemed 
to live over the first absorbing year of her happy married 
life, crowned indeed by his coming. 

How small and sweet, and exhausted she was ! What 
if all the rest of her life he was to be her protector and 
try to fill a vacant place that after all never could be 
filled. A solemn impression of responsibility seemed to 
overwhelm him. No one had spoken. Doctor Carew, 
so used to the house, had hurried up to the sick chamber. 
What if 

"O mamma, mamma!" cried Bertram, crowding in 





and kissing the wet face in a passion of sorrow, " God 
will be good to us ! It has been in my heart every 
moment of the journey from Washington, and isn't 
that strong desire prayer? I know he will hear and 
answer." 

"How is he?" asked Sherburne, huskily. 
"He has been unconscious since noon." 
To Tessy Beaumanoir the bitterness of death had al- 
ready passed. When she had looked upon the white, 
still face, the half-closed eyes, and kissed down on the 
damp cool brow she felt it was the last farewell. She 
had not dared to plead for a word. Doctor Underwood 

had said 

" You may come in a moment if you will not speak or 
utter the slightest sound." 

Then she had gone out again and tried to comfort the 
household. 

"You have had no supper." Then she put an arm 
about each of her boys, both so much taller than she, 
and they walked through to the dining-room. But no one 
could eat. Sherburne drank a cup of tea. Princess 
came in and afterward they adjourned to the sitting- 
room, where the other children were huddled together, 
waiting in breathless awe. 

Tessy Beaumanoir knew she has been blessed among 
women. All these years no evil had come nigh her. 
There had been few illnesses, not at all alarming, there 
had been prosperity, satisfaction, happiness and worldly 
advancement. Yesterday she had wept and prayed, and 
said she could not yield up this best love of her life upon 
God's altar. But to-day she knew it all belonged to God, 
husband, children, prosperity, happiness. Whatever He 
sent she must accept. She would suffer in the sorrow, 





had not even He wept over his friend's grave, but it 
would not be as those without hope. 

They did not try to talk after the first few questions 
Princess asked. Doctor Carew came down for some sup- 
per and took their mother out with him. Years ago, he 
remembered he had fought for the young life, and rea- 
son with it as well. 

Tessy looked her wordless question. 

" No one can tell," he answered. " There is nothing 
I can do or suggest, yet I am glad you sent for me. 
Dr. Underwood has been splendid." 

"They were not so alarmed at first. I think if he 
had come home at once — but we cannot distrust God's 
wisdom. And when they thought there would be a turn 
for the better, it was worse instead. Everybody has 
been full of kindness and solicitude. ' ' 

"Now there is only waiting. There comes a time 
when the issues of life and death rest alone with God. 
My great hope is in Leonard's splendid constitution. 
If he should go through the night, the test of that will 
come afterward." 

Then he returned to the patient. There was no 
change. 

"You will remain?" he inquired of Doctor Under- 
wood. 

" O yes. I have had some one with me the last two 
nights. Somehow I can't give him up." 

After awhile the children kissed their mother good- 
night and went to bed. Bertram was both tired and 
sleepy. 

" Will you not go as well ? " she asked of Sherburne. 

" No. I couldn't sleep. Let me stay with you," and 
the voice was beseeching. 





"Then we will go upstairs." 

Sherburne followed his mother to the room adjoining 
that in which his father lay. The door was closed. 
There was a cheerful fire upon the wide hearth and a 
lounge with a slumber robe thrown carelessly over it. 

"You had better lie down," he said, softly. "You 
look exhausted." 

She suffered herself to be placed comfortably and cov- 
ered. Then he drew his chair up beside her. 

"Thank you," she said, softly. "We cannot talk 
lest we disturb them. But there will be time enough for 
that." 

She was so white and wan that his heart was moved 
immeasurably. 

In his father's young life there had been two years of 
invalidism from an accident, and everybody had joined 
in attention and caresses until he had felt as if the world 
was really made for his enjoyment. And though this 
luxury of indulgence had not been Sherburne's, nothing 
had been demanded from him. His two years abroad 
had been quite self-indulgent, and he had enjoyed no 
little admiration. To consider another's comfort would 
be an acquired rather than inherited virtue. Not that he 
was more selfish than hundreds of young people to whom 
fate has been kindly. 

But as he sat here now his heart warmed strangely to 
his mother. If any one had suggested that he did not 
truly love her, he would have been angry enough to 
knock him down. And yet — what was love but readiness 
to do another's pleasure, not simply the pleasure of one 
bright attractive woman with whom one might come to 
read a page of romance, but a finer, deeper devotion to 
all the claims of life. And if sorrow should constitute 





him the head of the house — which, God forbid, duty 
alone would not suffice. He knew then it would take a 
great deal of love and self-denial to comfort the sorrow- 
ing ones. They had a right to demand it of him. 

He was amazed at himself. His nature seemed an 
unknown territory, and he hardly knew what was planted 
there, even if he had done it largely himself. For the 
first time he did not feel elated, rather humiliated, in- 
stead. 

Now and then a step of the servants went up and 
down. Once something was needed in the other cham- 
ber, then that awesome silence again, the dreary mid- 
night silence. 

Bertram Carew entered and went over to Tessy who 
half rose, and turned entreating eyes to him. 

"He holds his own," he said, softly, but it seemed as 
if there was hope in his voice. 

" But he has not " 

" I doubt if there will be a return to consciousness un- 
til all is decided. Are you comfortable? Sherburne, 
you look weary." 

" O, you ought to go to bed," said his mother. 
" I want to stay here." 

The tone was low, but decisive. And Doctor Carew 
was glad of the decision. 

Tessy did doze now and then a brief moment. Sher- 
burne fixed the fire and gazed dreamily at the thin blue 
flames turning to red and glaring gold. 

Twice more before dawn the same not uncheering 
news came in. Sherburne rose stiff and numb and 
walked to the window. The sky was overcast, the east 
thick with clouds and the wind moaned through the 
great trees. He felt strangely depressed. 





It grew lighter, and the servants began to stir about. 
One of the young lads brought up a great basketful of wood. 
"Softly," Sherburne said, with a warning finger. 
Tessy rose and came to embrace her son, who kissed 
her with a new tenderness. 

"There must be hope," he began in his young exult- 
ant voice that cheered her inexpressibly. 

Doctor Underwood entered then. "lam going home 
for a few hours," he began, " I hardly dare breathe hope, 
but his sleep seems tranquil, though his pulse is very 
low. If nothing worse should occur between this and 

noon " 

" O heaven bless you ! " She was crying on her son's 
breast, but she put out her hand. 

" No, don't begin to hope just yet," he entreated. 
"Sherburne," his mother entreated, "you must go 
and get some rest. It was very good of you to watch 
here all night with me." 

"And a bath. I am old and stiff." He tried to 
smile, but there was a mistiness in his eyes. 

The duties of the day began. There was breakfast 
and the children gathered about in a sort of solemn 
eagerness to hear the news of papa. Sherburne had 
gone to bed, he was quite worn out. 

Afterward Tessy was admitted to her husband's bed- 
side. The illness had begun to tell on his stalwart 
frame. His eyes were sunken, his mouth drawn, and 
the stray white hairs at his temples had increased notice- 
ably. The stillness was wonderfully like death. 

" His breathing is better. But we thought several 
times through the night that he was surely gone. It is 
curious, Tessy, but there was another time when I 
watched with him and thanked God as I do now." 





Then he had a hope. She raised her eyes in wordless 
gratitude. 

By noon it was a hope sure and steadfast. God had 
given him back from the confines of the grave. 

" But it is still very critical," confessed Doctor Carew. 
"For the next three or four days he will be in great 
danger of a relapse which probably would prove fatal. 
So the utmost watchfulness will be required." 

" Yes," she responded, her heart full of thanksgiving. 

There was a little snow presently. Grandpapa Beau- 
manoir came over in spite of the cold and storm, and was 
much moved at the good news, as well as delighted to 
see Doctor Carew. 

" You are our strong tower in time of trouble," he de- 
clared. " And how is my dear girl and the children ? " 

That meant Lyndell, he knew. No father's love 
could be more solicitous. 

Bertram came for a greeting. Now that the great 
strain was removed, for in youth it is only a step from 
despair to hope, Bertram was full of enthusiasm over 
his progress at college, and bright with eager plans. 

" You won't mind if I take him home for an hour or 
two," said the old gentleman. " Grandmother will be 
delighted to see him. And Sherburne? " 

"Sherburne sat up all night with me, and has been 
sent to bed." The little mother's face glowed as she said 
this. 

Bertram was not very ready to go, but he hated to re- 
fuse grandpapa. 

When Doctor Underwood returned he could see an 
improvement. The pulse had gained strength. 

Judge Beaumanoir opened his eyes presently and gazed 
languidly around. 





"O Bert," he exclaimed, feebly. "It is good to see 
you. I've been rather shaky and don't feel very solid 
yet." 

They gave him some nourishment and he dropped off 
to sleep again. 

"I do not feel very secure," confessed Doctor Under- 
wood, " but there is a reasonable hope." 

"Nothing must excite him to waste his strength." 

When Sherburne came down at mid-afternoon, he 
looked refreshed and brilliant, yet a little alarmed as 
well. 

" O, how could I sleep so ! And papa? " 

"There has been some improvement. He knew Un- 
cle Carew. But we are all barred out ' ' 

There was a sweet consenting quiver in the voice that 
could not quite steady itself. Sherburne kissed his 
mother with fervent tenderness. 

The children wanted a turn at their big brother. They 
went off to the schoolroom so that they should not dis- 
turb any one. 

Matters were so much better the ensuing morning, that 
Doctor Carew thought it safe to return to his duties. 
There was a trusty nurse, and a young doctor employed 
at the hospital to ease up Doctor Underwood who had 
been most devoted. 

" Of course I shall not go back with you," said Sher- 
burne. "But Bertram had better return to his studies." 

"Yes," replied Doctor Carew. "I shall feel more at 
ease to have you here, and for the next two or three days 
report morning and night." 

Sherburne bowed acquiescently. 

Bertram was quite divided in his duty, but his mother 
overruled. He really did hate to lose the time. 





" You may just go in and kiss papa, but do not say a 
word," exclaimed his mother. 

Papa was asleep. He tired very easily and dozed 
off. 

They came back to ordinary life after the strain. 
Princess was sweet and solicitous and there were bits of 
confidence between her and her mother, and letters that 
brought a dainty flush to her cheek, love-letters that she 
hardly supposed the professor could write. The children 
were so glad to get her home again, and she had to spend 
the evenings with them, telling about "everybody," and 
all she had seen. 

Sherburne was rather grave and quite devoted to his 
mother, taking charge of little business details, and after 
a few days relieving the nurses somewhat, and Doctor 
Underwood, who had been most solicitous. Fanny was 
very proud of her husband's skill and claimed all 'the 
credit, " for Doctor Carew did not really do anything," 
she declared, rather resentfully. 

" I wanted him in case — he was a great comfort to 
Tessy. I gave up hope twice that night, but Carew 
wouldn't. He inspires one," said her husband. 

" You were desperately tired out. You did all the 
real work." 

"And I shall take all the credit, never fear, and de- 
mand all the bill," laughingly. 

" Do you think Sherburne will make a good doctor ? " 

" That is too big a question to answer at present. He 
seems rather more serious than usual." 

The young man was doing a good deal of thinking in 
these days. He had been very gentle to Princess, but 
the subject of their quarrel had not been touched upon. 
She felt that he must see presently how really ungenerous 





he had been, and make amends to Uncle Con and Ger- 
trude. 

He spent many hours in his father's room. One of 
the nurses was no longer needed since Sherburne insisted 
upon supplying his place. He read a little, but he was 
ready at a look or sound. More than once he thought 
of the great change his father's death would have made. 
And it had come so near ! 

It was pitiful to see such weakness. He had never 
known his father to be really ill, and to have him lie an 
hour at a time pallid and not even moving his hand, to 
hear him speak a few words feebly, or leave off in the 
midst of a sentence as if he had no strength for the next 
word, made the case seem absolutely hopeless yet to him. 
And when the nurse fed him and he resigned himself to 
the ministrations without even a sigh, Sherburne was 
inexpressibly shocked. He had seen some cases of utter 
helplessness in the hospitals that were considered incur- 
able ; what if this should be paralysis in some insidious 
form ? 

"Do you truly think he will recover?" he asked, 
earnestly, of Doctor Underwood one morning. " He 
doesn't seem to make any improvement." 

"Yes, he has made a great deal," with a kindly, en- 
couraging smile. " You are hardly old enough in the 
