Maud Gilbert's party. It was to be his introduction into New York
society.

He flattered himself that his appearance would win him favor. Though far
from handsome, he thought himself so--a delusion not uncommon among boys
and men. He dressed himself very carefully, and at the proper time set
out for the house where the party was to be held. He and Stanley Rayburn
had agreed to go together.

On reaching the house they were directed to the room set apart for
gentlemen to arrange their toilet and leave their coats. The mansion was
brilliantly decorated, and as Edgar went up-stairs he felt a thrill of
exultation at being a guest in such a house.

He inwardly resolved that he would take advantage of his slight
acquaintance with the Gilberts and push himself into intimate
friendship. In that way he would be in a position to extend his
acquaintance among fashionable people.

But a surprise and a shock were in store for him. As he entered the room
he saw a boy standing in front of the mirror brushing his hair. He
started in surprise.

The figure looked familiar. Could it be! Yes, it was his cousin Mark
Mason--Mark Mason, handsomely dressed in party costume, and with a rose
in his buttonhole.

Mark turned round to see who were the newcomers.

"Good evening, Edgar," said Mark.

"You here!" exclaimed Edgar, in unqualified amazement.

"Yes; I did not expect to have the pleasure of meeting you," answered
Mark with an amused smile. He understood Edgar's surprise, and the
reason of it.

Meanwhile Stanley Rayburn stood by in silence.

"Introduce me to your friend, Edgar," he said, for he was attracted by
Mark's frank, handsome face.

"Mark Mason--Stanley Rayburn!" said Edgar awkwardly. He would have liked
to decline introducing Stanley to his poor cousin, but there seemed to
be no way of avoiding it.

"I am glad to make your acquaintance, Mr. Mason," said Stanley
cordially.

"Thank you, but don't call me Mr. Mason."

"I would rather say Mark. Any friend of Edgar----"

"Mark Mason and I are only acquaintances," said Edgar hurriedly, and in
the worst possible taste.

"I hope that we shall be friends," said Stanley with emphasis,
thinking that Edgar was a cad.

"I hope so too," rejoined Mark earnestly, "if, after getting my
'character' from Edgar," he added with a smile, "you still wish it."

Stanley was a little puzzled, not knowing how Mark was regarded by his
companion.

"I think I shall go down at once," said Stanley. "I don't think I
require any finishing touches to my toilet."

"Be ready to go with me to Miss Gilbert," said Edgar. "I will follow you
in a minute."

"Very well."

"Now," said Edgar, when he and his cousin were alone, "how do you happen
to be here?"

"By Miss Gilbert's invitation, of course. I suppose that is the case
with you."

"Certainly. Does she know that you are a telegraph boy?"

"Yes."

"That's strange. Did you ever meet her?"

"Oh, yes; I have spent the evening here two or three times."

"That's queer. By the way, you seem to be very nicely dressed."

"I am glad you like my suit."

"Yet you are as poor as poverty. It was a crazy idea to run into debt
for an expensive suit."

"I didn't run into debt. My suit is paid for."

"Yet your mother claims to be very poor."

"We are getting along better now."

"It would have been wiser for you to save the money you spent on this
suit and keep it for rent and food."

"Your advice is very kind, Edgar, but I really feel that I can manage my
own business."

"Oh, well, if you choose to resent my good advice----"

"I don't. I hope it springs from your interest in me."

During this conversation Edgar was brushing his hair carefully and
"prinking" before the glass, for he was anxious to appear as fascinating
as possible when he presented himself to Miss Gilbert.

"Shall we go down?" asked Mark.

"Yes, perhaps we may as well. I suppose you would feel awkward entering
the drawing-room alone."

"Perhaps so," said Mark smiling.

As the two presented themselves in the room below Edgar looked about for
Stanley, but did not see him.

"I wonder where Stanley has disappeared to," he said in a tone of
vexation. "He promised to go up with me to Miss Gilbert."

"If he doesn't show up, Edgar, I shall be glad to take his place. As you
have only recently come to the city, I suppose you don't know her well."

"I only met her once," Edgar admitted, "and she may not remember me."

"Then come with me."

Almost against his wishes Edgar found himself walking up to the other
end of the room with his despised cousin. He would not have believed it
possible if this had been predicted to him an hour earlier.

"Good evening, Mark! I am glad to see you here," said Maud Gilbert, with
a pleasant smile.

"Let me present Mr. Edgar Talbot," said Mark after a suitable
acknowledgment.

"I had the pleasure of meeting you when in company with Stanley
Rayburn," explained Edgar.

"Oh, yes, I remember. And so you are also acquainted with Mark."

"Yes," answered Edgar, rather awkwardly. "I expected Mr. Rayburn to
present me."

"You have found a sponsor equally good," returned Maud.

Then the two walked on, giving place to others.

"You seem to know Miss Gilbert very well," said Edgar in a tone of
curiosity.

"Yes."

"It is strange. I don't understand it."

Edgar was relieved to find that Mark did not claim him as a cousin,
though to his surprise he saw that Mark stood particularly well with the
young hostess.

"How do you, Mark?" The speaker was a bright boy of sixteen, the brother
of Miss Gilbert. "How well you are looking!"

"Thank you, Charlie. If a young lady had told me that it would make me
proud."

"Come along. I will introduce you to a couple of nice girls."

"Who is that?" asked Edgar of Rayburn, who had now come up.

"Don't you know? That is Charlie Gilbert, Maud's brother."

"So he knows Mark, too."

"Why shouldn't he?"

"Because Mark is--you will be surprised to hear it--a common telegraph
boy."

"He may be a telegraph boy, but he certainly is not a common one. He is
a nice-looking fellow, and I am glad to know him."

Presently dancing began. In his earlier days, when his father was
living, Mark had taken lessons from a teacher, and though he was rather
out of practise he ventured to go out on the floor, having as his
partner one of the prettiest girls in the room.

As there was space for but two sets of dancers, Edgar was obliged to sit
still and see the others dance. He felt very much dissatisfied
especially as Mark seemed to be enjoying himself thoroughly.

"Society in New York seems to be very much mixed," he said to himself,
"when telegraph boys can push in and make themselves so conspicuous in
rich men's houses."

Edgar got a chance to dance once later on, but the girl he danced with
was very small and insignificant in appearance.

       *       *       *       *       *

"Well, what kind of a time did you have?" asked Solon Talbot when his
son returned home.

"Very good."

"I suppose it was quite a brilliant affair," said Solon Talbot
complacently. "I am glad to have you invited to such a swell house. Did
Stanley Rayburn take you up to Miss Gilbert?"

"No; he promised to, but when I looked for him he was not to be found."

"That was awkward."

"No; I found a substitute, a boy whom you and I both know."

"I have no idea whom you can mean."

"No; you might guess all night, but without success. It was Mark Mason."

"What! You don't mean to say that Mark Mason was a guest at the party?"

"Yes he was, and he seemed very well acquainted too."

"Was he in his telegraph uniform?"

"No; he had on a nice new suit, as handsome as mine. He had a rose in
his buttonhole and looked quite like a dude."

"How very extraordinary!" ejaculated Solon.

"I thought you would say so."

"Why, they are living from hand to mouth, steeped in poverty."

"So I thought, but it doesn't seem like it."

"The boy must be very cheeky, but even so, I can't account for his
success. I shall have to call on his mother and ask what it means."




CHAPTER XXVI.

AN IMPORTANT COMMISSION.


A WEEK later Mark received the follow letter:

"Mark Mason: Please call at my office as soon as convenient.

"D. GILBERT."

"This letter is from Maud Gilbert's father," said Mark, addressing his
mother. "I wonder what he wants."

"Nothing disagreeable, I am sure. Of course you will go."

"I will call to-morrow morning."

Mr. Gilbert was a commission merchant, with an office in the lower part
of the city, west of Broadway. Mark obtained leave of absence for an
hour agreeing to pay the price usually charged to customers.

He had seen Mr. Gilbert, a stout, portly man of fifty, during his call
at the house in Forty-Fifth Street. Therefore when he was admitted to
Mr. Gilbert's office, he addressed him not as a stranger but as an old
acquaintance.

"I received your note, Mr. Gilbert, and have called according to your
request."

"That is right, Mark. Sit down till I have finished looking over my
letters. You will find the morning Herald on the table near you."

In ten minutes the merchant had finished with his letters, and whirled
round in his chair.

"I believe you are a telegraph boy," he said.

"Yes, sir."

"What pay do you receive?"

"I don't average over six dollars a week."

"How old are you?"

"Sixteen."

"My daughter thinks you are unusually bright and intelligent."

"I am very much obliged to Miss Maud for her good opinion," said Mark,
his face flushing with gratification.

"How can you get along on six dollars a week? You have a mother
partially dependent upon you, I believe."

"I have lately had a present of a thousand dollars from Mr. Luther
Rockwell, the banker. I was in his office when a dynamite crank
threatened to blow us all up."

"I heartily congratulate you, Mark. You deserved the gift for your
coolness and courage, but it isn't every rich man who would make so
generous an acknowledgment for your services."

"That's true, sir. Mr. Rockwell has been very kind."

"How do you like the position of telegraph boy?"

"I would like to give it up. It doesn't lead to anything. But I don't
want to throw myself out of work. Six dollars a week is a small income,
but it is better than nothing."

"I approve your prudence, but I think other and better employment can be
obtained for you. Maud tells me that you were sent not long since to
Cleveland with some valuable jewelry."

"Yes, sir."

"You succeeded in your mission?"

"Yes, sir."

"Did you meet with any adventures while you were gone?"

"Yes, sir."

"Tell me briefly what they were."

Mark did so.

"Don't think I am influenced by curiosity," said Mr. Gilbert. "The fact
is, I have a still longer journey for you if you don't object, and I
wished to assure myself that you were adequate to undertake it. It may
take six weeks, or it may take two months. I should advise you to give
up your position as messenger, and I will guarantee you an equally good
place when you return."

"Thank you, sir. In that case I won't hesitate to give it up."

"Your week closes to-morrow, I suppose."

"Yes, sir."

"Then give notice at once."

"Where are you going to send me, sir?" asked Mark, with pardonable
curiosity.

"To California."

Mark looked amazed. He knew that California was even further away than
Liverpool, and having the love of travel and adventure natural to boys
of his age he felt that he should thoroughly enjoy the trip.

"I should like very much to go," he said promptly.

"Now I must tell you why I send you. A cousin of mine has just died in
California, leaving a young son of ten years of age. He wrote me a
letter from his death-bed commending the boy to my care. I will gladly
undertake the charge of the boy, as I had a strong regard for his
father, who, by the way had died poor.

"But a difficulty presented itself. The boy could not come East by
himself, and there seemed no one to bring him. Of course I can't leave
my business, and there is no one else in my family who can be sent.
Under these circumstances Maud has recommended me to send you."

"I shall be glad to go, sir."

"You are a rather young guardian for a young boy, but I think you
possess the necessary qualification. Your experience as a telegraph boy
has made you sharp and self-reliant, and altogether I think you will
acquit yourself to my satisfaction."

"I will try to, sir."

"I need no assurance of that."

"How am I to go?"

"By the Union and Central Pacific Road from Omaha. I will supply you
with a through ticket."

"Shall you wish me to return immediately?"

"No; you can stay in California two or three weeks and get acquainted
with the boy. I have never seen him, but I think you won't find him
troublesome. Are you fond of children?"

"Very, sir."

"The poor boy will need a kind friend, having lost his father so
recently. And now, there is one thing more to be spoken of--your
compensation."

"I shall be satisfied with whatever you think right."

"Then we will fix that after your return. But you will need to leave
some money with your mother to pay expenses while you are away."

"I can draw from Mr. Rockwell."

"No; if you have money in his hands let it remain. I will advance you a
hundred dollars to leave with your mother. I may as well do that now. On
Saturday evening, when you are released from your present position, call
at the house and receive your ticket and final instructions."

"Thank you, sir."

Mr. Gilbert rang a little bell, and a boy appeared.

"Go to the bank and get this check cashed," said the merchant.

In a few minutes he returned with a roll of bills.

"Count them over and see if they are right, Mark."

"Yes, sir; they are correct."

"Very good! Remember that they are for your mother. Tell her also that
if you remain longer than I anticipate, and she gets short of money, she
can call at my office and I will supply her with more."

Mark left the office in a state of joyful excitement.

He was to make a long journey across the continent. He would see many
states and cities, and become acquainted with places which he now knew
only by hearsay. And after he returned his prospects would be brighter,
for Mr. Gilbert had promised to find him a position at least equal to
the one he resigned.

In the afternoon as Mark was returning from an errand in West Fiftieth
Street, he saw Edgar Talbot in the neighborhood of Bryant Park.

"Hallo!" said Edgar condescendingly. "Are you on an errand?"

"Yes."

"Ho, ho! how you will look in a telegraph boy's uniform when you are a
young man of twenty-five."

"What makes you think I am going to be a telegraph boy so long?"

"Because you are not fit for any other business."

Mark smiled.

"I am sorry for that," he said, "for as it happens I have tendered my
resignation."

"You don't mean that you are going to leave the messenger service?"

"Yes."

"But how are you going to live? It won't be any use to ask father for
money."

"I presume not."

"Perhaps," suggested Edgar hopefully, "you have been discharged."

"I discharged myself."

"Have you got another position?"

"I am going to travel for a while."

Edgar Talbot was more and more perplexed. In fact he had always found
Mark a perplexing problem.

"How can you travel without money?"

"Give it up. I don't propose to."

"Have you got any money?"

Mark happened to have with him the roll of bills given him for his
mother. He drew it out.

"Do you mean to say that is yours? How much is there?"

"A hundred dollars."

"I don't believe it is yours."

"It isn't. It belongs to my mother."

"But father said she was very poor."

"At any rate this money belongs to her."

