den to come to the place where we are going. 
Soon, you think? Perhaps you might hint — oh 
no, not from me — just your idea. "Wouldn't it 
be natural, after our misfortune ? Perhaps mam- 
ma would feel differently after what has hap- 
pened. Oh, that Montague! that horrid little 




 

man ! I think— I think I shall receive him coolly 
at first, just to see." 

But it was not immediately that the chance 
for a guileless woman to show her coolness to 
her lover was to occur. This postponement was 
not due to the coolness or to the good sense of 
Philip. When the catastrophe came, his first im- 
pulse was that of a fireman who plunges into 
a burning building to rescue the imperilled in- 
mates. He pictured in his mind a certain nobil- 
ity of action in going forward to the unfortunate 
family with his sympathy, and appearing to them 
in the heroic attitude of a man whose love has 
no alloy of self-interest. They should speedily 
understand that it was not the heiress, but the 
woman, with whom he was in love. 

But Miss McDonald understood human nature 
better than that, at least the nature of Mrs. Ma- 
vick. People of her temperament, humiliated 
and enraged, are best left alone. The fierceness 
with which she would have turned upon any of 
her society friends who should have presumed to 
offer her condolence, however sweetly the con- 
descension were concealed, would have been vent- 
ed without mercy upon the man whose presence 
would have reminded her of her foolish rudeness 
to him, and of the bitter failure of her schemes 
for her daughter. " Wait, wait," said the good 
counsellor, " until the turmoil has subsided, and 




 

the hard pressure of circumstances compels her 
to look at things in their natural relations. She 
is too sore now^ in the wreck of all her hopes." 

But, indeed, her hopes were not all surrendered 
in a moment. She had more spirit than her hus- 
band in their calamity. She was, in fact, a born 
gambler; she had the qualities of her temper- 
ament, and would not believe that courage and 
luck could not retrieve, at least partially, their 
fortune. It seemed incredible in the Street that 
the widow of Henderson should have given over 
her property so completely to her second husband, 
and it was a surprise to find that there was very 
little of value that the assignment of Mavick did 
not carry with it. The Street did not know the 
guilty secret between Mavick and his wife that 
made them cowards to each other. Nor did it 
understand that Carmen was the more venture- 
some gambler of the two, and that gradually, for 
the success of promising schemes, she had thrown 
one thing after another into the common specu- 
lation, until practically all the property stood in 
Mavick's name. Was she a fool in this, as so 
many women are about their separate property, or 
was she cheated ? The palace on Fifth Avenue 
was not even in her name. "When she realized 
that, there was a scene — but this is not a history 
of the quarrels of Carmen and her husband after 
the break-down. 





 

The reader would not be interested — the pub- 
lic of the time were not— in the adjustment of 
Mavick and his wife to their new conditions. 
The broken-down, defeated bankrupt is no novelty 
in "Wall Street, the man struggling to keep his 
foothold in the business of the Street, and de- 
scending lower and lower in the scale. The 
shrewd curb-stone broker may climb to a seat in 
the Stock Exchange ; quite as often a lord of the 
Board, a commander of millions, may be reduced 
to the seedy watcher of the bulletin-board in a 
bucket-shop. 

At first, in the excitement and the confusion, 
amid the debris of so much possible wealth, 
Mavick kept a sort of position, and did not im- 
mediately feel the pinch of vulgar poverty. But 
the day came when all illusion vanished, and it 
was a question of providing from day to day for 
the small requirements of the house in Irving 
Place. 

It was not a cheerful household; reproaches 
are hard to bear when physical energy is want- 
ing to resist them. Mavick had visibly aged 
during the year. It was only in his office that 
he maintained anything of the spruce appearance 
and sang froid which had distinguished the di- 
plomatist and the young adventurer. At home 
he had fallen into the slovenliness that marks a 
disappointed old age. "Was Mrs. Mavick peevish 



 

and unreasonable? Very likely. And had she 
not reason, to be? Was she, as a woman, any 
more likely to be reconciled to her fate when her 
mirror told her, with pitiless reflection, that she 
was an old woman ? 

Philip waited. Under the circumstances would 
not both Philip and Evelyn have been justified 
in disregarding the prohibition that forbade their 
meeting or even writing to each other ? It may 
be a nice question, but it did not seem so to these 
two, who did not juggle with their consciences. 
Philip had given his word. Evelyn would toler- 
ate no concealments; she was just that simple- 
minded in her filial notions. 

The girl, however, had one comfort, and that 
was the knowledge of Philip through Miss 
McDonald, whom she saw frequently, and to 
whom even Mrs. Mavick was in a manner recon- 
ciled. She was often in the little house in Irving 
Place. There was nothing in her manner to re- 
mind Mrs. Mavick that she had done her a great 
wrong, and her cheerfulness and good sense made 
her presence and talk a relief from the monotony 
of the defeated woman's life. 

It came about, therefore, that one day Philip 
made his way down into the city to seek an 
interview with Mr. Mavick. He found him, 
after some inquiry, in a barren little office, occu- 
pying one of the rented desks with three or four 




 

habitues of the Street, one of them an old man 
like himself, the others mere lads who did not 
intend to remain long in such cramped quarters. 

Mr. Mavick arose when his visitor stood at his 
desk, buttoned up his frock-coat, and extended 
his hand with a show of business cordiality, and 
motioned him to a chair. Philip was greatly 
shocked at the change in Mr. Mavick's appear- 
ance. 

" I beg your pardon," he said, " for disturbing 
you in business hours." 

"No disturbance," he answered, with some- 
thing of the old cynical smile on his lips. 

" Long ago I called to see you on the errand I 
have now, but you were not in town. It was, 
Mr. Mavick," and Philip hesitated and looked 
down, " in regard to your daughter." 

" Ah, I did not hear of it." 

" No ? Well, Mr. Mavick, I was pretty pre- 
sumptuous, for I had no foothold in the city, 
except a law clerkship." 

" I remember — Hunt, Sharp & Tweedle; why 
didn't you keep it ?" 

" I wasn't fitted for the law." 

"Oh, literature ? Does literature pay ?" 

" Not in itself, not for many," and Philip forced 
a laugh. " But it led to a situation in a first-rate 
publishing house — an apprenticeship that has 
now given me a position that seems to be perma- 





 

nent, with prospects beyoad, and a very fair sal- 
ary. It would not seem much, to you, Mr. Ma- 
vick," and Philip tried to laugh again. 

" I don't know," rephed Mr. Mavick. " If a 
fellow has any sort of salary these times, I should 
advise him to hold on to it. By-the-way, Mr. 
Burnett, Hunt's a Republican, isn't he ?" 

" He was," replied Philip, " the last I knew." 

" Do you happen to know whether he knows 
Bilbrick, the present Collector ?" 

" Mr. Bilbrick used to be a client of his." 

" Just so. I think I'll see Hunt. A salary 
isn't a bad thing for a — for a man who has re- 
tired pretty much from bttsiness. But you were 
saying, Mr. Burnett ?" 

" I was going to say, Mr. Mavick, that there 
was a little something more than my salary that 
I can count on pretty regularly now from the 
magazines, and I have had another story, a novel, 
accepted, and — you won't think me vain^ — the 
publisher says it will go ; if it doesn't have a big 
sale he will — " 

" Make it up to you?" 

"Not exactly," and Philip laughed; "he will 
be greatly mistaken." 

" I suppose it is a kind of lottery, hke most 
things. The publishers have to take risks. The 
only harm I wish them is that they were com- 
pelled to read all the stufiE they try to make us 




 . 

read. Ah, well. Mr. Burnett, I hope you have 
made a hit. It is pretty much the same thing in 
our business. The publisher bulls his own book 
and bears the other fellow's. Is it a New York 
story?" 

" Partly ; things come to a focus here, you 
know." 

" I could give you points. It's a devil of a 
place. I guess the novelists are too near to see 
the romance of it. "When I was in Eome I 
amused myself by diving into the mediaeval rec- 
ords. Steel and poison Were the weapons then. 
We have a different method now, but it comes 
to the same thing, and we say we are more civ- 
ilized. I think our way is more devilishly dra- 
matic than the old brute fashion. Yes, I could 
give you points." 

" I should be greatly obliged," said Philip, 
seeing the way to bring the conversation back 
to its starting-point; "your wide experience of 
life — if you had leisure at home some time." 

" Oh," replied Mavick, with more good-humor 
in his laugh than he had shown before, "you 
needn't beat about the bush. Have you seen 
Evelyn?" 

" No, not since that dinner at the Yan Cort- 
landts'." 

" Huh ! for myself, I should be pleased to see 
you any time, Mr. Burnett. Mrs. Mavick hasn't 




 

felt like seeing anybody lately. But I'll see, 
I'll see." 

The two men rose and shook hands, as men 
shake hands when they have an understanding. 

" I'm glad you are doing well," Mr. Mavick 
added ; " your life is before you, mine is behind 
me ; that makes a heap of difference." 

Within a few days Philip received a note from 
Mrs.Mavick — not an effusive note, not an explana- 
tory note, not an apologetic note, simply a note 
as if nothing unusual had happened — if Mr. Bur- 
nett had leisure, would he drop in at five o'clock 
in Irving Place for a cup of tea ? 

Not one minute by his watch after the hour 
named, Philip rang the bell and was shown into 
a little parlor at the front. There was only one 
person in the room, a lady in exquisite toilette, who 
rose rather languidly to meet him, exactly as if 
the visitor were accustomed to drop in to tea at 
that hour. 

Philip hesitated a moment near the door, em- 
barrassed by a mortifying recollection of his last 
interview with Mrs. Mavick, and in that moment 
he saw her face. Heavens, what a change ! And 
yet it was a smiling face. 

There is a portrait of Carmen by a foreign 

artist, who was years ago the temporary fashion 

in New York, painted the year after her second 

marriage and her return from Rome, which ex- 





 

cited much comment at the time. Philip had 
seen it in more than one portrait exhibition. Its 
technical excellence was considerable. The art- 
ist had evidently intended to represent a woman 
piquant and fascinating, if not strictly beautiful. 
Many persons said it was lovely. Other critics 
said that, whether the artist intended it or not, 
he had revealed the real character of the subject. 
There was something sinister in its beauty. One 
artist, who was out of fashion as an idealist, said, 
of course privately, that the more he looked at 
it the more hideous it became to him — like one 
of Elake's objective portraits of a "soul" — the 
naked soul of an evil woman showing through 
the mask of all her feminine fascinations — the 
possible hell, so he put it, under a woman's charm. 

It was this in the portrait that Philip saw in 
the face smiling a welcome — like an old, sweetly 
smiling Lalage — from which had passed away 
youth and the sustaining consciousness of wealth 
and of a place in the great world. The smile 
was no longer sweet, though the words from the 
lips were honeyed. 

" It is very good of you to drop in in this way, 
Mr. Burnett," she said, as she gave him her hand. 
" It is very quiet down here." 

" It is to me the pleasantest part of the city." 

" You think so now. I thought so once," and 
there was a note of sadness in her voice. " But 




 

it isn't ISTew York. It is a place for the people 
who are left." 

" But it has associations." 

"Yes, I know. "We pretend that it is more 
aristocratic. That means the rents are lower. 
It is a place for youth to begin and for age to 
end. "We seem to go round in a circle. Mr. 
Mavick began in the service of the government, 
now he has entered it again — ah, you did not 
know? — a place in the Custom-House. He says 
it is easier to collect other people's revenues than 
your own. Do you know, Mr. Burnett, I do not 
see much use in collecting revenues anyway — so 
far as New York is concerned the people get lit- 
tle good of them. Look out there at that cloud 
of dust in the street." 

Mrs. Mavick rambled on in the whimsical, 
cynical fashion of old ladies when they cease to 
have any active responsibility in life and become 
spectators of it. Their remaining enjoyment is 
the indulgence of frank speech. 

" But I thought," Philip interrupted, " that this 
part of the town was specially New York." 

" New York !" cried Carmen, with animation. 
" The New York of the newspapers, of the coun- 
try imagination; the New York as it is known in 
Paris is in "Wall Street and in the palaces up- 
town. Who are the kings of "Wall Street, and 
who build the palaces up-town ? They say that 





 

there are no Athenians in Athens, and no Eomans 
in Kome. How many ]!^e\v- Yorkers are there in 
New York ? Do New-Yorkers control the capi- 
tal, rule the politics, build the palaces, direct the 
newspapers, furnish the entertainment, manu- 
facture the literature, set the pace in society? 
Even the socialists and mobocrats are not native. 
Successive invaders, as in Eome, overrun and 
occupy the town. No, Mr. Burnett, I have left 
the existing New York. How queer it is to 
think about it. My first husband was from New 
Hampshire. My second husband was from Illi- 
nois. And there is your Murad Ault. The Lord 
knows where he came from. Talk about the 
barbarians occupying Rome ! Look at that Ault 
in a palace ! Who was that emperor — Caligula ? — 
I am like the young lady from a finishing-school 
who said she never could remember which came 
first in history, Greece or Eome — who stabled 
his horses with stalls and mangers of gold ? The 
Aults stable themselves that way. Ah, me! 
Let me give you a cup of tea. Even that is 
English." 

" It's an innocent pastime," she continued, as 
Philip stirred his tea, in perplexity as to how he 
should begin to say what he had to say— "you 
won't object if I light a cigarette? One ought 
to retain at least one bad habit to keep from 
spiritual pride. Tea is an excuse for this. I 
b 



 

don't think it a bad habit, though some people 
say that civilization is only exchanging one bad 
habit for another. Everything changes." 

" I don't think I have changed, Mrs. Mavick," 
said Philip, with earnestness. 

" No ? But you will. I have known lots of 
people who said they never would change. They 
all did. No, you need not protest. I believe in 
you now, or I should not be drinking tea with 
you. But you must be tired of an old woman's 
gossip. Evelyn has gone out for a walk ; she 
didn't know. I expect her any minute. Ah, I 
think that is her ring. I will let her in. There 
is nothing so hateful as a surprise." 

She turned and gave Philip her hand, and per- 
haps she was sincere — she had a habit of being 
so when it suited her interests — when she said, 
" There are no bygones, my friend." 

Philip waited, his heart beating a hundred to 
the minute. He heard greetings and whisper- 
ings in the passage-way, and then — time seemed 
to stand still — the door opened and Evelyn stood 
on the threshold, radiant from her walk, her face 
flushed, the dainty little figure poised in timid 
expectation, in maidenly hesitation, and then she 
stepped forward to meet his advance, with wel- 
come in her great ej^es, and gave him her hand 
in the old-fashioned frankness. 

" I am so glad to see you." 




 

Philip murmured something in reply and they 
were seated. 

That was all. It was so different from the 
meeting as Philip had a hundred times im- 
agined it. 

" It has been very long," said Philip, who was 
