the last feeble check upon my fury was released.
The next I knew a pair of cool, white arms closed about me and the whip
together, and Cousin Molly Belle's voice, half-laughing, half-horrified,
cried through the roaring in my ears:--
"Dear little Namesake! what has got into you?"
All at once, red mists parted and rolled away from my eyes, and I became
conscious that Mary 'Liza was jumping up and down and screaming
piteously, that everybody was on the spot--my father and mother and all
the dinner company, and Mam' Chloe with the baby in her arms, and a ring
of my small black servitors on the outside of the group; also that all
eyes were focussed on me and what was left of Rozillah.
The lash had drawn sawdust at every blow. One arm and both legs were
torn off and weltered in the scattered stuffing beneath; the crop of
black curls was tangled in the topmost limb of the sapling. The blue
silk gown would never fit the pliant waist again. Rozillah was beyond
the possibility of reconstruction.
I threw my arms around Cousin Molly Belle's neck, and burst into a
torrent of childish tears.
I think I must have been whipped for that afternoon's work. I ought to
have been, and Solomon, as a disciplinarian, was in high repute in the
family connection. I am sure that I was put forthwith to bed and left
alone for an eternity without even Musidora to bear me company. I had an
indefinite impression that they feared the effect of association with
such a wicked child upon her morals and manners.
I recollect that my mother brought me the bread and milk which was all
the supper I was to have, and talked me tenderly into tears.
But most vividly do I recall the apparition which stole into my solitude
after supper--which I had scented longingly from afar. A wraith all in
white--gown and neck and arms and face, the masses of fluffy hair making
this last more wraith-like. It sank to the floor beside my low bed, and
gathered me, miserable culprit, in a cuddling embrace, and bade me "tell
Cousin all about it--the whole truly truth."
I could always talk to her, and I began at the beginning and went
straight and steadfastly through to the nauseous end.
I did not cry while I talked, and when struck by her silence I raised a
timid hand to her dear cheek and found it wet, I was surprised.
"Why, Cousin Molly Belle!" I stammered. "Are you so angry with me as
that?"
"Angry? yes, Namesake, but not with you, poor little sinner! You and I
are always getting into scrapes--aren't we? Maybe that is why I am going
to ask your mother to let you sleep with me to-night."
Which delicious cup of happiness consoled the outgoing of the first
tragical day of my life.
[Illustration]
Chapter II
A Prize Fight and a Race
Cousin Molly and I were spending an afternoon in the Old Orchard. My
mother had a houseful of company, a common circumstance in itself. This
particular houseful was so little to Cousin Molly Belle's liking that
she got away as soon as dinner was over, drawing me, a willing captive,
in her train. Furthermore, she had stolen Bud, my baby brother, from the
chamber floor where Mam' Chloe had deposited him and a string of spools,
while she lent a hand with the dinner dishes to her butler husband.
Bud chuckled and crowed and squealed, as if he were the heart, head, and
front of the joke, while we scampered down the middle garden walk,
hidden by tall althea hedges, and gained the rail fence at the lower end
without being challenged. My accomplice made me climb over first, and
lowered her burden carefully into my arms, before she leaned her weight
upon the two hands laid on the top rail, and whirled over like an
acrobat--or a bird. She could outrun half the boys who had been her
slaves and playfellows in childhood, and outjump three-fourths of them.
We were comparatively safe now, the ground dipping abruptly below the
garden into a level stretch of "old field" where the broom straw came up
to my armpits, the yellowing waves parting before, and closing behind,
with the surge and "swish" of a gentle surf. They smelled sweet and they
felt soft, and Cousin Molly Belle let Bud down from her shoulder, and
making a hammock of her arms, swung him back and forth through the
pliant stems until he choked with ecstasy.
Beyond the old field was the Old Orchard. The new orchard, planted
nearer the house, was in full bearing, and my father made little
account of such fruit--mostly choke-pears and apples from ungrafted
limbs--as was enterprising enough to grow and ripen without tending or
harvesting. The trunks of the neglected trees were studded with knobs
like enormous wens, and the branches had a jaunty earthward cant that
made climbing the easiest sort of work, and swinging an irresistible
temptation. In the higher boughs were cosey crotches where one could
sit, and read, and even sleep, without danger of falling. I and my court
of small darkies had spent one whole July Saturday in and under the "big
sweeting," when the apples were nominally ripe. I was Elijah, and my
attendants were the ravens who plied me with sweetings in all stages of
development until I could not have swallowed another to save the
combined kingdoms of Judah and Israel. I was ill all night after the
surfeit, but I bore the sweetings no grudge for my misplaced confidence
in the human stomach.
We three runaways camped down under the brooding branches. The unshorn
and uncropped turf was thick and dry as a parlor carpet. Bud crept
lawlessly about, picking up twigs and pebbles, and trying his first four
teeth upon them. He was a discreet baby, never swallowing what he could
not bite into. His real names were William Skipwith Burwell. Somebody
had dubbed him "Rosebud," in the first moon of his sublunary existence,
and the abbreviation was inevitable. He would probably remain "Bud"
until he entered Hampton Sidney. The chances were even that the
alliterative temptation of "Bud Burwell" would tack the label upon him
for life. Changes were troublesome, and Powhatan County people were
opposed to taking trouble. The name of their own county usually lost the
second syllable in sliding between their lips.
Cousin Molly Belle threw herself down at full-length on the grass,
pillowed her bright head upon her arms, and stared contentedly into the
apple boughs.
"This is what I call taking one's comfort!" she breathed.
I sat down by her, my short legs tucked under me, Bedouin-wise. That was
one good thing--among many--about being out-of-doors with nobody by but
her or the colored children. I could sit cross-legged. If I forgot my
manners and did it in the house, my mother, or Mam' Chloe, pulled my
legs out straight in front of me, or shook them down, and reminded me
that I was going to be a young lady before long. As if that were my
fault, or as if it could be helped! My heart glowed with gratification
in observing that Cousin Molly Belle had laid one slim ankle over the
other. I hitched myself a little nearer to her and lapsed into the
confidential tone she encouraged in our tête-à-têtes.
"Don't you just love to cross your--feet?"
My modest hesitation was not lost upon her. She laughed.
"I like to cross my legs--and I do it!"
"Mam' Chloe says people ought to think little ladies haven't any
legs,--that their feet are just pinned to the bottom of their
pantalettes."
"Mam' Chloe is an--echo!"
"That wasn't what you began to say,--was it?" asked I, diffidently.
She laughed again, tweaking my ear, affectionately, and telling me that
I was a "monkey, and too sharp to be safe."
Her eyes were full of laughter and laziness; the color in her cheeks was
that of a velvet perpetual rose, shading into peach-blow, then into pure
white that never took freckle or tan from the hottest sun.
Have I said that her hair was auburn, and curled like grape tendrils,
from the nape of the neck to the forehead? The color was singular. In
the shade it was that of a perfectly groomed bay horse. When the sun
struck it, it got all alive, as if there were light under it, as well as
over it, and was, unmistakably, red. She made more fun of it than
anybody else, but at heart she loved her hair, and would not have
exchanged it for paley-gold or ebony tresses. Bud had fastened his
chubby hands in it to steady himself on his perch, as she ran, and
pulled some of it loose from her comb. A thick curl strayed over her
arm, bare almost to the shoulder, as was the warm-weather custom of
young ladies of that time. She drew it around before her eyes, thinning
it into a silky veil, holding it high up and letting it slip, strand by
strand, between her and the light.
A notion--indefinable in words--that a wealth of charms was wasted upon
one observant little girl and a non-observant baby, led me to inquire:--
"Would you, sure enough, rather be out here than in the house, talking
to them all?"
"I am tired of 'them all,' Molly. They tire me to death."
"Some grown people are not tiresome," I essayed. "There's Mr. Frank
Morton, now. I like him!"
"Oh, you do--do you? Why?" still shredding the veil of curls between her
and the sun.
"Well, one thing is, he talks straight. He doesn't talk 'round about,
and sideways, and crossways, to children. Nor make fun of my questions.
He just answers right along and plain."
"I don't think I quite know what you mean, Namesake."
"Why, you see it's this way,--the other day I asked him if he didn't
think you were a heap prettier than any other lady he ever saw, and he
never so much as cracked a smile. He just put his arm 'round me--he
never did that but twice before--and he said up-and-down, as serious as
anything--'Yes, I do, Molly!' And he does make the beautifullest
chinquapin whistles! They go on whistling after they are dry. You see,
the trouble with the whistles other people make for me, is that they
shrivel all up by next day, and there isn't a bit of whistle left in
them."
"That's the way with most of my whistles, too, Namesake. And then I
throw them away and want new ones. Heigh-ho! What's the use of a whistle
when all the whistle has gone out of it? I must ask Mr. Frank Morton how
he makes his."
I gave a jump and a little squeak.
"Oh, Cousin Molly Belle! there's a great, big race-horse on you!"
He had tumbled out of the apple boughs upon the folds of her skirt and
before I could capture him, a second fell after him. I was upon my feet
in a twinkling, seized first one, then the other, by their attenuated
middles, and held them up, all kicking and sprawling, between a thumb
and finger of each hand. I knew the tricks and the manners of what I
learned, many years later, that naturalists describe as the mantis
religiosa, or praying-mantis, because in off-hours,--i.e. when they
are not foraging or fighting--they will sit upon their hind quarters and
"fold the stout anterior legs in a manner suggesting hands folded in
prayer."
I had caught dozens of them and fed them for days in a box with coarse
lace tied over the top to prevent escape, and studied their habits, and
humored their propensities by putting several together in the prison
that forthwith became an arena, in which duello and general scrimmage
relieved one another in enchanting succession.
I explained now, to my diverted companion, that I held them by their
backs so that they could not bite me, and pointed out the wicked heads
turning almost quite around in their savage efforts to avenge their
capture. I was sure, I said excitedly, that these two were fighting up
in the tree, and that was the way they happened to drop so close
together. Had she never seen devil's race-horses fight? Mother didn't
like that name for them, so I 'most always said just "race-horses"
plain, so. Only, when they were very cross, the other word would slip
out.
"If I were to let them go this minute, they'd begin to fight, 'stead of
running away," I concluded. "S'pose we try them."
Entering into my humor, she improvised a cockpit by spreading her
pocket-handkerchief upon the ground, and I liberated the gladiators.
They more than justified my account of their ferocity by grappling on
the instant, each rising to his full height and hurling himself at his
opponent's throat.
"You see they are acquainted with one another," I commented, as umpire
and manager. "They just begin where they left off up in the tree."
It was an exciting display. Cousin Molly Belle raised herself upon her
elbow; I doubled tightly under me what I now let myself think of as my
legs, and spread both hands flat on the grass, to lean over the arena.
In the hush that followed the onslaught the babbling song Bud crooned
to himself as he crawled over the sun-and-shade dappled turf harmonized
with the sleepy shaking of the leaves about us. Such another
happy-hearted baby was never seen. And so wise, as I have said, for a
yearling! never getting into mischief, and afraid of nothing.
I peeped through a kinetoscope last winter at a prize fight. I have
never beheld anything that so closely and humiliatingly resembled the
battle on the cambric square under the big sweeting. The wary advance
after the recoil from the first encounter; the circling about at close
quarters, each watching for his antagonist's weak point, the sudden
clutch, embrace, and wrestle, which I, with umpiric instinct,
interrupted, once and again, to prolong the combat,--none of these were
wanting from either exhibition.
At length, I left the combatants to follow the bent of native savagery,
and then came such warm and inartistic work as patrons of the human ring
would decry as barbarous and out-of-date. They bit venomously, below
the belt, they grabbed at and hung on to any part of the body that came
handy; they rolled over and over, intertwined so closely as to appear
like one convulsed, centipedal monster. Finally, one half of the
creature gave a violent kick and was still. As the victor shook himself
free of the carcass we saw the head he had bitten from the other's neck
roll from under the survivor. Withdrawing an inch or two from the
remains, he sat up on his hind quarters, and "folded his stout anterior
legs" sanctimoniously in a battle-prayer. His devotions ended, he
proceeded to lick his wound and readjust himself generally.
"I'm sorry I didn't separate them," said Cousin Molly Belle, shaking her
handkerchief with coy finger-tips. "I don't think I care to see such
another fight. It gives me the creeps."
"I think it is very interesting," replied I. "'Tisn't as if they had
souls, you see. They just die and don't go anywhere."
A disagreeable noise joined Bud's cooing and babbling, and made us turn
quickly. Right before us, and within six feet of the helpless baby, who
had sat up to regard the phenomenon with innocent wonder, was an
enormous sow with a brood of hungry young ones at her heels. Her vicious
grunt, her gloating eyes, her dripping jaws, and projecting tusks,
bespoke her dangerous. Only yesterday I had seen her, prowling in the
barn-yard, seize and devour, one after another, three downy ducklings
before the stable-boys could beat her off. In the terror of this moment,
the scene flashed back to me, and I seemed to hear again the crunching
of those slavering jaws.
Cousin Molly Belle swooped down upon Bud, and had him upon her shoulder
before I could join my piping cry to her shout that rang out like a
silver trumpet. The huge beast halted, made as though she would turn,
then gave an angry, squealing grunt, and lunged toward us. Not a loose
stick or stone was within reach. If there had been, there was not time
to pick it up.
"Run for the fence! Run!" called the brave girl to me, and met the
voracious brute with a kick, so well aimed that the high heel of her
shoe struck full upon the eye next to her. In the respite gained by the
sow's stagger and recoil, our defender overtook me, caught my hand, and
fled along the path traced in the trampled broom-straw, through which we
had waded merrily awhile ago. We had not taken a dozen steps when we
heard the enemy roaring behind us.
"Oh!" gasped I, running with all my might meanwhile. "She will eat up
Bud! Like she--ate--up--the--little--ducks!"
"She shall eat me first!"
I knew she meant it, and that it was true. The fence was not more than
fifty yards away. It looked a mile off, and the wild grass was as tough
and treacherous as it had been pliant and sweet when we had danced
through it. I was a swift runner and my limbs obeyed me well. I was
conscious, moreover, of the strong upbearing of my companion's hand that
lent wings to my feet. If I were to stumble, she would not let me fall.
This persuasion kept mind and heart in me.
Yet the sow would have caught up with us had not a pig set up a piteous
squeal, as it lost its way or was entangled by the grass. The mother
went back to reassure it with a series of staccato gruntings, very
unlike those with which she renewed the chase.
We were at the fence. I scrambled over, spent and shaking, hardly able
to receive the precious load that was lowered to me. As Cousin Molly
Belle dropped after us, our pursuer's snout was poked between the lower
rails in a last and futile attempt to get at the baby's fat legs.
"Then I got mad all through!" Cousin Molly Belle told my mother, in
recounting the adventure.
Her white face flamed scarlet in a second. A pile of disused pea sticks
lay in the fence corner. She seized one, and jumped over the fence
again. Wielding her weapon as if it were a flail, she brought it down
upon the ugly head and raw-boned body; and as the sow turned tail to
run, belabored her through the orchard to the gap by which she had
entered.
The conqueror returned to me, flushed, but unsmiling. I had Bud tight in
my arms, and was laughing and crying together.
"It was funny to see you lam her and to see her run," I sobbed between
giggles that hurt me more than the sobs.
She sat down on the grass, and clasped the baby to her heart. He cooed
joyously, and held up a sweet open mouth for a kiss. He got, not one,
but twenty kisses upon his wet lips, his pink face, his curly head, and
the bonny eyes that were bluer than the sky. Then she bent to give me
one--so long and tender that it checked sob and giggle.
"We will never make devil's race-horses fight again, Namesake. They have
a right to their lives. And a life is a very precious thing!"
Chapter III
Van Diemen's Land
[Illustration]
I learned to read that winter. How nobody knew, and I least of all.
Looking backward, I seem to have gone to sleep one night, an ignoramus,
and awakened next morning knowing letters, yet never having learned.
Cousin Molly Belle's solution of the puzzle submitted to her by my
mystified mother was characteristic:--
"It is the fable of Munchausen's frozen horn over again. All the
learning you have been pumping into the poor child for two years has
thawed out. I always told you that she had brains if you would wait
until they woke up."
I might speak of that enchanted season as my birth-winter. My mental
awakening was into another world, so much wider and fuller than that
with which I had been well content up to this time, that life was a
continual ecstasy. I discovered, early in December, that, as Mr. Wegg
was to immortalize himself by saying a quarter-century later--"all print
was open" to me. By the middle of February I had gone three times
through the inimitable classic, Cobwebs-to-catch-Flies, and read at
least six other books through twice, besides being up to my eyes and
over the head of my understanding in Sandford and Merton, that most
fascinating of prosy impossibilities. Beside the classic I have named,
and Rosamond, Harry and Lucy, Berquin's Children's Friend, Mrs.
Sherwood's Little Henry and His Bearer and Fairchild Family, Anna
Ross and Helen Maurice, we had no books that were written expressly
for children. No prepared pap being at hand, we expressed real
nourishment for the mind--relishful juices that made intellectual bone
and muscle--from the strong meat upon which our elders fed.
Did we comprehend all, or one-third of what we read, or heard read?
Less, probably, than one-sixth, but we got far more than would seem
credible to one who has been led up a graciously inclined plane of
learning. Our manner of receiving and digesting mind-food was very much
like Bud's way of testing unknown substances that might be edible. We
rejected what hurt our teeth. What we got we kept.
The current of my outer life was quiet to apparent dulness. After
breakfast Mary 'Liza and I had our lessons with my mother in "the
chamber." In another year we would have a governess, but the mothers of
that time always taught their children to read and write, to spell and
cipher through Emerson's First Arithmetic. I have known several who
never sent their boys and girls to school, even preparing the lads for
college. We had our reading, beginning with a chapter in the Bible,
then, our spelling and writing, and sums. After these, my mother read
aloud from Grimshaw's History of England, simplifying the language
when she considered it necessary, which was not often, while Mary 'Liza
made up the first set of chemises (in the vernacular "shimmys,") she had
undertaken for herself, and I knit twenty rounds on a stocking. My
mother put in a "mark" of black silk every morning from which I could
count the rounds upward. Mary 'Liza had knit a dozen pairs in all. In
the tops of six, she had knit in openwork her initials "M. E. B." I had
no ambitions in that direction. My views on the subject of ornamental
initials and sampler autographs were put into pregnant English at a
subsequent date by the elder Weller. He professed to have received at
second-hand from the charity-boy, set to con the alphabet, what the
retired stage-driver applied to matrimony--to wit, that it was not worth
while to go through so much to get so little. Knitting delighted not me,
nor stitching either.
Lessons and work over, the day began for me in joyful earnest. The rest
of the morning and all the evening were mine to use, or abuse, as I
liked. We applied "evening" to the hours between the three o'clock
dinner and bedtime. We may have caught the phrase from our Bible
readings. The morning and the evening were the day.
Early in the fall I had begged permission from my mother to utilize a
deserted chicken-house as a play-room. It was long and narrow; one side
was barred with upright slats that admitted light and air to the former
inmates; one end was taken up by the door; the other and the back were
solid boards, the house having been built in the angle of a fence. My
mother had the interior cleaned and whitewashed. I think she was glad to
provide a decent "den" for me nearer home than the Old Orchard and the
more distant woods, and she was losing hold of her hope of making me
into a pattern daughter. It gives me a twinge to recollect how
thanklessly I accepted what must have been an act of self-denial on her
part, perhaps even a compromise with conscience. Mam' Chloe--by my
mother's orders, as I know now--hunted up some breadths of faded carpet
in the garret, Uncle Ike beat the dust out of them, then nailed them up
along the slatted side to keep the wind away. These I called my "arras,"
having picked up the word from hearing my father read Shakespeare aloud
at night after we were in the trundle-bed. Other breadths covered the
rough flooring, and I had a castle of which I was the undisputed
mistress--a court where I reigned, a queen.
Enthroned in a backless chair, I was, by turns, Mrs. Burwell (my own
mother), Helen Maurice's Aunt Felix, Rosamond's mother, Rebecca, the
Lady Rowena (my father began Ivanhoe in January), Mrs. Fairchild,
Deborah, Mrs. Murray of Anna Ross, Naomi, and Ophelia. Once, I "did"
Job by wrapping a meal-sack--for sackcloth--about me, and, sitting upon
the ground, throwing ashes over my head and into the air, the while
four colored boys, previously instructed, burst in one by one, with news
of the mischief wrought by Sabean, lightning, Chaldean, and cyclone. A
dramatization of Queen Esther, upon which I had set my heart, was, at
last, given up because I could not be King Ahasuerus and Queen Esther at
one and the same time.
When the castle was too bleak for even child-comfort, Aunt 'Ritta, the
cook, let us heat bricks in the kitchen fire, and showed us how to wrap
them in rags to keep in the warmth. Clad in my red cloak, a wadded hood
of the same color tied over my ears, and my feet upon a swathed brick, I
was in no danger of taking cold.
Mary 'Liza put her neat little nose in at the door one raw day when she
was walking for exercise, and wondered, gently, "how I could stand it."
"I am afraid the smell would give me a headache, and the cold would give
me a sore throat," she said still gently.
I never had either from the time the leaves fell until they came again.
Except when, about once a month, some matron from a near or distant
plantation brought one or more of her children with her when she drove
over to "spend the day" with my mother, I had no white playfellow near
my own age. Mary 'Liza "was not fond of playing," although she would do
it when we had company who could be entertained in no other way. As a
rule, when not engaged with lessons and chemises, she took care in a
matronly way of Dorinda, Rozillah's successor, and "behaved."
On the Sundays when we did not go to church because the weather was bad,
or there was no preaching within twenty miles of us, or my mother was
not well, or the roads were impassable with mire or frost, Mary 'Liza
and I learned two questions in the Shorter Catechism, and she learned
the references as well. We also committed a hymn to memory, and five
verses of a psalm. Beyond this, no religious exercise was binding upon
us, and there was a great deal of the day to be got rid of. Mary 'Liza
read the memoirs of Mary Lothrop and Nathan W. Dickerman, seated
upright on her cricket at one corner of the chamber fireplace, and in
the evening, if the day were pleasant, took her Bible to Mam' Chloe's
room or even as far as "the quarters," and read aloud to the servants
whole chapters out of Jeremiah and Paul's Epistles. They used to predict
that she would marry a preacher (which, by the way, she did in the
fulness of time, a red-headed widower preacher, with five boys).
I liked to go to church, because I saw there people dressed in their
prettiest clothes, and they sang hymns. Prayers and sermon were
attendant and unavoidable evils. My legs went to sleep, and a big girl
"going on six" was too old to follow suit. We read none but good books
on Sunday. Little Henry and His Bearer, Anna Ross, and Helen
Maurice were allowed; the memoirs I have named were advised. The
Fairchild Family "partook too much of the nature of fiction to be
quite suitable for Sabbath reading." So Rev. Cornelius Lee, our pastor,
had decided when the doubtful volume was submitted to him. After that,
it was locked up Saturday night, along with Sandford and Merton and
Miss Edgeworth's Moral Tales.
I minded the deprivation less after I converted the playhouse into a
family chapel, and held services there on stay-at-home Sundays. My
audience comprised all the small negroes on the place,--about twenty in
number,--and they were willing attendants. A barrel was set, the whole
head up, at the upper end of the room; upon this was my chair. I sat in
it during the singing, and mounted upon it while reading and exhorting.
Subtle reverence, which I could not analyze, held me back from "offering
prayer." What we were doing was only "making believe" after all, and
belief in the All-seeing Eye, the All-hearing Ear, the Judge of idle
words and blasphemous thoughts, was as old as my knowledge of my own
being. But sing we could and did, and I read from the Scriptures of the
Old and the New Testaments, usually from the narrative portions, with a
psalm or two to "beat the upward flame" in our hearts.
And then I would preach a sermon.
Our chapel had been in good running order for over two months, when on a
certain drizzly Sunday early in March, I arose discreetly upon my
ticklish pulpit to announce through my nose, "We will commence our
services by singing the three-hundredth-and-thirty-third hymn--'Come
thou Fount of every blessing.'"
As mine was the only hymn-book in the assembly, the mention of the
number was a bit of supererogatory business. The omission of the formula
would have been a breach of chapel etiquette. I raised the tune, and
every other pair of lungs there joined in without fear of criticism or
favor of his neighbors' ears. Some of the duller and lesser children
smothered or decapitated a word here and there in the main body of the
hymn. All knew the chorus, and it shook the unceiled roof:--
   "Away, away, away to glory!
   My name's written on the throne.
   My home's in yonder worl' o' glory,
   Where my Redeemer reigns alone."
Warmed by the vigorous preliminary, I read the sixth chapter of
Revelation, still through my nose, catching my breath audibly at the end
of each clause. This oratorical touch was copied with ludicrous accuracy
from Rev. Wesley Greene, a circuit-rider who had conducted an
"arbor-meeting" at Fine Creek meeting-house last summer. Our negroes
were all Baptists, and considered themselves remiss, as devout hearers
of aught that partook of the nature of a religious service, if they did
not respond at intervals with groans and pious ejaculations. Their
children, as gravely imitative as juvenile Simiæ, came up nobly to their
parts in our exercises.
The acknowledged leader in the responses, and my Grand Vizier in the
ordering of my small kingdom, my stage-manager and lieutenant-general,
was a girl of twelve, Mariposa by name. She received the fanciful title
from a young visitor to the plantation who had studied Spanish.
"Mariposa" meant butterfly, she told the baby's mother, who gratefully
accepted the compliment to her newly born daughter. The mother and her
mates called her "Mary Posy." The mistress, who was fond of the madcap
sponsor, retained the original pronunciation.
Mariposa was as black as tar, and to-day was clothed in a yellow
homespun frock. Her hair was twisted and bound into two upright tags
that projected above her temples. Altogether, she was not unlike a
gigantic black-and-tan moth, a resemblance heightened by the
aforementioned antennæ, albeit lessened by the baby she always carried
on some portion of her wiry frame. She was the toughest, most supple,
and most versatile creature I ever saw, of any color or clime. The baby
was disposed decorously across her knees on this occasion, and she was
one of the five auditors who had brought along their own crickets or
chairs. She had confiscated some older woman's splint-bottomed
rocking-chair and lugged it to the very front, as she had a right to do.
I had heard Mam' Chloe say of one of Rev. Wesley Greene's sermons, "I
tell you, Miss Ma'y, the Sperrit struck him that day, an' he jes'
r'arred!"
Something struck my worthy lieutenant during my reading of the white,
red, black, and pale horses of the Apocalypse and their awesome riders,
and the others following her lead, my voice was drowned by the
"Hum-hums!" and "Glorys!" and "Hallelujahs!" and "Bless de Lords!"
arising from all sides.
"It isn't polite for folks in the seats to talk louder than the
preacher," I had to admonish them in my natural voice and manner. "I
hope you won't be so noisy while I'm preaching."
Nevertheless, when I gave out my text, the struck Mariposa, rolling
from side to side with the motion of a "weaving" horse on her
rocking-chair--that squeaked dismally--was so wrought upon by the ring
of unknown and high-sounding syllables as to set up a dreary drone like
the hum of an exaggerated bumblebee, and to keep it up. This did not
disconcert me. I had expected to stir the imagination of my hearers, for
my own was aglow.
Mary 'Liza, in reciting her geography lesson on Friday, had several
