

 

chance to push the breakfast tray out of the door, and 
smooth up the bed, while she composed her features 
and her ideas to receive her visitor. Both, from long 
habit rather than from any cause or reason, were of a 
querulous cast, and her ordinary tone was a snuffle 
expressive of deep-seated affliction. She was at once 
plaintive and voluable, and in moments of excitement 
her need of freeing her mind was so great that she 
took herself into her own confidence, and found a 
more sympathetic listener than when she talked to her 
husband. As she now whisked about her room in 
her bed-gown with an activity not predicable of her 
age and shape, and finally plunged under the covering 
and drew it up to her chin with one hand while she 
pressed it out decorously over her person with the 
other, she kept up a rapid flow of lamentation and 
conjecture. " I do suppose he 'll be right back with 
her before I 'm half ready; and what the man was 
thinkin of to do such a thing anyway, I  don 't know. 
I don 't know as she 'll notice much, comin out of such 
a lookm place as that, and I don 't know as I need to 
care if she did. But if the e 's care anywhe 's around, 
I presume I 'm the one to have it. I presume I did 
take a fancy to her, and I guess I shall be glad to see 
how I like her now ; and if he 's only told her I want 
some sew in done, I can scrape up something to let 
her carry home with her. It 's well I keep my things 
where I can put my hand on em at a time like this, 
and I don 't believe I shall sccCe the child, as it is. I 
do hope Albe t won 't hang round half the day before 
he brings her ; I like to have a thing ova." 



 

Lander wandered about looking for the girl through 
the parlors and the piazzas, and then went to the office 
to ask what had become of her. 

The landlord came out of his room at his question 
to the clerk. " Oh, I guess she 's round in my wife 's 
room, Mr. Landa. She always likes to see Clemen 
tina, and I guess they all do. She 's a so t o pet 
amongst em." 

" No hurry," said Lander, " I guess my wife ain 't 
quite ready for her yet." 

" Well, she 'll be right out, in a minute or so," said 
the landlord. 

The old man tilted his hat forward over his eyes, 
and went to sit on the veranda and look at the land 
scape while he waited. It was one of the loveliest 
landscapes in the mountains ; the river flowed at the 
foot of an abrupt slope from the road before the 
hotel, stealing into and out of the valley, and the 
mountains, gray in the farther distance, were draped 
with folds of cloud hanging upon their flanks and 
tops. But Lander was tired of nearly all kinds of 
views and prospects, though he put up with them, in 
his perpetual movement from place to place, in the 
same resignation that he suffered the limitations of 
comfort in parlor cars and sleepers, and the unwhole- 
someness of hotel tables. He was chained to the 
restless pursuit of an ideal not his own, but doomed 
to suffer for its impossibility as if he contrived each 
of his wife 's disappointments from it. He did not 
philosophize his situation, but accepted it as in an 
order of Providence which it would be useless for him 



 

to oppose ; though there were moments when he per 
mitted himself to feel a modest doubt of its justice. 
He was aware that when he had a house of his own 
he was master in it, after a fashion, and that as long 
as he was in business he was in some sort of author 
ity. He perceived that now he was a slave to the 
wishes of a mistress who did not know what she 
wanted, and that he was never farther from pleasing 
her than when he tried to do what she asked. He 
could not have told how all initiative had been taken 
from him, and he had fallen into the mere follower of 
a woman guided only by her whims, who had no ob 
ject in life except to deprive it of all object. He felt 
no rancor toward her for this ; he knew that she had 
a tender regard for him, and that she believed she 
was considering him first in her most selfish arrange 
ments. He always hoped that sometime she would 
get tired of her restlessness, and be willing to settle 
down again in some stated place ; and wherever it 
was, he meant to get into some kind of business again. 
Till this should happen he waited with an apathetic 
patience of which his present abeyance was a detail. 
He would hardly have thought it anything unfit, and 
certainly nothing surprising, that the landlady should 
have taken the young girl away from where he had 
left her, and then in the pleasure of talking with her, 
and finding her a centre of interest for the whole do 
mestic force of the hotel, should have forgotten to 
bring her back. 

The Middlemount House had just been organized 
on the scale of a first class hotel, with prices that had 




risen a little in anticipation of the other improvements. 
The landlord had hitherto united in himself the func 
tions of clerk and head waiter, but he had now got a 
senior, who was working his way through college, to 
take charge of the dining-room, and had put in the 
office a youth of a year 's experience as under clerk at 
a city hotel. But he meant to relinquish no more 
authority than his wife who frankly kept the name as 
well as duty of house-keeper. It was in making her 
morning inspection of the dusting that she found 
Clementina in the parlor where Lander had told her 
to sit down till he should come for her. 

" Why, Clem ! " she said, " I didn 't know you ! 
You have grown so ! Youa folks all well ? I decla e 
you ah quite a woman now," she added, as the girl 
stood up in her slender, graceful height. "You look 
as pretty as a pink in that hat. Make that dress youa- 
self ? Well, you do beat the witch ! I want you 
should come to my room with me." 

Mrs. Atwell showered other questions and exclama 
tions on the girl, who explained how she happened to 
be there, and said that she supposed she must stay 
where she was for fear Mr. Lander should come back 
and find her gone ; but Mrs. Atwell overruled her with 
the fact that Mrs. Lander 's breakfast had just gone 
up to her ; and she made her come out and see the 
new features of the enlarged house-keeping. In the 
dining-room there were some of the waitresses who 
had been there the summer before, and recognitions 
of more or less dignity passed between them and 
Clementina. The place was now shut against guests, 



and the head-waiter was having it put in order for the 
one o clock dinner. As they came near him, Mrs. 
Atwell introduced him to Clementina, and he behaved 
deferentially, as if she were some young lady visitor 
whom Mrs. Atwell was showing the improvements, 
but he seemed harassed and impatient, as if he were 
anxious about his duties, and eager to get at them 
again. He was a handsome little fellow, with hair 
lighter than Clementina 's and a sanguine complexion, 
and the color coming and going. 

" He 's smaht," said Mrs. Atwell, when they had 
left him he held the dining-room door open for 
them, and bowed them out. " I don 't know but he 
worries almost too much. That 'll wear off when he 
gets things runnin to suit him. He 's pretty p tic la . 
Now I 'll show you how they 've  made the office over, 
and built in a room for Mr. Atwell behind it." 

The landlord welcomed Clementina as if she had 
been some acceptable class of custom, and when the 
tall young clerk came in to ask him something, and 
Mrs. Atwell said, " I want to introduce you to Miss 
Claxon, Mr. Fane," the clerk smiled down upon her 
from the height of his smooth, acquiline young face, 
which he held bent encouragingly upon one side. 

" Now, I want you should come in and see where 
I  live, a minute," said Mrs. Atwell. She took the 
girl from the clerk, and led her to the official house 
keeper 's room which she said had been prepared for 
her so that folks need not keep running to her in her 
private room where she wanted to be alone with her 
children, when she was there. Why, you ain 't much 





moa than a child youaself, Clem, and here I be talk- 
in to you as if you was a mother in Israel. How old 
ah? you, this summa ? Time does go so ! " 

" I 'm sixteen now," said Clementina, smiling. 

" You be ? Well, I don 't see why I say that, eitha ! 
You 're full lahge enough for your age, but not seein 
you in long dresses before, I didn 't realize your age 
so much. My, but you do all of you know how to do 
things ! " 

" I 'm about the only one that don t, Mrs. Atwell," 
said the girl. u If it hadn 't been for mother, I don 't 
believe I could have eva finished this dress." She 
began to laugh at something passing in her mind, and 
Mrs. Atwell laughed too, in sympathy, though she did 
not know what at till Clementina said, " Why, Mrs. 
Atwell, nea ly the whole family wo ked on this dress. 
Jim drew the patte n of it from the dress of one of 
the summa boa das that he took a fancy to at the 
Centa, and fatha cut it out, and I helped motha make 
it. I guess every one of the children helped a little." 

" Well, it 's just as I said, you can all of you do 
things," said Mrs. Atwell. " But I guess you ah the 
one that keeps em straight. What did you say Mr. 
Landa said his wife wanted of you ? " 

" He said some kind of sewing that motha could 
do." 

"Well, I 'll tell you what! Now, if she liaVt 
really got anything that your motha 'll want you to 
help with, I wish you'd come here again and help me. 
I tu ncd my foot, here, two-three weeks back, and I 
feel it, times, and I should like some one to do about 



 

half my steppin for me. I don 't want to take you 
away from her, but if. You shain 't go int the dinin - 
room, or be under anybody 's oddas but mine. Now, 
will you ? " 

" I 'll see, Mrs. Atwell. I don 't like to say anything 
till I know what Mrs. Landa wants." 

" Well, that 's right. I decla e, you 've  got moa 
judgment ! That 's what I used to say about you last 
summa to my husband: she 's got judgment. Well, 
what 's wanted ? " Mrs. Atwell spoke to her husband, 
who had opened her door and looked in, and she 
stopped rocking, while she waited his answer. 

" I guess you don 't want to keep Clementina from 
Mr. Landa much longa. He 's settin out there on the 
front piazza waitin for her." 

"Well, the a!" cried Mrs. Atwell. "Ain 't that 
just like me ? Why didn 't you tell me sooner, Alon- 
zo ? Don 't you forgit what I said, Clem ! " 



IV. 

MRS. Lander had taken twice of a specific for what 
she called her nerve-fag before her husband came with 
Clementina, and had rehearsed aloud many of the 
things she meant to say to the girl. In spite of her 
preparation, they were all driven out of her head 
when Clementina actually appeared, and gave her a 
bow like a young birch 's obeisance in the wind. 

" Take a chaia," said Lander, pushing her one, and 
the girl tilted over toward him, before she sank into 
it. He went out of the room, and left Mrs. Lander 
to deal with the problem alone. She apologized for 
being in bed, but Clementina said so sweetly, " Mr. 
Landa told me you were not feeling very well, m," 
that she began to be proud of her ailments, and 
bragged of them at length, and of the different doc 
tors who had treated her for them. While she talked 
she missed one thing or another, and Clementina 
seemed to divine what it was she wanted, and got it 
for her, with a gentle deference which made the elder 
feel her age cushioned by the girl 's youth. When 
she grew a little heated from the interest she took in 

o 



 

her personal annals, and cast off one of the folds of 
her bed clothing, Clementina got her a fan, and asked 
her if she should put up one of the windows a little. 

" How you do think of things ! " said Mrs. Lander. 
u I guess I will let you. I presume you get used to 
thinkin of othas in a lahge family like youas. I don 't 
suppose they could get along without you very well," 
she suggested. 

" I 've  neva been away except last summa, for a lit 
tle while." 

" And where was you then ? " 

" I was helping Mrs. Atwell." 

" Did you like it ? " 

" I don 't know," said Clementina. " It 's pleasant 
to be whe e things ah going on." 

" Yes for young folks," said Mrs. Lander, whom 
the going on of things had long ceased to bring pleas 
ure. 

" It 's real nice at home, too," said Clementina. 
" We have very good times evenings in the winta; 
in the summer it 's very nice in the woods, around 
there. It 's safe for the children, and they enjoy it, 
and fatha likes to have them. Motha don 't ca e so 
much about it. I guess she'd rather have the house 
fixed up more, and the place. Fatha 's going to do it 
pretty soon. He thinks the e 's time enough." 

"That 's the way with men," said Mrs. Lander. 
" They always think the 's time enough ; but I like to 
have things over and done with. What chuhch do 
you tend ? " 

" Well, there isn 't any but the Episcopal," Clem- 





cntina answered. "I go to that, and some of the 
children go to the Sunday School. I don 't believe 
fatha ca es very much for going to chuhch, but he 
likes Mr. Richling; he 's the recta. They take walks 
in the woods ; and they go up the mountains togetha." 

"They want," said Mrs. Lander, severely, "to be 
ca eful how they drink of them cold brooks when 
they 're heated. Mr. Richling a married man ? " 

" Oh, yes m ! But they haven 't got any family." 

" If I could see his wife, I sh'd caution her about 
lettin him climb mountains too much. A n 't your 
father afraid he 'll ovado ? " 

" I don 't know. He thinks he can 't be too much 
in the open air on the mountains." 

" Well, he may not have the same complaint as 
Mr. Landa ; but I know if I  was to climb a mountain, 
it would lay me up for a yea ." 

The girl did not urge anything against this convic 
tion. She smiled politely and waited patiently for 
the next turn Mrs. Lander 's talk should take, which 
was oddly enough toward the business Clementina 
had come upon. 

" I declare I most forgot about my polonaise. Mr. 
Landa said your motha thought she could do some 
thing to it for me." 

" Yes m." 

" Well, I may as well let you see it. If you 'll 
reach into that fuhthest closet, you 'll find it on the 
last uppa hook on the right hand, and if you 'll give it 
to me, I 'll show you what I want done. Don 't mind 
the looks of that closet ; I 've  just tossed my things 



 

in, till I could get a little time and stren tli to put 
em in odda." 

Clementina brought the polonaise to Mrs. Lander, 
who sat up and spread it before her on the bed, and 
had a happy half hour in telling the girl \vhere she 
had bought the material and where she had it made 
up, and how it came home just as she was going 
away, and she did not find out that it was all wrong 
till a week afterwards when she tried it on. By the 
end of this time the girl had commended herself so 
much by judicious and sympathetic assent, that Mrs. 
Lander learned with a shock of disappointment that 
her mother expected her to bring the garment home 
with her, where Mrs. Lander was to come and have it 
fitted over for the alterations she wanted made. 

"But I supposed, from what Mr. Landa said, that 
your motha would come here and fit me ! " she la 
mented. 

" I guess he didn 't undastand, m. Motha doesn 't 
eva go out to do wo k," said Clementina gently but 
firmly. 

" Well, I might have known Mr. Landa would mix 
it up, if it could be mixed ; " Mrs. Lander 's sense of 
injury was aggravated by her suspicion that he had 
brought the girl in the hope of pleasing her, and con 
firming her in the wish to have her with them ; she 
was not a woman who liked to have her way in spite 
of herself ; she wished at every step to realize that she 
was taking it, and that no one else was taking it for 
her. 

" Well," she said dryly, " I shall have to see about 




it. I 'm a good deal of an invalid, and I don 't know 
as I could go back and for th to try on. I 'm moa 
used to havin the things brought to me." 

"Yes m," said Clementina. She moved a little 
from the bed, on her way to the door, to be ready for 
Mrs. Lander in leave-taking. 

" I 'm real sorry," said Mrs. Lander. " I presume 
it 's a disappointment for you, too." 

" Oh, not at all," answered Clementina. " I 'm sorry 
we can 't do the wo k he a ; but I know motha wouldn 't 
like to. Good-mo ning, m ! " 

" No, no ! Don 't go yet a minute ! Won 't you 
just give me my hand bag off the bureau the a ? " Mrs. 
Lander entreated, and when the girl gave her the bag 
she felt about among the bank-notes which she seemed 
to have loose in it, and drew out a handful of them 
without regard to their value. " Ile a ! " she said, and 
she tried to put the notes into Clementina 's hand, " I 
want you should get yourself something." 

The girl shrank back. " Oh, no m," she said, with 
an effect of seeming to know that her refusal would 
hurt, and with the wish to soften it. " I couldn 't ; 
indeed I couldn t." 

" Why couldn 't you ? Now you must ! If I can 't 
let you have the wo k the way you want, I don 't think 
it 's fair, and you ought to have the money for it just 
the same." 

Clementina shook her head smiling. " I don 't be 
lieve motha would like to have me take it." 

" Oh, now, pshaw ! " said Mrs. Lander, inadequately. 
" I want you should take this for youaself ; and if you 



 

don 't want to buy anything to wear you can get 
something to fix your room up with. Don 't you be 
afraid of robbin us. Land ! We got moa money ! 
Now you take this." 

Mrs. Lander reached the money as far toward Clem 
entina as she could and shook it in the vehemence of 
her desire. 

"Thank you, I couldn 't take it," Clementina per 
sisted. u I 'm afraid I must be going ; I guess I must 
bid you good-mo ning." 

" Why, I believe the child 's sca ed of me ! But you 
needn 't be. Don 't you suppose I know how you feel ? 
You set down in that chai a there, and I 'll tell you 
how you feel. I guess we 've  been pooa, too I don 't 
mean anything that ain 't exactly right and I guess 
I 've  had the same feelin s. You think it 's demeanin 
to you to take it. A n 't that it ? " Clementina sank 
provisionally upon the edge of the chair. " Well, it 
did use to be so consid ed. But it 's all changed, now 
adays. We travel pretty nea the whole while, Mr. 
Lander and me, and we see folks everywhere, and it 
ain 't the custom to refuse any moa. Now, ain 't there 
any little thing for your own room, there in your nice 
new house ? Or something your motha 's got her 
hea t set on ? Or one of your brothas ? My, if you 
don 't have it, some one else will ! Do take it ! " 

The girl kept slipping toward the door. " I 
shouldn 't know what to tell them, when I got home. 
They would think I must be out of my senses." 

" I guess you mean they'd think I was. Now, 
listen to me a minute ! " Mrs. Lander persisted. 
