 'The more she'll know, certainly," Mitchy acknow 
edged.  ''But she isn't in it, you see, down here." 
" No. Only she appears to have come down with sua 
accumulations. And she won't be here forever," Vande 
bank hastened to subjoin. 
 '' Certainly not if you marry her." 
"But isn't that, at the same time," Vanderbank aske 
"just the difficulty?" 
Mitchy looked vague. "The difficulty?" 
"Why, as a married woman she'll be steeped in it again 
"Surely" — oh, Mitchy could be candid! "But t 
difference will be that for a married woman it won't ma 
ter. It only matters for girls," he plausibly continued 
"and then only for those on whom no one takes pity.'' 
"The trouble is," said Vanderbank — but quite as 
uttering only a general truth — "that it's just a thing 
that may sometimes operate as a bar to pity. Isn't it fo; 
the non-marrying girls that it doesn't particularly ma 
ter ? For the others it's such an odd preparation 
" Oh, I don't mind it !" Mitchy declared. 
Vanderbank visibly demurred. "Ah, but your choice — " 
" Is such a different sort of thing ?" Mitchy, for the 
half-hour, in the ambiguous dusk, had never looked more 
droll. "The young lady I named isn't my choice." 
"Well then, that's only a sign the more that you do 
these things more easily." 
"Oh, 'easily'!" Mitchy murmured. 
"We oughtn't, at any rate, to keep it up," said Van- 
derbank, who had looked at his watch. "Twelve twenty- 
five — good-night. Shall I blow out the candles ?" 
"Do, please. Til close the window    — and Mitchy 
went to it. " I'll follow you — good-night." The candles, 
after a minute, were out, and his friend had gone, but 
itchy, left in darkness, face to face with the vague, 
([iiiet garden, still stood there. 
The footman, opening the door, mumbled his name 
without sincerity, and Vanderbank, passing in, found 
in fact — for he had caught the symptom — the chairs 
and tables, the lighted lamps and the flowers alone 
in possession. He looked at his watch, which exactly 
marked eight, then turned to speak again to the servant, 
who had, however, without another sound, and as if 
blushing for the house, already closed him in. There 
was nothing indeed but Mrs. Grendon s want of prompt- 
ness that failed of a welcome : her drawing-room, on the 
January night, showed its elegance through a suffusion of 
pink electricity which melted, at the end of the vista, 
into the faintly golden glow of a retreat still more sacred. 
Vanderbank walked, after a moment, into the second 
room, which also proved empty, and which had its little 
globes of white fire — discreetly limited in number — 
coated with lemon-colored silk. The walls, covered with 
delicate French mouldings, were so fair that they seemed 
vaguely silvered ; the low French chimney had a French 
fire. There was a lemon-colored stuff on the sofa and 
chairs, a wonderful polish on the floor that was largely 
exposed, and a copy of a French novel in blue paper on 
one of the spindle-legged tables. Vanderbank looked 
about him an instant, as if generally struck, then gave 
himself to something that had particularly caught 
eye. This was simply his own name written rather large 
on the cover of the French book and endowed, after h( 
had taken the volume up, with the power to hold his at- 
tention the more closely the longer he looked at it. He 
uttered, for a private satisfaction, before letting the mat- 
ter pass, a low, confused sound ; after which, flinging i 
the book down with some emphasis in another place, he 
moved to the chimney-piece, where his eyes, for a little, 
intently fixed the small ashy wood fire. AYhen he raised 
them again it was, on the observation that the beautiful 
clock on the mantel was wrong, to consult once more his 
watch, and then give a glance, in the chimney glass, at 
the state of his mustache, of which he twisted, for a mo- 
ment, with due care, the ends. While so engaged he be- 
came aware of something else and, quickly facing about, 
recognized in the doorway of the room the other figur© 
the glass had just reflected. 
" Oh youf ' he said, with a quick hand-shake. " MP 
Grendon's down ?" But he had already passed with 
Nanda, on their greeting, back into the first room, which 
contained only themselves, and she had mentioned that 
she believed Tishy to have said 8.15, which meant of 
course anything people liked. 
 '' Oh then, there'll be nobody till nine. I didn't, I sup- 
pose, sufficiently study my note ; which didn't mention 
to me, by-the-way," Vanderbank added, "that you were 
to be here." 
" Ah, but why sJiould it ?" the girl candidly inquired. 
She spoke again, however, before he could reply. " I 
dare say that when she wrote to you she didn't know." 
" Know you would come up to meet me ?" Vanderbank 
laughed. "Jolly, at any rate, thanks to my mistake, to 
have in this way a quiet moment with you. You came 
on ahead of your mother ?" 
"Oh no — I'm staying here." 
" Oh !" said Vanderbank. 
'' Mr. Longdon came tip with me — I came here, Friday- 
last, straightI ' 
 ''You parted at the door?" he asked, with marked 
gaiety. 
She thought a moment — she was more serious. ''Yes 
— but only for a day or two. He's coming to-night." 
" Good. How delightful "l" 
" He'll be glad to see you' Nanda said, looking at the 
ilowers. 
"Awfully kind of him, when I've been such a brute." 
'' How— a brute ?" 
"Well, I mean not writing — nor going back." 
" Oh, I see," Nanda simply returned. 
It was a simplicity that, clearly enough, made her friend 
a little awkward. "Has he — a — minded ? But he can't 
have complained !" he quickly added. 
" Oh, he never complains." 
"No, no — it isn't in him. But it's just that," said 
Vanderbank, "that makes one feel so base. I've been 
ferociously busy." 
" He knows that — he likes it," Nanda returned. " He 
delights in your work. And I've done what I can for 
him." 
"Ah," said her companion, "you've evidently brought 
him round. I mean to this lady." 
" To Tishy ? Oh, of course I can't leave her — with 
nobody." 
"No" — Vanderbank became jocose again — "that's a 
London necessity. You can't leave anybody with no- 
body — exposed to everybody." 
Mild as it was, however, Nanda missed the pleasantry. 
"Mr. Grendon's not here." 
"Ah, where is he ?" 
" Yachting — but she doesn't know." 
"Then she and you are just doing this together ?" 
" Well' said Nanda, '  she's dreadfully frightened 
"Oh, she mustn't allow herself' he returned, "to be 
too much carried away by it. But we're to have yojM 
mother ?" 
" Yes, and papa. It's really for Mitchy and Aggie' 
the girl went on — " before they go abroad." 
" Oh then, I see what you've come up for ! Tishy and 
I are not in it. It's all for Mitchy." 
" If you mean there's nothing I wouldn't do for him, 
you're quite right. He has always been of a kindness to 
me—" 
" That culminated in marrying your friend ?" Vander- 
bank asked. " It was charming, certainly, and I don't 
mean to diminish the merit of it. But Aggie herself 
gather, is of a charm now — !" 
"Isn't she?" — Nanda was eager. "Hasn't she co 
out ?" 
" With a bound — into the arena. But when a young 
person's out with Mitchy — " 
" Oh, you mustn't say anything against that. I've been 
out with him myself." fl 
" Ah, but my dear child — !" Van frankly argued. 
It was not, however, a thing to notice. " I knew it 
would be just so. It always is when they've been like 
that." 
"Do you mean as she apparently was? But doesn't it 
make one wonder a little if she was ?" 
" Oh, she was — I know she was. And we're also to 
have Harold," Nanda continued — " another of Mitchy's 
beneficiaries. It would be a banquet, wouldn't it ? if we 
were to have them all." 
Vanderbank hesitated, and the look he fixed on the 
door might have suggested a certain open attention to 
the arrival of their hostess or the announcement of other 
guests. "If you haven't got them all, you've got, in 
having me, I should suppose, about the biggest." 
BOOK EIGHTH: TISHY GRENDON 
'' Ah, what has he done for you ?" Nanda asked. 
Again her friend hnng fire. '  Do you remember some- 
thing you said to me, down there, in August ?'' 
She looked vague, but quite unembarrassed. "I re- 
member but too well that I chattered.'' 
 ' You declared to me that you knew everything' 
" Oh yes — and I said so to Mitchy too.'' 
" Well, my dear child, you don't." 
'  Because I don't know — ?" 
"Yes, what makes me the victim of his insatiable be- 
nevolence." 
"Ah, well, if you've no doubt of it yourself, that's all 
that's required. I'm quite glad to hear of something I 
don't know," ISTanda pursued. "And we're to have 
Harold too," she repeated. 
" As a beneficiary ? Then we shall fill up ! Harold 
will give us a stamp." 
" Won't he ? I hear of nothing but his success. 
Mother wrote me that people are frantic for him ; and," 
said the girl after an instant, "do you know what Cousin 
Jane wrote me ?" 
" What would she now ? I'm trying to think." 
Nanda relieved him of this effort. " Why, that mother 
has transferred to him all the scruples that she felt — 
' even to excess ' — in my time, about what we might pick 
up among you all that wouldn't be good for us." 
"That's a neat one for me!" Vanderbank declared. 
"And I like your talk about your antediluvian   time.'" 
"Oh, it's all over." 
"What exactly is it," Vanderbank presently demand- 
ed, "that you describe in that manner." 
" Well, my little hour. And the danger of picking 
up." 
" There's none of it here ?" 
Nanda appeared frankly to judge. "No — because, 
really, Tishy, don't you see ? is natural. We just talk." 
  
Vanderbank showed his interest. '  Whereas at 
mother's — ?" 
" Well, you were all afraid.' 
Vanderbank laughed straight out. " Do you mind my 
telling her that ?" 
'' Oh, she knows it. I've heard her say herself y( 
were." 
'  Ah, I  was," he concurred. " You know we've spok( 
of that before." 
" I'm speaking now of all of you," said Nanda. " But 
it was she who was most so, for she tried — I know she 
did, she told me so — to control you. And it was when 
you were most controlled — " 
Van's amusement took it up. "That we were most 
deleterious ?" 
" Yes, because, of course, what's so awfully unutter- 
able is just what we most notice. Tishy knows that," 
Nanda wonderfully observed. 
As the reflection of her tone might have been caught 
by an observer in Vanderbank's face, it was in all prob- 
ability caught by his interlocutress, who, superficially, 
however, need have recognized there — what was all she 
showed — but the right manner of waiting for dinner. 
" The better way then is to dash right in ? That's what 
our friend here does ?" 
" Oh, you know what she does !" the girl replied as if 
with a sudden drop of interest in the question. She also 
turned to the opening of the door. 
It was Tishy who at last appeared, and her guest had 
his greeting ready. " We're talking of the delicate mat- 
ters as to which you think it's better to dash right in ; 
but I'm bound to say your inviting a hungry man to din- 
ner doesn't appear to be one of them." 
The sign of Tishy Grendon — as it had been often 
called in a society in which variety of reference had 
brought to high perfection, for usual safety, tl;e sense of 
BOOK EIGHTH: TISHY GRENDON 
Signs — was a retarded facial glimmer that, in respect to 
:iiiy subject, closed up the rear of the procession. It had 
been said of her indeed that when processions were at all 
rapid she was usually to be found, on a false impression 
of her whereabouts, mixed up with the next ; so that 
now, for instance, by the time she had reached the point 
of saying to Vanderbank ''Are you really hungry ?" Nanda 
had begun to appeal to him for some praise of their host- 
ess's appearance. This was of course with soft looks, up 
and down, at her clothes.  '' Isn't she too nice ? Did you 
ever see anything so lovely ?" 
'Tm so faint with inanition," Van replied to Mrs. 
Grendon, ''that —  like the traveller in the desert, isn't 
it ? — I only make out, as an oasis or a mirage, a sweet 
green rustling blur. I don't trust you." 
"I don't trust me? ," Nanda said on her friend's behalf. 
" She isn't 'green ' — men are amazing : they don't know 
the dearest old blue that ever was seen." 
''Is it your 'old blue'?" Vanderbank, monocular, very 
earnestly asked. "I can imagine it was 'dear,' but I 
should have thought — " 
"It was yellow" — Nanda helped him out — "if I 
hadn't kindly told you." Tishy's figure showed the 
confidence of objects consecrated by publicity ; bodily 
speaking a beautiful human plant, it might have taken 
the last November gale to account for the completeness 
with which, in some quarters, she had shed her leaves. 
Her companions could only emphasize by the direction 
of their eyes the nature of the responsibility with which 
a spectator would have seen them saddled — a choice, as 
to consciousness, between the effect of her being and the 
effect of her not being dressed. " Oh, I'm hideous — of 
course I know it," said Tishy. " I'm only just clean. 
Here's Nanda now, who's beautiful," she vaguely con- 
tinued, " and Nanda — " 
" Oh but, darling, Nanda's clean too !" the young lady 
in question interrupted ; on which her fellow-guest 
only laugh with her as in relief from the antithesis of 
which her presence of mind had averted the completion, 
little indeed  for the most part, as, in Mrs. Grendon' 
talk, that element of style was involved. 
 'There's nothing, in such a matter," Vanderbank otJ? 
served as if it were the least he could decently say,  ' like 
challenging inquiry ; and here s Harold, precisely," he 
went on in the next breath,  'as clear and crisp and ui _ 
defiled as a fresh five-pound note."   
" A fresh one ?" — Harold had passed in a flash from 
his hostess. " A man who, like me, hasn't seen one for 
six months, could perfectly do, I assure you, with one 
that has lost its what-do-you-call it." He kissed Nanda 
with a friendly peck, then, more completely aware, had 
a straighter apprehension for Tishy.  'My dear child, 
you seem to have lost something, though I'll say for you 
that one doesn't miss it." 
Mrs. Grendon looked from him to Nanda. " Does he 
mean anything very nasty ? I can only understand you 
when Nanda explains," she returned to Harold. "In 
fact there's scarcely anything I understand except when 
Nanda explains. It's too dreadful her being away so 
much now with strange people, whom I'm sure she can't 
begin to do for what she does for me ; it makes me miss 
her all round. And the only tiling I've come across that 
she canH explain," Tishy launched straight at her friend, 
"is what on earth she's doing there." 
"Why, she's working Mr. Longdon, like a good, true 
girl," Harold said ; " like a good, true daughter and even, 
though she doesn't love me nearly so much as I love her, 
I will say, like a good, true sister. I'm bound to tell you, 
my dear Tishy," he went on, "that I think it awfully 
happy, with the trend of manners, for any really nice 
young thing to be a bit lost to sight. London, upon my 
honor, is quite too awful for girls, and any big house in 
BOOK EIGHTH: TISHY GRENDON 
the country is as much worse — with the promiscuities 
;md opportunities and all that — as you know for your- 
elves. I  know some places," Harold declared, " where, 
\i I had any girls, Td see 'em shot before I'd take 'em." 
'  Oh, you know too much, my dear boy !" Vanderbank 
remarked with commiseration. 
' Ah, my brave old Van," the youth returned,    don't 
speak as if you had illusions. I know," he pursued to the 
ladies,   just where some of Van's must have perished, 
and some of the places I've in mind are just where he 
has left his tracks. A man must be wedded to sweet 
superstitions, not, nowadays, to have to open his eyes. 
Nanda, love," he benevolently concluded,  ' stay where 
you are. So, at least, I sha'n't blush for you. That 
you've the good fortune to have reached your time of 
life with so little injury to your innocence makes you a 
case by yourself, of which we must recognize the claims. 
If Tishy can't stump you, that's nothing against you — 
Tishy comes of one of the few innocent English families 
that are left. Yes, you may all cry ' Oho !'— but I defy 
you to name me, say, five, or at most seven, in which 
some awful thing or other hasn't happened. Of course 
ours is one, and Tishy's is one, and Van's is one, and 
Mr. Longdon's is one, and that makes you, bang oif, four. 
So there you are !" Harold gaily wound up. 
 ''I see now why he's the rage !" Vanderbank observed 
to Nanda. 
But Mrs. Grcndon expressed to their young friend a 
lingering wonder. ''Do you mean you go in for the 
adoption — ?" 
 ' Oh, Tishy I" Nanda mildly murmured. 
Harold, however, had his own tact.  '' The dear man's 
taking her quite over ? Not altogether unreservedly. 
I'm with the governor : I think we ought to get some- 
thing. 'Oh yes, dear man, but what do you give us for 
her V — that's what I  should say to him. I mean, don't 
  
you know, that I don't think she's making quite the bar- 
gain she might. If he were to want me I don't say he 
mightn't have me, but I should have it on my conscienc H 
to make it in one way or another a good thing for m " 
parents. You are nice, old woman" — he turned to his 
sister —  ''and one can still feel, for the flower of your 
youth, something of the wonderful ' reverence ' that we 
were all brought up on. For God's sake therefore — all 
the more — don't really close with him till you've had 
another word or two with me. I'll be hanged" — he ap- 
pealed to the company again — ''if he shall have her for 
nothing !" 
" See rather," Vanderbank said to Mrs. Grendon, 'Miow 
little it's like your really losing her that she should be 
able, this evening, fairly to bring the dear man to you. 
At this rate we don't lose her — we simply get him as well." 
" Ah, but is it quite the dear man's company we want ?" 
— and Harold looked anxious and acute.    If that's the 
best arrangement Nanda can make — !" 
" If he hears us talking in this way, which strikes me 
as very horrible," Nanda interposed very simply and 
gravely, " I don't think we're likely to get anything." 
"• Oh, Harold's talk," Vanderbank protested, "offers, I 
think, an extraordinary interest ; only, I'm bound to say, 
it crushes me to the earth. I've to make, at least, as I 
listen to him, a big effort to bear up. It doesn't seem 
long ago," he pursued to his young friend, " that I used 
to feel I was in it ; but the way you bring it home to me, 
dreadful youth, that I'm already not—T 
Harold looked earnest to understand. " The hungry 
generations tread you down— is that it ?" 
Vanderbank gave a fine sad head-shake.  '' We speak 
a different language." 
" Ah, but I think I perfectly understand yours !" 
" That's just my anguish — and your advantage. It's 
awfully curious," Vanderbank went on to Nanda, ''but 
I feel as if I must figure to him, you know, very much as 
Mr. Longdon figures to me. Mr. Longdon doesn't, some- 
how, get into me. Yet I do, I think, into him. But we 
don't matter !" 
 '  ' We' ?" — Nan da, with her eyes on him, echoed it. 
" Mr. Longdon and I. It can't be helped, I suppose," 
he went on, for Tishy, with sociable sadness,  ''but it is 
short innings." 
Mrs. Grendon, who was clearly credulous, looked posi- 
tively frightened. ''Ah, but, my dear, thank you! I 
haven't begun to live.'" 
" AYell, I  have — that's just where it is," said Harold. 
'' Thank you, all the more, old Van, for the tip." 
There was an announcement just now at the door, and 
Tishy turned to meet the Duchess, with Harold, almost 
as if he had been master of the house, figuring but a step 
behind her. '' Don't mind Z er, "Vanderbank immediate- 
ly said to the companion with whom he was left, "but 
tell me, while I still have hold of you, who wrote my name 
on the French novel that I noticed a few minutes since 
in the other room." 
Nanda at first only wondered. '' If it's there — didn't 
you r 
He just hesitated. ''If it were here you would see if 
it's my hand." 
Nanda faltered, and for somewhat longer. " How 
should I see ? What do I know of your hand ?" 
He looked at her hard. " You have seen it." 
" Oh — so little !" she replied with a faint smile. 
" Do you mean I've not written to you for so long ? 
Surely I did in — when was it ?" 
" Yes, when ? But why should you ?" she asked in 
quite a different tone. 
He was not prepared, on this, with the right statement, 
and what he did, after a moment, bring out, had, for 
the occasion, a little the sound of the wrong. "The 
  
beanty of you is that you're too good ; which, for me, is 
but another way of saying you're too clever. You make 
no demands. You let things go. You don't allow, in 
particular, for the human weakness that enjoys an oc- 
casional glimpse of the weakness of others." 
She had deeply attended to him. "You mean per- 
haps one doesn't show enough what one wants ?" 
" I think that must be it. You're so fiendishly proud." 
She appeared again to wonder. "Not too much so, 
at any rate, only to want from you — " 
"Well, what?" 
" Why, what's pleasant for yourself," she simply said. 
"Oh dear, that's poor bliss!" he declared. "How 
does it come then," he next said, "that, with this barren- 
ness of our intercourse, I know so well your hand ?" 
A series of announcements had meanwhile been made, 
with guests arriving to match them, and Nanda's eyes, 
at this moment, engaged themselves with Mr. Longdon 
and her mother, who entered the room together. When 
she looked back to her companion, she had had time to , 
drop a consciousness of his question. "If I'm proud, 
to you, I'm not good," she said, "and if I'm good — al- 
ways to you— I'm not proud. I know at all events, per- 
fectly, how immensely you're occupied, what a quantity 
of work you get through and how every minute, for yon, 
counts. Don't make it a crime to me that I'm reason- 
able." 
"No, that would show, wouldn't it ? that there isn't 
much else. But how it all comes back — !" 
"Well, to what?" she asked. 
"To the old story. You know how I'm occupied. 
You know how I work. You know how I manage my 
time." 
" Oh, I see," said Nanda. " It is my knowing, after 
all, everything." 
"Everything. The book I just mentioned is one 
BOOK EIGHTH: TISHY GRENDON 
tliat, months ago — I remember now — I lent to your 
mother." 
" Oh, a thing in a blue cover ? I remember then too.' 
  Nanda's face cleared up.  ''I had forgotten it was lying 
iiboiit here, but I must have brought it — in fact, I re- 
member I did — for Tishy. And I wrote your name on 
it so that we might know — " 
" That I hadn't lent it to cither of you ? It didn't 
occur to you to write your own ?" Vanderbank went on. 
" Well, but if it isn't mine ? It isn't mine, I'm sure." 
"Therefore, also, if it can't be Tishy's — " 
"It's simple enough — it's mother's." 
" Simple'?" Vanderbank laughed. "I like you! 
And may I ask if you've read the work ?" 
" Oh yes." Then she wonderfully said : " For Tishy." 
"To seeif it would do?" 
" I've often done that," the girl returned. 
"And she takes your word ?" 
"Generally. I think I remember she did that time." 
Vanderbank hesitated. "And read the thing ?" 
"Oh, no!" saidmnda. 
He looked at her a moment longer. " You're too par- 
ticular !" he rather oddly sounded, turning away with it 
to meet Mr. Longdon. 
XXVIII 
When, after dinner, the company was restored to the 
upper rooms, the Duchess was on her feet as soon as the 
door opened for the entrance of the gentlemen. Then it 
might have been seen that she had a purpose, for after 
the elements had again, with a due amount of the usual 
shuffling and mismatching, been mixed, her case proved 
the first to have been settled. She had got Mr. Long- 
don beside her on a sofa that was just right for two. 
  
'Tve seized you without a scruple' she frankly sai( 
"for there are things I want to say to you as well ag 
very particularly, to ask. More than anything else, 
course, I want again to thank you." 
