occurred to him that he was doing anything of which the law could take
cognizance. His exultation of the morning had quite passed away. He had
flattered himself that his hoard would increase by forty dollars. Now
he had found himself foiled in the attempt to convert Paul’s savings to
his own use.
About six o’clock Paul returned to the humble home. Old Jerry was
resting on the bed in the corner. He looked up nervously as the
telegraph boy entered, and saw at once by the expression on Paul’s face
that he knew all.
“Jerry,” said Paul, “why did you take my bank book?”
“I--I’m so poor, Paul,” whined Jerry, “I--I needed the money.”
“So you turned thief,” returned the boy, indignantly.
“The money was mine by right--you shouldn’t have kept it from me.”
“I deny it!” said Paul, with emphasis. “Have you got the book with you?”
“N--no; they wouldn’t give it back to me,” complained Jerry.
“And they did right. If you ever play such a trick on me again, robbing
me in my sleep, I’ll leave you. Suppose I should get hold of your bank
book--”
“I--I haven’t any money in the bank. I’m so poor!” ejaculated the
miser, panic stricken.
“I have reason to believe you have the bank book in your pocket at this
moment.”
“You--you wouldn’t rob me, Paul?” implored Jerry.
“How can I if you have no bank book? But you can rest easy. I am not in
the habit of stealing.”
He went out to supper, leaving Jerry utterly discomposed. Not only had
his plan failed, but his secret had been discovered.
CHAPTER XII. JAMES BARCLAY’S DISAPPOINTMENT.
Though he is a very unworthy specimen of humanity, the reader may
feel interested to know something more about James Barclay, whose
acquaintance we made while he was attempting to commit a burglary.
It was mere accident that made him acquainted with the fact that his
father was living in New York. To him it seemed a most fortunate
discovery. Knowing old Jerry’s miserly habits, he had no doubt that the
old man was worth some thousands of dollars, and upon this sum he felt
that he had a right to draw. His father was timid, and he depended upon
terrifying him into complying with his demands.
The first visit terminated as well as he expected. He didn’t suppose
that Jerry kept much money in his room. Hence his arrangement to come
back the next day.
As he left the poor tenement house he chuckled to himself, “I’ll scare
the old man into giving me all the money I want. It will be like
drawing a tooth, and I’ve no doubt he’ll make a great fuss, but there’s
no escape for him. He can live on little or nothing and enjoy it. It
won’t do him any real harm to let me have, say half of his miserly
hoard. Egad, James Barclay, you’re in luck at last. I thought when that
telegraph kid foiled me last night that nothing would go well with me,
but things seem turning. If I ever meet that boy again I must give him
a lesson. He’s a bold young rascal, though, and would be a credit to my
line of business.”
It is doubted whether Paul would have considered this a compliment if
he had heard it. His ambitions did not run in the direction of becoming
a successful burglar.
It was a question with James Barclay where to spend the intervening
time, as he was not to call on his father till the next day. He was
about at the end of his resources, having less than a dollar in silver
in his possession. He might have tried to hatch up some dishonest
scheme for filling his pockets but for the chance discovery of his
father. That afforded a chance quite as promising, and far less
perilous, and he decided not to make any illegal ventures till he had
made all he could out of old Jerry.
“I’d rather be honest,” he said to himself in a glow of virtuous
feeling; “but, confound it, a man must live, and as the world owes me a
living, I must get it one way or another.”
It did not seem to occur to James Barclay that the same chance existed
for him as for the majority of his fellow men--a chance of earning a
living by honest work. Labor and industry he abhorred. They might do
for others, but not for him.
“Tomorrow I’ll be in funds,” he said to himself complacently. “Now,
what shall I do with myself today? A man can’t do much without money.”
It occurred to him that an old acquaintance--rather a shady
acquaintance by the way--used to live in Jersey City. He would go over
and see him. It would while away the time in a pleasant manner, and he
might get news of his other companions, for he had been out of the city
himself for several years. In fact, for we need not keep the secret
from the reader, he had been passing three years in seclusion at the
village of Sing Sing on the Hudson. That accounted for his father
having been spared any visits for that length of time.
James Barclay turned down Cortlandt Street, and made his way to the
ferry at the foot of the street. He invested three cents in a ferry
ticket, and in a few minutes set foot in Jersey City.
“It’s a long time since I have been here,” he reflected. “Ten to one
Jack isn’t hanging out at the old place. However, I can see.”
He made his way to the former abode of his old friend, Jack Cratts, who
was much such a character as himself, but, being more prudent, less apt
to get into trouble.
He only met with disappointment. Another family occupied the room
once tenanted by Jack, and he could obtain no information as to the
whereabouts of his friend.
James Barclay was disappointed. The time was hanging heavily on his
hands. He made his way slowly toward the ferry, when he encountered
a poorly dressed woman of about thirty, carrying a heavy basket of
clothes. She was evidently a laundress.
His face lighted up with instant recognition.
“Is it you, Ellen?” he said.
The woman turned pale, and nearly dropped the basket she was carrying.
“James!” she ejaculated, faintly.
“Yes, Ellen, it is your poor, unfortunate husband. Egad, I’m glad to
see you.”
It was now over three years since James Barclay and his wife had met.
She had never been very happy with him, after the first few months of
married life, and she did not know now whether to be glad or sorry she
had met him. She had not lost all love for him--wives seldom do under
any provocation--but she knew him too well to believe that he had
changed materially. He was likely still to prove a disturbing element
in her life. Yet she felt a momentary pleasure, lonely as she was, in
meeting the man who, ten years before, had captured her affections.
“Are you glad to see me, Ellen?” asked Barclay, in an unusually
pleasant tone.
“Yes,” she answered, slowly.
“How are the children? I don’t suppose I should know them.”
“They are well. Jimmy and Mary are going to school. Jimmy sells papers
evenings to help me along.”
“How old is the young rascal?”
“Eight years old.”
“Is he a chip of the old block, eh, Ellen?”
“I hope not,” said the woman, heartily. Then, with a half frightened
look, she added, “Don’t be offended with me, James, but I don’t want
him to follow in your steps.”
“No offense, Ellen,” said Barclay, laughingly. “I don’t pretend to be
an angel, and I hope the kid will be more of one than I. And how are
you yourself, old woman?”
“I’ve had to work very hard, James,” sighed the woman. “It’s been all I
can do to earn a poor living for the children.”
“I wish I could help you, and perhaps I may. I’m expecting some money
tomorrow, and I’m hanged if I don’t give you ten dollars of it.”
“It would be a great help to me, James,” said his wife, with a
momentary look of pleasure.
“Are you going home now?”
“Yes, James.”
“I’ll go along, too, and see what sort of a crib you’ve got. Can you
let me have some dinner?”
“Yes, James, though it’ll be a poor one.”
“O, I shan’t mind. Here, give me that basket. I’m stronger than you.”
“Has he really reformed and become better?” thought Ellen, puzzled. She
had never been used to such marks of attention from her husband. But he
was in an amiable frame of mind. He had found a place of refuge till
the next day, and then he would draw fifty dollars from his father--the
first of many forced loans he promised himself.
He lounged away the rest of the day at his wife’s poor room. When the
children came home from school he received them with boisterous good
nature. They seemed afraid of him, remembering his severity in earlier
days, but this only seemed to amuse him.
“That’s a pretty way to receive your loving father,” he said,
laughingly. “Come here and sit on my knee, Mary.”
The little girl obeyed with scared face, because she did not dare to
refuse lest she should anger her father. So the day passed. James
Barclay lay in bed late next morning, but about eleven o’clock started
for New York, to meet the appointment with his father.
A little before noon he ascended the staircase, and opened the door of
the room which he had visited the day before.
It was empty!
His face darkened, and an unpleasant misgiving entered his mind.
He knocked at the door of the opposite room, which was opened by a
woman.
“What has become of the old man who occupied the room opposite?” he
asked.
“He has moved,” answered Mrs. Duane.
“Moved! When did he move?”
“This morning, I believe.”
“Where has he gone to?”
“He didn’t leave word.”
“The old fox!” muttered James Barclay. “He has gone to get rid of me.
But I’ll follow him up, and sooner or later I’ll find him.”
CHAPTER XIII. JAMES BARCLAY AT HOME.
James Barclay’s disappointment was intense when he discovered that his
father had eluded him. He was almost penniless, and had nothing of
sufficient value to pawn. Had he raised the sum which he had expected
from old Jerry, it is doubtful whether he would have returned to his
family in Jersey City. As it was, he had no other resource.
His wife, who took in washing to do at home, was hard at work ironing
when the door opened and her husband entered. A frown was on his face,
and he was evidently in ill temper.
A cat, the family pet, being in his way, he kicked her brutally, and
the poor animal, moaning piteously, fled in wild dismay.
“Get out of the way, you beast!” he said, angrily.
“Don’t kick poor Topsy!” pleaded his wife. “I am afraid you have hurt
the poor little thing.”
“Keep her out of my way, then,” growled Barclay. “I hate cats. You must
be a fool to keep one.”
“The children love poor Topsy, James,” said his wife.
“I suppose you’d keep a snake for them, if they liked it.”
“A kitten is very different from a snake.”
“I shall kill it some time if it gets in my way. Have you got anything
to eat in the house?”
Mrs. Barclay paused in her work long enough to get some bread and meat
from the pantry, which she set before her husband.
“Where are the children?” he asked, after a while.
“They have gone to school.”
“They ought to be earning something at their age,” growled Barclay.
“They are very young yet, James. You wouldn’t have me take them from
school?”
“School won’t do ’em much good.”
“You wouldn’t have them grow up ignorant, surely?”
“They have got to earn something. I can’t support them in idleness.”
As it was some years since he had contributed a cent to their support,
his wife didn’t quite appreciate his complaint, but she knew too much
of her husband’s temper to argue with him.
“Jimmy sells papers when he gets home from school,” she said.
“How much does he earn that way?”
“Sometimes from fifteen to twenty cents.”
“He’ll need to earn more, I can tell you that. I’m very poor, Ellen,
and cursed unfortunate, too. I haven’t money enough to buy a ten cent
cigar.”
“I will try to support the children if you will take care of yourself,
James.”
Any man with a spark of true manhood in him would have been shamed by
such a proposition, but James Barclay was a thoroughly selfish man. It
seemed to him that his wife ought to support him, too.
“Have you got a dollar about you, Ellen?” he asked.
“Ye-es,” she answered, hesitatingly, “but I must buy some bread and
groceries this evening, or the children won’t have their supper.”
“Seems to me you care more about the children than you do about your
husband. A pretty wife you are!”
“I don’t deserve that, James. Of course you are welcome to your share
of the supper.”
“Thank you! So you want to treat me as a child.”
The man was utterly unreasonable, and his wife can hardly be blamed if
there rose in her mind a regret that he had not stayed away longer, and
left her and the children in peace.
“I thought you expected to have some money today, James,” she said.
“Yes, but I didn’t get it. Just my cursed luck!” he answered, bitterly.
“My own father turns his back on me, and won’t give me a cent, though
he has money in plenty.”
“Your father?” said his wife in surprise. “Is he--have you seen him?”
“Yes, I saw him yesterday, and told him I would call today for fifty
dollars. I went, and found the old scoundrel had disappeared.”
“Is it right to call your father by such a name? He may not have had
the money.”
“You don’t know my father. He’s a miser, and always has been. He lives
in a wretched hole, not so good as this place, while he has thousands
of dollars invested, or hidden somewhere. He thinks he’s got rid of me,
but” (here an oath escaped his lips) “he will find he’s mistaken.”
All this was new to Mrs. Barclay, who had heard very little of her
husband’s family.
“Perhaps if you find him you could induce him to come and live with
us,” she said. “He might take an interest in the children and do
something for them.”
“More likely he would want to live off us. However, if I could once get
him here, I’d manage to get my hand into his purse. It’s a good idea.”
“Does he live alone? He must be an old man.”
“He’s all bent and shriveled up; he’s got a telegraph boy living with
him, he told me. I hate telegraph boys--I met one the other night--an
impudent young rascal! I’d like to meet him again. I’d wring the kid’s
neck for him.”
“Where did you meet him, James?”
James Barclay eyed his wife suspiciously. He did not care to tell her
under what circumstances he met Paul Parton.
“Never you mind, old woman!” he said. “It’s no concern of yours.”
“If you don’t want to tell me, I don’t care to know, James,” she
answered, meekly.
“Well, I don’t want to tell you. But about the old man’s coming here,
it’s a good idea of yours. I will send off the telegraph boy, for he
might be dangerous. Ten to one he’s trying to get the old man to leave
him his property. I wish I knew where he is.”
“Haven’t you got any clew?”
“No, he’s hid somewhere. He won’t come out of his hole for fear of
meeting me.”
“If you could meet this telegraph boy, you might learn through him
where your father is.”
“Unfortunately, Mrs. B., I don’t know the telegraph boy--never met
him--shouldn’t know him from Adam.”
“I suppose he has a number.”
“That’s so, old woman!” exclaimed Barclay, slapping his knee with
emphasis. “I think I know where I can find out his number, and then
it’ll be easy to find him. He can’t hide from me, for he has to be on
duty every day. But I shall want money--just give me that dollar!”
“I can’t, James; the poor children would have to go without their
supper.”
“Look here, Mrs. B., I want you to understand that you’ve got to obey
your husband. I’ll give you back the money as soon as I can, but I need
it to track my father. Let me once get hold of him, and it’ll be all
right. I will soon have plenty of money.”
“But I can’t spare the money, James. The children must have their
supper.”
“I’m tired of your talk,” he rejoined, roughly. “If you refuse me the
money, I’ll raise it in some other way.”
He glared round the room, and his eyes rested on a dress that his wife
had just ironed.
“I can raise something on that,” he said, seizing the dress, and
preparing to carry it away.
“Stop, James, for pity’s sake!” cried his wife, terrified. “That dress
belongs to one of my customers. It would be stealing to take it!”
“She’s probably got plenty of others; she can spare it,” he said.
His wife hastened to him and tried to wrench the dress from his grasp,
but holding it in one hand beyond her reach, he gripped her arm with
the other so hard that she uttered a cry of pain.
At this moment the door was pushed open, and a new character appeared
upon the scene in the person of a stalwart policeman.
“What’s all this?” he demanded, in a tone of authority. “Release that
woman, or I’ll take you in.”
CHAPTER XIV. ON THE TRACK OF NUMBER 91.
The policeman’s sudden appearance can be easily explained. He and his
family occupied rooms in the same house with Mrs. Barclay, and he
happened to be passing the door of her apartment when he heard the cry.
“What’s all this?” he demanded once more.
“None of your business!” returned Barclay, indignantly. “What call have
you to intrude where you’re not wanted?”
“I often do that,” said the policeman, grimly. “Mrs. Barclay, who is
this man?”
“My husband, sir.”
“There, do you hear that?” demanded Barclay. “I have a right to be
here.”
“What were you about to do to your wife? What made her cry out?” asked
the policeman, sharply. “I ask you that question, Mrs. Barclay.”
“My husband was carrying off that dress to pawn it,” replied the wife.
“It does not belong to me, and it would have got me into trouble.”
“What have you to say to that?” asked the officer, turning to Barclay.
“My wife would give me no money,” answered Barclay, sullenly, “and I
threatened to pawn her dress.”
“She says it was not her dress.”
“I thought it was,” said Barclay.
“O, James,” began his wife, but a threatening look from her husband
stopped her words.
“And then you treated her roughly, it seems!”
“No, I didn’t. I just took her by the arm, to stop her getting the
dress.”
“Have you any complaint to make, Mrs. Barclay?” asked the officer.
“Not if he will give me the dress back. It doesn’t belong to me, and I
don’t want to lose it.”
“Take the dress,” said Barclay, throwing it down.
“Mind you make no more trouble,” said the policeman in a warning voice,
as he left the room.
“Where did the cop come from?” asked Barclay.
“He lives in the house.”
“Then I wish he’d move out of it. Cops are no company for decent
people.”
It is small wonder that James Barclay did not enjoy the company of a
class of men who, first and last, had given him considerable trouble.
His wife did not reply, but picked up the rumpled dress and began to
smooth it.
“Now, Ellen,” said Barclay, changing his tone out of policy, “I’ll make
a bargain with you. I want to go over to New York, and hunt up that
telegraph boy. Through him I can track my father and get some money.
See, this is all I have in the world,” and he drew out four pennies
from his pocket.
“But the children, James.”
“The children can get along on half of it. Give me fifty cents, and I
will give you ten dollars as soon as I make a raise. That’s pretty good
interest, hey, old woman?”
Mrs. Barclay drew from her pocket two silver quarters and handed them
to her husband.
“There, take them, James,” she said, “and don’t forget your promise. I
made that money by hard work.”
“It will be all right, Ellen,” said Barclay, thrusting the money
carelessly into his vest pocket. “You can’t raise a crop without seed,
you know.”
He put on his hat and left the house whistling.
Arrived in New York, James Barclay lost no time in returning to his
father’s old lodgings. Mrs. O’Connor, one of the tenants, chanced to be
just coming out of the house with a bundle of clean clothes, which she
was about to carry to a customer.
“Excuse me, ma’am,” said Barclay, politely, for he could be polite when
he saw fit, “I believe you knew an old man who moved away from here
recently?”
“Old Jerry? Yes, I knew him well. He lived here ever since I did, and
what took him away so sudden I can’t tell.”
“I am sorry not to find him, for I know of something to his advantage.”
“He didn’t leave word where he was going, more’s the pity. I wish he
had, for I’d like to have called to see him and the bye some time.”
“There was a boy, then, who lived with him? I believe I have heard him
mentioned before.”
“Yes, sir, and a nice bye he was, and a smart one. He was rale kind to
the old man, Paul was, and I don’t think old Jerry could have got along
without him.”
“He was employed in a store, wasn’t he?” asked Barclay, assuming less
knowledge than he possessed.
“No, indade. Paul is a telegraph bye, and has been for ’most two years.
He’s a favorite with the company, I’m thinkin’, as he ought to be, for
he always attinds to his duties, and is up early and late.”
“So he’s a telegraph boy!” said Barclay, musingly. “I should like to
see him, especially as you speak so well of him. He has a number,
hasn’t he? I notice the boys have a number on their caps.”
“Yes, sir. Paul is Number 91.”
“Number 91?” returned Barclay, briskly. “I think I can remember that.
I’m much obliged to you, my good lady.”
“Shure, and you’re a very polite gintleman,” said Mrs. O’Connor, who
was flattered at being called a lady.
“Why shouldn’t I be polite to a lady like you?” said Barclay. “Perhaps
you can give me a little more information.”
“Shure, and I will if I can, sir.”
“At what office can I find this Paul--Number 91, as you call him? I
should like to speak to him about my aged relative.”
“I can’t just recollect the number, sir, but the office where Paul goes
is on Broadway, same side as the St. Nicholas Hotel, and not far away
from it.”
“Thank you very much. You are really the most obliging lady I have met
for a long time.”
“Shure, sir, you flatter me. You must have kissed the blarney stone,
I’m a thinkin’!”
“No, ma’am, I haven’t; but I hope I know enough to be polite to a lady.
You don’t seem like a stranger to me, for you are the image of a lady I
used to know on the other side of the water, the Countess of Galway.”
Mrs. O’Connor smiled and simpered, for she had never before been
compared to a countess.
“And can I do any more for you, sir?” she said.
“No, thank you. You have given me all the information I require. Good
day!”
As Barclay walked away, Mrs. O’Connor followed him with her eyes.
“He isn’t dressed very nice,” she said to herself, “but in his manners
he’s a perfect gintleman. I’d like to see that Countess of Galway, that
I look so much like.”
CHAPTER XV. BARCLAY GETS INTO BUSINESS.
“You’re getting on finely, old fellow,” said James Barclay to himself,
as he left the tenement house, and steered toward Broadway. “I managed
that old woman skillfully, and got all the information I want. I think,
Jerry Barclay, you won’t long elude me. I shall have no trouble now in
finding the telegraph boy, and then I shall soon be face to face with
the old man.”
Arrived at Printing House Square, he struck across the City Hall Park,
the other side of which is skirted by Broadway.
Sitting on one of the benches was a man rather showily dressed, with a
red blotched face, and an indefinable expression that stamped him as
one who lived by his wits, rather than by honest toil. As Barclay’s
glance rested upon him, he uttered an exclamation of surprise.
“Bill Slocum, is that you?” he said.
“Jim Barclay, as I’m a sinner,” said the other, rising and extending
a rough hand, on one of whose fingers sparkled a ring, set with what
might have been a diamond, but was probably paste. “And how is the
world using you, old pal?”
“Rough,” answered Barclay. “The old man’s gone back on me, and my own
wife made a great fuss because I wanted to borrow a dollar. Sometimes I
think I was better off in our old boarding place up the river.”
Bill Slocum was one of his fellow boarders up at Sing Sing.
“The world owes you a living, Barclay,” said his friend.
“So it does, but how’s a chap going to collect his claim? That’s what
I’d like to know.”
“O, well, there’s ways if you only know how,” said Slocum, rather
enigmatically.
“How are you makin’ it yourself?” asked Barclay, curiously.
“I get enough to eat and drink and wear. I ain’t in no anxiety about
livin’.”
“How do you do it?”
“Just look at that!”
Bill Slocum drew from his pocket a roll of bills, and held it up for
his companion to see. It was a thick roll, and amounted to a fair sum,
even if the denominations were small.
“How’d you get all that?” asked Barclay.
“There’s more where they come from,” answered Slocum.
“Are there any for me?” asked Barclay, eagerly.
“Yes, if I introduce you.”
“You’ll do it, Slocum, won’t you?”
“Yes, if you want me to. But, first, a word in your ear.”
He rose from his seat, and withdrew to a place where he would not be
heard.
“They’re flimsies,” he said, briefly.
“Oh!” ejaculated Barclay, looking a trifle disappointed.
He understood that they were not genuine bills, but counterfeit.
“Well, and what if they are?” said Slocum, reading his expression.
“There’s a risk about it.”
“Nothin’ venture, nothin’ have, as my old grandmother used to say.
Just be foxy, and you won’t get caught. I’m making a good living off of
it, myself.”
“What commission do you get for passing them?”
“Fifty cents on a dollar. That’s liberal, isn’t it?”
“Yes, that is liberal,” Barclay admitted. “Have you made anything
today?”
“Have I? Well, I reckon I have.”
“How much?”
“I’ve passed a ten and a five.”
“And that gives you seven and a half for your share?”
“Right you are, Barclay. Your knowledge of arithmetic does credit to
your education. It’s plain your respected parent took great pains with
your trainin’.”
“My respected parent,” repeated Barclay, frowning, “is about the
meanest old skinflint you’ll find within a hundred miles. I found
him out yesterday, and let him know that I was going to call again
today, to raise a loan, but when I called the old fox was gone bag and
baggage.”
“A shabby way to treat his offspring. I pity you, Jim. So you are left
to the tender mercies of the world.”
“I don’t find ’em very tender,” growled Barclay. “Do you see that?” and
he drew from his pocket about forty cents in change.
“Yes, but it doesn’t dazzle me.”
“It’s all the money I have in the world.”
“Then you’d better join me.”
Barclay hesitated.
“I don’t quite like it. I don’t care about going up the river again too
soon.”
“You needn’t, if you are careful. I’ll give you a few points. If one of
your bills is found out, you are at once searched to see if you have
any more.”
“There’s the danger.”
“So there is, but you can guard against it. When I am preparing to
offer a bill, I put a number of good bills in my vest pocket, where
they will be certain to be found at once. The other counterfeits I put
in a secret inside pocket where they are not likely to be discovered.
Then when it is found that all the other bills are good, I say that
some rascal must have passed the bad bill on me, taking advantage of my
innocence and ignorance of the world.”
This seemed to Barclay an excellent joke, and he laughed long and loud.
“Excuse me, Bill, but you don’t look it.”
“I can when it’s necessary.”
After a little more conversation Barclay, who was already half
convinced, yielded to the temptation, and agreed to accompany his
friend to the secret office of the counterfeiters, and enroll himself
as one of their agents. Slocum offered to conduct him within at once.
The interview proved a satisfactory one, and Barclay was readily
accepted, being vouched for by his friend and companion. It may be said
also that his appearance was in his favor, though it would hardly have
