Rupert glanced over to where the guide was lying and saw that he was
still asleep. The fact that the rattlesnake was so near had not
interfered at all with his ease of mind or his slumbers.
Rupert looked at his watch. It was already seven o'clock, and that was
the hour when they generally got up.
"Seven o'clock, Mr. Boone!" he called out, giving Ben a shake.
"Oh! ah! is it?" and Ben stretched himself out in a sleepy way.
"Yes. Isn't it time to get up?"
Ben took the hint, and rose from his recumbent position.
"Didn't you wake me some time ago?" he asked. "What was it all about?"
"There was a rattlesnake lying beside me."
"Where is it now?"
"It's gone."
"Then there's no harm done."
Ben Boone was not only the guide, but the cook of the little party. They
had brought with them materials for camping-out meals, and it was his
work to make a fire and prepare their simple repasts. Sometimes they
caught a fish or two in the river, and it made a pleasant addition to
their fare.
Rupert found that in this new life he always had a good appetite for
breakfast--more, even, than for their other meals. He had never had so
good an appetite at the Somerset House, though the cook at that
establishment was probably superior to Ben Boone in his chosen line.
CHAPTER XXXIII.
BEN BOONE'S TEMPTATION.
The reader may naturally expect to hear something of Rupert's experience
as a hunter. But so far as this story is concerned, this is not called
for. He had other experiences which will speedily be set forth.
For, after all, it was not so much the hunting that Rupert cared about.
He thoroughly enjoyed his opportunity to travel through the wild scenery
of Middle Colorado. It was camping out in a much more interesting way
than when, as a boy, he went but a little way from home, and knew that
only a few miles intervened between him and his ordinary life.
Then he was interested in his guide. At the East he had never met such a
man as Ben Boone. He seemed a product of the country. As for Ben, he
carried out his contract, and served as a guide, philosopher and--I was
about to say friend, but on the whole we'll substitute companion.
Though Ben was a skillful hunter and mountaineer he did not particularly
enjoy his work. He was a thoroughly lazy man, and would prefer to have
remained at home in the rude cabin which passed for such, and, lying on
his back with a pipe in his mouth, have drowsed and dreamed away his
time. He did not understand, for his part, why city people who could
live comfortably should want to rough it, incurring the fatigue of
hunting just for the sake of amusement.
"I am tired," he said, on the night after Rupert's adventure with the
snake.
"Yes," said Rupert, "I am tired, too. We have come a good many miles."
"Do you like it?"
"Oh, yes," said Rupert enthusiastically; "it is grand."
"I don't see what good it is," rejoined Ben, lying back with a sense of
exquisite enjoyment in his chance to rest. "You are not making any
money."
"No," replied Rupert, laughing, "but I enjoy the wild mountain scenery;
don't you?"
"No; a mountain isn't much to see."
"Then there are the valleys, the woods and the waterfalls."
"Oh, I've seen plenty of them. I don't care for them."
"I suppose that is why you don't care for them. You are too familiar
with them."
"I reckon so," drawled Ben.
"Don't you enjoy seeing anything? Is there anything you would rather see
than this wild and romantic scenery?"
"Yes. I would rather see cities. Where do you live when you are at
home?"
"In New York."
"That is a wonderful city, isn't it?"
"Yes."
"I expect it is a great deal larger than Denver?"
"Yes; forty or fifty times as large."
At this time Denver probably had a population of less than thirty
thousand.
Ben Boone's eyes opened.
"And I suppose there are some grand buildings?" he said, inquiringly.
"Yes," and Rupert told his guide something about the great city, of the
horse-car lines, the elevated trains running thirty feet above the
ground, the big hotels, the Brooklyn bridge, and other marvels, to which
Ben Boone listened with rapt attention.
"I should like to see New York before I die," he said.
"Have you ever been there?"
"No."
"But you have probably seen other cities--St. Louis, or Chicago?"
"No; I have only seen Denver. Well, yes, I saw St. Louis when I was a
boy. It seemed a large city to me then, but I reckon New York is much
bigger."
"Yes, it is a great deal larger--several times as large as St. Louis was
when you saw it."
"Does it cost a great deal of money to go to New York?"
"I think one might go there for fifty dollars, ten less by second
class."
"Second class is good enough for me."
"Yes, you would be a good deal more comfortable traveling second class
than we are on our hunting trip."
"Then I should be satisfied. I ain't used to living first class."
"I should think you would like to go to New York. Is there any reason
why you should not go?"
"There's the money."
"But, as I told you, it doesn't cost a very large sum."
"Fifty dollars is a good deal to me. I never had so much money in my
life."
"Because you don't save up your money."
"I don't know how to save money," said Ben Boone in a listless manner.
"But you could. Now how much money is Mr. Packard paying you for going
with me?"
"Three dollars a day."
"Now suppose we are out ten days--that will make thirty dollars, won't
it?"
"Yes; but I had to leave some money with my wife."
"You will at any rate have twenty-five dollars. Now, why can't you put
that aside, and add to it when you can. Then by and by you will have
money enough to go to New York. When you get there you can find work and
earn enough to keep you and pay your expenses back."
"Yes, I reckon I might," said Ben, not knowing how to controvert
Rupert's statement.
"If you really try hard to save, I will give you something toward your
expenses myself."
"Are you rich?" asked Ben, looking up quickly.
"No, but I have some money."
"How much?"
This question Rupert did not care to answer. Ben Boone was a very good
guide and hunting companion, but he was not exactly the kind of man he
would choose as a confidant.
"I think everybody is rich that lives in New York," said Ben, with a
touch of envy.
"What makes you think that?"
"I have had New York people with me before. I have traveled with them,
and hunted with them. They always seemed to have plenty of money."
"It may be so with those who come out here, but there are plenty who
never travel at all, who live in poor houses in a poor way, who earn
small wages, and are no better off than you, perhaps not so well off. I
was very poor myself once, and had scarcely money enough to buy myself
food."
"But you got over it. You got rich after a while."
Rupert protested that he was not rich, but Ben Boone was incredulous,
though he did not say so. He talked more and more about New York. He
seemed to want to learn all he could about it.
Rupert was not surprised. He remembered that when he was a boy in the
country, he, too, thought and dreamed a great deal about the great city.
After he lived there and grew familiar with its marvels, he became
indifferent to it, as much so as Ben Boone was to the wonderful mountain
scenery. He felt disposed to joke a little about is.
"There is one thing you have here that we don't have in New York," he
said with a laugh.
"What is that?"
"Rattlesnakes."
"No. I reckon not. I shouldn't miss rattlesnakes."
Ben Boone said this so gravely that Rupert could not forbear laughing.
"Nor I," he said. "I am willing that Colorado should keep all her
rattlesnakes."
Ben Boone, for a wonder, lay awake beyond his usual time. He could not
get New York and its wonders out of his head. The more he thought of it
the more he longed to see it.
And there wasn't so much time, either. He was forty-nine years old, and
yet he had never been on the other side of the Mississippi River. Yet
here was Rupert, who couldn't be more than sixteen or seventeen years
old, who had actually lived in New York, and now had wandered to the far
West and seen that also. If a boy could have those happy experiences,
why not he?
Why not?
The question was easily answered. The difference between them was
money. He didn't know how much money Rupert had, but probably he had
more than the sum necessary to carry him to New York. Ben felt that it
was not fair that a mere boy should have so much and he so little.
This was a dangerous path of thought, and led to a strong temptation.
This temptation was increased when, waking at an early hour, he looked
across at Rupert, lying not many yards away, and noticed that his
pocketbook had in some way dropped out of his pocket and was lying on
the grass beside him.
Ben's eyes sparkled with unholy excitement. An eager curiosity assailed
him to learn how much money the pocketbook contained. It was a
temptation which he did not seem able to resist.
He looked over towards Rupert again. The boy was sleeping calmly,
peacefully. There was little chance that he would wake up.
Ben rose cautiously from his couch, and with a stealthy step he made his
way to the sleeping boy.
He stooped down and picked up the wallet and then opened it, peering
eagerly at the contents.
There was a thick roll of bills. He counted them in a quick, stealthy
way, and his heart beat with excitement when he ascertained that the
roll contained eighty-one dollars.
"Why, that will take me to New York," he thought.
Yes, it would take him to New York. There would be no weary waiting, no
probable disappointment in the end. The dream of his life might be
realized, and at once.
Ben was not naturally dishonest. If he had not had a special use for the
money it would not have tempted him. But he wanted to go to New York,
and the temptation seemed too great for him to resist.
His resolution was taken. With one backward glance at the sleeping boy
he thrust the wallet into his pocket and started for the river, where
the skiff awaited him.
CHAPTER XXXIV.
RUPERT'S PREDICAMENT.
Rupert did not wake till later than usual. The previous day had been
unusually fatiguing and nature had asserted her rights.
He turned over and mechanically looked over to where his companion lay
at the time he went to sleep. He was a little surprised to find that he
was not visible. Usually Boone slumbered till Rupert went over and waked
him up.
"Ben has gone to take a walk," he said to himself. "It must be later
than usual."
He looked at his watch and found that it was eight o'clock.
"Well, I did oversleep myself," he said, as he rose to his feet. "No
wonder Boone got the start of me."
Upon reflection he decided that Ben had probably gone down to the boat,
which was tied to a small tree on the river bank not more than five
minutes' walk distant. He turned his steps in that direction. When he
reached the place where the skiff was fastened, a surprise awaited him.
The boat was not there!
Still he had not the faintest suspicion that his guide had played him
false and deserted him in the wilderness.
"Ben must have taken a row himself," he decided. "It is rather strange,
for he isn't generally enterprising enough for that. He must have had a
headache or something that prevented his sleeping. Well, I might as well
take breakfast."
There was something left from supper of the night before. Rupert ate
this with a hearty relish. He did not stop to make any hot coffee. Ben
usually attended to this duty, and he was likely to appear at any
moment.
"I will wait for Ben to come," Rupert said to himself. "I hope he hasn't
gone very far."
After eating he lay back on the ground, for he still felt a little
tired.
"It seems odd to be alone," he reflected.
He had not formed any particular attachment to Ben Boone, but he had a
certain satisfaction in his companionship. They had become closely
acquainted, and though Ben was not especially sociable, they had had
some long talks together, so that Rupert felt a certain interest in his
rough companion.
Half an hour passed, and Rupert began to feel impatient, as well as
solitary.
"Why doesn't Ben come?" he asked himself. "It is very strange that he
should go away so early and stay away so long."
As this thought came to him he happened to put his hand into the pocket
where he usually kept his money.
The pocket was empty.
A suspicion for the first time dawned upon him that startled and alarmed
him. He made a hurried examination of the ground around him, for he knew
that it was possible that the pocketbook had slipped out of his pocket.
But his search was fruitless. The pocketbook was nowhere to be seen.
Was it possible, he asked himself, that he had been robbed? Was Ben
capable of such black treachery?
The thought that his companion had proved false disturbed him more at
first than the sense of his loss, but he began almost immediately to
realize his predicament.
Probably he was a hundred miles away from the ranch of his friend Giles
Packard. Not only this, but he was without money and without provisions,
except the small supply of food which remained over from his frugal
breakfast.
Then, again, he was without a boat, for the skiff had been carried away
by Ben. He was alone in a wilderness.
There were very few houses within the distance over which they had
traveled. If he had been in any portion of the Eastern States, among
settlements and villages, he would not have minded his destitute
condition--that is, not so much. He would have felt sure of getting
along somehow. But as it was, there was no one to appeal to. There was
no one to lend him a helping hand.
If only Ben had left him the boat, matters would not have been so bad.
He would, of course, have instantly started on his return. He didn't
feel at all tempted to explore farther. The fine mountain scenery which
he had enjoyed yesterday had no attraction for him now.
"I'd give fifty dollars--if I had it"--he added, as the thought came to
him that he had no money whatever, "to be back with Giles Packard on his
ranch. Shall I ever see him again, or am I doomed to starve to death in
this wilderness?"
CHAPTER XXXV.
RUPERT MAKES A DISCOVERY.
It was not easy for Rupert to form plans in his present destitute
condition. The money which he had lost was a minor consideration. The
boat and provisions were much more important.
Besides this, he still had his gun and his watch. Both these were likely
to prove useful.
He wondered a little why Ben had not taken the watch. But his wonder
diminished when he remembered that Boone had told him one day that he
had never owned a watch.
"How, then, do you tell time?" Rupert inquired.
"By the sun," answered Ben.
Rupert had tested him more than once, and found that from long and close
observation his guide could always guess within a few minutes of the
correct time. To Ben the watch had no value, and it didn't occur to him
that he might raise money on it when he reached the settlements.
Rupert felt that he must lose no time in forming some plan of reaching
the point from which he started. He went down to the river, faintly
hoping that he might see Ben returning in the skiff, but this he owned
to himself was extremely improbable.
Ben was ten, perhaps fifteen miles on the way back. What his object
could have been in playing him such a dastardly trick, or what possible
excuse he could make to Giles Packard for returning alone, Rupert could
not conjecture.
He took it for granted that Boone would go back to his old home at Red
Gulch. He did not dream of his plan of going to New York. If he had,
this would have explained his sudden defection.
Rupert stood on the shore of the river and looked up the stream.
Everything was calm and placid, and lonely. At the East he would have
seen houses, on the banks and passing boats, but here he found himself
alone with nature.
Without thinking especially what he was doing, he started to walk up
stream, that is, along the river bank in an easterly direction.
"If I could only come across a boat," he soliloquized, "no matter how
poor, I should think it a piece of great luck."
But it was too great luck for him. Still he kept on walking and looking
about him, but he not only saw no boat, but no indication of any human
presence.
He had walked quite five miles, as he judged from the passage of time,
when at last he made a discovery. Moored to the bank was a dismantled
raft, if such an expression is allowable. Rupert remembered now that on
their trip down the river Boone had called his attention to it, saying:
"It must have been left there by some party of travelers."
Rupert little thought how serviceable this would prove to him.
His eyes lighted up with joy, for he hailed the finding of the raft as a
good omen, and foresaw how important it would prove to him.
"But was it in a condition for use?"
That was the important question.
Rupert bent down and examined it critically. The boards were still
pretty firm, though water-soaked, and seemed to be securely fastened
together. The rope that fastened it to the small sapling on the bank was
quite rotten, and it was a wonder that it had not parted.
Rupert pulled on it to see how secure it was, and it broke. This,
however, was of little consequence. He selected a long stick to serve as
an oar, and getting on the raft, pushed out into the stream.
The stick, however, made a very poor substitute for an oar. Still he
found that it was of some use.
But just as he was starting he discovered, almost covered with
underbrush, the paddle which had probably been used by the parties who
had constructed and used the raft. This worked tolerably well, and he
was glad to have found it.
At last he was ready, and started on his journey. He found his progress
slow, and his task toilsome. Still he was making progress, and that was
encouraging.
How rapid this progress he could only conjecture. It might be two miles
an hour; probably it was not more than that, and he was obliged to
confess with a sinking of the heart that it would take a very long time
at this rate before he would get back.
He had tugged away possibly three hours, when his strength began to give
out. He began to feel faint and hungry, especially as his breakfast had
not been very satisfying.
Then, for the first time, with a sinking heart, he realized that he had
made a serious blunder. What few provisions were left after breakfast he
had left behind him, and he was absolutely without a mouthful to eat.
CHAPTER XXXVI.
A LUCKY ENCOUNTER.
Unsatisfied hunger is always a serious discomfort. What it was to a
young, healthy boy like Rupert, who had been working hard for several
hours, may be imagined.
Even if there had been a prospect of his dining in two or three hours,
it would have been inconvenient, but he could have endured it. As it
was, he did not know when he could satisfy his appetite, if at all.
He discovered in his pockets some silver change which Ben hadn't taken,
but that could do him no good in the Colorado wilderness.
Rupert was in general sanguine and light-hearted. But it must be owned
that he felt terribly depressed about this time. He had his gun with
him, but even if he should succeed in shooting anything, how could he
cook it? He had not even a match with which to light a fire.
Was he destined to starve in this out of the way region? he asked
himself. A hundred miles off he had a rich friend. In New York he owned
two valuable lots and had money in the bank besides, but neither of
these could do him any good now.
The French speak of an uncomfortable quarter of an hour. Rupert had two
hours at least that could be described in this way. All this while,
faint as he was and tired as his exertions on an empty stomach had made
him, he still paddled on. At last, to his great joy, there came light in
the darkness. As the raft turned a corner in the windings of the river
he saw on the bank, curiously regarding him, a tall, thin,
dark-complexioned girl, in a calico dress too short for her.
A new hope was born in Rupert's heart? and he stopped paddling.
"Do you live around here?" he asked.
"Yes," answered the girl.
"Could I buy some food at your house?"
"Don't know. I reckon so."
"Then I'll stop, and you can show me the way to your house."
"Where did you come from?"
"From below--about ten miles down the river."
"Is that where you live?"
"No. I live in New York."
"Where is that? Is it in Colorado?"
"Didn't you ever hear of New York?" asked Rupert, in genuine surprise at
the ignorance of his new acquaintance.
"No."
"It's a large city."
The girl seemed to take very little interest in the information he gave
her.
"Did you always live here?" asked Rupert, becoming himself the
questioner.
"Reckon so."
By this time Rupert had brought the raft to shore and tied it to a
stump. He obtained a nearer view of the girl, but did not find her
attractive.
She was tall, thin, and had a sallow complexion. Her dress hung straight
down. Moreover, it was not clean. The girl eyed him attentively, and
didn't seem in the least bashful. She seemed to arrive at a decision in
regard to him.
"Say, you're good-lookin'," she said, in a matter-of-fact tone.
"Do you think so?" returned Rupert, blushing.
"Yes. How old be you?"
"Seventeen."
"I'm fourteen. If you lived round here I'd take you for my beau."
"But I don't live round here," said Rupert, with an air of relief. "What
is your name?" he asked, with a sudden thought.
"Sal. That's what mam calls me. What's yours?"
"Rupert."
"That's a mighty cur'us name. Never heard it afore."
"I don't think it is a common name."
"You jest come along, if you want some dinner. You said you'd pay for
it, didn't you?"
"Yes."
"Then I guess mam will give you some."
"Do you live far off?" asked Rupert, anxiously.
"No. Jest in the woods a little way."
Rupert followed the girl for about a quarter of a mile. Then, in a
little clearing, he saw a rude cabin--just such a house as he fancied
Sal would live in.
"That's our house, and there's mam at the door," said his young guide.
A tall, thin woman, between whom and Sal there was considerable
resemblance, not only in appearance but in dress, stood in the doorway,
shading her eyes with her hand as she looked down the path.
"She's lookin' for me," explained Sal, with a grin.
"Here you, Sal!" called her mother. "Where've you been gallivantin' to?"
Then she stopped short, for she caught sight of Rupert.
"Who've you got with you?" she asked, abruptly.
"A boy," answered Sal. "Ain't he nice lookin'?"
Rupert blushed again, as most of my boy readers would probably have
done under like circumstances.
"No matter how he looks," said the mother, sharply. "What does he want
here?"
"He wants somethin' to eat, and he's got money to pay for it," answered
Sal.
"I am very hungry, madam," said Rupert, taking off his hat. "I shall
consider it a great favor if you will give me some dinner."
"I reckon I kin scare up something," said the woman, more amiably. "Jest
come in."
Rupert entered the cabin. It was rudely and scantily furnished, but
doubtless the occupants enjoyed it as much as a New York millionaire
enjoys his elegant mansion on Fifth Avenue. There was a fire in the
cooking-stove, and in a pantry Rupert noticed some cold remnants of the
noonday meal.
"Sit down," said the woman. "I'll scare you up something in a jiffy."
"I'll sit down outside, if you don't mind," answered Rupert.
He sat down on a settee on one side of the door. Soon the odor of some
meat which was being fried assailed his nostrils, and gave him the
keenest delight.
In about twenty minutes Sal called him in, and he was glad to accept her
rather unceremonious invitation.
On the table was a dish of meat. He didn't know what kind it was, but it
smelled good. On another plate was some corn bread, but no butter was
provided.
"We ain't got no whiskey," said the woman. "We're sort o' run out, but I
can give you some tea."
"That will do just as well, madam."
Rupert might have said that it would do better, but he saw that the
family were not prohibitionists and might take offense if he spoke
against the use of whiskey.
Rupert had seldom enjoyed a meal more than the one he sat down to in
that rude cabin.
"What kind of meat is this?" he asked.
"Bear meat. Didn't you ever eat any?"
"No, madam."
"We reckon it's good. My man killed the bear."
"It is excellent," said Rupert, and he really meant what he said.
"I'm glad you like it."
Rupert ate till he was ashamed. He had not asked the price of the meal
in advance, for he was fully resolved to eat it, even if it took every
cent he had left to pay for it. But when at last he laid down his knife
and fork he summoned courage to ask how much he must pay.
"I reckon a quarter'll do," said the woman.
Rupert breathed a sigh of relief. It not only came within his means, but
he would have fifty cents left after paying.
Then the woman began to ask questions.
"Where mought you be goin'?" she asked.
Rupert mentioned his destination.
"How far away is that?"
"Nearly a hundred miles."
"Are you travelin' alone?"
"I had a man with me till this morning."
"Where is he now?"
"He got up early, robbed me of all my money and ran off, taking the boat
with him," Rupert answered in indignant tones.
"If he took all your money, how are you goin' to pay for your dinner?"
asked the woman, frowning.
"I have a little money left in silver," said Rupert, producing the
quarter.
"How are you goin' to get back?"
"I don't know. I have no money, and only a raft."
Then an idea came to him.
"If I could find a man who would go back with me, I would pay him well."
"But you have no money."
"Mr. Packard, of Red Gulch, is my friend. He is a rich man and he would
pay for me."
"Do you mean Giles Packard?"
"Yes."
"I know about him. He is rich. Is he your friend?"
"Yes."
Rupert followed up his advantage.
"If I could find a man who would take me to him I would promise him
fifty dollars--and this gun."
The woman's eyes showed her interest. She was fond of money, and fifty
dollars seemed to her a large sum.
"I reckon my man would go along with you," she said slowly. "The fifty
dollars would be sure?"
"Yes, and if I was satisfied with him, I would give him ten dollars
more."
"Mam," said Sal, "you'd better say yes. We'll all be rich if dad gets
sixty dollars."
