The rest of the day seemed to Dilly like a confused though not an
unfamiliar dream. She knew that the dinner was very good, and that it
choked her, so that Mrs. Pike, alert in her first pride of housekeeping,
was quite cordially harsh with her for not eating more; and that Jethro
talked about Chicago; and Eli Pike, older than his wife and graver, said
"Do tell!" now and again, and seemed to picture in his mind the outlines
of city living. She escaped from the table as soon as possible, under
pretext of the work to be done, and slipped back to the empty house; and
there Jethro found her, and began helping her again.
The still afternoon settled down in its grooves of beauty, and its very
loveliness gave Dilly a pain at the heart. She remembered that this was
the hour when her mother used to yawn over her long seam, or her
knitting, and fall asleep by the window, while the bees droned outside
in the jessamine, and a humming-bird--there had always been one, year
after year, and Dilly could never get over the impression that it was
the same bird--hovered on his invisible perch and thrilled his wings
divinely. Then the day slipped over an unseen height, and fell into a
sheltered calm. The work was not done, and they had to go over to Mrs.
Pike's again to supper, and to spend the night. Dilly longed to stretch
herself on the old kitchen lounge in her own home; but Mrs. Pike told
her plainly that she was crazy, and Jethro, with a kindly authority,
bade her yield. And because words were like weapons that returned upon
her to hurt her anew, she did yield, and talked patiently to one and
another neighbor as they came in to see Jethro, and to inquire when he
meant to be married.
"Soon," said Jethro, with assurance. "As soon as Dilly makes up her
mind."
All that evening, Eli Pike sat on the steps, where he could hear the
talk in the sitting-room without losing the whippoorwill's song from the
Joyce orchard, and Dilly longed to slip out and sit quietly beside him.
He would know. But she could only be civil and grateful, and when half
past eight came, take her lamp and go up to bed. Jethro was given the
best chamber, because he had succeeded and came from Chicago; but Dilly
had a little room that looked straight out across the treetops down to
her own home.
At first, after closing the door behind her, she felt only the great
blessedness of being alone. She put out the light and threw herself, as
she was, face downwards on the bed. There she lay for long moments,
suffering; and this was one of the few times in her life when she was
forced to feel that human pain which is like a stab in the heart. For
she was one of those wise creatures who give themselves long spaces of
silence, and so heal them quickly of their wounds, like the sage little
animals that slip away from combat, to cure their hurt with leaves.
Presently, a great sense of rest enfolded her, a rest ineffably precious
because it was so soon to be over. It was like great riches lent only
for a time. Outside this familiar quiet was the world, thrilled by a
terrifying life pressing upon her and calling. She longed to put her
hands before her eyes, and shut out the possibility of meeting its
garish glory; she did cover her ears, lest its cry should pierce them
and she could not resist. And so she lay there shivering, until a
strange inviting that was peace and not commotion seemed to approach her
from another side, and her inner self became conscious of unheard
voices. They were not clamorous, but sweet, and they drowned her will,
and drew her to themselves. She got softly up, and, going to the
darkened window, looked out across the orchard. There, in the greenness,
lay the old house. It called on her to come. It seemed to Dilly that she
could not make haste enough to be there. She slipped softly down the
narrow stairway, and across the kitchen, where the shadows of the
moonlit windows lay upon the floor. A great excitement thrilled her
blood; and though quite safe from discovery, she was not wholly at ease
until she had entered the orchard path, and knew her feet were wet with
dew, and heard the whippoorwill, so near now that she might have
startled him from his neighboring tree. No other bird note could have
fitted her mood so well. The wild melancholy of his tone, his home in
the night, and the omens blended with his song seemed to remove him from
the world as she herself was removed; and she hastened on with a fine
exaltation, fitted her key again in the lock, and shut the door behind
her.
As soon as Dilly had entered the sitting-room, where the old desk stood
in its place, and the clock was ticking, she felt as if all her
confusion and trouble were over. She smiled to herself in the darkness.
She had come home, and it was very good. They had begun with the attic,
in their rearranging, and this room remained unchanged. It had been her
wish to keep it, in its sweet familiarity, unaltered till the last. She
drew forward her father's chair, and sat down in it, with luxurious
abandonment, to rest. Her mother's little cricket was by her side, and
she put her feet on it and exhaled a long sigh of content. Her eyes
rested on the dark cavern which was the fireplace; and there fell upon
her a sweet sense of completed bliss, as if it were alight and she could
watch the dancing flames. And suddenly Dilly was aware that the Joyces
were all about her.
She had been sure, in her coming through the woods, that they knew and
cared; now she was certain that, in some fashion, they recognized their
bondage and loyalty to the place, as she recognized her own, and that
they upheld her to her task. She thought them over, as she sat there,
and saw their souls more keenly than if she had met them, men and women,
face to face. There was the shoe-maker among them, who, generations
back, was sitting on his bench when news came of the battle of
Lexington, and who threw down hammer and last, and ran wildly out into
the woods, where he stayed three days and nights, calling with a loud
voice upon Almighty God to save him from ill-doing. Then he had drowned
himself in a little brook too shallow for the death of any but a
desperate man. He had been the disgrace of the Joyces; they dared not
think of him, and they know, even to this day, that he is remembered
among their townsmen as the Joyce who was a coward, and killed himself
rather than go to war. But here he stood--was it the man, or some secret
intelligence of him?--and Dilly, out of all his race, was the one to
comprehend him. She saw, with a thrill of passionate sympathy, how he
had believed with all his soul in the wickedness of war, and how the
wound to his country so roused in him the desire of blood that he fled
away and prayed his God to save him from mortal guilt,--and how, finding
that he saw with an overwhelming delight the red of anticipated
slaughter, and knew his traitorous feet were bearing him to the ranks,
he chose the death of the body rather than sin against the soul. And
Dilly was glad; the blood in her own veins ran purer for his sake.
There was old Delilah Joyce, who went into a decline for love, and
wasted quite away. She had been one of those tragic fugitives on the
island of being, driven out into the storm of public sympathy to be
beaten and undone; for she was left on her wedding day by her lover, who
vowed he loved her no more. But now Dilly saw her without the pathetic
bravery of her silken gown which was never worn, and knew her for a
woman serene and glad. That very day she had unfolded the gown in the
attic, where it had lain, year upon year, wrapped about by the poignant
sympathy of her kin, a perpetual reminder of the hurts and faithlessness
of life. It had become a relic, set aside from modern use. She felt now
as if she could even wear it herself, though silk was not for her, or
deck some little child in its shot and shimmering gayety. For it came
to her, with a glad rush of acquiescent joy, that all his life, the man,
though blinded by illusion, had been true to her whom he had left; and
that, instead of being poor, she was very rich. It was from that moment
that Dilly began to understand that the soul does not altogether weld
its own bonds, but that they lie in the secret core of things, as the
planet rushes on its appointed way.
There was Annette Joyce, who married a Stackpole, and, to the disgust of
her kin, clung to him through one debauch after another, until the world
found out that Annette "couldn't have much sense of decency herself, or
she wouldn't put up with such things." But on this one night Dilly found
out that Annette's life had been a continual laying hold of Eternal
Being, not for herself, but for the creature she loved; that she had
shown the insolence and audacity of a thousand spirits in one, besieging
high heaven and crying in the ear of God: "I demand of Thee this soul
that Thou hast made." And somehow Dilly knew now that she was of those
who overcome.
So the line stretched on, until she was aware of souls of which she had
never heard; and she knew that, faulty as their deeds might be, they had
striven, and the strife was not in vain. She felt herself to be one drop
in a mighty river, flowing into the water which is the sum of life; and
she was content to be absorbed in that great stream. There was human
comfort in the moment, too; for all about her were those whom she had
seen with her bodily eyes, and their presence brought an infinite cheer
and rest. Dilly felt the safety of the universe; she smiled lovingly
over the preciousness of all its homely ways. She thought of the
twilights when she had sat on the doorstone, eating huckleberries and
milk, and seeing the sun drop down the west; she remembered one night
when her little cat came home, after it had been lost, and felt the warm
touch of its fur against her hand. She saw how the great chain of things
is held by such slender links, and how there is nothing that is not most
sacred and most good. The hum of summer life outside the window seemed
to her the life in her own veins, and she knew that nothing dwells apart
from anything else, and that, whether we wot of it or not, we are of one
blood.
The night went on to that solemn hush that comes before the dawn. Dilly
felt the presence of the day, and what it would demand of her; but now
she did not fear. For Jethro, too, had been with her; and at last she
understood his power over her and could lay it away like a jewel in a
case, a precious thing, and yet not to be worn. She saw him, also, in
his stream of being, as she was swept along through hers, and knew how
that old race had given him a beauty which was not his, but
theirs,--and how, in the melancholy of his eyes, she loved a soul long
passed, and in the wonder of his hand the tender lines of other hands,
waving to fiery action. He was an inheritor; and she had loved, not him,
but his inheritance.
Now it was the later dusk of night, and the cocks crowed loudly in a
clear diminuendo, dying far away. Dilly pressed her hands upon her eyes,
and came awake to the outer world. She looked about the room with a warm
smile, and reviewed, in feeling, her happy night. It was no longer hard
to dismantle the place. The room, the house, the race were hers forever;
she had learned the abidingness of what is real. When she closed the
door behind her, she touched the casing as if she loved it, and,
crossing the orchard, she felt as if all the trees could say: "We know,
you and we!"
As she entered the Pike farmyard, Eli was just going to milking, with
clusters of shining pails.
"You're up early," said he. "Well, there's nothin' like the mornin'!"
"No," answered Dilly, smiling at him with the radiance of one who
carries good news, "except night-time! There's a good deal in that!" And
while Eli went gravely on, pondering according to his wont, she ran up
to smooth her tumbled bed.
After breakfast, while Mrs. Pike was carrying away the dishes, Dilly
called Jethro softly to one side.
"You come out in the orchard. I want to speak to you."
Her voice thrilled with something like the gladness of confidence, and
Jethro's own face brightened. Dilly read that vivid anticipation, and
caught her breath. Though she knew it now, the old charm would never be
quite gone. She took his hand and drew him forward. She seemed like a
child, unaffected and not afraid. Out in the path, under the oldest tree
of all, she dropped his hand and faced him.
"Jethro," she said, "we can't do it. We can't get married."
He looked at her amazed. She seemed to be telling good news instead of
bad. She gazed up at him smilingly. He could not understand.
"Don't you care about me?" he asked at length, haltingly; and again
Dilly smiled at him in the same warm confidence.
"Oh, yes," she said eagerly. "I do care, ever and ever so much. But it's
your folks I care about. It ain't you. I've found it all out, Jethro.
Things don't al'ays belong to us. Sometimes they belong to them that
have gone before; an' half the time we don't know it."
Jethro laid a gentle hand upon her arm. "You're all tired out," he said
soothingly. "Now you give up picking over things, and let me hire
somebody. I'll be glad to."
But Dilly withdrew a little from his touch. "You're real good, Jethro,"
she answered steadily. She had put aside her exaltation, and was her old
self, full of common-sense and kindly strength. "But I don't feel tired,
an' I ain't a mite crazed. All you can do is to ride over to town with
Eli--he's goin' after he feeds the pigs--an' take the cars from there.
It's all over, Jethro. It is, truly. I ain't so sorry as I might be; for
it's borne in on me you won't care this way long. An' you needn't, dear;
for nothin' between us is changed a mite. The only trouble is, it ain't
the kind of thing we thought."
She looked in his eyes with a long, bright farewell glance, and turned
away. She had left behind her something which was very fine and
beautiful; but she could not mourn. And all that morning, about the
house, she sang little snatches of song, and was content. The Joyces had
done their work, and she was doing hers.
THE WAY OF PEACE
It was two weeks after her mother's funeral when Lucy Ann Cummings sat
down and considered. The web of a lifelong service and devotion still
clung about her, but she was bereft of the creature for whom it had been
spun. Now she was quite alone, save for her two brothers and the cousins
who lived in other townships, and they all had homes of their own. Lucy
Ann sat still, and thought about her life. Brother Ezra and brother John
would be good to her. They always had been. Their solicitude redoubled
with her need, and they had even insisted on leaving Annabel, John's
daughter, to keep her company after the funeral. Lucy Ann thought
longingly of the healing which lay in the very loneliness of her little
house; but she yielded, with a patient sigh. John and Ezra were
men-folks, and doubtless they knew best.
A little more than a week had gone when school "took up," rather earlier
than had been intended, and Annabel went away in haste, to teach. Then
Lucy Ann drew her first long breath. She had resisted many a kindly
office from her niece, with the crafty innocence of the gentle who can
only parry and never thrust. When Annabel wanted to help in packing away
grandma's things, aunt Lucy agreed, half-heartedly, and then deferred
the task from day to day. In reality, Lucy Ann never meant to pack them
away at all. She could not imagine her home without them; but that,
Annabel would not understand, and her aunt pushed aside the moment,
reasoning that something is pretty sure to happen if you put things off
long enough. And something did; Annabel went away. It was then that Lucy
Ann took a brief draught of the cup of peace.
Long before her mother's death, when they both knew how inevitably it
was coming, Lucy Ann had, one day, a little shock of surprise. She was
standing before the glass, coiling her crisp gray hair, and thinking
over and over the words the doctor had used, the night before, when he
told her how near the end might be. Her delicate face fell into deeper
lines. Her mouth dropped a little at the corners; her faded brown eyes
were hot with tears, and stopping to wipe them, she caught sight of
herself in the glass.
"Why," she said aloud, "I look jest like mother!"
And so she did, save that it was the mother of five years ago, before
disease had corroded the dear face, and patience wrought its tracery
there.
"Well," she continued, smiling a little at the poverty of her state, "I
shall be a real comfort to me when mother's gone!"
Now that her moment of solitude had struck, grief came also. It glided
in, and sat down by her, to go forth no more, save perhaps under its
other guise of a patient hope. She rocked back and forth in her chair,
and moaned a little to herself.
"Oh, I never can bear it!" she said pathetically, under her breath. "I
never can bear it in the world!"
The tokens of illness were all put away. Her mother's bedroom lay cold
in an unsmiling order. The ticking of the clock emphasized the
inexorable silence of the house. Once Lucy Ann thought she heard a
little rustle and stir. It seemed the most natural thing in the world,
coming from the bedroom, where one movement of the clothes had always
been enough to summon her with flying feet. She caught her breath, and
held it, to listen. She was ready, undisturbed, for any sign. But a
great fly buzzed drowsily on the pane, and the fire crackled with
accentuated life. She was quite alone. She put her hand to her heart, in
that gesture of grief which is so entirely natural when we feel the stab
of destiny; and then she went wanly into the sitting-room, looking about
her for some pretense of duty to solace her poor mind. There again she
caught sight of herself in the glass.
"Oh, my!" breathed Lucy Ann. Low as they were, the words held a fullness
of joy.
Her face had been aging through these days of grief; it had grown more
and more like her mother's. She felt as if a hand had been stretched out
to her, holding a gift, and at that moment something told her how to
make the gift enduring. Running over to the little table where her
mother's work-basket stood, as it had been, undisturbed, she took out a
pair of scissors, and went back to the glass. There she let down her
thick gray hair, parted it carefully on the sides, and cut off lock
after lock about her face. She looked a caricature of her sober self.
But she was well used to curling hair like this, drawing its crisp
silver into shining rings; and she stood patiently before the glass and
coaxed her own locks into just such fashion as had framed the older
face. It was done, and Lucy Ann looked at herself with a smile all
suffused by love and longing. She was not herself any more; she had gone
back a generation, and chosen a warmer niche. She could have kissed her
face in the glass, it was so like that other dearer one. She did finger
the little curls, with a reminiscent passion, not daring to think of the
darkness where the others had been shut; and, at that instant, she felt
very rich. The change suggested a more faithful portraiture, and she
went up into the spare room and looked through the closet where her
mother's clothes had been hanging so long, untouched. Selecting a purple
thibet, with a little white sprig, she slipped off her own dress, and
stepped into it. She crossed a muslin kerchief on her breast, and pinned
it with the cameo her mother had been used to wear. It was impossible to
look at herself in the doing; but when the deed was over, she went again
to the glass and stood there, held by a wonder beyond her will. She had
resurrected the creature she loved; this was an enduring portrait,
perpetuating, in her own life, another life as well.
"I'll pack away my own clo'es to-morrer," said Lucy Ann to herself.
"Them are the ones to be put aside."
She went downstairs, hushed and tremulous, and seated herself again, her
thin hands crossed upon her lap; and there she stayed, in a pleasant
dream, not of the future, and not even of the past, but face to face
with a recognition of wonderful possibilities. She had dreaded her
loneliness with the ache that is despair; but she was not lonely any
more. She had been allowed to set up a little model of the tabernacle
where she had worshiped; and, having that, she ceased to be afraid. To
sit there, clothed in such sweet familiarity of line and likeness, had
tightened her grasp upon the things that are. She did not seem to
herself altogether alive, nor was her mother dead. They had been fused,
by some wonderful alchemy; and instead of being worlds apart, they were
at one. So, John Cummings, her brother, stepping briskly in, after tying
his horse at the gate, came upon her unawares, and started, with a
hoarse, thick cry. It was in the dusk of evening; and, seeing her
outline against the window, he stepped back against the wall and leaned
there a moment, grasping at the casing with one hand. "Good God!" he
breathed, at last, "I thought 't was mother!"
Lucy Ann rose, and went forward to meet him.
"Then it's true," said she. "I'm so pleased. Seems as if I could git
along, if I could look a little mite like her."
John stood staring at her, frowning in his bewilderment.
"What have you done to yourself?" he asked. "Put on her clo'es?"
"Yes," said Lucy Ann, "but that ain't all. I guess I do resemble mother,
though we ain't any of us had much time to think about it. Well, I am
pleased. I took out that daguerreotype she had, down Saltash way, though
it don't favor her as she was at the end. But if I can take a glimpse of
myself in the glass, now and then, mebbe I can git along."
They sat down together in the dark, and mused over old memories. John
had always understood Lucy Ann better than the rest. When she gave up
Simeon Bascom to stay at home with her mother, he never pitied her much;
he knew she had chosen the path she loved. The other day, even, some one
had wondered that she could have heard the funeral service so unmoved;
but he, seeing how her face had seemed to fade and wither at every word,
guessed what pain was at her heart. So, though his wife had sent him
over to ask how Lucy Ann was getting on, he really found out very
little, and felt how painfully dumb he must be when he got home. Lucy
Ann was pretty well, he thought he might say. She'd got to looking a
good deal like mother.
They took their "blindman's holiday," Lucy Ann once in a while putting a
stick on the leaping blaze, and, when John questioned her, giving a
low-toned reply. Even her voice had changed. It might have come from
that bedroom, in one of the pauses between hours of pain, and neither
would have been surprised.
"What makes you burn beech?" asked John, when a shower of sparks came
crackling at them.
"I don't know," she answered. "Seems kind o' nat'ral. Some of it got
into the last cord we bought, an' one night it snapped out, an' most
burnt up mother's nightgown an' cap while I was warmin' 'em. We had a
real time of it. She scolded me, an' then she laughed, an' I
laughed--an' so, when I see a stick or two o' beech to-day, I kind o'
picked it out a-purpose."
John's horse stamped impatiently from the gate, and John, too, knew it
was time to go. His errand was not done, and he balked at it.
"Lucy Ann," said he, with the bluntness of resolve, "what you goin' to
do?"
Lucy Ann looked sweetly at him through the dark. She had expected that.
She smoothed her mother's dress with one hand, and it gave her courage.
"Do?" said she; "why, I ain't goin' to do nothin'. I've got enough to
pull through on."
"Yes, but where you goin' to live?"
"Here."
"Alone?"
"I don't feel so very much alone," said she, smiling to herself. At that
moment she did not. All sorts of sweet possibilities had made themselves
real. They comforted her, like the presence of love.
John felt himself a messenger. He was speaking for others that with
which his soul did not accord.
"The fact is," said he, "they're all terrible set ag'inst it. They say
you're gittin' along in years. So you be. So are we all. But they will
have it, it ain't right for you to live on here alone. Mary says she
should be scairt to death. She wants you should come an' make it your
home with us."
"Yes, I dunno but Mary would be scairt," said Lucy Ann placidly. "But I
ain't. She's real good to ask me; but I can't do it, no more'n she could
leave you an' the children an' come over here to stay with me. Why,
John, this is my home!"
Her voice sank upon a note of passion. It trembled with memories of dewy
mornings and golden eves. She had not grown here, through all her youth
and middle life, like moss upon a rock, without fitting into the hollows
and softening the angles of her poor habitation. She had drunk the
sunlight and the rains of one small spot, and she knew how both would
fall. The place, its sky and clouds and breezes, belonged to her: but
she belonged to it as well.
John stood between two wills, his own and that of those who had sent
him. Left to himself, he would not have harassed her. To him, also,
wedded to a hearth where he found warmth and peace, it would have been
sweet to live there always, though alone, and die by the light of its
dying fire. But Mary thought otherwise, and in matters of worldly
judgment he could only yield.
"I don't want you should make a mistake," said he. "Mebbe you an' I
don't look for'ard enough. They say you'll repent it if you stay, an'
there'll be a hurrah-boys all round. What say to makin' us a visit?
That'll kind o' stave it off, an' then we can see what's best to be
done."
Lucy Ann put her hands to her delicate throat, where her mother's gold
beads lay lightly, with a significant touch. She, like John, had an
innate gentleness of disposition. She distrusted her own power to judge.
"Maybe I might," said she faintly. "Oh, John, do you think I've got to?"
"It needn't be for long," answered John briefly, though he felt his eyes
moist with pity of her. "Mebbe you could stay a month?"
"Oh, I couldn't do that!" cried Lucy Ann, in wild denial. "I never could
in the world. If you'll make it a fortnight, an' harness up yourself,
an' bring me home, mebbe I might."
John gave his word, but when he took his leave of her, she leaned
forward into the dark, where the impatient horse was fretting, and made
her last condition.
"You'll let me turn the key on things here jest as they be? You won't
ask me to break up nuthin'?"
"Break up!" repeated John, with the intensity of an oath. "I guess you
needn't. If anybody puts that on you, you send 'em to me."
So Lucy Ann packed her mother's dresses into a little hair trunk that
had stood in the attic unused for many years, and went away to make her
visit. When she drove up to the house, sitting erect and slender in her
mother's cashmere shawl and black bonnet, Mary, watching from the
window, gave a little cry, as at the risen dead. John had told her
about Lucy Ann's transformation, but she put it all aside as a crazy
notion, not likely to last: now it seemed less a pathetic masquerade
than a strange bypath taken by nature itself.
The children regarded it with awe, and half the time called Lucy Ann
"grandma." That delighted her. Whenever they did it, she looked up to
say, with her happiest smile,--
"There! that's complete. You'll remember grandma, won't you? We mustn't
ever forget her."
Here, in this warm-hearted household, anxious to do her service in a way
that was not her own, she had some happiness, of a tremulous kind; but
it was all built up of her trust in a speedy escape. She knit mittens,
and sewed long seams; and every day her desire to fill the time was
irradiated by the certainty that twelve hours more were gone. A few more
patient intervals, and she should be at home. Sometimes, as the end of
her visit drew nearer, she woke early in the morning with a sensation of
irresponsible joy, and wondered, for an instant, what had happened to
her. Then it always came back, with an inward flooding she had scarcely
felt even in her placid youth. At home there would be so many things to
do, and, above all, such munificent leisure! For there she would feel no
need of feverish action to pass the time. The hours would take care of
themselves; they would fleet by, while she sat, her hands folded,
communing with old memories.
The day came, and the end of her probation. She trembled a good deal,
packing her trunk in secret, to escape Mary's remonstrances; but John
stood by her, and she was allowed to go.
"You'll get sick of it," called Mary after them. "I guess you'll be glad
enough to see the children again, an' they will you. Mind, you've got to
come back an' spend the winter."
Lucy Ann nodded happily. She could agree to anything sufficiently
remote; and the winter was not yet here.
The first day in the old house seemed to her like new birth in Paradise.
She wandered about, touching chairs and tables and curtains, the
manifest symbols of an undying past. There were loving duties to be
done, but she could not do them yet. She had to look her pleasure in the
face, and learn its lineaments.
Next morning came brother Ezra, and Lucy Ann hurried to meet him with an
exaggerated welcome. Life was never very friendly to Ezra, and those who
belonged to him had to be doubly kind. They could not change his luck,
but they might sweeten it. They said the world had not gone well with
him; though sometimes it was hinted that Ezra, being out of gear, could
not go with the world. All the rivers ran away from him, and went to
turn some other mill. He was ungrudging of John's prosperity, but still
he looked at it in some disparagement, and shook his head. His cheeks
were channeled long before youth was over; his feet were weary with
honest serving, and his hands grown hard with toil. Yet he had not
arrived, and John was at the goal before him.
"We heard you'd been stayin' with John's folks," said he to Lucy Ann.
"Leastways, Abby did, an' she thinks mebbe you've got a little time for
us now, though we ain't nothin' to offer compared to what you're used to
over there."
"I'll come," said Lucy Ann promptly. "Yes, I'll come, an' be glad to."
It was part of her allegiance to the one who had gone.
"Ezra needs bracin'," she heard her mother say, in many a sick-room
gossip. "He's got to be flattered up, an' have some grit put into him."
It was many weeks before Lucy Ann came home again. Cousin Rebecca, in
Saltash, sent her a cordial letter of invitation for just as long as she
felt like staying; and the moneyed cousin at the Ridge wrote in like
manner, following her note by a telegram, intimating that she would not
take no for an answer. Lucy Ann frowned in alarm when the first letter
came, and studied it by daylight and in her musings at night, as if some
comfort might lurk between the lines. She was tempted to throw it in
the fire, not answered at all. Still, there was a reason for going. This
cousin had a broken hip, she needed company, and the flavor of old
times. The other had married a "drinkin' man," and might feel hurt at
being refused. So, fortifying herself with some inner resolution she
never confessed, Lucy Ann set her teeth and started out on a visiting
campaign. John was amazed. He drove over to see her while she was
spending a few days with an aunt in Sudleigh.
"When you been home last, Lucy Ann?" asked he.
A little flush came into her face, and she winked bravely.
"I ain't been home at all," said she, in a low tone. "Not sence August."
John groped vainly in mental depths for other experiences likely to
illuminate this. He concluded that he had not quite understood Lucy Ann
and her feeling about home; but that was neither here nor there.
"Well," he remarked, rising to go, "you're gittin' to be quite a
visitor."
"I'm tryin' to learn how," said Lucy Ann, almost gayly. "I've been
a-cousinin' so long, I sha'n't know how to do anything else."
But now the middle of November had come, and she was again in her own
house. Cousin Titcomb had brought her there and driven away, concerned
that he must leave her in a cold kitchen, and only deterred by a looming
horse-trade from staying to build a fire. Lucy Ann bade him good-by,
with a gratitude which was not for her visit, but all for getting home;
