"Yes, Mrs. O'Keefe."
"Then I'll go wid you, for I've got a nasty headache, and I'll lie
down for an hour."
They crossed the street, not noticing the veiled young lady, who
followed within ear shot, and listened to their conversation. At
length they reached the tenement house--Florence's humble home--and
went in.
"I've learned more than I bargained for," said Emily Carter, in
malicious exultation. "I am well repaid for coming to this horrid part
of the city. I wonder if Mr. de Brabazon knows where his charmer
lives? I will see that Mrs. Leighton knows, at any rate."
Chapter XXXI.
Florence Is Discharged.
Mrs. Leighton sat in her boudoir with a stern face and tightly
compressed lips. Miss Carter had called the previous afternoon and
informed her of the astounding discoveries she had made respecting the
governess.
She rang the bell.
"Janet," she said, "when the governess comes you may bring her up here
to me."
"Yes, ma'am."
"She's going to catch it--I wonder what for?" thought Janet, as she
noted the grim visage of her employer.
So when Florence entered the house she was told that Mrs. Leighton
wished to see her at once.
"I wonder what's the matter now?" she asked herself. "Has she heard of
my meeting her nephew in the car?"
When she entered the room she saw at once that something was wrong.
"You wished to see me, Mrs. Leighton?" she said.
"Yes," answered Mrs. Leighton, grimly. "Will you be seated?"
Florence sat down a few feet from her employer and waited for an
explanation.
She certainly was not prepared for Mrs. Leighton's first words:
"Miss Linden, where do you live?"
Florence started, and her face flushed.
"I live in the lower part of the city," she answered, with hesitation.
"That is not sufficiently definite."
"I live at No. 27 -- Street."
"I think that is east of the Bowery."
"You are right, madam."
"You lodge with an apple-woman, do you not?"
"I do," answered Florence, calmly.
"In a tenement house?"
"Yes, madam."
"And you actually come from such a squalid home to instruct my
daughter!" exclaimed Mrs. Leighton, indignantly. "It is a wonder you
have not brought some terrible disease into the house."
"There has been no case of disease in the humble dwelling in which I
make my home. I should be as sorry to expose your daughter to any
danger of that kind as you would be to have me."
"It is a merciful dispensation of Providence, for which I ought to be
truly thankful. But the idea of receiving in my house an inmate of a
tenement house! I am truly shocked. Is this apple-woman your mother?"
"I assure you that she is not," answered Florence, with a smile which
she could not repress.
"Or your aunt?"
"She is in no way related to me. She is an humble friend.
"Miss Linden, your tastes must be low to select such a home and such a
friend."
"The state of my purse had something to do with the selection, and the
kindness shown me by Mrs. O'Keefe, when I needed a friend, will
explain my location further."
"That is not all. You met in the Madison Avenue car yesterday my
nephew, Mr. Percy de Brabazon."
"It is coming," thought Florence. "Who could have seen us?" Then
aloud:
"Yes, madam."
"Was it by appointment?"
"Do you mean to insult me, Mrs. Leighton?" demanded Florence, rising
and looking at the lady with flashing eyes.
"I never insult anybody," replied Mrs. Leighton. "Pray, resume your
seat."
Florence did so.
"Then I may assume that it was accidental. You talked together with
the freedom of old friends?"
"You are correctly informed."
"You seem to make acquaintances very readily, Miss Linden. It seems
singular, to say the least, that after meeting my nephew for a single
evening, you should become such intimate friends."
"You will be surprised, Mrs. Leighton, when I say that Mr. de Brabazon
and I are old friends. We have met frequently."
"Where, in Heaven's name?" ejaculated Mrs. Leighton.
"At my residence."
"Good Heavens!" exclaimed the scandalized lady. "Does my nephew Percy
visit at the house of this apple-woman?"
"No, madam. He does not know where I live."
"Then you will explain your previous statement?" said Mrs. Leighton,
haughtily.
"I am at present suffering reversed circumstances. It is but a short
time since I was very differently situated."
"I won't inquire into your change of circumstances. I feel compelled
to perform an unpleasant duty."
Florence did not feel called upon to make any reply, but waited for
Mrs. Leighton to finish speaking.
"I shall be obliged to dispense with your services as my daughter's
governess. It is quite out of the question for me to employ a person
who lives in a tenement-house."
Florence bowed acquiescence, but she felt very sad. She had become
attached to her young charge, and it cost her a pang to part from her.
Besides, how was she to supply the income of which this would deprive
her?
"I bow to your decision, madam," she said, with proud humility.
"You will find here the sum that I owe you, with payment for an extra
week in lieu of notice."
"Thank you. May I bid Carrie good-by, Mrs. Leighton?"
"It is better not to do so, I think. The more quietly we dissolve our
unfortunate connection the better!"
Florence's heart swelled, and the tears came to her eyes, but she
could not press her request.
She was destined, however, to obtain the privilege which Mrs. Leighton
denied her. Carrie, who had become impatient, came downstairs and
burst into the room.
"What keeps you so long, Miss Linden?" she said. "Is mamma keeping
you?"
Florence was silent, leaving the explanations to Mrs. Leighton.
"Miss Linden has resigned her position as your governess, Carrie."
"Miss Linden going away! I won't have her go! What makes you go, Miss
Linden?"
"Your mamma thinks it best," answered Florence, with moistened eyes.
"Well, I don't!" exclaimed Carrie, stamping her foot, angrily. "I
won't have any other governess but you."
"Carrie, you are behaving very unbecomingly," said her mother.
"Will you tell me, mamma, why you are sending Miss Linden away?"
"I will tell you some other time."
"But I want to know now."
"I am very much displeased with you, Carrie."
"And I am very much displeased with you, mamma."
I do not pretend to defend Carrie, whose conduct was hardly respectful
enough to her mother; but with all her faults she had a warm heart,
while her mother had always been cold and selfish.
"I am getting tired of this," said Mrs. Leighton. "Miss Linden, as you
are here to-day, you may give Carrie the usual lessons. As I shall be
out when you get through, I bid you good-by now."
"Good-by, Mrs. Leighton."
Carrie and Florence went to the schoolroom for the last time.
Florence gave her young pupil a partial explanation of the cause which
had led to her discharge.
"What do I care if you live in a poor house, Miss Linden?" said
Carrie, impetuously. "I will make mamma take you back!"
Florence smiled; but she knew that there would be no return for her.
When she reached her humble home she had a severe headache and lay
down. Mrs. O'Keefe came in later to see her.
"And what's the matter with you, Florence?" she asked.
"I have a bad headache, Mrs. O'Keefe."
"You work too hard, Florence, wid your teacher. That is what gives you
the headache."
"Then I shan't have it again, for I have got through with my
teaching."
"What's that you say?"
"I am discharged."
"And what's it all about?"
Florence explained matters. Mrs. O'Keefe became indignant.
"She's a mean trollop, that Mrs. Leighton!" she exclaimed, "and I'd
like to tell her so to her face. Where does she live?"
"It will do no good to interfere, my good friend. She is not willing
to receive a governess from a tenement house."
"Shure you used to live in as grand a house as herself."
"But I don't now."
"Don't mind it too much, mavoureen. You'll soon be gettin' another
scholar. Go to sleep now, and you'll sleep the headache away."
Florence finally succeeded in following the advice of her humble
friend.
She resolved to leave till the morrow the cares of the morrow.
She had twelve dollars, and before that was spent she hoped to be in a
position to earn some more.
Chapter XXXII.
An Exciting Adventure.
Dodger soon became accustomed to his duties at Tucker's express
office, in his new San Francisco home. He found Mr. Tucker an
exacting, but not an unreasonable, man. He watched his new assistant
closely for the first few days, and was quietly taking his measure.
At the end of the first week he paid the salary agreed upon--fifteen
dollars.
"You have been with me a week, Arthur," he said.
"Yes, sir."
"And I have been making up my mind about you."
"Yes, sir," said Dodger, looking up inquiringly. "I hope you are
satisfied with me?"
"Yes, I think I may say that I am. You don't seem to be afraid of
work."
"I have always been accustomed to work."
"That is well. I was once induced to take the son of a rich man in the
place you now occupy. He had never done a stroke of work, having
always been at school. He didn't take kindly to work, and seemed
afraid that he would be called upon to do more than he had bargained
for. One evening I was particularly busy, and asked him to remain an
hour overtime.
"'It will be very inconvenient, Mr. Tucker,' said the young man, 'as
I have an engagement with a friend.'
"He left me to do all the extra work, and--I suppose you know what
happened the next Saturday evening?"
"I can guess," returned Dodger, with a smile.
"I told him that I thought the duties were too heavy for his
constitution, and he had better seek an easier place. Let me see--I
kept you an hour and a half overtime last Wednesday."
"Yes, sir."
"You made no objection, but worked on just as if you liked it."
"Yes, sir; I am always willing to stay when you need me."
"Good! I shan't forget it."
Dodger felt proud of his success, and put away the fifteen dollars
with a feeling of satisfaction. He had never saved half that sum in
the same time before.
"Curtis Waring did me a favor when he sent me out here," he reflected;
"but as he didn't mean it, I have no occasion to feel grateful."
Dodger found that he could live for eight dollars a week, and he began
to lay by seven dollars a week with the view of securing funds
sufficient to take him back to New York.
He was in no hurry to leave San Francisco, but he felt that Florence
might need a friend. But he found that he was making progress slowly.
At that time the price of a first-class ticket to New York was one
hundred and twenty-eight dollars, besides the expense of sleeping
berths, amounting then, as now, to twenty-two dollars extra. So it
looked as if Dodger would be compelled to wait at least six months
before he should be in a position to set out on the return journey.
About this time Dodger received a letter from Florence, in which she
spoke of her discharge by Mrs. Leighton.
"I shall try to obtain another position as teacher," she said,
concealing her anxiety. "I am sure, in a large city, I can find
something to do."
But Dodger knew better than she the difficulties that beset the path
of an applicant for work, and he could not help feeling anxious for
Florence.
"If I were only in New York," he said to himself, "I would see that
Florence didn't suffer. I will write her to let me know if she is in
need, and I will send her some money."
About this time he met with an adventure which deserves to be noted.
It was about seven o'clock one evening that he found himself in
Mission Street.
At a street corner his attention was drawn to a woman poorly dressed,
who held by the hand a child of three.
Her clothing was shabby, and her attitude was one of despondency. It
was clear that she was ill and in trouble.
Dodger possessed quick sympathies, and his own experience made him
quick to understand and feel for the troubles of others.
Though the woman made no appeal, he felt instinctively that she needed
help.
"I beg your pardon," he said, with as much deference as if he were
addressing one favored by fortune, "but you seem to be in need of
help?"
"God knows, I am!" said the woman, sadly.
"Perhaps I can be of service to you. Will you tell me how?"
"Neither I nor my child has tasted food since yesterday."
"Well, that can be easily remedied," said Dodger, cheerfully. "There
is a restaurant close by. I was about to eat supper. Will you come in
with me?"
"I am ashamed to impose upon the kindness of a stranger," murmured the
woman.
"Don't mention it. I shall be very glad of company," said Dodger,
heartily.
"But you are a poor boy. You may be ill able to afford the expense."
"I am not a millionaire," said Dodger, "and I don't see any immediate
prospect of my building a palace on Nob Hill"--where live some of San
Francisco's wealthiest citizens--"but I am very well supplied with
money."
"Then I will accept your kind invitation."
It was a small restaurant, but neat in its appointments, and, as in
most San Francisco restaurants, the prices were remarkably moderate.
At an expense of twenty-five cents each, the three obtained a
satisfactory meal.
The woman and child both seemed to enjoy it, and Dodger was glad to
see that the former became more cheerful as time went on.
There was something in the child's face that looked familiar to
Dodger. It was a resemblance to some one that he had seen, but he
could not for the life of him decide who it was.
"How can I ever thank you for your kindness?" said the lady, as she
arose from the table. "You don't know what it is to be famished----"
"Don't I?" asked Dodger. "I have been hungry more than once, without
money enough to buy a meal."
"You don't look it," she said.
"No, for now I have a good place and am earning a good salary."
"Are you a native of San Francisco?"
"No, madam. I can't tell you where I was born, for I know little or
nothing of my family. I have only been here a short time. I came from
New York."
"So did I," said the woman, with a sigh. "I wish I were back there
again."
"How came you to be here? Don't answer if you prefer not to," Dodger
added, hastily.
"I have no objection. My husband deserted me, and left me to shift for
myself and support my child."
"How have you done it?"
"By taking in sewing. But that is a hard way of earning money. There
are too many poor women who are ready to work for starvation wages,
and so we all suffer."
"I know that," answered Dodger. "Do you live near here?"
The woman mentioned a street near by.
"I have one poor back room on the third floor," she explained; "but I
should be glad if I were sure to stay there."
"Is there any danger of your being ejected?"
"I am owing for two weeks' rent, and this is the middle of the third
week. Unless I can pay up at the end of this week I shall be forced to
go out into the streets with my poor child."
"How much rent do you pay?"
"A dollar a week."
"Then three dollars will relieve you for the present?"
"Yes; but it might as well be three hundred," said the woman,
bitterly.
"Not quite; I can supply you with three dollars, but three hundred
would be rather beyond my means."
"You are too kind, too generous! I ought not to accept such a liberal
gift."
"Mamma, I am tired. Take me up in your arms," said the child.
"Poor child! He has been on his feet all day," sighed the mother.
She tried to lift the child, but her own strength had been undermined
by privation, and she was clearly unable to do so.
"Let me take him!" said Dodger. "Here, little one, jump up!"
He raised the child easily, and despite the mother's protest, carried
him in his arms.
"I will see you home, madam," he said.
"I fear the child will be too heavy for you."
"I hope not. Why, I could carry a child twice as heavy."
They reached the room at last--a poor one, but a welcome repose from
the streets.
"Don't you ever expect to see your husband again?" asked Dodger.
"Can't you compel him to support you?"
"I don't know where he is," answered the woman, despondently.
"If you will tell me his name, I may come across him some day."
"His name," said the woman, "is Curtis Waring."
Dodger stared at her, overwhelmed with surprise.
Chapter XXXIII.
An Important Discovery.
"Curtis Waring!" ejaculated Dodger, his face showing intense surprise.
"Is that the name of your husband?"
"Yes. Is it possible that you know him?" asked the woman, struck by
Dodger's tone.
"I know a man by that name. I will describe him, and you can tell me
whether it is he. He is rather tall, dark hair, sallow complexion,
black eyes, and a long, thin nose."
"It is like him in every particular. Oh, tell me where he is to be
found?"
"He lives in New York. He is the nephew of a rich man, and is
expecting to inherit his wealth. Through his influence a cousin of
his, a young lady, has been driven from home."
"Was he afraid she would deprive him of the estate?"
"That was partly the reason. But it was partly to revenge himself on
her because she would not agree to marry him."
"But how could he marry her," exclaimed the unfortunate woman, "when
he is already married to me?"
"Neither she nor any one of his family or friends knew that he was
already married. I don't think it would trouble him much."
"But it must be stopped!" she exclaimed, wildly. "He is my husband. I
shall not give him up to any one else."
"So far as Florence is concerned--she is the cousin--she has no wish
to deprive you of him. But is it possible that you are attached to a
man who has treated you so meanly?" asked Dodger, in surprise.
"There was a time when he treated me well, when he appeared to love
me," was the murmured reply. "I cannot forget that he is the father of
my child."
Dodger did not understand the nature of women or the mysteries of the
female heart, and he evidently thought this poor woman very foolish to
cling with such pertinacity to a man like Curtis Waring.
"Do you mind telling me how you came to marry him?" he asked.
"It was over four years ago that I met him in this city," was the
reply. "I am a San Francisco girl. I had never been out of California.
I was considered pretty then," she added, with a remnant of pride,
"faded as I am to-day."
Looking closely in her face, Dodger was ready to believe this.
Grief and privation had changed her appearance, but it had not
altogether effaced the bloom and beauty of youth.
"At any rate, he seemed to think so. He was living at the Palace
Hotel, and I made his acquaintance at a small social gathering at the
house of my uncle. I am an orphan, and was perhaps the more ready to
marry on that account."
"Did Mr. Waring represent himself as wealthy?"
"He said he had expectations from a wealthy relative, but did not
mention where he lived."
"He told the truth, then."
"We married, securing apartments on Kearney Street. We lived together
till my child was born, and for three months afterward. Then Mr.
Waring claimed to be called away from San Francisco on business. He
said he might be absent six weeks. He left me a hundred dollars, and
urged me to be careful of it, as he was short of money, and needed
considerable for the expenses of the journey. He left me, and I have
never seen or heard from him since."
"Did he tell you where he was going, Mrs. Waring?"
"No; he said he would be obliged to visit several places--among
others, Colorado, where he claimed to have some mining property. He
told me that he hoped to bring back considerable money."
"Do you think he meant to stay away altogether?"
"I don't know what to think. Well, I lived on patiently, for I had
perfect confidence in my husband. I made the money last me ten weeks
instead of six, but then I found myself penniless."
"Did you receive any letters in that time?"
"No, and it was that that worried me. When at last the money gave out,
I began to pawn my things--more than once I was tempted to pawn my
wedding-ring, but I could not bring my mind to do that. I do not like
to think ill of my husband, and was forced, as the only alternative,
to conclude that he had met with some accident, perhaps had died. I
have not felt certain that this was not so till you told me this
evening that you know him."
"I can hardly say that I know him well, yet I know him a good deal
better than I wish I did. But for him I would not now be in San
Francisco."
"How is that? Please explain."
Dodger told her briefly the story of his abduction.
"But what motive could he have in getting you out of New York? I
cannot understand."
"I don't understand myself, except that I am the friend of Florence."
"His cousin?"
"Yes."
"But why should she be compelled to leave her uncle's home?"
"Because Curtis Waring made him set his heart upon the match. She had
her choice to marry Curtis or to leave the house, and forfeit all
chance of the estate. She chose to leave the house."
"She ought to know that he has no right to marry," said the poor
woman, who, not understanding the dislike of Florence for the man whom
she herself loved, feared that she might yet be induced to marry him.
"She ought to know, and her uncle ought to know," said Dodger. "Mrs.
Waring, I can't see my way clear yet. If I were in New York I would
know just what to do. Will you agree to stand by me, and help me?"
"Yes, I will," answered the woman, earnestly.
"I will see you again to-morrow evening. Here is some money to help
you along for the present. Good-night."
Dodger, as he walked away, pondered over the remarkable discovery he
had made.
It was likely to prove of the utmost importance to Florence.
Her uncle's displeasure was wholly based upon her refusal to marry
Curtis Waring, but if it should be proved to him that Curtis was
already a married man, there would seem no bar to reconciliation.
Moreover--and thas was particularly satisfactory--it would bring
Curtis himself into disfavor.
Florence would be reinstated in her rightful place in her uncle's
family, and once more be recognized as heiress to at least a portion
of his large fortune.
This last consideration might not weigh so much with Florence, but
Dodger was more practical, and he wished to restore her to the social
position which she had lost through the knavery of her cousin.
But in San Francisco--at a distance of over three thousand miles--
Dodger felt at a loss how to act.
Even if Mr. Linden was informed that his nephew had a wife living in
San Francisco, the statement would no doubt be denied by Curtis, who
would brand the woman as an impudent adventuress.
"The absent are always in the wrong," says a French proverb.
At all events, they are very much at a disadvantage, and therefore it
seemed imperatively necessary, not only that Dodger, but that Curtis
Waring's wife should go to New York to confront the unprincipled man
whose schemes had brought sorrow to so many.
It was easy to decide what plan was best, but how to carry it out
presented a difficulty which seemed insurmountable.
The expenses of a journey to New York for Dodger, Mrs. Waring and her
child would not be very far from five hundred dollars, and where to
obtain this money was a problem.
Randolph Leslie probably had that sum, but Dodger could not in
conscience ask him to lend it, being unable to furnish adequate
security, or to insure repayment.
"If I could only find a nugget," thought Dodger, knitting his brows,
"everything would be easy." But nuggets are rare enough in the gold
fields, and still rarer in city streets.
He who trusts wholly to luck trusts to a will-o'-the-wisp, and is
about as sure of success as one who owns a castle in Spain.
The time might come when Dodger, by his own efforts, could accumulate
the needed sum, but it would require a year at least, and in that time
Mr. Linden would probably be dead.
Absorbed and disturbed by these reflections, Dodger walked slowly
through the darkened streets till he heard a stifled cry, and looking
up, beheld a sight that startled him.
On the sidewalk lay the prostrate figure of a man. Over him, bludgeon
in hand, bent a ruffian, whose purpose was only too clearly evident.
Chapter XXXIV.
Just In Time.
Dodger, who was a strong, stout boy, gathered himself up and dashed
against the ruffian with such impetuosity that he fell over his
intended victim, and his bludgeon fell from his hand.
It was the work of an instant to lift it, and raise it in a menacing
position.
The discomfited villain broke into a volley of oaths, and proceeded to
pick himself up.
He was a brutal-looking fellow, but was no larger than Dodger, who was
as tall as the majority of men.
"Give me that stick," he exclaimed, furiously.
"Come and take it," returned Dodger, undaunted.
The fellow took him at his word, and made a rush at our hero, but a
vigorous blow from the bludgeon made him cautious about repeating the
attack.
"Curse you!" he cried, between his teeth. "I'd like to chaw you up."
"I have no doubt you would," answered Dodger; "but I don't think you
will. Were you going to rob this man?"
"None of your business!"
"I shall make it my business. You'd better go, or you may be locked
up."
"Give me that stick, then."
"You'll have to do without it."
He made another rush, and Dodger struck him such a blow on his arm
that he winced with pain.
"Now I shall summon the police, and you can do as you please about
going."
Dodger struck the stick sharply on the sidewalk three times, and the
ruffian, apprehensive of arrest, ran around the corner just in time to
rush into the arms of a policeman.
"What has this man been doing?" asked the city guardian, turning to
Dodger.
"He was about to rob this man."
"Is the man hurt?"
"Where am I?" asked the prostrate man, in a bewildered tone.
"I will take care of him, if you will take charge of that fellow."
"Can you get up, sir?" asked Dodger, bending over the fallen man.
The latter answered by struggling to his feet and looking about him in
a confused way.
"Where am I?" he asked. "What has happened?"
"You were attacked by a ruffian. I found you on the sidewalk, with him
