she was even more at home here than in the woods; it seemed as if
everything were stretching out its arms to her to welcome her, and
to invite her to carry out her declared purpose of taking the reins
of government in her own hands.
Upon one side of the hallway was a parlor, and on the other side two
rooms, which Mr. Davis had used as a reception room and a study. The
parlor had never been opened, and Helen promised herself a jolly
time superintending the fixing up of that; on the other side she had
already taken possession of the front room, symbolically at any
rate, by having her piano moved in and her music unpacked, and a
case emptied for the books she had brought from Germany. To be sure,
on the other side was still a dreary wall of theological treatises
in funereal black, but Helen was not without hopes that continued
doses of cheerfulness might cure her father of such incomprehensible
habits, and obtain for her the permission to move the books to the
attic.
To start things in that direction the girl now danced gaily into the
study where her father was in the act of writing “thirdly,
brethren,” for his next day’s sermon; and crying out merrily,
  “Up, up my friend, and quit your books,
  Or surely you’ll grow double!”
she saluted her reverend father with the sweetest of kisses, and
then seated herself on the arm of his chair and gravely took his pen
out of his hand, and closed his inkstand. She turned over the
“thirdly, brethren,” without blotting it, and recited solemnly:
  “One impulse from a vernal wood
    May teach you more of man,
  Of moral evil and of good.
    Than all the sages can!”
And then she laughed the merriest of merry laughs and added, “Daddy,
dear, I am an impulse! And I want you to spare some time for me.”
“Yes, my love,” said Mr. Davis, smiling upon her, though groaning
inwardly for his lost ideas. “You are beautiful this morning, Helen.
What have you been doing?”
“I’ve had a glorious walk,” replied the girl, “and all kinds of
wonderful adventures; I’ve had a dance with the morning wind, and a
race of a mile or two with a brook, and I’ve sung duets with all the
flowers,--and here you are writing uninteresting things!”
“It’s my sermon, Helen,” said Mr. Davis.
“I know it,” said Helen, gravely.
“But it must be done for to-morrow,” protested the other.
“Half your congregation is going to be so excited about two tallow
candles that it won’t know what you preach about,” answered the
girl, swinging herself on the arm of the chair; “and I’m going to
sing for the other half, and so they won’t care either. And besides,
Daddy, I’ve got news to tell you; you’ve no idea what a good girl
I’ve been.”
“How, my love?”
“I went to see Mrs. Woodward.”
“You didn’t!”
“Yes; and it was just to show you how dutiful I’m going to be.
Daddy, I felt so sorry for the poor old lady; it is so beautiful to
know that one is doing good and bringing happiness into other
people’s lives! I think I’ll go and see her often, and carry her
something nice if you’ll let me.”
Helen said all that as gravely as a judge; but Mr. Davis was
agreeing so delightedly that she feared she was carrying the joke
too far. She changed the subject quickly.
“Oh, Daddy!” she cried, “I forgot to tell you--I met a genius
to-day!”
“A genius?” inquired the other.
“Yes,” said Helen, “and I’ve been walking around with him all
morning out in the woods! Did you never hear that every place like
that has a genius?”
“Yes,” assented Mr. Davis, “but I don’t understand your joke.”
“This was the genius of Hilltown High School,” laughed Helen.
“Oh, Arthur!”
“Yes; will you believe it, the dear boy had walked all the way from
there to see me; and he waited out by the old seat at the spring!”
“But where is he now?”
“I don’t know,” said Helen. “It’s very queer; I left him to go see
Mrs. Woodward. He didn’t go with me,” she added, “I don’t believe he
felt inclined to charity.”
“That is not like Arthur,” said the other.
“I’m going to take him in hand, as becomes a clergyman’s daughter,”
 said Helen demurely; “I’m going to be a model daughter, Daddy--just
you wait and see! I’ll visit all your parishioners’ lawn-parties
and five o’clock teas for you, and I’ll play Handel’s Largo and
Siegfried’s Funeral March whenever you want to write sermons. Won’t
you like that?”
“Perhaps,” said Mr. Davis, dubiously.
“Only I know you’ll make blots when I come to the cymbals,” said
Helen; and she doubled up her fists and hummed the passage, and gave
so realistic an imitation of the cymbal-clashes in the great dirge
that it almost upset the chair. Afterwards she laughed one of her
merriest laughs and kissed her father on the forehead.
“I heard it at Baireuth,” she said, “and it was just fine! It made
your flesh creep all over you. And oh, Daddy, I brought home a
souvenir of Wagner’s grave!”
“Did you?” asked Mr. Davis, who knew very little about Wagner.
“Yes,” said Helen, “just a pebble I picked up near it; and you ought
to have seen the custom-house officer at the dock yesterday when he
was going through my trunks. ‘What’s this, Miss?’ he asked; I guess
he thought it was a diamond in the rough. ‘Oh, that’s from Wagner’s
grave,’ I said. And what do you think the wretch did?”
“I’m sure I don’t know, my love.”
“He threw it back, saying it wasn’t worth anything; I think he must
have been a Brahmsite.”
“It took the longest time going through all my treasures,” Helen
prattled on, after laughing at her own joke; “you know Aunt Polly
let us have everything we wanted, bless her heart!”
“I’m afraid Aunt Polly must have spoiled you,” said the other.
“She has,” laughed Helen; “I really think she must mean to make me
marry a rich husband, or else she’d never have left me at that great
rich school; Lucy and I were the ‘star-boarders’ you know, and we
just had everybody to spoil us. How in the world could you ever
manage to spare so much money, Daddy?”
“Oh, it was not so much,” said Mr. Davis; “things are cheaper
abroad.” (As a matter of fact, the grimly resolute Aunt Polly had
paid two-thirds of her niece’s expenses secretly, besides
distributing pocket money with lavish generosity.)
“And you should see the wonderful dresses I’ve brought from Paris,”
 Helen went on. “Oh, Daddy, I tell you I shall be glorious! Aunt
Polly’s going to invite a lot of people at her house next week to
meet me, and I’m going to wear the reddest of red, red dresses, and
just shine like a lighthouse!”
“I’m afraid,” said the clergyman, surveying her with more pride than
was perhaps orthodox, “I’m afraid you’ll find it hard to be
satisfied in this poor little home of ours.”
“Oh, that’s all right,” said Helen; “I’ll soon get used to it; and
besides, I’ve got plenty of things to fix it up with--if you’ll only
get those dreadful theological works out of the front room! Daddy
dear, you can’t imagine how hard it is to bring the Valkyries and
Niebelungs into a theological library.”
“I’ll see what I can do, my love,” said Mr. Davis.
He was silent for a few moments, perhaps wondering vaguely whether
it was well that this commanding young lady should have everything
in the world she desired; Helen, who had her share of penetration,
probably divined the thought, for she made haste to change the
subject.
“By the way,” she laughed, “we got so interested in our chattering
that we forgot all about Arthur.”
“Sure enough,” exclaimed the other. “Pray where can he have gone?”
“I don’t know,” Helen said; “it’s strange. But poets are such queer
creatures!”
“Arthur is a very splendid creature,” said Mr. Davis. “You have no
idea, Helen, how hard he has labored since you have been away. He
carried off all the honors at college, and they say he has written
some good poetry. I don’t know much about that, but the people who
know tell me so.”
“It would be gloriously romantic to know a great poet,” said Helen,
“and perhaps have him write poetry about you,--‘Helen, thy beauty is
to me,’ and ‘Sweet Helen, make me immortal with a kiss,’ and all
sorts of things like that! He’s coming to live with us this summer
as usual, isn’t he, Daddy?”
“I don’t know,” said the other; “I presume he will. But where can he
have gone to-day?”
“He acted very queerly,” said the girl; and then suddenly a
delighted smile lit up her face. “Oh, Daddy,” she added, “do you
know, I think Arthur is in love!”
“In love!” gasped Mr. Davis.
“Yes, in love!”
“Pray, with whom?”
“I’m sure I can’t imagine,” said Helen gravely; “but he seemed so
abstracted, and he seemed to have something to tell me. And then he
ran away!”
“That is very strange indeed,” remarked the other. “I shall have to
speak to him about it.”
“If he doesn’t come back soon, I’ll go to look for him,” said the
girl; “I’m not going to let the water nixies run off with my Arthur;
there are such things in that stream, because the song I was singing
about it says so.” And then she chanted as merrily as ever:
  “Why speak I of a murmur?
    No murmur can it be;
  The Nixies they are singing
    ‘Neath the wave their melody!”
“I will tell you what,” said Mr. Davis, rising from his chair as he
realized that the sermon had entirely vanished for the present. “You
may go part of the way with me, and we’ll stop in to see the Vails.”
“The Vails!” gasped Helen. (Mr. Vail was the village dairyman, whose
farm lay on the outskirts of the town; the village dairyman’s family
was not one that Helen cared to visit.)
“My love,” said Mr. Davis, “poor Mrs. Vail has been very ill, and
she has three little children, you know. You told me that you liked
to bring joy wherever you could.”
“Yes, but, Daddy,” protested Helen, “those children are dirty!
Ugh! I saw them as I came by.”
“My love,” answered the other, “they are God’s children none the
less; and we cannot always help such things.”
“But we can, Daddy; there is plenty of water in the world.”
“Yes, of course; but when the mother is ill, and the father in
trouble! For poor Mr. Vail has had no end of misfortune; he has no
resource but the little dairy, and three of his cows have been ill
this spring.”
And Helen’s incorrigible mirth lighted up her face again. “Oh!” she
cried. “Is that it! I saw him struggling away at the pump as I
came by; but I had no idea it was anything so serious!”
Mr. Davis looked grieved; Helen, when her first burst of glee had
passed, noticed it and changed her mood. She put her arms around her
father’s neck and pressed her cheek against his.
“Daddy, dear,” she said coaxingly, “haven’t I done charity enough
for one day? You will surfeit me at the start, and then I’ll be just
as little fond of it as I was before. When I must let dirty children
climb all over me, I can dress for the occasion.”
“My dear,” pleaded Mr. Davis, “Godliness is placed before
Cleanliness.”
“Yes,” admitted Helen, “and of course it is right for you to
inculcate the greater virtue; but I’m only a girl, and you mustn’t
expect sublimity from me. You don’t want to turn me into a president
of sewing societies, like that dreadful Mrs. Dale!”
“Helen,” protested the other, helplessly, “I wish you would not
always refer to Mrs. Dale with that adjective; she is the best
helper I have.”
“Yes, Daddy,” said Helen, with the utmost solemnity; “when I have a
dreadful eagle nose like hers, perhaps I can preside over meetings
too. But I can’t now.”
“I do not want you to, my love; but--”
“And if I have to cling by the weaker virtue of cleanliness just for
a little while, Daddy, you must not mind. I’ll visit all your clean
parishioners for you,--parishioners like Aunt Polly!”
And before Mr. Davis could make another remark, the girl had skipped
into the other room to the piano; as her father went slowly out the
door, the echoes of the old house were laughing with the happy
melody of Purcell’s--
  Nymphs and shepherds, come a-way, come a-way,
  Nymphs and shepherds, come a-way, come a-way, Come,
  come, come, come a-way!
CHAPTER III
  “For you alone I strive to sing,
    Oh, tell me how to woo!”
When Helen was left alone, she seated herself before her old music
stand which had been brought down to welcome her, and proceeded to
glance over and arrange the pieces she had learned and loved in her
young girlhood. Most of them made her smile, and when she reflected
upon how difficult she used to think them, she realized that now
that it was over she was glad for the German regime. Helen had
accounted herself an accomplished pianist when she went away, but
she had met with new standards and learned to think humbly of
herself in the great home of music. She possessed a genuine fondness
for the art, however, and had devoted most of her three years to it,
so that she came home rejoicing in the possession of a technic that
was quite a mastership compared with any that she was likely to
meet.
Helen’s thoughts did not dwell upon that very long at present,
however; she found herself thinking again about Arthur, and the
unexpected ending of her walk with him.
“I had no idea he felt that way toward me,” she mused, resting her
chin in her hand; “what in the world am I going to do? Men are
certainly most inconvenient creatures; I thought I was doing
everything in the world to make him happy!”
Helen turned to the music once more, but the memory of the figure
she had left sunken helplessly upon the forest seat stayed in her
mind. “I do wonder if that can be why he did not wait for me,” she
thought, shuddering,--“if he was too wretched to see me again; what
CAN I do?” She got up and began walking restlessly up and down the
room for a few minutes.
“Perhaps I ought to go and look for him,” she mused; “it was an hour
or two ago that I left him there;” and Helen, after thinking the
matter over, had half turned to leave, when she heard a step outside
and saw the door open quickly. Even before she saw him she knew who
it was, for only Arthur would have entered without ringing the bell.
After having pictured him overcome by despair, it was rather a blow
to her pride to see him, for he entered flushed, and seemingly
elated.
“Well, sir, you’ve treated me nicely!” she exclaimed, showing her
vexation in spite of herself.
“You will forgive me,” said Arthur, smiling.
“Don’t be too sure of it,” Helen said; “I looked for you everywhere,
and I am quite angry.”
“I was obeying your high command,” the other replied, still smiling.
“My command? I told you to wait for me.”
“You told me something else,” laughed Arthur. “You spent all the
morning instructing me for it, you know.”
“Oh!” said Helen. It was a broad and very much prolonged “Oh,” for a
sudden light was dawning upon the girl; as it came her frown gave
place to a look of delight.
“You have been writing me a poem!” she cried, eagerly.
“Yes,” said Arthur.
“Oh, you dear boy!” Helen laughed. “Then I do forgive you; but you
ought to have told me, for I had to walk home all alone, and I’ve
been worrying about you. I never once thought of the poem.”
“The muses call without warning,” laughed Arthur, “and one has to
obey them, you know.”
“Oh, oh!” exclaimed the other. “And so you’ve been wandering around
the woods all this time, making verses! And you’ve been waving your
arms and talking to yourself, and doing all sorts of crazy things, I
know!” Then as she saw Arthur flush, she went on: “I was sure of it!
And you ran away so that I wouldn’t see you! Oh, I wish I’d known;
I’d have hunted you up and never come home until I’d found you.”
As was usual with Helen, her momentary vexation had gone like April
rain, and all her seriousness had vanished with it. She forgot all
about the last scene in the woods, and Arthur was once more the
friend of her girlhood, whom she might take by the hand when she
chose, and with whom she might be as free and happy as when she was
alone with the flowers and the wind. It seemed as if Arthur too had
vented all his pent up emotion, and returned to his natural cheerful
self.
“Tell me,” she cried, “did you put in all the things I told you
about?”
“I put all I could,” said Arthur. “That is a great deal to ask.”
“I only want it to be full of life,” laughed Helen. “That’s all I
care about; the man who wants to write springtime poetry for me must
be wide awake!”
“Shall I read it to you?” asked Arthur, hesitatingly.
“Yes, of course,” said Helen. “And read it as if you meant it; if I
like it I’ll tell you so.”
“I wrote it for nothing but to please you” was the reply, and Arthur
took a much bescrawled piece of paper from his pocket; the girl
seated herself upon the piano stool again and gazed up at him as he
rested his elbow upon the top of the piano and read his lines. There
could not have been a situation in which the young poet would have
read them with more complete happiness, and so it was a pleasure to
watch him. And Helen’s eyes kindled, and her cheeks flushed brightly
as she listened, for she found that the verses had taken their
imagery from her very lips.
  In the May-time’s golden glory
    Ere the quivering sun was high,
  I heard the Wind of Morning
    Through the laughing meadows fly;
  In his passion-song was throbbing
    All the madness of the May,
  And he whispered: Thou hast labored;
    Thou art weary; come away!
  Thou shalt drink a fiery potion
    For thy prisoned spirit’s pain;
  Thou shalt taste the ancient rapture
    That thy soul has sought in vain.
  I will tell thee of a maiden,
    One who has thy longing fanned--
  Spirit of the Forest Music--
    Thou shalt take her by the hand,
  Lightly by her rosy fingers
    Trembling with her keen delight,
  And her flying steps shall lead thee
    Out upon the mountain’s height;
  To a dance undreamed of mortal
    To the Bacchanal of Spring,--
  Where in mystic joy united
    Nature’s bright-eyed creatures sing.
  There the green things of the mountain,
    Million-voiced, newly-born,
  And the flowers of the valley
    In their beauty’s crimson morn;
  There the winged winds of morning,
    Spirits unresting, touched with fire,
  And the streamlets, silver-throated,
    They whose leaping steps ne’er tire!
  Thou shalt see them, ever circling
    Round about a rocky spring,
  While the gaunt old forest-warriors
    Madly their wide branches fling.
  Thou shalt tread the whirling measure,
    Bathe thee in its frenzied strife;
  Thou shalt have a mighty memory
    For thy spirit’s after life.
  Haste thee while thy heart is burning,
    While thine eyes have strength to see;
  Hark, behind yon blackening cloud-bank,
    To the Storm-King’s minstrelsy!
  See, he stamps upon the mountains,
    And he leaps the valleys high!
  Now he smites his forest harp-strings,
    And he sounds his thunder-cry:--
  Waken, lift ye up, ye creatures,
    Sing the song, each living thing!
  Join ye in the mighty passion
    Of the Symphony of Spring!
And so the young poet finished, his cheeks fairly on fire, and, as
he gazed down at Helen, his hand trembling so that he could hardly
hold the paper. One glance told him that she was pleased, for the
girl’s face was flushed like his own, and her eyes were sparkling
with delight. Arthur’s heart gave a great throb within him.
“You like it!” he exclaimed.
“Oh, Arthur, I do!” she cried. “Oh, how glorious you must have
been!” And trembling with girlish delight, she took the paper from
his hand and placed it in front of her on the music rack.
“Oh, I should like to write music for it!” she exclaimed; “for those
lines about the Storm-King!”
And she read them aloud, clenching her hands and shaking her head,
carried away by the image they brought before her eyes. “Oh, I
should like music for it!” she cried again.
“I don’t know very much about poetry, you know,” she added, laughing
excitedly. “If it’s about the things I like, I can’t help thinking
it’s fine. It’s just the same with music,--if a man only makes it
swift and strong, so that it leaps and flies and never tires, that
is all I care about; and if he just keeps his trombones till the
very last, he can carry me off my feet though he makes the worst
noise that ever was! It’s the same as a storm, you know, Arthur; do
you remember how we used to go up on our hillside when the great
wind was coming, and when everything was growing still and black;
and how we used to watch the big clouds and the sheets of rain, and
run for home when we heard the thunder? Once when you were away,
Arthur, I didn’t run, for I wanted to see what it was like; and I
stayed up there and saw it all, singing the ‘Ride of the Valkyries,’
and pretending I was one of them and could gallop with the wind. For
the wind is fine, Arthur! It fills you so full of its power that you
stretch out your arms to it, and it makes you sing; and it comes,
and it comes again, stronger than ever, and it sweeps you on, just
like a great mass of music. And then it howls through the trees and
it flies over the valleys,--that was what you were thinking of,
weren’t you, Arthur?”
And Helen stopped, breathlessly, and gazed at him; her cheeks were
flushed, and her hands still tightly clasped.
“Yes,” said Arthur, half mechanically, for he had lost himself in
the girl’s enthusiasm, and felt the storm of his verses once more.
“Your poem made me think of that one time that was so gloriously,”
 Helen went on. “For the rain was almost blinding, and I was
drenched, but I did not even know it. For oh, the thunder! Arthur,
you’ve no idea what thunder is like till you’re near it! There fell
one fearful bolt quite near me, a great white, living thing, as
thick as a man’s body, and the crash of it seemed to split the air.
But oh, I didn’t mind it a bit! ‘Der Sanger triumphirt in Wettern!’
I think I was a real Valkyrie that time, and I only wished that I
might put it into music.”
The girl turned to the piano, and half in play struck a great
rumbling chord, that rolled and echoed through the room; she sounded
it once more, laughing aloud with glee. Arthur had sunk down upon a
chair beside her, and was bending forward, watching her with growing
excitement. For again and again Helen struck the keys with all the
power of her arms, until they seemed to give forth real storm and
thunder; and as she went on with her reckless play the mood grew
upon her, and she lost herself in the vision of the Storm-King
sweeping through the sky. She poured out a great stream of his wild
music, singing away to herself excitedly in the meantime. And as the
rush continued and the fierce music swelled louder, the phantasy
took hold of the girl and carried her beyond herself. She seemed to
become the very demon of the storm, unbound and reckless; she smote
the keys with right royal strength, and the piano seemed a thing of
life beneath her touch. The pace became faster, and the thunder
rattled and crashed more wildly, and there awoke in the girl’s soul
a power of musical utterance that she had never dreamed of in her
life before. Her whole being was swept away in ecstasy; her lips
were moving excitedly, and her pulses were leaping like mad. She
seemed no longer to know of the young man beside her, who was bent
forward with clenched hands, carried beyond himself by the sight of
her exulting power.
And in the meantime, Helen’s music was surging on, building itself
up into a great climax that swelled and soared and burst in a
deafening thunder crash; and while the air was still throbbing and
echoing with it, the girl joined to it her deep voice, grown
suddenly conscious of new power:
  “See, he stamps upon the mountains,
    And he leaps the valleys high!
  Now he smites his forest harp-strings,
    And he sounds his thunder cry!”
And as the cry came the girl laughed aloud, like a very Valkyrie
indeed, her laugh part of the music, and carried on by it; and then
gradually as the tempest swept on, the rolling thunder was lost in a
march that was the very tread of the Storm-King. And the march
broadened, and the thunder died out of it slowly, and all the wild
confusion, and then it rose, glorious and triumphant, and turned to
a mighty pean, a mightier one than ever Helen could have made. The
thought of it had come to her as an inspiration, and as a refuge,
that the glory of her passion might not be lost. The march had led
her to it, and now it had taken her in its arms and swept her away,
as it had swept millions by its majesty. It was the great Ninth
Symphony Hymn:
  “Hail thee, Joy! From Heaven descending,
    Daughter from Elysium!
  Ecstasy our hearts inflaming,
    To thy sacred shrine we come.
  Thine enchantments bind together
    Those whom custom’s law divides;
  All are brothers, all united,
    Where thy gentle wing abides.”
And Helen sang it as one possessed by it, as one made drunk with its
glory--as the very Goddess of Joy that she was. For the Storm-King
and his legions had fled, and another vision had come into her
heart, a vision that every one ought to carry with him when the
great symphony is to be heard. He should see the hall in Vienna
where it was given for the last time in the great master’s life, and
see the great master himself, the bowed and broken figure that all
musicians worship, standing up to conduct it; and see him leading it
through all its wild surging passion, almost too frantic to be
endured; and then, when the last towering climax has passed and the
music has ceased and the multitude at his back has burst forth into
its thundering shout, see the one pathetic figure standing there
aloft before all eyes and still blindly beating the time. There must
have been tears in the eyes of every man in that place to know the
reason for it,--that he from whose heart all their joy had come, he
who was lord and master of it, had never heard in his life and could
never hope to hear one sound of that music he had written, but must
dwell a prisoner in darkness and solitude forever.
That was the picture before Helen’s eyes; she did not think of the
fearful tragedy of it--she had no feeling for tragedy, she knew no
more about suffering than a child just born. But joy she knew, and
joy she was; she was the multitude lifted up in its ecstasy,
throbbing, burning and triumphant, and she sang the great choruses,
one after another, and the piano beneath her fingers thundered and
rang with the instrumental part. Surely in all music there is no
utterance of joy so sustained and so overwhelming in its intensity
as this; it is a frenzy almost more than man can stand; it is joy
more than human--the joy of existence:--
  “Pleasure every creature living
    From kind Nature’s breast receives;
  Good and evil, all are seeking
    For the rosy path she leaves.”
And so the torrent of passionate exultation swept Helen onward with
it until the very end, the last frantic prestissimo chorus, and then
she sprang to her feet and flung up her hands with a cry. She stood
thus for a moment, glowing with exultation, and then she sank down
again and sat staring before her, the music still echoing through
every fiber of her soul, and the shouting multitude still surging
before her.
For just how long that lasted, she knew not, but only that her wild
mood was gradually subsiding, and that she felt herself sinking
back, as a bird sinks after its flight; then suddenly she turned.
Arthur was at her side, and she gave a cry, for he had seized her
hand in his, and was covering it with burning kisses.
“Arthur! Arthur!” she gasped.
