sunshine, and I peppered him well with spit-balls, he being a friend
of mine.
His mystified anger brought but temporary pleasure to me. Behind me
lay that villanous slate, and my task to deal with the ravishment of
that silly creature, Proserpine--and that, too, in verse! Had it been
my long-legged Diana with her view-halloo and her hounds and shooting
her arrows like a Huron squaw from the lakes! But no!--my business lay
with a puny, cowslip-pulling maid who had strayed from the stockade
and got her deserts, too, for aught I know.
Leaning there in the breezy casement I tried to forget the jade,
attentively observing the birds and the young fruit-trees, Sir
William's pride. Now that the snow had melted I could see where mice,
working under the crust in midwinter, had fatally girdled two young
apple-trees; and I was sorry, loving apples as I do.
For a while my mind was occupied in devising a remedy against
girdling; then the distant sparkle of the river caught my eye, and
straightway my thoughts slipped into their natural channel, smoothly
as the river flowed there in the sunshine; and I laid my plans for the
taking of that bull-trout who had so grossly deceived and flouted me
the past year--ay, not only me, but also that master of the craft, Sir
William himself.
Thinking of Sir William, my lagging thoughts drifted back again to my
desk. It madded me to pine here, making rhymes, while outside the
sweet wind whispered: "Come out, Michael--come out into the green
delight!"
Now Sir William had bidden me, not only to write my verses, but also
to bide here awaiting his good pleasure. That meant he would return
by-and-by. I had no stomach for further quarrels. Besides, I was
ashamed of my disrespect and temper, and indeed, selfish, idle beast
that I was, I did truly love Sir William because I knew he was the
greatest man of our times--and because he loved me.
Resolved at last to accomplish some verses as proof of a contrite and
diligent spirit, I set to work; and this is what I made:
     "Proserpine did roam the hills,
     Intent on culling daffydills;
       Alas, in gleeful girlish sport,
       She wandered too far from the fort,
     Forgetting that no belt of peace,
     Bound the people of Pluto from war to cease;
       Alas, old Pluto lay in wait,
       To ambush all who stayed out late;
     And with a dreadful war-whoop he
     Ran after the doomed Proserpine--"
Absorbed in my task, and, moreover, considerably affected by the
piteous plight of the maid, I stepped back from the slate and for a
moment conceived a generous idea of introducing somebody to rescue
Proserpine and leave Pluto damaged--perhaps scalped. Reflection,
however, dissuaded me from such a liberty, not that I found the
anachronism at all discordant, for, living all my life in a family
where Indians were oftener seen than white men, my hazy notions
concerning classic myths were inextricably mixed with the reality of
my own life, and were also gayly coloured by the legends I learned
from my red neighbours. So, lazy dunce that I was, with but a fraction
of my attention fixed on my tasks, mythology to me was but a
Græco-Mohawk medley of jumbled fables, interesting only when they
concerned war or the chase.
Still I did not feel at liberty to rescue Proserpine in my verses or
plump a war-arrow into Pluto. Besides I knew it would enrage Sir
William.
As I stood there, breathing hard, resolved to finish the wretched
maiden quickly and let the metre go a-limping, behind me I heard the
door stealthily open, and I knew that long-legged wild-cat thing,
Silver Heels, had crept in, her moccasins making no noise.
I pretended not to notice her, knowing she had come to taunt me; and,
for a space, she stood behind me, very still. Clearly, she was reading
my verses, and I became angry. Not to show it, I made out to whistle
and to draw a picture of a fish on the slate. Then she knew I had seen
her and laughed hatefully.
"Oh," said I, "if there is somebody come a-prying, it must be Silver
Heels!" And I turned around, pretending amazement at the justness of
my hazard.
"You saw me," she answered, disdainfully.
"It is your hour for the stocks," I hinted.
"I won't go," she retorted.
To secure that grace of carriage and elegance of presence necessary
for a young lady of quality, and to straighten her back, which truly
was as straight as a pine, Sir William and Mistress Molly were
accustomed to strap her to a pine plank and lock her in the stocks for
an hour at noon, forbidding Peter, Esk, and me to tickle the soles of
her feet.
It was noon now; I could hear the guard changing at the north
block-house, tramp! tramp! tramp! across the stony way.
"If you don't go to the stocks now," I said, "you'll be sorry when you
do go."
"If you tickle my feet, you great booby, I'll tell Sir William," she
retorted, balancing defiantly from one heel to the other.
"Will you go, Silver Heels?" I insisted.
"My name isn't Silver Heels," she observed, still coolly tilting back
and forth on heels and toes. "Call me by my right name and perhaps
I'll go--and perhaps I won't. So there, Mr. Micky Dunce!"
"If I call you Felicity Warren, will you go?" I inquired cautiously.
"There! you have called me Felicity Warren!" she cried in triumph.
"I didn't," said I, in a temper; "I only said that there was such a
person. But you are not that person! Anyway, you toe in like a Mohawk.
Anyway, you're half wild-cat, half Mohawk."
"It's a lie!" she flashed; "I'm all white to the bones of my body!"
It was true. Indeed, she was kin to Sir William and niece to Sir Peter
Warren, but, to torment her, we feigned to believe her one of Mistress
Molly's brood, half Mohawk; and it madded her. Besides, had not the
Mohawks dubbed her Silver Heels, a year ago, when, with naked flying
feet, she had beaten us all in the foot-race before Sir William and
half the people of the Six Nations?
The prize had been a Barlow jack-knife, which, before the race, I had
looked upon as mine. Besides, I had rashly given my old knife to Esk,
and that left me without a blade to notch whistles.
"You are a Mohawk," I said, resentfully; "also you are a cat-child
beneath notice. When you are hungry you cry, 'Miau! Eso
cautfore!'--like Peter."
"I don't!" she said, stamping her moccasin.
"Anyway," said I, disdaining to torment her further, "the guard is
changed these ten minutes, and Sir William will come to find you here
a-prying. Esogee cadagcariax," I added, incautiously.
"Who is Mohawk, now!" she cried, clapping her hands. "Bah, Mister
Micky, it is spoon-meat you require to make you run the faster after
jack-knives!"
This outrageous taunt ruffled me, the more for her laughter. I
attempted to hold my head in the air and look down at the presumptuous
child, but it appeared she had grown very fast in the past months
since the race, and I was disturbed to find her eyes already on a
straight line with mine, though she was but fifteen and I sixteen.
"I'm as high as you," she said.
"I can jump and touch the ceiling," said I; and did so.
She strove in vain, then called me dunce, and vowed what brains I had
were in my feet. For that, and because she pushed me, I seized the
chalk and wrote high on the slate:
"Silver Heels is Mohock she toes in like ducks."
She caught up the buckskin to wipe out the taunt, jostling me till the
ferret in my pocket jumped out and ran round and round the room.
I jostled her; then she gave me a blow and a quick shove, whereupon I
stumbled, pulling her to the floor to rub her face with chalk. She
twisted and turned, kicking and striking while I rubbed chalk into her
skin, till of a sudden she coiled up and bit me clean through the
hand.
I was on my feet with a bound; she also, all white in the face and her
eyes aflame.
The blood began welling up, running into my palm and along the fingers
to the floor. At that same instant I heard the door of the nursery
open, and I knew that Sir William was coming through the hall to the
school-room.
From instinct I thrust my wounded hand into my breeches-pocket.
"Don't tell!" whispered Silver Heels, in a fright; "don't tell--and
here is the jack-knife."
She thrust it into my right hand, then sped across the floor to the
open window, and over the sill, dropping light as a cat on the grass
below.
My first impulse was to follow her and give her such a spank as
Mistress Molly administered the day she trounced her for pushing Peter
into the creek. However, it was already too late; Sir William came
quickly along the hall, and I had scarce time to step to the slate
when he marched in.
Sir William had changed his clothing for the buckskin hunting-shirt
and breeches which he was accustomed to wear when angling. He carried,
too, that light, seasoned rod, fashioned for him by Thayendanegea, and
on his bosom he wore a bouquet of gayly coloured feather-flies, made
by Mistress Molly during the winter.
He approached the slate whereon my verses stared white and unfinished;
and at first his brows knitted and he said, "Fudge, fudge, fudge!"
Then of a sudden he sat down on the bench, clapping his hand to his
brow.
"Oh Lord!" said he, and fell a-laughing, while I, hot, ashamed, and a
little dizzy, my breeches-pocket being full of blood, gnawed my lips
and glowered askance.
"The Lord's will be done," said he, taking breath. "Who am I to
ordain, when He who fashioned yon tow-head designed it to hold neither
Latin nor the classics?"
"It pleases you to laugh, sir," I muttered.
"Pleases me! Pleases me, quotha! Lad, it stabs me like a French dirk,
nor can I guard the thrust in tierce! I have been wrong. A friar is
not made with a twisted rope nor a man hanged with words. If you are
not born a scholar, 'twas the mint-mark I could not read aright; and
no blame to you, lad, no blame to you. Micky boy! Shall we leave Cæsar
to go marching with his impedimenta and his Tenth Legion? Shall we
consign the hypothenuse of all triangles to those who mend pens from
the quills of wild-geese which better men have brought down with a
single ball?"
I was regarding him wildly, uncertain of his meaning.
"Shall we," cried Sir William, heartily, "bid the nymphs and dryads
farewell forever, lad, and save our learning for Roderick Random and a
bowl of cider and the bitter nights of December?"
His meaning was dawning upon me slowly, for what with the pain of my
hand and the dizziness, I was perhaps more stupid than usual.
"No," said Sir William, with a thump of his fist on his knee, "the
college which my Lord Dartmouth has endowed is a haven for those who
seek it, not a prison for men to be driven to."
He paused.
"I should have sought it," he said, dropping his head. "No wilderness,
no wintry terrors, neither French scalping parties nor the savages of
all the Canadas could have kept me from instruction had I, in my
youth, been favoured by the opportunity I offer you."
I gazed at him in silence while the blood, overrunning my leather
pocket, ran down to my knee-buckles.
"I was poor, without means, without counsel, save for the letters Sir
Peter Warren wrote me. I traded for my daily bread; I read Ovid by
lighted pine splinters; I worked--God knows I worked my flesh to the
bone."
He sat, fingering the bunch of scarlet feather-flies in his breast.
"Our Lord gives us according to our needs--when we take it," he
said, without irreverence. "I could have gone to England, to Oxford; I
had saved enough. I did neither; I did not take the instruction I
wished for, and God did not teach me Greek in my dreams," he added,
bitterly.
The blood was now stealing down my stocking towards my shoe. I turned
the leg so he could not observe it.
"Come, lad," he said, brightening up; "learning lies not always
between thumbed leaves. I only wish that you bear yourself modestly
and nobly through the world; that you keep faith with men, that your
word once given shall never be withdrawn.
"This is the foundation. It includes courage. Further than that, I
desire you, once a purpose formed and a course set, to steer
fearlessly to the goal.
"I know you to be brave and honest; I know you to be a very Mohawk in
the forest; I believe you to be merciful and tender underneath that
boy's thoughtless and cruel hide.
"As for learning, I can do no more for you than I have done and have
offered to do. If it pleases you, you may go to England, and learn the
arts, bearing, and deportment you can never acquire here with us. No?
Well, then, stay with us. I want you, Micky. We Irish are fond of each
other--and I am an old man now--I am nigh sixty years, Michael--sixty
years of battle. I would be glad of rest--with those I love."
My heart was very soft now. I looked at Sir William with an affection
I had never before understood.
"There is one last thing I wish to add," he said, gravely, almost
sadly. "Perhaps I may again refer to it--but I pray that it may not be
necessary."
I sat up and rubbed my eyes to clear them from the sickly faintness
which stole upward from my throbbing hand.
"It is this," he continued, in a low voice. "If it ever comes to you
to choose between his Majesty our King and--and your native
land--which God forbid!--go to your closet and kneel down, and stay
there on your knees, hours, days!--until you have learned your own
heart. Then--then--God go with you, Michael Cardigan."
He rose, and his face was years older. Slowly the colour came back
into his cheeks; he fumbled with the brass-work on his fish-rod, then
smiled.
"That is all," he said; "let Pluto chase Proserpine to hell, lad; and
a devilish good place they say it is for those who like it! Where is
that ferret? What! Running about unmuzzled! Hey! Vix! Vix! Come here,
little reptile!"
"I'll catch her, sir," said I, stumbling forward.
But as I laid my hand on Vix the floor rose and struck me, and there I
lay sprawling and senseless, with the blood running over the floor;
and Sir William, believing me bitten by the ferret, pouched the poor
beast and lifted me to a bench.
He must have seen my hand, however, for, when a cup of cold water set
me spluttering and blinking, I found my hand tied up in Sir William's
handkerchief and Sir William himself eying me strangely.
"How came that wound?" he said, bluntly.
I could not reply--or would not.
He asked me again whether the ferret bit me, and I was tempted to say
yes. Treachery was abhorrent to me; I hated Silver Heels, but could
not betray her, and it was easy to clap the blame on Vix.
"Sir?" I stammered.
"I asked what bit you," he said, icily.
I tried to say Vix, but the lie, too, stuck in my throat.
"I cannot tell you," I muttered.
"Then," said Sir William, with a strange smile of relief, "I shall not
force you, Michael. May I honourably ask you how you come by this
jack-knife?"
I shook my head. My face was on fire.
"Very well," he said. "Only remember that you are a man, now--a man of
sixteen, and that I have to-day treated you as a man, and shall
continue. And remember that a man's first duty is to protect the
weaker sex, and his second duty is to endure from them all taunts,
caprice, and torments without revenge. It is a hard lesson to learn,
Micky, and only the true and gallant gentleman can ever learn it."
He smiled, then said:
"Pray find our little Silver Heels and return to her the jack-knife,
which was her wampum-belt of faith in the honour of a gentleman."
And so he walked away, smoothing the fur of the red-eyed ferret
against his breast.
CHAPTER II
When Sir William left me in the school-room, he left a lad of sixteen
puffed up in a glow of pride. To be treated no longer as a fractious
child--to be received at last as a man among men!
And what would Esk say? And Silver Heels, poor little mouse harnessed
in the stocks below?
I had entered the school-room that morning a lazy, sullen, defiant
lad, heavy-hearted, with chronic resentment against the discipline of
those who had sent me into a hateful trap from the windows of which I
could see the young, thirsty year quaffing spring sunshine. Now I was
free to leave the accursed trap forever, a man of discretion,
responsible before men, exacting from other men the same courtesies,
attentions, and considerations which I might render them.
What a change had come to me, all in one brief May morning! As I stood
there, resting my bandaged hand in the palm of the other, looking
about me to realize the fortune which set my veins tingling, a great
tide of benevolent condescension for the others swept over me, a
ripple of pity and good-will for the hapless children whose benches
lay in a row before me.
I no longer detested Silver Heels. I walked on tiptoe to her bench.
There lay her slate and slate-pen; upon it I read a portion of the
longer catechism. There, too, lay her quill and inky horn and a
foolscap book sewed neatly and marked:
     FELICITY WARREN
           1774
        HER BOOKE.
Poor child, doomed for years still to steep her little fingers in
ink-powder while, with the powder I should require hereafter, I
expected to write fiercer tales on living hides with plummets cast in
bullet-moulds!
Cramped with importance, I cast a contemptuous eye upon my poem which
embellished the great slate, and scoured it partly out with the
buckskin.
"My books," said I, to myself, "I will bestow upon Silver Heels and
Esk;" and I carried out my philanthropic impulse, piling speller,
reader, and arithmetic on Esk's bench; my Cæsar, my pair of globes, my
compass, and my algebra I laid with Silver Heels's copy-book, first
writing in the books, with some malice:
      SILVER HEELS HER GIFT BOOKE FROM
              MICHAEL CARDIGAN
       BE DILIGENT AND OF GOOD THRIFT
             KNOWLEDGE IS POWER.
For fat Peter, because I allowed Vix to bite his tight breeches, I
left a pile of jacks beside his horn-book, namely, a slate-pen, three
mended quills, a birchen box of ink-powder, a screw to trade with, two
tops and an alley, pumice, a rule, and some wax.
Peter, though duck-limbed and half Mohawk, wrote very well in the
Boston style, and could even copy in the Lettre Frisée--a poor art in
some repute, but smelling to my nose of French flummery and deceit.
Having bestowed these gifts with a light heart, I walked slowly around
the room, and I fear my walk was somewhat a strut.
I knew my small head was all swelled with vain imaginings; I saw
myself in a flapped coat and lace, fingering the hilt of a sword at my
hip, saluted by the sentries and the militia; I saw myself riding with
Sir William as his deputy; I heard him say, "Mr. Cardigan, the enemy
are upon us! We must fly!"--and I: "Sir William, fear nothing. The day
is our own!" And I saw a lad of sixteen, with sword pointing upward
and one hand twisted into Pontiac's scalp-lock, smile benignly upon
Sir William, who had cast himself upon my breast, protesting that I
had saved the army, and that the King should hear of it.
Then, unbidden, the apparition of Mr. Butler rose into my vain
dreaming, and, though I am no prophet, nor can I claim the gift of
seeing behind the veil, yet I swear that Walter Butler appeared to me
all aflame and bloody with scalps bunched at his girdle--and the
scalps were not of the red men!
Now my imagination smoking into fire, I saw myself dogging Mr. Butler
with firelock a-trail and knife loosened, on! on! through fathomless
depths of forest and by the still deeps of shadowy lakes, fording the
roaring tumble of rivers, swimming silent pools as otters swim, but
tracking him, ever tracking Captain Butler by the scent of his reeking
scalps.
There was a dew on my eyebrows as I waked into sense. Yet again I fell
straightway to imagining the glories of my young future. Truly I
painted life in cloying colours; and always, when I accomplished
gallant deeds, there stood Silver Heels to observe me, and to marvel,
and to stamp her little moccasins in vexation that I, the pride and
envy of all men, applauded, courted, nay, worshipped--I, the playmate
she had in her silly ignorance flouted, now stood so far beyond her
that she dared not twitch the skirt of my coat nor whisper, "Sir
Michael, pray condescend to notice one who passes her entire life in
admiring your careless exploits."
Perhaps I would smile at her--yes, I certainly should speak to
her--not with familiarity. But I would be magnanimous; she should
receive gifts, spoils from wars, and I would select a suitable husband
for her from the officers of my household who adored me! No, I would
not be hasty concerning a husband. That would be foolish, for Silver
Heels must remain heart-whole and fancy-free to concentrate her
envious admiration upon me.
In a sort of ecstasy I paraded the school-room, the splendour of my
visions dulling eyes and ears, and it was not until he had called me
thrice that I observed Mr. Butler standing within the doorway.
The unwelcome sight cleared my brains like a dash of spring-water in
the face.
"It is one o'clock," said Mr. Butler, "and time for your carving
lesson. Did you not hear the bugles from the forts?"
"I heard nothing, sir," said I, giving him a surly look, which he
returned with that blank stare of the eyes, noticeable in hawks and
kites and foul night birds surprised by light.
"Sir William dines early," he said, as I followed him through the dim
hallway, past the nursery, and down stairs. "If he has to wait your
pleasure for his slice of roast, you will await his pleasure for the
remainder of the day in the school-room."
"It is not true!" I said, stopping short in the lower hallway. "I am
free of that ratty pit forever! And of the old ferret, too," I added,
insolently.
"By your favour," said Mr. Butler, "may I ask whether your erudition
is impairing your bodily health, that you leave school so early in
life, Master Cardigan?"
"If you were a real schoolmaster," said I, hotly, "I would answer you
with a kennel lash, but you are an officer and a gentleman." And in a
low voice I bade him go to the devil at his convenience.
"One year more and I could call you out for this," he said, staring at
me.
"You can do it now!" I retorted, angrily, raising myself a little on
my toes.
Suddenly all the hatred and contempt I had so long choked back burst
out in language I now blush for. I called him a coward, a Huron, a
gentleman with the instincts of a pedagogue. I heaped abuse upon him;
I dared him to meet me; nay, I challenged him to face me with rifle or
sword, when and where he chose. And all the time he stood staring at
me with that deathly laugh which never reached his eyes.
"Measure me!" I said, venomously; "I am as tall as you, lacking an
inch. I am a man! This day Sir William freed me from that spider-web
you tenant, and now in Heaven's name let us settle that score which
every hour has added to since I first beheld you!"
"And my honour?" he asked, coldly.
"What?" I stammered. "I ask you to maintain it with rifle or rapier!
Blood scours tarnished names!"
"Not your blood," he said, with a stealthy glance at the dining-room
door; "not the blood of a boy. That would rust my honour. Wait, Master
Cardigan, wait a bit. A year runs like a spotted fawn in cherry-time!"
"You will not meet me?" I blurted out, mortified.
"In a year, perhaps," he said, absently, scarcely looking at me as he
spoke.
Then from within the dining-hall came Sir William's roar: "Body o' me!
Am I to be kept here at twiddle-thumbs for lack of a carver!"
I stepped back in an instant, bowing to Mr. Butler.
"I will be patient for a year, sir," I said. And so opened the door
while he passed me, and into the dining-hall.
"I am sorry, sir," said I, but Sir William cut me short with:
"Damnation, sir! I am asking a blessing!"
So I buried my nose in my hollowed hand and stood up, very still.
Having given thanks in a temper, Sir William's frown relaxed and he
sat down and tucked his finger-cloth under his neck with an injured
glance at me.
"Zounds!" he said, mildly; "hell hath no fury like a fisherman kept
waiting. Captain Butler, bear me out."
"I am no angler," said Mr. Butler, in his deadened voice.
"That is true," observed Sir William, as though condoling with Mr.
Butler for a misfortune not his fault. "Perhaps some day the fever may
scorch you--like our young kinsman Micky--eh, lad?"
I said, "Perhaps, sir," with eyes on the smoking joint before me. It
was Sir William's pleasure that I learn to carve; and, in truth, I
found it easy, save for the carving of a goose or of those wild-ducks
we shot on the great Vlaie.
We were but four to dine that day: Sir William, Mr. Butler, Silver
Heels, and myself. Mistress Molly remained in the nursery, where were
also Peter and Esk, inasmuch as they slobbered and fouled the cloth,
and so fed in the play-room.
Colonel Guy Johnson remained at Detroit, Captain John Johnson was on a
mission to Albany, Thayendanegea in Quebec, and Colonel Claus, with
his lady, had gone to Castle Cumberland. There were no visiting
officers or Indians at Johnson Hall that week, and our small company
seemed lost in the great dining-hall.
Having carved the juicy joint, the gilly served Sir William, then Mr.
Butler, then Silver Heels, whom I had scarcely noticed, so full was I
of my quarrel with Mr. Butler. Now, as Saunders laid her plate, I gave
her a look which meant, "I did not tell Sir William," whereupon she
smiled at her plate and clipped a spoonful from a dish of potatoes.
"Good appetite and good health, sir," said I, raising my wine-glass to
Sir William.
"Good health, my lad!" said Sir William, heartily.
Glasses were raised again and compliments said, though my face was
sufficient to sour the Madeira in Mr. Butler's glass.
"Your good health, Michael," said Silver Heels, sweetly.
I pledged her with a patronizing amiability which made her hazel-gray
eyes open wide.
Now, coxcomb that I was, I sat there, dizzied by my new dignity, yet
carefully watching Sir William to imitate him, thinking that, as I was
now a man, I must observe the carriage, deportment, and tastes of men.
When Sir William declined a dish of jelly, I also waved it away,
though God knew I loved jellies.
When Sir William drank the last of the winter's ale, I shoved aside my
small-beer and sent for a mug.
"It will make a humming-top of your head," said Sir William. "Stick to
small-beer, Micky."
Mortified, I tossed off my portion, and was very careful not to look
at Silver Heels, being hot in the face.
Mr. Butler and Sir William spoke gravely of the discontent now rampant
in the town of Boston, and of Captain John Johnson's mission to
Albany. I listened greedily, sniffing for news of war, but understood
little of their discourse save what pertained to the Indians.
Some mention, indeed, was made of rangers, but, having always
associated militia and rangers with war on the Indians, I thought
little of what they discussed. I even forgot my new dignity, and
secretly pinched a bread crumb into the shape of a little pig which I
showed to Silver Heels. She thereupon pinched out a dog with hound's
ears for me to admire.
I was roused by Sir William's voice in solemn tones to Mr. Butler:
"Now, God forbid I should live to see that, Captain Butler!" and I
pricked up my ears once more, but made nothing of what followed, save
that there were certain disloyal men in Massachusetts and New York who
might rise against our King and that our Governor Tryon meant to take
some measures concerning tea.
"Well, well," burst out Sir William at length; "in evil days let us
thank God that the fish still swim! Eh, Micky? I wish the ice were
out."
"The anchor-ice is afloat, and the Kennyetto is free, sir," I said,
quickly.
"How do you know?" asked Sir William, laughing.
I had, the day previous, run across to the Kennyetto to see, and I
told him so.
He was pleased to praise my zeal and to say I ran like a Mohawk, which
praise sounded sweet until I saw Silver Heels's sly smile, and I
remembered the foot-race and the jack-knife.
But I was above foot-races now. Others might run to amuse me; I would
look on--perhaps distribute prizes.
"Some day, Sir William, will you not make me one of your deputies?" I
asked, eagerly.
"Hear the lad!" cried Sir William, pushing back his chair. "On my
soul, Captain Butler, it is time for old weather-worn Indian
commissioners like me to resign and make way for younger blood! And
his Majesty might be worse served than by Micky here; eh, Captain
Butler?"
"Perhaps," said Mr. Butler, in his dead voice.
Sir William rose and we all stood up. The Baronet, brushing Silver
Heels on his way to the door, passed his arm around her and tilted her
chin up.
"Now do you go to Mistress Mary and beg her to place you in the stocks
for an hour; and stay there in patience for your body's grace. Will
