autumn, instead of the delicate shades of spring. And 
farther on great magnolias, palms, oaks, stretching out 
indeed to a protecting forest. In the front were vistas 
of the river, then above plantations of cane that appeared 
endless. 
Within it was plain. Some of the floors were tiled, a few 
polished, but most of them scrubbed to a delightful white- 
ness, one might almost say fragrance, for all the air was 
sweet. Massive pieces of furniture stood widely apart 
with no graceful little articles of prettiness to break the 
stiff look. Only here and there a great jar of flowers 
or tropical grasses waving feathery fronds when the 
wind blew through the open windows. 
It was on so large a scale that it seemed a world by 
itself, Angelique thought. And truly it was, several 
worlds. Claire’s apartments with some modern furnish- 
ings wore one aspect. Her windows overlooked the 
garden. The living part was gloomy, undeniably 
so. Then adjoining were Monsieur Fleurien’s rooms. 
Sitting, sleeping chamber, office where all complaints 
were heard and business transacted ; another for accounts, 
the keeping of books and all private matters. Still another 
where the slaves came, were called to account, and 
sentenced to punishment, or listened to when sorrows 
and trouble were their portion. In one way a strict hand 
was kept over them, in another it was the idyllic period of 
slavery, and this master was a friend. 
The cane fields stood in magnificent maturity. It had 
been a fine season. The long green leaves curling and 
waving luxuriantly when the breeze touched them ; the 
great stalks, yielding to the stroke of the sharp cane knife, 
fell in rows like ranks of soldiers swept down. There 
was a subtle activity everywhere. Great masculine, 
heavy-limbed negroes, the lithe younger ones with their 
sinuous bodies, the water-carriers with graceful, alert 
movements occasionally dodging a rough and not ill- 
natured blow, the monotonous singing that kept time to 
the labor, the evenings when the gangs returned home 
with their mules and wagons and tools, men and women 
with sudden hilarity welcoming the coming night as 
something that belonged to them. 
Down the long rows of negro cabins there was a 
cheerful sound and savory smell of coming supper. 
Nearly naked babies, black and shining, tumbled about, 
played, quarrelled, screamed with blows showered upon 
them or made the place ring with merriment. 
‘‘There are so many of them !” cried Sylvie, in amaze- 
ment. “I should think you would have to count them !” 
Papa Fleurien laughed. His teeth were still sound 
and white, and his lips red as if with the fires of youth. 
“Yes, we do, when the New Year comes in. Ah, 
that is a grand time, a holiday. But it is not sugar-making 
all the year round. And here there are only four or five 
hundred. Ah, you should see my neighbor, M. Poydras. 
There is a man for you ! Seven hundred perhaps to feed 
and clothe and watch and make work, for, look you, they 
are lazy. It was born in them ages ago.” 
“They did not have to work in their own land.” 
M. Fleurien shrugged his shoulders. 
“Ah, that is a grand mistake. They were made slaves 
even there. They had to fight for their masters. They 
were killed by scores when their chief died. Some 
were buried alive even. They were made to draw heavy 
loads, for there were no other beasts of burden. They 
were worse than the Indians. And here they have good 
homes. If it is a bad season they do not starve. And 
they have much enjoyment in their way. We cannot all 
be alike !” 
Sylvie laughed. '‘Oh, it is the difference that makes 
the world so entertaining. Now, I should not like to be 
a nun and always wear the same kind of gown and coif, 
and talk in the same low tone, and always take the same 
little walks and sleep in the same cell and have no 
journeys ” 
"Thou surely art not meant for a nun.” He studied 
the bright dimpled face and the heavenly blue eyes. 
"Thou art born to make some man’s heart glad and per- 
haps give an ache to others. But the nuns are very good. 
They have the vocation of God, who puts it in their 
hearts.” 
If there were not so many books to read in those days, 
there were reminiscences that have been the starting-point 
of histories and tales. And nothing pleased Monsieur 
Fleurien better than to sit with his family around him 
when the day with its work was ended, for it was really 
ended at that period, and talk over the times when he was 
young. He was past sixty now and had not married 
until after thirty. He and his father had come to New 
Orleans under the old French government, and expected 
to make a fortune in indigo. He too remembered when 
the patriot Lafreniere had harangued the planters and 
townsmen, and exhorted them to strike for liberty, and 
failed, as so many early struggles have. And then there 
had been barely three thousand souls in all the province. 
And he had fought under Galvez when the British were 
planning to take New Orleans. 
‘‘Oh, were you really a soldier?” cried Sylvie, her 
eyes alight with enthusiasm. This small man with his 
delicate wrinkled face ! For to her it seemed as if all 
soldiers should be tall and strong and youthful. 
“Ah, yes. And though we did not love Spain, we 
hated England, and we fought for our homes, or at least 
the land we claimed. We remembered how England had 
driven out the Acadians, and perhaps she might drive us 
away too. Ah, he was a brave young fellow and one 
can’t help honoring him for all his Spanish blood. There 
was Manchac and Baton Rouge, and the Acadians had a 
chance to strike back, which -they did bravely. And the 
next year he took Fort Charlotte on the Mobile. After 
that I came home with a wound. But he and General 
Miro went on until they had conquered the whole of West 
Florida. We came up in this wild land and traded and 
raised myrtle wax, and made poor brown sugar until 
Monsieur de Bore turned it white with his magic 
knowledge. And there was Monseiur Poydras trading 
up and down the river, and now it is cotton and sugar- 
cane.” 
Besides the facts was wonderful legendary lore such 
as is handed down from father to son, or from some old 
gra’mere to youthful generations. Charms such as girls 
use, and tragic tales growing out of them. 
Sylvie would sit beside him and listen, a fascinated 
auditor. Her slim hand would rest on his knee, some- 
times to be clasped by his, which was still soft. It was 
delightful to have a new listener. 
“But were they really charms?” the child queried. 
“Could they wish for things and have them come to pass ? 
And did they hear their lovers’ names truly called on 
St. John’s night ?” 
“They thought so. There was an old -slave woman 
that was devoted to my papa who had a curious amulet. 
She herself had come from Africa. She had only to 
rub it and wish for some one and he was sure to come. 
She had a lover, and one night she wanted to go to a 
dance ; so she wished for him. But the drawback was 
that the person you wished for must never be across 
water. The poor lover was, and in trying to cross the 
river he was drowned.” 
'‘Oh, how could she have forgotten !” 
“She might not have known where he was,” said 
Angelique. 
“But the amulet, what did she do with that?” ques- 
tioned Sylvie, eagerly. 
Monsieur Fleurien smiled a little. 
“I wanted her to give it to me, but one day she went 
out and dropped it in the river. And shortly afterward 
she died.” 
“And there is the story of the ring that makes one 
invisible, and ever so many legends.” 
“I wish I had it,” said Sylvie, eagerly. “I would wish 
at once for Gervaise. It is getting to be very lonesome 
without him.” 
“But he might be across water.” 
“Oh, dear! Why, you couldn't always be certain.” 
“There are so many superstitions among the slaves,” 
said Claire. “And some really horrible Voudoux things. 
Then there are the children -born with a caul or a thin 
membrane over the head and face. The child can see 
into futurity and tell fortunes.” 
“And a sea captain will sometimes pay a big price for 
the caul,” exclaimed M. Fleurien, “as he thinks no bad 
luck will happen to him while it is on board. So the 
superstitions are not all confined to the blacks.” 
“And all the foolish signs the girls have in the convent,” 
laughed Claire. '‘But I wore a yellow garter and found 
a lover,” she added, triumphantly. ”And we used to cut 
our nails on Monday morning before breakfast to get a 
present.” 
“And did you get the present?” asked Sylvie, all 
interest. 
“Well, we often forgot to do it, eager as we were for 
the present. Yes, we surely did sometimes.” 
“And the old women in the city who sell love powders 
and charms !” 
“All nations have much the same superstitions,” said 
the host with his good night. “Little one, do not spend 
any time dreaming, but sleep sweetly.” 
There was the great red brick structure with its 
furnaces and chimneys, its long sheds where rows of 
hogsheads were like bristling fortifications. The new 
methods with the sacharometer and polariscope and 
other modern ideas had not come in yet. M. de 
Bore’s methods led on to fortune in those days and 
were satisfactory. And the crowds of half-clad negroes 
looking weird enough in the atmosphere of steam, dip- 
ping from kettle to kettle until the overseer discerns the 
sparkling grains, and then the shout of triumph. Every 
day apparently the same anxiety, the same rejoicing. 
Then came the message that Monsieur Poydras would 
be pleased to receive them. Eugene heroically insisted 
that his father should attend the ladies, as one of them 
must remain on the plantation for authority. 
The slaves rowed them down, keeping time with 
musical notes that had no real words to them, only 
sounds. And there was their host to receive them. 
At this period he was about sixty, tall and still finely 
formed, like a man in the prime of life, and attired in the 
quaint French costume he never changed. A pleasing 
face, rather grave, but a most kindly, cheerful voice, and 
he gave the visitors a cordial greeting, for every one was 
welcome when he was at home. 
In this simple, unostentatious house and fashion lived 
one of the wealthiest men of his time, leading a most 
kindly and beneficent life, beloved by all who had ever 
dealt with him, and adored by his slaves. Wife and 
children were not among his earthly possessions; yet in 
his earlier days, when he had gone from plantation to 
plantation with his wares, children had run to greet him, 
and mothers had been delighted to receive him as a 
welcome guest. And now society paid him all the honor 
he would accept, and although he did not mingle largely 
in it, he was no recluse. Indeed, later on, when he had 
reached the age of seventy, he was elected a delegate to 
Congress from the Territory of Orleans, and took the 
long journey on horseback with a favorite servant. 
He also had a love for the accomplishments of the time. 
He was a fine performer on the old-fashioned lyre, and 
sang his own songs, often the heroic deeds of the early 
explorers, and found time to write poetry. If it was a 
little pompous and stilted, that was the tenor of the time, 
in which heroes were likened to those of mythology. 
He remembered at once that he had seen Mam’selle 
Saucier and the little one at one of the entertainments of 
the exiled Princes and greeted them with pleasure. 
‘T remarked your perfect accent,” he said. “We get 
our language so mixed up that it is a delight to hear one’s 
native tongue in its early elegance. For one can never 
quite resign the country of his childhood. It is still my 
dream to visit it again, though I have much affection for 
the land of my adoption, yet I hope to see it some day. 
Little one, why dost thou look incredulous ?” 
“Are you not afraid of the big ocean?” 
He smiled. ,“Why our river has nearly as much terror 
in its bosom. It is sleepy enough in these tranquil times, 
but in its stormy fury quite a giant. Hardly a year but 
some place is swept away. More than once the city has 
been inundated. Some day, perhaps, there will be suf- 
ficient wisdom to protect us and to manage it. Ah, how 
magnificent it must have looked to those early travellers 
with its great reaches of unbroken forests, its myriads 
of birds, its beautiful creatures that were wild vet not 
afraid, the glow and brilliance of its sunrise and sunset. 
From St. Louis down to the Gulf, and then across the 
Gulf — it is all a marvellous country! Yet one dreams 
occasionally of the other far side — but one would not 
wish to see the storm and terror that have fallen upon it.” 
The grave eyes had so much soul in them that 
Angelique felt he was a poet, though her intellectual 
knowledge was extremely limited. 
‘T am so glad we came away,” said Sylvie proudly. 
“And I do not mean ever to go back. I do not know but 
two or three people in all France, and they may be dead; 
but there are so many delightful folks here, and it is so 
amusing to go down in the town and see all the strange 
sights and the little black children tumbling about ready 
to make any funny antics for you if you only smile on 
them. And every flower-covered house, almost it seems 
like a great garden.” 
“Ah, what a happy light youth lends ! Child, keep 
these eyes that can see so much joy as long as you can.” 
“I shall keep them always.” She raised them in their 
azure softness. “I want to be merry and glad all the days 
of my life.” 
“I think thou wilt be.” 
She was like a bird darting hither and thither. Claire 
was vivacious as well, and was quite at home in the old 
house. Angelique was delighted to visit the sort of study 
where the master spent his hours of recreation. Here 
indeed was quite a library picked up at various times and 
places, and the young girl remarked some old friends 
among them. 
“You see I was so much with my cousin the last year 
in France,” she said, half in apology for knowing them. 
“And he was fresh from school. There were no girls, 
and the Marquise was ill most of the time. And now we 
have been learning Spanish and a little English, and I 
have time to read and think.” 
“But forget not a woman’s true sphere,” he suggested 
gently. “That is the best and happiest destiny.” 
The dinner was at the old-time noon hour. The host 
insisted that Madame Fleurien should grace the head of 
the table, which she did charmingly. Were there not 
some of his own that he could draw around his board 
and make a family circle, he wondered ? For in the years 
to come when the cares of business would be less exact- 
ing, would it not be a pleasure to have some dear faces 
about him ? 
The cotton gin was quite a new thing in those days, 
and they must see that. Here was the other great sugar- 
making house, with its busy, happy laborers who had a 
cheerful smile for their master as he passed them. And 
until the day of his death, which was to be of ripe old age, 
they were devoted to him — a devotion he meant nobly to 
repay, but his last wishes were disregarded by the State 
he had served so well. 
Sylvie was charmed with Pointe Coupee and Papa 
Fleurien, and he was loath to let her go. 
“And now we must go to the last cutting,” he declared 
one day. “You must not miss that.” 
It was quite a grand ceremony. When they came to 
the last row the tallest cane was chosen and left uncut, 
while the green forest fell all about it. After it was 
carried in, the gang came out to the place with the over- 
seer and commandeiir, one of the head negroes, who tied 
a blue ribbon to the cane, sang' to it and danced around 
it as an Indian might have done, and suddenly cut it down 
with a shout. The work was ended. Mounting a cart, 
it was borne aloft in triumph amid singing and shout- 
ing, the women waving bright handkerchiefs, and carried 
to the great house, where the master accepted it with a 
speech. Then they were treated and the day ended with 
a dance in one of the cleared spaces where pine torches 
could be lighted with no danger of firing anything. 
‘‘Why, it is like a picture !” cried Sylvie, enthusias- 
tically. “If only Monsieur Poydras could paint it !” 
“Or put it in verse,” said Papa Fleurien. 
“It is quite delightful to have a friend so near one's 
age,” said Claire. “I shall miss thee sorely. Zenobie is 
so full of girl’s whims and pranks and does not enjoy 
our quiet. Still, Angelique,” caressing her tenderly, 
“thou art too sweet to comb St. Catharine’s hair. Some 
husband must have the gift of thy devotion.” 
Angelique blushed. What was it that held her back 
from dreams of marriage and home ? 
Barbe and Jaques gave them a most fervent welcome. 
Viny went wild with delight. 
“It has been like a convent for stillness. Missy,” she 
cried. “And Telano has nearly died of grief.” 
“Oh, my poor fellow !” But Hylas would have the 
first attention and looked unutterable confessions with his 
eager eyes. Telano put his head in his mistress’s hand 
and gave a pathetic cry. 
“Oh, Telano, I’ve had such a splendid time, but it was 
dreadful to leave you so long. Hylas had the boys, but, 
my poor bird, you had no one, though I know Viny was 
good to you. And now I shall not go in ever so long 
again, and we will have good times together. Oh, you 
must not grieve so, now that you have me back again. 
We will sit by the lake and you shall hear about the 
sugar-making. And the deers are lovely and tame, and 
such beautiful peacocks ! But you are my heart’s delight, 
you know so much, Telano.” 
CHAPTER XVI. 
Christmas was a church day, rather solemn in the 
morning, toned down by Advent, which was quite devoutly 
kept. But New Year’s was the great festival. Before 
it was fairly light the slaves were swarming out of their 
cabins to the great house, to awaken the master and 
mistress, and the first one to greet them was envied all 
the year. Then began gift-giving. New suits of clothes, 
gay kerchiefs for the women, and the mother of a new 
baby always had something extra. On the plantations 
they always formed for a dance, interspersed with songs. 
In the city the dance had been forbidden, but there was 
often a beautiful song or two, accompanied by the plain- 
tive sound of the rude home-manufactured violin. 
The rest of the day was given over to jollity. True, 
many of the slaves paid for two much vehemence in the 
calaboose. But it was their one grand holiday. Servants 
were hired out, slaves took to themselves wives, and for 
a week there was more or less commotion. Indeed, the 
lower class of whites and the half-breeds were more dis- 
orderly than the negroes. Drinking brawls, gaming, and 
disreputable balls raged like a carnival. Then everybody 
settled to the old routine. 
There was a rather sharp winter after that, and the 
older people recalled their stories of snow and the big 
freeze when the fruit was blighted. And once the river 
was frozen over. 
“How curious it must have seemed !” commented 
Sylvie. ‘T should like to see snow.” 
Fires in the wide chimneys felt good. The child sat 
in the glow with Hylas by her side and dreamed all 
manner of strange things as one does on the dividing line 
when one longs for something new and yet is almost 
afraid of that unknown land called the future. 
When Gervaise came home ! He was having a won- 
derful time journeying about. None of it could be told 
in a letter. It would take all one’s time. But there 
seemed a great deal of space devoted to Monsieur Norton, 
and mysterious allusions to some great future happening. 
The Union of the colonies was so much grander than 
one could imagine. In the new capital, which was for 
the whole country, a splendid body of men came to 
represent every State and present its needs. He had seen 
the President, Monsieur Adams, but the grand general 
who had led the armies to victory and snatched his 
country from foreign domination, giving it the larger 
liberty, and again served it as President, had died in his 
beautiful country home, whither he had retired to spend 
his old age. The whole country had mourned him. 
Once they had quite given up the search for Cousin 
Hugh, as the fact of his death seemed to be established. 
And then M. Norton had found another clue. They 
were to come back by an overland journey whidi would 
bring them to the place indicated, but if they did succeed 
it would be owing to M. Norton’s perseverance and 
knowledge of the country. 
“Do you hear that?’’ Sylvie said to Hylas. “Your dear 
master may find our Cousin Hugh, and we shall all be 
so glad.” 
Public events to change the destiny of the whole 
Province of Louisiana had been marching on rapidly. 
Governor Gayoso had died in the midst of an intrigue 
with Wilkinson and his party. The Marquis Caso Calvo 
proving weak had been succeeded by Don Manuel de 
Salcedo. But the intendant Morales held the real power 
and hampered American commerce, as well as discourag- 
ing emigration. The M oniteitr de Louisiane was the only 
paper, and being published in French, and having French 
interests at heart, was not likely to disseminate much 
American news. True, there had been an undercurrent 
of feeling that the province had been transferred back to 
France, and yet there was terror as well as exultation 
in it. For had not the redoubtable First Consul, who was 
fast making himself the arbiter of Europe, said to the St. 
Domingans, “Whatever be your color or your origin, you 
are free” ? What if this should be his fiat to them ! 
They heard little about the political aspect of matters 
in the quiet home on the St. John Road. Father Antoine 
no longer worked the small plantation, and Jaques had 
two hired slaves. Zenobie and Hortense had so far out- 
stripped Sylvie that they were young ladies going to balls, 
and having whispered confidences about a “parti.” 
Zenobie held her head high and coquetted even under the 
careful eyes of her mother; Claire was wildly happy in 
the possession of twin boys; and gra’mere still lived, 
thanks to the devotion of Olympie. Mrs. Murch and 
her two boys had followed her husband to Kentucky, 
where he had succeeded in obtaining a farm and building 
a log cabin. 
‘T don’t know what I should do without you, Hylas,” 
Sylvie said a dozen times a day, in a most melancholy 
tone. “I don’t believe any one will ever come back to us ! 
And Angel does nothing but pore over those stupid books, 
while Hortense, with all her protestations, has ceased to 
care for me, and Laure is really going to be a nun !” 
In the midst of these lamentations the young traveller 
returned. 
Was this indeed Gervaise? He was taller and more 
manly, and so changed that Barbe declared she would 
never have known him. Angelique was proud of him. 
Sylvie, half afraid, was stunned by the complete alteration 
in him. She could not run to him and hang on his arm, 
or order him about with her pretty imperiousness. She 
did not understand how much of the change was in 
herself. 
Oh, one could never have written half the wonderful 
things he had to relate ! Angelique asked herself seri- 
ously if it could be true. Sylvie listened enraptured. 
There wxre a few old French stories of the simpler sort 
that girls were allowed to read, but this surpassed them 
all. No Arabian Nights was ever so marvellous as these 
cities of the East, where little girls went to school quite 
alone by themselves and had no end of pretty plays. 
Two days after Gervaise’s return there was a great 
commotion in old New Orleans. The cession that had 
been suspected and denied, and kept a secret from those 
most interested, was suddenly announced. The First 
Consul had exchanged the petty Italian kingdom of 
Etruria for this magnificent province. On the 26th of 
March, 1803, M. Laussat, the French Colonial Prefect, 
landed, commissioned to prepare for the advent of General 
Victor with a large body of troops to institute the new 
form of government. 
There was much indignation and wonderment that this 
cession had been kept a secret so long, and certainly the 
Louisianians had been cheapened by the bargain. Laus- 
sat, to allay their fears about the slaves, proclaimed the 
good-will and friendship of Napoleon, and that it was his 
intention to preserve the colony in all its rights and 
privileges, amending only such abuses as might have 
crept in. 
Yet it was not easy to satisfy the inhabitants at first. 
They could not understand all the diplomacy back of it. 
For Napoleon at war with England saw this was a 
vulnerable point to strike. Their ships of war were 
already in the Gulf of Mexico. And he understood the 
desire of the United States to possess it. There had been 
more than one conference in the garden of St. Cloud 
with Marbois and Talleyrand. President Adams was 
ready to descend upon it. There was the other counter- 
plotting. And he needed money to prosecute his war. 
‘‘Let them give you one hundred million francs, pay 
their own claims, and take the country,” he said to 
M. Marbois, who had the negotiations in hand, with 
Messrs. Livingston and Monroe. 
And while the dickering was going on. New Orleans 
was coming to believe herself really French once more, 
and beginning to rejoice in the fact of their reunion to 
France, which they had always desired. The enthusiasm 
grew. The French language was used without stint and 
openly taught. Many restrictions were honored in the 
breach. 
Gervaise Aubreton wondered if he really was a French- 
man ! He had seen no more beautiful country than this, 
yet his soul had been fired with the larger liberty of the 
Republic. The narrowness and illiberal policy that had- 
so retarded the growth of the city struck him as never 
before; indeed, he had not considered it at all in that old 
