"C'est çà! Now you are reasonable. Get out of this forest, my
friend--or stay and join us. Eh! That astonishes you? Why? Idiot, we
want men like you. We want men who have nothing to lose and--millions
to gain! Ah, you are amazed! Yes, millions--I say it. I, Tric-Trac of
the Glacière, who have done my time in Noumea, too! Yes, millions."
The young ruffian laughed and slowly passed his tongue over his thin
lips. The Lizard slowly returned his knife to its sheath, looked all
around, then deliberately sat down on the moss cross-legged. I could
have hugged him.
"A million? Where?" he asked, vacantly.
"Parbleu! Naturally you ask where," chuckled Tric-Trac. "Tiens! A
supposition that it's in this box!"
"The box is too small," said the Lizard, patiently.
Tric-Trac roared. "Listen to him! Listen to the child!" he cried,
delighted. "Too small to hold gold enough for you? Very well--but is
a ship big enough?"
"A big ship is."
Tric-Trac wriggled in convulsions of laughter.
"Oh, listen! He wants a big ship! Well--say a ship as big as that
ugly, black iron-clad sticking up out of the sea yonder, like a
Usine-de-gaz!"
"I think that ship would be big enough," said the poacher,
seriously.
Tric-Trac did not laugh; his little eyes narrowed, and he looked
steadily at the poacher.
"Do you mean what I mean?" he asked, deliberately.
"Well," said the Lizard, "what do you mean?"
"I mean that France is busy stitching on a new flag."
"Black?"
"Red--first."
"Oh-h!" mused the poacher. "When does France hoist that new red
flag?"
"When Paris falls."
The poacher rested his chin on his doubled fist and leaned forward
across his gathered knees. "I see," he drawled.
"Under the commune there can be no more poverty," said Tric-Trac;
"you comprehend that."
"Exactly."
"And no more aristocrats."
"Exactly."
"Well," said Tric-Trac, his head on one side, "how does that
programme strike you?"
"It is impossible, your programme," said the poacher, rising to his
feet impatiently.
"You think so? Wait a few days! Wait, my friend," cried Tric-Trac,
eagerly; "and say!--come back here next Monday! There will be a few
of us here--a few friends. And keep your mouth shut tight. Here! Wait.
Look here, friend, don't let a little pleasantry stand between
comrades. Your fagot-knife against my little flute that sings
pa-pa!--that leaves matters balanced, eh?"
The young ruffian had followed the Lizard and caught him by his
stained velvet coat.
"Voyons," he persisted, "do you think the commune is going to let a
comrade starve for lack of Badinguet's lozenges? Here, take a few of
these!" and the rascal thrust out a dirty palm full of twenty-franc
gold pieces.
"What are these for?" muttered the Lizard, sullenly.
"For your beaux yeux, imbecile!" cried Tric-Trac, gayly. "Come back
when you want more. My comrade, Citizen Buckhurst, will be glad to see
you next Monday. Adieu, my friend. Don't chatter to the Flics!"
He picked up his box and the packet of provisions, dropped his
revolver into the side-pocket of his jacket, cocked his greasy cap,
blew a kiss to the Lizard, and started off straight into the forest.
After a dozen steps he hesitated, turned, and looked back at the
poacher for a moment in silence. Then he made a friendly grimace.
"You are not a fool," he said, "so you won't follow me. Come again
Monday. It will really be worth while, dear friend." Then, as on an
impulse, he came all the way back, caught the Lizard by the sleeve,
raised his meagre body on tip-toe, and whispered.
The Lizard turned perfectly white; Tric-Trac trotted away into the
woods, hugging his box and smirking.
The Lizard and I walked back together. By the time we reached Paradise
bridge I understood him better, and he understood me. And when we
arrived at the circus tent, and when Speed came up, handing me a
telegram from Chanzy refusing my services, the Lizard turned to me
like an obedient hound to take my orders--now that I was not to
re-enter the Military Police.
I ordered him to disobey the orders from Lorient and from the mayor of
Paradise; to take to the woods as though to avoid the conscription; to
join Buckhurst's franc-company of ruffians, and to keep me fully
informed.
"And, Lizard," I said, "you may be caught and hanged for it by the
police, or stabbed by Tric-Trac."
"Bien," he said, coolly.
"But it is a brave thing you do; a soldierly thing!"
He was silent.
"It is for France," I said.
He shrugged his shoulders.
"And we'll catch this Tric-Trac red-handed," I suggested.
"Ah--yes!" His eyes glowed as though lighted up from behind. "And
another who is high in the police, and a friend of this Tric-Trac!"
"Was it that man's name he whispered to you when you turned so
white?" I said, suddenly.
The Lizard turned his glowing eyes on me.
"Was the man's name--Mornac?" I asked, at a hopeless venture.
The Lizard shivered; I needed no reply, not even his hoarse, "Are you
the devil, that you know all things?"
I looked at him wonderingly. What wrong could Mornac have done a
ragged outcast here on the Breton coast? And where was Mornac? Had he
left Paris in time to avoid the Prussian trap? Was he here in this
country, rubbing elbows with Buckhurst?
"Did Tric-Trac tell you that Mornac was at the head of that band?" I
demanded.
"Why do you ask me?" stammered the Lizard; "you know
everything--even when it is scarcely whispered!"
The superstitious astonishment of the man, his utter collapse and his
evident fear of me, did not suit me. Treachery comes through that kind
of fear; I meant to rule him in another and safer manner. I meant to
be absolutely honest with him.
It was difficult to persuade him that I had only guessed the name
whispered; that, naturally, I should think of Mornac as a high officer
of police, and particularly so since I knew him to be a villain, and
had also divined his relations with Buckhurst.
I drew from the poacher that Tric-Trac had named Mornac as head of the
communistic plot in Brittany; that Mornac was coming to Paradise very
soon, and that then something gay might be looked for.
And that night I took Speed into my confidence and finally Kelly Eyre,
our balloonist.
And we talked the matter over until long after midnight.
XV
FOREWARNED
The lions had now begun to give me a great deal of trouble. Timour
Melek, the old villain, sat on his chair, snarling and striking at me,
but still going through his paces; Empress Khatoun was a perfect devil
of viciousness, and refused to jump her hoops; even poor little Aïcha,
my pet, fed by me soon after her foster-mother, a big Newfoundland,
had weaned her, turned sullen in the pyramid scene. I roped her and
trimmed her claws; it was high time.
Oh, they knew, and I knew, that matters had gone wrong with me; that I
had, for a time, at least, lost the intangible something which I once
possessed--that occult right to dominate.
It worried me; it angered me. Anger in authority, which is a weakness,
is quickly discovered by beasts.
Speed's absurd superstition continued to recur to me at inopportune
moments; in my brain his voice was ceaselessly sounding--"A man in
love, a man in love, a man in love"--until a flash of temper sent my
lions scurrying and snarling into a pack, where they huddled and
growled, staring at me with yellow, mutinous eyes.
Yet, strangely, the greater the risk, and the plainer to me that my
lions were slipping out of my control, the more my apathy increased,
until even Byram began to warn me.
Still I never felt the slightest physical fear; on the contrary, as
my irritation increased my disdain grew. It seemed a monstrous bit of
insolence on the part of these overgrown cats to meditate an attack on
me. Even though I began to feel that it was only a question of time
when the moment must arrive, even though I gradually became certain
that the first false move on my part would precipitate an attack, the
knowledge left me almost indifferent.
That morning, as I left the training-cage--where, among others, Kelly
Eyre stood looking on--I suddenly remembered Sylvia Elven and her
message to Eyre, which I had never delivered.
We strolled towards the stables together; he was a pleasant,
clean-cut, fresh-faced young fellow, a man I had never known very
well, but one whom I was inclined to respect and trust.
"My son," said I, politely, "do you think you have arrived at an age
sufficiently mature to warrant my delivering to you a message from a
pretty girl?"
"There's no harm in attempting it, my venerable friend," he replied,
laughing.
"This is the message," I said: "On Sunday the book-stores are
closed in Paris."
"Who gave you that message, Scarlett?" he stammered.
I looked at him curiously, brutally; a red, hot blush had covered his
face from neck to hair.
"In case you asked, I was to inform you," said I, "that a Bretonne
at Point Paradise sent the message."
"A Bretonne!" he repeated, as though scared.
"A Bretonne!"
"But I don't know any!"
I shrugged my shoulders discreetly.
"Are you certain she was a Bretonne?" he asked. His nervousness
surprised me.
"Does she not say so?" I replied.
"I know--I know--but that message--there is only one woman who could
have sent it--" He hesitated, red as a pippin.
He was so young, so manly, so unspoiled, and so red, that on an
impulse I said: "Kelly, it was Mademoiselle Elven who sent you the
message."
His face expressed troubled astonishment.
"Is that her name?" he asked.
"Well--it's one of them, anyway," I replied, beginning to feel
troubled in my turn. "See here, Kelly, it's not my business, but you
won't mind if I speak plainly, will you? The times are queer--you
understand. Everybody is suspicious; everybody is under suspicion in
these days. And I want to say that the young lady who sent that
curious message to you is as clever as twenty men like you and me."
He was silent.
"If it is a love affair, I'll stop now--not a question, you
understand. If it is not--well, as an older and more battered and
world-worn man, I'm going to make a suggestion to you--with your
permission."
"Make it," he said, quietly.
"Then I will. Don't talk to Mademoiselle Elven. You, Speed, and I
know something about a certain conspiracy; we are going to know more
before we inform the captain of that cruiser out there beyond Point
Paradise. I know Mademoiselle Elven--slightly. I am afraid of her--and
I have not yet decided why. Don't talk to her."
"But--I don't know her," he said; "or, at least I don't know her by
that name."
After a moment I said: "Is the person in question the companion of
the Countess de Vassart?"
"If she is I do not know it," he replied.
"Was she once an actress?"
"It would astonish me to believe it!" he said.
"Then who do you believe sent you that message, Kelly?"
His cheeks began to burn again, and he gave me an uncomfortable look.
A silence, and he sat down in my dressing-room, his boyish head buried
in his hands. After a glance at him I began changing my training-suit
for riding-clothes, whistling the while softly to myself. As I
buttoned a fresh collar he looked up.
"Mr. Scarlett, you are well-born and--you are here in the circus with
the rest of us. You know what we are--you know that two or three of us
have seen better days,... that something has gone wrong with us to
bring us here,... but we never speak of it,... and never ask
questions.... But I should like to tell you about myself;... you are a
gentleman, you know,... and I was not born to anything in
particular.... I was a clerk in the consul's office in Paris when
Monsieur Tissandier took a fancy to me, and I entered his balloon
ateliers to learn to assist him."
He hesitated. I tied my necktie very carefully before a bit of broken
mirror.
"Then the government began to make much of us,... you remember? We
started experiments for the army.... I was intensely interested, and
... there was not much talk about secrecy then,... and my salary was
large, and I was received at the Tuileries. My head was turned;...
life was easy, brilliant. I made an invention--a little electric screw
which steered a balloon ... sometimes..." He laughed, a mirthless
laugh, and looked at me. All the color had gone from his face.
"There was a woman--" I turned partly towards him.
"We met first at the British Embassy,... then elsewhere,...
everywhere.... We skated together at the club in the Bois at that
celebrated fête,... you know?--the Emperor was there--"
"I know," I said.
He looked at me dreamily, passed his hand over his face, and went on:
"Somehow we always talked about military balloons. And that evening
... she was so interested in my work ... I brought some little
sketches I had made--"
"I understand," I said.
He looked at me miserably. "She was to return the sketches to me at
Calman's--the fashionable book-store,... next day.... I never thought
that the next day was to be Sunday.... The book-stores of Paris are
not open on Sunday--but the War Office is."
I began to put on my coat.
"And the sketches were asked for?" I suggested--"and you naturally
told what had become of them?"
"I refused to name her."
"Of course; men of our sort can't do that."
"I am not of your sort--you know it."
"Oh yes, you are, my friend--and the same kind of fool, too. There's
only one kind of man in this world."
He looked at me listlessly.
"So they sent you to a fortress?" I asked.
"To New Caledonia,... four years.... I was only twenty, Scarlett,...
and ruined.... I joined Byram in Antwerp and risked the tour through
France."
After a moment's thought I said: "In your opinion, what nation
profited by your sketches? Italy? Spain? Prussia? Bavaria? England?...
Perhaps Russia?"
"Do you mean that this woman was a foreign spy?"
"Perhaps. Perhaps she was only careless, or capricious,... or
inconstant.... You never saw her again?"
"I was under arrest on Sunday. I do not know.... I like to believe
that she went to the book-store on Monday,... that she made an
innocent mistake,... but I never knew, Scarlett,... I never knew."
"Suppose you ask her?" I said.
He reddened furiously.
"I cannot.... If she did me a wrong, I cannot reproach her; if she
was innocent--look at me, Scarlett!--a ragged, ruined mountebank in a
travelling circus,... and she is--"
"An honest woman that a man might care for?"
"That is ... my belief."
"If she is," I said, "go and ask her about those drawings."
"But if she is not,... I cannot tell you!" he flashed out.
"Let us shake hands, Kelly," I said,... "and be very good friends.
Will you?"
He gave me his hand rather shyly.
"We will never speak of her again," I said,... "unless you desire
it. You have had a terrible lesson in caution; I need say no more.
Only remember that I have trusted you with a secret concerning
Buckhurst's conspiracy."
His firm hand tightened on mine, then he walked away, steadily, head
high. And I went out to saddle my horse for a canter across the moor
to Point Paradise.
It was a gray day, with a hint of winter in the air, and a wind that
set the gorse rustling like tissue-paper. Up aloft the sun glimmered,
a white spot in a silvery smother; pale lights lay on moorland and
water; the sea tumbled over the bar, boiling like a flood of liquid
lead from which the spindrift curled and blew into a haze that buried
the island of Groix and turned the anchored iron-clad to a phantom.
A day for a gallop, if ever there was such a day!--a day to wash out
care from a troubled mind and cleanse it in the whipping, reeking, wet
east wind--a day for a fox! And I rose in my saddle and shouted aloud
as a red fox shot out of the gorse and galloped away across the
endless moorland, with the feathers of a mallard still sticking to his
whiskers.
Oh, what a gallop, with risk enough, too; for I did not know the coast
moors; and the deep clefts from the cliffs cut far inland, so that eye
and ear and bridle-hand were tense and ready to catch danger ere it
ingulfed us in some sea-churned crevice hidden by the bracken. And how
the gray gulls squealed, high whirling over us, and the wild ducks in
the sedge rose with clapping wings, craning their necks, only to swing
overhead in circles, whimpering, and drop, with pendent legs and wings
aslant, back into the bog from which we startled them.
A ride into an endless gray land, sweet with sea-scents, rank with the
perfume of salty green things; a ride into a land of gushing winds,
wet as spray, strong and caressing, too, and full of mischief; winds
that set miles of sedge rippling; sudden winds, that turned still
pools to geysers and set the yellow gorse flowers flying; winds that
rushed up with a sea-roar like the sound in shells, then, sudden, died
away, to leave the furrowed clover motionless and the tall reeds still
as death.
So, by strange ways and eccentric circles, like the aërial paths of
homing sea-birds, I came at last to the spot I had set out for,
consciously; yet it surprised me to find I had come there.
Before I crossed the little bridge I scented the big orange-tinted
tea-roses and the pinks. Leaves on apricots were falling; the fig-tree
was bare of verdure, and the wind chased the big, bronzed leaves
across the beds of herbs, piling them into heaps at the base of the
granite wall.
A boy took my horse; a servant in full Breton costume admitted me;
the velvet humming of Sylvia Elven's spinning-wheel filled the
silence, like the whirring of a great, soft moth imprisoned in a
room:
              "Woe to the Maids of Paradise,
                   Yvonne!
               Twice have the Saxons landed--twice!
                   Yvonne!
               Yet shall Paradise see them thrice!
                   Yvonne! Yvonne! Marivonik!
              "Fair is their hair and blue their eyes,
              Yvonne!
              Body o' me! their words are lies,
              Yvonne!
              Maids of Paradise, oh, be wise!
              Yvonne! Yvonne! Marivonik!"
The door swung open noiselessly; the whir of the wheel and the sound
of the song filled the room for an instant, then was shut out as the
Countess de Vassart closed the door and came forward to greet me.
In her pretty, soft gown, with a tint of blue ribbon at the neck and
shoulders, she seemed scarcely older than a school-girl, so radiant,
so sweet and fresh she stood there, giving me her little hand to touch
in friendship.
"It was so good of you to come," she said; "I know you made it a
duty and gave up a glorious gallop to be amiable to me. Did you?"
I tried to say something, but her loveliness confused me.
Somebody brought tea--I don't know who; all I could see clearly was
her gray eyes meeting mine--the light from the leaded window touching
her glorious, ruddy hair.
As for the tea, I took whatever she offered; doubtless I drank it, but
I don't remember. Nor do I remember what she said at first, for
somehow I began thinking about my lions, and the thought obsessed me
even while striving to listen to her, even in the tingling maze of
other thoughts which kept me dumb under the exquisite spell of this
intimacy with her.
The delicate odor of ripened herbs stole into the room from the
garden; far away, through the whispering whir of the spinning-wheel, I
heard the sea.
"Do you like Sylvia's song?" she asked, turning her head to listen.
"It is a very old song--a very, very old one--centuries old. It's all
about the English, how they came to harry our coasts in those
days--and it has almost a hundred verses!" Something of the Bretonne
came into her eyes for a moment, that shadow of sadness, that patient
fatalism in which, too, there is something of distrust. The next
instant her eyes cleared and she smiled.
"The Trécourts suffered much from the English raiders. I am a
Trécourt, you know. That song was made about us--about a young girl,
Yvonne de Trécourt, who was carried away by the English. She was
foolish; she had a lover among the Saxons,... and she set a signal for
him, and they came and sacked the town, and carried her away, and that
was what she got for her folly."
She bent her head thoughtfully; the sound of the sea grew louder in
the room; a yellow light stole out of the west and touched the
window-panes, slowly deepening to orange; against it the fruit trees
stood, a leafless tracery of fragile branches.
"It is the winter awaking, very far away," she said, under her
breath.
Something in the hollow monotone of the sea made me think again of the
low grumble of restless lions. The sound was hateful. Why should it
steal in here--why haunt me even in this one spot in all the world
where a world-tired man had found a moment's peace in a woman's eyes.
"Are you troubled?" she asked, then colored at her own question, as
though deeming the impulse to speak unwarranted.
"No, not troubled. Happiness is often edged with a shadow. I am
content to be here."
She bent her head and looked at the heavy rose lying in solitary
splendor on the table. The polished wood reflected it in subdued tints
of saffron.
"It is a strange friendship," I said.
"Ours?... yes."
I said, musing: "To me it is like magic. I scarce dare speak, scarce
breathe, lest the spell break."
She was silent.
"--Lest the spell break--and this house, this room, fade away,
leaving me alone, staring at the world once more."
"If there is a spell, you have cast it," she said, laughing at my
sober face. "A wizard ought to be able to make his spells endure."
Then her face grew graver. "You must forget the past," she said;
"you must forget all that was cruel and false and unhappy,... will
you not?"
"Yes, madame."
"I, too," she said, "have much to forget and much to hope for; and
you taught me how to forget and how to hope."
"I, madame?"
"Yes,... at La Trappe, at Morsbronn, and here. Look at me. Have I not
changed?"
"Yes," I said, fascinated.
"I know I have," she said, as though speaking to herself. "Life
means more now. Somehow my childhood seems to have returned, with all
its hope of the world and all its confidence in the world, and its
certainty that all will be right. Years have fallen from my shoulders
like a released burden that was crushing me to my knees. I have
awakened from a dream that was not life at all,... a dream in which
I, alone, staggered through darkness, bearing the world on my
shoulders--the world doubly weighted with the sorrows of mankind,... a
dream that lasted years, but...you awoke me."
She leaned forward and lifted the rose, touching her face with it.
"It was so simple, after all--this secret of the world's malady. You
read it for me. I know now what is written on the eternal tablets--to
live one's own life as it is given, in honor, charity, without malice;
to seek happiness where it is offered; to share it when possible; to
uplift. But, most of all, to be happy and accept happiness as a
heavenly gift that is to be shared with as many as possible. And this
I have learned since ... I knew you."
The light in the room had grown dimmer; I leaned forward to see her
face.
"Am I not right?" she asked.
"I think so.... I am learning from you."
"But you taught this creed to me!" she cried.
"No, you are teaching it to me. And the first lesson was a gift,...
your friendship."
"Freely given, gladly given," she said, quickly. "And yours I have
in return,... and will keep always--always--"
She crushed the rose against her mouth, looking at me with inscrutable
gray eyes, as I had seen her look at me once at La Trappe, once in
Morsbronn.
I picked up my gloves and riding-crop; as I rose she stood up in the
dusk, looking straight at me.
I said something about Sylvia Elven and my compliments to her,
something else about the happiness I felt at coming to the château
again, something about her own goodness to me--Heaven knows what!--and
she gave me her hand and I held it a moment.
"Will you come again?" she asked.
I stammered a promise and made my way blindly to the door which a
servant threw open, flung myself astride my horse, and galloped out
into the waste of moorland, seeing nothing, hearing nothing save the
low roar of the sea, like the growl of restless lions.
XVI
A RESTLESS MAN
When I came into camp, late that afternoon, I found Byram and Speed
groping about among a mass of newspapers and letters, the first mail
we circus people had received for nearly two months.
There were letters for all who were accustomed to look for letters
from families, relatives, or friends at home. I never received
letters--I had received none of that kind in nearly a score of years,
yet that curious habit of expectancy had not perished in me, and I
found myself standing with the others while Byram distributed the
letters, one by one, until the last home-stamped envelope had been
given out, and all around me the happy circus-folk were reading in
homesick contentment. I know of no lonelier man than he who lingers
empty-handed among those who pore over the home mail.
But there were newspapers enough and to spare--French, English,
American; and I sat down by my lion's cage and attempted to form some
opinion of the state of affairs in France. And, as far as I could read
between the lines, this is what I gathered, partly from my own
knowledge of past events, partly from the foreign papers, particularly
the English:
When, on the 3d of September, the humiliating news arrived that the
Emperor was a prisoner and his army annihilated, the government, for
the first time in its existence, acted with promptness and decision
in a matter of importance. Secret orders were sent by couriers to the
Bank of France, to the Louvre, and to the Invalides; and, that same
night, train after train rushed out of Paris loaded with the
battle-flags from the Invalides, the most important pictures and
antique sculptures from the Louvre, the greater part of the gold and
silver from the Bank of France, and, last but by no means least, the
crown and jewels of France.
This Speed and I already knew.
These trains were despatched to Brest, and at the same time a telegram
was directed to the admiral commanding the French iron-clad fleet in
the Baltic to send an armored cruiser to Brest with all haste
possible, there to await further orders, but to be fully prepared in
any event to take on board certain goods designated in cipher. This we
knew in a general way, though Speed understood that Lorient was to be
the port of departure.
The plan was a good one and apparently simple; and there seemed to be
no doubt that jewels, battle-flags, pictures, and coin were already
beyond danger from the German armies, now plodding cautiously
southward toward the capital, which was slowly recovering from its
revolutionary convulsions and preparing for a siege.
The plan, then, was simple; but, for an equally simple reason, it
miscarried in the following manner. Early in August, while the French
armies from the Rhine to the Meuse were being punished with frightful
regularity and precision, the French Mediterranean squadron had sailed
up and down that interesting expanse of water, apparently in patriotic
imitation of the historic
             "King of France and twenty thousand men."
For, it now appeared, the French admiral was afraid that the Spanish
navy might aid the German ships in harassing the French transports,
which at that time were frantically engaged in ferrying a sea-sick
Algerian army across the Mediterranean to the mother country.
