The judgments of society are rarely quite at fault, but they are almost
always relative and liable to change. They are, indeed, appreciations of
an existing state of things, rather than verdicts from which there is no
appeal. The verdict comes after the state of things has ceased to exist.
Guido was happy, and nothing looks duller than the happiness of quiet
people. Nobody will go far to look at the sea when it is calm, if he is
used to seeing it at all; but those who live near it will walk a mile or
two to watch the breakers in a storm.
In the first place, Guido was in love, and more in love with Cecilia's
face and figure than he guessed. In the early days of their acquaintance
he had enjoyed talking with her about the subjects in which she was
interested. Such conversation generally brought him to that condition of
intellectual suspense which was peculiarly delightful to him, for though
she did not persuade him to accept her own points of view, she made him
feel more doubtful about his own, so far as any of them were fixed, and
doubt meant revery, musing, imaginative argument about questions that
might never be answered. But he and she had now advanced to another
stage. Unconsciously, all that side of his nature had fallen into
abeyance, and he thought only of positive things in the immediate
future. When he was with Cecilia, no matter how the conversation began,
it soon turned upon their plans for their married life; and he found it
so infinitely pleasant to talk of such matters that it did not occur to
him to ask whether she regarded them as equally interesting.
She did not; she saw the change in him, and regretted it. A woman who is
not really in love, generally likes a man less after he has fallen
hopelessly in love with her. It is true that she sometimes likes herself
the better for her new conquest, and there may be some compensation in
that; but there is something tiresome, if not repugnant to her, in the
placid, possessive complacency of a future husband, who seems to forget
that a woman has any intelligence except in matters concerning furniture
and the decoration of a house.
Cecilia was not capricious; she really liked Guido as much as ever, and
she would not even admit that he bored her when he came back again and
again to the same topics. She tried hard to look forward to the time
when all the former charm of their intercourse should return, and when,
besides being the best of friends, he would again be the most agreeable
of companions. It seemed very far off; and yet, in her heart, she hoped
that something might happen to hinder her marriage, or at least to put
it off another year.
Her life seemed very blank after the great struggle was ended, and in
the long summer mornings before Guido came to luncheon, she was
conscious of longing for something that should take the place of the old
dreams, something she could not understand, that awoke under the
listlessness which had come upon her. It was a sort of sadness, like a
regret for a loss that had not really been suffered, and yet was
present; it was a craving for sympathy where she had deserved none, and
it made her inclined to pity herself without reason. She sometimes felt
it after Guido had come, and it stayed with her, a strange yearning
after an unknown happiness that was never to be hers, a half-comforting
and infinitely sad conviction that she was to die young and that people
would mourn for her, but not those, or not that one, who ought to be
most sorry that she was gone. All her books were empty of what she
wanted, and for hours she sat still, doing nothing, or stood leaning on
the window-sill, gazing down through the slats of the blinds at the
glaring street, unconscious of the heat and the strong light, and of the
moving figures that passed.
Occasionally she drove out to the Villa Madama in the afternoon with her
mother, and Guido joined them. Lamberti did not come there, though he
often came to the house in the evening, sometimes with his friend, and
sometimes later. The two always went away together. At the villa,
Cecilia never sat down on the bench by the fountain, but from a distance
she looked at it, and it was like looking at a grave. In dreams she had
sat there too often with another to go there alone now; she had heard
words there that touched her heart too deeply to be so easily forgotten,
and there had been silences too happy to forget. She had buried all that
by the garden seat, but it was better not to go near the place again.
What she had laid out of sight there might not be quite dead yet, and if
she sat in the old place she might hear some piteous cry from beneath
her feet; or its ghost might rise and stare at her, the ghost of a
dream. Then, the yearning and the longing grew stronger and hurt her
sharply, and she turned under the great door, into the hall, and was
very glad when her mother began to chatter about dress and people.
But one day the very thing happened which she had always tried to avert.
Guido insisted on walking up and down the path with her, and they passed
and repassed the bench, till she was sure that he would make her sit
down upon it. She tried to linger at the opposite end, but he was
interested in what he was saying and did not notice her reluctance to
turn back.
Then it came. He stood still by the fountain, and then he sat down quite
naturally, and evidently expecting her readiness to do the same. She
started slightly and looked about, as if to find some means of escape,
but a moment later she had gathered her courage and was sitting beside
him.
The scene came back with excessive vividness. There was the evening
light, the first tinge of violet on the Samnite mountains, the base of
Monte Cavo already purple, the glow on Frascati, and nearer, on Marino;
Rome was at her feet, in a rising mist beyond the flowing river. Guido
talked on, but she did not hear him. She heard another voice and other
words, less gentle and less calm. She felt other eyes upon her, waiting
for hers to answer them, she felt a hand stealing near to hers as her
own lay on the bench at her side.
Still Guido talked, needing no reply, perfectly confident and happy. She
did not hear what he said, but when he paused she mechanically nodded
her head, as if agreeing with him, and instantly lost herself again. She
could not help it. She expected the touch, and the look, and then the
blinding rush that used to come after it, lifting her from her feet and
carrying her whole nature away as the south wind whirls dry leaves up
with it and far away.
That did not come, and presently she was covering her face with both
hands, shaking a little, and Guido was anxiously asking what had
happened.
"Nothing," she answered rather faintly. "It is nothing. It will be over
in a moment."
He thought that she had felt the sudden chill of the evening which is
sometimes dangerous in Rome in midsummer, and he rose at once.
"We had better go in before you catch cold," he said.
"Yes. Let us go in."
For the first time, his words really jarred on her. For the rest of her
life, he would tell her when to go indoors before catching cold. He was
possessive, complacent; he already looked upon her as a person in his
charge, if not as a part of his property. Unreasoningly, she said to
herself it was no concern of his whether she caught cold or not, and
besides, there was no question of such a thing. She had covered her eyes
with her hands for a very different reason, and was ashamed of having
done it, which made matters worse. In anger she told herself boldly that
she wished that he were not himself, only that once, but that he were
Lamberti, who at least took the trouble to amuse her and never put on
paternal airs to enquire about her health.
It was the beginning of revolt. Guido dined with them that evening, and
she was silent and absent-minded. Before the hour at which he usually
went away, she rose and bade him good night, saying that she was a
little tired.
"I am sure you caught cold to-day," he said, with real anxiety.
"We will not go to the villa again," she answered. "Good night."
It was late before she really went to bed, for when she was at last rid
of the conscientious Petersen, she sat long in her chair at the writing
table with a blank sheet of letter paper before her and a pen in her
hand. She dipped it into the ink often, and her fingers moved as if she
were going to write, but the point never touched the paper. At last the
pen lay on the table, and she was resting her chin upon her folded
hands, her eyes half closed, her breath drawn in short sighs that came
and went between her parted lips. Then, though she was all alone, the
blood rose suddenly in her face and she sprang to her feet, angry with
herself and frowning, and ashamed of her thoughts.
She felt hot, and then cold, and then almost sick with disgust. The
vision that had delighted her was far away now; she had forced herself
not to see it, but the man in it had come back to her in dreams; she had
driven him out of them, and for a time she had found peace, but now he
came to her in her waking thoughts and she longed to see his living face
and to hear his real voice. With utter self-contempt and scorn of her
own heart, she guessed that this was love, or love's beginning, and that
nothing could save her now.
Her first impulse was to write to him, to beg him to go away at any
price, never to see her again as long as she lived. As that was out of
the question, she next thought of writing to Guido, to tell him that she
could not marry him, and that she had made up her mind to retire from
the world and spend her life in a convent. But that was impossible, too.
There was no time to be lost. Either she must make one supreme effort to
drive Lamberti from her thoughts and to get back to the state in which
she had felt that she could marry Guido and be a good wife to him, or
else she must tell him frankly that the engagement must end. He would
ask why, and she would refuse to tell him, and after that she did not
dare to think of what would happen. It might ruin his life, for she knew
that he loved her very much. She was honestly and truly much more
concerned for him than for herself. It did not matter what became of
her, if only she could speak the truth to him without bringing harm to
him in the future. The world might say what it pleased.
It was right to break off her engagement, beyond question, and she had
done very wrong in ever agreeing to it; it was the greatest sin she had
ever committed, and with a despairing impulse she sank upon her knees
and poured out her heart in full confession of her fault.
Never in her life had she confessed as she did now, with such a
whole-hearted hatred of her own weakness, such willingness to bear all
blame, such earnest desire for forgiveness, such hope for divine
guidance in making reparation. She would not plead ignorance, nor even
any omission to examine herself, as an excuse for what she had done. It
was all her fault, and her eyes had been open from the first, and she
was about to see the whole life of a good friend ruined through her
miserable weakness.
As she went over it all, burying her face in her hands, the conviction
that she loved Lamberti grew with amazing quickness to the certainty of
a fact long known. This was her crime, that she had been too proud to
own that she had loved him at first sight; her punishment should be
never to see him again. She would abase herself before Guido and confess
everything to him in the very words she was whispering now, and she
would implore his forgiveness. Then, since Lamberti could not leave
Rome, she and her mother would go away on a long journey, to Russia,
perhaps, or to America, or China, and they would never come back. It
must be easy enough to avoid one particular person in the whole world.
This she would do, but she would not deny that she loved him. All her
fault had lain in trying to deny it in spite of what she felt when he
was near her, and it must be still more wrong to force the fact out of
sight now that it had brought her into such great trouble. There was
nothing to be done but to acknowledge it, though it was shame and
humiliation to do so. It stared her in the face, now that she had
courage to own the truth, and a voice called out that she had lied to
herself, to her mother, and to Guido for many weeks, and persistently,
rather than admit that she could fall so low. But even then, in the
midst of her self-abasement, another voice answered that it was no shame
to love a good and true man, and that Lamberto Lamberti was both.
                              CHAPTER XVIII
That night seemed the longest in all Cecilia's young life. She was worn
out with fatigue, and could have slept ten hours, yet she dreaded to
fall asleep lest she should dream of Lamberti, and speak to him in her
dream as she meant never to speak to any man now. Just when she was
losing consciousness, she roused herself as one does who fears a
horrible nightmare that comes back again and again. She was afraid to be
alone in the dark with her fear, and she had left one light burning
where it could not shine into her eyes. If she did not sleep before
daylight, she might not dream after that. When she shut her eyes she saw
Lamberti looking at her.
She rose and bathed her face and temples. The water was not very cold in
July, after standing in the room half the night, but it cooled her brows
a little and she lay down again, and tried to repeat things she knew by
heart. She knew all the fourteenth canto of the "Paradise," for
instance, and said it over, and tried to see what it described as she
had seen it all in the church of Santa Croce. While she whispered the
words she looked forward to those she loved best, the ones that bade her
rise and get the victory, and she went on with intense anticipation.
Before she reached them she lost herself, and they formed themselves on
her lips unnoticed as she saw Lamberti's face again.
It was unbearable. She sat up on the edge of the bed and stared into the
shadow, and presently she grasped her left arm above the elbow and tried
to force her nails into the flesh, with the instinctive idea that pain
must bring peace after it. But she could hardly hurt herself at all in
that way. Again she rose, and she went and looked at her reflection in
the tall glass.
There was not much light in the room, but she could see that she was
very pale, and that her eyes had a strange look in them, more like
Lamberti's than her own. It was a possession; she found him everywhere.
Behind her image in the glass she saw the door of the room, the only one
there was, which she had so often heard closed softly just as her dream
ended. She shivered, for the Palazzo Massimo is a ghostly place at
night, and her nerves were unstrung by what she had suffered. She knew
that she was dizzy for a moment, and the glass grew misty and then
clear, and reflected nothing to her sight, nothing but the whole door,
as if she herself were not standing there, all in white, between it and
the mirror.
It was going to open, she felt sure. It was going to open softly, though
she knew it was locked, and then some one would enter. She shivered
again, and felt her loose hair rising on her head, as if lifted by a
cool breeze. It was a moment of agony, and her teeth chattered. He was
coming, and she was paralysed, helpless to move, rooted to the spot. In
one second more she must hear the slipping of the latch bolt, and he
would be behind her.
No, nothing came. Gradually she began to see herself in the glass again,
a faint ashy outline, then a transparent image, like the wraith of her
dead self, with staring eyes and dishevelled colourless hair. Her terror
was gone; she vaguely wondered where she had been, and looked curiously
at her reflected face.
"I think I am going mad," she said aloud, but quite quietly, as she
turned away from the mirror.
She lay down again on her back, her arms straightened by her sides, and
she looked at the ceiling. Since she must think of something, she would
try to think out what she was to say and do on the morrow. She would
telephone to Guido in the morning to come and see her, of course, and in
twenty minutes he would be sitting beside her on the little sofa in the
drawing-room. Then she would tell him everything, just as she had
confessed it all to herself that evening. She would throw herself upon
his mercy, she would say that she was irresistibly drawn to his friend;
but she would promise never to see Lamberti again, since that was to be
the punishment of her fault. There was clearly nothing else to do, if
she had any self-respect left, any modesty, any sense of decency. It
would be hard in the beginning, but afterwards it would grow easier.
Poor Guido! he would not understand at first, and he would look at her
as if he were dazed. She would give anything to save him the pain of it
all, but he must bear it, and in the end it would be much better. Of
course, the cowardly way would be to make her mother tell him.
She had not thought of her mother till then, but she had grown used to
directing her, and to feeling that she herself was the ruling spirit of
the two. Her mother would accept the decision, though she would protest
a good deal, and cry a little. That was to be regretted, but it did not
really matter since this was a question of absolute right or absolute
wrong, in which there was no choice.
She would not see Lamberti again, not even to say good-bye. It would be
wicked to see him, now that she knew the truth. But it was right to own
bravely that she loved him. If she hesitated in that, there would be no
sense in what she meant to do. She loved him with all her heart, with
everything in her, with every thought and every instinct, as she had
loved long ago in her vision. And as she had overcome then, for the sake
of a vow from which she was really freed, so she would conquer again for
the sake of the promise she had given to Guido d'Este, and was going to
revoke to-morrow.
A far cry echoed through the silent street, and there was a faint grey
light between the slats of the blinds. The darkness was ended at last,
and perhaps she might allow herself to sleep now. She tried, but she
could not, and she watched the dawn growing to cold daylight in the
room, till the single lamp hardly glimmered in the corner. She closed
her lids and rested as well as she could till it was time to get up.
She was very pale, and there were deep violet shadows under her eyes and
below the sharp arches of her brows, but Petersen was very near-sighted,
and noticed nothing unusual. Cecilia told her to telephone to Guido,
asking him to come at ten o'clock. When the maid returned, Cecilia bade
her arrange her hair very low at the back and to make it as smooth as
possible. There was not the slightest conscious desire for effect in the
order; when a woman has made up her mind to humiliate herself she always
makes her hair look as unobtrusive as possible, just as a
conscience-stricken dog drops his tail between his legs and hangs down
his ears to avert wrath. We men are often very unjust to women about
such things, which depend on instincts as old as humanity. Eastern
mourners do not strew ashes on their heads because it is becoming to
their appearance, and a woman's equivalents for ashes and sackcloth are
to do her hair low and wear grey, if she chances to dislike that colour.
"Are you going to confession, my dear?" asked the Countess in some
surprise when they met.
"No," Cecilia answered. "I could not sleep last night. I have telephoned
to Guido to come at ten." The Countess looked at her and instantly
understood that there was trouble.
"You are as white as a sheet," she said, with caution. "You had better
let him come after luncheon to-day."
"No. I must see him at once."
"Something has happened," the Countess said nervously. "I know something
has happened."
"I will tell you by-and-by. Please do not ask me now."
Her mother's look of anxiety turned slowly to an expression of real
fear, her eyes opened wide, she grew pale, and her jaw fell as her lips
parted. She looked suddenly old and grey.
"You are not going to marry him after all," she said, after a breathless
little silence.
Some seconds passed before Cecilia answered, and then her voice was sad
and low.
"How can I? I do not love him."
The Countess was horror-struck now, for she knew her daughter well. She
began to speak rather incoherently, but with real earnestness, imploring
Cecilia to think of what she was doing before it was too late, to
consider Guido's feelings, her own, everybody's, to reflect upon the
view the world would take of such bad faith, and, finally, to give some
reason for her sudden decision.
It was in vain that she pleaded. Cecilia, grave and suffering, answered
that she had taken everything into consideration and knew that she was
doing right. The world might call it bad faith to break an engagement,
but it would be nothing short of a betrayal to marry Guido since she had
become sure that she could never love him. That was reason enough, and
she would give no other. It was better that Guido should suffer for a
few days than be made to suffer for a lifetime. She had not consulted
any one, she said, when her mother questioned her; she would have done
so if this had been a matter needing judgment and wisdom, but it was
merely one of right and wrong, and she knew what was right, and meant to
do it.
The Countess began to cry, and when Cecilia tried to soothe her, she
pushed the girl aside and left the room in tears. A few minutes later
Petersen telephoned for the carriage, and in less than half an hour the
Countess was on her way to see Princess Anatolie, entirely forgetful of
the fact that Cecilia would be quite alone when Guido came at ten
o'clock.
Cecilia sat quite still in the drawing-room waiting for him. She was
very tired and pale, and her eyes smarted for want of sleep, but her
courage was not likely to fail her. She only wished that all might be
over soon, as condemned men do when they are waiting for execution.
She sat still a long time and she heard the little French clock on her
mother's writing table in the boudoir strike its soft chimes at the
third quarter, and then ring ten strokes at the full hour. She listened
anxiously for the servant's step beyond the door, and now and then she
caught her breath a little when she thought she heard a sound. It was
twenty minutes past ten when the door opened. She expected the man to
stand still, and announce Guido, and she looked away; but the footsteps
came nearer and nearer and stopped beside her. The man held out a small
salver on which lay a note addressed in Guido's hand. It was like a
reprieve after the long tension, for something must have happened to
prevent him from coming, something unexpected, but welcome, though she
would not own it.
In answer to her question, the man said that the messenger had gone
away, and he left the room. She tore the envelope with trembling
fingers.
Guido was ill. That was the substance of the note. He had felt ill when
he awoke early in the morning, but had thought it nothing serious,
though he was very uncomfortable. Unknown to him, his man had sent for a
doctor, who had come half an hour ago, after Cecilia's message had been
received and answered. The doctor had found him with high fever, and
thought it was a sharp attack of influenza; at all events he had ordered
Guido to stay in bed, and gave him little hope of going out for several
days.
The note dropped on Cecilia's knees before she had read the words of
loving regret with which it closed, and she found herself wondering
whether Lamberti would have been hindered from coming by a mere touch of
fever, under the same circumstances. But she would not allow herself to
dwell on that long, for it gave her pleasure to think of Lamberti, and
all such pleasure she intended to deny herself. It was quite bad enough
to know that she loved him with all her heart. She went back to her own
room.
There was nothing to be done but to write to Guido at once, for she
would not allow the day to pass without telling him what she meant to
do. She sat down and wrote as well as she could, weighing each sentence,
not out of caution, but in fear lest she should not make it clear that
she was altogether to blame for the mistake she had made, and meant to
bear all the consequences in the eyes of the world. She was truly and
sincerely penitent, and asked his forgiveness with touching humility.
She did not mention Lamberti, but she confessed frankly that since she
had been in Rome she had begun to love another man, as she ought to have
loved Guido, a man whom she rarely saw, and who had never shown the
least inclination to make love to her.
That was the substance of what she wrote. She read the words over, to be
sure that they said what she meant, and she told Petersen to send a man
at once with the letter. There was no answer, he was not to wait. She
gave the order rather hurriedly, for she wished her decision to become
irrevocable as soon as possible. It was a physical relief, but not a
mental one, to feel that it was done and that she could never recall the
fatal words. After reading such a letter there could be nothing for
Guido to do but to accept the situation and tell his friends that she
had broken the engagement. As for the immediate effect it might have on
him, she did not even take his slight illness into consideration. The
fact that he could not come and see her might even make it easier for
him to bear the blow. Of course, if he came, she should be obliged to
receive him, but she hoped that he would not. It would hurt her to see
how much he was hurt, and she was suffering enough already. In time she
trusted that he and she might be good friends, as young girls have an
unreasonable inclination to hope in such cases.
When the Countess came back from her visit to the Princess Anatolie she
was a little flushed, and there was a hard look in her face which
Cecilia had never seen before, and which made her expect trouble. To her
surprise, her mother kissed her affectionately on both cheeks.
"That old woman is a harpy," she said, as she left the room.
                               CHAPTER XIX
Guido took Cecilia's letter with a smile of pleasure when his man
brought it to him, and, as he felt its thickness between his fingers,
the delightful anticipation of reading it alone was already a real
happiness. She was distressed and anxious for him, he was sure, and
perhaps in saying so she had found some expression less formal than
those she generally used when she talked with him and assured him that
she really liked him very much.
"You may go," he said to his servant. "I need nothing more, thank you."
He was in bed, propped up by three or four pillows, and his face was
unnaturally flushed and already looked thin. A new book of memoirs, half
cut, and with the paper-knife between the leaves, lay on the arras
counterpane, in the middle of which royal armorial bearings with crown
and sceptre were represented in the fat arms of smiling cherubs. The
head of the carved bed was towards the windows of the wide room, so that
the light fell from behind; for Guido was an indolent man, and often lay
reading for an hour before he got up. On the small table beside him
stood a heavy Venetian tumbler of the eighteenth century, ornamented
with gold designs. A cigarette-case lay beside it. The carpet of the
room had been taken up for the summer, and the floor was of dark red
tiles, waxed and immaculate. In a modest way, and though he was
comparatively a poor man, Guido had always managed to have what he
wanted in the way of surroundings.
He looked at the address on the note, prolonging his anticipation as
much as possible. He recognised the neat French envelope as one of those
the Countess always had on her table in a stamped leather paper-rack. He
felt it again, and was sure that it contained at least four sheets. It
was good of her to write so much, and he had not really expected
anything. He forgot that his head was aching, that he had a tiresome
pain in his bones, and could feel the fever pulse beating in his
temples.
He glanced at the door, and then raised the letter to his dry lips, with
a look of boyish pleasure. Five minutes later the crumpled pages were
crushed in his straining fingers, and he lay twisted to one side, his
face to the wall and half buried in the pillow. The grief of his life
had come upon him unawares, and he was not able to bear it. Even if he
had not been alone, he could not have hidden what he felt then.
After a long time he got up and softly locked the door. He felt very
dizzy as he came and lay down again. One of the crumpled sheets of
Cecilia's letter had fallen to the floor, the rest lay on the bed beside
him and under him.
He lay still, and when he shut his eyes he saw red waves coming and
going, for the fever was high, and the blood beat up under his ears as
if the arteries must burst.
In an hour his man knocked at the door, and almost at the same instant
turned the handle, for he was accustomed to be admitted at once.
"Go away!" cried Guido, in a hoarse voice that stuck in his throat.
The servant's footsteps echoed in the corridor, and there was silence
again, and time passed. Then the knock was repeated, very discreetly and
with no attempt to turn the handle. Guido answered with an oath.
But his man was not satisfied this time, and he stood still outside,
with a puzzled expression. He had never heard Guido swear at any one, in
all the years of his service, much less at himself. His master was
either in a delirium, or something very grave had happened which he had
learned by the letter. The doctor had said that he was not dangerously
ill, so it was not likely that he should be already raving with the
fever. The man went softly away to his pantry, where the telephone was,
shutting each door carefully behind him. There was nothing to be done
but to inform Lamberti at once, if he could be found.
It was late in the afternoon before he got the message, on coming home
from a long day's work at the Ministry of War. He had not breakfasted
that day, for he had been unexpectedly sent for in the morning and had
been kept at the Ministry without a moment's respite. Without going to
his room he ran down the stairs again and hailed the first cab he met as
he hurried towards the Palazzo Farnese.
The bedroom door was still locked, but he spoke to Guido through it, in
answer to the rough order to go away which followed his first knock.
There was no reply.
"Please let me in," Lamberti said quietly. "I want very much to see
you."
Something like a growl came from the room, and presently there was a
sound of slippers on the smooth tiles, coming nearer. The key turned and
the door was opened a little.
"What is it?" Guido asked, in a voice unlike his own.
"I heard you were ill, and I have come to see you."
Lamberti spoke gently and steadily, but he was shocked by Guido's
appearance, as the latter stood before him in his loose silk garments,
looking gaunt and wild. There were great rings round his eyes, his face
was haggard and drawn, and his cheek-bones were flushed with the fever.
He looked much more ill than he really was, so far as his body was
concerned.
"Well, come in," he said, after a moment's hesitation.
As soon as Lamberti had entered Guido locked the door again to keep his
servant out.
"I suppose you had better be the first to know," he said hoarsely, as he
recrossed the room with unsteady steps.
He sat down upon the edge of his bed, supporting himself with his hands
on each side, his head a little bent.
"What has happened?" Lamberti asked, sitting on the nearest chair and
watching him. "Has your aunt been troubling you again?"
"No. It is worse than that." Guido paused, and his head sank lower. "The
Contessina has changed her mind," he managed to say clearly enough to be
understood.
Lamberti started and leaned forward.
"Do you mean to say that she has thrown you over?"
"Yes."
A dead silence followed. Then Guido threw himself on the bed again and
turned his face away.
