"Well, I know I won t," said Boyne. "I won 't 
call momma a woman." 
"It doesn 't matter what you do, Boyne dear," 
his sister serenely assured him. 
While he stood searching his mind for a suitable 
retort, a young man, not apparently many years 
his senior, came round the corner of the music- 
room, and put himself conspicuously in view at a 
distance from the Kentons. 
" There he is, now" said Boyne. " He wants 
to be introduced to Lottie." He referred the ques 
tion to Ellen, but Lottie answered for her. 
" Then why don 't you introduce him ?" 
" Well, I would if he was an American. But 
you can 't tell about these English." He resumed 
the dignity he had lost in making the explanation 
to Lottie, and ignored her in turning again to 
Ellen. "What do you think, Ellen?" 
" Oh, I don 't know about such things, Boyne," 
she said, shrinking from the responsibility. 
 
"Well, upon my word!" cried Lottie. "If Ellen 
can talk by the hour with that precious Mr. Breckon, 
and stay up here along with him, when everybody 
else is down below sick, I don 't think she can have 
a great deal to say about a half-grown boy like that 
being introduced to me." 
" He 's as old as you are," said Boyne, hotly. 
" Oh ! I saw him associating with you, and I 
thought he was a boy, too. Pardon me!" Lottie 
turned from giving Boyne his coup-de-grace, to 
plant a little stab in Ellen 's breast. " To be sure, 
now Mr. Breckon has found those friends of his, I 
suppose he won 't want to flirt with Ellen any more." 
"Ah, ha, ha!" Boyne broke in. "Lottie is mad 
because he stopped to speak to some ladies he knew. 
Women, I suppose she d call them." 
"Well, I shouldn 't call him a gentleman, any 
way," said Lottie. 
The pretty, smooth-faced, fresh-faced young fel 
low whom their varying debate had kept in abey 
ance, looked round at them over his shoulder as 
he leaned on the rail, and seemed to discover Boyne 
for the first time. He came promptly towards the 
Kentons. 
" Now," said Lottie, rapidly, " you 'll just have to." 
The young fellow touched his cap to the whole 
group, but he ventured to address only Boyne. 
" Every one seems to be about this morning," he 
said, with the cheery English-rising inflection. 
" Yes," answered Boyne, with such snubbing cold 
ness that Ellen 's heart was touched. 
 
"It 's so pleasant," she said, "after that dark 
weather." 
"Isn 't it?" cried the young fellow, gratefully. 
" One doesn 't often get such sunshine as this at 
sea, you know." 
"My sister, Miss Kenton, Mr. Pogis," Boyne 
solemnly intervened. "And Miss Lottie Ken- 
ton." 
The pretty boy bowed to each in turn, but he 
made no pretence of being there to talk with Ellen. 
"Have you been ill, too?" he actively addressed 
himself to Lottie. 
"No, just mad," she said. "I wasn 't very sick, 
and that made it all the worse being down in a 
poky state-room when I wanted to walk." 
"And I suppose you ve been making up for lost 
time this morning?" 
" Not half," said Lottie. 
"Oh, do finish the half with me!" 
Lottie instantly rose, and flung her sister the 
wrap she had been holding ready to shed from the 
moment the young man had come up. " Keep that 
for me, Nell. Are you good at catching ?" she asked 
him. 
"Catching?" 
"Yes! People," she explained, and at a sudden 
twist of the ship she made a clutch at his shoul 
der. 
"Oh! I think I can catch you." 
As they moved off together, Boyne said, "Well, 
upon my word!" but Ellen did not say anything 
 
in comment on Lottie. After a while she asked, 
" Who were the ladies that Mr. Breckon met ?" 
"I didn 't hear their names. They were some 
body he hadn 't seen before since the ship started. 
They looked like a young lady and her mother. 
It made Lottie mad when he stopped to speak with 
them, and she wouldn 't wait till he could get 
through. Kan right away, and made me come, 
too." 
XIII 
BRECKON had not seen the former interest between 
himself and Ellen lapse to commonplace acquaint 
ance without due sense of loss. He suffered justly, 
but he did not suffer passively, or without several 
attempts to regain the higher ground. In spite of 
these he was aware of being distinctly kept to the 
level which he accused himself of having chosen, 
by a gentle acquiescence in his choice more fatal 
than snubbing. The advances that he made across 
the table, while he still met Miss Kenton alone 
there, did not carry beyond the rack supporting 
her plate. She talked on whatever subject he start 
ed with that angelic sincerity which now seemed 
so far from him, but she started none herself; she 
did not appeal to him for his opinion upon any 
question more psychological than the barometer; 
and, 
"In a tumultuous privacy of storm," 
he found himself as much estranged from her as 
if a fair-weather crowd had surrounded them. He 
did not believe that she resented the levity he had 
shown; but he had reason to fear that she had 
finally accepted it as his normal mood, and in her 
efforts to meet him in it, as if he had no other, 
 
he read a tolerance that was worse than contempt. 
When he tried to make her think differently, if 
that was what she thought of him, he fancied her 
rising to the notion he wished to give her, and then 
shrinking from it, as if it must bring her the dis 
appointment of some trivial joke. 
It was what he had taught her to expect of him, 
and he had himself to blame. Now that he had 
thrown that precious chance away, he might well 
have overvalued it. She had certain provincial 
isms which he could not ignore. She did not know 
the right use of will and shall, and would and 
should, and she pronounced the letter r with a 
hard mid- Western twist. Her voice was weak and 
thin, and she could not govern it from being at 
times a gasp and at times a drawl. She did not 
dress with the authority of women who know more 
of their clothes than the people they buy them of; 
she did not carry herself like a pretty girl; she 
had not the definite stamp of young-ladyism. Yet 
she was undoubtedly a lady in every instinct; she 
wore with pensive grace the clothes which she 
had not subjected to her personal taste; and if she 
did not carry herself like a pretty girl, she had a 
beauty which touched and entreated. 
More and more Breckon found himself studying 
her beauty her soft, brown brows, her gentle, dark 
eyes, a little sunken, and with the lids pinched 
by suffering; the cheeks somewhat thin, but not 
colorless; the long chin, the clear forehead, and 
the massed brown hair, that seemed too heavy for 
 
the drooping neck. It was not the modern athletic 
type ; it was rather of the earlier period, when beau 
ty was associated with the fragility despised by a 
tanned and golfing generation. Ellen Kenton 's 
wrists were thin, and her hands long and narrow. 
As he looked at her across the racks during those 
two days of storm, he had sometimes the wish to 
take her long, narrow hands in his, and beg her to 
believe that he was worthier her serious friendship 
than he had shown himself. What he was sure 
of at all times now was that he wished to know the 
secret of that patient pathos of hers. She was not 
merely, or primarily, an invalid. Her family had 
treated her as an invalid, but, except Lottie, whose 
rigor might have been meant sanatively, they treat 
ed her more with the tenderness people use with 
a wounded spirit; and Breckon fancied moments 
of something like humility in her, when she seemed 
to cower from his notice. These were not so imag 
inable after her family took to their berths and 
left her alone with him, but the touching mystery 're 
mained, a sort of bewilderment, as he guessed it, a 
surprise such as a child might show at some incom 
prehensible harm. It was this grief which he had 
refused not merely to know he still doubted his 
right to know it but to share; he had denied not 
only his curiosity but his sympathy, and had exiled 
himself to a region where, when her family came 
back with the fair weather, he felt himself farther 
from her than before their acquaintance began. 
He had made an overture to its renewal in the 
 
book he lent her, and then Mrs. Rasmith and her 
daughter had appeared on deck, and borne down 
upon him when he was walking with Lottie Kenton 
and trying to begin his self-retrieval through her. 
She had left him; but they had not, and in the 
bonds of a prophet and his followers he found him 
self bound with them for much more conversation 
than he had often held with them ashore. The 
parochial duties of an ethical teacher were not 
strenuous, and Breckon had not been made to 
feel them so definitely before. Mrs. Rasmith held 
that they now included promising to sit at her 
table for the rest of the voyage; but her daughter 
succeeded in releasing him from the obligation; 
and it was she who smilingly detached the clinging 
hold of the elder lady. " We mustn 't keep Mr. 
Breckon from his friends, mother," she said, bright 
ly, and then he said he should like the pleasure of 
introducing them, and both of the ladies declared 
that they would be delighted. 
He bowed himself off, and half the ship s-length 
away he was aware, from meeting Lottie with her 
little Englishman, that it was she and not Ellen 
whom he was seeking. As the couple paused in 
whirring past Breckon long enough to let Lottie 
make her hat fast against the wind, he heard the 
Englishman shout: 
"I say, that sister of yours is a fine girl, isn 't 
she?" 
" She 's a pretty good - looker," Lottie answered 
back. "What 's the matter with her sister?" 
 
" Oh, I say !" her companion returned, in a trans 
port with her slangy pertness, which Breckon could 
not altogether refuse to share. 
He thought that he ought to condemn it, and he 
did condemn Mrs. Kenton for allowing it in one 
of her daughters, when he came up to her sitting 
beside another whom he felt inexpressibly incap 
able of it. Mrs. Kenton could have answered his 
censure, if she had known it, that daughters, like 
sons, were not what their mothers but what their 
environments made them, and that the same en 
vironment sometimes made them different, as he 
saw. She could have told him that Lottie, with 
her slangy pertness, had the truest and best of 
the men she knew at her feet, and that Ellen, 
with her meekness, had been the prey of the com 
monest and cheapest spirit in her world, and so left 
him to make an inference as creditable to his sex 
as he could. But this bold defence was as far from 
the poor lady as any spoken reproach was from 
him. Her daughter had to check in her a mechani 
cal offer to rise, as if to give Breckon her place, 
the theory and practice of Tuskingum being that 
their elders ought to leave young people alone 
together. 
" Don 't go, momma," Ellen whispered. " I don 't 
want you to go." 
Breckon, when he arrived before them, remained 
talking on foot, and, unlike Lottie 's company, he 
talked to the mother. This had happened before 
from him, but she had not got used to it, and 
 
now she deprecated in everything but words his 
polite questions about her sufferings from the rough 
weather, and his rejoicing that the worst was prob 
ably over. She ventured the hope that it was so, 
for she said that Mr. Kenton had about decided 
to keep on to Holland, and it seemed to her that 
they had had enough of storms. He said he was 
glad that they were going right on; and then 
she modestly recurred to the earlier opinion he had 
given her husband that it would be better to spend 
the rest of the summer in Holland than to go 
to Italy, as if she wished to conform herself in the 
wisdom of Mr. Kenton 's decision. He repeated 
his conviction, and he said that if he were in their 
place he should go to The Hague as soon as they 
had seen Rotterdam, and make it their headquarters 
for the exploration of the whole country. 
"You can 't realize how little it is; you can get 
anywhere in an hour; the difficulty is to keep in 
side of Holland when you leave any given point. 
I envy you going there." 
Mrs. Kenton inferred that he was going to 
stop in France, but if it were part of his close 
ness not to tell, it was part of her pride not to 
ask. She relented when he asked if he might 
get a map of his and prove the littleness of 
Holland from it, and in his absence she could 
not well avoid saying to Ellen, "He seems very 
pleasant." 
"Yes; why not?" the girl asked. 
"I don 't know. Lottie is so against him." 
 
" He was very kind when you were all sick." 
"Well, you ought to know better than Lottie; 
you ve seen him so much more." Ellen was silent, 
and her mother advanced cautiously, "I suppose 
he is very cultivated." 
"How can I tell? I 'm not." 
" Why, Ellen, I think you are. Very few girls 
have read so much." 
"Yes, but he wouldn 't care if I were cultivated. 
He is like all the rest. He would like to joke and 
laugh. Well, I think that is nice, too, and I wish 
I could do it. But I never could, and now I can 't 
try. I suppose he wonders what makes me such 
a dead weight on you all." 
"You know you 're not that, Ellen! You musn 't 
let yourself be morbid. It hurts me to have you say 
such things." 
" Well, I should like to tell him why, and see what 
he would say." 
"Ellen!" 
" Why not ? If he is a minister he must have 
thought about all kinds of things. Do you suppose 
he ever knew of a girl before who had been through 
what I have? Yes, I would like to know what he 
would really say." 
" I know what he ought to say ! If he knew, 
he would say that no girl had ever behaved more 
angelically." 
"Do you think he would? Perhaps he would 
say that if I hadn 't been so proud and silly Here 
he comes ! Shall we ask him ?" 
 
Breckon approached with his map, and her 
mother gasped, thinking how terrible such a thing 
would be if it could be; Ellen smiled brightly 
up at him. "Will you take my chair? And then 
you can show momma your map. I am going 
down," and while he was still protesting she was 
gone. 
" Miss Kenton seems so much better than she 
did the first day," he said, as he spread the map 
out on his knees, and gave Mrs. Kenton one end 
to hold. 
"Yes," the mother assented, as she bent over 
to look at it. 
She followed his explanation with a surface sense, 
while her nether mind was full of the worry of the 
question which Ellen had planted in it. What 
would such a man think of what she had been 
through? Or, rather, how would he say to her the 
only things that in Mrs. Kenton 's belief he could 
say? How could the poor child ever be made to 
see it in the light of some mind not colored with 
her family 's affection for her? An immense, an 
impossible longing possessed itself of the mother 's 
heart, which became the more insistent the more 
frantic it appeared. She uttered " Yes " and " No " 
and "Indeed" to what he was saying, but all the 
time she was rehearsing Ellen 's story in her inner 
sense. In the end she remembered so little what 
had actually passed that her dramatic reverie seem 
ed the reality, and when she left him she got her 
self down to her state-room, giddy with the shame 
 
and fear of her imaginary self -betrayal. She wished 
to test the enormity, and yet not find it so mon 
strous, by submitting the case to her husband, and 
she could scarcely keep back her impatience at 
seeing Ellen instead of her father. 
"Momma, what have you been saying to Mr. 
Breckon about me ?" 
"Nothing," said Mrs. Kenton, aghast at first, 
and then astonished to realize that she was speak 
ing the simple truth. " He said how much better 
you were looking; but I don 't believe I spoke a 
single word. We were looking at the map." 
"Very well," Ellen resumed. "I have been 
thinking it all over, and now I have made up my 
mind." 
She paused, and her mother asked, tremulously, 
"About what, Ellen?" 
" You know, momma. I see it all now. And don 't 
be afraid that I care anything about him now " 
and her mother knew that she meant Bittridge 
" or that I ever shall. That 's gone forever. But 
it 's gone," she added, and her mother quaked in 
wardly to hear her reason, " because the wrong and 
the shame was all for me for us. That 's why I 
can forgive it, and forget. If we had done any 
thing, the least thing in the world, to revenge our 
selves, or to hurt him, then Don 't you see, 
momma ?" 
"I think I see, Ellen." 
"Then I should have to keep thinking about it, 
and what we had made him suffer, and whether we 
 
hadn 't given him some claim. I don 't wish ever 
to think of him again. You and poppa were so 
patient and forbearing, all through; and I thank 
goodness now for everything you put up with; only 
I wish I could have borne everything myself." 
"You had enough to bear," Mrs. Kenton said, 
in tender evasion. 
" I 'm glad that I had to bear so much, for bearing 
it is what makes me free now." She went up to her 
mother and kissed her, and gazed into her face with 
joyful, tearful looks that made her heart sink. 
XIV 
MRS. KENTON did not rest till she had made sure 
from Lottie and Boyne that neither of them had 
dropped any hint to Ellen of what happened to 
Bittridge after his return to Tuskingum. She did 
not explain to them why she was so very anxious 
to know, but only charged them the more solemnly 
not to let the secret, which they had all been keeping 
from Ellen, escape them. 
They promised, but Lottie said, " She 's got to 
know it some time, and I should think the sooner 
the better." 
" I will be judge of that, Lottie," said her mother, 
and Boyne seized his chance of inculpating her 
with his friend, Mr. Pogis. He said she was carrying 
on awfully with him already; and an Englishman 
could not understand, and Boyne hinted that he 
would presume upon her American freedom. 
"Well, if he does, I 'll get you to cowhide him, 
Boyne," she retorted, and left him fuming help 
lessly, while she went to give the young Englishman 
an opportunity of resuming the flirtation which her 
mother had interrupted. 
With her husband Mrs. Kenton found it practi 
cable to be more explicit. "I haven 't had such 
 
a load lifted off my heart since I don 't know when. 
It shows me what I ve thought all along: that Ellen 
hasn 't really cared anything for that miserable 
thing since he first began going with Mrs. Uphill 
a year ago. When he wrote that letter to her in 
New York she wanted to be sure she didn t, and 
when he offered himself and misbehaved so to both 
of you, she was afraid that she and you were some 
how to blame. Now she 's worked it out that no one 
else was wronged, and she is satisfied. It 's made 
her feel free, as she says. But, oh, dear me I" Mrs. 
Kenton broke off, "I talk as if there was nothing 
to bind her; and yet there is what poor Richard 
did! What would she say if she knew that? I 
have been cautioning Lottie and Boyne, but I 
know it will come out somehow. Do you think it 's 
wise to keep it from her? Hadn 't we better tell 
her? Or shall we wait and see " 
Kenton would not allow to her or to himself that 
his hopes ran with hers; love is not business with a 
man as it is with a woman ; he feels it indecorous and 
indelicate to count upon it openly, where she thinks 
it simply a chance of life, to be considered like an 
other. All that Kenton would say was, "I see no 
reason for telling her just yet. She will have to know 
in due time. But let her enjoy her freedom now." 
"Yes," Mrs. Kenton doubtfully assented. 
The judge was thoughtfully silent. Then he said : 
"Few girls could have worked out her problem as 
Ellen has. Think how differently Lottie would 
have done it!" 
 
 
" Lottie has her good points, too," said Mrs. Ken- 
ton. " And, of course, I don 't blame Richard. There 
are all kinds of girls, and Lottie means no more 
harm than Ellen does. She 's the kind that can 't 
help attracting; but I always knew that Ellen was 
attractive, too, if she would only find it out. And 
I knew that as soon as anything worth while took 
up her mind she would never give that wretch 
another thought." 
Kenton followed her devious ratiocinations to a 
conclusion which he could not grasp. " What do 
you mean, Sarah?" 
" If I only," she explained, in terms that did 
not explain, " felt as sure of him as I do about 
him I" 
Her husband looked densely at her. " Bittridge ?" 
" No. Mr. Breckon. He is very nice, Rufus. Yes, 
he is! He 's been showing me the map of Holland, 
and we ve had a long talk. He isn 't the way we 
thought or I did. He is not at all clerical, or 
worldly. And he appreciates Ellen. I don 't sup 
pose he cares so much for her being cultivated; 
I suppose she doesn 't seem so to him. But he sees 
how wise she is how good. And he couldn 't do 
that without being good himself! Rufus! If we 
could only hope such a thing. But, of course, there 
are thousands after him!" 
" There are not thousands of Ellens after him," 
said the judge, before he could take time to pro 
test. " And I don 't want him to suppose that she 
is after him at all. If he will only interest her 
 
and help her to keep her mind off herself, it 's all 
I will ask of him. I am not anxious to part with 
her, now that she 's all ours again." 
" Of course," Mrs. Kenton soothingly assented. 
"And I don 't say that she dreams of him in any 
such way. She can 't help admiring his mind. But 
what I mean is that when you see how he appreci 
ates her, you can 't help wishing he could know 
just how wise, and just how good she is. It did 
seem to me as if I would give almost anything to 
have him know what she had been through with 
that rapscallion !" 
"Sarah!" 
" Oh, you may Sarah me ! But I can tell you 
what, Mr. Kenton: I believe that you could tell 
him every word of it, and only make him appreci 
ate her the more. Till you know that about Ellen, 
you don 't know what a character she is. I just 
ached to tell him." 
" I don 't understand you, my dear," said Kenton. 
" But if you mean to tell him " 
"Why, who could imagine doing such a thing? 
