man's sense of it, another man's, changed the air; and he wondered what
man, had he chosen, would have been more to his purpose than this one.
He was large and easy--that was the benediction; he knew what mattered
and what didn't; he distinguished between the essence and the shell,
the just grounds and the unjust for fussing. One was thus--if one were
concerned with him or exposed to him at all--in his hands for whatever
he should do, and not much less affected by his mercy than one might
have been by his rigour. The grand thing--it did come to that--was the
way he carried off, as one might fairly call it, the business of making
odd things natural. Nothing, if they hadn't taken it so, could have
exceeded the unexplained oddity, between them, of Densher's now
complete detachment from the poor ladies at the palace; nothing could
have exceeded the no less marked anomaly of the great man's own
abstentions of speech. He made, as he had done when they met at the
station, nothing whatever of anything; and the effect of it, Densher
would have said, was a relation with him quite resembling that of
doctor and patient. One took the cue from him as one might have taken a
dose--except that the cue was pleasant in the taking.
That was why one could leave it to his tacit discretion, why for the
three or four days Densher again and again did so leave it; merely
wondering a little, at the most, on the eve of Saturday, the announced
term of the episode. Waiting once more on this latter occasion, the
Saturday morning, for Sir Luke's reappearance at the station, our
friend had to recognise the drop of his own borrowed ease, the result,
naturally enough, of the prospect of losing a support. The difficulty
was that, on such lines as had served them, the support was Sir Luke's
personal presence. Would he go without leaving some substitute for
that?--and without breaking, either, his silence in respect to his
errand? Densher was in still deeper ignorance than at the hour of his
call, and what was truly prodigious at so supreme a moment was that--as
had immediately to appear--no gleam of light on what he had been living
with for a week found its way out of him. What he had been doing was
proof of a huge interest as well as of a huge fee; yet when the
Leporelli gondola again, and somewhat tardily, approached, his
companion, watching from the water-steps, studied his fine closed face
as much as ever in vain. It was like a lesson, from the highest
authority, on the subject of the relevant, so that its blankness
affected Densher of a sudden almost as a cruelty, feeling it quite
awfully compatible, as he did, with Milly's having ceased to exist. And
the suspense continued after they had passed together, as time was
short, directly into the station, where Eugenio, in the field early,
was mounting guard over the compartment he had secured. The strain,
though probably lasting, at the carriage-door, but a couple of minutes,
prolonged itself so for our poor gentleman's nerves that he
involuntarily directed a long look at Eugenio, who met it, however, as
only Eugenio could. Sir Luke's attention was given for the time to the
right bestowal of his numerous effects, about which he was particular,
and Densher fairly found himself, so far as silence could go,
questioning the representative of the palace. It didn't humiliate him
now; it didn't humiliate him even to feel that that personage exactly
knew how little he satisfied him. Eugenio resembled to that extent Sir
Luke--to the extent of the extraordinary things with which his facial
habit was compatible. By the time, however, that Densher had taken from
it all its possessor intended Sir Luke was free and with a hand out for
farewell. He offered the hand at first without speech; only on meeting
his eyes could our young man see that they had never yet so completely
looked at him. It was never, with Sir Luke, that they looked harder at
one time than at another; but they looked longer, and this, even a
shade of it, might mean on his part everything. It meant, Densher for
ten seconds believed, that Milly Theale was dead; so that the word at
last spoken made him start.
"I shall come back."
"Then she's better?"
"I shall come back within the month," Sir Luke repeated without heeding
the question. He had dropped Densher's hand, but he held him otherwise
still. "I bring you a message from Miss Theale," he said as if they
hadn't spoken of her. "I'm commissioned to ask you from her to go and
see her."
Densher's rebound from his supposition had a violence that his stare
betrayed. "She asks me?"
Sir Luke had got into the carriage, the door of which the guard had
closed; but he spoke again as he stood at the window, bending a little
but not leaning out. "She told me she'd like it, and I promised that,
as I expected to find you here, I'd let you know."
Densher, on the platform, took it from him, but what he took brought
the blood into his face quite as what he had had to take from Mrs.
Stringham. And he was also bewildered. "Then she can receive--?"
"She can receive you."
"And you're coming back--?"
"Oh because I must. She's not to move. She's to stay. I come to her."
"I see, I see," said Densher, who indeed did see--saw the sense of his
friend's words and saw beyond it as well. What Mrs. Stringham had
announced, and what he had yet expected not to have to face, had then
come. Sir Luke had kept it for the last, but there it was, and the
colourless compact form it was now taking--the tone of one man of the
world to another, who, after what had happened, would understand--was
but the characteristic manner of his appeal. Densher was to understand
remarkably much; and the great thing certainly was to show that he did.
"I'm particularly obliged, I'll go to-day." He brought that out, but in
his pause, while they continued to look at each other, the train had
slowly creaked into motion. There was time but for one more word, and
the young man chose it, out of twenty, with intense concentration.
"Then she's better?"
Sir Luke's face was wonderful. "Yes, she's better." And he kept it at
the window while the train receded, holding him with it still. It was
to be his nearest approach to the utter reference they had hitherto so
successfully avoided. If it stood for everything; never had a face had
to stand for more. So Densher, held after the train had gone, sharply
reflected; so he reflected, asking himself into what abyss it pushed
him, even while conscious of retreating under the maintained
observation of Eugenio.
BOOK TENTH
I
"Then it has been--what do you say? a whole fortnight?--without your
making a sign?"
Kate put that to him distinctly, in the December dusk of Lancaster Gate
and on the matter of the time he had been back; but he saw with it
straightway that she was as admirably true as ever to her
instinct--which was a system as well--of not admitting the possibility
between them of small resentments, of trifles to trip up their general
trust. That by itself, the renewed beauty of it, would at this fresh
sight of her have stirred him to his depths if something else,
something no less vivid but quite separate, hadn't stirred him still
more. It was in seeing her that he felt what their interruption had
been, and that they met across it even as persons whose adventures, on
either side, in time and space, of the nature of perils and exiles, had
had a peculiar strangeness. He wondered if he were as different for her
as she herself had immediately appeared: which was but his way indeed
of taking in, with his thrill, that--even going by the mere first
look--she had never been so handsome. That fact bloomed for him, in the
firelight and lamplight that glowed their welcome through the London
fog, as the flower of her difference; just as her difference
itself--part of which was her striking him as older in a degree for
which no mere couple of months could account--was the fruit of their
intimate relation. If she was different it was because they had chosen
together that she should be, and she might now, as a proof of their
wisdom, their success, of the reality of what had happened--of what in
fact, for the spirit of each, was still happening--been showing it to
him for pride. His having returned and yet kept, for numbered days, so
still, had been, he was quite aware, the first point he should have to
tackle; with which consciousness indeed he had made a clean breast of
it in finally addressing Mrs. Lowder a note that had led to his present
visit. He had written to Aunt Maud as the finer way; and it would
doubtless have been to be noted that he needed no effort not to write
to Kate. Venice was three weeks behind him--he had come up slowly; but
it was still as if even in London he must conform to her law. That was
exactly how he was able, with his faith in her steadiness, to appeal to
her feeling for the situation and explain his stretched delicacy. He
had come to tell her everything, so far as occasion would serve them;
and if nothing was more distinct than that his slow journey, his waits,
his delay to reopen communication had kept pace with this resolve, so
the inconsequence was doubtless at bottom but one of the elements of
intensity. He was gathering everything up, everything he should tell
her. That took time, and the proof was that, as he felt on the spot, he
couldn't have brought it all with him before this afternoon. He had
brought it, to the last syllable, and, out of the quantity it wouldn't
be hard--as he in fact found--to produce, for Kate's understanding, his
first reason.
"A fortnight, yes--it was a fortnight Friday; but I've only been
keeping in, you see, with our wonderful system." He was so easily
justified as that this of itself plainly enough prevented her saying
she didn't see. Their wonderful system was accordingly still vivid for
her; and such a gage of its equal vividness for himself was precisely
what she must have asked. He hadn't even to dot his i's beyond the
remark that on the very face of it, she would remember, their wonderful
system attached no premium to rapidities of transition. "I couldn't
quite--don't you know?--take my rebound with a rush; and I suppose I've
been instinctively hanging off to minimise, for you as well as for
myself, the appearances of rushing. There's a sort of fitness. But I
knew you'd understand." It was presently as if she really understood so
well that she almost appealed from his insistence--yet looking at him
too, he was not unconscious, as if this mastery of fitnesses was a
strong sign for her of what she had done to him. He might have struck
her as expert for contingencies in the very degree of her having in
Venice struck him as expert. He smiled over his plea for a renewal
with stages and steps, a thing shaded, as they might say, and
graduated; though--finely as she must respond--she met the smile but as
she had met his entrance five minutes before. Her soft gravity at that
moment--which was yet not solemnity, but the look of a consciousness
charged with life to the brim and wishing not to overflow--had not
qualified her welcome; what had done this being much more the presence
in the room, for a couple of minutes, of the footman who had introduced
him and who had been interrupted in preparing the tea-table.
Mrs. Lowder's reply to Densher's note had been to appoint the tea-hour,
five o'clock on Sunday, for his seeing them. Kate had thereafter wired
him, without a signature, "Come on Sunday before tea--about a quarter
of an hour, which will help us"; and he had arrived therefore
scrupulously at twenty minutes to five. Kate was alone in the room and
hadn't delayed to tell him that Aunt Maud, as she had happily gathered,
was to be, for the interval--not long but precious--engaged with an old
servant, retired and pensioned, who had been paying her a visit and who
was within the hour to depart again for the suburbs. They were to have
the scrap of time, after the withdrawal of the footman, to themselves,
and there was a moment when, in spite of their wonderful system, in
spite of the proscription of rushes and the propriety of shades, it
proclaimed itself indeed precious. And all without prejudice--that was
what kept it noble--to Kate's high sobriety and her beautiful
self-command. If he had his discretion she had her perfect manner,
which was her decorum. Mrs. Stringham, he had, to finish with the
question of his delay, furthermore observed, Mrs. Stringham would have
written to Mrs. Lowder of his having quitted the place; so that it
wasn't as if he were hoping to cheat them. They'd know he was no longer
there.
"Yes, we've known it."
"And you continue to hear?"
"From Mrs. Stringham? Certainly. By which I mean Aunt Maud does."
"Then you've recent news?"
Her face showed a wonder. "Up to within a day or two I believe. But
haven't you?"
"No--I've heard nothing." And it was now that he felt how much he had
to tell her. "I don't get letters. But I've been sure Mrs. Lowder
does." With which he added: "Then of course you know." He waited as if
she would show what she knew; but she only showed in silence the dawn
of a surprise that she couldn't control. There was nothing but for him
to ask what he wanted. "Is Miss Theale alive?"
Kate's look at this was large. "Don't you know?"
"How should I, my dear--in the absence of everything?" And he himself
stared as for light. "She's dead?" Then as with her eyes on him she
slowly shook her head he uttered a strange "Not yet?"
It came out in Kate's face that there were several questions on her
lips, but the one she presently put was: "Is it very terrible?"
"The manner of her so consciously and helplessly dying?" He had to
think a moment. "Well, yes--since you ask me: very terrible to me--so
far as, before I came away, I had any sight of it. But I don't think,"
he went on, "that--though I'll try--I can quite tell you what it was,
what it is, for me. That's why I probably just sounded to you," he
explained, "as if I hoped it might be over."
She gave him her quietest attention, but he by this time saw that, so
far as telling her all was concerned, she would be divided between the
wish and the reluctance to hear it; between the curiosity that, not
unnaturally, would consume her and the opposing scruple of a respect
for misfortune. The more she studied him too--and he had never so felt
her closely attached to his face--the more the choice of an attitude
would become impossible to her. There would simply be a feeling
uppermost, and the feeling wouldn't be eagerness. This perception grew
in him fast, and he even, with his imagination, had for a moment the
quick forecast of her possibly breaking out at him, should he go too
far, with a wonderful: "What horrors are you telling me?" It would have
the sound--wouldn't it be open to him fairly to bring that out
himself?--of a repudiation, for pity and almost for shame, of
everything that in Venice had passed between them. Not that she would
confess to any return upon herself; not that she would let compunction
or horror give her away; but it was in the air for him--yes--that she
wouldn't want details, that she positively wouldn't take them, and
that, if he would generously understand it from her, she would prefer
to keep him down. Nothing, however, was more definite for him than that
at the same time he must remain down but so far as it suited him.
Something rose strong within him against his not being free with her.
She had been free enough about it all, three months before, with him.
That was what she was at present only in the sense of treating him
handsomely. "I can believe," she said with perfect consideration, "how
dreadful for you much of it must have been."
He didn't however take this up; there were things about which he wished
first to be clear. "There's no other possibility, by what you now know?
I mean for her life." And he had just to insist--she would say as
little as she could. "She is dying?"
"She's dying."
It was strange to him, in the matter of Milly, that Lancaster Gate
could make him any surer; yet what in the world, in the matter of
Milly, wasn't strange? Nothing was so much so as his own behaviour--his
present as well as his past. He could but do as he must. "Has Sir Luke
Strett," he asked, "gone back to her?"
"I believe he's there now."
"Then," said Densher, "it's the end."
She took it in silence for whatever he deemed it to be; but she spoke
otherwise after a minute. "You won't know, unless you've perhaps seen
him yourself, that Aunt Maud has been to him."
"Oh!" Densher exclaimed, with nothing to add to it.
"For real news," Kate herself after an instant added.
"She hasn't thought Mrs. Stringham's real?"
"It's perhaps only I who haven't. It was on Aunt Maud's trying again
three days ago to see him that she heard at his house of his having
gone. He had started I believe some days before."
"And won't then by this time be back?"
Kate shook her head. "She sent yesterday to know."
"He won't leave her then"--Densher had turned it over--"while she
lives. He'll stay to the end. He's magnificent."
"I think she is," said Kate.
It had made them again look at each other long; and what it drew from
him rather oddly was: "Oh you don't know!"
"Well, she's after all my friend."
It was somehow, with her handsome demur, the answer he had least
expected of her; and it fanned with its breath, for a brief instant,
his old sense of her variety. "I see. You would have been sure of it.
You were sure of it."
"Of course I was sure of it."
And a pause again, with this, fell upon them; which Densher, however,
presently broke. "If you don't think Mrs. Stringham's news 'real' what
do you think of Lord Mark's?"
She didn't think anything. "Lord Mark's?"
"You haven't seen him?"
"Not since he saw her."
"You've known then of his seeing her?"
"Certainly. From Mrs. Stringham."
"And have you known," Densher went on, "the rest?"
Kate wondered. "What rest?"
"Why everything. It was his visit that she couldn't stand--it was what
then took place that simply killed her."
"Oh!" Kate seriously breathed. But she had turned pale, and he saw
that, whatever her degree of ignorance of these connexions, it wasn't
put on. "Mrs. Stringham hasn't said that."
He observed none the less that she didn't ask what had then taken
place; and he went on with his contribution to her knowledge. "The way
it affected her was that it made her give up. She has given up beyond
all power to care again, and that's why she's dying."
"Oh!" Kate once more slowly sighed, but with a vagueness that made him
pursue.
"One can see now that she was living by will--which was very much what
you originally told me of her."
"I remember. That was it."
"Well then her will, at a given moment, broke down, and the collapse
was determined by that fellow's dastardly stroke. He told her, the
scoundrel, that you and I are secretly engaged."
Kate gave a quick glare. "But he doesn't know it!"
"That doesn't matter. She did by the time he had left her. Besides,"
Densher added, "he does know it. When," he continued, "did you last see
him?"
But she was lost now in the picture before her. "That was what made
her worse?"
He watched her take it in--it so added to her sombre beauty. Then he
spoke as Mrs. Stringham had spoken. "She turned her face to the wall."
"Poor Milly!" said Kate.
Slight as it was, her beauty somehow gave it style; so that he
continued consistently: "She learned it, you see, too soon--since of
course one's idea had been that she might never even learn it at all.
And she had felt sure--through everything we had done--of there not
being between us, so far at least as you were concerned, anything she
need regard as a warning."
She took another moment for thought. "It wasn't through anything you
did--whatever that may have been--that she gained her certainty. It was
by the conviction she got from me."
"Oh it's very handsome," Densher said, "for you to take your share!"
"Do you suppose," Kate asked, "that I think of denying it?"
Her look and her tone made him for the instant regret his comment,
which indeed had been the first that rose to his lips as an effect
absolutely of what they would have called between them her
straightness. Her straightness, visibly, was all his own loyalty could
ask. Still, that was comparatively beside the mark. "Of course I don't
suppose anything but that we're together in our recognitions, our
responsibilities--whatever we choose to call them. It isn't a question
for us of apportioning shares or distinguishing invidiously among such
impressions as it was our idea to give."
"It wasn't your idea to give impressions," said Kate.
He met this with a smile that he himself felt, in its strained
character, as queer. "Don't go into that!"
It was perhaps not as going into it that she had another idea--an idea
born, she showed, of the vision he had just evoked. "Wouldn't it have
been possible then to deny the truth of the information? I mean of Lord
Mark's."
Densher wondered. "Possible for whom?"
"Why for you."
"To tell her he lied?"
"To tell her he's mistaken."
Densher stared--he was stupefied; the "possible" thus glanced at by
Kate being exactly the alternative he had had to face in Venice and to
put utterly away from him. Nothing was stranger than such a difference
in their view of it. "And to lie myself, you mean, to do it? We are,
my dear child," he said, "I suppose, still engaged."
"Of course we're still engaged. But to save her life--!"
He took in for a little the way she talked of it. Of course, it was to
be remembered, she had always simplified, and it brought back his sense
of the degree in which, to her energy as compared with his own, many
things were easy; the very sense that so often before had moved him to
admiration. "Well, if you must know--and I want you to be clear about
it--I didn't even seriously think of a denial to her face. The question
of it--as possibly saving her--was put to me definitely enough; but
to turn it over was only to dismiss it. Besides," he added, "it
wouldn't have done any good."
"You mean she would have had no faith in your correction?" She had
spoken with a promptitude that affected him of a sudden as almost glib;
but he himself paused with the overweight of all he meant, and she
meanwhile went on. "Did you try?"
"I hadn't even a chance."
Kate maintained her wonderful manner, the manner of at once having it
all before her and yet keeping it all at its distance. "She wouldn't
see you?"
"Not after your friend had been with her."
She hesitated. "Couldn't you write?"
It made him also think, but with a difference. "She had turned her face
to the wall."
This again for a moment hushed her, and they were both too grave now
for parenthetic pity. But her interest came out for at least the
minimum of light. "She refused even to let you speak to her?"
"My dear girl," Densher returned, "she was miserably, prohibitively
ill."
"Well, that was what she had been before."
"And it didn't prevent? No," Densher admitted, "it didn't; and I don't
pretend that she's not magnificent."
"She's prodigious," said Kate Croy.
He looked at her a moment. "So are you, my dear. But that's how it is,"
he wound up; "and there we are."
His idea had been in advance that she would perhaps sound him much more
deeply, asking him above all two or three specific things. He had
fairly fancied her even wanting to know and trying to find out how far,
as the odious phrase was, he and Milly had gone, and how near, by the
same token, they had come. He had asked himself if he were prepared to
hear her do that, and had had to take for answer that he was prepared
of course for everything. Wasn't he prepared for her ascertaining if
her two or three prophecies had found time to be made true? He had
fairly believed himself ready to say whether or no the overture on
Milly's part promised according to the boldest of them had taken place.
But what was in fact blessedly coming to him was that so far as such
things were concerned his readiness wouldn't be taxed. Kate's pressure
on the question of what had taken place remained so admirably general
that even her present enquiry kept itself free of sharpness. "So then
that after Lord Mark's interference you never again met?"
It was what he had been all the while coming to. "No; we met once--so
far as it could be called a meeting. I had stayed--I didn't come away."
"That," said Kate, "was no more than decent."
"Precisely"--he felt himself wonderful; "and I wanted to be no less.
She sent for me, I went to her, and that night I left Venice."
His companion waited. "Wouldn't that then have been your chance?"
"To refute Lord Mark's story? No, not even if before her there I had
wanted to. What did it signify either? She was dying."
"Well," Kate in a manner persisted, "why not just because she was
dying?" She had however all her discretion. "But of course I know that
seeing her you could judge."
"Of course seeing her I could judge. And I did see her! If I had denied
you moreover," Densher said with his eyes on her, "I'd have stuck to
it."
She took for a moment the intention of his face. "You mean that to
convince her you'd have insisted or somehow proved--?"
"I mean that to convince you I'd have insisted or somehow proved--!"
Kate looked for her moment at a loss. "To convince 'me'?"
"I wouldn't have made my denial, in such conditions, only to take it
back afterwards."
With this quickly light came for her, and with it also her colour
flamed. "Oh you'd have broken with me to make your denial a truth?
You'd have 'chucked' me"--she embraced it perfectly--"to save your
conscience?"
"I couldn't have done anything else," said Merton Densher. "So you see
how right I was not to commit myself, and how little I could dream of
it. If it ever again appears to you that I might have done so,
remember what I say."
Kate again considered, but not with the effect at once to which he
pointed. "You've fallen in love with her."
"Well then say so--with a dying woman. Why need you mind and what does
it matter?"
It came from him, the question, straight out of the intensity of
relation and the face-to-face necessity into which, from the first,
from his entering the room, they had found themselves thrown; but it
gave them their most extraordinary moment. "Wait till she is dead! Mrs.
Stringham," Kate added, "is to telegraph." After which, in a tone still
different, "For what then," she asked, "did Milly send for you?"
"It was what I tried to make out before I went. I must tell you
moreover that I had no doubt of its really being to give me, as you
say, a chance. She believed, I suppose, that I might deny; and what,
to my own mind, was before me in going to her was the certainty that
she'd put me to my test. She wanted from my own lips--so I saw it--the
truth. But I was with her for twenty minutes, and she never asked me
for it."
"She never wanted the truth"--Kate had a high headshake. "She wanted
you. She would have taken from you what you could give her and been
glad of it, even if she had known it false. You might have lied to her
from pity, and she have seen you and felt you lie, and yet--since it
was all for tenderness--she would have thanked you and blessed you and
clung to you but the more. For that was your strength, my dear
man--that she loves you with passion."
"Oh my 'strength'!" Densher coldly murmured.
"Otherwise, since she had sent for you, what was it to ask of you?" And
then--quite without irony--as he waited a moment to say: "Was it just
once more to look at you?"
"She had nothing to ask of me--nothing, that is, but not to stay any
longer. She did to that extent want to see me. She had supposed at
first--after he had been with her--that I had seen the propriety of
taking myself off. Then since I hadn't--seeing my propriety as I did in
another way--she found, days later, that I was still there. This," said
Densher, "affected her."
"Of course it affected her."
Again she struck him, for all her dignity, as glib. "If it was somehow
for her I was still staying, she wished that to end, she wished me to
know how little there was need of it. And as a manner of farewell she
wished herself to tell me so."
"And she did tell you so?"
"Face-to-face, yes. Personally, as she desired."
"And as you of course did."
"No, Kate," he returned with all their mutual consideration; "not as I
did. I hadn't desired it in the least."
"You only went to oblige her?"
"To oblige her. And of course also to oblige you."
"Oh for myself certainly I'm glad."
"'Glad'?"--he echoed vaguely the way it rang out.
"I mean you did quite the right thing. You did it especially in having
stayed. But that was all?" Kate went on. "That you mustn't wait?"
"That was really all--and in perfect kindness."
"Ah kindness naturally: from the moment she asked of you such a--well,
such an effort. That you mustn't wait--that was the point," Kate
added--"to see her die."
"That was the point, my dear," Densher said.
"And it took twenty minutes to make it?"
He thought a little. "I didn't time it to a second. I paid her the
visit--just like another."
"Like another person?"
"Like another visit."
"Oh!" said Kate. Which had apparently the effect of slightly arresting
his speech--an arrest she took advantage of to continue; making with it
indeed her nearest approach to an enquiry of the kind against which he
had braced himself. "Did she receive you--in her condition--in her
room?"
"Not she," said Merton Densher. "She received me just as usual: in that
glorious great salone, in the dress she always wears, from her
inveterate corner of her sofa." And his face for the moment conveyed
the scene, just as hers equally embraced it. "Do you remember what you
originally said to me of her?"
"Ah I've said so many things."
"That she wouldn't smell of drugs, that she wouldn't taste of medicine.
Well, she didn't."
"So that it was really almost happy?"
It took him a long time to answer, occupied as he partly was in feeling
how nobody but Kate could have invested such a question with the tone
