“Where are you bound, Bernard?” he asked.
“To the post-office.”
“How are you getting on with Ezekiel?”
“There is no love lost between us. He says I am a bad lot. In fact, he
says he never knew a wuss boy.”
Both boys laughed.
“What bad things do you do?”
“Associate with you, for one thing.”
“Has Ezekiel forbidden it?”
“Yes.”
“Then perhaps I had better leave you?”
“By no means. I don’t propose to obey Mr. Snowdon in that.”
“Thank you, but I don’t want you to get into trouble.”
“What trouble can I get into?”
“He may undertake to flog you.”
“Let him try it,” said Bernard in a significant tone. “What do you think
I would be doing? Did he ever undertake to chastise you?”
“No. He knew my father would not permit it.”
“If he would whip his own son it might do him good. Septimus is a young
imp.”
“There he is now! I wonder what he is up to.” Septimus Snowdon was an
ill-favored boy of fifteen with red hair and freckles seeming like
extensive patches upon a face in which even the most partial eyes could
not have seen a redeeming feature. He was standing a little distance
ahead, looking up into the branches of a tree in which a terrified
kitten had taken refuge. Standing beside him was a young boy of twelve
who seemed to be concerned for the safety of the kitten.
Septimus raised a large stone, and taking aim, sent it through the air,
aiming at the cat. It came very near hitting her.
“Don’t stone my kitty,” remonstrated Frank Fisk, the young boy.
“Stop your noise!” said Septimus roughly. “I shall stone her all I want
to.”
As he spoke he threw another stone, which just grazed the kitten’s face
and elicited a terrified cry.
“There, you bad boy, you hit my kitty.”
“Who calls me a bad boy?” demanded Septimus, with an ugly look on his
face.
“I did, and you are one, or you wouldn’t throw stones at my kitten.”
“I’ll throw stones at you if you like it any better.”
“You wouldn’t dare to. I’d tell my father, and he’d----”
“What would he do?”
“He’d stop you.”
“We’ll see if he will.”
Septimus took a strong cord from his pocket, and seizing the boy’s
hands, prepared to tie them together in spite of his cries.
“What are you going to do?” asked Frank in a tone of apprehension.
“I am going to give you a lesson,” answered Septimus coolly.
Frank struggled to free himself, but Septimus was too strong for him.
Nat Barclay turned to Bernard.
“Shall we let him hurt little Frank?” he asked.
“Not much.”
As Bernard spoke he strode towards Septimus, who thus far had not
observed him.
“Stop that, you young brute!” he said in an imperious tone. “Do you hear
me?”
Septimus turned quickly, and his scowl became deeper when he saw who had
spoken to him; for if there was any boy he hated it was Bernard, who had
interfered with him more than once.
“Yes,” he said. “I hear and I won’t do it.”
“You won’t, eh?”
“No, I won’t, and you’d better be careful what you say or do, or I’ll
tell pa, and then----”
“And then what?”
“You’ll get a flogging.”
“That doesn’t frighten me much. Are you going to stop?”
“No, I’m not.” and Septimus gave an extra twist that made Frank cry out.
Bernard concluded that the time for remonstrance was past. He sprang
forward, and seizing Septimus in his powerful grasp, tore him from his
young victim.
“I’ll pay you up for this!” shrieked Septimus, as he flung himself upon
Bernard.
Bernard laid him on his back in less than a minute.
“Do you want any more?” he asked, rather contemptuously.
Just at this moment the kitten saw a favorable opportunity to escape,
and ran down the trunk of the tree. As she was running away Septimus
caught sight of her, and his cruel instincts were aroused. He seized a
rock and flung it at her. Had it struck the kitten she would have been
seriously hurt.
Bernard was fond of pets, and his soul revolted at cruelty in any form.
“I see you can’t be trusted, Septimus,” he said composedly. “Nat, come
here and help secure him.”
“What shall I do?” asked Nat.
“Hold his hands.”
Nat Barclay complied with his request, and Bernard taking the cord which
Septimus had used on Frank, quickly and securely tied the hands of the
young tyrant.
Septimus struggled and threatened, but without effect. In less than a
minute he was securely bound.
“There,” said Bernard, “you are safe for a short time.”
“Untie my hands, or I’ll get my father to flog you!” screamed Septimus.
“Perhaps you’d better,” said Nat Barclay in a low voice. He was afraid
his friend would get into trouble.
“No, I won’t. Septimus needs the lesson. You needn’t worry about me. Now
we’ll go to the post-office.”
The two boys kept on their way, and Septimus, his hands tied, with wrath
in his heart, started for home.
Mr. Snowdon was just coming out of the front door, when to his
astonished gaze was revealed his son and heir walking towards the house,
with his hands close together, like a prisoner in handcuffs.
“What does all this mean?” he asked in surprise. “What have you been
tying your hands for?”
“I didn’t tie my hands,” said Septimus sullenly. “Do you think I am a
fool?”
“Septimus, you should not speak to your father like this. If you did not
tie your hands, who did?”
“Who did? That young loafer Bernard Brooks. I want you to flog him
within an inch of his life.”
“Bernard Brooks tied your hands?”
“Didn’t I say so?”
“But why did you let him do it?”
“How could I help it, when he had Nat Barclay with him?”
“So Nat Barclay was with him?”
“Yes, he was.”
“I forbade him to associate with that Barclay.”
“Much he cares for your orders. When I told him you would flog him, he
laughed!”
“Oh, he laughed, did he?” said Mr. Snowdon, much incensed.
“Yes, he doesn’t care for you,” said Septimus, craftily fanning his
father’s wrath.
“I’ll learn him,” said Mr. Snowdon, shaking his head vigorously. “He’ll
see that I am not to be trifled with. But what did he tie your hands
for?”
“Just cut the cord and I’ll tell you. It hurts like all possessed.”
Mr. Snowdon drew a jack knife from his pocket and severed the cord.
Septimus breathed a sigh of relief.
“See how very red my wrists are?” he said. “Pa, do me a favor.”
“Well, what is it?”
“Keep this cord, and let me tie Bernard’s hands with it.”
“A good idea, Septimus. Now tell me what he tied your hands for \”
“For just nothing at all.”
“There must have been something.”
“Well, you see Frank Fisk’s kitten was up in a tree, and I was shying
stones at it. Frank made such a fuss that I took out a cord and thought
I would tie his hands just to give him a lesson. Just then those two
loafers came along, and had the impudence to tell me to stop, just as if
they had any authority over me. Of course I told them it was none of
their business, and defied them.”
“Very proper, Septimus. You are only responsible for your conduct to
me.”
“Then Bernard Brooks made a savage attack upon me, and getting Nat
Barclay to hold my hands, he tied them. What do you say to that, pa?”
“What do I say? That it was a high-handed and outrageous proceeding.”
“Bully for you, pa! You express my sentiments. Now what are you goin’ to
do about it?”
“I shall call the Brooks boy to account. He forgets that he is under my
charge.”
“He seems to think I am under his charge. Say, pa, you won’t allow your
son to be insulted and trod upon, will you?”
“No, I won’t, Septimus. For some time I have been thinking that it would
be necessary to flog Bernard Brooks, and now I have made up my mind to
do it.”
“Good, pa! You’ll let me see you tackle him, won’t you?”
“Yes, Septimus, I will. I can understand the gratification it will give
you.”
“If you do that will pay me for what he did to me.”
“But perhaps he won’t come back,” said Mr. Snowdon in an apprehensive
tone. “In that case I shall lose the quarterly sum his guardian pays
me.”
“You don’t think he’ll run away?” asked Septimus.
Half an hour later this question was answered. Bernard was seen
approaching the house, his manner cool and composed, while he looked
neither troubled nor flurried.
CHAPTER III.  BROUGHT TO BAY.
|When Bernard saw Septimus Snowdon and his father standing in front of
the house he understood at once, from the expression of their faces,
that trouble was in store for him.
“Well, sir,” said Mr. Snowdon curtly, “so you have come home at last?”
“Yes, sir. There was no letter for you.”
“Ahem! I shall have to write a letter to your guardian.”
Bernard shrugged his shoulders, but did not think it necessary to say
anything, rather to the disappointment of Ezekiel, who wished to draw
him out, “I find,” he said, “that you have made an outrageous assault on
my innocent boy. What have you to say in extenuation of your conduct?”
“Only that your innocent boy was stoning a kitten, and bullying a young
boy.”
“Even if he were, what business was it of yours?”
“It will always be my business to protect children and animals from
being abused,” said Bernard warmly.
“You are a very impudent boy! Are you aware that the boy you assaulted
is my son?”
“I ought to be aware of it. There isn’t another boy in town who would be
guilty of such brutal conduct.”
“Are you goin’ to stand that, pa?” asked Septimus, anxious to
precipitate a conflict between Bernard and his father.
“No, I am not,” said Mr. Snowdon, compressing his lips. “Get me the
horsewhip.”
No command could have been more pleasant to Septimus. He ran into the
house, and soon reappeared with an ordinary horsewhip with which his
father was in the habit of punishing the pupils under his charge.
He handed it to his father with a malicious smile.
“There it is, pa!” he said. “Lay it on heavy.”
Mr. Snowdon did not immediately proceed to make use of the whip.
Considering Bernard to be in his power, he was disposed to play with him
as a cat plays with a mouse of whom it is preparing to make a victim.
“Do you know what I am going to do, Bernard Brooks?” he demanded
sternly.
“Suppose you tell me,” said Bernard quietly.
“I am going to flog you.”
“What for?”
“For assaulting my boy.”
“Why don’t you let him do it?”
“Septimus, do you wish to chastise Bernard with this whip, and so punish
him for his attack upon you?”
There was nothing that Septimus would have liked better, but there was
something in Bernard’s steady look that made him think it would not be
prudent.
“I guess you’d better flog him, pa,” he said, after a pause.
“Very well, my son, I will.”
Whip in hand, Ezekiel Snowdon advanced upon his refractory pupil.
Bernard did not wait meekly to receive the punishment, neither did he
care to get into a fight with the teacher. He turned and ran through the
back yard and down a lane leading to a tract of marsh which belonged to
the Snowdon farm. “He’ll get away, pa!” said Septimus.
“Try to head him off, my son!”
Septimus, who was in the path, tried to do so, but a swinging blow from
Bernard nearly prostrated him, and the fugitive kept on. Mr. Snowdon’s
blood was up. Brandishing the whip in his long and sinewy arms, he kept
his thin legs in motion, and pursued Bernard with as great speed as he
was capable of.
But Bernard had several rods the start, and he was a good runner. He
kept on, occasionally looking back to see what progress his pursuer was
making.
“What does, the boy mean by running to the marsh?” thought Mr. Snowdon.
“He is a fool. I shall catch him there to a certainty.”
Bernard probably had views of his own. Indeed, it is quite certain that
he had a plan by which he hoped to bring discomfiture upon his dignified
preceptor. He made straight for the marsh, till he found his progress
barred by a wide ditch about half full of slimy water.
“Aha! the ditch will stop him,” reflected Mr. Snowdon.
But no! Bernard poised himself for an instant on the brink, and then
lightly leaped over, landing in safety on the opposite side. Close
behind him was Mr. Snowdon. That gentleman felt impelled by the impetus
acquired in running to follow Bernard’s example. But the ditch was quite
six feet across, and Mr. Snowdon, though not overburdened with flesh,
was stiffer in his joints than he had been twenty years before, and this
operated against him. Besides, it was slippery where he started to jump,
and the result was that he landed in the middle of the ditch where he
floundered in the miry water in a woeful condition.
Septimus came up directly, for he was third in the race.
“Where are you, pa?” he asked.
“Don’t you see where I am?” demanded Mr. Snowdon sharply. “Help me out
of this quagmire!” Rather reluctantly Septimus extended his hand, for
his father’s hand as well as his clothes were bedabbled with mire, and
Mr. Snowdon nearly pulled him in, in his efforts to extricate himself
from the ditch.
“You’re all over mud, pa!” said Septimus, surveying the sorry plight of
his sire.
Just across the ditch stood Bernard, he had come to a halt, and calmly
eyed his would-be captor.
“It’s your fault, you young scoundrel!” cried Mr. Snowdon in a fury, his
wrath increased by the knowledge that Bernard was as neat and clean as
when he started. “If it hadn’t been for you I shouldn’t have been in
this plight.”
“I don’t see how I could help it, sir. You shouldn’t have tried to jump
over the ditch.”
“Why did you do it?”
“I wanted to get away from you.”
“Jump back at once!”
A smile stole over Bernard’s face.
“I shouldn’t dare to,” he answered. “I might fall in as you have.”
“And serve you right! I order you to jump.”
“Suppose I do, and get safe over?”
“I will flog you within an inch of your life,” said Mr. Snowdon rather
imprudently.
“That isn’t inducement enough,” said Bernard. “I guess I had better stay
where I am.”
“You needn’t think you will escape the whipping. You may put it off, but
you’ll have to take it sooner or later.”
Evidently Mr. Snowdon thought it best to put off punishing Bernard for
the present. He was so bespattered with mud that it was necessary to go
home and change his clothing. Septimus was very sorry for this decision,
as he had been looking forward with pleasant anticipation to seeing
Bernard flogged.
“You ain’t goin’ to let him off, pa, are you?” he asked.
“No,” answered Mr. Snowdon, with a vengeful look. “The longer it’s put
off, the harder I’ll lay it on when the time comes.”
Satisfied with this assurance Septimus followed his father home. As from
time to time he glanced at the figure of his parent he could not help
reflecting that Mr. Snowdon was not a father to be proud of. He never
looked attractive, but under present circumstances he looked more
unsavory than usual.
Left alone Bernard did not leap back across the ditch, but taking a
course to the right emerged into the main road about half a mile from
Mr. Snowdon’s house.
He took a short cut to the home of his friend Nat Barclay, whom he made
acquainted with the catastrophe that had befallen Mr. Snowdon.
Nat laughed--he could hardly help it--as he pictured to himself the miry
and bedraggled condition of his old teacher.
“I am afraid he’ll try to get even with you, Bernard,”  he said
apprehensively.
“No doubt he would if he got a chance.”
“But he can’t help having plenty of chances as you live in his house.”
“But I am not going to live there any longer, Nat.”
“What do you mean?”
“I shall run away.”
“You won’t do that, will you, Bernard? What will your guardian say? You
have no one else to depend upon.”
“I don’t know.”
“But this is serious, Bernard.”
“I have myself.”
“But what can a boy of fifteen do?”
“He can support himself. At any rate, he can try. The fact is, Nat, I
don’t think Mr. McCracken a friend of mine. I may go to him, and ask if
he will make any other arrangements for me. If he won’t, I will make
them for myself.”
“What will you do to-night, Bernard?”
“I will go back to Mr. Snowdon’s--creep up to my room, if I have a
chance, get out a bundle of clothes, and sleep in the barn. In the
morning I can start early, and----”
“Where will you go?”
“I don’t know yet.”
Mr. Snowdon was in the habit of retiring early, and so were his family.
Generally at nine o’clock they were in bed. When nine o’clock came he
told Septimus to lock the door.
“But suppose Bernard comes back?”
“He can sleep out of doors for one night. It will teach him a lesson.”
He didn’t know that Bernard had already visited the house, made up a
bundle of clothing, and withdrawn to the barn, where he had found a
comfortable resting place on one of the lofts of hay.
It was Bernard’s intention to get up early in the morning and make his
escape before Mr. Snowdon or any of his family were astir.
But a healthy boy, who is a good sleeper, cannot always fix the time of
awaking. For some reason Bernard slept on till half-past seven o’clock.
Septimus had occasion to go to the barn, and discovered him still
asleep. He ran into the house in great excitement.
“Pa,” he said, “Bernard is asleep in the barn. I seed him.”
Occasionally Septimus, though the son of a teacher, made grammatical
mistakes.
“Is he asleep?” asked Mr. Snowdon in a tone of interest.
“Yes, pa.”
“The Lord has delivered him into my hands. I will not neglect the
opportunity to chastise him.”
“He may wake up when you are getting up.”
“I will take you with me to hold the ladder.”
“He might stick me with the pitchfork,” said Septimus, who was a coward
at heart.
“Then I will take Bridget.”
Bridget was the kitchen drudge. She was rather a stupid girl, who stood
in fear of her employer.
They went to the barn together. Mr. Snowdon went up the ladder, whip in
hand, Bridget holding the ladder. He mounted the opposite scaffold, and
prepared to cross to the other, when Bernard, who had been aroused by
the sound of voices, made his appearance, cap in hand, and asked
composedly: “What are you after, Mr. Snowdon?”
“I’m after you, Bernard Brooks,” answered Mr. Snowdon grimly.
CHAPTER IV.  A ROAD SIDE ACQUAINTANCE.
|The position was critical. Bernard was tall and muscular for his age,
but of course he was not a match for the teacher.
He was, however, cool and collected, and not at all nervous. He
maintained his ground till Mr. Snowdon, with slow and cautious steps,
had crossed the narrow bridge, and then ran to the back part of the
loft.
The schoolmaster followed him as well as he could, but in his
impetuosity he lost his balance and fell on the hay.
Bernard made a dash for the plank. Seeing him coming, Bridget was seized
with a panic and hastily dismounted from the ladder.
Bernard took advantage of this, and descending to the barn floor, seized
the ladder and carried it out of doors, leaving Professor Snowdon a
prisoner in the barn loft.
Septimus, who was prudently standing just outside, called out, in alarm,
“Where’s my pa? What have you done to him?”
Bernard was not called upon to answer, as there was an angry roar from
inside the barn.
“Bring back the ladder, you audacious young ruffian!”
Bridget had fled to the house, and Septimus, who was far from
courageous, ran out behind the barn.
“I think the place is too hot to hold me,” thought Bernard, and he
struck for the road on a half run.
He had managed to catch up his bundle of clothes when fleeing from the
angry teacher, and there was nothing to prevent his bidding a final
farewell to the Snowdon Institute.
Meanwhile Professor Snowdon found himself in a quandary. He was in the
hay loft, unable to descend to the barn floor.
He could indeed walk across the plank to the opposite scaffold, but that
would not help him. It was certainly very aggravating. Bernard, he had
no doubt, was in full flight, while he was unable to follow him.
“Bridget!” he cried. “What has become of the ladder?”
But Bridget had already returned to the house.
“Drat that girl,” he muttered angrily. “Has she left me in the lurch?”
Then he bethought himself of his son.
“Septimus!” he cried, or rather roared.
“What is it, pa?” asked Septimus, who had gathered enough courage to
return to the barn.
“Where is Bernard Brooks?”
“He’s ran away.”
“Has he taken the ladder with him?”
“He took it out of the barn.”
“He won’t carry it far. Go and bring it here.”
“I dassn’t. He’ll come back and lick me.”
“Do as I tell you at once. If you don’t I will flog you.”
Septimus thought it prudent to heed his father’s appeal, especially as
it was evident that Bernard had got away.
He lugged the ladder into the barn.
“Now put it up against the scaffold so that I can get down.”
Septimus did so, but he did not see that the ladder had a secure
footing, so that when his father was part way down it fell, and the
learned pedagogue tumbled sprawling on the barn floor, receiving some
painful contusions, which did not improve his temper.
“It’s your fault, you young booby!” he exclaimed furiously, and
springing for Septimus he lashed him across the legs.
“Ouch!” yelled Septimus. “Are you crazy, pa? I ain’t Bernard.”
“I’d like to flog that boy within an inch of his life!” exclaimed
Ezekiel Snowdon, excited to fury by the sound of Bernard’s name.
“Then you’d better try to catch him instead of licking me.”
“Come into the house, Septimus,” said his father more calmly. “Look down
the road and see if you can see him.”
Septimus shaded his eyes, and looked down the road, but no runaway boy
was visible.
“I can’t see him, pa. He may be hiding somewhere.”
“Go and ask Mr. Sweetland if he will lend me his horse. I’ll go after
him.”
“There’s Leslie Sweetland now. I’ll ask him.” Leslie Sweetland, a boy of
sixteen, well and strongly built, was walking by.
“I say, Leslie,” called out Septimus, “do you think your father will
lend us his horse?”
Leslie stopped short. He had very little friendship for Septimus, and
disliked the elder Snowdon.
“What do you want him for?” he asked.
“Bernard Brooks has run away, and pa and I want to catch him.”
“Has Bernard run away?” asked Leslie, immediately interested.
“Yes.”
“What did he run away for?”
“Pa went to the barn to horsewhip him for his owdacious conduct. He
carried off the ladder and left pa in the hay loft, and now he’s run
away.”
Leslie burst into a fit of laughter.
“Well, that’s a good joke!” he said.
“I don’t see where the joke comes in,” growled Ezekiel.
“I don’t blame him for running away,” said Leslie, with spirit.
“I’ve a great mind to horsewhip you,” cried the amiable Snowdon.
“You’d find you’d tackled the wrong boy,”--retorted Leslie. “You can’t
have our horse.”
“That’s for your father to say.”
“He won’t help you to catch Bernard. I’ll tell him not to.”
“The impudence of the boys in this village is positively terrible,” said
Mr. Snowdon. “Septimus, go over to Mr. Bacon, and see if he will lend us
his horse.”
Septimus did as ordered, but he found Mr. Bacon’s horse in use, and upon
his return Mr. Snowdon felt that it was too late to make other
arrangements.
“I’ll write to the boy’s guardian,” he said, “and probably he will send
him back without expense to me. If he does I’ll make the boy howl.”
Meanwhile Bernard was making the best of his time. He ran half a mile
without stopping. He passed a covered buggy, and as he did so turned
back to look at it.
It was occupied by a man of perhaps forty, who seemed to be in trouble.
He held the reins loose in his hands, his eyes were partly closed, and
his body swayed from side to side of the carriage.
“He needs help,” thought Bernard.
He ran to the horse, seized him by the bridle, and stopped him.
The driver did not seem to be aware of his interference.
Bernard, after a moment’s hesitation, climbed into the carriage, and
seating himself beside the gentleman, took the reins from his
unresisting fingers.
“Are you sick, sir?” he said.
The gentleman opened his eyes and looked at Bernard.
“Yes,” he said. “I came near fainting away.”
“Shan’t I drive for you?”
“Yes, I wish you would. Who are you?”
“My name is Bernard Brooks.”
“All right! I don’t know you, but you seem like a good boy.”
“Where shall I drive you?”
“To the next town.”
“Poplar Plains?”
“Yes.”
This suited Bernard very well. Poplar Plains was five miles away, and
here there was a station on the nearest railroad.
He drove on, while his companion leaned back in the carriage and closed
his eyes. Bernard took a side glance and noted his appearance.
He was a man with dark hair and eyes, and his complexion was also dark.
He looked to be in good health but for the pallor occasioned by his
present attack.
He roused up when they came within a mile of Poplar Plains.
“Are you feeling better?” asked Bernard.
“Yes; a little. You haven’t any hartshorn about you?”
“No, sir; but there is a drug store at the Plains. I can get some for
you.”
“Do so.”
“Shall I drive you to any particular place?”
“Yes. Drive to the hotel. Do you know where it is?”
“Yes, sir.”
In a very few minutes Bernard halted in front of the Poplar Plains
Hotel. A servant came out to receive the expected guest.
“Is your father going to stop with us?” he asked. “He isn’t my father,
but he will stop. He is feeling unwell, and I will get you to help him
out.” Assisted by Bernard and the hotel porter, the gentleman descended
from the buggy and went into the hotel.
“Sit down here a moment, sir, and I will get you the ammonia,” Bernard
said. “The drug store is close by.”
“Wait a moment. You will want some money. Here is a dollar.”
He drew a dollar bill from his vest pocket and handed it to Bernard, who
returned in five minutes with a small bottle.
The gentleman, removing the cork, applied the bottle to his nose. He
sneezed, but seemed revived.
“I feel better,” he said. “Go and take a room for me and help me up to
it.”
“What name shall I put down on the register?”
“William Penrose.”
“Where from?”
“Buffalo.”
