replied with a laugh that justified his confession of nervous- 
ness. He disliked to be talking sincerely of Mrs. Newsome 
with Pocock ; he wouldn't so much have minded talking 
insincerely. But there was something he wanted to know, 
a need created in him by her recent intermission, by his 
having given, from the first, so much, as now more than 
ever appeared to him, and got so little. It was as if a 
queer truth in his companion's metaphor had rolled over 
him with a rush. She had   been quiet at feeding-time; she 
had fed, and Sarah had fed with her, out of the big bowl . 
of all his recent free communication, his vividness and 
pleasantness, his ingenuity and even his eloquence, while   
the current of her response had steadily run thin. Jim 
meanwhile, however, it was true, slipped characteristically  
into shallowness from the moment he ceased to speak out   
of the experience of a husband.  
"But of course Chad has now the advantage of being 
there before her. If he doesn't work that for all it's  
worth ! " He sighed with contingent pity at his   
brother-in-law's possible want of resource. " He has  
worked it on ou pretty well, eh ? " — and he asked the !  
next moment if there were anything new at the Varieties, 
which he pronounced in the American manner. They
talked about the Varieties — Strether confessing to a know- 
ledge which produced again on Pocock's part a play of : 
innuendo as vague as a nursery-rhyme, yet as aggressive , 
as an elbow in his side; and they finished their drive 
under the protection of easy themes. Strether waited to I 
the end, but still in vain, for any show that Jim had seen 
Chad as different ; and he could scarce have explained the 
discouragement he drew from the absence of this testi-  
mony. It was what he had taken his own stand on, so far  
as he had taken a stand; and if they were all only going to 
see nothing, he had quite wasted his time. He gave his 
friend till the very last moment, till they had come into   
sight of the hotel ; and when poor Pocock only continued 
cheerful and envious and funny, he fairly grew to dislike 
him, to feel him extravagantly common. If they were all 
going to see nothing ! — Strether knew, as this came back 
to him, that he was also letting Pocock represent for him 
what Mrs. Newsome wouldn't see. He went on disliking, 
in the light of Jim's commonness, to talk to him about 
that lady; yet just before the cab pulled up he knew the 
extent of his desire for the real word from VVoollett. 
" Has Mrs. Newsome at all given way ?" 
"'Given way'.!"' — m echoed it with the practical deri- 
sion of his sense of a long past. 
" Under the strain, I mean, of hope deferred, of dis- 
appointment repeated and thereby intensified." 
" Oh, is she prostrate, you mean ? " — he had his categories 
in hand. " Why, yes, she's prostrate — just as Sally is. 
But they're never so lively, you know, as when they're 
prostrate." 
"Ah, Sarah's prostrate?" Strether vaguely murmured. 
" It's when they're prostrate that they most sit up." 
"And Mrs. Newsome is sitting up?" 
"All night, my boy — (or you/" And Jim fetched him, 
with a vulgar little guffaw, a thrust that gave relief to the 
picture. But he had got what he wanted. He felt on the 
spot that this was the real word from Woollett. " So don't 
you go home ! " Jim added while he alighted and while his 
friend, letting him profusely pay the cabman, sat on in a 
momentary muse. Strether wondered if that were the real 
word too. 
XXI 
As the door of Mrs. Pocock's salon was pushed open for 
him the next day, before noon, he became conscious of a 
voice with a charming sound that made him just falter 
before crossing the threshold. Mme. de Vionnet was 
already on the field, and this gave the drama a quicker 
pace than he felt it as yet — though his suspense had 
increased — in the power of any act of his own to do. He 
had spent the previous evening with all his old friends 
together ; yet he would still have described himself as 
quite in the dark in respect to a forecast of their influence 
on his situation. It was strange now, none the less, that, 
in the light of this unexpected note of her presence, he 
felt Mme, de Vionnet a part of that situation as she had 
not even yet been. She was alone, he found himself 
assuming, with Sarah, and there was a bearing in that — 
somehow beyond his control — on his personal fate. Yet 
she was only saying something quite independent and 
charming — the thing she had come, as a good friend of 
Chad's, on purpose to say. " There isn't anything at all ? 
I should be so delighted." 
It was clear enough, when they were there before him, 
how she had been received. He saw this, as Sarah got up 
to greet him, from something fairly hectic in Sarah's face. 
He saw, in addition, that they were not, as had first come 
to him, alone together ; he was at no loss as to the 
identity of the broad, high back presented to him in the 
embrasure of the window furthest from the door. Way- 
marsh, whom he had to-day not yet seen, whom he only 
knew to have left the hotel before him and who had taken 
part, the night previous, on Mrs. Pocock's kind invitation, 
conveyed by Chad, in the entertainment, informal but 
cordial, promptly offered by that lady — Wa 'marsh had 
anticipated him even as Mme. de Vionnet had done, and, 
with his hands in his pockets and his attitude unaffected 
by Strether's entrance, was looking out, in marked detach- 
ment, at the Rue de Rivoli. The latter felt it in the air — 
it was immense how Waymarsh could mark things — that 
he had remained deeply dissociated from the overture to 
their hostess that we have recorded on Mme. de Vionnet's 
side. He had, conspicuously, tact, besides a stiff general 
view ; and this was why he had left Mrs. Pocock to 
struggle alone. He would outstay the visitor ; he would 
unmistakably wait ; to what had he been doomed for 
months past but waiting ? Therefore she was to feel that 
she had him in reserve. What support she drew from this 
was still to be seen, for, although Sarah was vividly bright, 
she had given herself up, for the moment, to an ambiguous 
flushed formalism. She had had to reckon more quickly 
than she expected ; but it concerned her first of all to 
signify that she was not to be taken unawares. Strether 
arrived precisely in time for her showing it. " Oh, you're 
too good ; but I don't think I feel quite helpless, I have 
my brother — and these American friends. And then, you 
know, I've been to Paris. I know Paris," said Sally Pocock 
in a tone that breathed a certain chill on Strether's heart. 
" Ah, but a woman, in this tiresome place, where every- 
thing is always changing, a woman of good will," Mme. de 
Vionnet threw off, "can always help a woman. Pm sure 
you 'know' — but we know perhaps different things." She 
too, visibly, wished to make no mistake ; but it was a fear 
of a different order, and she kept it more out of sight. She 
smiled in welcome at Strether; she greeted him more 
familiarly than Mrs. Pocock ; she put out her hand to him 
without moving from her place ; and it came to him, in the 
course of a minute, and in the oddest way, that — yes, 
positively — she was giving him over to ruin. She was all 
kindness and ease, but she couldn't help so giving him; she 
was exquisite, and her being just as she was poured, for 
Sarah, a sudden rush of meaning into his own equivocations. 
How could she know how she was hurting him? She wanted 
to show as simple and humble — in the degree compatible 
with operative charm ; but it was just this that seemed 
to put him on her side. She struck him as dressed, as 
arranged, as prepared infinitely to conciliate; with the very 
poetry of good taste in her view of the conditions of her 
early call. She was ready to advise about dressmakers and 
shops; she held herself wholly at the disposition of Chad's 
family. Strether noticed her card on the table — her coronet 
and her " Comtesse " — and the imagination was sharp in 
him of certain private adjustments in Sarah's mind. She 
had never, he was sure, sat with a " Comtesse " before, 
and such was the specimen of that class he had been keep- 
ing to play on her. She had crossed the sea very particu- 
larly for a good stare at her ; but he read in Mme. de 
Vionnet's own eyes that this curiosity had not been so 
successfully met as that she herself would not now have 
more than ever need of him. She looked much as she had 
looked to him that morning at Notre Dame ; he noted in 
fact the suggestive sameness of her discreet and delicate 
dress. It seemed to speak — perhaps a little prematurely, 
or too finely — of the sense in which she could help Mrs. 
Pocock with the shops. The way that lady took her in, 
moreover, added depth to his impression of what Miss 
Gostrey, by their common wisdom, had escaped. He 
winced as he saw himself, but for that timely prudence, 
ushering in Maria as a guide and an example. There was, 
however, a touch of relief for him in his glimpse, so far as 
he had got it, of Sarah's line. She " knew Paris." Mme. 
de Vionnet had, for that matter, lightly taken this up. "Ah, 
then you've a turn for that, an affinity that belongs to your 
family. Your brother, though his long experience makes a 
difference, I admit, has become one of us in a marvellous 
way." And she appealed to Strether in the manner of a 
woman who could always glide off with smoothness into 
another subject. Wasn't he struck with the way Mr. New- 
some had made the place his own, and hadn't he been in a 
position to profit by his friend's wondrous expertness? 
Strether felt the bravery, at the least, of her presenting 
herself so promptly to sound that note, and yet asked him- 
self what other note, after all, she could strike from the 
moment she presented herself at all. She could meet Mrs. 
Pocock only on the ground of the obvious, and what feature 
of Chad's situation was more eminent than the fact that he 
had created for himself a new set of circumstances? 
Unless she hid herself altogether she could show but as one 
of these, an illustration of his domiciled, and indeed of his 
confirmed, condition. And the consciousness of all this, in 
her charming eyes, was so clear and fine that as she thus 
publicly drew him into her boat she produced in him such 
a silent agitation as he was not to fail afterwards to de- 
nounce as pusillanimous. " Ah, don't be so charming to 
me ! — for it makes us intimate, and, after all, what is be- 
tween us, when I've been so tremendously on my guard and 
have seen you but half a dozen times?" He recognised 
once more the perverse law that so inveterately governed 
his poor personal aspects ; it would be exactly /i/:e the way 
things always turned out for him, that he should affect Mrs. 
Pocock and Waymarsh as launched in a relation in which he 
had really never been launched at all. They were at this very 
moment — they could only be — attributing to him the full 
licence of it, and all by the operation of her own tone with 
him ; whereas his sole licence had been to cling, with 
intensity, to the brink, not to dip so much as a toe into the 
flood. But the flicker of his fear on this occasion was not, 
as may be added, to repeat itself; it sprang up, for its 
moment, only to die down and then go out for ever. To 
meet his fellow-visitor's invocation and, with Sarah's brilliant eyes on him, answer, was quite sufficiently to step 
into her boat. During the rest of the time her visit lasted 
he felt himself proceed to each of the proper offices, 
successively, for helping to keep the adventurous skiff 
afloat. It rocked beneath him, but he settled himself in 
his place. He took up an oar and, since he was to have 
the credit of pulling, he pulled. 
" That will make it all the pleasanter if it so happens 
that we do meet," Mme. de Vionnet had further observed 
in reference to Mrs. Pocock's mention of her initiated 
state ; and she had immediately added that, after all, her 
hostess couldn't be in need, with the aid and comfort 
of Mr. Strether so close at hand. " It's he, I gather, who 
has learned to know his Paris, and to love it better 
than anyone ever before in so short a time ; so that be- 
tween him and your brother, when it comes to the point, 
how can you possibly want for good guidance ? The 
great thing, Mr. Strether will show you," she smiled, " is 
just to let one's self go." 
" Oh, I've not let myself go very far," Strether answered, 
feeling quite as if he had been called upon to hint to 
Mrs. Pocock how Parisians could talk. " Pm only afraid   
of showing I haven't let myself go far enough. Pve taken 
a good deal of time, but I must quite have had the air 
of not budging from one spot." He looked at Sarah in a   
manner that he thought she might take as engaging, and I 
he made, under Mme. de Vionnet's protection, as it were, 
his first personal point. " What has really happened has 
been that all the while Pve done what I came out for." 
Yet it only at first gave Mme. de Vionnet a chance 
immediately to take him up. " You've renewed acquaint- 
ance with your friend ; you've learned to know him again." 
She spoke with such cheerful helpfulness that they might,  
in a common cause, have been calling together and pledged 
to mutual aid. 
Waymarsh at this, as if he had been in question, straight-  
way turned from the window. "Oh yes, Countess, he has 
renewed acquaintance with me, and he has, I guess, learned  
something about me, though I don't know how much he 
has liked it. It's for Strether himself to say whether he  
has felt it justifies his course." ' 
"Oh, hx. youl' said the Countess gaily, "are not in the 
least what he came out for — is he really, Strether? — and  
I hadn't you at all in my mind. I was thinking of Mr. 
Newsome, of whom we think so much and with whom '! 
precisely Mrs. Pocock has given herself the opportunity to 
take up threads. What a pleasure for you both ! " Mme.  
de Vionnet, with her eyes on Sarah, bravely continued.
Mrs. Pocock met her handsomely, but Strether quickly 
saw she meant to accept no version of her movements 
or plans from any other lips. She required no patronage  
and no support, which were but other names for a false 
position. She would show in her own way what she chose   
to show, and this she expressed with a dry glitter that  
recalled to him a fine Woollett winter morning. " I've  
never wanted for opportunities to see my brother. We've 
many things to think of at home and great responsibilities 
and occupations, and our home is not an impossible place; 
We've plenty of reasons," Sarah pursued a little piercingly, " for everything we do" ; and in short she wouldn't give  
herself the little least scrap away. But she added as one 
who was always bland and who could afford a concession, 
" I've come because — well, because we do come." 
" Ah, fortunately ! " Mme. de Vionnet breathed it to the 
air. Five minutes later they were on their feet for her 
to take leave, standing together in an affability that had 
succeeded in surviving a further exchange of remarks ; only 
with the rather emphasised appearance on Waymarsh's part 
of a tendency to revert, in a ruminating manner, and as 
with an instinctive or a precautionary lightening of his tread, 
to an open window and his point of vantage. The glazed 
and gilded room — all red damask, ormolu, mirrors, clocks — 
looked south, and the shutters were bowed upon the 
summer morning ; but the Tuileries garden and what was 
beyond it, over which the whole place hung, were things 
visible through gaps ; so that the far-spreading presence 
of Paris came up in coolness, dimness and invitation, in 
the twinkle of gilt-tipped palings, the crunch of gravel, the 
click of hoofs, the crack of whips that suggested some 
parade of the circus. " I think it probable," said Mrs. 
Pocock, " that I shall have the opportunity of going to my 
brother's. I've no doubt it's very pleasant indeed." She 
spoke as to Strether, but her face was turned, with an 
intensity of brightness, to Mme. dc Vionnet, and there was 
a moment during which, while she thus fronted her, our 
friend expected to hear her add, " I'm much obliged to 
you, I'm sure, for inviting me there." He guessed that for 
five seconds these words were on the point of coming ; he 
heard them as clearly as if they had been spoken ; but he 
presently knew they had just failed — knew it by a glance 
quick and fine from Mme. de Vionnet, which told him 
that she too had felt them in the air, but that the point 
had luckily not been made in any manner requiring 
notice. This left her free to reply only to what had been 
said. 
" That the Boulevard Malesherbcs may be common 
ground for us offers me the best prospect I sec for the 
pleasure of meeting you again." 
"Oh, I shall come to see you, since you've been so 
good"; and Mrs. Pocock looked her interlocutress well 
in the eyes. The flush in Sarah's cheeks had by this time 
settled to a small definite crimson spot that was not I 
without its own bravery. She held her head a good deal ., 
up, and it came to Strether that of the two, at this 
moment, she was the one who most carried out the idea 
of a Countess. He quite took in, however, that she would   
really return her visitor's civility ; she would not report 
again at Woollett without at least so much producible 
history as that in her pocket.  
" I want extremely to be able to show you my little 
daughter," Mme. de Vionnet went on ; " and I should have  
brought her with me if I hadn't wished first to ask your , 
leave. I was in hopes I should perhaps find Miss Pocock, 
of whose being with you I've heard from Mr. Newsome, ! 
and whose acquaintance I should so much like my child : 
to make. If I have the pleasure of seeing her, and you do 
permit it, I shall venture to ask her to be kind to Jeanne, 
Mr. Strether will tell you " — she beautifully kept it up — ' 
" that my poor girl is gentle and good and rather lonely. ! 
They've made friends, he and she, ever so happily, and he   
doesn't, I believe, think too ill of her. As for Jeanne ; 
herself, he has had the same success with her that I know  
he has had here, wherever he has turned." She seemed 
to ask him for permission to say these things, or seemed, 
rather, to take it, softly and happily, with the ease of 
intimacy, for granted, and he had quite the consciousness 
now that not to meet her at any point more than half way 
would be odiously, basely to abandon her. Yes, he was ' 
with her, and, confronted even in this covert, this semi-safe 
fashion with those who were not, he felt, strangely and 
confusedly, but excitedly, inspiringly, how much and how  
far. It was as if he had positively waited in suspense for 
something from her that would let him in deeper, so that 
he might show her how he could take it. And what did 
in fact come as she drew out a little her farewell served ; 
sufficiently the purpose. " As his success is a matter that 
I'm sure he'll never mention for himself, I feel, you see, 
the less scruple ; which it's very good of me to say, you 
know, by the way," she added as she addressed herself to  
him, "considering how little direct advantage I've gained  
from your triumphs with me. When does one ever see 
you ? I wait at home and I languish. You'll have 
rendered me the service, Mrs. Pocock, at least," she wound 
up, " of giving me one of my much too rare glimpses of 
this gentleman." 
" I certainly should be sorry to deprive you of anything 
that seems so much, as you describe it, your natural due. 
Mr. Strether and I are very old friends," Sarah conceded, 
" but the privilege of his society is not a thing I shall 
quarrel about with anyone." 
" And yet, dear Sarah," he freely broke in, " I feel, when 
I hear you say that, that you don't quite do justice to the 
important truth of the extent to which — as you're also 
mine — I'm your natural due. I should like much better," 
he laughed, " to see you fight for me." 
She met him, Mrs. Pocock, on this, with an arrest of 
speech — with a certain breathlessness, as he immediately 
fancied, on the score of a freedom for which she was not 
quite prepared. It had flared up — for all the harm he had 
intended by it — because, confoundedly, he didn't want any 
more to be afraid about her than he wanted to be afraid 
about Mme. de Vionnet. He had never, naturally, called 
her anything but Sarah at home, and though he had 
perhaps never quite so markedly invoked her as his " dear," 
that was somehow partly because no occasion had hitherto 
laid so effective a trap for it. But something admonished 
him now that it was too late — unless, indeed, it were possibly 
too early, and that he at any rate shouldn't have pleased 
Mrs. Pocock the more by it. "Well, Mr. Strether !" 
she murmured with vagueness, yet with sharpness, while 
her crimson spots burned a trifle brighter and he was 
aware that this must be for the present the limit of her 
response. Mme. de Vionnet had already, however, come 
to his aid, and Waymarsh, as if for further participation, 
moved again back to them. It was true that the aid 
rendered by Mme. de Vionnet was questionable ; it was 
a sign that, for all one might confess to with her, and for 
all she might complain of not enjoying, she could still 
insidiously show how much of the material of conversation 
had accumulated between them. 
" The real truth is, you know, that you sacrifice one 
without mercy to dear old Maria. She leaves no room in 
your life for anybody else. Do you know," she inquired 
of Mrs, Pocock, "about dear old Maria? The worst is 
that Miss Gostrey is really a wonderful woman." 
" Oh, yes, indeed," Strether answered for her, " Mrs. 
Pocock knows about Miss Gostrey. Your mother, Sarah,   
must have told you about her ; your mother knows every- 
thing," he sturdily pursued. "And I cordially admit," hel 
added with his conscious gaiety of courage, " that she's as 
wonderful a woman as you like." 
" Ah, it isn't / who ' like,' dear Mr. Strether, anything to 
do with the matter ! " Sarah Pocock promptly protested ; 
" and I'm by no means sure I have — from my mother or 
from anyone else — a notion of whom you're talking about.' 
"Well, he won't let you see her, you know," Mme. 
de Vionnet sympathetically threw in. " he never lets them
— old friends as we are ; I mean as I am with Maria. He  
reserves her for his best hours ; keeps her thoroughly to
himself; only gives us others the crumbs of the feast." 
" Well, Countess, I've had some of the crumbs,' 
Waymarsh observed deliberately and covering her witt 
his large look, which led her to break in before he could 
go on. 
" Coimnent do it, he shares her with you ? " she exclaimed in droll stupefaction. " Take care you don't have I 
before you go much further, rather more of all ces damet : 
than you may know what to do with ! " 
But he only continued in his massive way. " I can post
you about the lady, Mrs. Pocock, so far as you may caret 
to hear. I've seen her quite a number of times, and I was! 
practically present when they made acquaintance. I've  
kept my eye on her right along, but I don't know that
there's any real harm in her."
" ' H arm ' ? " Mme. de Vionnet quickly echoed. " Why 
she's the dearest and cleverest of all the clever and dear."   
" Well, you run her pretty close. Countess," Waymarshl 
returned with spirit ; " though there's no doubt she's pretty 
well up in things. She knows her way round Europe   
Above all there's no doubt she does love Strether." 
"Ah, but we all do that — we all love Strether; it isn't a
merit!" their fellow-visitor laughed, keeping to her idea
with a good conscience at which our friend was aware that! 
he marvelled, though he trusted also for it, as he met her 
exquisitely expressive eyes, to some later light. The 
prime effect of her tone, however — and it was a truth 
which his own eyes gave back to her in sad ironic play — 
could only be to make him feel that, to say such things to 
a man in public, a woman must practically think of him 
as ninety years old. He had turned awkwardly, respon- 
sibly red, he knew, at her mention of Maria Gostrey ; 
Sarah Pocock's presence — the particular quality of it — 
had made this inevitable ; and then he had grown still 
redder in proportion as he hated to have shown anything 
at all. He felt indeed that he was showing much, as, 
uncomfortably and almost in pain, he offered up his red- 
ness to VV'aymarsh, who, strangely enough, seemed now to 
be looking at him with a certain explanatory yearning. 
Something deep — something built on their old, old relation 
— passed, in this complexity, between them ; he got the 
side-wind of a loyalty that stood behind all actual queer 
questions. Waymarsh's dry, bare humour — as it gave 
itself to be taken — gloomed out to justify itself. " Well, 
if you talk of Miss Barrace, I've my chance too," it 
appeared stiffly to nod ; and it granted that it was giving 
him away, but struggled to say that it did so only to save 
him. The sombre glow stared it at him till it fairly 
sounded out — " to save you, poor old man, to save you ; to 
save you in spite of yourself." Yet it was somehow just 
this communication that showed him to himself as more 
than ever lost. Still another result of it was to put before 
him as never yet that between his comrade and the interest 
represented by Sarah there was already a basis. Beyond 
all question now, yes — Waymarsh had been in occult 
relation with Mrs. Newsome. Out, out it all came in the 
very effort of his face. "Yes, you're feeling my hand" — 
he as good as proclaimed it ; " but only because this at 
least I shall have got out of your stale Old World : that I 
shall have picked up the pieces into which it has caused 
you to crumble." It was as if, in short, after an instant, 
Strether had not only had it from him, but had recognised 
it, so far as this went, the instant had cleared the air. 
vydr friend understood and approved ; he had the .sense 
that they wouldn't otherwise speak of it. This would be 
all, and it would mark in himself a kind of intelligent 
generosity. It was with grim Sarah then — Sarah grim for 
all her grace — that Waymarsh had begun at ten o'clock in 
the morning to save him. Well — if he coiild  poor dear 
man, with his big, narrow kindness ! The upshot of which 
crowded perception was that Strether, on his own side,! 
still showed no more than he absolutely had to. Hal 
showed the least possible by saying to Mrs. Pocock after! 
an interval much briefer than our glance at the picture asi 
reflected in him : " Oh, it's as true as they please ! There's 
no Miss Gostrey for anyone but me — not the least little 
peep. I keep her to myself" 
" Well, it's very good of you to notify me," Sarah replied 
without looking at him, and thrown for a moment by this  
discrimination, as the direction of her eyes showed, upor  
a dimly desperate little community with Mme. de Vionnet  
" But I hope I shan't miss her too much."  
Mme. de Vionnet instantly rallied. "And, you know— t 
though it might occur to one — it isn't in the least that he's
ashamed of her. She's really — in a way — extremely good 
looking." ' 
" Ah, but extremely ! " Strether laughed while he  
wondered at the odd part he found thus imposed or  
him. ' 
It continued to be so by every touch from Mme. de  
Vionnet. " Well, as I say, you know, I wish you would  
keep me a little more to yourself Couldn't you namt'l 
some day for me, some hour — and better soon than late  
I will be at home whenever it best suits you. There — 
can't say fairer." 
Strether thought a moment, while Waymarsh and Mrs 
Pocock affected him as standing attentive. " I did lately 
call on you. Last week — while Chad was out of town." 
"Yes — and I was away, as it happened, too. You 
chose your moments well. But don't wait for my nex 
absence, for I shan't make another," Mme. de Vionne 
declared, " while Mrs. Pocock is here." 
