Mary Adams was a girl well known to many of the cadets.
The letter was roughly scrawled on a pad, and when Texas finished
reading it he flung it on the floor and went and glared at himself in
the mirror.
"You idiot!" he muttered, shaking his fist at himself. "Here them ole
cadets went an' fooled Mark Mallory again, an' you--bah!"
Texas was repentant through and through by that time; he grabbed up his
cap savagely and made for the door, with a reckless disregard for sore
joints. He hobbled downstairs and out of barracks, and caught Mark by
the arm just as Mark was coming in.
"Well, Texas?" inquired Mark, smiling.
"Fust place," said Texas, briefly, "want to thank you fo' lickin' me."
"Welcome," said Mark.
"Second place, do it ag'in if I ever lose my temper."
"Welcome," said Mark.
"Third place, I want to 'pologize."
"What's up? What's happened to convince you?"
"Nothin' much," said Texas, "only I been a' findin' out what a fool I
am. Hones' now, Mark," and as Mark looked into the other's pleading gray
eyes he saw that Texas meant it. "Hones' now, this yere's fust time I
ever 'pologized in my life. I'm sorry."
And Mark took him by the hand. They were friends again from that moment.
"I jist saw that second note from Mary Adams upstairs," explained Texas,
"an' then I knowed them ole cadets had fooled you that way ag'in. Say,
Mark, you're mos' as big a fool as me--mos'."
"That note was genuine," answered Mark. And then as he saw Texas'
amazement, he led him aside and explained. "I'll tell you about it,"
said he, "for I can trust you not to tell. But I can't explain to the
rest of the class, and I won't, either, though they may call me a
coward if they choose.
"A drummer boy came up here last night--or, rather, this morning. He
woke me up and gave me that note, swore it was genuine, too, and I
believed him in the end. As you see, Mary Adams wanted to see me, and
she was in a desperate hurry about it. Well, I debated over it for a
long time; at first I thought I wouldn't, for I was afraid of
court-martial; but then as I thought of her in distress I made up my
mind to risk it, and I went. As it turned out, old man, you'd have been
ashamed of me if I hadn't. There are worse things than being called a
coward, and one of em's being a coward.
"I found her in great trouble, as she said. She has a brother, a fellow
of about twenty-two, I guess. She lives with her widowed mother, and he
takes care of them. I think they are poor. Anyway, this brother had
gotten two or three hundred dollars from his employer to take a trip out
West. He had fallen in with a rather tough crowd down in the village,
and they were busy making him spend it as fast as he could. That was the
situation."
"It was tough," commented Texas.
"The problem was to get him away. The girl hadn't a friend on earth to
call on, and she happened to think of me. She begged me to try to get
him away. And I'll tell you one thing, too, Texas. The cadets say she's
a flirt and all that. She may be. I haven't had a chance to find out,
and I don't propose to; but a girl that thinks as much of her brother as
she does, and does as much for him, is not beyond respect by a good
sight. I was really quite taken with her last night."
"Beware the serpent," put in Texas, laughing. "She's pretty, I'm told.
Go on."
"Well, I found him, after a couple of hours' search, in a tough dive,
with a crowd of loafers hanging on to him. I got him out, but I had to
knock down----"
"Hey!" cried Texas, springing up in excitement. "Had a fight, did ye?
Why didn't you take me 'long?"
"I didn't know I was going to fight," said Mark, laughing.
"And did you lick 'em?"
"I only had to lick two, and then the rest ran."
Texas sighed resignedly, and Mark went on:
"I took him home, as I said, and left him with her. I got home just in
time for reveille."
"Time to have me call you names and to lick me blue, for the same which
I have jest thanked yo," added Texas, his eyes suspiciously moist. "An'
look a yere, ole man"--Texas slung his hand around to his hip pocket and
"pulled" a beautiful silver-mounted revolver, loaded "to the
brim"--"look a yere, Mark. This yere gun, I ain't ever gone out 'thout
it fo' ten year. She's a----"
"You don't mean to say you've had it on up here!"
"Sho'," said Texas, "an' I come near usin' it on you, too. Mark, you
dunno how a Texas man is with a gun. Mos' of 'em 'ud ruther sell their
wives. An' I'm a goin' to give you this to show that--er--that ther'
ain't no hard feelin's, you know."
"And I'll take it," said Mark, getting hold of Texas' other hand at the
same time--"take it, if it's only to keep you from carrying it. And
there aren't any hard feelings."
CHAPTER V.
MARK IN DISGRACE.
"In my excursions into the various fields of knowledge I have never yet
had occasion to investigate the alleged discoveries of phrenological
experimentalists, and yet----"
The speaker paused for a moment, long enough to sigh mournfully. Then he
continued:
"And yet I had, I think, sufficient perception of character as
delineated by the outlines of physiognomy to recognize at once the fact
that the person to whom we refer is in no way a coward."
"I wish I had, Parson," responded his companion, ruefully rubbing a
large lump upon his forehead. "I wish I had."
The thin, learned features of the first speaker found it difficult to
indicate any amusement, and yet there was the trace of a smile about his
mouth as he answered.
"You say he 'licked' you, to use your own rather unclassic phrase?" he
inquired.
"Licked me? Wow! He gave me, sah, the very worst lickin' I ever got in
my life--which is very natural, seeing that when a feller gits licked
down in Texas they bury him afterward. I reckon I'd be a gunnin' fo' him
right now, if 'twarn't seein' it's Mark Mallory. Why, man, a feller
can't stay mad with Mark Mallory long!"
It was just dinner time and Parson and Texas were sitting on the steps
of barracks, waiting for the summons and talking over the events of the
previous day.
"And how did this encounter originate?" inquired the Parson.
"All in my foolishness!" growled Texas. "You see yesterday morning when
he didn't turn up to fight that 'ere yearling fellow Williams, I thought
'twas cause he was scared. An' so I got mad an' when he did turn up I
went fo' him. An' then I went fo' the hospital."
"His conduct did seem unaccountable," rejoined the other. "And yet
somehow I had an instinctive intuition, so to speak, that there was an
adequate reason. And one is apt to find that such impressions are
trustworthy, as, indeed, was most obviously demonstrated and
consistently maintained by the German philosopher, Immanuel Kant. Are
you acquainted with Kant's antinomies?" the Parson added, anxiously.
"No," said Powers. "I ain't. They ain't got to Texas yit. But I wish I'd
had more sense'n to git mad with Mark. I tell you I felt cheap when he
did explain. I kain't tell you the reason yit, but you'll know it before
long. All I kin say is he went down to Cranston's."
"To Cranston's? I thought we weren't allowed off the grounds."
"We ain't. But he took the risk of expulsion."
"And another, too," put in the Parson, "the risk of being called a
coward an' being ostracised by the cadets."
"I dunno 'bout the astercizin' part," said Texas, "but I know they
called him a coward, an' I know they cut him dead. There won't even a
plebe speak to him, 'cept me an' you an' Injun. An' it's what I call
durnation tough now, by Jingo!"
"It don't worry me very much," put in a voice behind them.
The two turned and saw Mark looking at them with an amused expression.
"It don't worry me much," he repeated. "I guess I can stand it if
you'll stand by me. And I think pretty soon I can get another chance at
Williams, and then----"
"If ye do," cried the excitable Texan, springing up, "I'll back you to
murder him in jist about half a minute."
"It won't be so easy," responded Mark, "for Williams is the best man in
his class, and that's saying a great deal. But I'll try it; and in the
meantime we'll face out the disgrace. I can stand it, for really there
isn't much privation when you have three to keep you company."
"I reckon," put in Texas, after a moment's thought, "I reckon we'll have
to put off aformin' o' thet ere new organization we were a-talkin'
'bout. Cuz we kain't git anybody to join ef they won't any of 'em speak
to us."
"I guess we three are enough for the present," said Mark, "at least
while all the cadets leave us alone. And if they try to haze us I think
we can fight about as well as the rest of them. Then there's Indian,
too, you know; I don't think he can fight much, but he's----"
"Now, see here!" cried an indignant voice from the doorway, "now see
here, you fellows! I think that's real mean, now, indeed I do. Didn't I
tell you fellows I was going to learn to fight?" he expostulated.
"Didn't I? Bless my soul, now, what more can a man do?"
Mark winked slyly to his companions, and put on his most solemn air.
"Do?" he growled. "You ask what more can a man do? A man might, if he
were a man, rise up and prove his prowess and win himself a name. He
might gird up his loins and take his sword in his hand and sally forth,
to vindicate his honor and the honor of his sworn friends and allies.
That is what he might do. And instead what does he do? In slothfulness
and cowardice he sits and suffers beneath the rod of tyranny and
oppression!"
Mark finished out of breath and red in the face.
"Bless my soul!" cried Indian.
"Such a course is by no means entirely unprecedented," put in Stanard,
solemnly. "It is common in the mythology of antiquity and in the legends
of mediæval times. Such was the course of Hercules, and thus did Sir
Galahad and the Knights of the Round Table."
Poor Joe Smith was gazing at the two speakers in perplexity. He wasn't
quite sure whether they were serious or not, but he thought they were,
and he was on the verge of promising to go out and kill something,
whether a cadet or a grizzly, at once. The only trouble was that the
tall, sedate-looking officer of the day, in his spotless uniform of
gray and white and gold with a dazzling red sash thrown in, strode out
of the guardhouse just then; a moment later came the cry, "New cadets
turn out!" and Indian drew a breath of relief at being delivered from
his uncomfortable situation.
Saturday afternoon is a holiday at West Point. The luckless plebe,
having been drilled and shouted at for a week, gets a much-needed chance
to do as he pleases, with the understanding, of course, that he does not
happen to fall into the hands of the yearlings. If he does, he does as
they please, instead.
Saturday afternoon is also a holiday time for the yearling, too, and he
is accustomed to amuse himself with variety shows and concerts,
recitations and exhibition drills, continuous performances that are
free, given by the "beasts," the "trained animals," or plebes.
It may be well at the start to have a word to say about "hazing" at West
Point. Hazing is abolished there, so people say. At any rate, there are
stringent measures taken to prevent it. A cadet is forbidden in any way
to lay hands upon the plebe; he is forbidden to give any degrading
command or exact any menial service; and the penalty for breaking these
rules is dismissal. The plebe is called up daily before the tactical
officer in charge of his company, and asked if he has any complaint to
make.
Such are the methods. The results are supposed to be a complete stopping
of "deviling" in all its forms. The actual result has been that when a
yearling wants to "lay hands upon the plebe" he does it on the
sly--perhaps "yanks" him, as one peculiar form of nocturnal torture is
termed. When the yearling wants some work done, instead of "commanding"
he "requests," and with the utmost politeness. If he wants his gun
cleaned he kindly offers to "show" the plebe how to do it--taking care
to see that the showing is done on his own gun and not on the plebe's.
And the plebe is not supposed to object. He may, but in that case there
are other methods. If he reports anybody he is ostracised--"cut" by
every one, his own class included.
This being the case, we come to the events of this particular Saturday
afternoon.
    "There were three wily yearlings
      Set out one summer's day
    To hunt the plebe so timid
      In barracks far away."
Only in this case there were half a dozen instead of three.
Now, of all the persons selected for torment that year, with the
possible exception of Mark and Texas, the two "B. J.'s," Indian was the
most prominent. "Indian," as he was now called by the whole corps, was a
rara avis among plebes, being an innocent, gullible person who
believed implicitly everything that was told him, and could be scared to
death by a word. It was Indian that this particular crowd of merry
yearlings set out to find.
Mark and Texas, it chanced, had gone out for a walk; "Parson" Stanard
had, wandered over to the library building to "ascertain the extent of
their geological literature," and to get some information, if possible,
about a most interesting question which was just then troubling him.
And poor Joe Smith was all alone in his room, dreading some visitation
of evil.
The laughing crowd dashed up the steps and burst into the room. Indian
had been told what to do. "Heels together, turn out your toes, hands by
your sides, palms to the front, fingers closed, little fingers on the
seams of the trousers, head up, chin in, shoulders thrown back, chest
out. Here, you! Get that scared look off your face. Whacher 'fraid of.
If you don't stop looking scared I'll murder you on the spot!"
And with preliminary introduction the whole crowd got at him at once.
"Can you play the piano? Go ahead, then. What! Haven't got any? Why
didn't you bring one? What's the use of being able to play the piano if
you haven't a piano? Can you recite? Don't know anything? You look like
it. Here, take this paper--it's a song. Learn it now! Why don't you
learn it? What do you mean by staring at me instead of at the paper?
There, that's right. Now sing the first six verses. Don't know 'em yet?
Bah, what will you do when you come to trigonometry with a hundred and
fourteen formulas to learn every night? Have you learned to stand on
your head yet? What! Didn't I tell you to do it? Who taught you to stand
on your feet, anyhow? Why don't you answer me, eh? Let's see you get up
on that mantelpiece. Won't hold you? Well, who said it would? What's
that got to do with it? No! Don't take that chair. Vault up! There. Now
flap your wings. What! Haven't got any? What kind of an angel are you,
anyhow? Flap your ears. Let's hear you crow like a hen. Hens don't crow?
What do you know about hens, anyway? Were you ever a hen? Well, why
weren't you? Were you ever a goose, then? No? Well, you certainly look
like it! Why don't you crow when we tell you? What kind of crowing is
that--flap your arms, there. Have you got any toothpicks? What! No
toothpicks? Don't suppose you have any teeth, either. Oh, so you have
toothpicks, have you? Well, why did you say you didn't? Take 'em out of
your pockets and row yourself along that mantelpiece with 'em. 'Fraid
you'll fall off, eh? Well, we'll put you up again. Humpty Dumpty! Row
fast now! Row! Get that grin off your face. How dare you smile at a
higher classman! You are the most amazingly presumptuous beast that I
ever heard of. Get down now, and don't break any bones about it,
either!"
All these amazing orders, rattled off in a breath, and interspersed with
a variety of comment and ejaculation, poor Indian obeyed in fear and
trembling. He was commanded to fall down, and he fell; he was commanded
to fall up, and he protested that the law of gravitation----"Bah! why
don't you get the law repealed?" He wiped off a smile from his terrified
face and threw it under the bed. Then, gasping, spluttering, he went
under and got it. He strove his very best to go to sleep, amid a
variety of suggestions, such as which eyes to shut and which lung to
breathe through.
This went on till the ingenuity of the cadets was nearly exhausted. Then
one individual, more learned than the rest, chanced to learn the
identity of the Indian's name with that of the great Mormon leader. And
instantly he elbowed his way to the front.
"Look here, sir, who told you to be a Mormon? You're not a Mormon? Got
only one wife, hey? None? Then what sort of a Mormon are you? Why have
you got a Mormon's name? Did you steal it? Don't you know who Joseph
Smith was? No? Not you, the great Joseph Smith! Suppose you think you're
the great Joseph Smith. Well, now, how on earth did you ever manage to
get into this academy without knowing who Joseph Smith was? Didn't ask
you that, you say? Well, they should have! Fellow-citizens and cadets,
did you ever hear of such a thing? There must be some mistake here. The
very idea of letting a dunce like that in? Why, I knew who Joseph Smith
was about seventy-five years ago. Gentlemen, I move you that we carry
this case to the academy board at once. I shall use my influence to have
this man expelled. I never heard of such a preposterous outrage in my
life! Not know Joseph Smith! And he's too fat to be a cadet, anyhow.
What do you say?"
"Come ahead! Come ahead!" cried the rest of the mob, indignant and
solemn.
And almost before the poor Indian could realize what they were doing, or
going to do, the whole crowd arose gravely and marched in silence out of
the room, bent upon their direful mission of having the Army Board expel
Indian because he had never heard of Joseph Smith, the Mormon prophet.
And Indian swallowed every bit of it and sat and trembled for his life.
CHAPTER VI.
INDIAN'S RE-EXAMINATION.
It was a rare opportunity. The six yearlings made for camp on a run, and
there an interesting conference was held with a few more choice spirits,
the upshot being that the whole crew set out for barracks again in high
spirits, and looking forward to a jolly lark.
They entered the building, causing dire fear to several anxious-looking
plebes who were peering out of the windows and wondering if this
particular marauding party was bound in their direction. It was one of
the empty rooms that they entered, however, and there they proceeded to
costume one of their number, putting on a huge red sash, some medals, a
few shoulder straps borrowed for the occasion, and, last of all, a false
mustache. This done, they hastened over to the room where the
unfortunate "Mormon" still sat. The "officer" rapped sharply on the
door.
"Come in," a voice responded weakly; the cadets came.
"Mr. Smith, sir?" inquired the personage with the mustache.
"Yes, sir," said Indian, meekly, awed by the man's splendor.
"I have been requested by certain of the cadets of the United States
Military Academy to investigate the circumstance of your alleged passing
at the recent examination. I have been informed by these same gentleman
that when questioned by them you exhibited stupidity and ignorance so
very gross as to cause them to doubt whether you have any right to call
yourself a cadet at all."
Here the cadets shook their heads solemnly and looked very stern indeed.
"Bless my soul!" cried Indian.
"In order to consider these very grave allegations," continued the
other, "a special meeting of the Army Board was first convened, with the
following result:"
Here the speaker paused, cleared his throat pompously, and drew forth a
frightfully official-looking envelope, from which he took a large
printed sheet with the West Point seal upon the top.
"United States Military Academy, West Point, June 20th," he read--that
is the way all "orders" begin. "Cadet Joseph Smith, of Indianapolis,
Indiana, it has just been ascertained, was admitted to the duties of
conditional cadet through an error of the examining board. A
re-examination of Cadet Smith is hereby ordered to be conducted
immediately under the charge of the lord high chief quartermaster of the
academy. By order of the Academy Board. Ahem!"
The lord high chief quartermaster finished, and Cadet Smith sank down
upon the bed in horror.
"Sir!" shouted the officer, "how dare you sit down in the presence of
your superiors? Get up, sir, instantly!"
Indian "got," weak-kneed and trembling.
"The examination will be held," continued the cadet, "in the Observatory
Building, at once. Gentlemen, you will conduct Mr. Smith there and await
my arrival."
The bogus officer desired time to change his uniform, as he knew it
would be risky to cross the parade in his borrowed clothing.
Now the Observatory Building is situated far away from the rest of the
academy, upon the hillside near Fort Putnam. And thither the party set
out, the cadets freely discussing the probable fate of the unhappy
plebe. It was the almost unanimous verdict that one who was so
unutterably stupid as never to have heard of the great Joseph Smith
would not stand the ghost of a show. All of which was comforting to the
listening victim.
The Observatory was deserted and lonely. The door was locked, and the
party gained entrance by the windows, which alone was enough to excite
one's suspicion. But Indian was too scared to think.
The lord high chief quartermaster presently slipped in, once more
bedecked with medals and mustache.
The examining party got to work at once in a very businesslike and
solemn manner. The physical examination was to come first, they said. It
had been the opinion of the Army Board that Mr. Smith was far too fat to
make a presentable cadet. The surgeons were busy that afternoon in
trying to piece together several plebes who had been knocked all to
pieces by the yearlings for being too "B. J."--this was the explanation
of the lord high chief quartermaster--and so it would be necessary to
examine Indian here, and at once, too. And if it were found, as, indeed,
would most probably be the case, that he was too fat, why then it would
be necessary for him to reduce weight immediately.
Several schemes were suggested as to how this might be done. There was
the Shylock, the Shakespearian method, of a pound of flesh from near the
heart. Cadet Corporal So-and-So suggested that several veal cutlets from
the legs--each an inch thick--would serve. A veal cutlet an inch thick
he estimated--his great grandfather on his mother's other side had been
a butcher, he stated--would weigh three pounds. Then Acting Cadet
Sergeant Somebody-Else suggested a Turkish bath, the jockey's method,
together with very violent exercise. This plan was adopted finally as
being the least likely to be fatal in its results.
But just then somebody suddenly thought of the fact that it would be
best to weigh the subject first, which was considered a good idea, but
for the fact that they had no scales. This trouble "feazed" the crowd at
first. Then the lord high chief quartermaster said that he was a
first-rate judge of weight, having slaughtered hogs in his youth, and
could tell by the feel. So Mr. Joseph Smith must be immediately
"boosted" up and balanced upon the cadet's outstretched hand, there to
be shaken and otherwise tested, while the man below made audible
calculations by means of trigonometrical formulas as to what was his
actual weight.
The result of this experiment, as might have been expected, was by no
means very definite. The lord high chief, etc., thought the weight was
too much, but he couldn't be sure. And then Cadet "Admiral" Jones
proposed another scheme. He had been a juggler "when he was young;" he
was used to tossing heavy weights; in fact, he just happened to know
that he could throw three hundred pounds exactly twelve feet, the height
of the ceiling. It was obvious, therefore, that if Indian weighed over
that he would not reach the ceiling; but if he should go through the
ceiling that would mean just as clearly that he was under the limit and
need not "reduce."
In vain did the frightened boy protest that he weighed only one hundred
and fifty; the test must be made, and made it was. Indian's terrified
form did not once get near the ceiling, and so reduce he must. The
cadets formed a circle about the room.
"Now," said the commanding official, "now you must manage to reduce
weight quickly this way, or we shall try the veal cutlet scheme. So
you'll find it best to hurry. We want you to run around the outside of
this circle. We'll give you just ten and one-quarter minutes by my watch
(which runs very fast, by the way) to get around fifty times. And in
the course of that you must manage to perspire fifteen pounds of weight
(enough to make you go through the ceiling). This is equal to half a
gallon of water. Now then! Take off your coat, sir. Ready! Set!! Go!!!
Why don't you start, sir? There now! Hurry up! One second--two
seconds--three--four--fi'--six--sev'n--eight--nine--ten--'leven! Faster!
Faster!! Hurry up! One minute! You haven't lost a pound yet! What! Out
of breath already? Faster! That's right! Keep it up now!"
The scene at this stage of the "examination" is left to the imagination;
Indian, wild-eyed, panting and red, plunging wildly around in a dizzy
circle of a dozen laughing cadets. And in the center the lord high with
his watch slowly telling off the minutes.
"Two minutes there, two minutes! Come now, hurry up! Don't begin to lag
there! Why don't you stop that panting? There goes the first drop of
perspiration. Hooray, there's another! It'll soon be a gallon now. Two
and a quarter!"
Poor Joseph kept it up to five, by which time he was so dizzy that he
could not stand up; which was the best reason in the world why he sank
down utterly breathless in the corner. And there he lay gasping, the
cadets in vain trying to get him to rise.
"I think," said the presiding officer, nearly convulsed with
laughter--"I think that is reduction enough for the present, and I say
we proceed to the 'mental.'"
A conference was held over in one corner of the room, as to what the
questions should be; and then in an evil hour (for them) an idea struck
one of the cadets.
"See here, fellows," said he. "I think he's been examined enough. Let's
get somebody else. Let's get---- Who's that learned chap?"
"Stanard?"
"Oh, yes, Stanard! The Parson! Let's get him."
The idea took with a rush. It would be so much more fun to fool the
learned Parson! And in a minute or two half the party, including the
lord high chief quartermaster, was on its way back to barracks to hunt
up the new victim, while the rest stayed to resuscitate Indian and to
write out a list of questions for the "mental examination."
CHAPTER VII.
THE EXAMINATION OF THE PARSON.
The "examining board" had the good luck to come upon the Parson in a
secluded spot near the Observatory. The Parson had left the library for
a walk, his beloved Dana under his arm and the cyathophylloid coral in
one of his pockets. The "committee" made a rush at him.
"Mr. Stanard?" inquired the lord high, etc.
Mr. Stanard bowed in his grave, serious way, his knees stiff, and his
head bobbing in unison with his flying coat tails.
"Mr. Stanard, I have been sent by the Army Board to read the inclosed
notice to you. Ahem!"
Mr. Stanard peered at the speaker. His mustache fooled the Parson, and
the Parson bowed meekly.
Once more the cadet took out the official envelope and with a
preliminary flourish and several "ahems!" began to read:
"United States Military Academy, West Point, June 20th. Cadet Peter
Stanard, of Boston, Massachusetts, it has just been ascertained, was
admitted to the duties of conditional cadet through an error of the
examining board. A re-examination of Cadet Stanard is hereby ordered to
be conducted immediately under the charge of the--ahem!--superintendent
of ordnance, in the Observatory Building. By order of the Academy Board.
Ahem!"
Now, if Cadet Peter Stanard had been a cadet just a little longer he
would never have been taken in by that device, for Cadet Peter Stanard
was no fool. But as it was, he did not see that the order was absurd.
He went.
Again the procession started with the same comments as before; this
time, however, the door was not locked, and the party entered, sought
out another room where stood several solemn cadets at attention,
respectfully saluting the superintendent of ordnance, ex-lord high.
"Cadet Stanard," said the latter, "take a chair. Here is pencil and
paper. What is that book there. Geology? Well, give it to me until
afterward. Now, Mr. Stanard, here are ten questions which the board
expects you to answer. These are general questions--that is, they are
upon no particular subject. The board desires to test your general
stock of information, the--ahem!--breadth, so to speak, of your
intellectual horizon. Now you will be allowed an hour to answer them.
And since I have other duties in the meantime, I shall leave you,
trusting to your own honor to use no unfair means. Mr. Stanard,
good-day."
Mr. Stanard rose, bobbed his head and coat tails and sat down. The
superintendent marched out, the cadets after him. The victim heard a key
turn in the door; the Parson glanced at the first question on the
paper--
"I. When are cyathophylloid corals to be found in fossiliferous
sandstone of Tertiary origin?"
"By the bones of a Megatherium!" cried the Parson, "The very thing I was
looking for myself and couldn't find."
And forthwith he seized his pencil, and, without reading further, wrote
a ten minutes' discourse upon his own researches in that same line.
"That's the best I can do," said he, wiping his brow. "Now for the
next."
"II. Name any undiscovered island in the Pacific Ocean."
The Parson knitted his brows in perplexity and reread the question.
"Undiscovered," he muttered. "Undiscovered! Surely that word is
undiscovered. U-m-yes! But if an island is undiscovered how can it have
any name? That must be a mistake."
In perplexity, the Parson went on to the next one.
"III. If a dog jumps three feet at a jump, how many jumps will it take
him to get across a wall twelve feet wide?"
"IV. In what year did George Washington stop beating his mother?"
A faint light had begun to dawn upon Stanard's mind; his face began to
redden with indignation.
"V. What is strategy in warfare? Give an example. If you were out of
ammunition and didn't want the enemy to know it, would it be strategy to
go right on firing?"
"VI. If three cannibals eat one missionary, how many missionaries will
