And the battered old Parson chimed in with a feeble and gasping "Yea, by
Zeus!" while the schooner sailed on in disdainful triumph.
The first class, as it seemed, did not get fired. They ran all the way
to Garrisons, the town opposite the point, and there begged a boat
secretly to cross. But the news when it spread next morning made them
the laughingstock of all creation. And Mark, in the hospital, was the
hero of the whole cadet corps.
CHAPTER XXV.
MARK IN THE HOSPITAL.
"General Miles here? Who told you so?"
"I saw him myself. He just got off the train. And there's going to be a
review of the corps and a whole lot of stuff. Don't you hear those guns.
That's the salute, b'gee!"
Texas and Dewey paused in their excited conversation to listen to the
booming of the cannon to the west of the camp. And scarcely had the
sound ceased before the roll of a drum was heard coming from the guard
tent at the head of the A Company Street.
"That's the call to quarters, b'gee," continued the bearer of the news
excitedly. "I bet we're going to see some fun, Texas."
That "call to quarters" brought cadets from every direction hurrying
into camp to "spruce up," and "fall in;" but the two, who were seated on
a bench over by Trophy Point, did not even offer to move. For that call
to quarters had nothing to do with them; that was for old cadets, the
first classmen, and the yearlings.
When the battalion turned out for review in honor of its distinguished
guest nobody thought of putting them on exhibition.
The two sat looking at the line forming over by camp, and also at a
group of figures way down at the other end of the parade ground, a group
of blue-uniformed officers, with the West Point band at the head. It was
evidently the superintendent and his staff and the distinguished visitor
with him.
"Looks as if there's goin' to be high jinks roun' hyar," observed Texas.
"It's a shame Mark ain't hyar to see it."
Dewey assented to that emphatically, and Texas after a few moments of
moody thoughtfulness, continued:
"Hang them ole cadets!" he growled. "It makes me want to git up and
slash round some whenever I think of half o' that whole battalion
pitchin' in to punch a feller, because not one of 'em was man enough to
lick him in a square, stand-up fight. Tell you, it makes my blood boil!
An' they broke his shoulder, an' sent him to hospital, an' he too much
of a man to tell on 'em at that! The cowards!"
"That's what I say, too, b'gee!" chimed in Dewey. "Mark's the spunkiest
man that ever they laid eyes on."
"That's what he is," growled Texas. "Jes' think o' whar we'd be ef
twan't for him. We'd be lettin' them cadets haze us, that's what we
would."
"Never mind," said Dewey, prophetically. "Just wait till he's well
again, b'gee! And we'll stick by him meanwhile."
"Will we?" echoed Texas. "I couldn't tell in a thousands years what that
aire feller's done fo' me. An' I know one other besides us that'll stand
by him, too."
"Grace Fuller, you mean?"
"That's what I do! Ever since Mark swam out and near killed himself
savin' her from drownin' that girl's been the best friend ever he had.
You jes' ought to go over to the hospital an' see how she sends him
flowers an' fruit an' things. They let her in to sit with him an' talk
to him where they won't let us plebes near him."
"B'gee, I don't blame 'em!" laughed Dewey. "They're afraid of you over
there, since they had to nurse you after you rode out and 'held up' the
artillery squadron at drill. But I tell you, Mark's in luck to have
Grace spooney over him. She's the most beautiful girl I ever saw, and
she's the belle of this place. I declare I can hardly believe it, that
she's joined with us plebes to fool the yearlings."
"She's jes' full o' fun," laughed Texas, "but I reckon the great
reason's cause she's so fond o' Mark. I wish I had his luck. I jes'
stand off, 'n look at her and wonder s'posin' 'twas me--dog gone it!"
Texas saw an amused smile begin to flit about his companion's merry
face; he suspected he was about to "remind" that cheerful recounter of a
yarn; so he stopped.
"Tell you what," he continued after some more thinking. "I know 'nother
girl that's dead gone on Mark."
"B'gee!" cried Dewey in surprise. "Who's that?"
"'Moll' Adams."
"Who on earth is she?"
"I reckon she came in afore you met us," mused Texas. "Yes, 'twas 'fore
you joined the Banded Seven. You know Bull Harris?"
"B'gee!" laughed Dewey. "Didn't I lick the cuss once?"
"That's so," said Texas. "I forgot. Well, Bull--'twas jes' like him--was
botherin' this girl down on the road to Highland Falls one day. He had
hold of her arm an' she was fightin' to git away or somethin'. Anyhow
Mark knocked him down, which was the beginnin' of all this hazin'
business. Bull got all his yearlin' gang after Mark. After that Mark did
her 'nother favor, got her brother out of a terrible scrape. An' I think
she's been mighty fond of him ever since."
"B'gee!" laughed Dewey. "This is real romantic. What makes you think
so?"
"I've seen her hangin' roun' the hospital inquirin' fo' Mark. An' I can
tell by the way she looks at him. I don't think she likes to see him so
chummy with Grace."
"That's more romantic yet," chuckled Dewey. "Why don't Mark care for
her?"
"You see," said Texas, "some o' the cadets, one of 'em a pretty decent
feller, a friend o' Mark's, told him that she waren't--she waren't quite
right. She's somethin' of a flirt, you know. I don't like girls that
kind much myself an' I'm sure Mark don't. He's kep' pretty shy o' her,
an' I kinder think she's noticed it."
"Is she pretty?" inquired the other.
"She's mos' as pretty as Grace," responded Texas. "An' that's sayin' a
deal. She's what you call a brunette--black hair an' eyes. There's some
girls a feller feels are all right; he feels he's a better feller when
he's with them. Grace Fuller's one of 'em. She's jes' the angel we call
her. Then there's some that ain't, an' this girl's one of them."
"Quite a character analysis," laughed the other. "But I guess, b'gee,
you're right, all the same. And speaking of unpleasant characters,
there's that Bull Harris. We haven't heard from him for a long time."
"I reckon," said Texas, "Bull's been wantin' to see what the first
class'd do to Mark since he'd failed to haze him. I reckon the durty ole
rascal's right well satisfied now."
"You don't love him much," observed the other.
"Why should I? Ain't he tried every mean kid trick he could think of on
Mark an' me, too? He's all right to bully girls but when he tried Mark
now, he found he'd hit a snag. He's been doin' nothin' ever since but
tryin' to get us into scrapes. An' I was thinkin' to-day, 'tain't no
lucky sign he's quiet. I jes' reckon he's plottin' some new durnation
trick."
"I wish he'd come on with it," laughed Dewey. "Life is getting really
monotonous the last two days since Mark's been in hospital. We've been
having so many lively and interesting brushes with the cadets, b'gee,
that I can't get along without some excitement at least every day."
"I reckon it'll come soon enough," observed Texas. "An' they say when
you speak of angels they flap their wings. I wonder how 'bout devils.
There's ole Bull Harris now, the third feller from the right in the
front rank of A."
"And he's going out to salute the general," observed Dewey. "I wish we
had another bloodhound now so's we could put it on his trail the way we
did once. B'gee, but he was mad!"
As the two had been talking the battalion had formed on the company
ground; roll call had passed quickly, and the cadet adjutant had turned
the parade over to the charge of the tactical officer, Lieutenant Allen.
The latter's sharp commands had rung out a moment later and the
firmly-stepping lines had swung around and were now well on their way
down the parade ground, at the other end of which stood the famous
general and his staff.
It was an inspiring moment. The air seemed fairly to shake with the gay
music of the band. The cadet's uniforms and equipments were glittering
in the sunlight, their banners waving on the breeze. They wheeled like
so many splendid pieces of mechanism and in a few moments more were
standing at "present arms" in one long line that extended the width of
the field.
The officers brought their swords up to the salute and the spectators
cheered, as a handsome figure rode out from the group of officers and
cantered down the line. It was General Miles himself, a fine military
figure, striking and imposing. The cadets would have cheered him, too,
if they had dared.
During this interesting ceremony our two friends of the plebe class had
gotten up and started on a run for the scene. They had been so much
interested in their discussion of "Meg" Adams and Bull Harris that they
had forgotten all about watching this. But by the time they got there
the review was over, and the cadets had scattered once more. This time
to prepare for exhibition drill of the afternoon.
The two wandered about disconsolately after that, Texas growling at
Dewey for having talked too much. And then suddenly the former stopped
short and stared at his friend.
"I know what I'm going to do!" he declared.
"What?"
"I'm a-goin' to see Mark."
"I thought they wouldn't let you in," laughed Dewey.
"I'm a-goin' all the same," vowed the other. "Ef they won't let me I'll
make 'em. Jes' you watch me!"
And with that the impulsive Texan faced about and set out for the
hospital in a hurry.
CHAPTER XXVI.
TEXAS HAS AN INTERVIEW.
Texas' promised "fun" in the effort to see Mark did not, as it proved,
materialize; because, whereas Texas had expected to be refused
admittance and to raise a rumpus about it, he was allowed to enter and
was escorted to Mark's room with all politeness.
"Well!" thought Texas, "I reckon he must be gittin' better."
This eventually proved to be the case; and Texas shrewdly guessed the
reason for it as he approached the room and heard the sound of voices
through the open door.
"With her to talk to," he muttered, "anybody could get well."
Grace Fuller was sitting by the window, dressed in white, an angel of
loveliness, as she appeared to Powers. She was reading aloud to Mark,
but she stopped suddenly as Texas burst into the room. And a moment
later the newcomer had seized his chum by his one well arm and was
shaking it vigorously.
"Hello, ole man!" he cried. "I kain't tell you how glad I am to see
you."
"Take it easy," said Mark, smiling. "I've got better news still. They
found that my shoulder was only dislocated; and I'll be out to-day."
Texas uttered a whoop that brought the attendants in on a run. He
subsided after a threat of expulsion and sat down by the bedside and
stared at Mark. It was still the same old Mark, handsome and sturdy, but
just a little pale.
"Say," growled Texas, "you've got no idee how lonely things are 'thout
you. There's nobody to lick the cadets, or anything."
"What's all the fuss I hear?" inquired Mark.
Texas explained to him what was happening; and went into ecstasies when
he was told that Mark would be out to see that afternoon's drill. With
just the same startling impulsiveness as that which had led him to pay
his brief visit, Texas sprang up again and made for the door.
"Wow!" he cried. "I'm a-goin' out to tell the fellers 'bout this. Whoop!
See you later, Mark. I reckon you're in pretty good company."
Mark "reckoned" so too, and said so, as he laughed over his friend's
hot-headed manner.
Texas in the meantime was bounding down the hall and out of the door of
the building; he meant to turn up toward camp on a run, and he had even
started up the street. But something happened just then that made him
change his mind in a hurry. In the first place he heard some one call
his name:
"Mr. Powers! Oh, Mr. Powers!"
It was a sweet girlish voice, and "Mr. Powers" faced about with
alacrity, to find himself, to his infinite surprise, face to face with
Mary Adams, the girl he had not long ago been discussing.
"Hello!" thought he, "what on earth's up?"
His surprise was the greater because he did not know the girl; he had
never been introduced to her, and he wondered how she even knew his
name. She was indeed a beautiful girl, with a full round figure, deep
black hair and eyes, and a complexion that was warm and red. There was a
look of anxiety upon her face that the cadet did not fail to notice.
"Tell me!" she cried. "Mr. Powers, how is he?"
"Why--why----" stammered Texas, adding, "Bless my soul!" after the
fashion of his fat friend Indian. "He's all right. He'll be out this
afternoon."
"I thought he was nearly killed," said the girl. "I have been so
worried."
There was a brief silence after that, during which Texas shifted his
feet in embarrassment.
"Tell me," she exclaimed, suddenly. "Do you--do you think he would like
to see me?"
"Why, er!" stammered Texas. "To be sure. Why wouldn't he?"
The girl noticed his hesitating tone, and her dark eyes flashed as she
spoke again.
"Answer me," she cried. "Is she there?"
"If by 'she,'" answered the other, "you mean Miss Fuller?"
"Yes, yes, I mean her."
"Then she is," said Texas, defiantly.
He said that with a dogged, none-of-your-business sort of an air, though
rather sheepishly for all that. The girl stared at him for a moment, and
then to Texas' indescribable consternation and bewilderment, she buried
her head in her hands and burst into a passionate flood of tears.
"My Lord!" gasped the astounded plebe.
Poor Texas wasn't used to girls; the only things he knew of that cried
were babies, and a baby he would have taken in his arms and rocked until
it stopped. But he had an instinctive impression that that wouldn't do
in this case. Beyond that he was at a loss.
"Bless my soul, Miss Adams!" he cried--no exclamation seemed to do quite
so well as Indian's in that case. "Please don't do that! What on earth's
the matter?"
Texas had a vague idea that some one might come that way any moment; and
he wondered what that person would think to look at them. Texas just
then wished himself anywhere on earth but there.
In response to his embarrassed pleading, the girl finally looked through
her tears. And her eyes, red with weeping, gave her beautiful face a
look of anguish that touched the Texan's big heart.
"Lord bless me!" said he. "Miss Adams, is there anything I can do?"
She looked at him for a moment and then she answered "Yes," and turned
slowly down the street.
"Come," she said. "Mr. Powers, I want to talk to you."
If he had wanted to, Texas could not have disobeyed; the fact of the
matter was that Texas was too bewildered to have any wants. The true
state of affairs had not dawned upon his unromantic mind.
The two hurried down the road toward Highland Falls, the cadet following
meekly. They came almost to "cadet limits," to an old lonely road that
turned off to the right. Up that the girl turned, and when she was well
out of sight of the main road, turned and faced her companion.
"Now," she said, "I will tell you. Oh, why is it you do not see?"
The look upon her face made Texas fear she was going to burst into tears
again, and he shifted about uncomfortably.
And just then came the crash.
"Tell me, Mr. Powers," demanded the girl, with a suddenness that almost
took the other's breath away, "Tell me, Mr. Powers, do you think
he--he--likes me?"
Texas started; he stared at the girl's anxious face; a sudden light
breaking in upon him. And the girl gazed into his deep gray eyes and
saw--she knew not what.
"Why--why----" stammered Texas.
"I have thought so much of him," cried Mary Adams, pouring out her
feelings, in a passionate flood of words. "I have followed him about, I
have watched him all day! Ever since he befriended me so that night when
he saved my brother, I have thought of no one but him. He is so splendid
and brave and handsome! He--never even looks at me!"
The girl's last words were said in a tone of anguish and despair, and
she buried her head in her hands once more.
"It is all that other girl!" she continued, after a moment's pause. "He
thinks of no one but her! Oh, how I hate her! He is with her all the
time; he asked her to join that society----"
"How--how on earth did you know?" gasped Texas.
"Do you think I am blind?" cried the girl, fiercely. "Do you suppose I
cannot see what Mark Mallory is doing? It is all that Grace Fuller--all!
And, oh, what shall I do?"
In a perfect convulsion of sobbing the girl flung herself down upon the
bank at the side of the road. And Texas stood and gazed at her in
consternation and embarrassment, and vowing if the gods ever got him out
of that most incomprehensible fix, he'd never look at a girl again. A
dozen Comanches could not have inspired Texas with half the awe that
this one passionate and beautiful creature did.
"Miss Adams," he said, at last, "I--I really don't think Mark knows how
you regard him."
"I know it," sobbed the girl; "he doesn't! But I cannot tell him!"
A sudden and brilliant idea flashed across Texas' mind.
"I can!" he exclaimed. "I can, an' I will."
The girl sprang to her feet and stared at him.
"No! no!" she cried, in horror. "What would----"
But Texas had already turned and was striding off in excitement.
"Gosh!" he muttered. "That's jes' the thing! I'll tell Mark fo' her, ef
she kaint. An' anyhow, I couldn't keep a secret from Mark. Dog gone it,
I'd have to ask his advice. This yere's a 'portant matter."
Texas heard Mary Adams crying out to him to come back, imploring him to
listen to her. But Texas, once well out of that embarrassing fix and
beyond the spell of the beautiful girl had no idea of returning to his
uncomfortable position. And to his rough old heart there was no reason
on earth why he should not tell Mark. Who else ought to know it but
Mark?
"An'," muttered Texas, "ef she ain't got sense 'nough to tell him, I
will."
So, deaf to the girl's entreaties, he left her to bemoan her fate alone
and set out in hot haste for camp.
CHAPTER XXVII.
A PLOT TO BEAT "THE GENERAL."
Now the adventures of Texas were wild and exciting, to him, anyway. But
up at camp in the meantime another plebe was having adventures that
fairly put Texas into the shade. The plebe was "Indian," and you may
listen and judge for yourself of the adventures.
Indian had been rather less credulous of late, but the yearlings were
still anxiously watching for another chance to have some fun with him.
The chance came that day.
Nelson A. Miles is a hero of a hundred fights, and as major general he
commands the United States army. The more they considered the importance
of that mighty visitor, the more the yearlings began to think of that
plan. There were a dozen of them got together that morning and swore
they'd fool Indian or die in the effort.
Indian of course had seen the review and had been mightily impressed in
his innocent soul. From the distance he had admired the military figure
and imposing features of the great man. And then, filled with resolves
to fight loyally under him and perhaps some day to be like him, he had
turned away and strolled solemnly back to camp.
He entered his tent, still in that serious, that really heroic mood.
There was no one in the tent, and so Indian had it all alone for his
meditations philosophical.
"Oh, what a fine thing it must be to be a great hero like that!" he
mused. "To gaze upon the world from a large, ethereal standpoint"--an
ethereal standpoint would have made unsteady standing even for a hero;
but Indian did not think of that. "I can have no higher ambition in life
than to imitate that man. As the poet has said:
   'Lives of great men all remind us,
      We can make our lives sublime,
    And departing, leave behind us
      Footprints----'
"Bless my soul!"
Indian had stopped his meditations with startling suddenness; and this
was the reason thereof.
He had heard mysterious sounds in the Company B tent next door. It was a
yearling tent. Two cadets had crept into it silently; and Indian heard
one of them mutter a subdued "S-sh!"
Have you seen a pointer dog prick up his ears suddenly? That was the way
Indian did.
"A plot?" said one of the yearlings. "A plot did you say? What is it?
Tell me? I'll come in!"
"S-sh!" said the other. "Do you swear eternal secrecy, swear it by the
bones of the saints?"
"I swear!" growled the other in a low, sepulchral voice. "Out with it!"
"All the fellows know," continued the other. "They'll all help. But not
the plebes! Do you hear? Not a word to the plebes! If any plebe should
hear he'd surely tell on us, and that would ruin us. He might do it, you
know, for he'd get no end of reward. They might even promote him, make
him a yearling."
Indian's little fat heart was bounding with delight. A plot! And he knew
it! Ye gods! Bless my soul! He crept close to the wall of his tent,
straining eyes and ears to listen, not to lose the faintest sound of
this most important news.
"It must be something desperate," gasped the other.
"Yes, it is. S-sh! You'll nearly drop I know when I tell you. We're----"
Indian's eyes were like walnuts, half out of his head.
"We're going," continued the yearling, slowly, "we're going to beat the
general!"
"Beat the general!" echoed the other. "By George, I'll help! I'm glad of
it. I----"
Indian heard no more. Quietly he had arisen from the tent floor,
glancing about like a serpent rearing his glittering head from the
grass. He arose; he crept to the tent door; and a moment later he was
striding down the street as fast as his little legs could carry him.
So that was the plot! Those wicked and reckless cadets who had hazed him
so much were now going to beat the general! The general could, of
course, mean only one general, the great general. There was no general
at West Point but Major General Miles.
Indian never once stopped until he was well out of camp, out of the
enemies' hands. A man with so mighty a secret as that could afford to
take no risks; he must lurk in the shadows until he saw his chance to
reveal the whole daring conspiracy. Visions rose up before his delighted
mind, visions of himself a hero like Mark, congratulated by all, even
made a yearling as the cadets had hinted. Indian even imagined himself
already as hazing the rest of the plebes.
These thoughts in his mind, he was suddenly startled by seeing two
yearlings coming near. Were they after him? Indian trembled. Nearer and
nearer. No, they had passed him. And then, once more, he heard the
words:
"Yes, yes! We're going to beat the general!"
"What! Heavens, suppose some one should find it out."
That settled it. Indian sprang up boldly and strode away, determination
in his very waddle. He knew! And he would tell!
At that moment Indian saw Cadet Fischer crossing the parade ground.
Surely, thought Indian, so high and responsible an officer as this had
nothing to do with the plot! Why not tell him? And so at him Indian made
a dash.
"Mr. Fischer! Oh, Captain Fischer!"
The officer turned in surprise. Hailed by a common plebe.
"Mr. Fischer!" gasped Indian. "Bless my soul! I hear they're going to
beat the general!"
"Yes," said the other. "In half an hour. But why----"
Good heavens, he knew it too! And like a flash, the frightened plebe
wheeled and dashed away. There was only one resource left now. He would
tell the general himself.
Across the parade ground dashed Indian, panting, gasping. Down by the
headquarters building, he saw a group of horses standing. One charger he
recognized instantly. The general was inside the building, and a moment
later a group of officers appeared in the doorway. The handsome,
commanding figure in front. Indian's heart bounded for joy; and then
suddenly the amazed General Miles was greeted by a gasping, excited
cadet in plebe fatigue uniform.
"General, oh, general! Bless my soul!"
The officer stared at him.
"A plot!" panted Indian. "Oh, general, please don't go"--puff--"near the
camp--bless my soul! A plot!"
"A plot!" echoed the other. "A plot! What do you mean?"
"They're going to hurt you--bless my soul!"
"Hurt me! Who?"
"The cadets, sir! Bless my soul, I--puff--heard them say, they
were--puff--oh!--going to b-b-beat the general."
There was a moment of silence, then a perfect roar of laughter came from
the staff officers. The general laughed too, for a moment, but when he
saw the plebe's alarm and perplexity he stopped and gazed at him with a
kindly expression. "My boy," he said, "you've been letting the yearlings
fool you."
"Fool me!" echoed Indian in horror. "Bless my soul!--how?"
"Beating the general means," answered the officer, "beating the general
assembly, which is a drum call."
The officers shook with laughter again, and as for poor Indian, he was
thunderstruck. So he had been fooled again! So he had let those mean
cadets haze him once more! And--and----
Poor Indian's eyes began to fill with tears. And he choked down a great
big sob. The old officer saw his look of misery.
"Do they fool you often that way, my boy?" he asked, sympathetically.
"Ye--yes!" answered Indian, at the verge of a weeping spell. "Ye--yes,
th-they do. And I think it's real mean."
"So do I," said the general, smiling. "I tell you how we'll fix it.
Don't you let on they succeeded."
"I can't help it," moaned Indian. "They know! L-look!"
With trembling finger he pointed across the street to where in the
shadow of the sally port of the academy stood a group of hilarious
yearlings, fully half the class, wild with glee. The general shook his
head as he looked, and poor Indian got out his handkerchief as a
precaution.
"Too bad!" said the former. "Too bad, I declare! We'll have to turn that
joke on them somehow or other. Let me see. Let me see. How would you
like it for me to help you get square, as you boys say?"
Indian gazed up at the stalwart and kindly form confidingly; he was all
smiles in a moment.
"I'll tell you," said the general at last, "you and I'll take a walk.
And when they see you with me, they'll be sorry they sent you. Come on."
He took the arm of the delighted Indian, who was scarcely able to
realize the extent of his good fortune.
"You'll excuse me a short while, gentlemen," said General Miles to his
military staff. "I'll return shortly. And now," to Indian, "where shall
we go? I guess I'll let you show me about camp."
And sure enough, pinching himself to make sure if he really were awake,
Indian, on the arm of the mighty guest of West Point, commander of Uncle
Sam's whole army, marched away up the road past the parade ground and
all through Camp McPherson.
The general was enjoying the joke hugely, but he affected not to notice
it, and plied the plebe with questions.
Why did the yearlings haze him so much? Was he B. J.? Oh, it was because
he was a friend of Mark Mallory's, was it! General Miles had heard of
Mark Mallory. He was the plebe who had saved the life of the general's
friend, Judge Fuller's daughter. A beautiful girl that! And a splendid
act! Indian had seen it, had he? Colonel Harvey had described it to the
general. The general would like to meet Mark Mallory. No, he was not
joking; he really would. Mr. Mallory was in hospital, was he? Too bad!
Had been too B. J., had he? The general liked B. J. plebes. He hoped
Mark was not badly hurt. And----
Then suddenly the conversation was interrupted by a cry of joy from
Indian.
"There's Mark now! He's out of hospital!"
"That handsome lad down the street there?" inquired the general, "let us
go down by all means."
A moment later, Mark, to his great amazement, was confronted by the
curiously contrasted pair. Indian was beaming like a sunflower.
"Mr. Mallory," he said, with a flourish, "allow me to present my friend,
General Miles."
Mark bowed, and the general took the hand he held out.
"Mr. Mallory," he said, "I am proud to meet you. I have heard of what
you have done. The service needs such men as you."
And the whole corps heard him say so, too. The general had been very
careful to say those words in a loud and clear voice that made the camp
ring. Then he turned and spoke to an orderly who was passing.
"Tell my staff to ride up here for me," he said, and added, turning to
the two radiant plebes: "Now, my young friends, I must ask you to excuse
me. I am very pleased to have met you both. Good-morning, Mr. Smith, and
Mr. Mallory."
With which he turned and strode away up the street again, smiling at the
recollection of the incident. And Mark stood and stared at his grinning
friend Indian.
"Well," said he, "you blessed idiot, you certainly do beat the Dutch!"
And then he turned and went into the tent.
CHAPTER XXVIII.
"BULL" FINDS AN ALLY.
"For Heaven's sake, man, you don't mean this for a fact, do you?"
It was Mark who spoke; he sat alone in his tent with Texas late that
evening, and Texas was telling him the story of Mary Adams and what she
