reputation as a famous swordsman, did about as he pleased.  He watched
the Chevalier's progress toward health; and he noted with some concern
his enemy's quick, springy step, the clear and steady eye.  He still
ignored the poet as completely as though he did not exist.
Every Friday night the table was given up to the governor's gentlemen
councillors, friends, and officers.  Victor and the Chevalier were on
this list, as were the vicomte and D'Hérouville.  Usually these were
enjoyable evenings.  Victor became famous as a raconteur, and the
Chevalier lost some of his taciturnity in this friendly intercourse.
D'Hérouville's conduct was irreproachable in every sense.
One day the Chevalier entered one of the school-rooms.  In his arms he
held a small white child which had sprained its weak ankle while
playing on the lumber pile outside the convent of the Ursulines.
Sister Benie was quick to note how tenderly he held the sobbing child.
"Give him to me, Monsieur," she said, her velvet eyes moist with pity.
The Chevalier placed the little boy in her arms, and he experienced a
strange thrill as he noticed the manner in which she wrapt the boy to
her heart.  How often Breton's mother, his nurse, had taken him to her
breast that way!  And he stood there marveling over that beautiful
mystery which God had created, for the wonder of man, the woman and the
child.
"I chanced to be passing and heard his cry," he said, diffidently.
"Playing the good Samaritan?" asked a voice from the window.  The
Sister and the Chevalier looked around and saw the vicomte leaning on
the window-sill.  "Why was it not my happiness to tarry by that
lumber-pile.  I saw the lad.'"
"Ah, it is you, Vicomte?" said the Chevalier, pleasantly.
"Yes, Chevalier.  Will you walk with me?"
Being without excuse, the Chevalier joined him, and together they
proceeded toward the quarters.
Sister Benie stared after them till they had disappeared around the
corner of the building.
"Chevalier," said the vicomte, "do you remember Henri de Leviston?"
"De Leviston?"  The Chevalier frowned.  "Yes; I recollect him.  Why?"
"He is here."
"In Quebec?"
"Yes.  He came in this morning from Montreal, where he is connected
with the Associates.  Was he not in your company three or four years
ago?  He was dismissed, so I heard, for prying into De Guitaut's
private despatches."
"I remember the incident.  I was the one who denounced him.  It was a
disagreeable duty, but De Guitaut had put me on De Leviston's tracks.
It was unavoidable."
"You had best beware of him."
"I am perfectly in health, thank you," replied the Chevalier.
The vicomte covertly ran his eye over his companion.  It was not to be
denied that the Chevalier had gained wonderfully in the fortnight.  The
air, the constant labor, and the natural medicine which he inhaled in
the forests, had given a nervous springiness to his step and had
cleared his eyes till the whites were like china.  No; the Chevalier
need have no fear of De Leviston, was the vicomte's mental comment.
"Well, you do look proper.  The wine is all out of your system, and
there is balsam in your blood.  A wonderful country!"  The vicomte
stopped before his door.
"Yes, it is a wonderful country.  It is not France; it is better than
the mother country.  Ambition has a finer aim; charity is without
speculation; and a man must be a man here, else he can not exist."
"That is an illusion," replied the vicomte.  "Only the women have what
you call a finer ambition.  The men are puling as in France.  The
Company seeks riches without working; the military seek batons without
war; and these Jesuits . . .  Bah!  What are they trying to do?  To
rule the pope, and through him, the world.  My faith, I can barely keep
from laughing at some of the stories these priests tell all in good
faith."
"My thought did not include the great," said the Chevalier, quietly.
"I meant the lower orders.  They will eventually become men and women
in the highest sense.  There is no time for dalliance and play; labor
is the monitor best suited to hold back, to trim and regulate a man's
morals and habits.  There is no idleness here, Vicomte."
"I do not know but you are right."
"Shall you remain here long?" asked the Chevalier.
"Who can say?  I would return to France on the next boat were my neck
less delicately attached to my shoulders.  Let us say six months; it
will have quieted down by then.  Devil take me, but I should like to
feel that paper crackling between my fingers.  And you meet
D'Hérouville in two days?"
"In two days."
"Will you not join me in a glass of the governor's old burgundy as a
toast to your success?"
"Thank you, but I am on duty.  They are bringing some Mohawks up from
the lower town, and I am to take charge of them."
"Good luck to you;" and the vicomte waved a friendly hand as he started
off toward the citadel.
The Chevalier with a dozen men started for the lower town.  But his
mind was not on his duty.  He was thinking of Diane, her gay laughter,
her rollicking songs, the old days.
"Monsieur, are we to go to Sillery?" asked a trooper, respectfully.
"Sillery?"  The Chevalier shook himself, and took the right path.
The Chevalier and Victor sat on their narrow cots that night.  Brother
Jacques had just gone.  The windows were open, and the balmy air of
summer drifted in, carrying with it forest odors and the freshness of
the rising dew.  Fireflies sparkled in the grass, and the pale stars of
early evening pierced the delicate green of the heavens.  A single
candle flickered on the table, and the candlestick was an empty
burgundy bottle.  The call of one sentry to another broke the solemn
quiet.
"And you have not grown sick for home since you left the sea?" asked
the Chevalier.
"Not I!"  There were times when Victor could lie cheerfully and without
the prick of conscience.  "One hasn't time to think of home.  But how
are you getting on with your Iroquois?"
"Fairly."
"You are determined to meet D'Hérouville?"
The Chevalier extended his right arm, allowing Victor to press it with
his fingers.  Victor whistled softly.  The arm, while thin, was like a
staff of oak.  Presently the same arm reached out and snuffed the
candle.
"Shall you ever go back to France, Paul?"
A sigh from the other side of the room.
"I saw the vicomte talking to De Leviston to-day.  De Leviston was
scowling.  They separated when I approached."
"Will you have the goodness to go to sleep?"
"What the devil brings De Leviston so high on this side the water?"
Silence.
"I never liked his sneaking face."
A sentry called, another, and still another.
"Are you there, Paul?"
No answer.
"You're as surly as a papoose!"
Soon after that there was nothing to be heard but the deep and regular
breathing of two healthy men resting in sleep.
Some fourteen gentlemen sat around the governor's table the third
Friday night.  There were the governor and his civic staff and his
officers, three or four merchants, and two priests, Brother Jacques and
Dollier de Casson, that brother to Rabelais, with his Jove-like smile
and his Herculean proportions.  De Casson had arrived that day from
Three Rivers, and he had come for aid.
Two chairs were vacant, and presently the vicomte filled one of them.
The other was reserved for the Chevalier.
Victor was telling some amusing tales of the court; how Beaufort was
always blundering, how Mazarin was always saving, how Louis was always
making love, and how the queen was always praying.
"Ah, Monsieur de Saumaise," said the governor, "you must not tell jests
at the expense of their Majesties; Mazarin I do not mind, for he is
certainly niggard with funds and with men."
"How that handsome young king of ours will spend money when a new prime
minister is needed!" was the vicomte's comment, his gaze falling on the
Chevalier's empty chair.  "Do you remember how Mazarin took away
Scarron's pension?  Scarron asked that it be renewed; and Mazarin
refused, bidding the wit to be of good cheer.  Scarron replied,
'Monseigneur, I should indeed be in good cheer were I not positive that
I shall not outlive your parsimony.'"
When the Chevalier finally came in he was cordially greeted by the
governor.  He took his chair, filled his glass and lit his pipe.  He
waved aside all food, stating that he had eaten his supper in the lower
town.
No sooner had he lighted his pipe than De Leviston rose, shoving back
his chair noisily.  A cold, sneering contempt marked his swart face.
"What is the matter, Monsieur de Leviston?" asked the governor, mildly.
"Your Excellency will pardon me," said De Leviston; "but I find, it
impossible to sit at this table till another person leaves it."
Surprise and consternation lay written on every face.  The Chevalier
lowered his pipe, and looked from one face to another.  He was so tired
with the labor of the day, that he had forgotten all about himself and
his history.
The governor sat rigid in his chair.  Victor's hand rested on the
table; he was ready to rise and meet the blow he knew was coming.
"Explain yourself," said the governor, coldly.  "You impugn the conduct
or honor of some gentleman at my table?  Take care, Monsieur."
"It is my regret."
"Who is this person who has aroused your displeasure, and what has he
done that he may not sit in the presence of gentlemen?"
Victor rose, white and trembling.
"Sit down, Monsieur de Saumaise," commanded the governor, sternly.
"He calls himself the Chevalier du Cévennes."  De Leviston smiled.
Every eye was leveled at the Chevalier.  Victor felt his heart
swelling.  It had come at last!  Brother Jacques leaned forward,
peering into every face.  D'Hérouville's face was expressive of deep
surprise, and the vicomte was staring at De Leviston as if he believed
that gentleman to be mad.
"Calls himself the Chevalier du Cévennes?" thundered the governor.
"Calls himself?  This demands an immediate explanation from you,
Monsieur de Leviston."
"I object to sit at a table with a person who does not know who his
mother was."  Each word was deliberately and carefully measured.
"Death of my life!" roared the governor, upon his feet.
The Chevalier reached over and caught De Lauson's sleeve.  "Hush,
Monsieur; what Monsieur de Leviston says is . . . true."  He got up,
white as the broken pipe that lay at the side of his plate.  Under the
chair was his hat.  He reached for it.  Looking neither to the right
nor to the left, he walked quietly and with dignity from the room.
There was a single laugh, rude and loud.  It came from D'Hérouville.
The general silence which followed lasted several minutes.  The
Chevalier's declaration had stunned them.  The governor was first to
recover.  He rose again, quietly, though his eyes sparkled with anger.
"Monsieur de Leviston," he said, "you have wilfully broken and
destroyed the peace and dignity of my household.  I shall cross you
from my list, and the sooner you return to Montreal, the better.  Your
peculiar sense of honor in no wise appeals to me.  It is an ignoble
revenge; for do not doubt that I know your own history, Monsieur, and
also the part the Chevalier had in it.  But believing you had come to
this country to repair your honor, I have assisted you by inviting you
to partake of my bounty and of my friendship."
De Leviston paled, and turned a scowling face to those about him.  He
found no sympathy in any eye, not even in D'Hérouville's.
"You have wounded brutally and with intent," went on the governor, "the
heart of a man who has not only proved himself a gentleman, but a hero.
And I add this: Let no one repeat what has happened, or he shall feel
the weight of my displeasure, and my displeasure will mean much to
promotion and liberty."  He pushed his chair under the table, which
signified that he was to retire.
The gentlemen left the table with him.
Outside, Victor approached D'Hérouville, ignoring De Leviston.  The
vicomte followed in the rear.
"Monsieur d'Hérouville, you have a bad heart," said the poet.  "You
have laughed insolently at a man whose misfortune is none of his own
making.  You are a poltroon and a coward!"
The vicomte interposed.  "D'Hérouville, listen to me.  After what has
happened you will refuse to meet the Chevalier."
"I certainly shall."
"I am at your service," said the vicomte.
"D'Halluys," cried the poet, "you have no right to interfere."
"Stand aside, Monsieur de Saumaise."  The vicomte pressed the poet back.
"Vicomte," said D'Hérouville, "I will not fight you to-night."
"I am certain.  Here is a phrase which leaves no misunderstanding." The
vicomte slapped D'Hérouville in the face.
"Damnation!"  D'Hérouville fell back.
Victor turned to De Leviston.  "I will waive the question of
gentleman," and he struck De Leviston even as the vicomte had struck
D'Hérouville.
"Curse you, I will accompany you!" roared De Leviston.
"Very good," returned the poet.  "Vicomte, there is a fine place back
of the Ursulines.  Let us go there."
When Victor entered, his room that night, an hour later, it was dark.
He groped for the candle and stoked the flint.  As soon as his eyes
grew accustomed to the glare of the light, he looked about, and his
shadow wavered on the plastered walls.  The Chevalier lay on his cot,
his face buried in his arms.  Victor touched him and he stirred.
"It is all right, Paul."  Victor threw his sword and baldric into a
corner and sat down beside his stricken friend, throwing an arm around
his shoulders.  "I have just this moment run De Leviston through the
shoulder.  That vicomte is a cool hand.  He put his blade nicely
between D'Hérouville's ribs.  They will both remain in hospital for two
or three weeks.  It was a good fight."
CHAPTER XVI
THE POET EXPLAINS TO MONSIEUR DE LAUSON
By the next morning all Quebec had heard of the double duel, and
speculation ran high as to the cause.  All Quebec, to be sure, amounted
only to a few hundreds; and a genuine duel at this period was a rare
happening.  So everybody knew that D'Hérouville and De Leviston were in
hospital, seriously though not dangerously wounded, and that Monsieur
de Saumaise was in the guardhouse, where, it was supposed, he would
remain for some time to come, in order that his hot blood might cool
appreciably.  As for Monsieur d'Halluys, he was not under the
governor's direct jurisdiction, and was simply ordered to stay in his
room.
The officers and civilians respected the governor's command, and no
outsider gathered a word of information from them.  The officers,
talking among themselves, secretly admired the poet's pluck.  Like all
men of evil repute, De Leviston was a first-class swordsman and the
poet's stroke had lessened his fame.  As for what had caused the fight
between the vicomte and D'Hérouville, they were somewhat at a loss to
say or account for.  The governor himself was exceedingly wrathful.  At
ten o'clock he summoned Victor to appear before him, to render a full
account of the affair.  The savages made life hazardous enough, without
the additional terror of duels.
Victor found the governor alone, and for this he was thankful.
"Monsieur de Saumaise," De Lauson began, sternly, "I gave you credit
for being a young man of sense."
"And a man of heart, too, your Excellency, I hope," replied the poet,
valiantly.
"Heart?  Is it heart to break the edict, to upset the peace of my
household, to set tongues wagging?  Persons will want to know the cause
of this foolish duel.  I am positive that it was fought contrary to the
Chevalier's wishes.  He conducted himself admirably last night.  You
have done more harm than good with your impetuosity.  My command would
have been respected, and your friend's misfortune would have gone no
farther than my dining-room."
"And Monsieur de Leviston?" with a shade of irony which escaped the
governor.
"Would have remained silent on the pain of being sent back to France,
where the Bastille awaits him.  He was exiled to this country, and he
may not leave it till the year sixty.  De Maisonneuve would have stood
by me in the matter.  So you see that you have blundered in the worst
possible manner."
"And the Vicomte d'Halluys?"
"If D'Hérouville dies, the vicomte shall return to France in irons."
"Monsieur," with a sign of heat, "there are some insults which can not
be treated with contempt.  I should have proved myself a false friend
and a coward had I done otherwise than I did."
"What does the Chevalier say about your fighting his battles for him?"
asked the governor, quietly.
Victor's gaze rested on his boots.
"He doesn't approve, then?"  The governor drummed with his fingers.  "I
thought as much.  At your age I was young myself.  Youth sees affronts
where it ought to see caution and circumspection."
"When I have arrived at your Excellency's age . . ."
"No sarcasm, if you please.  You are still under arrest."
Victor bowed, and twirled his hat, which was sadly in need of a new
plume.
"I warn you, if De Leviston dies I shall hang you high from one of the
Chevalier's gibbets on Orléans.  If he lives, I shall keep in touch
with your future conduct, Monsieur; so take good care of yourself."
"De Leviston will not die.  Such men as he do not die honestly in bed.
But he was only a puppet in this instance."
"A puppet?  Explain."
"There was another who prompted him from behind."
"Who?" sharply.
"I am afraid that at present I can not name him."
"D'Hérouville?  Be careful, Monsieur; this is a grave accusation you
are making.  You will be forced to prove it."  The governor looked
worried; for to him the Comte d'Hérouville was a great noble.
"I did not name him.  There was a woman behind all this; a woman who is
the innocent cause."
"Ha! a woman?"  The governor leaned forward on his elbows.
"Yes."
"Who?"
"Mademoiselle de Longueville.  D'Hérouville insulted her and the
Chevalier took up her cause."
"Why, then, did you not pick your quarrel with the count?"
"The vicomte had some prior claim."
The governor got up and walked about, biting his mustache.  Victor eyed
him with some anxiety.
"But the Chevalier; why did he not defend himself?"
Victor breathed impatiently.  "Frankly, Monsieur, how can he defend
himself?"
"True."  The governor scrubbed his beard.  He was in a quandary and
knew not which way to move.  Tardy decision was the stumbling-block in
the path of this well meaning man.  Problems irritated him; and in his
secret heart he wished he had never seen the Chevalier, D'Hérouville,
the poet, or the vicomte, since they upset his quiet.  He had enough to
do with public affairs without having private ones thrust gratuitously
upon his care.  "Well, well," he said, reseating himself; "you know my
wishes.  Nothing but publicity will come of duels and brawls, and
publicity is the last thing the Chevalier is seeking.  I feel genuinely
sorry for him.  The stain on his name does not prevent him from being a
brave man and a gentleman.  Control yourself, Monsieur de Saumaise, and
the day will come when you will thank me for the advice.  As you have
no incentive for running away, I will put you on your word, and the
vicomte also.  You may go.  While I admire the spirit which led you to
take up the Chevalier's cause, I deplore it.  Who, then, will succeed
Monsieur le Marquis?"
"That is a question I can not answer.  To the best of my knowledge, no
one will succeed Monsieur le Marquis de Périgny."
"So this is what brought him over here?  What brought you?"
"Friendship for him, an empty purse and a pocketful of ambition."
The answer pleased De Lauson, and he nodded.  "That is all."
"Thank you, Monsieur."
"I shall keep you in mind . . . if you escape the gibbet."
Monsieur de Saumaise, in displaying his teeth, signified that the least
of his worries was the thought of the gibbet.
And so concluded the interview.
The Chevalier remained in his room all day, putting aside his food, and
staring beyond the river.  His eyes were dull and the lids discolored
from sleeplessness.  Victor waited for him to heap reproach upon him;
but never a word did the Chevalier utter.  The only sign he gave of the
volcano raging and burning beneath the thin mask of calm was the
ceaseless knotting of the muscles of the jaw and the compressed lips.
When the poet broke forth, reviling his own conduct, the Chevalier
silenced him with a gesture of the hand.
"You are wasting your breath.  What you have done can not be undone."
The tones of his voice were all on a dull level, cold and unimpassioned.
Victor was struck with admiration at the sight of such extraordinary
control; and he trembled to think of the whirlwind which would some day
be let loose.
"I will kill De Leviston the first opportunity," he said.
The Chevalier arose.  "No, lad; the man who told him.  He is mine!"
Victor sought out Brother Jacques for advice; but Brother Jacques's
advice was similar to the Chevalier's and the governors.
So the day wore on into evening, and only then did the Chevalier
venture forth.  He wandered aimlessly about the ramparts, alone, having
declined Victor's company, and avoiding all whom he saw.  He wanted to
be alone, alone, forever alone.  Longingly he gazed toward the
blackening forests.  Yonder was a haven.  Into those shadowy woods he
might plunge and hide himself, built him a hut, and become lost to
civilization, his name forgotten and his name forgetting.  O fool in
wine that he had been!  To cut himself off from the joys and haunts of
men in a moment of drunken insanity!  He had driven the marquis with
taunts and gibes; he had shouted his ignoble birth across a table; and
he expected, by coming to this wilderness, to lose the Nemesis he
himself had set upon his heels!  What a fool!  What a fool!  He had
cast out his heart for the rooks and the daws.  Wherever he might go,
the world would go also, and the covert smile . . . and the covert
smile . . .  God, how apart from all mankind he seemed this night.  But
for Victor he would have sought the woods at once, facing the Iroquois
fearlessly.  He must remain, to bow his head before the glances of the
curious, the head that once was held so high; accept rebuffs without
murmur, stand aside, step down, and follow.  If a man laughed at him,
he must turn away: his sword could no longer protect him.  How his lips
thirsted for the wine-cup, for one mad night, and then . . . oblivion!
An outcast!  What would be his end?  O the long years!  For him there
should be no wifely lips to kiss away the penciled lines of care; the
happy voices of children would never make music in his ears.  He was
alone, always and ever alone!
Presently the Chevalier bowed his head upon the cold iron of the
cannon.  The crimson west grew fainter and fainter; and the evening
breeze came up and stirred the Company's flags on the warehouses far
below.
Suddenly the Chevalier lifted his head.  He was still an officer and a
gentleman.  He would stand taller, look into each eye and dare with his
own.  It was not what he had been, nor what had been done to him; it
was what he was, would be and do.  If every hand was to be against his,
so be it.  D'Hérouville?  Some day that laugh should cost him dear.
The vicomte?  What was his misfortune to the vicomte that he should
pick a quarrel on his account?  Was he a gallant fellow like Victor?
He would learn.
He put on his hat.  It was dark.  Lights began to flicker in the fort
and the château.  The resolution seemed to give him new strength, and
he squared his shoulders, took in deep breaths, entered the officers'
mess and dined.
The men about him were for the most part manly men, brave, open-handed,
rough outwardly and soft within.  And as they saw him take his seat
quietly, a sparkle of admiration gleamed from every eye.  The vicomte
and Victor, both out on parole, took their plates and glasses and
ranged alongside of the Chevalier.  In France they would have either
left the room or cheered him; as it was, they all finished the evening
meal as if nothing extraordinary had happened.
So the Chevalier won his first victory.
CHAPTER XVII
WHAT THE SHIP HENRI IV BRINGS TO QUEBEC
The ship Henri IV dropped anchor before Quebec on the seventh day of
August.  This being the Company's vessel, hundreds of Canadians flocked
to the wharves.  And again flags decked the château and town, and
cannon roared.  The Henri IV was part merchantman and part man-of-war.
Her ports bristled with cannon, her marines wore formidable cutlasses,
and the law on board was military in the strictest sense.  Stores and
ammunition filled her hull; carpenters' tools, tea-chests, bags of
plaster, uniforms, cannon, small arms, beads and trinkets of no value
save to the Indian, silk and wool and a beautiful window for the
cathedral.  And in return she was to carry away mink, otter and beaver
skins.
Breton had been left behind by the Chevalier, who had joined a scouting
party up the river.  Love and anxiety had made the lad thin.  Any night
might bring disastrous news from Three Rivers, the burning of the
settlement and the massacre.  Such speculation counteracted his usually
good appetite.  So Breton mooned about the wharves day by day, always
looking up the river instead of down.
To-day he lingered to witness the debarkation.  Besides, the Henri IV
was a great ship, bringing with her a vague perfume from France.
Listlessly he watched the seamen empty the hold of its treasures;
carelessly he observed the meeting of sweethearts and lovers, wives and
husbands.  Two women in masks meant nothing to him. . .  Holy Virgin!
it was not possible!  Was his brain fooling him?  He grew faint.  Did
he really see these two old men climbing down the ship's ladder to the
boats?  He choked; tears blinded him.  He dashed aside the tears and
looked once more.  Oh! there could be no doubt; his eyes had not
deceived him.  There was only one face like that in the world; only one
face like that, with its wrinkles, its haughty chin, its domineering
nose.  He had seen that lean, erect figure, crowned with silver-white
hair, too many times to mistake it.  It was the marquis, the grim and
terrible marquis, the ogre of his dreams.  The lad had always hated the
marquis, taking his master's side; but at the sight of that familiar
face, he felt his heart swell with joy and love and veneration.  For
intuition told him why Monsieur le Marquis was in Quebec.  It was to
seek Monsieur le Chevalier.  And together they would all go back to
France, beautiful France.  He burst into hysterical tears, regardless
of the wonder which he created.  And there was the kindly Jehan, who
had dandled him on his knee, long years ago before trouble had cast its
blighting shadow over the House of Périgny.  Blessed day!
Very slowly and with infinite pains the marquis climbed from the boat
to the wharf.  It was evident to Breton that the long voyage at sea had
sapped his vitality and undermined his vigor.  He was still erect, but,
ah! how lean and frail!  But his eye was still the eye of the proud
eagle, and it swept the crowd, searching for a familiar face.  Breton
dared not make himself known because of that eye.  An officer who had
formerly resided in Rochelle recognized the marquis instantly, and he
pressed forward.
"Monsieur le Marquis in Quebec?" he cried.
"You are of the fort?" replied the marquis.  His voice was thin and
high, like that of old men whose blood is turning to water.
"Yes, Monsieur," answered the officer.
"Will you lead me to his Excellency the governor?  I have letters to
present from her Majesty the queen."
"Follow me, Monsieur;" and the officer conducted the marquis through
the crowd, politely but firmly brushing aside those who blocked his
path.  He found the governor quickly.  "Your Excellency, the Marquis de
Périgny wishes to present to you letters from her august Majesty."
"Monsieur le Marquis here?" exclaimed the governor.  He embraced the
old nobleman, whom he held in genuine regard.
"So your Excellency remembers me?" said the marquis, pleased.
"One does not forget a man such as you are, Monsieur.  And I see you
here in Quebec?  What twist of fortune brings you to my household?"
"I have come in search of a prodigal son, Monsieur," smiling.  "Know
you one who calls himself the Chevalier du Cévennes?"
"The Chevalier du Cévennes?"  The governor was nonplussed.  The marquis
here in search of the Chevalier?
"I see that he is here," said the marquis, with a note of satisfaction.
"No, Monsieur; not here, but has been."
"He can be found?"
"Within sixty hours."
"That is well.  I am very fortunate."
"You will be my guest during your stay?" suggested the governor.
"Her Majesty asks that good favor of you."
"A great honor, Monsieur, truly;" and the governor was elated at the
thought of having so distinguished a guest at his table.
The marquis turned to the patient Jehan.  "Jehan, you will see to the
portmanteaus."
"Yes, Monsieur."
A priest elbowed his way toward them.  On seeing him, the marquis
raised and lowered his bushy white brows.  It was the handsome Jesuit
whose face had stolen into many a dream of late.  Brother Jacques was
greatly astonished.  The marquis greeted him, but without marked
cordiality.  At a sign from the governor the quartet moved up the path
toward the cliffs, which the marquis measured with the eye of one who
understood thoroughly the art and value of military strategy.
"Superb!" he murmured.  "With a few men and plenty of ammunition, I
could hold even England at bay."
"I am proud of it," acknowledged the governor; but there was a twinge
of envy when it occurred to him that a handful of savages had worried
him more than once.  And here was a man who would defy the whole world.
