drawled Bessie Livingston. heard 
that you'd turned child’s nurse.” 

That vexed Laura, and a heat flashed 
to her face. 

take care of my little brother some- 
times,” she said, haughtily; yet she 
wished in her heart that she didn’t have it 
to do. 

"Come, Blue, run to your place!” said 
Bell. 

They all went at it in great earnest. 
Laura was a capital player, generally, 
but this afternoon her hand didn’t seem 
very steady. She lost her patience 
easily; she felt flurried, and nervous, 
and warm, and found she was on the 
losing side. And then there was an un- 
comfortable misgiving tugging at her 
heart. If the baby should wake, if Ann 



was busy or out, and poor mamma did 
look unusually pale! She might have 
guessed that mamma had been worrying 
with the baby all day, when she said he 
had not slept any; but just then she did 
not want to think of any one besides 
herself. And now, she couldn’t help 
thinking, and the balls became confused 
in her mind. 

Until ten months before, Laura Pres- 
ton had been an only child, and, of 
course, indulged a good deal. She 
seemed so sweet and good-tempered al- 
ways, but it was because there had been 
nothing to try her. At first, she pro- 
nounced the baby splendid, and cared for 
nothing else— tended him, caressed him, 
did yards of tatting, crocheted him a 
blanket and a cap, and worked him a 
little skirt. Then her interest began to 



flag; he took so much time, and was 
really a great deal of trouble. 

For the last month, Mrs. Preston had 
been quite poorly, and the baby a greater 
charge. Laura grew tired of him, she 
secretly confessed to herself, though it 
did seem wicked. But it was hard to give 
up every moment. 

Mrs. Preston saw with pain that Laura 
was developing many selfish and un- 
amiable traits. Sometimes she won- 
dered whether it would be best to relieve 
her of all charge of the baby, or perse- 
vere until she had learned one of the hard 
lessons of life, to think of others for 
something besides pleasure. Yet, to do 
Laura justice, she had never been quite 
so cross as on this day. 

She didn’t enjoy the playing half as 
much as she expected. Bell thought she 




wasn’t trying at all, and did not care 
liow slie played, and presently the game 
came to an end. Lanra said she must go 
home, but Bell begged her to come in 
and see her new dresses. 

'‘How beautifully yours is made!” 
Mrs. Cummings said. ‘'Bell, Miss Lang 
must see this waist ; I ’d like one of yours 
puffed in that fashion.” 

So Bell took her into the dressmaker, 
and, somehow, the time passed rapidly. 
The clock struck six. 

‘‘Oh! I must go”; and Laura made a 
fresh start. 

Flying out of the gate, her skirt 
caught, and, in her haste, she couldn’t 
stop, so her beautiful dress, that she 
was so glad of having worn five minutes 
ago, now had a great, unsightly rent 
across one breadth. 


 


Laura uttered a passionate cry, more 
in anger than sorrow. The whole day 
had gone wrong, for that matter; but, 
first, a little girl had not been quite right 
in heart. 

The doctor’s carriage was standing 
before the door. He generally came in 
the morning, and a sudden fear seized 
the child. There was one of the neigh- 
bors with little Jamie in her arms. 

"Oh!” she said; ‘‘mamma—!’’ 

“Hush! dear — mamma is much worse; 
she has been bleeding at the lungs. This 
great baby is altogether too much for 
her; the doctor says she must have a 
nurse. ’ ’ 

Poor Laura! She seemed turning to 
stone. If she had not gone out!— and 
now, if mamma died, it would be all her 
fault. 


 


Jamie held out his dimpled hands with 
a smile. It seemed then as if her heart 
would break. Two hours ago she had 
thought him such a trial, and would have 
felt relieved if there had been no Jamie 
in the world— he loved her so much, too. 
She hid her face in his dress, and wept 
bitterly. 

Don’t cry, dear; she isn’t dangerous. 
I don’t exactly know, but if she keeps 
quiet, and isn ’t worried, she will get well 
again. Poor sister! tell her not to cry, 
Jamie.” 

Jamie patted the soft, curly head, and 
said,' '‘Ta-ta, ” as if he would comfort 
her. But Laura’s heart was so full that 
she ran off to her room, and buried her 
face in the pillow of her own little bed, 
wanting to beg God not to punish her as 
she deserved, but afraid even to pray. 

 


Presently, some one called her; it was 
Ann's voice, and, changing her dress, 
she went to the kitchen. 

‘ ' Oh, Miss Laura ! ’ ’ and Ann stopped, 
as she saw the pale, tear-stained face and 
swollen eyes. 

‘'When was mamma taken so hard?" 
she asked. 

‘‘About an hour ago. The baby's 
been very troublesome all day, and he's 
a heavy lift for a sick woman. I was 
going to ask you to do some errands. Miss 
Laura, but if youdl set the table. I'll
go.’ 

Laura was glad enough to do anything. 
Before she was through, the doctor went 
away, and Mrs. Brown came out with the 
baby. Then Laura heard a quick, 
familiar step. She waited with a beat- 
ing heart; but Ann returned, finished 




preparing the supper, and yet papa had 
not left the room. Baby began to worry, 
and Laura took him. When the dear 
little arms tightened round her neck, 
the quick tears rushed to her eyes 
again. How could she have thought 
him a trouble, and been glad to get 
away ! 

When Mr. Preston came in, he kissed 
Laura and Babie Jamie, asleep on her 
shoulder. She couldn’t eat or hardly 
speak, but listened to Mrs. Brown and 
papa. They didn’t seem to think Mrs. 
Preston so very ill, but Laura really was 
afraid she would die before morning — 
and what if she never kissed her again ! 
Then she remembered how she had 
slipped away in the afternoon, and her 
heart smote her bitterly enough. 

A long while after, everything in the 

 


house was quiet— baby sleeping soundly 
in bis crib, Mrs. Brown and the nurse in 
Mrs. Preston’s room, and Ann gone to 
bed — only poor Laura sitting in the 
kitchen alone. 

‘ ‘ My dear child ! ’ ’ her father said, en- 
tering the room. 

‘'Oh, papa!” She sprang up, and 
was clasped to his breast. 

' ‘ Hush ! my darling. Mamma is very 
comfortable, and not in any danger. 
All she needs is good care. She has 
worried too much with the baby, but we 
will have a nurse for him.” 

"Oh, papa! that is what I want 
to talk about. I’ve been so wicked; 
I don’t know as anyone can ever for- 
give me, and if mamma had died, I 
should always have felt as if T had killed 
her. ’ ’ 


 


‘‘Why, my child!’’ Mr. Preston began, 
in astonishment. 

“Yes, I ought to have stayed and taken 
care of the baby. I knew mamma was 
weak and sick, though she didn’t say that 
she had worried with him all day ; but it 
seemed to me that I hadn’t been any- 
where for ever and ever so long, and I 
did want to play croquet with the girls. 
I didn’t enjoy hardly a moment of it, 
though, and now I am so sorry that I 
went. ’ ’ 

Laura’s voice broke down entirely 
then, and she was sobbing in her father ’s 
arms. 

“My little girl,” he said, gravely, 
“this is a hard lesson, indeed. It is 
doubtful if mamma would have been 
quite so bad if she had not overtasked 
herself ; but the doctor said the bleeding 

 


was not from her lungs, and that it is 
really better she should give up, and 
have good care taken of her. We shall 
have a nurse for Master Jamie. I pro- 
posed this some time ago, but mamma 
thought it was best for you to have some 
little charge of him, seeing that he was 
your only brother. But it does confine 
you very much, so long as she is not well. 
Only, my little daughter ought to learn 
to think for others, or she will be in 
danger of growing up a selfish, un- 
amiable woman.’’ 

‘'Oh, papa! I don’t believe I ever 
shall forget again,” sobbed Laura. 
"And if mamma gets well — ” 

think she will. Let us both pray 
earnestly. ’ ’ 

Laura did not ask to see mamma that 
night. She determined to bear bravely 

 


the punishment she had brought upon 
herself, and she prayed a long while that 
she might be kept purer in heart, and 
learn to be unselfish. 

She did not forget the next morning. 
Laura was a neat, handy little girl, and 
could do a great deal when she chose. 
She helped Ann now, and took care of 
her brother in such a pretty, winsome 
manner, that Ann quite forgot the scold- 
ing she meant to give her— for the maid 
felt herself one of the family, she had 
been with them so long. 

Laura was glad at last to be able to 
go in and see her mamma. They had a 
tender talk about the incidents of the day 
before, and Mrs. Preston felt satisfied 
that they would make a lasting impres- 
sion upon her. 

I do not mean that Laura was alto- 


 


getlier perfect after that, for every- 
one has to try daily and honrly as 
long as he or she lives; bnt she tried 
to think of others, and to make them 
haj)py, and she found, as people always 
do, that she was the happier for it her- 
self. 

Mrs. Preston recovered, to Laura’s 
unbounded delight. They had a nurse 
for Jamie, but the little rogue thought 
his sister much to be preferred, and Mrs. 
Preston was thankful to see so cheerful 
a spirit growing up within her. If ever 
she felt tempted to fret, or felt a frown 
rising to her sunny brow, she tried to 
check it immediately by remembering 
the sad night she had passed when 
mamma was so ill. 

Ann could not help scolding about the 
torn dress, and Laura took it very 



meekly. It was part of her lesson, she 
admitted— the one all children have to 
learn— that their own way may not be 
the best, even if they can be indulged 
in it. 



HERE’S something to buy sugarplums 
with,” Uncle Mark said, 
with a good-by to his little niece 

Jessie. 

She kissed him and gave him a good, 
hard hug, by way of showing her grati- 
tude. After he had gone, she opened her 
hand and smoothed out the rumpled note. 
It was a dollar. 

Jessie Marsh was used to having con- 
siderable spending - money. Uncles, 
aunts, and cousins kept her pretty well 
supplied. She was one of those bright, 
merry girls who are always smiling and 




happy, and a great favorite with every- 
body— ready to do a favor, hold a skein 
of yarn for grandmother, look np her 
papa's slippers, and run upstairs or 
downstairs for a misplaced or forgotten 
article. Perhaps this was why she re- 
ceived so many gifts of one kind and 
another; for even visitors at the house 
always went away with a pleasant re- 
membrance of cheerful, obliging Jessie. 

Mr. Marsh was in very comfortable 
circumstances, and extremely indulgent 
to his little daughter. She was the only 
girl, and there were four boys in the 
family. If Jessie expressed a wish for a 
book or a toy, he always brought it home 
to her. I am sorry to say that Jessie was 
rather careless and extravagant. To be 
sure she made glad many a child’s heart 
by gifts of her playthings when she was 




done with them, but she tired of them 
very soon and wanted new. Pennies, 
quarters, and even half-dollars, often 
went for some trifle that presently lost 
interest for her. Mrs. Marsh tried to 
check this fault in her daughter, but her 
father generally came to the rescue. 

"Let her take her own pleasure with 
the money, ’ ’ he would say. " I dislike to 
see children mean and parsimonious." 

But Mrs. Marsh took every occasion 
to direct Jessie, although her advice was 
not always followed. 

Jessie was still holding her dollar in 
her hand, as her mother re-entered the 
room. 

"See what Uncle Mark gave me— to 
buy sugar-plums with, he said, ’ ’ and 
a radiant smile illumined Jessie 's 
face. 





‘ ' And only yesterday yon were wishing 
for a dollar,’’ her mother replied. 

The smile faded a little at that. Jessie 
had been listening to a poor woman’s 
story the day before. Mrs. Marsh had 
given her some sewing, as she was very 
anxious to earn enough money to pay her 
rent. Counting up what she was likely 
to get from one and another, left her 
still a dollar or two short. Ordinarily, 
Mrs. Marsh would have overpaid her, hut 
now she had a mind to put Jessie’s gener- 
osity to the test. The little girl had been 
quite thoughtful for some time after Mrs. 
Adams ’s departure, and at last had said : 

"Oh, mammal I wish I had a dollar; 
I should give it to Mrs. Adams. How 
hard it must be to earn money enough 
to take care of herself and those three 
little children!” 




“Yes,’' her mother answered, gravely. 
‘'We ought to be thankful that God has 
placed us above want.'’ 

Jessie went to her bank. It never had 
a very large surplus on hand. Twenty 
cents— that was not near a dollar! So 
she gave a little sigh. 

This was what her mother’s words re- 
called. She looked rather sober over it 
for several moments. 

dollar is a good deal for a little 
girl to give away,” she said, slowly, as 
the result of her thoughts. 

"It did not seem so yesterday. It 
is often easier to be charitable with that 
which we do not possess. ’ ’ 

" One can ’t give them when one hasn ’t 
anything, ” Jessie said ; and the absurdity 
made her smile a little. 

"And it is unfortunate not to have 





the heart and the money at the same 
time. ’ ' 

Jessie did not reply. It was nearly 
schooltime; so she hunted up her hood, 
her squirrel tippet and muff, and her 
good, warm cloak. She had never suf- 
fered from any cold or neglect, and there 
was a sudden rush of gratitude in her 
