mass of tree trunks and branches caught on some projection at the mouth
of the cove, which turned the current and gave them a promise of safety.
There was a cave, partly natural, and rendered more secure by the gang
of pirates who had once made it their camping ground. But now it began
to fill with water. So they carried some of their stores and blankets to
a sheltered place up above to await the result. Even here they could
hear the roar of the river.
When Captain Dessous thought it safe to venture, they examined the boats
and found one with a large hole in the bottom where it had struck on the
jagged rock. They had provisions and made a rude shelter for the women,
three ladies and a maid, and a little child. It would not be safe to
venture until the river had subsided, so they had waited. All could not
go in the one boat, and to leave the others at the mercy of prowling
Indians, or, it might be, a return of some pirate squad, was hardly
safe. Still some of the more courageous men had agreed to remain, and
they had decided to start shortly. It was full moon now and the night
would be light enough for safety if they were caught in it, for no one
could calculate the exact distance or the obstacles they would have to
encounter.
Now all was joyous satisfaction. The stores from the injured boat were
divided among the other two, and the women taken on board the rescue
boat. They found their way out to the river, now flowing along serenely.
But there would be the tide against them. Still they were delighted at
the thought of soon reaching a safe harbor. The moon came out in its
most resplendent beauty. The banks of the river were a series of
bewildering pictures for any one with an artistic eye. The men sang
songs in French and Spanish, and would have danced if there had been
room.
“They are coming up the river!” some one shouted in the light of the
golden June morning. “There is Captain Javelot and André Valbonais. I
can make them out through the glass. And some women.”
One and another hurried down. Christophe Baugenon expected his
sweetheart, and had been getting a nest ready for her. Madame Galette
had come up to end her days with her two sons. Gaspard Denys was there
as well, anxious to know how the peril had been escaped.
There was a lovely woman with a babe in her arms. The Spanish veil-like
mantilla was thrown gracefully over her head and shoulders. Her soft,
dark eyes glanced up and met those of Denys, who stretched out his hand
past that of Valbonais in a heartfelt greeting.
“Barbe!” he cried. “Barbe!” forgetting she had any other name.
“Oh, Monsieur Denys, thank heaven!”
Madame Renaud came rushing down with a wild cry and flung her arms
around her sister.
“Let me take the child,” Gaspard said, while the two women fell into
each other’s embrace.
A pretty little thing of three or so, with rings of dark hair about her
forehead and curiously tinted eyes, black with golden shades in them.
She laid her hand confidingly on his shoulder. Children always trusted
him.
“Marie! Marie!” called Madame Gardepier. “Take the little Angelique.
Monsieur Denys, how can I thank you?”
She was lovelier than ever with her eyes full of tears. Elise had been
crying over her.
Marie was maid and slave, about as much Spanish as African, slim and
graceful, and with the beauty belonging to the mixed blood. The child
made no demur, but bestowed a dainty smile upon him.
“Oh—it is nothing.” He had not come expecting to meet her, though he had
wondered a little about her.
“But to be here again! To have a welcome from you, an old friend! Yes,
it is joy indeed.”
Christophe Baugenon had his arms about his sweetheart. They were glad to
have half the world share their joys, in those early days when honesty
was more than style or culture.
“Come soon,” said Madame Renaud. “We are all such old friends. And Barbe
will have so much to tell. And bring ma’m’selle: she can’t have
forgotten. Oh, Barbe, she is a young lady now!” laughing cheerily.
Then they moved on, while his eyes followed them.
Already men were repairing the levee, or, rather, building it anew under
Colonel Chouteau’s direction. Some other overflow in time would sweep
this away, but this was the best of their knowledge then. And the
unfortunate captain had his story to tell. He had saved his papers and
bills of lading, and could tell upon whom the losses would fall. There
were some shipments for Denys, but he was glad no lives had been lost.
André was describing their share of the rescue in brief terms. So it was
late when M. Denys returned.
“We waited and waited for you!” cried Renée. “And the breakfast was so
good—the corn cakes Mère Lunde makes that melt in your mouth.”
And truly even those wilderness women, with no culinary magazines or
housekeeping hints, concocted very savory dishes. Their grater was of
the rudest kind. A strip of tin through which a sharpened bit of iron
was driven to make holes, the rough side put upward as it was fastened
to a piece of board. On this they grated green corn all the summer and
autumn. During the winter they boiled it on the ear until it was soft,
then prepared it the same way. The cakes were mixed with eggs and flour
and baked on a hot flat stone in the heat of the coals. A syrup made of
maple sugar would be poured over them.
“Yes, I am very sorry—and hungry,” laughing. “There was so much to talk
about.”
“And was any one lost? Where did they find the boats?” Renée was all
eagerness.
“There were only two. The rest were swept away. They took shelter in
Pirate Creek, but the pirates have been cleaned out. It might have been
worse. The losses can be recouped. Ah, you should have seen the joy of
Christophe Baugenon over his sweetheart! Madame Galette, and Madame
Gardepier with her little girl.”
“She is quite old now,” said Renée, with the assurance of youth that is
its own hasty judge.
“Oh, no! Five or six and twenty. And her little girl is about three, a
pretty child. Madame Renaud was wild with delight, as who would not be.
And she begs that we will come soon.”
Renée had busied herself with a pretence of getting the meal, but it was
Mère Lunde who had toasted the corn cake and the dried fish. It seemed
to her as if a tiny shade had fallen over the world, but no, the sun was
shining with extraordinary brilliancy. It made the leaves outside
scatter its golden rays about as if they were sprites dancing.
“The blessed Virgin has been very good to her,” said Mère Lunde,
crossing herself. “Such a fearful time! I hope there never will be
another. And Madame Galette. I knew her years ago. She has two good sons
left.”
An event like this made talk for days, especially as the men were busy
repairing damages, and the captains had to tell their stories over and
over. Then the next relay of boats came in with the news of the other
towns, and that families were resolving to emigrate. Indeed, before cold
weather set in quite a number of families had reached St. Louis, and
many a winter evening was devoted to a recount of dangers and wonderful
escapes, the destruction of many a small fortune.
There was not a happier heart in all St. Louis, perhaps, than that of
Barbe Gardepier. If her marriage had not been altogether satisfactory,
she would not at first confess it to her sister. New Orleans was very
different from St. Louis. Pleasures were not so simple. There were
cabarets where men spent evenings drinking and playing games, betting
and losing. And there were balls where men never took their wives, but
danced with beautiful creole girls who were outside the pale of their
own people. True, the wives visited each other and gossiped about this
and that, and went to church often, at times finding a choice morsel of
scandal to discuss. She had longed for her own old home, and as the
weeks and months went on she seemed to grow away from her husband rather
than nearer to him. He had not appeared to mind the baby’s death much,
while it had almost broken her heart.
She had been bitterly disappointed in the non-success of her second plan
to visit home, as she still called the old town.
“It is too severe a journey,” her husband had said decisively. “And it
is a dull little place at the best. I would not stir a step if I were
not compelled to.”
For all that he seemed to find plenty to amuse himself with. Coming down
the river, he had made a stay at Kaskaskia, where pretty girls abounded.
When he did return there was a little daughter to claim his love; but he
was not fond of babies. Girls were all right enough budding into
womanhood, with a hundred seductive charms. Until then, the nursery and
the convent.
Barbe might have found amusement and danced with the gayest, but she
soon learned that her husband was jealous and could say very bitter
things. So she kept to her little girl and poured out all her love on
this sweet object. There were moments when she could not even bear to
think that Jean Gardepier was her father.
One night he was brought home with a bad stab wound, the result of a
quarrel. It did not seem dangerous at first, but he fumed and fretted
and would go out too soon. He was quite ill again, and then it was found
that the wound had penetrated his lung, and, after a few hemorrhages, he
dropped quietly out of life. There was not much money left, but enough
to take her home and keep her for awhile, and though she tried hard to
moderate her joy at the thought, in her inmost heart she felt it was
partly the sense of freedom.
And Gaspard Denys had been first to welcome her. The years had touched
him lightly. His face had the same strong kindliness that had made her
feel in her girlhood that he was a man to be trusted anywhere, a man one
could rely upon. She had learned many things in these few years of her
married life. She had had a much wider experience than Madame Renaud
with sons-in-law and daughter-in-law and the many years since she became
a bride.
Neighbors came out to greet them. It was like a triumphal procession.
Indeed, it seemed as if all the streets were full of gay, cheerful
chatter. For in those days there was very little letter-writing; indeed,
many fine housekeepers and excellent women did not know how to write.
Late in the afternoon the sisters were alone. Nearly every one had been
discussed, and Barbe knew about most of the marriages and deaths, the
new babies, the few newcomers and the general prosperity, as well as the
losses.
“I was extremely pleased with that young Valbonais,” Barbe said. “He has
improved very much. Is he connected in business now with Monsieur
Denys?”
“Oh, no; he remains with the Chouteaus. But he is a frequent guest, and
one can almost see how it will end,” laughing with a certain
satisfaction.
“You mean—with the child?”
“Yes. She is a very pretty girl. She was at two of the balls last
winter, though not a queen. There was a stranger, two of them, staying
with the Governor. One cared little for gayety; the other was much
smitten with the attractive Renée, and there was talk, but it fell
through. It was said that he really did ask for her hand. But I think M.
Denys would much rather have her remain here. She is like a child to
him.”
Barbe nodded. “Still she is old enough to marry.”
“Oh, yes. Then her grandfather left quite a fortune, as I have told you.
She is very young for her years, though—a child in some things.”
Barbe drew a long breath. “It is a little singular that M. Denys has
never married,” she said indifferently.
“Oh, he may marry yet. There is always time for a man.”
Madame Renaud gave a meaning laugh. Barbe felt her color rising, but
vouchsafed no reply.
That evening after supper M. Denys said:
“Let us go down to the Renauds’, my child, and welcome Madame Gardepier
home.”
“Why, you saw her this morning! I thought everybody was giving her a
welcome. She will be tired of so much,” was the rather careless reply.
“One is never tired of friendly appreciation.”
“Indeed?” almost saucily. “They may tire of other things, however. I was
running races on the old mound this afternoon. I would like to sit and
rest and talk.”
“Running races! And in the winter you were asked in marriage!” He
laughed heartily and pinched her peachy cheek.
“Mère Lunde said sometimes princesses in France were asked in marriage
when they were only a few years old,” she replied with dignity.
“That is true enough. Offered to this one and that. But I do not hawk my
little queen about.”
“You love me very much?”
She uttered it with a soft sigh that was quite charming and touched him.
“Ah, you know that!” with fervor.
“But I like to hear you say it,” pleadingly.
“I love you very much.” He bent over and kissed the crown of her head,
adding, “Then you will not go?”
“Stay with me,” she entreated. “You haven’t told me half the story of
the boat coming in this morning.”
There was a light, youthful step on the floor.
“Ah, André!” Denys said, turning. “Come and tell this girl the welcomes
that filled the air this morning, the finding of the castaways and all.
You were there, and she can have it first-hand. Meanwhile, I will run
down to the Renauds’ and see if Madame Gardepier is any the worse for
her journey.”
Renée could have cried out with vexation. Denys did not even stop to
light his pipe.
“Let us go in the garden, ma’m’selle. It is so beautiful in the
starlight, and the air is fragrant with a hundred sweet scents. I wish
you could have had the sail last night. It was the kind of thing to fill
one’s soul with rapture.”
“I am tired!” she cried pettishly. “That was why I refused to go with
uncle. And I don’t care so much about the rescue. People are crazy, as
if nothing ever happened in St. Louis before. And my head aches. I
believe I will go to bed.”
She sprang up impatiently.
“I am sorry——”
“There are plenty of girls who will be glad to have you talk to them,”
she flung out, and the next moment had vanished.
André looked after her. He was very much in love with her now. He had
been more than charmed with the young Indian girl. He had even thought
if it was true M. Marchand was dead, he would try to comfort her, to win
her. But when he witnessed her love for her husband, her entire
devotion, and the tone in which she once said: “I think I must have had
the hope in my heart all the time that my husband was alive, and that
gave me strength when it seemed as if I must drop by the wayside. And if
I had not found him I should have died, because there would have been no
further desire to live,” he believed her then. He knew now that must
have been the end. To be loved like that! Could Fate bestow anything
better?
But last winter a different feeling had taken possession of him. First
it was an effort to save Renée from a possible danger. He had seen
considerable of Monsieur Laflamme and had no faith whatever in him. He
was quite sure it was her fortune that had attracted him, for he was
paying an equivocal sort of devotion to several others, or else he was
just trifling with them all, taking what amusement he could in the
simple pleasures of the place.
And now he knew that he had a desire quite for himself! True he would
have saved her from any possible evil, but he wanted her, the smiles and
the sweetness she lavished on Uncle Denys and Mère Lunde, the radiance
and charm that she flung here and there. He would have liked to go about
and gather them up as if they were tangible things. And yet—she did not
care for him. Why, then, did she claim him in dozens of dainty ways? Why
did she put him between herself and other gallants when their devotion
became too pronounced?
André Valbonais was simple and straightforward, and had a very limited
knowledge of the twists and turns in the feminine mind. Complex
characters are not usual where people live truly rather than take
continual thought about living.
He went out now and sat on the doorstep, talking to Mère Lunde. Some one
was playing on a fiddle, interspersed with rollicking songs, and the
sound floated up to them. There was a great deal of joy in the world,
but his heart was heavy.
Renée flung herself on the bed and wept angrily, bitterly. Barbe
Gardepier had come into her life again and was free. She had summoned
Uncle Gaspard this first night to her side. Had he loved her a little
long ago? Would she try to win him now? Oh, what a dreary outlook! And
she had been so happy!
CHAPTER XVII
RIVALS
Gaspard Denys had wondered more than once about Barbe’s married life,
and at Gardepier’s second visit to St. Louis he was quite convinced that
he was not the kind of man to make a tender, clinging heart happy. Women
throve and blossomed in an atmosphere of love; grew cold, pale and
listless when this was denied. It was their natural sustenance. Had this
hastened Renée Freneau’s death?
And when he saw Marchand’s devotion and Wawataysee’s delicious joy in
it, he could not tell why, but he wished such a marriage had been
Barbe’s good fortune.
He never asked himself what might have happened if he had not gone to
Canada for Renée de Longueville. He had started adventuring first in a
desperate frame of mind, and then grown to like it exceedingly. He had
purchased the old house to assist a family in distress who had lost
husband and father. On his way home with his little Renée he had
resolved to set up a household, to keep the child under his
guardianship, for he knew well Freneau would not want her. She was so
clinging, so sweet. She was a part of the adorable girl he had loved. If
he had been certain of her happiness he might have let her fade from his
mind, but a fear had always rankled with a thorn-prick.
Did she know, would she know that he meant to lavish the love that
should have been hers on the child? What was that country like? Surely
the soul could not linger in the grave, and if it was given to one to
have glimpses of those left behind, she must rejoice.
With his heart so engrossed he could not think, indeed, was not tempted
to a strong feeling for any other woman. Barbe was pretty and
sweet—young men were attracted to her—and he felt quite old compared
with her. Then there was so much business to occupy him, and presently
Barbe was married without a sigh of regret on his part.
The little jealous feeling Renée displayed rather amused him. He hardly
understood the child’s passionate fondness, but was not her exclusive
love something she inherited from her mother? He liked to think so.
Now she was half woman and still kept the child’s eager fondness. She
had no real lovers, even if she had been asked in marriage. And he did
not want to give her up. When he sat in the fascinating blaze of the log
fire and steeped his brain in the haze of his pipe, visions stole softly
about him. He saw Renée a happy wife, the mother of sweet, enchanting
children who would climb his knees, half strangle him with baby arms and
press soft faces against his, prattle of their love in turn. No, she
must never go away. And who would he like as well as André!
And she liked him, too, in spite of her wilful manner of flouting him.
She was ready enough to put him in the face of any imaginary danger. He
was a fine, generous, wholesome young fellow, with a good business. And
he, Denys, could wait. He was not in so great a hurry to share Renée,
but he felt there was no life, no joy to a woman comparable with
wifehood and motherhood. And he wanted his darling to have the best of
everything.
She was very quiet the next morning and stole furtive glances at him,
too proud to make any inquiry as to whether he had passed a pleasant
evening. After breakfast André came with a face of eager light, and yet
perplexity.
“What is it now?” asked Denys.
“Matter enough. I am divided in two. I have just had an offer—command, I
might say. And whether I am to take it—” looking up with uncertainty.
“Beating about a bush doesn’t always thresh off nuts. There is the right
season,” and a glint of humor crossed the elder’s face. “Is there a
pretty girl in it?”
Was the world running after pretty girls? Renée frowned.
“You would not like me to go away, ma’m’selle?”
A sudden hope had rendered him incautious.
“It makes no difference to me,” she replied coldly.
“What is it all about?” inquired Denys. “Where were you last night, that
you are so incoherent this morning?”
“In the counting house with M’sieu Pierre Chouteau. In about ten days he
starts for New Orleans, and must take some one with him. He proposes the
post to me.”
Denys gave a side glance at Renée. Her face was cold, impenetrable.
Clearly she was not in love, much as she liked André.
“Come in the shop!” exclaimed Denys.
They seated themselves on bales of furs, done up ready to be transferred
to the boats.
“It is a high compliment, André. And it may not be a bad thing for a
young fellow to see a little of the world and learn how to make money in
different ways. It’s a much gayer place than this. And you will be in
good hands.”
“But—M. Denys, I do not want to go.”
The young fellow’s face was scarlet, and his eyes were full of unspoken
hope mingled with fear.
“And why not, André Valbonais?”
“Oh, you must know, you must have guessed that I love Ma’m’selle Renée.
Ever since last winter I have known that all my heart was hers, that I
would not be satisfied until I had won her for a wife. And I do not
think—you are averse——”
He looked so frank and sincere and honorable under the elder’s scrutiny,
though his face was flushed and the lines about his mouth were
quivering.
Denys took his arm. There was something better than a smile on the face,
a tender approval.
“No,” Denys replied in a tone that went to the young man’s heart. “I
have had a little dream of the future. There is no one in St. Louis I
would so soon take as a son. For look you, André, I do not want to give
her up. The man who weds her must come here, must put up with me as I
grow old and full of whims. I cannot be shut out of her happiness. I
will tell you that I had a brief few months’ love with her mother, and a
dream like this. Her father parted us. The child is as dear to me as if
my blood ran in her veins, and her happiness is my whole study. If you
can win her I shall be content. But women have to wait for a time to
love. And it is not her time.”
“But if I should go away—” The young fellow drew a long, sorrowing
breath.
“It might be best, so that you come back.”
“I must stay all winter. And if some one else wins her?” he questioned
anxiously.
“That would be a grief to me. I shall try not to have it happen. Oh, you
can trust me; only I shall not force her inclination. But there is some
comfort to take with you in my full consent.”
“You think, then, I had better go?” reluctantly.
“It is not every day a friend like M. Chouteau is given to a young man.
And,” with a vague smile, “you may even advance your suit by going. If
she should miss you, so much the better. You have given her a great deal
of devotion, perhaps too much. There are some gifts that are not
appreciated if they come too easily.”
André Valbonais felt as if his dream had been dashed to fragments like a
bit of glass. He had resolved he would not go away; he would marry
Renée. Yet down in his heart he knew she did not love him with the
fervor of a sweetheart. But that might come when she understood how much
in earnest he was, and that her guardian really wished for the marriage.
Yet, much as he wished for it, he would not spoil his darling’s life by
any over-persuasion.
“Yes, it is a fine chance. You will be the envy of the town. And—I trust
you to come back as honorable as you go. A year soon passes.”
“It will be hard to go without speaking.”
“It will do no good.” Denys shook his head. “Trust me. I have seen more
of womankind.”
“Then I must be off. I asked to consult you, and I have your answer.”
“Yes, yes! Go, by all means.”
Renée was in her room, moving articles about in an aimless fashion,
wondering how Barbe had looked and what she had said. She need not have
worried. There were a dozen other neighbors, ready to talk of the narrow
escape and compare their own town with the larger one.
Now and then she had exchanged a word with Denys, but it seemed as if
every one talked at once. He had in his mind the picture she made in the
morning, but she did not look like that now. There were lines of care in
her face, and the prettiness had deepened into womanly beauty.
Not a question about her did Renée ask. After dinner she took some
sewing and went to Madame Marchand’s, as she often did. François had
been to the wharf, hurriedly constructed again, to see when the boats
were likely to go down the river, since it was now considered safe.
André Valbonais had told him he was going.
“He came to see uncle this morning. I suppose that was what they talked
about,” said Renée.
The voice had the languor of indifference, and the little face, rather
pale now, betrayed no emotion.
It was always a busy time when a fleet of boats went down. Now, there
was more talk than usual. Some of the stock had been quite spoiled by
the overflow; indeed, not a little of it had been swept out of the
storehouses and it had been impossible to save it. But men took their
losses philosophically; they would recoup themselves another year. And
they now thought it wisdom to build higher up, and leave the muddy bank
to itself.
André was very busy, and truth to tell, rather downhearted. He had been
buoyant; it was his nature. But as he faced the actual now, and the
careless demeanor of Renée, he felt like one roused from a dream and
swung to the opposite verge. No, she did not care for him. Yet she had
been so sweet at times! He was in and out. Mère Lunde was full of
regrets. She was old and might never see him again. Renée said
carelessly, “We shall all miss you. I don’t know what uncle would do if
he did not have M’sieu Marchand.”
She and Madame Marchand had gone to the Renauds’, as was proper.
Wawataysee was charmed with the little Angelique, and they found Madame
Gardepier quite different from the women of the town, except some of the
higher ladies in the government circles, though she was very sweet and
gracious.
Renée’s heart swelled with a great jealousy. Barbe was beautiful and
grand, she could not deny it. Her voice had a lingering cadence, like a
rivulet in some forest depth, as if she might coax the heart out of one.
Renée steeled hers in a sort of desperation. Surely she was distanced.
She could not contend against these charms, any more than she could deny
them. All her life was suddenly set in the shade.
So she could not feel much sorrow for André’s going away; her own filled
all her heart. He might have thought her quiet a sign of it, but his
eyes seemed to have been curiously opened.
“You will give me good wishes?” he said the last evening he came.
“And—will you not say that you shall miss me?”
“Of course, I shall miss you,” but the dreariness in the tone was not
for him. “I shall be so much alone.”
“M. Denys will be here—” He was a little puzzled.
“Oh, yes! But, then——”
“Renée,” impetuously, “you have some sorrow. You are not like yourself.
What has happened?”
“Yes, I have some sorrow in my heart. I cannot tell any one,” and the
red lips quivered.
“And you were so gay a little while ago. Oh, my darling—” His full heart
overflowed in his face.
She held up her hand in entreaty. “Don’t,” she said in a half-irritated
way. “I shall never be any one’s darling again. And,” in something of
her old imperious tone, “if I cannot have the love I want I will not
have any!”
He looked at her in amaze. Did she love some one else, then? He was
suddenly stunned. That had never entered his thoughts.
“Oh,” she exclaimed with a burst of feeling, “you have been very good to
me, André. You rescued me in that dreadful peril, and I shall always be
grateful. And I wish you prosperity and happiness.”
Then she vanished from the garden and shut herself in her room. When
Uncle Gaspard begged her to come out, as this was André’s last evening,
she said her head ached and she could not bear the sound of voices.
They went down to see the boats off, and the air was almost rent with
good wishes. This was always a great occasion. There in the foremost one
was M. Pierre Chouteau and André beside him, both waving their hands in
response to the “Bon voyage!” from a hundred throats. The Colonel
stood beside his mother, who was a proud and happy woman, and who
chatted in a charming fashion with her friends and had singled out
Barbe, it seemed, who had come with her niece Sophie.
The line rounded the curve and began to take in the turn, and the
sailors’ shouts were mere echoes. To-day the water was tranquil enough,
and the heavens so blue that all the atmosphere had an extraordinary
brilliance.
Madame Chouteau invited some of the friends to come and dine with her.
“I do not want to,” Renée said, shrinking back. “But you go, Uncle
Gaspard, and take my excuse. I am not well. I shall go to bed and make
Mère Lunde doctor me, and be right by to-morrow.”
What was the matter with the child? She had grown pale and heavy-eyed.
He had been much engrossed with the boats and André’s perplexity, and
the impression that she desired to evade him, so he had made it easy for
her to do so. But if she were going to be ill!
She threaded her way homeward and sat for awhile under her favorite
tree, looking at the vision of Barbe smiling and Uncle Gaspard listening
to her attractive manner of talking and smiling back. For all the summer
sunshine she was cold, and her temples throbbed with a dull pain. She
did not want to cry outwardly, but within her heart seemed weeping
bitter tears, and its beating was like the dull thud of pounding on
lead.
She startled Mère Lunde when she came in so wan and spiritless. The good
woman steeped some herbs, and she did really go to bed. Uncle Gaspard
did not get home until almost supper-time, and some trappers were in the
shop dickering about pelts.
He came and sat on the side of the bed presently and held her hands,
