with two seductive dimples, one in her chin, the other in her cheek.
Her hair was a light brown that had a tint of gold, and her eyes were a
soft dark brown that could look at you with the utmost pathos or deepen
with fun and fire, and her rose-red lips had a dewy, tremulous fashion
of shaping themselves to any mood.
Another charm for Helen was her love of order and neatness, without
being at all fussy, her wonderful blending of colors, the little touches
that gave an air to the plainest surroundings. Then she was generally
helpful. Helen had been indebted to her for many small aids along the
difficult paths of learning that were quite unknown in Hope Center.
Daisy had made the first advances. She was more experienced in school
ways, older, richer, and a favorite with the class. Helen felt honored
by her preference. If she had been less lovable it might have savored of
patronage and that Helen would have declined. It sometimes seemed as if
she was the stronger, the leading spirit, as in some respects Daisy
yielded unhesitatingly to her.
It was Helen's first girl friendship, and it possessed something of the
marvel to her that Mrs. Dayton's kindliness had, since neither were in
anywise compelled to take her up. But why had she ever promised to love
Daisy only?
And did she really love Juliet Craven? This night was the first time
Miss Craven had ever used her Christian name. She would hardly dream of
being intimate with any of the young ladies in the senior class, though
several of them were very cordial and she had been asked to sing for
them and with them. Helen made a funny distinction about this, it was
due to her voice and not her personality. She was too wholesome to feel
aggrieved about such a thing and she had very little vanity. Being
brought up by Aunt Jane would have taken the vanity out of any girl.
But there did not seem so much difference between her age and Miss
Craven's as the years confessed. Helen knew a great deal more about the
real world. She was likely to make a good logician. Her short experience
at Mrs. Dayton's had given her the key to the larger world. Those women
with their different qualities were reproduced here in the school, here
in Westchester, and were no doubt repeated elsewhere. But Miss Craven
knew nothing and was afraid to judge, to have decided opinions, to
compare one with another. Her solitary life had taken her into the very
heart of nature, of a certain kind of dreaming, and longing for
knowledge, but that was widely different from the every day knowledge of
general living. Helen had not been lonely, her mind was too active, and
there had always been people about her. She wanted her knowledge to
enable her to go out in the world and conquer it; girls of fourteen and
older do have such dreams. Miss Craven wanted hers largely for herself
alone.
Helen had pitied her, been very sympathetic, assisted her over rough
places, and really advised. Was not this some of the work preached about
on Sunday in the churches, helping the weaker brethren? She had hardly
thought of religion up to this period of her life as having any duties
in a practical sense, but Mrs. Aldred gave the school that tone, and
Miss Grace was interested in the broader Christian life, not merely
church-going.
So Miss Craven, curiously enough, had looked like a duty to Helen. She
and Daisy did their brief reading every night, but since Christmas so
many verses had pointed to the weaker brother. The stronger, wiser girls
in school did not want anything of her, at least she thought she had
nothing to give them, since they did not ask, and the word was "everyone
that asketh." Miss Craven had asked by a glance of the eye, a pressure
of the hand, a quiver of the wordless lips that hesitated to frame the
desire into speech. Yes, she did love her if charity and kindliness were
love, and--oh, there was something deeper, wider, higher.
She had not settled the question when she fell asleep, rather late for
her and so she did not wake until Daisy touched her. Daisy Bell had half
a mind to let her oversleep and lose a mark, then she really did love
her too well.
"Oh, dear!" sighed Helen ruefully. "And I wanted to finish my Latin
translation this morning."
There could be no thought of anything but hurrying downstairs. Miss
Craven was in her place and glanced up with a certain eagerness in her
eyes. All through breakfast time Daisy made herself uncomfortable,
watching.
"So you have a rival in your sweetheart's affections," Miss Mays
whispered mischievously, linking her arm in that of Daisy's as they
sauntered through the hall. "The glances are something wonderful,
beseeching. If the eyes hadn't that dull, leady look they might prove
dangerous in years to come, but I doubt if young men will be drawn near
enough to experience their fascination. But she gains a little every
day, and you will soon lose your Helen of Troy."
"Helen of Troy is a free agent. She can make friends wherever she will,"
was the rather curt answer.
"But 'life is thorny and love is vain,'" quoted Roxy. "I do wonder at
Helen Grant's taste."
There were lessons and exercises and Helen found her mind wandering,
having to bring it back by sharp turns. Daisy was very distant. "Oh, how
foolish girls can be!" Helen thought.
When they went in to luncheon a surprise greeted most of the girls.
Helen Grant saw the vacant seat beside her. One of the girls opposite
touched elbows with the other and both glanced at the end of the room.
Helen let her eyes wander down leisurely. Next to Mrs. Aldred sat a
stranger, next to her Miss Craven, more timid than ever.
The stranger was elegant and airy. Her cloth gown was of the newest
shade of green, the small bolero covered with iridescent embroidery,
the satin bosom a few shades lighter, sown here and there with beads in
colors that sparkled like gems. A very pretty, stylish-looking woman of
five and thirty perhaps. She wore two magnificent diamond rings and a
small star at her throat. The most critical taste could not pronounce
her loud.
Helen thought rapidly. Was that Mrs. Howard? She felt rather
disappointed.
Everybody went on with the luncheon and when it was through, Mrs.
Aldred, the guest, and Miss Bigelow retired to the drawing room. What
did it all mean? They heard presently. The lady was Mrs. Davis, the wife
of Miss Craven's guardian. Just as Morris had answered the door, Miss
Bigelow crossed the hall and recognized a lady she had seen a good deal
of in the summer.
"Why this is delightful to meet a familiar face," declared the
stranger. "Is this where you are at school? We have a protégée here,
at least Mr. Davis is guardian and trustee of a young woman and no end
of money, Miss Craven, do you know her?"
Morris was trying to usher the guest into the reception room.
"Yes, she is here," and Miss Bigelow did the honors; begged Mrs. Davis
to be seated. Morris came back with the word that Mrs. Aldred would be
at liberty in a few moments.
"Do tell me what kind of a school it is? The girl's grandfather died; he
was a queer old fellow, and the business was in a sort of muddle, but,
as I said, there is no end of money. I wanted her to go to a convent; I
was good enough to take her in and see what could be done in the way of
polishing, for you see she must go in society. She didn't take kindly to
the Roman Catholic aspect, but you know they never interfere with
anyone's religion. I had a friend come to stay with me while I was
giving a house party, a Mrs. Howard, who took a fancy to her; she had
scarcely been out of the woods, though I found she had come of a very
good family--Revolutionary people and a great-uncle, a judge in
Maryland, and several men of note. The Baltimore relatives are among
some of the best in society. If there had been no family back of her I
really couldn't have undertaken her. Mrs. Howard knew of this school; I
think she had a niece educated here. So she wrote, and the matter
somehow settled itself. I was engaged for Lenox, and two or three house
parties, and Washington, Charleston, and Florida. I do seem to keep on
the go most of the time. And this is really the first opportunity I have
had to look after her, though I knew I could trust Mrs. Howard."
"Miss Craven is in excellent hands here. Of course I am among the
Seniors and graduate in June, and am very busy, so I see but little of
the Juniors."
"Why, it is quite college-like." Mrs. Davis had taken in a fresh supply
of breath. Her voice was soft and well trained, though she rather swept
along as she talked.
"Girls are prepared for college, or for any position in life," Miss
Bigelow replied with a smile.
"That is what Mrs. Howard said. I can't understand how the grandfather
could become such a queer old hermit when the family was an excellent
one. It might have been the loss of his son, this girl's father. Mr.
Davis thinks he was a man of education and shrewd about business. He had
to go over all the papers, you know, and there were marriage
certificates, his parents and his own, and various family affairs. I was
glad for her sake that everything was right. A family stigma always
keeps cropping up."
Mrs. Aldred entered at this juncture, and Miss Bigelow left the two
ladies to their conference. Mrs. Davis went over the ground again, more
at length, and stated her wishes definitely. She wanted Miss Craven
trained to make a good impression on society, accomplished if she could
be.
"She has a great talent for music and will make a fine player. It is a
pity she could not have begun her general education sooner," replied
Mrs. Aldred. "It will take time to reach any standard."
"Oh, a thousand pities. But it doesn't seem really necessary for her to
go into the abstruse subjects, for every year counts. It is an excellent
thing that girls do not marry as young as they used to. I was married
before I was quite eighteen, but I had been three years at a first-class
boarding school. She will be twenty in the summer. She certainly can
finish in another year?" tentatively.
"She can do a good deal, but hardly that. This year it will be
principally ground-work. She has had private lessons, and she does love
study, is eager to learn. Next year she will go into regular classes
and get accustomed to girls. She is painfully shy."
"I hope you can give her some style. After all, money does make amends
for a great deal, and I have known some really ignorant girls to marry
well, but now everyone who makes a bow to society is expected to have
some training, and get the air of nouveaux riches rubbed off. That is
detestable."
"I do not think that will be one of her faults;" and Mrs. Aldred smiled
a little, wondering how long it had been since Mrs. Davis had cast
comparative poverty behind her.
"French and all that she can pick up abroad. I should like her to know
some Italian songs. I wish I could take her next year. You hardly
consider it possible?"
"Oh, no. I should certainly wait. She has improved. I will send for her.
And as it will soon be luncheon time may I not have the pleasure of
making you a guest? You will see our school in every-day trim, and meet
some of our teachers. We have also a day school for larger girls."
Mrs. Davis accepted graciously. Miss Craven was summoned, and entered
with self-possession.
The girl had been very happy all the morning. The consciousness that
someone loved her, albeit a girl so much younger, had been like red wine
to her blood, and kept her pulses throbbing, given her eyes a subtle
glow. The bluish tint should never have been in such eyes, golden or the
translucent green that sometimes sets hazel eyes ashine would have made
a great change in her face. But they had lightened up curiously, and her
cheeks rounded out, her complexion cleared up since she was no longer
exposed to sun and wind, and had a more hygienic training. She had tied
a pink ribbon around her neck. Helen Grant liked it so much.
Altogether, she looked improved from last summer. And she certainly had
learned to smile. Her teeth were white, even, and pretty.
She was very much surprised, and could not dismiss her distrust of Mrs.
Davis at once. Indeed, what reason had she for distrusting her? Mrs.
Aldred led the conversation until the girl's first embarrassment was
over, and then gracefully withdrew to plan for a change at the table.
Soon after luncheon Mrs. Davis took her leave, quite convinced that Mrs.
Aldred would do as well for her husband's ward as anyone. She would
have liked the prestige of the convent better.
By dinner time most of the girls knew that Miss Juliet Craven was really
an heiress, and that her guardian was the great banker and lawyer as
well, and who was occasionally called upon to disentangle some very
intricate points, Mr. James Elliot Davis.
CHAPTER XV
BETWIXT TWO
"And you knew it all the time!" Daisy Bell cried indignantly. She sat
curled up on her bed, her soft, pretty hair let down about her
shoulders, her arms folded across her chest as if she would shut out any
pleading tone from her heart, if indeed it was her heart whose racing
pulsation could decide for her, and keep or banish a guest.
"Not all the time," corrected Helen. "She told me a little of her story,
told it briefly, I mean, and left me to infer the rest; explained why
she wanted an education, and the almost accident of her coming here. She
seemed so lonely at Christmas-tide when so many of you were away in
happy homes, having delightful times with plenty of love and joy and
good cheer. Well, I felt rather lonely as well."
"And then I came back to you with a heart full of love, and she had
crept in. Why didn't you tell me----"
Daisy's voice trembled and she loosened one hand to wipe her eyes. Helen
was much moved.
"There really was nothing to tell. We had made no vows, exchanged no
promises, broken no rings," with a scornful little laugh. "I set her
straight on two or three points, I scolded her a little, yes, I just
did, and I wanted her to mix with, and be more like other girls. I don't
believe you, with joyous homes and brothers and sisters, can understand
the lonely life she has led."
"As you can," with a touch of girlish sarcasm.
"Yes, as I can. I have a kindly uncle and aunt, who have cared for me
since father died, and a lot of cousins growing up into commonplace men
and women. There are dozens of tender ties, but no real sympathy with my
desires. Aunt thought I knew quite enough, and so I would for some
lives. The longing and desire for other things, better things, helps me
to understand her. But it was only a week or ten days ago--some
strictures of the girls made her very unhappy----"
"She shouldn't have listened. The old adage is a good one," with a
scornful laugh.
"She could not help it. I think some of the girls have not treated her
kindly, they have even been rude. And it was mean to try to set her age
so much farther on, and to call her an old maid."
"She doesn't look young."
"She will have a guardian for almost two years longer. I suppose in law
you have to give your exact age. Some of the people I love best are very
far from young."
"I suppose you love a great many!" with an emphasis as bitter as her
tender voice could make. She could put anger in it, but bitterness never
could be part and parcel of it.
"I love a few. I am not very rich in friends. But I know I am capable of
loving a good many people for different qualities."
Helen stood up very straight. She was growing tall rapidly. There was
firmness and character in every line of her face, and in her tone as
well.
"I don't care for the thousandth part of anyone's love. And you said you
would love me the best of anybody----"
"And so I did and do when you are not"--foolish, she was going to say,
but she paused. "Oh, Daisy, can't you see it is the individuality, the
qualities in a person that you love. And no two are alike. You are very
dear and sweet. But I dare say you loved girls last year when I was
not here, and when I am gone you will love someone else. I don't ask you
to love me best of all, for there are, no doubt, more charming girls and
Miss Craven did not demand that of me. It was because she seemed so glad
of a little crumb, and I knew no one loved her----"
Helen's voice had a break in it. She went on taking down her hair,
putting away her necktie and handkerchief, then hung her skirt in the
wardrobe. Would she ask Daisy to read with her? "Let not the sun go down
upon your wrath." But she wasn't even angry, only indignant at what
looked to her like injustice.
"Daisy," she began presently, "if someone told you a story, incidents
out of her life that you knew were given in a burst of confidence, under
the impression that you would not repeat it, should you feel duty bound
to rehearse it to your friend. I did not promise, but I felt it was her
business. Mrs. Aldred knew it; Miss Grace, too, I dare say, but they did
not explain it to the school."
"It was nothing disgraceful. And the girls surmised--why, I think it
would have been better explained," and Daisy roused up a little.
"What right had any girl to surmise? It was admitted that Mrs. Aldred
would not have taken in anyone with dishonorable antecedents. And if my
father had been a criminal of any sort, could I have helped it? But Mrs.
Aldred knew there was nothing except a neglected girlhood which she has
been trying in the kindliest manner to remedy. When a girl surmised
anything, she was willing to give color to what she did not know was
true. It seems to me that is very near a falsehood."
Daisy had heard more sneers than Helen. Her face burned with a pained
consciousness. She really felt ashamed that she should have half
believed the positive untruths. Gossip and ill-nature without any
foundation--how despicable it looked. How could they have been amused
over it?
"I don't see why she shouldn't have been willing to let us all know she
was so rich," Daisy said in a sort of extenuation for the girls.
"I think it was because she wanted to do her hardest work unnoticed, for
one thing, and she doesn't seem at all proud of the money though it is
honorably obtained. She is very timid because she realizes her own
deficiencies. I can't help feeling things would have been better with
her if that Mrs. Howard had been her guardian's wife. Think, she's
nineteen years old and no one has ever given her a bit of love,
until----"
The great clock in the hall rolled out ten in its ponderous tones.
"Oh, good gracious!" Daisy jumped lightly from her bed. Helen put out
the light and went on with her undressing. There could be no reading.
She did not say a word, but knelt down presently.
It was hard to know just what was right and best. She had a feeling that
she ought to go over to Daisy, since she had given the offense--it was
not an offense on her part--but she could say, "I am sorry we quarreled
when we meant to be such dear friends." She repeated "Our Father, who
art in heaven," and then she remembered the man who prayed for wisdom,
and who chose wisdom.
Two soft arms were around her neck and a tear-wet cheek was pressed
against hers.
"I've been a horrid, miserable, selfish little wretch! I do wonder if
you can ever love me any more? But I want you too, even if you must
love her some. I'm sorry----"
Helen kissed her a dozen times. "You little darling, I love you a
hundred times better than before, if such a thing were possible. And I'm
glad not to have any break. Run to bed, little midget, or we shall have
to confess to talking out of time."
Then they said good-night again, and so the first difference was made
up, but Daisy's jealous heart was not quite comforted.
There was a difference in the demeanor of most of the girls toward Miss
Craven, though few would have admitted the money had anything to do with
it. Miss Bigelow simply repeated Mrs. Davis's remark, that the girl
would be very rich. No one could say that she was loud or presuming, or
that her retiring manner was an evidence of pride. She went her way as
quietly as before. She acknowledged all the little politenesses in a shy
sort of way, but she was hard to get on with. She would only talk in
monosyllables, except to Helen Grant.
"She has the key to unlock her tongue," Miss Mays said. "Helen is the
sort of girl who will always be looking for fresh fields and pastures
new. I like her immensely, but I couldn't help feeling as if I was only
one of the many to her."
Such little speeches with the utmost apparent good nature fell heavily
on Daisy Bell's heart.
There were many things to attend to beside school-girl differences,
which were always happening among pupils. Easter was late, and then
every day counted to those who expected promotion as well as the
graduates.
Still there were some splendid rambles over on the other side of the
river, some rowing parties, delightful lessons in out-of-door botany,
and, oh, the plans for summer! There would be eight graduates among the
boarders, seven from the day scholars. Miss Reid was going abroad for a
year at painting, Miss Downs to study music at Leipsic, Miss Bigelow to
enter an art school in New York, three to go to college, one to be
married. Most of the Senior B would step into the A division, and every
class would be pushed up.
Helen could have gone in the higher division at Easter. She had studied
not only with a will, but an eager interest in so many things that she
wondered how girls could dawdle along. Still, if they had no aim, if it
was merely to get through these intervening years, looking forward to
pleasure, society, and marriage, perhaps it might be sufficient. Her
future was rather doubtful, even to herself. There were suggestions
about the more weighty studies from Mrs. Van Dorn, as if Helen would
hardly need them. But she did it because she liked them. She wanted to
go to the foundation, to know on just what her structure stood, there
was nothing negative about her. One day Miss Grace said:
"Miss Grant, you would make a most excellent teacher. You are so direct
and so simple, you waste no time, and you evince so much interest in the
branches you like. I see your influence on two pupils, Miss Bell, who is
a sweet, bright girl, but not in love with study, and mother and I feel
really indebted to you for your interest in Miss Craven. When she can
once venture out of her shell with the consciousness that she is not so
different from the others, the Rubicon will be passed. I do believe she
will do it. I am counting a good deal on next year."
"I am glad if I help ever so little," returned Helen with shining eyes,
as a soft color transfused her fair face. "And since one and another
has been very good to me, I ought to pass the kindness on to someone
else."
"'Freely ye have received, freely give.' I am glad that purpose has
taken root. There are so many things we can give that only cost us a
little trouble, and do more good than the bestowal of money. It is one
of the greatest lessons of life."
Miss Aldred smiled upon her pupil, and a warm glow sped through Helen's
frame.
"Then I have my mind quite set upon teaching some day. Perhaps I take
that from my father, who was a teacher. I saw so little of him, but this
year I've wondered a good deal what he really was like, and if we should
not have been splendid friends on these lines. I believe he was
disappointed about my not being a boy, and it's funny"--with a bright
merry laugh. "I've never wanted to be a boy at all. I think girls are
nicer."
"The loveliest being to me is a fine, broad, sweet-minded, cultured
woman, and I am very glad she is beginning to be thought of as the ideal
woman. You have many years before you reach real womanhood, which comes
later and is richer than it was twenty years ago. But you are taking
some excellent steps along the way."
"Oh, thank you for the praise," said Helen pressing her hand.
If the steps were not in Latin and French she could go bounding along,
she thought. In that respect she did not inherit her father's facility
nor his love for the abstruse and difficult.
"I suppose I am superficial," she said to herself ruefully. "But why
shouldn't one delight in the things one loves best?"
That was one charm about Miss Craven to her. She reveled in poetry. The
other girls were full of nonsense chatter in the spare half hours, but
they two often slipped away under some tree and read and discussed.
There was a fund of romance in each one, though temperament and
surroundings had been so different, the one so afraid to express her
inmost thought, the other so fearless, not even minding being laughed
at.
Every day seemed more crowded with all things.
"I'm glad I don't have to think about a graduation gown, or any gown,"
laughed Helen. "My clothes come ready-made, and all I have to do is to
put them on."
"But wouldn't you like to choose sometimes?" asked one of the girls. "I
shall choose my graduation gown and my wedding gown."
"Oh, no you won't. Graduation gowns have to be pretty much alike, and
wedding gowns must be in the prevailing fashion. In fact, I think there
is very little you do choose in this life. There's someone just in
front always who lays down the law, and though you may think you will
get your own way you find oftener it is the way of someone else."
"If I had my way I wouldn't come back to school."
"If I had my way I would come back to school ten years," exclaimed
Helen.
"You are enough to tire anyone to death with your everlasting study
plans. Thank heaven for vacation, say I."
There were some plans, indeed a great deal of planning about that. Each
girl had a different desire.
Helen had written her monthly letter regularly. Sometimes she had nice
chatty replies from Mrs. Van Dorn; at others, Miss Gage had written.
They had been spending a month at Paris, now they were going to London,
and then to some country houses. And early in June came a letter
disposing of Helen's summer. She would return to Hope and spend the time
between Mrs. Dayton and her uncle. "We do not know what may happen
another year," she wrote; "and you are too young to be going about
anywhere else."
Of course that was what she had expected to do, would be glad to do. She
did want to see all her old friends again. Uncle Jason's letters had
been rather queer and formal, Jenny had written twice all about herself
and Joe.
Daisy came in bright and smiling. She, too, had a letter.
"I've been telling mamma such lots about you, and I asked her to let me
invite you to spend a fortnight with me, and here it is. Just listen."
A very delightful invitation to be sure. Helen's heart beat high for a
moment.
"Well--are you struck speechless?" a gay light dancing in her eyes.
"You are very good, just lovely, but I do not know as I can accept, I am
to go home----"
"Only two weeks out of nine! Surely you can spare that!"
Helen considered. "I will consult Mrs. Aldred before I decide," with
gentle gravity.
"I really do not see what she has to do with it. Your aunt and uncle
would be the ones to decide. Don't you want to do it--to see what sort
of a home I have? It would be just a splendid time. Mamma is half in
love with you. I am almost jealous again."
"Oh, I can't think of anything more delightful," Helen cried eagerly,
and Daisy did not need to doubt the pleasure illumining her face. "But
Mrs. Van Dorn has planned----"
"Oh, write to her and tell her how much you want to come," beseechingly.
"There would hardly be time."
"It would be nicer to take you home with me, but you could come
afterward."
"Why yes. However, I will see what Mrs. Aldred thinks."
"Oh, go at once. I want to write back," exclaimed Daisy impatiently.
Mrs. Aldred looked up from the pile of reports on her table, and said in
a pleasantly inquiring tone, "Well?" then listened, but there was a tint
of perplexity in her face.
"I had a note from Mrs. Van Dorn by the last steamer also. She seems
very well satisfied with your progress, only she is rather exigent
about the French, and I wish you would do all you can at it during
vacation. But she is very explicit about the summer. I think she prefers
that you should spend it in Hope."
She had been rather more than explicit, and said she did not approve of
such young girls visiting about. Mr. Castles would send a trusty person
for Helen and see her safely on the train for Hope.
"Do you not think I might write to her about it for a visit later on?"
"Yes, you could. But Mrs. Van Dorn is certain of her own wishes in any
matter, and generally has good reasons. I do not imagine a visit like
this would do you any harm, but you are young, and I do suppose you
owe your own people some respect. I think I should accept the fiat."
Helen felt bitterly disappointed. She did not dream her girlish
enthusiasm about Daisy Bell had been one of the factors in this command,
as it really was, that Mrs. Van Dorn did not want any girl to gain a
strong influence over Helen, but she need not have felt suspicious, as
the influence was all the other way.
It had come like a sudden vision, and now it was quenched in bitter
regret, with the unappeased want back of it.
"I do object to indiscriminate visiting for such young girls. If Mrs.
Van Dorn were here and could see just the kind of girl Miss Daisy is, it
would be different, but I suppose, if she thought at all, it was about
the generality of girls, who sometimes are quite lawless in their own
homes. Since you have accepted her direction for the next two years, it
is best to do it cheerfully," advised Mrs. Aldred.
"Yes, I do owe her that much," returned Helen in a convinced tone, if
the disappointment had not all gone out of it.
Then Daisy and she had an unpleasant disagreement about it, and Helen
felt sorrier than ever.
Juliet Craven's happening was a comforting one for her. Mrs. Davis had
gone abroad with a clear conscience. Her friend, Mrs. Howard, was to
look after the ward who was neither woman or child.
Then came the rush of examinations, the excitement to know who had
passed, and what the marks were, and the graduation exercises which
began at three in the afternoon and were to end with a lawn party in the
moonlight.
Some of the pupils were secretly mortified at not attaining a higher
rate, a few really did not care, and they were not sufficiently above
the ordinary to make a mark anywhere. Some others were a credit to the
training and culture of Aldred House, and went their way with a grateful
remembrance of their teacher friend and her admirable daughter.
Helen had a part in the singing, there was some excellent playing,
recitations, and essays. The house was crowded, it was one of the summer
events at Westchester. There were congratulations and good wishes, and
an evening of unbounded delight, as many of the young people were
invited, and for this evening the youthful masculines, among them a
number of law students, were welcomed.
Was it only a year ago Helen Grant had recited Hervé Riel in the old
