second son, who is a cavalry officer in Turin, and whom 
none of us has ever seen." 
Malipieri's lips moved, but he said nothing that 
could be heard. A vein that ran down the middle of 
his forehead was swollen, and there was a bad look in 
his eyes. 
" I would rather see the child dead than married 
to one of those disgusting people," the Princess said. 
" Did you ever hear of such impertinence ? " 
"You let her live with them for more than two 
months," observed Malipieri. 
" I know I did. It was simply impossible to think 
of anything better in the confusion, and as they offered 
to take charge of her, I consented. Yes, it was foolish, 
but I did not suppose that they would let her go off in 
a cab with that old dotard and stay out all night." 
Malipieri felt as if she were driving a blunt nail into 
his head. 
"Poor Sassi!" he said. "He was buried yester- 
day." 
" Was he ? I am not in the least sorry for him. He 
always made trouble, and this was the worst of all. 
Sabina almost cried because I would not let her go and 
see him at the hospital. You know, he never spoke 
after he was taken there — he did not feel anything." 
Malipieri wondered whether the Princess, in another 
sense, had ever felt anything, a touch of real pity, or 
real love, for any human being. He did not remem- 
ber to have ever met a woman who had struck him as 
so utterly heartless ; and yet he could not forget the 
look that had come into her face, and the simple words 
she had spoken, when he had told her his story. 
" I understand that j'^ou refused Volterra's proposal," 
he said, returning to the present trouble. "Do you 
mean to say that he declined to help you unless you 
would accept it ? " 
" Oh, no ! He only said that as I was not disposed 
to accept what would make it so much easier, he would 
have to think it over. I have not seen him since." 
 
" But you understand what lie had planned, do you 
not? " Malipieri asked. "It is very simple." 
" It is not so clear to me. I am not at all clever, 
you know." The Princess laughed carelessly. "He 
must have a very good reason for offering to pay a 
hundred thousand francs in order that his son may 
marry Sabina, who has not a penny. I confess, if it 
were not an impertinence, it would look like a foolish 
caprice. I suppose he thinks it would be socially 
advantageous." 
Her lip curled and showed her even white teeth. 
"His wife is a snob," Malipieri answered, "but 
Volterra does not care for anything but power and 
money, except perhaps for the sort of reputation he 
has, which helps him to get both." 
"Then of what possible use could it be to him to 
marry his son to Sabina, and to throw all that money 
away for the sake of getting her ? " 
Malipieri hesitated, not sure whether it would be 
wise to tell her all he thought. 
" In the first place," he said slowly, " I do not believe 
he would really pay the blackmail, or if he did, he 
would catch the man, get the money back, and have 
him sent to penal servitude. He is very clever, and 
in his position he can have whatever help he asks from 
the government, especially in a just cause, as that 
would be. Perhaps he thinks that he has guessed who 
the man is." 
" Have you any idea ? " asked the Princess, glancing 
down at the dirty little letter she still held. 
" In the second place," Malipieri continued, without 
heeding the question, "I am almost sure that when 
you were in difficulties, two or three months ago, he 
got the better of you, as he gets the better of every 
one. With the value of these statues, he has probably 
pocketed a couple of million francs by the trans- 
action." 
" The wretch ! " exclaimed the  Princess. " I wish 
you were my lawyer ! You have such a clear way of 
putting things." 
Even then Malipieri smiled. 
" I have always believed what I have just told you," 
he answered. " That was the reason why I hoped that 
Donna Sabina might yet recover what she should have 
had from the estate. Volterra is sure that if you can 
take proper steps, you will recover a large sum, and 
that is why he is so anxious to marry his son to your 
daughter. He thinks the match would settle the whole 
affair." 
" The idiot ! As if I did not need the money my- 
self ! " 
Again Malipieri smiled. 
" But you will not get it," he answered. " You 
will certainly not get it if Volterra is interested in 
the matter, for it will all go to your daughter. Your 
other two children have had their share of their father's 
estate, and that of the daughters should have amounted 
to at least two millions each. But Donna Sabina has 
never had a penny. Whatever is recovered from 
Volterra will go to her, not to you." 
 
" It would be the same thing," observed the Princess 
carelessly. 
"Not exactly," Malipieri said, "for the court will 
appoint legal guardians, and the money will be paid 
to her intact when she comes of age. In other words, 
if she marries Volterra's son, the little fortune will 
return to Volterra's family. But of course, if you 
consented to the marriage, he would compromise for 
the money, before the suit was brought, by settling 
the two millions upon his daughter-in-law, and if he 
offered to do that, as he would, no respectable lawyer 
in the world would undertake to carry on the suit, 
because Volterra would have acted in strict justice. 
Do you see ? " 
"Yes. It is very disappointing, but I suppose you 
are right." 
" I know I am, except about the exact sum involved. 
I am an architect by profession, I know something of 
Volterra's affairs and I do not think I am very far 
wrong. Very good. But Volterra has accidentally 
got hold of a terrible weapon against you, in the 
shape of this blackmailer's letter." 
" Then you advise me to accept his offer after all ? " 
" He knows that you must, unless you can find some- 
thing better. You are in his power." 
" But why should I, if I am to get nothing by it ? " 
asked the Princess absent-mindedly. 
"There is Donna Sabina's good name at stake," 
Malipieri answered, with a little sternness. 
" I had forgotten. Of course ! How stupid of me ! " 
For a moment Malipieri knew that he should like to 
box her ears, woman though she was ; then he felt a 
sort of pity for her, such as one feels for half-witted 
creatures that cannot help themselves nor control their 
instincts. 
" Then I must accept, and let Sabina marry that 
man," she said, after a moment's silence. "Tell me 
frankly, is that what you think I ought to do ? " 
" If Donna Sabina wishes to marry him, it will be a 
safe solution," Malipieri answered steadily. 
" My dear man, she is in love with you ! " cried the 
Princess in one of her sudden fits of frankness. " She 
told me so the other day in so many words, when she 
was so angry because I would not let her go to see 
poor old Sassi die. She said that you and he and her 
schoolmistress were the only human beings who had 
ever been good to her, or for whom she had ever cared. 
You may just as well know it, since you cannot marry 
her ! " 
In a calmer moment, Malipieri might have doubted 
the logic of the last statement ; but at the present 
moment he was not very calm, and he turned a pencil 
nervously in his fingers, standing it alternately on its 
point and its blunt end, upon the blotting-paper beside 
him, and looking at the marks it made. 
" How can she possibly M'ish to marry that Volterra 
creature?" asked the Princess, by way of conclusion. 
" She will have to, that is all, whether she likes it or 
not. After all, nobody seems to care much, nowadays," 
she added in a tone of reflection. " It is only the idea. 
 
I always heard that Volterra kept a pawnshop in 
Florence, and then became a dealer in bric-^-brac, and 
afterwards a banker, and all sorts of things. But it 
may not be true, and after all, it is only prejudice. 
A banker may be a very respectable person, you 
know." 
" Certainly," assented Malipieri, wishing that he could 
feel able to smile at her absurd talk, as a sick man 
wishes that he could feel hungry when he sees a dish 
he likes very much, and only feels the worse for the 
mere thought of touching food. 
" Nothing but prejudice," the Princess repeated. " I 
daresay he was never really a pawnbroker and is quite 
respectable. By the bye, do you think he wrote this 
letter himself ? It would be just like him." 
" No," Malipieri answered. " I am sure he did not. 
Volterra never did anything in his life which could not 
at least be defended in law. The letter is genuine." 
" Then there is some one who knows, besides our- 
selves and Volterra and his wife ? " 
" Yes. I am sure of it." 
" You are so clever. You must be able to find out 
who it is." 
" I will try. But I am sure of one thing. Even if 
the money is not paid on the day, the story will not be 
published at once. The man will try again and again 
to get money from you. There is plenty of time." 
" Unless it is a piece of servants' vengeance," the 
Princess said. "Our servants were always making 
trouble before we left the palace, I could never under- 
stand why. If it is that, we shall never be safe. Will 
you come and see me, if you think of any plan? " 
She rose to go. 
" I will go to the Embassy to-morrow afternoon, be- 
tween three and four." 
"Thanks. Do you know? I really cannot help 
liking you, though I think you are behaving abomina- 
bly. I am sure you could get a divorce in Switzerland." 
" We will not talk about that," Malipieri answered, 
a little harshly. 
When she was gone, he called Masin, and then, 
instead of explaining what he wanted, he threw him- 
self into an armchair and sat in silence for nearly half 
an hour. Masin was used to his master's ways and 
did not speak, but occupied himself in noiselessly 
dusting the mantelpiece at least a hundred times 
over. 
CHAPTER XXII 
VOLTEEKA had not explained to the Princess the 
reason why her acceptance of his offer would make it 
so much easier for him to help her out of her difficulty. 
He had only said that it would, for he never explained 
anything to a woman if an explanation could be avoided, 
and he had found that there are certain general ways 
of stating things to which women will assent rather 
than seem not to understand. If the Princess had 
asked questions, he would have found plausible an- 
swers, but she did not. She refused his offer, saying 
that she had other view.* for her daughter. She 
promptly invented a rich cousin in Poland, who had 
fallen in love with Sabina's photograph and was only 
waiting for her to be eighteen years old in order to 
marry her. 
She had gone to Malipieri as a last resource, not 
thinking it probable that he could help her, or that he 
would change his mind and try to free himself in order 
to marry Sabina. She came back with the certainty 
that he would not do the latter and could not give any 
real assistance. So far, she had not spoken to Sabina 
of her interview with the Baron, but she felt that the 
time had come to sound her on the subject of the mar- 
riage, since there might not be any other way. She 
had not lost time since her arrival, for she had at once 
seen one of the best lawyers in Rome, who looked after 
such legal business as the Russian Embassy occasionally 
had ; and he had immediately applied for a revision of 
the settlement of the Conti affairs, on the ground of 
large errors in the estimates of the property, support- 
ing his application with the plea that many of the pro- 
ceedings in the matter had been technically faulty 
because certain documents should have been signed by 
Sabina, as a minor interested in the estate, and whose 
consent was necessary. He was of opinion that the 
revision would certainly be granted, but he would say 
nothing as to the amount which might be recovered by 
the Conti family. As a matter of fact, the settlement 
had been made hastily between Volterra, old Sassi and 
a notary who was not a lawyer; and Volterra, who 
knew what he was about, and profited largely by it, 
had run the risk of a revision being required. For 
the rest, Malipieri's explanation of his motives was 
the true one. 
At the first suggestion of a marriage with Volterra's 
son Sabina flatly refused to entertain the thought. She 
made no outcry, she did not even raise her voice, nor 
change colour; but she planted her little feet firmly 
together on the footstool before her chair, folded her 
hands in her lap and looked straight at her mother. 
" I will not marry him," she said. " It is of no use 
to try to make me. I will not." 
Her mother began to draw a flattering though imagi- 
nary portrait of the young cavalry officer, and enlarged 
 
upon his fortune and future position. Volterra was 
immensely rich, and though he was not quite one of 
themselves, society had accepted him, his sons had been 
admirably brought up, and would be as good as any 
one. There was not a prince in Rome who would not 
be glad to make such a match for his daughter. 
" It is quite useless, mother," said Sabina. " I would 
not marry him if he were Prince Colonna and had the 
Rothschilds' money." 
" That is absurd," answered the Princess. "Just be- 
cause you have taken a fancy to that Malipieri, wlio 
cannot marry you because he has done the most insane 
thing any one ever heard of." 
" It was splendid," Sabina retorted. 
"Besides," her mother said, "you do not know that 
it is true." 
Sabina's' eyes flashed. 
" Whatever he says, is true," she answered, " and you 
know it is. He never lied in his life ! " 
"No," said the Princess, "I really think he never 
did." 
" Then why did you suggest such a thing, when you 
know that I love him ? " 
"One says things, sometimes," replied the Princess 
vaguely. " I did not really mean it, and I cannot help 
liking the man. I told him so this morning. Now 
listen. Volterra is a perfect beast, and if you refuse, 
he is quite capable of letting that story get about, and 
you will be ruined." 
" I will go into a convent." 
"You know that you hate Clementina," observed 
the Princess. 
" Of course I do. She used to beat me when I was 
small, because she said I was wicked. Of course I hate 
her. I shall join the Little Sisters of the Poor, or be a 
Sister of Charity. Even Clementina could not object 
to that, I should think." 
" You are a little fool ! " 
To this observation Sabina made no reply, for it was 
not new to her, and she paid no attention to it. She 
supposed that all mothers called their children fools 
when they were angry. It was one of the privileges of 
motherhood. 
The discussion ended there, for Sabina presently 
went away and shut herself up in her room, leaving 
her mother to meditate in solitude on the incredible 
difficulties that surrounded her. 
Sabina was thinking, too, but her thoughts ran in 
quite another direction, as she sat bolt upright on a 
straight-backed chair, staring at the wall opposite. 
She was wondering how Malipieri looked at that 
moment, and how it was possible that she should not 
even have seen him since she had left his rooms with the 
Baroness a week ago, and more ; and why, when every 
hour had dragged like an age, it seemed as if they had 
parted only yesterday, sure to meet again. 
She sat still a long time, trying to think out a future 
for herself, a future life without Malipieri and yet 
bearable. It would have been easy before the night 
in the vaults ; it would have seemed possible a week 
 
ago, though very hard ; now, it was beyond her imagi- 
nation. She had talked of entering a sisterhood, but 
she knew that she did not mean to do it, even if her 
reputation were ruined. 
She guessed that in that event her mother would try 
to force her into a convent. The Princess was not the 
sort of woman who would devote the rest of her life 
to consoling her disgraced daughter, no matter how 
spotlessly blameless the girl might be. She would look 
upon her as a burden and a nuisance, would shut her 
up if she could, and would certainly go off to Russia or 
to Paris, to amuse herself as far as possible from the 
scene of Sabina's unfortunate adventure. 
" Poor child ! " she would say to her intimate friends. 
" She was perfectly innocent, of course, but there was 
nothing else to be done. No decent man would have 
married her, you know ! " 
And she would tell Malipieri's story to everybody, 
too, to explain why he had not married Sabina. She 
had no heart at all, for her children or for any one else. 
She had always despised her son for his weaknesses and 
miserable life, and she had always laughed at her elder 
daughter ; if she had been relatively kind to Sabina, 
it was because the girl had never given any trouble nor 
asked for anything extravagantly inconvenient. She 
had never felt the least sympathy with the Roman life 
into which she had been brought by force, and after her 
husband had died she had plainly shown his quiet 
Roman relatives what she thought of them. 
She would cast Sabina off without even a careless 
 
kind word, if Sabina became a drag ou her and hin- 
dered her from doing what she pleased in the world. 
And this would happen, if the story about the night 
in the Palazzo Conti were made public. Just so long, 
and no longer, would the Princess acknowledge her 
daughter's existence ; and that meant so long as Vol- 
terra chose that the secret should be kept. 
At least, Sabina thought so. But matters turned 
out differently and were hurried to an issue in a 
terribly unexpected way. 
Both Volterra and Malipieri had guessed that the 
anonymous letter had been written by Gigi, the carpenter, but Volterra had seen it several days before 
the Princess had shown it to Malipieri. Not unnaturally, the Baron thought that it would be a good move 
to get the man into his power. Italy is probably not 
the only country where men powerful in politics and 
finance can induce the law to act with something more 
than normal promptitude, and Volterra, as usual, 
was not going to do anything illegal. The Minister 
of Justice, too, was one of those men who had been 
fighting against the Sicilian "mafia" and the Neapolitan "camorra" for many years, and he hated all black- 
mailers with a just and deadly hatred. He was also 
glad to oblige the strong Senator, who was just now 
supporting the government with his influence and his 
millions. Volterra was sure of the culprit's identity, 
and explained that the detective who had been sent 
to investigate the palace after Sassi's accident had 
seen the carpenter and would recognize him. Nothing 
 
would be easier tlian to send for Gigi to do a job at 
the palace, towards evening, to arrest him as soon as 
he came, and to take him away quietly. 
This was done, and in twenty-four hours Gigi was 
safely lodged in a cell by himself, with orders that 
he was on no account to be allowed any communica- 
tion with other prisoners. 
Then Volterra went to see him, and instead of threat- 
ening him, offered him his help if he would only tell the 
exact truth. Gigi was frightened out of his wits and 
grasped at the straw, though he did not trust the 
Baron much. He told what he had done ; but with 
the loyalty to friends, stimulated by the fear of ven- 
geance, which belongs to the Roman working man, 
he flatly denied that he had an accomplice. Yes, he 
had spoken in the letter of two men who would be 
walking on the Via Appia, and he had intended to 
take his brother-in-law with him, but he said that he 
had not meant to explain why he took him until 
the last minute. It was a matter for the galleys ! 
Did his Excellency the Senator suppose that he would 
trust anybody with that, until it was necessary? 
The consequence was that Gigi was kept quietly 
in prison for a few days before any further steps 
were taken, having been arrested at the instance of 
the Ministry of Justice for trying to extract black- 
mail from the Conti family, and being undoubtedly 
guilty of the misdeed. Volterra's name did not 
even appear in the statement. 
Malipieri had not Volterra's influence, and intended 
to try more personal methods with the carpenter; 
but when he appeared at the palace in the afternoon, 
and asked the porter to go and call Grigi, the old man 
shook his head and said that Gigi had been in prison 
three days, and that nobody knew why he had been 
arrested. The matter had not even been mentioned 
by the Messaggero. 
Malipieri had never connected Toto with Gigi, and 
did not even know that the two men were acquainted 
with each other. He had not the slightest doubt but 
that it was Toto who had caused the water to rise in 
the well, out of revenge, but he knew that it would 
now be impossible to prove it. Strange to say, Mali- 
pieri bore him no grudge, for he knew the people well, 
and after all, he himself had acted in a high-handed 
way. Nevertheless, he asked the porter if the man 
were anywhere in the neighbourhood. 
But Toto had not been seen for some time. He 
had not even been to the wine shop, and was probably 
at work in some distant part of Rome. Perhaps he 
was celebrating his grandfather's funeral with his 
friends. Nobody could tell where he might be. 
Malipieri went back to his hotel disconsolately. 
That evening he read iu the Italie that after poor 
Sassi had been buried, the authorities had at once 
proceeded to take charge of his property and effects, 
because the old woman-servant had declared that he 
had no near relations in the world ; and the notary 
who had served the Conti family had at once produced 
Sassi's will. 
 
He had left all his little property, valued roughly at 
over a hundred thousand francs, to Donna Sabina 
Conti. Had any one known it, the date of the will 
was that of the day on which he had received her 
little note thanking him for burying her canary, out 
on Monte Mario. 
The notary's brother and son, notaries themselves, 
were named as guardians. The income was to be paid 
to Sabina at once, the capital on her marriage. The 
newspaper paragraph recalled the ruin of the great 
family, and spoke of the will as a rare instance of 
devotion in an old and trusted servant. 
Sabina and the Princess learned the news at dinner 
that evening from a young attache of the Embassy who 
always read the Italie because it is published in French, 
and he had not yet learned Italian. He laughingly 
congratulated Sabina on her accession to a vast for- 
tune. To every one's amazement, Sabina's eyes filled 
with tears, though even her own mother had scarcely 
ever seen her cry. She tried hard to control herself, 
pressed her lids hastily with her fingers, bit her lips 
till they almost bled, and then, as the drops rolled 
down her cheeks in spite of all she could do, she left 
the table with a broken word of excuse. 
" She is nothing but a child, still," the Princess ex- 
plained in a tone of rather condescending pity. 
The young attache was sorry for having laughed 
when he told the story. He had not supposed that Donna 
Sabina knew much about the old agent, and after dinner 
he apologized to his ambassador for his lack of tact. 
" That little girl has a heart of gold," answered the 
wise old man of the world. 
The Princess had a profoundly superstitious belief 
in luck, and was convinced that Sabina's and her own 
had turned with this first piece of good fortune, and 
that on the following day Malipieri would appear and 
tell her that he had caught the writer of the letter 
and was ready to divorce his wife in order to marry 
Sabina. Secure in these hopes she slept eight hours 
without waking, as she always did. 
But she was destined to the most complete disap- 
pointment of her life, and to spend one of the most 
horribly unpleasant days she could remember. 
Long before she was awake boys and men, with 
sheaves of damp papers, were yelling the news in the 
Corso and throughout Rome. 
" The Messaggero ! The great scandal in Casa Conti ! 
The Messaggero! One sou ! " 
CHAPTER XXIII 
ToTO had done it. In his heart, the thick-headed, 
practical fellow had never quite believed in Gigi's in- 
genious scheme, and the idea of getting a hundred 
thousand francs had seemed very visionary. Since 
Gigi had got himself locked up it would be more 
