half of the verse. 
I think father felt altogether resigned to the affliction 
of Providence. M'liss was a good cook and kept the 
house tidy. Sometimes he thought I wasn't learning 
enough to fit me to manage a house, but there were so 
many other interests. I was working away with spirit 
at the French. I knew a good many words, and when 
Madame Piaget found that I really wanted to learn, 
she gave me assistance more to the point than Sophie's 
desultory training. 
It was a delightful, merry summer. Sophie knew 
some games and curious stories and was always ready 
for a walk, and whether I had not noted it before or 
whether civilization had induced it to compensate for 
the barrenness, there were new wild flowers springing 
up here and there, and how magnificent the prairies 
were in their long reaches over to the western world, 
to the infinite golden distances and the glittering splen 
dors of the sunset. Then when the long spires of crim 
son faded into lavender and pale pink and blue, 
then soft grays and darkness settled about the edges, 
 
coming nearer and nearer, like some weird army with 
a soundless step until one fairly shivered with a weird 
terror, and one's soul was entranced. 
Crops were excellent. It seemed as if everything 
was prosperous and people were full of stir and spirit 
and hope. We girls used to go in town, as we called it. 
There were some stores with very pretty goods, 
and the two quite pretentious drug stores with red and 
blue jars. I told Sophie about Rosamond, and we 
wondered how any one could be so silly as to make a 
sacrifice for a purple jar. 
"I just wish I could find some little girls willing 
to buy them. Mother makes such beautiful dyes," de 
clared Sophie. 
Madame Piaget, later on, made quite a little money 
by dyeing goods. 
Of all the places, I liked the bookstore best. There 
were various articles besides books. Cigars, tobacco, 
papers from Black Rock, rather from the cities of the 
east. No matter if the news was a month old if we 
had not heard it before. Father was very fond of 
reading about the advances Boston was making. 
"I wish we had a greater grasp of intelligence," he 
would say. Then with a sigh "But one must have 
food and shelter first, and a town like this is going to 
cost a mint of money before we get through. Why, 
they're talking of raising the whole thing, so the river 
and the lake will not overflow. Pity it's so low, and no 
mountains about us to cast into the sea," with a 
chuckle. "If we had had faith to move 'em, we might 
transport some from Virginia or Tennessee, or we 
might find some nearer home, up Michigan way, or 
farther west. But I'm afraid we haven't the faith, so 
we must go at the work with good courage." 
The Chicago River was not very wide then, but it 
had a considerable depth. It seemed as if the earth 
had been split open at some time just as a mighty 
plough had turned a furrow. It had no current to 
speak of and was a source of great discomfort. 
It was true Chicago did not begin intellectually. 
There was too much work to do, and all honor to those 
who evolved a great city out of a trading station after 
years of work. 
But we did take note of what was going on outside. 
Dickens was attracting attention, and Mr. Harris and 
his sister were quite enthusiastic about him until he 
had visited America and written the "Notes," showing 
up a certain uncouthness and sharpness in national 
character that was very displeasing. As if England 
had reached her full glory in a few years instead of 
centuries. I liked Sir Walter Scott best, though 
Thackeray was much talked of. I was fond of the 
illustrations how crude we thought them twenty 
years afterward ! There was a Mr. Cooper writing 
Indian stories and novels of the earlier history of the 
country, but Boston was considered a kind of head 
centre. And though there were such stirring episodes 
all up and down the Mississippi River, the Gulf of 
Mexico and the islands below that, no one thought of 
putting them in print. Madame Piaget knew many 
stories about John Lafitte, who had once been such a 
terror and defied the authorities on his curious uncon- 
 
querable island. But I liked to hear how he came and 
offered his services to General Jackson when New Or 
leans was in danger by the British ; and I used to 
wonder about the old wonderful Spanish French town, 
with its balconies overhung with roses that bloomed 
all the year round, and the beautiful women sitting on 
them and looking down at the passers-by, the streets 
full of bright merriment and music. 
Chicago had begun to consider a regular water 
supply. The water carts had been the main depend 
ence. Now at Lake Street and Michigan Avenue 
plans were laid for a great reservoir. An iron pipe 
was to run out in the lake about a hundred and fifty 
feet to clear water. There was to be a big pump, 
worked by steam engines of twenty-five horsepower. 
Large logs were bored for the water to run through. 
We all thought it wonderful then, and throngs of peo 
ple crowded around on Sunday to view the progress, 
making various amusing comments. Ten years later 
the work was renewed on what was considered a mag 
nificent scale, and even this was presently outgrown. 
I was happy and busy through those years and mak 
ing friends with the girls, the boys as well. We all 
played together, rambled around, went to each other's, 
houses and spent evenings in guessing riddles, telling 
stories and reciting incidents or poems. The girls 
joined in ball playing and running races. Polly Mor 
rison distanced all competitors, even the boys. I used 
to like to see her. She never "wriggled," nor threw 
out her arms like sails, but seemed to cut the air in a 
straight line. It was like the flying of a bird. 
There was no end of guesses that summer, I think 
bets as well, as to which of the girls would capture 
Dan Hayne. Miss Gamier held her head very high. 
Peggy was daring and lawless. She had no end of 
admirers and the young fellows almost fought for her. 
But she had some art to keep them from coming to 
blows. They always had a good time where she was, 
and a dull time without her. 
I had two staunch friends that I dealt around to the 
girls I liked the best Homer and Ben Hayne. I was 
too young to think of lovers. They were both very 
good to me. Homer was doing finely and his father 
was proud of him. Building was no high art in those 
days, but Homer possessed a certain attractive ingenu 
ity. He could make a closet that had an ornamental 
air. He could put up a shelf and tack a bit of mould 
ing on it and it set off the corner or the vacant space. 
He made an ingenious chair held by strong oak pins, 
that you could let down and transform into a bed. He 
designed such dainty mouldings with his array of 
beading planes. His charm was that he finished every 
thing so exquisitely. 
He had his heart set on making money. He meant 
to be "well to do." What a small sum then seemed to 
be a fortune. Father liked him very much and often 
advised him. 
Ben had less originality and aim. On the booky 
side we agreed very well, but he had not the breadth 
nor quickness of Norman. When I bade him pause at 
some delightful thought that one wanted to linger over 
he would glance up with a smile of unreasoning obe- 
 
dience. Everything I did and said was just right. He 
was a nice, steady, business fellow, but Mr. Harris ad 
mitted that Norman was worth two of him. 
Mrs. Hayne was always sweet and motherly to me, 
but she was growing stouter and less energetic, though 
she kept her passion for cooking. 
"If I had you down to the hotel !" Clement Ward 
used to say. "Though I d'now, you cook so all fired 
tasty an' temptin' that I might be et out of house an' 
home afore I knew jest what was the matter. There's 
no one in fifty mile that can give jest the fla voracity to 
victuals that you do. When I've et a meal here the 
taste stays in my mouth fer days. An sech pie crust !" 
"Well, I've been cooking for men and boys all my 
life, afore I was married and since. An' Dan an' his 
father are powerful eaters. So 'twould be a poor story 
if I couldn't hit it jest right." 
There was always plenty to cook, meat and game 
and several fine kinds of fish. 
Then the day when the mail steamer came in was 
beginning to be one of expectation. I did not care for 
the ones that came down the lake, though they often 
brought valuable mail, but this came from the East. 
I had looked for a letter such a long while, it seemed 
to me, and early as I was the long line appalled me. 
"You're John Gaynor's little girl!" said a friendly 
voice as I was peering about. "Come here, I'll make 
a little room, and he thrust out his arm, drawing me 
into the line just before him. "Father got any folks 
in York State?" 
"No, but a letter may come from Canada.," 
"Whew!" he ejaculated. "Let me see G isn't 
it?" 
They were sorting letters in the small room, and lay 
ing the piles on the floor. 
"Denby," said my friend, "and John Gaynor." 
"Here's a Gaynor, but it's a woman. Oh, yes, care 
of John, twenty cents postage." 
You could not always pay postage through and no 
one made it a matter of compliment in those days. I 
had a quarter and some pennies beside. 
"Here, I'll make change," he said, and I thanked 
him most sincerely. He smiled and nodded as I 
stepped out of the line and ran swiftly home. Norman 
had said the next letter would be all to myself. 
It went in the great fire with hundreds of other 
choice treasures, but oh, what a delight it was to me ! 
I had looked at the flag token in the morning, so I 
had not gone to school. Joe was playing about the 
door step, emulating the old monarch by eating grass. 
M'liss was washing out under the apple-tree, so I 
slipped into the room and threw my sunbonnet on the 
floor. 
There were no envelopes, no dainty sheets of paper. 
This was "foolscap," written on three sides, and little 
spaces rescued on the fourth. Ah! what a delight it 
was. So much about the historic old city, the French 
residents, the English officers, the government and 
business, the picturesque houses with their pathetic 
stories. Norman could talk French almost like a 
native. And the business ! Chicago would be amazed 
at the volume of it. 
 
There was a great deal about Mr. Le Moyne, his 
kindly care, "almost as if I was a son," was the eager 
confession. The journeys they were taking about, the 
friends Mr. Le Moyne met, the charming and cultivated 
women, who played the piano and sang in the most 
delightful manner. It was like living in a story book. 
And he had to go everywhere, to do almost everything 
for Mr. Le Moyne, whose eyesight was poorer than 
ever. Presently when the business was all finished 
they would go to New York. And then he hoped to 
be able to come home. It seemed almost a lifetime 
to him. 
"You are such a dear, sweet letter writer," he said. 
"The boys only send messages by mother, and she 
hasn't the fashion of telling me all the little things 
about them that you do. You picture everything so that 
I can see it. Mr. Harris writes about business and 
books, and what the American and what the Democrat 
says, and the squabbles of the city government. But 
I like to go down to the very heart of things, to know 
when you have a new frock, and the little companies 
you attended, and the plays and the walks, and the 
new wild flowers you have found. Is there any place 
like the boyhood home, any other little girl like you? 
Not if I should search the world over. 
"I have been reading some wonderful plays by 
Shakespeare. Mr. Harris has a copy, I know. Ask 
him to let you see 'Midsummer Night's Dream.' We 
went to a theatre here in Quebec and saw it played. 
I can't tell why, but I thought of you all the time. 'If 
she were here, if she were here,' I kept saying to every 
turn. It was enchanting. I cannot do it any justice in 
a letter, and I have written so much already. Oh, why 
can't people talk through space? I sometimes send 
messages on the wind do you get them, dear ? Send 
me back some. And can you believe at Christmas 
or thereabout I shall see you ? I measure six feet now, 
and sometimes I think I begin to look like Dan, only 
I shall never be as handsome. Tell me all about his 
girls. It's high time he was married." 
It was written very closely, and oh, what a delight 
it was ! I sat there all of a tremble hugging it to my 
heart. Joe was hammering on the steps with the new 
potato masher that Homer had made, and I never heard 
him. M'liss came in wringing her hands as if she was 
squeezing the suds out of them. 
"Fer the land sakes ! Haven't you done a bit about 
dinner? I see you come in, an' sez I, 'She'll peel the 
'taters sure an' here you're sittin' calm as if dinners 
come to hand already cooked. Ye might as well bin 
in school, then I'd a-knowed jest what to do." 
"I'm sorry," I said penitently. "But I had such a 
splendid long letter from Norman." Then I jumped 
up and there was a sound like a pistol. A continual 
dripping will wear away a stone saith the adage the 
steady pounding on the stone had split my masher. 
"Drat that young un !" M'liss gave him two or three 
slaps, and the roar of little Joe was terrific. 
"Oh don't!" I cried, and went to comfort him. 
"You'll jes' spile that fatherless child, who'll need a 
man to govern him 'fore long, he's that deestructive. 
You goin' to peel the 'taters or me?" 
 
I smiled at the question, but went for the potatoes, 
and soon had them over the fire. 
"Ther's beans to heat up, an' that ther huckleberry 
puddin' to steam over. People can't have much to do 
whenst they write letters so long it takes a whole 
mornin' to read 'em. I've got the clothes to hang up." 
Joe had rolled over on the grass and was trying to 
catch "hoppers," laughing at the way they eluded him. 
I set the table, brought out the boiled ham and sliced 
it, and when father came in everything was ready. 
He was intensely interested in the letter. 
"I do wonder how Chicago will look to him after 
all the fine cities he's seen. I sometimes think I was 
a fool to come out here. Then when I see the wheat 
standing so thick with great golden heads, and the corn 
rushing along like a regiment, and the pigs fattening, 
and the hens laying eggs, I say it's about as good a 
country as the Lord has made anywhere. Only if he'd 
raised the ground a little higher just around 'twould a 
been more to my liking, and there are plenty of 
mountains that could have spared a slice off of 
them." 
I went over to the Haynes' in the afternoon. Mother 
Haynes's letter had come too. She was beginning to 
have trouble with her eyesight, and her spectacles didn't 
seem to fit rightly. So she was glad to have me read 
it aloud to her. Mr. Le Moyne had raised Norman's 
salary, and said he would never be able to spare him. 
And Norman was very happy, only he did want to see 
all the home folks. Did father keep well, and was 
little Chris growing? Why didn't some of the boys 
write to him ? With all the pleasure and the business 
it was hard to be away from everybody. 
"Harder for him than for us," and the mother sighed. 
I read her my letter except some paragraphs that 
had a kind of sacred feeling to me, though there was 
nothing very secret in them. 
And if we could see him by Christmas ! 
CHAPTER X 
A WILD RIDE 
IT was truly a gay summer for the grown-ups. There 
were rowing parties on the lake, and picnics came 
quite in vogue. Dan Hayne was doing a little of 
everything, buying and selling lots, interested in lead, 
in cattle, taking short journeys here and there to view 
coming prospects. Withal he found time for girls, 
went to dances, drove them out, and just when 
some one thought him caught, he was off with the old 
fancy. 
Miss Gamier seemed to like him very much, or was 
it the spirit of coquetry ? For in August a young Ken- 
tuckian of one of the first families suddenly appeared 
on the scene, and then it was said they had been lovers 
and quarrelled, and now made up again. A date was 
set for a speedy marriage in St. James' Church, to the 
great surprise of everybody. 
How would Dan Hayne take it? 
He took it with a jaunty indifference, and not only 
went to the wedding, but led the procession that saw the 
bride start on her journey to her new home. 
"She was an awful flirt," declared Polly Morrison, 
"but I knew he didn't mean to marry her." 
Even Polly held her head quite high in those days, 
and seemed to take pleasure in parading her numerous 
admirers. 
The school girls were playing under a group of -cot- 
tonwood trees one afternoon, when Polly and two or 
three of the older ones paused and joined the merri 
ment. Sophie Piaget was telling charms. They 
should have gone out on St. John's night and walked 
three times around the church. On the way home you 
would hear a name called, and that would be the 
name of your future husband. Then you counted nine 
stars nine nights in succession, and you were sure to 
marry the first man you shook hands with. 
"But what if you didn't like him, or if he was mar 
ried," suggested some one. 
"Then you mustn't shake hands with him," laughed 
Polly. "Save your shake for some one you do like." 
"Oh, let's go out and get Shubenca to tell our for 
tunes." 
They all rose in eagerness. Shubenca was an old 
Indian woman who did predict remarkable events, and 
they sometimes came true. 
It was not far to the tepee, though two or three girls 
suggested it might be better to go home and help get 
supper. 
"Will you have y,our fortune told?" Several of the 
girls were hanging on Polly. 
"Yes, first of all, I've a silver shilling to cross her 
hand, so it's sure to come true." 
 
"Oh, dear, but will we have to pay?" exclaimed a 
chorus in vexation of spirit. 
"I'll make her tell a lot for the shilling." Polly was 
in high spirits and a generous mood. 
We found Shubenca sitting by the side of the tepee, 
thumbing a pack of cards. She gave a careless nod 
and went on. Polly stated the purport of the visit 
and displayed the shilling. The black eyes snapped 
with desire. 
"How many?" in her guttural tone. 
"Let me see Sophy and you, Letty, and Caroline 
well, say six." 
The woman shook her head. "Too little, too little," 
she said with a frown. 
"Oh, very well. I can tell the fortunes myself for 
nothing," and Polly turned with a toss of the head. 
The woman caught her skirt. 
"Three," she said "three," in an eager voice. 
"No, six," in a decisive tone. 
"Too much for the money." 
Polly threw it from hand to hand, catching it in a 
tempting manner. 
"Well, well," with a reluctant grunt. "You first?" 
giving her a piercing glance. 
"Yes, so the others can take courage." 
She looked at her hand and nodded curiously. 
"You get your heart's desire after a long while," she 
said in her broken English. "You want it very much, 
but you go past it and then sorrow. A fair girl picks 
up what you have thrown away, and you hate her." 
How the eyes gleamed! It made me shudder. 
I had gone past the old woman to where a younger 
one sat doing some bead work. Little ones played 
about in their noiseless fashion. I caught sentences at 
intervals. She would have two husbands and journeys, 
go away and come back, and meet the man she loved 
and be happy with him. "He throw away the fair 
one for you she too pale, too thin, she not love 
enough." 
"Well, so that I get him at last." 
"You be wild for very joy." 
"Yes, that is good. That is what I like." 
Sophie Piaget came next. A husband of course. 
First she thinks she cannot have him, for he love 
another, then "it is not love, no, no!" shaking her 
head. 
Some one came galloping over the stubble, and we 
all knew the horse and rider. He reined up suddenly. 
Polly nodded indifferently. 
"You promised me a ride on Chita," began Nannie 
Piaget, patting the beautiful creature, who tossed her 
head gayly. 
"Did I ? Well, now is a good time. Can you jump 
up? And you won't squeal for fright? If you do 
I shall let you drop." 
"Oh, are you in earnest?" in a delighted tone. 
"To be sure. Now step on my foot and spring." 
That was successfully achieved. He settled her in 
front of him, put one arm around her, and off they 
sped. What a beautiful sight she was, and her rider 
sat her proudly. They appeared smaller and smaller as 
we watched them. I had lost interest in the fortune 
 
telling. Then the moving speck grew larger, and they 
came in sight again until Chita trotted up to the throng 
with what seemed a laugh in her eye. 
"Oh, that's splendid! It's like going on the wings 
of the wind." 
Surely it was. I had watched them until it stirred 
every pulse within me. Chita seemed human in her 
enjoyment. 
Old Shubenca's inspiration seemed to give out, 
though she eyed Polly suspiciously. The last two 
fortunes might have pleased little girls. They were 
of new frocks and surprises, and a great pleasure com 
ing this way, and some one who cared for you, listened 
to with girlish giggles. 
Dan set down Letty Dole, who was profuse in her 
expressions of delight. I don't know whether I looked 
wistful. I wanted to hug Chita and she turned and 
put her nose in my hand. What mystery was there in 
her eyes? 
"We must all go home," began Polly, peremptorily, 
turning the girls in a kind of squad. 
"Here's one who has not ridden Chita, nor any other 
creature, I think this little Gaynor girl." 
"It's too late, Dan. And then she's such a timid 
little thing. No, let her alone." 
"It's time she had some courage put in her then," 
and he laughed gayly. 
I was not a coward. I often ran over the wretched 
bridges when the logs tilted so that you were in danger 
of falling in. And I really was not afraid of ghosts 
nor cows, not even mice. 
"No, no. Let her alone. Come, children. Come, 
Ruth." 
Dan Hayne was fond of having his own way, and 
crossing other people's wills. There was an imperious 
note in Polly's tone. How it happened in an instant no 
one perhaps could have told. I turned, Chita backed 
a step or two, and then a strong arm caught me just 
above the waist line, and I was whirled up on Chita's 
back in front of Dan. 
"Oh, don't, don't!" I cried. 
"Dan, put her down !" commanded Polly. 
The only reply was a gay laugh as we bounded away. 
Dan slackened a moment and settled me, holding one 
arm tight about me, and then we went on that loping 
gait that seems like the motion of long swells. It 
almost took my breath away. 
The sun had set in vague levels of dun, purple clouds, 
now making a gradual darkening of the atmosphere, 
though it did not betoken any coming storm. All 
about was softened, not like a fog, but a tenuous veil. 
The stubble stretched out like a sea, and seemed to 
light the path, but presently we came to the coarse 
prairie grass, at which Chita gave a snort of disdain. 
On and on we flew. It was unlike anything in my nar 
row experience. I had no thought, no care, no fear, 
it was exhilarating, fascinating. Were we riding into 
the night and the unknown? For the pale yellow 
edges of the level bars had vanished, it was all smooth 
darkness over to the westward. And then a narrow 
golden crescent hung out in the sky. All the east- 
 
ward was growing bluer with the suggestion of infinite 
space. 
It was afterward, many a time, that I recalled this 
wild ride, the weird loneliness, the penetrating silence 
in which one feels what bated breath means. 
"So, girlie, so," said a soft voice that recalled Nor 
man, and Chita slackened her pace, came to a stand 
still. 
"Are you afraid?" He almost pressed the breath 
