people not scientifically educated might call 
a class distinction of the soul ; but this was 
of the sort which a man does not admit to 
himself in language. 
" He is even dying differently," thought 
Bernard. He resented this last infringement 
upon his estimate of himself. Nothing in his 
nature responded to the evident moral agita- 
 
tion and readjustment with which Steele was 
fronting death. 
" What is there to make a fuss about, any- 
how ? " he asked savagely. 
He walked for a while, looking grimly 
about. It miffht almost have been said that 
he was looking for something on which to 
wreak his discomfort. He paused before a 
hospital, where it now occurred to him that 
a curious operation (which, as the event proved, 
ended in death) was to take place that very day 
upon the brain of an underwitted house-maid. 
He went in. 
As he watched with absorption this rare 
demonstration, he said to himself : " No ex- 
periment is absolutely satisfactory unless it 
has been tried on a human being." 
The episode gave him a keen pleasure 
which forced the unpleasant thought of his 
professor from his mind. 
The nurse hurried in remorsefully, voluble 
as the best of nurses may be at the unfortu- 
nate moment. Steele felt as if he could hurl 
her after Bernard by an objurgation, and had 
hard work not to tell her so. But she had a 
 
letter in her hand, and when he saw the super- 
scription the patient could have kneeled in his 
bed and worshiped her. 
" I 'm afraid I 'm doing wrong," she par- 
leyed. " You have been under some severe 
excitement, and the doctor " — 
But the patient, damning the doctor, tore 
the envelope from the woman's hand, ordered 
her out of the room, and fell upon the letter 
like some starved animal on living food. Steele, 
staring and shaking, read : 
I have never answered anything you have 
written because I felt that it would not be 
merciful to you, nor best, perhaps, for me. 
But in these poignant days, which are anni- 
versary of those that I am not yet able to for- 
get, it has seemed to me that, perhaps, I 
should be truer to myself if I did so, and that 
it might be the better way to break, once 
and for all, the silence that I have put be- 
tween us; it has grown a high and solid wall, 
and a wall it must remain. You will not for 
a moment mistake me about that. But it has 
come to me lately to wish to tell you this : 
while to you it has seemed a wall of stone or 
 
marble, to me it has been a wall of glass. It 
is thick glass ; I cannot break it ; but I have 
always felt that I could look through it, if I 
chose, and sometimes I have chosen. I have 
observed you ; I have watched your life. 
I do not mind telling you that it has added 
to such sadness as I myself cannot escape, to 
see that you are — as you were ; and that the 
words which you said to me that day, that 
last day, have not taken form in deeds. It 
has disappointed me. 
Yesterday I heard that you are ill; how 
ill I do not know, nor from what cause ; there 
seems to be some mystery or reticence about 
it on which I have made no effort to intrude. 
But it came to me plainly last night that I 
should like to tell you that I am sorry you 
are sick. I should not like to be as you 
said. I do not mean to be kind to a dog and 
cruel to his tormentor, not even that ; and 
so I am writing as I am. ... If you had 
been a drunkard I might have tried to save 
you. If I had married you, and you had done 
some dreadful thing — some quick, hot-headed 
thing — I should have forgiven you. I might 
have stood by you if you had committed some 
 
impulsive murder. I do not know, but I 
think I should. But, as it was, I should al- 
ways have thought — there would have been 
times when — 
Cruelty may be — how do we know ? — the 
unpardonable sin ; it is a sin against the 
Spirit of Mercy ; it is such a sin against my 
spirit that I had, and I have, no choice. I do 
not wish to add to your suffering, but it 
may not really do so if I tell you that I have 
not seen the moment when I have regretted 
my decision, or felt that any other was or 
could be possible. I cannot see how any true 
woman can take a vivisector's hand. 
But something else is possible. I do not 
want to force my feeling about this upon you, 
but I should like to respect you again, even 
to honor you again, before I die. 
It seems to me that there may be something 
more in such interruptions of human fate than 
we suppose ; perhaps no man and woman ex- 
perience a memorable attraction and go quite 
freed of it, for this life. " I stand forever in 
thy shadow" — that is the Portuguese Sonnets, 
isn't it ? It seems to me that we have gained 
something worth having if the shadow of such 
 
an intercepted feeling shall be a noble one. 
I cannot help wishing — in a word — that 
mine may be to you a noble shadow. 
It seems to me the worst thing about the 
scientific error that has misled you, that it 
should delude the moral nature of such a man 
as I thought you were born to be. I have 
found myself praying that — not because you 
cared for me, but because you honored some 
of the things I care for — you should become 
the man I thought you were. I have written 
this because I cannot help it ; and I shall not 
write again. M. L. 
Steele read and reread this letter with 
solemn, shining eyes. When he heard the 
footsteps of the nurse and doctor he hid it 
under his pillow, and kept his hand upon it. 
The doctor's face assumed a shade of gravity. 
" Too quiet," he thought ; " too docile." 
Obedient, amenable, Steele lay perfectly 
still until the nurse in the adjoining room 
was asleep. Then his own mind and heart 
awoke. 
It was doubtful if he slept at all. All night 
his soul arose and looked upon him. In its 
 
naked countenance he saw unappeasable re- 
gret. Its eyes were like hers ; they did not 
scorn him now ; they pitied him. Like hers, 
they seemed to be dismissing him. Curious 
old words came to him brokenly : What shall 
it profit if a man gain professional glory 
(which might be discredited in the next 
quarter century) and lose his own soul — for 
how long ? 
His great essay on the non-existence of love 
he had himself disastrously disproved. Who 
could say which of his conclusions, arrived at 
by what sacrifice of tormented life, might not 
meet a similar fate ? 
His profession had called him great, and he 
had thought he was, but, in the last analysis, 
for what would he be longest remembered ? 
For an iron thong which he had invented to 
pierce the tongue of a vivisected dog, and 
hold it in place. He had experienced his full 
share of the arrogance of physiology. He had 
tolerated the practical physician. He had 
patronized the healer. Now, he thought of 
them with an avid envy — men who had ex- 
tinguished themselves in the relief of human 
suffering ; those lovers of life, those coun- 
 
selors of the home, those assuagers of pain, 
those idols of the sick ! These were the men 
who counted not their lives their own, who 
were never sure of their sleep, their rest, their 
holidays, or the society of their families — they 
who were the servants of the lowest poor, the 
slaves of the most disordered whims — men 
who grew gray before their time, because they 
carried upon their hearts the suffering of the 
world ; they who were the physical and often 
the moral saviors of sick and tempted people 
— men of whom the world was not worthy. 
What had he in common with these ? Who de- 
pended upon him? What happiness had he 
conferred ? What suffering had he alleviated ? 
Who blessed his coming feet ? Who regretted 
his forced departure ? Who remembered him 
in grateful prayers ? Who loved him f 
The shrieks of his laboratory reechoed 
throiiffh his ears. He had entered it to tor- 
ture ; he had left in it inexorable agony. 
Better to have been one of those plain, over- 
looked, over-worked men whose epitaph is 
written in the hearts of his patients. Better 
to have been the obscurest of them all — some 
country doctor riding his thirty miles over 
 
impossible roads, carrying his snow-shovel in 
the sleigh to dig the drifts out from under 
his horse's feet ; better to be smitten by sun, 
or parched by dust, or drenched in storms, or 
starved for sleep, or flinging one's life into 
the tentacles of contagion. 
If he had been such as this she would have 
honored, she might have loved him. In try- 
ing to gain himself he had lost her. So strange, 
so subtle is the spiritual law ; in losing her 
had he lost, and thus regained, himself? 
It was now dim dawn. He drew her letter 
out from under the pillow, and pressed it 
feebly to his lips. 
He had directed the nurse to leave paper 
and pencil within his reach. Those he took, 
and with shaking fingers traced these words : 
I used to think by what names I should 
call you when I had the right. I shall never 
have it now, but because I am so sick, will you 
let me this one time say, Miriam, I bless you 
for your letter? It is like yourself. If I were 
strong enough I should say more, but I am 
saving the little strength I have left to write 
my resignation to the trustees of Galen Col- 
 
lege. If I get well, I shall go out to California 
and start again. I shall be one of those plain 
men of whom you spoke to me, and of whom 
you may yet be proud. I shall try to live to 
this end; but it is not quite certain that I can 
do so. If I do, you shall respect me ; if I do 
not, I want you to know that you have restored 
me. However it ends, 
I am forever yours, 
Olin Steele. 
The next night he was not as well. Waves 
of delirium came and went. The physician 
remained in the house. He was puzzled, be- 
came apprehensive, and telephoned for a con- 
sultant. The patient paid little attention to 
any person. He noticed no one but Barry, 
who had taken an immovable position beside 
his master's bed. Once they saw the professor 
take his handkerchief and try to bandage 
Barry's head. The nurse said that he made 
as if he were handing bowls of water to 
thirsty dogs. He was heard to say : " Poor 
things ! Poor things ! " The nurse was per- 
plexed ; but Barry seemed to understand, for 
he kissed the transparent hand that hung over 
 
in his reach ; there were real tears in Barry's 
eyes. 
Towards morning Steele thought he saw be- 
side him the woman whom a man remembers 
when all others are forgotten. His mother 
took his head upon her breast ; she whispered 
sympathetically : " Was it a very pretty kitty, 
dear?" 
Then her tone changed abruptly, and she 
sang with the voice of a young woman : 
" Strong Son of God, immortal Love ! " 
It seemed to' Steele that he took Miriam's 
letter out from under his pillow and laid it in 
his mother's hand. His colleagues, bending 
over him to listen, thinking possibly to catch 
from his lips some legacy of professional eru- 
dition, distinctly heard him say : " Domini 
doctissimi . . . pro quo Christies ipse non 
dedignatus est mori^ 
These domini doctissimi were not religious 
men, but they bowed, as if they bared their 
heads ; and the gentlest of them noticed with 
surprise the nature of the expression which 
had descended upon the professor's face. He 
looked like a sensitive and devout boy with 
life before him. 
CHAPTER XV 
As the little steamer rounded the headland 
the band, which consisted of a German violin, 
an Italian flute, and an American harp (the 
musical product of Blind Alley), struck into 
one of those popular airs that spur even the 
saddest child to dance. Cady's Molly was not 
a sad child, and, laughing, she began to 
pirouette around the deck. Ripples of ap- 
plause followed her unpremeditated steps. 
This was too much for Trixy. With one 
quick look at her master she hopped from 
his knee, and danced out into the middle of 
the party. 
Cady's Molly took Trixy by the hands and 
tried to adapt herself to her tiny partner. 
Molly was dressed with an unprecedented 
attempt at what she had heard Miss Lauriat 
call s:ood taste. Her frock was white and 
plain, her long stockings black and neat ; in 
her shade hat only had Molly allowed her 
personal views of taste anything like liberty. 
 
Molly wore a soft floppy straw surmounted 
with a wreath of cranberries and violets, 
relieved by sweet peas and cherries, and 
touched off with asparagus. 
The girl had grown, and so had Dan, but 
not in feet and inches. Dan was as tall as 
he ever would be, and except for the lines 
between his brows he might have passed for 
a lad three years younger than he was. He 
gave Cady's Molly a quiet glance, but his 
gaze and his soul were for Trixy. 
The consumptive woman sat in a steamer 
chair, smiling cheerfully, and her three little 
girls, like three little brownies, followed Mr. 
Surbridge about the boat. Cady's Molly's 
father observed this monopoly with some re- 
gret. He had anticipated the opportunity of 
discussing the tariff with an eminent lawyer, 
but amiably contented himself by offering 
the children's mother the morning paper. 
She could not read ; hence she was flattered 
by the attention. 
" Nice, ain't it ? " said the woman, turning 
her gaunt face to the sea wind. " Did you 
ever see anybody like her anywheres else ? " 
" Well," said Cady's Molly's father, argu- 
 
mentatively, " I am not perpared to say that 
I never did." 
Both watched Miss Lauriat where she stood 
in the bow, looking gravely out to sea. At 
her feet, on his silk cushion, lay a feeble dog, 
with dulled eyes that lighted only for herself 
and Trixy. 
" She ain't thinkin' of us," complained the 
consumptive. " There is times she don't." 
" They 're tarnation few in my opinion," 
replied Cady's Molly's father, chivalrously 
springing to the lady's defense. " Specially, 
come to think on 't, these two years back. 
Take this here, now — charterin' steamboats 
to take a crowd like us down harbor — Lord ! 
How many such trips was you ever aboard ? " 
" I never was out to sea in my life," ad- 
mitted the woman slowly, " except along of 
her. I used to think the ocean was black, 
same 's it is along the wharves. I didn't 
know it was such a pretty color — and clean. 
I wisht my dog could have come along o' 
them others. He can't. He died of his cough. 
Mine most gen'r'lly do. She didn't forget 
him. She sent him an invitation along of the 
children." 
 
" She 's a lady," announced Cady's Molly's 
father solemnly. 
" Miss Laurie," said Dan in an undertone, 
" Trixy 's got it in her again. Look at her ! 
It 's a good while since she 's played for any- 
body but us at home. What shall I do ? " 
Miss Lauriat, turning with the swift mer- 
riment that Blind Alley knew so well (she 
never suffered her poor people to find her 
sad), saw a pretty sight. Everybody on board 
had seen it by now, and Trixy was the centre 
of a laughing and applauding crowd. The 
little actress, too long detained in private life, 
plunged into this momentary publicity with a 
mad delight. Who could say what blighted 
ambition had withered in Trixy's soul ? What 
ennui with obscurity had she experienced? 
What longing for the exercise of neglected 
gifts ? What histrionic passion thwarted ? 
What innocent vanities denied ? How shall 
the superior race decide ? How could any one 
who had never been a little white trick dog 
presume to answer? 
Trixy, sparkling with joy to find an audi- 
ence again, spurred herself feverishly to recall 
her half -forgotten repertoire. 
 
"Run along, Dan," said Miss Lauriat 
quickly. " Give them all a good time — and 
Trixy too." 
Dan obeyed with summer in his eyes. 
Trixy, now supremely blest, performed ecstat- 
ically. She did everything she knew, and a 
good deal that she didn't. She waltzed, she 
begged, she said her prayers, she whirled 
from somersault to somersault, she found a 
lemon in Mr. Surbridge's coat pocket, and 
a pamphlet on the tariff in Cady's Molly's 
father's hat ; modestly draped in Miss Lau- 
riat' s liberty silk scarf, she danced her little 
skirt dance ; she flirted with the orchestra, 
she bridled at applause, and coquetted for 
encores like any diva. 
"She used to sing the song," said Cady's 
Molly. " Give us the song, Dan." 
Dan took Trixy by the right paw gallantly, 
as he used to do in the Mooses' Retreat, and 
leading her forward a few steps, began to 
sing : 
Oh, we 've traveled on together, 
In kind or cruel weather. 
But Trixy was suddenly still. Dan began 
again : 
 
She 's my lady and I 'll love her 
Till I die. 
But Trixy stood drooping and silent. Some 
one said that the dog had forgotten her part. 
Dan looked into Trixy' s face ; it had grown 
pinched, and her eyes fled to her master's for 
protection. 
"No," he said, " she hasn't forgotten. She 
doesn't want to sing that song." 
He caught her and crooned over her; he 
kissed her and praised her. Trixy cuddled in 
his neck quietly. She trembled and put both 
her hands in his. The little actress lived to 
pass many a merry hour upon many a little 
stage, but neither then nor thereafter could she 
be induced to join her master in that duet. 
Exhausted by her own accomplishments, or 
frightened by her darkest memories, Trixy 
played no more that day. Instead she curled 
into her master's lap and slept through a thun- 
derstorm. 
Surbridge came over when the shower was 
diminishing, and stood by Miriam, who seemed 
to him suddenly thoughtful and quiet. 
"Well? "he asked. 
When he spoke in that tone she always told 
 
him what was the matter ; she did so quite 
naturally now. 
" Phil, I 've blundered. I meant to be kind, 
but I 've blundered with those two. How do I 
know Dan hasn't minded it as well as Trixy ? 
He would be sawn asunder before he 'd let me 
know." 
" If you 've got so far as that," suggested 
Surbridge, " suppose you let me have him for 
an office boy? Trixy could sit on my table. I've 
thought for some time that doing  errands un- 
der Matthew, and running the furnace, did not 
entirely satisfy the higher nature of the lad." 
" Why didn't you say so, Phil ? Am I so 
huffy and stuffy about advice?" 
" You take advice like a philosopher — and 
the dear girl you are. I really can't say why 
I didn't. A fellow may have lucid intervals 
of modesty, I suppose — even a lawyer." 
" It needs a man," sighed Miriam, " to man- 
age a boy. I 've bungled with Dan. I dare 
say he's missed those performances as much 
as Trixy. Probably he has mourned for the 
Grand Mooses' Retreat — and Cady's Molly." 
" I doubt it," said Philip, " but we can see. 
My opinion is, the lad has missed nothing — 
except the sacred right to be a wage-earner in 
some obvious, active way — and has gained un- 
speakably and forever. But, if you choose to 
turn him over to me — as he grows older — 
I 'll try my hand at him. It 's too late, in his 
case, for what is called an education, but I can 
manage his grammar, and put a few books in 
his way/' 
" Help me, Phil," said Miriam, in a very 
low voice. " I need it. ... I need you." 
Across Surbridge's strong, controlled face 
there passed a sensitiveness that seemed to sink 
into it, and make it plastic for an expression 
which still lacked a moulding hand. 
" I thank you," he said quietly, " for that. 
You've made a lot of poor wretches happy 
to-day, including me." 
Miriam turned away. " Perhaps so — I hope 
so. But, oh, Phil, I 'm tired." 
She walked away from him, nodding and 
smiling at her guests, until she came to the 
stern of the boat, where she stood looking 
upon the wake. The little steamer was now 
heading into the harbor and the sun. The 
band was brightly playing. The deck glit- 
tered with drops of rain, and steamed. The 
 
chatter that had been subdued by the shower 
broke forth after it like birds. It had sud- 
denly grown very sultry, and Miriam threw 
off her long coat, and stood in her white flan- 
nel boating dress, tall and aloof, against the 
sky. The steamer was now leaving the rain 
and the clouds behind. 
Slowly, almost imperceptibly, two vast pris- 
matic pillars arose from the sea. Advancing, 
receding, pulsating, but ever arising, the col- 
umns of color approached each other. It was 
as if invisible hands were building out of beams 
of light a bridge for a god to cross. The rain- 
bow, seen the hundredth time, is as much a 
miracle as it was the first. Miriam's poor peo- 
ple broke into simple cries of wonder and de- 
