in the beginning. I really had no charms. I was 
ignorant and awkward, but she tried to comfort 
me with the thought that my money would make 
amends. Getting married was really necessary, 
because I had so much of it. And men nowa- 
days thought quite as much about money as 
women and girls. And when I insisted on ed- 
ucation she said men did not care for that; six 
months' finishing in a convent or a fashionable 
school would be enough. With my fortune I 
should be sure to marry well, she would look out 
for that. And I hate to think of it, I positive- 
ly do." 

She was so indignant that her eyes flashed and 
looked really fine, Helen told her laughingly. She. 
had changed and improved. 

"Think how brief Mrs. Aldred's married life 
was, seven years and then left to get her living 
and that of her two little girls. She is charm- 
ing and I have learned to love and admire her. 
And there's Mrs. Beach, the dressmaker, bring- 
ing up her three boys, keeping a pleasant home 
and earning a good deal of money. And Mrs. 
Ballinger has been a widow fifteen years and made 





and saved enough in that time to buy a little 
home. And then there's that poor Mrs. Gilbert. 
How much better it would have been for her if 
she had not married I" 

"They are good examples of what a woman 
can do alone. But I think four years of college 
life are splendid, because you do not have to settle 
this question but can just study." 

Juliet looked grave but made no reply. 

They were engrossed in settling their rooms, 
greeting some of last year's girls and making ad- 
vances to some of the new ones, talking to Miss 
Aldred, and in the afternoon Helen proposed a 
walk to the parsonage. 

"Why, we shall see them to-morrow," Juliet 
returned in a surprised tone. Then she added, 
"But you go if you like." 

Helen colored. Did she really want to see Mrs. 
Danforth so much? Of course she must have 
heard from Gordon. How did he like it away 
from everybody? 

They sat out on the wide porch, both with 
books, Helen's was a French exercise. She had 
meant to do ever so much studying during va- 
cation. But what with sailing and rowing, wan- 
dering about, association with the Travis fam- 
ily, the amusing people, mostly fishermen's fam- 



 

ilies, the play, and reading aloud to Mrs. Wil- 
marth, she had not made any advance. Oh, there 
would be so much to do this year. But work 
did not truly begin until Monday. And the Au- 
tumn was beginning to have touches of gorgeous- 
ness. Here and there a scarlet branch seemed to 
be flung out among the deep green of the maples. 
Down the walk was a row of old-fashioned dah- 
lias in almost every color, and against a lattice 
groups of tall cosmos, in their waving silken 
bloom, the pink ones looking not unlike wild 
roses. 

Juliet was not reading. She had been listening 
to the in-coming train that Helen had not heard 
at all, and the expectancy was still in her face. 
Yes, that was the stage bringing down new or old 
scholars. It paused before the door. A gentle- 
man alighted, handed out a girl — oh, that was 
Bessy Ray and Helen nodded — then two smaller 
ones, and Juliet made a quick movement, flew 
down the steps and both children ran to her with 
outstretched arms and a glad cry. Yes, that was 
Mr. Gartney who shook hands and smiled cor- 
dially. 

"They have been crying for you the last three 
days, well for that matter all summer, I think. 





Thank heaven you are here. Oh, children, don't 
strangle Miss Craven." 

She could hardly get up the steps, so eager 
were they. Mr. Gartney bowed to Helen, who 
thought he looked very pale and tired. 

"I must see Mrs. Aldred," he said, "then I will 
come out for a -good-bye," and he entered the 
hall. 

Juliet dropped into the chair and one child al- 
most fell into her lap. The other put an arm 
around her neck and leaned close up against her 
in a transport of delight. 

"We're so glad," they cried in the same breath. 
"It's been such a long, lonesome summer without 
you. If we'd had wings we should have flown 
to you." 



CHAPTER IX 

AN ATMOSPHERE OF COMRADESHIP 

The Gartney children seemed crying for very 
joy. Helen looked on in surprise. 

One had outgrown the other a trifle. She pos- 
sessed a more vigorous organization, and her 
coloring was more decided. That was Wilma. 
Elma's hair was a paler gold, her eyes a lighter 
blue; her lips not such a brilliant red. 

Wilma looked around presently and caught 
Helen's eye, flushed, and then gave a half smile, 
as if not quite sure of its reception. 

"Did you have a nice time all summer?" she 
asked in a friendly way. 

"No, I didn't," returned the child. "It was 
a great, big farm full of cows and sheep and 
chickens, and a great old turkey gobbler who al- 
ways ran at you and made a horrible noise. And 
we are afraid of cows. The nights were so long 
and lonesome and when it rained it was like an 
army marching over the roof. And we were al- 
ways afraid of Aunt Mary. Oh, I would a million 
times rather stay here at school! We were so 




glad to come back that we danced for very joy. 
But papa said we need never go again." 

Elma gave a little shiver in Miss Craven's arms, 
and was pressed closer. 

"Then you do not like the country ?" 

"Not that country. Nor Aunt Mary, nor 
Uncle Jacob. And Aunt Mary made us wipe 
dishes and said we ought to learn to wash and 
sweep and keep house and be useful. And there 
was nothing to read. Oh, it was just dreadful ! 
We were frightened when we first came here to 
school, and homesick, but Miss Craven was so 
sweet. Oh, we do love you so," and she kissed 
Juliet with a passionate fervor that touched 
Helen, and gave her a curious gladness that 
Juliet had been able to awaken such an enthusias- 
tic affection. 

"Were there no children?" 

"There was a poor house girl, bigger and older 
than we are, but she worked all the time. And 
Aunt Mary wanted to cut our hair short, like hers, 
but Uncle Jacob was very angry and said he 
would write and tell papa to come and take us 
away. But she did it up in a great wad and said 
she wouldn't have so much frowsiness flying 
about." 




Helen laughed Perhaps she was like Aunt 
Jane. 

"And were there no other people?" 

"There were the men who worked on the 
farm." 

"It must have been lonesome." 

"It was dreadful. We used to say our lessons 
over to each other, and sometimes we sewed car- 
pet rags. I didn't mind that. But they wouldn't 
let the cats come in the house. We went down 
to the barn, but they were so shy. There were 
some kittens once but they were drowned and the 
poor mother went crying everywhere." 

Mrs. Aldred and Mr. Gartney came out pres- 
ently and she gave the little girls a warm wel- 
come. Their father had made all arrangements 
and had to take a train to the city. The children 
clung to him now. 

"Walk down a little way with me," he said. 
He was afraid there would be a pathetic scene. 
"Arid will not Miss Craven go to bring you 
safely back?" 

• "Oh, yes," cried both girls. "But if you didn't 
have to go — oh, why do you?" 

He gave a faint smile. Juliet rose and they 
all walked slowly down the street, the children 
first with one, then with the other. When they 



were out of hearing, Mrs. Aldred turned to 
Helen and said: 

"It is a very sad stroke of fate that the step- 
mother is not fond of these children. She is 
quite a literary person and has had a volume of 
poems published; paints very well and is inter- 
ested in clubs and all that. I can understand 
how an intellectually minded man could be at- 
tracted by such a woman. She is not fond of 
children though ; I gathered that from his saying 
last winter she thought the influence of a good 
school was much better than to have them thrown 
into the society of grown people all the time. He 
spoke of her in the highest and most delicate 
terms, but I could read the reticence. I am glad 
Miss Craven should take such an interest in them. 
They were very shy at first. Miss Wiley tells me. 
You were not here then.*' 

"No," Helen answered softly. "And I am glad 
they are so fond of her." 

"She has improved wonderfully. She is now 
an excellent scholar in most things and has re- 
markable musical ability, and she has shown per- 
severance of the highest order. You have helped 
to develop her. Girls can do so much for each 
other if they only view the work in the best and 
kindliest light. I am delighted to be back with 




my girls once more, and take up the satisfying 
home feeling. I grow fonder of real girls every 
year. I like to watch their development. You 
cannot always predict it from the beginning 
either. And I do desire to help them make a wise 
choice in life. I have seen so many spoiled lives 
abroad, girls trying to do things they are not 
fitted for. You cannot always decide because you 
love a pursuit." 

"Do you think I will make a good teacher?" 

"I should like to have you when you leave col- 
lege," was the appreciative response. 

"Oh, thank you," and Helen's eyes shone with 
gratification. 

"Something better than that may happen to 
you, but you may be sure of a place in any event." 

Some one called her away. Helen had a mind 
to join the group on the lawn, there were two new 
girls among them ; then she saw the children and 
Miss Craven turn the corner and she went to 
meet them. 

Elma was still crying in an unobtrusive fashion 
and surreptitiously wiping away the tears. 
Wilma was flushed and was making a proud 
effort for self-control. Helen reached out her 
hand and the child took it, falling a little behind 
so they could have more room in walking. 





"I like you," the child said presently. "Not as 
much as I do Miss Craven, but you will not 
mind ?" glancing up with eyes of entreaty. "You 
were not here when we came, so of course we 
couldn't choose. And at first it was very hard to 
be away from papa. He had loved us for such a 
long while." 

Oh, how could any one crowd out two such 
fond little girls ? How could their father let any 
one come between ? 

"Have you any mother — any own mother ?" the 
child asked. 

"No. She died when I was a little girl. And 
my father was away for a long while. I lived 
with an aunt and uncle." 

"Oh, I hope she wasn't like Aunt Mary !" was 
the earnest rejoinder. 

"There was a farm and garden, and I used to 
pull weeds, sometimes, and I hated it. There 
were six cousins, little and big, and we were a 
merry lot." 

Wilma laughed and squeezed the hand tighter. 

"Aunt Mary thought we ought to pull weeds, 
but Uncle Jacob said we were boarders and he 
was sure papa wouldn't like it. It makes your 
hands all rough and grimy. Betty had to do it 
nearly every afternoon. Oh, I am so glad to be 





here, so very glad," and she took two or three 
little hops. "And then did you come here to 
school?" 

"No, I went to a country school first I was 
fourteen when I came here." 

"And we shall be eleven in the winter. Where 
we lived in the city, in the same block there were 
twins, but one was a boy and one was a girl. It's 
queer, isn't it I They ought to be alike." 

Helen laughed at that. 

"How pretty your voice rings when you laugh. 
Are you going to stay here a whole long year?" 

"Yes," was the cordial answer. 

"I think then I shall get to loving you almost 
as much as Miss Craven. You won't mind the 
tiny little bit, will you ? I never loved any one as 
much except papa. We had such splendid times 
before the new mother came. I wish there were 
no new mothers. We used to stay in papa's study 
so long as we didn't meddle with his papers on 
the table. We had a little table of our own, and 
some bookshelves. Miss Markham came in the 
morning and taught us, and Rosy took us out to 
walk in the afternoon. Then after the new 
mother came we went to a real school where there 
were ever so many children. Sometimes they 
quarreled and called names. Then we were sent 




here last winter. We were dreadfully homesick 
and strange. We wanted papa so very much. 
And the lessons were hard. But Miss Craven 
came and helped us and we were not lonely, but 
we wanted papa. Did you want your papa?" 

"Yes, at times. Then he came back and was 
with me only a little while when he died." 

"When you first came here you wore black 
gowns. I do not like them." 

Miss Craven paused and turned at the step. 
"Have you been making friends with my Helen?" 
and she smiled. 

"Is she yours? Will you let me have a piece 
of her sometimes?" 

"Which piece would you like?" 

Wilma thought a moment. "The piece that 
talks. That's the tongue. And it has to be fast 
hold of something, doesn't it? And her hands 
are so soft. Then her feet are so nice to take a 
walk. Oh dear, I am afraid I shall want all of 
her. But then, I can take her a little now and 
then." 

"Elma is very tired. Will you come up stairs 
with us and be brushed up a little, for it will soon 
be dinner time?" 

Wilma followed without demur. The maid had 
unpacked the trunk. There were the two little 



l 

white beds, the low chairs, the dressing table. 

Nurse came in to attend to them, but Miss Craven 

begged to do it this time. She curled their pretty 

hair ; they were not really beautiful children, but 

in their fresh white frocks they looked very nice. 

She kissed them fondly, and they all went down 

together. 

"I'm so glad to come back to you," Elma said 

just under her breath. "You and papa are the 

only ones I love." 
"And Wilma?" 

The child smiled with vague sweetness. 
"A twin is part of you, isn't it? You couldn't 

help loving part of yourself if you wanted to, but 

you would never want to." 

There were only a few boarding children and 

they were mostly motherless. They formed a 
small group around a small table, where Miss 
Wiley cared for them and kept them in dainty 

order. She was very fond of the younger class and 
very successful with them. Helen had wondered 
a little at this, seeing that Miss Wiley had a 
diploma from one college, and was a post-grad- 
uate of another institution of distinction. Per- 
haps one needed to go back to the beginning of 
things, the beginning of learning even, and see it 
through childhood's eyes, and not lose the warmth 





and vitality, not have the hope and the brightness 
of aims shrink up until all interest in the person, 
in the real life had faded and was despised, under 
a specious term of idealism when there never had 
been any ideal. 

Even now Helen thought she would like to be 
out on the lawn frolicking with the juniors. She 
hated to give up girlhood. But she was in long 
skirts and the graduating class, and they were 
here in a cluster on the end of the piazza, talking 
mostly of their summer vacation. Niagara had 
been included in more than one case. Alice Reid 
had taken a run over to London. Some cousins 
were going and she had been asked to accompany 
them and begged so hard that her father had con- 
sented. She had seen London, Edinburgh, Glas- 
gow, the Lake Region and a charming bit of Ire- 
land. 

"Next year we are going to Belgium, Holland, 
and Germany. One of the cousins is vice-prin- 
cipal in a New York public school, and she takes 
one nice tour every year and isn't hurried and 
flurried. I promised father I'd study at German 
good and hard, and be sure to graduate. It's just 
delightful to go that way, you see so much of the 
people." 

And once Helen had been going in that leisurely 



l 
