An unearthly sound rent the stillness. The huge dog sat upright on his
haunches, his head thrown up and back, his terrible lower jaw trembling
as he howled, and howled again, waking great echoes where the roar of
wild lions had rung long ago.
Regina started, though she did not move a step; but an unreasoning fear
fell upon Ercole. He could not see her face, as the dark veil hung down.
She was so motionless and fearless; only the dead could be as fearless
of death and as still as she. Her breast was so white; her hands were
like marble hands, parting a black shroud upon it. She was something
risen from the grave to haunt him in that lonely place and drive him
mad; and the appalling howl of the great dog robe deafeningly on the
silence and trembled and died away, and began again.
Ercole's hand relaxed, and the knife fell gleaming at his feet. One
instant more and he turned and fled through the trees, towards San
Gregorio, his dog galloping heavily after him.
Regina's hands fell by her sides, and the folds of her cloak closed
together and hung straight down. She stared into the shadowy distance a
moment after her father, and saw his figure twice in the light where the
trees were wider apart, before he disappeared altogether. She looked
down and saw the knife at her feet, and she picked it up and felt the
point. It was as sharp as a needle, for Ercole had whetted it often
since he had sat by the gate in the early morning last August. It was
wet, for the grass under the trees had not dried since the rain.
She felt the point and edge with her hand, and sighed. It would have
been better to have felt it in her breast, but she would not take her
own life. She was not afraid to do it, and her young hand would have
been strong enough and sure enough to do it quickly. It was not the
thought of the pain that made her close the knife; it was the fear of
hell. Nothing she had done in her life seemed very bad to her, because
it had all been for Marcello. If Ercole had killed her, she thought that
God would have forgiven her after a time. But if she killed herself she
would instantly be seized by devils and thrust into real flames, to
burn for ever, without the slightest chance of forgiveness. She had been
taught that, and she believed it, and the thought of the fire made her
shut the clasp-knife and slip it into her dress with a sigh. It would be
a pity to throw it away, for it seemed to be a good knife, and her
father could not have had it very long.
She fastened her frock under her mantle and went a few steps down the
little slope towards the Colosseum. To go on meant to go home, and she
stopped again. The place was very lonely and peaceful, and the light on
the great walls was quiet and good to see. Though she had stood so
still, waiting to die, and had said her little prayer so calmly, her
brave heart had been beating slow and hard as if it were counting the
seconds before it was to stop; and now it beat fast and softly, and
fluttered a little, so that she felt faint, as even brave people do
after a great danger is past. I have seen hundreds of men together, just
escaped from destruction by earthquake, moving about listlessly with
veiled eyes, yawning as if they were dropping with sleep, and saying
childish things when they spoke at all. Man's body is the part of
himself which he least understands, unless he has spent half his life in
studying its ways. Its many portions can only telegraph to the brain two
words, 'pain' and 'pleasure,' with different degrees of energy; but that
is all. The rest of their language belongs to science.
Regina felt faint and sat down, because there was no reason for making
any effort to go home. Perhaps a cab would pass, returning from some
outlying part of the city, and she would take it. From the place where
she sat she could see one far off, if any came.
She sank down on the wet ground, and drew up her knees and pulled her
cloak round her; and gradually her head bent forward and rested upon her
hands, till she sat there like a figure of grief outlined in black
against the moonlight on the great wall. She had forgotten where she
was, and that there was any time in the world.
Half an hour passed, and the moon sank low, and an hour, and the deadly
white mist began to rise in the shadow round the base of the Colosseum,
and crept up under the trees; and if any one had come upon her then, he
would have seen its dull whiteness crawling round her feet and body, a
hand-breadth above the wet ground. But she did not know; she had
forgotten everything.
Nothing was real any more. She could have believed that her father had
killed her and left her corpse there, strangely sitting, though quite
dead.
Then she knew that the light had gone out; and suddenly she felt her
teeth chatter, and a chill ran through her bones that was bad to feel.
She raised her head and saw that the great walls were dark against the
starry sky, and she rose with an effort, as if her limbs had suddenly
become lead. But she could walk, though it was like walking in sleep.
She did not afterwards remember how she got home, but she had a vague
recollection of having lost her way, and of finding a cab at last, and
then of letting herself into the little apartment in the dark.
When she was next aware of anything it was broad daylight, and she was
lying on her bed, still dressed and wearing her cloak; and Kalmon was
bending over her, his eyes on hers and his fingers on her pulse, while
old Teresa watched her anxiously from the foot of the bed.
"I'm afraid it is a 'perniciosa,'" he said. "Put her to bed while I call
a regular doctor."
Regina looked up at him.
"I have fever, have I not?" she asked quite quietly.
"Yes. You have a little fever," he answered, but his big brown eyes were
very grave.
When Marcello came, an hour later, she did not know him. She stared at
him with wide, unwinking eyes, and there were bright patches of colour
in her cheeks. Already there were hollows in them, too, and at her
temples, for the perniciosa fever is frightfully quick to waste the
body. In the Campagna, where it is worst, men have died of it in less
than four hours after first feeling it upon them. Great men have
discovered wonderful remedies for it, but still it kills.
Kalmon got one of the great men, who was his friend, and they did what
they could. A nursing sister came and was installed. Marcello was
summoned away soon after noon by an official person, who brought a
carriage and said that Corbario was now conscious and able to speak, and
that it was absolutely necessary that Marcello should be confronted
with him, as he might not live another day. It was easier to go than it
would have been if Regina had been conscious, but even so it was very
hard. The nun and Teresa stayed with her.
[Illustration: "SHE SAT THERE LIKE A FIGURE OF GRIEF OUTLINED IN BLACK
AGAINST THE MOONLIGHT ON THE GREAT WALL."]
She said little in her delirium, and nothing that had any meaning for
either of the women. Twice she tried to tear away the linen and lace
from her throat.
"I wait!" she cried each time, and her eyes fixed themselves on the
ceiling, while she held her breath.
The women could not tell what she was waiting for, and they soothed her
as best they could. She seemed to doze after that, and when Marcello
came back she knew him, and took his hand. He sent away the nurses and
sat by the bedside, and she spoke to him in short sentences, faintly. He
bent forward, near the pillow, to catch the words.
She was telling him what she had done last night.
"But you promised that I should find you here to-day!" Marcello said,
with gentle reproach.
"Yes. I did not mean to break my word. But I thought he would do it. It
seemed so easy."
Her voice was weak with the fever, and sank almost to a whisper. He
stroked her hand affectionately, hoping that she would go to sleep; and
so a long time passed. Then Kalmon came in with his friend the great
doctor. They saw that she was not yet any better; the doctor ordered
several things to be done and went away. Kalmon drew Marcello out of the
room.
"You can do nothing," he said. "She has good care, and she is very
strong. Go home and come back in the morning."
"I must stay here," Marcello answered.
"That is out of the question, on account of the Sister of Charity. But
you can send for your things and camp in my rooms downstairs. There is a
good sofa. You can telephone to the villa for what you want."
"Thank you." Marcello's voice dropped and shook. "Will she live?" he
asked.
"I hope so. She is very strong, and it may be only fever."
"What else could it be?"
"Pneumonia."
Marcello bit his lip and closed his eyes as if he were in bodily pain,
and a moment later he turned away and went down to Kalmon's apartment.
The Professor went back to Regina's side, and stood quietly watching
her, with a very sad look in his eyes. She opened hers and saw him, and
she brought one hand to her chest.
"It burns," she said, almost in a whisper, but with a strange sort of
eagerness, as if she were glad.
"I wish I could bear it for you, my poor child," Kalmon answered.
She shook her head, and turned uneasily on the pillow. He did not
understand.
"What is it?" he asked gently. "What can I do for you? Tell me."
"I want to see some one very much. How long shall I live?"
"You will get quite well," said Kalmon, in a reassuring tone. "But you
must be very quiet." Again she moved her burning cheek on the pillow.
"Do you want to see a priest?" asked the Professor, thinking he had
guessed. "Is that it?"
"Yes--there is time for that--some one else--could you? Will you?"
"Yes." Kalmon bent down quickly, for he thought the delirium was coming
again. "Who is it?" he asked.
"Aurora--I mean, the Signorina--can you? Oh, do you think you could?"
"I'll try," Kalmon answered in great surprise.
But now the hoarseness was suddenly gone, and her sweet voice was softly
humming an old song of the hills, forgotten many years, and the
Professor saw that she did not know him any more. He nodded to Teresa,
who was in the room, and went out.
He wondered much at the request, but he remembered that it had been made
in the full belief that he would say nothing of it to Marcello. If she
had been willing that Marcello should know, she would have spoken to
him, rather than to Kalmon. He had seen little enough of Regina, but he
was sure that she could have no bad motive in wishing to see the young
girl. Yet, from a social point of view, it was not exactly an easy thing
to propose, and the Contessa would have a right to be offended at the
mere suggestion that her daughter should speak to "Consalvi's Regina";
and there could not be anything clandestine in the meeting, if Aurora
consented to it. Kalmon was too deeply attached to the Contessa herself
to be willing to risk her displeasure, or, indeed, to do anything of
which she would not approve.
He went to her house by the Forum of Trajan, and he found her at home.
It was late in the afternoon, and the lamp was lighted in the little
drawing-room, which did not seem at all shabby to Kalmon's accustomed
eyes and not very exigent taste. The Contessa was reading an evening
paper before the fire. She put out her hand to the Professor.
"It is a bad business," she said, glancing at the newspaper, which had a
long account of Corbario's arrest and of the murder of his old
accomplice. "Poor Marcello!"
"Poor Marcello! Yes, indeed! I'm sorry for him. There is something more
than is in the papers, and more than I have written to you and told you.
Regina has the perniciosa fever, complicated with pneumonia, and is not
likely to live."
"I am sorry," the Contessa answered. "I am very sorry for her. But after
all, compared with what Marcello has learned about his mother's
death--and other things Corbario did--"
She stopped, implying by her tone that even if Regina died, that would
not be the greatest of Marcello's misfortunes. Besides, she had long
foreseen that the relations of the two could not last, and the simplest
solution, and the happiest one for the poor devoted girl, was that she
should die before her heart was broken. Maddalena dell' Armi had often
wished that her own fate had been as merciful.
"Yes," Kalmon answered. "You are right in that. But Regina has made a
rather strange request. It was very unexpected, and perhaps I did wrong
to tell her that I would do my best to satisfy her. I don't think she
will live, and I felt sorry for her. That is why I came to you. It
concerns Aurora."
"Aurora?" The Contessa was surprised.
"Yes. The girl knows she is dying, and wishes very much to see Aurora
for a moment. I suppose it was weak of me to give her any hope."
The Contessa dropped her newspaper and looked into the fire thoughtfully
before she answered.
"You and I are very good friends," she said. "You would not ask me to do
anything you would not do yourself, would you? If you had a daughter of
Aurora's age, should you let her go and see this poor woman, unless it
were an act of real charity?"
"No," Kalmon answered reluctantly. "I don't think I should."
"Thank you for being so honest," Maddalena answered, and looked at the
fire again.
Some time passed before she spoke again, still watching the flames.
Kalmon sighed, for he was very sorry for Regina.
"On the other hand," the Contessa said at last, "it may be a real
charity. Have you any idea why she wishes to see Aurora?"
"No. I cannot guess."
"I can. At least, I think I can." She paused again. "You know
everything about me," she continued presently. "In the course of years I
have told you all my story. Do you think I am a better woman than
Regina?"
"My dear friend!" cried Kalmon, almost angrily. "How can you suggest--"
She turned her clear, sad eyes to him, and her look cut short his
speech.
"What has her sin been?" she asked gently. "She has loved Marcello. What
was mine? That I loved one man too well. Which is the better woman? She,
the peasant, who knew no better, who found her first love dying, and
saved him, and loved him--knowing no better, and braving the world? Or
I, well born, carefully brought up, a woman of the world, and
married--no matter how--not braving the world at all, but miserably
trying to deceive it, and my husband, and my child? Do you think I was
so much better than poor Regina? Would my own daughter think so if she
could know and understand?"
"If you were not a very good woman now," Kalmon said earnestly, "you
could not say what you are saying."
"Never mind what I am now. I am not as good as you choose to think. If I
were, there would not be a bitter thought left. I should have forgiven
all. Leave out of the question what I am now. Compare me as I was with
Regina as she is. That is how I put it, and I am right."
"Even if you were," Kalmon answered doubtfully, "the situation would be
the same, so far as Aurora is concerned."
"But suppose that this poor woman cannot die in peace unless she has
asked Aurora's pardon and obtained her forgiveness, what then?"
"Her forgiveness? For what?"
"For coming between her and Marcello. Say that, so far as Regina knows,
my daughter is the only human being she has ever injured, what then?"
"Does Aurora love Marcello?" asked Kalmon, instead of answering the
question.
"I think she does. I am almost sure of it."
Kalmon was silent for a while.
"But Marcello," he said at last, "what of him?"
"He has always loved Aurora," the Contessa answered. "Do you blame him
so much for what he has done? Why do you blame some people so easily, my
dear friend, and others not at all? Do you realise what happened to him?
He was virtually taken out of the life he was leading, by a blow that
practically destroyed his memory, and of which the consequences
altogether destroyed his will for some time. He found himself saved and
at the same time loved--no, worshipped--by one of the most beautiful
women in the world. Never mind her birth! She has never looked at any
other man, before or since, and from what I have heard, she never will.
Ah, if all women were like her! Marcello, weak from illness, allowed
himself to be worshipped, and Corbario did the rest. I understand it
all. Do you blame him very much? I don't. With all your strength of
character, you would have done the same at his age! And having taken
what she offered, what could he do, when he grew up and came to himself,
and felt his will again? Could he cast her off, after all she had done
for him?"
"He could marry her," observed Kalmon. "I don't see why he should not,
after all."
"Marriage!" There was a little scornful sadness in Maddalena's voice.
"Marriage is always the solution! No, no, he is right not to marry her,
if he has ever thought of it. They would only make each other miserable
for the rest of their lives. Miserable, and perhaps faithless too. That
is what happens when men and women are not saints. Look at me!"
"You were never in that position. Others were to blame, who made you
marry when you were too young to have any will of your own."
"Blame no one," said the Contessa gravely. "I shall give Aurora Regina's
message, and if she is willing to go and see her, I shall bring her
to-morrow morning--to-night, if there is no time to be lost. The world
need never know. Go and tell Regina what I have said. It may comfort her
a little, poor thing."
"Indeed it will!"
Kalmon's brown eyes beamed with pleasure at the thought of taking the
kindly message to the dying girl. He rose to his feet at once.
"There is no one like you," he said, as he took her hand.
"It is nothing. It is what Marcello's mother would have done, and she
was my best friend. All I do is to take the responsibility upon myself,
however Aurora may choose to act. I will send you word, in either case.
If Aurora will not go, I will come myself, if I can be of any use, if it
would make Regina feel happier. I will come, and I will tell her what I
have told you. Good-night, dear friend."
Kalmon was not an emotional man, but as he went out he felt a little
lump in his throat, as if he could not swallow.
He had not doubted his friend's kindness, but he had doubted whether she
would feel that she had a right to "expose her daughter," as the world
would say, to meeting such a "person," as the world called
Regina--"Consalvi's Regina."
CHAPTER XXII
All that night and the following day Regina recognised no one; and it
was night again, and her strength began to fail, but her understanding
returned. Marcello saw the change, and made a sign to the nurse, who
went out to tell Kalmon.
It was about nine o'clock when he entered the room, and Regina knew him
and looked at him anxiously. He, in turn, glanced at Marcello, and she
understood. She begged Marcello to go and get some rest. Her voice was
very weak, as if she were suffocating, and she coughed painfully. He did
not like to go away, but Kalmon promised to call him at midnight; he had
been in the room six hours, scarcely moving from his seat. He lingered
at the door, looked back, and at last went out.
"Will she come?" asked Regina, when he was gone.
"In half an hour. I have sent a messenger, for they have no telephone."
A bright smile lighted up the wasted face.
"Heaven will reward you," she said, as the poor say in Rome when they
receive a charity.
Then she seemed to be resting, for her hands lay still, and she closed
her eyes. But presently she opened them, looking up gratefully into the
big man's kind face.
"Shall I be alone with her a little?" she asked.
"Yes, my dear. You shall be alone with her."
Again she smiled, and he left the nurse with her and went and waited
downstairs at the street door, till the Contessa and Aurora should come,
in order to take them up to the little apartment. He knew that Marcello
must have fallen asleep at once, for he had not rested at all for
twenty-four hours, and very little during several days past. Kalmon was
beginning to fear that he would break down, though he was so much
stronger than formerly.
Marcello had always been grateful to Regina, even when he had convinced
himself that he loved her. Love is not very compatible with gratitude.
Two people who love each other very much expect everything because they
are always ready to give everything, not in return or by way of any
exchange, but as if the two were one in giving and taking. A man cannot
be grateful to himself. But Marcello had never felt that dear illusion
with Regina, because there had been no real companionship; and so he had
always been grateful to her, and now that she was perhaps dying, he was
possessed by the horribly painful certainty that he could never repay
her what he owed, and that this debt of honour must remain unpaid for
ever, if she died. There was much more than that in what he felt, of
course, for there was his very real affection, tormented by the
foreboding of the coming wrench, and there was the profound sympathy of
a very kind man for a suffering woman. But all that together was not
love like hers for him; it was not love at all.
Kalmon waited, and smoked a little, reflecting on these things, which
he understood tolerably well. The quiet man of science had watched
Marcello thoughtfully, and could not help asking himself what look there
would be in his own eyes, if Maddalena dell' Armi were dying and he were
standing by her bedside. It would not be Marcello's look.
A closed cab stopped before the entrance, and almost before he could
throw away his cigarette, the Contessa and Aurora were standing beside
him on the pavement.
"She is very weak," he said, "but she will not be delirious again for
some time--if at all."
Neither of the ladies spoke, and they followed him in silence up the
ill-lighted staircase.
"That is where I live," he said, as he passed his own door on the second
landing. "Marcello is camping there. He is probably asleep now."
"Asleep!" It was Aurora that uttered the single word, in a puzzled tone.
"He did not go to bed last night," Kalmon explained, going on.
"Oh!" Again the Professor was struck by the young girl's tone.
They reached the third landing, and Kalmon pushed the door, which he had
left ajar; he shut it when they had all entered, and he ushered the
mother and daughter into the small sitting-room. There they waited a
moment while he went to tell Regina that Aurora had come.
The young girl dropped her cloak upon a chair and stood waiting, her
eyes fixed on the door. She was a little pale, not knowing what was to
come, yet feeling somehow that it was to make a great difference to her
ever afterwards. She glanced at her mother, and the Contessa smiled
gently, as much as to say that she was doing right, but neither spoke.
Presently Kalmon came out with the Sister of Charity, who bent her head
gravely to the two ladies.
"She wishes to see you alone," Kalmon said, in explanation, while he
held the door open for Aurora to pass in.
He closed it after her, and the two were together.
When Aurora entered, Regina's eyes were fixed upon her face as if they
had already found her and seen her while she had been in the other room.
She came straight to the bedside and took the hand that was stretched
out to meet hers. It was thin and hot now, and the arm was already
wasted. Aurora remembered how strongly it had lifted her to the edge of
the rock, far away by Pontresina.
"You are very kind, Signorina," said the faint voice. "You see how I
am."
Aurora saw indeed, and kept the hand in hers as she sat down in the
chair that stood where Marcello had left it.
"I am very, very sorry," she said, leaning forward a little and looking
into the worn face, colourless now that the fever had subsided for a
while.
The same bright smile that Kalmon had seen lighted up Regina's features.
"But I am glad!" she answered. "They do not understand that I am glad."
"No, no!" cried Aurora softly. "Don't say you are glad!"
The smile faded, and a very earnest look came into the hollow dark eyes.
"But I have not done it on purpose," Regina said. "I did not know there
was fever in that place, or I would not have sat down there. You believe
me, Signorina, don't you?"
"Yes, indeed!"
The smile returned very gradually, and the anxious pressure of the hand
relaxed.
"You must not think that I was looking for the fever. But since it came,
and I am going from here, I am glad. I shall not be in the way any more.
That hindrance will be taken out of his life."
"He would not like to hear you speak like this," Aurora said, with great
gentleness.
"There is no time for anything except the truth, now. And you are good,
so good! No, there is no time. To-morrow, I shall be gone. Signorina, if
I could kneel at your feet, I would kneel. But you see how I am. You
must think I am kneeling at your feet."
"But why?" asked Aurora, with a little distress.
"To ask you to forgive me for being a hindrance. I want pardon before I
go. But I found him half dead on the door-step. What could I do? When I
had seen him, I loved him. I knew that he thought of you. That was all
he remembered--just your name, and I hated it, because he had forgotten
all other names, even his own, and his mother, and everything. He was
like a little child that learns, to-day this, to-morrow that, one thing
at a time. What could I do? I taught him. I also taught him to love
Regina. But when the memory came back, I knew how it had been before."
Her voice broke and she coughed, and raised one hand to her chest.
Aurora supported her tenderly until it was over, and when the weary head
sank back at last it lay upon the young girl's willing arm.
"You are tiring yourself," Aurora said. "If it was to ask my forgiveness
that you wished me to come, I forgave you long ago, if there was
anything to forgive. I forgave you when we met, and I saw what you were,
and that you loved him for himself, just as I do."
"Is it true? Really true?"
"So may God help me, it is quite true. But if I had thought it was not
for himself--"
"Oh, yes, it was," Regina answered. "It was, and it is, to the end. Will
you see? I will show you. For what the eyes see the heart believes more
easily. Signorina, will you bring the little box covered with old
velvet? It is there, on the table, and it is open."
Aurora rose, humouring her, and brought the thing she asked for, and sat
down again, setting it on the edge of the bed. Regina turned her head to
see it, and raised the lid with one hand.
"This is my little box," she said. "What he has given me is all in it. I
have no other. Will you see? Here is what I have taken from him. You
shall look everywhere, if you do not believe."
"But I do believe you!" Aurora cried, feeling that tears were coming to
her eyes.
"But you must see," Regina insisted. "Or perhaps when I am gone you will
say to yourself, 'There may have been diamonds and pearls in the little
box, after all!' You shall know that it was all for himself."
To please her Aurora took up some of the simple trinkets, simpler and
cheaper even than what she had herself.
"There are dresses, yes, many more than I wanted. But I could not let
him be ashamed of me when we went out together, and travelled. Do you
forgive me the dresses, Signorina? I wore them to please him. Please
forgive me that also!"
Aurora dropped the things into the open box and laid both her hands on
Regina's, bending down her radiant head and looking very earnestly into
the anxious eyes.
"Forgiveness is not all from me to you, Regina," she said. "I want yours
too."
"Mine?" The eyes grew wide and wondering.
"Don't you see that but for me he would have married you, and that I
have been the cause of a great wrong to you?"
For one instant Regina's face darkened, her brows straightened
themselves, and her lip curled. She remembered how, only two days ago,
in the very next room, Marcello had insisted that she should he his
wife. But as she looked into Aurora's innocent eyes she understood, and
the cloud passed from her own, and the bright smile came back. Aurora
had spoken in the simplicity of her true heart, sure that it was only
the memory of his love for her that had withheld Marcello from first to
last; and Regina well knew that it had always been present with him, in
spite of his brave struggle to put it away. That memory of another,
which Regina had seen slowly reviving in him, had been for something in
her refusal to marry him.
With the mysterious sure vision of those who are near death, she felt
that it would hurt Aurora to know the truth, except from Marcello
himself.
"If you have ever stood between us," she said, "you had the right. He
loved you first. There is nothing to forgive in that. Afterwards he
loved me a little. No one can take that from me, no one! It is mine, and
it is all I have, and though I am going, and though I know that he is
tired of me, it is still more than the world. To have it, as I have it,
I would do again what I did, from the first."
The voice was weak and muffled, but the words were distinct, and they
were the confession of poor Regina's life.
"If he were here," she said, after a moment, "I would lay your hand in
his. Only let me take that memory with me!"
The young girl rose and bent over her as she answered.
"It is yours, to keep for ever."
She stooped a little lower and kissed the dying woman's forehead.
      
Under the May moon a little brigantine came sailing up to a low island
just within sight of Italy; when she was within half a mile of the reefs
Don Antonino Maresca put her about, for he was a prudent man, and he
knew that there are just a few more rocks in the sea than are in the
charts. It was a quiet night, and he was beating up against a gentle
northerly breeze.
When the head yards were swung, and braced sharp up for the other tack,
and the little vessel had gathered way again, the mate came aft and
stood by the captain, watching the light on the island.
"Are there still convicts on this island, Don Antonino?" the young man
asked.
"Yes, there are the convicts. And there is one among them whom I helped
to put there. He is an assassin that killed many when he was at liberty.
But now he sits for seven years in a little cell alone, and sees no
Christian, and it will be thirty years before he is free."
"Madonna!" ejaculated the mate. "When he has been there thirty years he
will perhaps understand."
"It is as I say," rejoined the captain. "The world is made so. There are
the good and the bad. The Eternal Father has created things thus. Get a
