Maria recognised her husband’s formal expressions in what the quiet
young man said so fluently. Doubtless Montalto had written every
word of his orders with his own hand, and the steward had read them
over till he knew them by heart. She thanked him and said she would
meet him at the palace the next morning at ten o’clock.
She did not take Leone with her, for she was sure that the great
neglected house would be gloomy beyond description, and she did not
wish him to have a sad impression of the house in which he had been
born, and in which he was now to live. Besides, she could not quite
trust herself, and the small boy’s eyes were marvellously quick to
detect any change in her face.
The places where things very good or very bad to remember have
happened to us are ever afterwards inhabited by invisible ghosts,
kind or malignant, who show themselves to us when we revisit the
spots they haunt, though they never disturb any one else. Maria
knew that; an evil genius had long dwelt under those ilex-trees
in the Villa Borghese, and she had exorcised it, but there were
spectres in her former home that would not be laid. She bit her
lip as she entered the once familiar hall, and saw room after room
opening out beyond it in a long perspective that ended in a closed
door adorned with mirrors in its panels. That door had always been
kept shut when all the others were open; it led into the room that
had been her boudoir. Even at that great distance Maria could see
how dim the old glasses in the panels had become.
She walked slowly through the apartment, looking to the right and
left. Something had been done, but not much. There was a ladder
against a wall in one room and the hangings were half torn down;
a dozen rolls of new carpet lay in confusion in another, redolent
of that extraordinary odour which only perfectly new carpets have;
in one of the halls beyond, a quantity of more or less decrepit
sofas and chairs had been collected and disembowelled, and the
moth-eaten wool and musty horse-hair lay about them in mouldering
heaps; the portraits were still in their places on the walls, and
Montalto seemed to look sadly down from half a dozen frames at his
young wife as she went by in black; there was Montalto in armour
and Montalto in black velvet and ruffles, Montalto in a Spanish
cloak and Montalto in a flowered silk French coat, with a powdered
wig; but it was always Montalto; the likeness between them all from
generation to generation had been amazing, and the old pictures
made Maria nervous.
The young steward, whose name was Orlando Schmidt, walked by her
left, hat in hand, glancing respectfully at her now and then to see
whether she was going to say anything. But her lips were pressed
together, and he fancied that the rings round her eyes grew darker
as she neared the end of the long suite, and still went on towards
the closed door with its tarnished mirrors. She looked very pale
and tired.
‘Will your Excellency sit down and rest a while?’ he asked.
‘Not yet, thank you. Presently.’
And she went slowly on, slowly and steadily, towards the closed
door, till she laid her hand on the chiselled handle and turned it
and pushed against the panel. But it would not move.
‘Perhaps it is locked,’ suggested Schmidt. ‘I had not taken it for
a real door. I thought the apartment ended here.’
‘No,’ Maria answered in a low tone. ‘This used to be my boudoir.
Try and open it. I want to go in.’
The young man tried the handle, put his eye to the keyhole, and
tried again. Then he shook his head.
‘It is not a very strong door,’ said Maria. ‘I think we could break
it open. I want to go in.’
‘I can certainly break it,’ answered Schmidt.
He threw his shoulder against the crack and pushed with all his
might, but though the door creaked a little it would not move.
‘Is there no other way?’ asked Maria impatiently. ‘I must get in!’
‘Oh, yes,’ Schmidt answered, ‘there is another way. I can smash the
lock.’
‘I wish you would!’
He stood back and made a little gesture with his hand for her to
move aside, and before she knew what he was going to do, the heel
of his heavy walking boot struck the lock with the force of a
small battering-ram. The door flew back on its hinges into total
darkness, and there was a crash of broken glass as one of the
mirrors fell from its panel to the marble Venetian pavement.
Maria uttered a little cry of hurt surprise, for what Schmidt had
done seemed brutal to her; but she passed him quickly and went on
into the dark, and the bits of broken mirror cracked under her
tread. She was sure that the room had never been opened since she
had left it, and she went straight to one of the windows without
running against the furniture; the familiar fastenings had rusted
and she could not move them quickly. Schmidt lit a wax-light and
followed, but before he reached her side she had succeeded in
opening the inner shutters, and the bright light from the slits in
the blinds shone into the room through the dim panes.
Maria turned from the window and looked about her. The furniture
stood as she had last seen it. A moment later Schmidt threw open
the glass and the blinds and the violent sunshine flooded the dusty
marble floor, the faded pink silk on the walls, the tarnished
inlaid tables, the chairs, and a little sofa near the fireplace.
‘It is too much!’ cried Maria nervously. ‘There is too much light!’
Schmidt drew the blinds near together without quite shutting them.
When he looked behind him again Maria was sitting on the little
sofa near the fireplace, her face turned from him, and her fingers
were nervously pulling at a rent in the pink silk which tore under
her touch. But the young steward did not notice the action, and was
already making a mental list of the repairs that would be necessary
to make the boudoir habitable again. Maria looked ill, and he
thought she was tired.
But the evil spirit that haunted the place was there, beside her on
the little sofa, and she could hear its demon whisper in her ear.
That was a part of her expiation, and she knew it. Then she spoke
to Schmidt steadily, but without turning her head.
‘I wish everything taken out of this room,’ she said, and she
listened to her own voice to be sure that it did not shake.
‘Everything must be new, the hangings, the ceiling, the furniture,
the fireplace. You see how dilapidated it all is, don’t you?’
She asked the question as if to justify her orders.
‘There is nothing fit to keep,’ answered the steward, ‘except that
inlaid writing-table and the bookcase.’
‘I prefer to have them changed, too,’ said Maria quickly.
‘Everything! Let the new things be dark. There is too much light
here. Not red, either. I hate red. Let everything be dark grey.’
‘A greenish grey, perhaps?’ suggested Schmidt diffidently.
‘Yes, yes! But dark, very dark, with black furniture. Paint this
marble fireplace black----’
‘Black?’ exclaimed the young man, with a polite interrogation.
‘Perhaps it would be better to have a new one of black marble then?’
‘Yes--anything, provided it is changed, and everything is new and
quite different! That is all I want. And my dressing-room was
there.’ She pointed to a second door. ‘My bedroom was beyond it.
I’m sure that door is locked, too. Could you go round by the other
way and see if the key is on that side?’
She turned her white face to Schmidt. He guessed that she had been
moved by some strong association and wished to be alone to recover
herself, and in a moment he was gone; for he was a tactful person.
When she was alone she did not bury her face in the corner of the
tattered little sofa, nor did any tears rise in her tired eyes; she
only sat there quite still, and her head fell forward as if she had
fainted; but her fingers slowly tore little shreds from the faded
pink silk of the sofa.
Schmidt stayed away a long time. She heard his footsteps at last on
a tiled floor in the distance, and raised her hand quickly to cover
her eyes, while her lips moved for a moment. When the steward
unlocked the second door and came in, she was standing quietly by
the window waiting for him.
The worst was over for that day, and though she was still very
pale, she was no longer deadly white, and the haunted look that had
come back suddenly to her eyes was gone. She went through the house
systematically after that, conscientiously fulfilling her husband’s
requests; she gave clear directions about her own rooms and the
one she meant to give Leone, and made many suggestions about the
rest. She showed Schmidt the little apartment once occupied by
her mother-in-law, and advised the steward to have it carefully
cleaned and set in order, since nothing was to be changed in it.
At present, she said, it looked neglected, and the Count would
certainly not like to find it so. Schmidt nodded gravely, as if he
quite understood. She was so quiet and calm now, that he thought
he had been mistaken in thinking her disturbed by some poignant
memory. She had probably felt ill.
When she left the palace at last, she told him to let her know when
the refurnishing was so far advanced as to make a visit from her
necessary, and she thanked him so kindly for his attention that he
blushed a little.
For Orlando Schmidt was a modest and well-educated young man, of a
respectable Austrian family by his father’s side, but an Italian
as to his nationality. He had been to good schools, he had studied
scientific farming at an agricultural institute in Upper Austria,
and he had followed a commercial course in Milan; he had also
learned something about practical building, and was naturally
possessed of tolerably good taste.
‘I hope you will stay here and take charge of the Roman estate,’
said the Countess. ‘I fancy the lands are in as bad a condition as
the apartment upstairs.’
She smiled graciously, and Schmidt blushed again.
‘Your Excellency is very kind,’ he said modestly, as he stood
beside her low phaeton with his hat in his hand. ‘I am lodged here
in the palace, if you need me.’
She drove away, and before the carriage turned the corner of
the palace on the way to the more central part of the city, she
had quite forgotten Orlando Schmidt, though he had made such a
favourable impression upon her.
But the young man stood before the great arched entrance and
watched her till she was out of sight, with an expression she could
not have understood; and afterwards he whistled softly as he turned
back to ascend the stairs again in order to make careful notes of
all she had said about each room. He began in the boudoir, and he
sat down on the little sofa near the fireplace, with his large
note-book on his knee, and wrote busily while her words were still
fresh in his memory. Once or twice he looked towards the door,
which he could see as he sat, and the broken pieces of mirror
caught his eye. He remembered that his Italian mother had once told
him when he was a boy that it was very unlucky to break a mirror.
But he smiled at the recollection, for he was not a superstitious
young man, and had received a half-scientific education.
It was nearly twelve o’clock when Maria left the palace. She had
not realised that it was so late, and she had told the coachman
to take her to a dressmaker’s far down the Corso, near the Piazza
del Popolo. She was to have tried on a couple of frocks which were
necessary to complete her mourning; but the gun-fire from the
Janiculus and the clashing of all the church bells told her that
it was noon already, and too late, for Leone always had his dinner
with her at half-past twelve. She touched Telemaco’s broad black
back with the edge of her parasol to call his attention, and she
told him to go home instead of stopping at the dressmaker’s.
He asked whether he should pass through the Villa by Porta
Pinciana, that being as near a way as any other, and easy for the
horses, and she nodded her assent. She had not been in the Villa
since the day when she had walked there alone, and had gone home
and found Montalto’s letter.
It was a warm spring morning, but the horses trotted briskly up
the main avenue that leads in from the gate, glad to be in the
pleasant shade. Maria lowered her parasol to the bottom of the
phaeton without shutting it, for she knew she should need it again
in a few minutes. There was no other carriage in the avenue just
then, but several riders were walking their horses slowly towards
the gate after exercising them on the course. The first she met
were two civilians, and one of them was Oderisio Boccapaduli. He
recognised her from a distance, and before he was near enough to
bow he glanced quickly behind him, as if he expected to see some
one. She did not know the other man. Oderisio took off his hat, and
she smiled and nodded. Then came a captain of artillery on a strong
Hungarian horse that was evidently in a bad temper and hard to
manage. Maria turned her head to watch them after she had passed,
but her carriage was going at a smart pace and she soon looked
before her again. Not far ahead were two officers of the Piedmont
Lancers, walking their horses and talking together.
One was the same young lieutenant who had jumped his English mare
in and out of the ring for her benefit on that morning when she had
been on foot. She might have met him there any day. The other was
Baldassare del Castiglione, and she had not known that he was in
Rome.
She was so startled that she made a movement to raise her open
parasol and hide her face; but she instantly understood the
absurdity of doing such a thing and dropped it again, and looked
steadily towards the advancing horsemen, though for a few seconds
she could not see them. They were hidden in a fiery mist that rose
between her and them. It dissolved suddenly, and Castiglione was
gravely saluting her; his face was calm, but his eyes were blazing
blue. The young lieutenant raised his hand to his cap almost at the
same instant. With infinite difficulty Maria slowly bent her head
in answer, but she did not turn her eyes as the two men passed her,
and in another moment she had left them behind.
Then she felt that her heart was beating again, for she was sure
that it had quite stopped. But at the same instant her hand
unconsciously relaxed, and her open parasol, which was already half
over the step of the phaeton, flew out, rolled a little way, and
lay in the middle of the road, with the handle upwards.
She sat up quickly and called to Telemaco to stop. But the old man
was a little deaf, and she had to call twice before he checked the
quickly-trotting pair and brought them to a stand.
‘My parasol!’ she cried, as the coachman looked over his shoulder.
‘Give me the reins and get it,’ she added.
She heard the hoofs of a horse cantering up behind her, and she
looked round. Castiglione must have turned in the saddle to look
after her, and must have seen the parasol fall. It lay with the
handle upward, and parasol handles chanced to be long that year. It
was easy for a good rider to bend low and pick the thing up almost
without slackening his pace, and in another moment he was beside
the carriage giving it back to Maria.
‘Thank you,’ she said faintly. ‘I did not know you were in Rome.’
A quick word rose to his lips, but he checked it. Then he bent down
to her from the saddle, on pretence of brushing an imaginary fly
from his horse’s shoulder.
‘I thought you would rather not know it from me,’ he said quietly,
but so low that the deaf coachman could not hear. ‘Good morning,
Contessa,’ he added more loudly, as he straightened himself in the
saddle and saluted again.
He was gone, trotting back to join his companion; but she would not
look after him when she had told Telemaco to drive on. And all the
way home a great wave of joy was surging up round her, to her very
feet, and she was trying to climb higher lest it should rise and
overwhelm her; and she was clinging to something dark, and cold,
and hard as a black marble pillar, that was Montalto, and duty, and
death, all in one.
That afternoon a note came for her, brought to the door by a
trooper and left with the remark that there was no answer.
It contained the telegram Castiglione had received in Milan, and a
sheet of note-paper on which a few words were written in pencil.
‘This explains itself,’ he wrote. ‘It is the inevitable. I shall
not try to see you.’ She knew that she ought to be proud of his
good faith, but it was not easy.
CHAPTER XI
More than a month had passed and it was near the end of May; yet
Maria had not again exchanged a word with Castiglione. She had seen
him twice in the street, from a distance, but she was not sure
that he had seen her the second time. If he saw her, he certainly
wished her to think that he did not. She never went to the Villa
Borghese, nor drove towards Tor di Quinto nor along the beautiful
Monte Parioli avenue, lest she should meet him in one of those
places where officers ride at all hours of the day. On his side, he
avoided the streets through which she was likely to pass. It was
easy enough to do that, and as she was in mourning he was sure not
to find her where people met in the houses of mutual acquaintances.
For he had no intention of shutting himself up, being much too
sensible not to foresee that if he did so people would say he
spent his time with her. He showed himself in many places, on
the contrary, frequented Teresa Crescenzi’s drawing-room at
tea-time, dined assiduously with his cousins the Boccapaduli, at
whose house the old-fashioned Romans congregated, and also with
the Campodonico, and he was often at the Parenzos’ pretty house
in the Via Ludovisi, which was a favourite gathering-place of
the political party then in power, and of that portion of the
diplomatic corps which was accredited to the Quirinal and not to
the Vatican. The Duca di Casalmaggiore had become a friend of
Parenzo’s, and Castiglione took a good deal of pains to be seen
as often as possible in society by his colonel, who was of an
inquisitive turn of mind. In order to make his existence still more
patent in the eyes of his comrades, he lodged with one of them, a
man of his own age who was also not very well off, and who could
hardly help knowing where Baldassare went, what he did, and whether
he received many notes addressed in feminine handwriting or not.
The consequence of all this, and of his assiduity in matters of
duty, was that Teresa Crescenzi’s latest story got little credit,
and his brother officers said that he was ambitious and was going
in for the career in earnest. The colonel, who was a widower with a
son in the navy and a daughter married in Naples, and whom Teresa
had once vainly tried to capture for herself, disliked her and so
effectually ridiculed her invention that the rest of Castiglione’s
comrades fell into the way of laughing at her, too; and they said
that after having failed to marry the colonel she had tried to
catch Baldassare, and now meant to revenge herself because he would
not have her. His chum, too, told them that he certainly had no
secret love affair, and that when he was not on duty or at the
officers’ club, or where every one could see him, he was in his
lodgings reading German books on military tactics. Clearly he was
going in for the career.
He did not act or look like a man in love either; not in the
least. He had not been talkative before he left the regiment, but
since he had returned he took more pains than formerly to join in
the conversation. Another point in his favour was that he never had
any vague engagement which hindered him from joining in anything
that was unexpectedly proposed. Whatever he had to do was open and
definite; when it was not duty, it was a real promise to dine with
some one whom he named, and he took care to have it known that he
went; or else he had agreed to ride somewhere with an acquaintance,
and if any one took the trouble to go to that place, there he was,
sure enough, with the man he had named. In what was left of society
so late in the season, if he once talked especially to any one
woman he gave himself as much pains to amuse and interest another
on the morrow. He was such a model of a sensible man and such a
good officer that the colonel, who was rich enough to have afforded
the luxury of a poor son-in-law, wished he had another daughter
that he might marry her to Castiglione; and he said so openly, to
the great edification of Roman society.
As for Maria Montalto she did not speak of him again to Giuliana,
but the latter knew she never let him come to the house and that
she had made up her mind to see him as rarely as possible. Giuliana
was too simple and natural to care whether this excellent state
of things was due to her own advice or to Montalto’s approaching
return. It was enough that Maria was doing right and giving the
gossips nothing to talk about.
Parenzo and his wife went to England at this time, with the
intention of spending three weeks there. The Marchese, it was
understood, was entrusted with some special political business, and
as a matter of course he took his wife with him; for the first time
in her life Maria was glad to part from her old friend.
There are ordeals which it is easier to face alone than under the
eyes of others, even of those we love best; there are tortures
which are a little easier to bear when our dearest friends are not
watching our faces to see if we shall wince.
The date of Montalto’s return was approaching, and the state
apartment in the palace was almost ready, thanks to Orlando
Schmidt’s quiet energy and to a rather lavish expenditure of money.
He was a truly wonderful young man, Maria thought, for he seemed to
know everything that was useful and possessed the power of making
people work without so much as complaining till they were quite
exhausted. He never raised his voice, he never spoke roughly to a
workman; but he seemed to inspire something like terror and abject
submission in all whom he employed, and they spoke in whispers when
he was near and worked till they could work no longer.
Maria went to the apartment twice again, once to select the
hangings and stuffs for her own rooms out of a quantity that had
been sent for her approval, and once again when the furnishing was
almost finished. She was quiet and collected, for nothing was left
to remind her of the old boudoir and the rest. At her second visit
she was surprised to find that the small room had three doors
instead of two as formerly, and she asked the steward if the third
one was real, or an imitation fastened against the solid wall for
the sake of symmetry.
‘It is a real door,’ answered Schmidt. ‘It had been thinly walled
up and plastered over long ago, and I found it accidentally, and
took the liberty of opening it again. I hope your Excellency will
approve.’
‘It looks well,’ Maria said, for it helped to change the aspect of
the room; ‘but where does it take one?’
‘To the chapel,’ replied the steward. ‘I found a narrow passage
leading directly to a small door on the left side of the altar. You
can thus reach the chapel by a private way without going through
the apartment. The corridor was quite dark, but I have had electric
light put in. The key is here, you see.’
Schmidt moved it and opened the door at the same time with his
other hand, and Maria saw a narrow passage, brightly lit up. The
walls were white and varnished, and the floor was of plain white
tiles.
‘It must have been made in the beginning of the eighteenth
century,’ Schmidt said. ‘There was a Countess at that time who was
a princess of Saxony and was excessively devout. She died mad.’
‘You know the family history better than I do,’ observed Maria.
‘We have served the Excellent house from father to son more than
two hundred years.’
Schmidt said this as if he were telling her the most ordinary fact
in the world.
‘Will your Excellency please go to the chapel by the private
passage?’ he asked.
Maria let him lead the way and followed him. She was gratified by
the use he had made of his discovery, for she thought that it would
sometimes be a relief to go to the chapel alone and unnoticed. But
she also wished to assure herself that no one else could use the
corridor, and that there was a bolt or a lock on the door at the
other end. It was not that she distrusted Schmidt; on the contrary,
she thought very well of him, and was sure that he had consulted
only her convenience in what he had done. But when she thought of
what was before her, she felt very defenceless in the great old
house, so different from the comfortable little modern apartment
in which she had lived with Leone, where there were no hidden
staircases, nor secret passages, nor legends of mad countesses in
the eighteenth century, nor any ghosts of Maria’s own life.
Apparently Schmidt had told her the exact truth about the passage,
which was much longer than she had expected, and turned to the
right very soon, and was straight beyond that for twenty yards or
more. Maria guessed that it here followed the long wall of the
great ball-room, which had no entrances opposite the windows. She
reached the door of the chapel, and the electric light showed her a
strong new bolt with a brass knob, besides the spring latch.
‘It is quite private, you see,’ said Schmidt. ‘The door can be
fastened from this side.’
‘I see. It is very satisfactory. You have thought of everything.’
He opened the door of the small dim chapel, but she would not go
in. It had memories for her which she was afraid to stir. She
remembered how she had once gone there alone between midnight and
morning with a great horror upon her; and how she had knelt down,
setting her candlestick on the pavement beside her; and the dawn
had found her there still. She knew also that in another week or
ten days she would have to kneel there at mass on a Sunday; and
Montalto would be kneeling on one side of her, and Leone with his
bright blue eyes would be on the other.
‘Thank you,’ she said to the steward. ‘I will not go into the
chapel now.’
‘Nothing has been changed there,’ he answered. ‘It has merely been
thoroughly cleaned.’
Maria remembered the two hideous barocco angels in impossible
gilt draperies that supported a dreadful gilt canopy above the
tabernacle; and the absurd decorations of the miniature dome; and
the detestable assemblage of many-coloured marbles; and all the
details that recalled the atrocious taste introduced under the
Spanish influence in the south of Italy during the seventeenth and
eighteenth centuries. She had seen nothing of all that when she had
come there alone, long after midnight, years ago, with only her one
flickering candle to light her through the great dark rooms and to
show her where the altar was.
‘I thought the Count would not like to have electric light in the
chapel,’ said Schmidt, as he fastened the door carefully. ‘The key
for the lights in the passage is here on the wall, your Excellency,
just on a level with the lock as you come in.’
‘It is really very well arranged,’ Maria answered, and as the
passage was not wide enough for two persons to pass conveniently,
she turned and led the way back.
‘I have had the walls varnished, because almost any sort of tinting
might rub off on your Excellency’s dress,’ said Schmidt. ‘The
passage is so extremely narrow, you see.’
‘It is very nice,’ Maria answered. ‘It was most sensible of you.’
Behind her, Orlando Schmidt blushed with pleasure at her praise,
and watched her graceful moving figure, shown off against the
shining white walls by the close-fitting black she wore. They
reached the boudoir, and there also Schmidt closed and locked the
door. But this time he took out the key and handed it to Maria.
‘As the passage is for your Excellency’s private use, you may
prefer to take away the key, since the workmen have nothing more to
do there.’
‘Thank you,’ Maria answered.
‘The servants need not know that the door is a real one,’ observed
Schmidt.
It chanced that Maria did not much like the maid she had at that
time, but as the woman was clever she meant to keep her. It struck
her that there was certainly no reason why she need know that her
mistress could go from her own rooms to the chapel without being
seen, if she wished to say her prayers there in private. As for
the chapel itself, its outer door was formerly kept locked, and
Montalto had given her a key to it when they had been married.
The reason for keeping it shut was that the altar contained a
reliquary in which was preserved a comparatively large relic of
the Cross, already very long an heirloom in the family. No doubt
Schmidt knew this, as he seemed to know everything else about his
hereditary employers--or masters, as he would have called them.
When one family of men has served another faithfully, those who
serve possess a sort of universal knowledge of such details which
no ordinary servant could acquire in half a lifetime.
Maria left the boudoir, after putting the key into the small new
black Morocco bag, which had taken the place of the rather shabby
grey velvet one she had used so long. When she came to live in the
palace she meant to keep the key in her writing-desk.
‘The Count wishes me to be here when he comes,’ she said as they
passed through the great ball-room. ‘He writes that you will
engage servants and see to everything. Our old butler and coachman
have never left me. Do you think I may keep them still? I wish to
do nothing, however, which does not agree with your instructions.’
‘My master’s orders,’ said Schmidt, ‘are to meet your Excellency’s
wishes in every respect. He will not even bring his own man with
him, and I have orders to engage a valet for him. If you will tell
me what day will be convenient for you to move, I will see that
everything is ready.’
‘The Count writes that he will arrive on Sunday afternoon,’ Maria
answered. ‘I had better be here two days before that. I will come
on Friday morning.’
‘On Friday?’ repeated the steward with a little surprise.
‘Yes. Are you superstitious, Signor Orlando?’
She really could not call him ‘Signor Schmidt’; it was too absurd;
yet he was of Italian nationality.
‘No, your Excellency, I am not. But most people are. If the Signora
Contessa would be kind enough to call me simply Schmidt,’ he added
with a little hesitation, ‘it is an easy name to remember, and does
