two of ink from his fingers, returned and buttoned his 
waistcoat, then, completing an unhurried toilet, went out 
and down the stairway to the big living-room. There 
were two or three people there — Mrs. Leroy Mortimer, 
very fetching with her Japanese-like colouring, black 
hair and eyes that slanted just enough; Rena Bonnes- 
del, smooth, violet-eyed, blonde, and rather stunning in 
a peculiarly innocent way ; Miss Caithness, very pale 
and slimly attractive; and the Page boys, Willis and 
Gordon, delightfully shy and interested, and having a 
splendid time with any woman who could afford the in- 
tellectual leisure, 
Siward spoke pleasantly to them all. Other people 
drifted down — Marion Page who looked like a school- 
marm and rode like a demon ; Eileen Shannon, pink and 
white as a thorn blossom, with the deuce to pay lurking 
in her grey eyes; Kathryn Tassel and Mrs. Vendenning 
whom he did not know, and finally his hostess Grace Fer- 
rall with her piquant, almost boyish, freckled face and 
sweet frank eyes and the figure of an adolescent. 
She gave Siward one pretty sun-browned hand and 
 
laid the other above his, holding it a moment in her 
light clasp. 
" Stephen ! Stephen ! " she said under her breath, 
" it's because I've a few things to scold you about that 
Pve asked you to Shotover." 
" I suppose I know," he said. 
" I should hope you do. I've a letter to-night from 
your mother," 
" From my mother? " 
" I want you to go over it — with me — if we can find 
a minute after dinner." She released his hand, turning 
partly around : " Kemp, dinner's been announced, so cut 
that dog story in two ! Will you give me your arm 
Major Belwether.? Howard!" — to her cousin, Mr. 
Quarrier, who turned from Miss Landis to Hsten — " will 
you please try to recollect whom you are to take in — and 
do it.'' " And, as she passed Siward, in a low voice, mis- 
chievous and slangy : " Sylvia Landis for yours — as she 
says she didn't have enough of you on the cliffs." 
The others appeared to know how to pair according 
to some previous notice. Siward turned to Sylvia Landis 
with the pleasure of his good fortune so plainly visible 
in his face, that her own brightened in response. 
" You see," she said gaily, " you cannot escape me. 
There is no use in looking wildly at Agatha Caith- 
ness " — he wasn't — " or pretending you're pleased," 
slipping her rounded, bare arm through the arm he 
offered. " You can't guess what I've done to-night — no- 
body can guess except Grace Ferrall and one other per- 
son. And if you try to look happy beside me, I may tell 
you — somewhere between sherry and cognac — Oh, yes ; 
I've done two things : I have your dog for you ! " 
" Not Sagamore.? " he said incredulously as he was 
seating her. 
" Certainly Sagamore. I said to Mr. Quarrier, ' I 
want Sagamore,' and when he tried to give him to me, 
I made him take my cheque. Now you may draw an- 
other for me at your leisure, Mr. Siward. Tell me, are 
you pleased?" — for she was looking for the troubled 
hesitation in his face and she saw it dawning. 
" Mr. Quarrier doesn't like me, you know " 
" But  do," she said coolly. " I told him how much 
pleasure it would give me. That is sufficient — is it not.'' 
— for everybody concerned." 
" He knew that you meant to " 
" No, that concerns only you and me. Are you try- 
ing to spoil my pleasure in what I have done ? " 
'' I can't take the dog, Miss Landis " 
" Oh," she said, vexed ; " I had no idea you were 
vindictive " 
There was a silence ; he bent forward a trifle, gravely 
scrutinising a " hand-painted " name card, though it 
might not have astonished him to learn that somebody's 
foot had held the brush. Somewhere in the vicinity 
Grace Ferrall had discovered a woman who supported 
dozens of relatives by painting that sort of thing for 
the summer residents at Vermillion Point down the coast. 
So being charitable she left an order, and being thrifty, 
insisted on using the cards, spite of her husband's gibes. 
People were now inspecting them with more or less 
curiosity ; Siward found his " hand-painting " so unat- 
tractive that he had just tipped it over to avoid seeing 
it, when a burst of laughter from Lord Alderdene made 
everybody turn. Mrs. Vendenning was laughing ; so was 
Rena Bonnesdel looking over Quarrier's shoulder at a 
card he was holding — not one of the " hand "-decorated, 
but a sheet of note-paper containing a drawing of a 
man rushing after a gun-shy dog. 
 
The extraordinary cackling laughter of his lord- 
ship obliterated other sounds for a while ; Rena Bonnesdel possessed herself of the drawing and held it up amid 
a shout of laughter. And, to his excessive annoyance, 
Siward saw that, unconsciously, he had caricatured Quar- 
ter — Ferrall's malicious request for a Vandyke beard 
making the caricature dreadfully apparent. 
Quarrier had at first flushed up; then he forced a 
smile; but his symmetrical features were never cordial 
when he smiled. 
" Who on earth did that? " whispered Sylvia Landis 
apprehensively. " Mr. Quarrier dislikes that sort of 
thing — but of course he'll take it well." 
" Did he ever chase his own dog.'' " asked Siward, 
biting his lip. 
" Yes — so Blinky says — in the Carolinas last season. 
It's Blinky ! — that's his notion of humour. Did you 
ever hear such a laugh.? No wonder Mr. Quarrier is 
annoyed." 
The gay uproar had partly subsided, renewed here 
and there as the sketch was passed along, and finally, 
making the circle, returned like a bad penny to Quarrier. 
He smiled again, symmetrically, as he received it, nodding his compliments to Alderdene. 
" Oh, no," cackled his lordship ; " I didn't draw it, 
old chap ! " 
" Nor I ! I only wish I could," added Captain 
Voucher. 
" Nor I — nor I — who did it.? " ran the chorus along
the table. 
"  didn't do it ! " said Sylvia gravely, looking across 
at Quarrier. And suddenly Quarrier's large, handsome 
eyes met Siward's for the briefest fraction of a second, 
then were averted. But into his face there crept an 
expressionless pallor that did not escape Siward — no, 
nor Sylvia Landis. 
Presently under cover of a rapid fire of chatter she 
said: " Did you draw that? " 
" Yes ; I had no idea it was meant for him. You 
may imagine how likely I'd be to take any liberty with 
a man who already dislikes me." 
" But it resembles him — in a very dreadful way." 
" I know it. You must take my word for what I 
have told you." 
She looked up at him : " I do." Then : " It's a pity ; 
Mr. Quarrier does not consider such things humourous. 
He — he is very sensitive. . . . Oh, I wish that fool Englishman had been in Ballyhoo ! " 
" But he didn't do it ! " 
" No, but he put you up to it — or Grace Ferrall did. 
I wish Grace would let Mr. Quarrier alone; she has 
always been perfectly possessed to plague him ; she 
seems unable to take him seriously and he simply hates 
it. I don't think he'd tolerate her if she were not his 
cousin." 
" I'm awfullj sorry," was all Siward said ; and for 
a while he gloomily busied himself with whatever was 
brought to him. 
" Don't look that way," came a low voice beside him. 
"Do I show everything as plainly as that.''" he 
asked, curiously. 
" I seem to read you — sometimes." 
" It's very nice of j'ou," he said. 
"Nice.?" 
" To look at me — now and then." 
" Oh," she cried resentfully, " don't be grateful." 
" I — really am not you know," he said laughing. 
" That," she rejoined slowly, " is the truth. You 
 
say conventional things in a manner — in an agreeably 
personal manner that interests women. But you are 
so grateful to anybody for anything ; you are indifferent, and you can't help being nice to people, so — some 
day — some girl will think you are grateful, and will 
have a miserable time of it." 
" Miserable time? " 
" Waiting for you to say what never will enter your 
head to say." 
" You mean I— I " 
" Flirt ? No, I mean that you don't flirt ; that you 
are always dreamily occupied with your own affairs, 
from which listlessly congenial occupation, when drawn, 
you are so unexpectedly nice that a girl immediately 
desires to see how nice you can be." 
" What a charming indictment you draw ! " he said, 
amused. 
" It's a grave one I assure you. I've been talking 
about you to Grace Ferrall ; I asked to be placed beside 
you at dinner; I told her I hadn't had half enough of 
you on the cliff. Now what do you think of yourself for 
being too nice to a susceptible girl.''  tliink it's immoral." 
They both were laughing now ; several people glanced 
at them, smiling in sympathy. Alderdene took that opportunity to revert to the sketch, furnishing a specimen 
of his own inimitable laughter as a running accompaniment to the story of Quarrier and his dog in North Caro- 
lina, until he had everybody, as usual, laughing, not 
at the story but at him. All of wliich demonstration 
was bitterly offensive to Quarrier. He turned his 
eyes once on Miss Landis and on Siward, then dropped 
them. 
The hostess arose ; a rustle and flurry of silk and lace 
and the scraping of chairs, a lingering word or laugh, 
and the colour vanished from the room leaving a circle 
of men in black standing around the table. 
Here and there a man, lighting a cigarette, bolted 
his coffee and cognac and strolled out to the gun-room. 
Ferrall, gesticulating vigoi'ously, resumed his preprandial dog story to Captain Voucher; Belwether buttonholed Alderdene and bored him with an interminably 
facetious tale until that nobleman, threatened with maxillary dislocation, fairly wrenched himself loose and came 
over to Siward, squinting furiously. 
" Old ass ! " he muttered ; " his chop whiskers look 
like the chops of a Southdown ram — and he's got the 
wits of one. Look here, Stephen, I hear you fell into 
no end of a scrape in town " 
" Tw qtLoque, Blinky.'' Oh, read the newspapers and 
let it go at that ! " 
" Just as you like old chap ! " returned his lordship 
unabashed. " All I meant was — anything Voucher and 
I can do — of coarse " 
" You're very good. I'm not dead you know." 
" ' Not dead, you know '," repeated Major Belwether 
coming up behind them with his sprightly step ; " that 
reminds me of a good one — " He sat down and lighted 
a cigar, then, vainly attempting to control his countenance as though roguishly anticipating the treat awaiting them, he began another endless story. 
Tradition had hallowed the popular notion that 
Major Belwether was a wit. The sycophant of the outer 
world seldom even awaited his first word before burst- 
ing into premature mirth. Besides he was very wealthy. 
Siward watched him with mixed emotions ; the lam- 
bent-eyed, sheepy expression had given place to the 
buck rabbit; his smooth baby-pink skin and downy 
 
white side whiskers quivered in premature sympathy 
with his listener's overwhelming hilarity. 
The Page boys, very callow, very much delighted, 
and a little in awe of such a celebrated personage, 
laughed heartily. And altogether there was sufficient 
attention and sufficient laughter to make a very respectable noise. This, being the major's cue for an exit, 
he rose, one sleek hand raised in sprightly protest as 
though to shield the invisible ladies, to whose bournes 
he was bound, from an uproar too masculine and mighty 
for the ears of such a sex. 
" Ass ! " muttered Alderdene, getting up and pat- 
tering about the room in his big, shiny pumps. " Give 
me a peg — somebody ! " 
Mortimer swallowed his brandy, lingered, lifted the 
decanter, mechanically considering its remaining contents and his own capacity ; then : 
"Bridge, Captain.?" 
" Certainly," said Captain Voucher briskly. 
" I'll go and shoo the major into the gun-room," 
observed Ferrall — " unless — " looking questioningly at 
Siward. 
" I've a date with your wife," observed that young 
man, strolhng toward the hall. 
The Page boys, Rena Bonncsdel, and Eileen Shan- 
non were seated at a card table together, very much 
engaged with one another, the sealed pack lying neg- 
lected on the green cloth, a vast pink box of bon-bons 
beside it, not neglected. 
O'Hara and Quarrier with Marion Page and Mrs. 
IVIortimer were immersed in the game, already stony 
faced and oblivious to outer sounds. 
About the rooms were distributed girls en tete-a- 
tete, girls eating bon-bons and watching the cards — 
among them Sylvia Landis, hands loosely clasped be- 
hind her, standing at Quarrier's elbow to observe and 
profit by an expert performance. 
As Siward strolled in she raised her dainty head 
for an instant, smiled in silence, and resumed a study of 
her fiance's game. 
A moment later, when Quarrier had emerged brilliantly from the melee, she looked up again, trium- 
phantly, supposing Siward was lingering somewhere 
waiting to join her. And she was just a trifle surprised 
and disappointed to find him nowhere in sight. She had 
wished him to observe the brilliancy of Mr. Quarrier's 
game. 
But Siward, outside on the veranda, was saying at 
that moment to his hostess : " I shall be very glad to 
read my mother's letter at any time you choose." 
" It must be later, Stephen. I'm to cut in when 
Kemp sends for me. He has a lot of letters to attend to. 
. . . Tell me, what do you think of Sylvia Landis? " 
" I like her, of course," he replied pleasantly. 
Grace Ferrall stood thinking a moment : " That 
sketch you made proved a great success, didn't it.'' " 
And she laughed under her breath. 
"Did it.'' I thought Mr. Quarrier seemed annoyed " 
" Really ? What a muiF that cousin of mine is. 
He's such a muff, you know, that the very sight of his 
pointed beard and pompadour hair and his complacency 
sets me in fidgets to stir him up." 
" I don't think you'd best use me for the stick 
next time," said Siward. " He's not my cousin you 
know." 
Mrs. Ferrall shrugged her boj'ish shoulders : " By 
the way " — she said curiously — " who was that girl.'' " 
 
" What girl," he asked coolly, looking at his hostess, 
now the very incarnation of delicate mockery with her 
pretty laughing mouth, her boyish sunburn and freckles. 
" You won't tell me I suppose? " 
" I'm sorry '' 
" Was she pretty, Stephen ? " 
" Yes," he said sulkily ; " I wish you wouldn't " 
" Nonsense ! Do you think I'm going to let you off 
without some sort of confession? If I had time now — 
but I haven't. Kemp has business letters: he'll be 
furious ; so I've got to take his cards or we won't have 
any pennies to buy gasoline for our adored and shriek- 
ing Mercedes." 
She retreated backward with a gay nod of malice, 
turned to enter the house, and met Sylvia Landis face 
to face in the hallway. 
" You minx ! " she whispered ; " aren't you 
ashamed? " 
" Very much, dear. What for? " And catching 
sight of Siward outside in the starlight, divined perhaps something of her hostess' meaning, for she lauglied 
uneasily, like a child who winces under a stem eye. 
" You don't suppose for a moment," she began, 
" that I have " 
" Yes I do. You always do." 
" Not with that sort of man," she returned naively ; 
" he won't." 
Mrs. Ferrall regarded her suspiciously : " You always pick out exactly the wrong man to play with " 
They had moved back side by side into the hall, 
the hostess' arm linked in the arm of the younger girl. 
" The wrong man ? " repeated Sylvia, instinctively 
freeing her arm, her straight brows beginning to bend 
inward. 
" I didn't mean that — exactly. You know how 
much I care for his mother — and for him." The obstinate downward trend of the brows, the narrowing 
blue gaze signalled mutiny to the woman who knew her 
so well. 
" What is so wrong with Mr. Siward ? " she asked. 
" Nothing. There was an affair " 
" This spring in town. I know it. Is that all.'' " 
" Yes — for the present," replied Grace Ferrall uncomfortably ; then : " For goodness' sake, Sylvia, don't 
cross examine me that way ! I care a great deal for 
that boy " 
" So do I. I've made him take my dog." 
There was an abrupt pause, and presently Mrs. 
Ferrall began to laugh. 
" I mean it — really," said Sylvia quietly ; " I like 
him immensely." 
" Dearest, you mean it generously — with your usual 
exaggeration. You have heard that he has been foolish, 
and because he's so young, so likable, every instinct, 
every impulse in you is aroused to — to be nice to 
him " 
" And if that were true " 
" There is no harm, dear — " Mrs. Ferrall hesitated, 
her grey eyes softening to a graver revery. Then look- 
ing up : " It's rather pathetic," she said in a low voice. 
" Kemp thinks he's foredoomed — like all the Siwards. 
It's an hereditary failing with him, — no, it's hereditary 
damnation. Siward after Siward, generation after 
generation you know — " She bit her lip, thinking a 
moment. " His grandfather was a friend of my grand- 
parents, brilliant, handsome, generous, and — doomed.
His own father was found dying in a dreadful resort 
in London where he had wandered when stupefied — a 
 
Siward! Think of it! So you see what that outbreak 
of Stephen's means to those whose famihes have been 
New Yorkers since New York was. It is ominous, it is 
more than ominous — it means that the master-vice has 
seized on one more Siward. But I shall never, never 
admit it to his mother." 
The younger girl sat wide-eyed, silent; the elder's 
gaze was upon her, but her thoughts, remote, centred 
on the hapless mother of such a son. 
" Such indulgence was once fashionable ; moderation 
is the present fashion. Perhaps he will fall into line," 
said Mrs. Ferrall thoughtfully. " The main thing is to 
keep him among people, not to drop him. The gregarious may be shamed, but if anything, any incident, hap- 
pens to drive him outside by himself, if he should be- 
come solitary, there's not a chance in the world for him. 
. . . It's a pity. I know he meant to make himself the 
exception to the rule — and look ! Already one carouse 
of his has landed him in the daily papers ! " 
Sylvia flushed and looked up : " Grace, ma}- I ask 
you a plain question.'' " 
" Yes, child," she answered absently. 
" Has it occurred to you that what you have said 
about this boy touches me very closely.? " 
Mrs. Ferrall's wits returned nimbly from woolgath- 
ering, and she shot a startled, inquiring glance at the 
girl beside her. 
" You — you mean the matter of heredity, Sylvia .'' " 
" Yes. I think my uncle Major Belwether chose 
you as his august mouthpiece for that little sermon on 
the dangers of heredity — the danger of being ignorant 
concerning what women of my race had done — before 
I came into the world they found so amusing." 
" I told you several things," returned Mrs Ferrall 
composedly. " Your uncle thought it best for ou to 
know." 
" Yes. The marriage vows sat lightly upon some 
of my ancestors, I gather. In fact," she added coolly, 
" where the women of my race loved they usually found 
the way — rather unconventionally. There was, if I understood you, enough of divorce, of general indiscretion 
and irregularity to seriously complicate any family tree 
and coat of arms I might care to claim " 
" Sylvia ! " 
The girl lifted her pretty bare shoulders. " I'm 
sorry, but could  help it .'' Very well ; all I can do is 
to prove a decent exception. Very well; I'm doing it, 
am I not.'' — practically scared into the first solidly 
suitable marriage offered — seizing the unfortunate 
Howard with both hands for fear he'd get away and 
leave me alone with only a queer family record for company ! Very well ! Now then, I want to ask you why 
everybod}', in my case, didn't go about with sanctimonious faces and dolorous mien repeating : ' Her grand- 
mother eloped ! Her mother ran away. Poor child, she's 
doomed ! doomed ! ' " 
" Sylvia, I " 
" Yes — why didn't they.? That's the way they talk 
about that boy out there ! " She swept a rounded arm 
toward the veranda. 
" Yes, but he has already broken loose, while 
you " 
" So did I — nearly ! Had it not been for you, you 
know well enough I might have run away with that 
dreadful Englishman at Newport! For I adored him 
— I did ! I did ! and you know it. And look at my end- 
less escapes from compromising myself ! Can you count 
them? — all those indiscretions when mere living seemed 
 
to intoxicate me that first winter — and only my uncle 
and you to break me in ! " 
" In other words," said Mrs. Ferrall slowly, " you 
don't think Mr. Siward is getting what is known as a 
square deal? " 
" No, I don't. Major Belwether has already hinted 
— no, not even that — but has somehow managed to 
dampen my pleasure in Mr. Siward." 
Mrs. Ferrall considered the girl beside her — now 
very lovely and flushed in her suppressed excitement. 
" After all," she said, " you are going to marry 
somebody else. So why become quite so animated about 
a man you may never again see.? " 
" I shall see him if I desire to ! " 
"Oh!" 
" I am not taking the black veil, am I? " asked the 
girl hotly. 
" Only the wedding veil, dear. But after all your 
husband ought to have something to suggest concerning 
a common visiting list " 
" He may suggest — certainly. In the meantime I 
shall be loyal to my own friends — and afterward, too," 
she murmured to herself, as her hostess rose, calmly 
dropping care like a mantle from her shoulders. 
" Go and be good to this poor young man then ; I 
adore rows — and you'll have a few on your hands I'll 
warrant. Let me remind you that your uncle can make 
it unpleasant for you yet, and that your amiable fiance 
has a will of his own under his pompadour and silky 
beard." 
" What a pity to have it clash with mine," said the 
girl serenely. 
Mrs. Ferrall looked at her: " Mercy on us! Howard's 
pompadour would stick up straight with horror if he 
could hear you ! Don't be silly ; don't for an impulse, 
for a caprice, break off anything desirable on account 
of a man for whom you really care nothing- — whose 
amiable exterior and prospective misfortune merely enlist a very natural and generous sympathy in you." 
" Do you suppose that I shall endure interference 
from anybody? — from my uncle, from Howard? " 
" Dear, you are making a mountain out of a mole- 
hill. Don't be emotional ; don't let loose impulses that 
you and I know about, knew about in our school years, 
know all about now, and which you and I have decided 
must be eliminated " 
" You mean subdued ; they'll always be there." 
" Very well ; who cares, as long as you have them 
in leash ? " 
Looking at one another, the excited colour cooling 
in the younger girl's cheeks, they laughed, one with 
relief, the other a little ashamed. 
" Kemp will be furious ; I simply must cut in ! " said 
Mrs. Ferrall, hastily turning toward the gun-room. 
Miss Landis looked after her, subdued, vaguely repent- 
ant, the consciousness dawning upon her that she had 
probably made considerable conversation about nothing. 
" It's been so all day," she thought impatiently ; 
" I've exaggerated ; I've worked up a scene about a man 
whose habits are not the slightest concern of mine. Besides that I've neglected Howard shamefully ! " She was 
walking slowly, her thoughts outstripping her errant 
feet, but it seemed that neither her thoughts nor her 
steps were leading her toward the neglected gentleman 
within; for presently she found herself at the breezy 
veranda door, looking rather fixedly at the stars. 
The stars, shining impartially upon the just and 
the unjust, illuminated the person of Siward, who sat 
 
alone, rather limply, one knee crossed above the other. 
He looked up by chance, and, seeing her star-gazing 
in the doorwa}-, straightened out and rose to his feet. 
Aware of him apparently for the first time, she 
stepped across the threshold meeting his advance half- 
way. 
"Would you care to go down to the rocks.?" he 
asked. " The surf is terrific." 
" No— I don't think I care " 
They stood listening a moment to the stupendous 
roar. 
" A storm somewhere at sea," he concluded. 
" Is it very fine — the surf .? " 
" Very fine — and very relentless — " he laughed ; 
" it is an unfriendly creature, the sea, you know." 
She had begun to move toward the cliffs, he fell 
into step beside her; they spoke little, a word now 
and then. 
The perfume of the mounting sea saturated the night 
with wild fragrance ; dew lay heavy on the lawns ; she 
lifted her skirts enough to clear the grass, heedless that 
