feeling you have — any impulse or affection till we 
know — God ! Don't you see Joyce is in 
convulsions? Give me — that is — the child, I say!" 
The preacher's mighty arms surrendered the 
boy to the doctor, who laid him on the grass and 
examined him in absolute silence. After a few 
moments he lifted the lad jealously again to his 
own breast, and the two men walked on with their 
shuddering little burden. 
In the May morning they looked at each other. 
Their eyes said: "Which of us must tell her?" 
" What will this do to her? " They had gone but 
a short and difficult distance when they met Kath- 
leen running and panting. 
" It was but the drop of me eyelash, the twist 
of me head," argued Kathleen, " an' when I turns 
the tail of me eye, he was not forninst me. He 'd 
been that crazy over them soldiers since the drums 
begun. He says, 'Mr. Cousin Sterling Hart 'll 
show me some soiljers — ' Mother of Heaven! 
Mother of God ! " cried Kathleen. She gave one 
glance at the writhing child, threw her apron over 
her head, and dropped upon the grass. The two 
men strode on. 
When they approached the cottage they stopped 
and stood irresolute. A woman's figure, draped 
in translucent black, moved uneasily about the 
grounds, and a woman's voice — the tenderest in 
all the world of women that either the physician 
or the preacher knew — was calling with 
penetrating sweetness: — 
"Joyce? Joyce? My baby! My little man! 
Where is mother's precious boy ? " 
From the village churchyard, a mile away, the 
throb of military music, like the beat of a heart, 
pulsated plainly, and seemed to answer her. Now 
the bugle was calling taps above the soldiers' 
graves, where the living had left all they had to 
 
give the dead, — their flowers and their tears. 
But Joyce did not hear the " soiljers." Without a 
wound, without a break, without a bruise upon his 
perfect little body, the child, smitten by terror and 
shock, passed from convulsion to convulsion in 
the doctor's arms. 
CHAPTER XVII 
Carolyn crept, leaning upon one elbow. She 
had put the child into her own bed at the first, 
and there, on the edge of the broad mattress, she 
had lain day and night. The sleeve of her loose 
white gown was worn through to her bare flesh 
from the constraint and persistence of her posi- 
tion. She was able in this way at once to watch 
the boy's face and to hold his hand while he slept; 
so to foretell, by the tightening of little fingers on 
her own, the advance of the throes in which he 
would awake. 
Outside of the sickroom it was laughing June. 
For three weeks the child had floated between 
life and death, as the little flags on the soldiers' 
graves fluttered and fell with wind or calm upon 
their fragile staffs. The flowers were ashes upon 
the mounds, but the small human soul clung to 
its rights in its racked body. Brain fever with 
complications, superinduced by shock, were om- 
inous words. The mother listened to them dully. It 
did not seem to her to matter what they called it. 
Nothing mattered. The child would die ; that was 
all. Nothing could save him. Consultants from 
 
the city came and went. She listened stupidly to 
what they said. Dr. Royal would understand. She 
turned to Dr. Royal. Carolyn's natural courage 
had quite forsaken her in this last extremity. She 
had reached the point of endurance where a 
woman ceases to hope, or even to struggle for any 
form of happiness, since fate has denied her so 
many, and accepts as her lot that reiteration of 
sorrow which we find to be the portion of certain 
lives. All the optimism of the situation came from 
the nature of Charles Royal. All the will power, 
all the hope concentrated upon the sinking boy, 
were his. He had held the flickering life in the 
hollow of his hand. For three weeks he had not 
known a night's rest or a day's relief. He watched 
the disease as a burning glass observes a piece of 
scorching paper. Sometimes it seemed to shrivel, 
whether before his professional skill or his 
personal absorption. Then the lad subtly lost more 
than he gained, and the unequal contest set in 
again. The physician did not yield his case by the 
width of a wearied moment, or the weakness of a 
diverted purpose. Carolyn had no heart to wonder 
at the tenacity of his determination to save the 
patient, or at his affection for the child ; but she 
was steadily and acutely conscious of both. 
Now, with the breadth of the little lad's bed 
between them, they sat, she on its edge, he on a 
 
chair at the other side. It was a warm evening, 
and all the windows were flung wide. There was 
but one light in the sickroom, and that, shaded 
from the little patient, embossed the doctor's face 
and head and hands in a soft illumination against 
the shadow of a screen. The screen was black, 
and its embroidery gold. Carolyn could see that 
one of his hands was clenched ; the other played 
along the boy's pulse like a listening finger on 
an invisible flute, — a magical instrument, which 
offered music, but did not yield it. 
The " sorryfool man " looked older than usual. 
It seemed to Mrs. Dane that he had aged rapidly 
within the last few weeks. His hair was a shade 
whiter; the hollows in his cheeks were gaunt. His 
gray beard drooped at the corners of his mouth, 
and she was sure that his unseen lips trembled. 
Her wasted eyes traversed the familiar map of his 
face. Perhaps for the first time it occurred to her 
that there were spaces upon it marked " unex- 
plored." Certain sacred words forced themselves 
upon her imagination, and her thought repeated 
them, not irreverently: — 
" For his visage was so marred, more than any 
man." 
How brutally that wreck had treated him ! A 
dark scar ran across his forehead and his temple; 
one of his cheeks was quite defaced. The strain 
 
of his battle for the life of her child, the long- 
drawn vigil, the lost vitality, and the sensitive 
anxiety which she could not deceive herself in 
thinking that he had experienced — these had em- 
phasized his physical defects and deformities. His 
hoarse voice was fainter than she had ever known 
it ; more raucous, more unpleasant to the ear. 
She had never seen him limp so much as he did 
now. Her haggard eyes absorbed every feature, 
every gesture of the disfigured and exhausted 
man. 
" He stands between me and the worst," she 
thought. 
Her hurt heart crawled towards him as a 
wounded creature seeks the only shelter it can 
find. She leaned to him with the passion of pity 
which only tender women know for unselfish, un- 
attractive men. Cara thought : " If you were well, 
and strong, and handsome, and fortunate, I should 
not care so much." 
A clock in the room ticked gently, and the boy 
stirred. 
" Hasn't he slept a good while ? " his mother 
asked. 
" Longer than at any time before." 
" What did Dr. Strang say ? " 
" Oh, he agreed with the rest." 
" Doesn't he think there is any hope ? " 
 
" Why do you ask me these questions ? " 
" What did he say to you when you were alone 
together ? " 
" The usual things. He advised anodynes, and 
so forth." 
" Have you given them ? " 
"No." 
" Do you mean to give them ? " 
" No." 
Carolyn looked at the child. Her face worked. 
" Do you want Dr. Strang to take the case ? 
I should not blame you. You are trusting me 
very far." 
" I shall trust you farther, — to the uttermost, 
to the end." 
Although subdued conversation did not disturb 
the boy, but tended rather to soothe him (so large 
a part had the element of terror taken in his dis- 
order), yet they had been speaking in the lowest 
whispers, scarcely articulate. Their own voices 
sounded unreal to them. The physician did not 
reply to Mrs. Dane's last words. His emotion over- 
came him, and he made no effort to conceal that 
it did so, but averted his scarred face from her. 
His finger crept back to the child's pulse. 
" He is still sleeping ! " breathed Carolyn. 
The doctor glanced at his watch. " Almost an 
hour more than at any time before." 
 
Her eyes ran to the little wrist where the trained 
ringer tip rested as lightly as a leaf. 
" Stronger," he whispered, " a little. More even, 
I think." 
Across his disfigured face a frail smile stirred. 
Carolyn's courage took fire from it. She sat with 
held breath, as if the child's life — still a part of 
her own being — would exhale with the action of 
her lungs. Her eyes sought the physician eagerly. 
But his cautiously replied. 
Now, when Mrs. Dane turned her head, Kath- 
leen at the door was standing with hot soup, and 
beckoning to the doctor. 
" You, too," he said ; and Carolyn followed him. 
Kathleen took the watcher's place beside the boy, 
and the two sat down in the hall. There was a 
divan beneath the window, and a small light table. 
They put the cups of soup upon the table, and 
sipped comfortably; they had never taken a meal 
together, and both remembered the fact. Carolyn 
felt curiously comforted, as a woman does by the 
domestic atmosphere in her saddest moments. 
This had suddenly and subtly become something 
lighter and brighter than a sad moment. 
" Is there any chance ? " she asked outright. 
" Do not be too sure of it," he parried gently. 
" It seems to me possible ; that 's all I can say." 
" If Joyce should get well — " Panting, she set 
her cup down. " I think I would never complain of 
anything, never ask for anything again. It would 
be ... so much happiness. I should not know 
how to . . . bear it." 
" Do you mean," demanded the doctor, unex- 
pectedly, " that there would be no room left in 
you for any other happiness ? Of any other kind, 
I mean." 
His lowered voice took for the first time since 
they had been together the tone which no woman 
can mistake. Carolyn's eyes fled before the con- 
centration of his. 
" If the little fellow should live — could you not 
bear any more joy? Would that exhaust your 
capacity ? You could be very happy, you know. 
Power to be glad is measured by power to suffer. 
And you—" 
He stopped. Carolyn lifted her trembling face. 
Before she could check herself her innermost, ut- 
termost soul sprang to her lips. 
" His poor father ! " she said. " His poor father ! " 
The doctor did not answer. He regarded her 
solemnly. The child waked, calling faintly, and the 
two returned to the sickroom together 
The doctor did not leave it again until morn- 
ing. He expelled the mother from the room 
peremptorily, ordered her to go to sleep, and him- 
 
self watched the night out. When Carolyn came 
back, the June morning was in the room. Birds 
were singing everywhere. The pale, pearl-pink 
dawn tinged the cheeks of the sleeping child. His 
forehead was moist ; his curls lay close upon it 
in pretty rings. One hand closed about the doc- 
tor's finger. The physician gently loosened the 
clasp, and rose. He stood shining against the tall, 
black screen. He limped across the room softly, 
and took Mrs. Dane's hands in both of his. She 
stood flooded in his emotion and her own. 
" There was a change at three o'clock," he said, 
" when the tide turned to come in. The worst 
symptoms are under control of the last remedy. If 
it holds — if it lasts — I think " — he choked. 
Before Carolyn could speak he had raised her 
hand to his lips, and she felt them quivering upon it. 
The doctor did not watch the next night, but he 
did not leave the house. To Mrs. Dane's sugges- 
tion that he should occupy a comfortable bed in 
one of her empty rooms (for he was wasted with 
vigil) he returned a quick refusal, and went down- 
stairs. 
" I 'm all right on the office sofa," he said. " I 
shall stay there, as I have done before." 
He slept, and heavily, for no emergency 
disturbed him. The child fared well. Carolyn took 
her turn at watching, but was scarcely needed. 
Joyce passed from one sane, sweet sleep to another, 
and with the second daybreak his mouth curled 
into a smile, and from it the dearest word in the 
world stole out quite distinctly: — 
" Mum — mumma? " 
Carolyn dared not kiss, and could not cry, but 
she lay upon the ragged elbow of her white 
gown, and put her cheek to his. When the doctor 
came in she rose and stood, — a statue of rapture. 
She could have knelt at his feet, and knew that 
she could. Perhaps he had some consciousness of 
what was thrilling in her, for he extended his 
hand involuntarily, as if to check the expression 
of her gratitude. 
The June day had a celestial gentleness. The 
sunrise warmed without the window and within 
the room. The child put out his little fingers as if 
he would grasp the light, laughed softly, and slept 
again. The doctor moved unsteadily towards the 
bed. 
Now, at that moment, the collie came thumping 
up the stairs, and Mrs. Dane, fearing the effect of 
the disturbance in the sickroom, hurried out to 
send the dog away. This proved to be a matter 
of some moments. It was necessary to persuade 
Clyde or to convince him that he was not wanted 
(never under any circumstances an easy task), and 
 
in the end she was obliged to take him by the 
collar and tug him downstairs. When she returned, 
stepping without sound in her knit woolen slip- 
pers, the doctor was sitting in her place upon the 
empty side of the bed. He did not see her; he 
did not hear her; and as she stood upon the 
threshold, hesitating, she perceived that his arm 
had crept beneath the child, and that his tears were 
storming upon the pillow. Faintly to her ears 
there came these smothered words : — 
"Joy! Joyce! My little boy! Papas sonny boy " 
Then he lifted his wet, disfigured face. Carolyn 
stood staring upon him. He gently withdrew his 
arm, got to his feet, and made as if he would leave 
the room, but fell back that she might precede 
him. In the hall they confronted each other. 
" Cara ! " he said, " dont you know me — after 
all?" 
CHAPTER XVIII 
The great miracles of the healing art are the quiet 
ones. The boy was now sleeping more soundly 
than at any moment hitherto. A deep renewal of 
brain and body had passed upon him. Only his 
gentle, even breathing could be heard in the sol- 
emn stillness of the house. 
The two in the hall stood looking upon each 
other, as two might who had met in the after life 
that follows pain, and joy, and trust, and love, and 
all the mere emotions of an unreal earth. Both were 
as gray as the dead ; but the woman in her long 
white gown acquired an added pallor from the 
circumstance of it. She was the first to speak. 
" Dr. Royal, will you repeat what you said to 
me — just now? I am pretty tired, — and you, — 
you have not slept. We are neither of us quite 
ourselves. I should not wish to . . . wrong you 
... in any way." 
She uttered the words gently, as one speaks to 
a person mentally confused. It was plain to him 
that her instinct was to treat him as though he had 
given utterance to some temporary but unpardon- 
able hallucination. 
 
" I have said it," he replied with a terrible brevity. 
" I am your husband. I am Chanceford Dane." 
She retreated from him with an evasive, pitying 
glance. 
" My husband — you know that — is dead. He 
is buried in Balsam Cemetery. I put flowers on his 
grave the day that Joyce — that Joyce — Go and 
rest! " she urged compassionately. " You have ex- 
hausted yourself — for our sake. You are starving 
for sleep. Go — go, and feed the famine of your 
brain. Then — " 
" Only one thing can feed my famine," he made 
answer to her. " I am your husband. I am your 
husband, Chanceford Dane. I know that I have 
forfeited my right to be believed. You must do 
as you choose about that. But, as God lives, I am 
telling you the truth. That poor fellow yonder in 
the churchyard . . . whom you cried over that 
day when you took the flowers ... is my little 
brother Clay." 
" Come downstairs," said Carolyn, quietly. " I 
will call Kathleen to stay with Joyce. Get on the 
office sofa, and sleep, Dr. Royal. You must, — do 
you see? You must! It is more necessary than 
you understand." 
"If you call Kathleen — just yet — I shall tell 
her. I shall tell everybody. Cara ! stand where you 
are and listen to me. I will speak ... at last. I 
 
tell you I will speak, and you shall listen. Cara ! 
Cava! Look at me. Don't turn away so soon. 
Look back. Lift your eyes. Don't you know me 
in spite of all? Don't you see anything about me 
that you can recognize if you try, — if you should 
want to try ? " 
In a silence cruder than any words she shook 
her head. 
" Oh, I know what a wreck I am ! A shattered, 
grotesque thing; a mask; a gargoyle! Even my 
voice — if my voice had been left me, I could not 
have carried it out. But I thought — I hoped — 
if I told you (I always meant to tell you, when I 
dared) that you would find something in me that 
would remind you . . . Cara! Look! Look again! 
Don't you see? Cant you see? " 
She turned her head and obeyed him slowly. 
Her eyes searched his marred face, lighted now 
by brilliant, insomniac eyes; traversed his gaunt 
figure; took note of every physical defect and 
deformity that had ravaged him. Not a feature, 
not a contour recalled the beauty, the grace, the 
scintillant face and frame which had held the 
debonair soul of Chanceford Dane. She did not 
speak. 
" Now I understand," he said, " how dead people 
feel. I never did before. They come into their old 
homes ; nobody knows it ; nobody knows them. I 
 
have always pitied them. They must be an uncom- 
fortable lot for a while." 
Something in the whimsical words — what was 
it? — for a startled instant reminded her of Dane. 
That glint in his dark eyes, burning through the 
solemnity of the situation, stabbed her like a fine 
electric needle. Chanceford never tolerated the 
intense; he always threw it off as soon as he could. 
Few tragedies but yielded to his sense of humor. 
His wilful voracity for joy had remained with her 
as the most memorable thing about him. In the 
forced merrimentof that momentsomething leaped 
from the being of the man to hers. She received 
a current of mystery charged with a thousand volts 
of emotion. It seemed to her that either ecstasy 
or annihilation hung upon the instant. Old
remembered hours, old forgotten things, closed and 
crashed about her. Smitten half with terror, half 
with joy, her lifted face received the impact of his 
personality. Her brain began to reel. 
" It is not he who is delirious," she thought. 
" It must be I." 
She thrust up her hands to clasp her forehead, 
as one does in a moment of unbearable mental 
confusion. As she did so she felt one of them 
seized. Before she could withdraw it, he had kissed 
her arm. His lips sought and found the ragged 
elbow of her white gown, where love, and grief, 
 
and watching, had worn the muslin through, — 
and there rested on her, warm and shrinking. 
Carolyn gasped and swayed. The disfigured face, 
the crippled body, the shattered voice had not
betrayed him. His flesh had become the prison of his 
soul, and hers had given her no key. But before his 
touch the heart of the wife stopped. She swayed 
and fell. She was not a fainting woman, but for 
this second, as for that first time when Dane took 
her from the Country Club after Clyde had turned 
upon his tormentor, she drifted away. He caught 
and laid her upon the divan where they had been 
sitting. When her mind anchored, she was lying 
on the bed in her husband's old room, — that which 
he had occupied when their estrangement began. 
She herself had always retained the one that they 
had shared. 
The doctor was sitting beside her, and Kathleen 
was in the room. It was now broad, bright day. 
The child called from the sickroom. 
"Go, Kathleen!" the doctor said. "Sit with 
him until I come. Mrs. Dane has had an ill turn. 
She has watched too long." 
The two were left in a silence which ached 
about them. She could not, and he did not break 
it. He did not touch her again. Presently he said, 
as if nothing had happened, " Lie quietly. Stay 
where you are. I must go to Joy." 
 
At the old, familiar baby name, forbidden to 
her lips since the year her husband died, the color 
splashed on Carolyn's ashen face. She struggled 
up against the pillows and watched the doctor 
limping from the room. Her head swam so that 
she laid it back and closed her starting eyes. 
The doctor remained with the child and did 
not immediately return ; when he did so, his
morning office hour had struck, and patients were 
clamoring for him downstairs. Kathleen was in the 
room with a breakfast tray. The girl's presence 
checked the natural movement of a tremendous 
situation. Carolyn said, " I will go at once and sit 
with Joyce." 
And the doctor answered, " Are you able ? Are 
you sure ? " as if nothing had occurred. 
He went to his morning's work methodically. 
The day set in like any other day, and moved 
prosaically along. Nannie Hops ran in to ask 
what she could do. Mrs. Marriot stopped in driv- 
ing by, to offer her horses, " if Mrs. Dane would 
take a mouthful of air." Mrs. Marriot had invited a 
phalanx of the Salvation Army to a lawn party at 
her house that afternoon ; but the horses would be 
free till luncheon ; she urged the ride upon Mrs. 
Dane. Sterling Hart came over anxiously and early 
to inquire for the child. Carolyn lay upon the little 
fellow's bed, and denied herself to all her world. 
 
It occurred to her that she had to reckon with it, 
sometime, somehow. It suggested itself to her 
that, if the claim which this man of mystery put 
upon her were genuine, the world's attitude to- 
wards it could not be ignored ; perhaps not even 
scorned. Her whirling brain already perceived 
that she was like a swimmer caught in a long, 
deep seine — entangled, whatever happened,
almost beyond hope of rescue ; she could not sink ; 
she could not rise ; the meshes were tight upon 
her hands, her feet, and strangling at her throat. 
She saw that, whatever course she should pursue, 
she might be forced into a position either false or 
fatal. The necessity of concealment, even for the 
